,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 71 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23,2008 
Judge dismisses Ramadan lawsuit 
ACLU claimed Ramadan's visa unconsitutionally denied; court maintains terrorist ties 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 
More than three years after prominent Muslim scholar Tariq Ramadan was barred from entering the United States to take up a tenured teaching position at Notre Dame, a feder­al judge in New York has ruled that the government had legiti­mate reasons to deny Ramadan's visa. 
The judge, Paul A. Crotty of the Federal District Court in Manhattan, dismissed a lawsuit in December filed by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) that claimed the govern­ment used an unconstitutional 
portion of the Patriot Act to deny Ramadan a work visa in July 2004, when he attempt­ed to enter the United 

States from 
Ramadan
his home in Switzerland, The New York Times reported in December. 
The ACLU suit claimed the portion of the Patriot Act deny­ing visa to people who "endorse or espouse terrorist activity" was unconstitutional. 
Crotty ruled the government had revoked Ramadan's visa because the scholar had, over the course of four years, given $1,336 to a Swiss charity later designated as a terrorist group, the Times reported. He did not address the Patriot Act's consti­tutionality. 
Ramadan has publicly argued he was unaware of any terrorist ties and had made contribu­tions solely as humanitarian aid. 
"In its letter, the U.S. Embassy claims that I 'reasonably should have known' that the charities in question provided money to Hamas," Ramadan said in a let­ter published in The Washington Post in October 2006. "But my donations were made between December 1998 and July 2002, and the United States did not blacklist the charities until 2003. How should I reasonably have known of their activities before the U.S. government itself knew?" 
see RAMADAN/page 4 
University uses residence halls for classrooms 
O'Neill, McGlinn lounges host literature seminars due to lack ofcampus teaching space 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
For the first time in the University's history, a number of courses are currently being taught inside residence halls. 
Lounges in O'Neill and McGlinn Halls are currently being used as classrooms for a variety of courses, including a literature University seminar, a "Great Books" seminar and several Portuguese courses, Vice President and Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs said. 
Jacobs said the residence halls' lounges would only be used as classrooms during mid-day hours, a time slot dur­ing which the University has had difficulty finding teaching space recently. 
"There is tremendous demand on this campus for classes which meet anytime between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. on Monday through Thursday, and Notte Dame does not have enough classroom space to meet the demand," Jacobs said. "Therefore ... the seminar spaces in O'Neill and McGlinn will allow additional courses to meet during the most popular time slots. 
The administration, he said, first considered the possibility of holding classes in the dorms in November 2006. At that time, McGlinn rector Sister Mary Lynch and O'Neill rector Ed Mack pitched the idea to 
see DORMS/page 3 

e!'~~ 
VANESSA GEMPIS I The Observer Professor Diarmaid O'Doibhlin teaches his Irish Prose Writing class in O'Neill Hall Tuesday. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
BOG 
SMCpanel announces election day 
Little Sibs Week set for late February 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's student body vice 
president Kelly Payne announced 
at the Board of Governance 
(BOG) meeting Tuesday that the 
2008-09 student government 
elections will be held Jan. 29. 
Payne said flyers will be posted 

the day of the election to remind ·students to vote. 
On election day, students will 
access PRISM through their per­
sonal Web pages to vote, Payne 
said. 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
Midway through Heritage Week, student body president Kim Hodges laid out the remain­ing events. There will be break­fast in the Reignbeax Lounge of Le Mans Hall at 7 a.m. Thursday. On Friday, there will be guided tours of Reidinger House and a sock hop from 9 to 11 p.m. in the Student Center. The results of the week long scavenger hunt will be announced that day. Also on Friday, the annual Heritage Dinner will be held at 6 p.m. Sisters of the Holy Cross will be in attendance. 

+ 
Residence Hall Association President Cassie Quaglia remind­ed BOG members that Little Sibs Week will be from Feb. 22-24. 


see BOG/page 3 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Leaders approve election changes 
Students review College Readership Program 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
The Council of Representatives reviewed the success of the College Readership program and approved two new changes in student gov­ernment election oversight proce­dures during its meeting Tuesday. 
The Council unanimously approved the new executive elec­tion committee, which will be com­prised of eight members and inves­tigate any allegations of unfair campaigning in the upcoming stu­dent body president elections. 
"I am confident that this group will effectively discuss and debate 
see COR/page 4 


Students, faculty to consider 'iTunes U' 
Program offers downloadable course materials 
By ROHAN ANAND News· Writer 
With the tagline "the campus that never sleeps," Apple, Inc. launched "iTunes U" last spring, a program that looks like the regular iTunes store but offers students, professors and the public free access to downloadable classroom lectures. And while more than 250 institutions across the nation are registered, Notre Dame is still in the process of examining the technology. 
"My description of it would be a way of distrib­uting media --namely 
video clips, audio clips, pic­tures, and even documents -to share what is going on in classrooms with the pub­lic," said senior Patrick Finnigan, the undergradu­ate representative to the University Committee on Academic Technology. 
Schools that are already affiliated with iTunes U use it to distribute course con­tent to its students, but some even take it a step further by turning it into a public relations medium. It can offer prospective high school students guided tours of campuses, Finnigan said. 
see APPLE/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 23, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 


10 Things 
that 111ake 

Heathnevvs 
Every time I come back to school, my 
mom gets inevitably teary, and in desper­
ate attempts to cheer her up I always tell 
her to look ahead to the next break, when 
I'll bn back and we'll have plenty of moth­
er-daughter time. 
This time I told Marcela Berrios 
her to look ahead 
to the summer, 
Associate News 
for "Sex and the 
Editor 
City: The Movie" 
and "The Dark 
Knight." And then I went otf on a tangent about how !Ieath Ledger's portrayal of The Joker is scary. 
Way darker than Jack Nicholson's. 
But with death Tuesday and the exten­sive eoverage that followed it, I no longer think of him as that exquisitely tormented Joker. IJe's no longer the Enni'i Del Mar Jake Gyllenhaal wished to quit. 
And I also don't think he is our genera­
tion's James Dean, as one ofthose talking 
heads in CNN called him. 
In fad-and lbr someone who checks 
Perez I Iilton's blog almost as often as her 
Facebook, this is a huge step away from 
frivolity-I think what saddens me most 
about I Ieath Ledger's death is his baby. 
Yes, people with babies die everyday and I don't write Inside Columns about them. And at lea'it Baby Ledger doesn't have to worry about money. 
But this column isn't really about Heath Lodger a'i much a'i it is about tim things that really make his story tra).,ric. I picked 10. 
1. 
People shouldn't die at 28. That's too young. 

2. 
lin was a gilted aetor. Forget the Oscar nomination. He lbund work in · llollywond even after "A Knight's Tale." 

3. 
Ilis parents are still alive. And no par­ent should have to bury a child. 

4. 
IIe gave gay cowboys everywhere a voice. 

5. 
lli'i death was unexpeeted. Death is sad whether it's a surprise or the end of a prolonged disease. But when it's a sur­prise it's easier to be paralyzed by it. 

6. 
That being said, I hope all the self­righteous, holier-than-thou people who think tim Federal Reserve's rate cuts or the Super Bowl are legitimate news­and Heath Ledger is tabloid news to them -realize that we, those who are suscepti­ble to this news, are not foolish or insipid. We are merely that. Susceptible. 


And for you information, I was also glued to the t.v. when Benazir Bhutto died. But it was for 10 different reasons. 
7. 
That being said, his death shouldn't be milked for ratings, but it undoubtedly will bn. "Entertainment Tonight" relegat­ed its exclusive interview with Britney Spears' new boyfriend to focus on this story. 

8. 
My own father died when I was very young. And while it's true that toddlers are oblivious to their surroundings and spared from the immediate, heart attack­inducing blow, it will still hurt. Especially on Father's Day and birthdays. 

9. 
Did the apartment belong to Mary Kate Olsen? Must those girls be every­where? 

10. 
The bodybag was carried out on a gurney amidst hundreds of flashing cam­era'>. With such a sad ending, he and his liunily should be in our prayers. 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at 
aberrios@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please comacr us ar 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE WEB SITE AND WHY? 






IN BRIEF 

The entire RecSports fitness class schedule is available for free during the "Try It, You'll Like It!" week today through Sunday. Show up at Rolfs RecSports Center to try various classes. Space is first come, first serve. Online class registration begins Thursday at 7::m a.m. 
The Creative Writing Program presents Professor Honoree Jeffers, who will read her poet­ry tonight at 7:30 in the Gold Hoom of North Dining Hall. 
The Notre Dame Post Of11ce will offer a Passport Fair Thursday from 7:30 a.m to 4:30 
p.m. On this day only, no appointment will be necesary to apply for a passport. Applicants should bring proof of U.S. citi­zenship, proof of identity and two recent photos. 
Actors From The London Stage will present The Taming of the Shrew on Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. in the DeBartolo Permorming Arts Center. Student tickets are available for $12. 
Prints from the Snite Museum of Art's collection that focus on artistic subjects from the 17th century will be displayed Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 5 p.m. The exhibit, "Rembrandt and the Art of Printmaking in Holland," will highlight the golden age of Dutch art, depic­tions of landscapes, portraits of animals and individuals in non­aristocratic social and economic classes, and scenes of their everyday life. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­

mation  about  an  event to  
obsnews@nd. edu.  
SATURDAY  SUNDAY  




HIGH 33 HIGH 32 LOW 27 LOW 22 
Tom Dugan  Steve Santay  Jenny Lewis  James Spitalere  Andy Manion  
freshman St. Edwards  freshman Alumni  junior Badin  junior Knott  junior Alumni  
"youtube. com/ mikeirishs because the video is  "www.nd.edu/ -chorale because chorale is awesome.  "zhongwen. com where my specialfriend and I look up  "Hillary's campaign site because I hate America."  "www.lolcats. com ... Meow. "  

amazing. all our Chinese vocab." 

Latonia Ferguson, a counselor from the Career Center, talks to Cavanaugh Hall residents about preparing for the Career Fair. 
OFFBEAT 
Missing cat found In owner's suitcase 
PALM BEACH GARDENS, Fla. -The last time cat­owner Kelly Levy saw her tiger-striped feline was before she took her hus­band to the airport. The 24­year-old came back to her house late Friday to find the bottom step, where Gracie Mae would usually be wait­ing, empty. 
Levy tore the house apart looking for the 10-month­old tabby who had been spayed just days before. She and her dad took out bath­room tiles and part of a cabinet to check a crawl space and papered the 
TODAY 


neighborhood with "lost cat" signs. 
Then she got a phone call. 
"Hi, you're not going to believe this, but I am calling from Fort Worth, Texas, and I accidentally picked up your husband's luggage. And when I opened the lug­gage, a cat jumped out," Levy recalled the caller say­ing, the South Florida Sun­Sentinel reported. 
Misprint sends caller to sex service 
CALVERT, Md. -A Cecil County man who phoned the governor's office with an opinion about the mortgage foreclosure debate realized he wasn't talking to a secre­tary when the woman who answered greeted him with a "Hi, sexy." 

Pete Pritchard of Calvert 
discovered the number for 
the governor's office is mis­
printed in the latest edition 
of the Armstrong Telephone 
Co. phone book. The printed 
number connects with a 
phone sex service. 
The previous edition had the same mistake. Pritchard wonders if he's the first per­son in two years that ever called the governor's office by using that directory. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
....I 
c( 
(.) 0 


HIGH 17 HIGH 12 HIGH 17 HIGH 22
..J 
LOW 5 LOW 0 LOW 10 LOW 15 
Atlanta 46 I 33 Boston 38 I 29 Chicago 22 110 Denver 34 I 20 Houston 68 I 42 Los Angeles 60 I 43 Minneapolis 10 1-5 New York 39131 Philadelphia 39130 Phoenix 66137 Seattle 44126 St. Louis 29117 Tampa 74159 Washington 41 132 
Wednesday, January 23, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

ProfessorexannUnes Tawainese atrocity 
Special to The Observer 
In 1947, an anti-government uprising in northern Taiwan led to the slaughter of some 20,000 citizens and contributed to a 40-year period of govern­ment suppression that effec­tively buried knowledge of the incident until martial law ended in 1987. 
How the uprising re-entered the public consciousness through literature and film is examined in a new book by Sylvia Lin, assistant professor of East Asian languages and cultures at Notre Dame. Called "Representing Atrocity in Taiwan: The 2/28 Incident and White Terror in Fiction and Film," it is published by Columbia University Press. 

A native of Taiwan, Lin has first-hand experience of living in a totalitarian state, exempli­fied by the era known as White Terror. During the 40 years of martial law, the government effectively suppressed chal­lenge by arresting and impris­oning dissidents and by instill­ing a pervasive fear in the citi­zenry. The bloodiest of these acts occurred around Feb. 28, 1947, a melee that began when government agents harassed a woman who was selling untaxed. black market ciga­rettes. 
Fearing retribution, Lin's parents' generation refused to discuss the 2/28 incident even in private. Unlike the Jews in the Holocaust or the Japanese who survived Hiroshima, Lin's generation grew up unaware of this national tragedy. 

The subsequent awakening provides a case study on the lasting cultural impact of atroc­ities, particularly as they are portrayed in literature and film. Drawing on abundant Holocaust scholarship of atroci­ty and trauma, Lin analyzes Taiwanese and Chinese litera­ture and post-martial law cine­ma and identifies emotional and reflective patterns that appear across cultures. 
Time is needed to support an environment in which art turns from themes such as anger or victimization to those that honor the sacrifice of the dead and grasp the tragedy of human suffering. However, Lin's book cautions, the process demands judicious deliberation to avoid a reversal of interpre­tive tyranny after a regime change. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 2002, Lin teaches modern and contemporary Chinese literature, film and culture. Her research interests include Western missionaries and Chinese women, women and new culture in early 20th century China, language and identity in Taiwan, and narra­tive theory. She earned her doctorate from the University of California, Berkeley. 
DoriDs 
continued from page 1 

Jacobs and several faculty members. 
"They proposed the idea that the study lounges in their respective halls be utilized as seminar classrooms during the daytime because students rarely use them for personal study space except at night," Jacobs said. 
The rectors eventually took their proposal back to their respective hall councils, which welcomed the plan. The suggestion then also received support from the Provost's Office and the Office of Student Affairs, Jacobs said. 
A benefit of teaching inside dorms, Jacobs said, is the increased integration of the campus' residential life and its academic one. 
"We would love to see more faculty and students interact 
BOG 
continued from page 1 

Students who would like to participate need to pre­register, she said, and they can do that from 8 to 10 
p.m. in the Le Mans lobby by Thursday. The cost is $30 for the first sibling, and each additional sibling costs $5 less than the pre­vious one. 
+ The Board will be sell­ing monogram sweaters in the Student Center, secre­
informally outside of the classroom," Jacobs said. "In the way that many students don't always feel comfortable walking into the office of a O'Doibhlin, who teaches Irish Prose Writing in O'Neill Hall on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 11 a.m. to 12:15 p.m., described his new classroom 
faculty mem­ber, many fac­

ulty members "We would love to see have never set more faculty and 
foot in a resi­

students interact 
dence hall." 

Jacobs said informally outside of he hopes this the classroom. '' "pilot pro­gram" will 
Dennis Jacobs 
begin to break down some of 

Associate Provost 
these barriers and formalities 
tary treasurer Courtney Kennedy said. The sweaters will be available for pre-ordering during dinnertime, and they will be on sale for $30 each. Kennedy said the sweaters were inspired by the cover picture of a 1970s-era Saint Mary's yearbook. 
+ Psychology and Theatre Week will be held from Jan. 28-Feb. 1, Payne said. The schedule of events has yet to be announced. 
+ Women Hon oring 
as "very com­fortable and very nice." He enjoys the resi­dence hall set­ting even if it represents "quite a walk" from his office in Flanner Hall, O'Doibhlin said. 
Although most residence halls do not 
and help students and profes­
sors make residence halls a 
place where both informal 
conversation and intellectual 
dialogue can occur. 
Although the program has 
only been in place for a week, 
students and faculty members 
seem to be responding well to · it, Jacobs said. Professor Diarmaid 
have spaces that could serve as classrooms, Jacobs said the design of the new Duncan Hall includes a space that could function as both a lounge and a classroom, if the hall's residents are in favor of it. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
Women nominations "should be coming in now," Payne said. Outstanding female staff and faculty members, administrators or advisors at the College are eligible for nomination, she said. The committee is looking for women who go above and beyond their duties at Saint Mary's. Proposed nominees should be sent in by Feb. 8. The recipient of the award will receive dinner in her honor on March 19. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnOI@saintmarys.edu 




GENEROUSLY GOURMET. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 23, 2008 
COR 
continued from page 1 
election allegations and [deter­
mine! appropriate sanctions 
and/or penalties, if a hearing 
arises," Judicial Council presi­
dent Ashley Weiss said in a let­
ter to the Council. 
In addition to Weiss and vice 
president of Elections Danny 
Smith, the committee will be 
comprised of four Judicial 
Council dorm representatives: 
junior Tom Kingsbury (Alumni) 
and sophomores Joe Maciuba 
(O'Neill), Libby Bierman (Lyons) 
and Monserrat Miramontes 
(Pangborn). Weiss appointed the 
remaining two members -sen­
ior Anthony Dayrit, vice presi­
dent of the Peer Advocacy pro­
gram, and junior Luke 
Derheimer. 
Derheimer was also approved 
as the new controller of voter 
turnout, whose duties will 
include encouraging students to 
get more involved in campus 
elections through the "Rock the 
Vote" eampaign. Weiss nominat­
ed him for the position, pointing 
to his "extensive experience in 
the election proceedings, having 
served as a senator in last year's 
election." 
Weiss felt that it was neces­

sary to appoint Derheimer · because Weiss' duties as Judicial Council president would make it difficult for her to effectively 
lead "Hock the Vote." 
Derheimer said his major task 
will be executing the proposals 
already set forth by Weiss and 
Smith. For example, he is 
charged with organizing the 
meet-and-greet with the candi­
dates and the candidate debates. 
The Council also reviewed the 

RaiD a dan 
continued from page 1 
Harnadan had sought in 2004 to move with his family to South Bf1nd. where he had been made tlw l.uce professor of religion. eonfliet and peaee-building at the Kroe Institute for lntnrnational Peace Studios. Before the nwocation, he had bonn granted a visa after pass­ing background 1:hecks by tlw Department of llomnland Se<:urity and the State Department. Tlw governnwnt refused to explain why it had nwokNI Hamadan's visa until Septmnber 20()(,, more than a year after he had applied a sec­ond tirnn for a tnrnporary busi­ness and tourism visa. 
ltamadan rPsigrwd his position on tlw Notre Dame faculty in December 2004. lie is now teaching a eourse on Islam in tlw modern world at tlw University of Oxford in England. lie is also a visiting professor at Erasmus University in the Nntlwrlands. 
H. Scott Appleby, director of the Kroc Institute, called the episode of the visa revocation and thn government's subse­qu<mt silencn "unfortunate in every respect." 
"It implied that the United States government fnels itself to lw in a position of weakness, not str<~ngth -so much so. that it felt vulnerable to the presenee of a Muslim intellnetual whose every utteranee and movement has been thoroughly seruti­nizf~d." Appleby said in an e­mail Tuesday. 
Appleby said he was deeply disappointed by the "pusillani­mous behavior" of President Bush's administration during this time. 
"We Americans are quite 

College Headership program, which provides students with free copies of USA Today, The New York Times and the Chicago Tribune. 
Carol Hendrickson, the chair of Academic Affairs, said she was very pleased with the response the program has received this year. 
"Consumption rates are in the high 80 percent all across cam­pus," she said. "This year we've been really happy with the pro­gram because we've been able to find the right amount and the right papers [to distribute]." 
Although Hendrickson often requests a certain amount of papers, USA Today (which runs the program) will often use its own figures to determine how many to deliver, she said. Student body president Liz Brown explained that the con­tract is written in such a way that USA Today has the freedom to use its own analysis to deter­mine the quantities it should deliver to campus. 
However, because this has not caused the program to exceed its budget and readership is cur­rently strong, Hendrickson has seen no major reason to com­plain. 
Moreover, the program has seen a major success in its recent expansion to the Mendoza College of Business and the Hesburgh Library. 
"We've been targeting more people," Hendrickson said. 'The success at Mendoza and the Library really shows more peo­ple are reading." 
The Council also unanimously approved sophomore Caitlin Flynn as its new secretary. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho@nd.edu 
capable of interacting with such a person and not becoming overwhelmed, threatened or 'corrupted' by challenging ideas, provocative criticisms and con­troversial opinions," he said. 
Appleby praised the University's "courageous" sup­port of Hamadan, a decision that stirred debate even before the visa revocation because of con­troversy over the scholar's views. 
Ramadan is known as a liberal Muslim scholar who has spoken for religious tolerance and added to debate on issues of Muslims in the Western and democratic world. He has also been accused by some groups of spreading Islamic militant ideas. 
The Luee professorship has remained unfilled since Hamadan resigned in December 2004. The University plans to search for a suitable candidate this year, Appleby said. 
Appleby said he does not expect Hamadan will teach at Notre Dame in the future. 
"It seems unlikely that Professor Hamadan will be re­appointed to Notre Dame, given his current position at Oxford and the fact that he still does not have a visa permitting him per­manent residence in the U.S.," he said. 
The addition of Ramadan to the University's teaching faculty would have made a particular impact on the mission of the Kroc Institute, he said. 
"Hamadan is innuential with millions of people whom we seek bntter to understand and engage in a eonstructive way," he said. "As a person of faith, he wel­comed a chance to interact with Catholics and other Christians, as well as Muslim and Jewish students and faculty." 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle 1 @nd.edu 
Club Information M ti and will be held i~~~ a~ mandatory for all clubs LaFortune Student Cerrte~(agomeryAuditorium in unless otherwt::!om Starbucks) Schedule · · 
Tuesday, Jan. 29th at5·00 Tuesday, Jan. 29th .,.. : Pm .. Academic Clubs at 6•00 Pm ~Perform· 
lflfOOirtesda.v., Jan. 30th at 5·00 ~ng Arts Clubs Wednesday, Jan. 30th at 6.'00 pm .. S~allnterest Clubs Thurnday, Jan. 31st at5·30. pm .. Soc~al Service Clubs* 
Thursday, Jan. 31st at 6:30 pm. Cultural Clubs 
* . · · pm .. Athletic Clubs Socml ServiceClub lnformat· . 
Centerfor SocialConce~~(o%ee::g ":'ill be.h~ld in the Please contactM unty Butldmg). in the Student~ Havlik (mhavtik@nd.edu) 
Office With any Questions. 
\Afi:IJNI:SIJ;\\', ,J;\NIJ;\11\' 2:iiiiJ, 5:011· &::ill 1,~~1 
Oil 

.l'ltiJIISIJ;\\', ,J~\NIJ~\14\' 24Tit, 4::iO •6:00 I,~VI 




ORLD & NAl~ION 
Wednesday, January 23, 2008 CoMrru:D FROM Tnr OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israel sends fuel, eases fiveday blockade 
GAZA CITY -Israel sent fuel to Gaza's power plant on Tuesday, easing its five-day blockade of the Palestinian territory amid growing interna­tional concern about a humanitarian crisis. 
The U.S. warned Israel not to add to the hard­ship for ordinary Palestinians but blamed the problem on Gaza's Islamic Barnas rulers. Israel imposod the siege in response to increasing rocket attacks on its border communities by Gaza mili­tants. 
Despite the easing of the closure, Palestinian militants fired 19 rockets toward Israel on Tuesday, the military said, up from just two on Monday. 
The lights were back on in most of Gaza City by Tuesday afternoon after a blackout that lasted almost two days. But Gazans still vented their anger. 
U.N. to pressure Iran's nuclear program 
PAHIS -The U.N. Security Council's five per­manent members and Germany are expected to agree Tuesday on a new resolution to pressure Iran over its nuclear program, a French diplomat said. But a U.S. official said differences over the issue remain. 
The senior French diplomat, who briefed reporters Monday on condition that he not be identified by name, said an agreement was very close and should be fmalized by the six nation's foreign ministers at a meeting in Berlin, Germany. 
However, others were more cautious about what the talks could produce. Momentum for a third resolution has slowed since a U.S. intelli­gence assessment last month indicated Tehran had stopped active work on a nuclear weapons program in 2003. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Heath Leill!er found dead, pills nearby 
NEW YORK-Heath Ledger was found dead Tuesday in a Manhattan apartment, naked in bed with sleeping pills nearby, police said. The Australian-born actor was 28. 
It wasn't immediately clear if Ledger had com­mitted suicide. He had an appointment for a mas­sage at the residence in the tony neighborhood of SoHo, NYPD spokesman Paul Browne said. A housekeeper who went to let him know the mas­sage therapist had arrived found him dead at 3:26 p.m. 
Ledger's body had not been removed from the building where paparazzi and gawkers gathered outside, and several police officers put up barri­cades to control the crowd of about 300. A medical examiner's office van arrived with a gurney Tuesday evening. 

Clinton, Obama spar after debate 
WASIIINGTON -Democrat Hillary Rodham Clinton argued on Tuesday that Barack Obama's frustration with losing prompted him to look for a fight in their latest debate. Obama said his rival and her husband, former President Clinton, were distorting his record. 
"I think it's very clear that Senator Clinton ... and the president have been spending the last month attacking me in ways that are not accurate," Obama told reporters in a conference call shortly after she lashed out at him in a bitter exchange that carried over from Monday night's debate. 
LOCAL NEWS 
State senator undergoes surgery 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -State Sen. David Ford of Hartford City was in a Fort Wayne hospital on Tuesday with what his family said was can­cer. 
Ford. 58, underwent surgery on Friday after being hospitalized with flu-like symptoms Jan. 15, Senate President Pro Tern David Long said. Long said family members described Ford as "critically ill." According to a statement released by Ford's office, family members received a prognosis from oncologists Tuesday. 
"We will continue to release information as it bneomes available from David and his family," Long said in the statement. "Our thought and prayers go out to them at this most difficult time." 
Ford is a Republican who was first elected to the Senate in 1994. He represents District 19, which indudes all or parts of Adams, Allen, Blackford, Grant and Wells counties. 


Government to stimulate economy 
Leaders hope $150 billion in tax cuts, government spending will calm recession fears 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Jolted by global recession fears, the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates Tuesday, and President Bush and leaders of Congress joined in a rare show of cooperation in promising urgent action to pump up the economy with upwards of $150 billion in tax cuts and government spending. 
Market meltdowns overnight around the globe and growing anxiety at home stirred lawmakers and the administration toward swift action, possibly within a few weeks. Wall Street plummet­ed as the day began, follow­ing Asian stocks, then warily eased its sell-off after the Fed ordered the biggest cut on record in a key interest rate. The Dow Jones indus­trials, down 465 points at one point, closed the day ofT 128. 
The Fed, announcing its action after an emergency video conference Monday night, indicated further rate reductions were likely, aimed at encouraging people and companies to start spending again. 
"The urgency that we feel at home is now even more urgent as we see the impact of our markets on others," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said after both Democratic "I believe we can find com­serious about protecting con­focusing on rebates of $800 and Republican lawmakers mon ground to get some­sumers and investors who to $1,600 for individuals and met with Bush at the White thing done that's big enough, have watched their holdings couples and so-called bonus House. effective enough so that an shrink. Wall Street and glob­depreciation to allow compa­
Senate Majority Leader economy that is inherently al markets fear the stimulus nies to deduct 50 percent of Harry Reid said the goal was strong gets a boost -to package outlined by Bush is business investments made to get a deal through make sure that this uncer­not enough to avert a reces­this year. Democrats say the Congress and on Bush's desk tainty doesn't translate into sion. The Dow Jones indus­package also should include within roughly three weeks more economic woes for our trial average is down nearly boosts in unemployment -lightning speed compared workers and small business 10 percent since the begin­benefits, food stamp pay­with the usual snail's pace people," Bush said in the ning of the year -its worst ments and the Medicaid on Capitol Hill. His Cabinet Room. first 14 trading days ever. health care program for the Republican counterpart, Later, announcing the cre­Official Washington was poor and disabled. Talks Mitch McConnell of ation of a panel to educate accentuating the positive. between Pelosi and Minority Kentucky, agreed the aim people about their finances, "I really feel good that we Leader John Boehner, R­was action in the next few Bush said he thought there have an opportunity to do Ohio, have focused on small­weeks and said, "That, by would be an agreement "in something together," Reid er tax rebates of perhaps the standards in Congress, is relatively short order." said, standing in the White $500 for individuals. pretty fast." The White House meeting House driveway with Pelosi Like Bush, lawmakers 
Bush expressed confidence was intended to show the after talking with Bush. Reid would not discuss what a that he and the Democratic­world that Bush and his said the size of a deal sug­compromise plan would look led Congress could put aside Democratic adversaries rec­gested by Bush was "a good like, stressing cooperation bitter differences that have ognize the gravity of the eco­number." rather than potential differ­marked his presidency. nomic slowdown and are Administration officials are ences over details. 

IRAQ 

Suicide bom_ber attacks school, kills one 
Associated Press The backlash also coincides with a on condition of anonymity because he 
U.S.-led offensive trying to uproot was afraid of being targeted by mili­
BAGHDAD-A suicide bomber push­insurgents from strongholds around tants. ing an electric heater atop a cart Baghdad. "I can't think of any reason to target packed with hidden explosives attacked In the suicide attack. the bomber students," said 15-year-old Mohammed a high school north of Baghdad on posed as a shopper or merchant trans­Abbas, his wounded head in a bandage Tw~sday, leaving stud1mts and teachers porting an electric heater on a chilly as his father stood near his hospital bed bloodied and bewildered as insurgents winter day -an apparent attempt to in Baqouba, about 35 miles northeast appeared to be expanding their list of deflect attention from the explosive­of Baghdad. "We did not expect that targets. rigged cart. explosions would reach our school." 
The bombing -one of two attacks The blast struck the front of a two­In the other attack. a roadside bomb near Iraqi schools on the same day -story schoolhouse in Baqouba about exploded next to a girl's high school in follows a wave of recent blasts blamed 8:30 a.m .. half an hour after classes Baghdad's westmn district of Amiriyah, on al-Qaida in Iraq against funerals and began. Panicked parents rushed to find wounding a 7 -yPar-old boy who was social gatherings. out if their children were alive or dead. passing by. But police said the target 
The trend points to the possibility that A 25-year-old male bystander was was an American patrol. not the school. al-Qaida has shifted tactics to focus killed and 21 people were wounded -Insurgents appear to be looking for increasingly on so-called soft targets 12 students, eight teachers and one ways to bypass the heavy security cor­and undermine public confidence that policeman, according to a doctor at dons and patrols that cover any major things are looking better in the country. Baqouba General Hospital who spoke event or site. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, January 23, 2008 
Surendar Chandra, a profes­With compatible devices sor in the computer science such as the Apple iPhone

Apple 

engineering department, set and the video iPod, which up an independent channel can be used as hard drivecontinued from page 1 on iTunes U's shared net­storage space, students can 
Finnigan and senior Mariana Montes, the resi­dential life committee chair, are working on a proposal to the Student Senate pro­mote the idea of adopting iTunos U. 
Currently, Notre Dame has a similar system known as OpenCourseWare, which was launched in the fall of 2006. The site offers an open digital publication of course materials with the sole task of spreading knowledge and education materials to the public for free. 

That site offers materials from 29 courses within the College of Arts and Letters and some from the School of Architecture. While the sys­tem is growing and well organized, Finnigan believes iTuncs U has "further bene­fits to offer." 
"iTunes itself reaches out to a wider audience because it is sueh a popular medium to download interactive media," Finnigan said. "It also takes care of some of the technieal issues you would have to tackle by designing your own public domain. With iTunes U, we do not have to worry about formatting because they have their own templates to simplify the process of uploading course content." 
One University professor has already tapped into iTunes U and has been very pleased with the results. 
work for his Operating easily download these lec­Systems Principles class. ture clips and play them 
He currently video-and back wherever they go. audiotapes his lectures for "The only real challenge is various courses and posts to let students know where them online for student use the contents are posted," he and -is therefore in sup­said. "I can either post them port of iTunes U as an easy on my course Web page [on way to get technology out to open courseware]. as a pod­the classroom. cast or on Google video." 
"The benefit of iTunes U is Once a college or universi­that it allows the students to ty registers with iTunes U, it 
easily find the course con­tents," he said. "iTunes itselfreaches 
"They can go 
out to a wider
to ND-iTunes 
Apple audience because it advertises is such a popular
iTunes U 
medium to download
prominently 
interactive media.,, 
inside iTunes -and navi­gate through 
Patrick Finnigan 
the depart-

senior

ment [or] course listing to direetly find can either host the software locally or allow Apple to do it for them, which will be a major decision for Notre Dame when and if that time comes, Finnigan said. 
"If we were to choose the latter, then we would be 
the particular lecture. charged," he said. "Ideally, iTunes U lectures are still we would allow Apple to podcasts; the instructor can host the media for us and post audio, video and PDF we would just have to pay files." for storage. We would be 
Additionally, Chandra sees allowed large amounts of iTunes U as an excellent ref­space, but it would still be erence tool, especially for expensive." test preparation and for And for people for whom review during subsequent privacy, and not money, is courses, as well as for those the main concern, Apple students who miss a lecture. allows users to apply priva­
But the program is not cy settings to restrict all meant to replace attending public audiences from view­class. ing their posted material. 
"It enhances, rather than supplants a lecture," he Contact Rohan Anand at said. ranand@nd.edu 
AUSTRALIA 




Actor's family says death an accident 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY -Heath Ledger's family rejected any suggestion Wednesday that the actor killed himself and joined fellow Australians in mourning one of their rising stars after he was found dead in a New York apartment. 
The Australian-born actor was found face-down and naked at the foot of a bed in a Manhattan apartment Tuesday. Police said there were pre­scription sleeping pills near Ledger's body, but there was no obvious sign he had committed suicide. 
Ledger's family members faced a throng of journalists in the actor's hometown of Perth in western Australia and read a statement saying his death was purely accidental, though they did not say whether he died of an overdose. 
"We, Heath's family, can con­firm the very tragic, untimely and accidental passing of our dearly loved son, brother and doting father of Matilda," Ledger's father Kim told reporters. "He was found peacefully asleep in his New York apartment by his house­keeper at 3:30p.m. U.S. time." 
Kim Ledger remembered his 28-year-old son as a "down to earth, generous, kindhearted, life-loving, unselfish individual" who was "extremely inspira­tional" to those who knew him. 
"Heath has touched so many people on so many different levels during his short life but few had the pleasure of truly knowing him," Kim Ledger said. "Please now respeet our family's need to grieve and come to terms with our loss privately." 
Meanwhile, tributes from fel­low Australians flooded in Wednesday, with actress Nicole Kidman called Ledger's death a "terrible tragedy." 
Cate Blanchett, who starred with Ledger in the Bob Dylan bio-flick ''I'm Not There," a role that earned her an Oscar nomi­nation Tuesday for best sup­porting actress, said she was "shocked and saddened" at the news. 
"I deeply respect Heath's work and always admired his continuing development as an artist," Blanchett said in a statement published by News Ltd. newspapers online. "My thoughts are with his family and close friends." 
Australia's Prime Minister Kevin Rudd expressed shock over losing "one of our nation's finest actors in the prime of his life." 


THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, January 23, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 11,971.19 --128.11
.Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,406 70 1,955 2,2552963,934 
AMEX 2,172.38 ~66/71 NASDAQ 2,292.27 -47.75 NYSE 8,661.17 ..133359 S&P 500 1,310.50 -14.69 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,983.85 +410"80 FTSE 100 (London} 5:740.10 +161.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -1.01 -1.34 130.72 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -2.58 -1.17 44.18 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +2.16 +0.55 26.05 CITIGROUP INC (C) -0.20 -0.05 24.40 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -4.50 -0.164 3.484 13-WEEK BILL -20.07 -0.560 2.230 30-YEAR BOND -1.63 -0.070 4.227 5-YEAR NOTE -7.96 -0.227 2.623 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.72 89.85 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +8.60 890.30 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.25 83.95 
Exchange Rates YEN 106.8250 EURO 0.6830 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0285 BRITISH POUND 0.5100 



IN BRIEF 
Bernanke slashes key interest rate 
WASHINGTON -The Federal Reserve unex­pectedly slashed a key interest rate by a bold three-fourths of a percentage point on Tuesday, responding to a global plunge in stock markets that heightened concerns about a recession. The Fed signaled that further rate cuts were likely. 
The reduction in the federal funds rate from 
4.25 percent down to 3.5 percent marked the biggest reduction in this target rate for overnight loans on records going back to 1990. It marked the first time that the Fed has changed the funds rate between meetings since 2001, when the central bank was battling the combined impacts of a recession and the terror­ist attacks. 
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues approved the large rate cut after an emergency video conference on Monday night, a day when global markets had been pounded by rising concerns that weakness in the world's largest economy was spreading worldwide. 
Supreme Court will not hear Fnron case 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court dealt a probable fatal blow Tuesday to Enron Corp. investors' efforts to recover $40 billion from Wall Street banks in the 2001 collapse of the Texas energy company. 
Without comment, the justices refused to hear arguments in the Enron case. Attorneys for shareholders immediately vowed to return to federal court in Houston in an attempt to prove that the investment banks misled the public and helped conceal Enron's true fmancial condition. 
"It's an uphill battle and we'll keep fighting," Patrick Coughlin, the lead lawyer for the stock­holders, said. 
Attorney Greg Markel, a lawyer not connect­ed with the case who represents corporate clients in securities fraud lawsuits, said share­holders' "chances of succeeding ... are nearly zero." 
Enron's demise wiped out thousands of jobs, more than $60 billion in market value and more than $2 billion in pension plans at what had been the seventh-largest company in the country. 

DowJones falls earl~ rebounds later 
Emergency prime rate cut precedes 300-point drop in first minute of trading 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The open­ing bell hadn't even sounded on Wall Street when the Federal Reserve announced an emergency interest-rate cut. The Dow Jones industri­al average fell 465 points ­including 300 in the first minute -then rebounded to fmish down a more bear­able 128. 
The recovery Tuesday was a victory of sorts for a bat­tered market. But a long­term comeback may depend on factors much more diffi­cult to achieve -a turn­around in the housing mar­ket and renewed confidence among U.S. consumers, who hold up most of the econo­my. 
The alarming early drop in U.S. stocks followed the lead of markets abroad, where investors fled stocks and sent indexes plummet­ing on fears of a U.S. reces­sion that could spread to other global economies. 
By the close, the Dow had recovered to a loss of 128.11, or just over 1 per­cent, at 11,971.19. 

Before trading began, the Federal Rese-rve moved to slash its benchmark federal funds rate by 0.75 percent­age points, to 3.5 percent. It was the widest cut since 1990, the beginning of what The market pulled back a consumers, who account for rate cut tends to spur the the Fed says is a compara­bit from its steep plunge -two-thirds of economic economy by making it ble period in the way it han­the Dow had fallen 277 activity, are not in a position cheaper for businesses to dled the rate. points on Tuesday of last to spend the country back borrow money. 
The Fed cut the discount week, and 307 on Thursday. into solid growth. They have It would also lighten the rate, the interest rate the It was a positive sign, but been cutting back rather burden on individuals with Fed charges banks directly, economists and analysts than borrowing or spending credit card debt and with to 4 percent, also a three­said a full recovery was not more, even during the mortgages that have quarter-point cut. likely in the near term. recent holiday season. adjustable rates. 
Many traders had antici­"This is a cure for the "People are up to their Still, the effect on Wall pated a rate cut, but it was wrong disease. It makes eyeballs in debt, and they're Street was not overwhelm­unusual for the Fed to make everybody feel good, but it's being asked to borrow ingly positive: The Standard the call between regularly not going to have any ongo­more," said Mike Schenk, & Poor's 500 index, the scheduled meetings of its ing benefit," said Daniel senior economist for the broad market measure most policy-making Open Markets Alpert, managing director of Credit Union National closely followed by traders, Committee. Westwood Capital LLC. "We Association. fell 14.69, or 1.11 percent, 
The next meeting is a need to get ourselves out of Interest rate reductions to 1,310.50, while the week away, and even then, a mountain of debt and are one strategy the Fed has Nasdaq composite index lost most traders were expecting overvalued properties." used in previous crises to 47.75, or 2.04 percent, to a cut of only a half-point. The markets worry that help the economy recover. A 2,292.27. 

U.S. recession fears hurt global stocks 
cent to 4,842.54. In Germany, the Tuesday that their economies would
Associated Press 

DAX ended barely down, off 0.3 per­be able to weather the turbulence cent at 6,769.47, as utilities RWE and from the United States. The European LONDON -Jitters about the U.S. E.On fell but financials such as Union's economic and monetary economy sent global stock indexes Deutsche Bank rose. affairs commissioner, Joaquin lower again Tuesday before the The surprise Fed move was aimed Almunia, said that big U.S. trade and Federal Reserve's surprise cut in at fears that trouble in financial mar­budget deficits were to blame. "The interest rates. The move came too late kets from the U.S. subprime crisis was main reason why the equity markets for Asian markets, which had closed spreading to the broader economy. have this extreme volatile situation for the day, but helped Britain and Interest rate cuts tend to boost stocks. these days is the risk of a recession in France rebound higher. The Canadian central bank quickly the U.S., it's not about a global reces­
Asian stocks began global trading followed, lowering its key rate by a sion," Almunia said. sharply lower on fears of a recession quarter of a percent to 4 percent. British Prime Minister Gordon in the U.S., with Just hours before the Fed decision, Brown's spokesman ·Michael Ellam 
Japan's Nikkei 225 index off 5. 7 Japan's central bank voted unani­said that "the fundamentals of the percent -its biggest percentage drop mously to leave its benchmark inter­British economy have remained in nearly10 years-arid Hong Kong's est rate unchanged at 0.5 percent. sound" and the government would do Hang Seng index down 8.7 percent. The European Central Bank -highly everything in its power "to maintain 
European stocks had fallen sharply sensitive to any suggestion that it is economic stability." at the opening, then rose in volatile not fully independent -also held But Ellam would not comment on trading ahead of the Fed's decision to steady at 4 percent. whether British interest rates should cut its key rate to 3.5 percent from Some analysts now say the ECB -be cut in response. Many observers 
4.25 percent, and rose even more which has been worried about infla­believe the Bank of England, which is afterward. The U.K.'s FTSE 100 fin­tion -may have to follow the Fed independent of the British govern­ished up 2.9 percent at 5,740.10, and start cutting later this year. ment, will cut rates at its next meeting while France's CAC 40 gained 2.1 per-European officials, however, insisted Feb. 7. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, January 23, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken fowler Kyle West 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity Ass1; MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS 0ESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT 0ESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S 0ESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's 

College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chict; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QuesriotlS regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The: Oh«Crvcr {USI~ ~99 24000) j, publi~hcd Mm1day rhrough Friday ~ccpt d.~rin~ l'XiUU and V".I.Catiun period.. AIIUil.'-Crtprinn w The OllliCtVcr i11 $100 for unc academic year; $5-5 fi,rnnc:51o!rncsl:cr. 
The Observer is puhli5hcd at: POSTMASTER 024 Smnh Dinh1g II all Send .1ddn:ss corrections to: 
Nom: Dame. IN 16<.'56.-0n9 TheObSdtvcr 
Periodical pon~c paid at Nocn: Dame P.O. Box77<) 
and additional mailing otliccs, 0~4 South Dining H~l 
Nt.me Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
The: Observer i~ a m!!mllct of rhc ~iated PreS-\. All reproducdon rtghts arc ra;crvcd. 

Would you call it an exercise in futili­ty? On Jan. 22, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students joined the annual March for Life in Washington, D.C., call­ing for reversal of Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court rul­
Charles Rice
ing on that date in 
1973 which man­

Right or
dated, in effect, 

Wrong?
elective abortion at 
every stage in preg­

nancy. The Court defined the unborn 
child as a nonperson who is therefore 
not entitled to the right to life guaran­
teed by the Constitution to persons. 
The Supreme Court will not reverse that holding of Roe. Even the Justices who say that Roe should be "overruled" define that as a "states' rights" approach that would allow the states to permit or forbid abortion. That would affirm the holding of Roe. If your life is subject to extinction whenever a state legislature so decrees, then, so far as the United States Constitution is con­cerned, you are a nonperson. 
Depersonalization is the theory of the Nazis' treatment of the Jews and of the Supreme Court's 1857 Dred Scott case in which the Court held that freed slaves could not be citizens and said that slaves were property rather than persons. . 
Abortion is not simply a legal issue. It is embedded in American culture. The Alan Guttmacher Institute reports that from 1973 to 2005, more than 45 mil­lion surgical abortions occurred in the United States, with 1.21 million in 2005, down from 1.31 in 2000. Twenty­two percent of all pregnancies in the United States end in abortion. These figures do not include the uncountable number of early abortions by abortifa­cients, including most "contraceptive" pills. 
Abortion is a symptom of what Pope Benedict XVI called "a dictatorship of relativism ... that recognizes nothing as absolute and which only leaves the 'I' and its whims as the ultimate meas­ure." The secularism, relativism and individualism of that culture affect the 
Embrace life 
most fundamental human activity, the 
generation of life. 

Abortion is a product of the contra­
ceptive ethic. "[D]espite their differ­
ences," said John Paul II, "contracep­
tion and abortion are often closely con­
nected, as fruits of the same tree.... 
rooted in a hedonistic mentality unwill­
ing to accept responsibility in matters 
of sexuality, and ... a self-centered con­
cept of freedom, which regards procre­
ation as an obstacle to personal fulfill­
ment." 
Until the Anglican Lambeth 
Conference of 1930, no Christian 

denomination had ever said that con­
traception could ever be objectively 
right. Contraception deliberately sepa­
rates sex from procreation. It affirms 
that there is such a thing as a life not 
worth living, and that man (of both 
sexes), rather than God, is the arbiter of 
whether and when human life shall 
begin. If you claim the right to decide 
when life begins you will predictably 
claim the right to decide when it ends, 
as in abortion and euthanasia. 

With the marketing of the pill in the 
1960s, Roe v. Wade was inevitable. A 
contraceptive culture needs abortion as 
a back-up. The meltdown of that cul­
ture is accelerating. 

Francis Fukuyama called the intro­
duction of the contraceptive pill "The 
Great Disruption" in relations between 
men and women. In the nature of 
things, sex is reserved for marriage, 
and marriage is permanent, because 
sex has something to do with babies. 
The contraceptive separation of sex 
from life leads to the separation of sex 
from marriage and to the irrelevancy of 
marriage. In 2006, as reported by the 
Centers for Disease Control, a record 
36.9 percent of all births were out of wedlock. Out-of-wedlock births are 80 percent of births to teens and 60 per­cent to mothers in their early 20s. In 2006, they were 26.6 percent among non-Hispanic whites, 70.7 percent among non-Hispanic blacks and 49.9 percent among Hispanics. 
Government officials, including edu­
cators, throw fuel on the fire by pro­
moting contraception even among pre­

teens. Not surprisingly, the birth rate to 
teens rose three percent in 2006, the 
first rise since 1991. Cases of gonor­

rhea, chlamydia and syphilis, the STDs 
for which reporting is required, contin­
ue to rise. 
In such a Copulation Explosion, you 
have to expeet a rise in pregnancies 

and that many will end in abortion. The 
"morning-after pill," an abortifacient, is 
available over-the-counter and is easily, 
if illegally, obtainable by minors without 
parental knowledge. 

Neither the law nor politics can get us out of this mess. Contraception and abortion are a subset of the question: Who is God? Who decides whether and when life begins and when it ends? Abortion is an aspeet of our contracep­tive rejection of God's gift of life. Before he became Benedict XVI, Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger said, "[T]he ultimate root of hatred for human life ... is the loss of God. When God disappears, the absolute dignity of human life disap­pears as well .... Only this divine dimen­sion guarantees the full dignity of the human person.... In the struggle for life, talking about God is indispensa­ble." 
The March for Life is not a futile exer­cise. It focuses on abortion, the ultimate secular sacrament. The March is an in­your-face, on-site reminder to the Executive, the Court and the Congress of their derelictions and of what they ought to do. Under the leadership of Washington attorney Nellie Gray, the March, from its inception, has also been an act of prayer. The message: Human life is sacred because it is a gift of God. The students in the March bring honor to the Notre Dame community. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the faculty ofthe law school. He can be reached at (574) 633-4415 or rice. 1 @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



TooAv's STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Marcela Berrios Deirdre Krasula Who will win the Republican Maureen Mullen Sam Werner 
nomination? 

Claire Reising Meaghan Veselik 
Mitt Romney John McCain "Everyone wishes to have truth on
John Tierney Scene 

Mike Huckabee Fred Thompson his siile, but it is not everyone that 
Graphics Tae Andrews 

sincerely wishes to be on the side of 
Madeline Nies Ron Paul Rudy Giuliani truth." Viewpoint 
Richard Whately 
John Dailey 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at English prelate www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 23, 2008 page 9 
U-WIRE 

Vote for Norris, not Huckabee 
I don't know about you, but I am going to vote for Mike Huckabee for one reason and one reason only: Chuck Norris is cam­paigning for him. Anybody who is hiding a fist in his beard must know his politics. 

John Stromski
But Norris has defi­nitely won my sup­
Eastern
port, and how could 
Illinois
he not? I'm not about to oppose a man who University's can kill two rocks Daily Eastern with one bird. News 
But back to Huckabee. I think the main reason I'm voting for him is because of Chuck Norris. Any candidate who can win the support of and employ a celebrity in his campaigning arsenal is obviously the best candidate. 
In case you don't know, the other day Norris, while campaigning for Huckabee, said that an opponent, John McCain, wouldn't make a good president because of his old age. 

He even made a comment about McCain's good traits being inherited from his mom. 
Norris pretty much just karate-kicked McCain in the face there. 
But this really annoys me, this whole trend of celebrities getting involved in pol­itics enough so to try and use their repu­tation and position to not only win votes for their candidate, but they go so far as to try and demean their opponents. 
But in Huckabee's defense, the title President Huckabee, brought to you by Chuck Norris, does roll off the tongue pretty easily. 
I know this has been going on for a long time, and will continue to happen in elec­tions to come, but I just think it's sad that Norris campaigning for Huckabee will actually win some votes. 
And then to go even further and bash other people, I think is a misuse of fame. 


Obama victory would help realize King's dream 
Once, in 1963, Martin Luther King Jr. had a dream. Forty-five years later, it moves closer to reality. ..,. ! 1 • 
We stand in a present where a possible future is that our first black preside·nt, Barack Obama, brings tremendous change to society. 
This is not a political endorsement, just something to think about. 
Imagine that exactly one year and two days from now, Obama is sworn into the chair President Bush has warmed 
Colin Leicht 

since 2000. This would be a symbol of social change, a sym­bol that the nation has moved a step beyond prejudice Northern toward a greater humanity. Illinois 
Many of us claim we are not voting based on his race. University'sInstead, it's his charming demeanor, intelligent remarks, 
Northern Star

thoughts on policy or the fact that, unlike most politicians, he makes sense when he talks. Yet the reality is that those with a spirit of equality in their hearts cannot deny that part of us secretly roots for him because he is potentially the first black president. 
This possible future where Obama takes the presidential oath would be a moment where King's prophetic dream reaches fulfillment. The beauty of Obama's character is that he represents the whole spectrum: black to white, rich to poor. 
His victory would fulfill King's words: "Now is the time to lift our nation from the quicksand of racial injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood." On the international level, America would finally share brotherhood with the greater part of the globe: We would finally have a non-white leader. 
This would alter worldwide opinions of America; in case you didn't know, a good percentage of the world is some shade of brown, whether in Pakistan, Peru or Palau. The NMCP also defines racial harmony beyond the limited paradigm of just black or white; think about what the letters of its name mean. 
We would be brothers with countries where non-white leaders led massive demo­cratic reform. South Africa ended apartheid with the help of Nelson Mandela. Bolivia recently began reforming the constitution with the help of indigenous president Evo Morales, who hopes to transform Bolivia's 90 percent non-white lower caste into equals. 
President Obama may not join them in creating structural change, but he would get respect from a world of people who have long felt oppressed by the legacy of colonialism and that American policy makers do not understand them. 
This wish for equality is what makes Obama so dynamic. On a deeper level, we want him to win because he understands us. No matter who you are, he understands my people, your people and their people. His cultural sensitivity proclaims us equals, fulfilling King's dream to "make justice a reality for all of God's children." 
Of course, reality is never as magical as we wish, but if Obama were to win, society would be redefmed, and those who have hungered and thirsted for equality, as King once did, would be satisfied. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 22 edition ofThe Northern Star, the daily newspaper at Northern Illinois University. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
I understand Norris is free to spend his money and think politically however he likes, but it just seems that more and more our society is getting sponsored. 
It started with sports stadiums and the­atres, how we now go to the Allstate arena instead of the Rosemont Horizon. 
Now Huckabee is, in a way, being spon­sored by Chuck Norris, something die­hard Norris enthusiasts will be influenced by, and something wimps will be scared into conformity by. 
I mean after all, who wants to receive a round-house kick to the face if they don't vote for Huckabee? I don't. 
I think that there are certain areas, poli­tics being one of them, that famed citizens should stay out of. 
It's a cheap trick performed by Huckabee, a desperate attempt to try and win more votes, and an irresponsible decision by Norris, who will sway people's decisions with no regard to issues and the welfare of our nation, but because of pop­ularity and famed jokes. 
Granted, Norris almost assuredly believes Huckabee is the best candidate, I'm not entirely comfortable with the idea of people blindly voting for Huckabee because Norris endorses him. 
I can think of some people who will be swayed by Norris' influence on Huckabee's campaign, and that could be all it takes in a race this close. 
It's just sad that our society has become so commercialized to the point where it influences critical issues for the welfare of our country. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 22 edition ofThe Daily Eastern News, the daily newspaper at Eastern Illinois University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, January 23, 2008 





By CHRIS McGRADY 
Assistant Scene Ediror 

Tom Hanks' predictability, is beginning to bn almost laughable. 
Before all you fans out there get angry, it does not mean that his roles are type­cast, or that he is struggling. Hather it seems that these days, any movie star­ring Hanks is instantly good. 
Such is the case in "Charlie Wilson's War." where Hanks once again turns in an imprnssive performance. He plays Texas congressman Charlie Wilson, and 
Charlie Wilson's War 
Director: Mike Nichols Starring: Tom Hanks, Philip Seymour Hoffman and Julia Roberts 
the story follows him as he tries to gar­ner support to help Afghanistan rid itself of Soviet oppression. When Wilson visits Afghanistan and views the refugee camps left in the wake of Soviet bomb­ing, he launches a campaign to garner American support to help Afghanistan liberate itself from Soviet control. 
Hank's whiskey-swilling, straight-talk­ing character is likeable from the begin­ning. Opposite of Hanks is Julia Roberts, playing Texas aristocrat Joanne Herring. Roberts turns in a decent performance, but is probably the least-believable char­acter in the film. Her Southern drawl sounds tepid and she is some­times outshined by her co­
actors. One remarkable thing about her performance is how good she looks in a bikini at age 40 and after three children. She plays the sixth-richest woman in Texas, and with her political influence, she helps Hanks raise awareness of the 

Soviet atrocities. 

However, the real show-steal­er of the film is Philip Seymour Hoffman, who is quickly solidi­fying himself as one of Hollywood's best talents. Hoffman plays CIA agent Gust Avrakotos, a quick-tem­pered and sarcastic character who works with Hanks. Hoffman has already garnered a bid for an Academy Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role, and more awards are sure to follow. Hoffman repeat­edly steals the scene from the other actors, and his energy is palpa­ble. The greatest thing about his performance is the realism of how he portrays his character. Hot-headed, quick-to-react, but obvious­ly intelligent, Hoffman plays the role of Avrakotos perfectly. Without him, "Charlie Wilson's War" would not be nearly as strong. 
The film also stars Amy Adams as Wilson's assistant Bonnie Bach. Adams' portrayal is quite good, albeit forget­table. However, she does a great job with what she is given and turns in a strong 
•performance. 

"Charlie Wilson's War" was nominated for five Golden Globes -Best Motion Picture (Musical or Comedy), Best Actor (Hanks), Best Supporting Actor (Hoffman), Best Supporting Actor (Roberts) and Best Screenplay (Aaron Sorkin). 
The film is directed by Mike Nichols and is based off of the book (and true story) by George Crile. It was adapted for film by Sorkin, and the screenplay is full of sharp dialogue and brilliant lan­guage. 
All in all, the film is a very strong screenplay supported by several stellar actors. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 



IDIOT P.ltrOT'S 
latest crashes & 
burns 
OBSERVER GRAPHIC I Madeline Nies 

tronic textures and drumming, soaring sorely lacks. the Transformers soundtrack, and could By RYAN RAFFIN choruses-it's all there. The now-rare moments of aggression feasibly appear in other movies or com­Scene Wrircr The wrinkle that Idiot Pilot brings to on "Wolves" seem forced, as if the band mercials. It seems like the sort of song 
the game is a slightly more aggressive included them only for fear of alienating recorded only to serve as an innocuous 
Hadiohead is everywhere these days. sound. The clean vocals can become its fan base by changing its sound too soundtrack to someone telling you about Af'tnr setting the world (or maybe just the harsher and occasionally move into much from its debut. the advantages of a Hyundai. Internet) on tire with the sneaky digital screaming, the tempos get faster and the One example is the ending of "Red Luckily someone, be it the band, label relnasn of "In Rainbows," the band eon­guitar work becomes louder. But these Museum", which or producer, exercised some tinues to east a long shadow over mod­abrasive moments have become fairly seems tacked on and Luckily someone, be it quality control and kept the ern musie. It seems with each passing rare on the bands sophomore effort, unnecessary. The rest running time of "Wolves" at 43
the band, label or

day it beeomes more influential, crawling titled "Wolves." This is certainly a pop of the song is a simple minutes and only ten songs. ever closer to the level of musie legends. album, especially when compared to Radiohead clone, producer, exercised Although in this case it's not So, givnn the stylistic similarities, it is their prior work. which is fair enough, some quality control quality control so much as nearly inevitable that the Washington It's an unfortunate regression as the but nothing even close damage control. Most of the
and kept the running 
electronic rock duo Idiot Pilot will be band strikes a fine balance between pop­to new or original. To tracks slip by, completely unno­
time of "Wolves" at
eompared to them. Ethereal vocals, elee-oriented melodies and cathartic thrash­avoid any more ticed and indistinguishable 
Wolves 
Idiot Pilot 
Label: Reprise I Wea 

Recommended Track: "Last Chance" 

ing on their 2005 debut redundancy, one thing 43 minutes and only from each other. Aside from "Strange We Should Meet should be plainly stat­"Last Chance" no song is worth
ten songs.

Here." ed right now: hearing more than once. 
The best song on the Basically every song It's unfortunate that the album is the opener "Last on this album sounds like Hadiohead to potential shown on their older work has Chance", with an explo­one degree or another. not been fulfilled; instead the band opted sive, catchy and anthem­The seven-minute album closer for "maturity," which translates into like chorus. It is the only "Recurring Dream" is aptly-named, boredom. Hopefully next time around track that really stands out because hearing it is much the same as they will realize that ripping off a more on the record, which is a hearing about any other person's dream; established band does not guarantee suc­rather disappointing fact, it's mind-numbingly boring. The idea of cess or critical admiration. This album is because the song shows placing an epic sounding song at the end the simple case of a band that lacks the quite a bit of promise. of your album may seem appealing, but ingenuity and dedication to find its own Though still heavily indebt­when that song never seems to end, all it sound, instead choosing to a:pe another. ed to Radiohead, there is a does is test the limits of the listener's spark of creativity here patience. that the rest of the album "Hetina and the Sky" was included on Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Wednesday, January 23, 2008 
page 11 

in which men working in the oil well every effort to spite Sunday when he By MARK WITTE happen to be killed by an object falling can. Scene Writer from above. This particular accident Accidents begin to happen at the wells 
leaves an infant boy orphaned and we and workers are killed. The film hits a 
Paul Thomas Anderson has returned see Plainview taking the crying child climax when one of Daniel's wells over­from a five-year hiatus with his new film into his arms as his dead father, covered pressurizes and oil shoots up from the "There Will Be Blood" -an epic tale of in blood and oil, is carried off ground in a tremen­oil, family. hate, deception and madness in the background. Daniel dous fountain, a blast
The film hits a climax
at the turn of the 20th century. The adopts the child. which deafens his movie is an intense work of filmmaking The next time we see when one ofDaniel's nearby son. The next which captivates in a horrifyingly beau­Daniel Plainview, about ten five minutes onscreen
wells over-pressurizes 
tiful, yet uncomfortable manner. years later, his figure is dras­contain some of the
and oil shoots up from 
It opens with a thin, scraggly man, tically different. Clad in a suit most beautiful and chipping away at the insides of a moun­and top-hat and sporting a the ground in a breathtaking bits of­tain. Eventually deciding to blast the wicked smile, we see cinematography and
tremendous fountain, 
rock with dynamite, the man lights a Plainview giving a speech film direction to hit 
a blast which deafens 
fuse, climbs out of the shaft he is in, and promoting his oil drilling the big screen in hoists his explosive into position. After business. He claims: ''I'm a his nearby son. recent years, as an the blast he begins to climb back down. family man -I run a family oil-covered Daniel but by accident his ladder breaks and he business. This is my son and watches gallons of oil falls from about halfway up, down to the my partner, H.W. Plainview." shoot up hundreds of feet into the air. bottom of the shaft, breaking his leg. Throughout the film, the young H.W. He continues standing there through the Despite his incapacitation the man dis­(Dillon Freasier) is allowed to say very night until morning, just staring at the covers silver and not only hauls himself little, mostly acting as a face by which oil and ignoring the plight of his son. out of the hole with the metal, but drags his father manipulates clients into sign­From there Daniel, and the film, slow­himself across the California wilderness ing leases. ly descend into madness. Daniel begins and into town, where he secures his The story takes a turn when Daniel to lose interest in his deaf son. He begins claim. Thus is our introduction to Daniel happens upon the Sunday Ranch and its to clash violently with Sunday and even Plainview (Daniel Day-Lewis) and the oil. There Daniel runs into the decep­threatens to bury him underground. A drive. determination, and madness that tively passive Eli Sunday (Paul Dano), an man claiming to be his half-brother marks his character. evangelist preacher for the shows up at camp, but 
The film flips ahead some years and Church of the Third that does not end well we find the scraggly Plainview working Revelation, whose career Daniel Day-Lewis, either. In the end the film 
on an oil drilling team. There he wit­is also on the rise. Both strong performance can only end in one way nesses one of many frequent accidents Sunday and Daniel are -madness -and it does. 
as an intimidating oil 
bent on singular Daniel Day-Lewis' purposes. Daniel tycoon has earned strong performance as an wants immense him a Golden Globe intimidating oil tycoon has 
There Will Be Blood 

wealth and earned him a Golden
already and he will 
Sunday seems Globe already and he will bent on extracting surely follow that up surely follow that up with
Director: Paul Thomas Anderson 

some of that with a win at a win at the Oscars. wealth to finance Anderson's direction has
Starring: Daniel Day-Lewis, Paul Dana, 
the Oscars. 

his growing earned him an Oscar nom-
Ciaran Hinds and Kevin J. O'Connor 
church. ination for Best Director. 
The two characters make The film itself has been nominated for each other uneasy. Sunday Best Picture as well. These nominations incessantly tries to include are well-deserved and the haunting Daniel in his church's worship, force of "There Will Be Blood" is one to but this only causes the atheis­be reckoned with. tic oilman to boil with contempt for the preacher. He makes Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 
-
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Oil and conflict burst into flames in director Paul Thomas Anderson's thriller. 


Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Paul Dano holds his own onscreen with Daniel Day-Lewis as Eli Sunday, an Uninimitable actor Daniel Day-Lewis adds to his career portfolio with another evangelist preacher who comes into contention over oil money. excellent performance as Daniel Plainview, a burgeoning oil tycoon. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 23, 2008 
NHL 

Devils net 5 power-play goals in blowout win 
Islanders beat 'Canes behind three shorthanded goals; Rangers break out of slump against Thrashers 
"We put pucks on net, we points in 40 games this season.
Associated Press 

directed pucks toward the net, He scored New Jersey's first goal 
PIIIIADELPIIIA-All thf1 New and we had guys around the to tie it at 1 and assisted on .Jersey Devils needed to get their net," Devils coach Brent Sutter three of the next four. slumping power play going was said. "We moved the puck well, "It seems like always we have a low-scoring defenseman. we got some rebounds, we got been struggling on the power 
Johnny Oduya had a goal and some screen shots and we made play," Oduya said. "I think we three assists and the New Jersey the most of our opportunities. played pretty good at times but Devils scored live times on the We created chances by going to tonight we got the bounces early power play in a 7-3 victory over the net and we scored some on there to get some goals." the Philadelphia Flyers on goals in areas we need to score Zubrus scored from the slot to Tuesday night. some goals in." give the Devils a 3-2 lead late in 
The Devils beat Philadelphia Daniel Briere, Mike Knuble the first period. Elias made it 4-2 for the !1fth straight time this and Jeff Carter had midway through the second. season to move into tirst place in Philadelphia's goals. Oduya set that one up with a the Atlantic Division. The Flyers hadn't lost in regu­perfect, one-handed centering 
"It's nice to score," said Oduya, lation in their previous eight pass. who recorded multiple points for games and were 10-1-2 in the Flyers goaltender Antero the first time in 117 career last 13. But they hardly looked Niittymaki was pulled for Martin games. "I don't get that many like a team playing for first Biron after Parise made it 5-2 points. But I'm more happy for place. with 5:27 left in the second. the win in a big game." "We had a total letdown," Niittymaki, who was 6-0-1 in his 
Patrik Elias and Zach Parise coach John Stevens said. last seven starts, allowed five each had a pair of goals, and Philadelphia mostly outplayed goals on 19 shots . .Iamie Langenbrunner and New Jersey at even strength. Dainius Zubrus also scored for The problem was stopping the Islanders 6, Hurricanes 3 New Jersey. Devils' suddenly potent power The New York Islanders kept 
The Devils equaled the team play. New Jersey came in 28th in drawing penalties and scoring record for power-play goals and the NHL with a conversion rate goals. When they were in the fell one short of the franchise of 14 percent, and was 0-for-15 penalty box, it was tough to tell mark. New Jersey had five over the last four games. which team actually had the
-
power-play goals two other times With Oduya playing like Wayne advantage. in club history. The club was Gretzky in his prime, the Devils The Islanders tied a team known as the Colorado Rockies capitalized on almost every record with three short-handed when they scored six power-play opportunity on the man advan­goals, two by Mike Sillinger, in a goals in an 8-6 win over the tage. rout of the Carolina Hurricanes Flyers on Feb. 19, 1980. Oduya came in with nine on Tuesday night. "We're not out to score any Southeast Division leaders have sweep of the Thrashers. goals" while killing penalties, allowed an NHL-worst 10 short­Now trying to snap out a slump Sillinger said. "We knew that handed goals and failed to gen­that is threatening New York's they have forwards that play the erate a second straight rally return to the postseason, the point, and if we could get a from a two-goal deficit against Rangers responded to their chance to take advantage of it, the Islanders. angry coach's message and took we would. But we weren't out "The players that are up on their frustration out on Atlanta. there to score goals. We just got the power play have to take the Jarornir Jagr scored and had some good bounces, some break­responsibility to do the right two assists on a newly created aways." things at the right time with the line, and defenseman Fedor Richard Park also scored down pucks, and we didn't," coach Tyutin had a career-high three a man, Sean Bergenheim scored Peter Laviolette said. assists in a win Tuesday night. on a breakaway while being Cullen scored with 13 minutes Clicking as they did in wreck­dragged down and Brendan Witt remaining to pull Carolina within ing the Thrashers' lirst trip to and Blake Comeau added late 4-3, but the Hurricanes -who the playoffs, the Hangers put goals for the Islanders, who had scored eight goals in the together the complete game scored three short-handed goals third period or later of their pre­coach Tom Henney had grown for the third time in franchise vious two games, both wins -weary waiting to see. history and first since 2000. couldn't get anything else past Sean Avery and Brandon "The odd one once in a while is Wade Dubielewicz. Hick Dubinsky scored first-period going to happen, but three in a DiPietro's backup made 44 saves goals, Martin Straka added one 
--game is unacceptable," Carolina in his second victory in Halcigh in the second, and Jagr finished defenseman Mike Commodore in just over three weeks; he also the surge in the third to provide said. "Those are supposed to be beat the Hurricanes 4-1 on Dec. plenty of offense for llenrik opportunities for us to score, and 31. Lundqvist. we didn't do that." Cam Ward stopped 25 shots for "We had the lead. I think that Hadek Martinek and Trent the Hurricanes before he was was the key and we jumped on Hunter both had two assists and pulled with about two minutes them right away," Jagr said. "We Comeau assisted on a goal for left. scored a quick two goals and New York, which broke a 1-all that was the diflerenee." tie with three goals in the second Rangers 4, Thrashers 0 Lundqvist stopped 14 shots in period and won its fourth Just as they did last spring, the earning his seventh shutout and straight road game. Atlanta Thrashers proved to be 14th in three NHL seasons. Eric Staal, Matt Cullen and the perfect foil for the New York Kari Lehtonen made 35 saves. Commodore scored for Carolina, Rangers. but failed to win for the fourth which had its two-game winning A year ago, the Rangers were straight outing -all losses for streak snapped and probably searching for their first playoff the Thrashers, who are three wished it could have declined series victory since 1997 and points behind Southeast New York's penalties. The they got it in a big way with a Division-leading Carolina. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Nice Rental Home UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Need a job to gain experience? We offer a welcoming staff commu-WANTED nity in a beautiful outdoor setting. FOR RENT within a block of ND & Med School. Do not go it alone. Need experience to gain a job? 718 Napoleon, CYO CAMP Rancho Framasa General Staff, Counselor Manager, 3-4 bdrm. 3 bath home close to 3bdrm, If you or someone you love needs Entry-level position in Admissions 
Inclusive Programming, Ropes campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, attached garage,basement, confidential support or assistance, and Alumni Affairs availaiJie SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS-Course, Adventure and Health posi-fireplace, 2-car garage, 10x20 deck, large lot, new upgrades/appliances. please call Sr. Sue Dunn. OP. at 1-January 2008 at a private board-HIRING NOW! lions available. deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. 574-339-0275. 7819. ing/day school located 30 minutes 
Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 from the University of Notre Dame. Secure your summer job! All positions start at $240/week. or 574-340-1844. For more information, visit our web-Lalumiere School is looking for an 
Training is provided;start date May site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart-energetic and dedicated person Camp Rancho Framasa is an inclu-31. 2008. Large house available for 2009-PERSONAL ments/pregnant.shtml who likes to work with high school sive. residential camp. located in 2010. Full renovations completed or see our bi-weekly ad in The students. 
south central Indiana. operated by Apply online www.campranchofra-2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-Observer. Some coaching and dorm supervi­the Catholic Youth Organization masa.org square feet,5 bathrooms. ONE WHO IS? You do not have to sion may be available as well. since 1946. MacSwain@ gmail.com be alone. We want to help. Call our If you or someone you care about 
Questions? contact Angi at 888-24 hour confidential hotline at 1-has been sexually assaulted, visit Please email Serving campers aged 7 to 16 in 988-2839, x25 or email angi@cam-705 ND Ave. 3 Bedroom $1,000.00. 800-No Abort or visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. kennedy@lalumiere.org for further various programs. pranchoframasa.org 273-4889 Available 08/09 www.lifecall.org shtml information. 




OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Wednesday, January 23, 2008 
page 13 
MLB
NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Boston 33·6 .846 7·3 Toronto 22-19 .537 6·4 12 New Jersey 18-22 .450 4·6 15.5 Philadelphia 16-26 .381 2·8 18.5 New York 13-28 .311 5·5 21 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record perc . last 10 GB 
Detroit 29·13 .690 4-6 Cleveland 22-18 .550 8·2 6 Indiana 19-23 .452 4-6 10 Chicago 16-24 .400 4-6 12 Milwaukee 16-25 .390 4·6 12.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record perc; last10 GB 
Orlando 26-11 .605 4·6 Washington 22-17 .564 7·3 2 Alfanta 17-20 .459 3-7 6 Charlane 16·25 .390 5·5 9 Miami 8·32 .200 0·10 16.5 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record perc. last 10 
Portland 25-16 .610 7-3 Denver 24·16 .600 6·4 
.5 Utah 24·18 .571 8·2 1.5 
Seanle 9·32 .220 0-10 ;:.1&· :::!:::.f:~f~ 
Minnesota 6-34 .150 2·8 1Ui 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record perc. last 10 ·· x;s New Orleans 28-12 .700 0·0 ·Dallas 27-13 .675 0·0 ·.•?tl1illJ•;ii1li,.···•········· San Antonio 26-13 .667 0·0 
Pettitte on Jan. 30. Brian As of Tuesday, the House "I haven't talked to Chuck
Houston 22-19 .537 0·0 Associated Press 
McNamee, a former person­panel had at least made in a number of years," his
Memphis 12-29 .293 0•0 

WASHINGTON -Four­al trainer for Clemens and contact, if not actually last listed agent with the time All-Star Chuck Pettitte, is due in Jan. 31, scheduled interviews, with players' association, Randy Western Conference, Pacific Division Knoblauch was subpoenaed with former New York Mets all four other witnesses or Hendricks, wrote in an e­Tuesday by a congressional clubhouse employee Kirk their representatives, a sen­mail to The Associated
team record perc. li#t1Q ;XIS 
committee investigating Radomski asked to appear ior committee staffer told Press. Hendricks represents
Phoenix 29-12 .707 o-o 

steroids in baseball after he Feb. 1. The Associated Press. The Clemens and Pettitte. 
LA Lakers 21-12 .692 0-0 1 
failed to respond to an invi­They all had until close of person spoke on condition of In last month's Mitchell
Golden Slate 25-18 .581 0-0 1.5 
tation to give a deposition. business Tuesday to respond anonymity because staff Report on performance­
sacramento 17·22 .436 o-o 6.5 
Knoblauch, who played to their invitations; members were not author­enhancing drugs in baseball,
LA Clippers 12-25 .324 o~o 16.5 
for the Yankees, Twins and Knoblauch's deadline was ized to discuss details of the McNamee said he injected Royals, was asked to appear last Friday. deposition process. Clemens with steroids and Thursday, the first of five "The committee has taken Lawyers for Clemens and human growth hormone in depositions or transcribed this step because Mr. McNamee have said their 1998, 2000 and 2001, accu­interviews scheduled by the Knoblauch failed to respond clients will appear. sations the seven-time Cy House Oversight and to the invitation to partici­"We've been talking. Young Award winner has USCHO.com/CSTV Division I Government Reform pate voluntarily in a deposi­They're not issuing any sub­denied. McNamee also Committee prior to its Feb. tion or transcribed interview poenas for Brian," said alleged Pettitte used HGH,
Poll 

13 hearing. and the Feb. 13 hearing," Richard Emery, one of and Pettitte acknowledged team record previous Roger Clemens was asked committee chairman Henry McNamee's attorneys. McNamee injected him to speak to committee staff Waxman and ranking It was not clear whether twice while the pitcher
1 Michigan 22·2·0 1 
Saturday, followed by Republican Tom Davis .said Knoblauch had retained a was recovering from an
2 Miami (OH) 23·3·0 2 
Yankees pitcher Andy in a statement. lawyer to represent him. injury.
3 Colorado College 18·6·0 3 4 North Dakota 14·8·1 6 5 Denver 18·6·0 4 6 Michigan State 16·5·4 7 
IN BRIEF 7 UNH 13·7·1 5 8 BC 11-5·6 11 
Seattle head coach agrees Arcp.bishop asking for action Childress team looking to
9 NOTRE DAME 18·9·1 8 
to finish out contract agru.nst MaJerus close in on Hendrick team
10 Clarkson 13-7·2 12 
KIRKLAND,Wash. Mike ST LOUIS -A Roman Catholic arch­WELCOME, N.C.-Dale Earnhardt's 
11 Northeastern 11·6·3 9 
Holmgren will return for a final sea­bishop said Tuesday that he will ask officials death left Richard Childress thinking it 
12 Ouinnipiac 14·5·3 14 
son as coach of the Seattle Seahawks of Saint Louis University to take "appropri­was time to find another way to make
13 St. Cloud State 11·10·3 13 
14 UMass 9·7·5 10 -but only a fmal season. ate action" against its basketball coach, a living. 
15 UMass lowell 11·6-4 15 The 59-year-old veteran of 16 sea­who said in a television interview that he Almost seven years later, Childress sons as an NFL head coach supports abortion rights. and his team, Richard Childress announced his decision Tuesday to One of the game's winningest coaches, Racing, have made a complete turn­fulfill the final year of his contract, Rick Majerus made the comment at a around. after spending the weekend with his weekend rally for Democratic presidential With two successful seasons behind wife at their offseason Arizona home. candidate Hillary Rodham Ointon. RCR and especially with its new engine
around the dial "Kathy and I came to this decision to St. Louis Archbishop Raymond Burke program -a combined effort with finish my contract," said Holmgren, declined to say what the action against Dale Earnhardt Inc. -running ­who had hinted at retirement for Majerus should be, saying that was a deci­smoothly after coming together mid­weeks. "This will be my last year. We sion for the Jesuit university. But he said the way through 2007, Childress isn't con­
COLLEGE BASKETBALL are going to make it the best year coach is a leader and shouldn't support ceding anything to the top NASCAR ever. views in opposition to church teaching. team, Hendrick Motorsports. Iowa State at Kansas "And then probably after that, I will ''I'm concerned that a leader at a Catholic "You know, our team has won 44 take a little time ofT-but not yet. We university made these comments. It can races [in NASCAR's top three series] in 
7 p.m., ESPN 

are going to go after it hard." lead Catholics astray," Burke said by tele­the past two years," Childress said Two days after Seattle lost at Green phone as he attended March for Ilfe anti­during a Sprint Media Tour stop at the Georgia Tech at North Carolina State Bay in the NFC divisional playoffs, abortion events in Washington. "I just sprawling RCR complex about 40 
9 p.m., ESPN2 Holmgren was asked if there was a believe that it's of the essence for people to miles north of Charlotte. "So that third possibility beyond retiring or fm­understand as a Catholic you just cannot shows we've got a pretty solid engine ishing the final season of his contract. hold these beliefs." program." 


-

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 23, 2008 
NBA 

O'Neal out for two weeks after positive MRI 
Miami star sidelined with hip and leg pain, will miss at least six games as disappointing season continues 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Shaquille O'Neal will miss at least the next two WPeks becausp, of n~cur­ring pain in his left hip and lng, the latest piece of disap­pointing rwws for the rneling Miami llnat. 
An MHI nxam performed Tuesday on O'Neal's ailing hip found acutn inllammation in that joint and his quadri­ceps muscle. lin will be trPatnd with ice, but won't do any basketbal1-n~lated activi­ty-with hopes that rest will r.ure the problem. 
O'Neal will miss at least six games, barring a change in the rehabilitation schedule. The earliest he could return under the timntable released by the team is Feb. 6 at I>Pt.roit. 
"llis activity, the activity, is exacerbating it," said Heat coach Pat Hiley, whose team has lost 14 straight games, three shy of matehing the franchise rneord. "That's all. That's what happens. lie's trying to do everything he do. Ill~ 's gotten all the treatment hn ean get. And now it's probably going to be an inac­tive period of time until the thing hPals." 
O'Neal was not available to rnporters Tuesday. lie has missed an average of 20 games over thn past six sea­sons because of an array of injuries, and still has two full seasons after this remaining on his five-year, $100 million contraet with Miami. 
Other tests done Tuesday, including bloodwork, ruled out the possibility of infec­tion or other problems, the team said. 

O'Neal suffered the hip injury while diving for a loose ball against Utah on Dee. 22 -the last game Miami won. lie missed eight games from Dec. 28 through .Jan. 11, sought treatment in Los Angeles over that stretch, and returned when the Heat started their cur­rent seven-game homestand .Jan. 16. 
O'Neal left Monday's game against Cleveland in the first quarter to have the hip re­taped, then returned to the game with a noticeable limp. lie finished with 10 points, none after halftime. 
lie's averaging a career­low 14.2 points this season, and his string of 14 straight All-Star Game selections ­which matches a league record -almost seems cer­tain to end because of his latest malady. 
lleat guard Dwyane Wade, who scored 32 of Miami's 38 second-half points in Monday's 97-90 loss to Cleveland. said it's tough to continue watching O'Neal play in obvious pain. 
"lie's judged more than a lot of the ·athletes in the world because of who he is, who he has become," Wade said. "If he's playing and hurting and not playing good, he's being talked about. If he's not playing and he's try­ing to get healthy, then he's being talked about for taking 
time off. It's a lose-lose situ­
ation. As his friend, I want 
him to be healthy. That's the 
most important thing to us." 
Mark Blount likely will become Miami's new starting center, now that O'Neal and Alonzo Mourning (season­ending knee and quadriceps injuries) are hurting. Centers .Joel Anthony and Earl Barron are also on the Heat roster, although they've com­bined to play 207 minutes this season. 
Depending on how long O'Neal is out, Hiley said the team might try to add anoth­er big man for depth. 
"We'll talk about it," Riley said. 
For now, Blount -who started 81 games for Minnesota last year and who has averaged 5. 7 points in 16 minutes per game this sea­son -will be the primary pivot man Miami, which has the Eastern Conference's worst reeord at 8-32. 
When Blount was acquired before the season in a trade, he expected to spend the year playing alongside O'Neal and Mourning and helping the Heat get back to their championship form from two seasons ago. 
"It's been different," Blount said. "There's nothing I can do about that. Nothing you can really say. The team is looking at me to try to help them out right now. or course, you want to be there with Shaq and be there with Zo, but that's not the situa­tion right now." 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
424 N. Frances Street 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air
-
Security System 

-


Injured Miami center Shaquille O'Neal watches from the bench during the Heat's 88-84 loss to the New York Knicks on Jan. 19. 
~ ~@(§l)@~ ~@Qlj [l~If> 1M)@1t{jl) 
an exhibition about male adolescence at an all-women's college 
JANUARY 25-FEBRUARY 22, 2008 

Moreau Art Galleries, Saint Mary's College 
featuring artists: Jason Lahr, Scott Stulen, Gavin Bunner, Steve Seeley, Rudy Shepherd, and Eric Prykowski 
OPENING RECEPTION: FRIDAY, JAN. 25, S-7PM 
all events free and open to the public 
"blah, blah, blah, bleep" by Scott Stu/en (2005) 

Buy the Exhibition Soundtrack on !Tunes! 
Slayer, Run-DMC, Suffocation, ODB, The Scotland Yard Gospel, Corrosion of Conformity, The Rapture, and more! visit www.moreauartgalleries.com for more information 

Wednesday, January 23, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 


BECAUSE YOU DESERVE IT (AVAILABLE FOR RENT STARTING JUNE 1, 2009) 
IF YOU ARE PLANNING ON LIVING IN A HOUSE OFF CAMPUS AND YOU DO NOT CONTACT US FIRST, YOU'RE NOT SMART ENOUGH TO BE A NOTRE DAME STUDENT! 
WHY LIVE IN AN OLD, SMALL AND WORN-DOWN HOUSE WHEN YOU CAN LIVE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE TO CAMPUS THAT ONLY CONTAINS NEW, SPACIOUS HOUSES SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS? WHY LIVE IN AN APARTMENT WHEN YOU CAN LIVE IN A HOUSE WITH A BIG YARD? WHY PAY DEPOSITS 15-17 MONTHS IN ADVANCE? 
New 2,400 square feet (4 Bedrooms, 2 Vz Bathrooms) and 3,000 square feet (6 Bedrooms, 3 1/z Bathrooms) brick homes close to campus with Dens, Kitchen, Family Room, Dining Room, Mud Room and Back Porch/Patio. Each home has the following main features: 
1. 
Fully equipped Kitchen with new refrigerator, range, oven, dishwasher, microwave, cooking pots/ pans, plates, cooking utensils, and dinnerware; 

2. 
Dining Room; 


3. 
Family Room with fireplace; 

4. 
Mud Room with laundry center, including a washer and dryer; 

5. 
Hardwood flooring on entire main floor (except Mud Room); 

6. 
Each Bedroom area is approximately 10' x 16' and has the following design features: 

* 
Fully carpeted 


* 
Vanity cabinet with sink and mirror 

* 
Walk-in closet 


* 
Wired for cable television and internet service 



7. 
Each two students will share a porcelain-tiled bathroom (private toilet room and a steam shower with seat) and a small den with kitchenette (sink, bar refrigerator, cook top and microwave) having hardwood flooring; 

8. 
Gas barbeque grill on Back Porch/Patio; 

9. 
Wireless internet service ready; 

10. 
Fire/Security Alarm System and locks with deadbolts for all exterior doors and all doors from staircase to bedroom areas; 

11. 
Top-of-the-line heating, air conditioning and other mechanical systems (the "Mechanical Systems"); 

12. 
The floors, ceilings and walls surrounding each bedroom and bathroom are completely insulated to reduce noise; 

13. 
Reduced utility costs because of the Mechanical Systems and the fact the homes are extremely well-insulated; 

14. 
Spacious yards; and 

15. 
Substantial parking available. 


For more information, contact Robert L. Cimala at legacyhomes@comcast.net or (630) 886-7715. 
-

HURRY AND RESERVE YOUR HOUSE BEFORE IT IS TOO LATE! 

-

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 23, 2008 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Sharapova beats top-seed Henin down under 
Defending champion Serena Williams ousted in quarterfinals by third-ranked ]elena Jankovic in two sets 
Associated Press 
MELBOUHNE Sernna 
Williams stumbled onn round 
short of a rnmatch, so Maria 
Sharapova had to unload a 
ynar's worth of r!'tribution on 
somnbody Plsn. 
.Justine llnnin caught tho 
brunt of it. 
Sharapova advancnd to tlw 
Australian Opnn semifinals for 
tho fourth straight ynar with a 
convindng 6-4. 6-0 win ovPr 
top-ranked IIPnin, snapping 
tlw Bnlgian star's 32-mal.ch 
winning streak. 
"EvPn though I bnat .lustinP. 
it's ddinitely not ovnr," tlw 
20-ynar-old Hussian star said. 
"I still have a lot of business to 
tako earn of." 
l>nfnnding champion 
Williams had slumped 6-3, 6-4 
narlier in thP afternoon to 
third-rankNI Jelnna Jankovic, 
who n~aelwd the semifinals at 
Mnlbourne Park for the first 
tinw and only the third timP in 
a major. 
Williams was unseeded and 
ranked No. X1 when she made 
her stunning run to an eighth 
Grand Slam title 12 months 
ago, punctuating that with an 
omphatie 6-1, 6-2 win over 
Sharapova in one of the most 
lopsided Grand Slam finals. 
It was a big setback for Sharapova, who struggled with a shoulder problem for most of the season and her ranking slipped outside the top 5. 
But the winner of two Grand Slam events started returning to her best at the WTA cham­pionships in November before losing in three sets to !lenin in throe hours, 24 minutes ­among the dozen longest women's tour matches in the Open ora. 
She turned the tables in only 1:3X on Tuesday, inflicting the first 6-0 set on llenin since 2002. 
"I n~ally felt like I was in a bubbln," Sharapova said. "I think it was one of the most consistent matches where I did all the things I wanted to do. and I did them corrnctly from tho beginning to the (md ... and just played the way I ean play." 
!lenin. who struggled with her serve and was broken live limns by Sharapova. said she had a minor concern over a lingering knee injury but put the loss down as an inevitabil­ity. 
"ll's very hard to be at your best love! all the time," she said. "''ll have to think about that and build again for the future." 
Sharapova will be looking back for lnssons to take into tlw semis against Jankovic, hnr old tnnnis academy pal. 
"Evnr since the juniors wn'vn always played rnally tough and we've always bat­t.lnd it out. and it's great to see hnr in tlw smnis." Sharapova said. "It's gn~at wn're playing tognthnr." 
.Jankovic has two Snrbian compatriots in the quartnrf'i­nals Wndrwsday. 
No. 4-rankPd Ana lvanovic is aiming to nnd the run of another Williams when shn plays Sernna's sister. Venus, for tlw right to nwet the win­rwr of the otlwr quarterfinal 

-
betwenn No. 9 l>aninla 
llantuchova and No. 29 
Agnieszka Hadwanska. 
On the men's side, Serbia's 
Novak Djokovic plays David 
Ferrer of Spain and defending 
champion Roger FederPr go 
against No. 12 James Blake. 
Blake is 0-7 against Federer, 
who beat him in the 2006 U.S. 
Opon quarterfinals. 
But he's taking heart from 
FNiernr's last two matehes, 
when he was taken to 10-X in 
thP fifth snt against Serbia's 
.Janko Tisparevic and had to 
save set points against Tomas 
Berdyeh. 
No. 2 Hafael Nadal, the only player to beat Federer at the last 10 (;rand Slams, advanced to his f'irst Australian Opon semifinal with a 7-5, 6-3, 6-1 win over No. 24 Jarkko Nimninnn of Finland. 
"Maybe I wasn't playing my bnst match, my best tennis today, but it was enough," the three-time French Open cham­pion said. "It's a good moment for me, first semifinals on hardeourt, Grand Slam." 
lie will play 22-year-old Jo­Wilf'ried Tsonga, who beat No. 14 Mikhail Youzhny 7-5, 6-0, 7-6 {6) late Tuesday. 
The 38th-ranked Tsonga has only played four previous majors due to a combination of back, shoulder and abdomi­nal injuries and never won a title at the elite level, but has already upset No. 9 Andy Murray and No. 8 Richard Gasquet so far at Melbourne Park. 
"It's just amazing. I played just unbelievable," Tsonga said. "It's a very big event. It's very difficult to stay on this world." 
Serena Williams was that ecstatic last year after her amazing run. 
Despite being in better phys­ical condition this time around, she still could not go beyond the quarters for the fourth consecutive major. 
Williams looked sluggish and her serve misfired against Jankovic, contributing to seven service breaks. 
ShP. had time to reflect on the singles loss when she com­bined with Venus in a 3-6, 6-4, 6-2 doubles quarterfinal loss to Chinese pair Yan Zi and Zheng Jie. 
"I think that I went crazy, maybe, and I made a lot of mistakes. I didn't really play the game I wanted to play," Williams said, adding that she had some physical issues she didn't want to elaborate on. "I don't like to make excuses. We 
CANCUN, ACAPULCO, JAMAICA, 
BAHAMAS, PUERTO VAJ.I.ARTA, 
SOUTH PADRE, FLORIDA, CRUISES
&---·¥ 
r/!£_~ -~~~ \ Sell Trips, Earn Cash ,~, &Travel Free ~J, 
1-800-648-4849 
www.s:ktravel.rom 


AP 

Maria Sharapova returns a serve against top-ranked Justine Henin in her Australian Open quarterfinal match. Sharapova advanced to the next round in straight sets 6-4, 6-0. 

won't discuss those." 
Williams did not seem to possess the same aggressive­ness she used to overcome match points in early rounds last year and beat six seeded players en route to the 2007 title. 
Instead, she was constantly angry with herself and even got a code violation for smash­ing her racket. 
"My shots just weren't right," Williams said. "I didn't move the way I want to move, and I wasn't feeling 100 per­cent. But as an athlete, some days you have to win feeling 30 percent. 
''I'm not going to sit here and make excuses -I lost because Jelena played better than me and I made too many errors -I think regardless, the match was on my racket, and I gave it away." 
Jankovic has been hampered by a thigh problem since help­ing Serbia to the Hopman Cup final, where it lost to the Serena Williams-led United States. 
She needed treatment dur­ing her first-round match here, when she had to save three match points, and again in the second set Tuesday. 
''I'm like a wounded animal. I still keep going," she said, adding for emphasis that she had a point to prove following 
a fourth-round loss to Williams here last year. "Getting revenge, it feels so good," Jankovic said. "I came 
out very strong, and I was going for my shots ... and that's how I hurt my oppo­nent." 
The Northwestern University College 
Preparation Program is looking for resident advisors to help guide high scl1ool students through a summer of learning and fun at Northwestern. 
Earn salary. mcludmg room and board; work with bright, motivated high school students from around the country and abroad; plan exciting events and gain valuable experience while enjoying Northwestern campus life and exploring Chicago this summer' 
Apply by February 15, 2008 
For mformat1on and to request an application, contact Breanne Heath at b-heath@northwestern.edu or 
847-491·3443. 
_,... " 1 rl' I{ I)
J.I . l\% .. 
4 
RESIDENT ADVISORS 
QUALIFICATIONS, 
• 
completiOn of sophomore year of college by June, 2008 

• 
a cons1stent record of academ1c achieYement 


• previous expeoence as an RA, 
tutor, or camp counselor 
• 
excelfent commumcation. leadership. moltvation, cmd problem-solving skills 

• 
a w1de range of extracurricular interests and activities 

• 
enthustasm and a genuine interest in working with high school students 

• 
a strong sense of responsibility and a high level of maturity 


NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 

Wednesday, January 23, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
The team has been burned all season when in man-to-man
Defense 


fouls in the opening four minutes pointment in Notre Dame's of the second half. defense and said she would
De01ons 
But Irish center Erica retool it from the ground up. 
continued from page 20 
time expired or Notre Dame fouled her. But Quigley tried to escape and lost the ball out of bounds, giving the Irish a chance to inbound on their end of the court. 
"I don't know why I'm thinking [of] running away from people. I should have just stayed strong with the ball," said Quigley, who finished with 16 points and seven assists. "I wanted to make it a little more interesting." 
Irish guard Ashley Barlow sent the inbounds pass to guard Tulyah Gaines, who handed the ball off to guard Charel Allen. Allen darted left to fmd a shot, but stumbled, and Blue Demon guard Holly Medley stole the ball as time expired. DePaul has now beaten Notre Dame three games in a row. 
"We were trying to set a screen for Charel," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. "The ball was going to come in to Tulyah, and Undsay [Schrader] was going to screen for Charel, but it obviously never got to that point. Tulyah had a little trouble getting off the screen. 
"That's a play we run all the fune." 
Barlow scored a career-high 23 points and shot 8-of-12 from the floor. She also grabbed seven rebounds. 
DePaul shot 72 percent from the field in the first half and led 45-43 at the break. A pair of 3­point plays and a 3-pointer by guard Missy Mitidiero sent the Blue Demons on a nine-point run,. despite their committing six Williamson, who tied a career high with 16 points, sank two free throws, and Barlow dropped two quick lay-ups and three foul shots to bring Notre Dame within a point with 9:33 remaining in the game. 
DePaul found itself in foul trouble near the end of the game. Forwards Caprice Smith and Felicia Chester fouled out, and the Irish began shooting the double bonus with 7:39 left in the game. Notre Dame, however, shot only 71.4 percent from the line. 
"We missed 10 free throws. That's the difference in the game right there," McGraw said. 
After Blue Demon forward Natasha Williams hit a free throw that made the score 71­67, Allen drained a 3-pointer from the top of the key to bring the Irish within 1. 
But Notre Dame could not close the gap. Quigley converted four free throws in the final three minutes. 
Down 79-77 with 23 seconds remaining, Williams fouled Allen, sending the Irish senior to the line with a chance to tie the game. Allen made only one of two and forced Notre Dame to foul Quigley again. 
DePaul coach Doug Bruno was thrilled with what the win meant to his team, which has been struggling since a Jan. 2 loss to No. 3 Tennessee. 
"I think to come in to a place like the Joyce Center and steal one, I think it's done an unbe­lievable amount for our collec­tive team psyches," Bruno said. 
McGraw expressed her disap­
"I think we have to play zone. We obviously can't play people man-to-man," McGraw said. "We must be a zone team." 
Williamson said that the defensive improvement needed to come on both an individual and team level. 
"I think we need to have pride in our defense," she said. "I don't think we have enough energy out there, and that's going to start at practice tomor­row. 
"At some point, we have to just say, 'you know what, that's enough. I'm going to do it.' and we have to do it as a team." 
The Blue Demons took advan­tage of the man defense, moving the ball well and creating out­side shots for Quigley, Mitidiero and guard Deirdre Naughton, who had 20 points and eight rebounds. 
"Tonight was the first time we even got close to the end of the shot clock," Naughton said. "I think we had very good ball movement.'' 
Barlow hit two 3-pointers in quick succession to help the Irish grab a 17-9 lead with 13 min­utes remaining in the first half. But Notre Dame relinquished the pressure and allowed DePaul back into the game. 
"We got off to a great start, and then we gave them confi­dence," McGraw said. " ... And suddenly they get on a roll, and now a team that's reeling from a couple losses in a row, suddenly they have confidence.'' 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


continued from page 20 
dropping seven shots from 3­point land and superstar forward Candace Parker dominating the paint for 20 points, eight boards and two blocks. 
Notre Dame's offense was ane­mic in the first half against West Virginia on Jan. 13, scoring a record-low 11 first-half points before mounting an incomplete comeback. 
Tuesday night against DePaul, however, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said that the defense was one of the most embarrass­ing she has ever seen. 
"I don't know ifwe are the worst defensive team in the country, but we are certainly the worst defensive team in the Big East," she said. " ... We have no commitment at that end of the floor whatsoever and that was an absolute disgrace." 
The loss to the Blue Demons was indicative of the way Notre Dame has played defense all sea­son. The squad gave up 80 points to Georgetown and Bowling Green and 70 points to Louisville earlier this season. The only dif­ference in those games was that Notre Dame's offense was good enough to outscore its oppo­nents. 
For the past two seasons, Notre Dame has struggled to defend the perimeter. But McGraw said after this game that the problem is at that entire end of the court. 
"I think it's a little bit of every­thing," she said. "I was really just disappointed in just everyone's defense. It's not just one person, it's really just everyone." 

defense, and McGraw said that her team must make the switch to the zone defense. 
McGraw said she needs to ren­ovate her team's defense from top to bottom immediately -but that change cannot come soon enough. 
The Irish still have to play five regular season games against ranked teams -including Sunday's contest with top-ranked Connecticut -before the Big East tournament starts on March 
8. The Irish are sure to play a quality team in the conference tournament -all 16 teams are over .500, and seven teams (including Notre Dame) are ranked. 
If Notre Dame doesn't fix its defense -a possibility, consider­ing McGraw has talked about clamping down against opponent 3-point shooting since the begin­ning oflast season -it could be in for a world of hurt over the next few months. 
The Irish have their toughest remaining games of the season (UConn excluded) on the road ­and McGraw has said all season that winning on the road in the Big East is always a challenge. 
The Irish still have time left this season to get better before the Big East championship and NCAA Tournament start in March. But ifthey don't, the team's great start will be wasted by a very disappointing finish. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at ffitzpa5@nd.edu 

AND FOR TI-lE 5TLIDENT 
GRAND PRIZE: ROliND TRIP AIRFARE FOR TVVO TO IRELANDI 
PRESENTED BY: 
...~~ 

!Qcrocs·
ad1das 

1-10 ATTENDS TI-lE l\t10ST GAI\ttE5 ... 
-


-
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 23, 2008 
a leadership role this year, and well together to form the No. 2 said.• "The perception may weeks, so it will take a while to has a very doubles team change to try and figure out get him back into the swing of
Tennis 

determined behind Helgeson what they're doing wrong, things."
"[Roth} has become
work ethic," and Parbhu. when really they just need to The Irish (2-0) defeated No.
continued from page 20 

Bayliss said. more accountable; Still Bayliss is a learn from the losses." 40 Penn State 5-2 and Toledo 7­"Davis has made great adjust­"lie has become he's a little guy little wary of the Early in the season the Irish 0 at their home doubleheader ments already," Bayliss said. more account­team's No. 12 only have one major injury on opener on Jan. 20. The young
with a big heart. " 
"lie has llattened out his fore­able; he's a little ranking entering the team. Freshman Matt Notre Dame team will test its hand and really battles well." guy with a big the season. Johnson is sidelined because of strength as it takes on No. 1 
Senior Andrew Hoth has been heart." Bobby Bayliss "We will see how a pectoral injury. Virginia this Sunday at the Eck consistent for the Irish in his Despite his 5-Irish coach the young team "He served a little bit yester­Tennis Pavilion. final year after being plagued foot-9 frame, faces the challenge day, but won't be ready for this by injuries early in his career. Hoth plays a big the first time the weekend," Bayliss said. "He Contact Kate Grabarek at 
"Both has really stepped into game. lie and Havens work ranking starts to fall," Bayliss hasn't served in two or three kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Calvin 
continued from page 20 
said. "She had a big week for us ofTensively, but that wouldn't have been possible if her team­mates hadn't gotten her the ball." 
The Belles had a week of strong rebounding as well. Junior Erin Newsom led the tBam with 23 in the two games. followml by Kessler and sopho­more Anna Kammrath, both with 1 R. Despite the strong numbers on the boards, Henley is still looking for more from her team. 
"We have a pretty strong week coming up with games against Calvin and Hope," Henley said. "We have to find a way to play better team defense and contin­ue to win the rebounding bat­tle." 
The rebounding battle is only part of what the Belles need to work on for today's game. In its last match up against Calvin, Saint Mary's shot only 27.9 per­cent from the lloor, with Calvin at 39.6 percent. Kessler had only 15 points, and leading rebounder Newsom ended with 9. 

The Knights' leading scorer, Marcia Harris, had 23 points that night, her second highest in a game this season. Harris ranks third in the MIAA for scoring, with an average of 17 points per game. 
But the Belles are playing well now. 
"We have had a lot of players step up this season," Henley said. "It's hard to single out just one person, especially in a team sport." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselOl @saintmarys.edu 
Thursday, January 24 7.:30 P.M., O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Traditional dance and music play a very imporram role in the lives ofRwandans. Berwa. meat~ing "be proud," is a Rwand;m dance group comprised ofmostly firsr -generation Americans ofRwandan decem that strives to promote their culture hy providing moral, spirituaL and physical support to its members. 

Recycle 


-
Wednesday, January 23, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
CAN CAF'TAIN Jt>gi..ESSSAVE 
T1·\l: FUTU/I.E OF TELEVISioN 7 
Wll...\.-THE WJ<:IrER.S 6-ET 
T11EIR: JUST I:>ES'EJZ.TS? WII..L 
THIS S:TRIKE EVER E:ND" 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

IHE ~TU!>IDS MAKE l!.t!..LioNS F~Oi"\ OUR WO~I'.. HEJIIJWHILE, Y<>U'RE. BEHINI' I>N YouR.. Glt.JDEI<IT LOAN PAYMENTS', Y.:>I.JR L.AI>II>LOR.D'S G-<>NNA E>/ICT 
YOU &CAU~E You CAIJ'T HA~ !lENT ,O..Nt> YoU DON'T HAVE ANY on1ER JDS OI'Til>NS, 
gECA\J.SE You'RE A 1-IB'ERAL. ~1> MA.)OF<:.' 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
TASTeS t..IK/5 FAIW/Z/5 
P12BSBNTS 
HOkJTO 
~BT 
TH/ZOUtS-H /ZBS/...IF/5: ST8P8Y STeP••• 

h--..... STeP2: PeNY Tf(..f..., Yt::'U Pte..... 
YOU l.5 HOU12S SE12VIC.E, 200 t:>Ot.-t.A12S CASH, AND YOU12 Vll21GINITY.. 


WILLSHORTZ
CROSSWORD 
Across 
Snookered 4 Discourse topic 9 Raced the Super 
G, say 14 Butterfly ...... (sash) 15 Underwater 
wave generator 16 Vegas request 17 21 in two cards 19 Williams of 
"Happy Days" 20 "The lion King" 
queen 21 Andean tuber 22 Sapphic works 23 Circular seal 25 Happy hour 
offering, maybe 29 Drinking sprees 31 Ex-G.I.'s grp. 32 "Hurrah!" 33 Dander 
34 Fruits de (seafood) 35 Use a ewer 36 C.E.O. protector 41 fixe 42 Ranch moniker 43 Ranch call 44 Annual Scripps event 
45 Drum site 46 Gymnast's helper 
50 Huge amount, slangily 53 Runway asset 54 Cartoonist Addams 55 _ Kovic, role for Tom Cruise 57 Machu Picchu 
dweller 58 Like melted caramel 
60 What 17-, 25-, 36-or 50-Across is 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


52 Citified 63 Initiates, in a 
cruel way 64 Quick to learn 65 Brit's blade 66 Fishhook 
attachment 67 Carlos or Felipe 
Down 1 Pal around (with) 2 Loud, like 
trumpets 
3 Try to reach a talk show, say 4 Sound uttered 
while shaking the head 5 "28 Flavors" 
chain, for short 6 Puts into effect 7 Brilliantly colored 
bird 8 Neighbor of Mo. 9 Follow secretly 
10 Seven-time N.L. home run champ 11 Dress shop compliment 12 Funny Philips 13 Iniquity site? 18 1956 Bernstein operetta 
22 Means of exit 24 "Primal Fear'' star, 1996 
26 Recovered from 27 Suffix with aqua 28 Bronte heroine 30 Bowling shoes, 
often 
Puzzle by Daniel Kantor 

34 Mel Gibson's 39 Gilpin of 51 Rumormonger's "mad" role "Frasier'' start 35 Airport security 40 Place to brood 52 Item with pedals request 45 Comic Boosler 
56 December air 

36 Bee Gees' 46 Catch some Z's 58 Gloomy guy?
surname 37 Concert halls 38 Willy Loman  47 Musical inability 48 Go over the wall, maybe  59"... mouse?" 60 Starts of  
player on  49 Donald Trump's  sneezes  
Broadway  field  61 Fast www link  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytirnes.com/learning/xwords. 
· JUMBLE HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Robyn Richards. 21; Willa Ford, 27; Diane Lane. 43; Linda Blair, 49 
Happy Birthday: You'll be eager to get things going this year. The more passion you put into whatever you are trying to accon1plish, the more interest you will receive. Your mind will be in tune with what \\~ll work and your timing will be perfect. Your numbers are 1, 7, 20, 27, 34,49 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Do something that's fun, creative and gets your juices flowing. Your ability to drum up interest with your animated description of your goals will enable you to close a deal. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't get too wrapped up in any melodrama going on at home or with loved ones. You are better off not to meddle. An opportunity to meet with people from different walks of life will give you renewed enthusiasm for a project or a trip. :! stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make a point that will get everyone around you thinking more like you. An interesting conversation will lead you in a passionate direc­tion. A love relationship will develop or grow into something very stable. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Venture away from home to a destination that is totally unfamiliar to you and you willleam to make better decisions in the future. An idea that can potentially make you money should be put into play or at least researched. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Focus on lilllkino money and you will. An investment should pay ott An inheritance, gift or winning is iikely to come your way. Emotions will be difficult to control. Be honest 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let your enthusiasm about someone or something stop you from seeing what's actually going on. Be careful not to get involved in a scheme that could cause you to lose financially. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Follow through with your plans. Your only downfall will be laziness or trying to get everyone else to cany the brunt of the work. Dig in and work toward something you want and you will get even more than you expect. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be careful whom you trust. If something needs to be done, do it yourself. Don't share your belongings or cash with others if you expect to receive something in return. Stay in controL 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't get angry, get moviug. If you stand still and watch others take advantage of you or you let the competition get altead, you will have no one to blame but yourself. Be clever, not an open book. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Love and money don't usually mix that well. Pro­tect your assets and you won't have to worry about what smneone you thought you could trust is doing. An original approach to something you do well will lead to profits. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Open your eyes and stay on top of what's happening around you. You can take advantage ofan opportunity that will help you gain respect among your peers. Love is looking good and an agree1nent between you and someone you care about can be made. 3 stars -.,.. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A lot that you need to know to make a good decision will not be out in the open. Don't feel pressured by anyone to say yes or no to anything. Figure out what you want to do and take a pass on anyone who doesn't like your posi­tion. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are incredibly giving, generous and gracious. You have a strong sense of fair play. You are eager to prove your point. 
Engenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforftm, eugenia/ast.comfor confidenti<ll consultatiolls 
-
-
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, January 23, 2008 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Blue Demons exploit man-to-nzan scheme for victory at Joyce 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
When a team on the rise meeL'i a tnam gasping for air, sometimes thn desire to breathe can prevail over normal respiration. 
DePaul, which lost three of iL'i last live games, held ofT Notre Dame for the entire second half and survived two late scoring chances to win 81-80 Tuesday at the Joyce Center, reviving the Blue Demons and adding to Notre Dame's troubles. The pulse-quickening moments near the end of the second half kept the half-full Joyce Center louder than it's been all season. 
The game should have been out of hand earlier than it was, but Allie Quigley gift-wrapped the Irish one more chance. 
After Irish guard Brittany Mallory hit two free throws to bring the Irish within 1 point with four seconds remaining, all the Blue Demon guard had to do was hold the ball while either

•. 
see DEMONS/page 17 

Demonized 

Irish defensive woes a lingering problem 
Notre Damn is a good basket­ball team -but it is clearly not one of the elites. 
When the No. 161rish (15-4, 3: 2 Big East) li.1ll to No. 22 DePaul on Tuesday. it was their Jay Fitzpatrick fourth loss in as many 
Associate
tries 
Sports Editor 
against ranked teams this year. Granted, two of those games were against top­five teams (75-59 against then­No. 3 Maryland on Nov. 16 and 87-63 against No. 2 Tennessee on Jan. 5). But Notre Dame has looked bad in all of those games this year. 
The worst part is, the prob­lems have been diflerent every game. 
The Terrapins were dominant from beyond the arc, punishing Notre Dame's impotent 3-point defense with 12 treys against the Irish. 
The Lady Vols had a great inside-outside offense working, with guard Angie Bjorklund 
see DEFENSE/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles hope to continue success on road against Calvin 
team is also looking for its first stand in third place in the MIAA, "Any time you can get two gram-record 41 points against
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 

win over Calvin since Saint with the Belles tied for fourth MIAA victories in a week, it's Kalamazoo and had a team-high
Spons Writer 

Mary's entered the MIAA in with Olivet. been a good week," Saint Mary's 16 points against Tri-State. The 1997. Saint Mary's (8-7, 4-3 MIAA) coach Jenn Henley said. "We single-game total against 
Coming oil' back-to-hack MIM Calvin has always been a pow­enters the contest with two haven't played our best, but we Kalamazoo is tops in Division III wins, tho Bolles travel to Grand erhouse, winning the conference important victories from last have found a way to win both this season. Hapids, Mich .. tonight to play 11 times since 1979. They have week under its belt. The Belles times." "I think Alison's numbers Calvin at 7:30, looking to 1wen been in 10 NCAA Tournaments, beat conference rivals Saint Mary's also had a speak for thP.mselves," Henley the scorn after their 6 7-52 loss including a trip to the Elite 8 in Kalamazoo and Tri-State 72-69 record-setting week. Senior to the Knights in December. The 2007. But the Knights currently and 7 4-71, respectively. Alison Kessler scored a pro-see CALVIN/page 17 
MEN.'S TENNIS 

Strong freshman class adds depth to Irish team 
By KATE GRABAREK Spons Writer 
;\ftpr a strong end to the fall season, No. 12 Notre Dame will look to carry its success into the spring. 

-
.Junior Brett Helgeson and senior Sheeva Parbhu had strong showings in the fall and will be contenders for the No. 1 singles position. 
"Parbhu was an All-American 
last year. Brett IHelgeson I had that kind of fall," Notre Dame coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Either one can play the No. 1 singles position." 
llelgeson wasn't the only one tParing up the courts this fall. The team's six freshmen also made their presence known, proving that the Irish are a young team, but a deep one. 
"We are deeper than last year, Bayliss said.

-
"]Sophomore Sean] Corrigan and ].Junior Santiago) Montoya, traveled with us last year, and are competing for positions this season. We are less experi­enced but the freshmen will learn from these experiences." 
Freshman Stephen Havens proved himself to be one of the strongest young players for the Irish. Bayliss praised the Cincinnati native for his great timing and ability to make important shots. In addition, Freshman David Anderson is making great strides at net to complement his groundstrokes. 
Bayliss noted the similarity in the playing style of freshman Daniel Stahl and Helgeson. Stahl likes to bang the ball, but needs to come to the net more. 
Freshman Tyler Davis has also made contributions early in his career at Notre Dame. 
see TENNIS/page 18 


Junior Santiago Montoya looks to return a volley in Notre Dame's 5-2 victory over Penn State at the Eck Tennis Pavilion on Jan. 20. The Irish are ranked No. 12 in the ITA Poll. 
\; •'I.E! 





