
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint .lvfary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 29 FRIDAY, OCTOBER3, 2008 
Reish, Schmidt talk with Trustees 
Student leaders discuss developing concern about police over-targeting students 
tations Reish and Schmidt will Colfax Ave. and recent arrests cussion of the issue this year.
By AARON STEINER 
make to the committee during on football weekends in tail­The first is the lack of other 
News Writer 
their term, the pair detailed gate areas. "hot-button issues," he said. what their administration has "[SomeI students feel they Also, students hold conflicting fn their first presentation to already accomplished this arc over-targeted," Reish opinions about what was the Student Affairs Committee year and what they hope to do said. deemed acceptable "in a dif­
of the ~J n i v e r sity Board of in the months ahead. One concern is that because ferent time," he said, and Trustees, student body presi-Reish said that when asked there is a perceived emphasis what is accepted today 
·dent Bob Reish and vice presi­to present on the most press-· on underage alcohol con­regarding alcohol enforce­dent Grant Schmidt explained ing issue among the student sumption, some students ment. A third is the possibility the goals of their administra­body, he and Schmidt saw believe there is less emphasis of an actual increase in inci­tion and discussed what they only one outstanding issue. on student safety, he said. dents, Reish said. termed the current "hot-but­Reish explained that there The issue leads to an exami­One Trustee commented ton issue" at Notre Dame -have been numerous recent nation of the relationship that he understood the point developing concerns sur­arrests related to underage between students and on about a conflict between what rounding student relations alcohol consumption on and campus and local police was accepted in the past and with police and security on off campus, including the 37 forces, Reish said. what is accepted today in and off campus. people arrested Sept. 21 at a Reish said there are three 
In the first of three presen-party on the 700-block of E. reasons for the increased dis-see TRUSTEES/page 8 

ELECTION 2008 
Studentscall debate a tie 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Students filled the Coleman­Morse Lounge on Thursday night to watch the much-anticipated Vice-Presidential Debate between Republican Governor Sarah Palin and Democratic Senator Joe Bidcn. The debate, held at the Wa'>hington University in St. umis, was the first and only debate in which the two candidates were partaking. 
The candidates discussed a number of topics, which ran the gamut from domestic issues to for­eign policy. 
The debate wa<; divided into five-
see DEBATE/page 10 

'Inner' peace a goal in Saint Liam 
By JENN METZ AND 
KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writers 

Running the News section of a daily paper, even a stu­dent one, is a stressful job, so when Dr. Wendy Settle of the University Counseling Center sent an e-mail inviting us to use the Inner Resources Room, we accepted, gladly. 
We arrived at St. Liam Hall on Thursday afternoon, 12 hours after one of us had spent nine hours helping to put out Thursday's paper, and four hours before one of us would spend another nine hours helping to put out Friday's paper. 
We needed to de-stress. We'd tried other methods of relaxation. Drinking a glass of wine before bed, exercis-
The Inner Resources Room makes de-stressing a posslblity for students with features like soft lighting and a massage chair. see RELAX/ page 1 1 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Officers explain arrests 
Police: Students not specifically targeted 
ByJENN METZ News Editor 
This season, almost 100 peo­ple have been arrested on three Notre Dame home foot­ball Saturdays. 
Most of the citations issued were for alcohol-related offenses and determining which individuals to cite or arrest, out of the many people consuming alcohol on campus, depends on the circumstances of the incident, police said. 
Dave Chapman, assistant director of Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) said in ,· an e-mail, "if the officer has probable cause to believe the person is intoxicated they may take action." 
He said NDSP officers observe the behaviors of peo­ple, both during the games and at tailgates, and if the behavior is suspicious, an offi­cer "may speak with the per­son to gather more informa­tion." 
"Police only get involved if someone is thought to be in violation of the law, for exam­ple public intoxication, disor­derly conduct, minor consum­ing alcohol, etc.," Chapman said in the e-mail. "Generally, police interact with these peo­ple away from the crowds." 
Chapman said police will videotape interactions between officers and members of the public "from time-to­
see ARRESTS/ page 9 


========================~ ===================================================================~ 
ELECTION 2008 
Twins on the Hill 

Sisters support opposing candidates in primaries, then unitefor Obama 
The twins worked on Capitol paths while they were working.
By KAITLYNN RIELY Hill as part of the Notre Dame But at lunch, Donna and other 
Associate News Editor 
Washington Program during interns from Obama's office the fall of 2007 -long before met with Diana and the Clinton 
Notre Dame seniors Diana the opening primary contests in interns. The first day, Donna and Donna Defino are planning Iowa and New Hampshire. said, they joked about rumors to vote for Democratic Sen. Donna worked for Obama's starting if people noticed the Barack Obama for president Senate office and Diana worked C!inton and Obama camps eat­this fall. for Sen. Clinton's. ing together. 
The identical twins are in "People always said, 'Oh, you ·"We were just like, 'Watch, agreement -they support guys should switch offices one the next day the front page of Obama and they are confident day and see if anyone noticed.' the newspaper is going to be, he will win in November. But we never did that. I think "Hillary and Barack's interns 
But last fall and through the we'd be too nervous," Donna eat lunch together -trading primary season, the loyalties of said. top secret information." the Definos were split between Obama's oflice is in the Hart But the interns all ended up the two leading Democratic Senate Office Building, and being friends, the Definos said, nominees, Obama and Sen. Clinton's is in the Russell, so Hillary Clinton. the Definos S(~ldom crossed see TWlNS/page 9 



Friday, October 3, 2008 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 INSIDE COLUMN 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SONG DO YOU SING IN THE SHOWER AND WHY? 
What's in a name? 

Sometimes. I think the Office of Residence Life and Housing has a sense of humor. 
A friend once told me two boys who lived in his hall had the last names Ying and Yang. There Jenn Metz have been rumors of two Brian Lee's liv-News Editor ing together as freshmen. 
Now, two unrelated girls with the last name Metz are next-door neighbors. 
In perusing nytimes.com one morning early in the semester, I discovered an article published in 2007 that featured an interactive list of the 5,000 most-popular sur­names in America. And by "discov­ered," I mean I saw it on the Web site's list of most-read articles. 
Out of curiosity, I decided to search my last name to see if it made the cut, though I had my doubts. I hadn't met that many Metzes before that weren't related to me, and the few I did meet did not even come close to the number of say, Smiths or Andersons I've come across. 
Much to my surprise, Metz ranked at number 1640, right after Ybarra and right before Root. I've never met a Ybarra or Root before. The Metzes are on the rise -the ranking listed, based off the 2000 United States Census, marks a 36­place jump from 1990. 
According to the list, you can find seven Metzes in every 100,000 people. 
Well, two out of one of those sets of seven can be found not in every 100,000 people, not even in every 8,000 people, but in every 50 peo­ple, namely the population of the fourth floor of Cavanaugh Hall. 
So, good one, Residence Life and Housing. 
Your room assignment for my freshman neighbor has sparked so many questions: "Is she your sis­ter?" No, we are not from the same town. "Is she your cousin?" No, not that I know of. Well, those are actually the only two questions. 
But it made me wonder, was her name, written in glitter on a vin­tage record just a few feet down the hall from mine, there as a pure coincidence? Because if that's the case, that's a little strange. 
Or was it there because Residence Life and Housing want­ed to provide us with a conversa­tion starter? At our first meeting, I exclaimed "So you're the other Metz!" 
Personally, I think it was their own little joke. 
Luckily, after living next door to Elizabeth Metz for a month, I have nothing to complain about. She's pretty cool. 
It was a bit of a shock, though, when she posted fliers about run­ning for freshman Class Council all over the dorm, with her last name -my last name -in big let­ters, as part of the slogan "Got Metz?" 
It was cute.· 
My answer, of course, was yes. 

The views· expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

In a Sept. 24 lnterhall football article, The Observer misquoted Cavanaugh captain Katie Dunn when referring ro a bad call by the officials in Cavanaugh's 0-0 tie with Pasquerilla West. The Observer regrets this error. 


Alexa Altman Allie Meyers Katie Putz Kim Burkhart Mickey Gruscinskl 
junior junior senior senior senior 
Regina LeMans Le Mans LeMans Le Mans 
..Jason lvfraz's •HPretty Fly for ..Chris Brown's ...Raindrops •uBlue Hawaii' ·rm Yours' a White Guy' ·Forever' Keep Falling on because I have because it is because it's because •took My Head . .,, the lyrics in my


,
catchy. , awesome. what I can do with my feet.' 


Pink ducks lined the second floor of the Saint Mary's Student Center Atrium. The ducks were sold last monday to raise money for the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Walk. 

OFFBEAT 
Man arrested after fire­works Ignite Inside car 
CENTRAL FALLS, H.l. ­A Central Falls man faces criminal charges after the cigarette he was smoking inside a car apparently ignited fireworks. Police arrested a 28-year-old man on Sunday after an officer found a black 1997 Infinity smoking in the middle of the street. 
Firefighters were called to the scene to extinguish the blaze. No one was injured. 
The man told police he was smoking a cigarette inside the Infinity when fireworks near his feet 
TODAY 

0:: 
ignited. Witnesses told police they saw a passen­ger in the Infinity tossing fireworks from the vehicle shortly before police arrived. 
The man was charged with the use or possession of fireworks under $500. 
DUI charge dropped: It was mare's milk, not beer 
ALMATY, Kazakhstan ­A court in Kazakhstan has dropped drunken-driving charges against a man who admits he had a few drinks before he was arrested. The reason? He'd consumed fermented mare's milk, not beer or 
liquor. 
Fermented mare's milk, or kumys, is not listed as an alcoholic beverage in Kazakhstan, although it can contain up to 4 per­cent alcohol. The popular drink is believed to have health-boosting properties 
The man, identified only as R. Iskendirov, told a court he had drunk about 
1.6 quarts of kumys for medicinal purposes before getting behind the wheel in June. He was arrested on suspicion of being drunk from beer. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT GAME DAY SUNDAY 

1.1.1 
l: 
1.1.1
;: ~ 
..... 
<
(.) 





0 
HIGH 62 HIGH 62 HIGH

..... 
LOW 37 LOW 45 LOW 
47 
37 
HIGH LOW 
70 
45 



bathroom. " 

IN BRIEF 
The Student Activities Office will host Tom Deluca today in Washington Hall at 9 p.m. to hypnotize student volunteers in a 90 minute show. Doors open at 8:30p.m. 
The College of Science is hav­ing a seminar on "Translation to Treatment in Orbital Disease" in Debartolo Hall Room 210 at 2 
p.m. today. Dr. Louise A. Mawn, a specialist from the Vanderbilt Eye Institute will be speaking. 
Debartolo Performing Arts Center will be showing the movie ''The Exiles" today at 6:30 p.m. There will be a panel of Native 
American students discussing thP human right's issues in the film immediately after the screening. 
The College of Arts and Letters is having a lecture on "The Sub­Prime Mortgage Mess and Federal Reserve Policy" at 11 
a.m. on Saturday in the Annenberg Auditorium in Snite Museum. It is part of the Saturday Scholars Series. 
The Student Actitvities Office will host "End Zone: Breakfast and Bingo" at 10 p.m. Saturday in Lafortune Ballroom and will feature Denny's breakfast, Music Video Bingo and "The Breakfast Club". 
The Off-Campus Council will be hosting a series of block par­ties for students and their neigh­bors. The first block party will take place Sunday from 3 to 6 
p.m. 
in the fields behind 109-119 

N. 
St. Peters and is for all the students and residents living south of LaSalle Ave. 


To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 



HIGH HIGH 
65 

LOW LOW 
47 

Atlanta 77 I 59 Boston 65 I 49 Chicago 61 I 45 Denver 82 I 47 Houston 90 I 61 Los Angeles 73 161 Minneapolis 58 I 39 New York 69 I 51 Philadelphia 69 I 48 Phoenix 99 /76 Seattle 60 I 53 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 85 I 65 Washington 73 I 49 

Friday, October 3, 2008 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Student computers face virus threats
Students ready for 
Bad applications, e-mails, and websites causing problems 

next home victory 
a computer from the Internet prevents "people from just By JOHN-PAUL WITT or from COs or flash drives to sending things to your com­
... 

j I 
Visit the NEW website for the Office of Vocations

SOMETIMES 
at vocation.nd.edu to learn more about the discernment isn't so easy · Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Who knows...you may be called. 
• 
really good in the second half News Wrirer determine if they are infected puter", Striegel said. 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA [against Purdue]," Kiefer said. "So with a virus, according to "A firewall is like call wait­
News Writer 
they will have more confidence 
Members of the Notre Dame Striegel. ing, you only take the calls heading into this week's game." 
community continue to face "Each virus has a signature your want and everyone else This weekend's game against Notre Dame's improved per­
threats from computer virus­that defines it, certain bits of is on your do-not-call list," Stanford, which kicks off at 2:30 formance has excited and invigor­
es, and students' computers in it are distinct," Striegel said, Striegel said,. "Windows p.m.. gives the Irish a chance to ated the student body, sentiments 
particular present a "steady "So anti-virus [software pro­machines have a host firewall build on last Saturday's decisive reflected in their apparel. T-shirts 
rate" of virus infections, grams] have lists of all known by default -you should turn 38-21 victory over Purdue. paying tribute the student body's 
according to Mike Chapple, viruses and characteristics that on -and Notre Dame has Stanford has had a mixed sea­newest cheer ("Crank Me Up!") 
Information Security Program that all viruses have, and they its own firewall to keep out son so far. It posted a 36-28 win have been spotted all across cam­
Manager of the Office of look for suspicious behavior." bad traffic." over Oregon State, however, the pus. 
Information Technologies at Anti-virus software that No one operating system,Cardinals lost 41-17 to then No. 15 Sophomore Katie Callison said 
Notre Dame. comes with new computers is like Microsoft Windows or Arizona State. Their biggest win the winning season has given 
"[We] see virus infections often useable during a "trial Apple's Mac OS X, is safe from last season came during an upset Notre Dame's campus a more pos­
every year, happening most period", according to Chapple, the threat posed by viruses, of the powerhouse USC team. itive vibe. 
often on student systems," and students often do not according to Chapple, Many students said that the "I just like the atmosphere bet­
Chapple said. want to pay after the trial although because there are Irish will not have much trouble ter when the team is winning," 
Computer viruses are "mali­period is over. However, Notre more PCs using Windows, defeating Stanford if they continue she said. "Everyone seems to be in 
cious code, bad applications Dame offers a solution: free there are "a lot more viruses their new and improved level of a better mood." 
or e-mails or websites that anti-virus software. out there for the Windows play. To add to the excitement of the 
attempt to take control of your "We want students to know operating system." Andrew McCorry, a junior, said football weekend, the Junior Class 
computer or do bad things to that we offer anti-virus soft­The simplest solution Notre Dame is more than up to Council has planned a "Car Smash 
your computer," according to ware at no charge, and stu­regardless of the type of com­the task of playing well against the Bash" event. Students will be able 
Aaron Striegel, assistant pro­dents will get updates as long puter or operating system is Cardinals. to smash an old car decorated in 
fessor of Computer Science as they're affiliated with the to "install antivirus software, "The offense should have no Stanford colors and symbols at 
and Engineering. University," Chapple said, let it run, and let it protect problem putting up points against Fieldhouse Mall Friday. Using a 
Student systems are particu­"[The software is] available at you." Stanford's defense, especially at hammer will cost $1, a baseball 
larly vulnerable to viruses secure.nd.edu and protects If, however, a computer is home," McCorry said. "Their bat will cost $2, and a sledgeham­
because they often lack up-to­against viruses and spyware." infected by a virus the best offense isn't exactly potent either, mer will cost $5. The event will 
date anti-virus software, Viruses can delete all the course of action is to bring it and it will be extn~mely hard for run from 5 p.m. until midnight. 
according to Chapple. files on a computer or render to the OIT service center on them to put up points at the rate Steve Bold, the Junior Class 
"Not only should students it unable to operate applica­the first floor of the IT Center our offense will be doing." Council's treasurer, has high hopes 
have anti-virus software tions, and can also infect mul­building, located next to the Senior Kadeja Gaines said that for the event. 
installed, they must also tiple computers and form a Hesburgh Library, Chapple Notre Dame's defense will be the "If we find this to be successful 
[download] updates," Chapple "botnet, an army of 'zombie' said. key. on Friday, then we will certainly 
said, "If software hasn't been machines used to send spam "The technicians [at the "If the defense keeps playing the consider doing it again for more of 
updated in months it won't [e-mails] or attack other com­service center] have the tools way it has been, I know we'll win," the home games," Bold said. 
work against [new] viruses puters," Striegel said. and training to make sure the Gaines said. The pep rally will be held Friday that have appeared in that Another important comput­virus is off your computer," 
Sophomore Brendan Kiefer said at 6 p.m. at the Joyce Center. time." er security tool is called a fire­Chapple said. that last week's victory of Purdue Anti-virus software is wall, which "only authorizes will help the Irish defeat Stanford. Contact Irena Zajickova at designed to examine the com­certain applications to talk to Contact John-Paul Witt at 
"I thought the offense looked Irena.Zajickova.l @nd.edu munications passing through your computer," and thereby Jwittl@nd.edu 

I I -I 


Friday, October 3, 2008 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS 


Trustee • 
By EMILY DABISH 
News Writer 
Catherine Black, president of Hearst Magazines and a Notre Dame Trustee, gave a lecture at Mendoza College of Business' Jordan Auditorium as part of the Bergest Lecture Series in Business Ethics. Black has been listed among Fortune magazine's "50 Most Powerful Women in Business" for seven consecutive years, and she is credited with the success of USA Today. 
Black began the lecture by stressing how important it is to have the "360 degree life" -a 
..Success is not just
life not just "Loyalty is focused on work about chasing the when people because, "happi­can count on
salary. title and 
ness is more you in the good
lifestyle. but about 
important to and bad times," success than what is going to fulfill she said. success is to When making
you. •• 
happiness." decisions, Black "We all have said, it is best 
to make our Catherine Black to keep ethics own success ... president of in mind. It is what is "The ethical
Hearst Magazines 
ure," she said. "[Failure can be] a great learning experi­ence ... " 
Black told of when she moved from New York to San Francisco to take a job for Francis Ford Coppola's new magazine that ended up tank­ing several months later. 
When she was asked if her radical move had been a mis­take, she replied that it had­n't. 
"There is always discovery and disappointment... How can you not benefit from that knowledge?" 
She told the audience to never stop in their quest for 
learning and to 
be loyal. 

inside of you, the essence of living life, work, family, friends ... Success is not just about work. We need variety and zest for life. We work very hard so why not enjoy it," she said. 
Black concentrated on five key success strategies. An individual should "take risks that are calculated not crazy," she said, reminding the audi­ence to remember that "the worst case scenario is rarely as bad as you think." 
"There is an upside to fail-
decision is 

always the right decision," she said. "It's about things in business and your own personal life ... Ethics are within you; what your parents gave you." 
Black left her audience with a message about achieving their dreams. 
"Success is not just about chasing the salary, title and lifestyle, but about what is going to fulfill you," she said. 
Contact Emily Dabisb at edabisO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The World 

War II aircraft carrier Intrepid, powered by tugs and accompanied by a festive Hudson River traffic jam, was returned Thursday to the .Manhattan pier where it has served for 24 years as a mili­
tary and space museum. 
Onlookers gathered along 

the riverbanks and in passing 
pleasure craft as the huge ves­
sel was ceremoniously escort­
ed Thursday on its 10-mile 
journey from Staten Island. 
The Intrepid Sea Air & 

Space Museum had occupied 
the Manhattan space until late 
2006, when it was moved for 
extensive repairs and 
improvements costing nearly 
$120 million. 
"She looks good, brand new 

-but I admit to a little bias," 
said retired Adm. James "Doc" 
Abbot Jr., 82, who commanded 
the carrier in the early 1960s 
and was back on board as 
honorary skipper. 
About 400 guests and former 

crew members also rode 
along, mingling on the flight 
deck in 60-degree weather. 
Jeff McAllister, commanding a 
tugboat fleet generating about 
18,000 horsepower, said a stiff 
westerly wind helped guide 
the estimated 38,900-ton car­
rier into its newly rebuilt pier. 
The Intrepid arrived home 

following brief stops to salute 
the Statue of Liberty and 
unfurl a large American flag 
near ground zero, honoring victims of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
When it left the Manhattan pier two years ago, problems plagued the ship. Its pro­pellers got stuck in the mud, and the Army Corps of Engineers has since dredged the pierside channel to 35 feet, giving the Intrepid 11 feet of bottom clearance at high tide. The channel also was widened to 110 feet to accommodate the hull, which· is 103 feet wide at the water line. 
Launched in 1943 as one of the Navy's then-new Essex­class attack carriers, the USS Intrepid figured in six major Pacific theater campaigns including Leyte Gulf, the war's greatest naval battle. It sur­vived five Japanese kamikaze planes and a torpedo but lost 270 crew members in combat. 
On Thursday, veterans who served on the Intrepid recalled those events with a mixture of sadness and pride. 
Ray Stone, 83, of South Salem, N.Y., struggled to keep his composure as he told how one kamikaze attack killed 26 of his fellow radarmen and how his friend Winston Goodloe, 86, of Clifton Park, won a medal for rushing into the chaos. 
"The bodies were lying in rows on the deck," Stone said. "Winston -I didn't know him then -went down to fight the fires and pull out bodies." 

6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at;. 
(57 4) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

@fY ... .··•· 


Please recycle The Observer. 
·.• • < 


Friday, October 3, 2008 Colv1PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Somali pirates hold ship ransom 
MOGADISHU, Somalia -Somali pirates holding a hijacked arms ship said Thursday they will not release it for less than $20 mil­lion and warned they will fight back against any commando-style rescue attempts. 
A half-dozen U.S. navy warships have sur­rounded the Ukrainian cargo ship MV Faina, which was seized last Thursday off the central coast of Somalia as it transported 33 Soviet­designed tanks and heavy weapons to a Kenyan port. 
"We would never reduce the ransom," pirate spokesman Sugule Ali told the Associated Press in a satellite telephone inter­view from the Faina. 
The Somali government on Wednesday authorized foreign powers to use whatever force is necessary to free the ship from the pirates. Asked about fears that a foreign coun­try might attack -as French commandoes have done in the past to free hijacked ships­Ali insisted his pirates will fight back. 
India law bans public smoking 
NEW DELHI -India banned smoking in public places on Thursday, leaving public health officials with a much tougher task: get the nation's estimated 120 million smokers to stub out their cigarettes. As more countries have clamped down on smoking in recent years, Indians have freely puffed away at playgrounds, rail­way stations, sidewalk cafes and even hospitals. No more, and a violator will get a $5 fine. For years, anti-smoking laws in this nation of nearly 1.2 billion people have been widely ignored. And tobacco compa­nies have fought the government to keep warnings off boxes. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
NYPD officer commits suicide 
NEW YORK -The man was naked, teeter­ing on a building ledge and jabbing at police with an 8-foot-long fluorescent light bulb as a crowd gathered below. 
Lt. Michael Pigott responded by ordering an officer to fire a stun gun at the man, who froze and plunged headfirst to his death in a scene captured _on amateur video and replayed fre-• quently on the Internet. 
The officer was remorseful and distraught. He apologized and sought the family's forgive­ness. Then he went to his unit's headquarters Thursday morning and fatally shot himself, just hours before the family laid the victim to rest. 


No cell phones for rail workers 
LOS ANGELES -Federal railroad regula­tors have issued an emergency order pro­hibiting the use of personal electronic devices by rail workers operating trains and performing other key jobs. 
The Federal Railroad Administration issued the order Thursday. It says violators will be subject to civil penalties and removed from "safety-sensitive" jobs. 
The order comes a day after federal inves­tigators announced that a Metrolink engineer sent a text message from his cell phone 22 seconds before his commuter train crashed into a freight train last month. The crash in suburban Chatsworth killed 25 people, including the engineer. 
LOCAL NEWS 
BP charged with Air violation 
WHITING, Ind.-Federal regulators say BP PLC violated the Clean Air Act by beginning to make modifications at its Indiana oil refinery along Lake Michigan to process Canadian crude before it received the proper permit. 
The allegation announced Thursday is included in an amended complaint by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The com­plaint alleges BP violated the law by making severa! unapproved changes in 2005 when it altered a unit at the Whiting refinery that con­verts heavy oils into lighter products such as gasoline. 
I 





$700 billion bailout closer to passing 
Bush lobbies for more approval as some crucial'no' votes change to 'yes' 
Associated Press WASHINGTON -Desperate to avoid another market­crushing defeat, House leaders won key convert.<; Thursday to the $700 billion financial industry bailout on the eve of a make-or-break second vote. President Bush and congres­sional leaders lobbied furious­ly for the dozen or so support­ers they'd need to reverse Monday's stunning setback and approve a massive rescue plan designed to stave off national economic disaster. Anything but reassured, investors sent the Dow Jones industrials plunging another 348 points, suggesting Wall Street is expecting tougher economic times even if the measure is rushed into law. The· Federal Reserve reported record emergency lending to banks and investment firms, fresh evidence of the credit troubles squeezing the coun­try. "A lot of people are watch­ing," Bush pointed out -as if lawmakers needed reminding -and he argued from the White House that the huge rescue measure was the best chance to calm unnerved financial markets and ease the credit crunch. He was calling dozens of lawmakers, a spokesman said. Democratic and Republican leaders worked over wayward (~ ' colleagues wherever they 
' 
could find them. 

Rep. Steny Hoyer, the sec­assets from troubled fmancial 95 Democrats Monday to hers of both parties were 1 ond-ranking House Democrat, .institutions. If the plan works, reject the measure, also demanding substantial said there was a "good advocates say, that would announced he was now changes to the legislation prospect" of approving the allow frozen credit to begin onboard, even though "I hate before they would vote for it. A measure but stopped short of flowing again and prevent a it." He told the AP, "Inaction to group of Republican oppo­predicting passage -or even serious recession. me is a greater danger to our nents indicated they'd back it promising a vote. Nonetheless, GOP Rep. Ileana Ros­country than this bill." if the price tag were slashed to the vote was expected on Lehtinen of Florida, said she Republican Rep. Jim $250 billion and several spe­
' 

Friday. 'Tm going to be pretty was switching her "no" vote to Ramstad of Minnesota also cial tax breaks added by the ·~ confident that we have suffi­a "yes" after the Senate added switched to "yes," partly Senate -including for chil­cient votes to pass this before some $110 million in tax because the Senate attached dren's archery bow makers, we put it on the floor," Hoyer breaks and other sweeteners the bailout to legislation he imported rum producers and said. before approving the measure spearheaded to give people racetrack owners -were 
The top Republican vote­Wednesday night. with mental illnesses better removed. Democrats wanted counter, Rep. Roy Blunt of "Monday what we had was a health insurance coverage. to add a way to pay for the Missouri, did predict the meas­bailout for Wall Street firms Democratic Rep. Emanuel bailout and more help for ure would be approved. and not much relief for tax­Cleaver of Missouri was homeowners staring at fore­
Minds were changing in payers and hard-hit families. switching, too, said spokesman closure. both parties in favor of the Now we have an economic Danny Rotert, declaring, Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D­much-maligned measure, rescue package," Ros-Lehtinen "America feels differently Calif., said no, such revisions which would let the govern­told The Associated Press. today than it did on Friday were impossible because they ment spend billions of dollars Rep. Zach Wamp of about this bill." would slow the measure's to buy bad mortgage-related Tennessee, another of the 133 Emboldened by the feverish enactment and further shake securities and other devalued House Republicans who joined bidding for votes, other mem-markets. 

Government rejects medicine ban 
think will have a positive impact, only to there's no proof the medicines work in 
Associated Press 

have an unintended negative. That eould kids. "We don't see that adequate evi­
WASHINGTON -A top government be an even worse situation." dence of efficacy ha'> been demonstrated health official Thursday rejected pediatri­With a new cold season coming, ped.ia­in children to date," said Jenkins. Oinical cians' calls for an immediate ban on over­tricians are urging the government to stud.ies to try to settle the is.~'lle could take the-counter cough and cold medicines for demand a recall of over-the-counter years to complete, and may not provide young children, saying it might cause cough and cold medicines for children clear answers. unintended harm. younger than 6. The effectiveness of the "It really is a conundrum for us," said 
But Food and Drug Administration uffi­medicines in children was never proven, Jenkins. dals at a public hearing also said they critics say, and problems with the drugs Parents might also be fru'itrated by the were uncomfortable with the lack of solid send thousand<; of kids to the emergency conflicting advicB. scientific data to support continued use of room every yeac The American Academy of Pediatrics OTC remedies with youngsters, particular­"When a treatment is ineffective, its says ore products are ineffective for ly from ages 2-6. risks -unless zero -always exceed its treating coughs and colds in children 
A ban -as sought by leading pediatri­benefits," Dr. Michael Shannon of under 6, and should not be given because cian..'>' groups -might only drive parents Children's I Iospital in Boston told the FDA of the risk ofserious side effects -a con­to give adult medicines to their young­panel. clusion seconded la'it year by a panel of sters, said Dr. John Jenkins, who heads "We don't see a public health emer­out'iide advisers to the FDA. But the FDA's the FDA's Office of New Drugs. gency here as far a<; an inherent ri'ik of own advice is that parents should not give 
'That is a concern for us," said Jenkins. the products," said the HJA's Jenkins. the medications to tot<; under 2 -a posi­"We do not want to do something that we But he agreed with critics who say tion shared by the drug companies. 

-' I 
J 

page 6 Friday, October 3, 2008 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
. . . 
. 

.... -. . . . ' 
Truly I tell you, just as you did it to one ofthe least ofthese who are members ofmy family, · you did it to me. 
Matthew 25:40 
An Urgent Call to Solidarity 
To the Notre Dame Community and our Friends, 
The Notre Dame undergraduates and the Alumni Association are sponsoring a month of round table discussions, reflections and documentary films on Haiti entitled Hope in Haiti -The Poorest of the Poor: A Call to Solidarity. The groups are participating in a clothing drive to assist the people in Haiti from October 27 through November 9. We urge you to support this important initiative. 
The poor and long-suffering people of Haiti once again face death and suffering, this time from the ravages which two successive hurricanes have caused. We invite you to assist our brothers and sisters at this critical moment. 
All funds we receive will be forwarded immediately to Gonaives, Haiti, so that Bishop Yves-Marie Paen, C.S.C. and Holy Cross religious will be able to continue assisting the people as much as they can. 
You may place your gift in one of the "poor boxes" in the Basilica or send it to 314 Coleman Morse Center, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Thank you for assisting us in this effort. 


Campus Ministry 
/ 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  10,482.85  -348.22  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
547  51  2,929  2,061,602,284  


;~fllKKEI••··~rroRPoJ·rtii!:L.]Jj:JlrU~·I6ftlrt\l~li 
FTSE 100 (London) 4.879.34 -89.25 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) -9.59 -2.35 22.15 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -3.63 -4.21 111.85 NATL CITY CP (NCC) +8.65 +0.25 3.14 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -4.55 -1.75 36.75 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -3.24 -0.122 3.646 13-WEEK BILL -26.25 -0.210 0.590 30-YEAR BOND -2.21 -0.094 4.154 5-YEAR NOTE -6.48 -0.187 2.701 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -4.56 93.97 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -43.00 844.30 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.33 91.83 
Exchange Rates YEN 104.9850 EURO 0.7238
• 

CANADIAN DOLlAR 1.0799 BRITISH POUND 0.5669 
IN BRIEF 
Market falls even further Thursday 
NEW YORK-Pessimism about a protracted economic downturn washed over the financial markets Thursday, sending stocks plunging and further tightening the credit markets. Reports on declining factory orders and a seven-year high in jobless claims stoked fears that the government's financial rescue plan won't ward off a recession, and the Dow Jones industrials skidded nearly 350 points. 
Investors appeared to be settling in for a prolonged economic winter. The main concern is that the $700 billion bailout plan won't be enough to stimulate growth, and economic reports delivered Thursday show that the U.S. continues to struggle. 
The government said the number of people seeking unemployment benefits rose last week and that demand at the nation's factories has fallen by the largest amount in nearly two years. The market is interpreting the Commerce Department r~port on factories as a sign that tight credit conditions are hitting manufacturers. 
FPAsued over alleged illegal dumping 
ALBANY, N.Y. -Nine states sued the Bush administration Thursday over federal rules on water dumped from ships, claiming there is an ille­gal loophole that could hurt fisheries and contami­nate drinking water. 
The states contend that an adminL<;trative ruling could allow the transfer of polluted or contaminat­ed water by ship from one body of water to anoth­er where it would do harm. For example, they claim salt water from the ocean could be dumped in the Great Lakes under the June federal decision. 
Suing the EPA are New York, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Wa..,hington and the Canadian province of Manitoba. At issue is regulation of water dis­charges from ballast and other sources on vessel., large and small. 
State official., said that if the federal action is allowed to stand, ships and boats could carry sedi­ment-laden water into clear drinking water reser­voirs, water containing chemicals could foul sources for farm irrigation and warm water could be pumped into cold-water habitats, threatening trout. The states' action also targets invasive species contained in ballast that could destroy lakes and rivers. 
-
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Alarmed 
by the financial meltdown, 
stores nationwide are slap­
ping sale signs on every­
thing from fall sweaters to 
furniture -frantically try­
ing to attract shoppers who 
are cutting back. 
Some analysts were 
already expecting the weak­
est sales growth for the .hol­
iday season in 24 years, and 
with uncertainty roiling the 
banking system and a tee­
tering economy, they figure 
Americans will make their 
lists and check them three 
or four times. 

"I haven'( seen this kind 
of fright since 9/11," said 
Faith Hope Consolo, chair­
man of real estate firm 
Prudential Douglas 
Elliman's retail leasing sales 
division. She said stores are 
"all arming themselves for 
what is probably the most 
difficult season across the 
board." 

At malls, shopping dis­tricts and on the Web, the discounts are growing des­perate. "Up to 60 percent off," say signs at AnnTaylor LOFT stores, "50 percent off' at Old Navy. Restoration Hardware Inc. e-mailed $100 gift vouchers out to customers Thursday for purchases of $400 or more. 
Holiday items are starting (~ to flow into stores -and they're expected to be marked down immediately, said Marshal Cohen, chief . as the problems on Wall my house," said Snow, who running about 10 percent industry analyst for NPD Street cascade through the worries about her job in more than a year ago, said Group Inc. economy, with layoffs financial services and her John D. Morris, an analyst 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the expected to rise and frozen stock funds. ''I'd rather put at Wachovia Capital world's largest retailer, is credit markets meaning that money toward a couple Markets. opening its Christmas shops shoppers are having a of things." Holiday orders from a week earlier than last harder time getting loans Amanda Plummer, owner clothing stores were year to lure shoppers. Wal­and credit lines. Eight in 10 of Precious Plum, a high­already about 15 percent Mart is also cutting prices fear the financial crisis will end clothing store in below last year's, and some on 10 popular toys to $10 affect them directly, accord­Summit, N.J., a bedroom stores are now canceling each. Holiday catalogs are ing to an Associated Press­community for financial orders, said Arnold Cohen, already arriving in the mail. GfK poll. executives, said business co-founder of Mahoney 
But it may take more than Noelle Snow, 41, of has slowed in September. Cohen and Co., an account­sale signs and promotions Deerfield, Ill., said the eco­"I am definitely nervous. ing firm for the apparel to spur shoppers, who have nomic turmoil has made People are doing a lot more industry. been dealing for months her cut her holiday budget window shopping. Instead And industry figures indi­with high gas and food for her two children to $200 of buying four or five items, cate more shoppers are just prices, weaker job and from $500. they are buying one or staying home. Some indus­housing markets and ''I'm just trying to sock two," said Plummer. try sales forecasts say the tighter credit. away what I can between Nevertheless, at clothing holiday season could have 
Many economists predict budgeting for a couple of stores in malls, the volume the weakest growth since spending could deteriorate things that have broken in and level of discounting is the early 1980s. 

Friday, October 3, 2008 page 7 
Retailers rush to attract customers 
Prices fall in stores as market meltdown continues to take Wall Street by storm 

World Trade Center hub delayed 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The owners of the World Trade Center site announced a delay in the completion of a multi­billion-dollar transit hub Thursday but pledged to open a nearly fin­ished Sept. 11 memorial by the 1Oth anniversary of the terrorist attacks. 
They set no firm schedule for the completion of the entire site, which includes four office towers and a performing arts center. The report also said the 1,776-foot Freedom Tower skyscraper has been delayed by up to a year, meaning the signa­ture project of the site "Yon't open until at least 2013. 
In a 70-page report on ground zero's tortuous rebuilding process, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said the elaborate rail hub will cost $3.2 billion, $700 mil­lion· more than planned, and should open in 2014, five years after the original projected completion date. 
The memorial, "Reflecting Absence," will open on Sept. 11, 2011, with two waterfall-filled pools built in the shape of the twin tow­ers' footprints, and surrounded by the names of nearly :~.000 victim~. the report said. But some of the 500 trees in a cobblestoned plaza may not all be planted by that time and a visitor's center may not be open. 
The report was issued after Gov. David Paterson ·ordered a re-evalu­ation of the rebuilding proce~ in June, saying that there was little clarity about who was responsible for rebuilding the site. He and Mayor Michael Bloomberg had pub­licly urged the agency to guarantee 
completion of the memorial by the anniversary. The report gives certainty to the rebuilding process, Paterson said. 
"We know what we are building, how long it will take and how much it will cost," he said. 
Bloomberg, who leads the founda­tion building the memorial, gave only measured support to the pledge to open the memorial on time. 
"Fully completing the memorial by the 1Oth anniversary of 9/11 remains our goal, and this plan doesn't accomplish that," he said. 
The Port Authority's executive director, Christopher Ward, said he could not offer a schedule for three office towers being built by develop­er Larry Silverstein or for the arts center. 

Friday, October 3, 2008

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Victorymarchcelebrates anniversary 
Notre Dame fight song commerates 100 years as college anthem 


A Penn·'{ sa,.~ecl .... Isn't Nearl'\:""
... 
...4s C~ool As A Fi,~e Dollar Footlottg! 

Everv Day ",.alue :rvlenu Available At 
.f .. 

Participating Locations Including: 1706 South Bend A.ve * Do,Ynto,:vn US 31 N * SR 23@ Ironvvood *UP 1\inll *Indian Ridge * \V'"all\Inrt 
Spedal to The Observer 
"Cheer, cheer for old Notre 
DarnEL." 
"The greatest of all universi­ty fight songs" is a century old this year. Happy 1OOth birth­day to "Notre Dame Victory March." 
"It's probably the most rec­ognized and performed of col­legiate songs," said Kenneth Dye, director of bands at Notre Dame. "Its inspirational rhythm and tempo create an energy that encourages fans to clap along and enjoy the music." 
Some 500 band alumni will join with the current band to "Wake up the echoes cheering her name" during halftime of the Stanford game Oct. 4 in a Centennial Celebration of the anthem that has proudly been played in all 50 states and 22 countries. 
"Victory March" was written in 1908 by Notre Dame gradu­ates Hev. Michael Shea and his brother John. An organist, Father Shea composed the griginal tune for the organ, and it premiered. not on the Notre Dame campus, but at the Second Congregational Church in the brothers' hometown of Holyoke, Mass. 
Not until Easter Sunday the year after it was written did "Victory March" first "Send a volley cheer on high," and "Shake down the thunder from the sky" at Notre Dame. It was performed at athletic events a decade later. In 1928, then band director 

Trustees 
continued from page 1 
regard to drinking, but noted that the stories often become "romanticized" over time. The Observer has a policy of not attributing quotes or informa­tion to specific members of the Board. 
"The war stories always get better over time," the Trustee joked. 
Another Trustee said that safety issues and alcohol con­sumption often go hand-in­hand, stating that students who are assaulted are often under the influence of alcohol. He said that students shouldn't create a dichotomy between alcohol and safety issues. 
"Someone could argue that the best way to assure safety is to go at the alcohol thing," the Trustee said. 
Schmidt said student govern­ment has met with police force 
Joseph Casasanta arranged the song to sound as we know it today. 
Now the most recognizable collegiate fight song in the country, "Victory March" was ranked No. 1 by former Northern Illinois University professor William Studwell in his book "College Fight Songs: An Annotated Anthology" in which he ranks his Top 25. 
Although his personal favorite is Michigan's "The Victors." Studwell concedes "What tho' the odds be great or small. Old Notre Dame will win over all." He said "Victory March" is "more bor­rowed, more famous and, frankly, you just hear it more... Anybody who says that Notre Dame's isn't one of the top five songs is out of his gourd. That's like saying Shakespeare didn't know how to write." 
The tune has, in fact, been borrowed by many American high school teams, a handful of Canadian schools and by the Australian Rules Football team Sydney Swans. In 2003, the Celtic punk band Dropkick Murphys released an instru­mental version of "Victory March," called "Victory." 
Earlier this year, hundreds of thousands of people witnessed another centennial tribute in the Shea brothers' hometown. The Holyoke St. Patrick's Parade attracted a record 600,000 roadside spectators and more than 1 million televi­sion viewers who watched "While her loyal sons are 
marching... " several area 
bands perform "Notre Dame Victory March." 
Incidentally, a float honoring the Shea brothers won first place, and the "Here Come the Irish" banner from Notre Dame's Zahm Hall was promi­nently displayed along the parade route. 
All over the world, audiences love "Victory March." On its tour of China in May, the Notre Dame Concert Band played the song to conclude each of its· shows. and thousands of Chinese concert-goers sponta­neously stood and clapped along every time. Afterward, a few audience members said they already knew the song, but most indicated they simply found it so exciting that they were unable to remain seated. 
The significance of "Victory March's" 1 OOth year will be announced at each of the band's pre-game and half-time performances all season, and each band member will wear a commemorative patch and pin. In addition, the band has pro­duced a celebratory book and CD. 
The hardcover book "1 00 Years of the Notre Dame Victory March: A Centennial Celebration of the Band of the Fighting Irish Performing the Greatest of All University Fight Songs" is a collection of images that features memorable band formations, scenes from the tradition-filled concert on the steps and game day portraits, all of which enjoyed "Victory March" as their soundtrack. 
uation, the rules and their tionships between students rights, Reish said. and their neighbors, the first 
Another Trustee added that of which will take place this in addition to informing stu­Sunday from 3-6 p.m. behind dents, Reish and "1 09-119 N. Schmidt play a St. Peter St. 
role in changing "Not only on this Reish and 
attitudes about the issue. but on all the Schmidt also situation. spoke about
issues that you
"Not only on this improving the
facilitate, don't
issue, but on all relationships the issues that you underestimate your between facilitate, don't Student
ability, once you
underestimate Government
know the truth, to
your ability, once and its con­you know the shape the opinion st~tuents. truth, to shape the Reish said
and views ofthe
opinion and views student par­
community,,
of the community," ticipation in the Trustee said. student gov­
Reish and A member of the ernment has Schmidt also increased by
Notre Dame 
acknowledged that 60 percent
Board of Trustees 

one of their broad­er goals for their term, improving the relation­ship between the student body and the South Bend communi­ty, is tied to the issue. 
In addition to the various groups within student govern-
leaders on and ment that 
..Someone could 
off campus, and address this that the discus­argue that the best relationship, sions have been way to assure safety Reish said that productive. the Community
is to go at the alcohol 
"They have no Campus Action
thing ... 
problems Coalition answering ques­(CCAC), which tions," Schmidt was created
A member of the 
said. last year in
Notre Dame 
Once they have response to
Board of Trustees
clearer informa­tion, student government will be able to take specific action, Reish said. · 
"We hope to find more factu­al information, to confirm if this is happening or not and figure out the best way to inform the students" of the sit-conflicts between stu­dents living off­
campus and their neighbors, will be begin working again in the upcoming week. 
Schmidt also detailed the block parties being planned in four neighborhoods off campus to help facilitate better rela­
since last 

year, and ini­tiatives like the Freshman Leadership Experience (FLEX) and a free DVD rental service based out of student govern­ment's offices will increase interaction. 
Schmidt spoke highly of the work that student government has already done and will con­tinue to do to improve the relationship between students and the administration. Schmidt cited the work of the Senate's new Campus Technology Committee that helped to bring Gmail to stu­dents as one accomplishment in this area. 
In detailing upcoming initia­tives of student government, Reish and Schmidt noted the upcoming Mock Election on Oct. 7, as well as plans to develop an improved off-cam­pus student discount program. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Friday, October 3, 2008 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Twins 
continued from page 1 
and working for rival presiden­tial candidates didn't lead to fights in the Washington Program living quarters after work. 
'Completely undecided' 
When Diana Delfino received 
an e-mail sophomore year 
about Notre Dame's 
Washington Program, she told 
her sister, a fellow political sci­
ence major, about it. They both 
loved politics, and Diana said 
she thought the program would 
be a good way to decide what 
to do with her political science 
degree. Once they were accept­
ed to the Washington Program, 
they both applied to several 
locations in Washington, D.C., 
including to Clinton's and 
Obama's Senate offices. 
Diana was accepted to both ofliees. Donna was accepted to Obama's, and had to give them an answer before she could interview with the Clinton office, so she decided to accept the Obama offer. Diana signed on with Clinton. 
"We were both completely undecided," Diana Defino said. "That actually made the deci­sion harder, because I hadn't picked who I wanted to support for the election." 
Once in Washington, the Definos worked three days per week for nine hours per day on Capitol Hill. They responded to letters, answered phones, ran errands, gave Capitol tours to constituents, went to Congressional hearings and conducted research for staffers. 
Then one day, they met the man and woman they'd been working for. 

'This aura' 
A year later, Diana and Donna Defino still have vivid memories of the moment they met their respective bosses ­.and they both used the phrase "this aura" to describe the presence of their respective senators. One Wednesday morning, Donna said, there was a gap in Obama's schedule, so he decided to come to his office just to meet the interns. The interns were waiting for him, Donna said, and when Obama arrived, he walked right up to her and introduced himself. lie asked Donna where 
she was from and where she 
went to school. She told him 
she was a student at the 
University of Notre Dame. 
"Oh, that's nice," she remem­
bers him replying. "Sorry to 
hear about your football team." 
The interns had an informal 
meeting with Obama and got to 
ask him questions about issues 
they were curious about, 
Donna said. On television, she 
said, Obama comes across as 
eloquent and thoughtful. He is 
the same way in person, she 
said. 
Diana had a surprise meeting 
with Clinton, when one morn­
ing her intern coordinator took 
three of the interns with him 
and told them, shortly before 
her car pulled up, that they 
were about to meet the senator. 
Clinton pulled up to the curb with her Secret Service detail and exited the back right door, close to where Diana was standing. 
"She got out and I was just so nervous, I didn't know what to do," Diana said. "So I just stood there with my jaw open, just staring at her. I didn't know if I should talk to her ... but she just walked up to me and put her hand out and said, 'Hi, I'm Hillary. What's your name?"' 
Diana said she saw Clinton around the office at least once a week, and said from her per­spective, the senator was much more "personable" than the way she appears on television. 
"She's one of the friendliest people I've ever met," Diana said. "She's so friendly and she just has this aura around her that makes you smile." 
Diana never met Obama, and Donna never met Clinton, but they saw each saw their sister's senators from a distance dur­ing roll call votes in the Senate. 

'Almost identical' 
Diana and Donna arrived in Washington sure they would vote for a Democrat in November 2008, but not sure which Democrat they wanted to be the nominee. Through work­ing with Clinton's staffers in the office and researching her accomplishments and legisla­tion, Diana soon became a Clinton supporter. 
"I definitely wanted her to win the nomination," she said. "I really supported her. It was hard when she did not win." 
Over in Obama's office, Donna was leaning more and 
more towards Obama. 
The Definos agree they are 
identical in more than just 
appearance -they have the 
same major, same minor, same 
interests, same political views. 
How then, can identical twins 
divide their support for the two 
candidates embroiled in a bat­
tle for the Democratic nomina­
tion'? 
Donna suggested that she 
and Diana were working for 
senators who could, in many 
ways, be described as identical. 
"When you compare the two 
candidates closely, you can see 
how truly similar they are," she 
said. "Compared to others, 
their positions are almost iden­
tical on many issues." 
Clinton and Obama were both 
"amazing candidates," Donna 
said, and both would have 
made great presidents. But her 
experience working closely 
with Obama's staffers and 
interns, all of whom were 
enthusiastic about the senator, 
increased her enthusiasm 
about him. 
"They really believe in him as a politician, senator and presi­dential candidate for making a difference in people's everyday lives," Donna said. As an intern, Donna had to learn more about Obama's positions and his legislation so she could explain his decisions to his con­stituents. 
"Being surrounded by that every day probably swayed my support towards him because of that," Donna said. Her sister had the same "in-depth per­spective" for Clinton, and that's why she supported her during the primary. 
But now that Obama is the Democratic presidential nomi­nee, they have both thrown their full support behind the senator from Illinois. 
The two seniors are planning to return to Washington after graduation and work in politics in some capacity. 
" I am c onf.i dent that S e n . Obama is going to win, so I don't know if it is wishful think­ing that maybe I could get a job in the White House after I graduate," Donna said. lf Obama wins, she said she would be calling her contacts in his Senate office. 
"If Donna gets a job," Diana said, "I will have her get me one, too." 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Arrests 
continued from page 1 
time." 
"Videotaping can help clear up questions about what hap­pened in a particular situa­tion," he said. "For example, videotaping police action, through in-car police cam­eras, is a common practice and is commonly believed to improve police-citizen inter­action." 
He said police did not videotape "solely for the investigation of rule viola­tions of minor Ia w." 
"We believe that videotap­ing in a public place is legal and may be used, if needed, as evidence," Chapman said in the e-mail. 
Police are trained, Chapman said, in how to determine whether or not an individual is intoxicated in their observation of behav­iors and other criteria, like "slurred speech, the smell of intoxicating beverages." 
Alcohol consumption before and after games 
the police are dealing with, as well as the safety of others if the person is released," he said. 
Chapman said if police respond to the behavior of minors who are not intoxicat­ed, the are "generally cited and released." 
NDSP does not discuss the number of ·officers assigned to Game Day Operations for security reasons Chapman said. There is no quota sys­tem in place for officers or ushers in the Stadium to make to detain a set number of people, he said. 
On some home football weekends, officers of the Indiana State Excise Police (IESP) are on campus, whose primary goal, according to Lieutenant Tim Cleveland is "to enforce the laws, rules and regulations of the alcohol and tobacco commission." 
The only role the Excise Police plays during football weekends is assisting NDSP with alcohol enforcement on campus "at their request," he said. 
Depending on the officers' 
schedule, 

takes place pri­there may be
"Our interest is 
marily at tail­eight or 10 
gates; Chapman maintaining the officers on 
said "fans who safety ofthe person campus per are 21-years of g a m e ,
that the police are 
age and older Cleveland told 
are welcome to dealing with. as well the Observer. enjoy alcohol in as the safety of The Excise the parking Police holds
others ifthe person is
lots." complaints
released . .,
He called tail­received as a gating a "great main concern, game day tradi­Dave Chapman Cleveland tion -a time said, and do
assitant director of 
for. reunions of not target

Notre Dame Security 
family and certain loca­
alumni" and said "the University is pleased to serve as the host for these gatherings." At the same time, NDSP wants to "promote a family-friendly environment and ask people to drink responsibly, and not to infringe upon the rights of others," Chapman said. 
Tailgates in the parking lots are not permitted during football games, he said. 
Whether officers issue cita­tions, eject individuals from the Stadium or arrest individ­uals varies upon the circum­stances of the incident or the behavior of the individual, Chapman said. 
"Our interest is maintaining the safety of the person that 
tions or bars. 
"If we receive complaints on a certain location, that's our priority," he said. "We prioritize where we go, but our main priorities are to address situations that are a problem." 
Cleveland said the Excise Police do not target everyone at a tailgate, for example, but "just those who arc drawing attention to themselves or are so intoxicated there is the potential they will do harm to themselves." 
Excise Police patrol both inside and outside the Stadium on game day, Cleveland said. They do not target students specifically, he said. 
"From my experience, 99 percent of students we come in contact with are legal, pleasant and understanding and they are good people," Cleveland said. 
Considering the number of people on campus on game day, the Excise Police make "very few arrests in propor­tion," he said. This year's numbers are on par with the average from previous years, and Cleveland said he did not see any major increases or decreases in the frequency of arrests. 
Arrests that are made are "coincidental," he said. "There are only so many peo­ple you come in contact dur­ing the specific time." 
Cleveland said he would be happy to write zero tickets on a game day because it would "indicate that the job we've 
done, and that NDSP  has  
done, to  ensure it's  a  safe  
family environment  ...  has  
been effective."  

Katie Kohler contributed to this report. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 



Friday, October 3, 2008 

page 10 The Observer + NEWS 


Debate 
continued from page 1 
minute segments for each question, with ninety-second answers from both candidates, followed by two minutes of discussion. Biden answered the first question, after the order of response wao;;; deter­mined by a coin toss. 
Both vice-presidential candidates maintained their running mates' platJbrm, while criticizing the poli­tics of their competitor. Neither candidate answered the second question of the evening, "How would you stop the polarization in Washington." In<>tead, the two took turns discrediting the other's politi­cal experience. 
Biden, sticking to one of the Obama campaign's basic strategies, tried to link McCain's policies to those of President George W. Bush. 
The candidates each pushed tra­ditional party platforms on the economy, with Biden representing the Democrat ideology of raising taxes, specifically on the upper cla-,s, while Palin countered with pushing the Republican policy of cutting taxes. 
Aside from the economic crisis, other domestic issues debated were the causes of ~limate change, energy, and the rights of same-sex couples. 
"We do support that same sex marriage couples are guaranteed the same constitutional rights as heterosexual couples," Biden said. 
While Palin claimed to be very tolerant of same-sex couples, she said, "I will tell Americans straight up that I don't support defining marriage as anything other than between one man and one woman." Both parties agreed that they support certain rights for same-sex couples, but neither sup­ports gay mar­riage. 

After wrapping up domestic con­cerns, the debate moved on to for­eign policy. 
Each of the Vice Presidential candi­dates has a son involved in the war in Iraq, with Biden's son in Iraq and Palin's on his way. The two, however, differed in their opinions on the war. VANESSA fThe Observer 
Palin did not Students gather in Coleman Morse Lounge to support an exit watch the Vice-Presidential Debate. 
strategy. "We're getting closer and closer to victory and it would be a travesty if we left Iraq." 
Biden supported an exit strategy provided that there was a specific timeline included with it. 
Other issues discussed pertaining to foreign policy included the dan­gers of nuclear Iran and unstable Pakistan, the Bush administration's Mid-East policy, interventionism in nuclear weaponry and the geno­cide in Darfur. 
Members from Notre Dame's Debate Oub were on hand to ana­lyze and comment on the two can­didates performances. 
They said that Palin was a gen­uine, relatable character and that she also solidified herself as a strong candidate on the ticket. 
However, they said that overall Biden had stronger rebuttals and that Biden played Palin's inexperi­ence to his advantage. 
Overall, the four indicated that Palin was the victor because all she needed to do to win was "stay in 


"The Sub-Prime Mortgage Mess and Federal Reserve Policy" 
~V! 
~ 
Christopher J. Waller Gilbert F. Schaefer Professor of Econotnics 
11:00 a.m. Saturday, October 4, 2008 
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt 
The worst since the Great Depression, the current 
credit n1arket crisis in the United States has lasted for 
more than a year, driven in large part by the sub-prime 
mortgage rness that has led to n1assive losses in the 
banking sector. Waller will discuss what caused the 
crisis and the effects of unprecedented intervention by 
the Federal Reserve. 


there". 
Glen Water, a member of NDVotes '08 felt that the event was a success. "A lot of people showed up, it was a good debate. I think both candidates did well," he said. 
Gwen Ifill, a Senior Correspondent for PBS's The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer was the moderator of the event. Ifill is currently authoring a book about the life of Barack Obama, with its expected release date to be the same day as the Presidential Inauguration in 2009. This lead to speculation that Ifill would be forced to favor Palin in an effort to demonstrate that she had no bias. 
NDVotes '08, the Center for Social Concerns, the Notre Dame Debate Program, and The William and Helen Kuhn Carey Chair in Modern Communication sponsored the event, which was also co-spon­sored by the Washington Program. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel @nd.edu 
Searchers find pieces of plane wreckage 
Associated Press 
MAMMOTH LAKES -More than a year after the mysteri­ous disappearance of million­aire adventurer Steve Fossett, searchers found the wreckage of his plane in the rugged Sierra Nevada, along with enough remains for DNA test­ing. 
A small piece of bone was found amid a field of debris 400 feet long and 150 feet wide in a steep section of the mountain range, the N a tiona] Transportation Safety Board said at a news conference Thursday. Some personal effects also were found at the site. 
Officials conflicted on whether they had confirmed' the remains were human. 
"We don't know if it's human. It certainly could be," Madera County Sheriff John Anderson said late Thursday, hours after the leader of the NTSB had said the remains were those of a person. "I refuse to speculate." 
Asked about the sheriff's assessment of the physical evi­dence, NTSB spokesman Terry Wiliams reaffirmed NTSB act­ing Chairman Mark Rosenker's earlier statement. 
"We stick by that. It's human remains," said Williams, who declined to say how the NTSB had arrived at that conclusion. 
Fossett, the 63-year-old thrill­seeker, vanished on a solo flight 13 months ago. The mangled debris of his single-engine Bellanca was spotted from the air late Wednesday near the town of Mammoth Lakes and was identified by its tail num­ber. Investigators said the plane had slammed straight into a mountainside. 
"It was a hard-impact crash, and he would've died instantly," said Jeff Page, emergency man­agement coordinator for Lyon County, Nev., who assisted in the search. 
NTSB investigators went into the mountains Thursday to fig­ure out what caused the plane to go down. Most of the fuse­lage disintegrated on impact, and the engine was found sev­eral hundred feet away at an elevation of 9,700 feet, authori­ties said. 
"It will take weeks, perhaps months, to get a better under­standing of what happened," Rosenker said before investiga­tors set off. 
Search crews and cadaver dogs scoured the steep terrain around the crash site in hopes of fmding at least some trace of his body and solving the mys­tery of his disappearance once and for all. A sheriff's investiga­tor found the 2-inch-long piece of bone. 
The remains are enough for a coroner to perform DNA test­ing, Rosenker said. 
"Given how long the wreck­age has been out there, it's not surprising there's not very much," he said. 

Fall2008 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some ofthe most pressing issues ofour times. 
~ 09/06-San Diego State "Faith Taking Shape: Early Christianity and the Arts" Thomas F. Noble, Professor and Chairperson, History 
~ 09/13-Michigan · 
"Peter Pan as Cultural Icon" Susan C. Ohmer, William T. Carey and Helen Kuhn Carey Associate Professor of Modern Communication, Film, Television, and Theatre ......J 
~ 09/27-Purdue 
"Election 2008: Race, Gender, and Fairh" David E. Campbell, John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., Associate Professor, Political Science 
Darren W. Davis, Professor, Political Science Christina K Wolbrecht, Associate Professor, Political Science 
~ 10/04-Stanford "The Sub-Prime Mortgage Mess and Federal Reserve Policy" Christopher J. Waller, Gilbert F. Schaefer Professor of Economics 
~ ll/01-Pittsburgh "Catholics and Evolution: Old Tensions and New Directions" Phillip R. Sloan, Professor, Program of Liberal Studies 
~ 11/22-Syracuse 
"Before and Beyond Modernism: Icons as Art" Charles E. Barber, Professor and Chairperson, Art, Art History, and Design 
3-1/2 hours before kickoff in thcAnncnbergAuditorium, Snite Museum ofAn (unless otherwise noted). 
For more information, or to watch 2008 lecture videos online, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
Friday, October 3, 2008 page 11
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Friday, October 3 ·. &Saturday, October 4 
Signing at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Friday, October 3from 2pm -4pm Saturday, October 4from 1Oam -12pm 
Dick Vitale's Fabulous 50 Players and Moments in College Basketball 
• 
For 30 years, Hall of Farner Dick Vitale has been synonymous with the best of college 

• 
basketball. His enthusiasm, knowledge, unique turn of phrase and passion have set 

•
the bar for the best in hoops coverage. Now Vitale weighs in with his top 50 players · and moments during his 30 years at ESPN from the best seat in the house. 


· Aperfect gift for the holidays--stop in and get your copy signed by Dick Vitale! 
Yeah, Baby! 
,..... a~ 
NOTRE DAME~ BOOKSTORE 

IN THE ECK CENTER 
••(5741 i.lliali•m.a4cmils.IDII 
C10::~li'.B091 008A 


It's 8:30pm on Tuesday, and 
I need help with m computer 

No worries! 

Call the OIT Help Desk at In addition to our regular hours, we offer computer help over the phone from 5:00 p.m. to 1 0:00 
574 
p.m., Monday through Thursday.* 
You can even call us on Sundays between 3:00p.m. and 8:00 p.m. 
631--8111 
Relax 
continued from page 1 
in~. watching "West Wing" episodes. We were considering taking up smoking (maybe that was just one of us). But those approaches don't work when libertarian Presidential Candidate Bob Barr is on his way to campus, the Board of Trustees are in town and you have to choose whether to write a paper for class or cover a story. 
We met Dr. Settle on the third floor ofSt. Uam Hall, and told her we wanted to learn about what the resources room offered, but we also wanted to experience it. 
It was our first time meeting Dr. Settle, a staffpsychologist for the University Counseling Center. She showed us around the Center, then led us into the Inner Resources Room . 
Room 305 is a small, square room, with soft lighting and soft­
-er sounds. The light strains of the "Quiet Joy" CD accompanied the sounds of water falling from the fountain suspended on the wall. The room includes a desk with a computer and a large lamp, a television, deep red draperies and, most prominently, a large massage chair. "That's usually what attracts people to use the room," Dr. Settle said. Jenn claimed the massage chair and turned the control to the "kneading" setting. Dr. Settle first showed us the bright light therapy lamp. Ughttherap~she said, can be an effective treat­ment for people who suffer from seasonal affective disorder (SAD). People may experience SAD during the winter months, due to the decline in the amount of light coming through the eyes, Dr. Settle said. She compared it to a bear wanting to hibernate. People who have SAD, which usually happens between October and February, may experience fatigue, they may crave carbohydrates and choco­lates and could be gaining weight. Studies have found that light th_crapy is helpful f()r most people With seasonal depression, Dr. Settle said. We sat in front of the Counseling Center's light box, and she turned it on. Ten thou­sand lux of light radiated from the rectangular panel. The ther­apy works best if a person sits in front of the lamp for 30 minutes to. an hour each day for a couple of weeks, Dr. Settle said. A per­son who believes they have SAD should know within four days to two weeks whether the light therapy is helping. We weren't feeling sad, but we were tired, and we can see how the bright light could make living beneath the perma-cloud of South Bend more bearable. But for everyone who thinks they've found a way to keep, or regain, their summer tans for free, put your swim trunks and tanning goggles away -the light box will not give your pale skin a healthy-looking tinge. Next, Dr. Settle showed us a black box in the corner of the room-the negative ion genera­tor. Dr. Settle was knowledgeable about the efl'ect of positive and negative ions on human bio­chemistry. For simplicity's sake, we'II just say that negative ions can make you feel good since, in the bloodstream, they speed up the delivery of oxygen to cells and tissues. The negative ion generator, which emits 200 tril­lion negative ions per cubic cen­timeter per second, can help peo­ple breathe easier and so relieve various types of depression. The three of us breathed in the 
air in which, we assumed, tril­
lions of negative ions circled 
around us. Then Dr. Settle said 
something neither of us expected 
to ever hear in an interview: 
"I am going to tether you to the 
negative ion generator." 
She did just that, linking Jenn 
to the machine, so the negative 
ions would stick to her more. 
Even ifstudents are not 
depressed, Dr. Settle said, the 
negative ion generator could help 
students relax and improve their 
moods if they use it on a regular 
basis for 30 minutes to an liour 
at a time. We're probably going 
back. 
Dr. Settle demonstrated a res­
piration device that teaches you 
how to slow down your breathing 
and relax. Kaitlynn placed head­
phones over her ears, and as soft 
music played, she breathed in 
and out, following the directions 
of the graphic on the machine on 
her lap. But it's hard to concen­
trate on breathing in a rhythm 
and interviewing someone at the 
same time, so the little man 
showing her how to breathe gave 
up on her and disappeared from 
the screen. 
After teaching Kaitlynn to breath rhythmically failed, we logged into the computer and used some of the several biofeed­back programs the Counseling Center has uploaded, like "Wisdom Quest" and "Wild Divine: The Journey." 
Dr. Settle got Jenn started on a game that guided her into a tem­ple to meet her "special friend." For her first mission, her fmgers were attached to the computer through a sensor, and her heart rate and breathing rate guided balloons on the screen. Having the balloons go up was a sign of stress or nervousness. If the bal­loons went down, it meant she was relaxed. 
Jenn's first balloon went to the top of the screen and popped. But she got her next balloon to fall. 
Somewhere amidst the low lights, the soft music, the com­forting voice of Dr. Settle and the "kneading" and "calf and foot" settings of the massage chair, we decided -with a combined six plus years of Observer employ­ment-this is the best assign­ment we have ever been on. 

The Inner Resources Room, a joint gift from the senior class of 2004 and donor William K. Warren, Sr. is free for Notre Dame students, faculty and staff and open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through l'riday. Students can stop by the Counseling Center and sign up for half an hour to hour-long slots. 
Dr. Settle teaches a mindful­ness and relaxation class on Wednesdays from 4 p.m to 5 p.m. at Holfs. The course costs $12 and will be held the next two Wednesdays. Students can sign up through the ReeSports Web site. 
When we left the Inner Resources Room, we felt calm, relaxed, at one with St. Liam. But descending down the stairs, we realized that, between the two of us, we had missed five calls. We had deadlines to hit, homework to do and people to e-mail. 
But for a wonderful 75 min­utes, Dr. Settle had settled our nerves and slowed down our heart rates. 

We'll be signing up for return sessions in the Inner Hesources Room. And maybe asking The Observer to provide a negative ion generator for the office. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu and Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Friday, October 3, 2008 

page 12 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
IRAQ 



Suicide bombers kill24, injure dozens of others 
BAGHDAD Suicide "Pools of blood and the bombers struck two Shiite smell of burned flesh were mosques in Baghdad on everywhere and I saw a man Thursday, killing at least 24 of about 70 bleeding and people and wounding dozens lying on the ground," said during celebrations marking Ammar Hashim, 25, whose the end of the Islamic holy brother was also wounded by month of Ramadan. broken glass in his shop. 
To the north, suspected In the other attack in the Shiite militiamen gunned capital, a suicide bomber down six members of a Sunni who appeared to be in his family, including women and late teens detonated his children, police reported. explosive belt as worshippers 
Those attacks occurred four were leaving the Rasoul days after a series. of explo-mosque in the eastern New sions killed 32 people and Baghdad district. wounded nearly 100 in Shiite Ten people died and 24 areas of Baghdad, raising were wounded, police and fears that al-Qaida in Iraq is -officials at al-Kindi and Ibn trying to provoke Sunni-al-Nasif hospitals said. The Shiite reprisal killings now dead included a guard who that the last of the American blo eked the attacker from "surge" troops have left the entering the mosque, police country. said. 
In the deadliest attack, a The Iraqi army said 17 pea-suicide car bomber detonated · ple were killed in the two his explosives about 20 yards blasts. But area hospitals from a mosque in said that figure did not Zafaraniyah in southeastern include victims who died Baghdad. The blast killed 14 later from their wounds. people, including three Iraqi The attack on the Sunni soldiers, and wounded 28, family occurred in Oiyala, a police said. heavily mixed province north 
The death toll would likeli-of the capital. Police said er have been higher, but gunmen sprayed the family's Iraqi soldiers prevented the vehicle with automatic attacker from driving closer weapons fire as they traveled to the mosque, police said. to the provincial capital of 
Baqouba to visit relatives. 
The dead included two chil­
dren, three women and a 
man, police said. Another 
woman and her small child 
were wounded. 
Police said the area was 
controlled by mostly Shiite 
security forces and that they 
suspected Shiite militiamen 
were responsible for the 
attack. 
The police officials all 
spoke on condition of 
anonymity because they were 
not authorized to speak to 
the press. 
Victims of the Baghdad 
aitacks were attending 
prayers marking Eid ai-Fitr, 
the religious holiday that 
comes at the end of 
Ramadan. Sunnis and other ·Shiite groups celebrated Eid 
al-Fitr earlier in the week. 
Iraqi police and soldiers 
have been on alert for sectar­
ian attacks around Ramadan, 
when devout Muslims fast 
from dawn until dusk and 
religious fervor runs high. 
Last Sunday, five bombs 
exploded in Shiite areas of 
Baghdad, killing 32 people 
and wounding about 100. 
U.S. officials believed al­
Qaida was behind the blasts.· Shiite cleric and lawmaker 
Jalaluddin al-Saghir blamed the mosque attacks on "the beasts of al-Qaida" that con­sider Shiites as religious heretics and collaborators with the Americans. 
"After being weakened and isolated, the terrorists want to make a comeback in the capital and show that they are still powerful," al-Saghir told The Associated Press. "I think the al-Qaida efforts will fail because Iraqis now are more aware of the heavy price of any new round of sectarian violence." 
The main Sunni political group, the Iraqi Islamic Party, joined in condemning the mosque attacks and called on Iraqis to unite against "those who want to transfer political disputes into the language of vio­lence." 
Bloody assaults on Shiite civilians helped trigger the massive wave of sectarian fighting that led to President Bush's decision to dispatch nearly 30,000 reinforcements to Iraq in 2007. 
The last of those "surge" troops left Iraq in July after violence in the capital dropped to its lowest level in four years. 
U.S. commanders have acknowledged a small increase in attacks recently in the Baghdad area as Iraqi forces assume a greater role in security. Late Thursday, a rocket or mortar shell exploded in the Green Zone, causing no injuries, the U.S. military said. It was the first known attack against the U.S.-protected area in weeks. 
In a statement Thursday, 

U.N. special representative Staffan de Mistura expressed concern over the "recent spike in violence," urging Iraqis to maintain unity "in foiling the aims of those who want to push them back into the murderous cycle of sec­tarian violence. 
Also Thursday, a bomb wounded four American sol­diers in western Baghdad, according to U.S. military spokesman Lt. Col. Steven Stover. He gave no other details, but Baghdad police said the attacker detonated an explosive-laden car along­side a U.S. convoy. 
Two Iraqi civilians were also wounded, a police offi­cial said on condition of anonymity because he was also not authorized to speak to the press. 


Welcome Back Students 
Remember: Breakfast is the most important meal of the day... you can eat it anytime at LePeep! 
Monday-Friday 6:30-2:00pm Saturday-Sunday 7:00-2:00pm 
GO IRISH! 
127 S. Michigan Street Downtown South Bend 288-PEEP Big Groups Welcome•..call ahead 
Thanks for making us your Cavorite breakfast and lunch place 
f 
ND Coupon 

Buy one entree and get the Second entree Y2 otT Valid through 10/10/08 
Go IRISH! 

THE OBSERVER 
· P.O. Box 779, Notre= Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Nom Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DFSJGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMs ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarty 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERnSING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
, VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574} 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574} 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial <::ontent, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opiniollS through letters is enwuraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Qrmtiom regarding Observepolicirs should br di"ctrd to Editor in ChiifChris Hitu. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'The Oboorv.r (USPS 599 2-4000) i• publiilied Mon.!.')' through Fr.!Jy =<pt during nam and vacaticm periods. A sub.cription to The O~rv~r iJ .$ i 00 fur nne .1cademK: year; $5~ fur on~ S~~:mtster. .. 
'The Ohsct"'r is published u: I'OSTMASTER 024 South Oining H.ll Scud adcln:.15 <urr«tions to: 
Non-. Dame, IN 46;54-0m Th< Ob.<rver 
rcriodial postage P"id ar Notre Dame P.O. &x779 an<l additional mailin~ oflkc. 024 South Dining Hall Notn: Dam<. IN 46556-0779 
'The Obwv<:r i& a m<mbcr ofthe As>ociatcd Pt.,._ All reproduction righu .1ft 
'""'""d. 
Take advantage of voting right 
When we have the good fortune to live in a country Registering to vote in Indiana isn't much more difficult. where democracy prevails and the people select who will Fill out another half-page form and drop it in the mailbox. lead that democracy, why choose not to enjoy it? Depending on when you vote, you may even have an excuse 
The 2008 presidential election is the first in a long time to get out of classes come election day. when neither a former president or vice president is on the To avoid allowing the presidential election to steal the ballot. American troops are at war in Iraq and Afghanistan thunder this November, remember the importance of the and the economy recently tumbled off a cliff. If the current Congressional elections. Now more than ever, Congress state of the country doesn't inspire you to vote, your priori­isn't a bunch of old guys babbling at each other on C-SPAN. ties need to change. We saw its importance Monday, when the House 
Voting accounts for much of the basis of voted down a bailout plan and the stock market democracy: government for the people, by OTHE crumbled. A few more votes, and maybe the
BSERVER
the people. Allowing the citizens to choose measure passes; a few more votes from you, and those who will represent their best interests maybe some different congressmen are in office makes up what this country and what demo­to cast those deciding votes.
Editorial cratic countries around the world stand for. The point isn't to support or stop a bailout Americans have a right to vote, but they also plan. The point is that Congress matters as well. have the privilege to vote. Should they spurn that privilege, It's your duty to be informed about what your Congressmen the right may soon follow suit. want. Ever complained about laws or taxes? Chances are 
For out of state students, filling out a form for an absen­your Congressmen have taken a stance one way or the tee ballot simply requires a Google search, a printer and other. If you paid attention to their views, you could make five minutes to fill out a half-page form. Slap a stamp on it an informed vote to better serve your interests. and you're done. Feel like your state is already decided? Monday is the last day to register to vote in Indiana, and Vote in Indiana, where a recent South Bend Tribune/WSBT the deadlines for getting an absentee ballot are approach­poll has the candidates separated by only a single percent­ing. Take 10 minutes to make sure you have a means to age point. cast a ballot come Nov. 4. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Our pep rally manifesto 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Jenn Metz Bill Brink Ashley Charnley Jerrid Jedick 
Amanda Gray Scene Viewpoint Stephanie DePrez Kara King Graphics 
Mary Jesse 
We are done with pep rallies at the Joyce Athletic Center (JACC). Sorin College has been invited to ·be one of six dorms hosting this week's pep rally. We have declined that invitation and will not attend any more home game pep rallies while they are held in the JACC. 
Rather than simply bail out, we think the team, the band, and other students deserve to know why we won't be inside the JACC anymore. We also hope to spark a larger move:. ment to return pep rallies to a true student body event. 
The JACC pep rally, as it now stands, has long outlived its purpose. The JACC rallies are pedestrian, overly-scripted and devoid of anv and all spontaneity. With an endless train of performance troupes, videos and acknowledgements of groups in attendance, JACC rallies are simply a showcase for various members of the Notre Dame family. For a showcase, they are just fine, but for a pep rally, they are downright miserable. 
Pep rallies should involve only three groups-the students, the band and the team. They are about this entire student body coming together to send forth a single, bar­baric yawp. They are a last chance to remind ourselves, and each other, this is who we are. This is whom we sweat and bleed and play for; this is 
whom we stand and scream and 
cheer for. This is what we fight for. 
Pep rallies need to be stripped of 
their Disney sugarcoating and 
returned to their raw essentials: 
noise, emotion and pandemonium. 
For starters, return the rallies to the Stepan Center. Take away the divide between students and players staring back and forth at each other and cram us all together on one floor. No seats. Bring back the smell, the noise and the feel of real, un-tethered spirit. Throw out the scripts and let the student body take over. First come-first served; no tickets. Pep ral­lies should be of the students. by the students and for the students. This means parents, alumni and outside visitors aren't invited. If they want to come, they're more than-welcome­but they'll be one of us, not a polite guest at our show. 
At times, some of these elements are present now. But for the most part, JACC events are more show than rally. Given this administration's willingness to jettison student cre­ativity and passion in favor of a fami­ly-friendly festival (See: Dillon Pep Rally), changing the pep rallies will require dramatic action on our part. 
The student body is the glue hold­ing JACC rallies together. For too long, our support of the team has been co-opted by the athletic depart­
-

ment to serve as entertainment for alumni and visitors. 
Thus, we will exercise the most basic power we have-we won't show up. Of course, the danger in withdrawing support from the JACC rally is the perception we are also . withdrawing support from our team. l~ We know the team hates the JACC rallies too and they can't do much about it. But suffering with them while we can do something is a poor form of support. 
We'll still be standing with them from whistle to whistle. We'll still be hoarse come Monday morning. We'll still be singing the alma mater with them, win or lose. We just won't be standing around for an hour and half waiting for our 15 minutes with the team. 
Instead, we'll meet the team outside the JACC and let them know we've still got their back. If you feel like we do, and don't want to take part in the Pep Rally Showcase, stay outside and join us. Plus, this is about more than just pep rallies-we all want to lay a butt-whuppin' on Stanford tomorrow. 
Go Irish! 
Aidan McKiernan Tristan Hunt juniors Sorin CoHege Oct. 2 


Observer Poll 

Who do you think won the presidential dehate? 
Voles  ltmmlagc.  
John McCain.  -.680  48%  
Barack Obama  580  41%  
I didn't watch the debate  1.59  11%  


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ hate when people say we treat animals inhumanely. They·re not human." 
Mary Jesse Observer Graphics Editor 

THE OBSERVER 
p

page 14 


Friday, October 3, 2008 
Story time on ND Nation 
There is the story of the husband that anything wrong being filmed by law hope that they are simply stories. other side to these stories. I reminded was tackled by police oflicers in front of enforcement for future records. I can only hope that it's untrue that a myself of the fact that in three years in his wife after making an off hand There is the roving band of enforce­Vice-President of the University is ban­O'Neill Hall I almost never locked the remark that the officers took the wrong ment officials, just waiting to find some ning Alumni from campus. door to my room. In three months living way. poor souls to take down I can only hope that it's untrue that a off-campus I felt unsafe in my apart­
There is the story 
There is the stifling of tradition in a man was arrested for making fun of the ment with the door unlocked. In three of the father who place that used to be choked full of it. horses. years on-campus I would never hesitate was accused of These are the stories that I have read I can only hope that it's untrue that a to leave the dorm and go on a run. Now spiking a Coke in this week before I go to bed, and it is man's belt was cut off in the drunk tank I feel like I need to drive to campus the bathroom and shocking that I haven't been having and he was forced into the paddy wagon when a workout is in order. In three embarrassingly night terrors. If any outsider heard with his pants at his knees and his arms years on campus my safety was never hassled by police these stories, they might think that I cuffed behind his back. threatened and my possessions were officers in front of was talking about England as imagined I can only hope that it's untrue that never stolen. his daughter. in the graphic noveVfilrn "V for the head of Stadium Security mocked There is a reason why the Notre Dame 
There is the story Bob Kessler Vendetta." They might think that I'm the veteran with vertigo. bubble is so difficult to pop, and that of the war veteran talking about France during the Reign I can only hope that all of our Police reason is the police force that has done who has combat-House ofStix of Terror. They might think that I'm Officers, Ushers, Administrators, an exceptional job of protecting us. So induced vertigo that talking about Russia during the Cold Students, Fans, and Alumni have more whether or not the stories of our police lost his balance in War. They might even think I am talking respect for each other than these stories force on game days are true or false, I the stands, accidentally·vomited on an about a novel by the likes of Orwell or suggest because if they don't, then this would rather have them here than not, usher, was forcibly removed from of the Huxley. community we are all a part of has because the alternative is a much more stadium and nearly arrested. No. These stories are our own. They major problems on its hands regardless terrifying story. 
There are the rumors of the overseer come from our fans and alumni alike. of the truth to these stories. using his binoculars from his high perch They are the stories of a police force I tend to believe these stories. I don't Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in looking for troublemakers. He issues that is seemingly out of control and an think that people who love Notre Dame political science and economics. You can lifetime bans on a whim and holds a administration that has no plans to as much as I do would have the capacity contact him at rkessler@nd. edu grudge 'til the end. reign in their excesses. These stories to make up things that are this The views expressed in this column 
There is the filming of innocent scare me and upset me, and I can only appalling. However, after meeting with are those of the author and not bystanders. People who are not doing hope that they are all untrue. I can only an NDSP official this week, I saw the necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Thanks, NDSP and SBPD 
Thank you for giving us the opportunity to learn how to fend for ourselves at the presentation you recently gave in LaFortune, NDSP and SBPD. It is nice to know that even if you refuse to protect us from violent crime, you care enough to show us how to protect ourselves from armed robbers. 
James P. McCaughan junior Siegfried Hall Sept. 30 

Hail to the Stadium Ushers 
I don't know what percentage of my tuition goes toward stadium usher salaries, but it needs to be more. 
I cannot put a price on the countless times they act to ensure my safety. One such situation occurred this last weekend. My sister (a 2007 grad) and her boyfriend came in for the Purdue game. I was able to get ticketc; for each of them in the stu­dent section through the Notre Dame tick­et office student ticket exchange. His was supposed to be in section 28 (my section), however the exchange ticket was mis­printed to say section 32. 
Prior to kickoff he moved from 32 one section over to 31 to stand with a gradu­ate student friend of his. This is about the time when I (and I'm sure all of those in section 31) began to fear for our safety. 
Not for long though, because luckily a warrior with a different shade of gold on his dome swooped in to save the day. He requested to see my friend's ticket and upon seeing that he was 20 feet out of place chose not to ask that he return to his seat, but rather justly tore the ticket to shreds and began to escort its holder out of the stadium. 
This decision could have been over­turned by the Stadium Ushers Guild but fortunately the initial ruling was upheld and this dangerous, disruptive individual was led out of the stadium by a police ofli­cer. No doubt, the 30 seconds of live game, followed by an individual game watch in my dorm was well worth the $65 game ticket and $30G plane ticket (we have a pretty nice TV in the lounge). 
I'm all for the removal of drunk, misbe­having fans (especially the moron next to me who started shouting expletives at Charlie Weis two minutes into the game while he could still stand without assis­tance). However, experience has shown that it remains usher policy to consistently accept this kind of behavior. 
In response to this incident I could have written a well-reasoned appeal to the head of stadium ushers, but instead I have chosen to mock you. I could have attempt­ed to appeal to your common sense, but your actions last Saturday have shown me that you have none. 
Ijust ask that when you go horne each Saturday night and hang up your yellow vest of eternal power, before making a few marks on your bedpost adding to the total number oT people's weekends you have ruined, give yourself a pat on the back knowing that you have made a difference in the world .. 
Kevin Sonn semor Sr. Edward's Hall Sept. 30 


Changes to the gameday experience 
The recent crackdown on the game day experience at Notre Dame is discouraging to say the least. Over the years, the University has instituted certain policies that have changed the scope of the game day experience, and not always for the better. 
I agree that excessive drinking tends to occur during tailgates before Notre Dame football games. And that sometimes those who partake in excessive drinking can dis­turb the experience of those wanting to enjoy the game. Now this is not always the fault of Notre Dame fans, but also of those visiting the school to cheer on their own team. Those that are truly a disturbance should be removed, but discretion needs to be paid when doing this. 
As someone who is of the drinking age, I am allowed to enjoy an alcoholic beverage or two when I attend football games. I am also allowed to cheer on my team and urge them on to victory. Just because my voice is raised does not mean that I am intoxicated and deserve to be removed from the stadium, detained for question­ing and forced to testing by a breathalyz­er. 
I understand that the school is trying to maintain the "family atmosphere" of a Notre Dame game, but is it not changing the experience when you remove all pas­sion from the crowd at the threat of being forcibly removed. 
The changes made have also moved to the student section. As a transfer student, I can look back at my first game in the stadium and it still is a vivid and fond memory. I did not know all the cheers or the routine of Officer McCarthy or that marshmallows were thrown by the sen­iors at halftime. I was slightly over­whelmed, but I tried to take it all in. The marshmallow tradition was left for the seniors only, and the entire student body respected that. 
Unfortunately this was removed because of injuries of "assault with a deadly marshmallow". If you look at this from a different angle, it was probably those donors in the gold seats that complained of getting hit by a few arrant marshmal­lows. 
Now we have the tradition of push-ups after a Notre Dame score being removed. My dad's first game at Notre Dame was in the student section with me. After the first touchdown, he was put up for push-ups, and to this day, is one of his fondest mem­ories of the University. As a graduate, I have had the opportunity to attend-games on the opposite side of the student section and witnessed push-ups erupting through­out the student section. It is a pillar of the game day experience for the students as well as the crowd. 
My hope is that the University will think twice about what they believe to be the true game day experience that they want to put forth to those visiting the school. If the desire is to have a silent crowd who sits in their seats the entire game, and then leaves quietly regardless of the out­come, then I am afraid that more and more seats will go unfilled. 
I am not suggesting we allow kegs in the stadium and overly obnoxious fans. I am simply asking for the University to allow students and fans to enjoy their time and cheer on the Irish as people have for over 100 years. 
Chris Murphy alum Class of2005 Sept. 30 


A love hate relationship 
It's a well known fact that most people out there either love Notre Dame or hate Notre Dame. I am writing today to make the University aware of a growing group of people they are creating with their poli­cies: one that both loves and hates Notre Dame. 
I love Notre Dame for the education I received. I love the life-long friendships I formed with dorm mates and classmates. I loved playing pick up football on south quad and Bookstore Basketball. I love the spirituality that is an actual physical pres­ence on campus if you let yourself feel it. I love all the things that make us proud to say, We Are ND. 
I hate that Notre Dame is now employ­ing a tailgating and stadium usher Gestapo that continues to be as unprofes­sional as any law enforcement group I have ever seen. The situation inside the stadium has now progressed so much, that unless you have the balance of an 8­year-old Chinese Olympic gymnast, you are suspect of being intoxicateQ and will be arrested. If you were an alum who happened to have a few beers before the Michigan game and slipped on a wet step, you got banned from campus for life. True story. If you were a war veteran with severe vertigo from battle sustained injuries, you were assaulted by the Gestapo because they assumed you were drunk. The NO/South Bend Gestapo is now videotaping tailgates, a.k.a. reunions full of family and old friends getting together to celebrate Notre Dame football, as a form of intimidation. If you ask them a question, you get four-letter expletives as a response. They are living proof that absolute power corrupts absolutely. A per­fect hypocrisy to the family atmosphere Notre Dame supposedly wants to foster and an odd way for the administration to show respect towards the Notre Dame family. 
I think it is very important the university be made aware of the growing hatred amongst old and young alums towards this situation. I p~rsonally know of many young alums, the people that will be sus­taining the university with donations for the next 40 years, who have already decided to put away the checkbook until it changes. This is not a threat. It's a reality that stems from years of complaints falling on deaf ears and desperately trying to tell the administration what they are doing to our University is not acceptable. 
We all love Notre Dame. Please don't make us hate it. 
Kevin Rycyna alum Class of 2005 Sept. 30 


Boo Tim McCarthy 
Although I find him witty, I say the stu­dents of Notre Dame boo "Officer Tim McCarthy of the Indiana State Police" to let him, Indiana, South Bend and even NDSP know that we don't. appreciate their outrageous conduct (arresting 70-plus Notre Dame students) over the past two home game weekends. 
Mike Kaneb 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
Ocr. 1 
p

Friday, October 3, 2008 
page 15 

A real choice for 2008 


For the next few months, Americans 
will be bombarded with campaign ads 
and news reports emphasizing the sup­
posedly stark choice they will face in the 
voting booth on Nov. 4. The basic story­
line has already been . 

set: on the right, con-Ben lmskey 
servative John McCain 

Guest
will pursue a course 

Columnist
roughly contiguous 
with the Bush admin­

istration's policies; on the left, liberal 
crusader Barack Obama offers a plat­
form of sweeping change and reform. 
Accompanying such policy disputes will 
be the usual array of personal attacks 
and incendiary allegations: John McCain 
is too old, Barack Obama is too inexperi­
enced, McCain is out of touch, Obama is 
a radical, and so forth. 

While this constant stream of formula­
ic polemic can quickly become numbing 
and tedious to the average voter, it's 
worth acloser examination. Are the can­
didates really as different as they claim? 
Behind the Democrats' and Republicans' 
war of words lies a seldom-examined 
truth: on virtually every issue, Barack 
Obama and John McCain share the same 
essential philosophy on the role of gov­
ernment in American life. More govern­
ment, they agree, is the solution to virtu­
ally every problem facing Americans. 
The differences between the candidates 
are matters of degree, not substance. 
This year's presidential election pres­
ents voters with a striking example of 
what Texas Representative Ron Paul has 
called "the false choice of American poli­
tics." John McCain, to take just one 
example, advocates the continued, long­
term presence of American troops in 
J' ·_)J • 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A declaration of war 

We, the Gentlemen of St. Edward's Hall, in accordance with the desires of our patron, St. Edward, King and Confessor, hereby address the infringe­ment by Duncan Hall on the sovereign rights of our fine dormitory. 
The very existence of Duncan Hall, at its most fundamental level, challenges the traditions and integrity of not only St. Edward's Hall, but the entirety of Our Lady's University. 
While the presence of Duncan has allowed for minimal benefits, such as increasing space in other dorms and providing a haven for social misfits, we feel that Duncan's inexcusable violations against our dorm's tradition are of exceeding concern, and greatly outweigh the said advantages. 
Primarily, the Highlanders of Duncan Hall are untrustworthy, Abandoning their previous dorms in favor of Duncan's ostentatious walls, these men display a gross infidelity to the tradition­al, established institutions of our University, and suggest a propensity for the disparagement of tradition and lore. 
Furthermore, as eloquently summa­rized by one E. Rankin ("Duncan Disappoints," Sept. 30), numerous char­acteristics of Duncan Hall are seemingly stolen from our beloved, storied resi­dence hall, including but not limited to: our second floor chapel, rector appoint­ments and, most importantly, the don­ning of kilts at hosted pep rallies. Such theft of traditions and defining qualities of our dorm only reflects Duncan's lack of individuality and creativity on cam­pus, which are both essential in estab­lishing a successful residence hall. 
We acknowledge that in stealing our traditions the Highlanders simply attempt to borrow and learn from the superior dorm. However, as the oldest dormitory on campus, we feel the obliga­tion to uphold the traditions of our University, and counter the inane tom­foolery of Our Lady's youngest sons. 
Iraq; Obama would prefer to move those troops to Afghanistan. Both candidates share the common belief that the United States armed forces should maintain a constant presence throughout the globe, policing the American empire and using military force to intervene in local con­flicts. The idea that the proper and exclusive role of the American military is to defend the territory and citizens of the United States, an opinion once widely held in this nation, is given no consider­ation. Other major issues are totally ignored by the candidates. The federal Social Security program, for instance, is on course to collapse within decades, yet nary a word has been uttered about the subject by McCain or Obama. Likewise, neither candidate has addressed the urgent problem of the rapidly increasing national debt. 
A survey of the Republicans' and Democrats' platforms and campaigns and the media coverage they have received might lead one to believe that an overwhelming consensus exists among Americans in favor of an ever­expanding federal government. Yet noth­ing could be farther from the truth. When Ron Paul launched his GOP pri­mary bid last year, Americans responded with overwhelming enthusiasm, donat­ing millions of dollars and plastering highways and street corners across America with campaign signs. There is only one plausible explanation for this tremendous, unprecedented showing of support: Americans are eager for a can­didate who espouses a policy of limited government and gives voters a real choice. Predictably, however, the major parties and the media attempted to muf-
Thus, a rivalry is born. We the Gentlemen of St. Edward's Hall hereby reprimand the Highlanders of Duncan Hall for their inexcusable offenses, and with great pride declare opposition to our cross-campus brothers. 
Michael Eardley Colin Goodman Kevin Quigley sophomores St. Edward's Hall Oct. 1 
Carbon capture and sequestration 
Although Mark Easley ("Sequester This," Sept. 26) thinks sequestering car­bon dioxide is a laughable idea, it is actually one of several proactive steps we can take to responsibly utilize our abundant fossil fuel resources while we develop the ability to move to a sustain­a~le renewable energy base. 
Professor Moniz was right on target at the Forum when he specifically called out carbon capture and sequestration as one of many research areas that must be pursued if we are to solve the daunting energy problems facing our planet. Easley makes many ill-informed state­ments in his letter, but the most objec­tionable one of all was his misrepresen­tation of the carbon cycle. 
The rate at which carbon dioxide is being emitted by humans has caused a substantial increase in the concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide since the dawn of the industrial age. These con­centration increases are measurable and are compiled by Oak Ridge National Lab (see http://cdiac.ornl.gov/). 
The fact is, humans are changing the composition of the Earth's atmosphere through use of fossil fuels. While it is not entirely clear what the specific long term climatic impact of this will be, prudence dictates that we take steps to mitigate this situation. 
I am proud to say that Notre Dame is working to solve this problem. Along 
fle Paul's message, writing ofT his princi­
pled ideology as kookish and bizarre. 
There is nothing strange or dangerous about an ideology of limited, constitu­tional government, however. It is the governing philosophy espoused by our nation's founding fathers, and it is alive and well in the 21st century. Though the two major parties attempt to silence debate, presenting statist, big-govern­ment plans as the only viable solutions to the challenges our country faces, lib­ertarianism, a political philosophy of strictly limited government, remains a vibrant and growing force in American political life. Thanks to the Libertarian Party, Americans will have a real choice in this year's presidential election. Presidential nominee Bob Barr, a former 
U.S. congressman from Georgia, is mounting a strong challenge to John McCain's and Barack Obama's promises of ever-expanding government. Bob Barr has put forth viable proposals to lower taxes for all Americans, bring American troops home and out of harm's way, pro­tect our civil liberties, dramatically cut wasteful spending, and end government meddling in Americans' personal lives. These goals have strong support­despite extremely limited media expo­sure and a dearth of funds, Barr regis­tered the support of 5 percent of Americans in the latest Zogby poll. 
The Republican and Democratic par­ties know that Bob Barr and the Libertarian Party present a real threat to their continued domination of American politics. Barr has the potential to swing a number of states' highly con­tested electoral votes from McCain to Obama, making the Barr campaign of 
with my faculty and student colleagues in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and five com­panies from around the country, we are working on a multi-million dollar research project sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy to develop advanced technologies that will help make practical carbon capture and sequestration a reality. 
I invite any interested student, includ­ing Easley, to contact me if they want to learn more about carbon capture and sequestration. 
Edward Maginn 
professor 
Sept. 30 

A letter out of place? 
While I don't agree that Greil ("An open letter to the ND football team," Sept. 26) adopted either a pretentious or a paternal tone in his open letter last . week, Pennino's response ("Open letter out of place," Oct. 1) was reminiscent of a disgruntled adolescent. 
Okay, Pennino, so you have an impres­sive proficiency in loaded language ­you even surprised us with a few ad hominems pulled out of thin air -but where did that make for a mature or reasoned argument? 
Your main points, extracted from the accusations and exaggerations are as follows: 
1. 
Drinking in moderation does not cause harmful after-affects the next day. 

2. 
Football players are allowed to have beer. 

3. 
Other teams also drink and there­fore probably aren't giving 1 00 percent either. 

4. 
If we restrict drinking, there's no line between this and banning other unhealthy practices. 


5. We should all support the team. 
Firstly, I want to point out that the effects of one or two beers are probably not what concerned the author of the vital import to the outcome of the 2008 
presidential election. Despite Bob Barr's 
strong support and electoral signifi­
cance, however, he will likely be denied 
the opportunity to take the stage and 
debate with the two major-party candi­
dates in the coming months. In the final 
analysis, nothing is more important to 
the Republican and Democratic parties 
than preserving the two-party system 
and suppressing real alternatives to 
their tired, failed policies. However, 
2008 has already been a landmark year 
for libertarians, and it's clear that 
Americans are anxious for real, mean­
ingful change. 
Like it or not, the Libertarian Party and candidates committed to limited government will be a strong force in American politics in the coming years. Americans will have a real choice when they go to the polls this year, and no amount of political maneuvering can silence the voices of the thousands of cit­izens who are sick and tired of a govern­ment that ignores the Constitution and tramples on our most cherished liber­ties. Want four more years of needless war, rapacious taxation, and intrusive government? Then go ahead and pull the lever for Obama or McCain. But if you want true change, there's a real choice in November: Bob Barr and the Libertarian Party. 
Ben Linskey is a sophomore majoring in political science and philosophy and is co-president ofCollege Libertarians. He can be contacted atblinskey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
open letter. 
Secondly, no one suggested that foot­ball players should be officially barred from drinking over the weekend. Greil was simply calling for a responsible, considered -but free -decision from each member of the team. 
In fact, this addresses your fourth point as well: our football players are constantly called on to make responsible choices, and no one disputes their free­dom to do so. However, this does not mean that they shouldn't be challenged to consider their best options. 
In reference to your third point, I per­sonally don't think that we should let other teams set our standards for excel­lence. Just because we already compete on a level with them doesn't mean we shouldn't try to reach our highest poten­tial for our own sake. 
And as for your last statement, I would like to express my complete agreement -we should support our team. Of course we should. But cheering at the games is only half of this. 
The other half involves taking an active, personal interest in our team as a group of individuals seeking to fulfill their great potential in all areas of life ­only one of which is public. If you're really committed to a group or a cause, you put yourself on the line to keep it from falling short. 
And you don't attack the people who take such commitments seriously. 
Laura Schaffer sophomore Welsh Family Hall Oct. 2 



Titanic: A classic love story about the real-life tragedy of the 1912 sink-
Pirates of the Carribean: Providing the perfect blend of comedy,
of the R.M.S. Titanic, this movie is well-known as the ~·.~· ·-~ action, fantasy, and romance, this film took an old-school Disney ridefilm of all time. lt propelled Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet into and made it into a household favorite.
uperstardom and won eleven Academy Awards, including Best Picture. 
Intended as a summer blockbuster, "Pirates" exceeded expectations and broke records. Though the consequential sequels were more than •American Beauty: Set in modern American suburbs, the movie artistical-· 
disappointing, Johnny Depp's performance was enough to put this
ly shows the beauty in life by following the character of Lester Burnham lengthy flick on the record books.
· Spacey) who has a messy family life and a boring job. The drama nated the 2000 Academy Awards, won Best Picture, and is best 
The Lord of the Rins Trilogy: It brought out the inner geek in all ofup through a final quote from Burnham: "I guess I could be really us. Truly epic, the journey through Tolkein's magical world lasted for ...,• .,,n,u off about what happened to me ... but it's hard to stay mad, when over nine hours across the span of thme films. With a huge cast, LOTRs so much beauty in the world." 
was a colossal and yet highly successful undertaking that will no doubt be remembered for years to come for its enthralling intensity. 
The Sixth Sense: M. Night Shyamalan 's psychological thriller is about a ng boy, played by Haley Joel Osment troubled by the ability to see and 
, Love Actually: This is arguably the best romantic comedy in years.
to the deceased, and his child psychologist, portrayed by Bruce Willis. 
fhe film follows several, entangled love' stories all based in London.
movie has everything an award-winning thriller needs: Shyamalan Pulling on heartstrings, this British film covers a wide spectrum of theand director, the instant-classic line "I see dead people," and a sur­highs and lows of love.
twist ending. 

Showing a lasting understanding of romance, this is not merely a chick flick but seems to speak to viewers everywhere with humor and . Fight Club: "The first rule of Fight Club is -you do not talk about F' 
heart.
Club. The second rule of Fight Club is -you DO NOT talk about Fight, Club." An adaptation of Chuck Palahniuk's 1996 novel, this controversial 
Borat: Shockingly offensive. Shockingly wonderful. Shockingly hilari­black comedy has become a pop culture phenomenon. The movie stars 
ous. This comedy was a surprise hit that took America by storm.
Edward N.orton as a nameless protagonist who becomes increasingly dis-· 
Following a Eastern European journalist through his cross country·
tressed.with co.nsm;neris~ as a way of life until he meets Tyler Durden· romp through the US, Borat left nothing off limits. Pushing comedy to(Brad Pitt) who msptres hnn to create an underground fight club. 
the extreme, Borat is far from forgettable. . . A. Beautiful Mind: The award-winning biographical film stars Russell 
Littre Miss Sunshine: Making extraordiitary use of an ensemble cast,
Crowe as John Nash, the Nobel Laureate in Economics, and follows the dif­Little Miss Sunshine road-trips with a dysfunctional, new American · ficulties of his early years at Princeton. The movie won four Academy family. With an offbeat indie vibe, Little Miss Sunshine allowed audi-J4lAwards, including Best Picture. · 
ences to revel in delicious sarcasm and magnificently dynamic charac­ters.
Lord of the Rings trilogy: Adapted from J.R.H. Tolkien's three-volume These lovable losers somehow survive the obstacle course that is life,· :book The Lord of the Hings, the epic trilogy is set in Middle-earth and giving us all a bit more hope.
chronicles the journey of Frodo Baggins and the Fellowship to destroy the Hing. The critically acclaimed films are three of the highest-grossing of all 
Chicago: 1920's criminal queens never sounded so good. Taking atime and won 17 Academy Awards in total. 
stage classic to the cinema, Hollywood stars showed their musical and dancing talents. 
. Harry Potter series: Based on J.K. Howling's fantasy novels about an Darkly cynical and strikingly visual, Chicago is not your grandma'sadolescent wizard, the films follow Harry Potter and his friends' adven­musical. It updated an old-fashioned musical and brought it into moder­tures at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The sixth movie 
nity with class and charisma.
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince is set to be released in theaters July 17,2009. 
Pan's Labirynth: Shifting between disturbingly twisted fairytale and the backdrop of the Spanish Civil War. this award winner from the
Little Miss Sunshine: This unique American comedy-drama chronicles 
Mexican Cinema challenged viewers' morality. Hitting on universally
the journey of a dysfunctional family taking a road trip to the Little challenging moral themes, Pan's Labyrinth is a dark fairytale for a mod­'· Sunshine children's beaut:y pageant Viewers saw an unexpectedly ern generation.
.performance from Steve Carell and an exceptional performance from young Abigail Breslin, the fourth youngest actress ever to be nominated for 
The Departed: It's a classical game of cops versus mafia. But this film· an Academy Award. 
is a roller coaster, set in Boston, of unpredictable twists and turns. Packed with an all-star cast, this intense drama will definitely stay inJuno: Starring Ellen Page as an independent-minded pregnant teenager, the mind of future viewers.
hilariously quirky love story is best embodied by the line, "I know peo­are supposed to fall in love before they reproduce, but normalcy's 
Gladiator: This film is largely responsible for Russell Crowe's colossal
eally our style." The low-budget independent film premiered at the 
ego. Still, this film details the dramatic life of a Homan Gladiator with . .International Film Festival and went on to surpass all expectations the throes of romance, the pains of loss, political intrigue, and the illus­wmnmg an Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay. 
trious glory that comes from kicking butt gladiator style. It promises to be shown in high school history classes for years to come because of itsThe Dark Knight: This Batman Begins sequel could easily be called one classical quality.
the most anticipated movies of all time. After Heath Ledger's death in anuary, ~ans of the actor looked forward to seeing one of his last perform­
Pride and Prejudice: Finally, cinema was able to capture a faithful
amidst talk of a posthumous Academy Award for his performance as adaptation of Jane Austen's memorable heroine, Elizabeth Bennet. Withe Joker. Still in theaters after 11 weeks, the movie has earned more than beautiful, British scenery and a delightfully committed cast, this periodhalf-billion dollars in domestic revenue and is now the second hi piece found a place in the hearts of literary lovers and film goers alike.
film of all time domestically, behind "Titanic." 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe 1 @nd.edu 

American Beauty: Kevin Spacey is brilliant in this ode to self-discovery 
and American family values. With seemingly strange plot points viewers · · 
can be turned otT to this film at first, but after convincing character growth 
and development the message of the film will stay with the viewer long !!).C 
after the credits. 
r' 

The Dark Knight: The most recent film on this list takes the conventional superhero film and ups the antee. With brilliant performances by the three (Christian Bale, Aaron Eckhart, and the mind-blowing Heath Ledger) experience the story of a city on the brink of collapse. A masked vigi­
• a mad man who thrives off destruction, and a passionate district 
attorney weave together a captivating crime drama which will most likely remembered this award season and long afterwards. 
The Shawshank Redemption: Based on a novel by Stephen King, "The 
wshank Redemption" tells the story of a state penitentiary and the bru­
regimen the men in the prison must live by. The tag line "Fear can hold 
prisoner. Hope can set you free" is probably the best summation of all 
film manages to accomplish within its run time. 
The Usual Suspects: This crime thriller with a compelling narration 
ses the viewer to ask many questions, but it entertains throughout. 
through the eyes of Verbal Kint, the viewers are led on mission filled 
twists by a man who has been described as the devil, the dangerous 
Keyser Soze 

The Lord of the Rings, The Return of the King: Though it is only a third 
of the trilogy, ROTK is where everything truly comes together for the view­
: With infinitely epic battle sequences and a musical score that ranks 
amongst the best, this film trilogy impacted the cinema landscape during 
our Jives. Boasting 11 academy awards, this film caused both fans and 
critics alike to find something to love in this fantastical narrative. 
WALL-E: Another recently-released film, it gives viewers a childrens' 
cartoon with the depth and social commentary that few other films 
achieve. Perhaps the greatest filmic achievement thus far for the team at 
Pixar, it tells the story of the last remaining robot on earth. The film man­
ages to run for a full 30 minutes without any dialogue, intriguing and capti­
ting audiences with simple visuals and a charming little robot. 
The Departed: A crowd favorite, this film has an all-star cast, Martin 
Scorsese, and Notre Dame references. With two separate, simultaneous 
a series of twists, and a significant amount of double agents, "The 
" departed with four Academy Awards and gave Scorsese his first 
Oscar win. 

Requiem for a Dream: Darren Aronofsky's second film is about drug 
addiction in many of its forms, and the prices that are ultimately paid. The 
Lc; merciless to its characters, and as the seasons slip into winter so do 
characters slide into the comfort of their addictions until the shocking 
leaves the viewer shaken and perturbed. A combination of sty­
camera work; clever film editing and a string-filled score, "Hequiem 
a Dream" is artistic and unforgettable. 
Forrest Gump: A charming story about a man with physical and mental 
challiBO}~es who makes history wherever he goes. Be it Vietnam, the deseg­
of the University of Alabama, or the playing of ping-pong with the 
"v......unist Chinese, Forrest is a loveable character wand lives by the 
motto that "stupid is as stupid does." 
Pulp Fiction: Director Quentin Tarantino filled "Pulp Fiction" with quick dialogue and non-linear story telling, and it helped kick start the careers of many of its actors. With a significant amount of violence, a barefooted dance scene, and humor in the most bizarre situations, Tarantino scored major success with both critics and fans alike. · 
· Contact Syzmon Ryzner at ' sryzner@gmail.com 

Friday, October 3, 2008 

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Pasquerilla East set to break out of the cellar against Lyons 
Farley and Welsh Fam ready to start the battle of the undefeateds; Pasquerilla West is building momentum 
By MOLLY SAMMON, 
CHRISTINA MCDONNELL, 
RYAN O'CONNELL, BOBBY 
GRAHAM 
Sports Writers 
It might be easy to say that Lyons, at 2-1, is a better team than Pasquerilla East, who sit at 0-3, but the underdog Pyros beg to differ. 
"Sunday is a big game for us," Pyro junior linebacker and cap­tain Liz Ruiz said. "It's make or break time, and we are overdue to prove that we have a good team put together."· 

The Pyros lost Sunday to their cross-quad rivals Pasquerilla West, then again to McGlinn on Tuesday night, but PE is hungry for a victory. 
The Lions have the necessary momentum, after defeating Cavanaugh Tuesday night. 
"Two freshman really stepped up for us," junior Lyons quarter­back and co-captain Claire Connell said. "Caroline Maroney gave us a real boost at wide receiver and running back and Carolyn Henderson played great defense and had a game ending interception at the safety posi­tion." 
Despite their record, there have been a few bright spots for the Pyros. 
"Two freshman wide receivers continually stand out week after week, and we are looking for­ward to having three more years with both Nneka Ekechukwu and Kristin Mannion," Ruiz said. 
Based on the previous per­formances of each team, Sunday should be interesting as they each show strength in opposing areas of the game. 
"The offensive line has shown 
a lot of improvement and gave 
me time to move around in the 
pocket and find my receivers 
downfield," Connell said. 

For the Pyros, the defense remains the strong point. 
"Our defense as a whole is a 
strong force and is exciting to 
watch," Ruiz said. 

The battle between the Pyros 
and the Lions will start at 1 :00 
p.m. on Sunday at LaBar fields. 

Farley vs. Welsh Fam 
Two undefeated teams will face off this Sunday when Farley (2-0­
1) takes on Welsh Fam (3-0) Sunday at 3 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Farley's strong start is a result of its potent, dynamic offense. However, this offense has had dif­ficulty finishing drives. 
"We have been moving the ball down the field really well," Farley captain Jennifer Rolfs said. "However, we have been unable to capitalize on our chances and finish in the red zone." 
This offense was absent in its last game, which ultimately ended in a scoreless tie against Breen-Phillips. The lack of offense may be attributed to the lack of two starting receivers, one of which is out because of an i.J\iury. 
Although its defense held Breen-Phillips scoreless, further work is needed for Farley on the defensive side of the ball. 
"We have a young defense and dermitely need to work on cover­age," Rolfs said. 
Middle linebacker Brighid McGann and corner Emma Klosterman both bolster the defense. On offense, quarterback Emily Murphy will rely upon receivers Kelly Weber and Kelly Hogan as well as receiver/run­ning back Molly Casanova. 
Farley is preparing for a com­petitive, aggressive game this Sunday. 
"We have to contain their expe­rienced quarterback," Rolfs said. "(We must] finish all of our opportunities seeing as we don't get as many with the strong defense that Welsh Fam has." 
Similarly, Welsh Fam has had success this year because of both a dominant offense and defense. 
"Our defense shuts down the opposing team while our offense has easily moved the ball and scored," Welsh Fam captain Jenni Gargula said. 
The Welsh Fam team relies on consistency in practice no matter who its opponent may be. Gargula directs the offense down­field while all receivers and members of the offensive line strengthen the overall attack. Defensively, Welsh fam hopes to continue to force interceptions as it have been doing so far this sea­son. 
Welsh Fam also expects an intense game against Farley this Sunday. 
"We plan to move the ball down the field efficiently and on a con­sistent basis rather than relying on lucky big plays," Gargula said. 
McGlinn vs. Pasquerilla West 

Fresh off a compelling 14 -13 win against Pasquerilla East Tuesday, McGlinn hopes to com­plete the Pasquerilla sweep this Sunday against the Purple Weasels. 
The Shamrocks overcame a large deficit after trailing most of the game and scored two touch­downs in the last five minutes of play to beat the Pyros. 
''I'm really proud of the girls for not giving up and staying focused until the very end," McGlinn cap­tain Sarah deGroot said. "It's that kind of focus and heart that wins close games." 
The Shamrocks hope to bring some of this energy with them into the game against PW. They have been consistent on both offense and defense throughout their first three games. Senior Maddie Boyer has anchored the offensive line this year. On the other side of the ball, Junior Emily Dore and Freshman Jill Stinchcomb have mann-ed the tight defense and placed constant pressure on the opposing quar­terback. 
"I expect big things from the girls this weekend in our game against PW," deGroot said. "We're all pretty pumped up about playing." 
The Purple Weasels come into the showdown against McGlinn following a 6-6 tie against Howard Tuesday. 
"Ties aren't going to put us in the playoffs," PW captain Cara Davies said. "We need to win." 
The Purple Weasels will work on tightening up their offense tor this weekend after being frustrat­ed in the previous game. 
"We can't afford to miss scoring opportunities because of dumb turnovers," Davies said. "We're going to move the ball downfield on offense one down at a time." 
PW is strong on the defensive side of the ball and performed well against Howard, shortening the time Howard's quarterback had to throw with blitzes. 
"On defense, we're setting a goal for 3-and-outs every time," Davies said. 
Like McGlinn, PW is excited for the game this weekend. 
"The West Quad teams tend to show up for games," said Davies, "So we're looking forward to Sunday." 
The teams kick off at 3 p.m. on Sunday at LaBar Fields. 
Bree~hillips vs. Walsh 

Captain Kehau Meyer and the rest of the Wild Women want to teach their opponents a few les­sons in their game this Sunday against Breen-Phillips. 
"We play hard but we play fair. I think a few teams in the league could learn from that," Meyer said. 
Meyer said she was confident Walsh's potent offense would keep rolling Sunday against Breen-Phillips. 
"I expect our offense to make big plays, from our quarterback Amy Langnecker, our offensive line, and our athletic receivers and flex backs," Meyer said. "I promise that each of them will make huge plays just like they did in our last two games". 
The Wild Women also expect to see great defensive play this weekend. 
"Our defensive playmakers will defmitely include senior captain Cindy Brenner, and fellow defen­sive players Molly McCarthy. Jennifer Valencia, and Allison Vmcenzi", Meyer said. 
However, Walsh is at its best in the clutch. 
"Our strength lies in our ability to make big plays when it counts," Meyer said. "We don't have the most experienced team, considering they are so young, but we pull it through. I think great coaching and amazing team work are a big part of that." 
Don't expect an intimidated Breen-Phillips squad to show up Sunday, though, as it has several playmakers and strengths of its own. 
"Tara McCarron, our senior receiver, has been big for us in the past few games," Breen­Phillips captain and senior quar­terback Melissa Meagher said. "Also, Christina Golubski, our senior safety, has been making a lot of big tackles for us. They're our two most consistent players on each side ofthe ball". 
Its on-the-field success is no accident as Breen-Phillips has worked hard in practice to improve their team. 
"Our coaching has been solid," Meagher said. "We're working on making our defense more aggres­sive and executing our offense like we do in practice by not mak­ing mistakes." 
The result of the game will come down to which team can best apply its game plan and implement it on the field on Sunday. 
"We just need to execute," Meagher said. 
Pangborn vs. Lewis 
Captain Kathy Poploski and Pangborn are searching for another great offensive outing this Sunday against Lewis. 
The Phoxes (1-2) hope to build on theU:: 21-9 victory over Badin Tuesday night. After two early touchdowns, Pangborn kept the momentum for the rest of the game and walked out with its first win of the season after two losses. 
Just as Pangborn seeks a repeat performance, Lewis (0-2) wants a complete turnaround fol­lowing a 14-0 loss to Walsh earli­er this week. The Chicks are looking for a more efficient and effective passing attack after throwing four interceptions against the Wild Women last week. 
"We need to cut down on the turnovers," Lewis captain Katie Sushinsky said. 
The Chicks and Wild Women face off this Sunday at 5 p.m. at LaBar Held. 
Contact Molly Sammon at 
msammon@nd.edu, Chris 
McDonnell at 
cmcdonne@nd.edu, Ryan 
O'Connell at roconne3@nd.edu, 
and Bobby Graham at 
bgraham@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
CHESS LESSONS FIDE/USCF National Master Internet or In-Person (Michiana area) historic­chess@comcast.net 574-277-8673 
WANTED 
STUDENT WORK, $14.25 base­appt., flexible schedules, no experi· ence needed, customer sales/service, conditions apply, ages 18+, 574-273­3835, www.workforstudents.com 
Financial Partner wanted. 7% ROI plus 2.5 Pts. 100% secured w/real estate. 35 Yrs. Experience. References. Call 574-360·8707 or Email: 2heavn@comcast.net 

PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslcsap/ 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574-631-2685. For more information, visit our website at: http:/ /osa. nd.edu/departmentslpreg­nant.shtml 
TICKETS 
Wanted: ND football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 574-232­0964. 
FoR RENT 
GUESTHOUSE RENTAL 25 MILES WEST OF CAMPUS 3 large Bedrooms each with Private Bath. Great Common Room with floor to ceiling Windows and outside Deck overlooking rolling prairie. Breakfasts. No smoking; no pets. Call 219-778-2585 or email share@ sharefoundation.org 
Football Weekend B&B close to ND(574)243-9279 
2 bdrms, 1 bath, basement, garage. Walk to Notre Dame. (574)274-2829. 
$700/3br. Why sleep in a hotel room. rent this charming Irish cottage! Just 4 miles from the Stadium, this beautiful extra clean home is available for you. A 3 bedroom (2 full beds, 2 twins) 3 bath home has plenty of room for 6-8 people. A 42-inch flat screen TV is perfect for watching the other games in a spacious family room. Two other TVs in the home. Dining room seats 8-10 people. This is not a bed and breakfast but a family home and it is yours for the Friday/Saturday visit! $500 secu­rity deposit is 1 00% refundable after inspection of property. Back yard is great for entertaining. Gas grill available. Contact 
Sharon at 610-574-2064. 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 
SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS 
AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER 
PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR 
KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
Gorgeous Completely Rehabbed House, 4 bedrooms, 3 full baths, wash­er dryer, dishwasher, new stainless steel appliances, 3 car garage, central air, beautiful light fixtures, deck and front porch. Marble entryway. All new. 2 miles to NO. Available immediately, fourth month free or flat screen TV installed. $1180 per month. Call Harold 574-315-7781. 
Home Game Rentals Beautiful, Private apartments. Sleeps 4. Fully furnished, lots of amenities. Only 4 miles from Campus. $500 thurs­sun. Call Jo~ce 57 4-339-9241. 
FoR SALE 

CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO NO. PLEASE CONTACT TED 
@ 574-233-6191 MSL#231736 Life is better at the beach! Stop in and preview these new construe­tion 2B,2B Lakeview Condominiums of East Edge in Miller Beach, IN. This intimate 12 unit sustainable designed building is nestled in the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, 45 minutes from downtown Chicago and just steps to the pristine beach. Building features an elevator. garage parking, bamboo floors throughout and all Energy Star appliances to name a few tea­tures. Pre contruction pricing starts from $189,000. RESERVE YOURS BEFORE 10/31/0BAND WE WILL SEND YOU ON A WIN­TER WEEKEND GETAWAY TO MIAMI!! Open houses are every Sunday from 1-5pm at Oak Ave and County Line Ad in Miller Beach, Indiana throughout the Fall. For more sales information call Sharon at 610-574-2064 or email Sharon Jackson@ realliv­inghelios.com 


COMPILED FROM .THE OBSERVER'S \VIRF SERVICES
Friday, October 3, 2008 
page 19 

Women's Volleyball AVCA Division I Coaches' Poll 
team points previous 
1 Penn State 1500 1 2 Nebraska 1440 2 3 Texas 1366 3 4 usc 1286 5 5 UCLA 1230 4 6 Stanford 1218 6 7 Hawaii 1126 7 8 California 1106 9 9 Washington 1033 9 10 Florida 929 10 11 Oregon 826 11 12 Colorado State 807 13 13 Minnesota 774 12 14 Wichita State 707 14 15 Pepperdine 642 16 16 San Diego 612 15 
·:::~;: 
17 Kansas State M 554 17 18 Purdue 474 19 19 Illinois 409 20 20 Wisconsin 249 18 21 BYU 224 24 22 Michigan 204 21 23 Santa Clara 147 NR 24 Cal Poly 108 25 25 Arizona 89 NR 
.t::: 

Men's Soccer NSCAA/Adidas Division I Rankings 
team points previous 
1 Wake forest 575 1 2 St. John's 552 4 3 Northwestern 500 7 4 Maryland 487 2 5 Creighton 477 8 
u IIJ> J;P qJ,.-6tfjpAkran .~ _, ·421 9 7 Connecticut 419 5 8 NOTREDAME 415 3 9 lllinois~Chicaoo 405 10 10 California 392 11 11 St. louis 368 12 12 North Carolina 316 15 13 South Florida 263 19 14 Louisville 253 20 15 SMU 
250 6 16 Loyola, MD. 218 17 17 UC Davis 212 21 18 UC Irvine 140 23 19 Drake 130 25 20 Indiana 114 14 21 Ohio State 112 16 22 UC Santa Barbara 89 RV 23 Tulsa 75.5 RV 24 Brown 64 RV 25 Georgetown 59 24 
Women's Soccer NSCAA/Adidas 
team points pret.'iOUS 
1 NOTRE DAME 850 1 2 North Carolina 793 3 3 Portland 761 4 4 UCLA 759 2 
5 usc 715 5 
6 Stanford 704 6 
7 TexasA&M 640 7 
8 Texas 595 9 
9 Duke 549 10 
10 VirginJa 534 13 
11 Florida State 487 8 
12 Oklahoma State 462 12 
13 West Virginia 442 11 
14 Boston College 423 15 
15 Florida 394 16 
around the dial 
MLB 
White Sox at Rays 8 p.m., TBS 
Red Sox at Angels 
10:30 p.m., TBS 
MLB 


AP Cubs centerfielder Jim Edmonds can't handle a hit during the Los Angeles Dodgers' 10~3 win over Chicago Thursday. The Cubs committed four errors In the game. 
Errors help Dodgers take two-game lead 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -After two 
duds  by  the  Cubs  at  
Wrigley  Field,  Manny·  
Ramirez  and  the  Los  
Angeles  Dodgers  look  
ready to  run  Chicago's  

championship drought to 100 years. 
Ramirez hit a mammoth homer to extend his post~ season record. Russell Martin had a three-run double and the Dodgers took advantage of four errors by the clumsy Cubs in a 10-3 victory Thursday night that gave them a 2-0 lead in the best-of-five NL division series. 
"It wasn't good baseball. In fact, the last two days, that's probably been the 


Sill!pson's lawye:.:s say his 
actions were a m1staie 
lAS VEGAS -O.J. Simpson's lawyer told jurors Thursday that the former football star's effort to get items back from two sports memorabilia dealers was a mistake but not a crime, saying that "being stupid, and being frustrated is not being a crook." 
ln closing arguments, the prosecution said Simpson recruited a pack of burly men to pull off an armed robbery and kidnapping in a Las Vegas hotel room, but Simpson attorney Yale Galanter said his client wa'> a victim of witnes.'les with ulterior motives and police who were out to get him. 
The jury was told at day's end to return Friday morning to begin deliber~ ations. 
Galanter told the jury that the Sept. 13, 2007, incident got out of hand because of former co~defendant Michael McClinton, who has admitted displaying a gun during the confronta~ tion. 
two worst games we've played all year," frustrated Cubs manager Lou Piniella said. "It wasn't fun to watch, I'll tell you that." 
Chicago became the 23rd major league team to lose the first two games at home in a best-of~five playoff series, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. Only one has come back to win -the 2001 New York Yankees against Oakland. 
Of course, that Yankees team was managed by Joe Torre, now in the Dodgers' dugout. 
The series switches to Dodger Stadium for Game 3 on Saturday night. Rich Harden will face Hiroki Kuroda, who pitched a four-hit shutout against the Cubs in Los Angeles on June 6. 
"We're going to come out and try to jump on them again at home. That would be nice," Billingsley said. 
Just days ago, Cubs fans were excited about the team's chance to win its first World Series title since 1908. But suddenly, Chicago is on the brink of elimination. The Cubs must win two consecutive games in Los Angeles to get the series back to Wrigley. 
"We've still got one more game to win," Hamirez said. "We're not there yet." 
Billingsley shut down 
Chicago's slumping lineup and Ramirez's 26th post­season home run landed on the roof of the batter's eye club in center, at least 450 feet away. It was his second jaw-dropping shot in two nights. 
On defense, the Cubs collapsed. All four infield~ ers made an error, includ­ing two in the second that led to a five-run inning for Los Angeles. The four errors by Chicago tied a division series record. 
Billingsley allowed five hits and a run in 6 2-3 innings to the Cubs, who haven't played like the team with the NL's best record or one that went 55~26 this season in its home park. 

Johnson leads Utes on 11­
point comeback over OSU 
SALT LAKE CITY -Brian Johnson's third quarter was a dis­aster. 
The Utah quarterback's fourth quarter was nearly perfect. though, as he led the 15th-ranked Utes to an 11-point rally in the final minute-and-half of a 31-28 
victory  over  Oregon  State  on  
Thursday night.  
Louie Sakoda kicked  a  37~yard  

field goal as time expired, stun­ning the Beavers one week after they had done the stunning with an upset over top~ranked Southern California. The Beavers (2-3) appeared to have the Utes (6-0) finished off as well with a lit­tle over 2 minutes remaining. 
That turned out to be more than enough time for Johnson, who completed seven of his last eight passes and kept the Utes' Bowl Championship Series hopes alive. 
Vancouver's front line 
leads Canucks over Sharks 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -The Canucks' top line of Daniel and Henrik Serlin and Steve Bernier each scored a goal, lifting Vancouver to a 3-2 presea­son victory over the San Jose Sharks on Thursday night. 
Evgeni Nabokov made 17 saves for San Jose (2-4). but more important was the absence of Sharks .star center Joe Thornton, who didn't take a shift after the second period. 
"His groin has been bothering him a little bit, and was sore tonight, so we didn't think it would be wise to play him in the third," new Sharks coach Todd McLellan said of Thornton. "We'll give him a couple of days before we play again. I'm sure he'll be fine. If it were a regular season or playoff game, certainly he's playing through it." 
Friday, October 3, 2008 

NBA 
Stern vows to curtail illegal gambling woes 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -David Stern responded to a report on NBA referees Thursday by vowing to build the "most effective possible system" to monitor illegal gam­bling and preserve the game's integrity. 
The commissioner ordered the investigation last August after for­mer referee Tim Donaghy was accused of betting on games he officiated and providing inside information to gambling associ­ates to win their bets. Donaghy began serving a 15-month sen­tence on Sept. 23 at a federal prison in Pensacola, Fla. 
Stern promised to implement all the recommendations included in former federal prosecutor Lawrence Pedowitz's review of the N BA's referees operations department, the result of a 14­month probe that cost the league several million dollars. 
"We will be up there with the very best. No one will have a bet­ter system than we do," Stern said on a conference call. "But all of that said, to the idea that, you know, criminal activity will exist every place else in the world except in sports is just something that we can't guarantee. But we're going to have the most effective possible system that's ever been devised." 
The report recommended it include: a hot line to anonymous­ly raise questions about gambling and game integrity issues; mak­ing available any complaints the league receives about refs ­beginning in the 2008-09 playoffs -to both teams to avoid suspi­cions of bias; requiring officials to annually report their contacts among players and team person­nel to the league so it can monitor fraternization. 
The league already has made a number of changes, including restructuring its referees opera­tions department and began post­ing officiating assignments the morning of games. 
The report also suggests mandatory gambling education for players. 
"We believe that gambling can expose the players and the league to significant risks, and therefore it is important that players be educated regarding those risks," the report said. 
The 116-page document disput­ed Donaghy's allegations of spe­cific misconduct and favoritism toward certain players and teams, but warned "because the potential for referee bias remains a threat to the integrity of the game, the league can do more." 
It agreed with the federal gov­ernment that there was no evi­dence Donaghy made any calls to affect the outcome of games after studying his work in 17 of them, including 16 during the 2006-07 in which it was believed Donaghy made picks. 
It also backed the government's stance that referee Scott Foster wasn't involved in any of Donaghy's misconduct. Donaghy called Foster 134 times from October 2006-April 2007, but the FBI and Pedowitz were satisfied that Foster's description of their relationship as longtime friends provided a reasonable explana­tion for the calls. 
"The report speaks for itself," said Lamell McMorris, spokesman for the referees' union. 
Boston Celtics players Paul Pierce and Ray Allen endorsed the recommended mandatory gambling education. 
"Throughout the years we have a number of different meetings .... A gambling meeting wouldn't hurt," Allen said from training camp in Newport, R.I. "I think its just as important to educate the guys to make sure they don't give money away that you've worked hard for and you want to contin­ue to work hard for. The educa­tion would definitely help." 
Pedowitz said that if he owned a team, he wouldn't even want his players taking part in card games on the team plane. 
"The sickness of compulsive gambling can affect many peo­ple," Pedowitz said. "We have a concern that the culture of the NBA ought to be a disciplined one. So we worry about players." 
New York Knicks guard Jamal Crawford said he didn't think gambling was a problem in the league. 
"No, I don't think a lot of play­ers gamble, if any," Crawford said. "We're pretty aware of it, but a class wouldn't hurt at all." 
Stern wants to be sure players realize the dangers of being involved with people connected to gambling, as Donaghy was. 
"It's really about who they are with and what information they give, because gamblers are always looking for an edge," Stern said. "And that's the con­cern that we have begun to address in rookies and we'll do more of with respect to players." 
Stern already was aware through Pedowitz's interviews that nearly all his referees had violated some form of the gam­bling rules, though none of their activities reached the criminal level. 
Referees are now allowed in the offseason to bet at a race track, off-track betting establishment or a casino -though still not the sports book. However, a referee must notify the league's security department within 24 hours of placing such a bet. 
Stern has asked Pedowitz to review the new program at the end of the season. 
Army Major General (Ret.) Ronald L. Johnson, who served 32 years in the Army, was hired over the summer as senior vice president, referee operations in response to the investigation. Longtime ref Bernie Fryer became the NBA's vice president and director of officials, and Joe Borgia was appointed vice presi­dent of referee operations. 
On Thursday, Pedowitz praised the choice of Johnson, who will address the complaints teams have about the performance ­and in some cases, perceived bias -of certain officials. 
"It's clearly an issue if the teams have a perception," Pedowitz said. "If it's there, it should be dealt with." 
The report found no evidence to back Donaghy's accusations that specific games were manipulated, including playoff series in 2002 and 2005. His attorney alleged in June that the league assigned refs to work Game 6 of the 2002 Western Conference finals who would make calls ensuring the Los Angeles Lakers would beat Sacramento, extending the series to a seventh game and improving the lV ratings. 
While saying it was "clearly not a well-refereed game," Pedowitz said it was called legally, and for­mer Kings coach Rick Adelman agreed. 

$2!MOO A! 2.99% APR, EXCLUSIVElY FOR ROTC, Take the first step in the right direction with aCareer Starter' loan from USAA. Pay off student loans. Eliminate credit card debt. Invest in your future. At USAA, we know you're focused on your academic and military life right now, so we want to help you get ajump start on your financial future. 
»GO TO USAA.COM/ROTC OR CALL 877.820.8321 
~ 

USAA We knowwbat it means to serve: 
••ft«tln n'Piit i!pllftiVa•l'd &i'litiaemdficer c.nlmtl!s fi18 r.xnt'6 at C!11111issicJ1iaed !ftly~alliceB witlin ooe lY"m lll1!11'Si:nri}Loanpayml!fts wi• be~ toriJC ~af!Er WTTI1milj<Y90 day3 alhJ axmrissiooed. Autorn.J!ic payment frm,l'd iRd ~rJ r»J IRo. aUS.U Cllectilj iKl'CiJ1t. ~ ~~l:xl t.:Siri aUSAA Clldt ~ oc US.U ~J:1:llirt ;n~fed.ln !toe l'effi of aIcon defll.>lt or km r/. slat1Js il5 mmfllssialld 110an 11te Wlllll::i'!ase to lJSM's stM!lMd lfS@Cll!lj ioM rate in effect at that tine. Credit canl! ~!:, USM Savill9! Brt (Xher briinQ ~IJMI!d by USAA federal Sr;tnql Brt Bom MerOOer me. e2ro!USAA. 

The Backyardigans 
Tale of the Mighty Knights 
Thursday, Oct. 16 
UPt:()mlnst ~h()W§ 

Please recycle The ObserveJ;. 


Friday, October 3, 2008 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 
Led by Longoria's two homers, Rays take down White Sox 
Tampa Bay wins first playoff game in franchise history, Shields allows three runs on six hits in 6 1/3 innings 
said. "Obviously, his skills are fun, waving a "We Love the minors and still hit 27 Balfour relieved Shields with
Associated Press 
very good ... and he likes these Longoria" placard from his homers in the big leagues the bases loaded and one out, ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -Cool moments in a non-cocky way. first-row seat next to the visi­despite missing 30 games with a and struck out Juan Uribe. and calm, or so it seemed. He's just very confident." tor's dugout. broken right wrist. Orlando Cabrera was up next 
Evan Longoria and the Tampa After 10 seasons as baseball's Game 2 is Friday, when "This guy is a star. He's going and after ball one, he kicked Bay Rays appeared perfectly at doormat, the Rays took the divi­Tampa Bay's Scott Kazmir (12-to be an outstanding ballpiay­dirt toward the mound and home in the playoffs with a sion with the best home record 8) faces Mark Buehrle (15-12). er," White Sox manager Ozzie appeared to shout something at Game 1 victory over Chicago. (57-24) in the majors. A lack of "We want to win both of them Guillen said. "You see his face Balfour. The reliever walked The rookie said looks can be postseason experience was not now. We have such an advan­on the field, and you just know toward the plate before being deceiving, though. a factor as they kept winning at tage at home," Longoria said. he's going to be a great, great stopped by umpire Joe West. 
"I was nervous," he said. "I Tropicana Field behind James Chicago beat Minnesota in the player." Balfour fanned Cabrera to end think if you're not nervous in Shields' effective start and AL Central tiebreaker Tuesday, Longoria homered on his first the threat, pumped his fist and this situation, you're really not Grant Balfour's testy, bases­and took a 3-1 lead on Dewayne postseason pitch, a 421-foot pointed at the White Sox short­soaking in the moment." loaded escape. Wise's three-run homer in the leadoff drive in the second. He stop. The exchange also 
The All-Star third baseman "It feels like you're in a third inning. But Javier put Tampa Bay ahead 4-3 with brought Maddon and bench homered in his first two at-bats dream," said Carl Crawford, Vazquez, who has a history of another solo shot in the third, a coach Dave Martinez out of the and the surprising AL East who at 27 is the longest-tenured flopping in big games, could not 430-foot homer off one of the dugout and more words were champions were a big hit in player in team history. ''I'm just hold it. infamous catwalks that support exchanged. their postseason debut, beating glad we got this first win out of Longoria became the second the roof at Tropicana. Cabrera said he was respond­the White Sox 6-4 Thursday in the way. It was real special." player to homer in his first two "I was just looking for a pitch ing to something Balfour said. their AL playoff opener. Tampa Bay ranked near the postseason at-bats, joining one out over the plate I could hit," "They say that he always gets 
"He's always got this way bottom of the attendance charts of his former minor league hit­Longoria said. pumped up like that," Cabrera about him. He's not going to be this year, but The Trop rocked ting coaches, Gary Gaetti, who He also had an RBJ single and said. "I didn't know that so I just overwhlemed by the situation. on this day with a sellout crowd did it with the Minnesota Twins finished 3-for-3 with three RBls. got mad a little bit and I was And that speaks beyond his skill of 35,041. Rays season-ticket in 1987. The Rays led 6-3 in the sev­just pumped up.·... It was just 
level," manager Joe Maddon holder Dick Vitale joined in the Longoria started the year in enth when the game got tense. 

.. 

Study Abroad •1n 
Angers1 France 
Information Session Tuesday, October 7, 2008 5:30p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy Center 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 More Information Available at www.nd.eduf_,ois/ 

heat of the moment." 
Said Balfour: "I fire myself up. 

That's what I do." 
"I haven't changed anything. 

I'm not going to change," he 
said. 
It was the same kind of feisty 

attitude the Rays displayed in 
spring training during a dustup 
with the New York Yankees and 
a bench-clearing brawl in June 
on their first visit to Boston to 
play the Red Sox . 
Shields allowed three runs 

and six hits in 6 1-3 innings. 
Balfour struck out both batters 
he faced and J.P. Howell worked 
a perfect eighth. I 
Dan Wheeler gave up a solo ' 
home run to Paul Konorko in ~ 
' 

finishing for a save. Wheeler is filling in for closer Troy j Percival, who has been slowed I by injuries and was left ofT the playoff roster. 
Tampa Bay slugger Carlos Pena left after the second inning with slightly blurred vision in his left eye. The Rays said he accidentally scratched his eye at home, and was expected to return to the lineup for Game 2. 
Longoria's RBI single in the fifth made it 5-3 and chased Vazquez. 
Crawford, back in the lineup for the first time since injuring his finger on Aug. 9, hit an RBI single off Clayton Richard. 
Vazquez allowed six runs and eight hits in 4 1-3 innings-the fourth consecutive start, all losses, he's gone less than five innings. 
"We have to win tomorrow," Guillen said. "I mean, it's not a do or die thing, but I'd rather go home with one win than go home with our backs to the wall. This organization has been against the wall a lot of times, but we've pulled it out before." 

·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, October 3, 2008 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
UEFA 

Shevchenko' s goal against Zurich putsAC Milan into tourney 
'.·, 
Despite poor Premier League record, Tottenham sneaks into Cup after Wisla's Glowacki scores own-goal 
Associated Press 
MANCHESTER, England ­AC Milan eased past FC Zurich into the UEFA Cup group stage Thursday along with two-time champion Tottenham. 
Borussia Dortmund, the 1997 Champions League win­ner, was eliminated by Udinese 4-3 on penalty kicks, but Hamburg, Stuttgart, Schalke and Wolfsburg will form a strong German representation. 
Four Spanish teams -2006 and '07 champion Sevilla, league leader Valencia, Real Santander and Deportivo La Coruna -also marched into the next phase, as did Manchester City, Portsmouth, Everton and Spurs from the Premier League. 
Andriy Shevchenko scored his first goal since returning to Milan -the only one of the night -to secure the seven­time European Cup champi­on's passage 4-1·on aggregate. Sampdoria is the third Serie A team of the 40 in Tuesday's draw. 
Tottenham eased the pres­sure on under-fire manager Juande Ramos by completing a 3-1 aggregate win with a 1-1 draw at Wisla Krakow and will join Manchester City in the next phase after the newly enriched Premier League club repeated its 2-1 first-leg victo­ry over Omonia Nicosia. 

Aston Villa was held 1-1 by Litex Lovech, but was carried through 4-2 on aggregate. Standard Liege defeated Everton 2-1 to take the two­leg series 4-3. Portsmouth had surrendered its 2-0 first-leg cushion within 32 minutes against Guimaraes, but Peter Crouch scored twice in extra time for the FA Cup winner to leave Portugal 4-2 aggregate victors. 
Stuttgart drew 2-2 with Cherno More Varna, but pro­gressed 4-3 past the Bulgaria; Schalke had a comfortable 4-1 first-leg advantage over Apoel Nicosia and played out a 1-1 draw; Wolfsburg tied Rapid Bucharest 1-1 to oust the Romanians 2-1 on aggregate; and after a scoreless first leg Hamburg overcame Unirea Valahorum Urziceni 2-0 in Romania. 
Benfica turned around a 3-2 first-leg loss to beat Napoli 2­0, with goals from Jose Antonio Reyes and Nuno Gomes. 
Milan, the favorite to lift the UEFA Cup next May, didn't need to exert itself to defend its 3-1 lead from the first leg at the San Siro two weeks ago. 
Ukraine striker Shevchenko timed his run to beat the off­side trap and collect Ronaldinho's flicked pass before slipping his shot under Zurich goalkeeper Johnny 
Leoni. 

''I'm extremely happy that I've finally done it," Shevchenko said after scoring for the first time since return­ing to Milan from Chelsea in August. "Every time it seemed something was preventing me from scoring. Today again, the goalkeeper blocked my shot at the start. Even though I could have done better, the goal finally came and it's a big step for me. 
''I'm still seeking my best form." 
Tottenham's progression was secured by Arkadiusz Glowacki's own-goal in the 58th minute. 
As Gareth Bale swung in a low cross from the left, Fraizer Campbell was almost clinging to defender Glowacki, forcing the Wisla captain to clip the ball inside the far post. 
The Poles equalized when Pawel Brozek lobbed the onrushing Brazil goalkeeper, who made amends in the 87th by repelling the striker's head­er while on his knees. 
Spurs, who are last in the Premier League after its worst domestic start in 53 years, held on in the anxious closing moments. 
"There was no euphoria, it was just a sense of getting the job done," Ramos said. "To play another four matches in the competition for the club is very important. Most impor­tant now is Hull (on Sunday) and we need to get off the bot­tom quickly." 
Udinese defender Aleksandar Lukovic converted the decisive spot kick after the Italians' goalkeeper Samir Handanovic blocked shots from Tamas Hajnal and Jakub Blaszczykowski in the shootout. 
Hungary midfielder Hajnal scored at the end of each half as Dortmund evened the aggregate following Udinese's 2-0 win in the first leg. 
Asier del Horno and David Villa scored second-half goals as Valencia rallied for a 2-1 victory over CS Maritimo, which trailed 1-0 going into the second leg. 
Elano and Shaun Wright­Phillips scored within the first ten minutes of the second half to clinch Man City's victory over Omonia Nicosia. 
The Premier League club endured an anxious final 12 minutes after Oladimeji Rasheed Alabi exploited poor defending to pull one back for the Cypriots. 
Liege. made amends for being denied a berth in the Champions League group stage at Liverpool by prevent­ing its city rival Everton from progressing in the second-tier European competition. 
Despite the away-goal 
advantage following a 2-2 draw in England, the Belgian ehampion took the initiative and teenager Axel Witsel slid the ball in from a tight angle in the 22nd. 
Everton equalized when goalkeeper Espinoza fumbled a corner and defender Phil Jagielka pounced to jab the ball in through the legs of Standard defender Benjamin Nicaise in the 67th. 
Eleven minutes later, Serb forward Jovanovic ran through the Everton defense and was brought down by Leighton Baines in the center of the penalty area. He stepped up to convert the penalty himself. 
Four-time European champi­on Ajax breezed past Borac 2­0 to advance 6-1 on aggregate. 
While Sampdoria rallied to beat Kaunas 2-1, the Italians' passage was never in doubt thanks to its 5-0 victory two weeks ago. 
Spartak Moscow side defend­ed its 1-0 first-leg advantage with a 1-1 draw. 
Two-time winner Feyenoord went through on away goals, recovering from a 1-0 first-leg deficit to beat Kalmar 2-1. 
Former England manager Steve McClaren steered FC Twente through 2-2 on away goals, after the Dutch side recovered a 2-1 loss at Rennes. 




Fan Semester Events The Sari Soldiers • Nepali language with English subtitles • Friday. November 14 • Join director Julie Bridgham 
II e II. e e. e. t ••• t ••••• t. e. tee II e II. II. e e II e • e II e • t e •• e II e. e II. I e II. I e e II II e II e II e • II e e • e II. e ee •• e II e II e • • e e • • 11 • • • 11 • 11 • 11 e• t. e II e 11.11. 1111 11 e • • o. • • e e t 114 • t • e e e • e • • e. • e e e. e e e 0o e • • o. e 11 • a e e e e e • • e e • • 11 e • e • t • e 11 e. • e • 11 e • e e • • e •. 00• • e • e • • 11 t 11 e e e • e • • • e • t e t 
know no boundaries 
World VIew is an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive ~UNIVERSITY OF 
~DE BARTOLO 

dialogue about issues of race, class, ethnicity, religion, and gender through the arts. WNOTREDAME ~ PERFORM NG ARlS CENTER Office ofthe President 
_. 



Friday, October 3, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS page 23 

The Saint Mary's College Office of Special Events presents the Aquila Theatre Company 
The Comedy of Errors 
by William Shakespeare 



NATIONAL 

ENDOWMENT 
FOR THE ARTS 
A go:!elf nation

MIDWEST <k~<rvt,; grmt .lrt. 

For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual aUuestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday. October 7 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m. 316 Coleman Morss 
The Gore Council invites gay.lesbian. bisexual Hquestioning members of the Notre Dame family, along with their friends and allys. ID an informal gathering at the Co·Mo. 

MLB 
Sabathia stumbles as 
-

Phillies take 2-0 lead 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -One more loss to the Phillies, and CC Sabathia and the Milwaukee Brewers will have all winter to rest. 
Brett Myers rankled Sabathia with a pesky at-bat and dominat­ed the rest of the Brewers from the mound, and Philadelphia beat Milwaukee 5-2 on Thursday behind Shane Victorino's grand slam for a 2-0 lead in their best­of-five NL playoff series. 
Myers allowed two runs and two hits in seven innings, pulling the Phillies within one win of the NL championship series. 
Ryan Madson and J.C. Romero worked the eighth, and Brad Lidge had a suspense-free ninth for a change. 
Pitching on three days' rest for the fourth consecutive start, Sabathia had his worst outing since joining the Brewers in a trade with Cleveland on July 7. 
The burly left-bander allowed five runs and six hits -all extra bases -in 3 2-3 innings. He walked four, his second-highest total of the season. 
Now, Sabathia might have to wait six months for his next start. And, that might be in a dif­ferent uniform. The 28-year-old will be one of the most sought­after free agents at the end of the season. 
four pitches to load the bases. 
That brought up Victorino, who had a career-high 14 homers this season. Victorino fell behind 1-2 before driving a hanging curve into the seats in left to give the Phillies a 5-1 lead. The Flyin' Hawaiian raised his arm in the air as he circled the bases with his father watching in the stands. 
The sellout crowd of 46,208 ­the largest in the five-year histo­ry of Citizens Bank Park -went wild, waving their "Fightin' Phils" rally towels and bringing Victorino out of the dugout for a curtain call. 
Myers, who batted .059 (4-for­

58) this season with four walks, made Sabathia throw 10 pitches his second time up. During the at-bat, a fan reached over the railing down the right-field line and caught a foul ball with his cap. The guy got a standing ova­tion. So did Myers after he flied out. 
It was that good a night for the Phillies and their championship­starved fans, who haven't cele­brated a title since the NBA's 76ers won it all in 1983. 
The Phillies chased Sabathia in the fourth. Rollins doubled with two outs and Victorino was intentionally walked. Utley walked to load the bases, ending Sabathia's night. Mitch Stetter came in and struck out Howard looking. 
Myers lined a two-out single to right off Seth McClung to load the bases in the fifth. But Rollins lined out to end the threat. 
The Brewers missed an oppor­tunity to break it open in the first after Myers walked in a run with one out. 
Myers threw three straight called strikes to Mike Cameron to start the game, but quickly lost his control. He walked Ray Durham on four pitches and Ryan Braun followed with a dou­ble off the wall in left-center. Mter Prince Fielder was inten­tionally walked to load the bases, Myers walked J .J. Hardy to force in a run. 
But Myers escaped further trouble by getting Corey Hart to hit into a home-to-first double play on a bouncer to the mound. 
Ryan Braun doubled and scored on Craig Counsell's RBI groundout to cut it to 5-2 in the seventh. 
Fielder was the tying run when he came up against Romero in the eighth, but he shattered his bat on a weak grounder to sec­ond base. 
Lidge, 41-for-41 in save chances this season, allowed one run and had the tying run on second base in Game 1 before striking out Hart to secure a 3-1 win. 
Myers beat the Brewers on three days' rest on Sept. 14, toss­ing a two-hitter in a 6-1 victory that completed a four-game sweep and ended Ned Yost's tenure as Milwaukee's manager. The sweep moved the Phillies into a tie with the Brewers for the wild-card spot and pulled them within a game of the New York Mets in the division. 
Myers wasn't the same in his next two starts, allowing 14 runs in 8 1-3 innings. 
The Phillies need one victory to advance to the NLCS for the first time in 15 years. Game 3 is Saturday night in Milwaukee, with 45-year-old Jamie Moyer (16-7) pitching for the NL East champions against Dave Bush (9­10). 
Sabathia was 11-2 with a 1.65 ERA in 17 starts for Milwaukee, almost single-handedly leading the wild-card Brewers to their first postseason berth since 1982. 
But Sabathia struggled in the playoffs -again. He's lost his last three postseason starts, including two against Boston in last year's ALCS. Overall, Sabathia is 2-3 with a 7.92 ERA in the playoffs. 
Sabathia had all his pitches working in the first. Victorino doubled with one out and stole third, but Sabathia struck out Chase Utley and Ryan Howard to end the threat. Utley couldn't touch Sabathia's ofT-speed stuff and Howard had no chance against a 96 mph fastball. 
Sabathia was uncharacteristi­cally erratic in the second and the Phillies took advantage. Jayson Werth lined a one-out double to left-center and Pedro Feliz followed with an RBI dou­ble down the left-field line to tie it at 1. 
After Carlos Ruiz grounded out, Myers kept the inning going by working a walk. Digging in, choking up and crouching, Myers drew cheers for fouling off a 1-2 pitch after wildly missing the first two pitches. 
He fouled off two more during the at-bat and earned a standing ovation from an appreciative crowd that understood the importance of making Sabathia throw more pitches. Sabathia then walked Jimmy Rollins on 

I I I \ 
' page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
I 
~ 
' I ) MLB 
I 
~ 
~ 
' ~ Minaya gets contra_ct to 2012 
_, 
Associated Press 
~ 
I NEW YORK -Omar Minaya ' I is staying as general manager 
.,
I of the New .York Mets. Jerry
.. 
I 
I Manuel is likely to remain as I I manager. Players, however, I I could be on the move. ) Following the Mets' second
~ 
I straight September collapse, 
.,
I \ fans are angry with the team, I the front office and the players. 
\ 
' 
'> "They all work hard. They all I 
\ prepare. They all care. All I ~ \ those ingredients are there. So 
\ 
~ what is it that we lack? What is ~ 
it that we need to get across ~ that finish line?" Minaya said 
~ 
I Thursday when his new con­
I tract was announced. "When we bring in personnel into New York, into this environment, 
I are they able to handle the pressures that go with it? Those things do have to be
~ 
considered."
' , 
Minaya became general man­ager in 2004 and was signed to a five-year deal. He was given three additional guaranteed seasons in a new contract that runs through 2012. It includes club options covering 2013 and 2014. 
"We felt he's the right person to lead our baseball operations today and through the exten­sion period here," chief operat­ing officer Jeff Wilpon said. "You know, listen, we failed this year and we want to get the redemption that we need 
1 
'• and move forward, and we thought Omar and his staff was the best group to put us in that position. We obviously were 
not a very good team when 
' Omar came aboard, and he's turned this thing around, and we think he deserves another1 chance to keep getting us to I where we want to be." The Mets made it to Game 7 of the NL championship series in 2006. The next two years they missed out on the playoffs on the last day of the regular season. 

New York failed to make the playoffs after leading the NL East by seven games with 17 games left in 2007 and by 3? games with 17 to go this year. 
Does this group of players lack what it takes to win? 
"Hopefully, the fans under­stand that as owners, we're here as the voice of the fans, and we're asking all these questions," Wilpon said. "And after some intense review this offseason, we're going to find out why we fell short the last two seasons. And it's up to Omar and his staff to correct that. But we are asking those tough questions." 
Fans and management are wondering whether winning intangibles are lacking in a clubhouse where young stars such as David Wright and Jose Heyes have been supplemented by veterans. 
"It has to strengthen that suspicion. So, as Omar has said, there might be some addition by subtraction," Wilpon said. 
Credited with adding Pedro Martinez, Carlos Beltran and Johan Santana, Minaya also has been criticized for bringing in old and injury-prone players such as Moises Alou, Orlando Hernandez and Luis Castillo. 

"It comes with the territory. I think when you take these jobs, if you're going to have polls done after teams lose, you're not going to be popular. If you have polls when the team wins, you'll be popular," Minaya said. 
Minaya said Manuel is the only current candidate for manager. Manuel took over on an interim basis when Willie Randolph was fired on June 
17. New York was 34-35 when Manuel took over and it fin­ished at 89-73. 
"My hope is that we're able to get that done," Minaya said. "Right now, we're just focusing on Jerry." 
NFL 

Bills' Evans receives extension 
Associated Press 
OHCIIARD PARK, N.Y. ­Having stuck it out through the tough times in Buffalo, receiver Lee Evans had no intention of leaving now that the Bills have begun to turn the corner with their fast start. 
Looks like Evans will be around for quite a while longer after Thursday, when he signed a four-year, $37.25 million contract extension that locks him up through 2012 and prevents the Bills from losing him to free agency this offseason. 
Under terms of the deal, Evans is_guaranteed $18.25 million, representing a signifi­cant raise over the $2.25 mil­lion base salary he'll make this season, the fin3.l year of the rookie contract. 
"It's really hard to put into words. I'm very excited," Evans told The Associated Press. "I really wanted to stay here. We have a great group of guys and a great organization to be a part of." 
The deal is a renewed indi­cation nf the Bills' commit­ment to securing their core 

stars, and was struck at a time when AFC East-leading Buffalo { 4-0) is off to its best start in 16 years in an attempt to end an eight-year playoff drought, the longest in franchise histo­ry. 
The Bills were not available for comment except to announce the contract in a press release issued hours after the team completed prac­tice in preparing for Sunday's game at Arizona. The Bills had previously maintained that re­signing Evans was their top priority this year. 
The Bills 2004 first-round pick out of Wisconsin, Evans had enjoyed only one winning season in Buffalo, his first, when the Bills finished 9-7 but missed the playoffs with a sea­son-ending loss to Pittsburgh. 
And yet, he was so eager to stay in Buffalo that he refused to establish a deadline even as negotiations dragged on into the season. Evans also shrugged off speculation that he had the opportunity to cash in as one of the NFL's more high-profile free agents this offseason or, at the very least, force the Bills to retain his rights for one more year by designating him as their fran­chise player. 
"It took a lot of patience on both sides," Evans said, in regards to talks which opened last spring. "But they were men of their words. They told me they were going to get this deal done and that's what hap­pened. " 
Evans certainly didn't play as if he was distracted because he's off to the hottest start of his career this season with 14 catches, a team-leading 332 yards receiving and one touch­down. He ranks second among AFC receivers in yards and has six catches of 25 yards or longer, tying Green Bay's Greg Jennings for most in the NFL. 
Evans already ranks seventh on the Bills' career list with 4,059 yards receiving, and fifth with 30 career touch­downs receiving. 
His best season came in 2006, when he finished sixth in the NFL with 1,292 yards receiving. Evans' production, though, tailed off last year when he finished with 849 yards and a can~er low five touchdowns. 
Friday, October 3, 2008 

Traveling to North Carolina? 
Notre Dame vs. UNC Football -10/11/08 Call Sports Tours of Winston-Salem for game tickets or ground transportation (airport or hotel). 
AVOID THE HASSLE Call Sports Tours at l-888-827 -8538 Visit Website: www.sportstoursandtickets.corn We have Buses, Limos, Towncars andVans uWhen It Matters" 


Bored with what you a:r~rreading? Read our blog at observersportsblog.2l.crjnfo. 

Friday, October 3, 2008 
The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Welsh Family storms to undefeated record against Walsh 
Pangborn roles over Breen-Phillips on strong arm and quick legs of senior Tate, Meagher leads Babes' effort 
By MATTHEW WILSEY and DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Wrirers  {2-2) never gave up and scored the first points anyone has score this season against the vaunted Welsh Family  Kaiser had high praise for Gargula, who was a force with both her arm and her legs, throwing  Thursday. Breen-Phillips' senior quar­terback Melissa Meagher may have described  boost the Phoxes lead to 28­13. Breen-Phillips did have one opportunity to possibly tie  
defense. Quarterback Amy  for three touch­ Tate's perform­ the game. Down only 21-13  
Welsh Family continued its  Langnecker  found  Molly  downs and run­ ance best.  at the time, Meagher threw a  
dominance  on  the lnterhall  McCarthy  across the middle  ning  for  60  "It  was  her  15-yard touchdown strike,  
gridiron Thursday with 18-7 victory over Walsh.  an  for a score.  25-yard touchdown Wide receiver Meghan  yards. "She  is  a  "We were successful  athleticism," Meagher said.  but, as has been their sea­son-long tendency, the Babes  
The undefeated Whirlwinds  Hadley made  a  diving catch  fierce competi­ on some thingsfrom  "She  is  the  shot themselves in the foot at  
{3-0) jumped out to an early lead and never looked back. On their first possession  for the extra-point, cutting the lead to 18-7. "Well obviously we are not  tor," said. makes  Kaiser "She my job  practice, but didn 't always execute. ··  most talented quarterback we have seen  the most inopportune time. A holding penalty voided the touchdown, and another  
Whirlwind quarterback Jenni  happy about the touchdown,"  easy  because  , yet .  knocked them out of scoring  
Gargula  threw  a  20-yard  Welsh  Family  coach  Mike  she  sees  the  Melissa Meagher  The  game  range.  
touchdown pass to wide receiv­er Charlotte  Kaiser said. "You can't expect to go the  field so well and can make any throw."  Breen-Phillips quarterback  opened with Tate efficiently leading a drive  "We were successful on some things from practice, but didn't always execute,"  
Seasly for a 6-0  whole  season  Walsh  coach  down the field.  Meagher said. "We need to be  
lead. On the following pos­session,  ..You can't expect to go the whole season  without giving up some points. However, over­ Michael Wakim noted the per­formance of  As was pattern game,  her all Tate  more consistent on both sides of the ball." The Pangborn defense did  
Meghan Mulher  without giving up  all  I  am  very  Hadley.  found  receivers  on  short  step up in the second half to  
caught yard  a tO­touch- some points."  pleased with the defense's  "She is short but she is dynamite," he said. "She does  slant patterns play after play. Before the Babes had time to  shut down the Babes' attack. "The second half the  
down  strike  performance."  a lot for us and that's why we  adjust,  Tate  had  already  defense poured it on," Tate  
from  Gargula  Mike Kaiser  Although  call her 'Mighty Mouse."'  scrambled six yards for  a  said. "The past two  games  
for  a  12-0 half­ Welsh Fam coach  Welsh  Family  In spite of the loss, Wakim  touchdown.  we've been pouring it on."  
time lead.  surrendered its  remained optimistic.  Breen-Phillips'  offense  As time expired, Pangborn  
In the second  first touchdown  "We knew that they had  a  roared back with 13  unan­ safety Kaitlyn Furrie pulled  
half,  it  was  of the season, it  good defense, but knew that  swered points, including  a  in her third interception in  
more  of  the  seemed  as  if it  we  could  score  on  them," he  60-yard touchdown bomb by  two games.  
same  for  the Whirlwinds.  was  competing with its  own  said.  "It's OK though, we will  Meagher.  Sunday, Pangborn will put  
After several designed quar­ offense for most of the game.  get them next time."  The  Babes' offensive out­ its 2-2 record  on  the line  
terback keepers brought the  The defense answered every  burst did not last for long.  against Lewis, while Breen­ 
ball down to the 20-yard line,  touchdown with  an intercep­ Pangborn 28, Breen-Phillips  Just  before  the  half Tate  Phillips  will  play  Welsh  
Gargula found Muhler in the  tion.  one  each  by  Jenna  13  tossed  a  10-yard touchdown.  Family in search of its first  
back of the end  zone  again.  Spizzirri  and  Katie  Led by sophomore quarter­ After the half, she found jun­ win of the season.  
Muhler's second touchdown  Rehberger, and a fourth-and­ back Gabby Tate, who threw  ior Annie Kotz for another  
catch of the game gave Welsh  goal stand.  However, at least  for  two  scores  and  ran  for  touchdown. To seal the game,  Contact Matthew Wtlsey at  
Family an 18-0 lead.  for tonight, the offense got  two more, Pangborn rolled to  Tate dashed from  a  yard out  mwilsey@nd.edu and Douglas  
Despite the deficit, Walsh  the last laugh.  a  victory  over  Breen-Phillips  for  one final touchdown  to  Fanner at dfarmer1@nd.edu  

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Jerusalem Summer Program 2009 
at Tantur Ecutnenical Institute for Theological Studies 


INFORMATION SESSION 
. 

Tuesday, October 7, 2008 202 DeBartolo Hall, 5:00 p.tn. 
With Faculty Director Father Patrick Gaffney, CSC .i\ssociate Professor of Anthropology 


Deadline to apply for the Jerusalem Summer Program is November 15, 2008. First Year students, Sophomores, and Juniors may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 1~3 Hurley, 631-7251, www.nd.edu/~ois 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.--------­
Friday, Ocrober 3, 2008 

page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS 
defensive force, led by corner­we'll start seeing the results in "Our defense was pretty solid when Stanford (1-0) tied the back Adam Zabel, who has our performance," the last game," Betterman said. game on the final play of regu­
Zahm 

already proven himself to be a Fisher will try to establish its "We had a shut out and we lation and went on to win in 

continued from page 32 key player, notching a couple of run game early, while building established the running game, overtime, Dillon (1-1) is fired up 
interceptions in the past two oft' of last week's strong defen­so we're pretty excited about for Sunday's meeting. they will try to get freshmen games. sive performance. The Green that." "We've really had a big rival­offensive stars Ryan Costello Offensively, Duncan has been Wave have yet to score more The Dawgs are looking for a ry developing with Stanford 
_,,' 
and running back Colin Casey struggling to finish their drives, than one touchdown in a game solid team effort Jed by running lately," Di11on captain Chris firing on all cylinders. despite the presence of wide this year, due in part to the fact back Derrick Bollman, and Cugliari said. "We're really 
"We're focused on working receiver Mike Kearney, who that they have not settled into a hope to pick up the passing looking forward to seeing them hard and winning games this hopes to be an offensive stand­groove on offense. game after struggling over the this weekend." season," captain Theo Ossei­out. "We've had a lot of trouble first two games. DiHon will rely on its offense, Anto said. "We've been putting "He just tears it up on the moving the ball," Compton said. "We're just looking to win," which scored its first points last in the basics, reinstating the field," said Duncan captain "We get a big play here and Betterman said. Sunday in a 7-0 win over Zahm Offensive scheme and Garrett Burke. there but we haven't been con­Keenan, to continue to perform putting in a few twists here and With intense practices this sistent at all. Keenan vs. O'Neill against Stanford. there." week, the Highlander's are hop­Fisher senior Dan Mahon After a tough loss to Dillon "I think our offense is finally 
On the other side of the ball, a ing to outrun the powerful added: "After being in the play­last week, Keenan will try to get able to pick our defense up," victory for Carroll could make Morrissey defense. offs two years in a row, we're its offense going against O'Neill. Cugliari said. an impact on this year's playoff "Morrissey's a tough team, trying to build a foundation for Knights captain Barton Dear The Big Red also know they picture. they will be coming out there the younger guys and for Fisher said his team needs to improve will need to slow down the 
"We were not very successful ready to hit, so we will have to footba11 as a whole." its offense if it hopes to win. potent Stanford offense, which last year," Carroll captain Nick hit first," said Burke. That foundation is in jeopardy "We need to improve the scored three touchdowns in a Ruof said. "This year we have With these two aggressive this Sunday as the Green Wave toughness on the offensive 20-7 win over Keough. been working to improve on defensive squads, both teams stare down the prospect of hav­line," Dear said. "We're also "Defensively, we need a big every aspectof the game. We're will have to step up offensively ing their playoff hopes crushed. looking to improve the timing effort from our front eight," going to play hard." to secure the win. with our quarterback and the Cugliari said. "We reaJly think 
In its season opener, Zahm Game time is 1 p.m Sunday at Alumni vs. Siegfried receivers." it's going to be a close game fell to the Otters in a close 8-0 Riehle Fields. Sunday at 2 p.m. at Riehle Dear wants his team to play because we complement each match up. This weekend, Zahm Field, the Siegfried Ramblers strong defense and for the other pretty well." hopes it can step up to match Fisher vs. St. Edward's and the Alumni Dawgs face off offense to improve by establish­On the other side of the ball, the play of the defense, which is Sunday's game pits St. Ed's, a in a classic match up of two ing the running game. The Stanford captain John Burke led by senior safety Eddie team rested and anxious to beat most important athletic traits in Knights (0-1-1) are looking to knows his team will need to be Gutierrez. the same team that ended its football -size and speed. find the end zone for the first in especially focused when they 
" The Vermin, coming off a big season last year, against Fisher, Siegfried (1-1), fielding one of two weeks after being shut out meet DiJlon.
" 

win over Fisher, plan on keep­a team basically backed up the largest squads in InterhaJl against Dillon. "We know they're going to ing that momentum rolling against the wall with no room football, used its size to its O'Neill (1-0-0) is looking for­come fired up," Burke said. "We against the rabid Bats. for error as its tries to sneak its advantage in a convincing shut ward to getting back on the just need to make sure we're 
"Last week we lost a game way into the playoffs. out win over Knott in their sea­field after a bye week last week. the same." where we had a lot of opportu­After dropping its first two son opener. The Mob beat Dillon two weeks After struggling to execute nities that we failed to capital­games of the season, Fisher "We're planning on playing ago 14-0. After a slow start, extra points in their win over ize on," Ossei-Anto said. "We finds itself in a must-win situa­fairly basic football," Siegfried O'Neill was led by quarterback Keough, Stanford worked on plan to capitalize on those tion heading into this Sunday's junior lineman Michael Bobby Powers and his two sec­fixing tha~ problem in practice opportunities this week." game against the St. Ed's. Desjardins said. "Grinding it out ond-half touchdown passes. this week and also worked out 
:f Coming off of a bye last week, on offense and locking it down Captain Matt Bono says the a few minor kinks.
' 
\ Morrissey vs. Duncan St. Ed's (1-0) will be seeking on defense." bye week has given his team a "Overa1l I think consistency is 
After two scoreless games, redemption for last year's con­However, Desjardins empha­week to fine-tune their game what we're going to work on," Duncan wil1 try to put its first troversial 13-7 playoff loss to sized that the conditioning play. Burke said. points on the board against Fisher (0-2). A questionable Siegfried has been working on "We want to make sure we The Griffins have an enor­Morrissey. holding call on a 70-yard touch­in practice is just as important stay menta1ly focused in the mous amount of confidence 

The Manorites {1-0) opened down pass that would have won as size in the Ramblers' game and· play four quarters," · coming into the game, as they its season with a dominating the game for St. Ed's proved to approach to football. Bono said. haven't lost a game in two win over Alumni, and is ready be the difference, but this time "Size alone doesn't do that The Mob are not going to take years. Burke knows his team to continue its success with a around, St. Ed's is hoping that much," he said. "But if you have a winless Knights team lightly. has the ability to beat anyone if I,. win on Sunday. Fisher's inexperience will a big team that is conditioned Bono says that O'Neill has it plays to their potential. 
Offensively, the Manorites will negate any possibility of a loss. hard enough to go hard all four never beaten Keenan, and beat­"We just have to show up and continue to use their strong St. Ed's will have to rely on its quarters you can wear down ing the Knights would be a big play our game," he said. running game, led by quarter­short passing game as well as the other team by the end of the deal for his team. However, Burke stressed that back and team captain Joe its usual mix of draw plays and game." Both teams hope make a play­his players, while confident, wiU McBrayer. Protecting McBrayer quarterback keepers out of a Tight end and captain Kevin off push and Keenan would not get ahead of themselves will be offensive tackles shotgun set, all of which proved Kelly and running back Marcus probably need to win their last against Dillon. Spencer White and Mike Kaiser. successful in its opener. Young have been key perform­two games to have a chance at "We know they're a good 
Morrissey's greatest asset is For the Green Wave, this sea­ers for the Ramblers, but making the playoffs. O'Neill is team, we know we're a good its defensive squad led by line­son thus far has been nothing Desjardins stressed that trying to stay undefeated after team," he said. "We just need to 
,·, • > backer Ian Reither and corner­short of a nosedive. After earn­Siegfried plays team football. missing the playoffs last year. make sure we don't underesti­back Ryan McSweeney. The ing two consecutive playoff Alumni (1-1) hopes to combat mate them." pass defense will try to make it births, this season hasn't gone Siegfried's size advantage with Dillon v. Stanford hard for the Highlander offense as planned. some speed of its own. "Mostly The Dillon Big Red will be Contact Nathaniel Lee at to move the ball into scoring "It's definitely been a down their size is our main focus," seeking revenge this Sunday nlee5@nd.edu, Liza Navarro at position. year," Fisher junior linebacker Alumni Captain Luke when they clash with the lnavarro@nd.edu, Shane 
"We need to come out calm, and running back Cameron Betterman said. "They're Stanford Griffins at 3 p.m. at Steinburg at ssteinb2@nd.edu, cool and collected and execute Compton said. "I guess it's inex­huge." Riehle Fields. Kellen Mathers at • our game plan," said McBrayer. perience, but there's a lot of Nevertheless, Alumni remains After suffering a devastating kmathers@nd.edu, Alex West at The Highlanders (0-2) will potential here. Once our young confident after a strong effort loss to the Griffins in the first awest@nd.edu and Kyle Smith at 
,, 
? also be relying on a tough players get out and play more, against Duncan. round of the playoffs last year ksmith@nd.edu 
,, 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

'-McCoy's two scores help Pitt upset South Fla. 
~; 
,_ rushed 11 times for 25 yards, his third in six games. 
,_ Associated Press 
! including a 1-yard keeper for a The Bulls had a 42-yard field TAMPA, Fla.-LeSean McCoy TD in the third. goal attempt blocked by Greg ran for two touchdowns and Bill Grothe threw a 22-yard Williams, and on their next field StuB threw for another as touchdown pass to Jessie goal attempt, South Florida Pittsburgh upset No. 10 South Hester in the fourth quarter to faked the kick but backup quar­Florida 26-21 on Thursday give the Bulls a 22-20 lead. But terback Grant Gregory failed to night. Pittsburgh came right back to convert on fourth down. The Panthers (4-1, 2-0 Big take the lead, covering 60 yards The Bulls scored first when East) have beaten the last three on three plays in a quick drive Quenton Washington broke nationally ranked teams they that ended with a 3-yard run by through untouched and blocked have faced, including No. 23 McCoy. The 2-point attempt a punt by Dave Brytus. Charlton Cincinnati and No. 2 West failed. Sinclair picked up the fumble, Virginia in 2007. They have McCoy, a sophomore, rushed returning it 27 yards for the won two of the last three games 28 times for a game-high 142 score. with South Florida (5-1, 0-1) in yards, his second straight game However, Pittsburgh scored Tampa. over 100. Mike Ford ran 14 on its next drive with StuB hit­Stull finished 16-for-27 for times for 73 yards for the Bulls. ting receiver Jonathan Baldwin 228 yards. South Florida struggled in the for a 52-yard touchdown pass. Quarterback Matt Grothe first half with the offense was The Panthers took a 14-7 lead accounted for most of South held to just 77 yards. Grothe on a 6-yard run by McCoy and Florida's offense, but the Buns was 5-of-12 with an intercep­extended the lead to 10 when didn't score any points on tion. The pick by Don DeCicco Conor Lee hit a 35-yard field ofl'ense in the first half. Grothe was the first interception for goal with 22 seconds left in the was 11-of-20 for 129 yards and Grothe in 107 passes and jus_t first half. 



Friday, October 3, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS page 27 

By LAURA MYERS 
Spons Writer 
Running is never easy, but it is going to get a little more diffi­cult for the men's and women's cross country teams this after­noon. 
The Irish will host 60 schools today at the Notre Dame Invitational at the Notre Dame Golf Course. Five of the men's teams and eight of the women's teams competing are currently ranked in the Top 30 of the U.S. Track and Field and Cross 
DOt,-·JiTOWN 
~~~'. n;
e.~U~ 
c .. 0
=f:Jo;
~ 'II 
lOUTH BBSD 

Country Coaches Association. 
"I think it's going to be a realUncut Yerdon challenge," men's head coach Joe Piane said. "I think we're as 
ready as we can be at this point." The ranked men's teams include No. 8 Michigan and No. 
7 -lOpm 
I , ' 

9 Georgetown, and the women's teams include No. 3 Florida State and No. 6 Princeton. 
Both Fighting Irish teams 
ND CROSS-COUNTRY 
NO golf course hosts Notre Dame Invitational 
60 schools travel to South Bend for meet 
ran six rookies. 
Following that race, Piane said the team could have done much better. 
"We had some freshmen who 
struggled," he said. "They 
should get better as time goes 
on." 
The men finished first of 23 
teams at the Notre Dame 
Invitational in 2007. They have 
taken the top spot at this event 
16 times since its inception in 
1956. 
The women hope to do better than their 12th place 2007 fin­ish, but they acknowledge the challenge, head coach Tim Connel1y said. 
"They understand the reality of the situation," he said. "They will be running against some of the best girls in the country. How they react is the great unknown." 
Among the competition will be two-time NCAA champion Sally Kipyego of Texas Tech. 
Connelly said the women would need strong performanc­es from its stars, junior Lindsey Ferguson and sophomore Marissa Treece. The two fin­ished first and second, respec­tively, at the Catholic Championships. 
"Those two are fit and pretty talented. We'H need them in the lead pack to be able to do well," he said. 
The women's race will begin at 4:15 and the men will begin at 5:00. 
Contact Laura Myers at lymers2@nd.edu 
Admlssion $5 / kids Under 12 Free 2-lor-1 Adm1nlon 6-7pm. letiritiec Hosted 'lfr1 MDA -Partkipate and Support aGreat Causel More into: dtsbFoothallParty.com or call DTSB at 571i282l110 
have done well so far against less intense competition. The men won the Sept. 5 Crusader Open in Valparaiso and came in second at the Sept. 18 National Catholic Champions at Notre Dame. The women came in sec­ond in Valparaiso and won the Catholic Championships. 
The No. 27 Irish men will run several upperclassmen in the five-mile race, including senior Patrick Smyth, who finished second in this event in 2007, and sophomore Paul Springer, who won the Catholic Championships, where the Irish 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Badin's passing game aids win over Lewis 
win.By CHRIS MICHALSKI "It's real1y nice to see smiles on 
Sports Writer 
the girls' faces," she said. Lewis coach Perry Shoemaker Badin kept its slim playoff felt the same way, despite the hopes alive with a close victory loss. 
, last night over the winless Lewis. "The game is meant to be fun, The Bullfrogs offense, led by and the girls had fun," he said. senior quarterback Katie Rose "They played their hearts out. 
Hackney, started the game firing on  Ultimately the game just did­ 
all cylinders. Using  n't go how we  
the passing game, Hackney quickly Jed her team down  "This game is meant to be fun, and the  wanted it to." Although the Chicks are still  
the field, capping  girls had fun ...  winless,  
the drive with  a  Shoemaker felt  
touchdown pass to senior Courtney Rains. Another  Perry Shoemaker Lewis coach  his team played well overall and  

pass to Hains tacked· on the extra point, giving Badin ( 1-2-1) an early 7-0 lead. 
Both defenses held strong until late in the second half when Lewis (0-3) moved the ball into the red zone. With three quarter­back keepers by junior Catherine Guarnieri, the Chicks finally found the endzone." However, the end-around play for the extra point failed as receiver Katie Sushinsky's flag was pul1ed just before her lunge into the end zone, leaving the score at 7-6. 
After the game, Hackney was just happy to walk away with the 
was only hurt 
by a few inter­
mittent mis­
takes. 

"It wasn't one single problem, just a few dropped passes here and thern," hP said. 
On the Badin sideline, Heickney was pleased in every way. 
"We stuck to our game plan and the players ran their routes," she said. "We have a Jot of freshman and in this game everything clicked. Everyone went where they were supposed to." 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu 


'.-~ 
\ 
;n, 
page 28 The Observer + SPORTS 
1.; 
~., 
'" 
'"' 
H ND VOLLEYBALL 
\~ 
lr, 
\'ri 
\'I) 
~~ 
\)', 
II\ 
)I', Two Big East foes await Irish 
r~\. 
\, -'\.~ 
\, 
~. 
I \\' By JARED JEDICK \ 
\ Spons Writer \ \. 
\ 
\\.: Notre Dame heads to the Ohio 
\,,
,,, I ' River Valley this weekend to ~-:> face Big East opponents 
" 
Louisville and Cincinnati and 
~ ' 
will try to keep its undefeated
' 
Big East record alive.

~ 
·:: The Irish (7-7, 2-0 Big East) '!•' are tied on top of league stand­
\·;'
\,·, ings with a perfect conference
\,· 
~ .' record. The Irish share the lead{~; <;-with St. John's (11-6) and 
.n 
~}'\ 
Pittsburgh (9-7) through one .:~~ week of league competition.
1~\
II\ Defeating South Florida (10-6, 
{
r 1-1 Big East) and Georgetown 
\.\."' 
) ' (8-7, 1-1 Big East) last weekend 
\. 
). put the Irish at 598 wins in pro­' \. gram history. Winning both 
\' .!::---·· 
~ 
~) games this weekend would earn the Irish their 600th win·.
')~~ ) ' 

Sophomore middle blockerH~ Kellie Sciacca was named Big
'/·'
!;-'.' 
East player of the week for her 
)'; 1 
:\C ,·. performances against USF and 
',, 
\. Georgetown. The honor was the 
:.·.· 
first for any Irish player this year.
'·· 
Sciacca had 20 kills against USF for a .643 average, good enough for the fourth highest average ever in school history for a four-set match. Sciacca finished with only two faults on 28 attempts. 

Sciacca continued that domi­nance against Georgetown with nine kills on 15 swings with three errors for a .400 average. She also had an ace and solo block. 
The Irish start play on Saturday afternoon in Cardinal Arena against Louisville (5-7, 1­1 Big East). The Cardinals were the Big East coaches' preseason pick to win the Big East. 
Louisville lost to St. John's this weekend before earning a win against Connecticut (10-5, 1-1 Big East). Cardinals junior middle blocker Lecia Brown had 13 kills and eight blocks in the St. John's match before los­ing in the fifth set, 3-2. 
The Irish played Louisville twice last year and splitting the season series. Sciacca highlight­ed the first match with a career-best .632 hitting per­centage and hit 14 of 19 kills in a 3-0 loss that knocked the Irish out of the conference tourna­ment. The Irish had beaten the Cardinals earlier in the year 3­1. 
Second up for the Irish on Sunday is a trip to face a strong Cincinnati (1 0-5, 0-2 Big East) team. 
The Bearcats were also ranked No. 3 in the Big East preseason coaches' poll. 
Notre Dame swept the Bearcats last year, winning the regular-season contest and knocking Cincinnati out of the first round of the Big East tour­nament. 
The Bearcats lost their first two Big East matches of the season, 3-0 to St. John's and 3­2 to Connecticut, spoiling a 10-3 start to the season. 
Freshman outside hitter Missy Harpenau recorded the team's first double-double of the sea­son against IUPUI in a 3-0 win. Harpenau registered 11 kills and 12 digs. 
Notre Dame has several play­ers in the top statistical cate­gories in the Big East. Sciacca has the eighth best hitting per­centage (.311) and second-best in league play (.558). Junior outside hitter Christina Kaelin's 
3.22 
kills/set overall average is ninth while her league mark of 

4.29 
kills/set is third. Senior middle blocker Justine Stremick 


(1.19) ranks third and junior middle blocker Tara Enzweiler 
(1.14) ranks fourth in blocks/set overall. Junior setter J a mel Nicholas is third among setters with 11.86 assists/set. 
The Irish will follow up their big weekend with a return home for more Big East Play against West Virginia and 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Friday, October 3, 2008 


Serving Lunch & Dinner Come Dine With Our Family And Be Our Friend! 
Tues-Sat 11-2; 4-9 Closed Sun &. Mon 

Our Specialties Include Exquisite Meat Entrees & Healthy Vegetarian Dishes 
115 Dixie Way North, South Bend 
(574) 277-7239 


Go Irish! 

Student and Faculty Discounts· Only at 
ND SWIMMING 

'I
if ,., Swimmers open season with Relays~~~ 
which both teams won Big East
By MIKE GOTIMER 

team titles. They said they view
Sports Writer 

~· 
tomorrow's relays as a chance toII, 
get ofT on the right foot for the
li' 
•'. The men's and women's swim 2008-2009 season. 
,.,
,. teams will kick off their seasons "We expect to swim with ener­'' ' with the Dennis Stark Relays gy and excitement," men's coach 
!t 
'' '· against a number of local teams Tim Welsh said. "We have a 
'' 
>) 
today. chance to evaluate our perform­
~} 
Notre Dame women's coach ance and assess where we are
'' 
Brian Barnes said 
she wanted to 
stress the spirit of

: ~; : 
tomorrow's 

: .'/ ,·, relays, which are held to honor for­mer Notre Dame .1! swimming coach ''i' Dennis Stark. 
I 
' I J) 
'f( "Our purpose
.'11 
today is to honor him and recognize his 50-plus years of service to Notre Dame as a coach, teacher and men­tor," Barnes said. 

and what we have to look to ..We have a chance to improve on this 
season. We haveevaluate our some very good performance and swimmers and 
have been train­
assess where we are 
ing hard thus
and what we have to far." 
look to improve on Notre Dame's top two swim­
this season ... 
mers in the 100 breaststroke Tim Welsh graduated last Irish coach year, so the men's team hopes to find 
Both coaches are excited to swimmers to fill the slot. begin a new season and build on On the women's side, Coach their success from last year, in Barnes said he has similar 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Tefft and Krisik drop tourney match 
( 
By KATE GRABAREK 

·f.; 
. It 
I. ; Spores Writer 
Senior Kelcy Tefft and junior Kali Krisik dropped their opening round match at the All-American Tournament in Palisades, California. 
Tefft and Krisik won three qualifying matches against ranked opponents to get into the main draw of the tourna­ment. 
expectations for today's meet. 

"Expectations for this meet are to perform with class, race, and to have fun with all of the relays," Barnes said. "Additionally, we will recognize this meet as part of the process as we continue to prepare to move higher within the NCAA this year. For the Notre Dame women's swimming and diving to be successful this year, the entire team will need to step up." 
Teams from Oakland University, Ball State University, Cleveland State University, Illinois State, and the Marquette men's club team will participate in the meet. In addition, the Saint Mary's swim team will return to the meet after an absence from the competition in recent years. 
The Dennis Stark Relays are scheduled to begin at 5 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

ln the opening round, the No. 25 duo fell to Florida's No. 
6  Megan  Alexander  and  
Marritt Boonstra 8-4.  
While Tefft and Krisik  were  

in California, the rest of the team has been working with new assistant Julia Scaringe. 
"We are in the middle of our fall competition so our focus is geared toward individual improvement," Scaringe said. "Each player has different things they need to work on, so that by the time we get to the Big East they can come together as a team and win a title." 
The team hopes to continue it's dominance under Scaringe, and returning head coach Jay Louderback again this season. 
Next on the team's schedule is regional qualifying on Oct. 23 in Lansing, Michigan. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 

,.. . 
\.. ,~tLart r1dges''"'~lin1itec:l . 
5339 N. 'Main St, MJsqawaka, rN 46545 (Between Jimmy Johns and Starbucks) Open: Monday-Friday IOam to 7pm Saturday I 0 am tu 4pm (574)243-9634 

1733 N. Ironwood Dr. • South Bend 
574.277.6767 
7220 Heritage Sq. Dr. • ~Iishawaka 
574.272.6767 
www.salonnouveau.con1 
AVEDA'"
the ot1 and .clencl rlpurl flOMr ond piQnl ~ 
Hair Care • Extensions • Skin Care • ~1ake Up Nail Care • Body Care • Gift Cards "Welcome back students and faculty( book any 2services and receive $20 off 
c' with this ad. Not Valid with any other promotion." 
. . 

-, ' ' • ' I • ' I • ' ' " ' • • ' ' , 
Hoyas 
continued from page 32 
their last three conference games. With seven points, they currently occupy third place in the Blue Division behind Notre Dame (10 points) and Connecticut (9 points). 
Those records are a marked improvement over one year ago. In 2007, Georgetown fin­ished with a losing record overall of 7-11-1, and its con­
ference mark of 5-5-1  was  
good enough for only  a  fifth  
place finish.  

"They are really flying high this year," Clark said. "They are also in the (Big East} Blue Division with us, so this game will have a direct bearing on where we end up." 
A big reason for the Hoyas' turnaround from last year has been the play of their defense. Through 10 games this year, Georgetown has allowed only four goals and has shut out its opponent seven times. 
"They ha"e two very strong central defenders, and they 
have a very good defensive · midfielder," Clark said. "It's a balanced team, and it's very well coached." 
Notre Dame's defense has not been as. stingy. After an impressive start to the season that included a seven-game stretch where the defense allowed only three goals, the Irish have given up five during their two-game losing streak. 
Despite the recent drop in defensive results, Clark hasn't been upset with his defense's performance. 
"In both [losses], I think the team has played well," Clark said. "We know we're going to be judged by results, but you also have to look at how the team plays. We have to take ourselves away from getting sucked in to [concentrating on results], and we have to con­centrate on how we play." 
Georgetown coach Brian Wiese played for Clark at Dartmouth and later served as an assistant coach under Clark at both Stanford and Dartmouth. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Alumni 
continued from page 32 
case what we're doing this year in front of that group, it'll be really important to them." 
But with a No. 1 ranking on their back, the Irish are used to high expectations and being seen as the team to beat. 
South Florida steps onto Notre Dame's campus for the first time. The two teams only played each other once before, in 2005 in Tampa, and the Irish won 4-0. But Waldrum said he knows the Bulls pres­ent a threat, primarily in their defense. 
"I think they're going to be a really good team defensively, so I think it's gonna be a tough game for us cause I think they may be one of the more disci­plined teams than we've seen all year," he said. 
South Florida enters the con­test having won its last three matchups. The three wins were all shutouts, thanks in large part to Bulls goalkeeper Mallori Lofton-Malachi, who has given up only six goals all 
season and is the current Big 
East Goalkeeper of the Week. 
With Lofton-Malachi at the 

spine of the Bulls, the Irish will 
look to dissect South Florida's 
defense. 
"We've been working a little bit on how to break it down, and spent quite a bit of time trying to get balls in the wide areas of the field and getting in behind them a little bit," Waldrum said. "They tend to drop off a little deeper than most teams do so we're hope­ful that we can play in front of them some and get time with the ball with a little space to run at them." 
And after looking to break down the Bulls defense, Notre Dame gets one day of rest before taking on Marquette Sunday. But the Irish boast a strong depth start that should keep their legs fresh. 
"If you look at most teams their Sunday performance is not nearly as good as their Friday night, there's just not enough rest time," Waldrum said. "I think that's where our depth has really helped us, we've been able to start differ­ent players Friday than we do on Sunday, and I think that depth has really helped keep us fresh, and given us the chance to have a little bit more energy and intensity on a Sunday game." 
Besides having the advan­tage of a strong bench, the Irish will have to adjust their style of play for the Marquette defense, one that attacks the ball early and often. 
'They pressure you, they get a lot of players around the ball wherever it is, it almost seems like a lot of defensive chaos ... when they defend they just really work hard to get a lot of players around the ball very quickly, and they're good at that," Waldrum said. "So that kind of game Sunday is one that I think will be more dis­ruptive." 
Waldrum said the team will keep the ball moving at a fast past to counteract the Golden Eagles defense, and with near­ly enough players to suit up two teams, there's little possi­bility the speed of the game will slow down. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 


If you are an undergraduate, MBA, or a graduate student, you won't want to miss this important presentation to be given by Don Casey, who earned a bachelor's degree in finance, and an MBA from the University of Notre Dame. 
Don ts Worldwide Chairman for the Comprehensive Care Group and a member of the Executive Committee for the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. During his fast-paced and dynamic career, he has held leadership positions in several Johnson & Johnson companies, with responsibilities that span the globe. 
The global reach of Johnson & Johnson 
Caring for the world, one person at atime... inspires and unites the people of Johnson &Johnson. We embrace research and science-bringing innovative ideas, products, and services to advance the health and well-being of people. Employees of the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies work with partners in health care to touch the lives of over a billion people every day, throughout the world. 
Our Family of Companies comprises: 

• 
The world's premier consumer health company 

• 
The world's.largest and most diverse medical devices and diagnostics company 

• 
The world's third-largest biologics company 

• 
And the world's sixth-largest pharmaceuticals company 


Johnson & Johnson Services. Inc. 1s a rTErrber of the Johnson & Johnson Farnly of Col'flliimes. 


From his personal experiences in marketing and general 
management, and from helping to develop the careers of 
numerous successful colleagues, Don brings insights and strategies for purposefully creating a strong career foundation 
that can help you leverage exciting opportunities in the global economy. 
Monday, October 6, 2008 6:30-7:30 p.m. at McKenna Hall 
Reception to follow at the Atrium from 7:30 to 9:30p.m. 


We have more than 250 operating companies in 57 countries employing 120,200 people. We invite you to explore careers with the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies at careers.jnj.com. Make.your own mark. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME LEADERSHIP SPEAKER SERIES 
"Building a Career in a Global Economy" 
Apresentation by Notre Dame alumnus Donald M. Casey 
PHARMACEUTICALS 
INTERNSHIPS. LEADERSHIP OfVHOPMENT PROGRAMS, FULL-TIME POSITIONS 


llJohnson & Johnson Serv1ces. Inc. 2008. Johnson & Johnson compames are equal opportunity employers. SMAll·COMPANY ENVIRONMENTJBIG.CQMPANY IMPACT 15 a registered trademark of Johnson & Johnson. 
-· .. -· 
.., ....... 


BE VITAL 
careersjnj.com 

MEDICAL DEVICES AND DIAGNOSTICS CONSUMER 

Friday, October 3, 2008  The Observer + SPORTS  page 29  

•. , '1,) 
' '·' 
-. ·,:)
... 
'1-,'i. 
... ' 
Friday, October 3, 2008 

',,I page 30 The Observer + SPORTS
'~i \
'....... 
,~, 
''\ 
·, ' 
\
T '"" ' Holtz
~~~ 
,,,,:-;' 
., ...,.._ 
\\• \ continued from page 32 
\'t,"
W,\ 
I am really looking forward 

\, ') 
t~ 
to it," Holtz said. "We will
·~"­
'·" 
\\.,
' 'I bring a very competitive
\·,, .,\ 
\ ... team that is not only excited u about representing the'·'\ '\ University of Notre Dame in 
·~ 
\ . ., this game, but about the . ~ prospect of visiting Japan." \ :"\ " Holtz will announce his
., 
) intentions this afternoon at
., 
the weekly Notre Dame
' 
' \ Football Luncheon, the
' 
... 
\ release said. . <, \ Former Irish running back
·'­
'··' Reggie Brooks, who currently handles Notre Dame Football
~~:~ 
~~~ Alumni Relations, will recruit 
·,·~;-. 
::~~ players for the game, the release said. He will focus on jt:z·. those who have graduated in 
the last 10 years.

~~:: 
The team, the release said,
'''\ ~ ~ 
<\. will meet in South Bend July 17 and 18 for mini-camp
,J 
before heading to Japan.

I'>,,'> 
>,'. "I have previously coached 
.. ,­
in Japan three different
w· 
y,· times and had a memorable ~:·: \ experience each time," Holtz ~\s said. "The Japanese people
\-.. ' 
•l\•,) were kind, congenial and 
'~~> ·: 
helpful. I learned a great
·J/'1 
deal from them on each and
·><<
I!":, 
every trip."

'' 
·:-:.,
.. , The game will celebrate the 
' ~ .. I 
l >·, '.: 75th anniversary of the 
•,I)J/ 
Japan American Football:n Association (JAFA), the )~> release said.
' >~ \
I lr
' l')' t -,t., 
Global Football, an organi­
•,~/,> 
:~·:~ zation that coordinates foot­ball at all levels and runs 
, \<I~
.to:' fantasy camps, has organized
''.. 
the game. Patrick •• Steenberge, President of
•'· 
..... ) Global Football and the U.S. event producer for the game,
~ ~·, 
I·~·iji 
,, 
i· 
~ '. 
' 

'' 
'I 
'' 
.,. 
'-~; ·.: 

--; j: 
.' ''; 
.( ( .! 
I. :' 
played quarterback for Notre Dame in the 1970s under Ara Parseghian. 
"We are honored to be working with Notre Dame and of course with Coach Holtz on this exciting ven­ture," he said in the release. 
Steenberge is also the camp director of Notre Dame's fan­tasy camp that takes place every July as well. 
"We have enjoyed a suc­cessful run with the Notre Dame Football Fantasy Camp and are now looking forward to some great experiences both on and off the field in Japan," Steenberge said in the release. "This event fits perfectly within the Global Football mission of uniting the world through American football." 
Evans 
continued from page 32 

Frank said this visit is just what the Irish needed to get back into the race for Evans. 
"NO is in great shape with Shaquelle after the visit," Frank said. "It all boils down to whether or not he wants to leave his home. He knows that the Irish are building some­thing, and they could use a receiver like him, because he's a special player and can change a game with one play." 
So did the Irish coaching staff do enough to pry him away from Southern California? 
"I think it's down to ND or 
(' . 
It'~ tlrl'le' for your haca work to pay off ..vithm an orgamzauon that was once agam nam~ one of 8usinE!S$'~S 50 
I '( . Best Places To Laur,ch A Career.~ offer a col!aborative, 1nduSNe culture Wltn custom~able-care-ers. prof~sior'.al development, ana beneftts. And a commtt:rnent to cornrnur.~ the envtrwment~ and rr.aiong t!rfle fur famtiy 
·~ 
:,­
1 


Foe aneJectrorlic infOTfl'latiofl packet, text "'NNTREDAME.'"' to 7SS73. Vtsit us on the web at EWoitte~~ 
Deloittf! LL? and 1ts subsidiaries .arf! an <!qual opportun:ty O!mployer About Deloittf! Deloittf! refers to one or more of Delcine Touch<! Tohmatsu, a Swiss Verein, and its network of member firms, each of ll'llhich is a legallr separate 
and independent entity. Please se£: www.de!c:tte.com/aboul for a derailed de~upt1on of the !ega I structure of Oeloitte TouchE! Tohmatsu and r!S member f"ms. Please see 111/WW.deloitte.com.lullabot.>t for a detatled decroptoon oi the legal structure of Oelo,tte LLP and its subsrdiar•es. Copyrrght 0 2008 Delo1tte Development llC. All nghts re$erved 
Dame to partake in a football Pollard. Wood is considered camp for high school talents. one of the best halfback Weis and the rest of the prospects in the nation and coaching staff were impressed has put up some imposing and extended him an offer stats thus far in his senior shortly after. season at Santa Since then, the Clara High Irish have "[Motta] likes Notre School in been in the list Oxnard, Ca. 
Dame a great deal . 
of favorites for Through four
The stafflikes him
the safety's games, Wood signature. too.·· has amassed 54 
Frank said carries for 7 51 his official visit yards resulting
Mike Frank 
on Saturday in an impressive
I risheyes .com 
could swing average of 13.9 
the momen­tum in favor of the Irish. 

"I think it's going to be real­ly important," he said. "He likes Notre Dame a great deal. The staff likes him too. He's a great blitzer, and has the type 
Holtz named Bill Lewis, a 
SC," Frank said. of body that former assistant coach at 
"One of those could develop Notre Dame and former 
two. It's hard to "'ND is in great shape down the road coach at Georgia Tech, East 
say at this into a line­
with Shaquelle 
Carolina and Wyoming, as his 
point. He's bat­backer.
[Evans] after the 
assistant coach and defensive 
tling that in his "Playing for backs coach. 
mind now and visit.·· coach [Corwin] Holtz said in the release he 
it's going to Brown is was excited about the game 
come down to something that
Mike Frank
and felt fans and alumni 
distance. He he is fond of,
Irlsheyes.com
would be as well. 
told me that and if he were "The fine players we have 
sometimes you to switch to contacted to play in this 
have to leave linebacker, game are excited about the 
your home, though, to grow coach [Jon] Tenuta is just as prospect of helping the Japan 
up and mature. That sentence an attractive option. I think American Football 
right there let's me know that he's one of the most underrat­Association celebrate 75 
he's strongly considering the ed football prospects out years of football," he said. 
Irish." there in the nation right now. "We are also aware that 
He's a fast kid, but more Japan's football is very good 
Zeke Motta importantly, he's a great foot­and we will have to play our 
Motta, a four-star safety out ball player." very best to compete with 
of Vero Beach High School, their national team and you 
has turned heads lately and Also visiting can rest assured we will 
will be on campus this week­A pair of verbal commits bring a very good team." 
end. The Irish liked what they will also be in attendance this saw early on in the process. Saturday against Stanford Contact Bill Brink at 
It all started in early July including running back Cierre wbrink@nd.edu 
when Motta visited Notre Wood and cornerback Marlon 
yards per carry 
to go along with 10 touchdowns. The five-star running back also has four catches for 100 yards and two receiving touchdowns in addi­tion to one completion for 28 yards and a touchdown. 
Pollard also comes from California, out of Cajon High School. 
Another class of 2010 prospect will be visiting Notre Dame for the Stanford contest is running back Anthony Barr. Out of Loyola High School located in Los Angeles, Ca., Barr is an impressive back with imposing physical gifts. Frank said Barr could be the top-ranked player in the state of California next year, thanks in part to his speed that goes with his 6-foot-4, 225-pound frame. 
Barr has ties to Notre Dame, as he is tony Brooks' son, and nephew to Reggie Brooks, both Irish greats in their own time. Because of this connec­tion to the Irish, Frank said Notre Dame could be in the early lead to land the talent. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 


• 

Do you consider the word "motivated" 
an understatement? 
Deloitte. 
' 



Friday, October 3, 2008 
page 31

The Observer+ TODAY 
BLACK DoG 
!>E~TDR.., I'vE HtJNTEb 1"10<:1.SE WITH t>IQ::. 
~E~E.Y. I"V.E SH<)T PEoPL-E lt<J 1HE FAcE \../~ J>li!IC. 0(8JE.'( t>ICt: (.Hb,I[V IS A FJE:IEIIlt> oF 
MlroJE. £EN.A.TDIZ, '(ov'RE. I'Jo t>IC.I'.. 
THE DOME PIECE 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 Hockey position 61 Singles bar 1 Lovers' scrap repertoire (and a
35 Paris Metro 

hint to 17-, 24-.
5 Nanki-Poo's station next to a 36-and 52­
father music center Across)
11 Cabinet dept 36 Shout from the 63 Make darts, say
14 Samovars phone 64 Cry after "Psst!" 
15 Artillery unit 
39 Resident of 

member 65 For fear that 
Medina 16 Some eggs 66 Farm brooder 
42 'Peaf 17 McGarrett's TV -67 Casually add 43 Type size
• catchphrase 
68 Pseudocultured \ 19 Unit of RAM 
4 7 Cause of odd 20 Father figure? 
weather Down 21 By way of 
Side story 
49 Wrap up

22 600-homer club 2 Apportion, asmember 51_de plume costs 
23 Alights 
52 Chevy troclc. 

3 Rubs oil on24 Question for a 
slogan, once 

4 Clicked one's
hitchhiker 55 John of London tongue
26 Giant in 5 Ones mindingCooperstown 57 Ward (off) the store: Abbr.
27 Eggs, in labs 
58 Sellout sign 

6 Birth control 29 Biblical landing 59 World Cup chant option, briefly 
spot 7 Scalawag
30 Putting a toe in 60 Italian diminutive 8 _Hall, Diane
the water, say suffix Keaton role 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 "Gracias" response 1oCortes's prize 
11 Tall wardrobe 
12 Succeeds in a big way 13 Yachting event 
~~::+:-~ 18 "Happy Motoring" brand 
22 Top-notch, to a Brit 24 Innocents 
...;..;..r.=...f-=~.:...f 

-=4-::..+-::+.:-~ 25 Suffix with buck 
~~+=-~ 28 Bugs on a highway 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


DAVID CAVADINI 

=(4-1) 
0 

nap! 
WILLSHORTZ 


Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _________ State ____ Zip __________ __ 
JUMBLE 
JJWIWIIDibJ! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
MEERS jI I r [] 
'>~2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
t!~~t) 
JONNIE 

I (J 
www.jumble.com 
BAILUR ± 

Print answer here: [ -­
J I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: BANDY ELITE FEMALE ACTUAL Answer: It doesn't exist at the equator-LATITUDE 
FRIDAYS WITH FRAN
HOROSCOPE 

Aries (March 21-April 19): The woman from Honolulu takes off her mumu to take a pooh pooh. 
Taurus (April 20-May 20): Dungeons and Dragons champions of the world UNITE! 
Gemini (May 21-June 20): The 'Home Alone' Bird Lady is watching you. Can't you smell her? 
Cancer (June 21-July 22): Someone will rub their eye-goobers all over you during class. Be thankful it's not boogars. 
Leo (July 23-Aug. 22): Make your crush a card using only popsicle sticks, ~lue and construction parer. He or she will totally thmk you're cute ... or cal you a cheapskate. 
Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The Trojans couldn't get balls deep into the Beavers' end zone last week. 
Libra (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Shake, shake, shake, shake, shake it. Then watch the replay of yourself shaking it and·focus on your flab bouncing everywhere. 
Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Who was a better dicta­tor? Hitler or Stalin? Text your vote to (707)287-6798. We're only posting results if we get more than 10 votes. ·­
Sa~ittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your spouse will kick you m the sternum at least once in your life. 
Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): And your spouse will cheat on you. 
Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A man in Kentucky got arrested for the 1,000th time a last week. And you brag about your one drinking ticket. Shame on you, loser. 
Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20): Here's the deal: Rocky was the man, Tum Tum was hilarious and Colt was a huge weiner. 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

....

WHE:N HE: C.ROSS£:0 THE: C.OPS, THE STOOL. PIGEON BECAME A --­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Puzzle by Patrick Blindauer 

31 Straightened 40 Property 53 Violists' places: Abbr.
(up) recipient. in law 54 Burger go-withs 
41 Hardly a
33"_what?" 

celebrity 56 Hyams of 1920s­34 Rosetta stone 
'30s films 44 Chanter language 59 Shop window 45 Least ruffled sign37 Yothers of 

46 General pardon 
61 Word with boss"Family Ties" 

48 "Twelfth Night" or bull 38 Kobe cash lover 
62 New England 39 Me-first 50 Secluded valley state sch. 
For answers, call i-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 


THE OBSERVER 
p

Friday, October 3, 2008 

page 32 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
An Olympic feet 
Former medal-winners return to canzpus to watch undefeated team battle South Florida 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Assistant Managing Ediwr 

Two Olympians, two gold medals in Beijing, and a little extra incentive to play well this weekend. 
Kate {Sobrero) Markgraf (1998) and Shannon Boxx (1999), who once graced the Irish pitch, will be in the stands this weekend cheering on their fellow Irish soccer players as Notre Dame takes on South Florida tonight and Marquette Sunday. 
"I think it's exciting for them because I think they'll want to do well and show well in from of the alumni," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "Cause we always talk a lot about the history of our program and liv­ing up the standards that were set by the alumni that came before ... they'll want to show-
JESS LEE/The Observer 
Sophomore forward Taylor Knack, left, controls the ball during Notre Dame's 5-0 win over see ALUMNI/page 29 Southern Methodist on Aug. 29. The Irish are 10-0-0 so far this season. 

MEN'S INTERHALL Rabid Bats hope for rebound 
By NATHANIEL LEE, LIZA 
NAVARRO, SHANE 
STEINBURG, KELLEN 
MATHERS, ALEX WEST and 
KYLE SMITH 
Sporrs Writers 
Zahm will try to rebound from last week's close loss to Sorin in its matchup against Carroll at Riehle Fields on Sunday at 2:00 pm. 
Carroll (1-1) is trying to return to the playoffs this sea­son after last year's hiatus, while Zahm is trying to snag their first win on the road to the stadium. 
The Rabid Bats are a team that balances fundamental football-with an occasional bit of typical Zahm flair. This week 
see ZAHM/page 26 

FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Coaches snatch receiver recruit from Nashville 
) 1,:
}I· • 
': ., :;~ 
I '•J ' f 
!: •I 
IIi · 
.1/ I· ' 
l~;' : 
~; ;·:.?
I':,._
:' ,, I • 
.)
j 
~ ~ 
I 

,/ ' 
,I. 
' . 
,, 
J 
?~ 
I I . 
'I' 
''· 
>I I 
,I 
I. 
.,, . 
,. 
•I . 
I 
d 
,; . 
I 
I , 
I 
" 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 

Just as the Tennessee Volunteers were parting ways with wide receiver prospect Nyshier Oliver, Notre Dame was there to swoop him up. Back in August, the multi-tal­ented athlete out of Jersey City, 
N.J. decommitted from the Volunteers and went back on the recruiting market. 
The Irish offered him a schol­arship the next day, and imme­diately became contenders. He is listed as a four-star safety on Scout.com, but Notre Dame likes him as a wideout. After his visit during the Michigan game on Sept. 13, Oliver had been blown away and wanted a couple of weeks to clear his mind and make his decision. Yesterday afternoon, he made it official and called coach Charlie Weis to give him his verbal commitment. 
Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame football for Scout.com said Oliver will fit right in with the offense and sees flashes of one of the cur­rent Irish playmakers in the St. Peter's Preparatory High 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish have chance to end streak vs. G-town 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will be in an unfamiliar position when it takes the field this Sunday against No. 24 Georgetown ­the Irish will be looking to halt a losing streak. 
No. 8 Notre Dame's seven­game unbeaten streak ended last Sunday at Louisville thanks to a last-minute Cardinals' penalty kick in reg­ulation and game-winning header in overtime. Wednesday night, the Irish lost 3-1 to rivals Michigan in Ypsilanti. Those results have given Notre Dame coach Bobby Clark his first regular season back-to-back losses 
during his eight-year tenure in South Bend. 
"Every team we're playing is a test, and for me that's fan­tastic," Clark said after Wednesday's loss to Michigan. "What more do you want than to go out and play against a good team." 
A stern test is exactly what Georgetown will provide the Irish with this Sunday at Alumni Field. The Hoyas enter Sunday's game with a 7-2-1 record, impressive enough for Georgetown to rank in the top 25 for the first time this sea­son. 
After starting Big East play with consecutive losses, the Hoyas went undefeated in 
see HOYAS/page 29 
School product. 

"I think it's a big commit," Frank said. "He can change field position in a hurry. I think he's got a lot of Golden Tate in him in the way that he can stretch the field and go deep. A big, big part of it was the visit. He thought that this was a school were he could see him­self at and doing some things on the field." 
Other reeruits on campus this weekend: 
Shaquelle Evans 

As the closing seconds ticked away for the Purdue Boilermakers at Notre Dame Stadium last Saturday, an odd chant could be heard from the student section. 
Many were bewildered as to why hundreds of students from sections 31 and 32 were yelling, "dump SC, dump SC," with enthusiasm. One person who heard the cheer loudly and is well aware of its context is high school senior Shaquelle Evans. 
The star wide receiver from Inglewood High School in California is a soft verbal com­mit to the University of 
Southern California, but sti!l considering his options. Last Saturday, Evans was in South Bend on his official visit to check out the Irish. 
As he underwent the Notre Dame experience, he came away impressed with both the football program and the atmosphere surrounding the campus. Some of the students even ventured to ask if the blue-chip prospect wanted to be hoisted in the air for 14 pushups following an Irish score in the second quarter. 
see EVANS/page 21 
fOOTBALL 

Holtz returns for one more game 
Coach will lead alumni against Japanese team next summer 
By BILL BRINK SportS Editor 
Lou Holtz is coming back to Notre Dame -kind of. 
Holtz will coach a team of Notre Dame football alumni against the Japanese National Team on July 25, 2009, in a game in the Tokyo Dome of Japan's capital city, according to a press release. 
Holtz, who coached at Notre Dame from 1986-1996 and won a National Championship with the 1988 Fighting Irish team, said in the release he will come back for "one more game." 
"I have cleared my sched­ule to coach in the game and 
see HOLTZ/page 30 



page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 3, 2008 
2008 Irish opponents 
COMMENTARY 
Irish need to find winning attitude 
It was hard not to get the feeling of deja vu while watch­ing Notre Dame's second half against Purdue last weekend. (But careful, don't let that deja vu didn't make you dizzy and stumble all 
over  your­ 
self,  or else  
the  police  

might think you're drunk.) 
N o t r e Dame's offense was about as effective as a wind­breaker in a hurricane last season, but in the second half against the Boilermakers, the Irish put up 24 points. 
Good enough to bring you back to 2006. 
During that season, the Irish offense went out and made defenses from Purdue, Stanford and Navy look like 
J.V. high school teams. You knew going into those games -games where the Irish were facing a middling opponent ­that they weren't going to be close. 
The Irish 

Chris Hine 
Editor-in­Chief 

performance. It's the next logical step in the progression of this young Irish team ­beating the teams they're sup­posed to beat. 
The 2006 team was at that level, but there was a problem with that team -it wasn't quite at the level of other top tier programs, as it suffered crushing losses to LSU, Southern Cal and Michigan. 
Before this year's team can challenge for a national title again, and compete with Southern Cal and other top­tier teams on a regular basis, it has to assert its dominance over teams like Purdue and Stanford like the 2006 team did. 
The 2006 team created a feeling in the fan base that every time the Irish played a Purdue or Stanford, they were going to win. There was no doubt. It was a feeling Notre Dame fans hadn't experienced for a long time. 
That being said, look at the rest of the schedule, every team is another version of Purdue and Stanford -there are no upper echelon pro­grams except for Southern Cal. 
After watching the Irish last weekend, they should cruise into the USC game with a one­loss record, right? 
Think again. 
This team lacks the experi­ence that 2006 team had and experience is something a team needs to develop a win­ning attitude. 
Notre Dame is still a young team, and for as many flashes of brilliance this team has, it'll have almost as many moments that will leave fans scratching their heads. It may happen this week, it may not, but those signs of growing pains will be evident, and the Irish may drop a game or two that 
were going to 
Notre Dame is still a 
put on an offen­
young team, andfor
sive clinic and the games as many flashes of would be over 
brilliance this team 
quickly. 
has, it'll have almost
Last weekend was the first as many moments time Notre 
that will leave fans 
D a m e 
scratching their 
approached that level of heads. 
they probably· should win. 
The Irish had a great win over Michigan earlier this season, but then Michigan State brought them back down to earth the fol­lowing week­end. Why did it happen? Mostly because of experience. 
This weekend 

is a chance for Notre Dame to show it learned its lesson from two weeks ago and begin to develop that culture of win­ning. Right now, most fans assume the Irish will get trounced when they head to Los Angeles in November. 
But if the Irish can have a few more games like Purdue, that attitude won't be so pes­simistic. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the The Observer. 
Contact Chris !line at chine@nd. edu. 

(1-3) 
(2-2) 
(4-1) 
(2-2) (3-2) -
(3-1) 
(0-4) 
(3-1) (3-1) (3-2) 
(1-4) (2-1) 

Last week  This week  
W, 41-17, Idaho  atTCU  
W, 27-25, Wise.  vs. Illinois  
W, 42-29, Ind.  vs. Iowa  
L, 38-17, ND  vs. Penn State  
W, 35-28, Wash.  at Notre Dame  
w, 28-24, Miami  vs. UConn  
L, 35-28, Stan.  at Arizona  
W, 34-24, 'Cuse  atUSF  
W, 42-0, URI  at NC State  
W, 24-16, WF  at Air Force  
L, 34-24, Pitt  Idle  
L, 27-21, OSU  vs. Oregon  

Check out The Observer sports blog, The Casual Observer, at 
Observersportsb log. 21cr.info. 

Friday, October 3, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Tough it out 
Wlzether it's opponents' offensive lines or teammates' sanity, Pat Kuntz is a disruptive force 
Playing high school football
By BILL BRINK 
meant a great deal to Kuntz. 
Sports Editor 
"That was probably one of my best experiences of my No matter what Pat Kuntz life," he said. "People take it faces -opposing offensive for granted playing with guys linemen, public speaking you've known your whole life engagements or Halo chal­that would basically die for lengers -he toughs it out. you. With the success my foot­
That's why, in his senior year ball team had -we won three of high school, he played his consecutive state champi­last four games with a broken onships -it was just one of right arm. the best times of my life." 
Not a hairline fracture that Notre Dame was a logical didn't show up on an X-Ray. A choice coming from a Catholic teammate's helmet squashed high school in Indianapolis, his arm as Kuntz made a tack­Kuntz said. He grew up a Notre le, and Kuntz had a cast from Dame fan. But for Kuntz, com­his wrist to above his elbow. He ing to South Bend was about played anyway. After one game more than fanhood. without elbow flexion, he "What made me want to decided he needed more mobil­come here was tradition and 
ity and cut the  being  the  guy  
cast  down  so  from  my  town  
his  arm could  who went here,"  
flex.  he said. "I didn't  
"It hurt a  lot,  care who offered  
but it was  my  ..What made me want  me. I wanted to  
senior year," he said. It's that atti­ to come here was tradition and being  come here the whole time." Kuntz said  
tude  that  the guy from my  playing behind  
helped  Kuntz  town who went here.''  defensive line­ 
become  what  man  Derek  
defensive line coach Jappy  Pat Kuntz  Landri helped him learn essen­ 
Oliver calls his  Irish senior  tial  skills  to  
most disruptive  playing his posi­ 
player  and  tion.  
what defensive  "Being  the  
coordinator  first guy off the  

Corwin Brown calls a "tough ball, being relentless and hav­guy." ing a motor that never stops. 
''I'd say that I kind of have That's probably the best thing I some of those qualities," Kuntz learned from him," Kuntz said. said. Kuntz played for two years in 
Before he was disruptive, he the 4-3 defensive scheme, was tough at the high school where four players start on the level. Kuntz holds the career line of scrimmage and only sack record at Roncalli High three linebackers play. For the School in Indianapolis with past two years, he's played in 
25.5 sacks, something he is the 3-4 scheme, which reverses quite proud of. He bet an older those roles. This year, however, teammate who previously held Kuntz said his role mimics the record that he would break what he played his first two it, then did just that. years. 
"Seeing him pay me off was "It's a lot more attacking probably one of the best feel­defense," he said. "I played a ings I've had," he said. lot of 3-technique my first two 

ol"\c,cm~-Observer 

Irish senior Pat Kuntz lines up in the rain against the Michigan offensive line. Kuntz helped Notre Dame to a 35-1.7 win over the Wolverines on Sept. 13 at Notre Dame Stadium. 
years. It's definitely different, with it. "They love to play practical but it reminds me a little bit of "You can be very effective jokes," Oliver said of the defen­it." with the pass rush by not get­sive linemen. "You better 
Stanford's running backs, ting sacks," Kuntz said. watch them, because they'll Toby Gerhart and Anthony "Getting your hands up, alter­get you. They will get every­Kimble, present a two-sided ing throws, things like that." body and anybody." challenge to Notre Dame's If disruptive describes Kuntz Kuntz agreed. defense Saturday. To quelch on the field, messy describes "Everybody's open game. It the running game, Brown said, him off of it. He's an eccentric doesn't matter if you're a 
the defense has to control the guy, outgoing with a vibrant freshman or a senior," he said. line of scrimmage. personality. His hair reflects "If you do something stupid, 
"All running backs run the the many sides of his psyche; everybody's going to get after same when there's no hole," so far this season, it went from you." Brown said. "When there's no long, flowing brown hair to a Recently, Kuntz had a prob­hole or the holes are small, it's thoroughly ter-lem with nose harder for them to be effec­rifying skullet tackle Ian tive." to a shaved Williams' 
for that to happen, he said, dome. Now he "Everybody's open dreadlocks Kuntz has to cause problems sports a buzz shedding hair 
game. It doesn't matter 
up front. cut. onto his table "We need him to play hard, Kuntz's room­ifyou ·re a freshman or during meet­be disruptive in there," Brown mates at their a seinor. Ifyou do ings. After said. "He's the oldest guy out off-campus Williams
something stupid, 
there for the most part. He's house known ignored 
gotta show them. When he's as "the everyone's going to get Kuntz's warn­out there he needs to be a Kingdom," after you.·· ings to stop, problem." tackles Paul Kuntz pulled Disruptiveness isn't a physi­Duncan and out wads of his 
Pat Kuntz
cal trait, Oliver said. lt's·a M i k e long locks and mentality. Turkovich, line­Irish senior spread them 
"The way we call our defens­backer Steve all over es help that because we call an Quinn ahd safe-Williams. "And aggressive style of defense," ty Kyle I didn't tell him Oliver said. "It's their attitude, McCarthy, describe him as the until after the meeting," he just wanting to get there." untidy child of the house. He's said. 
That aggressive play-calling not proud of it, but it's a stig­Kuntz's act will soon go pub­hasn't produced much in the ma he's stuck with. lie; he's scheduled to speak at way of tangible results this He's got them all beat at tonight's pep rally. He won't 
season -only one sack -but Halo, however. He said ht~ 's a give any hint as to what he'll that didn't concern Kuntz or level 48, out of 50, on xBox say, but he has "a little some­
Brown. Kuntz said there were Live, and scoffs at the idea that thing something" planned. other stats, like completion guard Eric Olsen is anywhere "I'm a pretty good public perc~ntage or turnovers ncar his level. speaker. Let's just say I'm 
forced, that showed the suc­"He's not even in my league. probably going to have a good cess of a deiensivc scheme. He's in double-A, and I'm in time," he said. "People might Brown's philosophy, he said, is the MLB," he said. like it, people might not. We'll 
to keep the offense short of the No one on the team escapes see what happens. I told some­stieks at all cost. The other Kuntz's insults and jokes. The body that they better put team could complete 70 per­defensive linemen alonP offer Jimmy first bce<tuse I'm going 
cent of their passes, he said, him enough fodder most of the to be a tough act to follow." but as long as they were short time, but he's not afraid to passes and the defAnse forced spread the Jove around the Contact Bill Brink at three-and-outs. he'd be okay locker room. wbrink@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 3, 2008 


Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 3-1 AP: NR Coaches: NR 

Charlie Weis Fourth season at Notre Dame career record: 
25-16 
against Stanford: 3-0Charlie Weis head coach 

Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht  Wt.  YR  
1  Deion Walker  WR  6-2  188  FR  
3  Michael Floyd  WR  6-3  215  FR  
4  Gary Gray  DB  5-11  188  so  
5  Armando Allen  RB  5-10  195  so  
6  Ray Herring  DB  5-10.  198  SR  
7  Jimmy Clausen  QB  6-3  217  so  
8  Raeshon McNeil  oB  6-0  190  JR  
9  Ethan Johnson  DE  6-4  275  FR  
9  Kyle Rudolph  TE  6-6  252  FR  
10  DayneCrist  QB  6-4  233  FR  
11  David Grimes  WR  5-10  177  SR  
12  Nick Lezynski  QB  5-8  157  so  
12  Robert 13lanton  DB  6-1  180  FR  
13  Evan Sharpley  QB  6-2  215  51<.  
14  Brandon Walker  K  6-3  202  so  
15  Brian Castello  QB  6-2  191  so  
15  Dan McCarthy  DB  6-2  200  FR  
16  Nate Montana  QB  6-4  200  FR  
18  Duval Kamara  WR  6-5  219  so  
19  George West Jr.  WR  5-10  1%  JR  
20  Tcrrail Lambert  DB  5-11  195  SR  
21  Barry Gallup Jr.  RB  5-11  200  JR  
22  Harrison Smith  DB  6-2  206  so  
23  Golden Tate  WR  5-11  195  so  
24  Leonard Gordon  DB  5-11  187  JR  
24  Brian Coughlin  WR  6-0  172  JR  
25  Jonas Gray  RB  5-10  230  FR  
26  Jamoris Slaughter  DB  6-0  182  FR  
27  David Bruton  DB  6-2  212  SR  
28  Kyle McCarthy  DB  6-1  203  SR  
29  Jashaad Gaines  DB  6-0  202  JR  
29  Michael Garcia  WR  6-1  178  so  
30  Steve Paskorz  FB  6-2  235  so  
31  Sergio Brown  DB  6-2  205  JR  
32  Luke Schmidt  TE  6-3  246  JR  
33  Robert Hughes  RB  5-11  237  so  
34  James Aldridge  RB  6-0  225  JR  
35  Kevin Smith  LB  5-8  200  SR  
35  Kevin Brooks  TE  6-2  241  JR  
36  Joe Bizjak  K  6-2  16-.'i  JR  
36  David Posluszny  LB  6-0  220  FR  
37  Mike Anello  DB  5-10  170  SR  
37  Eras Noel  RB  5-8  190  so  
38  Chris Bathon  DB  5-10  192  JR  
38  Christopher Curries  WR  5-10  181  so  
39  Ryan Burkhart  K  5-11  190  JR  
40  Maurice Crum Jr.  LB  6-0  235  SR  
41  Scott Smith  LB  6-3  235  SR  
41  Nikolas Rodriguez  RB  5-11  205  SR  
42  Kevin Washington  LB  6-1  250  SR  
42  Dan Franco  WR  5-10  188  JR  
43  John Leorlis  DB  5-9  169  SR  
43  Eric Maust  p  6-2  177  JR  
44  Asaph Schwapp  FB  6-0  257  SR  
45  Darius Fleming  LB  6-1  236  FR  
45  Kris Patterson  WR  5-11  185  SR  
46  Steve Filer  LB  6-3  2362  FR  
47  Joe Vittoria  LB  5-11  ·44  jR  
47  Mike Narvaez  FB  5-11  231  JR  
48  Steve Quinn  LB  6-2  225  SR  
49  Toryan Smith  LB  6-1  244  JR  
51  Dan Wenger  c  6-4  302  JR  
52  Braxston Cave  c  6-3  315  FR  
53  Morrice Richardson  DE  6-2  255  JR  
54  Anthony McDonald  LB  6-3  225  FR  
55  Eric Olsen  OG  6-5  303  )R  
56  Kerry Neal  LB  6-2  246  so  
57  Mike Colic Jr.  c  6-3  280  FR  
58  Brian Smith  LB  6-3  245  so  
59  Chris Stew art  OG  6-5  337  JR  
61  Martin Quintana  LB  6-1  242  )R  
62  Bill Flavin  c  6-3  252  so  
63  Jeff lisak  OT  6-3  306  SR  
64  Tom Burke  LB  5-10  242  )R  
65  Mike Hernandez  OL  6-2  275  FR  
67  Tom Bemenderfer  c  6-5  300  SR  
69  Carl Brophy  OL  6-4  278  FR  
70  Matt Romine  OT  6-5  292  so  
71  Dennis Mahoney  OL  6-6  290  FR  
72  Paul Duncan  or  6-7  308  SR  
74  Sam Young  or  6-8  330  JR  
75  Taylor Dever  or  6-5  308  so  
75  Lane Clelland  OT  6-5  281  FR  
76  Andrew Nuss  DE  6-5  304  so  
77  Mike Turkovich  OG  6-6  305  SR  
78  Trevor Robinson  OG  6-5  301  FR  
79  Hafis Williams  DE  6-2  302  FR  
81  John Goodman  WR  6-3  197  FR  
82  Robby Parris  WR  6-4  210  JR  
84  Will Yeatman  TE  6-6  265  so  
85  Sam Vos  WR  5-10  199  JR  
86  Paul Kuppich  TE  6-3  232  SR  
87  Joseph Fauria  TE  6-7  245  FR  
89  Kapron Lewis-Moore  DE  6-4  257  FR  
90  John Ryan  LB  6-5  264  ]R  
91  Emeka Nwankwo  DE  6-4  295  so  
93  Paddy Mullen  NT  6-3  300  )R  
94  Jus tin Brown  DE  6-3  277  SR  
95  Ian Williams  NT  6-2  310  so  
96  Pat Kuntz  DE  6-3  283  SR  
97  Kallen Wade  LB  6-5  255  JR  
98  Sean Cwynar  DE  6-4  283  FR  

Irish experts 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Notre Dame 2008 Schedule  
Sept. 6 SDSU-W Sept. 13 MICH-W Sept. 20 at MSU-L Sept. 27 PURDUE.-W Oct. 4 STANFORD Oct. 11 atUNC Oct. 25 at WASH. Nov.1 PfiT Nov. 8 atBC Nov. 15 NAVY Nov. 22 SYRACUSE Nov. 29 at USC  


COACHING QUARTERBACKS 
LIJ 
:E 
ct: 
c 
LIJ
a: 
1­0 
z 



Friday; come Saturday you'll be doing 
Cardinal offense. Brandon Walker gets some push-ups. 
another late field goal to build his con­fidence. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 42  FINAL SCORE:  Notre  Dame  45  
Stanford 20  Stanford 17  FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35  
Stanford 21  

IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 


Charlie Weis has his troops pumped up and executing on both sides of the ball. He's erased doubts and inspired his team to play to its potential.  Jimmy Clausen had his best game of his Notre Dame career, throwing for 27 5 yards, three touchdowns and no picks. He's also identifying blitzes and avoiding pressure well.  Armando Allen broke out of his shell against Purdue and rushed for 134 yards and a touch­down. Notre Dame as a team rushed for 201 yards against the Boilermakers.  Clausen's receivers are so hot right now. Golden Tate, Michael Floyd and, as of late, Kyle Rudolph are all in sync with their quarterback and should continue to threaten opposing secondaries.  
Jim Harbaugh is in his second year as head coach, and after a rough first season ( 4-8) he has the team playing well. A well-played win against Washington shows that Harbaugh has his team on track.  Tavita Pritchard passed efficiently against Washington as well, completing 16-of­24 passes for 222 yards, three touchdowns and no interceptions. He has only one touchdown pass in the first four games, however.  Stanford allows 128 rushing yards per game, but more importantly, it allowed 10 rushing touch­downs. Linebacker Pat Maynor is a Butkus candi­date, however, and will try to limit Notre Dame's rushing offense.  The average pass effi­ciency of Stanford's opponents is 131.9 and the Cardinal have not picked off a pass since Week Two. Oregon State passed for 404 yards, and Arizona State passed for 345 yards.  

 
Stanford's defense is Y~[Y large, so stop­~~~~~~~e far, despite its recent success.  
 





Two weeks ago, Notre Dame was riding high from a huge win that ener­gized the team and the fans. The follow­ing week, Michigan State popped that balloon. Notre Dame can't think too high­ly of itself this week, or else Stanford could catch them 

getting complacent. Look what hap­
pened to USC last year. But I think 
Notre Dame learned its lesson. 
Notre Dame won't rush quite as effec­tively, but it won't matter, because it will run to set up the play-action pass. The Irish run defense will bend, but not break, and the pass defense finally stonewalls an opposing quar­a good night's sleep 
Notre Dame rides its high after beat­ing Purdue against an outmatched Stanford team. Clausen and Allen continue to improve this week and Michael Floyd will have another beast­ly game. The defense goes blitz­crazy and stifles the
terback. Get 

Friday, October 3, 2008 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Stanford Cardinal 

CARDINAL RUSHING CARDINAL PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 

Was last week's offensive explosion a fluke? It won't really matter this week. The only team the Cardinal has held to under four TDs is San Jose State. Expect big numbers again from Clausen and the receiving corps. The 
only chance of an upset is if the Irish 
get a bit too cocky after hearing how 
good they were last week, but I would­
n't expect Charlie to let that happen. FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35 Michigan State 17 
z 
0 
-t :::0 m 
c 
J> 
3: 
m 




Last week you saw a football team and a quar­terback growing right before your eyes. They responded well to the loss to MSU. They are a very young team, but I think a lot of the credit has to go to Charlie and 
his staff to show the perse-Theismann verance that you're going to take a lot of body punch­former es and you just have to stay Irish the course. qumterback 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 21 Michigan 13 
Zahm Hall, played quarterback for Notre Dame and finished second in Heisman voting in 1970. He played in the NFL from 1974 to 1985 for the Washington Redskins and won two Super Bowl rings. He was the NFL's MVP in 1983 and went to the Pro Bowl twice. 
Stanford 2008 Schedule 
Aug. 28  OSU-W  
Sept. 6  at ASU-L  
Sept. 13  atTCU-L  
Sept. 20  SJSU-W  
Sept. 27  atWash.-W  
Oct. 4  at Notre Dame  
Oct. 11  Arizona  
Oct. 18  at UCLA  
Nov.1  wsu  
Nov. 8  at Oregon  
Nov. 15  usc  
Nov. 22  at Cal  

INTANGIBLES 
Stanford 
Cardinal Record: 3-2 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Jim Harbaugh 2nd season at Stanford career record: 7-10 against Notre Dame: 0-1 

Jim Harbaugh head coach 

Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht  Wt.  YR  
2  Corey Gatewood  CB  5-11  188  so  
3  Michael Thomas  CB  5-11  184  FR  
3  L.D. Crow  QB  6-3  224  so  
4  Jasen Forcier  QB  6-2  207  SR  
5  Anthony Kimble  RB  6-1  217  SR  
6  Wopamo Osaisai  CB  5-11  198  SR  
7  Toby Gerhart  RB  6-1  232  JR  
8  Ryan Whalen  WR  6-2  205  so  
9  Richard Sherman  WR  6-3  191  JR  
10  Marcus Rance  WR  6-2  206  JR  
11  Aaron Zagory  K  6-0  176  SR  
12  AnC!rew Luck  QB  6-4  227  FR  
12  C.J. Easter  CB  6-0  182  JR  
13  Marcus Turner  CB  6-0  185  FR  
14  Tavita Pritchard  QB  6-4  205  SR  
15  Alex Loukas  QB  6-4  224  JR  
17  Griff Whalen  WR  6-0  194  FR  
18  Travis Golia  K/P  6-0  193  FR  
19  Nicolas Ruhl  QB  6-3  208  JR  
19  Adrian Rosenkranz  K  6-0  168  FR  
20  Clinton Snyder .  LB  6-4  240  SR  
21  Thaddeus Chase  LB  6-0  220  SR  
22  Bo McNally  s  6-0  205  SR  
23  Austin Yancy  5  6-4  212  JR  
24  Kris Evans  CB  6-0  180  SR  
25  Stephen Carr  RB  6-3  221  JR  
26  Delano Howell  CB  5-11  190  FR  
27  Johnson Bademosi  s  6-1  195  FR  
28  Harold Bernard  s  6-2  180  FR  
29  Chase Richard  FB  6-2  183  FR  
30  Liam McNally  LB  5-11  210  FR  
31  Fred Craig  s  6-2  200  so  
32  Sean Wiser  CB  6-2  194  FR  
33  Quinn Evans  RB  5-10  176  so  
34  Jeremy Stewart  RB  6-0  215  SR  
35  Blaise Johnson  p  5-11  189  FR  
36  Daniel Zychlinski  CB  6-3  225  JR  
37  Mark Mueller  K/P  6-3  196  so  
38  David Green  s  6-1  200  so  
40  Taylor Skaufel  TE/D  6-0  198  SR  
41  Tom McAndrew  E  6-5  258  SR  
42  Will Powers  LB  6-4  240  so  
43  Chike Amajoyi  LB  6-0  235  SR  
44  Pat Maynor  LB  6-2  225  FR  
45  Alex Menke  LS  6-2  202  JR  
45  Andrew Fowl('r  FB  6-2  233  SR  
47  Josh Catron  FB  6-0  241  so  
48  Owen Marecic  s  6-1  246  JR  
49  Tyler Porras  LB  6-2  186  JR  
so  Nick Macaluso  LB  6-3  239  FR  
51  Alex Debniak  C/G  6-2  218  FR  
52  David DeCastro  OT  6-5  297  JR  
53  Derek Hall  DT  6-5  298  SR  
54  Ekom Udofia  LB  6-2  310  so  
55  Johnathan Frink  LS  6-2  224  JR  
56  ZachNolan  LB  6-4  208  so  
57  Max Bergen  LB  6-2  223  FR  
58  Jeff Bowisby  c  6-2  228  SR  
60  Alex Fletcher  OT  6-3  296  SR  
61  Matt Kopa  OL  6-6  290  FR  
62  Kanoa O'Conner  OT  6-0  255  SR  
63  Chris Marinelli  OG  6-7  297  FR  
64  Sam Schwartzstein  OG  6-3  263  SR  
65  Gustav Rydstedt  C/G  6-3  294  so  
66  Matt Ben tier  OT  6-5  286  SR  
67  Alien Smith  DT  6-4  293  FR  
68  Andy Altman  DE  6-3  280  FR  
69  Ryan Murphy  DT  6-4  230  JR  
70  Bert McBride  c  6-3  292  FR  
70  Padric Scott  DT  6-1  286  FR  
71  Andrew Phillips  OG  6-5  295  JR  
72  Chase Beeler  OG  6-3  288  JR  
73  Jonathan Martin  OT  6-6  268  FR  
74  James Mc.{;illicuddy  DT  6-3  297  SR  
75  Joe Dembesky  OT  6-5  290  JR  
76  Ben Muth  OT  6-6  296  SR  
77  Tyler Mabry  OT  6-7  289  so  
78  Brad Hallick  OG  6-6  286  so  
79  George Halamandaris OT  6-7  292  so  
60  Erik Lorig  DE  6-4  270  SR  
81  ChrisOwusu  WR  6-2  192  FR  
82  Coby Fleener  TE  6-6  238  so  
83  Jim Dray  TE  6-5  255  JR  
84  Austin Gunder  TE  6-5  245  SR  
85  Nate Wilcox-Fogel  WR  6-1  188  SR  
87  Warren Reuland  WR  6-5  204  FR  
88  Konrad Reuland  TE  6-6  256  so  
89  Doug Baldwin  WR  5-11  185  so  
91  PannelEgboh  DE  6-6  275  SR  
92  SioneFua  DT  6-2  305  so  
93  Chase Thomas  DE  6-4  218  FR  
94  Tom Keiser  DE  6-5  252  so  
95  Brian Bulcke  DT  6-4  278  JR  
98  Matthew Masifilo  DT  6-3  284  so  
99  Levirt Griffin  DE  6-4  271  JJR  

Irish experts 

Stanford primarily rush­es the ball. After running back Toby Gerhart left the Washington game because of a concussion, Anthony Kimble came in off the bench and rushed for 157 yards and two touch­downs.  Pritchard has thrown a touchdown pass to four different receivers this season and hit eight dif­ferent receivers against Washington. Ryan Whalen leads Cardinal receivers with 138 yards on 14 catches.  Through the grace of God, Notre Dame made a field goal against Purdue. Armando Allen came within inches of breaking a big return, and Eric Maust showed he has the leg to be a solid punter.  Confidence couldn't be higher right now. The offense was balanced and moved the ball both through the air and on the ground against Purdue. The defense continues to make game-changing plays.  
The Irish limited Kory Sheets against Purdue, but still gave up over 100 yards rushing and a long rushing touchdown. Notre Dame will likely use a heavier front against Stanford, however, so the Cardinal will have a  Notre Dame allowed 359 passing yards against Purdue, but Curtis Painter did throw the ball 55 times. Robert Blanton returned an interception return for a touchdown.  Placekicker Aaron Zagory is 6-for-7 with a long of 52 yards. Jeremy Stewart averages 23.1 yards per kickoff return. Punter David Green averages 40.2 yards per punt.  If you like the six degrees of separation game, Stanford be at Oregon State, which beat USC. Could build some confidence. The Cardinal will also want to atone for losing to a  
tougher time.  terrible Irish team last  
fall.  

 . ~:-~­.... •. 1 Nod·~ LDame: also.. ····.· . {missed' twg.!!eltrgbals. It didn'tlmatter l\ecause the ga~ ~asn\'1 close, but i[ JJ was, ;those missed,kicl$ coUld have cost tt(a;lrisli a_\~P· . .·. ~~:c.'fo?f '  
 
.-.. ,. ···-... .· .<:x~:;;_;,~'ii~: NottiD4m=e· ~llows 117 y~fds Pi:.~e and 4.6 yards pe~a.;rry this seasori-,\i}ppf)'tle'l!~ have also sc'ftted a ~shing touchdown <in •!every game tt).is ~~n. !, ·..·  

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 3, 2008 

Crunching the numbers 
2008 SEASON AVERAGES PER GAME 
ND points scored 
Stan points scored 
ND points allowed 
Stan points allowed 
ND rush yards Stan rush yards 
ND rushing allowed Stan rushing allowed 
ND pass yards Stan pass yards 
ND passing allowed Stan passing allowed 


Why do you wear No.4? 
I was going to wear No. 3, but Demetrius [Jones] wanted it and I didn't want to get anything higher than a single digit so I went with four. 
Where's your favorite place to be on campus other than the stadium? 
I think I'd have to say my bed in St. Edward's Hall. 
Who has the best nickname on the team? 
I would have to say myself. They call me G-squared. 
If you could go anywhere on Earth, where would it be? 
I would probably go to Brazil for the fun in the sun I guess. My friend went there and he said it was real nice. 
What's the top song in your iPod right now? 
That's a tough one. Probably a song from Lil Wayne or Jay-Z, something like that. 
What's the worst class you've taken so far at Notre Dame? 
I don't think any of them are all that hor­rible, but I had a hard time with Intro to Film and Television in my first semester here. 
What's yourfavorite meal? 
Fried chicken. My mom's fried chicken. 
What do you to get yourselfpumped up for games? 
I normally just put on my iPod and listen to some tunes, usually Phil Collins. I like "In the Air Tonight." 
Who is the most intimidating coach on stajQr.? · 
Sometimes it's Coach [Corwin] Brown, but I'd probably have to say [tight ends] Coach [Bernie] Parmalee because he's quiet, scary quiet. 
What's your fal,orite show to watch on television right now? 
Heroes. 
~­

PRIME  STEAKS  AND  SEAFOOD  •  SPORTS  Tl-IEATRE  ROO:M  WITH  15' SCREEN  
SEATING  FOR  OVER  500  •  LARGEST  MARTINI  BAR  IN  THE  AREA  
PRIVATE  DINING  •  OUTDOOR  SEATING  •  BANQUETS  •  CATERING  

Home of t:he Official Notre Dru:.n.e Faotball Radio Show. Hosted by Jack Nolan and Reggie Brooks each Monday at 7:00pm through November 24 -"WSB"I 960 .AM. 
Friday, October 3, 2008 
The Observer+ .IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Knoxville native finds home in Indiana 
blue and gold uniforms and had
By DAN MURPHY 
the Fighting Irish as its nick­
Sports Editor 
name. 
"We had a lot of Notre Dame Every fall since he was five fans at my high school, but that years old, Harrison Smith has really didn't have anything to spent his Saturdays watching do with it," Smith said. Tennessee football with his Despite the fact that he didn't family. That is until he started follow in their footsteps, Smith playing for the Irish last year. said that his family was still 
"Tennessee is a great place," very happy with his decision to he said. "Pretty much all my come to South Bend. friends go there, my brother "They come up to all the and my sister go there, my par­games and everything. It's kind ents went there. I just feel more of cool because they can watch at home here." games somewhere else for a 
Smith was born and raised a change," he said. 
Volunteer Jan in  Smith, who is  
the heart Rocky  of Top  '"/ don't know. 1 just  still listed safety on  as a the  
Nation.  He  like it better. It  Irish roster, has  
went to Knoxville Catholic High  was just the total package -football.  given his family something to cheer about as  
School and still  academics. the  he  gets  more  
roots for the orange when he  University. ••  involved with the Notre Dame  
gets a chance.  defense in each  
Smith  was  Harrison Smith  game.  
highly recruited out of high  Irish sophomore  He spent his freshman season  
school,  but  on the sidelines  

managed to slip out of the fin­buried behind Tom Zbikowski gertips of his backyard team. (now with the Baltimore He was named the state's 2006 Havens) and seniors David Gatorade Player of the Year in Bruton and Kyle McCarthy. his senior season. He was also This spring the coaching staff listed as one the top 250 approached Smith and said they prospects by Rivals.com and in wanted him to give outside line­the top 25 of the Athlete catego­backer a try. They thought his ry. speed and football knowledge 
"I don't know. I just like it bet­was being wasted on the side­ter. It was just the total package lines and could add a new -football, academics, the dimension to their linebacker University," Smith said. corps. 
It probably didn't hurt that "I was a little bit hesitant at Knoxville Catholic played in first because I didn't really know what to expect," Smith said. "I thought it was going to be a whole new process and I was just starting to feel com­fortable at safety." 
The transition didn't take long. By the time the first depth chart was released this season Smith was the No. 1 Sam (or strong side) linebacker. 
"At first it was a little bit awk­ward, but it's not too bad. A lot 
of the assignments  are  the  
same you just line up in a  dif­ 
ferent spot," Smith said.  

One adjustment that Smith did have to make was getting used to a slightly more physical style of play. He said the new job called for a different men­tality than he was used to. 
"You just have to line up and be ready to play," Smith said. 
. At 6-foot-2, 206 pounds Smith is slightly undersized as a line­backer. What he lacks in size, he can normally make up for once he gets himself going. 
"I think if I get running I can usually match people size when I get some speed. It's been a lot of fun," he said. 
Smith's speed works well in the blitz-happy Notre Dame defense. Smith has been able to effectively get around offensive lineman and put pressure on the ball especially in the past few weeks. 
"He's played well and he's really stepped up," defensive coordinator Corwin Brown said. "He gives us a lot of flexibility and lets us do some different things." 
Smith is currently sixth on the Irish defense with 12 tackles including two behind the line of scrimmage through four games. Last week against the Boilermakers he had two big stops and also broke up a pass. Smith said he feels himself becoming better and better each time he touches the field. 

"Each week you get more comfortable playing as you kind of see the things that teams will do against you, kind of like a theme, so it makes it easier to adjust," he said. 
As it gets easier and easier for Smith, it probably gets hard each week for Tennessee coach Phillip Fulmer and his fans to watch what snuck away. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Last season will prevent "trap" game for the Irish Saturday 

By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Managing Editor 
If there is one good thing about last year's debacle, it's that this year Notre Dame understands how important each game is, Irish coach Charlie Weis said. 
"I think one of the best things is because we had not been winning last year, this is not a team that's set up for a letdown. 
perform. 
"We could lose to anybody on the schedule if we just show up; whereas, there's teams, the upper echelon teams, I'm not going to say any of them in par­ticular, but there's a lot of upper echelon teams that because they already have that mentali­ty where they expect to win every week, okay. when they show up for a game, they fig­ure, well, we'll still end up win­ning at the end of the day, 
Some teams like "/told our team it's and guess that sometimes what, it does­
kind oflike when you
have trap games, n't always
were nine-years old 
you know, where work out that you just -they playing in the back­way," he said. just figure they Last week­
yard and visualizing
can show up and end, four top-
playing in front ofa
win," he said. 10 teams (No. The team is big crowd ... 1 USC, No. 3 coming off an Georgia, No. 4 impressive win Florida and
Jim Harbaugh 
last week against No. 9 
Stanford coach 
-Wisconsin) all
Purdue whose only previous loss was in dou­ble overtime against No. 23 Oregon. 
Weis said that his team treats each individual game separately because it wants to make sure it can win. 
"That's why when we go to play against Stanford. you don't have to say, well, they are going to feel pretty good about beat­ing Purdue and not show up for Stanford." Weis said. 
Up next for the Irish is the Cardinal, a team Notre Dame has beaten the last six times they have met. 
Despite Notre Dame's recent success against Stanford, Weis said every game on the sched­ule is losable if his team fails to lost, and only 
Georgia lost to a ranked team (41-30 at home to No. 8 Alabama). 
Stanford has struggled of late, going only 4-8 last season, but with wins at Southern Cal and at Arizona. This year, the Cardinal already have three wins, including a victory against Oregon State in the season opener. 
One reason for this turn­around is head coach Jim Harbaugh, who is in the middle of his second year with the pro­gram. 
Although this is Harbaugh's first trip to South Bend as a coach, he is no stranger to Notre Dame Stadium, having played there as a senior at 
Michigan in 1986. Harbaugh's Wolverines won that game 24­23 en route to an 11-2 record and a Rose Bowl berth. 
Harbaugh said in his weekly media news conference Tuesday that he told his players to relish this moment because it is a unique one in college football. 
"[Notre Dame is] an unbeliev­able setting. I had a chance to play there once as a college senior. It's something you 'II remember for awhile," he said. "I told our team it's kind of like when you were nine-years old playing in the back yard and visualizing playing in front of a big crowd. Put yourself in that setting. We're not nine-years old anymore but we are in that setting." 
While their Michigan playing careers never overlapped, Irish defensive coordinator Corwin Brown said he personally knows Harbaugh from working football camps with him. Their professional careers also over­lapped. 
Brown also said the Cardinal have taken on Harbaugh's tough attitude. 
"It looks like they have ltaken on his personality]. They play hard and try to execute, kind of what you expect from a team he coaches," Brown said. 
Harbaugh said one of the biggest challenges for his squad Saturday will be Notre Dame's balanced offense. The Irish ran the ball 39 times and threw the ball 35 times with one sack. Both the run and pass were effective against Purdue, lead­ing to 476 yards of total offense. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

page 8 Friday, October 3, 2008 
' 


1iMte in. ca-Reat. 
Daily News, Commentary, Saint &History
Founded by NO Alumni Marc "Bram" Brammer ('74 BA, '76 MBA) Michael "Rah-Rah" Voris ('83 BA) 

! . 








