
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 1 SATURDAY. AUGUST 23.2008 
Freshman fencer competes in Olympics 
By DAN MURPHY News Writer 
In the past week students have poured into South Bend from all 
around the world, but it is safe to say that none of them had a longer-or 
more inter­esting journey than 


freshman Meinhardt G e r e k Meinhardt. 
Meinhardt was in Beijing last week competing for the United States fencing team in the Olympics. The San Francisco native left China on Aug. 17 and spent a few hectic days packing, doing interviews, and saying goodbye to friends before arriv­ing on campus Thursday. 
"The worst part was the jet­lag. It would get to be about three o'clock and I just couldn't take it anymore. I would end up taking about a four hour nap," Meinhardt said. 
He then boarded a plan to Chicago and endured the treacherous four-hour bus ride to campus before fmally moving into his new room in Knott Hall. 
"The dorms aren't quite as 
nice as the Olympic Village, but I have a TV in my room now and I didn't over there, so that is nice," he said. 
Meinhardt finished tenth overall in the men's foil event, but even making the team was a serious accomplishment. Meinhardt, who turned 18 less than a month ago, was the youngest fencer in Beijing by nearly five years. He has only been competing on the senior level for a year and a half and was not expected to debut on the Olympic level until the 2012 games in London. 
"Olympic fencers can be as old as 35, 36, 37 years old. Experience is a huge factor is a sport like fencing, so for Gerek to be there was very special," Irish fencing coach Janusz Bednarski said. Bednarski was an Olympic coach for the Polish national team in the late 1970s. 
"He is a great young man who not only is a terrific athlete, but also is very intelligent," Bednarski said. 
Meinhardt first got into fenc­ing when he was nine years old. His piano teacher at the time happened to be married to an Olympic fencer who was open­ing a gym nearby. The young Meinhardt gave it a try and quickly began racking up cham­
see MEINHARDT/page 10 

Duncan Hall vvelcon1es its first students 
Resiqent~_P.!_ill select mascot, colors, signature event for new male dorm on West Quad 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame, meet Duncan I!all. 
The new men's residence hall, which cost approxi­mately $20 million and took 17 months to construct, opened this week, taking its spot on West Quad next to McGlinn llall. 
The first of the 232 men who will live in the building began moving in this week, and the overwhelming reac­tion to the first dorm built on Notre Dame campus since 1997 has been positive. 
Luis Silva, a senior, was playing pool in his new dorm Thursday morning. 
"It's definitely a step up 
from my other dorm," he said. Silva, who was wearing his new "Duncan Hall" T­shirt Thursday, previously lived in St. Edward's Hall. 
Jeff Shoup, the director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing added: "The size of the rooms are very nice -just the newness and freshness of it." 
The rooms in Duncan Hall are larger than most rooms in Notre Dame's other resi­dence halls, and the students who moved in early have been surprised by the size of their new rooms, Shoup said. 
"A lot will come unpre­pared," Shoup said. "They will bring a lounge chair and realize they need more 
see DUNCAN/page 11 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
2 attacked nearOover Ridge 
ND student, fiance hospitalizedfor injuries 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA and JENNMETZ 
News Writers 
A Notre Dame student and her fiance were attacked and robbed while walking from a local restaurant to her Clover Ridge apartment Thursday night, police said. 
The attack, described by Captain Phil Trent of the South Bend Police Department (SBPD) as a "strong armed robbery," took place at 10:50 p.m. in front of 1710 North Irish Way. Both victims were taken to a local 
hospital and were  released  
Friday.  
Jenni  Gargula,  21  was  

returning to her apartment from Between the Buns on South Bend Ave. with her fiance, Tom Chesnick, Notre Dame '07, and Liz Crosby, 21, when a black Jaguar pulled up alongside them. 
Crosby, a friend who was walking with the victims, told The Observer that a white male in his early twenties jumped out of the passenger seat of the car and claimed that Chesnick owed him money. Chesnick had never seen the attacker before. 
The attacker proceeded to punch Chesnick in the face and repeatedly beat him, Crosby said. The driver then 
see ATTACK/page 9 


ND admits diverse class of 2012 
By JENN METZ News Editor 
The Notre Dame class of 2012 has something to be proud of. 
The estimated 1,995 first-year studBnts moving onto campus this W!lek!lnd mad!l it through one of the toughest university admissions processes in the country. They arc among the 26 percent of applicants accepted out of a total of 13,947, the sec­ond-largest applicant pool in the University's history. 
"This is a neat, exciting and talented class," Daniel Saracino, assistant provost for admissions, said. "They are much more than just test scores." 
The acceptance rate ranks up with the top universities in the country. 
"We're not trying to make Notre Dame a Stanford, or a 
see FRESHMEN/page 9 

NO'"fREDAME CLASS OF 2012 
13,947 1,995 1405 20°/o 

Total Applicants First Year Students~:• 
Average SAT Score 
(Critical Reading & Math) 
Ethnic Minorities 
9% Hispanic 6% Asian 3% African American 1% Native American 
0 estimated 
SOURCE• NOTRE DAME ADMISSIONS 

Swarbrick hired as nevv athletic director 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
After an extensive search, University president John Jenkins named Indiana lawyer Jack Swarbrick Notre Dame's 12th athletic director on July 16. A member of the Notre Dame class of 1976 and an expert in sports law, Swarbrick replaced former athletic director Kevin White, who left to take the same position at Duke University. 
"I am confident that in Jack Swarbrick we have found a superb athletic director for the University of Notre Dame," Jenkins said in his introduction of Swarbrick. "In his career, Jack Swarbrick has gained and exhibited 
skills that include communi­cations, marketing, negotia­tions, and consensus building at the highest level. all within the athletics arena." 
A native of Yonkers, N.Y., who moved with his family to Bloomington, Ind., when he was a teenager, Swarbrick attended Stanford Law School after graduating from Notre Dame. He then returned to Indiana, where he joined the law firm of Baker & Daniels, where he specialized in sports law and forged strong relationships with many exec­utives in college athletics. 
"He has developed numer­ous relationships with key leaders in college sports: the BCS commissioners, athletic 
see SWARBRICK/page 10 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Saturday, August 23, 2008 

INSIDE COLUMN 

) 

Grandpa and George

r ~ 
I can still remember those simple Saturday after­noons, going over Grandma and Grandpa's house to 
watch the Notre Dame game with Grandpa. 
lle'd sit in his usual chair and I'd sit on the couch. Grandma or my Aunt Paula would make us some­thing to eat. I'd have a lemonade or a soda in my hand, he'd have the remote -not to change the ehannel in case things went bad for the Irish, but so he eould tape the game while eutting out the com­mer<~ials. Grandpa liked to re­watch the games during the week 


Chris Hine 
and save the spedal ~mes, like the 
Edior-in-Chief
"Snow Bowl" game against Penn 
State from 1992. 
We'd wateh Lou nervously pick­ing the grass from the sidelines, Mark Edwards gain about four or five yards every time he ran the ball up the middle, and watch a local hero of ours, Ron Powlus, come from our home in Northeastern Pa., to quarterbaek our favorite team. 
When people say, "Life was so much simpler before," they meant days like those Saturday afternoons with Grandpa. Grandpa loved Notre Dame, even though he never went there, and watching those games was his favorite thing to do in life. A part of me will always miss those Saturdays. 
Flash forward a few years, and I'm a high school senior, and Grandpa, my mother's father, is in the hos­pital. I In fought through a stroke a few years back, but now this time it doesn't look good. I went over to visit Grandpa in the Hospice wing of the hospital one day after school. I helped him drink his tea and we talked about Notr<~ Dame. lie didn't have to say it, but I knew he wanted me to get into school there badly. It was one of his tina) wishes. 
We said goodbye, but little did I know that it would be the last time I'd see him alive-he died a few days later. 

10: 15-11:4 5 am  Introduction to Residence Hall Staff  
followed by lunch in the Dining Hall for students and family  
1 :00-2:15 pm  Official Orientation Program for First-Year Students and Parents  
Joyce Center  
2:30-3:15 pm  Official Welcome to Notre Dame  
General session for all first-year students with advisors, Parent Orientation  
8:00pm  Orientation with Rectors and Hall Staff for Students and Families  

About three weeks after his funeral -on a Saturday afternoon -mom cam running in the house, tears streaming down her face, with an envelope from Notre Dame in her hand. It was the big envelope. I hurriedly opened it and read the tirst sentence of the letter before being mobbed by mom and dad. I had been accepted. Grandpa's last wish had come true. 
Flash forward three more years. I'm a junior now at Notre Dame, and sitting in the Observer office, check­ing phone messages. l get one from a man named George-Porter Young, a former employee at LaFortune. George tells me he's originally from England and has bmm in America for the past 30-some years. Now, he's in his 70s and dying of cancer, and he wants to go home to bn with his family before he dies. He can't fly bneause of his cancer, needs help getting home and 

8:30-9:00 am  Continental Breakfast for Families  
Concourse of Joyce Center  
10:00 am  Eucharistic Liturgy  
Joyce Center  
12:00-1:00 pm  Spirit of Notre Dame  
Including a performance by the Notre Dame Marching Band. Joyce Center  
2:30-5:00 pm  Residence Hall Programming  
7:00-10:00 pm  Residence Hall Programming  

· was hoping the Observer could do a story to help raise funds lor his long, expensive trip home. 
Before I called George back to do the story, I thought of my grandfather, and how this was a chance to help someone out the way God had helped Grandpa and me. I talked to George many times over the next few weeks, and we did the story about his time here at Notre Dame, but George's final wish couldn't have come true without the help from the Notre Dame fami­ly. 
You hear stories all the time about what a giving and · generous community Notn~ Dame is, but George's wish was a witness to that generosity. After our story on George ran, donations came pouring in from alumni, professors, campus administrators, and students. Some people even gave thousands of dollars to help George get home. The generosity was overwhelming. 
(;norge will be leaving for England soon, and l sO.g­gnst everyone go over to LaFortune and see if George is there. IIe ean share with you a wealth of wisdom and knowledge. 
I bring up these stories to remind you, freshmen, what a unique place Notre Dame is. It helped create a powerful bond between my grandfather and me that will last forever. And it has helped George lind his way home one last time. 
You learn pretty quickly that being a part of the Notre Dame community is more than cheering on those Saturday afternoons. Yes, you're here to have fmi and get a good education, but you hii.ve to do more with your time here than simply enter the business school to IP.apfrog your way to a high-paying job after school. Ao; an institution, Notre Dame definitely has its ­flaws, but the Notre Dame community ean be a power"' f'ul !'oren that makes a direct, positive impact on the lives of many people. 
So welcome to Notre Dame, now go out and be a part of it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Coftt.mn are lhose of the author and not necessarily those•qf The Observer. 
.. . ... 
...

• . 
''----------------------------~'~·~-----~----------~----------------------------~~----~----------------------------------~~--~ 
• 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU MOST EXCITED ABOUT IN YOUR FIRST YEAR? 



Ellen Jantsch Jessica Schuveiller Brett Leahy . Adam Zaabel Amanda Jonovski 
freshman freshman freshman freshman freshman Farley Farley Duncan Duncan P.E. 
''I'm excitedfor ''I'm excited for "Getting to meet "Just being part "Finally going 
the women's all thefun a bunch ofnew ofthe to the college soccer team to athletic games people and Notre Dame that rve been win a national and meeting making a name tradition. " working for four championship. " new pe·ople." for Duncan years to get 
Hall.'' into. " 
ORIENTATION WEEKEND 
FRESHMAN ORIEN'fKfiON SCHEDULE 
SATURDAY AUG23 
SUNDAY AUG24 
MONDAY AUG25 

ongomg Mandatory computer security sessions. 101 & 102 DeBartolo· Hall. Every 15 minutes from 9:00 am-12:00 pm and 1:00-4:30 pm 1lam, 1 and 3pm College HAS Issues: Hook-ups, Alcohol & Sexual Assault Leighton Concert Hall-Debartolo Performing Arts Center 

TODAY TONIGHT SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 



'\. 

Atlan.ta 82 I 68 Boston 81 I 61 Chicago 84 I 65 Denver 82/ 63 Houston 89 I 73 Lo$.Angeles 83 I 65 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampi!_ 88 I 68 
.. 

• • , .. 



-------------------------,-------------------------------------------------­Saturday, August 23, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEW~ page 3 

Saint Mary's vvelcoines accom.plis_hed fresh111an class 
Smaller class of2012 boasts high GPAs _and SAT scores and an increased number of minority, international students 
year's pool. More than 60 per-
By LI.Z HARTER 
cent of the incoming students 
Saint Mary's Editor 
had an average high school GPA of 3.61 or higher with_64 stu­The·incoming freshman class dents maintaining a perfect 4.0 at Saint Mary's has something ·.throughout their entire high 
. to brag about this year. school career. . 
. While the 460 students who The larger class sizes of the will enroll at the Collflge .this . p<;tst two years are a part of week don't measure up numeri­College "president Carol Ann cally to the 481 students in the Mooney's initiative to increase class of 2011 -·the large_st enrollment and boost Saint . incoming class in 17 years -Mary's national recQgnition. they ·are one of thf) most aca­Th~. College was recently
named one pf the best colleges'demically talented ctasses in the 
pistory of the . 
in the Midwest liy
College. th·e Princeton 
-. "This ~s always a_.

"This is Review for"' the
•. sixth ye"ar in a row
always a,. se·nsi­sensitive issue, but tive issue, but 
this year's class is ~~tdo[~~k e4~ ~~si
·this · )'ear's 2 
one of the best from Lil:reral Arts
class is one of Co·lle g e s by the.
tlie best from a·n ..academic · an academic U.S. News and
perspe_ctive: " 

perspective," World Report. said vice presi-· ·· [\1ooney first lient for enrull­Dan Meyer · -addressed this m(mt mapage­vice presiden\ for loiJg-term plan in rrrent · Dan enrollment· management her inaugural 
· ··Meyer. ·:other · address. . in ~lasses don't ·. · January 2005. In . like to hear this because of how that speech, she said-stapilizing it reflects on their accomp1ish­·enrollmeqt was her "top priori-· ments." ty." s.he took ~teps toward real-The applicant pool increased izing that goal by creating the this year to 1,422 -a 10.9· per­position of Vice .President for · cent increase from. tbe previous ~nrollment Management. 



SAINrf MARY'S COLLEGE .CLASS OF 2012 
< : 

460 Students.~ ·1,422 Applicant· Pool 
F h · · f · 36 t t M th 60 t 
. r-es. men q.re rom s a es . ore an percen 5 international students ofthe·. incoming students 55 m' or'ty StUd t h. d . . h' h h l
Ill. l . . en S . . . ~ a an av.er~ge. Ig .SC 00 G~A of3.61-.or higher. 
· '. Observergraphic/MaryJesse ,SOURCE: SAINT MARY'S ENROLLMENT MANAG~NT 
The Cwh~ge's efforts to stabi-College endowment-fund, which inerease in the numl:rer of lize enrollment has financial would "reduce dependeace on diverse students to 55 from last· relevance·, as welt In 2005, enrollment.(Dr financial stabili-year's 4 7 with the l<trg.est . ·• Saint Mary's.faced a $1.5 mil-:ty.. . · increase seen among Pacific lion budget deficit due to small .Enrolling freshman .Come. Asian Islanders with 13 stuc classes and fewer tuition dol-from 36 states and include five . dents up from last year's six." Iars. international students from The number ofDlack students 
."By hitt!ng the [1:lor_ollment] . C:hina, Honduras, Myanmar, increased to six from rast year's mark at 11600 or 1,700,~' Meyer 'Japan and Vietnam. as"well as· fi;J;e and the number o{Hispanic' said in an intervie.w last year, five U.S. students who were liv-stYdents stayed co]lsistent at "we are better equipped to deal. ing abroa'.ct in Switzerland, 33, Meyer s~id. · ~ • with that. problem." : . Kuwait, Korea, Bolivia and · Meanwhile, Mooney has stai-i-·Italy. · . Contact Liz Harter at · ed an initiative to. doubte the 'fhe class of 2012 also . .saw an ~harteOI@saintmarys.edu 
. . 

·l~tere_sted in ""orking fo~ 

.. 
THE 


. . . 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dairy campus newspaper? 


come· to'iour 
. 
Open House! 
' . 
~ w ' •' .;.
Sunday Aug. 31
. . 
. ' 
Basement of· _South Di_ning f:l.aU.. .. 3-5 pm 
. ·,. 
.· 

• 
.. 
..
.. 
.. 
. . 
.. . 



eontaet·us 

..News Jenn Metz jmetz®nd.edu ~ 
. ' . 

Sports· Bill Bril'lk wbrink@nd.edu 
D-an M·urp·hy dmu_rphy~@nd.;du 
,. •· "'"· ... ' .. 

Scene .~ Anat•se .L~.pari aHpari@nd.edu
.• P.hoto Jessica Lee j/ee@nd.edu ~-··_ • 
. .:<~ • 
. 

··Graphics Ma~ry Je..sse ~-mjesse@nd.edu
"'··· : .•' . ..:-··:.. 

·1r~ewpoin~ .. · Kara KJng • kking5@~d.edu .. 
··-·.· .
. .. . 

.-A~veltisilig !i~_~_dd[~ Bgy·~ r inboyer@nd.edu · ·.* ,·· • ~.. SMC News. &ii-Harterwi!&: .. ·e}lart-e01 
·-
®saintmarys.eda
• p 

.. . 
..
... , . •

... 
• 
.• . ' . 

#. .. ,.-­
' 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 23, 2008 
Three new hall directors join St. Mary's College community 
By MANDl STIRONE  said. Then she did online research.  a  little  tually connected to the [col­lege]. It's very awe-inspir­ tics of Saint Mary's were sim­ilar," she said.  to Saint Mary's aftnr graduat­ing from Syracuse University  
A•si.,lanr News Edicor  "It looked like  a  beautiful  ing," she said:  When she first arrived  on  and traveling "extensively,"  
place based on the Web site,"  Shea comes to Saint Mary's  campus, there  were  no  stu­ she said.  
Most Saint Mary's studnnts  Hobinson said.  from  Simmons  College  in  dents  moved  in  and  she  Prior to  arriving at Saint  
who live on campus will have  She called assuming her  Boston, another all-women's  couldn't wait for  them  to  Mary's, she taught English in  
new  hall directors this year,  post in LeMans,  institution.  start arriving, she said.  Spain, then China and  trav­ 
as  four of the five  residence  the  largest  She  found  She added that she is espe­ eled around Europe, she said.  
halls weleomP. new leaders. Leslifl Hobinson, Kady Shea and Terrie Paul have all  dorm on cam­pus, a "mix of emotions."  "McCandless has the best RA staffon  Saint Mary's during an online ·search,  cially proud of the staff of "McOpus," her eight McCandless Resident  While she is working to help the residents of Holy Cross, she is also working  
recently joined the Saint Mary's community. Shea is  Now that stu­dents are start­ campus.  she said. "I literally  Advisors, RAs.  and  the  2  Opus  towards from  a graduate degree Michigan State  
the director for both McCandlnss hall and Opus IIall.  ing to show up on cam pus, Hobinson is  Kady Shea hall director  went online, went to every women's col­ "McCandless has the best RA" staff on campus," she said.  University Paul found after doing a  Saint Mary's "nation-wide  
Hobinson,  the  new  hall  getting  a  feel  McCandless and Opus  lege Web site  With the first-year students  search,"  she  said.  She  
dirnetor for LeMans Hall is a rnennt graduate of Ohio State  for the student body and the  Halls  and looked up jobs in higher  moving in, Shea is eager to start the year. "It's a little  described Saint Mary's as "one place that felt very com­ 
Univ11rsity. Though she had  students  she  education," she  overwhelming, but I'm excit­ fortable,"  and  as  a  place  
never  heard of Saint Mary's  will  be  in  said.  ed to  kick things into gear  where she would be able to  
bP.fore applying for the hall  charge of during the year.  She  chose  Saint  Mary's  and to  try and get to  know  contribute to, she said.  
director position, she  was  "I think it's wonderful," she  because she wanted to  be at  everyone," she said.  
looking for  a  small college  said.  "It has  a  very unique  a school like her alma mater,  Holy Cross Hall's  new  hall  Contact Mandi Stirone at  
whflre she could work, she  student body that is so  spiri­ and "a lot of the characteris­ director, Terrie Paul,  comes  astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu  


Cadets adjust to military life 
Orientation events introduce new recruits to Notre Dame, ROTC 
courtesy Mike Freshman Dan Mulligan, right, directs his platoon mate, freshman Mihal lancu, through a mock minefield Thursday outside Pasquerilla Center. The event was part of Notre Dame's Army ROTC orientation. 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistanr News Editor 
He'd been on campus for only four days, but freshman Army HOTC eadet candidate Dan Mulligan wa'> alrnady leading one of his platoon mates through a minefield. 
Mulligan called out directions Thursday afternoon -walk towards me, stop, lift your f(let ­to his blind-folded partner as he navigatnd the mock minefield set up next to tho l'a'>querilla Center. Mulligan diroctod his teammate through tho course and around the 'mines' -plastic plates weightnd down with rocks -as an upperda<;sman timed him from tho sideline. 
The purpose of the event -one of six stations in the Notre Dame Army HOTC's Irish Haco-is to build teamwork and trust among tlw new members of the platoon. 
Last Monday, students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, lloly Cross, Bethel, !USB and ValparaL'io arrived at Notre Dame to take part in HOTC orientation. Each branch of the HOTC program ha<; it<; own orientation schedule, but all involve team-building exercises ;md an introdudion to lif(l in the military. 
Cadet Sgt. Major Hyan Slaney, a junior at Notre Dame, said the Army IH>TC's orinntation program gets the new cadets, most of whom are frnshmen, integrated into the battalion. They introducn them to tlw various component<; of HOTC life at Notre Dame -get­ting up early, wearing the unilbnn and intense oxercL<;ing. 
To join the HOTC program, eadet<; have to pa'is a physical fit­ness test, which consist<; of hitting certain benchmarks during two 
minutes of sit-ups, two min­utes of push­ups and a two­mile run. 
Mulligan passed his test Wednesday morning. 
"I've always known I've wanted to go into tllC military and since sixth grade, I've wan ted to go henl [Notre Dame]. so it's 
the best of both worlds," he said. 
Mulligan, and other cadets who pass the test, signed their contract with HOTC Friday for four years, with thP option to leave after the lirst year. 
Sophomore Christopher B1mnett. also an Army cadet, said his freshman year ROTC orienta­tion wa<> a fun week and a primer on where the classrooms and other buildings are located on campus. Being in HOTC is an experience that few people get to have, he said. 
"You get the normal college experience while being prepared to join the military," he said. 
This week, members of the 
''I've always known I've wanted to go into the military and since sixth grade, I've wanted to go here {Notre Dame], so it's the best of both worlds. " 
Dan Mulligan freshman 
guaranteed career when one graduates, Slaney said. 
"If you want to serve your coun­try, this is a great way to do it," he said. 
Linzi Meyering, a sophomore at Bethel College, decided just last week that she wanted to join the Army ROTC program. 
"It's an awesome way to pay for college," she said. "And a great way to serve God and my country." 
The ROTC orientation ended Friday so freshmen could partici­pate in their residence hall's fresh­man orientation events. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Army ROTC battalion awoke each morning at 5 a.m. to begin their day. As part of the week's itinerary, they went to Five Pines, Mich. to do a high ropes course and made a rope bridge over St. Mary's Lake at Notre 
Dame. 
This year, 28 students, mostly freshman, arrived on campus to pur­sue an Army cadet position. The Navy ROTC reported 37 new students and an Air Force ROTC representative said 20 were seek­ing cadet posi­tions. 
The ROTC pro­gram offers money and a 
OIT integrates Google Apps to Web systelll 
Students now able to access e-mail faster 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
Notre Dame's Office of Information Technologies (OIT) has been working over the sum­mer montl1s to provide student<; with a new e-mail system through Google Apps. 
All incoming students now have e-mail accounts 
through 
"Coogle Apps has a lot of
Google Apps, other student'>. however greatfeatures.For They can col­
migrating students who use laborate and 
returning edit these doc­
Blackberry devices, 
students' uments online 
existing Windows Mobile devices, at the same accounts to or iPhones, it has time. 
the new sys­Al'io induded
excellent support for 
tem has in the new sys­requ.ired mobile devices." tem is a chat more time utility, similar than antici­to AOL Instant
Katie Rose 
pated. Messnnger or
project director
OIT's proj­MSN Instant 
Office of Information
ect director .Messenger, and Katie Rose Technologies a portal page 
said the migration process has been running smoothly -just slower than her team anticipated. 
"Most of the incoming stu­dents' accounts were automati­cally created on Google Apps. We are a little farther behind on the accounts for returning stu­dents, and we will be making an announcement next week about when the migration will take place," Rose said. 
Originally. OIT planned to lin­ish migrating students' existing accounts during the summer and have the system ready to use by the start of the tall semes­ter. 
"We have one or two small things to finish up on the accounts for existing student.<;," Rose said 
Rose also said that incoming students have been using the new system with ease. 
According to Rose, the migra­tion process has been running smoothly and returning students will not lose any information from their Webmail accounts. 
'There is no need for anyone to be concerned," she said. "All returning student<; will have the same e-mail address and will not lose anything in their lblders." 
that students can customize to meet their own needs. 
Rose also said the Google Apps is ideal for students who use mobile devices. 
"Google Apps has a lot of great features," she said. "For stu­dents who use Blackberry devices, Windows Mobile devices, or iPhones, it ha<; excel­lent support for mobile devices." 
Senior David !Ieroux said that he believes the Google system will be more user-friendly than Webmail. 
"It's a shame that !the University] has been using such an antiquated system for so long." 
orr has also being working with the University's Alumni Association to provide alumni with an e-mail account on Google Apps, however the Association has not yet announced it<; plans to ofl"cr thL<; service. 
"We have been working with the Alumni Ollice fbr the la'it two months. It will be up to them to announce the service for alumni accounts Jon Google Apps]," Rose said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
Many returning student<; are anxious to switch over to the Google mail system since it includes several improvements on the currPnt Webmail system. 
The Googln Apps e-mail sys­tmn ha'i a 6.5 GB e-mail quota that is markedly largnr than 100 MG the Webmail system ha'>. 
The new service also features a calendar system a<; well a<; an application called Coogle docu­ments whieh allows student<; to create Word documents, Excel spreadsheets and Powerl'oint presentations and share them with 
~-------­

Saturday, August 23, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
McGreevy begins new role as dean 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
John McGreevy, a history professor who took over as 
I.A. O'Shaughnessy Dean of the College of Arts and Letters July 1, views his new job as one of servant-leader­ship. 
''I'm not the boss of the fac­ulty. I'm the leader," he said. He said his primary responsi­bility is to "put [the faculty] in the position to do great teaching and great scholar­ship." 
McGreevy decided to accept the position as dean because of his loyalty to Notre Dame, the "great situation" left by his predecessor, Mark Roche, and the importance he places on the University's status as a "great Catholic research uni­versity," he said. 
"I want to see Notre Dame succeed," said McGreevy, a Notre Dame alum whose father and two siblings also attended the University. 
"We need a place in this country -and in this world -where thinking at the highest level goes on that includes theology and reli­gion," he said. "Religion is a topic of universal concern, and it is important to bring it together with academics." 
While McGreevy says being a Notre Dame alum gives him "no special qualities" for the dean position, his loyalty to the University was a signifi­cant factor in his decision to accept his new job. 
"I am happy to try to make a difference here. I really want Notre Dame to be a great place," he said. 
McGreevy plans to continue his teaching and research during his tenure as dean. He will teach one course at the graduate level this semester. 
"I really like the idea of everyone in administration doing some teaching," he said. 
Although McGreevy does not want to make dramatic changes in his first year on the job -planning instead to focus on learning about the many programs in the college -he does have long-term goals in mind. Some of these goals for the college include increasing ties with the College of Science, increasing student language acquisition, promoting the fine and per­forming arts on campus and encouraging more students to do senior theses. 
McGreevy said senior theses can be an invaluable part of the undergraduate experi­ence. He would like to see more students pursue them, but does not plan on making a thesis a graduation require­ment. 
"Being able to work one-on­one with a faculty member on a year-long project is a really good experience," he said. "We need a stronger thesis culture at Notre Dame." 
McGreevy acknowledged that grade inflation in the College of Arts and Letters is real and that it is a problem. However, he said there is "not an instant solution to the problem," but that his admin­istration will continue to work on it. 
"It's not fair to students to have grades so compressed, especially to the very best students," he said. 
The new dean says the col­lege has a lot of challenges, because "it is hard to be one of the very best." These chal­lenges include faculty hiring and recruitment, which he described as one of the most important parts of his job, and the need to better finan­cially support graduate stu­dents -including the need for a graduate student health insurance program. 
"The good news is that I'm not a Notre Dame nostalgist," McGreevy said. He said he got a better education from Notre Dame than his father, who attended the University in the 1950s, did, but that students today are receiving a 'better education than he did twenty years ago. 
''I'm encouraged by the progress," he said. 
McGreevy would like to increase the promotion of academic life on campus. He wants to "get students to view their intellectual life with the same passion with which they view so many other things," he said. Increasing the num­ber of Notre Dame graduates who go on to pursue a Ph.D. or other graduate study can follo-w as a result of a stronger intellectual campus, he said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel @nd.edu 
Saturday Scholar Series to kick off fall season 
and Letters, the lectures add a 
Special to The Observer 
scholarly dimension to a weekend 
The eighth annual Saturday roster of athletics, pageantry and Scholar Series at the University of fine arts performances. Notre Dame will feature lectures The lectures will begin three and by leading faculty members on one-half hours before kickoff and each home football game weekend take place in the Annenberg this fall. Auditorium of the Snite Museum of 
Sponsored by the College of Arls Art. 
University Choral Auditions 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CHORALE NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB NOTRE DAME LITURGICAL CHOIR NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S LITURGICAL CHOIR BASILICA SCI-lOLA 

University Choral Auditions will be held in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
SUNDAY, AUG. 24, 3~6 PM MONDAY, AUG. 25, 12:00 PM ~ 4:00 PM; 5:00PM~ 10:00 PM 
To reserve an audition time please e-mail dbayless@nd.edu until 2:00pm Sunday, August 24 
After 2:00pm Sunday, August 24, please sign up at the coat check in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
For more information please call 631-7800 
F*JUNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 

Get Involved With Notre Dame Athletics 
The Sports Information Office is lookingjor student aJJistantJjor the 2008-09 Jchoolyear. A1ry studentJ· intereJted in becoming active in In.Jh athleticJ· should co1ne to an itifortJtational meeting on Mon., Aug. 25 at 7:00 p.1n. in the SportJ IJ?formation Office {fqyce Center secondfloor inJide Gate 2) or call the Sports Information Qffice at 1-7516jor JJtore itiformation. 




Write News. Call Ml-5323.
.. . . ·-:~:::::. 

page 6 The Observer + THE YEAR IN REVIEW Saturday, August 23, 2008 
Two students shot at Club 23. South Bend Common Council passes party ordinance, creates CCAC. Three students 

Observer Staff Report 
Two students shot outside Club 23 
Two Notrn Dame stmiors were shot on Tuesday, August 21 at approximately 1 
a.m. outside of Club 23, Captain Phil Trent of the South Bend Poliee Department said. The students, Matt Collins and Mitehcll Deprnn were taken to St. Joseph Hegional Medieal Center where Depree was treated for a leg wound and released while Collins' wound to the abdomen was initially elassil'ied as life-threatening and he requested last rights. 
The confrontation followed a "harsh eonversation with the shooter, who returned several minutes later in an SUV and fired five shots at the stu­dents," Trent said. 
The shooter was described as a short-haired black male of average build wearing a clean, white T-shirt. The shooter drove away northbound on Notre Dame Avenue after firing five shots -two shots at Collins and one at Depree -and shouting expletives at the students. 
A bullet will remain pnrmannntly in Collins' abdomen sinee any procedure to remove it would bn too risky, hospi­tal officials said. 
Both students enrolled in the fall sonwstor. 
In the wneks following the shooting, ownnr Mahmoud Hussein feared that Notre lhtme students wern "boyeotting" the dub. located on 744 N. Notre Dame Avenue dun to safety issues. Business was in an initial decline for the Monday night hotspot, Hussein said. 
Four wonks al'tnr the incident, South Bond police were still searching for tho shooter. 
By Decmnhnr 2007. Club 23 was up for sale on Craigslist. however, II ussein claims the sale and the shootings wore unrelated. 
II uss1~in has ownnd 23 for more than 20 years. 
Club 2:~ was set at $695,000 and includes 2,500 square feet of spaee, tlw building, the 57-car parking lot, the furniture inside and the club's liquor license. 
South Bend Common Council passes revised ordinance 
After months of dnliberation over the South BniHI City Ordinance regarding aleohol and party registration, the Community Campus Advisory Coalition ICCAC) was crmttml as a forum for city and 1:ollege reprns1~ntatives to discuss 
community relations. It was created in 
February and convened for its first 
meeting in mid-February. 
The CCAC was formed after the South 
Bend Common Council decided not to 
implement regulations requiring stu­
dents to pre-register for large gather­
ings with the city. 
The ordinance was initially created in response to disorderly student partying ofT campus and eventually passed with rules that would require party permits that could be enacted in the future ­an option the Council was offered to pursue. 
However, the main objective of the Council and the ordinance was to increase dialogue about problems between South Bend residents and off campus students. 
Former student boay president Liz Brown represented the student body during the CCAC hearings in the sum­mer of 2007 and acted as a liaison between the Council and the student body throughout the fall. 
Since the ordinance was passed with only minor provisions on large gather­ings, the main goal of the Council was to serve as a forum that will facilitate discussion about important issues with­in the South Bend community. The Couneil attributed mueh of the suc­cess of the revised ordinance to the work of Brown -responsibilities she passed on to current student body pres­ident Bob Heish in March. 
''I'm just going to be taking more of a seeond role to see how this meeting ean help for future meetings next year," Hoish said. 
The ordinance was the brainchild of Council member AI "Buddy" Kirsits and he currently serves as CCAC chairman and Councilman-at-large. 
The ordinance and its provisions are contingent on student off campus behavior and future relations in South Bend, Kirsits said. 
Three students pass away 
Three Notre Dame students died dur­ing the 2007-2008 school year. Sophomore Connor McGrath, graduate student Timothy Aher and junior Andrew Bunikis died in three separate and unrelated incidents throughout the academic year. 
Diabetes may have factored in Connor MeGrath's death in the early morning of Sunday, Feb. 17, poliee said. 
McGrath was a sophomore from Oklahoma City and died in Dillon llall. 
He was 20 years old. 
MeGrath was a former resident of 
Dillon, but lived in Siegfried this past 
semester. He spent the night in Dillon 
with friends. In the fall, he attended the 
University of Central Oklahoma before 
transferring back to Notre Dame. 
Friends discovered McGrath's body at approximately 1:40 p.m. 
McGrath was the first student to die 
on campus since Feb. 8, 1998, 
University officials said, when Justin 
Brumbaugh died after suffering from 
heart disease. 
Timothy Aher, from Brookfield, Conn., received a Bachelor's degree in linguistics from the University of Chicago. He was currently enrolled in Notre Dame's Law School London Program and died in the town of Ilford, England. 
Aher, 25, had developed a proficiency in Hussian and studied German, French and Uzbek. He also served as a station manager at WHPK-FM, a student-run radio station at the University of Chicago. 
After graduating from the University of Chicago in 2002, he worked for two years at the Bank of America Securities before applying to law school, where he hoped to study international law. He also held a summer internship in New York where he helped AIDS patients deal with their legal problems. 
University President Father John Jenkins called the day he learned about McGrath and Aher's deaths as his "wors.~ day as president of Notre Dame. 
Andrew (3unikis, a junior from Zahm Ilall, died in a bus crash in Thailand on April 18. Bunikis, 20,. from Phoenix, Ariz.. took a semester off to teach English to students in Thailand after working there briefly last summer through Notre Dame's Student International Business Council (SIBC}. 
According to The Nation, a Bangkok newspaper, the bus crashed in the Phitsanulok Province at 11:45 p.m. on Friday. Seven other people were killed and 31 injured. 
ND Student assaulted, left seven mile from campus 
On April 20, sophomore Timothy Clarke suffered a concussion and a bro­ken right hand after he was assaulted by either two or three men and left on Primrose Hoad approximately seven miles from campus. St. Joseph County Police said. 
Clarke, 20, said he got into a car on 
2007. 
Ironwood Dr. after he left Tailgaters 
Sports Bar around 3 a.m. on April 20. 
Because he had been drinking and 
because he suffered a concussion, 
Clarke said he couldn't remember too 
many details from the night. The iden­
tities of the suspects are still unknown. 
Clarke, a resident of Keough Hall. said he had phoned a friend who was serving as a designated driver to pick him up from Tailgaters. The driver was picking up other people at the time so Clarke declined the ride and began walking north on Ironwood Drive. After a few minutes he got into a car, think­ing the passengers were heading back to campus. 
Clarke said he wasn't sure if he got into the car voluntarily or was forced into the ear, but St. Joseph County Detective Phil Williams said he would­n't charge the men with kidnapping if he finds them. 
Clarke said he realized he was in the car too long to be heading back to cam­pus and made at least six phone calls to try and alert people to what was happening, but nobody answered his calls. The men took Clarke to Primrose Hoad where they likely hit him over the head with a beer bottle, took his wallet and cell phone, and left him on the side of Primrose Hoad. A passer-by discov­ered Clarke and placed a 911 call. Police responded at approximatnly (>:45 
a.m. and took him to Memorial llospital in South Bend. Clarke was tlwn trans­ferred to University Health Serviens where he was released on April 29. 
Gruscinski and Falvey take over at SMC 
After running unopposed for the highest position in student government, student body president Mickey Gruscinski and vice president Sarah Falvey officially took office on April 1. 
They have begun working towards the goals they laid out in their cam­paign platform such as extending the Student Center hours, making an online calendar of College ev1mts for students to access and getting reliable wireless aceess in all of the dorms. 
Reish and Schmidt win ND student body president and vice president 
Junior Bob Heish and sophomore Grant Schmidt defeated Maris Braun and George Chamberlain to become the student body president and vice presi­dent on Feb. 14. The two took office on April 1. 
The two began campaigning last 

August29 October1 
Saint Mary's breaks into the U.S. News and World Saint Mary's launches a new identity Report top 100 liberal arts college rankings at No. 91. initiative called "She's Saint Mary's" The Princeton Review also recognizes Saint Mary's to help the College attract more applicants. as one ofthe best midwestern colleges for 2008. College It features personal stories from students president Carol Ann Mooney says she hopes to break about what their time at Saint Mary's means into the top 50 liberal arts colleges in the future. to them. 
, August September October November December January 
August21 September 25 January29 
Seniors Matt Collins and Mitchell Depree are shot The South Bend Common Council passes, but does Saint Mary's raises the full $19.2 million outside Club 23 after a conversation with the shooter. not enact, an ordinance requiring parties in boarding for Spes Unica Hall, the new academic After refusing to give the shooter a ride, he later drives houses (homes where two or more non-related people building. Donations pay for the entire past Club 23 and fires five shots, two of which strike live) to obtain a permit if 25 or more guests will be cost of the building. The College broke Collins while one strikes Depree. Depree is treated for served alcohol. The ordinance can be enacted with ground for the building in the fall of 2006 leg wounds and Collins for leg and abdomen wounds. further legislation and also creates the Campus and it's expected to be completed by the A bullet remains in Collins' abdomen. Community Action Council to bring together students, fall of2008. 
South Bend residents and the town government. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Saturday, August 23, 2008 The Observer + THE YEAR IN REVIEW page 7 
die. Clinton and Obama visit South Bend. Students report sexual assaults. College launches identity campaign . 

• 2008 
September on a platform that included plan for supporters and cited Martin security department deals with emer­tive manner, said Karen McDonald, more interaction with the student body. Luther King's "Fierce urgency of now" as gency situations after an unidentified then acting vice president of integrat­
As a way to better hear student the reason he decided to run for man escaped after trespassing on the ed marketing communications. requests, Reish and Schmidt created a President. roof of Regina Hall. "We didn't have an issue with the Web site, bobandgrant.com, that allowed Clinton spoke at Coveleski Stadium, When a student in Regina Hall benefits," she said. "Those have not students to contact Heish and Schmidt home of the South Bend Silver Hawks, reported the trespasser on April 5, it changed. We just didn't communicate with suggestions. on April 26. She said she was disap­took the College's security department them correctly. This is a campaign to 
"Part of the campaign was connecting pointed that she had only met Obama two phone calls and approximately 15 bring these characteristics and quality to the students and trying to make sure four times in one-on-one debates and minutes to send a security guard to to the forefront." that we're not any better than anyone called for a revision of the North the scene and investigate the reported else," Schmidt said after the election. American Free Trade Agreement. suspicious activity. Spes Unica funds raised completely "The bobandgrant.com thing, a lot of South Bend mayor Stephen Luecke Director of Security Dave Gariepy Fundraising for the College's new people laughed at it, but it was some­announced his support of Obama before and assistant director of security Stan academic building, Spes Unica Hall, thing different -an informal way of Obama spoke to supporters. He outlined Klimczak addressed student concerns was completed over the winter and presenting our ideas that was appeal­new higher-education financial aid plan in an open meeting with Regina Hall the building is set to open for classes ing." and tax cuts to help keep jobs in residents shortly after the incident to in the fall. 
The election broke a trend through the America. discuss an ongoing investigation of the The total cost of the project is $19.2 last four administrations in which either Clinton said she would end the war in way the incident was handled to million, making it the most expensive the previuus year's vice president or Iraq and allow uninsured Americans to ensure that a situation such as this construction project in College history. executive assistant to the president buy into the Congressional health care does not happen again. The building was entirely paid for in became president the following year. plan. "That's not the way we would donations, without putting to use any 
"It's good enough for members of respond to the situation and that's not other college funds, said Saint Mary's Law School Dean announces she will Congress, it's good enough for every the way we want our officers respond­spokesperson Gwen O'Brien. More step down Hoosier and every American, and that ing to it," he said. "We want to make than 600 donations came in from fac­
Law School Dean Patty O'Hara you keep insurance if you have it, but if sure that security is responding ade­ulty, staff, alumnae, students and announced she will leave the school next you don't you will be able to buy into it," quately to [students] calls for help." friends of the College, she said. June after 10 years of service. O'Hara Clinton said. Ground was broken on this 65,000 joined the law school in 1981 and College launches 'She's Saint square-foot building in the fall of became dean in 1999. "Monologues" return to campus Mary's' campaign 2006. Spes Unica will house 13 of the 
She said 10 years was "the optimal Students performed Eve Ensler's con­The College debuted a new brand 20 academic departments at Saint length of time to serve as dean," in a troversial play "The Vagina Monologues" initiative in October as a continuation Mary's, as well as the Center for statement released on March 26. on campus after moving off-campus last of the 2006 identity initiative. Academic Innovation, the Center for 
"Like her predecessor, Dean O'Hara year. Jenkins allowed the play to be per­The identity initiative is an ongoing Spirituality and the Center for has been fully committed to this Law formed two years ago provided the play process to better understand the Women's InterCultural Leadership. School's being recognized as both a top received sponsorship from two academic image the College must present to The new building offers state of the flight law school nationally and as one departments. The performances must gain the attention of prospective stu­art classroom, laboratory and office that. in the Catholic tradition, invites also include discussions after the play, dents and parents. The initiative was space. There are also a number of serious and sustained consideration of analyzing the play from a Catholic per­part of College President Carol Ann common areas where faculty and stu­the normative dimensions of the law," spective. Jenkins reaffirmed his decision Mooney's inaugural platform to make dents can gather, such as a cafe, associate dean John Robinson said in this year. Saint Mary's a nationally known insti­reflection room and patio. April. "She has invested an enormous tution. amount of time and an equal amount of Students report laptop thefts The new tagline, "She's Saint SMC breaks into U.S. News and intelligence and imagination in achieving Cavanaugh, Howard and Lyons halls Mary's," is now present on all College World Report rankin that objective." experienced burglaries of laptops, cam­publications, ads, banners and Web Saint Mary's broke into the U.S. 
Some students questioned O'Hara's eras and wallets during the spring pages. News & World Report's rankings of the capabilities after the law school dropped semester. The suspect would carry a bag The brand features the personal sto­top 100 liberal arts colleges, securing from No. 22 to No. 28 last year in the and walk into unlocked rooms to take ries of students and what their time at the 91st spot last Fall. 
U.S. News and World Heport Law School the laptops. Saint Mary's means to them. While the College was previously rankings. This year, however, the school NDSP director Phil Johnson said the "[The alumnae] love the stories and ranked the top liberal arts college in was back up to No. 22. suspect in those cases was identified by they love the fact that we're telling the region, it hadn't made the national 
"I was confident that [the Law School] "several people" as a black male, stories about what students experi­rankings until this year. would rebound, and we did, back to a between 5-foot-8 and 5-foot-11, with a ence here," Vice President for College The Princeton Review also recog­very solid No. 22," she said in April. "I thin build, "frizzy long black hair" in a Relations Shari Rodriguez said. "We're nized Saint Mary's as a "Best think that reaffirms the notion that no pony tail or braid, possibly bad or miss­focusing on the rigorous academic Midwestern College for 2008." one person or dean was responsible for ing teeth and possibly facial stubble. experience and the relationships stu­"We've long known we can compete a temporary slump." Johnson said Valparaiso University has dents have with each other and with on a national level and it is gratifying 
experienced similar burglaries with a faculty. Those are things that they felt to see our quality recognized," College Clinton and Obama visit South Bend suspect whose description matched that really strongly about as they look back President Carol Ann Mooney said in an 
Democratic presidential hopefuls of the suspect in Notre Dame's recent on their experience." Aug. 17 statement. Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton both campus robberies. Part of the reason the Saint Mary's On the heels of this new ranking visited South Bend as part of their cam­tagline of was changed from Mooney set loftier goals for the paign to win the Indiana primary. Saint Mary's security under scrutiny 'Educating Women, Transforming College. She hopes Saint Mary's can Obama spoke at Washington High School Saint Mary's students expressed Lives' was to help better communicate break into the top 50 national liberal on April 9. He outlined his campaign unease with the way the College's the benefits of the College in an effec-arts colleges in the near future. 
February14 March26 April9 
Junior Bob Reish and sophomore Law School Dean Patty O'Hara Illinois Senator and Democratic presidential Grant Schmidt are elected student announces that she will step down candidate Barack Obama speaks at Washington body president and vice president, next June. O'Hara saw the Law High School about his campaign and outlines his defeating Maris Braun and George School rankings drop from No. 22 to platform. He says he will eliminate tax cuts for Chamberlain in a run-off election. No. 28lastyear, but watched them companies who ship jobs overseas and provide They plan to establish a nation-wide bounce back to No. 22 this year. service-based stipends for higher education. college council and allow for free DVD rentals in The Huddle. 
February March April 
March11 Aprils . April26 Jenkins allows "The Vagina Monologues" to be performed A man finds his way onto the roofofRegina New York Senator and Democratic presidential on campus after the Eve Ensler play receives sponsorship Hall at Saint Mary's. A slow security response candidate Hillary Clinton speaks at Coveleski Stadium, from academic departments. Academic panels that discuss causes students to question Saint Mary's home of the South Bend Silver Hawks, about ending the play in a Catholic light follow each performance. security policies and leads security directors the war in Iraq and allowing Americans to buy into the The decision draws criticism from some students, alumni to investigate their security strategies. Congressional health care plan. She also calls for more and Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy, as it did one-on-one debates with Barack Obama. two years ago. 
MARY JE$SE/Obset11er Graphi 


page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 23, 2008 

CORE COUNCIL FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
Meet student members of the Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bi-Sexual &Questioning Students and find out more about resources available on the Notre Dame campus. 
The Core Council Welcomes the Class of 2012 
We members of the Core Council are administrators and gay, lesbian, bi-sexual &questioning students who are aresource in identifying the ongoing needs of our I students. By implementing campus-wide educational programming on these issues, the Core Council strives to eliminate homophobia and make Notre Dame aplace that accepts and prizes the uniqueness of all its students. 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students will host aRECEPTION for interested first-year students: Monday, August 25th 
1:30-3:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse Building (3rd Floor Lounge) 
Visit our web site at corecouncil.nd.edu 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students also sponsors: 
Coffee &Conversation at the Co-Mo Green Room Solidarity Sunday CommUnity NETWORK Ally Training Program StaND Against Hate Week Day of Silence 
.
• 
Saturday, August 23, 2008 
Fresh01en 
continued from page 1 
Harvard. We respect those schools, but we're trying to make Notre Dame a better Notre Dame," Saracino, a Notre Dame alum, said. "I look at the classes that are coming in. and they make the value of my diploma appreciate." 
This year's freshmen are from the top live percent of their high school classes. Their average SAT score is a combined 1405 in Critical Heading and Math. This marks roughly a 20-point increase from last year's class -the biggest jump in recent history. 
"It really happens every year," he said. 
Twelve years ago. the average SAT score was 1303, over 100 points lower. However, Saracino said one couldn't compare the applicants from one year to another. "It's like apples and oranges," he said. 
"It varies every year ... each class has compelling reasons to be admitted," Saracino said. 
The Admissions oflice aims to shape a elass -and does not admit students based on num­hers alone. 
"Education goes on both inside and outside of the class­room," Saracino said. "We admit bright students who are passionate." 
They also aim for diversity "in the broadest sense," he said. "We're not just looking for the all-American kid." 
Twenty percent of the class of 2012 is comprised of ethnic minorities, which marks a decrease from the last two years: the class of 2011 includes 22 percent ethnic minorities and the class of 2010 includes 24 percent. Saracino said these figures are not indicative of a trend. 
"Three years would be a trend," he said. "Anything less than 24 percent is not accept­able." 
Of the ethnic minorities, nine percent are Hispanic, six per­cent are Asian, three percent are African-American and one percent is Native American. 
"Our goal for next year is to improve our ethnic diversity," Saracino said. 
Students in the freshman class hail from diverse geo­graphic locations nationally and internationally. The Midwest and Northeast are the most rep-
The Observer + NEWS 
resented U.S. geographic areas. The top ten states represented are Illinois, Indiana, Texas, California, Ohio, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Florida. 
Three percent of the freshmen are international, from 27 dif­ferent countries. The top three foreign countries represented are Korea, Canada and China. 
The confirmation rate of this year's accepted freshman was 54 percent, one of the nation's highest. 
"Applicants have done their homework," Saracino said. "If they're admitted, chances are, they're going to come." 
Fifty-two percent of the Class of 2012 are men and 48 percent are women. Eighty-three per­cent are Catholic. Twenty-four percent are children of alumni and seven percent are flrst gen­eration college students. 
Notre Dame. which boasts a strong commitment to financial aid, awarded 44 percent need­based grants. Seventy-five per­cent of the class is receiving some kind of financial aid. 
"We are one of less than about a dozen universities that have a need-blind admissions process, and if students are admitted, they receive 100 per­cent of their need," Saracino said. 'That's something I'm very proud of." 
The Class of 2012 was espe­cially active in extra-curricular activities in high school that involved leadership positions: 
-10 percent were student government president -11 percent were editor of a school publication -90 percent participated in community service -64 percent lettered in a varsity sport -47 percent participated in music, art, drama or dance -7 percent participated in the Eagle or Gold Scouts. 
The incoming class also con­tains one Olympian, a certified firefighter, one student from the island of Molokai and two stu­dents from an Alaskan fishing village of 7,000 people. 
Saracino's daughter, an alum­na of Notre Dame, once told him that the opportunities to learn here are only limited by one's need for sleep. 
"That's what we want for our children. This is a class where the students aren't going to want to sleep," he said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
page 9 
Attack 
continued from page 1 
got out of the car and also began assaulting Chesnick. 
Gargula approached Chesnick to see how badly he was hurt when one of the assailants pushed her to the ground and began beating her, Crosby said. A female then got out of the car and began kicking and beating Gargula as well. 
Crosby approached the vic­tims and the assailants ver­bally threatened to injure her, she said. Crosby then proceeded to call the South Bend Police. She was not injured. 
The fire department and medics were called to the scene and responded immedi­ately, Trent said. 
A brown purse was report­ed stolen after the attack. 
A resident of Irish Crossings heard the distur­bance and came outside. As he did, the three assailants got back into the car and left the scene. As the car sped off, Crosby was able to get the:) license plate number. 
The police were able to 
trace the license plate to a 21-year old St. Joseph County resident whose name was not released by the police. He was arrested for robbery and taken into custody. 
Trent said the SBPD are still working on the case and looking for other suspects. 
Chesnick and Gargula were taken to a local hospital, where Chesnick received stitches on his lip and was treated for minor scrapes and bruises. His left eye was swollen shut. Gargula was treated for minor scrapes and bruises. Neither suffered serious injuries. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu and Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 


Pr~ c¢NV fyo-wv whercweYyO"Ut a-v~ 
Visit Pray.nd.edu & NDPrayercast.org for daily prayers and gospel readings, and weekly audio Prayercasts and video Masscasts. 
Brought to you by the Office ofCampus Ministry and the Alumni Association 


--------------------------------~---------­
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Saturday, August 23, 2008 
Fencer 
continued from page 1 
pionships on the junior level. 
"I had to stop with the piano lessons, but my teaeher agreed that i~ was probably a smart move, he smd. 
Meinhardt was already eon­siderml to be one of the best younger fencers in the nation and his experience at the Olympics will only make him better. lie and Bednarski both said that the biggest advantagn will be from a mental perspee­tive. 
"The Olympics can help you to deal with stress and eompetn woll undf'r stressful situations," Bednarski said. 
Aftnr performing on the biggest stagn in the world, the Joyce Center will seem much less daunting. 
Meinhardt said that along with the valuable fendng expe­rienee, Beijing also gave him some memories he will never forget -like the time he met the entire U.S. basketball team. 
''I'm a pretty big basketball fan so that wa'i probably one of the coolest things that hap­pened to me over there," he said. 
Meinhardt was eating lunch in the Olympic VIllage cafeteria when Dwayne Wade sat down at the other end of the table. Pretty quickly the rest of the team filed in and before he knew it, Meinhardt was talking with the Milwaukee Bucks' Michael Hedd. 
A few minutes later when Kobe Bryant arrived at the table he was followed by a mob of foreign athletes and fans snapping pictures. The team's security guards surrounded the table and Meinhardt found him­self inside a cirde with the best basketball players in the world. 
"I was trying to play it cool, but I had a huge smile on my face the whole time. I eouldn't help myself." he said. 
In a week, Meinhardt has gone from exclusive meals with Kobe Bryant to burgers on the quad. Nonetheless, the young freshman said he couldn't be more exeited to be at school and is looking forward to a great year in fencing and around campus. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Swarbrick 
continued from page 1 
media executives, and the leadership of the NCAA, as well as many others in pro­fessional and Olympic sports," Jenkins said in a July 16 press eonference. "He has a breadth of vision of the landscape of college athletics that in my experience is unsurpassed. Jack is widely respected for his insight and integrity." 
Aeeording to a press release, Swarbrick is respon­sible for bringing many 
Indiana, I had all of the chal­kind. They're challenges 
lenge I need­ ·  born  not  of  
ed, and I was eommitted to make that  "/ am confident that in Jack Swarbrick we  problems, not of shortcom­ings, but of  
happen," Swarbrick said in a July 16 press eon­ have found a superb athletic director for the University ofNotre  great striving, of high goals. I believe that I accept this job  
ferenee.  Dame  on  the thresh­ 
Swarbrick  old of extraor­ 
deseribed his time at Notre  Father John Jenkins  dinary change in intercolle­ 
Dame  as  hav­ Notre Dame President  giate athletics  

"The challenges here 

high profile Despite Notre sporting are significant. But Dame's 3-9 events to football season
they,re challenges of 

Indianapolis, last year,
the best kind. " 

ineluding the Swarbrick said Super Bowl in he sees great 2012 and the Jack Swarbrick promise in the NCAA Men··s future of all of
Notre Dame Athletic 

Basketball the University's
Director

Tournament in athletics. 1999. "The chal­
"When more recently people lenges here are said there is no chance that significant," he said in the the NFL will ever take the press conference. "But Super Bowl to Indianapolis, they're challenges of the best 
ing "defined my life" and said he was excited to assume control of the reins of one of the country's most storied 
collegiate ath­letics programs. 
in America." 
Swarbrick said he would not only focus on building winning teams, but he would also help main­tain Notre Dame's image as the premier Catholic universi­ty in the country. 
"I'm not here to just do sports right," he said. "We want to be a great academic institution that furthers research in this country. We want to be a place of faith. And we want to be a place that wins on the athletic field and turns out extraordinary student athletes." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

GEORGIA 
Georgians rejoice as Russian forces withdraw from Gori 
Bush, Sarkozy agree that Russia did not comply with withdraw! agreement, as troops remain in three areas 
Associated P~ss 
GOtH, Georgia-Columns of hulking, smoke-belehing Hussian tanks rolled out of key positions deep inside Georgia Friday as Moscow declared it ha(f pulled its forces out fol­lowing the worst confrontation between the Kremlin and the West since the Soviet collapse. But the United States and France protested the with­drawal was not complete. 
Georgians exulted in a new sense of' freedom as the Hussian troops departed. 
In Jgoeti, the closest Hussians got to the capital of Tbi Iisi, (;eorgians pumped their fists and waved white­and-red national f'lags as two Hussian tanks began to leave. They were trailed by Georgian police in more than 100 civil­ian cars and several police trucks. 
"llow can we not be happy? We've gotten what we want," said Levan, 77, a math teadwr who would give only his first name. "We're over­joyed to see our own police on our stnwts again." 
An Assoeiated Press reporter saw what may have been the last eonvoy of Hussian armored vehicles leave Gori shortly after 5 p.m. Friday. The six vehic.les drove off' after soldiers fired on a disabled armored personnel carrier, perhaps not to leave any working equipment behind for the Georgians to seize. 
A few hours latnr, Gori was empty of Hussian forces. 
"We arn in control of' the strnnts of the eity of Gori," Georgian Interior Minister Vano Mnrabishvili said outside city hall. 
Tlw withdrawal came two weeks to the day after thou­sands of' Russian soldiers roarnd into the former Soviet republic following an assault by Georgian forces on the cap­ital of the separatist territory of South Ossetia. The conflict left hundreds dead, several eities destroyed and nearly 160,000 people homeless. 
Hussian columns left Georgia's western Senaki mj)i­tary base, the eentral city of Gori and the eastern check­point of' Igoeti, just 30 miles from the capital, Tbilisi. 
But troops and armored per­sonnel carriers stayed put in at least three positions near Senaki and the Blaek Sea port eity of Poti, raising questions about Hussia's intentions. The Hussians also said they were creating so-called security zones extending into Georgian territory to prevent future attacks. 
President Bush, vacationing at his ranch in Texas. eon­ferred with French President Nicolas Sarkozy and "the two agreed that Hussia is not in eompliance and that Russia needs to eome into compliance now," said White House spokesman Gordon Johndroe. 
"Complianee means compli­anee with that plan," he said. "We haven't seen that yet. It's my understanding that they have not completely with­drawn from areas considered undisputed territory, and they need to do that." 
The Hussians "have without a doubt failed to live up to their obligations," State Department spokesman Hobert Wood said in Was hi ngto n. "EstabIishing checkpoints. buffer zones, are definitely not part of the agreement." · 
Georgia's state minister on reintegration, Temur Yakobashvili, told the AP for­mation of a buffer zone out­side South Ossctia "is absolutely illegal." 
In South Ossetia, Hussian troops erected 18 peacekeep­ing posts in a so-ealled "seeu­rity zone" around its border with Georgia. Col. Gen. 
Anatoly Nogovitsyn, deputy head of Russia's general staff, said Friday that peacekeepers would establish another 18 peacekeeping posts around Abkhazia. 
A total of 2,142 Russian peacekeepers are to be deployed on Abkhazia's de facto border, while 452 will man the South Ossetia de facto border, Nogovitsyn said. 
In Moscow, Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov said the pullback into South Ossetia was finished late Friday. 
In western Georgia, a col­umn of 83 Russian tanks, armored personnel carriers and trucks hauling artillery drove north from the Senaki military base toward the breakaway Abkhazia region along the Black Sea coast on Friday afternoon. Georgian police said the vehicles came from the base, which has been under Russian control for over a week. 
The eonvoy doubled in size as it rumbled slowly north, and it took hours to cross into Abkhazia. 
In central Georgia, at least 40 Hussian military vehicles left the strategic eity of' Gori, heading north in the direetion of South Ossetia, the Roki Tunnel and Russia beyond. 
An AP reporter in Igoeti con­firmed Hussian forces had pulled out from their former cheekpoints and roadside positions around the village. Located on Georgia's main highway between Gori and the Georgian capital of Tbilisi, Igoeti had been the Hussians' elosest position to the Georgian capital. 
Georgians miiJed around a checkpoint near Gori for hours before a crane came to heft the cement bloeks from the road and trafiic started to f'ilter through. A few Russian soldiers lingered near the site. 
Russia's invasion and brief occupation of uncontested 
Georgian territory has deeply 
strained relations between 
Moscow and the West. 
Russia has frozen its mili­
tary eooperation with NATO, 
Moscow's Cold War foe, 
underseoring a growing divi­
sion in Europe. Georgia's pro­
Western leaders are pushing 
to join NATO, angering a 
resurgent Hussia. 
The major fighting began Aug. 7 when Georgia launched an artillery and rocket bar­rage targeting Tskhinvali, the eapital of South Ossetia ­which has survived since the 1990s with the patronage of Moscow and the protection of troops Russia calls peaeekeep­ers. 
Russian forces arrived in 
less than 24 hours, quickly 
drove the Georgians back and 
pressed deep into Georgia. 
Under an EU-brokered cease-lire deal, both sides are to pull back to positions held before the fighting erupted. 
Western leaders have ealled for a complete withdrawal of Russian combat troops from Georgia, and for peacekeeping forees to resume the positions they had in South Ossetia before the conl1ict. But Russia says it will patrol buffer zones stretching into Georgia proper. 
Questions remained about whether Russia was with­drawing all its forces. 
In western Georgia, an AP photographer say troops and armored personnel carriers still deployed at three Russian positions after nightfall -one on the outskirts of Poti, one at a crossroads near the Senaki base and another further north along he road toward Abkhazia. 
Poti is far from any security zone envisioned by Western governments. 
And after a long Hussian col­umn crossed into Abkhazia, Hussian armored vehicles and troops with blue helmets and the Hussian initials for Peacekeeping Forces headed in the opposite direction, into Georgia proper. 
French Foreign Ministry spokesman Frederic Desagneaux said the cease­fire deal allows Hussian peacekeeping forces to oper­ate only "in the immediate proximity of South Ossetia" and only in patrols -suggest­ing the West considers the new Hussian posts outside South Ossetia and Abkhazia as violations. 
Hegardless of Friday's with­drawal, Hussia, Georgia and the West seem certain to con­tinue the diplomatic struggle over South Ossctia and Abkhazia, which broke from Georgia's control in wars fol­lowing the 1991 breakup of the Soviet Union. 
The Hussian parliament was expected to discuss recogniz­ing the independence of the separatist regions Monday. 
In an interview with the AP, South Ossetian leader Eduard Kokoity signaled that ethnic Georgians will not be allowed to return as payback for the ethnie Ossetians who eould not return to Georgia after a previous conflict. 
"There is nothing Iel't any­more" for them to come back to, he noted. 
In the village of Achabeti, an AP reporter saw Ossetians remove chairs, window frames and whatever else they could earry from abandoned Georgian houses. 
Russian emergeney ofTieials arrived in Achabeti to evacu­ate elderly Georgians who were too frail to l'lee. The Georgians were taken to Gori, where officials were trying to get in touch with their rela­tives. 
Many of the elderly were happy to be evacuated, having been left with rio food or care. But some thought it was an effort to deport all Georgians from Ossetia. 
-----, 

Saturday, August 23, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 11 
Duncan's first rector. Eckert Freshman Orientation, Eckert obtained a master's degree in said, along with a team of stu­
Duncan 

Iberian and Latin American dents recruited by the Office of 

continued from page 1 
things [to fill up the room.]" 
Duncan has three floors, plus a basement. Every wing con­tains a social space and a study space. The chapel is on the second floor, a feature shared only by St. Edward's Hall. 
Some other highlights include "super quads" -two doubles connected by a com­mon area, complete with bay windows, a bathroom and a shower; whiteboards built into the wall outside every room. a workout facility in the base­ment, an area in the kitchen where residents can do food sales and benches in the stair­wells so people can socialize or read. 
What the dorm is currently lacking, however, is its own identity. Duncan Hall does not yet have its own mascot, signa­ture event or colors. 
Shoup, who is in his 20th year at Notre Dame, has seen previous new dorms 

Literature last May, and prior Residence Life and Housing. 
to  that  was  Duncan's  
the rector of  hall  staff  
St. Edward's Hall for three  "A lot ofpeople will come  lived in O'Neill for  
years. "I'm confi­dent that the excitement of  unprepared. They will bring a lounge chair and realize they will need more things  a few days before the contractors turned the  
opening  a  {to fill up the room].,,  hall over to  
new residence  t  h  e  
hall for the first time in 10 years will  Jeff Shoup Director of the Office of  University. T h e y moved into  
really  bring  Residnce Life and Housing  their rooms  

the residents together," he said. "There cannot help but be a great and unifying bond." 
Senior Rafael Diaz, who spoke to The Observer as he was driving from Las Vegas to South Bend, said he'd like to see Duncan take the dragon as its mascot. But, he said, he's heard people joking that Duncan should be the Donuts, a reference to the nationwide coffee chain Dunkin' Donuts. 
Diaz, who 
studied 
go through abroad last
'Tm confident that the 
the process semester, 
of forming excitement ofopening a hasn't seen 
their own new residence hall for the his new dorm identity. since it was
first time in 1 o years will 
"It kind of "basically
really bring the residents 
just takes c i n shape on its together. ,, derblocks." own," he "People said. have been
Father Tom Eckert
The resi­telling me 
Duncan Hall rector
dents will that it's real 
decide as a hall what their mascot, colors and signa­ture event will be, Shoup said. 
"That's going to be up to the men of the community, and they are going to bring a lot of different viewpoints," he said. "There are people from every hall on campus that will go into the building, plus there are freshmen and there are trans­fer students that were placed there. That will be totally up to them; we won't be a part of that. And I think that just develops as people live togeth­er." 
father Tom Eckert is 

nice now," he 
said. 
Diaz left his former home in Morrissey in search of a bigger room, and will be living in one of Duncan's "super quads" with three of his friends. 
Most of the residents who are living in Duncan won their rooms through a lottery system held last year. Shoup said 350 people applied for spots in the 232-bed hall. Seniors make up 15 percent of the hall, juniors and sophomores 25 percent each, and freshmen 35 per­cent. 
Duncan's six resident assis­tants will be running I a s t 
Saturday. 

The hall will be dedicated in early October, and the resi­dents will get to meet the Duncan family, Shoup said. The building was funded by 1952 Notre Dame graduate Raymond T. Duncan, president of Duncan Oil Inc. and owner of Silver Oak Cellars in Oakville, Calif. 
It will be the University's 28th dormitory and 15th for men. One of the reasons for building the new hall was to reduce crowding in other resi­dence halls, as Notre Dame was at a 104 percent capacity in its residence halls last year. With the addition of more than 200 beds, the University was able to take beds out of other halls, in dorms like Morrissey, Alumni, Zahm and Dillon, as the on-campus population increased by only 20 over last year. 
But overcrowding is still a problem in women's dorms, and the on campus percent capacity is still at 103, Shoup said. Construction on a new, currently unnamed women's dorm began last March next to the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, and it is slated to open next August in time for the 2009-2010 school year, Shoup said. 
Notre Dame also has long­term plans to build one more men's and one more women's hall. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 



Clockwise from top right: the interior of the Duncan Hall chapel; the exterior of the Duncan Hall entryway; resident assistant Brian Lan plays pool in the Duncan Hall lounge; a double dorm room in Duncan Hall. · 


page 12 The Observer + NEWS Saturday, August 23, 2008 
Obarna prepares to name VP 
Associated Press 
WASIIIN<;T<>N-The sus­pense holding, Barack Obama readied an announcement by text message Friday of his vice presidential running mate from a list suddenly spieed by a dark horse from Texas. 
llillary Hodharn Clinton's prospects rnmained a mystery on a day full of' them, although senior aidos said the Obama campaign n1wer requested financial or other records from her. 
Three days before the party gathers in Denver to nominate Obama for the fall campaign, several orticials said Hep. Chet Edwards, whose district indudos Prosident Bush's ranch in Crawford, Toxas, had made the list of' finalists. Sens. Joe Biden of Delaware and Evan Bayh of Indiana were also in the mix, as wern Govs. Tim Kaine of Virginia and Kathleen Sebnlius of Kansas -and unknown oth­ers Obarna had managed to keep sncret despito intense scrutiny. 
"It'll be exeiting news, Sebelius told reporters in Kansas. 
Obama, his secret his own, wnnt to the gymn for a morning workout before heading to an offiee in Chieago to polish the convention acceptance speech he will deliver next Thursday night. 
Obama told rnporters on Thursday ho's already made his choiee, and aides have used the prospect of a text-message announcement to try and attract additional supporters by solicit­ing their cell phone numbers and e-mail addresses. 
The Illinois senator has arranged a joint appearance for Saturday with his running mate at the state capitol in Springfield, Ill. 
llundreds or miles to the west, carpenters, electricians, sound stage gurus and others trans­f'ormed the Pepsi Center in Denver into a made-for-televi­sion convention venue. 
Tucked away in one corner were thousands of lightweight rolled cardboard handles, meant to allow delegates to wave signs bearing the names of the ticket -once the identity of Obama's running mate was known. 
And he wasn't saying. 
"Obviously, the most impor­tant question is: Is this person rmtdy to b1~ president?" Obama told "The Early Show" on CBS. Second, he said, was: "Can this person help me govern? Are they going to be an effective partner in creating the kind of economic opportunity here at home and guiding us through some dangerous waters interna­tionally?" 
And, he added: "I want some­body who is going to be able to challenge my thinking and not simply be a 'yes person' when it eomes to policymaking." 
Among those believed in the running, Edwards, Biden and Bayh fit the mold of running mate with experience in defense or foreign policy -areas in which Obama performs relative­ly poorly in the polls compared 
with Hepublican Sen. John McCain. 
Clinton's credentials were forged in the primaries and cau­cuses where she ran a close sec­ond to Obama in the battle for the nomination. 
There was no shortages of other speculation, ranging from: GOP Sen. Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, who traveled with Obama to Iraq and Afghanistan; Massachusetts Sen. John Kerry, the 2004 Democratic presiden­tial nominee, or Democratic Sen. Chris Dodd of Connecticut. 
Edwards is a favorite of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who praised his "extraordinary cre­dentials" on ABC's 'This Week" on Aug. 3 and said: "I hope he will be the nominee." 
One Democratic official with knowledge of the conversation said Obama told Pelosi recently that she would be pleased with the choice. Other Democratic officials said he was on the short list. All spoke on the con­dition of anonymity because they were not authorized to dis­cuss Obama's selection process. 
Edwards, chairman of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, is a nine-term moderate Democrat represent­ing the GOP-leaning Texas dis­trict. He is well-known in Texas but does not have a national profile. 
Asked about Pelosi's praise, Edwards said in July that he "cannot imagine that many Americans would not consider it a privilege" to be considered a vice presidential contender. 
On the 5th day of Fay, cleanup begins in Fla. 
Associated Press 
STEINHATCHEE, Fla. ­As Tropical Storm Fay finally got on track Friday to make its way out of Florida, flood-stricken homeowners got an encouraging sign: Muddy brown water lines began appearing on the sides of homes, a clue that flood­waters were receding. 
The fickle storm that stuck around for five days and carved a dizzying path that included three sepa­rate landfalls dumped more than two feet of rain in some places. But to the relief of Floridians, it was finally expected to veer west over the Panhandle before leaving for good later this weekend. 
Officials in Melbourne, one of the hardest-hit areas on the central Atlantic coast, carried boats down streets where just a day earlier 4 feet of water made roads look like rivers. Water several feet high remained in some neighborhoods, but most of the area had drained, leav­ing behind a half-inch layer of muck and mud. 
"This is a welcome sight," said Hon Salvatore, 69, who stood in his drive­way Friday morning boiling coffee on a propane grill and surveyed a dry street. Salvatore and his wife Terry, 59, had been stuck in the house since Tuesday because water surrounded their home. 
The storm's death toll rose to six in Florida and nearly 30 overall since it first struck in the Caribbean. Florida officials said four people died in traffic accidents in the heavy rain and two others drowned in surf kicked up by the storm. Before the storm ever blew through the state, a man testing generators as a precaution also was killed. 
Tens of thousands of peo­ple from Melbourne to Jacksonville to Gainesville were still without electrici­ty, and residents of Florida's storm-stricken Atlantic coast faced a weekend of cleanup after chest-high flooding. Florida Insurance Commissioner Kevin McCarty said there will likely be thousands of flood claims from Fay. 
"The damage from Fay is a reminder that a tropical storm does not have to reach a hurrieane level to be dangerous and cause significant damage," said Florida Gov. Charlie Crist, who toured flooded com­munities this week. 

PAKISTAN 
Bhutto widower proposed for new president 
Afghanistan. ed person, then he is the most eli­
Associated Press 
That need was rammed home gible person for this post," said 
ISLAMABAD -Pakistan's Thursday by twin Taliban suidde Nabeel Gabol of Zardari's Pakistan largest politkal party on Friday bombings that killed 67 poople at People's Party, which gave the proposnd tho husband of' a.'isassi­the country's biggest weapons leader unanimous support at a natml loader B•mazir Bhutto to manufacturing complex, just 22 meeting Friday. sueeeed tho ousted Pervez miles from the eapital, Islamabad. Party spokeswoman Sherry Musharraf <L'> prnsident. On Friday, seeurity forces killed 16 Hehman said Zardari promi<>ed. to 
Asif Ali Zardari, who is emerg­militanl'>, including two suspeetod announce whether to accept the ing &'i tho f'avorite to b•~ eloctod by suidde bombers, in a dash in the nomination within 24 hours. legislators Sept. 6, criticized rostive fhmtier in the northwest, "Now it depends on him Musharraf l'or his long. authoritar­ollidals said. whether he himself becomes ian ruin but would likoly continun Af'tllr seeking to tame militant (president) or nominates someone the l'ormer gmwral's support for groups in peaee negotiations, the else," Gabol said. the U.S. war against extremist government ha.'i been entangled in A presidency for Zardari -or a h'YOllpS. rneent weeks in increasing fight­figure under his control -would 
llow•wer. his <L'>I~Pnt would dis­ing with hard-line Islamic move­cap an extraordinary transforma­may many Pakistanis, who view menl'i along the border. Militant tion of Pakistani politics that has him <L'> a symbol of' the sleaze that violence began intensifying after removed both of Washington's taintml th11 eountry's last experi­Musharraf ordered soldiers to most likely allies from the scene. ment with civilian rule in the seize a radical mosque in Zardari only returned to 1990s. lie won the nkkname "Mr. Islamabad during a bloody battle Pakistan from years in exile after I 0 Pemmt" filr alleged corruption in .July 2007. his wife was assassinated in a during his wife's turns as prime According to Associated Press gun-and-bomb attack last minister. reporting, at least 110 militant December. 
And, with the govPrning eoali­attacks have been launched on Bhutto, a liberal who courted tion that drove Musharraf to government, military or police tar­Western governmenl<> and pledged vieted. announced Friday that federal n~sign this week now teetering on gel<> since the mosque siege and a tough line against Islamic mili­But Musharraf became a politi­and provincial lawmakers would the verge of' collapse, Zardari's about 20 attacks have targeted tants, had come back two months cal untouchable even for Bhutto elect the new president in simulta­
nomination is not certain. lie is civilians. At least 60 of all those before under a U.S.-encouraged after he imposed emergency rule neous votes Sept. 6. It said candi­engaged in intense political horse­attacks were suicide bombings deal with Musharraf expected to so he could remove Supreme dates must me nomination paperstrading with thn loader of thP The total violence since July see them share power after Court judges poised to block his Tuesday.
other kny party, former prime 2007, which indudes some light­February parliamentary elections. plan to remain as a civilian ruler. Lieutenants of Sharif have minister Nawaz Sharif, who was a ing not initiated by militants, has Musharraf, who gave up his The turmoil resulted in a sting­argued that the next presidentbitter rival of Bhutto. resulted in the deaths of at least dual post of army chief in ing defeat for Musharrafs allies in should hail from one of Pakistan's Sharif had no immediate reac­350 soldiers, 120 police, 470 civil­November to rule as a civilian the February elections and thrust two smallest provinces ­tion to Zardari's nomination, but ians and 1,000 militants, based on president, had by then issued a Zardari into an alliance with Baluchistan or North West his party ha'i bmm threatening to AP reporting. controversial order quashing cor­Sharif united mainly by opposition Frontier. That would exclude bolt from the coalition in a strug­The 52-year-old Zardari did not ruption charges against Bhutto to the unpopular ex-general. Zardari, who comes from the 
gle ovor power. immediately accept his party's and her husband. Once Musharraf resigned southern province ofSindh. Many citizens, as well as nomination, but he had done noth­Zardari has been widely known Monday to head off impeachment, Zardari previously suggested a Pakistan's Western backers, are ing to tamp down the recent cho­as Mr. 10 Percent since allegations the two biggest parties in the gov­woman should get the job ­urging tho parties to resolve politi­rus from supporters calling for were raised that he pocketed kick­ernment have wrangled over how prompting speculation that parlia­cal L<>sues and turn their attention him to take a post that retains backs on government contracts to restore the fired judges, mentary speaker Fehmida Mirza, 
to runaway inflation, slowing eco­many of the powers accumulated during Bhutto's two premierships. whether Musharraf should face who bears an eerie resemblance nomic growth and inexorably ris­during Musharrafs nine-year rule. He denied the charges, calling prosecution and who should suc­to his late wife -or even his sis­ing violence by Islamic militants "If the major political party them fabrications by political ceed him. ter, a minor politician, could step 
entrenched along the border with believes that he is the most talent-opponents, and he was never con-The election commission up. 



THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Saturday, August 23, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.C5. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITORS: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoiRt.l@nd:edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q!lrstions regardi11g Observer policies shollld be directed to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

'J'hc t)l'lllervcr (USPS 599 2-4000) t, puhli~hal Mo11d11y 1hruufl,b Friday c:xccpr during rl{,Ull :mel v.~uui{Jn periods. Asubscription m The Obse-rver L~ $1 110 fm one academic ycoo~r; $55 forol\e\el;le.tt'r. 
The Oll$t'rvcr j, puhlished at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dimng H:t!l Send o~ddttss ~;orrectloll$ w: 
Nnue Do:une. IN 46<;~6-0774) The Observer 
Periodical post:tj:!:C paid .u ~om: llimc P.O. Box 779 
o1nd additional mailing offiiX:!l. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre D:~mc. IN 46556-0n? 
The Observtr is-a member oft~ Associ.lfed Pres.,, All reproduction righu ne rc.'"'rvN. 

I'll admit I don't know why each of you came to Notre Dame. And I can't tell you what to expect, what you will learn in and out of the classroom. All of you will have vastly different college experiences, make different memories, live different lives. But there is one constant thing that will tran­scend your time here. 
You go to Notre Dame. 
Some of you might think I mean the Spirit of Notre Dame. You might have heard of it, the one that can light up the universe. 
Notre Dame has dif­ferent nuances and idiosyncrasies that you won't find at other universities. 
So even if I can't give you any grandiose advice, here are some helpful hints for liv­ing at Notre Dame: 
+LaFortune (a.k.a. LaFun or The Huddle) can be your best friend, depend­ing on the time. Say you want lunch, but don't have time to go to the dining hall. Subway might be the healthiest option, but will have the longest lines at mealtime -I guarantee it. 
Burger King is quicker, but closes dis­turbingly early at 8 p.m. If you dare ven­ture to the basement you will find the most delectable of treats-just not when you think. 
In the basement lurks Sbarro pizza, open until 2 a.m. on weekdays and 4 a.m. on weekends. And for good reason. If you should happen to be awake that late, 

Jay Fitzpatrick 
Managing Editor 
Helpful hints 
doing goodness knows what, you may be a 
little hungry. And nothing tastes better 
than greasy stromboli at 2:30a.m. 
Unfortunately, it tastes terrible at any · 
other time. Something about the moon­
light just changes it. 
+Most buildings on campus are named for old, dead white guys. Unfortunately, some of these names can be difficult to pronounce. To avoid any pronunciation problems, here is a handy key. 
O'Shaughnessy looks imposing, but don't worry about how to say it. Just go for O'Shag (as in "The Spy Who Shagged Me"). 
There are two buildings named for DeBartolo, but neither is called as such. If it's a class, you are likely in D-Bart; a play/concert/artsy-fartsy movie, you will be at DPAC (dee-PACK). 
There is a mythical place called the Coleman Center or Morse Center. For all intents and purposes, they are the Siamese Twins known as CoMo. Learn that name, because you will likely go there often. 
The numbers on many classroom build­ings make zero sense. Fortunately there are maps in the buildings. Unfortunately, you will look like a tool if you use them. There are maps of most classroom build­ings online. Find them and use them to try to save some face. 
+Get to know the people in your sec­tion, because they are the people you will see the most often. Most people continue to room with people who they lived with or near freshman year. 
But don'tjust know the freshmen. The upperclassmen can help you with profes­sors and classes. More importantly, at 
page 13 
least for this semester, only they have cars to escape the Bubble. 
The most important person to get to know is your RA, and for purely pragmatic purposes. They can be your best friend or your worst enemy, depending on your relationship with them. 
I just threw out a term that might have confused you: "The Bubble." Notre Dame exists as an identity unto itself. We have our own post office, our own fire depart­ment, our own police, etc. Most of what you need you can find here on campus. 
But the Bubble isn't always a good thing. Experiencing life off-campus can be a great experience, but a trickier one. And partying is just one thing to do off-campus. Just like any town, South Bend has its fair share of stores, bowling alleys and movie theaters. Go to them, have fun off-campus. 
Regardless of what you might have heard, not everyone loves Notre Dame, and you have to be careful with what you do off-campus. Don't stay home; just be smart. 
This might not be some earth-shattering information, but it should make life easier in the next few days. 
Jay Fitzpatrick is a double major in History and Arabic Studies. He used to live in Dillon Hall until moving off-campus. He would like to thank Lennie, Jaytar. Wakim, Healy, Tony, Kevin and Ryan for their continued support. He recently got engaged and would like to assure you that all donations are accepted and appreciat­ed. Send them to Jay atffitzpa5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Play like a champion today 
Four years ago this week, it was rain­ing. I was moving onto the third floor into one of Saint Mary's smallest quads with limited elevator access and basement entry. Did I mention it was raining? If all this wasn't a sign that I made the wrong col­lege decision, I didn't know what was. I was sad to be leaving the life I knew (in Philadelphia) and uprooting to Indiana, as I'm sure many of you were (or still are). 
Fast forward four years. I am sad again. But sad for another reason. Sad to be beginning my last year at Saint Mary's. Sad to be doing everything for the last time. To go to my last football game of the season. To celebrate my birthday at school for the last time (which is August 26, if you were wondering). To go to my last pep rally; my last Pigtostal; my last undergraduate classes; my last Observer meeting. It truly is the beginning of the end and while many other seniors out there aren't quite ready to admit their nostalgia, I know you feel my pain. 
For this very n'lason, my friends and I have made a commitment to ourselves and others, and while it is not very origi-nal, it speaks the truth: Play like a cham­pion today. Your days in college are num­bered, unfortunately, so make it count. Don't wait until you're a senior to realize this. Take advantage of all the opportuni­ties here so college really is the best four years of your life. I know it's been mine. 

Notre Dame, Ind., is a special place. Sports and nationally-ranking academics aside, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are unique because of the students they draw. The proverb goes: "A man is judged by the company he keeps" and for any grad­uate from either school, the saying is all the more poignant. The ND/SMC network reaches from coast to coast and if you haven't already experienced this for your­self, take my word for it. There is a family. There is a connection. There is a shared sense of pride. And the company you keeps here will strengthen this bond. 
For all you freshmen, you have four years to nurture this relationship. You have four years to define yourself. And there is no better place to do it than here. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are driven, passionate, intelligent and, I like to think, a lot of fun. 
Take advantage of the symbiotic rela­tionship between our two schools. Join a club at the other school. Register for an elective across the street. Broaden yout horizons. My college experience has been so enhanced by taking advantage of these opportunities. I never thought I'd be the Assistant Managing Editor of The 
Observer four years ago, but here I am. I 
hope you have similar experiences your 
senior year and can look back on your 
accomplishments with pride. 
Sitting here writing my farewell column makes me realize that the reason it's so hard to picture myself leaving is because I still picture myself arriving. Four years is too fast to sit back and just go through the motions. You have such a unique opportu­nity here and even though you might not be on the football team, your dorm presi­dent, or in the band, there is something here for you that will make you happy. You just have to find it. Good luck. 
Katie Kohler is a senior political science major at Saint Mary's. Realizing that this is indeed her last year ofcollege makes her yearn for all the things college, manifesting itselfinEZ-Mac and Papa John's binges as well as recreational activities such as Guitar Hero and riding a bike. Besides her superior dancing skills, Dave Matthews impressions, color coordinated spandex and numerous 
nicknames she has gained over the years, she wants to be remembered by her peers for her love ofthe song "Sandstorm" by Darude and her sequin-studded wardrobe. Contact her at kkohle01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. · 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Jenn Metz Bill Brink Liz Harter Matt Gamber 
Kaitlynn Riely Laura Myers John Tierney Sam Werner Mandi Stirone Scene 
Graphics Analise Lipari Mary Jese Viewpoint Illustrator Kara King 
Graham Ebetsch 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Courage is the art ofbeing the 
only one who knows uou 're scared 
to death." 
Harold Wilson former British prime minister 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The first step to getting_ the things 
you want out of life is this: Decide 
what you want." 
Ben Stein former presidential speech writer and comedian 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Education's purpose is to replace an empty mind with an open one. " 
Malcom Forbes 
U.S. author 

THE OBSERVER. 

IEWPOINT
page 14 Saturday, August 23, 2008 
Campus leaders welcome Class of 2012 
Doar Studnnts: 
On behalf of the faculty and staff at Saint Mary's College, I extend a warm wnleotne to With the beginning of a new academic year, I extend a warm wel­
the Class of..2012 and to our transfer students. As a graduate of Saint Mary's and now its eome to all new and returning students of the University of Notre 
11th president, I care deeply 11bout this special place, and about you, our students. As Dame. In particular, I wish to congratulate a:nd welcf!me our fresh­
Saint Mary's students,"you are following in the footsteps of generations of remarkable, men and transfer students. We are exeited and grateful that you 
accomplished women, aod, like them, your talents will leave your distinct mark on the are hero, and we will strive to hP~lp you grow during your time at 
College. Notre Dame. 
At Saint Mary's we will challenge you. We will help you learn the extent of your capabil­Make the most of your time here. Be open to engaging new 
ities and how to use them well. You will receive an excellent Holy Cross education-an friends, thosn who may have very similar.or very different personal 
education that is committed to the development of the whole person. stories and perspectives. Embrace each classroom experience as 
As a Catholic college, we eherish intellectual pursuits because they enrich our under­an opportunity to learn, h!'Jne your talents and share your ideas. If 
standing of God and God's creation, whieh in turn helps us build and sustain more just you live in a residence hall, explore the multiple ways that you can 
and equitable communities. We hope one result of your Saint Mary's education is that you contribute as a leader. When you face challenge, know that you are 
will develop a sense of obligation to the eornmon good and that your life and work will not alone and do not hesitate to seek support from those around 
rt;Jflect that understanding. you. Finally, in all tbat you do, take a ft1w moments each day for 
We have a proud 164 year tradition of educating women to make a dif(eri:mce in the personal refl!~Ction to refresh your spirit. . 
world. Now it is your turn to make history at Saint Mary's College. I look for"ward to One of the primary objectives of Notre Dame, as a Catholic uni­
aceompanying you on this journey. •. versity, is to develop people who will be prepared to make positive contributions to the Church and the world and to confront the 
Carol Ann Mooney challenges of'.the futuN~. We are ~onfident that you possess ~he tal­
College president ent and desire to make ·meaningful and lasting contributiqns. 
. Aug. 22 

Onee again, weleome to Notre Dame. May you soon eome to feel at home 01~ campu!i. anti to love this place, as" do so many gradu­ates of past years. I hope to meet you in per.son over the eourse of your time. and throughout that time, I wHI keep you in my prayers. 
In N<itre Dame, • · • 
Rev~rend John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. University p~esident Aug. 22 
.. 
)'Velcome to tJ}e Notre Dame Family. Wheth.er you join us a'S a first-year undergrad-Uate, a transfer s~udent or a new . graduate/professi<Htlll student, it is an honor to be among the first. to"'W~leoine y'ou to the University of Notro· Dame. • · 
·On behalf of all of us wh(J-serve in SrudMt Affairs. we are·gfatl . YOlllire hentand hope tbat you will SOOll f~~ comfortable e'alling· . this plaee home.. · · . • · • · · . • : .; •.. 
Th1s University ·offnrs·a hosl. ofe.JScelleflt re~;owces that exist to lwlp yot.t d_o just· tha.t;. ·Our 21-l imaergraduat.e re-sidence tia!ls" and .. ..­two graduate rMi.d<;nic flfl.:ilities are at thfl hcart.:~f tfi~s:ens.e. o£ • ~:onlti1ilni1y that is d'll.tl of the inost d'isti_nctive featur'iis o(a Notl'e D\fml~ ...dueation. The quality-of th<'!' student s~rv.ice-de"f}ariments in ;,. 
.• 
thi' ·t>Nlslon of i!tudeilt Affa~rs· is unparallelnd; the9C' offic:.,e·s inclutle • • .Aic.ohol and Dr~g Etli>H~ation, Caffipus. Ministry7 th.+l. Career Center. • 
• 'thtt Cs>un.:;nlinfo{ Centf:r. th'b .Gend"i~r-Rel-ations Ceuter. Healfh • -~ · ' • • Sprvices, lnte.r'nati<1nal Student Snrvkes and Activities,· · . • "Multicultural Sttidrn't Programs and Sei=vices,.the Off'i1!e of • · 
HJ~s.idem:<:. Life anclllo,a:~smg: Nl>trc o"ame Security/Police a-nd : • • ~\.ud<~nt Aetit'i.ti~. The staffs. in youc..residetlcelta!ls ~nd gradnate 
• rnsiclene<~s Itre present to assist and to su.pport yon in yilur transi­tiilll t~> Iif<~ at Notre lhuiw: · . · ~ • • • : 
.·
Although we pmvicle a:variety of servi<~es, we share a common 
•cl~1sire to do nverytlii.n"u.ve ean to heJ._p faej,litat~ ~our intellectual, spiritun.I and·persol'lal. growth: • 
~s a eommunity, WI' draw our strength from the uniqWJ and diver~e gifts offered by each nf you. We hope that all ofyou will be
·. 
able to aehieve the goals you set for yourselves.this year. · .I h(Jpe that I will have the .opportunity to come to know as many of you as possible in the months ahead. 
Until I am able to greet yiJU in perso11, please know that you have my vnry best wishes for a year filled with &II God's blessings. 
Father Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C. ·vice president for srudent affairs Aug. 22 
Welcome Class of 2012! . On behalf of the Saint Mary's student body, we are excited for you to join our family. We hope that you will lind your special place in 
Class of 2012, Meet new people every day. Laugh. Laugh this eommunity and allow Saint Mary's to help you dlseover more 
Welcome to Notre Dame! Hopefully by now hard. Challenge yourself. l~eeome engaged. truths about yourself. · 
you've been able to unpack, somewhat Seize every opportunity this University This is a remarkable year for Saint Mary's. Along with becoming 
organize your room and get to know your offers. a part of our community and joining the tradition of excellence of 
roommate(s). Most likely, you've gotten lost Our job, as members of Student Saint Mary's women, you are the first stude,nts to experience Spes 
at least onee, seen a ton of new faces and Government, is to serve you and to keep you Uniea llall, our new academie building. We know that you will 
are probably pretty overwhelmed with this constantly informed of the developments treasure your time here, as alumnae have before you. 
new situation. All of these things will only and improvements going on around campus. Life at Saint Mary's is about discovering your passions. We 
last a few days, and in a week, you will Keep an eye out for some pretty amazing encourage you to take advantage of your time both in and out of 
know this plaee like the back of your hand. • additions and opportunities that we will be elasses. Learn more about eaeh subject than you are required to 
In a week, your room will look perfect (this .offering throughout the year. Coming up in know-it will help you stay focused and interested. Form new, 
may only last a few days). In a·week, you the next few weeks, you will have an oppor­lasting friendships. Try new activities to make the most of your 
will walk from LaFortune to DeBartolo and tunity to join Freshman Class Council or the experienee. During Student Activities Night on Aug. 28, you will 
see 10 familiar faces. In a week, this plaee Flex Program. And if you ever have any have the chance to join some of our many clubs and organizations. 
will become ... home. The beauty of this questions, please let us know. Seriously, if · Everyone here wants to help you adjust to college life and ulti­
campus, the friendliness and availability of there is something that frustmtes you or you mately flourish throughout your time here. If you need anything or 
professors, the time spent with your class­have an amazing idea that could make Notre have any questions, you can eontact us at bog@saintmarys.edu, or 
mates and, of course, Fajita Fridays and Dame even better, just email us you ean stop by our office located on the seeond floor of the 
Wing Night (trust us, make sure you experi­(studegov@nd.edu) and let us know. Student Center, room 225. We cannot wait to meet all of you! 
enee these) all contribute to the incredible · Good luck and go Irish! environment that you now have the opportu­

Mickey Gruscinski 
nity to live in for the next four years. The Bob Reish Saint Mary's student body president 
SAT and ACT are never to be seen again, the Notre Dame student body president Sarah Falvey 
idea of applications. can be placed aside, and Grant Schmidt Saint Mary's student body vice president 
the decision between colleges is over. Our Notre Dame student body vice presidem Aug.22 
advice to you? Enjoy yourself. Get involved. Aug. 22 

. .. 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Saturday, August 23, 2008 page 15 
Falling into place 
A series of missteps -that's proba­bly the best way to describe my life at Notre Dame so far. 
For a lot of you, life under the golden dome is a dream come true, a chance 
to spend four years at a school that you've worked as long as you can remember to get into, well, that was­n't the case for me three years ago. 
Figuring out my 


path at Notre Dame Deirdre Krasula 
was never a struc­tured route; really it was more a series Assistant of events that just Managing sortofhappenedto Editor fall into place. So for those of you have stepp~d on this campus, a little weary if you've made the right choice, my advice to you is this: don't worry, Notre Dame is one of the those places that even when things are going wrong, in the end, every­thing falls into place. · 
I stepped onto campus with no clue of what I wanted to major in or what I wanted to find out, I just sort of hap­pened into things, and looking back, I wouldn't have it any other way. There have been a lot of moments when I felt lost, I made a lot of mistakes, but a lot of those mistakes turned out to be a blessing in disguise. 
Welcome to the bubble. . 
It's a term that tends fo circulitte around this campus -the ''Notre • Dame bubble," that funny, invisible · membrane that keeps us in and keeps the world out. We enjoy the safety of our dorm rooms and dining halls. It's a magical world, Hobbes­why would we leave? 
The term "Notre Dame bubble" is chronically over­used, but it holds some truth. There's Scene Editor 
a tendency here (and as a big, bad senior, I can testify to its pervasiveness) to avoid ventur­ing too far outside of our fair brick and cinderblock walls. The bubble is just as much a mental roadblock as it might be a physical one. It's easy to make excuses -no car, no money, or no need to get off the futon and enter the outside world. 
Besides, we're intelligent human beings with sophistication and smarts. We take our fashion tips from "In Style," not "Seventeen." We laugh at Wes Anderson movies that our parents don't understand. So long, Rihanna, hello, MGMT. I've got enough 'culture.' 


There are a lot of things that I defi­
nitely didn't plan for. Here are just a 
few unforeseen events, if you will, that 
have gotten me to where I am today: 
First -I lived in a quad in Badin 
Hall my freshman year (that's the 
building with the porch across from 
CoMo, and yes people live there) with 
three girls from the Midwest, and 
being from Long Island, I was a little 
taken aback. I was paranoid beyond 
belief that I would have nothing in 
common with people who live over 800 
miles from me. I just moved into an 
apartment with one of those girls this 
week -note to myself three years 
ago, the Midwest is not a foreign coun­
try though it may have seemed like it 
at the time. 
Second -I started out as an unde­
clared Arts and Letters major then 
switched to the business school the 
beginning of my sophomore. Right 
now, I'm working on a double Finance 
and English major (yes, I know it does­
n't make sense, but in the long run I'm 
hoping that it will work out). 
Regardl,ess, I plan to go into journal­
ism (fingers-crossed) at the end of the 
year, and while it may seem that my 
majors have nothing to do with jour­
nalism, I've learned a lot from both. 
My finance background came in handy 
this summer when I was siUing in 
meetings for the Metropolitan Transit 
•Authority attempting to figure out their budgef and ju.st a few of the· many many things that were wrong with it. And while analyzing poetry in depth may not interest a lot of people, it doesn't hurt to be able to pound out a five page paper in an hour. 
And probably my biggest concern ­I always knew that I wanted to go abroad, and I thought ihat meant going in the spring and not missing football season. It just so happens that I ended up going to London in the fall, and while I missed Notre Dame foot­ball, I had a totally different football experience that was life changing (and no I'm not talking about futbol). I ended up interning at the NFL i"n London, yes American football, for the Giants-Dolphins game. I got to inter­view players in the locker room and watch a 16-ft robot of Jason Taylor walk around Trafalgar Square. I trad­ed the chance to see the Irish go 3-9 for a chance to see the future Super Bowl Champions play in the pouring rain at one of the best stadiums in the world. 
Those are just a few steps along the way that at the time seemed like I was veering off course in the completely wrong direction, but looking back I'm happy with where I've landed. And while those three things were momen­tous and somewhat life changing I · learned a lot of smaller things along· the way. Like it may seem that the cor­ner of Angela and 31 is a lot closer if you just take a short cut across the 

Welcome to the bubble 
Just let me worry about homework and football tick!')ts. 
Like. you, I'd like to consider myself well schooled in the cultflral side of life, both high ari'd low. Even if I only know one Lou Reed song ("Satellite of LovfJ," actually. Okay, it was in an episode of "Gilmore Girls." Don't judge.. me), I was psyched when Sony BMG sent a copy of his greatest hits to The Observer office. I'm currently trying to read Henry James's The Portrait of a Lady, without missing an episode of "Project Runway." I know the differ­ence between "coloratura" and , "recitative," as well as the difference between Miley Cyrus and Selena Gomez. My own blend of nerdiness, sure, but I doubt I'm alone in being a nerd around here. 
When I was in high school, my mom used to tell me that I'd love college. At the time, I was reading the Canterbury Tales in AP. English, and my art class­es taught me about Auguste Renoir and Jackson Pollack. I'd always ask her why she thought I was so college­bound. To my mom -and probably to a lot of your parents -college held all kinds of yet-unknown promise for our burgeoning minds. We could study what we liked, indulge our interests, and explore our futures. I couldn't wait to take classes the subjects I loved. I wanted to be a college kid, just like yon.. . 
Now that you're here, that unknown promise is within your grasp. The beautiful thing about the "bubble" is that there's a lot of. good stuff inside. And the only way you'll maRe absolutely, 100 percent sure that you never experience it is if you stay inside your dorm room, the classroom, and your basic routine. : 
I dare you to get out. 
Not to get out of campus, meaning to leave-we're psyched to have you, and we won't let you go for the rest of your life. No, I dare you to get off of your new futon, close your door, lock it behind you, and walk away for a few hours. Visit the Snite Museum, and not just for class. Attend a lecture by a visiting scholar on a subject you aren't studying. Domers, go to Saint Mary's. Visit the pasta bar at Dalloway's, and see more shows at Moreau than the Keenan Review. Dig into those pockets and scrounge together fifteen bucks to see world­class entertainment at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. When else in your life will performers like the Soweto Gospel Choir and the London Philharmonic fall into your lap? There are multiple theater companies on campus with different shows each semester -go see them. 
Where things get really adventurous, golf course, but trust me, there's a 
barbed wire fence on the other side. 
And the time you could have taken to 
walk around the golf course is about 
the same amount of time it will take 
you to get a tangled shirt out of the 
fence. 
I guess what I'm really getting at is 
that in your four years here a lot of ·stuff is going to happen, and there will 
be moments to freak out, but just keep 
in the corner of your mind that you're 
at a school where you will meet people 
to help you out along the way and 
somehow things seem to work out, ·that's just Notre Dame, maybe it has something to do with the luck of the 
Irish. 
Deirdre Krasula is a senior Finance 
and English major at Notre Dame. She 
hopes to get a job in journalism in 
Nowheresville, USA come May, until 
then she plans on salvaging her final 
college moments, putting ofschool 
work to watch meaningless TV and 
praying that the Irish can at least 
make it 4-8 this year. She can likely be 
found in the corner of party singing 
along to Miley Cyrus and outdated 80s 
songs with a few friends at hand~ If 
you have any new song suggestions 
she can be contacted at 
dkrasula@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
th.ough, is when you finally venture ;ff campus and into that mysterious land known as Michiana.-You can't pop the bubble unless you try. I dare you to drop the fear of the unknown, and see more of this cprner of the world. Go to the Morris Performing Arts Center. Find a local farmer's market online and go there. See an art show. Settle in at Fiddler's Hearth and listen to Irish music over your fish and chips.· Don:t be afraid. Just do. 
We wonder sometimes about how to build relationships between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and the greater South Bend community. I suggest you start small. Buy tickets. See things. Get up and get out. 
Pop the bubble-I dare you. 
Analise Lipari [li-PEAR-ee, in case you were wondering] is a senior English major who lives in Howard Hall. She hails from beautiful New Hampshire, the greatest state in the Union, and dares you to visit northern New England (in addition to the other amazing things you'll do in your well-educated lives). Just don't go to Vermont. They're kind of weird. Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


, 
f 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 16 
Saturday, August 23, 
Web Images Maps News Shopping Gmail more 9 

Se 

Find places of interest in the Blue and Gold Nation. Learn more. 
Get Directions My Maps 
Directions to University of Notre Dame, South Bend, IN 46556 

Home 1 . Start by unpacking your gear 
2. 
Say goodbye to Mom and Dad 

3. 
Get ready for the best four years of your life 

4. 
But before the football games, SYRs and other campus antics begin, it helps to know your way around as you navigate the twists and turns of life in our corner of the Bend 

5. 
Whether you're looking for an escape from ® dining hall fare, some peace and quiet to crack open those shiny new textbooks, or just want to check out something new, here are some of the better and lesser known nooks and crannies of campus 

6. 
So here's the key: green flags stand for grub, £1) blue flags stand for books, and gold flags stand for the unexpected side of campus life 

7. 
Lastly-welcome home. 


~ 
Unlverstty of Notre Dame North Notre Dame Avenue. South Bend. IN 46556 
These d!fectons are for platln~g purposes ooty, Yo:u may firld that cons.Vucton pro~cts.. traffic, ·..veathef. O! othet a~.nts may c:au!ia OOfH.i~ns. to difier from the map results., and ~u sho'-!d pian your route aooordingty. You m.Js.t obey a1J. Stgns. or notpes regardl'tlg your route. 
Map data e:zoos NA VTE af1A 


http://www .bloogle.com/maps/welcome/to/notre_dame.html 
··------·-~··-·--·-----~-·---------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Saturday, August 23, _ 
page 17 
Sign in IHelp 

Maps Show search options 
Located in Grace HaU 
(not pictured), this cafe's 
homemade sandwiches 
are weH worth the trek. 


in Bond Hall, home " is a quiet spot with soups, baked goods, coffee. Tip: the Bond library best study spaces around. -Friday, 9 a.m. to 3 a.m. 
Additional venue to the DPAC featuring plays, musicals, shows and the Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
Open Monday-Friday, 7 a.m, to 3 p.m. 

Student-run radio station 


featuring student DJs. Check out current schedules at http://WNW.nd.edurwvfi./ 
W ddi k' 
a c $ 
A quick stop on the way 


A one-stop shop for virtually any student need. Offers the Huddle (convenience mart), Subway, Burger King. Sbarro, Starbucks, a barbershop, a salon, a ballroom and more. The basement is a great place to stay up aU night studying, Hours of operation vary depending on the establishment. 
to class in O'Shag. Try their breakfast sandwiches. Open Monday -Friday, 7 a.m, to 5 p.m. 
<..~.:1~-:f ~?:t~:~·w:, ~¥~r;~i;: ··1#, ~ ~ ~-li. ;z*':% ,,ioOI;....,,' ,,. ?\~;;':ft.':\¥ ~-?Ct~. ~ 
~­
Hesburgh Ubrary ~ 
Ched< out the group study rooms ·· 
that can be reserved, or find a " cubicle on any floor. Open daily luntil2 am. 
~, 


Want to know what's behind those ivy-colored 
sandwiches, personal pizzas, ies and ice cream, this is a and often crowded hangout ~ for the post-parietals crowd, out its large screen 1Vs and for periodic karaoke, poetry and bands. Open 24 hours. 
walls? Try this cafe, which This on-campus museum features offers baked goods, salads, .·. ,, permanent and traveling exhibits, sandwiches and S<?Ups. ~'\ as well as special workshops and OpfH"! Monday-friday, *i\ speakers. Open Tuft&day & Weclne$day, 
7:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. 1oa.m. to 4 p,m., Thursday-Saturday, 
1 0 a.m. to 5 p,m,. Sunday 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Closed Mond~s. 
The OPAC offers a wide nmge of ooncerts, plays, films and other performances. Visit their Web 11ite for a fuM sehedule: http;//perf-ormingarts.nd.edu 
Business students often hit up this cafe for soup, salad, sandwiches and a variety of drinks. 
•
Open Monday -Friday, 
7:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
legend• 
A full-scale restaurant and bar that serves 
Notre Oame-them«l dinner fare. 
The atti'tehed club Qtld performance space 
also hoats concerts, ranging from campus 
ban~ to big name ac'l:l,i. 
Pest p('lrformera have included Ben Lee 
and the Plain White Tees. Restaurant open -­
Mondrw-Saturday, 11 a.m. to 11 p,m, 
Observer Graphic I MARY JESSE I 'based on google.com 

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Saturday, August 23, 2008 
OLYMPICS 
Investigation continues on Chinese gymnasts 
IOC says no proof so far, asks International Gymnastics Federation to review documents offive athletes 
nant" over persistent ques­
Associated Press 
tions about their daughters' 
BELliN(;-China was asked ages. to providn additional docu­"It's not just me. The par­nwnts proving that fivn of the ents of our athletes are all six mnmbnrs of its gold modal very indignant," Lu said. wornnn's gymnastics team "They have faced groundless worn old enough to compote suspieion. Why aren't they in the B1djing Olympies, in believed'? Why are their ehil­hopes of ending persistent dren suspected? Their par­qunstions about the girls' ents are very angry." agns. In an interview with The 
Tho lntnrnalional Olympic Assoeiated Press, Lu said Committnn said Friday there Asian gymnasts are naturally· is slill no proof anyonn ehnat­smaller than their American nd. but it asked gymnasties and European rivals. officials to investigate "what "At this competition, the have been a number of ques­Japanese gymnasts were just tions and apparent discrep­as small as the Chinese," he andns," spokeswoman Giselle said. "Chinese competitors Davies said. The have for years all been small. International Gymnastics It is not just this time. It is a Fnderation asked China to question of race. European submit documents that will and American athletes are all further substantiate the ages powerful, very robust. But of lin Kexin. Yang Yilin, Jiang Chinese athletes cannot be Yuyuan, Deng Linlin and Li like that. They are by nature Shanshan. that small." 
The federation said it would He said the governing body forward its conclusions to the of gymnastics was given addi­IOC. If it finds evidenee that tional documents Thursday thn gymnasts were underage, night to try to dispel lingering
-
it eould affnct four of China's questions. Those documents are not offieial. It i:;; possible six medals. In addition .to the· ineluded He's current and that all news on the Internet team gold and He's gold on former passport,-ID card and is accurate?" uneven bars, family resi-The federation has said Yang won dence permit. repeatedly that a passport is bronze medals Lu said the the "accepted proof of a gym-in the all-documents all nast's eligibility," and that around and "We believe the matter say she was China's gymnasts have pre­bars. will be put to rest ... on born in 1992, sented ones that show they "It is in the which would are age eligible. The IOC also
the eligibility. The •
·interests ·or all have made her checked the girls' passports 
concerned, not information we have eligible to com-and deemed them valid least the ath-seems satisfactory in pete. Gymnasts. · before the games began. letes them-must Curn 16 Neither the IOC nor the FIG
terms ofthe ~orrect·
selves, to .during the gave details on what new· resolve fhis• documents." orympic year information prompted it to issue once and to be eligiQ)e. ttct no\Y. three days· after the for al1." the FIG ·"Surely it's ·gymnastics competition
Giselle Davies 
said in a !?tate­not possible ended.
IQC spokeswoman 
ment. that these doc-"With some 'questions still 
So far, how­uments • are remaining, we asked the fed­ever, all the still not suffi-. eration to taKe a closer look," information the . dent proof of· Davies said. Chinese gymnastics federa­her birthdate?" Lu asked. The U.S. Olympic tion has presented supports "The passports were issued Committee said it sent a let-· its in~istence that its athletes by the Chinese Foreign ter to the IOC and the FIG on wore old enough to compete. Ministry. The identity card Friday, asking that the matter 
"We believe the matter will was issued by China's be resolved. be put to rest and there's no Ministry of Public Security. If "We certainly believe that question ... on the eligibility," these valid documents are not it's important for the IOC and Davies said. "The information enough to clarify this prob-the international federation wn have received seems satis­lem, then what will you to review the issue and hope­factory in terms of the eorrect believe? fully lay it to rest because the documentation -including "The Chinese government questions surrounding the birth certificates." and the Chinese athletes must age of some of the athletes 
With the games wrapping be respected," he added. have been out there for quite 
... up Sunday, the IOC wants to The coach dismissed a while and it's unfair to quickly end any lingering Chinese media reports and them and unfair to the other doubts about underage com­online records that suggested athletes to continue to petitors. that He, Yang and a third linger," USOC chief executive No one would be happier to team member, Jiang Yuyuan, Jim Scherr said. finally have closure on the might be as young as 14. "So we have sent a letter to eontroversy than the gym­"If you trust every Web site the IOC and to the interna­nasts' parents. but not a government... ," he tiona! federation asking them China coach Lu Shanzan said. "There are so many Web to review the matter and see said the parents are "indig-sites, so much hearsay. These if they can't resolve it for the 

good of the competition, the 
integrity of the competition 
and the good of all the ath­
letes." 
The Chinese women won six 
medals, including the. team 
gold and He's gold on uneven 
bars. Media reports includ.e a 
Nov. 3 .:;tory by the "Chinese 
government's news agency, 
Xinhua, that suggest lie is 
only 14. Asked again earlier 
this ~eek about her age after 
winning the uneven bars title, 
beating American Nastia 
L\ukin in a tiebreak, she said: 
"I was born in 1992, and 
I'm 16 years old now," He 
said. "The FIG has proved 
• that. If I'm under 16, I could­n't have been competing here." .• • · 
Earlier this month, the AP 
found registration lists previ­
ously posted on the Web site 
of the General Administration 
of Sport of China that showed 
both He and Yang were too 
young to compete. He was 
born Jan. 1, 1994, according 
to the 2005, 2006 and 2007 
registration lists. Yang was 
born Aug. 26, 1993, accord­
ing to the 2004, 2005 and 
2006 registration lists. In the 
2007 registration list, howev­
er, her birthday has changed 
to Aug. 26, 1992. 
"We played fair at this 
Olympic Games," Liukin 's 
father and coach, Valeri, said 
after they arrived back in the 
United States. "... If some­
body cheated, shame on 
them." 
Added Steve Penny, presi­
dent of USA Gymnastics: "USA Gymnastics has always believed this issue needed to be addressed by the FIG and . IOC. An investigation would help bring closure to the issue and remove any cloud of· speculation from this com­petition." 
Age falsification has been a problem in gymnastics since. the ·1980s after the minimurn age was raised from 14 to. 15 to protect young athletes from serious injuries. The minimum age was raised to its current 16 in 1997. Younger gymnasts are consid­ered to have an advantage because they are more flexi­ble and are likely to have an easier time doing the tough skills th.e sport requires. They also aren't as likely to have a history of injuries or fear of failure. 
North Korea was barred 
. from the 1993 world champi­onships after FIG officials dis­covered Kim Gwang Suk, the gold medalist on uneven bars in 1991, was listed as 15 for three years in a row. Romania admitted in 2002 that several gymnasts' ages had been falsified, including Olympic medalists Gina Gogean and Alexandra Marinescu. Even China's own Yang Yun, a double bronze medalist in Sydney, said during an inter­view aired on state broad­caster China Central Television that she was 14 during the 2000 Games. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
WELCOME BACK! I! 
FoR RENT 
1-bdrm apt. All utilities except electric. Close to NO. $550/mo. Call Joe 574·514·0900. 
3·4 bdrm, 2 full bath house. 
New construction. 1 mile to NO. Laundry, C/A, and more. 
$1,000/mo. Call Joe 574-514-0900. 
Roommate wanted. 
New home. $450/mo. includes utilities. Close to NO. 
Call Joe 574·514-0900. 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES Needed for 2008 Fall Season ·The Stanley Clark School, a south side elemen­tary/middle school is located north of Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. Soccer referees are needed for 5-6th grade and 7-8th grade girls and boys soccer matches. Pay is $35 per game to licensed refer­ees. If interested, please contact Caryn MacKenzie, Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at 574-291· 4200. 
PERSONAL 
Hi! 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NOs Pregnancy Resources website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslpreg­nant.shtml 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
Deirdre forgot the cream cheese. Now she must die. 
Jay's top five NBA centers: 
1. 
Bill Russell 

2. 
Wilt Chamberlain 

3. 
Kareem Abdui-Jabbar 

4. 
Hakeem Olajuwon 

5. 
Shaquille O'Neal 


We should have taken shifts. 
Manu Ginobli is the enemy. 
Were no strangers to love You know the rules and so do I A full commitments what lm thinking of You wouldnt get this from any other guy 
I just wanna tell you how lm feeling Gotta make you understand 
Never gonna give you up Never gonna let you down Never gonna run around and desert you Never gonna make you cry Never gonna say goodbye Never gonna tell a lie and hurt you 
-----..------...----.·-··-· ~----~-----.~----·-----· 

page 19 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 23, 2008 

. . 
-. 
.. 
11 • 

• 
From the Division of Student Affairs· 
R.ev. ~larl L. Pimrmon, C.S.E 
Vice President for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-7394 
!Is. Ann Firth· )II: William-Kirk 
Associate VP for Student Affairs Associate VP for Residence Life 
. . 

.316 Main Building 3W Main Building 631-2685" . 631-6144 • 
. Sr. Susan Uunn, OJ! Sr..Jean tenz, (~S.): Ur. (~. Uavid !loss · 
• Assistant VP for Student Affairs Special Assistant to the Vice President ·Assistant VP tor Student Affairs 
316·Maln Building. --. for Student Affairs · ~16 Main Building 631-5550 • • 316 Main Buitding -~ . '·· • . 631-5550 
·-.

• ' ~1-.5550 • 
~ 
.. . ....
-.... . -· . 

-~1£. :Jennifer Monaban -lffiv. !lark . n. The~ng, . ~ls.r;: ~ )fr. ~(Brian (;oughrin ·. · · -. 
Executive Assi~tant kl.the Viee Presid-ent Budget Manager • · • Assistant VP for Student Aetfvities :. · · 
. . 

. : • • • 31_6 Main Buittlin~ .-• · · ...·-: 3l6 Main Buflding • • ·; • "315 LaFortr.me·Student Centet .-6'91-~550 . • 63t-3069 . 631:9314 ... 
. ..... .._:,... .... .. .­

._, . --~ --.. ..
'. •. .... .. . ~--... .. . . -.. ,• :. . .. 
.• • ... ~-•.r' .. • ..: ·~· -:. .. • . 
.. ... . .. .. .. . ~ . -.. -.... ·'• ·. ... ".. -~: . ' 
. ~ · ·; .·..\tt~luor& IJilt:G.J~Dtil~1TiDN·: ·;.: ·. ·--~---·.. -.-_ :·. · · ·:~ ·_ -· t:,utPllS!IINISTltl' :<·.. ·~----..;~.. ~ _: ...~ 
. . ; ' ...~ . .·~· ; . .... .•· '. . . -... ' -~ .-·~. . . . 
• :-·· Ms: Christine Nowak, IJ.iiilct'or-: ·,· • • · ~•..-·.r_ -·• : • · • •.• R-l!v. Richard Y, Warner:·c.S.t., Director·.-·:· . ; ••
.
. . . .. • 204 St. Liain Han ... -• · _' ·.: • _ •.• • ~ -. '~-. :us ~olaman.:.Morse Center~ :: • • · · • •
-. . 

: • -631~970 • : • . · • . 63l--780B ·. • . . . ·..•-. • · -· 
-:. • • ....." • • .. ~. #. • • -,. ... "' .. .... • ~ • .!. -... .. • -4
.... -~ 
't.; .... . ~ .. .,..__ ~.. • • ~ •• • ... • • • • • !'-~ : 
.. 
. . .. . ,· . 
.• · ;_.f\Uti:mujE\1,~:R. ~~. --· ~ ~ · · . -~ ·.-· .-·_. .-.-· ·G~JNit~ft ItEiLt~TtoNS:t:~~-NTER · 
.. .. . • · • Mr Lee Svete Director ~ • • · • · ·-· · · ~ . :Mi. Hea~lier Rakoczy-R-usseU, Director
. . •. ' -. . . . 
.. .

~ : • . · 248 Fl_;nner Hall · • . .• • . ., · •• 3U LaFortune· Student Center • 
. •. 

e • • • • • oG31-5200 ° . ' • • 631-93,4o · ~ : ­
. ..-_. 
Ifi,Eillfi110Ni\t 81lalENT SEilHt:ES &!U;TniTIES 


Ms. BethailY Heet, Director • Ms. Iris OutlaY!, Director . ..·­204 LaFortune Student Center 210 LaFortune Student Center 631-3825 631-6841 
R.ESIIIENfE LWE &HOlfSING 


Mr. Jeffrey Shoup, Director Mr. Phillip Johnson, Director 305 Main Building 204 Hammes-.Mowbray Hall 631-5878 631-5555 

IINIVmL~ITl (i011NS~JUNH (mNTim.
Ms. Peggy Hnatusko, Director-Programming Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Director Mr. Ryan Willerton, Director-Facilities 3rd Floor-St. Liam Hall 315 LaFortune Student Center 631-7336 631-7308 
lfNIVElt~lTY HE;\VfH SERVIliES 
Ms. Ann E. Kleva, Director Student Health Center 631-7497 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
. 
.· . 
-

page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 23, 2008 

c..,:) 
:z: ­
c.,:)
-
a.. 
C3' 
:z: 
cc
<" 
V) V) 
IIICC 
::E 
c:)' 
:z:
-
I . :z:
I 
..... 
a.. 
C) 
! ­
' 
' ' . 
~ ',xc,~'..~ •• -!l'.tl.' ' ~-""'"---'-~ ~,ii:.~'-·'-'~ ' 

Saturday, August 23, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 



Master something a little easier, like your personal finances. 
Wells Fargo knows that college can be a challenging time. That's why we have a wide range of tools to help you along the way, from checking and savings to a College Combo" specifically designed to help you be financially successful. And best ofall, you'll getsomeone to answer your questions and help you make sense of it all. Why wait for someday?5M Stop by Wells Fargo, visit wellsfargo.com/student or calll-800-WFB-OPEN (1-800-932-6736) today. 
"'2008 Wells Fargo Bank N.A. All rights reserved. Member FDIC. (117926_1 0322) 


Maintenance-Free living Community Clubhouse Heated Swimming Pool Fitness Center 
East on Edison Rd. towards Grape Rd., Cross over Main St. at the Varsity Club, Turn right on Park Pl. The community is located on the right side ofthe road. 
jim@g90re.com or 574-247-0770 stonebridgecondos. net 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles hope youth can replace Gray 
By KATE GRABAREK SportS Writer 
Saint Mary's will look to con­tinue its upswing as a program without the most decorated runner in school history. 
Megan Gray became the first Belles runner to qualify for the NCAA championships and was named a first-team all-MIAA selection -accomplishing each feat in both her junior and senior seasons. 
"The team is definitely miss­ing Megan," Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. "It's always hard when someone as talented and influential as Megan graduates, but this should be a great year for us to develop our younger talent and maximize the potential in our upperclassmen." 
Last year's standout fresh­man, Samantha Wieczorek, is currently out with a knee injury so Bauters will look for some new faces to lead a team that includes four freshmen. 
"Unfortunately our No. 2, Sam Wieczorek, (rom last year is stjll recovering from an after-season injury, so we'll be looking for people to step up in many areas," Bauters said. ''I'm looking forward to seeing how our freshman can con­tribute to the team. Next, I think there are some sopho­mores and juniors that are still discovering their potential ­Catie Salyer, Clare McVey ... the list goes on of sophomores that have so much more in them." 
The Belles will have six sen­iors this season, including returning captains Caitlin Brodmerkel and Alicen Miller. 
Saint Mary's will also host two events-the season-open­ing Alumnae event on Aug. 30 and the MIAA Jamboree on Sept. 26. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 
OLYMPICS 
Cuba knocks out USA in baseball semifinals 

Associated Press 
BEIJING-The U.S. baseball team will find no gold in Beijing. And Cuba is back in a place it knows so well -play­ing for another Olympic title. 
Alexei Bell hit a three-run homer in the eighth to put the punctuation mark on the Cubans' 10-2 rout of the United States on Friday night. 
He raised his hand to signal No. 1 while rounding the bases, then Ariel Pestano added his own three-run shot three batters later to seal it. 
Alfredo Despaigne hit his second homer against the Americans this tournament and Frederich Cepeda also connected. 
Anything less than gold will be considered a failure for the Cubans, who have won three of the previous four Olympic tour­naments since baseball became a medal sport in 1992. 
Cuba (7-1) will play Saturday night against unbeaten South Korea (8-0), and the U.S. (5-3) will face Japan for bronze in the first game of the day. South Korea past Japan 6-2 in Friday's first semifinal. 
After the final out, the Cubans celebrated mildly on the mound. The Cuban team includes Antonio Castro, the team doctor and son. of the country's former president. 
Cuba finished runner-up to the U.S. in 2000 at the Sydney Olympics before winning again four years later in Athens. Winning gold in China might mean even more to the island, considering baseball will come off the Olympic program for the 2012 London Games and might not be back. 
Wukesong Stadium was nearly full save for a few open seats in the outfield bleachers. Cuba's fans chanted of "Let's go Cuba!" in Chinese, standing to clap and wave their coun­try's flag. They even had their share of supporters from China. 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Saturday, August 23, 2008 
OLYMPICS 

Bolt, Jamaica take gold in men's relay 
"World's fastest man" earns third gold medal; relay sets new world record with win 
Associated Press 
BEI.IING -Yelling at his teammate after handing off tho baton, Usain Bolt saw another world record in rnach. 
It was just a matter of time. 
Asafa Powell took the baton from Bolt and did the honors in the anchor leg of tho men's 400-meter relay Friday, finishing the race in 
37.10 seconds to shatter a 16-year-old mark and bring yot another gold medal home to Jamaica. 
"It's wonderful," Bolt said. "You can't explain the feel­ing you fen! after the great­est Olympics ever." 
There's no other way to define it for the 6-foot-5, 22-year-old sprintnr, the likes of whieh the world has never snen. 
Three races. Th ren gold medals. Three world rncords. 
That's never happened 
b1~fore. 
Bolt also became only tlw fourth man. and the first sinen Carl Lewis in 19S4, to win all three Olympic sprint events. 
llis throe gold medals are excoednd in these games only by the record eight for Ameriean swimmer Miehael Phelps. British eyclist Chris lloy and Chinnse gymnast Zou Kai of' China also won three. 
Bolt got to sharn his final ehapter with Powell, who held the world record in the I00 for about three years bel'ore Bolt took it over in May -then broke it again last Saturday in a hot-dog­ging 9.69 snconds at thn Bini's Nnst. 
Al'tor finishing fifth in the last two Olympic IOOs, l'ownll had the reputation as a great runner who couldn't handl1~ prnssuro. 
By thn time hn took the handoff from Bolt, his first Olympic medal was secure. It was a only a matter of chasing history. .lust as Bolt had done whnn he ran 19.30 in tho 200 to break Michael .I o h n son·s mark. Pow n II drove hard to the finish. lnaning at tlw line, and tlwn looknd at th<• eloek. 
:i7.1 0. 
That was o.:~ second better than tlw mark first set by an American tnam fnaturing Lnwis and Lnroy BurrPII at thl' Barcldona Olym pies in I 91)2 and tiPd at tho world l'hampionships a ynar later. 
"I pushPd mysnlf to help 

.. Us<tin and his quest for t h r n n go I d rn PdaIs." Pow~~ II said. Po w n II ~~ r o ssed 0 . 9 6 sec­ond ahead of' Trinidad and Tobago's Hiehard Thompson -tho biggest margin in the Olympics sinco I1H6. .Iapan took tlw bronztl. "We simply couldn't com­pete," said Thompson's teammate. Mare Burns. The United States didn't qualil'y for the final after 
.. 

dropping the baton in quali­f'ying. 
America's absence from this ra~:e because of the baton mishap eliminated any real competition for the .Jamaicans. But even had Tyson Gay and Co. been on the track, it's hard to imag­ine anyone beating a team with Bolt and Powell. 
It was still a race after Nesta Carter and Michael Frater completed the first two legs. But moments after Frater handed off to Bolt, the race became a rout. And when Bolt handed off to Powell, Powell's quest became very mueh like Bolt's was two nights previ­ous in the 200 -not simply to win, but to own a slice of history. 
When the race ended, Bolt greeted Powell. They hugged and found some Jamaican flags to wear around their shoulders as the familiar reggae music filled the sta­dium. 
While Bolt finished a per­fect Olympics with the relay, the Jamaican women fell one race short of only the second 6-for-6 sweep by any eountry in Olympic sprint history -and only because they beat themselves. 
Sherone Simpson and Kerron Stewart botched the handoff between the second and third legs and Jamaica didn't finish the race won by Hussia. Still, nobody beat 
the Jamaieans in  any sprint  
they  finished  at  these  
games.  

Counting a gold in the women's 400 hurdles, Jamaica has six gold medals with one day left. That's one more than the United States, which won its fifth when Bryan Clay wrapped up the decathlon title moments before the men's relay. 
SERVING-COLLEGE STlJOENTS ON and OFF CAMPUS! 



w"v'v.Indiana(;roceries.com 
On-Line GROCERY SHOPPING AND DELIVERY SERVICE-Locally Owned 
Shop On-Line I Pay On-Line-OVER 7,000 ITEMS 
FREE DELIVERY-To Your Donn, Office or Home 
Earn $5.00 in FREE GROCERIES When You Place Your First Order 
Your PARENTS can Deposit GROCERY FONDS Directly Into Your Account 
Receive $5.00 in Free Groceries When You REFER A FRIEND Who Places Their l"'Order 
Earn LOYALTY POINTS On Each Order and Receive Additional Grocery Funds 
Now OtTering PAPA MlJRPHY'S-TAKE 'N' BAIO: PIZZA'S and More 
Partner with a Roommate to Meet our Minimum Order Amount of$50.00 
You Shop...Choose A Delivery Daytrime...We Deliver Right to Your Door...! 
www.lndian.aGroceries.com 
574-360-7510 
Want to take pictures for 
the Obs~erver? 
Contact Jess at 
jlee13@nd.edu. 

Saturday, August 23, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles vvelcollle nevv head coach, players 
Crabbe, former assistant coach at Columbus State University, has high hopes for SMC 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
When Saint Mary's returns to the field this season, their sideline will feature some new faces. 
Ryan Crabbe will take over the reins of the program this season, replacing Caryn MacKenzie as the Belles' new head coach. Crabbe will become the first full-time soccer coach at Saint Mary's. 
"I think this is a great time for Saint Mary's soccer," Crabbe said. "Having a full-time coach 
ultimately play for a berth in the NCAA Tournament." 
Before being hired at Saint Mary's, Crabbe served as the assistant coach at Columbus State University for three seasons. During his tenure with the Cougars, he helped guide them to consecutive Peach Belt tournament championships in 2006 and 2007. In addition to their post-season success, Columbus State won their conference's regular season title during all three seasons he was there. 
Crabbe is 
looking for­
ward to this 
means having a opportunity
"I think this is a great
full-time of becoming 
resource. It time for Saint Mary's a first-time shows an even soccer." head coach. greater commit­"In terms of ment to the stu­transitioning
Ryan Crabbe

dent-athletes on from assis­behalf of the col­Belles coach tant to head 
lege." 
Crabbe will have a strong nucleus of 12 veterans and 12 newcomers to work with this season as he attempts to improve on last year's 7-5-5 record and fifth-place finish in the MIAA. 
"My immediate goal will be bringing together our team of returning players and new players. Finding out their strengths and weaknesses and evaluating them as play­ers will be the number one priority heading into the sea­son." he said. "Long term, my goal for this team is to compete for and win the con­ference championship and 
coach, there 
is certainly a 
I a r g e increase in responsibility both on and off the field. I am excited about the oppor­tunity because I feel like the experience gained from my last program has prepared me for this chance," he said. 
Saint Mary's is coming off their fourth winning season in the past five years and will be returning their two top scorers from 2007, Senior forward Lauren Hinton and Junior midfielder Katy Durkin. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 

Frane88CO waa a chef at Notra Dame for 25 yeera 
WELCOME FANS & FAMILIES! GOOD LUCK CHARLIE! GO IRISH! 
-CIC~ 

ltiJJm, 0fJdJrg otIa BtJ.t! 
574 256-1444 
Fine Italian Dining 
1213 Uncoln WayW. Mishawaka (JuiiiWestOfThe100 Center) Italian & American·Cuislne 
Write sports. Contact Bill at wbrink@nd.edu 
OLYMPICS 
Clay wins decathlon gold 
Athlete becomes first American to win the event since Atlanta games 
Associated Press 
BEIJING -Bryan Clay sat on the track, then plopped on his back, chest heaving. The American's head was resting a couple of feet beyond the finish line he had just crossed as the Olympic decathlon gold medalist. 
Four years r.ft.er se·ttJ! •1!{ for silver at the Summer Games, Clay finished with 8,791 points to win the 10­discipline event. 
Andrei Krauchanka of Belarus took the silver with 8,551, and Leone! Suarez of Cuba was third with 8,527. 
Roman Sebrle of the Czech Republic, the 2004 Olympic and 2005 world champion, finished sixth. 
The 5-foot-11, 185-pound Clay is the first American to win the decathlon since Dan O'Brien at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics. 
The event began Thursday morning in the rain and finished on a muggy night at the Bird's Nest with the javelin and 1,500 meters. 
Already holding a com­fortable lead, Clay was able to take it relatively easy in the event-ending 1,500, fin­ishing in 5 minutes, 6.59 seconds. 

In his three events during Friday's daytime session, Clay was second-fastest in the 110 meter hurdles at 
13.93 seconds, set an Olympic best in the discus at 176 feet, 5 inches (53. 79 meters), then cleared 16­43/4 (5.00 meters) in the pole vault, tied for second­best in the competition. 
Trey Hardee, NCAA cham­pion for Texas in 2005 and runner-up to Clay at this year's U.S. trials, was a close fourth through seven events but failed to clear 
his opening height in the pole vault and did not fin­ish. 
He missed three times at 15-5 (4.70 meters), spoiling a chance for the United States to win two medals in the decathlon for the first time since Milt Campbell and Rafer Johnson went 1­2 at the 1956 Melbourne Games. 
Clay led the decathlon overall standings since winning the first event, the 100 meters, in a driving rain. 

Ukranian's medal stripped 
Associated Press 
BEIJING Lyudmila Blonska was stripped of her Olympic heptathlon silver medal Friday, the highest­profile athlete kicked out of the Beijing Games so far for doping. 
The International Olympic Committee said Blonska test­ed positive for the steroid methyltestosterone after fin­ishing second in the hep­tathlon last Saturday behind teammate Nataliia Dobrynska. 
Blonska was temporarily suspended by the IOC on 
Thursday, and her medal was officially removed Friday by the roc executive board. 
Blonska, who blamed her coach and husband for the positive test, also was dropped from Friday's long jump final after finishing third in qualifying earlier in the week. Nigeria's Blessing Okagbare advanced to the final in her place and won the bronze medal Friday. 
The IOC also has asked the International Association of Athletics Federations to adjust the heptathlon results and consider further sanc­tions against Blonska. 
The Ukrainian Olympic 
committee was ordered to return Blonska's medal "as soon as possible." 
American Hyleas Fountain is in line to take the silver, with Russia's Tatiana Chernova moving from fourth to bronze. 
The IOC also reserved the right to take sanctions against Blonska's coach and husband, Sergei Blonsky. 
The 30-year-old Blonska faces a lifetime ban for a sec­ond doping offense. She was suspended from 2003-05 for using the steroid stanozolol. 
Blonska's backup "B" sam­ple came back positive Thursday. 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Saturday, August 23, 2008 
OLYMPICS 
Redeem Team defeats Argentina in semifinals 
Carmela Anthony scores 21; United States wins 101-81, rnoves on to face Spain in the gold-medal game 
Associated Press 
Bt·:LJINC-Ttw climb back to thn top is rwarly cornplPtP. On11 morn win and U.S. haskntball is goldon again. 
Tlw Anwricans nndnd llwir strnak of f'inal four l'lops and Argnntina's hopns of an 0 ly m pic go Id-mPd al rP JH1a t. starting fast and f'inishing strong in a I 0 1-H I semif'inal victory Friday. 
All that is Inn is what tlw U.S. playPrs canw for: a gold nwdal. 
Tho Unitnd Statns swrnd 21 of' tlw first 25 points, got a big hrnak wtwn Arg1111tina star Manu (;inobili rPinjurPd his loft ankln. and surgPd into its first gold-nwdal gamP in Pight ynars. 
Tlwl'l~ is still 40 minutns to go, but this U.S. tnam looks good as gold. All tlw Anwrkans havn to do now is bPat Spain, who thny dobbPrnd hy 37 points in pool play, on Sunday to win tlwir first gold in a major intnrnational PVPnt sineo tlw 2000 Olyrn pies. 
What followPd was a frustrat­ing and mnbarrassing strntch in whic~h thny could not even make thn podium in thP 2002 world championships, then managed only bronze rnndals al'tnr losing in the semis of thn 2004 Athnns Games and 2006 worlds. 
Carnwlo Anthony and LeBron James were part of those bronze busts. and vowed they would !nave China with gold. Anthony scornd 21 points and James add<~d 15, B in the sec­ond half. 
Luis Scola scored 28 points for Argentina, which did not relinquish its title without a light. Ev1m without Ginobili for the linal thn1e and a half quar­tnrs, thn Argentines cut a 21­point lead into single digits and frustrated the Americans with tlwir physical play, but they did not have 1mough depth or fire­power without their best play­Hr. 
Lithuania and Argentina will nwnt Sunday for thH bronze. Spain beat Lithuania IJ 1-86 in the first smnifinal. 
Wh1m the Americans fell from tlw top of world baskHtball, it was Argentina as much as any­one who took their place -and hasterwd their fall. The Argentirws, with Ginobili's llair and Scola's force, won gold in 2004 and silver in the 2002 world championships, beating tho United States in both tour­naments. The victory in Indianapolis was the first time a U.S. team lost with NBA play­Prs. 
They knocked ofl' the Amnricans again four years ago in the semis, and Bryant said two nights ago he wanted to face Argentina in this round. 
Now Argentina's time has passed. The Americans want their spot back. 
The U.S. lmtd was already 1 0 points when Ginobili, who came in leading tho tournament with 
20.3 points per game, went down in a play away from the ball, limped to the sideline and took ofT his lcf't sneaker after rninjuring the same ankle that slowed him so badly in the Western Conference finals. 
The Amerkans extended the lead to 21-4 and were up by 21 early in tiHl second quarter. But they went ice cold against Argentina's zone, eommitted some silly fouls that gave away free points at the line, and saw the lead trimmed all the way down to 46-40 on a basket by Scola in the final minute of the half. 
James was not with his team­mates when the starting linH­ups were announced. having to sprint out from the back after his name was called. Then he was curiously absent in the first half. managing only two points. 
lie scored five quick ones in the third quarter, teaming with Dwight Howard to help the Americans break it open again. Anthony got mixed up in some ehippy play with Scola and Andres Nocioni, but kept his poise and seored eight points in 


Join Comcast at our 

SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE
Office of lnfom1ation 
NO'ni D.Q&. Di 
Technologh*l

Back To School Events! 
lTC Building, Room 121 
On the Notre Dame Campus 
• 
Monday, August 25, 9:00a.m. to 6:00 p.m. 

• 
Tuesday, August 26, 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. 


Comcast is proud to be the provider of cable television and enhanced video products for the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colle1~e. 
• 100% all Digital lineup with over 125 channels of entertainment, news, movies, music 
For just

and sports, including ESAf CIISSlic Spotts, fat~ M1V 2, SQ-fi Channa~, St:ieooe CMnne4 and many more! 
• MoviePiex-Different movies. Different days. Different interests. Anew theme everyday. 
.-. 

• 
Thousands of movies, shows, sports and local programming to pick and play whenever you're ready. Most are FREE! 

• 
Set your own start time. Pause, rewind and fast-forward anytime. 


Feed it a steady diet of • Music Choice-46 channels of music featuring rock, classical, hip hop and everything in between.
Comcast Goodness. 

• Interactive On-Screen Program Guide-Search for programs by time, category or channel. 
{Comcast. 

Visit www.comcast.com/notredame or call 1.866.594.1234 to order. i -~ / 
I www.comcast.com/notredame 

'Offer available to current Corneas! Standard Cable customers who upgrade to Digital Preferred in wired and serviceable areas in rarlicipaling Comcast systems (and may not be transferred). Comcast's current monthly service charge for Digital Preferred is $15.99. Digital Cable Servire limited to asingle outlet Servire subject to Comcast standard tenns and conditions. Prices shown do not include equipment and installation charges, taxes, franchise fees, or other applicable charges. Cable Service: Certain services available sepm~tely or as apart of other levels of service. Basic Service subscription required to receive other levels of service. Converter and remote required to receive certlin services. HD programming varies based on digital package and is limited to the programming pmvkled to Comcast in HD fonnat. On Demand selections subject to charge indicated at time of purt:hase. Not all fli{Jgramming available in all areas. Call for restrictions and complete detaUs. Comcast @2008. All rights reserved. 
Saturday, August 23, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Preseason hopes high despite last season's results 
Big East coaches 'have not been in the gym' with Irish; team won't have superstars but will be balanced 
By JARED ]EDICK Sports Writer 
Coming off one of the most disappointing years in head coach Debbie Brown's tenure, the Irish volleyball team is looking for vast improvement and a quick turnaround in the upcoming season. 
"We are expecting a lot more from ourselves this year," Brown said. "Last year was by far our worst finish since I have been here. We need to improve tremendous­
. y. " The team has no shortage of 
' 
expectations and goals this year, Brown said. 
"We want to win the Big East and advance signi!icantly in the NCAA tournament," Brown said. 
Standing in their way is an impressive Big East field, with the Irish ranked fourth behind Louisville, St. John's and Cincinnati in the Big East pre­season coaches poll. Brown said this ranking is more 
indicative of last year's results, a 15-13 record and a second­round exit from the Big East tournament, and not of the team's current make-up. 
"That ranking is about where we deserve to be based on how we finished up last season," Brown said. "But those coaches have 
not been in the gym with us this summer and they do not know where we are at." 
Brown likes the underdog to make up, but we will count­role, preferring the opportu­er it with a very balanced and nity to move up the standings deep team," Brown said. than having to worry about Senior middle blocker 
sliding down. 
"We are expecting a lot more from ourselves. Las year was by far our worst finish since I have been here. We need to improve tremendously." 
Debbie Brown Irish coach 
do it. 
Justine Stremick "It can be a and junior out-motivating fac­side hitter 
tor," Brown Serinity Phillips "The team is really mantra for the 
said. "We need were both voted team this year
disciplined and put
to play well and to the preseason that Brown move up in all-Big East all they have into stresses is bal­order to change squad this year, academics. They are ance and their thoughts." improving on depth. Brown
more serious about 
The Irish will their second­wants to get have a tough team all Big East their academics than contributions time filling the honors last year. their volleyball.'' from everyone. shoes of gradu­Even with Joining the ated players these accolades team will be a
Debbie Brown 
Adrianna going to individ­couple promis­
. Irish coach
Stasiuk and ual players, ing freshman 
Ashley Tarutis, Brown said she but Brown doesn't think believes she they will have any players has the team to that stand out from the rest of 
the team. Instead she wants a 

"The loss of two players like more collective feel to the Adrianna and Ashley is hard team, stressing balance and 

THANK YOU NOTRE DAME STUDENTS! ..... for generously donating items to the year-end campus yard sale last May. The sale raised a record $70,355 for local charities and recycled over 83 tons of merchandise I 
For a list ofthe charities that benefited from the sale, visit http://old2gold.nd.edu For more information on NO sustainability programs, visit http://green.nd.edu 
depth across the floor. 
"I do not think we are going to have any superstars," Brown said. "We are going to 
be balanced 
and deep." 
The new 
looking to 
make some of those contributions. Setter Beth Wildermuth, defensive specialist Frenchy Silva, mid­dle blocker Megan Barnicle, and outside hitter Kristen Dealy are mixing well into the team in their first season. 
"The freshmen are all doing outstanding," Brown said. "So far they are fitting in well with the team and responding to coaching. I expect them to do a lot of contributing in the upcoming season." 
This combination of experi­enced upperclassmen and new freshman who can make an impact early will con­tribute to Brown's mantra of balance and depth. 
The Irish also excel off the court in the classroom, as they received The American Volleyball Coaches Association (AVCA) Team Academic Award. To earn this award, the Irish had to score over a 
3.30 cumulative team grade­point-average on a 4.0 scale. The Irish blew this away with a 3.44 cumulative team GPA over the last year. 
"The team is really disci­plined and put all they have into their academics," Brown said. "They are more serious about their academics than their volleyball." 
This discipline both on and off the court will be key if the Irish are to reclaim the top spot in the Big East. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Saturday, August 23, 2008 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
With Allen gone, Irish need others to step up 
Talented freshmen class, returning weapons will help fill the gap left by the starting guard and leading scorer 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
When guard Charel Allen graduated from Notre Dame in the s p ring, she I e ft a seemingly gaping hole in the Irish program. Allen's name is littered throughout the Irish record book, and she will go down as one of the best all-around players in Irish history, with 1,566 points, 656 rebounds, 239 assists and 206 steals in her earner. 
But Allen isn't the only major personnel loss for the Irish for the 2008-09 cam­paign. Point guard Tulyah Cainns also graduated, mnaning both positions in the starting Irish backcourt will need replacement. 
Despite thnse two key loss­es, Irish coach Muf'fet McGraw is confident that her team 1:an reload quickly for another strong performance in the upcoming season. 
"When you lose your ~tart­ing point guard and your leading scorer, it leaves a lot of holes," she said. "That leaves a lot or opportunities !'or the freshmen." 
McGraw's rookies this sea­son mark another strong recruiting class for the Irish coach. In the last 12 years, only Notre Dame, Connecticut and Tennessee have had a Top 25 recruiting elass every season. 
Notre Dame added four players this year: guards 
Natalie  Novosel  and  
Fraderica Miller and  for­ 
wards  Kellie  Watson  and  
Erica Solomon.  

The freshmen, with an average height of just over 6 feet, add a significant amount of height to the ros­ter, but McGraw said she will not drastically change her gameplan for the season. 
Another advantage the freshman class brings to the squad is its versatility. McGraw said Watson, who is listed as a forward, played guard and forward in high school, ineluding some time at the point. Solomon will add depth to the post, along with junior center Erica Williamson and sophomore fo ·ward Beeca Bruszewski. 
,_ dt the freshmen alone can't account for all of the points this season. McGraw said she expects the veterans to 1:ontinun to eontribute this season. 
"We an1 going to need a lot of pe~~plo ,doing ~ little bit morn, Md.raw satd. 
Spneifically in the back­court, McGraw said she will look !'or junior Ashley Barlow and senior Lindsay Schrader to eontinun scoring like they did last year. Tlw two were sneond and third as seorers for the Irish last season with 
12.1 points pnr game and 
10.3 points per game, rnspnetivnly. 
McGraw also said she expnets sophomore guard Brittany Mallory to bf1 the team's long-distance threat again. Tho 5-foot-1 0 guard shot 3H.2 percent from 3­point distance in conference­play last season -t!H-l team's second best shooter from that range. (Allen led the 
team with 47 percent). ment (ACL) against 
Bruszewski and Williamson Pittsburgh on Feb. 10. Peters will anchor the front-court scored 9.0 points per game for the Irish again this sea-and led the team with 45 s o n blocks last sea-Bruszewski fin­son. 
ished last sea-"When you lose your McGraw said son as the starting point guard Peters' rehab team's Most for her knee
and your leading 
Improved was going well 
scorer, it leaves a lot
Player, as voted and that she on by her team­ofholes. That leaves started run­mates, and ning again a
a lot of opportunities
scored in dou­couple weeks
for the freshmen . " 
ble figures in ago. two of the "She is right team's three on schedule,"
Muffet McGraw 
N C A A McGraw said.
Irish coach 
Tournament "We expect her games. to be ready for 
One key component return­the first day of practice." ing this year for the Irish is Although McGraw said she sophomore forward does not know who specifi­Devereaux Peters, who cally will pick up the scoring missed half of last season slack, she said she is confi­recovering from an tear in dent in Gaines' replacement her anterior cruciate liga-at the point. 

"Melissa Lechlitner will be the starting point guard. I am confident in her; she is a great leader from the point guard position," McGraw said. 
McGraw said the team's goals this year remain the same, even with losing Allen and Gaines. 
"We went to the Sweet 16 last year and we want to get back," she said. "We would also like to do well in the Big East, which is something we did not do last year." 
In the 2008 Big East tour­nament, the Irish came in as the No. 3-seed, but fell in the second round to Pittsburgh 64-53. 
Notes: 
+McGraw received a con­tract extension at the end or last season, guaranteeing her a place at Notre Dame 
through the 2014-15 season. McGraw has taken the Irish to 13 consecutive NCAA Tournaments and 15 overall in her previous 21 years at the helm. 
"It is an honor to represent Notre Dame," McGraw said. "I feel like I'm still in my first years with my emotions and my passion for coach­ing." 
+Irish assistant coach Jonathan Tsipis was promot­ed to associate head coach earlier this summer. Tsipis will continue to coach the Irish wing players and is also the team's recruiting coordi­nator. 
"He has made major contri­butions to the program and is indispensable to me," McGraw said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

I me nts 


For your convenience, the following Student Service Offices will bE~ open under the "Golden Dome" 

Student Accounts Financial Aid Student Employment Undergraduate Admissions Residence Life and Housing 100 Main Building 115 Main Building 115 Main Building 220 Main Building 305 Main Building 
Regular business hours are 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Saturday, August 23, 2008 
MEN'S GOLF 
Golfers return fron1 Ireland ready for fall 
at Tralee, two of the most
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
demanding courses in the world. 
Sports Writer 
Several weeks before accom­panying the golfers on their trip, A leg up on the competition Kubinski agreed to terms on a never hurts, and the Notre multi-year extension with the Dame men's golf team got a big University. Kubinski, in his one on its recent trip. fourth year with the Irish, has Nine returning members of the guided the program to consecu­Notre Dame men's golf team tive Big East Conference titles in came back to 2005 and 2006, South Bend last as well as the Saturday after a "When I was hired, I top three single week-long trip to season scoring
said that coaching at

Ireland. The Irish averages in
Notre Dame was a

spent the week in Notre Dame his­Killarney, Co. dream come true. tory. Kerry, a pictur­''I'm absolute­
This is where I want 

esque town in ly thrilled to be 
to be, and it couldn't 

southern Ireland continuing what famous for the be at a better time ... we've started to links-style golf build here at
the future looks very 

courses in the Notre Dame,"
bright."

area. The team, Kubinski said. accompanied by "When I was coaches Jim Jim Kubinski hired, I said that Kubinski and coaching at
Irish coach

Steve Colnitis, as well as several guests, played several matches at the local clubs. 
Head coach Kubinski kept a daily blog during the trip. In his concluding remarks, he offers a warm opinion of his stay in Ireland. 
"It was an incredible week in so many ways," Kubinski wrote. "We ate well, stayed comfort­ably, were treated exceptionally well and played some of the greatest courses in the world. We were truly blessed to have experienced a week of golf in Ireland ... lit] will surely become a lifelong memory." 
Despite rainy and blustery weather, Notre Dame golfers outscored the locals on their own courses, posting a 6-1 record against the Waterville and Tralee Junior Clubs. The golfers often battled heavy winds, which occasionally reached 40 miles per hour on the unforgiving links courses. Junior Doug Fortner had a par­ticularly memorable trip, shoot­ing a 67 at Ballybunion and a 70 Notre Dame was 
a dream come true. This is where I want to be, and it couldn't be at a better time. Our program has made great strides and, given our returning roster and recruiting efforts, the future looks very bright." 
A graduate of Springfield College, Kubinski came to the Irish in January 2005 after two seasons as an assistant at Duke University. In 2007, Golf Magazine listed Kubinski among the top 100 golf instructors in the United States. 
"It's a special place and a spe­cial time," Kubinski said. "''ll continue to play whatever small role I can in building on those things [that improve the pro­gram]." 
Notre Dame formally begins its fall campaign at the USF Olympic Club Intercollegiate Tournament on September 8th, at the Olympic Club in Daly City, Calif. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
In addition to the pair of cap­tains, Waldrum said seniors like
Fresh01en 
Kerri Hanks, Rebecca Mendoza continued from page 32 
and Kerry Inglis provide vital 
leadership for a team with so to face national powers Santa many first-year players. Clara. North Carolina and Duke "I think we have a great core in early-season contests. group of senior leadership," 
"We're very excited. We've bit-Waldrum said. ten ofT a big, big schedule," But the coach knows that it will Waldrum said. not be easy for 
Despite the his club to daunting match last
"I think we have a 

matehups, year's success.
great core group of

Waldrum said his For that reason, team's upperclass­senior leadership. " he said the Irish men provide the must concen­Irish with the trate on just one
Randy Waldrum

leadership needed opponent at a 
Irish coach

for a grueling sea­time. son. Seniors "We're taking Carrie Dew and the approach of, Brittany Bock have been voted game-by-game, trying to win," captains. Waldrum said. "We take that 
"They am two good selections," approach every year and it's Waldrum said of Dew and Bock. worked out for us most of the "They are both key players for us time." who are also hardworking and committed. They're just what Contact Fran Tolan at you'd want out of your captains." ftolan@nd.edu 
Write Sports. E-mail Dan at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 27 
NFL 
Union head Upshaw dies 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Gene Upshaw was a punishing blocker who intimidated opponents on the field. Off it, his power was greater. 
A Hall of Fame guard for the Oakland Raiders, Upshaw died Wednesday at age 63 from pancreatic cancer, an ill­ness he only learned about Sunday. His death cut short a 25-year, post-playing career as union boss in which he led NFL players to riches that would have been almost unimaginable when he was a rookie in 1967. 
"The Raider organization, the National Football League, and the world have lost a great man," Raiders founder AI Davis said. "He is as promi­nent a sportsman as the world has known." 
The unexpected nature of Upshaw's death shocked peo­ple throughout the NFL. This was a towering man who played 15 years -all for an Oakland team that reached the Super Bowl three times and won twice. 
Upshaw died Wednesday night at his home near California's Lake Tahoe, the NFL Players Association said Thursday. His wife Terri and sons Eugene Jr., Justin and Daniel were by his side. NFLPA president and Tennessee Titans center Kevin Mawae said Upshaw was diagnosed Sunday after he fell ill and his wife took him to the hospital. 
In the wake of his death, many of those who had made him the focal point for their complaints over pension and health benefits for retired players softened the rhetoric and spoke of their respect for Upshaw. 
As a player, the seven-time Pro Bowler was one of the best ever, elected to the Hall of Fame in 1987, the first time he was eligible. 
That also was the year Upshaw led the second play­ers' strike in five years, a short walkout that led to the embarrassing spectacle of games with replacement play­ers, or "scab football" as it was jokingly called at the time. 
By 1989, while the union was pressing in court for a settlement, the league imple­mented a limited form of free­dom, called Plan B. A new, seven-year contract was final­ly worked out in 1993, bring­ing in a new age of free agency and salary caps. 
That will go down as Upshaw's legacy because it brought prosperity to both union members and owners, leaving many of today's play­ers appreciating Upshaw as a labor leader without knowing much about his playing career. Brandon Moore, the New York Jets player repre­sentative was 2 years old when Upshaw retired and said simply: "From what I hear, he was a pretty good player." 
What Upshaw did for Moore, and his counterparts is make them money -the salary cap for this season is $116 million and the players are making close to 60 percent of the 32 teams' total revenues, as specified in the 2006 labor agreement. The players will be paid $4.5 billion this year, according to owners. 
That sum led the owners to opt out in May from the col­lective bargaining agreement, meaning that if no new deal is reached, there will be an uncapped year in 2010, the season before the contract is expected to expire. 



Friday September 5. 2008 • 7:30 pm 
~~ Saint Patrick·s Park ~ South Bend. Indiana 
Tickets on sale now at the Morris Box Office. charge by phone 574/235-9190, or online www.morriscenter.org. filso at all Titkvtmaster locations. Charge by phone 574/272-7979 or www.tickvtmaster.com. $25.00 advancef$30.00 day of show rto lawn chairs or coolers -bring a blanket. This is a no smoking show. 

Leon 
Russel 
Thursday Sczptember 25 
7:00 pm • Club Fever Sooth Bend. Indiana 

~kll gum EDDIE SHAW Er WOlF GfiHG 
Sunday fiagast 24, 2008 •7:30pm Morris Performing Arts Cvnm Sooth Bvnd, lndiolliJ 
Ti<kets on SQI<! now Qt Morris Box Olfi<•. 
Sup¢riolln<ls In Elkhart. LQPOIW Civic fludKorlum. 
th~r..=r~~!'.~~~-0· ·~£!(~)" 
.. Zl <md OVQI" oomitt'ld • Ito Smoking ..

Welco!Md by gorh!yhzvp.com 
----~----~--~­
page 28 The Observer + ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 23, 2008 

E'VE BEEN 
PUTTING OUT* EVERY NIGHT FOR 

ORE THAN 40 YEARS. 
*WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NEWSPAPERS. HAVEN'T YOU HEARD OF PARIETALS YET? 
Meet editors from News, Sports, Viewpoint, Scene, Photo, Graphics & Ads to find out what youl could do for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's daily r1ewspaper. 
Pleasejoin Us For 
The Observer Open House 
Sunday, August 31, 2007 3-5 p.m. Basement of South Dining Hall 
., 

There will be food (you'll learn to take advantage of this). 
Saturday, August 23, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
Frozen 
continued from page 32 
finished, I think that they got a taste of what it's like to play in the Frozen Four and get so close," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "Now they've got to go through the work of trying to get back there again." 
The road to Washington, D.C., where this year's Frozen Four will be held, begins Oct. 11, when the Irish travel to face Denver in the U.S. Hockey Hall of Fame Game. After a pair of home non-conference showdowns with Sacred Heart on Oct. 17­18, Notre Dame opens up its CCHA slate with two home games against perennial power Miami (Ohio) on Oct. 24-25. 
But the game likely to be circled on the calendars of most Irish fans? At Boston College on Nov. 7 -the national title rematch. 
"Any time you're slated to play one of the top teams, it's going to be an exciting game, but the fact that we finished last season against them, I'm sure our guys will have a lit­tle more incentive in that game," Jackson said. "They're going to be one of the top teams in the country again. It'll be a big game just from a rivalry factor." 
Jackson said leading scorer 
Erik Condra. who missed the NCAA Tournament after injuring his knee in the CCliA play­offs, and Christian Hanson, who was hurt in the title game, will both be ready for the beginning of the season. T h o s e injuries, Jackson said, 

Fresh Start 
continued from page 32 
Since he was thinner than the coaching staff wanted him as a senior in high school, he under­went a series of off-season work­outs that helped him bulk up and add over 20 pounds of muscle. 
With his added strength and size, Rudolph could be used in goal line situations, or even on short third downs when a reliable pass-catcher is essential. For this reason, Weis is looking forward to seeing him on the field. 
''I'm very, very, very high on Kyle Rudolph," Weis said. "I mean, the kid is 255, but he's just grown into 255. He still looks skin­ny at 255 because he's so big. But his straight-line speed, he gets down the field in a hurry and he's got great ball skills." 
Robinson comes in after being with the squad for a semester as an early enrollee. An offensive guard from Elkhorn Secondary School in Nebraska, Robinson's large frame and quick hands com­bined with explosive upper body strength could have him find the field early and often. When cou­pled with the struggles of the offensive line and the lack of depth along the unit, he could 
contribute early this season.

Calle Ridderwall and Kevin Deeth celebrate a goal during Notre Dame's 
Notre Dame's offensive line

4-11oss to Boston College in last year's national championship game. 
surgery
"When you ,re playing 

fairly substan­with the intensity tial injuries," Jackson said.
level that we did in 

"When you're
theNCM 

playing with Tournament, you get the intensity 
banged up, and that,s level that we 
did in the NCAA
kind ofprice that 

Tournament, 
you ,ve got to pay to you get banged get back there. ,, up, and that's the kind of price that
Jeff Jackson 

you've got to Irish coach pay to get back there." Despite losing 
a dangerous tou·rnament team. 
"At the end of the season we had four or five guys who had to have and 
were a by-product of the two of its strongest leaders aggressive, relentless style of from a year ago in captain play that made the Irish such Mark Van Guilder and hard-
will fall into the hands of a tal­ented but inexperienced bevy
Soccer 
of upperclassmen. "No question Joe leaves big
continued from page 32 shoes to fill, but you can do it luck." in a variety of ways," Clark Not downplaying this year's said. "It can be one person team, Clark also said that he scoring a lot of goals or a lot of believes the 2008 Irish, like the people scoring a few goals. I teams of the past two seasons, think we have the potential." are talented enough to com­In addition to the upperclass­pete for the national title. men, Clark will be looking to If Notre Dame is to break integrate another talented through and freshman reach the pro­class -one gram's first ever "I honestly feel that, ranked No. 12 Final Four, the by College
ifneeded, every one 

one major ques­Soccer News.
ofthe freshmen could

tion mark that Comprised of will have to be step in and play. ,, seven fresh­answered is who men, the class will put the ball is led by mid­
Bobby Clark .

in the back of the fielder 
Irish coach

net. After three Brendan King, highly successful a member of seasons the 2007 U.S. including a Hermann Trophy U-17 World Cup team as well win in 2006 -forward Joseph as a two-time NSCAA All­Lapira has moved on to a pro­American. After enrolling at fessional soccer in Norway. Notre Dame last spring, King 
Over the past two seasons, looks ready to contribute right Lapira has accounted for 38 away. percent of Notre Dame's goals, "We were lucky enough to and replacing that production get him in here in January, so 
nosed defenseman Brock Sheahan, Notre Dame looks poised to build on the unprecedented success of the past two seasons. 
"The things that made us successful [in the NCAA Tournament] against Michigan, Michigan State and New Hampshire, we've got to remember what kind of price we paid to get to that point," Jackson said. "If we assume things will just fall in place, that's not how it works. We're going to have to play with that same kind of pas­sion we played with in the NCAA Tournament just to get back there again." 
Sam Werner contributed to this report. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
coach, John Latina, likes how Robinson has developed in his first semester with the team. 
"I think he has a great attitude," Latina said. "I think football is really important to him and obvi­ously he's talented. Even though he's going to make some mistakes along the way as a young guy, he does a good job of not making the same mistake over and I think that shows a lot of maturity on a player's part and it also shows how important it i<> to him." 
On defense, there are a handful of freshman that could also see some serious playing time as well in Ethan Johnson and Robert Blanton and linebackers Steve Filer and Darius Fleming. 
Johnson is a defensive end out of Lincoln High School in Portland, Ore., who is already a physical presence. Johnson missed his sen­ior season due to a sprained knee in the first contest of the season. 
Despite the setback, Johnson tried to stay in shape and came into fall camp in excellent shape, ready to contribute. At 6-foot-4, 275 pounds, he remains quick off the line. 
"I wouldn't say he's been a pleasant surprise," Weis said. "But he has definitely put himself in the he's got that advantage over the other players," Clark said. "He's someone who should be looking for some serious time." 

With injuries in the back line that may force midfielder 
Michael Thomas to play central defender, King could see major minutes from the start, similar to sophomore Matt Armstrong, who started every game as a freshman. 
The rest of the incoming class includes talent across all positions. Midfielder/forward Michael Rose and midfielder Adam Mena figure to join King in the attack. Competing for minutes on the defense will be Aaron Maund, Sean McGrath and Chris Sutton. Keeper Will Walsh will give Clark another option in net. While Clark admitted that competition for playing time would be tough, he gave his incoming freshmen a vote of confidence. 
"I honestly feel that, if need­ed, every one of the freshmen could step in and play," Clark said. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at 
garbogas@nd.edu 
Ireland 
continued from page 32 
regardless of who started, both saw upwards of 20 minutes per game. Ayers netted 24 points in the win over Ireland, including a game-winning dunk. Junior Jonathan Peoples served as the backup guard to spell McA!arney and Jackson while 6­foot-11 senior Luke Zeller will be called upon to replace the height on Notre Dame's defense that left with Kurz. 
Once Notre Dame begins non­conference play this season, it'll face a tougher slate than it did last year. Last season, Notre Dame's lone major non-confer­ence win came against Kansas State. This year, Notre Dame will play in the Maui Invitational, with the prospect of facing North Carolina -who will likely begin 
the season ranked No. 1 -in the finals. And in February, the Irish will take a break from Big East play to head out to Los Angeles to renew their rivalry 
mix in a very short amount of 
. ..
time. 
Blanton is a cornerback who could benefit from the absence of junior Darrin Walls, who is not with the team for the semester. Blanton is out of Butler High School from Matthews, N.C., who has speed and instinctual ball skills that have seen him break up a number of plays in fall practice thus far. 
At 6-foot-1, he is rangy and has size to compete with bigger wide­outs. Additionally, and like a true cornerback, Blanton brings some attitude. 
"He has shown very good cover skills," Weis said of Blanton. "And a cockiness that a corner needs to be able to get on tl10 field. l-Ie's not afraid of anyone and he's willing to tell anyone in the whole free world that's willing to listen. He's a chirper." 
Filer and Fleming are a potent linebacking duo out of the Chicago area, and played for rival high schools. Berning attended St. Rita High School, while Filer went to Mount Carmel High School. 
Although Filer projects more as an inside linebacker and Fleming is better suited to play outside, they both posses excellent physi­cal traits. Filer is 6-foot-3 and has proven to be very strong and quick. 
"Let's say he has so much ath­leticism that even ifhe's not in the two-deep at this point, before it's all said and done, you are hoping that he is," Weis said. "He knows he has some work to do but there are few guys that are that athlet­
ic." 
Fleming looks to be in a similar mold of sophomore teammate Kerry Neal. Both players excel at rushing the passer and are com­fortable starting in either a stand­ing position or in a three-point stance. Along with this similarity, both players have built up a strong rapport. 
"Oh, me and Fleming are real close," Neal said. "We get along real well. We sit in the meeting room next to each other and I try to help him out with some things that he asks me of. He's got some real physical gifts. He's got great speed. The other day in practice, he caught up to Armando [Allen] and brought him down." 
Note: 
Sophomore tight end Mike Ragone had surgery to repair a torn anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and is expected to miss the entire season. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
with UCLA. 
All this is designed to test the •. > Irish -a veteran squad with a chance to make a run deep in the NCAA Tournament this year -as much as possible before the postseason rolls around. 
But after this season, the Irish will lose four seniors to gradua­tion -McAlarney, Zeller, Hillesland and Ayers, and Brey did not sign any recruits last season. 
He did, however, land two sought-after transfers -Scott Martin from Purdue and Ben Hansbrough from Mississippi State. 
Martin, who will have three years of eligibility remaining after sitting out this season, is a 6-foot-8 forward who averaged 
8.5 points per game for a 25-9 Boilermakers club. Hansbrough, a 6-foot-3 shooting guard, will have two years of eligibility remaining after this season and averaged 10.5 points last year for Mississippi State. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


Saturday, August 23, 2008 

page 30 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

for the 2008-2009 i~cadentic lear:. , . 
· Ffolit the·DiVision of·student Affairs 
. 

·....-. ­
. . 

Rev.llark l1. Poorman, t:.s.t 
Vice Pre,sident for Student Affairs · 316 Main Bu~ding •
-· 

. 631-7394 : . . . tis. i\nn Firth . . -~(r. Willia)JJ Kirk·· ·. · 
Assoc.iat~ VP for Student Affairs·. • Associate VP for Residence Life 316 Main Buirding 316 Main Building 631-2685 • : ·631-6144 : . .. .. .. .
-. -Sr: Susan IJunn, O.P. . Sr: ~lean lenz, O.S.E . · lh: 1~.Uavid ~loss. 
•--:. : Assistant Vf> for Student Affairs Special Assistant to tht;! V-ice President Assistant '{P for Student Affairs 
• 316 Main Building . •. for Stulfeilt Affairs • • .. 316 Main' Building 
..

1i31-5550 ' -.... · · 316 ~ain Building 631-5550 
.. 
. -• 631-~550 .. 
.· 

. . .. · · 1l1s..Jtmnifer ~lonahan · · -twv: ~tart B. 'rh·esing, C.S.tJ: · -· .. ~ft: tl. Brian (~onghl in 
.. 
. . Executive Assistant to the Vice President · • Budget Manager • Assistant VP for StuoentActivities 316 Main Building 316 Main Building 315 Lafo(tune Student Center · • • -631-5550 631-3069 631-9314 
. 

· · .l1mrini "till . Keough Hall . Pasque~:illa "·est llall 
Rector: Rt!V. George Roz\Jm, C.S.C. ·' Rectqr:· Rev. Peter McCormick, C.S.C.' · ~:ector: Ms. Sophie Henrichs 
Uadin.Hall · -Knott Hall St Edward's Han · 
R~ctor: ·sr. Denise Lyon, I.H.M. Rector: Br. Jerome Meyer, C.S.~. RE~ttor: Rev. Ralp~ Haag, C.S ..C. 
[arrl~lllall .. tewis llall. Siegfr·ied Hall 
Rectpr: Rev. James lewis, O.Carm Rector: Ms. Linda.Cirillo Re1ctor: Rev. John Co~ley,"C.S.C. 
. · t:,u-imangh Hall tynns Uall ·' · SJtrin Hall 
Rector: Ms. Amalia de Ia Torre Rector: Ms. Denise McOsker Rnctor: Rev. James King,"C.S.C. 
.... .· -ltillon: Hall ·. 
Stanrnrd.ilall :. · 

: • ~e~tor: Rev. ~aul [}oyle, C.S.C. Jlum inn Hatl . Rector: Sr. Mary lynch, S.S.J. _ Rector: Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.s.c: 
.

IJUUIJUn )Jail 
·. · -Morrissey Hall · Walsh Hall · · 
Rector: Rev. Thomas Eckert, C.S.C. • Rector: Rev. Ronald Vierling, M.F.C. • ' Re1~tor: ${.Janet Stankowski, O.P..
. . . 

~,m·lrv Hall . . 
~. 

R!lCtor: S.r. Carrine Etheridg~, I.H.M. O'.~eiiJ HaJJ · • Welsh ~,arnih .Hall 
• R~ctor: Mr. f.dward Mac~ RecttJr: Sr. Christine Connolly, O.P. 
.. 

.. ~1 ishe·r· llall · • 
Rector: Rev. RoberJ Moss, C.S.C. .·t•anghnr·n llall 
• 
ilector: Sr..f,1ary Donnelly, O.P.. Rector:.Mr. Corry Colonna 
.· .

· Howar~ llall . 
Rector: Sr. Katherine Collar.d, I.H.M. • l)a~qneritla East Hall ~,ot~ (:mnple\ · .. 
Re.ctor: Ms. Breyan TDrnifolio Rector: Ms. Mary "Alice Beck · 
.. 
-. . . . ·.

· · Keenan llall • 
-Recto~:. R~v._El~n~el Nolan, e.si 
• 1o •. 
. ... .-.... ... . -_:_ . . . . ~.; linirer~~ Village &ffipe-: _ 
. . . 
. --.:. . · · ($")-iJ.N I Vl'.R S f T ~ ~ F • , . : .· Street-~\paftmtlO!~. · . . •· .. ·· 
. .
. .. . .: ........ 

•. • • _, . . . . .-:. ·:~ .~-:~m:~~ I?~ME · / .. : '... :~·.:Reo~·~ ~r~Na~~·" Ellio~~,. ~: · • • •• 
-. -.­

.. -·-· ...·-. ... .. ~. . .. ..... . ~ 
;-• ~ • -~ --z .. • ~ t.. • • • • ·"" _ .. -. ... ~. "' .,;-.. ... .•. • .. ... ·... • ... -. • .. • ..• • . ••• .: . .. s. ... .. .
·.
. -· .. :--·• ...... . ... . . .. . ~ ~ -.. :...~ .. -... ·· . -.. ;: : . : -­
~
. . ·..~ . -. . ·-. ~ 
--.. ••,. . --... ••. . .._ :· .~,_ •; • ... .,..•-. -:-'.. ...• •e -,:-• ~~... ~ • .:.._: ;• • a -· . 
.. : ·... 't"
. . 
• • .
·.._ • :& 
... 

"' "'"' :. ~· .... :..... .. . • .... -. ·.... -=-. "· ·"' ·-· ~ ., -. 
: 
·I 
• J 
: 
-. 
.: . 

. ... , . ... ..._. .,.--.. ..:. .-. ;~. :~-,e.,. . .. ·-. .-.. ', . . ,. 
. ~ :· ... .. -._ . . . . P... .. .. • • .... -... 
• -<>'J ..... 
·-. . "' .... , .,. . 
·~.. ~ ...-........... , . --....... •. ' ~ .. ..• ......... . -.... ··­
... • .· 
. ... 
--~ 

... . ' .... . . . , ... . -..:. -. . . 


-----~---------------------------~-------------, 
Saturday, August 23, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion ahd Jeff Knurek
Jl1JJW&1Jl:. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
BUTIC 
± . 
I I r IJ 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NARCK ± 
WHAT HE: DROVE:
J r ()
1 
WHE:N HE: BOUGHT
www.jumble.com 
A U5E:O C.AR.
I GOAFER± 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as
rJ r J 1 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 
Ar I I I I JrI I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's IJumbles: EXUDE LIMIT CHARGE UNEASY Answer: . When the mechanic installed the new muffler, it was -"EXHAUSTING" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
•••ktt[!-..-=+;;+-.!.4-==+:;~~~ 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receiv~-The Observer in your home. 4 
.-· .. 
.. 


56 See 20-Across 60 Like worms 61 Computer 
· unveiled in 1946 62 Cold feet 65 Store drawer 66 See 58-Down 67 Concerning 68 Suit to 69 Spin 70 Frequent gift for 
a PBS donation 
Down 
Trucker's place 2 Resort to 3 NHL. team at 
Joe Louis Arena 4 Big party 5 Pulls the plug on 6 Fine metal 
openwork 7 Reproductive 
seed 8 Trickled ·• 9 "Odyssey," for 
one 10 Attach (to) 11 Tuscany city 12 Canines that bite 15 Comparatively 
noisy

21 Bass 22 Bottom-of-letter abbr. 
23 One with a 
sterling service 24 Ancient gift givers 
29 How somlil music is played 30 Monteverdi opera 31 Takes off 
WILL.SHORTZ 


Puzzle by David J. Kahn 
36 StOod out 46 Avant-garde 57 MacLachlan of "Desperate
38 Plan for nuptials 
48 Changeable on 
Housewives"

40 Musician who a whim created the 
58 With 66-Across,

49 Power tool in 
EgyptianWindows 95 woodworking 

agricultural area 50 Ukr., once 
start-up sound 
41 Watch-step 59 "What ?" connection (snippy reply) 
51 California's 42 disease 
Santa Park 63 Knack 
44 Beamed 52 Kosher 64 "Riddle-me-_· _ 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with,a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytim~s.com/learning/xwords. ' 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclose.d is $120 for one academic year 
. D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name~----------------------------------~----­
Address~~----------------~~------------­
City ---~----State ____ Zip.______ 
... 
.. 

. --... 
-' 
-~-----------------­
Fridays with Fran 
HOROSCOPE 
Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) 
Try not to look like a skank. 
Libra (Sept. 23-0ct.22) Use the word dingle in a sentence. Try not to say it to someone with a dingleberry; he or she will blush. 
Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov. 21) 
Wear those loafers, former gophers. 
Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) 
Anyone who relies on TMZ for news is an idiot. Sorry, their stories have been classified as news too often lately. Stupid, man. 
Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) If you wanna make that dollah or dem dollahs, call (713) 569-2690. 
Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) 
Calm down, you incestor. 
Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20) 
Are you part of the J. Crew? 
Aries (March 21-Apr. 19) Don't misbehave. It was okay before but Heath Ledger is watching you now (froin below). ,_; 
Taurus (Apr. 20-May-20) Search "Bling Bling" on YouTube if you can handle having your life changed. 
Gemini (May 21-June 20) 
Have an individual pahty. 
Cancer (June 21-July 22) Out of 300 million swimmers, how were you the fastest? · 
Leo (July 23-Aug.22) Hey Leo ... LEO the Lion goes GER! If you know what that means, stand up and remove the pole. 

CROSSWORD 
Across 
1 Restraint 
5 Project Blue Book subject 
9 Ex­
13 Not berthed 
14 Big name in skin care 
16 Talk radio's & Anthony 
17 Hospital count 
18 Turns around, as a mast 
19 Abbe de I' -· pioneer in sign language 
20 With 28-, 48­and 56-Across, riddle whose answer appears in the circled squares 
23"Who ?" (common riddle ending) 
25Camp seat 
26 Largest geological division 
27 "Don't wanna" 
28 See 20-Across 
32 Like frittatas 
33 Sun. discourse 
34 Year in the reign 
of Justinian the Great 35 Answers the call, maybe 37 Affluent duo? 39 Fortuneteller 43 Satisfied reactions 45 Suffix with profit 
47 Movie featuring Peter O'Toole as Priam 
48 See 20-Across 51 Kentucky's Athlete of the Century 
53 Goose egg 54 Plugs 55 "Bells Ringing" 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Saturday, August 23, 2008 
page 32 
HOCKEYFooTBALL 

NDlooking

Let's try this again 
for Frozen 

Young talent, more experience provide a positive outlook after 3-9 season 
Four repeat 

7 -on-Ts. The result<; have the Irish By LORENZO REYES coaching stalr exdted. 
Sports Writer 
"The li~edbaek on Michael Floyd from Jimmy !Clausen] has been By MATT GAMBER 
Despite Notre Dame's di<iappoint­through the nxJf," Irish head eoaeh 
Associate Sports Editor 

ing 2007 season, it can expect a Charlie Weis said. ". . . [Floyd] does­bnvy of freshmen to enter thn fall n't look like a freshman. He looks rnady to compete. With one of the like an upperclassman that's been 
After their remarkable NCAA top-nUlked rocruiting classes in the around a long time. You look at him 
Tournament run ended in a 4-1 nation, this could be exactly the and say that's what I'm talking 
national championship game loss to Boston College, the Irish have

ease. about." On the ontmsive side of the ball, Floyd said the team had an exeit­
officially reloaded. Notre Dame returns 18 letter

Michael Floyd, Kyle Hudolph and ed and positive outlook towards the Trevor Hobinson have the best season. 
winners, ineluding eight of its nine top seorers and all-CCHA

dmnee to sen playing time Parly in "I just feel like the team is fired 
goaltender Jordan Pearce. Add

the season. up," he said on freshmen media to that mix a heralded group of
Floyd, from Minnesota's Cretin day on Aug. 22. "They're just show­I>urham-llall. is a 6-loot-3 wider ing a lot of emotion." 
seven freshmen, led by U.S. receiver with reliable hands and Rudolph was ranked the No. 1 
Under-18 teammates Patrick consistent speed. He was ranked tight end in the nation on 
Gauland and Sean Lorenz and tlw 16th-best prospect in the nation Seout.eom and hails from Elder 
the Irish are among the nation's favorites to return to the Frozen

by Scout.eorn and largely consid­lligh School from Cindnnati, Ohio. ernd the best football player in th11 The first feature that strikes an 
Four. "I think that seeing the

state of Minnesota. observer is his height -he's 6-foot-Harlier this summer, Floyd had 6. 
response from how last season the opportunity to work out with his nnw teammates and partidpate in 
see FRESH START/page 29 see FROZEN FOUR/page 29 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish have high aspirations after returning all but one player 
that finished 25-8, ineluding Big Currently, the team is taking mores Tyrone Nash and Carleton McAlarney, the Irish return jun­
By CHRIS HINE 
East player of the year Luke an international trip to Ireland Scott have seen signilieant min­ior point guard Tory .Jaekson, an 
Sports Writer 
llarangody and lirst-team Big as part of' the Emerald Hoops utes as they eompete to fill the excllllent rebounder given his 5­East selection Kyle MeAlarney. Tour. The trip has given Brey a void in the rotation left by the foot-11 height, who averagedThis year, them's no sneaking Many analysts have consistently chance to get his team together graduation of' Rob Kurz. eight points, 5.1 rebounds and up on anyone. ranked the Irish among the top-in the gym earlier than normal Through Notre Dame's first 5.8 assists. Sharpshooter HyanTwo years ago, Notre Dame 1 0 tmtms in the country in the and try some different lineup three games on the tour, Seott Ayers and versatile forward was picked to finish 11th in the 2008-09 preseason polls. combinations. has averaged 11.3 points, while Zaeh llillesland also return. The Big East; the Irish finished To get his team ready to face So far on the trip, the Irish Nash has averaged live points two split starting duties last sea­fourth. Last year, they were such high expeetations, coaeh have pieked up where they left per game. The box seore was son -Ayers started most of' the picked ninth and linished tied Mike Brey has changed the way off in terms of offensive produc­not available for Notre Dame's first half of the year before for second. his team approaches its off-sea­tion -scoring 90-plus points in fourth game, a 90-88 win over Hillesland took over -but But this season, the Irish son and non-eonferenee sehed­their four victories. Ireland. 
n~turn four starters from a team ule. It's also the first time sopho-Aside from llarangody and see IRELAND/page 29 
NO WOMEN'S SOtCCERMEN'S SOCCER 

Early nc~n-conference

Team searching for scorers slate will test squad
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Waldrum said Kansas City
By FRAN TOLAN 

Early 1990s Bull'alo Bills? Not 
natives Molly Campbell and Ellen 
Associate Sports Editor 

quitl~. But after two eonseeutive 
Jantseh should also put in mean­Elite I<:ight exits, Notre Dame 
ingfu I minutes for the Irish. eoach Bobby Clark and his team 
After reaching the national Campbell and Jantseh both hail have hit a roadblock in the pro­
semifinals last year, Notre Dame from St. Teresa's, the same high gram's progrnssion towards its 
will have to overcome a diflieult sehool that sophomore Lauren lirst. ever Final Four. 
schedule to duplieate that sue­Fowlkes attended. Last season, Last year, the Irish beat 
eess. But the Irish have the per­Fowlkes stepped in as a fresh­Oakland and upsPt No. 10 Santa 
sonnel to do it. man to help anchor Notre Clara bnl'on~ an overtime loss to 
Nine freshmen join a staeked Dame's defense. Waldrum said eventual national champion 
team that made it to the College he hopes that Campbell and Wake Forest. In 2006, Notre 
Cup before falling to Florida .Jantseh can have the same type Damn upended lllinois-Chieago 
State a year ago. of impact. and defending national champi­
"We've got a very good group The eoaeh said that several on Maryland before falling at 
)of freshmen) eoming in," Irish other freshmen will also have the Virginia. I>t~spite the setbaeks, 
eoaeh Handy Waldrum said. opportunity to earn playing time. Clark isn't worried about his 
"Four or five of them might step "We have a very, very good team's psyche. 
in and play a lot right away." group ... Some of the other "I just want the team to play 
Among the neweomers, for­[freshmen) could slide right in for at their full potential," Clark 
ward Melissa llenderson adds to us in the future as they get a little said. "I always say that it was 
the plethora of talent on Notre more experienee." my poorest team at Stan ford 
Dame's roster. The freshmen will be intro­that went to tlw national cham­
"In most recruiting eircles, duced to top-tier competition pionship. You nnnd a little bit of' 
she's the player of the year," right away as the Irish are slated 
Waldrum said of Henderson, a 
see SOCCER/page 29 fellow Texan. see FRESHMEN/page 27 


'-· 
r­
1 
I 
I 
~ 
' 






