
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 100 THURSDAY. MARCH 13,2008 

D'Arcy criticizes Jenkins' decision 
Bishop again decries president's approval of'Vagina Monologues' performances on campus 

By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
As part of Women's Appreciation Week (WAW) at Saint Mary's College, students have the opportunity to pur­chase sanitary napkins and tampons for a $1 donation to charity, Co-chair of WAW, fresh­man Karen Borja said. 
Senior Adriana Rodriguez, freshman Maricruz Cardenas, and Borja planned the event and began selling the pads and tampons Monday at lunch and dinner outside of the Noble Family Dining Hall in the Student Center Atrium and will 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
STUDENT SENATE 
Group conunends University 
Resolution lauds ND's environmental efforts 
By ClAIRE REISING News Writer 
The Student Senate applauded the University's increased atten­tion to environmental issues in a unanimously passed resolution at their meeting Wednesday. 
In the past year, Notre Dame raised its grade from a D-to a C on the College Sustainability Report Card, the resolution stat­ed. 
According to the Sustainable Endowments Institute's Web site, the College Sustainability Report Card evaluates the sustainability of United States universities with the nation's top 200 endow­ments. 
The Senate's resolution listed some efforts Notre Dame took to increase campus sustainability, such as decreasing greenhouse gas emissions, serving some locally grown food products and strengthening its recycling pro­gram. 
With these initiatives, the University was one of 13 univer­sities to improve by a full letter grade on the report card. 
"I thought it was appropriate to commend them for what they've done and encourage them to do more," said Fisher senator Stephen Bant, who drafted the resolution. 
The senators also discussed 
see SENATE/page 4 

By BILL BRINK News Editor 
As he did in 2006, Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy has condemned University President Father John Jenkins' decision to allow "The Vagina Monologues" to be performed on campus and said he hopes Jenkins rethinks his choice. 
In a six-page statement released Wednesday, D'Arcy said he "publicly and respectfully disagree[s]" with Jenkins' decision to allow the play, which will be held from March 26-28, to be per­formed on campus. 
"I am convinced that per­mitting performances of [the "Monologues"] is not consis­tent with the identity of a Catholic 
universi­ty," D'Arcy said. 
Jenkins said in a two-page statement Monday that uni­


versities, D'Arcy including Notre Dame, are responsible for openly discussing contro­versial issues and finding academic platforms for those issues and so the play could be performed on campus. D'Arcy disagreed and said permitting performance of the play was "not consistent with the identity of a Catholic university." 
" ... Because it depicts and endorses sinful sexual acts in direct opposition to Church teaching, I believe its per­formance to be pornographic and spiritually harmful," D'Arcy said. 
The Eve Ensler play, which was performed on campus for six of the past seven years, has continually gener­ated controversy at Notre Dame. Jenkins said he would allow performance of the "Monologues" after finding the student proposal to per­form the play consistent with guidelines he established in 

2006, which, among other stipulations, said the play must be discussed within a Catholic context. 
An academic panel discus­sion will follow each per­formance, and at least one panel member will discuss the play's relation to Catholic beliefs. 
D'Arcy called for the University to denounce the play. 
"Otherwise, the University appears to endorse it as in some way good and the impression is given that 
Catholic  teaching  is  one  
option  competing  among  
many," D'Arcy said.  

see BISHOP/page 3 


Tampons sold for charity at SMC 
Students raise funds to purchasefeminine hygiene products for African girls who can't afford them 
continue selling them the week, Borja said. 
The donations from the sani­tary napkins and tampons sales will be given to Protecting Futures, a project that provides pads to young women in Africa, so that women don't miss school because of their periods, according to the program's Web site. 
The three organizers of the drive decided it was a worth­while endeavor after seeing a television commercial for the program, Borja said. 
After deciding to take part in the program, Borja, Cardenas 
see TAMPONS/page 4 

'Live As You Are' focuses on eating disorders 
Counseling Center offers support, treatment for men and women 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Last year, just over one in every 10 stu­dents to visit the University Counseling Center was treated for an eating disorder, but today Valerie Staples will present ways the University can lower that number. 
Staples, the coordinator for Eating Disorder Services in the Counseling Center, will speak to faculty and staff today about how they can impact the positive body image of students. 
Her department recently ran a program to educate rectors and RAs about recogniz­ing and helping students with eating disor­ders and this week the Counseling Center worked in conjunction with other depart-
see STAPLES/page 6 


Nurse warns of physiological effects of anorexia, bulimia 
By BRIAN MCKENZIE News Writer 
Dr. Mary Rodts, an orthopedic nurse practitioner with over 30 years of experi­ence, delivered a lecture Wednesday on the effects of eating disorders on the bones and body structure as a part of the "Live As You Are" health and body image con­ference ending today at Notre Dame. 
According to a Harvard study, more than 40 percent of primary school students wanted to be thinner and most 10-year­olds had dieted, Rodts said. This weight­consciousness causes three percent of women and one percent of men to suffer from an eating disorder at some point in their lifetime. 
see LECTURE/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, March 13, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 


9/11 stairs should stay 
ltecently, a staircase from the World Trade Center in New York was moved 200 feet to make way for construction of the new Freedom Tower on the site of the former twin towers. 
Stairs aren't usually such a big cause for concern, but this case is different. That staircase was 
the only above­ground remnant of the World Trade Center left stand­ing after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. It was used by many of the survivors of the attacks to 

escape the build-Jay Fitzpatrick 
ings and repre­
sen'ts in the most 
Managing
literal sense the 
Editor
tragedy New York 
and the United 
States felt that day. 
The stairs were whittled away and 
removed from their concrete base in 
order to make moving them possible. 
They ruinnd what should have been a 
national landmark, just like any other 
sito. The USS Arizona still rests in the 
wators in Pearl Harbor to remind the 
world of the tragedy of that attack. 
What makes the stairs different is 
thoir location. Situated in downtown 
Manhattan. this staircase was occupy­
ing prime real estate that, according to 
the Powers That Be, needed to be filled 
as soon as possible. So by creating a 
memorial and building a symbolic 
"Freedom Tower," the event could be 
romembered b1~tter. 
Think about that. 
The 9/11 memorial group is getting 
rid of the a<:tual sitn and rebuilding an 
artificial Ground Zero nearby. They are 
destroying history to make room for 
progress. 
What is even more outrageous is the 
attempts to rationalize this decision. 
.Jon Daniels. president of the memorial 
foundation, told the Associated Press 
that, even though the stairs are being 
moved, they are maintaining "the 
essencn of the stairs." 
What a load of crap. 
Those stairs are only different from 
any other stairs in the entire world for 
one simple reason: their location. They 
stayed standing. They helped people 
escape. The only reason those stairs 
mattered is because people could look 
at them and think: "that is where it 
happened." 
I would bet that every student at 
Notre Dame could tell you exactly 
where they were and what they were 
doing when they found out about the 
attacks. It is our generation's Kennedy 
assassination. Socially and politically, it 
has been the most important event in 
the world during the first few years of 
the 21st century. And some suits in 
New York are ruining that memory just 
to make a buck. 
By moving these stairs, they are 
doing a lot more than clearing room for 
a new skyscraper. They are inherently 
tarnishing the memory and sacrifices 
of those who died in the attacks. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU THINK SPRING IS HERE? 




Erin Rogozinski  Hannah Ha  Luke Stavole  Sarah Angle  Xiao Uu  
senior  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Lyons  WelshFam  Fisher  Howard  Stanford  
"Spring started  "Ifit isn't, I'll  Tm wearing  "The Spring  "It is for now. "  
the party, but  bring it with  shorts and a t- state ofmind is  
winter is crash- flip-flops and  shirt, so yeah.''  here, but not  
ing it."  neon.  the sustained  
warm  
,temperatures.  


OFFBEAT 
Man decorates car like Thomas, was fond of the vice president, barred from "Transformers" police car film. attending an honors stu­
LAS VEGAS, N.M. -"My intent was to re-cre­dent dinner and suspended Jessie Vigil's black-and­ate the movie car," said for a day after buying a white car sports a red-and­Vigil, a 35-year-old dis­bag of Skittles from a blue emergency bar across abled veteran from the war classmate. the top and the word in Iraq. "When I came back School spokeswoman "police" painted on the from Iraq, I tried to spoil Catherine Sullivan-DeCarlo doors. Vigil, however, isn't him. I wasn't the best dad says the New Haven school a cop. Law enforcement before." system banned candy sales agencies say what he's in 2003 as part of a dis­done with his car isn't ille­Student's candy purchase trictwide school wellness gal as long as he doesn't results in suspension policy. act like a police officer. NEW HAVEN Michael's suspension has 
He started decorating his Contraband candy has led been reduced from three 2007 Ford Mustang last to big trouble for an days to one, but he has not summer to look like the eighth-grade honors stu­been reinstated as class police cruiser in the dent in Connecticut. vice president. "Transformers" movie Michael Sheridan was Information compiled by because his 7 -year-old son, stripped of his title as class the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
:::c 
!cC 
1.&.1 
3: 
-I 
<C 
(.) 



36 23 

IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team will play Delaware at 3 p.m. Thursday on Moose Krause Field . 
The film ''I'm Not There," which tells the story of leg­endary singer Bob Dylan at dif­ferent stages of his life and with difl'erent actors in the lead role, will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on tonight at 7 p.m. 
George J. Borjas will deliver his lecture entitled "Immigration and African-American Employment Opportunities: The Response of Wages, Employment, and Incarceration to Labor Supply Shocks" tonight at 4:15 in C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
There will be Stations of' the Cross on Friday at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of' the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 
The Project Pink Fashion Show, a fundraiser for breast cancer and survivors, will be held Friday at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Flipside will host an Easter egg hunt Saturday from 10 p.m. to midnight on Bond Quad. Participants will receive flash­lights and will search for colored plastic Easter eggs containing candy. 
Circle K will host an Ice Cream Social Sunday from 6:30 to 8 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


0 
HIGH 50 HIGH 40 HIGH 45 HIGH 40 HIGH 55
.... 
LOW 38 LOW 25 LOW 28 LOW 35 LOW 43 
Thursday, March 13, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Bishop 
continued from page 1 
D'Arcy created a hypotheti­cal situation to· illustrate his concerns with allowing anti­Catholic teaching promoted in the play froin a conversation with Jenkins about Nazi liter­ature. 
He imagined the University was in Nazi Germany in 1938 and that some faculty and students were Nazi sympa­thizers. He imagined there was a national movement where schools showed films advocating Nazi propaganda. 
"Would not the showing of such a film at Notre Dame involve the University in pro­viding a platform for Nazi propaganda and entail some level of cooperation with the evil of Nazism?" D'Arcy said. 
D'Arcy released statements disagreeing with Jenkins' decision to allow. performance of the play on campus in 2006 and said he had been in con­tact with Jenkins about the decision and refuted Jenkins' arguments in his own state­ment. And in February, the 
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops moved its conference from its planned conference at Notre Dame to a convent in Mishawaka. 
Dennis Brown, assistant vice president for News and Information, said the University would defer to Jenkins' original statement when asked about the ability to perform the play on cam­pus. 
"We think Father Jenkins' statement stands on its own 
and speaks for itself," Brown said. 
D'Arcy said Jenkins was incorrect to say that allowing the play was analogous to allowing students to read and discuss authors such as Nietzsche, Gibbon, Luther and Joyce·, whose writings D'Arcy said are contrary to Catholic teachings. 
"[Those authors] have writ­ten serious philosophical, the­ological and literary works, which have influenced Western thought," D'Arcy said. "As such, their work has academic merit and is worthy of serious discussion and cri­tique in a classroom setting ... How can one put such a play, which many consider porno­graphic, on the level of seri­ous works such as the writings of National V-Day campaign, an organization to stop violence against women that "pro­motes creative events to increase awareness, raise money and revitalize the spir­it of existing anti-violence organizations," a_ccording to its Web site. The organization was created in 1998 in response to the "Monologues" and helps organize produc­tion of the "M_onologues" around the country to raise money for anti-violence caus­es. 
D'Arcy also disagreed with showing the play because of the sins inherent to it. The depiction of sins such as female masturbation and adult-child relations, D'Arcy said, "violates standards of 
decency and 
morality." 
"The sexu­

Gibbon and al sin, 'which
"/ am convinced that 
Luther?" he the play
permitting performances 
said. depicts in 
T h e of[the "Monologues"] several medium of scenes, dese­
is not consistent with the 
the play crates
identity ofa
also led women just D' Arcy to Catholic university.,, as much as, object to its· if not more perform­John D'Arcy deeply than, 
ance. sexual vio-
Bishop of Ft. Wayne-South Bend lence does,"
Students 

reading a book in a classroom setting, he said, discuss and critique the work. After a play, students leave and they are not required to stay for the panel discussions, Panel discussions, he said, are not consistent with watching a play. 
D'Arcy also took issue with the play's involvement in the he said. 
D'Arcy 
concluded his statement by calling for Jenkins to reconsider his decision. 
"I remain hopeful that Father Jenkins will reconsid­er his decision for this year and future years," he said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 




Instituterecognized for contributions 
University earns "Blessed are the Peacemakers" award from the Catholic Theological Union 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies has received the 2008 "Blessed are the Peacemakers" Award from Catholic Theological Union (CTU], the largest Catholic grad­uate school of theology in North America. 
The award is offered each year to an institution or individual "whose accomplishments and commitments reflect the values of our own mission, particularly in the areas of reconciliation, jus­tice, and peacemaking," accord­ing to the award letter from CTU. 
Rev. Donald Senior, C.P., presi­dent of CTU, wrote that the board of trustees wished to "honor the Institute for the extraordinary contribution it has made in preparing graduate stu­dents and in promoting research and study on issues of peace­making. CTU feels a deep affinity with the mission and spirit of the Institute ... At a precarious time in world history, we b~lieve that honoring peacemakers is itself an important witness." 
Past award recipients include Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president emeritus of Notre Dame; Lea Rabin, widow of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzak Rabin; Sargent and Eunice Shriver; Latin Patriarch Michel Sabbah of Jerusalem; Queen Noor of Jordan; Nobel Laureate John Hume of Northern Ireland; Cardinal Walter Kasper, head of the Vatican Office for Ecumenism; Steven Spielberg, for his establishment of the Shoah VIsual History Foundation; the One Voice Movement for Peace in Israel and Palestine; Jean Vanier, the founder of the I.:Arche CO!fllllUnity for mentally disabled adults; the Council of Religious Leaders for Metropolitan Chicago; and Sen. John Danforth, former ambassa­dor to the United Nations. 
Kroc Institute director R. Scott Appleby will accept the award on April 29 in Chicago at a dinner attended by more than 800 of Chicago's religious, civic and business leaders. 
Appleby said the Kroc Institute is "deeply honored to be recog­nized by CTU and to be in the company of so many extraordi­nary organizations and individu­als who have received this award in the past. We are also very pleased that the award shines a spotlight on the important role that academic research and edu­cation play in advancing peace worldwide and supporting the Church's efforts in peacebuild­ing." 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 13, 2008 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
another resolution supporting an increase in oll"-campus sena­tors, which failed after debate over the eflilctiveness of having morn oll"-campus representation and the resolution's statement that there should be one male and one female oll"-campus sen­ator. 
Keenan senator Gus Gari, drafted the resolution, said an increasn in oll"-campus senators would improve communication bntwnen student government and ofl"-eampus residents. who constitute about 20 percent of tho student body. 
If passed, the n1solution potentially would have led to an amendment of the Student Body Constitution, increasing the ofT­campus mmnbnrship from one to two senators. 
(;ari said that if thn ofl"-cam­pus students were proportional­ly represented in the Senate, they would require four sena­tors. Ilowew~r. dorms currently do not have proportional repre­sentation in the Senate, so he recommende9 one male and one female senator to address both genders' off-campus issues. 
"Since it's the only coed con­stituency ... you can say that be<:ause the women otl"-campus didn't have a female represen­tative, a lot of their issues weren't really well represented this year," Gari said. "In that case, they have been disenfran­chised in some way." 
Some senators disagreed with the resolution's recommenda­tion, saying it would lead to unfair elections when unequal numbers of male and female senators run for oflice. 

"It's an elected official," Dillon senator Jim Murphy said. ''I'm worried about appointments or foreing someone in due to the fact that there's a lack of, not necessarily interest, but just one year, nobody from one gender running." 
Sorin senator George Chamberlain proposed to amend the resolution and remove the requirement to have both genders represented. 
Other senators disagreed. 
"There arc already more boys' dorms than girls' dorms," Pangborn senator Denise Barons aid. "With the addition of Duncan, there I will be] two more boys' dorms than girls' dorms. I think that there's an efl"ort, a precedent within sen­ate to keep a gender balance." 
Besides the gender issue, sen­ators debated the necessity of an additional off-eampus mem­ber. "As the off-campus sena­tor, I don't really see a need for this," senior Andrew Troia said. "The problem is not so much communication, just that most of what we do in Senate is geared towards the undergrad­uates living on campus." 
Additionally, off-campus sena­tors do not have as many resources to relay campus news to other students, such as Hall Council meetings or posters in the dorms. 
''I'm just worried about what foreseeable change it will pro­duce. Being off campus, there's no group meeting at Turtle Creek [or[ Hall Council," Murphy said. "I just don't know if more is necessarily better." 
Even though off-campus stu­dents may have less access to campus news and events, stu­dent body president Liz Brown, who lives off campus, said some students still like to remain involved with the Notre Dame community. 
"I don't think you're moving off-campus with the [intention] to get disconnected," she said. "I think that there is definitely a disconnect in communication." 
In other Senate news: 
+The Senate passed a resolu­tion amending the Student Body Constitution. This amendment stated that the Student Body President will nominate Senate Committee Chairs, and two­thirds of the Senate must approve the nominations. 
+Faculty Senate liaison Professor Thomas Noble said the Faculty Senate passed a res­olution supporting elocks in all classrooms. This resolution will be implemented, since a previ­ous Student Senate resolution also supported the issue. 
+The next student-faculty debate will address global warming, according to Callie Pogge, chair of the University Affairs Committee. It will take place next Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. 
+Academic Affairs Committee chair Carol Hendrickson said her committee discussed the future use of online teacher-course evalua­tions, which will allow students to read others' comments about their classes. 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 

Association of the United States of America (UNA-USA) Campaign which works with Southern continued from page 1 African schools, according to the 
Protecting Futures Web site. and Rodriguez thought of ways Th·e Web site said the HEHO to raise money. program promotes "an aware­
They first wanted to put jars ness building and fundraising around campus for people to initiative dedicated to providing donate loose change but then comprehensive, school-based deeided they wanted to do some­support to orphans and vulnera­thing more tangible as well. ble children living in HIV/AIDS 
"Girls would feel like they were all"ectnd communities in Africa." actually making an impact if they The donations from the tam­got something physical," Borja pon and sanitary napkin drive said. "It's more symbolic if you will be sent directly to the IIEHO have something program, Borja than if you're just said. 

Tantpons 
"Girls would feel like
making a dona­Whatever tion.~· they were actually donations Saint 
Borja said the Mary's students
making an impact if
drive was some­make will be
they got something 
thing Saint Mary's matched by the students in partic­physical." Student ular would be Diversity Board able to relat11 to. (SDB), Borja
Karen Borjas 
"We all get our said. WAW is
Women's Appreciation 
periods every part of Saint month," she said. Week Mary's celebra­" ... ]This issue) is co-chair tion and recog­something women nition of across campus Women's will be able to sympathize with." History Month in March, she 
Having feminine products said. readily available for use is "We're hoping to get at least "something we take for granted," $500 so the SDB can match Borja said. that," she said. 
The tampon and sanitary nap­kin sales are working with the Contact Mandi Stirone at HERO program, a United Nations astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

<<<Now Hiring 







osidonco 
all oft 


Apply Now! 
Visit our website to learn rnore about surnrner staff positions! 
summerhousing.nd.edu 
Priority Deadline: March '16 
. 

OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
305 Main Building I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone: 574.631.5878 1 E-Mail: summer@nd.edu

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 13, 2008 CcvvtPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Au outbreak closes Hong Kong schools 
HONG KONG -Hong Kong ordered more than half a million primary and kindergarten students Wednesday to stay home for two weeks because of a flu outbreak in one of the world's most densely populated cities. 
The government also asked one of its top scien­tists to investigate the deaths of three children. But the World Health Organization said only two of the children tested positive for the flu, and both had other disea'>es a<; well. 
The outbreak ha~' not been linked to bird flu, which wa<; detected in birds in I long Kong. Bird flu remains difficult lor humans to catch, but scientists fear the virus that causes .it could eventually mutate into a form that spreads easily among humans. 
The government has ordered all kindergartens, primary and special education schools closed for two weeks starting Thursday, Health Secretary York Chow said. School children -along with teachers and parents -wore ma<>ks Wednesday as they walked out<;ide. 
Detainee wants to boycott his trial 
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba -An Afghan detainee said Wednesday that he wants to boycott his trial at Guantanamo Bay and railed against the proePedings as unfair and illegal. 
Mohammed Jawad, who is accused of throwing a gnmade that wounded two U.S. soldiers, initially refused to attend his first pretrial hearing, delaying it<> start. Allor he appeared in the courtroom, the judge, Marine Col. Ralph Kohlmann, warned Jawad that if he does not attend future sessions he could still be tried, convicted and sentenced in absentia. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Suspects charged in student's murder 
HILLSBOHOUGil. N.C. -Two suspects were charged Wednesday with first-degree murder in the killing of the University of North Carolina's stu­dent body president, though one remains at large. 
Demario James Atwater, 21, of Durham, was arrested and ordered held without bond. Police said they are still searching for the second suspect, 17 -year-old Lawrence Alvin Lovett Jr. 
Chapel Hill Police Chief Brian would not say which of the suspects shot and killed Eve Carson, 22, of Athens, Ga., who was found a week ago lying on a street about a mile from campus. The biology and political science major had been shot several times, including once in the right temple. 

Space shuttle undergoes construction 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -Space shuttle Endeavour closed in on the international space sta­tion on Wednesday for a late-night linkup that will kick off almost two weeks of demanding construc­tion work. 
Before the docking, though, Endeavour's com­mander, Dominic Gorie, wa<> set to guide the shuttle through a 360-degree backflip to allow for full pho­tographic surveillance. 
It's one of the many safety-related procedures put in place following the Columbia tragedy in 2003. 
The space station crew got out cameras with high-powered zoom lenses to photograph every square foot of Endeavour from nose to tail, espe­cially all the thermal tiles on its belly. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Tax relief plan sees late progress 
INDIANAPOI JS -Two top lawmakers said some progress was being made to reach a compromise on property tax relief and reform as a midnight Friday deadline for adjourning the session loomed. 
Gov. Mitch Daniels has warned lawmakers that he would call them into special session if the Democrat-controlled House and Hepubliean-ruled Senate do not pass a plan acceptable to him on time. 
SenatP Tax Chairman Luke Kenley said negotia­tors had "good conversations" W1~dnesday morn­ing. 
"We'rn getting down to trying to wrap this up." tho Noblnsvilln Hepublican said early Wednesday afternoon. "There are several point<> to work out, but wn'rn making pretty good progress. 
"Yesterday was a pretty tough day, and so I think that the end of the session is near and pnople are starting to have the will to ju~t kind of settle their differences, but it looks good." 


Sex scandal forces Spitzer to resign 
N.Y. politician could face federal charges, state's first black governor will succeed him 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -In a star­tlingly swift fall from grace, Gov. Eliot Spitzer resigned Wednesday after getting caught in a call-girl scandal that made a mockery of his straight-arrow image and left him facing the prospect of criminal charges and per­haps disbarment. 
"I cannot allow my private failings to disrupt the peo­ple's work," Spitzer said, his weary-looking wife, Silda, standing at his side, again, as the corruption-fighting politician once known as Mi. Clean answered for his actions for the second time in three days. 
He made the announce­ment without securing a plea bargain with federal prosecutors, though a law enforcement official said the former governor was still believed to be negotiating one. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the ease. 
Spitzer will be succeeded on Monday by Lt. Gov. David Paterson. a fellow Democrat who becomes New York's first black governor and the nation's first legally blind chief executive. 

The resignation brought the curtain down on a rivet­ing three-day drama -ken, and when they are bro­capital to testify before a Spitzer had been informed played out, sometimes, as ken there are conse-congressional subcommittee Friday by federal prosecu­farce -that made Spitzer quences," said state about the bond industry. tors that he was linked to an instant punchline on late­Assemblyman John With every development, it the prostitution ring. night TV and fascinated McEneny, a Democrat. "In became increasingly clear They said he had kept it to Americans with the specta­this case, one of the most that Spitzer, politically, was himself through Saturday cle of a crusading politician promising careers I've seen finished. night, when he attended the exposed as a hypocrite. in a generation." · Law enforcement officials annual dinner of the 
His dizzying downfall was The scandal erupted said the governor-the mil­Gridiron Club in met with glee and the pop­Monday after federal law lionaire heir to a New York Washington. That night a ping of champagne corks enforcement officials dis­real estate fortune -had reporter kept calling cell among many on Wall Street, closed that a wiretap had hired prostitutes several phones of Spitzer aides. where Spitzer was seen as a caught the 48-year-old times before and had spent Spitzer first shared the sanctimonious bully for father of three teenage tens of thousands of dollars, news Sunday with his wife attacking big salaries and · daughters spending thou­and perhaps as much as at their Manhattan apart­abusive practices in the sands of dollars on a call girl $80,000, on the high-priced ment, and after several financial industry when he at a fancy Washington hotel escort service Emperors excruciating hours they told was New York attorney gen­on the night before Club VIP, whose women their daughters, the aides eral. And his resignation Valentine's Day. charge as much as $5,500 said. By Sunday evening brought relief at the state Investigators said he had an hour. Spitzer had called top advis­Capitol in Albany after days arranged for a prostitute Senior Spitzer aides, ers, personal friends and of excruciating tension and named Kristen to take the speaking on condition of loyalists. The little band uncertainty. trairi down from New York anonymity because of the huddled in the apartment 
"Some rules can't be bro-while he was in the nation's sensitivity of the matter, said until midnight. 

IRAQ 

Baghdad feeling effects of increased violence 
Associated Press changing their daily routines. But all walls and barriers that divide Shiite 
said the growing bloodshed was pres­from Sunni neighborhoods, a key 
BAGIIDAD -In just a week, ent in their minds, clouding what had Shiite militia's ceasfl-lire and the deci­Baghdad has seen a spate of suicide until recently been a more hopeful sion by many Sunnis to turn against bombings that have killed scores of time. al-Qaida in Iraq. As a result. street Iraqis and five U.S. soldiers -among Some fear that the rampant vio­life and even nightlife have returned 12 Americans who have fallen in the lence of one year ago may be coming to many districts, particularly Shiite. line of duty during the past three days back, especially as the 30,000 soldiers But Iraqi politicians are stilf grid­in Iraq. sent to Baghdad last summer to help locked over sharing power, and citi­
Suddenly, the city is feeling the end a sectarian war begin returning zens appear to have little hope that unease of the period bPfore violence home. Iraqi forces could control al-Qaida in eased partly as a result of the U.S. The key goal of the U.S. "surge" Iraq and renegade Shiite militias on troop buildup, which is now coming to was to secure the capital, giving their own. a dose. Iraq's politicians breathing room to ''I'm 100 pPrcont certain that if the 
"Violence has increased dramatical­cut deals that would bring minority U.S. forces leave now, the situation ly" over the past few days, said Simni Arabs into the government and will become very explosive," said Naji llaitham Ismael, a 33-year-old father thereby weaken or end the insur­Hassan Yassin, a 55-year-old math of three living in western Baghdad. gency. teacher and father of three from thfl 
After five years of war. Iraqis inter­Violence in the capital has indeed capital's Amariyah neighborhood. viewed said they were not necessarily diminished, thanks also to a maze of once controlled by al-Qaida in Iraq. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 13, 2008 
are anorexia nervosa and bulimia, StapJp,s said.
Staples 
The center also treats stu­dents who purge ealories by
continued from page 1 
over-exercising, and a fp,w ments to hold campus-wide students who are binge nvnnts for National Eating eaters. but do not purge the l>isordnr Awarnnnss week. ealories through vomiting or 
Staplns said Notrn Dame nxnreise, Staples said. students prnsnnt a unique set In the past few years, the of issues to consider in the Counseling Center has seen a trnatml'nt of a disordnr. slight increase in the number 
"On campus, thorn are cir­of men seeking help for eat­cumstances that might fuel ing disorders. Although the the disorders differently," slw students treated are predomi­said. "This is a place whore nantly women, Staples said thorn is a lot of exercise the increased awanmess over going on and thorn is a r:om­tlw years has helped propel pntit.ivn componnnt to that. men to get the help they These are students who are need. pretty driv1~n. wlwtlwr it be "It is dif'fieult for men about good gradns or looking because there is still a lot of perfect." stigma that [eating disorders] 
Tho Counseling Center are a woman's disease," she strnssns a collaborative said. "We are trying to get approach to away from treating stu-that." dents with eat­Hecently, ing disorders, "Ifsomeone meets the Staples Staplns said. attended a
criteria for an eating
"If somnonn conference 
meets tlw cri­disorder, we approach it at Duke teria for an with a comprehensive University nating disorder, for campus
team." 
wn approach it treatment with a comprn­providers. lwnsivn team," Valerie Staples She said she she said. Eating Disorder Service was able to "Students nw1~t gain insight
coordinator 
with a coun­selor, dietician and tlw physi­cian at tlw lwalth center. We are looking at all aspects of the disorder." 
The first stop of the treat­ment program is completing paperwork that will screen for the snvnrity of tho dis­ease, Staples said. 
Certain students will need to meet with a tlwrapist, but do not havn a sevnre enough condition that rnquires regu­lar meetings with a dintieian and physician she said. 
Studnnts with a severe form of an eating disorder moot rngularly with tho therapist, dietician, and doetor. In those cases, tho nating disorder "would bn at a point where the behaviors and thoughts about body weight and eating start to affnct othnr aspects of lifo such as self-estenm, rela­tionships, and concentra­tion," Staples said. 
Staples also leads group meetings for affected stu­dents to talk about their problmns with nach other. 
Tho Counseling Center trnats many forms of eating disorders 1wnry year, but. the most prevalnnl forms trnatnd in to the 
treatment 
programs of other similar universities such as Cornell, NYU, and Brown. 
"In listening to them, I think we are pretty compara­ble in terms of issues and number of students with eat­ing disorders, and I was real­ly pleased in listening to other people in terms of our program," Staples said. "I think with our collaborative relationships we are further ahead than some." 
Staples is optimistic about the strength of Notre Dame's approach to eating disorders. 
"I feel really good about the progress we have made in terms of providing a team approach. We have a good collaborative relationship, whieh transfers to good conti­nuity of care for students. I think most students would say that they have found it to be hnlpful," she said. "Eating disorders are very serious, and it can be a very lengthy treatment process but people do get better." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 




Lecture 
continued from page 1 
"One of the most serious of these eating disorders is anorexia," shi-l said. 
"Those· who suffer from 
f o o d , dieting 
or calories." 
Anorexia, unlike some other eating disorders, is usually identified by extreme weight-loss. Other physical symptoms include fainting, fatigue and overall weakness. Long-term suffer­ers might develop an irregu­lar heart rhythm or heart failure, she said. 
In contrast to anorexia, bulimia does not usually entail significant weight­loss. 
"These patients eat large amounts of food over short periods and then inc! uce vomiting or take laxatives," Hodts said. "Because the patients eat, they may main­tain their weight better." 
Since bulimic patients don't necessarily lose a lot of weight it is often hard for others to recognize that they may have a problem. Hodts said her niece dealt with bulimia personally and the nurse did not recognize the warning signs. 

disordnrs ean causn serious problnms by interfnring with the body's supply of nutri­ents, nlnetrolytos and calci­um. 
Thny are especially dan­gerous for women beeausn they deplete a reserve of bone strnngth women need later in life bncausn they lose bonn mass much more rapidly than males as tlwy age, Hodts said. 
"Acting ]by getting hnlpl is necessary to prevnnt lifelong disabilities," she said. "Eating disorders can affect your well-bning 30 to 40 years down the road," she said. 
Junior Sarah Ponto said that she found the portion of Hodts' lecture which spoke specifically to women partic­ularly informative. 
"Evon though I'm a pre­med, there was a lot I didn't know about the electrolyte balance and the range of physiological effects of eat­ing disord1Hs," she said. 
"In my niece's situation, we did not sen it, we did not know it was going on," she said. 
Hodts said that sometimes one of the only ways you can recognize a patient dealing with bulimia is by looking for the other symptoms. 
anorexia struggle 
with an 'Those who suffer from intense anorexia struggle with 
fear of 
an intense fear of
gaining 
weight,'' gaining weight. They 
Hodts spend 70 percent or s a i d . 
more oftheir time 
"They 
spend 70 thinking about food, percent dieting or calories." or more of their 
Mary Rodts 
t i m e 


orthopedic nurse
thinking a b o u t practitioner 
p u r g i n g , " 

The third eating disorder Hodts discussed was binge 
eating. She said it is simi­lar to bulimia except the patient does not purge or fast. 
"(Patients] may feel deprived by dieting and they often find friendship with food," she said. "These behav­

"One initial sign is that the teeth are stained and corr-oded, par­ticularly in the back, because of the repeated vomiting," she said. 
The patient's hands and knuckles may 
also  be  cut  
"because  the  
hands  are  

often used as an instrument to induce s h e s·a i d . 
"/Patients/ may feel deprived by dieting and they often .find friendship with food." 
Mary Rodts orthopedic nurse practitioner 
iors are usually associated with weight gain and possi­bly obesity. These patients might eat, instead of a sin­gle donut, an entire box of Krispy Kremes." 
Patients suffering from binge-eating often develop high blood pressure, choles­terol problems and type 2 diabetes, Hodts said. Generally, she said, eating 
"It's  not  
just  tho  
heart,  or  
any  one  

system, it's 
e v e r y ­t h i n g . " 
Ponto said s h e thought the m 0 s t important element was that Hod ts pro­vided sta­
tistics about the extent of eating disorders for males and females. 
"A lot of people assume that eating disorders only affect females," Ponto said. "I think that we're doing a disservice to our patients if we assume that." 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi@nd.edu 

you love needs l1elp please call. 
Conf;Llentia/ support and assistance at,ailable at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, osn Student Affairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr.Sue Dunn, OP, Student Affairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sy)vi<l Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 •Jafii~Dillon 1 CampuS! Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
Dl;. S~.san Steihe-Pas;tlicb, Counselinlit Center, 1-4365 

• 
A~t:n E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 


/1 Bend Community Resources: 
departments/pregnant.sbtml 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS


Thursday, March 13, 2008 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow .Jones  12,110.24  -39.77  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,795  56  574  1,34,116,329  
AMEX  2,306.40  +7.01  

NASDAQ 2,243.87 -11.89 NYSE 8,781.23 ~61.45 S&P 500 1,308.77 -11.88 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12;6'99j32 ~161.81 FTSE 100 (London) 5:776.04 +86.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.94 -1.24 131.36 RNANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -1.67 -0.42 24.76 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.28 -0.12 42.71 CITIGROUP INC (C) -1.30 -0.28 21.21 
Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE -3.14 -0.113 3.483 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.000 1.440 30-YEAR BOND -2.65 -0.120 4.410 5-YEAR NOTE -4.55 -0.119 2.494 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.17 109.92 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.70 976.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.40 81.50 
Exchange Rates YEN 101.6600 EURO 0.6430 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9898 BRillSH POUND 0.4934 
IN BRIEF 
Bush pushes for Columbian trade deal 
WASHINGTON -President Bush warned Congress on Wednesday that failing to approve a trade deal with Colombia would fuel the anti-American regime of Venezuela's llugo Chavez and cast the United States as untrustworthy and impo­tent across South America. 
The intensity of Bush's rhetoric reflected the importance of the deal to him -and the faet that he's fast running out of time to get it done. Democrats have objected that Colombia's government has not done enough to halt violence, protect labor aetivists and demobilize paramilitary organizations. 
"If Congress were to reject the agreement with Colombia, we would validate antago­nists in Latin America. who would say that Ameriea cannot bfl trusted to stand by its friends," Bush said in a speech to the U.S. Ilispanie Chamber of Commerce. 
"We would cripple our influence in the region, and make other nations less likely to cooperate with us in the future," the president said. "We would betray one of our closP.st friends in our own backyard." 
Airline cancels flights for inspections 
DALLAS -Southwest Airlines Co. can­eeled flights Wednesday and temporarily grounded 43 planes to examine if they were sound enough to carry passengers, the lat­est twist in the low-cost carrier's saga of missed safety inspections and civil penal­ties. 
The groundings affected about 8 percent of Southwest's f"leet, and came as the airline faces a $10.2 million civil penalty for con­tinuing to fly nearly 50 planes that hadn't been inspected for cracks in their fuselages. 
Southwest shares fell more than 9 percent before closing down 7.3 percent. 
Since the Federal Aviation Administration announced the penalty last week, Southwest has endured a steady drip of bad publicity, which is unusual for the nation's most consistently profitable carrim and one that has never had an accident that killed passengers or crew members. 
Capitol Hill begins budget debate 
Democrats, Republicans seek political points while tackling fiscal plans 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON Democrats in the House and Senate trumpeted surplus-producing fiscal plans Wednesday as their GOP rivals seized on looming tax increasHs in the Democratic budgP.t outlines as a potent issue for the presidential cam­paign. 
Democrats are backing twin $3 trillion budgets for 2009 that would pro­duce sizable surpluses in a few years and provide generous increases for· many domestic programs. but only by assuming major tax increases whfln President Bush's tax cuts expire in about three years. 
All three major presi­dential candidates planned to be on hand Thursday in the Senate for votes on taxes, a one­year ban on lawmakers' pet projects and a vote to pass the measure late in the day. The House also votes on Thursday. 

House debate began Wednesday, as Republicans pressed an alternative plan to pre­serve Bush's income tax rate cuts and tax breaks for married couples, peo­ple with children, on education, highway con­"The child tax credit of Bush-proposed cuts to investments and for those struction and Medicare. gets cut in half," said Hep. Medicare and the inheriting multimillion­Simply put, it's impossible, Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, Medicaid health care pro­dollar estates. under current estimates, the top Republican on the gram for the poor and dis­
But the price for such to have it all and still House Budget Committee. abled. generosity is harsh: unre­being able to produce a "The marriage penalty "The Democratic budget alistic cuts in Medicare, balanced budget in a few comes back.... It requires restores fiscal responsibil­housing, community years. The White House that income tax rates are ity," said Hep. Jim development, and the forecasts the deficit for raised across the board." McGovern, D-Mass. "It Medicaid health care pro­the current year at $410 Democrats countered rejects the president's gram for the poor and dis­billion, a near-record. that the-ir nonbinding plan harmful cuts to basic abled. Republicans blasted the puts the budget back in services, and invests in 
The rival budget plans measures for assuming surplus while also making proven programs that display the difficult trade­the 2001 and 2003 cuts in investments in infrastruc­boost economic growth, off's facing the next presi­taxes-on income, invest­ture, education, communi­create jobs and make dent, who must weigh tax ments, parents with chil­ty development, clean America safer." cuts that expire at the end dren and married couples energy and other pro­Some Democrats, espe­of 2010 against popular will expire at the end of grams. They say it also cially in the Senate, are spending programs like 2010. avoids $196 billion worth nervous on taxes. 

Fed's plan causes stocks to retreat 
. ) 
months into the recession, we might interest rates further and boost lend­
Associated Press 

need a couple more months to plod our ing eflorts to spur the economy. 
way through this." The Dow Jones industrial average 
NEW YORK-Wall Street's euphoria After shooting higher Tuesday. most fell 46.57, or 0.38 percent, to over a $200 billion plan from the bank stocks declined again 12,110.24. It initially dipped, shot up Federal Reserve turned to caution Wednesday. Even if the credit markets more than 140 points, then dropped Wednesday, leading stocks to retreat a ease up a bit, banks and other lenders again. On Tuesday, the Dow surged day after their biggest rally in more still face a deteriorating climate for 416 points, the blue chips' biggest onfl­than five years. consumer credit and many are low on day point gain since 2002. 
Investors largely regard the plan the cash. Broader stock indicators also fin­Fed announced Tuesday to lend "We're still in a great deal of flux ished lower after a seesaw day. The Treasurys in exchange for debt tied to here. The fact that the Fed has gone Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 11.88, mortgages as an innovativfl means of from lender of last resort to lender of or 0.90 percent, to 1.308.77, and the bringing some relief to the tight credit first resort worries me," said John Nasdaq composite index fell 11.89. or markets. But they are hesitant to pour O'Donoghue, co-head of equities at 0.53 percent, to 2,243.87. more money into stocks without signs Cowen & Co. Treasury prices rose as stocks pulled that the decision will help turn around Volatile energy prices added to the back. The yield on the 10-year the economy -particularly with data market's anxiety. Oil prices initially fell Tn~asury note, which moves opposite on retail sales flnd consumer prices after the Energy Department said its price, fell to 3.44 percent from 3.59 scheduled to arrive later this week. crude and gasoline supplies rose by percent late Tuesday. 
"Does it address the main concern, unexpectedly large amounts last week, . The dollar fell against most other and that's weaker housing'? That has but then they returned on their record­major currencies, and sank to another not been resolved just yet," said Steven setting streak to briefly surpass $110 a record low against the euro. Gold Goldman. chief market strategist at barrel. If oil keeps hitting record levels, prices rose, while crude finished at a Weeden & Co. "If we are in the midst inflation pressures could rise and limit record settlement of $109.92 a barrel of a recession, and only a couple the Federal Reserve's ability to reduce on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
page 8 Thursay, March 13, 2008 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 


Sen.Ointon apologizes forhusband 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Sm1. Hillary 
Hodham Clinton did something 
Wednesday night that she 
almost never does. 
She apologized. 
And once she started, she 
didn't seem able to stop. 
The Nnw York semttor, who 
is in a tight race with Illinois 
Snn. Barack Obama for the 
Democratic prnsidential nomi­
nation, struck snveral sorry 
notes at an evening forum 
sponsored by thn National 
Newspaper Publishers 
Association. a group of more 
than 200 black community 
newspapers across the coun­
try. 
IIPr biggPst apology came in 
response to a quPstion about 
c~ornnwnts by twr husband, Bill 
Clinton. af'ter the South 
Carolina primary, which 
Obama won handily. Bill 
Clinton said Jpsse Jackson also 
won South Carolina when lw 
ran for president in IIJX4 and 
IIJXX, a conunm1t many viewed 
as belittling Obarna's succ:nss. 
"I want to put that in eon­text.. You know I am sorry if anyone was offended. It was certainly not nwant in any way to be ol'fensive," llillary Clinton said. "We can be proud of' both .Jesse .Jackson and Senator Obama." 
"Anyone who has followed my husband's public life or my public lifo know very well where WI' have stood and what we have stood for and who we have stood with," she said, acknowledging that whoevnr wins the nomination will h<tve to lwal the wounds or a bruis­ing, historic: contest. 
"OncP one of us has the nom­ination tlwrP will he a groat ni'J'ort to unify till' l>m11oeratic: party and we will do so, because. renwmber I havn a lot of supportc•rs who have voted for nw in very largo numbers and I would expect them to support Sc~nator Oharna if he wen~ tlw nomi­ncw," she said. 
The Clintons long have enjoyed ovPrwlwlming support from black votm·s. but that has lwen eclipsed during tlw pri­maries and caucuses by c~nthu­siasm and support for Obama. who has puiiPd huge margins among black voters. Arguments OVt'r tlw roln or race and gendPr have rtarc~d up rnpeatodly throJtghout the contest betw1wn Obama. who would bn thn nation's first bl;u:k president, and Clinton, who would be its first female 
OIW. 
1\arlier in tlw day, llillary Clinton supporter and l'undraiser Geraldine Ferraro gave up lwr honorary positi.on with Clinton's campaign after she said in an interview last week that Obama would not have made it this far if he were white. Obama said Ferraro's n~marks wnrn "ridiculous" and "wrong-lwaded." 
Of Ferraro's comment, llillary Clinton told her audi­Pnr.e: "I 1:ertainly do rnpudiatn it and I regn~t dPPply that it was said. Obviously shn dcwsn't speak for tlw campaign, slw doesn't SpPak for any Of my positions, and shn has resigned from lwing a nwmbnr or my very large finance eomrnitten." 


Cuban athletes disappear in Florida 
Associated Press 
TAMPA -Five Cuban soccer players went missing Tuesday night after the under-23 team played a key match against the United States, a team ol'ficial said Wednesday. 
The missing men had not yet reported to authorities. 
Zachary Mann, a spokesman for Customs and Border Proteetion. said it's unlikely the agency will learn the men's whereabouts until they come forward. 
Under the United States' "wet foot, dry foot" policy, Cubans who reach U.S. soil are allowed to remain in the coun­try and apply for U.S. residen­cy after one year. 
The Cuban team is in Tampa to play in qualifying games for the Beijing Olympics this August, sponsored by the with the players and did not Confederation of North, know their whereabouts, but Central American and said he had spoken with some­Caribbean Association one who told him to expect the Football, or CONCACAF. players. 

A CONCACAF spokesman CONCACAF and team ol'fi­
declined  com­ cials did not  
ment, saying only  identify  the  
that the situation  "Tomorrow we have a  five missing  
is under review. The five men, including a goalie  very important game ... and we are  players. But looking at players' jer­ 
and team captain who helped Cuba tie the United  concentrating on that."  s e y s Wednesday's practice  
States  ·t-1  revealed  
Tuesday,  are  Luis Hernandez  those  who  
expected to be in  Soccer Association of  were absent:  
Miami by this weekend, said Marcos Ommati, a  Cuba president  Jose Manuel Miranda, 21; Erlys Garcia  
spokesman with  Baro, Venier  

professional soccer team Bermudez, Yordany Alvarez Miami FC. and Loanni Prieto, all listed as He said he had not spoken 22-year-olds. 
Tampa police spokeswoman Andrea Davis said the agency had not received any missing persons reports from the team, and offieers were not called to the team's hotel to investigate the disappear­ances. 
A Cuban team leader would not diseuss details and said he was most concerned about Thursday's match against Honduras. 
"Tomorrow wn have a vnry important game ... and we are concentrating on that," said Luis llnrnandez. president of the Soec~1r Association of Cuba and the only team ol'ficial to address the mndia. 
When asked what the team planned to do without the players, llernandez said, "Win -with thn five, without the live-win." 


one o our omema e rene unsFREEBIE$ (SUBS & CLUBS ONLVI then smothered with onions. mayo, #16 CLUB LULU 
Fresh sliced turkey breast, bacon. lettuce, tomato.
Onion. lettuce. alfalfa sprouts. tomato. mayo. sliced lettuce, tomato, & our homemade 

&mayo. (JJ's original turkey &bacon club)cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar, and oregano. Italian dressing. 
I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK~ 
1290 E.IRELANO  138 S. MICHIGAN  54570 N.IRONWOOO DR.  53A3 N. MAIN ST.  
574.291.1900  574.246.1020  574.277.8500  574.968.4600  
SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  

''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JONN'S!'' © 
®1985. 2002. 2003. 200., 2007 JIMMY JOHN'S FRANCHISE, LLC llliiGHTS RESEIVED. We lesene Tbe Right Ta Make loy Menu Chances. 
Thursday, March 13, 2008 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Dogs rescued fron1 Ariz. house 
Over 800 animals taken from ovenvhelmed owners and put in area shelters 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. -About 800 small dogs, including Chihuahuas, terriers and Pomeranians, were seized from a triple-wide mobile home whose occupants were over­whelmed trying to care for the animals, authorities said Wednesday. 
Pima County sheriff's deputies and animal welfare officials who removed the dogs also found 82 caged parrots in the home in a rural area north­west of Tucson. 
Some dogs were pregnant and giving birth as they were taken to shelters in Tucson, said Jenny Rose, a spokes­woman for the Humane Society of Southern Arizona. Ninety-six dogs were taken from the house Monday and another 700 on Wednesday, she said. 
"The home was definitely in very bad condition, urine and feces all over the home, in the kitchen and bedroom, with a very strong odor," she said. "Obviously, 800 dogs in a triple­wide mobile home, they were packed in there. That being said, they were in pretty good shape." 
The elderly owners, who·have not been identified, were apparently overwhelmed but have cooperated with authori­ties, sheriff's Sgt. James Ogden said. No charges have been filed, but authorities continue to investigate. 
The animals appeared to have had enough food, but a few were missing paws -some from having been attacked by . other animals, others appar­ently having caught their feet in fencing outside, Rose said. 
The breeds included Chinese cresteds and Lhasa apsos. The owners were breeding and offering the dogs for sale, Rose said, but she described it as a hoarding case, in which elderly people sometimes feel no one else can give their animals a good home and won't part with them. 
Deputies were alerted this month after a woman who bought a Chihuahua at the home reported the conditions, Ogden said. 


It's time to order your Personalized Graduation Announcements·! March 18th & 19th 
9:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. LaFortune Student Center, Dooley Room 
Order a Graduation
• 
Visit us online at www.jostens.com/college 

• 
Order your Graduation Announcements Package and Save! 




CONNECTED FOR LIFE® .:: .; 

MS0094~7627A C2<.10a<J~~Wiiz,,too Allf.'t~U1:~SI'e:w~ct ,.,:~ , .: '' '~-~,~ '''' '", ' 

Boys,momsmvive fall on highway 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Driving to her job at a landscaping compa­ny on Interstate 30, Sondra Plunk saw a young boy fall from an overpass and land in the lane next to her. 
"I saw his face," she said. "I saw the fear in his face." 
The boy and his brother were tossed from the over­pass east of downtown Dallas on Wednesday, allegedly by their mother, who then made the two­story jump herself. Somehow, all of them sur­vived dropping into the fast lane of morning rush hour 

traffic. 
Plunk said the boy she saw fall ended up in the path of a van, which fishtailed as its driver slammed the brakes and swerved. Plunk was unsure if the van struck the boy. 
The boy landed on his side and immediately popped up onto his hands and knees, staring into the van's head­lights. 
"He rolled to all fours," said Plunk, 44. "Knowing he was still alive, knowing he was still conscious and he had the presence of mind to think, 'My God, I have to get out of here."' 
Police said the boys, ages 6 and 8, were in stable con­dition, but hospital officials declined to comment later Wednesday. Their mother, Khandi Busby, was in fair condition at another hospi­tal, a hospital spokeswoman said. 
Police said they believe the traffic, which Plunk esti­mated had been traveling 35 to 40 mph, hit Busby and they 8-year-old but man­aged to avoid the younger boy. All three were able to speak with investigators, although the 8-year-old may have suffered internal injuries. 
"It was really miraculous that we didn't have some fatalities with this incident," Dallas police spokesman Sgt. Gil Cerda said. 
Busby, 27, had not been arrested as of Wednesday but could face two charges of attempted capital murder, Cerda said. 
"The why remains a mys­tery to us," police Lt. C.L. Williams said. "If you try to apply logic to these inci­dents, they totally defy any logical explanation." 
Shortly before 6:30 a.m. Wednesday, Busby and her sons walked away from her father, who had stopped for gas while driving_ them to a friend's house. Police do not know why Busby left with her children. 
"She was not fleeing for her safety," Cerda said. "She just threw them ovPr and decided to throw herself over." 
Her father tried to follow the three in the car but was unable to get to them before they reached the overpass. 
Police said each boy strug­gled with Busby as she picked him up and threw him onto the far left lane of the freeway, where cars swerved to avoid them. 
Dr. Dave Milzman, a mem­ber of the American College of Emergency Physicians, said that if someone lands feet first their odds of sur­viving a fall from 22 feet are good. 
"As long as they landed kind of upright, it's not that unusual not to injure them­selves severely," Milzman said. 
Busby has a criminal record, including convic­tions for assault and crimi­nal trespass of a habitation. Child Protective Services had intervened with her on at least three occasions for 
incidents  that  police  
described  as  relatively  
minor.  

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, March 13, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

If Lent were spring training, 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dam<, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norr< Dam<, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VlhWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SI'ORTS EDITOR: Chris Hine ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Chrisrian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
srnc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoco@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governt·d by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemcms based on comcm. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials reprcsem the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department cilitors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact inl(mnation. 
Questiow rrgarding Obsm;n policies should be directed to Editor i11 ChiefChris Hine 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
11n; OI'!ACrVI'I (USI'S 51J9 2-4Utlfl} •~ pubhahccl Muud;ay dum~gh frido~y cx•.:c:pt during cum .uni Y.IUimn pcrin.,k A ~uh&&:riprum In 'l'hr l)b'l(:rvc:r is $IOU fur one J.tJd~.:mic ye.-r: $55 fnt UIICIICIIICIIICf 
'fbr Observrr '' pubhthtd .11 POSTMASTER 024 Snuch Ommg llo~ll ScnJ .1ddress corrccuom m: 
Nnnc D.1mt, IN 4M~>-0779 11•c0hscrvcr 
Pt!rludk.U polll.l~r p:uJ a1 Notre D.unt P.o. Boxn9 :Uid addiliunJI m.liliflK otflet'll. 0.24 South Dining Jl.1ll 
None D.-. me, IN oi6SS6-ll779 
111c Observrr 15 11 mcmhc:r 111 rhc A»tx:wcd I'!U!o. All repnxiuwun tiKhu ;ate rc1erved. 
Honestly now -how many times have you broken your Lenten promise so far? I promised to spend 20 to 30 minutes in quiet prayer each morning this Lent, but know of at least five days when that has 
Fr. Lou Delfra
not happened, three days when I didn't reach the finish Faithpoint
line, and at least 
five more when my prayer was so distracted it could hardly count as prayer. 
Today is the 32nd day of Lent, and that's thirteen whiffs. If Lent was a baseball game, my .600 average would have someone checking me for steroids. God, however, has not yet knocked on the door with a random drug test, so the numbers don't seem to impress Him much. Has God ever tried to hit a baseball? It's not that easy... 
The days when we break our Lenten promises can be the most important of the 40 days of Lent. By reminding us of our seemingly unshakeable inability to keep even simple commit­ments to God bring with them a whole battery of interior reactions that are rich with the possibility of deeper self-knowledge, and a deeper knowl­edge of God. I have learned some of my most enduring spiritual lessons while swinging and missing in Lent. 
Most importantly, I have discovered that, if I put my mind to it, I am capa­ble of endlessly frustrating myself. I have never made it through a flawless forty days of Lent, and the prospects for next year don't look great either. I am pretty sure I am incapable of pulling off a perfect Lent. And once I 
I'd be in jail 
start thinking outside of Lent to the 
challenges that confront me the other 
320 days, it's a wonder I get up in the 
morning. It'd be easier and safer if I 
just stayed in Dillon with the door 
locked. 
Of course, this spiritual depression 
-born of a spiritual perfectionism ­
is a helpful conclusion to reach pre­
cisely for its absurdity. Lent reminds 
me precisely of the certainty that 
moral and spiritual perfection is an 
impossibility for me. Yet, an over­
whelming sense of discouragement at 
my failings hardly helps us build up 
of the Kingdom, which I personally 
and definitely can't do locked in my 
room at Dillon -no offense to the 
guys at Dillon. 
My search for a more helpful 
response sends my mind through the 
Scriptures. and an almost daily 
reminder of the collection of sinners 
with whom Jesus spent his days. 
Times of spiritual discouragement, 
or realizations of our weakness, are 
extremely rich times to read Jesus' 
encounter with the town thief 
Zacchaeus, or Jesus' calling of 
Matthew the tax collector. I nearly cry 
each third Sunday of Lent as I hear 
Jesus speak in utter compassion to 
the adulterous Samaritan woman sit­
ting at the well: "You are thirsting 
after water that will make you thirsty 
again. But I can give you water so 
that you will thirst no more." 
These are people of moral imperfec­
tion, and what strikes me to the heart 
is not so much that Jesus forgives 
them (though of course he does) but 
that he seems to seek out, and then 
remains in, their company. 

Reading these passages, and seeing myself in them, are some of the most intimate moments with God that I experience all year. 
While they don't justify my sins and shortcomings, they do speak to them -and the words are ones of mercy, love, and a renewed call to conver­sion and true freedom and relation­ship with God. My Lenten failings are invitations not into discouragement, but into a deeper understanding of the depth of God's mercy and love. 
Perhaps, I shouldn't be so content with imperfection, but-truth be told -I kind of like hitting .600 during Lent. Recognition of our limitations, and recognition of our thirst to tran­scend them -even if that recognition some days manifests itself only as frustration with ourselves-is a time-tested gateway to a more vibrant and real relationship with Christ. 
Our limitations make us one with most of the Gospel characters whom Jesus goes out of his way to encounter. Jesus seeks for us with such persistent compassion despite, I indeed because of, our sin, failures, and imperfections. 
So .600 it is this Lent, with eight days to go. Hey, it's hard to hit a baseball with perfect regularity, and besides, you don't want to be at the peak of your game in spring training. 
Father Lou DelFra is the director of Bible studies in the Office ofCampus Ministry. He can be reached at deljra.2@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Liz Harter Ellyn Michalak How far will Men's Basketball go · Mandi Stironc Pat Stynes 
in the Big East tournament? 
Gene Noone Andy Ziccarelli Graphics Matt Gamber Lose in quartp,rfinals 

"Man is not made for defeat. A man
Matt I I udson Scene Lose in semifinals 

can be destroyed out not defeated. " 
Viewpoint Cassie Belek Lose in finals John Dailey Win it all 
Ernest Hemmingway author 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

Thursday, March 13, 2008 page 11 
Viewpoint letter fun! Fill in the blanks 
How to Play: 

To complete the Observer letters to the editor below, fill in the blanks by selecting from the three options in each of the parenthesis. Enjoy! 
To the Editor: 
I disagree with the March 10 Letter to the Editor, entitled 
("St. Mary's Is Only Here for Sex and Demeaning Cartoons," "Golden Dome for Everyone: Homosexuality at Notre Dame," "Vagina Monologues Should Be Performed Under Dome"). 
Notre Dame must remain a paragon of our beautiful Lady's spir­it. And, as (Genesis 1:1, 2 Kings 2:24-look it up, trust me, John 3:16) reminds us, the Bible, our beautiful Lady's beautiful book, explicitly forbids the "Vagina Monologues" from being performed on Catholic campuses not named _____ (Georgetown, Boston College, Saint Louis). 
Unfortunately, the liberal minority that is ____ (The Observer, the English Department, the Society of Women Engineers) seem to want to turn our Lady's University into ____ (a socialist state, a Godless Hell, an abortion clinic housed in that cool looking power plant with the glass fa~ade near North Quad). 
First, (the forces of evil, the anti-God cabal, Fr. McBrien) tried to force us to _____ (watch the Vagina Monologues, support Barack Obama, pay a living wage). 
Next, they wanted this Catholic university to (hire more non-Catholic faculty, eliminate pari­etals, start a Native American Studies minor). 
Finally, they insisted we _____ (support a Queer Film Festival, support a Queer, support a Film Festival). 
What's next? _______ (Birth control in LaFortune?, Tariq Ramadan?, GreeNO?). 
Luckily, there is still one paragon of Fr. Sorin 's vision of this great University: _______ (the Irish Rover, Fr. Hesburgh, Golden Tate). With this guidance and strength, Notre Dame can once again look all critics in the eye and say _____ ("Never again will we dream a dream too small," "See, we still deserve your money, conserva­tive-Catholic donors," "Suck it, Trojans"). 
In the name of _______ (the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit), 
D. Mahon ______ (Freshman, Grad Student, Alum) 
·---..,---(Old College, Off Campus, Class of 1957) 
To the Editor: 

As the (chairman, chairwoman, gender-neutral chair­person) of this year's VoCP-Vaginas on Campus Project-! want to com­mend the University for allowing the performance of the "Vagina Monologues." 
As (Shakespeare, Ibsen, Garcia Lorca) can attest, great plays often encounter stiff opposition amid cries of immorality. 
D. Mahon's March 11 letter fits the pattern. Mr. Mahon betrays a (offensiveness, igno­rance, penis-first chauvinism) typical of the writings of a (freshman, grad student, 1957 alum­nus). 

Mr. Mahon, I want to teach you a lesson. A lesson about Jesus. This is a man -do we even know he's a man, Mr. Mahon? -who gave voice to a prostitute. But you seem to think he would not grant the same voice to (a woman with an "angry vagina?," a woman who was "a moaner?," a man who "liked to look at it?"). Jesus was about empowering the oppressed ­and who is more oppressed than 
(a woman in the Catholic Church, a white 21-year-old woman from a lakefront Wilmette mansion, a woman who has been unable to share her feelings about her vagina with a scholarly audi­ence). 
As such, it seems clear that the Vagina Monologues ought to sit alongside (Fr. Sarin's diaries, the Bible, DuLac) in the Notre Dame canon. 
But our respect for females and their genitalia must go beyond a few days of performance in March. Each day, we must ________ (denounce female genital mutilation in Africa, yell the c-word on South Quad before our 9:35 class. respect St. Mary's). 
Such an act will ensure academic freedom in the truest sense. After all, how are women supposed to express themselves in the classroom if they can't (walk around naked ... errr, liberated?, shave their heads but not their armpits?, perform spontaneous vagi­na-related skits in the Basilica?) 
Second, we must fire Charlie Weis and hire (Pat Summitt, 
C. Vivian Stringer, Ty Willingham). 
But perhaps most importantly, Notre Dame and St. Mary's women must band together to ---:-----,-----(reject those 
who continue to imply through words and actions that women are inferior, make female sexuality as acceptable as male sexuality on campus, vote for Hillary Clinton). We can only do this in one way: by ________ (working together!, requiring students to read The Pussy Ranch, Diablo Cody's blog, every day!, smoking. A lot!). 
With the help of VoCP, and the per­formance of the "Vagina Monologues," I hope Notre Dame can educate ignorant Catholics like Mr. Mahon. Women of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's: we must stand together and support academic freedom. After all, (this is a university founded on the legacy of a woman!, nothing says liberation like a play in 101 DeBartolo!, a woman divided cannot stand!) 
In the name of (Our Lady, Our Lady, Our Lady), 
Andrew Nesi is a junior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. In between viewings of "Juno" over spring break, he found six full-length gray hairs on h_is 21-year-old head. It was depressing. He can be reached at anesi@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A realistic view of sexuality 
This letter is in response to Brother Bill Mewes' letter ("Real issues," Mar. 11) in which several points made personally disturbed me. 
The first was his offer of congratulations to Greg Yatarola, the 30-something year old alumnus who consistently writes serious yet inane letters to The Observer. I feel safe in saying that Greg should not be lauded for his writings, as being an older man he a) should have something better to do with his time than write to his alma mater's newspaper, and b) he is too out of touch with the college-student mentality to be taken seriously. 
Second: Brother Mewes demonizes students' desires to be free of classes on the w~ekends by blindly stating w~ all want to get drunk and have sex. I live in a quad With three young, hormone-dnven males, and I feel confident in saying that all we are interested in _(any time of the week) is sex-if by sex you mean Zelda, Super Smash Bros, and gwtar. And one of my roommates has a girlfriend. 
Third: He states that this semester is the first in five years where an article has been written to counter t~e wanton sexual content in today's society. However, last year I wrote a letter decrymg the prevalence of porn in the media ("Disrespectful mentality needs to go," Oct. 17, 2007). 
Fourth: When a college student asked him how to be chaste and pure, Brother Mewes writes a suggestion to observe heartily the sacraments of Reconciliation Eucharist, and prayer. ' 
Althou~h t~ese are all praiseworthy acts, these suggestions just show how out of tou~h ~e IS With college-ag~ students. I suggest a more practical way to keep guys out of grrls pants, and though It may keep you chaste, it sure won't keep you pure. 
Ryan Slaney 
sophomore 
Carroll Hall 
Mar. 12 

'Monologues' a disgrace 
I ~tte_?ded No_tre Dame from 1965-68. The university was in the early throes ofmod­ermzatiOn and It. seems upon reflection that it wasn't quite clear who was really in c_harge-the pnests or the trustees. A bit of drift was evident. I don't pay much atten­tion to Notre Dame these days. But it was made known to me today that the "Vagina Monologues" will ~e performed at Notre Dame. I was kind of rebellious during my col­lege ~ear~. But I still considered myself a Catholic. This is why I am disgusted; that this play IS gomg to be performed at Notre Dame. Being a Catholic used to mean something. I guess it doesn't mean much at Notre Dame, not ifstanding up for a moral code might offend the hip on the Left. I see nothing much has changed at Notre Dame since I left 40 years ago. Still adrift. Not sure who, ifanyone, is in charge. My dad, class of '28, would throw up if he heard what is going on at the institution he devoted his life to. 
Shame on you, Fr. Jenkins. 
Jack Lavelle 
alumnus 
Class of 1968 
Mar.ll 

Eating disorder 
discourse crucial 
I would like to commend both Tara Gilbride and The Observer for acknowledging the significant issue of eating disorders on the Notre Dame campus. As the article mentioned, eating disorders are not uncommon; however they often serve to iso­late and consume the men and women struggling. 
Eating disorders, like other mental illnesses, are real, organic disorders -and like ~ny other serious disease, they are not a choice or an individual failing. As a survivor, not only can I attest to the devastation eating disorders cause, but I can also assure that treatment is effective and recovery is possible. 
Thank you, Tara, for courageously sharing your story, and for giving a voice to those s~lenced. b~ these seri~us disorders. I encourage the Notre Dame community to contmue this Important discourse by attending the Health and Body Image Conference, and by reaching out to those who are in need of help and support. And for those of you struggling, please know that you are not alone. 
Allison Wishon alumnus Class of 2007 Mar. 12 



THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 
Thursday, March 13, 2008 

adopted a team-oriented approach. By TAE ANDREWS "Developing an overall understanding Scene Editor about what the show means. and then 
putting that into each line took a lot of 

Elizabeth "Biz" Lohmuller describes time," she said. "The way I overcame it putting on the play "Seduced" as "just was to talk about it a lot with my actors, plain crazy." who were amazing in helping me put it 
However, as the direetor and the all together. We figured it all out collab­woman behind the scenes responsible oratively and I think we came up with a for the method behind the madness, she pretty good concept." has embraced the challenge of' putting That concept owes much to the collec­on a play based on the final years of tive efforts of the small, but talented Howard Hughes' life, as he descended cast of "Seduced," which has navigated into rnadrwss and kept himself in seelu­hectic schedules and late nights in the sion !'rom the n~st of the world. pursuit of thespian excellence. 
"Howard Hughes is basically nuts." ''I've given up assignments, other slw said. "llis lif'P story is activities and sleep for this so out there it's literally "Seduced" show," Connor Kobeski unlwlinvabln that someone said, "but I know it will all
by .~·am Shepherd

rould livP likP that. lin be worth it on opening
Washington Hall

gnts sucked into his dcsirP night." for money. prestige and 1bnight, Friday and Kobeski plays Raul, control and loses his tnw Henry Ilackamore's butler. 
Saturday, 7:30 

identity in the procnss by To prepare for her role,
Tickets $5 

becoming a millionaire Sarah Muscarella, who rnonswr. lin is constantly portrays the character of irn prisoned by tlw identity he and socie­Luna in the play, said she did some ty hav(~ creatnd !'or him, which is a !'also research on Hughes by watching the idm1tity. So that in itself creates fantas­biopic film "The Aviator," which follows tic material for a play because we all much of his life. love to sen insarw stories which are "My character is loosely based on trw~:· Katharine Hepburn as I understand 
In order to knep her sanity while run­her." Sarah Muscarella said. "Luna is ning the show, Lohmuller said she straight out of 'Fabulous Life of the Hich 
By RYAN RAFFIN Assistant Scene Ediwr 
The Mars Volta wants to blow your mind. Since its inception in 2001 from the ashes of the late, great, "At the Drive-ln." the California group has never ceased pushing musical boundaries. 

J>dying genre classification as well as traditional song structure, the closest term that could be used to describe its music is simply "forward-thinking." There are hints of punk, salsa, metal and jazz sprinkled throughout each of its 
"The Bedlam in Goliath" 
The Mars Volta 
Released by: Universal Recommended Tracks: 'Wax Simulcra," ''Tourniquet Man" and "Goliath" 
four albums. The partnership central to the group, vocalist Cedric Bixler-Zavala and guitarist Omar A. Rodriguez-Lopez, must have the most diverse collection of music on their iPods the world has ever seen. 
The group's most recent album, "The Bedlam in Goliath," is a definite step up from its previous effort, 2006's meander­ing "Amputecthture." It is almost as lin­ear and straightforward an album as the band's 2003 debut "Deloused in the Comatorium." Of course, words like "lin­ear" and "straightforward" are relative, in this case being code words for "no 
songs over 10 minutes in length." Gone are the half hour multi-movement excursions of yesteryear. Instead, we get the furi­ous two-and-a-half minute burst of "Wax Simulacra." 
There are 12 songs, and increase from previous efforts, and despite the album's overarching con­cept, these are the least prog-rock songs the Mars Volta has written in years. Which isn't to say it's become Maroon 5; this record is still more 
Hughes' madness 
esoteric and flat-out bizarre than nearly anything else out today. The fact of the matter is that when compared to Mars Volta previous body of work, which sounds like it was written 100 years in the future by aliens who sing in Spanish, English and made-up words, the melodic hooks of "Bedlam" seem fairly tame. 
At the same time, this is the Mars Volta's heaviest and loudest offering yet. Complexity and length were dialed back, if only slightly, in exchange for brute force. The band is rocking harder than it ever has. Songs like "Goliath", "Metatron" and opener "Aberinkula" leave an impact right away, with Bixler­Zavala's voice complementing Rodriguez-Lopez's wailing guitars and Thomas Pridgen's pounding drums. The extended ambient intros are gone, a common feature from its previous albums. After the snooze-fest that was "Amputechture," it's relieving to see the group become more concise in its play­ing, yet maintain its experimental nature. 
The other short song, "Tourniquet Man", is a head turner. Far and away the softest and slowest song of the dozen, it is a brief respite from the fury heard on every other song. Minimal gui­tars and keyboard effects back up the vocals on this bizarre love song. 
lights 

For all the strides made in streamlin­ing its music, the Mars Volta still have not matched the genius of its second album "Frances the Mute." While that album was gloriously excessive, it still seemed like every second was essfmtial, something that can't be said for "Bedlam." The 76-minute runtime is far too long -at least two of the songs on the second half of "Goliath" should have been cut out, as they all sound basically the same. Shorter songs don't count for much when the back half album is loaded with sound-a-likes. Filler is filler, no matter the song length. 
The Mars Volta should be commended for its new approach, but the group still has something to learn about restraint. After pushing its sound to the absolute limit, it realized that sometimes a slight­ly more head-on approach works just as well. The problem lies in not going far enough from what it knows. Maybe the band should try making a record less than 70 minutes long. There arc some very strong songs on "The Bedlam in Goliath," and the good stuff far out­weighs the bad. It just so happens that the best songs are the shortest and most different from its normal style. Funny how that works. 
Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd.edu 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

and Famous.' While many of the other seen through the life and times of women may not have fully understood Hughes. In the play, the character Henry's strange intricacies, Luna does "Henry Hackamore" represents Hughes and at one time even loved I lenry. She and is played by Carl MacMichael. returns to his deathbed upon his Lohmuller also believes that watching request but not without some reserva­Hughes' demise can give insight for col­
tions.  lege  students  
"I had to figure out what the rela­tionship between Hughes and  'The time period is intentionally ambiguous because I wanted to . show that, while this is  preparing to enter the real world. "Henry is like a warning to us," she  
Hepburn is and thus the relation­ship between Henry and Luna."  technically set during the time of Howard Hughes, the themes apply to us today as well. "  said. "lie is at the end of his life look­ing back, realizing he completely sold  
In terms of the  himself out to get­ 
set,  Lohmuller  Elizabeth "Biz" Lohmuller  ting more  power.  
decided things  to keep simple,  "Seduced" director  We can take that message to heart,  
using  a  single  especially at Notre  

room to stress the intimacy of the play. Dame, where it's all about being in tho She also said she shied away from any­right major to get the right job at the thing which would tie the show to a dis­right eompany so we can get the most tinct era. opting instead to focus on the money. Whether it's the freshman get­play's enduring relevancy. ting pressure from their parents to 
"The time period is intentionally enter a C(~rtain major, or a senior decid­ambiguous because I wanted to show ing on which jobs to apply for -the one that, while this is technically set during they want or the one that pays, we an~ the time of Howard Hughes, the themes all faced with the seduction of' power. apply to us today as well." she said. This play highlights this issue and shows "They are concepts which are true that by selling ourselves we are losing through all time periods." ourselves and it's just not worth it." 
Some of those concepts inelude the pursuit of fame, fortune and power, as Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew I @nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Thursday, March 13, 2008 
page 13 

Every once in a while one of my interests will turn into obsession, and no where is this more frequent than in the realm of pop culturn. Let's face it, I don't do my home­work. I read magazines and blogs and watch TV and movies all day long. I low else would I get myself Cassie Belek through the long, cold months until spring? Assistant Some of my pop cul­Scene Editor ture obsessions are constant-"General Hospital," Entertainment Weekly, "30 Rock," any and all celebrity gossip. But here am a few new items I'm obsessing over: 
Election coverage 
I love election tin1e because it makes me feel like a real political science student. During break, I found myself completely captivated by the Iowa caucuses and each primary after that. But my obsession is more specific. I'm particularly drawn to MSNHC's coverage of the campaigns and primaries, partly because NBC is my favorite television network, but mainly because I have a platonic old man crush on Tom Brokaw. 
Although Tom retired from his usual nightly news job, he'll pop up every once in a while on NBC or MSNBC. These moments are unpredictable, but they usually occur on primary nighL'>. I have a strange obses­sion with Tom Brokaw that creeps out my friends, but I think they're just jealous of our secret love. 
"Touch My Body" by Mariah Carey 
About a week before Mariah debuted her new single, a friend and I agreed that we were going through Mariah withdraw!. Imagine our surprise when a trusty blog sent us to her website to get a sneak peek of "Touch My Body." Let's just say that I'm counting down the days until April 15 when she drops her new album. I have to say that I like the video even more than the song because I love a diva who can bring the funny. With help from co-star Jack McBrayer ("30 Rock") and director Brett Ratner (say wha?), Mariah shows us her sense of humor again and looks fabulous. I could never see Beyonce doing a video like this, and that's why Minli will always be queen bee. 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 
"All My Children" 
I keep up with "AMC" off and on, but it takes quite a bit to get me to start watching religiously again. All it took for me to add a series recording of "AMC" to my DVR this time was an old-fashioned anmesia story­line and the return of daytime's first African-American supercouple-Jesse and Angie. "AMC" decided to give Ryan anme­sia (Maria had it a few years back) and I'm hooked watching how each character reacts to his ordeal. Ryan has forgotten the last four years ofhis life so he thinks that he is still in love and engaged to Kendall (who is now happily married to Zach) even though he is currently married to Annie. 
Meanwhile, Jesse and Angie are back together after it was believed that Jesse had been dead for the past 20 years. It's a gen­eral rule that no one ever really dies in soap operas. Even if we see you as a ghost (which we did with Jesse in 2001), there's a way to keep you alive. So it's been heart­warming to see this couple together (since I was just a baby the first time around), and viewers have been treated to retrospective clips to get us caught up on the love story. Supercouples are few and far between these days so it's always refreshing when an old one comes back. 
"Rock of Love 2" 
I have an excuse for this one. I met Ambre. She is my cousin's friend's hus­band's best friend from graduate school. Meeting her wasn't as complicated as describing my connection to her. But let's just say that I have some juicy "Rock of Love" gossip and a few hints about what's going to happen in future episodes. Not only docs having background knowledge enhance my viewing of the show, but it also gives me someone to genuinely root for. Ambre seems too smart and normal to be picked by Bret, but at least she has already gained minor celebrity status in Chicago. That's really all you need in life. You're only hassled for a few autographs, you get to throw parties with vodka sponsors at bars and you're forever a member of the VH-1 family (which includes endless opportuni­ties to capitalize on that connection). 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Best of 'SN l': Post-strike edition 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 13, 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Nova upends 'Cuse, helps NCAA Tourney chances 
Alexander's 22 points, stifling defense lead West Virginia to a first round victory over Providence 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Jay Wright has another uncomfortable night ahead of him, looking f(lrward to Villanova's socond-round game in tho Big East tournament. 
Jim Boehoim can rost a little bit 
f'asinr, but for all the wrong rna­
sons. 
Scottin Hnynolds scored 22 points and Villanova rode some hot shooting in the second half" to knock of"f Syracuse H2-63 Wednesday, and dramatically help it'> cause in what amounted to an NCAA tournament elimina­tion game. 
The tmuns split tlwir regular­season mentings and each came into the conf"erenee tournament nneding a eoupln of wins to bn~ath easier on Selection Sunday. 
By the timn Heynolds curlnd in consecutive 3-pointers with less than 7 minutes loll to extend the llmd to double ligures, Wright and the Wildcats could exhale over so slightly. 
"I hope it's nnough, but I know I hav(~ no say in it," Wright said. "We get to play another day. That's all we'rn interested in, get­ting to play another day." 
Eighth-seeded Villanova advanced to play the top seed, No. 9 Georgetown, in a rematch of" a S~)COnd-round game won last year by tho lloyas. A victory against a team they've never beaten in four conlhrcnce tourna­ment games would almost surely be enough lor the Wildcat<;. 
"We're just going to go out and play the game," Villanova fresh­man Corey Stokes said. "Me and my teammates have been really looking forward to this game." 
Unlike last season, when Syracuse was left out of the NCAA tournament despite win­ning 22 games, Boeheim glumly acknowledged there won't be much Sunday drama this time around. 
"After last year, we probably had to win two or three games," he said. "We had to keep winning and I don't think one win would have been enough .... In my mind and their mind, if they're not in the NCAA tournament it's not a good year." 
Stokes hit four 3-pointers and finished with 18 points for Villanova, which made 11 3­pointers against Syracuse, includ­ing a blistering H of 10 in the sec­ond half. The Wildcats improved to 14-1 this season when hitting at least eight 3-pointers in a game. 
"In the second half, we just did­n't do a good job of reacting to where Heynolds and Stokes were," Boeheim said. "The open looks from the 3-point line, I thought, were the difference today." 
Dwayne Anderson added 14 points, Dante Cunningham 13 and Shane Clark 11 for Villanova, whieh gave up several inches at most positions but still managed to outrebound Syracuse 40-27 and grab 14 ollimsive rebounds. 
Donto Greene and .lonny Flynn, the nation's second-highest scor­ing freshman duo, did their part for Syracuse. Green finished with 17 point.:; and Flynn had 16, but aside from 13 points from Paul Harris, they got little help. 
The Orange (19-13) led throughout the first half and early in the second, when their inability to grab a rebound or hold onto the ball finally did them in. 
Stokes hit a deep 3-pointer with 
12:26 lett to make it 44-41 -giv­ing Villanova a 19-0 advantage in points oil" the bench to that point -and Syracuse went more than 4 minutes without a basket while the Wildcats pulled away. 
Anderson's 3-pointer with 8:35 left seemed to demoralize Syracuse, and a pair of 3s by Heynolds on Villanova's ·next two possessions made it 61-4 7 and left Boeheim standing stone still, arms crossed in frustration. 
The Wildcats eontinued to pour it on, the lead increasing to 20 when Arinze Onuaku fouled out with 4:32 left and Cunningham made good on a pair of free throws. 
West Virginia 58, Providence 53 
NEW YOHK-Bob Huggins was just being honest with his West Virginia team during the final minutes of ito:; Big East tour­nament opener. 
"We were just trying to tell our guys that we've worked this hard, let's just go get a stop. Let's go do what we're supposed to do," the first-year coach with 613 wins said. "I thought we made them take hard shots." 
Joe Alexander scored 22 points and West Virginia held Providence to two field goals over the final 7 minutes of the victory Wednesday. 
The fifth-seeded Mountaineers (23-9) advanced to Thursday's quarterfinals, where they will face fourth-seeded and 15th­ranked Connecticut. The Huskies beat West Virginia 79-71 in the teams' only meeting on March 1. 


"They're good and they're play­ing at real high level right now," Huggins said of Connecticut. "We played pretty well for one half up there. We'd go in the locker room down 16 or 17 and came out in the second half and played a whole lot better and actually got back in the game." 
Alexander had averaged 31 points over the last three games and he had a hand in West Virginia's last six points against Providence (15-16). 

Da'Sean Butler had 17 points for the Mountaineers, including consecutive baskets on offensive rebounds that started West Virginia's game-closing 11-5 run. 
"At the end of the game we got them to miss a couple of times and they got up on the offensive glass at big points in the game," Providence coach Tim Welsh said. "They got offensive rebounds and put them in. We got a couple of drives where we put the ball in and they called a walk. We fought. We challenged. We stuck to our game plan as good as any night this year. The shots just didn't go down at times but we battled, scrapped and clawed." 
Weyinmi Efejuku had 12 poinl.o:; to lead the Friars, who dropped to 1-6 in their last seven Big East tournament games. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT WORK flexible, no experience needed. customer sales/service, conditions apply, ages 18+, 574­273-3835, www. workforstudents.com 
Looking for female and male to help with a puppet theatre lor kinder­garten students on Friday, 3/14, from 8:30-9:00 a.m. and from 12:30-1:00 p.m. on the same day. This is a volunteer position. Call Bill Staunton 574-217-8063 or 574-386­7272. 
Need babysitter lor 2 kids. Flex hrs. Good pay. Solid Catholic family. Email: mbrammer@sbcglobal.net 
FoR RENT 
KRAMERHOUSES.COM 3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to campus, sale, cathedral ceilings. fireplace, 2-car garage, 10x20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. lor Aug. 2008. Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 or 574-340-1844. 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing lor 08/09.09/10 Now offering "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.corn 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. CALL 574­234-2436 OR 
Furnished Quiet 4Br house walk ND. Security, air, washer/dryer, dishwasher. Basement porch yard. 10-12 mos. 574-309-3105. 
HOUSE FOR RENT: 608 NDAve., walk to campus. 3 Lg.bed/2bath, sleeps up to 5. Central Air, new appl., carpet, WID, off street parking. Totally Renovated in 07. Free Summer Storage. Email jason@ jakeslireworks.net 
5 bedroom house just off Angela & 
31. Available now & lor next year. 2 baths & laundry. 232-6964. 
For rent: Two story house ready lor immediate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, Laundromat next door, basement available lor storage. new furnace and central air, new kitchen including appliances. large living room, free trash removal. Garage available lor car-extra. Call 289-4071. 
PERSONAL 

PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lilecall.org 
Adopt: Active, young, loving couple, teacher and business owner, wish more than anything to raise your newborn with care, warmth and love. Expenses paid. Please call Josette and Tim 1-800-418-0230. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. II you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our wetsite at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
II you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
The Retartha giveth, and the Retartha taketh away. 
Vive le Retartha! 

,...--------------------------------------------------------------­
OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, March 13, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 15 

rank 
1 Duke 2 Virginia 3 Horth Carolina 4 Johns Hopkins 5 Syracuse 6 Maryland 7 Delaware 8 NOTRE DAME 9 Cornell 
10 Hofstra, 11 Navy 12 Georgetown 13 Princeton 14 Drexel 15 Bucknell 16 Fairfield 17 Loyola (Md.) 18 Army 19 Ohio State 20 UMBC 
IWLCA Women's Lacrosse Top 20 Rankings 
rank team 
1 Northwestern 2 Virginia 3 Duke 4 Syracuse 5 Maryland 6 Penn 7 Princeton 8 North Carolina..· 
Georgetown ·······
9 10 Yale 11 Vanderbilt 12 13 
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 
rank  team  ''::::·:·=·:::::·::·:·.·· league  
1  Tri·Stale  0·  
2  SAfNTMARYS  0•0  
3  Albion  0·0  *2  
4  Hope  0·0  3"1  
5  Alma  0·0  6~5  
6  Kalamazoo  0·0  0•0  
7  Calvin  0·0  2"4  
8  Olivet  0·0  2"4  
9  Adrian  0·0  H  

MIAA Women's Tennis Conference Standings 
rank team league OVffl'afl 
-
1 Albion 1·0 4·0 2 Kalamazoo 1·0 .... 3"3 3 Alma 0·0 .•... 1!!7~2· . ·.· 5~1
4 Calvin 0·0 5 Hope 0·0 1-2 6 SAINT MARYS 0·0 4·3 7 Tri-State 0·0 
2'2 8 Adrian 0·1 2~5 9 Olivet 0·1 0"4 • 
around the dial 
BIG EAST MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT Villanova vs. Georgetown 12 p.m., ESPN 
West Virginia vs. Connecticut 2 p.m., ESPN 
Pittsburgh vs. Louisville 7 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Oakland third baseman Eric Chavez flew to Los Angeles on Wednesday to have a follow-up examina· tion on his back. 
He had an appointment with Dr. Robert Watkins, who operated on Chavez last Oct. 9. Chavez was due back in Arizona later Wednesday. 
The six-time Gold Glove winner still hopes to join the Athletics for their opening trip to Japan to play the World Series champion Boston Red Sox on March 25-26. He is even willing to go and be the designated hitter, or serve as an ambassador to promote the series. 
Whether the A's decide that's a good idea-with the long flight and all ­isn't yet clear. They leave the desert in a week. 
"He just has to get healthy," manager Bob Geren said Wednesday before the A's hosted the Arizona Diamondbacks. "When he gets in these games down here is more of a medical question." 
The 30-year-old Chavez also had offseason opera­tions on both shoulders. He received an injection in his back Feb. 29 to ease inflammation. 
He had back spasms last year that landed him on the disabled list for the final two months of the 2007 season. 

"I want to move this along. Do I want to play (in Japan)? Yeah, I do," Chavez said. "I don't know what will happen or should or shouldn't hap­pen. If they want me to be there, no doubt I'll show up." 
1\s athletic trainer Steve Sayles has said he would like to see Chavez running the bases first and then fielding consistently before giving him medical clear­ance. The bending over to field the ball has bothered Chavez's back in the past. 
Chavez had three plate appearances in a simulate game Tuesday: a walk, a fly ball to right that was dropped for an error and a single off the wall in left. He saw 10 pitches and took three swings, and he is eager to DH in a game soon. 
He isn't as concerned with running the bases as getting his timing at third. 
"I really don't have to test that right now," he said of running. "It's such a question mark right now. I'm running at 60-70 
,percent and I'm going to have to do that for a while. I'm really here to play, but that's my prob­lem. I could easily say, 'I'm a month out' and ease into it, but that's not my style." 

IN BRIEF No more discipline for Butler rea<Jy to return to Atlanta re-siS!Ds Harrington
players in Mitchell Report lineup for Washington after cuttingliim 
NEW YORK -Major League WASHINGTON -All-Star for­ATLANTA -The Atlanta Falcons Baseball has taken no steps to disci­ward Caron Butler appears set to re-signed Joey Harrington on pline players mentioned in the Mitchell celebrate his birthday with a Wednesday, one week after cutting Report since the detailed account of return to the lineup Thursday for the six-year veteran quarterback. drug use was released three months the Washington Wizards. General manager Thomas ago. That makes it increasingly unlike­"Caron is going to be probable, Dimitroff, who also has re-signed ly players will be punished before so we add a little 'Tough Juice' to Chris Redman to a two-year deal, opening day. the lineup," said coach Eddie has said the team will take a quar­
No players have been called in for Jordan, referring to Butler's nick­terback in next month's NFL draft. investigatory interviews since name. "And we'll see how it goes." The 29-year·old Harrington start· Oeveland pitcher Paul Byrd spoke with Butler has missed 16 "straight ed 10 g·ames last season, but he baseball lawyers Dec. 17, several attor­games and 19 of the last 21 returns as a probable backup -the neys with knowledge of the disciplinary because of a hip injury. He was role he would have played before process said Wednesday. They spoke originally diagnosed with a Michael Vick's legal troubles. on condition of anonymity because they strained hip flexor, but an MRI dis­Also returning with Harrington were not authorized to speak publicly. covered a small labral tear of the and Redman is D.J. Shockley, who 
The interviews are the first step in left hip joint. The injury also missed last season with a knee baseball's disciplinary process. caused Butler to miss the All-Star injury 
In addition, no hearing dates have game. Though the names of the quarter­been scheduled for the grievance filed The Wizards host LeBron James backs haven't changed, they pre· by the players' union on behalf of and the Cleveland Cavaliers on sumably will be listed in a different Kansas City outfielder Jose Guillen, Thursday, which happens to be the order than at the beginning of last who was suspended for the first 15 day Butler turns 28. Jordan said season, when Harrington was the days of the season. Butler will start if able to play. starter. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 13, 2008 
NBA 
Rockets win 20 straight, tie 30-year NBA record 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -The Houston 

Hoekets' 20th straight win was 
far from pretty, but coach Hick 
Adelman was still impressed 
with his team. 
The Hockcts were held to 

their lowest first-half total of 
the season but pulled away late 
to become the third team in 
NBA history to win 20 consecu­
tive games, tying for the 
league's second-longest winning 
streak with an R3-75 victory 
over the Atlanta Hawks on 
Wednesday night. 
"It may be the ugliest thing we've done. but it might have been the best one." Adelman said. "the way we fought through it." 
The Hockets joined the 1971­72 Los Angeles Lakers (33 straight) and 1970-71 Milwaukee Bucks (20) as the only teams to win 20 or more in a row. 
"We did enough to win," Adelman said. 
Tra<~Y McGrady scored 21 of his 2H points in thn second half for llouston, whirh IPd only 71­70 with 5 minutes remaining. Md;rady then scored live points in Houston's 10-0 run to take rontrol. 
"Wn'rn really happy with this win lw<~ausn WP didn't play well in the first half." McGrady said. "This is a prntty ugly gamn tonight. We didn't shoot well and it was one of those games that our dnl'ensn mally had to win for us." 
The Horkets are 20-0 since their last loss on Jan. 27 against Utah, including 7-0 sinee losing Yao Ming to a foot injury on Feb. 26. The llawks· have 16 losses in t.hat same period. 
A basknt by Atlanta's Marvin Williams with 5 seconds left in the game ended the Hoc;kets' strnak of I 0 straight wins by 10 or more points. Jon Johnson led the llawks with 2H points, and .Josh Smith had 16 points and a <~areer-high 22 n~bounds. 
The Hocknts pulled within one gam<~ of the Laknrs for the best record in the Western Conl'nrPnrn. Hvnn so, nlany ohsnrvnrs continun to focus on tlw Laknrs and Spurs and other tnams in tlw confnrPnen. 
That's OK with llouston. 

"It's unhPiinvabiP," M<~Grady said. "For nw to lw on this team that has ar.romplislwd 20 straight wins, that has got to be 
Sunday ~pril 13 • ThCl Embassy ThClatrCl Fort WaynCl, Indiana 
nchm on saki Fridcry March 14 at 10om at lh• EmbciSsy Boac Otftce. all Th:katmastvr locations, <hurgo by phon• 160/424-1811 or www.th:kcrtmcul91'.com 
Saturday May 24 • 7:30 pm Thc:r HonywClll (;ClntClr Wabash. Indiana 
Tickets on sohz HOW at Honvywvll CtZntcn, 
<horgcr by phone 260/563·1102 or www.honvywvllcentvr.org 
right up there with the most gratifying things I've aceom­plished in this league.... You look at the Bulls that were 72­
10. they didn't even do it. So this is pretty remarkable." 
Added Adelman: "You could see the guys, it really means something to get this and just keep not only the streak going, but keep moving in the right direction." 
Shane Battier had 15 points as Houston struggled to pre­
serve its winning streak despite trailing 33-32 at halftime. 
"Houston makes you play that way," Johnson said. "They are not a fast-paced team." 
Houstoq led 59-57 at the end of the third quarter, but Atlanta's Zaza Paehulia opened the fourth with two free throws. Minutes later, he was called for a technical foul after arguing an offensive foul. Battier made the free throw to give the Rockets a 66-62 lead. 

Atlanta closed to 71-70 when Chuck Hayes and Luis Scola scored on back-to-hack baskets. 
After Smith was denied inside, McGrady stretched the lead to 77-70 with a jumper which bounced twice on the rim before falling through the net. MeGrady added a 3-pointer with 1:53 left for an 81-70 lead to cap the 10-0 run. 
The Hawks have lost six of seven, but remain in contention to end the league's longest streak without a playoff appearanee. They fell one-half game behind New Jersey for the eighth spot in the Eastern Conference. 
"It's been tough," Johnson said. "Everytime we get in a position to move up, we take a step back." 
Houston allowed only 89.3 points per game during its 19 straight wins and set a low seoring pace against the Hawks. · 


With Your Navigator from U.S. Cellular~ you get a 
voice-guided GPS system with a local search 
function built right into your phone. So you'll 
always have clarity and direction. 

U.S. Cellular is wireless where you matter most!"' 
f< US.Cellular 
getusc.corn 1-aaa-auv-uscc 

Thursday, March 13, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Baustista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) 
Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 


For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, March 13 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council InVItes gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co--Mo. 
fvecyone is Wl!icome and coofidenhality 1s assured. 

CURE CIJUMC!l 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDErUS 


NBA 

Magic dominate shuggling Oippers 

ORLANDO, Fla. -Tlie Orlando Magic have a list of late-season goals written on the blackboard in their locker room. They .were able to erase the one at the top Wednesday night. 
Dwight Howard had 22 points and 13 rebounds to help the Magic beat the Los Angeles Clippers 110-86, securing their first winning season since the 2002-03 season. 
"We've got some guys in our locker room who have never had a winning season and I think you've got to appreciate some of the things you accom­plish during a season," Magic coach Stan Van Gundy said.. "The next goal is to wrap up a playoff spot and then win our division and secure home-court for the playoffs." 
Howard, playing on a winning team for the first time in his four-year career, got his league-high 57th double-double this season. He also had plenty of help. 
Rashard Lewis had 19 points and nine rebounds and Hedo Tu-rkoglu added 17 points for the Magic, who put all five starters Turkoglu hit three 3-pointers in that run as the Magic lead grew to 19 and they coasted home from there. 

"They were staying back in the paint and leaving us wide open so you've got to take those shots," Van Gundy said. "We usually hit a stretch where enough of them drop and we're in pretty good shape." 
The Clippers got 22 points from Corey Maggette and 17 apiece from Cuttino Mobley and AI Thornton, but were ham­pered by the absence of center Chris Kaman. He missed his second straight game with a sore back. 
"I knew it was going to be a pretty long night against Dwight [Howard] without Chris," Los Angeles coach Mike Dunleavy said. "Dwight was just a nightmare matchup for us. We had to collapse and dou­ble team him and they have too many good shooters. Sooner or later someone is going to catch fire." 
Trailing by 15 at halftime; the Clippers pulled to 69-60 with 
7:48 to play in the third quar­ter. However, Jameer Nelson hit a 3-pointer 
in double "Dwight [Howard] was just and Turkoglu 
figures by added three
a nightmare match up for 
the end of straight 3s to the third us. We had to collapse and spark a 14-4 
quarter. double team him and they run that 
Carlos pushed the
have too many good
Arroyo had Magic's lead to 13 points shooters." 83-64. off the Howard had bench. 14 points and
Mike Dunleavy
"It feels nine rebounds
Clippers coach
to in the first
good have a win­ning sea­son, but we're not satisfied," Howard said. "We've got a lot of stuff to work on for the playoffs. We want to be great so you've got to push to get better." 
The Magic's other noteworthy accomplishment was hitting 11 3-pointers to give them a league-leading 622 this season, which ties a club record for a single season. 
Seven of the 3s came in the third period, including four straight when the Clippers had pulled within nine points. Hedo quarter against 
the outmanned 

Clippers. His slam dunk gave the Magic a 13­2 lead with 6:36 left in the quarter and Orlando never trailed again. 
Lewis and Arroyo had eight points apiece in the second quarter when the Magic shot 61 percent from the field and opened up a 63-48 halftime advantage. Maggete had 20 points in the first half. includ­ing 10 of 12 from the free throw line, but there was little help as the rest of the Clippers hit only 11 of 33 shots. 
r--------------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 13, 2008 
MLB 

Duncan's hard slide sparks Rays -Yankees brawl 
Associated Press 
ST. PI.:'I'HBSBUHC. Fla. -So rnu c h for t h P notion that the N.-w York Yanktws and Tampa Bay Hays could sl'tt.IP a gripn without 11ghting. 
Mnnting only days al't.nr New York manag.-r .loP Cirardi r.orn­plaiiwd about Tampa Bay's aggrnssivP play in spring train­ing aftPr onP of his playnrs was injurnd in a honw-platn c.olli­sion. llw Yankm~s brought some attitudn or thPir own into a t.Psty n•matrh W.-dnPsday. 
Slwllny Duncan's hard slidP into stH·ond basn with his spikns raisPd sparknd a lwneh­dnaring serum that rnsult.nd in two playPrs and two roarlws !wing Pjnd.-d duriilg tlw second inning of Tampa Bay's 7-6 vie­tory. 
Duncan. who had hintPd at tlw prospnct of rnt.aliating fot: tlw Hays' I·:lliot. .Johnson barrel­ing ovnr NPw York catrher Franr.isc.o Cnrvnlli last Saturday, spiked second basn­man Akinori Iwamura in the right thigh and was immediate­ly tossnd. 
Tampa Bay's .lonny Gomes was ejected. too, after racing in from right f'inld and ramming into Duncan as otlwr players poured onto Lhe liPid. 
Girardi eallnd llw home-plate collision in tlw first game bl'twnnn thn AL East rivals unnecnssary. This time it was Tampa Bay manager Joe Madelon's turn to dPnouncn rough play not normally assod­atPd with nxhibition games. 
"In Tampa, that play you saw at home platn was a good, hard bas!dlall play. What you saw today was thP dnf'inition of a dirty play," Maddon said. "Tiwrn's no room for that in our game. It's contemptable. It's wrong. It's bonlerline <Tim­ina!, and I could not bnlinve tlwy did that." 
TOUR GUIDES 
NEEDED 
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions intends to hire new guides for the summer o8, fall o8 and spring 09 sessions 
~.,... .,·0~
-·"-" 

Applications are available for pick up now: 220 Main Building 
. !'l~·a~e retut:n by .5P~ on. Tue_sday, !'\pril I.. Questwns? E-matl Beth CJtUlhces•H: egtudH.:e(tJ.)nd.edu 
lf··· Jt,..
!'.>;; .fi'•. 
~~!
!h~!~
·~ j~ ·­
, ..li.•" .,.. 
,..~
\lP• i) 
., .. . tf.. ~J! .. ~ .......6"' .. 
~ 
·o~ ~-:-.. t:;! ~A
~J: "'u 
~ 
CHAMBERSIN<;ERS Nancy Menk, conductor 
pre.~ent 

Irish Music in Honor ofSt. Patrick's Day 

Kennedy,s Kitchen and the Culver Academy Choir Stacey Warren, director 
Sunday~ March 16, 2008 O'Laughlin Auditorium Moreau Center for the Arts Saint Mary's CoUege 7:30 P•.M. Call the College Box Office at 284-4626 for tickets. 

Among New York players, Duncan was the most voeal in his criticism of tlw eo llision that broke Cervnlli's right wrist, sidelining tho Yankens prospect for eight to I 0 weeks and triggnring a dnbatn over what's fair play in spring train­ing. 
The Yankees first baseman insisted he was not trying to injun1 Iwamura. 
''I'm pnltty surn the spikes 

wnren't that high. They wcrn pretty mueh going straight at thn glovn," Dunean said. ''f'vn done it beforn. Never had a reaction like that." 
Duncan's hard grounder glanced off third baseman Evan Longoria's glovn for an error and rolled up the linn in foul territory. Dunean rounded 11rst and hesitated before taking ofT for second -a movn tlw Hays perceived as conclusive nvi­dnncn lw had ill intentions. 
Longoria's throw to Iwamu ra beat thn runnnr by al least TO !'eth, but Dunean wont into tlw bag hard anyway. 
"No qunstion that was a bla­tant attnmpt to hurt Aki," Madelon said. "It was snt up. It was planned. It was prenwdi­tatPd. It's all thn abovn. I don't know what tlw diiTnrnncn is betwnPn that and a high stick in horkE~y. But it was that bad." 


Thursday, March 13, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NASCAR 
Frustrated Stewart continues Goodyear criticism 
Associated Press 
MAHTINSVILLE, Va. -Tony StPwart defended his harsh crit­icism of the tires Goodyear brought to Atlanta last weekend and said that it was time to speak out after years of closed door meetings failed to produce a solution. 
"You finally get to the point where, if you get frustrated enough, now it's gone from doing things in a nice, calm manner to I want to make sure I get somebody's attention about this," Stewart said Wednesday. He had called the tires "the most pathetic racing tire I've ever been on in my professional career." 


Large Pizza 
Cheese & 2 Toppings 
$ 
ONLY 
99 
Free Delivery On Campus 
Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas & charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 
SOUTH BEND 
52750 IN 933 (N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
(Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 
® 
574-243-1122

P1zza 
Visit us on the Web at www.marcos.com ©2007.Marco's Franchising, LLC 5724ND-1007 
Some of Stewart's critics dis­missed the remarks, saying Stewart was just being his usual outspoken self. But many driv­ers have agreed that the tires were subpar, including former champions Jeff Gordon and Dale Jarrett. 
"I think we are all pretty frus­trated. Tony took it to the fullest," Kevin Harvick said. "But he's definitely right in the way the tire stuff has worked out. None of us really enjoy the way that we had to race." 
Stewart said all the drivers were fed up with the hard tires at Atlanta, and he just drew the most attention because he was the most outspoken in his criti­cism. 
"Everybody talked about lit]," he said. "Just nobody got real vocal about it until after the race. When you're stuck in a car for 3?-4 hours and it drives like crap, you're going to be upset about it. 
"Guys are screaming at their crew chiefs that it was the worst car they've ever driven. Well, it wasn't the crew chief's fault. It wasn't the team's fault. These guys spend millions of dollars to build these cars. It was the tire we were running and tires should never, ever be the decid­ing factor in a race." 
Stewart also said his com­ments were not directed at the people that make the tires or the ones that mount them on rims at the track, but at the designing engineers. 
"Think about it. Every year we've blown tires. It's like, how many years have they been doing this? At this stage of the game, how do you not figure it out? How could you have not figured out how to not blow tires and build a competitive tire?" he said. 

Stewart said the tire company that has exclusive rights to NASCAR needs to understand that those rights bring responsi­bility, among them listening to the thoughts of drivers and tak­ing them into account. 
"They have to understand that we're the ones that drive them. we're the ones that have to give them the feedback. They need to start listening to us more," he said. 
Harvick, who attended a Philadelphia Flyers game on Wednesday night, said Goodyear "flat out didn't do a very good job," with the tires in Atlanta. 
"I think they could do a better job with the way that they approach the testing and things like that," he said. "As the sport has advanced, it seems like the tires haven't advanced as much as the rest of the sport." 
During a question and answer session with members of the Martinsville-Henry County Chamber of Commerce, Stewart said it was quickly apparent his message had been received. 
Even before NASCAR presi­dent Mike Helton summoned him into the NASCAR hauler, he said, Helton had already heard from a top executive with Goodyear who wasn't happy. 
On Monday, Goodyear issued a statement that said it was satis­fied with the performance of its tires at Atlanta, and that it had no safety issues in the race, but promised to re-evaluate before returning to Atlanta in October. 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, March 13, 2008 
Buckeyes 
continued from page 24 
2004. This wnekend might fnaturn a close competition bntwenn the two teams with mutual respect-and hostili­ty-toward each other. 
Both Ohio State and Notre Damn are skilled in every weapon, but the two squads havn diffnrent strongths. For tho Buckoyns to win, thoir top fnncors must win or at lnast mako thn 
"Ohio Stale is a very strong team. Probably by names, it's the best." 
Janusz Bednarski Irish coach 

f'inals in many of the ovnnts. said the most important For thn Irish to win, thny physical preparation for the m us t u s e t lw i r Irish would be unparallnlnd probably to depth to score "hydrate and 
a largo numbnr "We've trained all ~et i.? bed on 
of points from time.
year for that, all

all I 2 t·ompeti­"We trained tors. year to develop the all year for That diehoto­strength and that. all year to my was on dis­develop the
endurance."

play March 2_ in strength and Dntroit at thn endurance," he NCAA Midwest Gia Kvaratskhelia said. Hngional. Ohio Sophomore
Irish assistant coach 

State won f'ivn of six individual titles, but Notre I>amn capturod I I medal positions, comparPd to the Buckeyes' sovnn. 
"Ohio Statn is a vPry strong team," Bndnarski said. "Probably by namos, it's th1~ best." 
Tho eompPtition begins today with women's pool bouts. Tho womon's final pool bouts and direct-elimi­nation ehampionship braeket 
Youngsters 
continued from page 24 
(Sarah Borrmann and Eileen llassettl and both Irish men's foilists (Stfwe Kubik and Zach Sehirtzl are frnshmnn. Ewa Nelip will join Hurley in womnn's npee, llayley Heese will compoto with Nott in the foil and Barron Nydam will join Thanhousor in the sabre. 
In fact. Notre Dame eould have had night freshmen in the national event, but senior Greg lloward barely mlged out fresh­man Greg Sdwokraft for Notre Dame's sm:ond mon's Ppno spot. Howard won the silver-medal bout at tho NCAA Midwest Hogional in Detroit, and Irish matchups will be held Friday. The men will have a similar schedule Saturday and Sunday. 
Notre Dame had a light and unstructured praetico Monday at the Langford Gymnasium in the Joyce Center before leaving for the competition on Tuesday. Irish 
assistant coach G i a Kvaratskhelia said from Columbus Wednesday that only a few members of the team were lightly exercis­ing during the allotted train­ing session. 
Kvaratskholia 
Kelley Ilurley 
took the silver 
in epee last season, and junior Adi Nott f'inished third in foil. 
"Sho's pretty conl'ident," Kvaratsklullia said of Nott, who he ·coaches as the foil instructor. "I think she's hit the peak of tho performance the last two weeks and this wenk." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
junior Karol Kostka topped Schooleraft in the final. Had Howard lost the bronze medal bout or had Sehoolcraft beaten Kostka, Schoolcraft would have earned the final epee spot over the three-time national competi­tor Howard. 
Irish coaeh Janusz Bednarski said having a freshman-laden team is worrisome because the young feneers are not accus­tomed to the mental and physi­cal rigors of the two days of bouts for each the men and women. 
Of eourse, he also hopes that this appearance in the national championships is the first of four for the super seven. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler I @nd.edu 

HILLESLAND DRIVES HARD 




Thursday, March 13, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles start hotne season against Manchester 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's, who won eight of 1 0 games over its spring break trip in Ft. Myers, Fla.. will look to add two more wins to its record as the Belles host Manchester today in a doubleheader, Saint Mary's home opener. 
"We don't plan on making any changes," head coach Erin Sullivan said. "We will approach Manchester the same way we approach every game, by coming out with intensity." 
Sullivan said her team's has good mental toughness and enthusiasm headed into the matchup with Manchester. She said this mentality is helped by an oft-repeated phrase -"win every inning." 
Junior pitcher Calli Davison will start the first game of the double­header. Davison (5-2) won every game she started in Florida, and pitched shutouts in three of the games. Sullivan said Davison continues to improve every year. 
"[Davison's] hard work this summer, especially on her rise ball. has paid off," she said. "She has really become a great No. 1 pitcher for our team. She is going to have a great season for us." 
Saint Mary's is known for its explosive offense, which has so far outscored opponents 76-26. 
Highlighting this offense are sophomores Ashley Peterson and Maureen Healy, junior Ashley Fusaro, and senior McKenna Corrigan. Corrigan also serves as the team's second starting pitcher. 
The team is continuing to improve in several offensive' areas. In practice, the Belles are becoming more aggressive on the bases and have worked on hitting outside pitches. Sullivan looks to implement these skills against Manchester. 
Sullivan sees an advantage in playing at home. 
"We tend to do very well at home, so we would like to start strong again this season," she said. "I think it's important to have the mindset of winning every game, whether it's home or away." 
Manchester is the first of three non-conference teams the Belles will play before beginning confer­ence play. Saint Mary's, a mem­ber of the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association, plays its first confer­ence game March 29 against Calvin. 
During the 2007 season, the Belles finished third in the MlAA. 
"[Today] is just another test before we start playing confer­ence games," Sullivan said. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Notre Dametoplay Blue Hens 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame returns home from a spring break road trip in California where Irish coach Tracy Coyne said the Irish approached the games as though they were on vacation, and was disappointed in their mental preparation. 
The No. 12 Irish went 1-2 on the trip, beating California and losing to Stanford and Oregon. 
"We didn't give Stanford the respect that they deserved, which resulted in a lackluster performance," Coyne said. 
Coyne said she hopes to see the team improve mentally, an important aspect .she said her team was lacking in California. 
"We had costly mistakes that were pretty much self­imposed," she said. "It was more of our own mental errors that led to the loss." 
Given last week's perform­ance, it is easy to forget how tal­ented this team can be. Jillian Byers leads the Irish with 30 goals this season. In addition to Byers' top performance, six other Notre Dame players have earned 10 or more points on the season senior midfielder/attack Caitlin McKinney and freshman mid­fielder/attack Shaylyn BlanP: have each scored over 10 goals this season. The Irish also recorded a school record 22 goals in their season opening win over Canisius. Coyne said her team's performance is a matter of everything coming together at once. 


"I think we are a very good team. When we are on our game, I think we are very diffi­cult to beat," Coyne said. "It's just a matter of going out there and implementing the game­plan." 
So far, the team's greatest strength has been its offense. The Irish are currently averag­ing 15.33 goals per game, sec­ond in the Big East. 
"I think that we have multiple people that can score," Coyne said. "We have good team speed and I think we can move the ball well." 
The Irish kick off their three­game stand on Thursday against the Delaware Blue Hens. Delaware comes in with a 3-1 record, riding a two-game win streak. Coyne expects a very scrappy, physical game from the Blue Hens. But when asked what would make her happy with the homestand, Coyne was frank. 
''I'd like to go undefeated on the homestand," she said. The Irish face the Blue Hens at 3 p.m. today. 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 


Are you 
• fo r a difference? 
If you've thought of offering your talent; if you dream of helping create a better way of living for those in need; if you want to challenge yourself, learn, travel, and give; then, we need to talk... 

Come join us at the Puerto Rico Center for Social Concerns. We are receiving applications for ten volunteering positions in Puerto Rico. The interviews will be held in March 25, 26 and 27 at the CSC. 
To download the application and gather information, visit www.prcsc.org. 
The PRCSC is a non-profit organization committed to improve the quality of life in communities with limited economic resources. By matching volunteer interest and skills with the needs of the community, the PRCSC promotes the well being of the residents while providing enriching experiences of volunteer work. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 13, 2008 
Marquette 
continued from page 24 
to show, but you're not show­ing a lot of stuff now." 
Earlier this week. Brey downplayed the fact that his team wouldn't know its oppo­nent until 24 hours before tip 
ofT. 
"At this point in the year, I don't know how much scout­ing really does [matter!." he said. "I think the focus is on your group and how you play and you have prepared quiekly so many times at a walk through and shoot­around on Thursday, you can get mentally rnady to go." 
Instead. Brey, who was awarded Big East coach of the year Tuesday, said the extra rest will help his 
minute remaining to give the Irish a five-point lead they would not relinquish. 
Notrn Dame sophomore for­ward Luke Harangody will play his first game as reign­ing Big East Player of the Year Thursday. Harangody is the conference's leading scorer and rebounder with 
23.3 points and 11.3 rebounds per game in confer­ence play. 
In the loss to Marquette Jan. 12. llarangody scored 29 points and pulled down 14 rebounds. In Notre Dame's win over the Golden Eagles a month later, he recorded another double-double, scor­ing 18 points and grabbing 11 rebounds. 
In other Big East tourna­
ment action Wednesday, Villanova like­ly put an end to Syracuse's NCAA t<mrna­


team al'ter play­''This group is really ment hopes ing three games with an 82-63
excited. We're going in 

in seven days drubbing. The 
last week. with a lot ofjuice. " No.8-seeded 
" [Last week I Wildcats was a grueling Mike Brey advance to week because play No. 1
Irish coach 

we  had  to  play  
three  games,  
but not playing  
until Thursday  
allows  us  to get  our  rest,"  
Brey said.  
The Irish have  won  six of  

their last seven games dating back to February 17, with only a 90-85 loss to Louisville at Freedom Hall Feb. 28 blemishing that mark. 
"I think we have great energy and great momen­tum," Brey said. "This group is really exeited. We're going in with a lot of juice." 
For the second time this season, Irish junior guard Kyle McAlarney will play in front of friends and family at Madison Square Carden. McAlarney. who grew up in Staten Island, scored 18 points in Notre Dame's last game in New York. a 68-59 win over Kansas Sate Dec. 4. 
In that game, McAlarney hit a 3-pointnr with just over a s e e d 
Georgetown 
today. 
No. 5 seed West Virginia survived a scare from No. 12 seed Providence, pulling away in the final minute to win 58­
53. The Mountaineers will take on No. 4 seed Connecticut today. 
No. 7 seed Pittsburgh beat No. 10 seed Cincinatti 70-64 despite 30 points from Bearcats guard Deonta Vaughn. The Panthers move on to face Louisville today. 
The winner of the game between the Cardinals and Panthers will take on the winner of the Notre Dame­Marquette game Friday at 9 p.m. 
Chris 1/ine also contributed to this report. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Illini 
continued from page 24 
lead. 
Junior Kelcy Tefft and senior Brook Buck completed the dou­bles sweep as the No. 1 pair in the nation finished off their opponents, 8-6. 
In singles play, the Irish start­ed strong. Junior Katie Potts battled through a tough first set against Illinois' sophomore Kristina Minor. After starting 3­3, Potts took over the match, winning 6-4 in the first set. She carried her momentum to a 6-0 shutout in the second set to take the match. 
Ciobanu was firing on all cylinders for her match. After winning the first set 6-1, Ciobanu overcame a brief mid­set rally from junior Shivani Dave in the second and finished her match with a 6-2 victory. 
No. 39 Tefft kept her oppo­nent and one of Illinois' best singles players, freshman Leigh Finnegan, on the ropes all match long. She cruised to a 6­2, 6-1 win to clinch the match for Notre Dame. 

The fmal three matches went back-and-forth with the momentum changing sides throughout. 
Even with the win in hand, No. 113 Krisik made sure the Irish fmished strong. In a very even matchup, Krisik fought through a tough first set and outlasted senior Momei Qu in the second to win 7-5, 6-4. 
Rielley jumped out to a 3-0 lead in dominant fashion and won the first set 6-1. However, Illinois' freshman Marisa Labropoulos bounced back and played steady through the sec­ond set before putting Rielley away to win the mateh 6-4. 
Since the overall match was decided, the two played a tiebreak in place of a third set to decide their match. Labropoulos took the abbreviat­ed set 10-7, but her victory was the only point for Illinois. 
The toughest match of the day was between Notre Dame's Brook Buck and Illinois' sopho­more Megan Fudge. Up 6-5, Buck was one game away from winning the first set, but a series of long rallies and deuces ended up in Fudge's favor forc­ing a tiebreaker. 
Buck refocused and elevated her game to take the tiebreak 7-1. She won the second set 6­3 to make the final score for the match 6-1 in favor of the Irish. 
The match was a combination of tough, grind-it-out wins and convincing, dominant victories for Notre Dame. They contin­ued their dominance of doubles play and for the second straight match, dominated singles play as well. 
The two-game home stand for the Irish concludes with a match against Eastern Michigan on Friday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 


WILLSHORTZ 
47Grill 49 *Informers 54 Seven Sisters 
grads 57 Major Italian tourist site 58 "lch dich" (German words of endearment) 59 *Dessert made from a product 
of a 10-Down 61 Satyric looks 62 Sleeper_ 63 This and that 64 "Finnegans 
Wake" wife 65 Major rtes. 66 Ivy League 
school in Philly 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
Down  
Cellist Casals  
2 "That's  _!"  
(directoi's cry)  
3 "Ditto" Puzzle by Paula Gamache  
4 Blunders  
5 "Well,_!" 29 Pretense 38 Resort island 51 Author Zora  
6  _  ESE of Valencia HurstonHugo, 1975 30 Short holiday?  
42 Cigarette box 52 PopularIsabelle Adjani 31 Shade of green  
feature Japanese beer role based on a  
32 Garfield's real-life story 45 Ocean rings 53 Squelch housemate 
7 Through 46 "How foolish 54 Milan's Teatro  
33 *Fairy tale !"8 Granatelli of Scala  
auto racing  meanie  48 Planetary  55 Collateral option 
9 Bits  34 Put back in  shadow  
1 0 ·orchard part  37 Some luau  50 Be in force, as a  56 Individually  
11 "Tres  "  dancers  rule  60 Church perch  
12 Did a number  
15 Stimulated  

17 1890s gold rush credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
city Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 21 Completely crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
strange 23 Music download 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 source 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 27 They replaced C Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young rations solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



Thursday, March 13, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Note: The circled letters in the answers to the seven starred clues, reading left to right or top to bottom, spell words that can complete familiar phrases that start with "break." 
Across 1 Throw 5 It may be found 
in a cone 9 Homes for mil. planes 13 Object of a manhunt, maybe 14 Score just before 
winning 15 Skylit courts 16 *Not just stupid 18 Where William 
the Conqueror died 19 Kerosene 
20 N.B.A. center who has pitched for McDonald's, Pepsi and Visa 
22 ·setting in Sherlock Holmes's "The Man with the Twisted Lip" 
24 The hots 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
25 Snow 
26 Les Trois Mousquetaires, 
e.g. 28 Strain 31 "Eat at 34 Shopaholic's delight 
35 Canyon part 
36 Daily or weekly, 
e.g.: Abbr. 37 *Perplexed state 39 1970s polit. 
cause 40 Early sixth­
century year 41 Partner of aids 42 Come clean, 
with "up" 43 Slippery swimmer 44 "The Report," 1976 best seller 45 Co. with a triangular logo 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Thursday, March 13, 2008 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Brey's players face Golden Eagles again 
ND lxltt/es Marquettefor third time this season 
By CHRIS KHOREY Senior Sports Writer 
NEW YOHK-No. 14 Notre Dame has been in New York since Monday, but it finally found out Wednesday who its Big East Tournament quar­terfinal opponent will be. 
No. 6 seed Marquette defeated No. 11 seed Hall 67­54 Wednesday night at Madison Square Garden to advance to play the No. 3­seeded Irish. Notre Dame earned a bye to the quarter­finals, tonight at 9 p.m. 
Notre Dame split with Marquette during the regular snason, falling 92-66 in Milwaukee Jan. 12 and win­
ning  86-83  at  the  Joyce  
Center Feb. 9.  
"With  Marquette  we've  

played them twice," Irish coach Mike Brey said Sunday. "You have some good stuff, you have some horrible stuff 
see MARQUETTE/page 22 
2008 Big East men's basketball tournarrtent 
% 
Marquette 
9 P.M. "" Thursday 
Notre Dame 
Pittsburgh 
?P.M. Thursday 
Louisville 

MATT HUDSON/Observer Graphic 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish clobber Illinois 
By DAN MASTERTON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame won its second match in a row with a dominant 6-1 victory over Illinois. 
The No. 61 lllini (5-5) came out swinging in doubles action. Illinois kept pace with No. 23 Notre Dame's (9-7) strong dou­bles pairs as all three matches began in a 4-4 tie. 
However, the Irish extin­guished the lllini's hot start. Notre Dame's No. 3 pair of soph­omores Cosmina Ciobanu and Colleen Hielley took four of the final five games en route to an 8­5 win, improving their record to 10-1 in the dual season. 
Sophomore Kali Krisik and freshman Kristen Rafael sewed up the doubles point for Notre Dame by sweeping the final four games of their match. Their 8-4 win made the score 1-0, and the Irish would not relinquish the 
see ILLINI/page 22 
FENCING 

No. 2 Irish prepare to compete in NCAA C:han1pionships 
Both squads send two fencers per weapon 
By KEN FOWLER Senior Sports Writer 
Ohio State has everything

-going for it -a full set of qualifiers, thn aura of the presumptive favorites and, perhaps most importantly, home-strip advantage. That's what Notre Dame faees beginning today in the NCAA Championships in Columbus, Ohio. where the fcarsomn Buckeyes look to prove the coaches who vote in the polls right and eollect the national title. "If they handle this [and win I. that's normal," Irish head coach Janusz Bednarski said of the Buckeyes. "But there are three other teams 
-
that are trying to deter them. Among them, I am happy we are part of that group." Ohio State. ranked No. 1 on the wonwn's side and No. 2 among men, and Notre Dame are two of four teams to qualify the maximum 12 fencers -two fencers per sex per weapon. The other. two teams with the maxi­mum squads are Columbia and St. John's. PPnn StatP, thP. def1mding eharnpions, qualified 11 fencers, and 2006 champion llarvard qualified 10. Notre Dame eaptured NCAA titlns in 2003 and 2005; Ohio Statn won in 
sec BUCKEYES/page 20 



Youngsters take over top spots on team 
By KEN FOWLER Senior Spans Writer 
To eall it a youth movement would be something of an understatement. 
To call it a revival would be 
terribly misleading. 
To ignore it would be utterly 
ridiculous. 
Something in-between must describe the role of Notre Dame's freshman fencing class. Seven of the 12 Irish fencers are set to compete this week­end's NCAA Championships, hosted by Midwest nemesis Ohio State. 
The strange part of the pre­ponderance of Irish rookies is that Notre Dame didn't appear in a position that necessitated a major influx of talented fencers. A season ago, Notre Dame fin­ished fourth in the national event, and two of the team's four first-team All-Americans ­epeeist Kelley Hurley and foilist Adi Nott-would return for multiple future seasons. 
Meanwhile, six other fencers who made it to the national event sabreists Bill Thanhouser and Ashley Serrette, epeeists Greg Howard and Karol Kostka, and foilists Mark Kubik and Jakub Jedrkowiak-all returned. 
But the Irish got reinforee­ments anyway. Both Irish women's sabreists 
see YOUNGSTERS/page 20 





