
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 121 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16,2008 

Former athlete starts non-profit org. 
Injuredfootball player Abdel Banda created SBIG to give back to community, movefonvard with life 
By AMBER TRAVIS 
News Writer 
When Notre Dame senior Abdel Banda suffered a career ending football injury during his sophomore year he didn't know in what direction he wanted to take his life. After some search­ing, he and his friend Thomas Killian, Jr., created Students Bridging the Information Gap (SBIG), a non-profit organization based in New Jersey. 
Banda said he wanted to create SBIG because of the combination of hardships he endured and the fact that he has the ability to be able 
to give back. 
"A lot of people have helped me out and they have always told me a lot that you've got to give for­ward," he said. "I feel like God has given me a lot of gifts and I have a responsi­bility [to give back]." 
SBIG plans to choose an orphanage to give funds to each year based on a needs assessment process, Banda said. 
Each orphanage chosen will receive adequate fund­ing to install approximately 12-15 computers, build fully equipped facilities such as computer labs and libraries and hire full-time computer teachers in order to teach various technological skills, he said. 
This year, the organiza­
tion will be donating  over  
$50,000  raised  at  two  
fundraisers  held  in  New  

York City in February and March to Basco, an orphan­age with about 300 children of all ages located an hour outside ·of Accra, the capital of Ghana, Banda said. 
Banda recruited former teammate Maurice Crum Jr. to help him work with the organization while he is at Notre Dame. 
Crum said he was excited when Banda told him he was going to start the organization because he thinks helping others is nee­
essary. 
"I jumped at the opportu­nity based on the back­ground information of what the organization is and what it stands for," he said. "Anything that I can do to help anyone, I'm all for it." 
Banda agreed, saying the organization follows Notre Dame's teachings of helping others. 
"Notre Dame is always teaching about humanity and service, and we are doing it," Banda said. "The importance of service has really been instilled in me here at Notre Dame." 
Banda and Crum are in 
see SBIG/page 6 


Republicans host Lincoln dinner 
Indiana state representatives speak on parallels between Civil War and war in Iraq 

College Republicans' Lincoln Day dinner Tuesday. 
By BRIAN McKENZIE 
News Writer 
Indiana state treasurer Richard Mourdock spoke about the opposition Abraham Lincoln's presi­dency faced at the College Republican's inaugural Lincoln Day dinner Tuesday night. 
Mourdock described Abraham Lincoln as a presi­dent who succeeded in the face of challenges. 
Lincoln was a long shot candidate, Mourdock said. " 
He was criticized for announcing that he would not uphold the anti-slavery Republican platform, saying 
COR 



Leaders plan college council 
Reish, Grant contemplate starting organization ofmidwest universities 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame student body pres­ident Bob Reish and vice presi­dent Grant Schmidt announced they have begun taking steps to establish a national college to Council of Representatives (COR) at their meeting Tuesday. 
Reish said the purpose of the organization, which would be f(JUnded by Notre Dame's student government and whose first meeting would be on campi*> possibly sometime next year, would be "to discuss not only top-
see COR/page 6 'If I could save the Union without freeing any slaves, I would do it, and if I could save it by freeing all the slaves, I would do it,' he said. 

He said the challenges Lincoln faced as president during the Civil War are comparable to those faced by George W. Bush and the war in Iraq. 
"Every life we have lost in Iraq, all 4,000, is precious," he said. "Imagine if tonight, 3 percent of those who went on patrol did not return. During the Civil War, it was 3 percent of the entire American population. 
see STATE/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Seniors reveal class gift 

SMC to donate portrait of Sister Madeleva 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's Senior Gift Campaign announced the Class of 2008 will donate a portrait of Sr. M. Madeleva Wolff to the College as they graduate to honor their experience on campus. 
The new portrait will replace the current one in the lobby of Madeleva Hall, which has begun to show signs of disre­pair.. 
"The old Madeleva memorial greatly needs updating," 2008 senior gift chair Beth McKevitt said. "The current portrait is extremely faded." 
McKevitt said her committee wanted to find a gift that would reflect the Holy Cross mission of the College and originally considered leaving funds in place to repair the cross on top of LeMans Hall but that was too expensive. The committee then found out that Madeleva Hall would be renovated once the new aca­demic building, Spes Unica Hall, opens in the fall. 
"Once we discovered that Madeleva Hall would be undergoing major renovations in the near future it seemed very fitting to honor Sr. Madaleva in this way," McKevitt said. "[The Class of 
see GIFT/page 4 

400 students improve 23 South Bend homes 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 

Around 400 students woke up early last Saturday to help make a difference in the South Bend community through the city's Rebuilding Together St. Joseph County project. 
Rebuilding Together is a not-for-profit partnership between local government and business volunteers as well as other nonprofit organizations in the area to help refurbish homes and neighborhoods in the South Bend area, according to the project's Web site. 
This ye.ar the project worked to improve 23 homes in the Northwest side of South Bend, said Darrell Paulsen, Campus Ministry assistant director for retreats and. national pro­grams. 
Due to rainy weather, vol­unteers were not able to work on outdoor painting projects, but accomplished a lot of interior work such as washing down homes and cleaning garages and exteri­or work such as raking yards and overall landscaping, Paulsen said. 
Over 600 students "regis­tered to participate but weather conditions limited 
see HOMES/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The realities of reality TV 
Normally, I'm not a filll of reality tnlnvi­
sion. I find shows likn 'Thn Bachnlor," "A 
Shot at Low~ with lila Tequila" and "The 
Ifills" to be eomplntnly pointlnss and shal­
lowly vapid. 
Thn only excep­

tions I maim to this Liz Harter 
ovnrall dislike are for 

shows like the "H11al Saint Mary's 
World/Road Ruins Editor 
Challnngn" (one of 
my lilb's mnbitions is 

to become one of the people who sit'> 
around a table in the M1V studios and 
comes up with competition<; like "Mexican 
blankt~t rolling" fi>r crazy, money-obsessed 
pnopln to win money), Rock of Love {Bret 
Michael<; may be balding and old, but he's 
still hot) and my new f(mnd obsession­
M'IV's new reality show "The Paper." 
You might have gunssed that I'd be slight­
ly biased towards a reality show about the 
production of a studnnt newspaper. I mean, 
I am working on producing a student news­
paper at the moment. And come on, when 
a show starts out with thn words. 

"Journalist<; arn the most important part of 
tlw world." what journalist witl1 a flair fbr 
thn oecasional molodrama wouldn't be 
hooknd. 

"Thn Paper" fi>llows the stafl'ofthe 
Cypress Bay lligh S<~hool newspaper stall: 
Now, I'm nonna.IIy sknpti<:al about just 
how much reality l'> shown in reality 'IV, 
<llld whiln I will admit I really think thL'i 
show is scripted, I can tnll you this is pretty 
rmt.listi<~ fi>r a papnr. 

Let mn let you in on the reality of The 
Observer. Sunday through Thursday there 
am at lmL'>t 12 pnoph~ in the ba<;emnnt of 
South I >ining Ifall putting togethnr the 
paper. Sinee wn print daily tllings are a bit 
more harried than tlw newsroom shown on 
"The Pap<~r." But really, it's pretty true to 
lifi' tlmt wo usn a ton of pap<~r printing 
things to make everything pnrfect {or at 
lea'it a<; p<1rfect a'> a bunch of students who 
have to go to cia<;.<;, do homnwork and write 
artides can). 

In tlu1 first epL'>ode, whieh aired Monday, 
the race l'> on for Editor-in-Chief. Four jun­
iors are vying for the head position, some­
thing not seen in The Observer this year a'> 
Chris I linn, our <:urrent EIC, wa'i unop­
p<>sed when he applied lbr the position. 
The episode followed the exploit'> of these 
four jurliors as they write tl1eir applications 
for EIC. Only one complotes her applic~tion 
with days fell until the dnadline. The other 
thme deddt'd they ean't work unless 
they'm under pmssure, a phenomenon 
which I have eomn to exp<1rienee sinee join­
ing Thn <lbserver stall' in my freshman year. 
Nl.nr printing the last ndition of the year 
thn stall' of11w Cireuit throw a party (by thn 
way, tl1ern arn way too many solo cups and 
ping pong balls in tl1is episode since those 
am all underage tet~nagers ...). In mueh the 
same vnin, The Obst~rver hosts our annual 
sPmi-fi>rma.l afl.nr we print our lll'>t edition 
in J>ncmnber, though our parties are proba­
bly a bit rnor<~ scandalous. 

There a.re a lot of othnr similarities bt1twnen Cyprnss Bay's The Cireuit and our very own Thn Observer. but I'm out of spam. Now IjtL'>t have to implore you to tune in at HUO next Monday <md maybe wn'll randomly need <mother Inside Column at l a.m. next Tuesday <md I'll bt~ able to rngale you witl1 morn similaritins bntween tl1nsn two publications. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsertwr. 
Contact Uz 1/arter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Ohservcr rct?;ards itself as a professional public:uion and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistakt·, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 16, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE WAY TO ENJOY THE SPRING WEATHER? 







Alex Tulisiak  Casey Niezer  Christina Rising  Erica Deters  Haley Nickell  
junior Holy Cross  junior McCandless  freshman McCandless  freshman McCandless  senior Opus  
"/ like to sit around the  "Sleep outside.,  "/paint my nails outside. ,  "Walk on the nature trails. ,,  "Wij]leball home run  

lakes and watch the ducks.,, 

Each version of The Shirt from previous years hangs in the Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore In anticipation of the unveiling of The Shirt 2008 Friday. 
OFFBEAT 
His father, Doug Dahl, measured the balloons to make sure each was at least 20 centimeters, the mini­mum diameter, and his mother, Wendy Dahl, kept the tally. 
At one point he asked, "Does this count as praetic­ing my trumpet?" His moth­er replied, "Only if you can play that with your nose." 
Andrew's first attempt­184 balloons in February ­was rejected because his father tied tile balloons. This time he tied them oil' himsolf. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
derby!" 
IN BRIEF 

The play "The Tragical ·History of Doctor Faustus", a 
Christopher Marlowe play 
about a professor who sells his 
soul to the devil, will be per­
formed April 17 and 18 at 7:30 
p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theater at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Archbishop Luis Augusto Castro Quiroga will deliver a lecture entitled "Colombia: The Church as Peacebuilder" today from 12 p.m. to 1 :45 p.m. in the Hesburg Center Auditorium. 
Author Barbara Fiend will deliver the 24th annual Madcleva Lecture entitled "Awe-filled Wonder: The Interface of Science and Spirituality" on Thursday at 7 
p.m. in the Little Theater in Moreau Center for the Arts on Saint Mary's Campus. 
The Class of 2008 is hosting a Beer Tasting event at Legends Thursday from 5-7:30 p.m. 8 different beers will be sampled and food will be served. The seniors only event costs $10 at the door. 
"The Shirt" will be unveiled Friday at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Co-host of Mike and Mike in the Morning Mike Golic will be the guest speaker. Festivities begin at 
4:30 p.m. and "The Shirt" itself will be revealed at 6 p.m. 
Flipside is hosting "The Office" trivia night Friday at 10 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Teams of five can sign up 9:30 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The ObserlJer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

•• 6 • 
• 6 •• 

HIGH 60 HIGH 67 LOW 43 LOW 45 
"Would you like to supersize that marijuana?" 
MAGNOLIA, Ark. Magnolia police say it wasn't the fried chicken in Savalas Vantoli Stewart's car that gave off a funky smell. Instead, officers say they found a side dish of marijua­na that Stowart hid in'iide of a recently purehased box of chicken during a traffie stop Friday night. 
Police say officers smelled the odor of marijuana cooling from the car and found it after Stewart consented to a search. 
Officers said they also found several Eesta<;y pills in Stewart's pocket<;. 
Stewart, 33, of Waldo, faces a misdemeanor marijuana possession charge and felony drug possession charge for having the Ecstasy. 
Boy blows up 213 balloons with his nose 
BLAINE, WasiL -A 13­year-old boy hopes to win a balloon-blowing record by a nose. 
Blowing through one nos­tril at a time, Andrew Dahl inflated 213 balloons within an hour Friday -a feat that has been submitted for review by Guinness World Hecords. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
LIJ 
:::1: 
~ 
LIJ 

3: 
..... 
• i ••
< 
(,) 


0 

HIGH 67 HIGH 57 HIGH 70 HIGH 60
...J LOW 50 LOW 40 LOW 43 LOW 40 
Atlanta 67 I 39 Boston 60 I 38 Chicago 68 I 43 Denver 45 I 37 Houston 79 I 53 Los Angeles 75 I 52 Minneapolis 62 I 42 New York 63 I 39 Philadelphia 65 I 38 Phoenix 85 I 61 Seattle 56 I 39 St. Louis 73 I 46 Tampa 74 I 48 Washington 68 I 35 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~­
Wednesday, April 16, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 



Group discusses issues with CCAC 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY and 
MANDl STIRONE 
News Writers 
Student body vice president Sarah Falvey announced that she attended the third Community/Campus Action Coalition (CCAC) meeting as a proxy for student body presi­dent Mickey Gruscinski at the Board of Governance (BOG) meeting Tuesday. 
At the meeting the CCAC addressed issues including approving the mission state­ment of the coalition, she said. 
Falvey read the mission state­ment aloud to BOG. "CCAC will be a viable mecha­nism to enhance partnerships and build positive long term relationships within the cam­puses and community in order to address safety in residential neighborhoods, build stronger neighborhoods and enhance the quality of life for all," she said. 
In addition, the CCAC addressed three major issues the community has been having with students, she said. 
The first issue was "illegal use of single-family housing that violates zoning ordinances," Falvey said. 
Another problem was "unruly off-campus behavior," during Senior Week in particular, she said. 
The third thing addressed was promoting safety for all residents, she said. 
"We might try and set some­thing up that's like a neighbor­hood watch for students, and set up some kind of off-campus list serve," Falvey said. 

Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were praised during the meeting for their efforts in the Rebuilding Together project this past weekend and for students' efforts in general, she said. 
"They commended us --not just Saint Mary's but Notre Dame as well and all off-cam­pus students -for our efforts so far," she said. "For the efforts of the members of the CCAC for really working togeth­er. We're creating something positive, and it might not seem like it but we are making great strides." 
In other BOG news: 
•The 
Board of Trustees will be arriving on campus tomor­row and staying through the weekend, Gruscinski said. 

•There 
will be a memorial mass for the victims on the shooting at Virginia Tech, chief of staff Lauren Theiss said. The mass is at 9 p.m. in Holy Spirit Chapel in LeMans Hall. Afterward candles will be lit and the list of the victims' names will be read. BOG will hand out black ribbons in the Student Center atrium during breakfast, lunch and dinner hours in memory of the victims, Theiss said. . • As a part of Hunger and Homeless Awareness week there will be a "Faces of Homelessness" panel, made up 


of residents of the Center for the Homeless, will be held in the West Wing of the Noble 
Family  Dining  Hall  on  
Wednesday from  5:30-7:30  
p.m., said Falvey.  

• 
BOG is sponsoring a bus trip to Chicago on Saturday. Students can get tickets at the front desk of the Student Center. 

•saint 
Mary's is teaming up with Indiana University-South Bend (IUSB) to hold joint com­munity productions of their monologues, women's issues commissioner Becki Faunce said. The production will be held at 7 p.m. at the Century Center. Tickets are $10 each. 

•several 
sessions on salary equality in the workplace will be held in Carroll Auditorium from 1-5 p.m. on April 22 as part of the "Bridging the Gap: Reaching Pay Equity in Indiana" forum, Faunce said. 

+The Center for Spirituality is bringing Dr. Barbara Fiand to campus Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre in Moreau Center for the Arts to discuss "Awe-filled Wonder: the Interface of Science and Spirituality," Falvey said. This lecture is part of the Madeleva Lecture series. 

•The 
new BOG members will be commissioned at the Church of Loretto at 7 p.m. on Monday, Theiss said. 


Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ND to hold events for sexual assault aw-areness 
Special to The Observer 
It is a highly troubling U.S. Department of Justice statistic that an estimated one in every four women will be sexually assaulted during their college years. In the interest of prevent­ing such crimes and informing students and others about resources that are available to them, Notre Dame is observing Sexual Assault Awareness Month through a number of campus programs. 
"Rape and sexual assault are very real problems on virtually every college campus in the nation, and Notre Dame is no exception," said Ann Firth, asso­ciate vice president for student affairs. "The University's stance is clear: rape and sexual assault are unacceptable at Notre Dame and cannot be tolerated." 
Firth added: "As we work to eliminate sexual violence on this campus, every member of this community shares responsibility for creating and maintaining an environment which promotes the safety and dignity of each individual. Sexual Assault Awareness Month is an opportu­nity for each of us to reflect on whether we, individually and collectively, are thinking and acting in ways that are congru­ent with this responsibility." 
The student group Feminist Voice of Notre Dame will host a "Take Back the Night" event for students, faculty and staff from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross on Monday, begin­ning at 7 p.m. with a prayer service at the Grotto, followed by a march through campus and a reception. The event is free and open to the public. 

"By encouraging members of this community to speak out, Notre Dame organizers of Take Back the Night' hope to support and empower survivors of rape and sexual assault," said Heather Rakoczy, director of Notre Dame's Gender Relations Center (GRC), which is coordi­nating the event with Feminist Voice. "In the process, they strive to raise awareness ­reminding members of this com­munity that rape and sexual assault happen on and off cam­pus to members of our Notre Dame family." 
A related student group, Men Against Violence (MAV), current­ly is conducting a campus-wide poster campaign titled "No Matter What You Do... Be a Man Against Violence," which fea­tures male Notre Dame students from various athletic programs and student groups encouraging other men to take a pledge against violence. 
Through its annual pledge drive, MAV aims to put an end to sexual assault and domestic vio­lence in the campus community. Participants sign a statement promising to never allow anyone to be raped, abused or exploited if the act is in any way preventa­ble, and to never commit such crimes themselves. 
•· 




GENEROUSLY GOURMET. 

-----------------------------~-~ ~~ 
page 4 Wednesday, April 16, 2008
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
State 
continued from page 1 
On an equivalent basis, we'd have to lose 9 million ser­
vicemen  in  Iraq  to  match  
that."  
Mourdoek  said  that  the  

Civil War shook thn nation's 
rnsolvo and thn bloodiest riots in the nation's histo­ry happened tlw week after the Union suf­fnred 55.000 losses at Gettysburg. 
"Nnw York said 'give it up, it isn't worth it,"' he said. '"Give it up. Lincoln faced that every day." 

sibility has led her to criti­eize liberal health care pro­grams. 
''I'm passionate that I was raised by a mom and dad, and worked my way through college," she said. "I never had the thought that anyone owed me anything. It's a sink or swim world and I want to help people learn how to 
''I'm passionate that I was raised by a mom and dad. and worked my way through col­lege. I never had the thought that anyone owed me anything." 
Jackie Walorski Indiana representative 
Even through all of this the Lincoln and the Republican party persisted in their goals, Mourdock said. 
"Even in tough times, this party says freedom matters," he said. '"Give it up, it isn't worth it' isn't accept­

a b I e thing substan­
"Even in tough times, 

[Hejecting) this tive, we have to
this party says

is what create a coali­American freedom matters. " tion," he said. exceptionalism "We're inviting is all about. new members,
Richard Mourdock

We are the including
Indiana treasurer
nation that believes it is )worth it)." 
Indiana state representative .Jackie Walorski also spoke at the dinner, drawing connec­tions between Hepublican values and freedom in eco­nomic affairs. 
She said individual respon-

Gift 
continued from page 1 
2001{ I will be the last to have received the entirety of its edu­cation in the building ... and we're excitnd for not only the ren­

released. 
Since the ren­ovations will not be complete bnfore the senior elass leaves they will not see their actual girt before graduation, McKevitt said. Thn committee wantnd the elass to be able to see plans, however. 
"We will be hosting a Senior Girt l>•~dication Ceremony out­side Madeleva llall immndiate­ly following the Alumni Luncheon )during Senior Wonk)." MeKnvitt said. "At the enremony we hope to unveil some of the r.onstruetion plans swim." 
Chris Hiley, chairman of the St. .Joseph County Hcpublican party said din­ners like these are important to the future of the party. 
"These din­ners serve as important gath­erings for every county to talk a b o u t Hepublican val­

ues," he said. "It's a tremen­dously important day for the Hepublican party." 
Ed Yap, president of the College Hepublicans agreed saying this type of this is 
important for the future of the party. 
"To do any­

Democrats and members of all stripes. It's been really inspiring to see so many 
people come together, includ­ing the College Hepublicans )and) Hight to Life." 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi@nd.edu 
for Madeleva Hall along with a preliminary design for the new portrait." 
The campaign has raised approximately $1,500 of the estimated $3,000 to $5,000 it will cost to donate the portrait, 
ovation plans for "At the ceremony we 
the new build­
hope to unveil some 
ing, but for a 
morn vibrant ofthe construction 
portrayal of Sr. plans for Madeleva Madaleva to 
Hall along with a
weleome visitors 
at the building's preliminary design 
Hntrance." for the new portrait." Plans for the upcoming reno­
Beth McKevitt

vation have not 
2008 Senior gift chair

yet been said Heather Frey, assistant director of Saint Mary's Annual Fund. 
"This funding has come from individual gifts that members of the class give to the class cam­paign although we do other fundraisers like selling t-shirts, Karaoke Idol and Hacienda Night," Frey said. "Our goal is 100 percent participation 

from the class and so far we are at 34 percent." 
Frey said the funds raised will be split 60-40 with 60 per­cent of the money going towards the portrait of Sr. Madeleva and 40 percent sup­porting the Annual Fund, which provides scholarships and financial aid for current Saint Mary's students. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @nd.edu 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 

424 N. Frances Street 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 

These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 

(57 4) 234-2436 

To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

What will you invent? What organization will you improve? What tools will you use? 
We have entered the age of innovation. A current IBM ad asks: "Have you ideated your ideation?" 
Learn how to include powerful innovation tools in your tool bag. 
• 
Bring new ideas to your entrepreneurship 

• 
Bring innovation to your ACE work and summer service projects 

• 
Help fix the world health system I improve your thinking skills. 

• 
Help solve some of the world's toughest problems. 

• 
Bring greater success to your research projects at Notre Dame 

• 
Partner with the world's greatest innovators while at Notre Dame 


Innovation on Tap 

Learn and practice some new skills Learn how you can fulfill one or all of the above dreams at ND 

Legends Wednesday April16, 2008 
5:00 to 7:00 p. m. Basic innovation tools for everyone 
7:30 to 9:00 p.m. 


Advanced tools for fixing health care And other tough problems 

Refreshments served Open to the entire Notre Dame family Facilitated by Bob King, founder and CEO, GOALIQPC, And John Garrett '98, Accountant turned Stand up Comedian Sponsored by the graduate and under-graduate Entrepreneurship clubs 









ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 16, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S W[RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
French bill takes aim at ultra-thin 
PARIS -It started with pro-anorexia Web sites, secretive corners where adolescents with eating disorders share sickening sagas of starvation. But Valery Boyer's mission didn't stop there. 
Protruding ribs on catwalks, gaunt frames airbrushed to look even thinner on magazine covers -the French lawmaker says these images are dangerous, too. 
So dangerous that she drafted a bill making it illegal to promote extreme thinness or anorexia. A majority in France's lower house of parliament agreed, joining her Tuesday in adopting the draft legislation. 
While outsiders may still think of the French as trim and chic. France's body shapes are undergoing the same mwlution found in indus­trialized countries everywhere: Rising obesity, especially among children -and rising num­bers of eating disorders. 
Plane veers off runway in Congo 
GOM/\, Congo -A Congolese jetliner with about 85 people aboard crashed on takeoff Tuesday, careening ofT a runway into a busy neighborhood and bursting into flames, om­rials said. 
Witnnsses reported dozens of bodies at the <Tash site in this city in eastern Congo. Rescue workers with tractors, trucks and shovels searched for survivors as u:N. peacekeepers sprayed the wreckage with hoses. Smoke and flames engulfed the charred debris. 
The remains of the cockpit and tail rose over the 11attened fuselage, Anna Ridout of the aid agency World Vision said from the scene. Heseue workers carried about 20 bodies from the plane, many on stretchers, she said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Explosion destroys Washin!!ton house 
PUYALLUP. Wash. -A powerl'ul explosion blew the top off a house where a registered sex offender described as acting paranoid had rent­ed a room and appeared to have been making bombs. deputies said Tuesday. 
Investigators found a body in the rubble Tuesday morning, Pierce County sheriff's Detective Ed Troyer said. They believe they know the person's identity but did not release details. 
He said the couple who owned the house told authorities late Monday they had returned from a trip and found their tenant was acting strange­ly and making explosive devices. 
Troyer said the man was in the kitchen when deputies arrived. He quickly grabbed bottles and a duffel bag containing what the deputies recog­nized as components of explosive devices and ran upstairs, where he turned on loud music. 

Chicago colleue reopens after threat 
CHICAGO -St. Xavier University in Chicago is planning to reopen after being closed several days because of threatening graffiti. 
The Catholic school has been closed since Friday after graffiti was found in a restroom that read "be prepared to die on 4/14." Authorities found no evidence of a continuing threat to the school, though they say the investigation is con­tinuing. 
University President Judith Dwyer says all the school's campuses will reopen Wednesday with graduate classes that night and undergraduate classes on Thursday. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Acres of wetlands set for restoration 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. -A joint state-county project will turn a 1,250-acre tra.ct of Wabash River flood plains into wetlands to create a magnet for wildlife and also control flooding. 
Gov. Mitch Daniels announced the project Tuesday before presenting Vigo County park officials with a $295,000 check that will go toward the county's land purchases for the Wabash River National Road Wetland Heservation. 
"This joint effort will conserve another beautiful habitat as well as enhance the quality of life for Hoosiers," Daniels said in a prepared statement. 
The land between Terre Haute and West Terre Haute will become a mix of shallow water marsh, wetlands, hardwood trees and native grasses that will eventually be turned into a park. 
IRAQ 


Car bombings target Sunni areas 
Officials estimate nearly 60 deaths in Baghdad's deadliest bombing in weeks 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Bombings blamed on al-Qaida in Iraq tore through market areas in Baghdad and outside the capital on Tuesday, killing nearly 60 people and shat­tering weeks or relative calm in Sunni-dominated areas. 
The bloodshed -in four cities as far north as Mosul and as far west as Hamadi -struck directly at U.S. claims that the Sunni insur­gency is waning and being replaced by Shiite militia viol!mce as a major threat. 
The deadliest blasts took place in Baqouba and Ramadi, two cities where the U.S. military has claimed varying degrees of success in getting Sunnis to turn against al-Qaida. 
In Baqouba, the Diyala provincial capital 35 miles northeast of the capital, a parked car exploded about 
11:30 a.m. in front of a restaurant across the street from the central courthouse and other government offices. 
Many of the victims were on their way to the court, at the restaurant or in cars passing through the area. A man identifying himself as Abu Sarmad had just ordered lunch. 

"I heard a big explosion and hot wind threw me AP Television News noticeably since last June. were killed in 10 separate from my chair to outside footage showed many of the But a series of assassina­bombings. At least 818 the restaurant," he said bodies covered in crisp tions and other high-profile Iraqis were killed in war­from his hospital bed. white sheets and black attacks have occurred in related violence in the city 
The force of the blast jolt­plastic bags in a hospital and around the city this last year, up slightly from ed the concrete barriers courtyard while the emer­year, and American com­793 the year before. erected along the road to gency room inside was manders have consistently Baqouba and Ramadi protect the courthouse, wit­overwhelmed with the warned that al-Qaida-led were strongholds of al­nesses said. wounded. insurgents continue to pose Qaida in Iraq and saw some 
At least 40 people were It was the deadliest a serious danger. of the fiercest fighting of killed and 70 wounded, bombing in Iraq since "Although attacks such as the U.S.-led war until local according to hospital offi­March 6, when a twin today's event are tragic, it is Sunni tribal leaders fed up cials, who spoke on condi­bombing killed 68 people in not indicative of the overall with the terror network's tion of anonymity because a crowded shopping district security situation in brutal tactics joined forces they weren't authorized to in the central Baghdad dis­Baqouba," Maj. Mike with the U.S. military release the information. trict of Karradah. The Garcia, a spokesman for against it last year. 
The U.S. military in attack was also the dead­U.S. forces in Diyala The Sunni revolt, an northern Iraq gave a slight­liest in Baqouba since The province, said in a state­influx of some 30,000 ly lower toll, saying 35 Iraqi Associated Press began ment. American troops and a citizens were killed, includ­tracking Iraqi casualties in According to an AP count, cease-fire by radical Shiite ing a policeman, and 66 late April 2005. at least 126 Iraqis have cleric Muqtada al-Sadr led wounded. It said the blast The U.S. military said been killed in war-related to a decline in violence destroyed three buses and Tuesday that attacks in violence in Baqouba so far there as well as in damaged 10 shops. Baqouba have dropped in 2008; the majority, 65, Baghdad. 


Pope Benedict XVI arrives in Am_erica 
mac. Benedict said. "It is difficult for me to
Associated Press 

Hundreds of onlookers, some from understand how it was possible that ANDREWS AIR FORCE BASE, Md. local Roman Catholic parishes, priests betray in this way their mis­-Pope Benedict XVI stepped onto clapped and shouted as they watched sion ... to these children." 
U.S. soil for the time as pontiff the scene from nearby bleachers. "I am deeply ashamed, and we will Tuesday, arriving to a presidential Benedict tackled the most painful do what is possible so this cannot hap­handshake and wild cheering only issue facing the U.S. Catholic Church pen again in the future," the pope hours after he admitted that he is -clergy sex abuse -on his flight to said. "deeply ashamed" of the clergy sex America. The U.S. church has paid Benedict pledged that pedophiles abuse scandal that has devastated the out $2 billion in abuse costs since would not be priests in the Catholic American church. 1950, most of that in just the last six Church. 
Benedict gave hundreds of specta­years. "I do not wish to talk at this moment tors a two-handed wave as he stepped Seemingly in a nod to his American about homosexuality, but about off a special Alitalia airliner that flock, the pope spoke in English as he pedophilia, which is another thing," brought him from Rome. Students answered questions submitted in he said. from a local Catholic school screamed advance by reporters. "We will absolutely exclude ecstatically when they saw the pope, "It is a great suffering for the pedophiles from the sacred ministry. It who shook hands warmly with church in the United States and for is more important to have good priests President Bush, first lady Laura Bush the church in general and for me per­than many priests. We will do every­and their daughter Jenna on the tar-sonally that this could happen," thing possible to heal this wound." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 16, 2008 
"If we want to consider our­selves an elite Catholie institution, thnn we eould establish a nation­al Catholic eouncil," Brown said. "But at the same time I'm afraid it would just be seen as just the Catholic schools dealing with Catholic issues instead of a national confernnce." 
Lakusta echOf~d Brown's senti­ments adding that the couneil should not bn founded based on a spirit of exclusion. 
"The ability to talk about the issues that affect everyone is real­ly awesome and it'd be a shame to exclude someone who had the same issues just because they aren't Catholic affiliated," he said. 
In other COR news: 
+COR al<>o reviewed the budg­et for student government f(>r the 2008-2009 academic year. The entire budget totals $477,499.86, which is significantly less than last year's budget of $659,439.39. 
Student Union treasurer Kadeja Gaines said one big reason the budget is smaller for next year is due to expenses elsewhere by the University. 
"As awesome as it would have been to give everyone everything they wanted, it was just impossi­ble," she said. "One major reason is costs from Duncan I Hall.]" 
+Hall Pn~sidents' Council eo­chair Erin Wash gave COH a brief overview of a possible service project aimed at getting clothing and medicine to Ilaiti. The proj­ect is the idea of Notre Dame alumnus Dr. Paul Wright, who served as the personal physician to Mother Theresa. 
"He has access to a large eargo plane from the government, we would load it up with clothes and medicine and fly it to Haiti," Wash said. 
The plan is still in its nascent stages, and is pending govern­ment and University approval. Wash said. She hopes to have the details laid out by next fall. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at 
jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Mary's also participated, Paulsen said. The College sponsored the refurbish­continued from page 1 ment of two houses, he said. The nature of Hebuilding 
Ho01es 
tho need for volunteers and some students did not show up, Paulsen said. lie added that some dorms formed largn groups to participate in the project. 
"Cavanaugh, Welsh Family and Zahm were very well represented," Paulsen said. "I'd say those three were somn big leaders." 
Other groups on campus got involved in the project as well. The Ofl'ice of Information Teehnology formed a team of staff mem­bnrs to participate, Paulsen said. Food Services also provided boxed lunches for volunteers and eatered din­nor for the eelebration party at the end of the day. 
Students from Saint 


SBIG 
continued from page 1 
the process of planning a trip to Ghana in June with the entire organization whieh includns the co­founders, volunteers from Banda's high school and members of the Board of Trustee to complete the instillation of the learning facilities. 
"For the entire week that we' rn there the volunteers are going to help teach and 



So close to campus yow c•a h1u1.r the shouts as.d sl!e th11 l ltts 
l7urnished Studio Aparhnents One Bedrootn Apartments Two Bedroom On~ Bath Aparhnents "' Two Bedroont One and a Half Bath Apartments with Fenced in Patio 



Together makes it a man­ageable way for students to get involved in service, Pau Isen said. 
"It really !'its in students' sehed ules ,'' he said. "It's a one day eommitment, it's something they can do with their friends, and it's an opportunity to give back to the South Bend community in a real concrete way." 
Graduate student Jonathan Ireland, who par­tieipated in the program Saturday, agreed that Hebuilding Together allowed students to be both social and serve the community. 
"It's a good opportunity to spend time with friends and, at the same time, represent Notre Dame in the South Bend community," Ireland 
interact with the kids," Banda said. "That's what the organization is all about. It's students bridging the information gap not only by helping kids who are less fortunate but by allowing other students who are more fortunate to share the experience and gain a better understanding of what those in less fortunate countries have to deal with." 
Banda is graduating this spring, but Crum is going to be the Notre Dame Ambassador for the organi­zation during the 2008­said. "It was good to join 600 people who all had the same sort of mission and desire to help." 
Ireland said meeting and being able to talk with the woman who lives in the house that he worked on enhanced his experience with Hebuilding Together. 
"The lady I worked for was a pleasure," he said. "!Homeowners) have to be in the house, and you get to meet them and some people were open to talking about what they do." 
Rebuilding Together takes place the Saturday before the Blue ·and Gold game every spring and students interested in helping to plan next year's event can become involved through Campus Ministry's Web site, Paulsen said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
2009 school-year while he fulfills his fifth year of eligi­bility on the football team. 
He said he is grateful to Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis and the Notre Dame Athletic Department for allowing him to be a part of the organization despite his busy schedule as a student athlete. 
"I don't want this just to be about me," Crum said. ''I'm a representation of the team, and we're not just about football." 
Contact Amber Travis at atravis@nd.edu 
COR 
continued from page 1 
ics within their schools but also 
national topics." 
The idea evolved from the plan 
for a Midwest college council, but 
Student Union co-directors of 
external affairs Jeff Lakusta and 
Kathleen Donahue, who are 
organizing the project, said they 
decided to expand the group due 
to the small number of academi­
cally excellent schools in the 
area. 
"How many schools in the 
Midwest are there that are really 
up to our academic standards? 
Not many," Donahue said. 
The new group would be mod­eled off of the Ivy League's Ivy Council and could include school<; as diverse as Stanford, Vanderbilt, and Princeton, she said. 
Lakusta said he wants to begin 
organizing the group's inaugural 
meeting immediately because 
there isn't much time left in the 
school year. 
"We want to let schools know 
that we plan on doing this before 
the summer." Lakusta said. 
Donahue and Lakusta still have to lind willing participants, corpo­rate sponsorship and modes of transportation. 
"You need to turn into sales­men for the next couple of months and sell your soul to the project," Class of 2009 president Joey Brown said to Lakusta and Donahue. 
Many COR members expressed concerns over Notre Dame's abili­ty to attract other high profile col­leges to this new council when they will have to travel across the country. 
"Generating interest is a prob­lem," club coordination council president John Burke said. "Any west coast school like Stanford would be hard to get out here." 
Class of 2011 president Cynthia Weber said Lakusta and Donahue will need help organizing the event and that student govern­ment needs to be relentless in order to convince other schools to attend. 
"You're going to have to bn per­sistent," she said. "I know this sounds like a silly idea, but send their oflice a fruit basket from Notre Dame." 
Heish also suggestPd that the group should be for Catholic insti­tutions only, though several con members were critieal of this idea. 


1710 E. Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Phone: 574-272-8124 
(112 block east of campus on Vaness Street) 
Fax:574-273-6921 ''¥~\!.!rV._l"'iY~ ·rq.rtIeCrgek~c prn 
til~ 
TURTLE CREEK AMENITIES ">Tan for FREE at Fun Tan Heated Pool and 1-Iot 'Il.tb Pet Friendly ',On Site Security 
52555401 

~----------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, April 16, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 



Dow 12,362.47 +60.41
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,879 95 1,278 3,563,743,952 

AMEX 
NASDAQ 
NYSE 
S&P 500 1,334.43 +6.11 
NIKKEI (TokyoJ''11fifl.ll11iiiJllilit;J!~IJ.l' 
FTSE 100 (London) 5.906.90 +75.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.23 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.14 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -+1.02 INTEL CP (INTC) +1.06 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE + 1.91 13-WEEK BILL +2.33 30-YEAR BOND +1.47 5-YEAR NOTE +3.02 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) 
GOLD ($/Troy at.) 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 
EURO 
CANADIAN DOLLAR 
BRITISH POUND 
$GAIN PRICE +0.31 133.24 +0.06 44.14 +0.25 24.79 +0.22 20.91 
+0.067 3.570 +0.025 1.100 +0.064 4.405 +0.078 2.664 
+2.03 113.79 +3.30 932.00 +2.58 79.95 
101.8450 0.6333 1.0182 0.5095 


IN BRIEF Venezuela approves oil taxing law 
CARACAS, Venezuela -Venezuela moved Tuesday to take a greater cut of windfall oil prof­its, approving a 50 percent tax on foreign oil com­panies when crude tops US$70 a barrel. 
The tax rate would rise to 60 percent when the average monthly price for benchmark Brent crude exceeds US$100, according to the bill approved by Venezuela's National Assembly. The legislation will take effect as soon as it is published in the official gazette. 
Revenues from the tax could reach US$9 billion 

( 5.7 billion) annually, Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez said after meeting with lawmakers. "That's why, for the executive branch, it is urgent to create this law," Ramirez said. 
The new legislation will let President Hugo Chavez further extend state control over foreign oil companies operating in Venezuela -home to the largest petroleum deposits in the Western Hemisphere -as he steers the nation toward what he calls "21st-century socialism." 
Analyst Juan Carlos Sosa, editor of the Venezuelan oil industry magazine PetroleoYV, said the measure "is going to force foreign companies to think twice about making new investments" in Venezuela, "because their opportunities to turn a profit are diminishing." 
Bush to propose climate change strategy 
WASHINGTON -President Bush, stepping into the debate over global warming, plans to announce on Wednesday a national goal for stop­ping the growth of greenhouse gas emissions over the next few decades. 
In a speech in the Rose Garden, Bush will lay out a strategy rather than a specific proposal for curbing emissions, White House press secretary Dana Perino said Tuesday. She did not disclose details of his announcement and would not say whether the president would propose any kind of mandatory cap on greenhouse gas emissions. 
The president wants every major economy, including fast-growing nations like China and India, to establish a national goal for cutting the emissions believed responsible for global warm­ing. 
In his remarks, Perino said, Bush will articulate a "realistic intermediate goal" for the United States. 




THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 
Airlines face merger challenges 
Delta-Northwest merger could mean higher prices and fewer flight options 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Getting hitched may be the right move for Delta and Northwest. But for belea­guered air travelers, it could usher in an era of higher fares, fewer flights, more confusion at the airport and even more crowded planes. 
The merger could kick off a wave of airline consolida­tion. And while the effects would not be immediate because the combinations could take months to get regulatory approval, indus­try observers say get ready anyway for fewer carriers in the sky. 
"It's not an industry that works," said Mark Cooper, director of research for the Consumer Federation of America, who lobbied Congress against a bid by US Airways for Delta last year. 
"We're now getting to the point where there are so few carriers left, and they still can't make money," he said. 
Mergers, combined with a recent spate of airline bank­ruptcies, ·mean passengers in many cities can expect fewer flights to choose from, and they'll be packed even fuller than they are now. 
Greater demand for remaining seats translates into higher ticket prices. 
"There's no doubt in my mind fares are going to go up," said Rick Seaney, chief executive of FareCompare.com, which tracks changes in airline ticket prices. "Consumers are deluding themselves if they think that's not the case." 
Peter Schiff, president of brokerage firm Euro Pacific Capital, said the changes could put air travel out of reach for Americans of modest means. 
"Although many Americans have come to regard afford­already ignited talks among able air travel as a other airlines as they seek birthright, from a global to bulk up to combat rising perspective it remains the fuel prices in a slowing province of the wealthy," economy. Schiff said. Continental Airlines Inc. 


That could mean more executives told employees headaches for travelers Tuesday that the airline already reeling from a wants to remain independ­string of cancellations due ent -but warned "the to stepped-up scrutiny of landscape is changing" and safety regulations by the said it would consider its Federal Aviation "strategic alternatives." Administration. The executives did not say 
The merger announce­what they might consider, ment by Northwest Airlines but Continental has held Corp. and Delta Air Lines talks with United Airlines in Inc., which would create the the past. world's largest airline, has United CEO Glenn Tilton issued his own statement to employees Tuesday in which he called industry consoli­dation "one of the changes necessary" for the industry to get to sustained profits. 
"We will participate in consolidation when and if it is the right choice and pro­vides the right benefits for employees, customers and shareholders," Tilton said. 
A Continental-United pair­ing would create an airline even bigger than the Delta­Northwest offspring, which will keep the Delta name if regulators and shareholders give their blessing. 
Officialspushfor allwavessaleto aidpublic 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Republicans on a congressional panel Tuesday said the Federal Communications Commission should re-auction a block of public air­waves to the highest bidder and turn the proceeds over to public safety pro­fessionals to fund a nationwide emer­gency communications network. 
The idea was raised as the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on telecommunications and the Internet heard testimony on why a plan aimed at using public airwaves and private money to create a nation­wide emergency communications net­work failed to attract any interest in an otherwise successful spectrum auction. 
Rep. Joe Barton of Texas, the rank­ing Republican on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and Rep. Cliff Stearns, ranking member of the subcommittee, both suggested the solution as an alternative to trying to fix the current plan. 
"With consensus, Congress could pass a law to use proceeds from the com­mercial re-auction for the public-pri­vate partnership," Barton said. 
The subcommittee heard from all five members of the Federal Communications Commission as well as key figures in the behind-the-scenes negotiations that failed to lead to an agreement to con­struct the wireless broadband network. 
The recently completed auction of a portion of the public airwaves, while raising a record $19.1 billion, failed to attract a bidder to build the network. 
Disasters like Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, revealed limitations of the nation's emergency communications networks, like the inability of police and firefighters to communicate with one another. 
Ideally, a new network would help solve the interoperability problem and avail emergency personnel of many of the advances in wireless technology that are available to commercial users. 

The FCC approved the emergency communications plan last summer. Under the plan, the FCC set aside about one-sixth of the recently auc­tioned airwaves. The "D block" would have been combined with a roughly equal portion of spectrum controlled by a public safety trust to create a shared network. 
The winning D block bidder, in exchange for use of the public safety spectrum, would build the network and make a profit by selling access to wireless service providers. But the block failed to attract a bidder. 
House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman John Dingell, D­Mich., said he was "presently unmoved" by suggestions that the block should be auctioned for "purely commercial use" and the proceeds handed to public safety. 
"At this moment, I consider such an approach to be an admission that we are not serious about attaining true interoperability," he said. 

-------------------------------------------------------------~~ ----~-­
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 ~ourh Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris !-line 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
A~sT. MANAGING E!>ITOR: Katie Kohler 
A~s·1: MANAGIN<; EDITOR: Deirdre Krnsula 
NEWS EDITOR: Hill Brink 
VlllWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris II ine 
ScENE EI>ITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: l.iz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jes.,ica Lee 
GIIAPIIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVEIUISING MANAGF.R: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTI\MS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 6:31-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6:31-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.31-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBsERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institUtion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those of The Observer. 
Vit'WflOint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough lerrers is encouraged. l.t•tters to the Editor must be signed and musr include comact infom1ation. 
Questiom rrr,arding Obst'Tlln-policies should be directed to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'11u: ()h.'oC'rvrl {l/SI'"i ~99 2--iCKI(I) 11 pubhdt«! Mnmlay tlunugh FriJ,ty Cli{.:Cpt durinN, rum ;md va\auun p<rindl. A mllk"riptinntu ·n,e O("'<:rvt'r i~ $1011 tOr un~; at;;,u.kn1k t"l!;u; $'.i"i fiunru:tcm~lt't 
·nu: Ohacrver i• pubh5hcd .w rOSTMASTER 014 South Dining Hall ~nd J.ddrcil! cmrecriom to: 
Norn-l).mu:,IN 465S6-0779 TheOh~rvcr 
Periudk.al pmu~e p;ud <&I Notrt" D.unc r.u Boxrn ,md itddili<~n.U m.liliug vtlka. 014 South Dinmg Hill! 
Notre D~trne, IN 46SSb·07?9 
The OhSl':'r\'cl ll R mcmhc:r ot the Aw.m.wrt,f Pn::u. All repmducdtm dglu~ Rte I'CirC'I'V1:'d. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April 16, 2008 
Financial death by government 
This is the last column for the Obserww that I will ever write. Seeing as how I often get e-mail'> suggesting that I eat babies and hate poor people, I can say with a reason­able amount of confidence that I probably 
just made your day. In 
mturn for making your day, I would like you to actually finish 
this column. ((}r it 
deals with the most 
important political issue facing the coun­try: the impending 
linancial demise of 

the us Federal  Mark Poyar  
Government.  
The nonpartisan  Bulletproof  
Congressional Budget  Ideas  
Office's 2007 "Long­ 

Term Budget Outlook" begins with tlli.s seemingly innocuous statement: "Signilicant uncertainty surrounds long­term fiseal projections, but under any plau­sible scenario, the federal budget is on an unsustainable path-that is, lederal debt will grow much faster than the economy over the long run." The last time I heard an understatement of this magnitude was when I told my friend that licking tl1e Backer pole "isn't a very good idea." 
The main reason for the coming fmancial meltdown of the US government will be its rising spending on Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, particularly the last two. There are two major drivers of increased spending. First, costs per Medicare enrollee have increased 2.4 per­centage points faster than per capita GOP over the last 30 years, meaning the per­centage of GOP spent on health care will continue to increase. Secondly, the baby boomers are nearly eligible for Medicare which will dramatically increase Medicare and Social Security spending. Four months ago, the first baby boomers claimed Social Security benefits and they will be eligible for Medicare in less than three years. The proportion of the US population over 65 will grow from 12 percent to 19 percent by 2030, while the proportion of adults from 20 to 64 will fall from 60 percent to 56 per­cent. 
Currently, Medicaid and Medicare spend­ing accounts for 4.1 percent of US GOP and 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

makes up about 20 percent of the federal budget. The CBO projects that this will increase to 12.5 pereent ofGDP in 2050 and 19 percent of GOP in 2082. 19 percent of GOP is roughly equivalent to the amount that the entire federal government will spend this year. Assuming that federal gov­ernment revenue maintains its historieal average of 20 percent ofGDP and discre­tionary spending maintains its average of just under 10 percent, there would be a deficit of 22.5 percent of GDP in 2050 and 
54.5 percent in 2082. To put this in per­spective, the US's current record setting deficit of about $400 billion is less than 3 percent of GOP. Interest payments alone on the national debt would consume 13.6 per­cent ofGDP by 2050. A vicious cyde would result in which the government would issue ever larger ammmts of debt to meet its ever higher interest paymenl'i. But what would large persistent deficits mean to the US economy? 
Consistent budget deficiL<; adversely affect the economy because they absorb the nation's savings and reduce capital investment, thus making US workers less productive. Heal wages, which typically lol­low productivity, would stagnate or fall. Capital would become scarce and interest rates would rise. The CBO estimates that the reduction in the capital stock would reduce real GNP in 2040 by 13 percent and 25 percent by 2050 compared to what it would have been. In short, the US would enter another Great Depression caused entirely by excess government spending. 
The CBO says that this bleak scenario probably understates the risk to economic growth because this model assumes people do not anticipate future changes in debt. Consequently, the United States' destruc­tion would unfold much quicker. If investors expected a crisis, they would pull their money out of US securities, causing the exchange rate of the dollar to plummet, interest rates to climb, and inflation to increase dramatically. The stock market would likely collapse amid the uncertainty, domestic spending would dry up, and the US's economic woes would spill over to the rest of the world just as it did in the last Great Depression. 
The CBO uses the term "fiscal gap" -a measure of federal shortfalls over a given period-to help assess the long-term fisntl challenge. The fiscal gap rnpresenl'i the amount of spending rnduction or tax increases needed to keep debt as a share of GDP at or below the currnnt ratio, essen­tially balancing the budget over a long peri­od of time. However, this measure does not take into account the adverse impact of higher taxes. If the fi~deral government wanted to close the fiscal gap today, it would need to reduce~ spending by 6.9 per­cent ofGDP immediately and permanently. This would be a 35 pereent permanent reduction in fi1deral spending. If the gov­ernment wail'> until 2020 or 2030 to close the gap, a decrease of 9 perennt or 11.5 percent of GDP would be~ necessary, respectively. 

These estimates do not even indude the possibility of expanding medieal eoverage to every American -it nwn~ly is an estimate of the fi.~deral government's currnnt obliga­tions. It is obvious that the li~deral govern­ment can't even meet these obligations; any talk of new obligations, whether in the form ofllillarycare, Obamaeare, or eontin­uing President Bush's $1 trillion prescrip­tion drug bill, is both naive and dangerous. The only debate should be about how to phase out these federal programs as they threaten to ruin America finaneially. 
This should not be a partisan question. Whetl1er or not you agree with the libertar­ian views I espouse, the faet remains that providing such care is fmandally impossi­ble. Certainly, the US could increase taxes dramatically to pay for such boondoggles, but even closing the current fiscal gap would require an 82.5 percent increase in individual income taxes. Such taxes would wreak economic havoc on the US economy. 
We have a choice: we can either be equally poor and miserable, or we could let people keep their own money and make their own choices. I choose the latter and so should you. 
Mark Poyar is a senior finance major and vice president ofthe College Libertarians. Their Web site is http://ndlibertarians. blogspot. com. He can be conta.cted at mpoyar@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Liz Harter Matt Gamber Madeline Buckley Sam Werner Gene Noone Griffin Dassatti Which do you prefer? Graphics Scene 
"You only find out who is swimming 
Mary Cecilia Ryan Raffin Blue 
naked when the tide goes out. " 
Mitsch Viewpoint Gold John Dailey Pigtostal Warren Buffett Investor and world's richest person Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 16, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The spirit of The Holocaust lives 
This article is written in response to Florian Plocek's letter ("Abortion not a Holocaust," Apr. 1). This past Saturday, Alice von Hildebrand spoke at Notre Dame's Annual Right to Life conference. Mrs. von Hildebrand is the wife of the late Dietrich von Hildebrand, a famed German Catholic intellectual and philosopher who was once informally named by Pope Pius XII as "the 20th Century Doctor of the Church." 
Pertinent to this discussion. Dietrich von Hildebrand lived during Hitler's rise to power in Europe and was forced to flee from Germany to Austria for voicing stark public oppo­sition to the Nazi regime. In Austria, he founded an anti-Nazi weekly paper, Der Ch~istliche Stiindestaat (The Christian corporative state), for which he was sentenced to death in absentia by the Nazi regime. As Hitler's reign of terror spread, he was forced to flee from Austira to Switzerland, before moving to France, from where he was again forced to flee to Portugal, then Brazil, before arriving in the United States in 1940. 
In 1976, a few months before the end of his life, Dietrich von Hildebrand said to his wife: "Hitler won the war." Taken aback by such a stark statement, Alice pressed him as to his meaning. Dietrich contin­ued, "Hitler lost the war militarily, of cbi.lrse. But his·soctal ideologies of ­abortion and euthanasia, as well as his general disrespect for the sancti­ty of human life, survived in Germany after World War II and have spread across the world ever since. His understanding of the nature of man was victorious in the Great War." 
It is of utmost importance to remember the great scourge of the Holocaust in our human history as a uniquely horrible event, but, as von Hildebrand makes clear, it is a false judgment to assume that Hitler's ide­ologies died in 1945. The social poli­cy articulated by Hitler in his 1942 policy statement on abortion of the Slavic people bear stark similarities to the writings of Margaret Sanger and even the abortion policies in place today. 
Fundamentally, it is the same dis­respect for human life that continues to kill the unborn. In this sense, it is very appropriate to call abortion a holocaust, as allying it to that from which it was proliferated enables all to see the evil of its ways and per­haps, in the name of those who died in the extermination camps, save those who are still dying in our abor­tion clinics. 
Thomas Bounds sophomore f Morrissey Hall •' '"---1 Aprill3 
''Holocaust'' not the same as ''holocaust'' 
In response to ("Abortion not a Holocaust," Apr. 15), I would like to point out that the word "holocaust" can be used to describe any mass killing or destruction. Only when capi­talized does it specifically refer to the events of World War II. In no way is the killing of six million Jews under the Nazi regime trivialized when the word is used to describe abortion. 
The students and faculty of Notre Dame are not ignorant of world histo­ry during the 1940s, they simply know that the Holocaust is not the only holocaust. Since holocaust has been mostly used to describe the slaughter of the Jews, it is not appro­priate to use it too loosely because it now carries the connotation of death and destruction on an epic scale. Pro­lifers believe that abortion is the killing of innocent defenseless life in its most fragile stage, and for this rea­son I think it is still entirely appropri­ate that they use the word holocaust to describe the millions of lives that they believe have been lost to abor­tion. 
Paul Leuck sophomore O'Neill Hall April IS 

An embarrassment to education 

Wow. It is a bi-monthly pleasure to get a laugh out of Mr. Yatarola's column ("Let's talk about alcohol, baby" Apr. 15) and to talk with my classmates about how poorly thought out his opinions generally seem to be, but today's column really is preposterous: ''I'm not sug­gesting it's good to go through high school drunk. But better high school than college ... High school's largely a waste anyway, needlessly long and hardly challenging (I say this as a high school teacher)." 
That is embarrassing for the University and embarrassing for the education system. God help him if this paragraph gets brought up at parent-teacher conferences. I would hope any teacher worth their certificate wouldn't hold opinions like this. Maybe the education sys­tem in this country wouldn't be "a waste" if people like Mr. Yatarola were kept out of the classroom and off of the editorial page. 
Matt Smylie graduate srudenr . offcampus April IS 

University's mission is to educate, not indoctrinate 
As a lifelong practicing Catholic, a Notre Dame alumnus and the parent of a current Notre Dame student and quite likely another one come September, I am, frankly, troubled by the con­tinuing controversy over The Vagina Monologues as played out in this paper, and more recently, on the pages of The Wall Street Journal. 
If the University was to ban that play, is it next to ban all films that convey a message that could be deemed inconsistent with Church teachings? Is it to scour the library and purge it of all books that could be similarly construed? It seems that the vocal opponents of The Vagina Monologues are advocating a kind of modern day bonfire of the vanities. I did not send my kids to Notre Dame to be inculcated in the faith. That has been my job and my wife's for the past 18 years. I sent them to Notre Dame to receive an education both within the classroom and with­out. Ifthat education is to serve them once they enter the wide world, then it must include expo­sure to all manner of thought, even those with which I and the Church might strongly disagree. 
If I have done my job, if the seeds of faith have been properly sewn and cultivated, then that faith will stay rooted even when exposed to competing ideas. If I have not, then no amount of censorship, for that is what we are talking about here, will keep that faith from withering. I applaud Fr. Jenkins for his courageous stand on this issue. 
Richard F. Ricci (L '82) 
alumnus law school class of 1982 April IS 

Abortion and The Holocaust 
In his April15letter to the editor ("Abortion not a Holocaust," Apr. 15) Florian Plocek objected 
to the use of the term "holocaust" in reference to abortion in the United States. I am quite famil­
iar with the phenomenon by which modern Germans, and as an odd vestige of the Anschluss, . Austrians, ofall ages feel compelled to express guilt over sins committed half a century ago by 
other people. But this does not make Mr. Plocek's specific protestations any less absurd. 
In all fairness, several of Mr. Plocek's statements are correct: Legal abortion is not the result of 
centuries-old animosity towards Jews that resulted in the industrialized extermination of Jews 
throughout Europe. Rather, it is the result of centuries-old Enlightenment animosities that have 
resulted in the lucrative industrialized extermination of 48 million people in the last thirty-five 
years (the nation's leading abortion provider grossed over $1 billion in 2007). 
Again, Mr. Plocek is correct in saying abortion (an act) is not comparable to the gas chambers 
(a place), if for no other reason than by virtue ofthe old "apples and oranges" maxim. But when 
you compare the end result of the two (dead people), that difficulty resolves itself. Mr. Plocek's 
further statement, "the Holocaust is not comparable to any other event in human history," 
almost defies categorization. Perhaps it simply reflects an ignorance of the fact that mass mur­
der is neither a unique nor a new event in human history (e.g. Stalin killing over 20 million peo­
ple). The Nazis have no monopoly on evil and the Germans no monopoly on responsibility. So the 
Nazi murder of 12 million Jews and other people, while horrible, hardly rises to the level of 
being beyond comparison. 

American law enshrines the right to kill unborn children as a fundamental liberty and an 
~trinsic element of the American dream. Mr. Plocek objects to our referring to referring to abor­
tion as a holocaust because he knows the scars Europe still bears from Nazism. He should thus 
at least be sensitive to the similar wounds, not yet closed over, that abortion has left in American 
society. The Nazis killed millions who thought they were safe in their homes and communities. 
We continue to kill millions who ought to be safe in a place far more sacrosanct: the womb. So 
people will continue to refer to abortion as the holocaust of our time because we know all too 
well that John Paul II was correct: "A nation that kills its own childi-en is a nation without hope." 
Paul Krog 
law student 
offcampus 
April IS 
No girls allowed 
This is in response to the question posed by Alex Calabrese ("Girls in the Glee Club," Apr. 
15) in her letter: No. 

Megan Grebe Junior Welsh Family Hall Aprill5 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, April l 6, 2008 
Scene & Heard: Listening to Mariah Carey a Lifestyle 
A friend of mine recently said to me, "I never ruin any image I had of her with something that I went through a Mariah phase," to which another was aware was rubbish. I saw her little popsiele friend quickly responded, "It's not a phase. It's a incident on "THL" and was sad to see my favorite lifestyle." I have never heard devotion to Mariah pop star falling. Worse yet, people seemed to be Carey summed up so well. getting enjoyment out of her downfall. 
I have been an active Mariah The year was 2001, six years before Britney Carey fan for 13 years -active Cassie Belek Spears shaved her head, and we were getting a ,~meaning I've bought her albums, taste of what was to come in the new decade with J\ '"1111 read her interviews and watched the media attention, speculation and backlash that
Assistant

• MTV all day long to see her music surrounded Mariah Carey. She suffered from
Scene Editor 

videos back when the network exhaustion, was dropped by her label and released still played them. I was in fourth a "comeback" album too soon with 2002's mediocre grade when she released "Daydream" and it was "Charmbracelet." I bought the album, listened to it 
.like I hadn't been a music fan before that album. once, stored it away and prayed that this wasn't the , ~ My mother bought me the cassette tape (I didn't end of the songstress who gave me "Daydream." \own a CD player until a year later), and I remember "The Emancipation of Mimi" was worth the three­
· sitting in my room by my boombox, learning the year wait. "We Belong Together" became one of her words to "Always Be My Baby" new signature singles and Mariah using the lyrics on the cassette's Now we have waited another was back. This was Mariah's real cover (I wanted to get her "do do three years for "E=MC2 "... and comeback albu11_1 and it marked the 
doop dum"s just right). Wasn't it . , return of the Vmce. Now we have great that Mariah always includ­I have to say that zt s pretty waited another three years for ing the lyrics? fantastic. This album has "E=MC2" (which means I liked Mariah a lot. She was plenty ofher new sound but "Emancipation of,;"1ariah Carey to 
super pretty, she had hair that I . . " ' , the second power ) ·and I ha.v-c to say,; could only dream of and she had sometzmes I mtss pre-Honey that it's pretty fantastic. This album . an advanced vocabulary. I'll be Mariah, and this album gives .has plenty of her new sound, but honest. I had no idea what you some ofthat too. . som?times I mi_ss pre-"II~ney"
"indefinitely," "linger" or Manah, and thts album gtves you "inevitably" meant until I heard them in "Always Be some of that too. My Baby" and asked my mom for their meaning. "Touch My Body" became Mariah's 18th number­
I was only slightly aware of the changes occurring one single, surpassing Elvis' record, and putting her in Mariah's own life with her divorce from music in second plaee behind The Beatles' 20 number-one executive Tommy Mottola, who discovered her. But singles. Mariah could tie or even surpass the that turmoil became extremely -obvious with the · Beatles' record with "E=MC2," and since she can't music video for "Honey," where Mariah literally and break up with herself she could just keep on going. figuratively escapes from imprisonment and throws At 38, Mariah is one of the greatest recording off all her clothes. "Honey" wasn't as big of a hit as artists in history and she looks just as fabulous as her most previous singles, but it coincided with my ever. newfound love of rap music so I was sold on the col­Children born when I first fell in love with Mariah laboration with Puff Daddy. "Honey" marked will be starting high school next year. Maybe "We Mariah's turn toward hip-hop and R&B, a turn that Belong Together" is for them what "Always Be My was never fully realized until 2005's "The Baby" was to me. Needless to say, I hope their love Emancipation of Mimi." for Mariah isn't just a phase because mine is defi­
Mariah stayed on top of the charts with nitely a lifestyle. "Hainbow" and became the only artist to have a number-one single every year of the 1990s. But The views expressed in Scene & /Ieard are those
\• 
then "Glitter" happened. of the author and not necessarily those of The I never saw "Glitter," nor did I listen to the Obseruer.\ accompanying album. I loved Mariah too much to Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
\. 
.. 
•
... 
' .
.. . 
;, ,.• -
• ·' 
, 
..!'"! 

"· .. 11 
•• ,.. 
• 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Tuesday, April 16, 2008 page 11 
Review: E=MC2 a Winning Equation 
By CHRIS HINE 
Scene Writer 
In 2005, Mariah Carey released "The Emancipation of Mimi, which gamemd three Grammy awards and became the biggf1St-selling album of 2005, with 5.8 million copies sold. 
Even though it included the classic hit "We Belong Together," most of"Mimi" was hit or miss, with some bona fide club-hangers and striking ballads, but still others that missed the mark. 
On Carey's long-anticipa~.follow-up, E=MC2, she stuck close to the formula that made "Mimi" such a success -a mixture up-tempo H&B and catchy mid-tempo ballads ­but this time around, she's made an album that is listen­able 1:r.:om beginning to end. 
The album opens with a song destined to invade the air­waves this summer. "Migrate" (with T-Pain) features a bouncing beat and a chorus that'll be stuck in your head for days. Though the lyrics are nothing more than an ode to partying, the melody is infectious and Carey's voice pro­vides enough sultriness to make it a runaway hit. 
The next two tracks, "Touch My Body" (Carey's 18th Billboard 'No. 1' hit) "Cruise Control," continue the run of pleasant, upbeat tunes, though the album picks up steam with track four, "I Stay in Love." 
"I Stay in Love" is this album's "We Belong Together." It's a g<~rgeous mid-tempo ballad that features an outstanding performance from Carey. The theme is a common one in Carey's songs, not being able to let go of a former lover, but few times before has she sung about it with this much heartbreak. 
On "I Stay in Love," Carey continues a trend she began with "We Belong Together." No longer is she singing the majority of her songs in her upper register. Rather, she sings in a lower key, and in a full voice. 
Melodieally, Carey is singing more words per measure, and it's a good thing. It requires Carey to cut down on her melismatic singing, for which she has been widely, and rightfully, criticiZf1d in the past. Basically, the technique of melisma means the singer ha.•; a tendency to turn one note into five and fluctuate his voice up and down the scale dra­matieally. The efl'ect is an annoying warbling sound that exprnsses little emotion. Since she's singing more words per mea.-;un>,., she has no time for melisma if she's going to sing all the words. · 
On E=MC2, Carey has cut down on the melisma and eonvnys more emotion using the lower portion of her voice. This is-evident on the songs Carey wrote with 
Jermaine Dupri, who collaborated with Carey on a num­~er of songs in the past, including "We Belong Together," Always Be My Baby," and "Shake it Off." 
"Love Story," "Thanks for Nothing," and "Last Kiss," provide this album's best melodies and strongest vocals for Carey. 
But the high point of the disc is the Young Jeezy collabo­ration, "Side Effects." With lyrics such as "It didn't stop I no one was there I couldn't be real I had to keep quiet I once in a while I put up a fight I but it's just too much I night. after night," Carey gives her audience an in-depth look mto her former marriage with music mogul Tommy Mottolla, who helped launch her career in the early 1990s. 
Never has Carey put out such a confessional and moving record that also easily applies to any repressive or dam­aged relationship. With this song, Carey is able to pull off a tough accomplishment for any singer, make a song of high quality that is both universal and deeply personal. 
~arey closes the set the same way she closed "Mimi," With a gospel-tinged vocal acrobatic exercise. "I Wish You Well" contains Bible quotes and a choir and Carey shows that even though her voice has deteriorated over the years, she still has plenty of power to rise above the hun­dreds of American Idol contestants who aspire to be her. 
It's too bad Carey's label decided to release the worst song on the album, "Bye Bye" as the second single. The song is about death and is as sappy as a musical Hallmark card. Don't be fooled when you hear it on the radio or see Carey performing it in the coming weeks, because aside from that song, Carey has made one of the best pop!R&B records of the past year. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
E=MC2 
Mariah Carey 
Label: Island Recommended Tracks: "Side Effects," "I Stay in Love" and ''Migrate" ­
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 16, 2008 
NHL 
Habs shut out Bruins to take 3-1 series lead 
Briere breaks out of slump, Philadelphia explodes for six goals to claim 2-1 advantage against Capitals 
on paper the efTort the guys put the puck just in front of the
Associated Press 
in defensively in the last 10 crease. It was deflected out to 
BOSTON -The Bruins aro minutes," Price said. Brisebois, who beat goalie Tim lnarning the hard way what thn Thoy wero hnlped by a Bruins Thomas. Canadinns knew four months tnam that made too many pass­"I don't think I heard a louder ago: 20-yiHLr-old goalie Carny es and failed to connect on a lot celebration on the beneh all Prien would be outstanding in of them. year," Mike Komisarek said. "To thn playoll's. "We were all around the net," have a veteran presence who 
The rookin posted his first said Marc Savard. whose over­has been a great leader in the playoll' shutout, 17-year-veteran time goal won Game 3 in locker room is pretty special." Patrien Brisohois scored late in Boston. "The rebounds were The previous two games had tho second period, and there, but we just couldn't put gone into ovortime -a 3-2 win Montreal moved within one win them in." by the Canadiens and a 2-1 win of advancing in the best-of­Carey, trying to become the by the Bruins -but Boston seven serifls with a 1-0 victory third rookio goalie to lead the couldn't make it three in a row. over Boston on Tuesday night. Canadiens to a Stanley Cup, fol­Price has allowed just five 
Price is 15-4 since general lowing Ken Dryden and Patrick goals in the four games, while manager Bob (;ainey traded Hoy, stopped two solid bids in the Canadiens have scored nine goalie Cristobal lluet to the second period before to continue their season-long Washington on Feb. 26. And Brisebois scored. dominance of Boston. They he's allowed just seven goals in At 10:55 he got in front of never trailed in winning all his last seven games. Glen Murray's point-blank shot. eight of the regular-season 
"lie's been playing really wnll And 6 minutes later, he stopped matchups and the first two since December," Canadiens a shot by Glen Metropolit from playoff games, starting with a coach Guy Carbonneau said. "I the top of the crease as the 4-1 loss in Montreal in which think from that point on, Bob Bruins swarmed around the the Bruins were held to just 18 knew he would eome through in net. shots. the playoffs. lie's been every­"lie's a great goalie," "He's in a zone," Carbonneau thing we expected and keeps Metropolit said. "He's poised. said. "He's really strong mental­getting bettor." lie did well tonight getting to ly." 
The Canadiens, the No. 1 seed the rebounds and pushing them in tlw Eastnrn Conference, lead out to the side." Flyers 6, Capitals 3 the first-round series 3-1 and The Canadiens, who have All those impatient boos and a
-· 
ean wrap it up at home trailed just once in winning 10 string Qf games without a goal Thursday night. of 11 games against the Bruins are in the past for Danny tract and briefly heard some Biron delivered again, stop­
The teams played evenly for this season, went ahead mid­Briere. boos from the Philly fanatics. ping 16 shots. much of the hard-hitting, fast­way through a power play after Briere has gone from so-so to He got hot down the stretch and Ovechkin may be taking the paced game until Brisebois Andrew Ference was sent off sensational in his first playoff earned the loudest roars from a MVP back to Washington, but seored on a power play with 42 for tripping. series with the Flyers and has pumpkin-orange crowd that the league's leading scorer has seconds lel't in the second peri­"It was just kind of a bunch­suddenly performed like he's was dying to let loose in yet to really get going in this od. up in front of the net and I worth every dollar of that big­Philadelphia's first home post­series. He scored the winning 
Then Carey continued doing guess (Alex Kovalev) went bucks free-agent deal. season game since 2006. goal in Game 1, but has other­what he had done throughout down, so what can you do?" Briere has played more like "That was a great thrill the wise been stymied on each of the series: shut down Boston's Ference said. "But, also, you the top player in the league way the crowd was early on his lengthy shifts. Ovechkin, medioere offense, whieh man­have to score to win a hockey than likely MVP Alex Ovechkin, and it certainly played a big who did not talk'to the 'media, aged 27 shots but just one in game." scoring two more goals with an role," Briere said. took only four shots in 24:51 of the last seven minutes. Andre Kostitsyn skated assist, leading Philadelphia to a All that energy turned into a ice time. 
"I couldn't even write down behind the Boston net and fed victory over the Washington bundle of nerves in the final "I just think they're zoning in Captials in Game 3 of the minutes after Brooks Laich beat on~ our top line," defenseman Eastern Conference first-round Martin Biron with 4:34 left in Mike Green said. "I mean every series on Tuesday night. the game to make it 4-3. The time those guys toueh the puck 
"The playoffs are extra spe­play was reviewed for several they're getting hit. Not only that cial," Briere said. ''I'm not going minutes to make sure the puck but we've got to find it within us to lie about it, there's a little wasn't played with a high stick, to battle through that." extra there." but the goal stood. The Flyers even shut down 
No player has more postsea­Their worries were soothed Ovechkin after they lost stud son points the past three years when Mike Richards scored on defenseman Kimmo Timonen in than Briere. His four goals and a penalty shot not even 2 min­the final minute of the second two assists in the first three utes later to seal the win, and period. Laich cross-che{:ked games of this series are a huge Mike Knuble added an empty­Timonon into the net and he reason why the Flyers hold a 2-netter with 1:05 remaining. was slammed on his right arm
-
1 series lead. The Flyers never let goalie into a camera. Timonen writhed Game 4 is Thursday night in Cristobal Huet or the rest of the in pain, was helped ofT the ice Philadelphia. Capitals get comfortable early and did not return. "Danny had a twinkle in his in front of the raucous crowd. Flyers general manager Paul eye," Flyers coaeh John Stevens They finished their hits in a Ilolmgren said Timonen would said. "He looked like a player fast-and-furious first period be evaluated on Wednesday. who was going to play the way that was capped by three goals Briere, who scored twice in he did." in a 2:33 span -Briere scored Game 1, scooted down the ice AP Briere struggled for nearly first, and Scottie Hartnell and and scored his 17th career two months in the first year of Sami Kapanen scored 17 sec­playoff goal with 9.8 seconds an eight-year, $52 million con-onds apart. left for a 4-2 lead. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Noue Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr withour issuing refunds.  
- NOTICE BElGER MANSION in Mishawaka ­7 rooms available for grad week­end. All private baths. www.beiger­mansion.com or call 574-255-6300 Ron. WANTED SUMMER WORK $14.25 BASE­APPT. flexible. no exp. nee, cus­tomer sales/service, cond. apply, ages 17+, positions available throughout US & Canada, www. workforstudents.com  Volunteer Help (1 male,1 female)to run a puppet theater for kinder­garten kids in a local school in early afternoon on Fridays. Will train. Call Bill Staunton 574-217-8063. FoR SALE $74,500! Updated 2BR, Finished Lower Level! Minutes to Campus & UP Mall, Bookcases, Hardwood floors. Fenced yd + more! Sweet Home! Bobbie Van Osdal C-21 Jim Dunfee Realty 574-235-3075.  Condo For Sale. Close to ND. Quiet community-beautifully cared for. Contact Paul @ 574-993-5858. FoR RENT Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to N.D., student neighborhood, central air. new appliances, very nice. 289­4071. Quiet and Private, Furnished or Unfurnished apts for rent. 1 & 2 br available. Cable & wifi included.  Attractive 3-bdrm house plus fin­ished basement available for sum­mer. Rent mid-May to mid-August. Walking distance to ND. $1000 including utilities. Call233-2618 or 631-8213. DUBLIN VILLAGE unit for lease 2008-2009. 4BR, 3.5 bath. Largest & most private. Call Diane 574-261-3338. OFF CAMPUS HOUSING: Nice house for rent 1/2 mile from cam­pus. 3 bedrooms and 2 full baths, A/C. Must see! Call Darin at 574­631-2721.  54717 Terrace Lane, South Bend 3 bedroom 1 bathroom ranch house near ND, behind Nicks Patio, Washer/Dryer,C/A, 1-car garage, $725/mo. $250 security deposit. jimc343@yahoo.com FoR RENT PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted. visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml Nothing from Gamber. Can we please wach something besides Fox News?  
New student needs good laptop. 574-993-8733.  Subaru 99 Forester/great condi­tion/AWD/Ieather/CD/121 K/$6,500/ 234-2104.  One mile from campus. Call 773-339-0299 for rates & avail­ability.  1 OR 2 Bdrm apt.in historic neigh­borhood. One mile to ND. Laundry & security. $510/mo. Call574-532­8718.  Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org  Yeah. The Cubs game starts in half an hour.  





OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, Aprill6, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S W[RE SERVICEs page 13 
NCAA Men's Tennis ITA Rankings 
rank  team  average  previous  
1  Virginia  84.38  1  
2  Ohio St.  79.75  2  
2  Georgia  72.89  3  
4  usc  67.35  6  
5  UCLA  65.56  5  
6  Ole Miss  64.12  7  
7  Texas  62.16  4  
8  Tennessee  59.64  10  
9  Tulsa  52.44  9  
10  Florida St.  51.40  12  
11  North Carolina  51.12  11  
12  Florida  50.79  8  
13  Baylor  50.00  14  
14  Pepperdine  46.94  13  
15  Michigan  44.53  15  
16  Texas Tech  43.62  20  
17  Illinois  43.16  16  
18  LSU  40.79  17  
19  Alabama  39.65  22  
20  Oklahoma St.  35.71  19  
21  Arizona St.  35.10  18  
22  Rice  33.70  24  
23  TexasA&M  32.55  21  
24  Stanford  32.47  NR  
25  Miami (FL)  31.73  23  

NCAA Women's Tennis ITA Rankings 
rank team average previous 
1 Northwestern 82.98 1 2 Georgia Tech 73.52 2 3 Baylor 69.76 6 4 Stanford 69.66 3 5 Aorida 68.05 4 6 California 66.36 5 6 UCLA 66.36 7 8 Georgia 65.29 8 Duke 62.81 9
•
10 usc 5U7 10 11 Miami (FL) 53.41 11 12 Vanderbilt 52.15 12 13 North Carolina 45.58 13 14 Arltona Sf. 45.54 14 15 Fresno St. 48;80 17 16 Arkansas 40.43 15 17 NOTRE DAME 39.20 16 18 Pepperdine 38.85 18 19 Florida St. 38.00 19 20 TCU 36.67 24 21 Texas 35.98 20 22 Kentucky 35.68 23 23 Michigan 35.43 NR 24 Tennessee 35.23 25 25 Clemson 35.09 21 
MIAA Women's Tennis Conference Standings 
team conference overall 
Albion  6-0  14·2  
Calvin  4-0  13·4  
Kalamazoo  4·1  10·6  
Hope  4·1  11·5  
Alma  3·3  11·6  
Adrian  2·4  5·10  
SAINT MARY'S  2·3  6-9  
Tri-State  0·6  3-9  
Olivet  0·7  2·11  

MLB 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Rachel Robinson walked past cheering construction work­ers and into the Jackie Robinson Rotunda for the first'time, stood on a bal­cony above the 160-foot wide floor and was awed as she gazed at the 70-foot high arches. 
"It's like walking into a cathedral in a way," she said. "I love St. Peter's in Rome, but I don't know if I can compare this to St. Peter's." 
On the 61st anniversary of the day her husband broke major league base­ball's color barrier, more than 330 players, managers and coaches -including nine entire teams -wore Jackie Robinson's No. 42 to celebrate the Hall of Farner's accomplishments. The center of the celebra· tion was at Citi Field, the New York Mets' $800 mil­lion ballpark under con­struction adjacent to Shea Stadium. 
The Mets unveiled designs for the rotunda, which will contain eight huge pictures of Robinson and have an 8-foot statue of his number in Dodger blue. It will be the central entrance for the ballpark, which opens in 2009, and the Mets estimate 30,000 fans per game will pass through. 

"People will say: Til meet you at 42.' Everybody will know where that is," Mets owner Fred Wilpon said, lovingly putting his hand on the back of Rachel Robinson, still spry at age 85. 
BU:t even as her husband's legacy was being memorial­ized in stone, brick and ter­razzo, a study was released that said blacks made up only 8.2 percent of major league players last year, down from 8.4 percent in 2006 and the lowest level in more than two decades. The figure was 19 percent as recently as 1995 accord­ing to Richard Lapchick of the University of Central Florida's Institute for 
-
Diversity and Ethics in Sports. 
''I'm very disappointed by that fact," Robinson said. "Competition from other sports is certainly a big fac­tor but there are many fac­tors. We've got to work on it in terms of getting younger children playing, into the game, and getting commu­nities behind the pro­grams." 
Robinson also announced the Jackie Robinson Foundation will open a Jackie Robinson Museum in 

-
the Tribeca section of Lower Manhattan and that half of the $25 million cost has been raised for the muse­um, projected to open in 2010. 
around the dial 
NBA 

New Orleans vs. Dallas 7 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

Boston vs. New York Yankees 7 p.m., ESPN2 
IN BRIEF Thome fined for actions, sus­
pended for one game 
NEW YORK -Jim Thome of the Chicago White Sox was suspended for one game Tuesday and fined an undisclosed sum by Major League Baseball for "inappropri­ate actions" during a game against Detroit last week. He was ejected for arguing a call after he struck out. 
Thome said he would not appeal and would serve his suspension Tuesday, when the White Sox were home against Oakland. He said he was due for a day off anyway. 
"You get caught up in the situa­tion, emotions. No grudges, you move on," Thome said in the club­house before the game against the A's. 
Thome was ejected in the fifth inning last Friday following a third-strike call by plate umpire James Hoye. Replays showed the 3-2 pitch borderline low. 
Jones seeks trade, holds 
off on application 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Suspended Tennessee Titans cornerback Pacman Jones said Tuesday he's delayed filing for reinstatement with the NFL until a possible trade is worked out. 
Jones told the Michael Irvin Show on ESPN Radio that he had planned to seek reinstatement but changed his mind for now. 
NFL commissioner Roger Goodell suspended Jones for the 2007 season for his off-field conduct, which includes six arrests since being draft­ed. Goodell rejected appeals to let Jones take part in training camp or return after 10 games. 
The suspension does not stop the Titans from trading Jones' contract. 
"I was going to file for reinstate­ment, but I didn't," Jones said. "I want the situation to work out, if it be a trade or if it don't be a trade and I go back to Tennessee, before I file for reinstatement with the commissioner. 

Freshman Rose leaves 
Memphis, declares for Draft 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -Memphis freshman Derrick Rose announced he was jumping to the NBA Tuesday, the same day coach John Calipari agreed in principle to a contract extension with the school. 
Rose capped his spectacular first season by leading Memphis to the national championship game, where they lost to Kansas in over­time. 
The 6-foot-3 guard from Chicago averaged 20.8 points in six NCAA tournament games and will likely be taken with one of the top picks in the draft. · 
Terms of Calipari's deal have not been finalized. 
Rose, who helped Memphis to an NCAA Division I record 38 victo­ries last season, said he enjoyed his year in college but is ready to make the leap to the NBA. 
page I 4 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 16, 2008 
MLB 
Danks earns first vvin in 12 starts for White Sox 
Angels rally to beat struggling Rangers 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO -Given how much time had passod, it figured that John Danks would have trouble romembering his previous win. 
"I think it was in June some­time," he said. Almost. Mid-July was the cor­reel answer. 
Danks celebrated his 23rd birthday with his first win in 12 starts, taking a shutout into the eighth inning to lead the Chicago White Sox past the Oakland Athletics 4-1 Tuesday lor a two­game split. 
Chicago just missed its third shutout in four games, and this performance carne against a team that entered with the American Loague's best record. The Athletics won six of their first seven on this eight-game road trip, but thny couldn't touch Danks artor beating Mark Buehrle 2-1 on Monday. 
Carlos ()uentin hit a three-run horner in thn fourth, and that
-was onough to makn the left­handnr a winrwr for the first time since he boat Cleveland on .July 16. Danks (1-11 loft to a standing ovation and tippod his cap aft11r Travis Buck singled with two outs in the nighth. lie held the Athletics to five singles while striking out four and walking two. loworing his EHA from R.OO to 4.32 evon though he didn't think he had his best stufl'. What he had. though, was a big improvement over his previous outing. when he got knocked out in the third against Minnesota. "You know, last year if I felt like I did today I probably would­n't have made it out of the third or fourth inning," Danks said. "I would have tried to overthrow. Today I dido 't feel like I had the best stuff I've had but I just kind of went out there with the best stun· I had and kind of went on from there. I don't know. I feel like I'm taking those steps for­ward and growing." Bobby Jenks came on with runners at first and third in the ninth after Scott Linebrink walked Daric Barton and allowed a single to Mike Sweeney. Jenks threw two pitch­es, resulting in a sacrifice fly for Emil Brown and double-play grounder by Bobby Crosby, for his firth save in five opportuni­ties. Oakland's Dana Eveland (1-1) had a tough time gripping the ball on a dry but windy after­noon, allowing four runs -three earned -in 4 2-3 innings. He walked thren, struck out two and hit two battnrs with pitches after allowing a total of one run in his lirst two starts against Cleveland and Toronto. "I started trying to Ioree it and started to lose my mechanics because of it," Eveland said. "I started flying open a bit and drifting. I just got out of whaek and could never really get back on traek after that long fourth inning." Eveland startnd having control problems when he plunked Nick Swisher in the right shin with two outs in the third, threw a wild pitch and walked Orlando Cabrera before getting out of trouble. Eveland then hit Paul Konerko leading off the fourth and walked Joe Crede before ()uentin, in a 2-for-17 skid, 
turned on a belt-high fastball. He 
flipped his bat and watched as 
the ball sailed deep into the left­
lield seats, his second homer giv­
ing the White Sox a 3-0 lead. 
''I'm trying to get more consis­
tent," Quentin said. ''I'm trying 
not to give away at-bats. I feel 
like I'm doing all right doing 
that." 
Crede chased Eveland in the 
fifth with a single that drove in 
Jermaine Dye, who had singled 
and advanced to second on a 
throwing error by third baseman 
Donnie Murphy. 
The White Sox were without 
Jim Thome, who was fined and 
suspended for one game for 
vehemently arguing a called 
third strike during a game 
against Detroit last week. He 
decided to serve his punishment 
rather than appeal in part 
because he was not scheduled to 
play, anyway. 
Angels 7, Rangers 4 
Gary Matthews Jr. snapped out of a slump with a tiebreaking, three-run double, and the Los Angelns Angels rallied to beat Texas Tuesday as the Rangers ended their lirst homestand of the season with their fifth straight loss. 
Matthews was in a 3-l'or-27 
slide before his double to left­
center in the sixth inning off 
Josh Rupe (0-1) broke a 4-all tie. 
Rupe took over to start the sixth for Kevin Millwood , who left after 70 pitches due to a bruised left shin sustained when he was hit by a batted ball in the second. The Rangers said Millwood came out because his leg started to stiffen up on him. The problem didn't appear to be serious. 
Rupe walked two batters and allowed a single, with a sacrifice bunt in between, before Matthews cleared the bases. 
Darren Oliver (1-0). like Matthews a former Ranger, threw 2 2-3 scoreless innings in relief of starter Dustin Moseley . Francisco Rodriguez worked the ninth, overcoming two walks for his lifth save in six chances. 
There was no indication that Millwood was hurt after a ball hit by Maicer Izturis ricocheted off the pitcher's left leg and rolled to first base, where Ben Broussard picked it up and tagged the bag for an easy out. Millwood was even smiling when manager Ron Washington came out to check on him. 
Millwood was also hit on the throwing hand by a batted ball, when he reached up attempting to grab a ball in the fourth that turned into a groundout. That play came between a single by Garrett Anderson and Casey Kotchman 's two-run homer. 
Millwood then snagged anoth­er comebacker by Izturis for an out before allowing three straight singles, the last by Chone Figgins driving in a run. Vladimir Guerrero and Anderson had consecutive dou­bles in the fifth to tie the game at 4. 
The Hangers finished their first homestand 2-6, sweeping a dou­bleheader from Baltimore for their only victories. They were swept in a three-game set by Toronto and lost both games in the short set against the Angels, who dropped two of three to Texas in their first homestand. 

Brand new, furnished townhomes for lease for Fall Semester '08 
Hurry. You won't want to miss one of the limited number of Irish Crossings Townhomes available for lease this fall. Just two blocks east of the ND athletic fields, off Willis Street, these three and four-bedroom townhomes come furnished, including a 42" flat panel HDTV: 
Geared for today's college student, and larger than an apartment, these townhomes include a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42 • flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 


• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser, closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & cable 

• 
Separate laundry room with washer & dryer 

• 
Large deck 

• 
Two·-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
Alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 



Strict covenants enforced. 

lease today and move into your brand new townhome for Fall Semester 2008. Call Diane at 574.261.3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossings.com. 

Wednesday, April 16, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
IU's Senderoff hired at Kent St. 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND Rob Senderoff can't change his past or what happened at Indiana. He's only looking forward. 
Senderoff, involved in a phone-call scandal that led to Kelvin Sampson's resignation and NCAA scrutiny at Indiana, was hired Tuesday as an assistant at Kent State, returning to the school where he spent four years before joining Sampson's staff. 
"I couldn't be happier to be back," Senderoff said. 
Last October, Senderoff resigned from his job with the Hoosiers amid a universi­ty investigation that he broke NCAA rules by making illegal phone calls to recruits. The investigation led to Sampson accepting a $750,000 buyout in February. 
Months after Senderoff stepped down voluntarily at Indiana, an NCAA report said Sampson and he knowingly participated in three-way calls with at least three recruits. The report said Senderoff initiated those calls. 
The Feb. 8 NCAA report accused Senderoff of provid­ing "false or misleading infor­mation" to the NCAA and fail­ing to abide by its expected ethical standards for honesty. 
"I've learned a lot from my mistakes," Senderoff said, "and I'm looking forward to mo~ing on to the next chap­ter. 
Indiana will have a hearing in front of the NCAA's infrac­tions committee in June, and Senderoff said he will take part. Sampson and IU offi­cials will also be present. 
"I hope it closes the book on it," he said. "Whatever the NCAA says, I will follow. I was here (at Kent State) for four years and I never had a problem and always abided by the NCAA rules compli­ance.... I'm not going to say I didn't do anything wrong. I've learned from my mis­takes." 
Last season was the first time in 13 years that Senderoff wasn't coaching. He missed it terribly, and is looking forward to being back in the gym and on the bench. 
Senderoff previously worked at Kent State from 2002-06, when he was hired by Sampson. He'll be an assistant under Geno Ford, who recently took over the Golden Flashes after Jim Christian left for TCU. Ford and Senderoff worked on Christian's staff together. 
Kent State athletic director Laing Kennedy said Senderoff will be involved in recruiting and is under no restrictions. Kennedy said he and Kent State officials reviewed Senderoff's past before decid­ing to bring him back to the Mid-American Conference school. 
"We wouldn't have moved forward if we didn't feel good about it," Kennedy said. "Rob is an excellent coach and we're excited about what this will mean for our student athletes." 
Senderoff was grateful for the chance to restart his coaching career. 
''I'm coming back to a place where everybody knows who I am," he said. "I can't wait to get started and to work with Geno again." 
Kent State has become one of college basketball's elite mid-major programs in the past decade. The school has posted 10 consecutive 20-win seasons and has made the NCAA tournament field four times since 2000. 
Senderoff began his coach­ing career at Albany before becoming a graduate assis­tant at Miami of Ohio from 1995-97. He also worked at Fordham, Yale and Towson before coming to Kent State. 

~ 
JOIN US AT DINNER ON THURSDAY, APRil 11TH, FOR DEli(IOUS HERSHEY'S ENTREES AND DESSERTS, THE LARGEST SUNDAE BAR YOU'VE EYER SEEN, AND A(HAN(E TO WIN HERSHEY'S PRIZES! 
HERSIUt'S MUUJ 1'1Et4S 

Chili con Cocoa Chocolate Iced Coffee Chocolate Bliss Warldorf Salad G[illed S'mores Waffle Sandwich Thai Chicken Pizza Thai Noodles Cocoa Honey-Glazed Carrots Roasted Vegetables Toffee Crusted Chicken Breast Hershey's Tacos Herb & Chocolate Roast Pork Cocoa Spice Dusted Tilapia Pineapple Bread Pudding Oatmeal Toffee Cookie Hershey's Premier White Chips 
& Macadamia Cookie Cakey Chocolate Chip Bar Kaleidoscope Treats Double Chocolate York Peppermint Patty Sauce Chocolate Fountain Peanut Butter Chocolate Swirl Cheesecake Reese's Peanut Butter Carrot Cake Easy Bake Brownie Pie 

with Strawberry Cream Topping 
N@RTH 
FOOD COURT 
The Hershey Company 
page 15 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles stay hot in 
•

wtn over Bethel 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's (7-9) grabbed its seventh win of the season yes­terday, 7-2 at home against cross-town rival Bethel College (10-5). 
"It's always nice to beat a cross-town rival," Belles coach Chuck Rubino said. "We played excellent doubles, which really got us going. And in singles, Laura [Arnold] made a nice comeback after losing her first match and winning the tie­breaker." 
The Belles kept up the momentum from their 8-1 win over Tri-State this past weekend as they swept the doubles divi­sion. Leading Saint Mary's was the No. 1 duo of sophomore co­captain Camille Gebert and freshman Jillian Hurley, who defeated Bethel's Bree Oles and Jade Walus 8-2. Gebert and Hurley move their record to 8-8, 4-1 MIAA. No. 2 pair of sopho­more co-captain Lisa Rubino and freshman Betsy Reed made up for their loss this past week­end as they defeated Sherra Milender and Lindsey Dixon 8-3, putting them at 6-8 as a pair. At No. 3 doubles were freshmen Jessica Camp and Franca Peluso, winning 8-5 over Carrie Edison and Serena Frey for their second match as a pair, moving them to 1-1. 
"Our doubles were really strong today," Hurley said. 
"They have improved a lot over the course of the season." 
Saint Mary's strength contin­ued in its singles matches as the team won four of the six match­es. No. 1 Gebert defeated Oles 6­0 in one match before Oles dropped out of competition for the day. Gebert moves her record to 8-8. No. 2 Hurley won her fourteenth match of the sea­son in her 6-0, 6-2 defeat of Walus, putting her at 14-2. At No. 3 singles, Reed lost 6-1, 6-2 to Edison, moving her to 7-8. No. 4 Jessica Kosinski was defeated as well for Saint Mary's, losing 7-6, 6-1 to Milender, putting her at 6-9. No. 5 Rubino beat Julia Horn 6-4, 6-2 for her seventh victory of the season, moving her to 7-8. Freshman Laura Arnold won at No. 6 singles over Frey in a 10-8 tie-breaking third match after losing the first match 6-2 and winning the sec­ond 6-2. 
"I think this win will boost our confidence for the upcoming matches," Hurley said. "We're playing really competitive teams, 

-
and this win will help." 
Rubino outlined the goal for his team's next matches very simply. 
"We need to keep our momen­tum going," she said. 
Next up for Saint Mary's is a home match against conference foe Adrian at 3:00 p.m. Thursday. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO1 @saintmarys.edu 
Proprietors Warren & Linda

~occo's 
Restaurant 
Yirsl OrtjinafA·zza in 7r:mm! 
Since 1951 
Speci<Jiizing in n.alian Enrrees 

Tues. • Thurs.: 5:00 PM · 11 :00 PM frL ·Sat.: 5:00 ~'M ·1:00AM 537 North St. louis ~ South Bend, IN ~74·2:H·24h4 
Open for graduation on Sunday 5/18 
Store Your Stun

rthe mmerl 
Call or stop on by&reserve today! 
866-232-2169 

6482 Brick Road, South Bend Located at Cleveland Rd.& US 20 Bypass, 7minutes from campus 
__j 
Wednesday, April 16, 2008 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Laxers out for revenge against Co111111odores 

By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
-
Sports Writer 
ForgivP tho Irish if thny nxpnrinnen a hit ol' (l«',jil vu. 
At this tirnn last season, Notrn Damn was sporting a 10­:~ rncord. a spot in tlw national rankings and was corning ofT of a win ovnr No. 9 (;norgdown. But a loss to Vandnrbilt in their rwxt gamn was thn beginning of the end for thn Irish. eoaeh Traey Coyne said. 
"That was thn bnginning of the three-game slide for us last year," Coyne said. "We went to Vanderbilt and lost. They worn really tired up for the game." 
-
Fast forward to this season, as the Irish (10-4, 3-1 Big East) eurrently hold the No. 10 spot in the national polls. They are coming off of a win over Georgetown, this first in the program's history in Washington, D.C., and the 
same Vanderbilt team stands in their way this year. This time, Coyne thinks her team has the maknup to defeat the Commodores. 
"It is really an important game," Coyne said. "Our goal is not otT in the distanee, it is
-right there. I think that we are really foeused, especially after the disappointment of last year. We are in the cxaet same situation we were in last sea­son, exeept now we have the knowledge of what we did last year." Coyne has said all season that the tnam's goal is to win 
the Big East eonfnrenen and rnakn a run toward thn nation­al c~harnpionship. ;\ win on Wndnnsday would go a long way toward those goals. 
Thn Irish eo me into Wodnnsday's game riding a wave of rnomnntum. AJ'ter falling to No. I Northwestnrn last Wednesday, 16-2, the Irish rlosnd out their five-game road trip at Georgetown, a plaee where thn Irish had never won in .Program history. Thanks to a great team performance, the Irish wcwe able to break their strnak and notch a historie 1O­S win. The win dosed out the road trip which saw the Irish go 4-1 and beat two top-1 0 teams. Coyne was quiek to mention the defense as a rea­son for the suecess. 
"I think the defensive unit gave huge performances in the big wins at Duke and Georgetown," Coyne said. "We have relied on the attaek in other games, but the defense really set themselves apart on the road trip." 
The stellar play of the defense is a welcomed sign for the Irish, who relied on their potent offense earlier in the season, but now seem to be coming together for the streteh run. Also important was the atmosphere in whieh the game was played, one which Coyne ealled a "ehampionship atmos­phere." 
The Irish will take on the Commodores at home on Wednesday at 4:30p.m. 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL 

Mourning Belles win two 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's (16-7, 6-2 MIAAJ won two games Tuesday, but suffered an important loss Sunday. 
Assistant eoaeh Don MillPr passed away Sunday night. ;\ doubleheader orig­inally scheduled for today will be played Friday so the team can attend tlw visita­tion tonight and thn funeral Thursday morning. 
On Tunsday night, the team swept a doubleheader at Albion. which had bonn postponed from Saturday due to bad wnather. 
"Thn most important thing wn did was step up to honor our late eoach," lwad coach Erin Sullivan said. "lie was sueh a huge part of our program, and we thought two wins would be a fitting tribute to the soft­ball nxenllenee he lwlped create." 
The Hellns won the first game with a seorc 5-2. The team jumped out to an early :1-0 lead after the third inning, and never relinquished it. 
Sophomore Ashley Peterson. the Belles' most eonsistent ofTensive player, went 4-for-4 with three doubles and a home run. Junior Calli Davison pitehed all seven innings, bringing her reeord to S-6. 
"Calli had a great day pitehing, and our outfield made some fantastie plays," Sullivan said of game one. 
In game two, the Belles 


eked out a 7-6 win in extra innings. The Belles seored three runs in the third inning to take an early 3-1 lead, but the Britons tind it 4-4 in the seventh frame. 
"IThe Britons) were full of energy and didn't give up, even after losing game one," said Sullivan. 
Eaeh team taeked on an extra run in the eighth. The Britons seored one more in the ninth, but the Belles answered with two more in the bottom of the inning. Sophomore Maureen Healy scored the winning run on a wild piteh. 
Senior MeKenna Corrigan pitehPd the complete game and also went 2-for-4 at the plate with a home run. 
Tho team resumes play with a doublehnader at llope on Friday, then plays two more doubleheaders over the wenkend against Adrian on Saturday and at North Central College Sunday. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
PLS ?
• 

Perpetual Learning Syndrome? 


Our students say: "PLS is a real-life 'Back to the Future.' It's the most complete way we can relive the past in order to discover how we have reached the present and thus chart a prudent course for the future." 
THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
Small Classes. Great Books. Curious? Stop by the Office 215 O'Shaughnessy Hall Visit the website: http://pls.nd.edu Application deadline extended to April 28th 
-----~------~-----~--~-­
Wednesday, April 16, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
first. ground out. 
.Iunior first baseman Casey Johnson only allowed two Martin, in the starting lineup more baserunners the entire continued from page 20 because junior Evan Sharpley contest, and was relieved by doesn't face lefties, hit a fly fellow freshman Brian Dupra as a battle tomorrow and go ball that bounced just fair, in the sixth frame. Johnson from there." allowing Brezovsky to reach finished with five innings 
The reasons behind the win third on the double. pitched, three hits, an were consistent pitching and Sophomore right fielder unearned run and three manufactured runs once the Billy Boockford hit a sacrifice strikeouts. Irish faced a deficit. fly to right field. Senior Dan The right-hander took con­
Freshman starting pitcher Sherwood caught the fly and trol of the game allowing Cole Johnson didn't quite get then gunned the ball to only a pair of hits in his four the start he wanted as a pair home. Brezovsky, with some innings on the mound. of dribblers to third produced adept base running, beat out The Irish added a pair of a pair of baserunners to start the throw at the plate, knot­scores in the seventh, secur­the game. After sophomore ting the game up at one. ing the victory. Pollock hit a Aaron Dudley hit a sacrifice Junior starting pitcher Ryan dribbler to the pitcher but fly to center, both runners France got out of the inning beat it out with his speed. advanced and things looked with a ground out from Barnes then doubled off the bleak for the Irish early on freshman catcher Cameron centerfield wall to bring the with just one out. McConnell. sophomore across the plate. 
Junior Josh Colliver picked Just one frame later, Notre After Brezovsky grounded up an RBI with a ground out Dame got all the insurance it out to second, Barnes fielder's choice to first base. would need with a three-run advanced to third and 
With a potential run now inning. Sharpley was intentionally 90-feet away, junior second Freshman pitcher Matt walked, bringing Boockford baseman Jeremy Barnes Kuna entered the contest for to the plate. made a play off of an errant the Rockets to start the The right fielder hit a sacri­bounce on a ground ball sav­inning, and got roughed up in fice fly that brought in the ing a run, putting the Rockets his only inning of work. last run of the contest and up 1-0. Freshman third baseman raised the Irish lead to five. 
The Irish seemed to mount Greg Sherry reached second After the contest, Schrage a threat in the bottom of the with a double as his fly ball was impressed with the third with two outs with a lit­dropped due to a miscommu­freshmen pitching duo. 
Toledo 
sure everything was okay. I just tle help from Rockets second nication between the Rocket "I thought our pitchers did 
asked, 'Hey, is there anything baseman Tim Krofcheck. center and right fielders. tremendous today," he said. 
Huskies 

we can do to raise money for After senior shortstop Brett Lilley then picked up an "When you look that we only 
continued from page 20 this group'. And we came to an Lilley walked, sophomore RBI single to right, but had [five] hits given up.... It's 
agreement to play a game." David Mills reached first on Sherwood committed an a good confidence builder 
starts during springtime and And while it is just a game, an error by Krofcheck on an error allowing the senior hopefully for Dupra. Cole's 
spring is a time for renewal. both coaches agree that tonight errant throw. With sopho­shortstop to advance to sec­been pitching really well. It 
And that's what this is about: will be extremely emotional for more A.J. Pollock at the ond base. was a perfect day for him to 
renewal," Mathey said. "We those close to the victims. plate, Notre Dame was in Mills then executed a sacri­pitch with the wind blowing 
haven't had a lot of good "It's going to be a tough night prime position to tie the fice bunt, moving Lilley over out, we wanted a sinkerball 
weather this year but we're for the families," Schrage said. game up. The centerfielder to third. Pollock then walked guy starting. After the first 
hoping tomorrow night Mother ''I'm not sure how many are grounded up the middle, but putting runners on the cor­inning I thought he settled in 
Nature cooperates and we're coming or what but hopefully Krofcheck made up for his ners. and he did a great job. That's 
able to raise a bunch of money we can make some money for mistake with a nice grab and The sophomore center what he's capable of and 
for the scholarship fund." them." then dive to second to get fielder took off early, allow­hopefully that will get him 
And while Mathey and his Mathey said Notre Dame and Mills out on a force at sec­ing him to reach second on some confidence and get him 
team will be part of the healing the White Sox were instrumen­ond. Barnes' RBI fielder's choice going." 
process tonight, many of them tal in planning tonight's con­The Irish did get their tying that brought in Lilley, The Irish return to action 
have not fully recovered them­test. run, however in the fourth Brezovsky then stepped to today at U.S. Cellular Field in 
selves. "Notre Dame has been simply frame with a one-out rally. the plate and delivered an Chicago against Northern 
"It's just unbelievable, horrif­outstanding throughout this After Barnes flied out to RBI single to left that allowed Illinois at 8 p.m. 
ic when you think that some­whole thing," Mathey said. right, senior outfielder Ross Pollock to score from second 
thing like that can happen and "Coach Schrage and [Irish Brezovsky got a free pass, base. Kuna then closed out Contact Lorenzo Reyes at 
then it happens to you," assistant coach Scotti Lawler putting an Irish runner at the inning with a Boockford lreyes@nd.edu 
Mathey said. "A lot of our and the [Notre Dame] adminis­freshmen were impacted a lit­tration we're so great in helping tle more than some of the older us out." guys. Many of them went home The teams hope to draw a big because that's where their crowd from the Chicago area comfort zone was." for the matchup. 
The coach said most of the "From what I understand, upperclassmen on the team Notre Dame has a pretty big chose to continue the season, following from the Chicagoland which was delayed by four area," Mathey said. "''ll be games because of the tragedy. interested to see how much red 
"Some of the older guys have and l;ww much green there is in got more connections here and the crowd." they stuck around," Mathey Schrage, who grew up near said. "None of the team was Chicago, echoed Mathey's sen­directly involved in the incident timents. as far as being in the classroom "We got a great alumni group or being in any of the class­[around Chicago]. Hopefully we rooms near there, and I guess can get some of our fan base that's the best we as a team and we could do something like could have hoped for." this every year," Schrage said. 
Still, Mathey said, it was at After defeating Toledo 6-1 least ten days after the incident Tuesday, Notre Dame takes a before any of his players began nine-game winning streak and to comprehend what had hap­a 22-9-1 record into the con­pened. On February 24, the test. Meanwhile, Northern school held a memorial service Illinois moved to 13-16 with a for the fallen victims in the win over Akron Sunday. Northern Illinois Convocation "We want to go out and just Center. hopefully give Notre Dame a 
"On the Sunday after, there good ballgame," Mathey said. was a vigil and [15,000] people But Schrage said the game came. It was so touching," will not be as lopsided as the Mathey said. "It marked the teams' records might indicate. time when we could finally "That will be a World Series­start healing as a team and as type [atmosphere] for both a university." teams playing in a pro ball­
For Notre Dame's part, Irish park," Schrage said. "The emo­coach Dave Schrage spent tions will be high. We come in three seasons as the head on a streak but I'm sure [the coach at Northern Illinois. Huskies] will play really well." Schrage said he was stunned And might Northern Illinois by the tragedy and asked long­have some type of intervention time friend Mathey if there was beyond the baseball element of any type of aid Notre Dame the game on its side? could give his former school. "Well. that doesn't usually 
"I was there as a coach for happen against Notre Dame," three years and the shootings Mathey laughed. "But we'll occurred in the building that see." was right across the street from my office," Schrage said. Contact Fran Tolan at "I just called [Mathey] to make ftolan@nd.edu 




....
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 16, 2008 

-
HAMMES

THE CLEARANCE TENT IS 
NOTRE DAME 
LOCATED AT THE SOUTH END 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER
OP THE FOOTBALL STADIUM NEAR GATE 8 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndtatolog.com 
CLEARANCE TENT SALE 
Receive an additional 25o/o off the lowest ticketed price on all merchandise 
2DAYBDNLY 
Saturday April 19th from Sam-Spm Sunday April 20th from 1Oam -3pm 
Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
other hand started ofT icP-cold, and were only able to heat up later in thn game. The cold night seenHld to alfeet both of the team's shooting as the 11rst half took almost 45 minutes by it<>elf. 
llowever, in the second half, both teams worn able to pick up tho scoring as woll as thoir inten­sity. Despite being down 11-9, Ilaranbody's Ollspring was able to make a comeback and held a 20­1Hload with tlw ball and a chance to win the gaml\. The ball was stolen, howevPr, and To Catch A Predator capitalized, with Tim Wallace hitting a jumper. Wallace hit two morn shots after tough defnnsivn stands by To Catch a Pn1dator, and thny took a 21-20 h~ad. . 
llaranbody's Oll"spring tried to bring thn ball down thP court to oxtend thn gamn a littln bit longer, but Mikn Manny madn a great play on thn ball, and forced a steal. liP thPn p<L'>Sild to Tim Long who hit a jumper from the free throw line to win the game. 
To Catch A Predator was pro­pelled by Tim Wallaee who had 13 of his tnam's 22 point<> as well as Mike Manny who played excellent defensn all game long while con­tributing fimr point<>. 
No. 15 The Dark Knights ... and 
Nate 2l., No. 18 Engineering 
Giants 12 
-
The Enginnnring (;iant<> jumped out to an early first half load by utilizing their height eiTectively. Thny also wnrn lu~lpPd out by the wind, whieh impaetnd some shot<> from The Dark Knights ... and Nate, hut the dnterminnd 15-smld went on a littln run to take an 11­9 halftime lead. 
The second half opened with three straight buckets from The Knight'>, who were on their way to dominating the last 20 minutes of the game. Shot<> from senior cap­tain Milo Dodson were key in the vietory. 
"The wind played a good factor in [our shot<>), but we kind of just had to adjust our game to take lay-ups as opposed to just taking jumpers," Dodson said. "We also got offensive rebounds and put­backs by [senior) Nate [Prochaska[. He defmitely carried us down-low as well as [senior] Leo IFerrine) getting easy lay-ups and just playing physical." 
The Knights' defensfl was also integral to thPir win. 
"First, [The Dark Knight<> ... and Nato[ were in a zone [in thP first halfl. and so we were able to get more open looks," said captain Mike Crocker, a computer engi­neering graduate student of the Engineering Giants. "Then they switched to man-to-man, and they play a tough man-to-man. That was probably the biggest differ­ence ~ that, and in the second half, we just did not shoot as well." 
Crocker said the reason for his toam's loss was simple. 
"We had to play very well to win, and we didn't play as well as we needed to," he said. 
No. 10 The Delivery Boys 2l., No. 23 Muhammad All Enterprises 8 
Freshman David Hudy put up 10 b<L<>kets for The Delivery Boys in a dominating victory over Muhammad Ali Enterprises. The Delivery Boys scored quickly on · the fast break and were never down in a match-up that L<> certain to go down as one of the fastnst games played in the round of 32. 
Lay-up al'tnr lay-up fell (()r Hudy and the rest of The DelivPry Boys as they jumped to an 11-2 half­time lead by running their oppo­nents off the court. After the break, Muhammad Ali Enterprises lost their focus and began chucking half-court shots including one made by junior Asaph Schwapp. 
"We need to work on our dunk­ing, but I think we'll have a lot tougher competition coming up," junior captain Kevin Kelly of The Delivery Boys said. 
"We didn't condition too much in any of our practices," Muhammad Ali Enterprises cap­tain Kevin Washington said. "We had about two of them, and they consisted of NCAA [Basketball video games]. We were practicing on game sticks. Those plays didn't work out too well for us. The other team just ran up and down the court, and we couldn't hang with them." 
No. 1.1. Mathletes 21, No. 22 I Can't Believe We're So Butter...SPRAY! 14 
This contest started off on a slow pace as baskets were not dropping for either team until the Mathletes exploded from a 3-2 score to an 11-4 halftime lead. 
"In the first half, we were get­ting good looks, and we just could­n't convert," I Can't Believe We're So Butter ... SPRAY! eaptain Hick Loesing said. "They were using their athleticism, and they were pushing the ball on us pretty well. We were playing good defense, but they were converting on their shot<>. We just couldn't hit ours." 
The No. 22 seed came out of halftime poisPd to make a come­back. At first, it seemed like the Mathletes could not put I Can't Believe We're So Butter ... SPRAY! away in a game that got immedi­ately more competitive. Loesing and junior Pete Leonard buried some nice jumpers from the back­court, and senior Fritz Shadley playp,d well on the inside. 

But it was too little, too late as the teams were trading buckets down the stretch. 
"They were a rp,ally good team -definitely our closest game yet," Mathletes captain Peter Kelly said. "We're just really a strong group. We complement each other pretty well. Camouflage was tough to see, but I caught him sometimes." 
Loesing was resigned about the loss. 
"We started getting warmPd up at the end of the first half, and then we started feeling good in tl1e second half," Loesing said. "We kept getting open looks, and we just starting converting. [However], at that point, it was too late. They were still shooting well, and by that time, it was over." 
Contact Peter Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu and Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 

Wednesday, April 16, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

BLAcK DoG 
LOLLERSKATES 
THE SINGLE LIFE 
BuT 5"!-ALEPI-1, S" 
Mllc.H HAS C.HANG-ED SINCE HE WAS Ffto~' 
HE-WoN'r UNI>E.~S!ANb 
A \.I()IU> Y<>v SAY"' 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
hAy .JOVJ ~ WtL/c..u,.,., 2 teh fut-O>z. I w"""'" <-yb"-r 7 
DIDIER LEWIS 
LINAPAEK 


CROSSWORD 
Across 31 Long, long_ 
1 Humble home 32 City near Saint­5 Software Exupery rerelease, e.g. International 11 Plane with a Airport mach meter: 
33 Frankie with the Abbr. 

1959 #1 hit 

14 Protagonist "Why"15 Meteor in a 36 It's more than a
meteor shower pinch: Abbr.
16 Spray-paint, maybe 37 First person to 17 Fly off the win a Smarties handle Prize, for children's books, 
18Common three years in a
computer feature row 20 Chemical 40" the season
-,­

compound suffix 21 Hatcher of 
43 Ohio city named "Desperate for a 
Housewives" mathematician 
22 Bulldog 44 Lends a hand 23 German auto 
48 1969 "bed-in" debut of 197 4 
participant 27 Departed 
49 Hoops org. 28 Big name in 
50"Eat!"

stationery 51 Does in
29 Longoria of "Desperate 53 Universal Housewives" recipient type 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Picture Show" 10 Drainage indicator 11 Show 
friendliness 12 Cash cache 13 "Rock-a-bye, 
baby" spot 19 Undeveloped 21 Shack roof 
material 24 If, and or but: Abbr. 25 They're part of the string section 26 Egg-shaped 
57 Some game endings 59 Govt. org. 60 Neckline shape 61 Cause of some burns 64 Munich mister 65 Sting 66 Cropped up 67 Melpomene, e.g. 68 Units in a coli. curriculum 69 Least prominent 70 Hightailed it 
Down Turn from a grape into a 
raisin, e.g. 2 Progress 3 Automaker 
Maserati 4 One eye in;-) 5 Peptic disorder 6 Los Angeles's 
San_Bay. 7 Kind of column 8 "It's _-brainer" 9 Curry of "The 
Rocky Horror 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Steven Ginzburg 
30 "Raggedy" one 42 Starts to melt 54 Remote control button
33 Dutch-speaking 45 "You win" part of the West 55 Fairy tale 
46 Varied 
Indies baddies 47 Showed 56 Bloodhound's
34 Words, contempt 
guide 50 Like many a 58 It may be caught informally 
35 Spiked punch? 
home in a filter 38 Novelist Kesey 
improvement 62 Ida. neighbor 39 Manner of going project, for short 63 Round Table 40 An overdose of honorific
52 Driver's license 41 Pro datum 64 Pinafore 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than ·2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.corn/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE 
JJWJJW[ID)1l!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
o form four ordinary words. 
VARGE 
BOSEE 

BABRYC 

What happened when he got the bill for the HE HIT THE "RAFTERS" 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Emma Watson, 18; Seth Rogen, 26; Emma Thompson, 49; Roy Clark, 75 Happy Birthday: Work a little harder, plan a little better, organize a little more and you will overcome any obstacle that confronts you. Keep thin!ls within budget. time restraints and boundaries. You've got the energy and imaginatton to go it alone and come out on top. Your numbers are 11, 17. 25, 28, 30,49 
ARIES (March 21-AprU 19): You can change tbe way people think. especially with a project you believe in or sometbing you think might be fun or interesUng. Use your talents and you will attract new friends and will provide opportunities to get involved in something entertaining. 5 stars 
TAURUS (AprU 20-May 20): You will feel like having fun and releasing any inhibi­tions you may be harboring but that may not be wise if you are having a problem witb someone in your life. Speaking out when you are emotional or overindulgent will lead to trouble_ 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put extra effort into your personal life and it will make a difference to someone who counts in your life. Love is on the rise and your part in functions that are of a do-good nature will raise your popularity. You can meet some­one who relates to yon on many different levels. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): You may fool others but don•t think that by doing so you will get away with something long-term. Eventually tbe troth will come out, so you may as well face facts. Your intent may be to spare feelings but it will only make matters worse. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. :U): Don't give up on your dreams_ If someone from your past can help you out, don't be too proud to call him or her. You'll be surprised by the re­sponse you get if you are well-informed and have strategic plans. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Let your thoughts be known and present your ideas. You may be a little emotional but tl1at will aid you in expressing yourself passionately. You will feel much better once you have everything out in the open. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0et. 22): You will be in a bit of a dream world. Before you start to implement your ideas, make sore they are feasible. Take things one step at a time. Love is in the stars if you make love, not war. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Oel down to business and you will feel good about what you get done. Your serious approach to what you do will impress the people who count and help you feel more confident about the end result. Travel and presentation should go hand-in-hand. 4 stars 
SAGITTARWS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be careful with whom you talk and what you say. You are likely to give out some invalid information that will hurt someone's reputa­tion. Consider that you may be pushing for something that has added problems at­tached. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): If you want to impress someone by overspending. overindulging or overdoing, yon will send the wrong message. Consider whether or not you really want to make a connection to someone who is so much work. Question 
motives. 3 stars 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): Don't be fooled by someone wbo wants something 
from you. Look at the big picture. As long as you keep things in perspective, you will 
not be taken, emotionally or financially. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Do your own research --don't count on others to hand 
you information_ Question whatever sounds unreasonable. It's your life and your 
future and you are responsible for the outcome. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are detennined and relentless. You are motivated and enthusias­
tic about what interests you. You are entertaining, creative and a powerful competitor. 
You are quick to judge and to make decisions. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comjorfun, eugenialast.comjor confidential coMultations 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
WHEN VANDAl-S USE:D SPRAY PAINT ON THE STE:PS, POL-ICE: SAID IT WAS--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) THINK HITHER PASTRY 

-
-
-
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, April 16, 2008 
page 20 
BASEBALL 
On cloud nine 
NO wins ninth straight on the arms offreshnzen pitchers Johnson, Dupra
-
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Chalk up another one in tlw win column for Notre Dame. 
The Irish (22-IJ-1, 10-2 Big East) made it nino in a row and 15 of thnir last 1 7 with a 6-1 win over tlw Toledo Hoekets Tuesday at Frank Erk Stadium. 
When asked about the mood in the clubhouse during the win­ning streak, Irish coach Dave Schrage played with the supm·­stitious stigma embedded within baseball. 
-
"Shhhh," he joked, mockirig the mention of the winning so his players wouldn't hear him. "We're just a eonl'ident group right now. We really arc. We're 
playing well. Wf~'re not looking too far ahead. We're just taking it slow. It's an old cliche, but we've got a game tomorrow to play and we're going to take that 
see TOLEDO/page 17 

Notre Dame to take on Northern Illinois at U.S. Cellular Field for charity 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 

On Feb. 14, the latest in a series of shootings on college campuses occurred at Northern Illinois. A gunman opened l'ire in a full classroom and six of the 22 stu­dents shot in the incident died. 
Notre Dame will face off against Northern Illinois tonight at U.S. Cellular Field, home of the Chicago White Sox, in a benefit for the NIU February 14 Scholarship Fund. The foundation will distribute scholarships to deserving students in the name of the victims of the shooting. 
So what, one might ask, can a baseball game played two months after such a tragedy do to help heal the still-raw wounds of those involved? 
A lot, according to Northern Illinois coach Ed Mathey. "The hook about baseball is it 
see HUSKIES/page 17 
SOFTBALL 
Irish strike out 13 titnes, tnanage one hit in shutout loss 
Dame fell to 2(,-13 (7-3 Big second on the following play, loss. The Corona, Calif., native game instead of us swinging atBy SAM WERNER 
East). and the Wildcat rally was on. gave up five earned runs and the right pitches and having the 
Sports Writer 
Even though the Irish came Two walks, a single and a dou­struck out live in four innings of hitters control the game." into thn game unranked, and ble later, Northwestern had a work. Freshman Jody Valdivia For now, Gumpf and her team 
Notrl' Dame's ofl'ense got oil' to Northwestern was ranked in the five-run lead -more than relieved Bargar after the fourth, are putting their loss behind a good enough start at No. 13 top 15 nationally, Notre Dame enough for Delaney. and pitched two innings, giving · them and just eoncentrating on Northwestern Tuesday night, coach Deanna Gumpf said her The Wildcats batted around in up two hits, and striking out their next game -a 4 p.m. when junior third baseman team expected to win. that inning, with sophomore out­two. matchup today against Linda Kohan ripped a two-out "IThe ranking! doesn't mat­field Kelly Dyer and sophomore "Other than that inning I think Wisconsin at Melissa Cook singln in thn first inning. ter," Gumpf said. "We came to designat.~d hitter Emily Haug they both pitched really well," Stadiwn. 
•Unf'ortunatnly for the Irish, thny play." each having two-HBI knocks. Gumpfsaid. "There's a lot of things we're didn't get much elsn aftnr that. Delaney and Irish pitcher The Irish went down in order Gumpl' said that Notrn Dame's going to be working on lin prac­
Wildcat pitehnr Lauren Hrittney Bargar were locked in a in tho remaining innings, unable problems on offense all had to tice!." Gumpf said. "But we have Delaney didn't allow a hit af'ter 0-0 duel until Northwestern to muster any sort of comeback. do with controlling the flow of to focus right now on what we're the first inning, and struck out came to bat in the bottom of the "This whole game came down the game. going to do to beat Wisconsin." 13 in a 5-0 Northwestern victo­fourth inning. Junior shortstop to one inning," Gumpf said. "We "We were swinging at bad ry. The Wildcats improved to 24-Tammy Williams started the didn't respond well at all." pitches," Gumpf said. "We were Contact Sam Werner at 10 on the snason, while Notre inning oil' with a single. She stole Bargar fell to 20-8 with the letting the pitcher control the swerner@nd.edu 
-
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
The Juice down football coach Brown's team 
By PETER REISENAUER and 
PAT O'BRIEN 
Sports Writers 
In a gamn that fimturnd multiple runs by both teams, The J uicn W<L" able to pull away from Strictly Business 21-19. Neithnr team W<L-. ever able to mour1t more than a thrnn-point lead throughout the game. 
Thn tmuns <mch started out using tough dnftmses that both oflimses had trouble adjusting to. until thny both stm·ted to make their outsidn shots. Strictly Business, lnd by Irish linebacker Kerry Neal, who was able to scon~ the lirst four poinL-. fi1r his team, and score nine of his team's 19 poinl'i overall. 
It seemed at the beginning of the game that Strictly Business would be able to run away with the game, when they pulled out to the early 4-1 lnad, but The Juice methodically picked away at the lead, and was able to take a 9-8 lead. The score at halftime was Strictly Business loading 11-10. 
The Juiee came out firing in the second half and took a 14-11 lead. Strietly Business mounted a come­back, however, scoring the next five poinL'i. The game of runs con­tinued with the next four points corning from The Juice. The Juice finislwd Strictly Business off aftnr they let them crawl to within 20­19. 
The Juice was led by Mike Bednarczyk who scored nine points for his team, whiln also 
scoring the last two poinl-. of the game. Corey Fitzpatrick was also instrumental in hi-. team's vietory pulling down multiple rebounds and blocking a couple of shots as Strictly BusinflSS tried to pull even. 
To Catch a Predator vs. Haranbody's Offspring 
In a match-up that featured an incredibly slow start and an exhil­arating finish, To Catch A Predator was able to eome out on top of llaranbody's Offspring 22­20. 

The game started out with To Catch A Predator hitting four of iL'i first six shots but being unable to score for a while after that. Haranbody's Offspring, on the 
see BOOKSTORE/page 18 






