
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 107 FRIDAY, MARCH 28,2008 
Panel divided over 1 Monologues' 
Professors, bishop's representative discuss sociological implications of controversial play 
sentative and co-director of the Offices of Family in Fort Wayne-South Bend, sociology professor Jessica Collett, anthropology professor Carolyn Nordstrom and politi­cal science professor Christine Wolbrecht. 
Everett, the only member of the panel who also appeared after Wednesday's perform­ance, echoed D'Arcy's senti­ments regarding the "Monologues" and restated many of the same points she made the previous night. 
In a six-page statement released on March 12, D'Arcy said allowing the play on cam­pus " ... is not consistent with the identity of a Catholic uni­versity" and said the play was 
see VAGINNpage 6 
IUSB to host 24-hour dance _marathon 
Students, community encouraged to participate in fundraiser for Center for the Homeless 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 

A panel discussing the socio­logical implications of "The Vagina Monologues" followed the second production of Eve Ensler's controversial play Thursday in DeBartolo 101 and incorporated the views of Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy through a representative. 
Opponents continued to protest the play after 20 to 30 students walked out of Wednesday's performance, and greeted the attendees by handing them religious medals and a copy of D'Arcy's con­demnation of the show. 
The panel was composed of Lisa Everett, D'Arcy's repre-
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
Indiana University at South Bend (!USB) will give Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students as well as the Michiana community a reason to get together and get down next month when it hosts its first annual 24-hour dance marathon in support of the South Bend Center for the I Iomeless (CFl--1). 
The event will last from 12 

p.m. 
to 12 p.m. on April 19 and April 20. Regis Philbin will kick off the festivities. He will intro­duce the lineup of main stage entertainment, which starts at 6 

p.m. 
and will feature local bands. 


According to Jacqueline Kronk, director of Development and Public Relations at CFH, the fundraiser is to raise awareness for the cause of homelessness. 
Although they will be dancing for 24 straight hours, partici­pants will be provided with 13 meals throughout the 24 hours 
Panel exan1.ines local 
effects of immigration 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
Panelists said deporting illegal immigrants had a negative effect on the South Bend com­munity Wednesday in DeBartolo !Iall. 
Panelists examined the issue examined from the perspectives of religion, healthcare, law, edu­cation and economics. 
Senior economics major Jamie Grebowski's summer research project, which examined the economic impact of undocu­mented workers in South Bend, started after immigrant parish­ioners of St. Adalbert's Parish were deported in immigration raids. 
Grebowski, along with other researchers, surveyed 62 immi­grants, 40 of whom were undoc­umented. Their survey was based on the transactions of adults in the community accord­ing to assets such as labor income, consumer goods pur­chased and taxes paid. The sur­vey also looked at benefits they receive from government pro­grams such as welfare. 
"On average, over $4,000 a month per individual is going into the community from undoc­umented workers," he said. 
The study ultimately conclud­ed that deportation of undocu­mented immigrants negatively effects South Bend's economy. 
"Deporting undocumented workers is economically harm­ful to South Bend. We estab­lished that, in total, the immi­grant population contributes between $2 million dollars and about $10.5 million to the com­munity," Grebowski said. 
Manager of Memorial Hospital's Hispanic Initiative 
see PANEL/page 4 in order to recharge. In addi­tion, entertainment will be pro­vided for those who do not want to dance. 
"Other activities at the event do not require dancing -live bands, computer access, video game competitions, sports tour­neys, socializing, listening to guests from the Center sharing their stories, and plenty of eat­ing," Kronk said. 
The event will also feature a "family hour" towards the end, when CFH staff and residents will share their experiences 
/ 

with participants. 
Participants can sign up for the event at danceforthehome­less.com. In addition to paying a $15 fee, dancers must raise at least $250 in pledges. 
An easier option for students participating with friends is pur­chasing a "Miracl«:J Pass" for a cost of $50, which allows ten students to participate in events from 6 p.m. to 12 a.m. on Saturday. 
Kronk said that response to 
see DANCE/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


NDstudent reports rape 
Female claims sexual assault in dormitory 
By BILL BRINK 
News Editor 

A female student reported an alleged sexual assault to the Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) on March 23, NDSP assistant director Dave Chapman said. 
The police report on NDSP's crime blotter listed the offense as "rape." 
According to Chapman, the alleged assault took place in a resi­dence hall late Friday night or early Saturday morning. The student reported the incident to authorities Sunday, he said. 
The suspect was an acquaintance of the student's Chapman said, and was invited to the student's room. 
NDSP would not say whether the suspect was a student or in which dorm the alleged assault occurred. For privacy reasons, NDSP would not say whether the victim was taken to the hospital or received medical attention. 
"The case is continuing and being investigated," Chapman said. 
The alleged sexual assault case is the first of it<> kind reported to NDSP this year, Chapman said. 
In an e-mail sent to students after · the interview, NDSP reported that "The student reported that the assault was committed by a male acquaintance that was an invited guest in the student's residence hall room." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.eu 


ND-8 simulates poverty 
Group sponsors dinner to raise awareness on campus ofworld hunger 
By LINDSAY SENA 
News Writer 
World poverty awareness group ND-8 tried to simulate experiences of those living in extreme poverty by dividing stu­dents into different socioeconom­ic groups during the second annual Hunger Banquet Thursday in the Coleman-Morse Center. 
"We are here because 1.2 bil­lion people live in extreme pover­ty, surviving on less than $1 a day," freshman Coleen Halloran said. 
ND-8 oflicer Christie Hannon, who was the chief planner of the Hunger Banquet, said she hoped students left the banquet with a "better awareness of the reality of the people that live in poverty, and also an appreciation of what we have." 
see DINNER/page 6 page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Lost in Harry Potter 
It's 9 p.m. on Thursday and I'm watching Xavinr takn my bracknt and light it on fire by losing to West Virginia with two minutes lnf't. The only explanation: 'Lost' L'in't on thiswnnk. 
I camel to the rnalization that many of the 
charact.ors in 'Lost' have altnr-egos in 'Harry Potter.' Jack is I larry, hands down. I.ike I larry. one goal, to get oil' thn island at all cosl'i, motivates him throughout the series. I larry dOilsn't know it the whole 

time, but his goal is Bill Brink 
to destroy 
Voldemort. Both are News Editor 
misunderstood by 
their friends at 
times, and both play the voice of reason in 
thnir rnspnetive settings. 
My fitvorite charactnr on 'Lost,' Ben, is 

dearly Snape. Is he good or bad? Ben once 
ga..'isnd the entinl island; Snape was once a 
J>nath Eater. One second Ben is shooting 
pnopln in the baek; the next, he's divulging 

snernl'> to Locke. Nothing Snape does L'i 
one-sidnd, and it's impossible to interpret 
the motives or ends of his aetions. Are his 

O<~dumnney lnssons intcmded to protect 
I larry from Voldmnort or widen his mind 
so thn Dark Lord can get ea..'iy acenss? 
I>illicult qunstions. and like Snape in the 
books, I don't think we'll find out Ben's 
motivns and goals until thn nnd of the 

snries. 
Thn g<L'inous doud of dnath ha..'i to be 

Voldnmort bdiJrn hn got his body back, if 
only li>r llw physicalliknness. The implau­
sibility of both also links thnm. Whnre does 
a doud of g<L'i eomn from on an island in 
tJ1e south l'adfic'! I low did oml-sevenlll of 
Voldmnort's soul survivn to float around in 
Albania fi>r 14 ynars'! Unicorn blood? J'rn 
not buying it. 
Xavinr just lim~ed ovnrtimn. Ballin. 
Julint ha..'i got to be Cho. She's not right 

li>r Jack in the same way a..'i Cho wa'in 't 
right for I larry. Jack's only with her to 
!tickI ofl' Kate for sleeping with Sawyer. 
Soap opera-esque drama a..'iide, it's the 
truth. 
Jacob, the invisible voiee in the shack 

that only Ben can talk to, is the 
J>umbledorn of the island. I don't know 
what it (he'!) is, but I do know that it knows 
nverything we want to know. Ben is right 
about far too many things fbr Jacob not to 
be legit. I.ikewise, Dumbledore was always 
seven steps ahead or everyone else and 
knew tJw outcome of evenl'i, as well a<; 
thnir causes, befbre they happened. 
Locke L<> Malfoy, an impudent little brat 

whostl power trip dug him into a hole he 
doesn't know how to get out of. Just likn 
Malfby failed to kill Dumbledorc, Locke 
muld not diseern what Ben knew, what the 
Dharma Initiative wa<;, or why the people 
lrom Whitmore's boat arH there. 
Th1~rn arc some other possibilities. llurlny a..'i Neville'! (Useless) . .lin as Krum? O'ough time with English). Sawyer as Cedric Diggory'! {Athletic ladies' man). 
In I larry's absence, I'll continue to make eomparisons and look forward to the rest of 'Lost.' In high spirits because Xavier rainnd down treys in overtime to win, kncping my bracket int.aet, I'll look forward to 'Lost' with happiness and eonfusion. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake. please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, March 28, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT TELEVISION SHOW ARE YOU ADDICTED TO AND WHY? 







Kevin Donohue  Manuel Olguin  Ellen Fitzsimmons  Patrick Leimkuehler  Beck Roan  
sophomore Keough  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  sophomore Morrisey  
'"The Way  '"The Office,, I  '"Lost,' because I  '"Lost, , because  "I like '/louse,'  
.Things Work,,  don't need a  like to talk about  they never  because of  
because I'm  reason, Dwight  it at Finnigans. ,,  answer any  Chase's hair. ,,  
trying to figure  says it all. ,,  questions. ,,  

out myself, 

woman's apartment in the 8000 block of Green Orchard Road. 
The woman, who has lived in the apartment for two months, does not own the snake. Offieers believe the snake was left behind by a previous tenant. 
The snake will remain at Animal Control in Millersville for five days to give its owner a chance to pick it up. If it's not claimed, officers say the snake will be sent to a rescue organiza­tion. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
OFFBEAT 

Man tries to pay bill with toilet paper check 
BINGHAMTON, N.Y.-An upstate New York man embroiled in a dispute over his water bill is not being allowed to pay off his debt with a eheck written on toi­let paper. Ron Borgna tried to settle his $2,509.66 bill with a check written on flo­ral print, two-ply toilet paper Wednesday. 
The disagreement began in September 2006 when Borgna received a $422.90 water bill. Borgna claims he was overbilled. With addi­tional charges, penalties and late fees that bill has grown. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
0::: 
1.&.1 :::1: 

(\f:l­
>~~ )if;~
~ 
1.&.1 

,P ~ 
~ 

~y~
...... 
< 

Binghamton city officials refused to accept the check. After a short argument, Borgna was escorted out of the building. 
Borgna says he is appeal­ing the judgment against him in small claims court. 
Python surprises owner of new apartment 
GLEN BURNIE, Md. ­Anne Arundel County police say a Glen Burnie woman was surprised by a three­foot python that slithered out from behind her media stand while she watched tel­evision in her living room. 
It happened Sunday at the 
(.) 

0 HIGH 44 HIGH 35 HIGH 48 HIGH 51
...I 
LOW 35 LOW 30 LOW 32 LOW 36 
,.,r/;v6v·J.; 

e~ ~ 
•• 6 •
~~~ 
• 6 •• 


IN BRIEF 
"The Vagina Monologues" will be performed today in 101 DeBartolo at 7 p.m. A panel discussion will follow the performance. 
BCAC is looking for volun­teers to help with BCAC Fashion Show 200~. The show takes place April 5 at ~ p.m. Please nmail BCAC@nd.edu if you are interested. 
Amanda Anderson, Caroline Donovan Prol'nssor of English Literature at Johns Hopkins University, will speak at the 2008 Annual Ward-Phillips Lecture Series. Her lecturn is titled "Bleak Liberalism" and will continue through Friday at 5 p.m. in 100 MeKenna Hall. A reception follows the lecture. 
The Student Union Board will show the movie "Atonement" in 101 DeBartolo at 10 p.m Thursday, S and 10 p.m. Friday and ~ and 10:30 p.m. Saturday. Tickets are $3. 
Siegfried Hall will host the Rambler Scrambler, a minia­ture golf tournament, Saturday at Stepan Center at 8 p.m. Free pizza, pop and Jimmy John's will be avail­able. The event benefits Lou Gherig's Disease research, and iPods, cameras and iTunes gift cards will be raf­fled off. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play Cincinnati Friday at 5:05 p.m at Eck Field. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 53 HIGH 50 LOW 36 LOW 34 
Atlanta 76 I 52 Boston 37 I 33 Chicago 39 I 26 Denver 51 I 28 Houston 81 I 65 Los Angeles 70 I 52 Minneapolis 39 I 23 New York 41 I 36 Philadelphia 47 I 41 Phoenix 87 I 57 Seattle 46 I 35 St. Louis 48 I 41 Tampa 82 I 61 Washington 64 I 50 
~ ~~--------~-------­
Friday, March 28, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



University to host 
Asian film festival 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame will host filmmakers and scholars March 27 to 29 (Thursday to Saturday) for the annual Asian Film Festival and conference, this year titled "Love at First Sight: Romance and Relationships in Asian and Asian American Cinema." 
The festival will showcase four award-winning films in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Admission is $6 for the general public, $5 for Notre Dame faculty and staff, $4 for seniors, and $3 for stu­dents. Tickets may be pur­chased in advance at http://performingarts.nd.edu or by calling the center box office at 574-631-2800. 
The films are: 
+ 
"Train Man" --This 2005 film directed by Masanori Murakami is based on true events that took place on a popular bulletin board Web site in Japan. This is the fairy-tale story of one geek, one beauty, and 1,000 noisy chat room resi­dents. (March 27 at 7 p.m.)

+ 
"The Trouble with Romance" -Directed by 



Gene Rhee, this 2007 film takes place in one Los Angeles hotel where each room hides a different trou­ble with romance. (March 28 at 7 p.m.)
+ 
"My Sassy Girl" -This 2001 film directed by Jae­young Kwak is based on an on-line serial written by Kim Ho-sik. that details his relationship with his off-the­wall college girlfriend. (March 29 at 7 p.m.)

+ 
"Omkara" -Directed by Vishal Bharadwaj, "Omkara" is a film adaptation of William Shakespeare's tragedy, "Othello." This 2006 film traces one man's unrelenting jealousy and all­consuming obsession against the backdrop of political warfare in the interiors of Uttar Pradesh. (March 29 at 10 p.m. 


The 2008 Asian and Asian American Film Festival is presented by the Center for Asian Studies, DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, East Asian Languages and Cultures, and the Provost Office's Asia Initiatives. It is sponsored and supported· by more than a dozen departments, offices and organizations at Notre Dame and several external organizations, including the Korean Cultural Center in Los Angeles. 
Eric's Pron1ise collects donations 
SMC nursing students gather clothes as part of Lenten project 
make that donation to Saint 
By LIZ HARTER 
Vincent de Paul due to the 
Saint Mary's Editor 
accident, but his mother 
made sure the clothes made 

As part of a Lenten proj­it to the center, she said. ect, Saint's Mary's students Molnar decided to continue helped collect clothing for her son's mission to be the Saint Vincent de Paul more giving each year. Society of St. "[Molnar] has Joseph County encouraged the as part of the South Bend Eric's Promise 'Th' · t · Community to 
project. zs projeC zs a continue in ful-
Last year, matter close to the filling Eric's Mary Molnar, nursing majors, Lenten wish by the director of hearts.,, collecting cloth-
nursing at the ing and house­Center for hold goods dur­Hospice and Lindsey Piehl ing the Lenten Palliative Care Saint Mary's senior season," Piehl 
in South Bend, visited a class of Saint Mary's nursing students to discuss different aspects of hospice care. 

While there, she told the students about her son, Eric Henry Molnar, who was killed in a car accident in early 2002. 
Senior Lindsey Piehl, the president of the Student Nurses Association (SNA), said Molnar told the group that Eric had gathered sev­eral bags of old clothing to donate to Saint Vincent de Paul. 
"His Lenten mission which he told his mother was to 'be more givirig,"' Piehl said. 
Eric was never able to 
said. "To this date more than 65,000 pounds of 
items have been donat­ed." 
munity involved in donating to such a meaningful serv­ice," she said. 
For one week, from March 11 to March 21, SNA placed barrels and boxes in each of the residence halls and the student center atrium to allow students and staff to donate clothing to the proj­ect. 
Piehl said SNA was very happy with the College's generous response to the project. 
"The barrels and boxes were all filled to the top and many were overflowing with items," she said. "Saint Mary's proved to be 'more giving' during this week of 
Lent."  
She said  she hopes the  
College contin­ 
ues  to partici­ 

pate Eric's

'This was a great
Piehl said Promise in the 
SNA decided opportunity for our years to come 
to bring the community to be more because it Eric's allows Saint
like Eric Henry ... ,,
Promise proj­Mary's to give ect to Saint back to the St. Mary's Lindsey Piehl Joseph com­
because all Saint Mary's senior munity of the women which they are who heard a part. Molnar speak wanted to "This was a great oppor­help and the group wanted tunity for our community to to allow ·the entire commu­be more like Eric Henry and nity to help as well. make a conscious effort to 
"This project is a matter be more giving," Piehl said. close to the nursing majors' hearts ... We wanted to get Contact Liz Harter at the entire Saint Mary's com-eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



EARLY ADMISSION 

DON'T BE LEFT BEHIND AS OTHERS STUDY IN LONDON IN 2009 APPLY NOW AND TAKE ADVANTAGE OF 
EARLYADMISSION 
AND ASSURE YOUR PLACE FOR 2009! 
SUBMIT YOUR APPLICATION BY APRIL 5, 2008 FOR THE 2009 PROGRAMME AND YOUR COMPLETED FILE WILL BE REVIEWED AND A DECISION WILL BE MADE IN JUNE 2008 
APPLY ON-LINE VIA THE INTERNATIONAL STUDIES WEBSITE OR FILL OUT A HARDCOPY APPLICATION AND RETURN IT TO THE LONDON SUMMER PROGRAMME OFFICE 
CONTACT: Liz Reagan 305 Brownson Hall 631-0622 Reagan.9@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 28, 2008 
languages that make up the emerging trend of immigrant look to the Gospel of Matthew. rest," Barna said. men marrying American "We are supposed to be the 
Dance
Panel 
According to Barna, children women in South Bend. salt of the earth and the light of l'aee many pressurns as a result "One of the things that really the world ... adding something 
continued from page 1continued from page· I 
of having parents who are surprised me when I came to distinctive to the word today," immigrants. South Bend was the number of he said. "When I look at the 
the event so far has been posi­
Leonora Battani said immi­
tive.
"Of all the students we serve, situations where you have a Church, I think we've some­
!{rants in South B1md are given "The community has really
75 to 80 percent am citizens of Mexiean man married to an times lost our way and become
ac1:ess to health 1:are regard­embraced the event. I think they
the U.S.; however, their parents American woman," O'Connor invisible. Immigration pro­
less of tlwir legal status. 
were ready for something out­
may not be citizens," he said. said. foundly afl'ects our Church, and 
"We in South Bend are very side the box," she said. 
"This has implications for our O'Connor said immigrants it's a decisive question for us." 
lucky that we have two hospi­The event has been heavily
school system and puts pres­have to complete a two-step Cox referred to the parable of
tals that treat patients from 
publicized on television, radio,
sure on parents that truly process in order to gain legal Lazarus in the Gospel to
seven or eight counties," she and billboards, 
efl'octs the students." status. First, a U.S. citizen has emphasize his claim that the
said. "They treat immigrants 
"We're eonfident and hopeful
Barna also said immigration the right to petition for a rela­poor are often forgotten by
just that any person needs to our marketing efl'orts will pay oil' raids have afl'ected many of the tive who is an immigrant. Then society.
be treated." 
big the day of the event ... It's a
students he works with, and an immigrant must qualify "As a Catholic university,
According to Battani, the lan­little bit of the 'If you build it
the raids can have a negative aflirmatively. education needs to be marked
guage barrier presents the 
they will come' mentality,"
impact on their learning and O'Connor said this is almost by the sign of the cross. We
greatest challenge for health Kronk said. 
concentration in the classroom. impossible for anyone who need to have the vision to see
care professionals when treat­Kronk also said although she is
Barna said his department entered the country illegally to Lazarus out there, hear the cry 
ing immigrants. 
unsure of the exact number.
works to ease the communica­attain a visa. of the poor ... and have the
"The biggest problem we 
IUSB is ready to handle thou­
tion barrier for students' par­"Immigration law has been courage to act," he said.
have is language -that is 
sands of participants.
ents. made so complicated and difli­"There are many lenses we can
where the inequities start. 
"We're prepared for thousands 
"We provide ... translation cult in the last few years, that put on the issue. What we
Many hospitals can't otTer lan­
and with the way things are
services in Spanish for our par­even people with a clean believe as a Church is that the
guage services, including inter­going with word spreading so
ents," he said. "Any time record that are married to an most important lens is the lens
pretflrs or translation of docu­much, we're optimistic that the
there's a conference that needs American [citizen] face a of faith. Are we going to take
ments,'' she said. "Here in 
event will be a success," she
interpreter; we provide that to daunting process," O'Connor the lens from sounds bites on
South Bend. most of the major said.
the school. We translate anum­said. radio talk shows or from the
health services arn bilingual ­To encourage students fromber of [legal] documents for He also said immigrants who lens of faith?"
that has a lot to say for where Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and
parents, so parents are knowl­enter the country are asked to Cox said based on his experi­
we live and how welcoming we Holy Cross to attend, Kronk said 
edgeable about what is hap­go back to their country of ori­ences in his parish, he believes
are to immigrants." 
IUSB is working to provide
pening in school and with their gin and apply to the U.S. the community has much to
Helping to combat language transportation to the dance site. 
child." Consulate before returning to gain from immigrants. 
barriers in South Bend through The event coincides with the
Immigration laws also pres­the U.S. But once immigrants "These are people that come
the South Bend Community 
annual Blue-Gold game on April
ent many hurdles for families, leave, they are disqualified from a rich Catholic heritage,
School Corporation. bilingual 19, but Kronk said this is anoth­
according to directing attorney from being able to acquire a that can being new life to our
education coordinator for the er good reason for students to
of the Immigrants' Rights green card for ten years. churches," he said. "We will be 
South Bend Community School consider buying a Miracle Pass. 
Center at Indiana Legal "If [immigrants] come back in enriched by welcoming the
Corporation Bill Barna said 
"When determining a date forServices Lee A. O'Connor. again unlawfully, it's a perma­stranger."
students who are learning 
the dance marathon we took all
"There are substantial legal nent bar and they have to wait The panel, entitled
English as a sncond language high school and college academ­
problems for people who are 10 years before they can come "Implications of Immigration
are o!'tnn the first generation in ic calendars into consideration
here as immigrants," O'Connor back ... That's what I think far for South Bend,'' was spon­
their family to do so. 
as well as other community
said. "We often think of people and away is the biggest prob­sored by the Department of
"In our 'English as a New 
events. This weekend is the first
here as legal or illegal, and lem," O'Connor said. Economics and Policy Studies
Language' program, 96 percent without spring breaks and vaca­
that's not a good way to think Fr. Chris Cox, Associate pas­and the Department of
of students have Spanish as 
tions," Kronk said. 
about it ... It's often more of a tor of St. Adalbert Parish, Economics and Econometrics.
their horne language, in second 
continuum than an issue of examined immigration con­
place at two pnrcent is Arabic undocumented or not." cerns from a religious stand­Contact Becky Hogan at 
Contact Katie Peralta at
and then thoro's about 24 other O'Connor said there is an point, and said Catholics should rhogan2@nd.edu 
kperalta@nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Friday, March 28, 2008 CoMPILED fROA,t THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Wilders offers film critical of Islam 
AMSTERDAM -A Dutch lawmaker released a film highly critical of Islam on Thursday, setting verses of the Muslim holy book against a background of violent images from terrorist attacks. 
Geert Wilders posted his 15-minute film on a Web site. Shortly afterward, Dutch television channels showed segments of the film and broadcast discussions by analysts on the possible impact of its release. 
The Dutch government had warned Wilders that a film offensive to Muslims could spark violent protests in Islamic countries, like those two years ago after European newspapers published cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad. 
"The film equates Islam with violence. We reject this," Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende said in a televised reaction. "We ... regret that Mr. Wilders has released this film. We believe it serves no other purpose than to cause offense." 
Bush endorses Croatian NATO bid 
ZAGREB, Croatia -President Bush says he "strongly supports" Croatian membership in NATO, but has declined to say if the former Yugoslav country will be invited to join the alliance at a summit next week. 
In an interview with the state-run Croatian tel­evision broadcast Thursday, Bush said the deci­sion will be made by all NATO members. 
Bush has said that Croatia is in a "very good position" to be invited to join. Membership in NATO and European Union are among the coun­try's priorities. 
Bush spoke in Washington before his trip next week to Ukraine, a NATO summit in Homania and Croatia. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Unknown gunmen kill two motorists 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. -Gunfire that struck several vehicles and injured two people along a stretch of mountain highway had motorists and police on edge Thursday in a region where mem­ories of the deadly Beltway snipers still haven't faded. 
Authorities were seeking at least two people suspected of firing shots the night before that hit two cars, a van, a tractor-trailer and an unoccu­pied dump truck on Interstate 64 just west of Charlottesville. Two people were injured, but not seriously. 
Col. Steven Flaherty, the state police superin­tendent. would not characterize the shootings as the work of snipers, calling it "random firing." 
Court upholds murder conviction 
PHILADELPHIA -An appeals court Thursday upheld Mumia Abu-Jamal's convic­tion for murdering a police officer 27 years ago but rejected prosecutors' request to reinstate the death penalty for the former Black Panther. 
A three-judge panel of the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said that because the jury that sentenced Abu-Jamal to die was given flawed instructions in the penalty phase, he must either get a new sentencing hearing or be sen­tenced to life in prison. 
Abu-Jamal's lead attorney, Robert R. Bryan of San Francisco, said he was glad the judges did not reinstate the death sentence, but added that he will continue fighting to get his client a new trial. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Murder appeal set to begin in May 
INDIANAPOLIS-The Indiana Supreme Court will hear oral arguments in May in the appeal of a former state trooper who was convicted of killing his wife and two children. 
Louisville, Kentucky television station WAVE reports the court will hear arguments in David Carum's case May 22 in Indianapolis. 
Canun is serving a life sentence without the possibility of parole following his second con­viction in the September 2000 murders of his wife, 35-year-old Kimberly, and their children, 7 -year-old Bradley and 5-year-old Jill. 
IRAQ 

Al-Maliki vows 'no retreaf in Basra 
Mobs protest against Prime Minister after he cracks down on Shiite militias 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki pledged "no retreat" Thursday in the fight against Shiite militias in the southern city of Basra, as thousands of protesters demanded he resign over the crackdown and extremists fired rockets into the U.S.-protected Green Zone. 
Shiite militia leader Muqtada al-Sadr called Thursday for a political solu­tion to the burgeoning crisis and an end to the "shedding of Iraqi blood." But the state­ment, released by a close aide, stopped short of order­ing his Mahdi Army militia to halt attacks on the Green Zone or stop fighting in Basra, Iraq's second-largest city. 
In a sign of the deteriorat­ing security, gunmen in Baghdad seized a high-profile government spokesman from his home in a Shiite neighbor­hood, killing thre·e of his bodyguards and torching his house. In a bid to curb the violence, Iraq's military ordered vehicles and pedes­trians off the streets of the capital until Sunday morning. 
As Americans and Iraqis scrambled to cope with a newly violent Iraq, the State Department ordered all per­sonnel at the U.S. Embassy not to leave reinforced struc­controlling Basra's streets member of parliament, Falah They have accused rival tures because of continued Thursday, and the security Shanshal, said. Shiite parties, which control incoming rocket or mortar operation has triggered a vio­However, al-Maliki showed Iraqi security forces, of engi­fire from suspected Shiite lent response among al­no sign of wavering. neering the arrests to prevent extremists angry over the Sadr's followers in Baghdad "We have made up our them from mounting an effec­Basra crackdown. and cities throughout the minds to enter this battle, and tive campaign for provincial 
The campaign to rid Basra Shiite heartland of southern we will continue until the elections expected this fall. of lawless gangs and Shiite Iraq. end. No retreat," al-Maliki The Sadrists expect to make militias -some believed tied In the Baghdad neighbor­told Basra area tribal leaders major electoral gains at the to nearby Iran -is a major hood of Kazimiyah, thousands in a speech broadcast nation­expense of rival parties, test for al-Maliki, a Shiite, of · al-Sadr's followers wide on Iraqi state TV. including those that maintain and for the Iraqi military. The denounced al-Maliki as a Al-Maliki said Iraq had close ties to the United States. ability of Iraqi leaders and "new dictator" as they car­become a "nation of gangs, American officials have security forces to control situ­ried a coffin bearing a militias and outlaws" and he acknowledged that the unilat­ations like this one is key to crossed-out picture of the was undertaking a "historic eral cease-fire declared by al­
U.S. hopes of withdrawing its U.S.-backed prime minister. mission" in Basra to restore Sadr last August played a forces from the country. Thousands more also rallied "the law of the land." major role in reducing vio­
The prime minister put his in Sadr City, Baghdad's main But the Sadrists have been lence in Baghdad. U.S. and credibility on the line by fly­Shiite district. angry over recent raids and Iraqi officials have insisted ing down to Basra and issuing "We call on our brothers in detentions, saying U.S. and that they are not targeting al­a weekend deadline for the the Iraqi army and the brave Iraqi forces have taken Sadr's movement but simply surrender of Mahdi Army national police not to be tools advantage of their 7 -month­going after renegades, crimi­militiamen loyal to al-Sadr. of death in the hands of the old cease-fire to crack down nals and extremists with ties But the militiamen were still new dictatorship," a Sadrist on the movement. to Iran. 


California cuts car fuel regulations 
cle emissions. two steps on Thursday: It cut the
Associated Press Instead, the air board said the six number of zero-emission vehicles it SACRAMENTO -California air largest automakers must sell near­wants on the road by 2014, while at regulators on Thursday slashed the ly 60,000 hybrid vehicles while the same time offering an alterna­number of battery-powered and they develop the more advanced tive -the gas-electric hybrids. hydrogen fuel cell vehicles that must technology that will allow mass Environmentalists and health be sold in the state, a setback for production of pure zero-emission advocates criticized the lowering of environmentalists and health advo­vehicles. the zero-emission goal for vehicles. cates. Board chairwoman Mary Nichols They said the threats posed by glob­The decision is expected to affect described the move as a major step al warming, combined with rising 12 other states that had adopted toward putting cleaner cars on the gasoline prices, lends urgency to California's target for zero-emission road. The plug-in hybrids envi­greatly reducing vehicle emissions. vehicles. sioned by the air board have yet to "We are disappointed. We think The California Air Resources be designed, she said. this proposal doesn't take us on the Board voted to lower by 70 percent "We're introducing a whole new road to meeting the state's long­the number of those vehicles that category of vehicles to the public," term global warming goals," said automakers must sell here and in Nichols said. "I don't think it's a Spencer Quong, a senior vehicles the states that intended to follow step backwards in the real world." analyst at the Union of Concerned California's get-tough rules for vehi-In essence, the air board took Scientists. 
page 6 

Vagina 
continued from page 1 
"pornographic and spiritually 
harmful." 
Everett said the Monologues 
undermine the point it claims 
to make because some of the 
sexual acts celebrated in the 
play desecrate women. 
"Several of the Monologues 
exalt sexual pleasure as an 
end in itself, severed from 
twin goods of love and life," 
she said. 
She pointed to the mono­
logue entitled "The Little 
Coochie Snorcher That 
Could," which detailed the 
positive experience of a 
teenager's seduction by an 
older woman. 
"Sexual snduction of a 
minor is portrayed positively 
as an act of salvation," she 
said. "You can't have it both 
ways." 
Collett spoke on the socio­
logical significance of the play. 
"I was shocked with some of 
the language and topics of the 
play but I also realized that 
that was exactly the point," 
she said. 
While many condemned this technique of shock, Collett said it was an effective way to capture attnntion and make a point. 
"!This exhibits thel power of language," she said. "To many of us, the word vagina evokes disgust and shame." 
According to Collett, the play makes an effort to over­come the negative connota­tions surrounding the word 'vagina' by saying it and shouting it. 
Nordstrom highlighted her experiences working in rape camps in Africa and Eastern Europe as a testament to the truth and importance of the "Monologues," because it can give a voice to the countless women who have been brutal­ly raped. 
"I have seen this in Yugoslavia and Africa," she said. "People tell stories about what hurts and what needs healing." 
Whether or not someone likes or agrees with the "Mon.ologues" is inconsequen­tial Nordstrom said. 
"If you don't like what is being said, say it better," she stated, "But you can't run away from the question." 
Nordstrom said the response the Monologues elicited and the full auditorium that came to see the play indicated that "obviously something is being said that is still important and still needs to be said." 
Wolbrecht related the Monologues to the second wave of feminism that occurred in the 1960s. She compared it to the tactic of "conscious-raising," a tech­nique of feminists to bring awareness of issues to the surface, to the often-criticized shock tactics used in the "Monologues." 
"The idea was that through sharing they could see the degree to which their own lives were shaped, con­strained, and dominated by gender," Wolbrecht said. 
Wolbrecht said she was moved by the play. 
"I forgot how moving it is to see 20-year-olds speak about things no one else is saying," Wolbrecht said. "I was so inspired by this play." 
The "Monologues" con­eludes its run tonight at 7p.m. in DeBartolo 101. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

The Observer + NEWS 
U.S. reports troop deaths 
Solidiers,families mourn as officials up the number ofcasualties to 4,000 
Associated Press 

FORT STEWART, Ga. ­Staff Sgt. Christopher M. Hake began his Army career in a ceremonial unit, serving as an escort during funerals at Arlington National Cemetery and marching in President Bush's 2001 inau­guration parade. 
But he wanted to do his part in Iraq. So Hake, of Enid, Okla., transferred in 2004 to the 3rd Infantry Division at Fort Stewart in southern Georgia, deployed to Iraq in 2005 and returned for a second combat tour late last year. 
"This deployment, he told me, 'You couldn't pay me to come home early,"' said Peter Hake, the soldier's father. "He was a squad leader and loved his guys that worked under him. He said they would die for each other, and they did." 
Hake, 26, and three Fort Stewart soldiers in his squad died Monday from wounds suffered when a roadside bomb exploded into their Bradley armored vehicle the day before. The Army announced the four deaths Sunday, pushing the mili­tary's count of U.S. service members killed in Iraq to 4,000, and released their identities Thursday. 
The military's count varies slightly from an independent tally kept by The Associated Press, which on Thursday counted 4,004 service mem­bers killed in Iraq. 
Also killed in. the explosion were Spc. Jose A. Rubio Hernandez, 24, of Mission, Texas; Pfc. Andrew J. llabsieger, 22, of Festus, Mo.; and Pvt. George Delgado, 21, of Palmdale, Calif. 
"He wanted to be known for something, and now he is," said Rubio's wife, Jennifer Guerra. 
The four men served in the 4th Battalion, 64th Armor Hegiment, which was among the first Army units to charge into Iraq during the March 2003 invasion. The battalion is part of the 19,000-soldier of gratitude for the opportu­3rd Infantry, the first Army nities his family had in division to be tapped for a America. Before he was third tour of duty in Iraq. killed, Rubio had filled out 
Staff Sgt. William Mead his paperwork to apply for served with all four men in U.S. citizenship, but had yet the same platoon. He bonded to mail them. with Hake during their previ­In California's Antelope ous deployment to Iraq. The Valley, staff and students others were serving their gathered during a lunch first tours. break to pray for Delgado at 
Mead taught Rubio and Desert Christian High School, Delgado to drive the hulking, where he earned his diploma 
17-foot  in 2004.  
Bradleys  D  e  v  i  n  
after they arrived. The two young  "Four-thousand lives is a tragic loss. But when  Thomas, the dean of dis­cipline and  
soldiers had never driven anything big­ you're close, the smaller number feels greater."  incoming principal, remembered  
ger  than  a  Delgado for  
car, he said,  William Mead  his  "infec­ 
but could  soon navi­ Staff sergeant  tious, unique sense of  
gate the nar­ humor."  

rowest streets with ease. He "From day one, that was described Habsieger as an his personality -to laugh up-and-coming leader who and to joke and to have a kept in peak physical condi­good time," Thomas said. tion. High school friend Alysse 
"Four-thousand lives is a Pernula said Delgado he had tragic loss. But when you're an adventurous spirit and close, the smaller number overall enjoyed Army life. feels greater," said Mead, 37, Despite having been a foot­of Whitehall, N.Y., who was ball star at his Missouri high sent back to Fort Stewart on school, Habsieger had to March 4 fight to join because of a the Army in
"Each one ofthem,
knee injury. 2007. His "Each one of they all wanted to be mother said them, they all the military
there. Nobody likes it
wanted to be first rejected
there, but we all kept 
there. Nobody her son likes it there, our word and we because he but we all kept suffered from 
went." 
our word and migraine we went." headaches. 
Their deaths William Mead Brenda came at a time Staff sergeant Habsieger 

of celebration on the Army post southwest of Savannah, where hundreds of troops from the division's 1st Brigade began arriving home this week from a 15-month deployment. The 4/64 Armor, however, was not scheduled to return until early 2009. 
Rubio had moved to the 
U.S. from Mexico with his family at age 4. Edgar Rubio said his younger brother joined the Army in 2006 out 
told the St. 
Louis Post­Dispatch her son longed to enlist after hearing his grandfather's stories of mili­tary service. She said he died two weeks before he was to come home from Iraq on leave. 
"He was a big-hearted kid and made everyone around him better," said Joel Critchlow, Habsieger's for­mer football coach. "He led through example." 
Friday, March 28, 2008 


Dinner 
continued from page 1 
When students arrived at the banquet, event organizers asked them to pull a card at random from a bag. Each card contained the name, socioeconomic status and life story of a character whose identity participants would assume for the evening. 
Organizers divided students into high, middle and low­income groups, according to the actual statistical divisions of the respective 15 percent, 25 per­cent and 60 percent of each class. 
After the student<> were seated -the high-income at tables and the low-income barefoot on the floor -Hannon said to illustrate the real-life scenario, the high­income would receive a catered dinner of salad, pasta and cheesecake while the middle­class would receive rice and beans and the lower-class would receive only rice. 
The men were asked to serve themselves first, based on the studenL<>' assigned identities. 
"Some people have the good fortune to change their lives for the better, but for most the cir­cumstances of life are deter­mined by factors outside their control," Boyle said. 
ND-8 ollicer Michael Ellerhorst emphasized the importance of spreading the word about hunger to students and faculty around campus. 
"You don't really think about it ... you go to the dining hall and there's more food than you could ever want ... a lot of people don't have access to [food] around the world," he said. 
Contact Lindsay Sena at lsena@nd.edu 
Come have some pizza and find out about ART HISTORY AT ND Tuesday, April 1, at 5:00 pm 200 Riley Hall Majors, Minors, Anyone curious and/or hungry is welcome! 
, 
__j 
THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Friday, March 28, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  12,302.46  -120.40  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,262  82  2,083  4,037,954,875  
AMEX  2,236.04  +16.27  

NASDAQ 2,280.83 -43.53 NYSE 81812:•.17 -64;.p$ S&P 500 1,325.66 -15.47 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,604.58 -102.05 FTSE 100 (London) 5?17.50 +57.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  -0.32  -0.42  132.78  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -2.21  -0.99  43.71  
FINANCIAL SEL (XLF)  -1.56  -0.40  25.22  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -7.21  -1.51  19.43  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.14 +0.040 3.534 13-WEEK BILL -1.57 -0.020 1.250 30-YEAR BOND +1.06 +0.046 4.376 5-YEAR NOTE +1.30 +0.033 2.576 

Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.68 107.58 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) -0.20 954.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.90 71.50 
Exchange Rates YEN 99.5700 EURO 0.6338 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0164 
IN BRIEF 

Wall Street sinks on tech concerns 
NEW YORK -Wall Street sank in volatile trading Thursday after the government con­firmed that the last quarter of 2007 did indeed suffer a sharp economic slowdown. For the second straight session, the Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 100 points. 
The technology sector was particularly weak after business software maker Oracle Corp. posted worse-than-expected fiscal third-quarter sales and issued a cautious forecast. Meanwhile, data suggesting that Google Inc.'s revenue from Internet users' clicks could slow also raised worries about tech stocks. 
Oracle fell $1. 51, or 7. 2 percent, to $19.43, and Google dropped $14.11, or 3.1 percent, to $444.08. 

Wiring inspections cancel more flights 
DALLAS -American Airlines and Delta Air Lines canceled hundreds more flights Thursday as they continued inspections of wiring bundles on some of their pl~mes. 
Although thousands of passengers were inconvenienced over the past two days, analysts downplayed any notion that the cancellations would hurt the airlines finan­cially. They said the costs would pale in comparison to high fuel prices. 
Delta expected to cancel about 275 flights, or about 3 percent of its schedule, before returning to normal operations early Friday, said spokeswoman Chris Kelly. 
American, the nation's largest airline, canceled 141 flights by mid-afternoon Thursday, or about 6 percent of its estimat­ed 2,300 flights, officials said. The Fort Worth-based airline canceled 318 flights Wednesday. 
At American, inspectors from the airline and the Federal Aviation Administration focused on fixing the spacing between cords used to secure bundles of wires in the auxiliary hydraulic systems of its MD­80 aircraft. 
"In no way was safety compromised, but the (FAA) directive said 'Do it this way,"' said American spokesman Tim Smith. 
CHINA 


Stage-managed Tibetan tour goes awry 
30 monks force their way to media, claiming China 'is always telling liesf 
Associated Press 

LHASA, China -The 
stage-managed tour of Tibet's 
holiest temple was going 
according to the government 
script. Suddenly, 30 young 
Buddhist monks pushed their 
way in, slammed the door. 
and began shouting and cry­
ing to the foreign reporters 
that there is no freedom in 
the riot-torn region. 
"What the government is 
saying is not true," a monk 
shouted as a wellspring of 
grievances poured out, first 
in Tibetan and then in 
Chinese after the confused 
reporters asked them to 
switch. Finally, government 
officials abruptly ended the 
session and told the journal­
ists it was "time to go." 
The emotional, 15-minute 
outburst by the red-robed 
monks decrying their lack of 
religious freedom was the 
only spontaneous moment 
Thursday in an otherwise 
tightly controlled government 
trip to the Tibetan capital for 
foreign reporters following 
this month's deadly riots. 
On the second day of the 
tour, officials hewed to the 
government line -that the 
most violent anti-Chinese 
protests in nearly two 
decades was plotted by the 
exiled Dalai Lama and his 
supporters. Officials escorted 
two dozen reporters to shops, monks began shouting to didn't elaborate on the Later, a monk speaking in 
clinics, a school and a jail to them. The monks said the alleged lies, according to a Chinese said the death toll 
interview victims and rioters, believers then in the shrine translation by Tibetan schol­was far higher than the gov­
many of them already widely were fake -members of ars in the U.S who listened to ernment was saying. "The 
interviewed by state media. China's ruling Communist an audiotape of the con­cadres and the army killed 
Those who tried to break Party. frontation made by AP more than 100 Tibetans. 
away from the pack were fol­They complained that Television News. They arrested more than a 
lowed by car and on foot, troops had ringed the "They have destroyed the thousand." 
making all but the most fleet­monastery and kept it shut way we are seen by the peo­"Tibetans have no free­
ing of contact with ordinary with all 117 monks inside ple," one monk said. "We are dom," a monk said after 
Tibetans risky. since March 10-the day the like prisoners here," said some of them switched to 
Only the monks at the protests began -and that another. Chinese. "We want the Dalai 
Jokhang Temple, Tibet's holi­the guards were only As the monks blurted out a Lama to come back," said 
est site, managed to upend removed Wednesday, when stream of complaints, one another, adding that they 
the official stage-managed foreign journalists arrived. cried: "The government is were certain they would be 
event. The monks, speaking in always telling lies, it's all detained when the reporters 
As reporters were ushered Tibetan, claimed government lies." left. 
toward the temple's inner officials were trying to turn "They killed many people. "They want us to curse the 
shrine by a senior monk and Tibetans against them by They killed many people," a Dalai Lama and that is not 
administrator, the 30 young telling lies. But the monks monk said. right," a monk added. 


Strikes cause GM parts shortages 
Associated Press But GM spokesman Dan Flores said DTS and Lucerne sales are down Thursday the Detroit-Hamtramck nearly 20 percent for the same peri­
DETROIT -The increasingly bitter plant, which makes the Buick od. monthlong strike at auto parts maker Lucerne and Cadillac DTS sedans, is "Once we go down, it should start American Axle and Manufacturing nearing the end of its parts supply affecting the dealers very fast," said Holdings Inc. is starting to hit from American Axle. Jim Graham, president of UAW Local General Motors Corp. where it hurts. "Employees have been notified that 1112 at the Lordstown assembly 
Two GM factories that make cars in we anticipate we are going to run out plant near Youngstown. Michigan and Ohio soon will be of parts sometime late in the shift on Graham said GM is running out of affected by the strike, which already Friday, Flores said. a small brake part for the Cobalt and has fully or partially shut down 28 Closing the Lordstown complex, G5 that is made by American Axle. GM plants in the U.S. and Canada which makes the Chevrolet Cobalt The shutdown likely will affect 3,750 due to parts shortages. and Pontiac G5 small cars, could workers at the Lordstown complex 
GM confirmed Thursday that the hurt GM the most since the cars are and nearby parts suppliers, he said. strike will force it to idle the Detroit­selling well due to high gasoline "Hopefully they resolve their issues Hamtramck assembly plant after prices. and we get back to work and build Friday's lone shift, and a local union Through February, the Cobalt, cars," Graham said. "We're good at president in Lordstown, Ohio, said which gets up to 33 miles per gallon that." Thursday that his complex will be of gasoline on the highway, saw sales GM workers will get unemployment shut down on April 4. rise more than 43 percent when benefits as well as supplemental pay 
Previously the strike had affected compared with the first two months from the company if the factories are only plants that assemble or supply of last year, according to Autodata shut down. parts for slow-selling pickup trucks Corp. G5 sales are up nearly 19 per­Flores wouldn't comment on the and sport utility vehicles. cent. status of the Lordstown plant. 

page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 28, 2008 
to celebrate the publication of her new book 
This book will touch your heart and your soul. 
-Lou Holtz 


Girl dies after not 
receiving medicine 
Associated Press 
WESTON, Wis.-Police are investigating an 11-year-old girl's death from an undiag­nosed, treatable form of dia­betes after her parents chose to pray for her rather than take her to a doctor. 
An autopsy showed Madeline Neumann died Sunday of diabetic ketoacido­sis, a condition that left too little insulin in her body, Everest Metro Police Chief Dan Vergin said. 
She had probably been ill for about a month, suffering symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, excessive thirst, loss of appetite and weak­ness, the chief said Wednesday, noting that he expects to complete the investigation by Friday and forward the results to the dis­trict attorney. 
The girl's mother, Leilani Neumann, said that she 
and her fami­ "We are remaining strong  her  to  take  
ly believe in the Bible and that healing  for our children. Only our faith in  her to the hospital for a week, a few  
comes  from  God is giving us strength  days now."  
God, but that they do not  at this time. ''  The called  aunt back  
belong to an  with  more  
organized  Leilani Neumann  information  
religion  or  mother of Madeline Neumann  on  the fami­ 

faith, are not 
fanatics and 
have nothing against doctors. 
She insisted her youngest child, a wiry girl known to wear her straight brown hair in a ponytail, was in good health until recently. 
"We just noticed a tiredness within the past two weeks," she said Wednesday. "And then just the day before and that day (she died), it sudden­ly just went to a more serious situation. We stayed fast in prayer then. We believed that she would recover. We saw signs that to us. it looked like she was recovering." 
Iler daughter-who hadn't seen a doetor since she got some shots as a 3-year-old, according to Vergin -had no 
-~~ 
.. ~"'} 
Supported by a grant from th.,, John Templeton Foundation. : 
The ~est Project 2008 Lecture Series 
Science and Religion in the Abrahamic Faiths: Judaism, Christianity, and Islam 
]oiu us... on April! for a lecture by Nancey Murphy, Professor ofChristian Philosophy, Fuller Theological Seminary, Pasadena 
4:00P.M. 
Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall 
Neuroscience, Christian Anthropology, and the Role ofWomen in the Church 
---t%1:--­
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE CFNTER KlR SPIRffUAIJTY 
NOrKt 0/\Mt. · INDII\NA 
SAINT MARY'S <i)iJ.B:;E ­
saintmarys.edu/spirituality • (574) 284-4636 • E-mail:kguthrie@saintmarys.edu 
fever and there was warmth in her body, she said. 
The girl's father, Dale Neumann, a former police officer, said he started CPR "as soon as the breath of life left" his daughter's body. 
Family members elsewhere called authorities to seek help for the girl. 
"My sister-in-law, she's very religious, she believes in faith instead of doctors ... ," the girl's aunt told a sheriff's dis­patcher Sunday afternoon in a call from California. "And she called my mother-in-law today ... and she explained to us that she believes her daughter's in a coma now and she's relying on faith." 
The dispatcher got more information from the caller and asked whether an ambu­lance should be sent. 
"Please," the woman replied. "I mean, she's refus­ing. She's going to fight it. ... We've been trying to get 
ly's location, 
emergency logs show. Family friends also made a 911 call from the home. Police and paramedics arrived within minutes arfd immediately called for an ambulance that took her to a hospital. 
But less than an hour after authorities reached the home, Madeline -a bright student who left public school for home schooling this semester -was declared dead. 
She is survived by her par­ents and three older siblings. 
"We are remaining strong for our children," Leilani Neumann said. "Only our faith in God is giving us strength at this time." 



Ex -officials criticize G uantanan1o 
Former secretaries ofstate say next administration should close base 
Associated Press 

ATHENS, Ga. -Five former 
U.S. secretaries of state on Thursday urged the next presi­dential administration to close the Guantanamo Bay prison camp and open a dialogue with Iran. 
The former chiefs of American diplomacy, who served in Democratic and Republican administrations, reached a consensus on the two issues at a conference in Athens aimed at giving the next president some bipartisan foreign policy advice. Each of them said shuttering the prison camp in Cuba would bolster America's image abroad. 
"It says to the world: 'We are now going back to our tradi­tional respective forms of deal­ing with people who potentially committed crimes,"' said Colin Powell, who served as President Bush's first secretary of state. 
Powell was joined by Henry Kissinger, James Baker III, Warren Christopher and Madeleine Albright, who sat in a round-table discussion spon­sored by the University of Georgia at a sold-out confer­ence center in downtown Athens. 
Kissinger called Guantanamo a "blot on us" and agreed it should be closed, but wondered aloud about the consequences of a closure. 
Baker, a lawyer who served in President George 1-I.W. Bush's Cabinet, said he has struggled with its legal implica­tions. 
"It gives us a very, very bad name, not just internationally," he said. "I have a great deal of difficulty understanding how we can hold someone, pick someone up, particularly some­one who might be an American citizen -even if they were caught somewhere abroad, acting against American inter­ests -and hold them without ever giving them an opportuni­ty to appear before a magis­trate." 
The former secretaries of state also urged that the U.S. open a line of dialogue with Iran, each saying it is impor­tant to maintain contact with adversaries and allies alike. 
Albright stressed the impor­tance of finding "common ground" and Christopher urged diplomats to explore opening contact with other "vectors of power," such as clerics and for­mer political leaders. Albright and Christopher served under President Clinton. 
Baker suggested the dialogue could center on a common dilemma, saying a "dysfunc­tional Iraq, a chaotic Iraq, is not something that's in the interest to Iran. There's every incentive on their part to help us, the same way they did in Afghanistan." 
Kissinger, who served the Nixon and Ford administra­tions, urged an open -if deli­cate -line of communication with Iran. 
"One has to talk with adver­saries," said Kissinger, who served the Nixon and Ford administrations. 
Powell compared the poten­tial talks to difficult visits he made to Syria while he served as America's chief diplomat. 
''They are not always pleas­ant visits," he said. "But you've got to do it." 


M l L E S 
f.P.C.\1 fiU. 
SIDELINE 
University of Notre Dame 
(across from the Morris Inn) 
• 
Introduction by Charlie Weis 

• 
On-stage conversation between Maura Weis and WNDU's Maureen McFadden 

• 
Book-signing and reception 


All of the author's royalties will benefit 
A Mothers Journey with HerSpecial Needs Daughter 
With Jessica Trobaugh Temple HAN H:HDS Foreword by Charlie Weis In this powerful and honest book, Maura Weis, wife of Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis, shares the challenges and blessings of raising their special needs daughter, Hannah. ISBN: 9781933495033 I $18.95 
r6:SORIN BOOKS" 

Available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore or at bookstores everywhere J:Zl! Notte Dame, IN 
www.sorla.book•.eom 

Miles from the Sideline 
Monday, March 31 7:00 P.M.-9:00 P.M. McKenna Hall 
Kissinger, who laid the groundwork for Nixon's his­toric 1972 visit to China that opened relations with that nation, had sharp words when the topic veered to America's perception of China. 
"We should not look at China as a military adversary," said Kissinger, adding that a mili­tary confrontation is unlikely. "We should see where we could cooperate." 
Powell said he agrees, argu­ing that the biggest threat to a peaceful relationship with China would be Taiwan declar­ing its independence. 
"And, frankly we can keep that from happening," said Powell. 
Some of the strongest words were reserved for the trade embargo against Cuba. 
"The 50-year-old embargo has not worked, not worked to our benefit or their benefit. This is one of those issues that is driven more by politics than foreign policy," said Christopher. 
"When policies don't work for 50 years," he said, "It's time to start thinking about some­thing else." 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesda)' through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
Friday, March 28, 2008 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Page 9 
Arkansas homes devastated by flooding 
Nearly half of state affected as weather forecasters call for more storms and residents watch water levels rise 
Associated Press 
LITTLE ROCK -Empty grain elevators surrounded by a swollen White River await a har­vest that may never come as floodwaters drown wheat already planted this spring. 
Last year, Arkansas produced about 28.7 million bushels of wheat. Now, muddy waters have run through fields for days, tak­ing with it expensive fertilizer treatments already applied to the soil. 
Some of the wheat, green this time of year and looking like tall grass. has survived, wheat expert Jason Kelley, of the University of Arkansas Cooperative Extension Service, said Thursday. But grain under water for a week or more likely won't make it. 
"You could really tell the plant had been suffering," Kelley said. "They were actually wilted and looked like they were running out of water, but they had no oxygen." 
Any real estimate on the darn­age will have to wait until the floodwaters drain, Kelley said, a process that may take days. 
The flooding in Arkansas began with storms March 1 7 in the Midwest, and federal and state officials have been able to assess the damage only where the water has receded. Thirty­five counties -nearly half the state -have been declared fed­eral disaster areas. One person was killed in the storms in Arkansas, and another remains missing. 
Recent heavy rains also flooded parts of other states, including Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and Missouri. The weather has been linked to at least 17 deaths in the region. 
The National Weather Service issued a flash-flood warning Thursday for the White River downstream from the town Des Arc, northeast of little Rock, and forecasters said flooding at Clarendon in Monroe County could be the worst in 25 years. 

Residents along the White River National Wildlife Refuge near Clarendon will see water rise a foot a day, said weather service hydrologist Steve Bays. 
"One thing that we are trying to do around here is keep people concerned about what's going on but not inflict a panic, and it's a fme line. It certainly bears moni­toring by people along the river," Bays said. 
With waters still rising under sunny skies, forecasters called for a 50 percent chance of thun­derstorms Friday and a quarter­inch of rain or more. 
Jaysson Funkhouser, a surface water specialist with the U.S. Geological Survey, said prelimi­nary figures showed that the White River surge from last week's storms and flooding upstream could, in corning days, reach the 100-year flood stage­meaning it has a 1-in-100 chance of being flooded this badly in any given year. 

Remains of contractor found in Iraq 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -Relatives of a U.S. security contractor held hostage in Iraq for more than a year said Thursday that they felt a mixture of sad­ness and relief when they learned his remains were found. 
Though it wasn't the news they prayed for, Paul Johnson­Reuben's loved ones said they know his suffering is over. 
"Today, we do get to feel better," said Kathy Reuben, Johnson-Reuben's first wife. "It's over. Paul's in heaven, he's a happy man today." 
Officials announced Thursday that they had identi­fied the remains of Johnson­Reuben of Minneapolis and Joshua Munns of Redding, Calif. The men were among six contractors kidnapped more than a year ago in two separate incidents in Iraq. 
The remains of two other contractors Ronald Withrow of Roaring Springs, Texas, and John Roy 
Stewart said. "He's not scared. He's not in pain. He's not being mutilated. He's not being tortured." 
At the same time, Stewart said, she will continue to press for answers about her son's abduction and the effort to track him down. 
"I think because he was ex-· military that they could have done a lot better job protect­ing him or looking for him than they did," she said. 
The other contractors still missing are Jonathon Cote, of Getzville, N.Y., and Bert Nussbaumer, of Vienna, Austria. 
Cote's family said on its blog Wednesday night that the body still awaiting identifica­tion is not Jonathon's. "Please remember to pray for Jon's safety and the loss of the other hostages and their families," the post said. ­
Reuben, Munns, Young, Cote and Nussbaumer worked in Iraq for Crescent Security Group, a Kuwait-based private security firm. They 

Young of "We've been waiting I 6 were kid­
Kansas City, napped Nov.
months to hear something 

Mo., were 16, 2006, by identified positive." men in Iraqi earlier this police uni­week. FBI forms who
Kathy Reuban 

spokesman ambushed a
wife of Paul Johnson-Reuban 

Richard Kolko said authorities were awaiting forensic testing on the remains of a fifth body. 
The FBI said the men's remains have been returned to the U.S. 
"We're really sad that this has happened," Kathy Reuben said. "We've been waiting 16 months to hear something positive.... It's hard to imag­ine that he's gone." 
Munns' mother, Jackie Stewart of Ridgefield, Wash., said she had felt certain· that her son was dead since she learned Sunday that the bod­ies had been found. 
"When I first knew about it, it was relief. No. 1, that I finally know the answer and, No. 2, that he's not suffering," convoy they 
were escort­ing. Months later, the U.S. mil­itary reportedly stripped Crescent Security of its license to operate in Iraq over alleged weapons violations. 
Withrow was a contractor working for JPI Worldwide. He was abducted on Jan. 5, 2007. 
The cases of the missing contractors was back in the news earlier this month when the severed fingers of five of the men-including Johnson­Reuben -were sent to the 
U.S. military in Iraq. Some rel­atives initially took that as hopeful news their loved ones were still alive; others did not. 
"I had hope up until the last two weeks, when his finger (was) cut off. Then we knew it was going all downhill," said Johnson-Reuben's 17-year-old daughter, Bree Reuben. 

Johnson-Reuben's family has said he had been working in Iraq for about two years. The last time he was seen alive was on a video obtained by The Associated Press in January 2007 -he said he was being treated well. 
Bree Reuben and her twin sister, Casey, were among family members who spoke to the media Thursday. Bree brought along her 5-rnonth­old daughter, Ka'Leah -the granddaughter Johnson­Reuben never met. 
The sisters said they weren't surprised their dad was work­ing in Iraq because he loved to help people. In addition to providing security, he taught EMT classes. They said they last spoke to him about a week before he was kid­napped. 
"He said it was getting really dangerous out there and he was really scared for his life," said Casey Reuben. 
Bree said their father liked the work he was doing "up to the point where he started seeing people die in front of him. And he just got scared. He was shaking over the phone. I never heard my dad shake like that." 
Johnson-Reuben worked as a St. Louis Park police officer from 1994 to 2003. He was 39 years old when he was kid­napped. 
His twin brother, Patrick Reuben, said in a telephone in.terview that he and Johnson-Reuben had an inex­plicable connection and could sometimes sense how the other was doing. 
"It's just been really weird over the last month. I felt like something happened," he said. 
Patrick Reuben said the last 
16 months have been hard, 
and there have moments 
when he felt guilty about 
enjoying his own life. For now, 
he said he's trying to focus on 
the happy times with his 
brother, whom he followed 
first into the Marine Corps and 
then into law enforcement. 


California decreases green vehicle count 
State analysts criticize decision as negative move in development of low-emission cars 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO -California air regulators on Thursday slashed the number of battery-powered and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles that must be sold in the state, a setback for environmentalists and health advocates. 
The decision is expected to affect 12 other states that had adopted California's target for zero-emission vehicles. 
The California Air Resources 
Board voted to lower by 70 per­
cent the number of those vehicles 
that autornakers must sell here 
and in the states 
that intended to 
follow 
"We are disappointed.
California's get­hydrogen and tough rules for We think this proposal battery-powered vehicle emis­cars.
doesn't take us on the 
sions. "Pushing this
road to meeting the 
Instead, the air technology into board said the state's long-term global the market six largest warming goals. " before they are autornakers commercially must sell nearly viable ties up
Spencer Quong 
60,000 hybrid resources that vehicles while Senior vehicle analyst could be better 
hybrids. 
Environmentalists and health advocates criticized the lowering of the zero-emission goal for vehi­cles. They said the threats posed by global warming, combined with rising gasoline prices, lends urgency to greatly reducing vehi­cle emissions. 
"We are disappointed. We think this proposal doesn't take us on the road to meeting the state's long-term global warming goals," said Spencer Quong, a senior vehicles analyst at the Union of Concerned Scientist. 
Auto manufacturers said they could not meet the California stan­
dard and needed 
more time to 
make affordable 

they develop the more advanced technology that will allow mass production of pure zero-emission vehicles. 
Board chairwoman Mary Nichols described the move as a major step toward putting cleaner cars on the road. The plug-in hybrids envisioned by the air board have yet to be designed, she said. 
"We're introducing a whole new category of vehicles to the public," Nichols said. "I don't think it's a step backwards in the real world." 
In essence, the air board took two steps on Thursday: It cut the number of zero-emission vehicles it wants on the road by 2014, while at the same time offering an alternative -the gas-electric utilized by 
advancing core technologies," said Sara Rudy, an emissions'regulatory manager at Ford. "It is important at this stage to be nimble." 
The other manufacturers that must comply with the rules are General Motors Corp., Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co., Chrysler LLC and Nissan Motor Co. 
California adopted its zero-emis­sion vehicle mandate in 1990 as part of an attempt to reduce smog-forming emissions such as nitrogen oxide. 
The rule required that 10 per­cent of new cars sold in the state by the country's six leading auto manufacturers be completely non­polluting by 2003. 
page 10 Friday, March 28, 2008 

-------------------------------------------------. 
Friday, March 28, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 11 

TSA disallows body piercing 
Woman asked to remove nipple ring before boarding airplane 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -A Texas woman who said she was forced to remove a nipple ring with pliers in order to board an airplane called Thursday for an apology by federal security agents and a civil rights investigation. 
"I wouldn't wish this expe­rience upon anyone," Mandi Hamlin said at a news con­ference. "My experience with TSA was a nightmare I had to endure. No one deserves to be treated this way." 
Hamlin. 37, said she was trying to board a flight from Lubbock to Dallas on Feb. 24 when she was scanned by a Transportation Security Administration agent after passing through a larger metal detector without prob­lems. 
The female TSA agent used a handheld detector that beeped when it passed in front of Hamlin's chest, the Dallas-area resident said. 
Hamlin said she told the woman she was wearing nip­ple piercings. The women then called over her male colleagues, one of whom said she would have to remove the jewelry, Hamlin said. 
Hamlin said she could not remove them and asked whether she could instead display her pierced breasts in private to the female agent. But several other 
male officers told her she could not board her flight until the jewelry was out, she said. 
She was taken behind a curtain and managed to remove one bar-shaped piercing but had trouble with the second, a ring. 
"Still crying, she informed the TSA officer that she could not remove it without the help of pliers, and the officer gave a pair to her," said Hamlin's attorney, Gloria Allred, reading from a letter she sent Thursday to the director of the TSA's Office of Civil Rights and Liberties. 
Hamlirr said she heard male TSA agents snickering as she took out the ring. She was scanned again and was allowed to board even though she still was wearing a belly button ring. 
"After nipple rings are inserted, the skin can often heal around the piercing, and the rings can be extremely difficult and painful to remove," Allred said in the letter. 
Hamlin filed a complaint, but the TSA's customer serv­ice manager at the Lubbock airport concluded the screening was handled prop­erly, Allred said. 
Allred said she might con­sider legal action if the TSA does not apologize. 
On its Web site, the TSA 

warns that passengers "may be additionally screened because of hidden items such as body piercings, which alarmed the metal detector." 
"If you are selected for additional screening, you may ask to remove your body piercing in private as an alternative to a pat-down search," the site says. 
Hamlin would have accept­ed a "pat-down" had it been offered, Allred said. 
Hamlin was publicly humil­iated and has "undergone an enormous amount of physical pain to have the nipple rings reinserted" because of scar tissue, Allred said. 
"The conduct of TSA was cruel and unnecessary," Allred wrote. "The last time that I checked a nipple was not a dangerous weapon." 
TSA spokesman Dwayne Baird said he was unaware of the incident. There is no specific TSA policy on deal­ing with body piercings, he said, "as long as it doesn't sound the alarms." 
If an alarm does sound, "until that is resolved, we're not going to let them go through the checkpoint, no matter what they're wearing or where they're wearing it." 
People routinely pass through security wearing wedding rings without prob­lems, and it might take a larger bit of metal to trigger an alarm, Baird said. 
Shakespeare scholar to speak at DeBartolo 
Special to the Observer 
Shakespeare scholar Stanley Wells will explore issues of sexuality in the age of the Bard in a lecture March 31 (Monday) at 5 p.m. in the 
Philbin Studio Theatre of t h e University of Notre Dame's DeBartolo Center for 


t h e Wells Performing Arts. Sponsored by the Deborah 
J. Loughrey Endowment for Excellence in Shakespeare Studies and Shakespeare at Notre Dame, the event is free and open to the public. Tickets are required and may be reserved by calling the center's box office at 574-631-2800. 
Titled "Sex and Literature in Shakespeare's Time," Wells' talk will discuss sexu­al behavior and attitudes toward sexuality in Stratford and London, with emphasis on theater and the court, in the late 15th and early 16th centuries, and examine some of the ways Shakespeare and. his contemporaries made use of sexual subject matter. The discussion will be candid and the event is not intended for young or sensitive audiences. 
Following Wells' lecture, guest artist Eunice Hoberts will present a performance of " ... one, two, three ... ," a one-woman show she devel­oped based on Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night." Roberts is an associate director of Actors From The London Stage, an international tour­ing theater troupe based at Notre Dame. 
A prolific writer and editor, Wells has served since 1978 as the general editor of "The Complete Oxford Shakespeare." He also has served as co-editor of "The New Cambridge Companion to Shakespeare Studies" and co-author of "William Shakespeare: A Textual Companion." His books include "Literature and Drama," "Royal Shakespeare: Studies of Four Major Productions at the Royal Shakespeare Theatre," "Looking for Sex in Shakespeare," and "Is it True What they Say About Shakespeare?" 
Wells serves as chairman of the Trustees of Shakespeare's Birthplace and is emeritus professor of Shakespeare studies at the University of Birmingham and honorary emeritus gov­ernor of the . Royal Shakespeare Theatre. 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 12 
Friday, March 28, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining I !all, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR 8USINR~S MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
ASSl~ MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
Assl~ MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdr~ Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VmWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
Srmns EDITORS: Chris Hine 
ScENE EDITOR: 'li1e Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
An DE.SIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROUER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(S74) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN. CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631·5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4';43 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
f'HE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the indt•pendent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adwnisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vi~wpoim space is available wall r~-aders. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.t•ttcrs to the Editor must be signed and must indude contact information. 
Qumiow regarding Oburver policits should br directrd to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Thr OhK:m·r (USPS ~I)!') 2-41100) ia puhli~hc:d Mnntlay duuugh ~rid.1y ex~·~pr dming uam.md val-adon ~tcriml,. Awh~enp1j(111 to 'I1u: Ob~~Crver i1 $11}0 li1r unc ~l;;ldcmk year: $15ft,r ~~~ lil:lllafCI 
The Oblc:rver ~ puhlilhcd .u: POSTMASTER 1)11 South Duung H11ll Send .1ddre5a Cc:lrtection5 to: 
Norrt Dilmc:, IN 4MI)6-0779 lb.eObsctvt"r 
Pcrivdical po,r.tgc p.Ud .u Notrt' Dilmt P.O. Box 779 
omd .addirioml mailing offkcs. Ol-1 South Dining H.tll 

Nom: D.;ame. IN 4.6'556.om 
Tile O()l~C(V~r is a mcn1her ot rhc A'I.Mlewcd Press. All reproduction nghr~ arc rac:rvc:d. 
Jenkins balances 'Monologues,' 
Catholicism 
In 2006, University President Fr. John Jenkins outlined his criteria that must be met for "The Vagina Monologues" to be performed on eampus. Aeademie freedom, he said, must be maintained regardless of how the material meshes with teaehings of the Catholie Chureh. Allowing the play to be p1~rformed on campus is not the same as endorsing the eon­tent. of' the play. Jenkins, as the leader of a Catholic universi­ty, walked a line line between the "Catholic" and "university" characteristics of Notre Dame and found a delicate balance between 
OBSERVER
the two. 

In a replay of two years ago, amid mueh thought both inside and outside an actual class­
Editorial
debate on and off campus, Jenkins said the room. Studnnts at Notre Dame are smart enough 
"Monologues" could be performed on campus as long as the performances had an academic panel to discuss the play and its relation to Catholic teaching afterwards. 
Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy voiced his opposition to the play and Notre Dame's allowance of the play on campus while alumni and concerned Catholics also protested the play. D'Arcy has been the most prominent crit­ic of Jenkins' decision and has issued multiple statements condemning the "Monologues" and their performance on campus. The play, he said, portrays ideals, such as homo­sexuality, extramarital sex and sexual relations between adults and children that contradict Church teaching. By allowing the performance, he said Jenkins tacitly endorsed it, as well as the values contained in it. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Observing Earth hour 
Students of Notre Dame, 
This Saturday, from 8:00 to 9:00p.m., is Earth Hour. an event created to raise awareness about energy usage and conservation and encourage people to reduce energy waste. Cities around the world will be participating (including world landmarks such as the Sears Tower in Chicago, Brighton Pier in England, Niagara Falls, the Sydney Opera House, the Golden Gate Bridge and Alcatraz in San Francisco, among others) by turning off the lights for a one-hour long period. 
Earth Hour is the highlight of a major campaign to encourage businesses, communities and individuals to take simple steps that will collectively make a dif'ference -from businesses turning off their lights when offices are empty, to households turning off appliances rather than leaving them on standby. It is important that the Notre Dame community join in this effort. We have asked that all rectors and rectresses switch off their dorm's hall lights. However, it is more important that the students do their part by turning off their room lights, TVs, computers, etc. This Earth Hour is intended to show that if each of us does our own little part, collectively, we will make a huge impact. 
This is not a political movement. This is a simple effort to reduce frivolous waste. So please join the millions of people around the world this Saturday and turn off your lights/electronic devices ... I'm sure you'll find that patty­cake (or whatever you do on Saturday evenings) can be just as fun in the dark, if not more so. 
Thank you for your support. 
Mark McGuire 
sophomore 
Keough Hall 
Lorna Bath 
JUlllOf 
Pangborn Hall 
March 27 
Jenkins said allowing the play on campus is nquivalent to discussing a philosopher or a writer whose views do not align with the Catholic Church. D'Arcy said watching a play is not the same as discussing it in a classroom setting because people are not required to participate in discussion of' the play and its relation to Catholic teaching as they would be in a classroom. 
I>'Arcy's criticism is legitimate and well-articu­lated, but it misses tlH~ mark. The entire University is a classroom meant to nnrich all areas of studnnts' lives and stimulate intelledual 
to realize that allowing the "Monologues" on 
campus does not mean the University endorses its content and realize its allowance on campus is meant to inspire dialogue and debate. 
Jenkins did not waiver in his decision to allow the "Monologues" to be performed on campus, which is a posi­tive thing for the University. Were he to cave to external pressure, he would confuse people as to the direction in which he was leading Notre Dame. lie would still receive criticism, but it would instead come from his faculty and stu­dent body, many of whom believe in promoting academic freedom. He was going to catch flak no matter what decision he made; and by allowing the play this year, he reaffirmed the University's commitment to academic freedom that will enable it to remain among the nation's elite univorsities. 

TODAY'S STAFF 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports 
Joseph McMahon Lorenzo Reyes Katie Peralta Pat Stynes 
Observer Poll 
Brian McKenzie ·Andy Ziccarelli 
Are you in favor ofThe Vagina Monologues?
Graphics Scene 
"All great truths bef!in 
Votes Percentage 
as blasphemies. ' Viewpoint 
Mary Jesse Mark Witte 
No 199 64% 
George Bernard Shaw 
Kara King 

Yes 114 36% 
Irish dramatist 

-----------------------------------------------... 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Friday, March 28, 2008 page 13 
Democratic dream team still viable 
To narrate the tale of the remaining two Democratic presidential candidates, modify the famous Charles Dickens opening phrase in "A Tale of Two Cities" to describe the current state of the race. 
"It is the best of times, it is the worst of times, the election of wisdom and the election of foolishness, it is the epoch of belief as well as that of incredulity, it is both the season of Light along with the season of Darkness, it is the spring of hope following the winter of despair. We have everything before us, but we may gain nothing. We were all going direct to heaven while campaigning in Iowa-we now seem to be going direct the other way." 
That passage written nearly 150 years ago tells the story of Charles Darnay and Sydney Carton, similar looking men who are, however, very different in their per­sonalities. Their particular doppelganger (a character who physically looks like another but with differing interests, beliefs, values, personalities, etc.) is that they both fall deeply in love with the same woman. Darnay is a romantic French aristocrat while Carton is a cyni­cal English barrister. In the end, Darnay marries the woman but is eventually convicted as an aristocrat and sentenced to be guillotined. Ultimately Carton visits Darnay in his prison cell, drugs him, swaps clothing and in an act of self-sac­rifice is executed in place of Darnay. 

Ironically, this tale could have been written as a metaphor to describe our modern-day campaigns of Democrats Hillary Clinton and Barrack Obama. It is indeed the best and worst of times for them as well as the Democratic Party. The volleys and returns about Clinton's inaccurate account of her 1996 visit to Bosnia and Obama's tepid distancing of himself from Reverend Wright's inflam­matory comments are natural elements of political campaigns. Yet both sides for­get that truth squads find each side lack­ing every day. 
For example, Clinton suggests that del­egates should act independently while Obama calls for delegates to follow vot­ing results. Yet when New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson chooses Obama despite his state voting for Clinton, Obama keeps him in silence while Clinton supporter James Carville calls him a Judas. Furthermore, it is disingen­uous for Obama to decry the campaign banter as distractions which he claims take away from the debate about war when in media interviews his own cam­paign manager continually accuses Clinton of saying anything to get elected -a famous 2000 tactic that Karl Rove used against Vice President AI Gore. Yet, despite complaints from both sides, cam­paigns are about making points and counterpoints. 
This week's NBC News/Wall Street Journal Poll found that Democrats are evenly split in support of both candidates at 45 percent. Both equally raised their negative ratings by 5 percent. Clinton's positive rating lost 8 points while 55 per­cent of Americans are disturbed about Obama's pastor, Reverend Wright. Interestingly, both Democrats poll at 44 percent against Republican John McCain, although McCain gains 4 points against Clinton. Regrettably, a fifth of both Clinton and Obama supporters say that they are open to voting for McCain. Moreover, this week's Gallop poll found that 28 percent of Clinton and 19 percent of Obama supporters could support McCain. 
Distressing as the political pundits may lament while responding to current polls, the Democratic Party and both candi­dates can unite for the fall election. But it will demand real courage from both candidates by joining as the dream team. Rather than the Obama camp taking offense when Clinton suggested that they could run together, Obama should have seen it as a signal from Clinton that she would accept the vice presidency. With the odds favoring Obama as the nomi­nee, he gambles that much of Clinton's supporters would actually vote against him if he does not ask Clinton to join the ticket. In the past, other candidates soothed more rancorous feelings with a unity ticket. 
Despite the delegate count, both Democrats have come so far in so many ways, and yet ironically their support remains evenly split. They must be as the Dickens characters and become a dream team to assure victory. To para­phrase the Dickens closing espousing Carton's thoughts before he faced the guillotine, "It is a far, far better thing that they must do, than they have ever done; it is a far, far better ticket that they go to than they (or we) have ever known." 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column usually appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Monologues' debate continues 
A call for respect 
After seeing the opening night of the 'Vagina Monologues,' we were appalled. However, we were appalled not at the content of the play, but at the actions of certain members of the Notre Dame community. As we are all aware, there has been much controversy sur­rounding the staging of the Monologues at our Catholic university. Many people have been passing out flyers and writing letters in protest, however during the actual show, protesters scattered all over the auditorium promptly interrupted the show by getting up and leaving after the first monologue. 
We understand that many people hold different opin­ions surrounding this issue, yet disrespectful expressions of these varying attitudes should not be tolerated. All those involved in the Monologues have put in countless hours and effort towards this production. At the very least, your peers deserve your respect for all the time and energy they have put forth, even if you disagree with their message. 
Being at Notre Dame has taught many of us valuable life lessons. One that we think is most important and should not be missed is that of being open-minded and respectful to all. As part of this esteemed university, we are constantly presented with the challenge of under­standing complicated issues, and taking stances of our own accord entwined with personal thoughts, values, and beliefs. The mission of the University is to foster intellectual development through challenges to ourselves and one other. Students have the responsibility to active­ly engage in discussions about controversial issues, including social taboos, particularly in an academic set­ting. 
The point of going to college is not to be constantly bombarded with one-sided ideologies that are to be accepted without question. Rather, our minds should be stimulated with new and thought-provoking subject mat­ters. We then, as individuals, have been privileged with the intelligence to walk away from these experiences with our own opinions on any given topic. But to form your own opinion should always be done respectfully, especially when your peers are presenting the issue. 
After all. respect is something even Bishop D'Arcy advocates. 
Judy Conway sophomore Breen Phillips Hall Jennie Hiatt sophomore McGlinn Hall March 26 

Allowance implies compliance 
I have seen the Vagina Monologues. Ever since I heard this play was going to be on the Notre Dame campus I have been doing research. I have read quotes, critiques, praises and parts of the play. I have talked to Holy Cross priests, Bishop D'Arcy himself, Fr. Jenkins, professors, alumni, my parents and my roommate. Yesterday my roommate and I went to the Vagina Monologues together. I didn't want to go. (I disagree with them being shown at a Catholic University, and have no desire whatsoever to see them.) But I went. I decided that I should go and see for myself. I am glad I went, for now I am absolutely certain they have no place on this campus. 
First let me say this is not an attack on the people who worked hard to put on this production, including two of my friends. This is simply pointing out what the Vagina Monologues are. 
The Vagina Monologues, excluding the "Introduction" and brief "Spotlight 2008," is com­posed of 15 monologues. Only three are actually about violence against woman, and the word vagina is only mentioned once. "Say It," "The Memory of Her Face" and "My Vagina was My Village," all touched my heart. They invoked empathy in me. However, including them with the other so called "humorous" monologues, made them just as much of a joke. The other monologues, especially "Because He Liked to Look at It." reduces women to their vaginas. 
Don't believe me? Read the script. The actress in this monologue speaks of a man's repeated request to "see her", and does not actually "see her" until he sees her vagina. Notre Dame, a Catholic university, has no business allowing this on campus. 
Two of the monologues were about lesbian sexuali­ty. In "The Little Coochi Snorcher That Could," the actress speaks about, even jokes about, her positive experience of being raped by an older woman. Imagine ifa Catholic priest wrote about molesting a young boy, and then Notre Dame allowed him on campus to speak about his enjoyment in this. This would never be allowed, and rightly so. 
The other monologue was about a lesbian prosti­tute who brags and jokes about dominating woman. Is this promoting awareness of violence against women? 
I have gone to see the Vagina Monologues to find out the truth. The truth is that they have nothing to do with academic freedom. Out of the approximately 350 people that went, less than 50 stayed for the dis­cussion. The Vagina.Monologues are a play, a form of grotesque entertainment, they scream of using your~ self and others for sexual pleasure. 
Notre Dame performs the Vagina Monologues three times every year. No other play comes to Notre Dame every year. Why are we allowing this? We need to stand up as a community to fight this. Too many are silent on the issue, not really caring either way. Notre Dame community, I beg you to no longer allow this on campus. It is hurting are community. 
Instead, Notre Dame should do more to promote awareness of sexual violence against women. Father Jenkins, you are a holy and gentle man. Please know that whoever told you this play was an academic event, whoever said it was to promote awareness of violence against women, lied to your face. Go see the play and you will know what I mean, that is ifyou can sit through it. 
Kelly Mason freshman Lyons Hall March 27 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Friday, March 28, 2008 
is I 
! 
J \ 

parents, howevAr, decide to lock her up away from pub­
By JESS SHAFFER lic ridicule. Meanwhile her mother is obsessed with breaking the curse, and pursues the altar with a vengeance. Of course, this quest is marked by every 
LosP the prince charming of yore, forget the control mother's standby of overbearing nagging. top pantyhose, and ignore the Spice Girls' suggestion of And fmally, Penelope's "boy problems." Nearly all of "strengtJ1 and courage in a wonder bra." While all of her suitors run away at first sight of her, so a second these may have been good date is typically out of ques­options for ego boosting and tion. Eventually Penelope does self-image enhancers, find the right .guy (James
"Penelope'' combines supernatural 
Christina Ricci's new film McAvoy), and the standard offers a novel take on the mod­elements ofa fairytale with fare of heartache and ern girl's sense of fulfillment. redemption ensue. The angst
modern, relatable problems. The 
Self-empowerment beyond leads Penelope to flee from
characters, though in less than 
body image is in, thanks to her isolation and allows her to "Penelopo." normal circumstances, speak to discover the world and more For centuries, little girls, importantly, herself. 
something that every ordinary 
young females and grown "Penelope" combines super­
person can understand and the
women alike have looked to natural elements of a lairytale film for fairytale romance and healthy body image message makes with modern, relatable prob­idr.al b•~auty. "Penelope" flies the film fulfilling for modern girls lems. The chara(:ters, though 
in the lace of this delusion of in less than normal circum­
and women.

perfeetion, giving this fairy­tale's damsel a very mal prob­lem. Okay. maybe not so real. 
Penelope has the standard troubles of many girls: poor body imagB, a nagging mother and boys. Her dilemma over her body in1age extends past the typical discomfort over <~hubby thighs or a flat chest. The victim of a family curse, Pllnelope has the face of a pig. And no, thi'i i'in't some drunken insult uttered by a sexually frustrated frat boy. The phrase "pig face" is a quite literal deseription. 
A pig-nose and floppy ears are definitely not ideal mating material. But the only way to break the curse is to marry Penelope off to an aristocratic young man. Her 
Penelope 

Stone Village Pictures 
Director. Mark Palansky Written by: Leslie Caveny Starring: Christinia Ricci, James McAvoy, Catherine O'Hara, Reese Witherspoon 
stances, speak to something that every ordinary person can understand and the 

healthy body image message makes the film fulfilling for modern girL'> and women. 
The talented cast deserves emdit for making the tilm successful.-Christina Hicci uses the perfect amount of anguish with9ut an excess of whininess. She evokes empathy from the audience and relates to them in a highly tangible way. Her mother, played by Cathnrine O'Hara, seems to recall every mother's inability to impose her will on her daughter. She embodies over­bearing parenthood with a comic talent that rails on the 
audience's nerves and makes them laugh. 
Additionally, James McAvoy artfully morphs "Prince charming" into a character that is realistic, flawed and soulful. Unlike the typical love interest, McAvoy is weighed by his own demons. He is incapable of rescu­ing himself, much less the damsel in distress. Hence his twist of fairytale love is offbeat, yet palpably appealing. Through his chemistry with Hicci, indie meets fairytale. 
The detail and craft put into every character makes the story rich and diverse. Even the supporting cast, which includes Heese Witherspoon, brings unique offerings that help reinvent an old story of romance and self-discovery. "Penelope" finally gets the modem fairytale right. Its lovable characters and noble mes­sage are truly memorable and it promises to make audiences fall in love -with themselves 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel@nd.edu 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, March 28, 2008 
page 15 

Its springtime and snow is falling in South Bend. Thankfully, Ryan Adams has provided a moody accompaniment to the melancholy. spaces outside our windows. His album "Love is Hell" carefully exposes the most dangerously emotive portions of the human heart and mind. Conceived in moments of heartbreak and ques­tioning of the authenticity of love, the record explores a vast range of experiences and ideas, eventually realizing love is indeed hell. 
Opening with the track "Political Scientist," Adams sings of a dysfunctional couple, both political scientists. Raddled by the passage of years and a hollow sense of love for each other, they exist with­in a world of uneasiness and bad memories. Adams sings, "Her husband's divorced but he treats her that way of course I Because he needs her just like he needs medicine I She forgets to write him anyway I What's red and white and nearly over I Political scientist." While the lyrics are somewhat
.-t.''ll..,,... unclear and vague, they highlight the confusion between the husband and wife, emotions the couple clearly cannot understand. 
Love is Hell 
Ryan Adams 

Label: Lost Highway Recommended Tracks: "Political Sdentisr "Please Do Not Let Me Go" and "Shadowlands'' 
c,;j.": 

A key element of the record is the intermixing of songs inspired by the stories and experi­ences of others amidst the hyper-personal, depressing songs inspired by Adams' own inti­mate experiences. One of the most delicate tracks on the record is the near-heartbreaking "Please Do Not Let Me Go." Without a doubt written at the end of a relationship, Adams sings "True love ain't that hard to find I Not that you will ever know I Would you leave for awhile? I Please do not let me go." It's simple, cutting and deeply poignant; one of the true gems on the record. 
One track likely inspired by the experiences of another, is "Shadowlands." A stirring por­trait of a decaying family thrust into the tor­ments of separation, drug addiction and broken love, the song subtly renders their saddest moments into the structure of the song with care and sympathy. In a tone that seems more rooted in lamentation than song, Adams sings "She's angry like a salesman I Who just couldn't make a sale I Threw the wedding ring in the sewer I And damned them all to hell I While the roaches climb the walls I From the hotel where he calls I Most peo­ple never find a love." Not straying from the obvious thesis of the album, Adams gives voice to a moment and a history understood by most 
everyone, yet rarely acknowledged with such honesty of tragic perspective. 
While Adams rarely features cover songs on his records, "Love is Hell" features a brilliant cover of the Oasis hit "Wonderwall." With a bluesy melody, the song seems fit to be heard in the back of a late night piano bar. 
Practically every song on the record is stel­lar. Yet it is not a record for sunny days and fresh romance. 
It's a record for the those late night hours staring through the window into the black­ness, just as it's a record for those late March days when you simply cannot believe that the daylight is still gray and the snow is still falling in South Bend. 
It's a record for the those late night hours staring through the window into the blackness, just as it's a record for those late March days when you simply cannot believe that the daylight is still gray and the snow is still falling in South Bend. 
~·· 
-..· 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 28. 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tar Heels nab second-straight Elite 8 appearance 
Duncan scores 26 while clutch three point shooting from Raymond leads Xavier to victory and first quarterfinals berth 
arena located about two hours erasing the lingering memories 
Associated Press 

from its Chapel Hill campus. from last year's final game: a 
Hoy Williams has nnver On this night -faeing a team blown double-digit lead late in stopped pushing his North that had completely shut down the second half of an overtime Carolina team to play better its first two tournament foes -loss to Georgetown in the dofense, not even as it piled up everything started with a defen­regional finals. lopsided wins and erowd-pl!-~as­sive performance that was the "We know what happened. ing ofTnnsiv1i displays that few school's best in the tournament We know that feeling," Lmtms can match. since before Williams was born. Hansbrough said. "We don't 
The Tar Ileols gave their Ilall "We continued to talk about want to have it again. That's of Farnf~ coaeh what he's been this throughout thP ypar, the kind of our attitude, and that's asking for in the East Hegional fact that we'rp tired of hearing the mentality we have." semifinal against Washington that North Carolina can't play For the first time in this tour­State-and it has them a game defense and that's going to be nament, the Tar Heels, the away from the Final Four our weak link," junior Marcus nation's second-highest scoring again. Ginyard said. "But tonight, I team, didn't crack 100 points. It 
Tyler llansbrough scored 16 think you see that this team has didn't matter. Nor did it matter of his 18 points in the second the capability of buckling down that Hansbrough struggled half and the top-seeded Tar and being that great defensive much of the way. Instead, facing lleels held Washington State to team." a deliberate Washington State :~2-percent shooting in a 68-47 There was no room to argue team that had held Winthrop victory Thursday night, snnding with the Tar Heels' vocal leader. and Notre Dame to a combined North Carolina back to the fourth-sPeded Washington 81 points in the tournament, NCAA tournament's round of State (26-9) managed just 18 the Tar Heels looked deter­eight for the second straight field goals for the game while mined to prove they could play season. scoring 20 points bPiow its some tough defense, too. 
Danny Creon had 15 points to average. The Cougars also went Washington State missed shot help the Tar lleels (35-2) snt a 2-for-16 from 3-point range as after shot -sometimes open, school record for victories while the Tar lleels pulled away. more often not -while the Tar eontinuing their dominant tour­The 4 7 points were the fewest Heels kept pushing forward nament run. The No. 1 overall allowed by the Tar Heels in an with their slowed-but-effective seed has won its first three NCAA game since 1946. transition attack. The Cougars NCAA games by 20 or more "Defensively we thought we got little from the perimeter, points for the first time in pro­were really good," Williams with Kyle Weaver and Taylor the first 40 minutes," Raymond shooting on the year," gram history as it chases a said, "but yet let's be honest: Rochestie scoring a combined said. "I knew when I got baek in Alexander said, "but it is defi­record 17th trip to the Final they missed some open shots." 12 points on 4-for-21 shooting. there, I had to make something nitely better than 10 percent. In Four. North Carolina improved to "It was freezing out there," happen." a close game like that, if we 
North Carolina will play the 24-1 in NCAA games played in said Weaver, who had 10 points. The second 3 was the dagger. would have shot even half of Louisville-Tennessee winner its home state and is 7-0 all­"We got a lot of good looks "It wasn't a great play that I what we normally shoot, it Saturday with a clear home­time in Charlotte Bobcats offensively, but we were pretty drew up," Xavier coach Sean would have made a big differ­court advantage, playing in an Arena. Now they can focus on awfut." Miller said. "It was a terrific ence." 
pass by Stanley Burrell and an Going into the game, West Musketeers 79, Mountaineers 76 amazing shot off the bounce by Virginia had shot 35 percent 
In a span of 48 critical sec­B.J." from 3-point range. onds late in overtime, B.J. Huggins said his defense Duncan was 3-of-4 on 3s, Raymond made more 3-pointers clogged up the intended play but Drew Lavender 3-of-6 and than the entire West Virginia "somebody fell asleep" to allow Raymond 2-of-4. team did all night. the wide-open 3. "I shot that shot probably 
He went from "non-factor" to Josh Duncan scored a career­100,000 -times in my life," nonplussed, calmly knocking . high 26 points despite foul trou­Raymond said of his late 3s. "It down two long-range jumpers ble to lead Xavier. is easy once you've shot it so that lifted Xavier past coach Bob Xavier, which led by 18 early many times." Huggins' Mountaineers 79-75 in the game, rallied from a 71-Da'Sean Butler added 16 Thursday night in the West 65 deficit in overtime. points, 14 in the second half for Region semifinals. Joe Alexander scored 18 and West Virginia. Butler also fouled 
Third-seeded Xavier (30-6) had 10 rebounds for the sev­out in the overtime. rallied from a six-point deficit in enth-seeded Mountaineers (26-Xavier has been in a regional overtime, and will seek its first 11) before fouling out in the final only once, in 2004. Final Four appearance when it overtime. Despite the loss, lluggins has plays the UCLA-Wnstern West Virginia missed four of had quite the eomebaek with the Kentucky winner on Saturday. six free throws in the overtime. school he played for. Out of 
Haymond, who scored all eight Alexander missed one with 14.2 work two years ago, he barely of his points from overtime, hit a seconds left in regulation that missed taking a team to the 3-pointer from the top of the key would have given his team a 65-regional final for the fourth 
·to put the Musketeers ahead 75-64 lead. time. 7 4 with 1:18 to play. He then Xavier shot 11-for-19 on 3s Huggins got fired at Cincinnati shook loose on an inbound play, while West Virginia was 1-for-11 -a school he led to the 1992 took a crosscourt bounce pass from long range. The Final Four -after a drunken from Stanley Burrell and made Mountaineers had only one driving arrest and sat out a sea­a 3 with the shot dock expiring worse performance on 3s this son before surfacing at Kansas for a 78-741ead with 30 seconds season, going 1-for-22 in a loss State in 2007. He guided that left. to Cincinnati. team to the NIT, where it lost in 
"I was kind of a non-factor for "I don't know what we are the second round. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Child Care: Occasional evenings and weekends for our twin daugh­tars. age 7. Looking for someone
WANTED 

who is responsible. energetic and $14.25 BASE-APPT STUDENT enjoys kids. Good pay. Contact WORK flexible, no experience Paul at weithman.1 @nd.edu or needed, customer sales/service. Maura at ryan.61 @nd.edu conditions apply, ages 18+, 574-273-3835, www. workforstu-Housemate sought. Private room. dents.com Call631-7897. $400 monthly. 
Notre Dame Staff member seeks house sitting/furnished rental 

FoR RENT
through July 31 while home is being built. Call574-360-6919. 

Blue & Gold Homes Showing for Dependable person to do yard work 08/09.09/10 Now offering "'flex" and minor fixups. leases Call Sue at 233-7719. bluegoldrentals.com 
3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2-car garage, 1 Ox20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 or 574-340-1844. 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. 
CALL 574-234-2436 OR KRAMER­HOUSES.COM 
Large house available for 2009­2010. Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ square feet, 5 bathrooms. MacSwain@ gmail.com 
For rent: Two story house ready for If you or someone you care about immediate occupancy or next has been sexually assaulted. visit 
school year. Off street parking http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. includes motion sensor light for shtml security. Four individually locked PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-bedrooms, central station monitored ONE WHO IS? You do not have to Summer In Maine:Male€ and security system, six blocks from be alone. We want to help. Call our females. Meet new friends! Travel! Notre Dame, bus stop in front of 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-Teach yqur favorite activity. house, Laundromat next door, base-800-No Abort or visit our web site at "Tennis"Canoe"Water men! available for storage, new fur-www.lifecall.org Ski'Swim"Saii'Kayak'Theatre'Vide nace and central air, new kitchen o"Ropes'Office'Pottery'English including appliances, large living UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not Riding'Landsports and more. June room, free trash removal. Garage go ~alone. If you or someone you love to August. Residential. available for car-extra. Call 289-needs confidential support or assis­-4071. lance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at Enjoy our website. Apply on-line. 
1-7819. For more information, vis~ our Newly remodeled 3 bed 1 bth home webs~e at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart-TRIPP LAKE CAMP for Girls: 1­for rent walking distance to college. ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi-800-997-4347, www.tripplake-Call 847-507-7444. weekly ad in The Observer. camp. com 
PERSONAL 


.-------------------·-----~~-----------------~·-~-~------­
OUND THE NATION 
Friday, March 28, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRE SERVlCES page 17 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
NCAA Men's Golf Top25 

rank team points prev 
1 Alabama 561 3. 2 Georgia 559 1 2 Charlotte 500 2 4 Oklahoma State 496 5 5 UCLA 479 4 6 usc 439 7 7 Stanford 424 6 8 Georgia Tech 395 8 9 Tennessee 378 11 10 Florida 368 9 11 Auburn 357 14 12 Florida State 326 10 13 Duke 325 12 14 Clemson 280 13 15 Michigan State 207 15 16 South Carolina 159 17 17 Wake Forest 137 19 18 Texas Tech 136 18 19 UNLV 122 21 20 Penn State 115 22 21 Chattanooga 97 16 22 East Tennessee St. 96 24 23 North Carolina 82 25 24 Lamar 78 23 25 Indiana 59 20 
NCAA Women's Golf Top25 
rank team points pre.v 
1 Duke 714 1 2 UCLA 688 3 3 usc 656 4 4 Arizona State 652 2 5 Florida 616 5 6 Auburn 539 6 7 Arizona 503 7 8 Arkansas 472 9 9 Oklahoma State 446 14 
10 Purdue 423 12 11 Georgia 411 8 more. were enough to test the without struggle," she said. 
Associated Press 12 Tennessee 375 10 "It's a blessing to see perpetually positive atti­"When you win, you get
13 California 359 11 STILLWATEH, Okla.­where it's come from and tude of Kurt Budke, the a lot more respect and you
14 Wake Forest 351 18 
Oklahoma State guard where it could even go," coach Oklahoma State get recognized. As a fresh­
15 Pepperdine 333 13 
Taylor Hardeman has tried Hardeman said. " ... Some hired to return the pro­man, it was like we didn't 
16 Alabama 295 16 
to forget about her fresh­people don't understand gram to respectability. even exist. No one really
17 Denver 281 15 
man season. Shaunte how hard it really is to "That first year was came to our games and no
18 Kent 248 19 
Smith isn't much for recall­come from that to this." tough," Budke said one really acknowledged
19 Stanford 186 23 
ing specifics from that Oklahoma State (27 -7) Wednesday. "We were us. But now that we're
20 Vanderbill 159 17 
time, either. faces LSU (29-5) on going into games with no winning and doing great
21 New Mexico 149 19 
It's easy to understand Saturday in the New chance to win. You hoped things for the university,
22 Michigan State 112 24 
why. Just two years Orleans regional semifi­your young kids played it's totally changed." 
23 TexasA&M 102 NR 
removed from going win­nals. It's a long way from hard and that they didn't Oklahoma State has
24 NOTRE DAME 93 20 
less in the Big 12, the going 6-22 and 0-16 in the get beat by 40." some tradition of success
25 Virginia 65 22 
Cowgirls are in the NCAA league in 2005-06. Smith started 22 games in women's basketball. In tournament's round of 16 Even the record doesn't that season for the 19 seasons under coach for the first time in 17 sea­adequately depict how Cowgirls and now tries to Dick Halterman, the MIAA Women's Softball sons. overmatched Oklahoma look back for positive les­Cowgirls made seven trips Hardeman, a junior, does State was. The Cowgirls sons to glean from that dif­to the NCAA tournament.Conference Standings acknowledge Oklahoma closed with 17 straight ficult time. During the 1990-91 sea­team State's rise from the depths losses, all but three coming "There were some son, Oklahoma State went
league overall 
has made her appreciate by 10 or more points. bumps in the road, but you 27-6 and reached regional
Alma 
2-0 8·5 this season's success even The constant drubbings don't have any success semifinals.
Tri-State 
0-0 9·1 
SAINT MARY'S 0-0 
8·2 
Hope 0·0 
9-4 
Albion 0-0 
6·4 
Calvin 0·0 4·5 IN BRIEF Adrian 
0·0 5·8 
Olivet LSU QB Perrilloux could Olson to retire from Titans Draft hopeful Benedict
0·0 4·10 
return to practice Monday after playing I 0 years in NR. found dead in home 
BATON HOUGE, La. -LSU quar­NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Benji JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -Heath terback Ryan Perrilloux returned Olson decided to leave college a Benedict, a two-time Little All­from suspension and could be year early in 1998 because the American offensive lineman allowed to practice with the team by offensive lineman wasn't sure how from Newberry College in South Monday. long his back would hold up in the Carolina, was found dead on a 
Perrilloux, who finished last sea­NFL. couch in his home. son as heir apparent for the starting He announced his retirement Jacksonville police said no
around the dial 
job, must make up six workouts he Thursday having lasted 10 years foul play is suspected in the missed while on team suspension with only three interior linemen death of the 24-year-old before he can practice, coach Les playing more games than Olson in Benedict, a 6-foot-4, 321-poundNCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT Miles said Thursday. If Perrilloux that stretch. senior who had high hopes of Davidson vs. Wisconsin finishes those workouts by this Not bad for a guy hoping to last being selected in the NFL draft 
7:10 p.m., CBS weekend, he could get back on the maybe five seasons. next month. field next week and might play in "Honestly. I was just shooting to Benedict, who redshirted at the Tigers' spring game on April 5. make the team when I got here," Tennessee as a freshman in
Stanford vs. Texas 

"Ryan has a chance to play in the he said. "I was just happy these 2002 before moving on to 
7:27 p.m., CBS game if he does the things he should guys took a chance on me, a guy Newberry, was a native of the be doing," Miles said. "He will be who recently had back surgery. Netherlands. He played high allowed to compete fully for the "There were definitely issues school football at the Peddie
Villanova vs. Kansas 

position." about it. I'm just glad they took a School in Hightstown, N.J.
9:40 p.m., CBS 

Miles suspended Perrilloux in chance on me. I'm glad I was able "He was a big, tough man, but February, shortly before spring to deliver and put together a pret­he had a very gentle heart," Michigan State vs. Memphis practice began, for unspecified team ty good career," Olson said at a Newberry president Mick Zais 
9:57 p.m., CBS violations. news conference. said. "He was a teddy bear." 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 28. 2008 WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish look to make it three straight 
Notre Dame to take 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI 

on winless Huskies 
Sporrs Writer 

Notre Dame will try to build on its two-game winning streak as they travel to Louisville to take on Bellarmine on Saturday. 
The Irish (6-1) enter the game ranked No. 7 in the Nike/Inside Lacrosse Media Poll and fresh ofT a 13-6 win against Drexel last Saturday, March 25. That win came on the heels of a 19-7 drubbing of Dartmouth March 15. Senior attack Alex Wharton and junior attack Duncan Swezey played significant roles in both wins. Between them, the pair have scored nine goals and made 11 assists in the last two games. 
Wharton was named player 

SMC GOLF 
Belles pursue Div. III title 
WU YUE!The Observer 

Senior captain Caitlin McKinney flies past a Canisius defender 
Coach wants team
In Notre Dame's 22-10 victory on Feb. 15. 
By MATT GAMBER A•socia!e Sports Editor 
No. 13 Notre Dame (7-4, 1-1 Big East) looks to keep 
Con nne ticu t (0­8, 0-2) winless for at least anotlwr day. 
"Thn big thing is that it is a Big East game, and any timn you play a Big East tnarn it's a bat­tle, it's a ganw you have to win and can make 

spot in the NCAA Division
"We just need to play 
just makes us a 

III championship as it com­
the way we've played better team. The 
petes in its second event
good teams have

all year." 
·this spring at the Northern
a bunch of peo­

Kentucky Invitational in
ple assisting and 
Perry Park, Kent.

Caitlin McKinney 
scoring because 

Competing alongside the
Senior captain people have bad 
an impact," senior captain Caitlin McKinnny said. "We hope wn've learned our lesson not to take teams lightly.... The biggest thing is to keep the game about us and not about them, to eome out early and get it done from the beginning." 
The lluskies will host the Irish in Storrs, Conn., for tomorrow's noon game looking to shut down Notre Dame's high-powered offensive attack. The Huskies have benn blown out in each of their last two games, losing 24­4 at Syracuse and 18-3 at Yale in the last wenk. 
The Irish oll'ense, led by junior .lillian Byers (42 goals, 10 assists) and McKinney (25 goals, 13 assists), will look to capital­ize on a reeling Connecticut team. 
"We just nnnd to play the way wn've played all year-I'm not going into it thinking it's time to rack up goals or anything like that," MeKinney said. "It's important that we keep every­onn involved in the play, shoot­ing and getting looks because when we play the teams that don't gnt scored on as much, it's important to have more people shooting." 
Though Byers and McKinney havn been stnady through the team's first 10 games, the Irish havn gotten significant contribu­tions recently from freshman Shaylyn Blaney (21 goals, 7 assistsl, sophomore attack Gina Sciosda (9 goals, 15 assists) and 

to step up to toughsenior attack Heather Ferguson (11 goals, 10 assists). 
divisional competition 
"It's humongous," McKinney said of the spread-out scoring. 

By ALEX BARKER "It really started in California 
Spom Wri1er [over spring break) when we had people step­
Saint Mary's continues in
ping up, and that 

its pursuit of a qualifying
was really big. It 

Belles will be five of the top
days, people get 

10 teams in Div. II as well
face-guarded. 

as several strong Div. II I 
"The fact that 

teams including the No. 5
our offensive is diversifying 
team.
more is definitely a positive 

"The competition will be
thing, and I hope we do even 

fierce," Belles coach Mark
more of it in the future." 

Hamilton said. "Our goal is 
to finish as the top Division
Contact Matt Gamber at 
III team in the field."
mgamber@nd.edu 

TURTLE CREEK AMENITIES ¢Tan for FREE at Fun Tan 
~?:-On Site Security 
52555401 
of the week of the Great Western Lacrosse League for his six-point effort in the Dartmouth win. 
Head coach Kevin Corrigan said Thursday that Wharton and Swezey's collective suc­cess is mainly the result of experience. 
"The two of them have been playing together ever since [2005]," Corrigan said. "They came in this year and really started clicking. Both of them have been very aggressive but also smart with the ball, and they communicate really well. Playing together for a couple years now has definitely helped them." 
Between Wharton, Swezey, and senior midlielder Michael Podgajny, who tied his career high with four assists against Drexel, the Irish look set on the offensive end of the field. According to Corrigan, though, the team's main goal as it heads to Bellarmine will lie more on the defensive half of play. 

"The biggest thing for us is we need to establish ourselves in the way we have in our other games -defensively," Corrigan said. "That takes the pressure off of our offense. We can be a very defensive team when we're diligent and when we communicate. We've started off a number of our games very well and given up very few goals in the first quarter that's a really impor­tant thing because it relieves the pressure and allows us to play our game." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Katie O'Brien has led the and Hamilton believes his Belles for the last year. The team has what it takes to senior captain won the propel them to the top of MIAA's most valuable player their conference. 
award last fall and brought Saint Mary's to a third place finish in the conference. 
Freshman Emily Gore also played well this fall garnering second-team aii-MIAA honors and is an important 

"J think we have worked harder than our competition ... " 
Mark Hamilton Belles coach 
factor in bringing the Belles to the championship event this spring. 
"I expect both of them to continue to play well and score low this spring," Hamilton said. 
The Belles made great strides during the offseason 
"I think we have worked harder than our competi­tion and have made the nec­e s s a r y improvements to catch and surpass them." 
In the first event or the spring, the Belles placed 1Oth at the St. 

Andrews Invitational in Pinehurst. N.C. This week­end's tournament is tho see­ond of seven events on the schedule for Saint Mary's this spring. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 

CfC 
TurtleCreek 
APARTMENTS 
So close to c•mpus you catt htuir the shouts aalf see tlte ligltts 
Furnished Studio Apartments One Bedroom Apartments Two Bedroom One Bath Apartments 
Two Bedroon1 One and a Half Bath Apartments with Fenced in Patio i 
~  1-leated Pool and Hot Tub  
~  
0  Pet Friendly  



1710 E. Turtle Creek Drive ~ South Bend, IN 46637 Phone: 574-272-8124
(112 block east of campus on Vaness Street) 
Fax: 574-273-6921 www.. Ljy~TurtleCreek~CQJ.ll 
lil6. 
Friday, March 28, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 


With joy and thanksgiving we invite you to celebrate the ordination to the priesthood of· 

Rev. Mr. Andrew M. Gawrych, C.S.C. Rev. Mr. Stephen A. Lacroix, C.S.C. 
The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by the Most Reverend John D'Arcy, D.D., S.T.D. Bishop ofFort Wayne-South Bend 
Saturday, March 29,2008 2:00p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
"We heard a summons to give over our lives in a more explicit way 
JJ 
(Constitutions, 1.3) 
vocation.nd.edu 
.. 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, March 28, 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Louisville reaches Elite 8 with victory over UT 
Earl Clark nets 17 points in addition to 12 rebounds; Cardinals coach Rick Pitino now 8-0 in Sweet 16 play 
Associated Press 
CIIAHLOTTE, N.C. Tennessee's Wayne Chism tried to pick up the loose ball, only to be quickly outnumbered. Louisville's Earl Clark and Preston Knowles both dove to the floor, and the ball deflected 

.. oil" Chism out of bounds . It was what Hick Pitino loves: down and dirty defense, floor burns and hustle, and it's left the Cardinals' coach a victory away from a sixth trip to the Final Four. Clark scored 17 points and had 12 rebounds. and Pitino's mix of defenses made life miser­able for Tennessee in a 79-60 victory Thursday night that put third-seeded Louisville in the East Hegional final. Pitino, who has won an NCAA title and taken three schools to the Final Four, has l"ouisville playing its best basketball of the season when it counts most. After Louisville's two blowout wins last weekend, Pitino's sig­nature zone and pressure limit­ed the high-scoring Volunteers to 34-pereent shooting. The vet­eran coaeh improved to 8-0 in rngional semifinals and secured a date with top-seed North Carolina on Saturday night. "One of the keys on defense all year has been ehanging it up," Pitino said. "When you give any good team a steady diet of one 
defense, it's not quite as good. We extend our zone almost like a half-eourt trap, and we don't give the wings good looks." 
Terrenee Williams and Andre MeGee each added 13 points and David Padgett had 10 points and eight rebounds for Louisville ( 27 -8), which nearly blew all of a 16-point first half lead, only to take control mid­way through the second half. The Cardinals are vying for their second Final Four trip in six years under Pitino. lie also took them there in 2005. 
"The last three games, our offense and our defense have both been clicking," Pitino said. "There have been games where our offense has clicked or our defense has clicked, but our defense has stayed constant most of the year." 
Chris Lofton scored 15 points for No. 2 seed Tennessee, but was 3-for-15 in his final game with the Volunteers (31-5), who have never advanced beyond the round of 16. 
After a horrible start, Tennessee got within 37-36 early in the second half thanks to its own defensive pressure, which forced 20 turnovers. 
But then the springy Clark, who has come on in the NCAA tournament, had a driving layup, hit a baseline jumper and converted a three-point play in a 13-5 run. 

Louisville's defense didn't allow Tennessee to get back in it again, and the Cardinals hit all nine free throws over the final 5 minutes to keep Tennessee at bay. 
"I've been coaching a long time and never has the tempo of the game been dictated so much by an opponent," Tennessee coach Bruce Pearl said. "We usually dictate tempo. We attacked the pressure and we had opportunity to hurt the press, but we just didn't finish." 
JaJuan Smith added 12 point and Tyler Smith had 11, but the Volunteers continued their NCAA tournament shooting slump. 
Tennessee went 5-for-20 from 3-point range and finished 11­for-58 in three games. It was another disappointing end for Pearl, who has resurrected the program at Tennessee in his third season, but hasn't been able to get the Vols into the round of eight. 
The Volunteers, who were outrebounded 43-28, dropped to 0-5 in regional semifinals and finished with a school record for victories in a season. 
"This doesn't take much away from the finest season in the history of Tennessee basket­ball," Pearl said. "No team has accomplished the things these guys accomplished this year, and I'm awfully proud of them." 
I,.,_..·. 




Brand new, furnished townhomes 
for this Fall Semester, 2008 
2 blocks east of the Notre Dame athletic fields, off Willis Street 
A limited number of new Irish Crossings three and four-bedroom townhomes, specifically geared for today's college student, are now available for lease for this fall semester. 
No more old school housing. 
Larger than an apartment, these townhomes also include a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser, closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & Cable 

• 
Separate laundry room with washer & dryer included 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
Large deck 


• 
Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 


Strict covenants enforced. 
lease today and move into your brand new townhome for fall semester 2008. Call Diane at 574.261-3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossings.com. 
now leasing. 



------------------------------------------------------. 
Friday, March 28, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish look to end three-game skid against OSU 
50 Kentucky with their other productivity out of his No. 2 No. 1 doubles team has strug­Bayliss said. "But at the 
By KATE GRABAREK 
two losses coming at the Blue and 3 slots in the lineup. gled since Alabama, but has NCAA's we will have seen 
Sports Writer 
Gray Tennis Classic. The Irish The No. 1 team of senior confidence they will pick up everything out there and if it fell to No. 33 Boise State, and Sheeva Parbhu and Helgeson the aggressiveness again. doesn't pay off this year, it will Notre Dame is looking to No. 8 Tulsa in did not change. With their recent struggles definitely help for next year." bounce back after three two close However, Bayliss is continuing to look The Irish know they have a
"Each ofthe guys
straight losses, but the No. 27 matches. Bayliss teamed for ways to improve his start­tough task ahead of them Irish will have be on top of "We were in have had their junior Santiago ing lineup. against the Buckeyes, with the their game as they take on No. all of our Montoya with "Sean Corrigan, Matt Buckeyes only loss coming to
moments in thet sun. 
2 Ohio State. matches against senior Andrew Johnson, and Takashi Yoshi No. 1 Virginia in the finals of
Hopefully, the
The Irish have had recent both Boise State Roth, and slid are competing well in practice the National Team Indoors luck against the Buckeyes and Tulsa," maturity I expect will freshman and are close to breaking into earlier this year. despite losing to them 7-0 last Bayliss said. show itselfsoon.,, Stephen Havens the lineup," Bayliss said. "Ohio State is very good at year in Columbus. Overall, "Against down to No. 3 "Each of the guys have had doubles, and that will give us the Irish hold the upper hand Kentucky, Brett doubles to play their moments in the sun. a good challenge," Bayliss
Bobb Bayliss 
in head-to-head competition (Helgeson) was with fellow Hopefully, the maturity I said. with a 26-22 record. up a set and 4-3 Irish coach freshman Tyler expect will show itself soon." The Irish will take on the 
"Two years ago they came when the match Davis. Bayliss also said he has Buckeyes at 4 p.m. at the Eck here and we upset them," was stopped. "The fresh­started four freshmen in the Tennis Pavilion Friday. After coach Bobby Bayliss said. (Dan) Stahl has won a lot of men team has not lost a lineup in every match. the Buckeyes, the Irish will "Last year we went there and close matches lately." match at No. 3 doubles," This season the Irish will stay home and take on Ball they beat us, but I feel like we After the National Team Bayliss said. "The No. 2's face eight of the top 16 teams State April 4. can compete with them and Indoors, Bayliss decided a beat North Carolina State and in the nation. make it a close match." change needed to be made in Boise State in Alabama." "Those matches will put the Contact Kate Grabarek at 
The Irish recently fell to No. the doubles lineup to get more Bayliss also noted that the young guys under the gun," kgrabaOl @stmarys.edu 

ND WoMEN's SoFTBALL 
ND to kick off Big East play 
By CHRIS DOYEN The Irish met the Blue Demons Sports Writer three times last year, losing twice at DePaul in late April before After dispatching IUPUI with an exacting some revenge on their 8-0 victory in its home opener home field with an 8-2 victory in Wednesday, Notre Dame (16-9) a game that advanced the Irish to will hit the road again for its con-the finals of the Big East tourna­ference openers in a double ment where they fell to Louisville. header at DePaul Sunday. Those eight runs served as a 
"This team is itching to play in stark contrast to the one run the the Big East and prove what Irish were able to muster in their Notre Dame softball is about this first two games against DePaul in year," junior pitcher Brittney 2007. Bargar said. In that semifinal game, sopho-
The beginning of the confer-more Christine Lux knocked a ence season signals the opportu-three-run home run in the top of nity for the Irish to live up to their the third to go along with a two-expectations. . RBI double by junior linda Kohan 
"This conference season, I to lead the way for the Irish expect perfection, out of myself as offense, while Bargar limited the well as this team," Bargar said. Blue Demons to just two earned "We have the talent this year, and runs on three hits while striking the sky is the limit." out six. 
Thursday's scheduled game While DePaul made an early against Illinois-Chicago was post-exit from the Big East tourna­poned and has not been resched-ment at the hands of the Irish last ulcd. year, it managed to rebound from 
The Blue Demons (19-9) cur-that setback and post a 6-2 rently sit at No. 24 in the USA record in the Women's College Today/NFCA poll. World Series. were elimi­
r....;;....-::~;;;;;;;;;:------:--:----~;:;~;;::-, 

Serving Lunch & 
Dhme1· 
1ues-.Sar 

11-2; 4-9pm 
Clost•.t Sunday e_., Mon.tay 
Our Specialties Include Exquisite 
1\!leat Entrees & Healthy vegetarian Dishes 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts extras: lentil Soup & Garlic Paste 
Come Dine With Our Family And Be Our Friend! 115 Dixie Way North, South Bend (574) 277-7239 
nated by a 3-0 defeat at the hands of Arizona. The Blue Demons ended up No. 6 in the final USA Today/NFCA poll of 2007. 
This weekend, DePaul is com­ing off of a special kind of warm­up to the Big East season. On Wednesday, the Blue Demons played an exhibition game against the USA National Team as part of its Bound for Beijing Tour. 
DePaul suffered a 23-0 loss at the hands of the soon-to-be Olympians, as starter Lindsay Dean gave up 13 runs on three home runs and four doubles in the opening frame. While the result of the exhibition game may not look pretty, playing against some of the best hitters, pitchers, and fielders in the world can only help with preparation for the Big East season. 
The most recent regular season game for the Blue Demons was a pard fought 1-0 loss to San Diego St.-a game that wasn't decided until the eighth inning. 
Conversely, Notre Dame's win over IUPUI was efficient, convinc­ing, and over after only five innings. Freshman pitcher Jody Valdivia earned her third shutout of the season, while senior Katie Laing and freshman Katie Fleury each posted two-RBI performanc­es. 
DePaul will offer a challenge for the Irish, but Bargar and her teammates are ready for Sunday. 
"[DePaul] has some great hit­ters and a great pitching staff," she said. "But I expect to win both games." 
The Irish and Blue Demons will square off twice Sunday with the first game set to begin at 12 p.m. at Cacciatore Stadium in Chicago. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles try to bounce back after hon1e loss 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's heads off to Wheaton, Ill., this weekend to take on Olivet Nazarene and Wheaton College in the Wheaton Invitational Tournament. 
The Belles (4-6, 0-2 MIAA) lost their home opener Wednesday to conference rival Calvin (7-1, 1-0 MIAA), 6-3. 
"Calvin is a very good team, and we knew they were going to be very good coming in," Belles coach Chuck Rubino said. "But we had a good effort on our part. We had some good matches with our No. 2 in singles, Jillian Hurley, and in the No. 6 spot with Jessica Camp. In doubles, we let some slip away from us." 
In singles, the Belles went 2-4, with No. 2 Hurley and No. 6 Camp, both freshmen, the only two to come out on top for the Belles, winning in three sets each. Hurley defeated Calvin's Kaitlin Spoelhof6-7 (4-7), 6-1,6­4, bringing her singles record to 9-1. Camp went 6-1, 2-6, 7-6 (7­2), beating Calvin's Kelsey Bushhouse. Saint Mary's No.1 Camille Gebert fell 6-3, 6-0; No. 3 Betsy Reed lost 6-2, 7 -5; No. 4 Jessica Kosinski was swept 6-4, 6-0; No. 5 Lisa Rubino was defeated 7-5, 6-1. 
Saint Mary's fell in doubles competition on Wednesday as well. The No. 1 pair of sopho­more Camille Gebert and fresh­man Hurley won their fifth match together, bringing them to 5-5 as a pair with their 8-6 win over Calvin's Melissa Oosterhouse and Rachel Strikwerda. But the winning stopped there. The No. 2 duo of Reed and Rubino fell 8-6 by Calvin's Kaitlin Spoelhof and Jill Van Veen. The No. 3 team of Franca Peluso and Mary Therese Lee lost 8-0 to Calvin's Elisabeth Geenen and Rachel DeGroot. 
"I do think our doubles are improving," Rubino said. "Especially at No. 1 and No. 2 we are starting to learn how to play doubles. We're real close to winning sets and matches in the middle of our singles too." 
With a young team of two sophomores and eight freshmen, Saint Mary's has had to do some adjusting this season. 
"We need to learn to compete on the next level, and that's an ongoing process," Rubino said. "Our girls are learning that this is a new level, and it takes some adjustment, and we're working towards that." 
This weekend, Saint Mary's will take on Olivet Nazarene Friday morning at 11:30 a.m. and Wheaton College at 3 p.m. Saturday. Olivet Nazarene, ranked No. 18 in the NAIA, is 2­0 for their spring season, after winning the Tri-State Conference Championship in the fall. Wheaton is currently ranked No. 18 in the ITA for Division III schools. 
"This is going to be a very strong tournament," Rubino said. "Very stiff competition that will force us to try to improve. We'll give our best effort, and hopefully the strong competition will pay off towards the end of the season. Our goals are to win as many flights as we can and improve." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Plug in to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Free iTunes subscription for reflective listening on your iPod. 
Type "ndprayercast" on the iTunes search engine, -:or-log onto www.ndprayercast.org  
A_»>l)))) ) )  Hear it here this week: Rev. Ralph Haag, c.s.c.  
M www.ndprayercast.org  Songs of the ND Folk Choir • Psalms • Homilies • Prayers • Meditative music Weekly rebroadcasts ofthe Sunday 11:45am Liturgies  

'lI 
1 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 28. 2008 
NBA 

Anthony-Iverson duo combine for 63 in win 
Afflalo scores 15 stepping in for Hamilton as Detroit clinches Central division title with win over beleaguered Heat 
Associated Press 

DENVEH -Carmelo Anthony scored 32 points and sparked tho dneisivn run in thn third quarter of' tlw lknvnr Nuggets' 
I I H-1 05 win ovl'r the sliding Dallas MaVPrirks on Thursday night. 
/\linn IVI\rson added :ft points l'or tlw NuggPls, who won their fourth straight and movnd into a ti11 with Colchm State f'or the eighth and f'inal playol'f' spot. one gamP behind the Mavnrirks. The Warriors played Portland Iotter Thursday night. 
The NuggPts' grand night was capped when forward None entered the game with 
1: 17 loft, marking his return to thn court 2'! months af'tnr sur­gory to rPmovP a malignant tnstkular tumor, and just over a month aftnr undergoing chnmotlwrapy. 
lie was givPn a rousing standing ovation as teammate Knnyon Martin embraced him in a bear hug. Nene hoped to play 5 minutes, but thosn plans were scrapped when the Nuggets f'ell behind early. 
"It's not about how he plays," coach (;norge Karl said an hour before tip-off. "We're just happy he's back and we're going to celebrate his health, we're going to relebrate his corning off of major cancer sur­gery, and we're just going to celebrate. This has nothing to do with basketball. We're just happy he's with LIE·." 
The Nuggets also got 10 boards from Anthony and over­came a 30-point night by Josh lloward and 19 points and 15 assists from Jason Kidd. 
The Mavericks are 10-9 since acquiring Kidd f'rom New .h1rsey, but none of' the wins was against teams with win­ning records. Six of their linal I0 gamns arc against teams above .500. 
Dallas f'nll to 1-1 since losing MVP Dirk Nowitzki indefinitely with knee and ankl11 injuries. 
After trailing by 15 points early, the Nuggets took a 94-86 lmtd into the fourth quarter. 
Kidd was left unguarded on the left elbow and swished a 3­pointcr in the third quar1f1r to give the Mavericks a 79-71 lead, but the Nuggets respond­ed with an 18-2 run. 
Anthony scored half of the points in the game-turning spurt. llis breakaway slam dunk gave Denver its first lead sinee the opening minutes, and Anthony Carter followed with a breakaway linger-roll to make it 82-79 and force a timeout. 
After a jumper by Howard, Anthony sank four free throws with 3:17 left in the third quar­ter for an 86-81 lead after Dallas eoaeh Avery Johnson and Howard received techni­eals for arguing a personal f'oul on Howard. 
Howard surpassed his scor­ing average of 19.6 points with a 22-point first half, leading Dallas to a 70-60 lead at the break. 
With 16 points, Jerry Stackhouse (10.6) also sur­passed his scoring average by halftime. So did Kidd (10.61 with 13 points as Dallas shot 60 percent from the field. 


Pistons 85, Heat 69 
When Arron Afflalo gets a rare start for the Detroit Pistons, he knows he isn't going to be the focus of the opposing defense. 
Thursday, the rookie took advantage. 
*...J­
\~J 
~ 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Nominations for the 
Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, April 14, 2008 

Afflalo, starting in place of the injured Richard Hamilton, had a career-high 15 points as the Pistons clinched the Central Division title with a 85-69 vic­tory over the Miami Heat. 
''I'm out there with four All­

Star-caliber players, so they 
aren't going to be paying much 
attention to me," Affialo said. "I 
hit a couple shots early and 
that let me get comfortable." 
Afflalo talked to the media while watching his alma mater, UCLA, take on Western Kentucky in an NCAA tourna­ment game. 
"The best part about my situ­ation is that I've got a lot of veteran teammates that have all been through this before," he said. "They are able to calm me down and tell me what to do." 
Despite their constant teasing about his poor dunking ability -Rasheed Wallace told him after the game to shoot 3-point­ers on the fast break to avoid embarrassment -Afflalo has earned the respect of his team­mates. 
"He's done a great job all year," said Chauncey Billups. "He's worked hard in practice, he works hard before games, and when he gets an opportu­nity, he takes it. He's been big." 
The win ensured Detroit's fourth straight division title and sixth in the last seven years. 
"It means a lot," Billups said. "Every year, we're picked to finish second, third, maybe even fourth, but at the end, we're in first. That feels good." 
Detroit didn't clinch the title in stellar form, though. The Pistons came in having lost three of four, and struggled against the hapless Heat. 
"Those guys had nothing to lose, and they were going to try to prove some things -earn a roster spot or secure things for next year," Pistons coach Flip Saunders said. "We executed down the stretch. Any time you hold a team, I don't care who it is, to 24 points in the second half, you have a chance to win." 
Miami, which has lost 13 of 15, dressed nine players, including four rookies and two second-year players. 
"It's hard to evaluate young guys when you aren't playing them with your best players," said Miami coach Pat Riley. "We're asking them to do things we wouldn't normally expect them to do." 
Rookie Blake Ahearn, who came into the game with seven career points, led Miami with 15, but only two other players reached double figures. 
"The guys that are out there playing, we have a lot of pride," said Chris Quinn, who led Miami's starters with 11 points. "The only thing we can do is play as hard as possible. We've got 10 or 11 games left, and we've got to leave it all out there." 
Reserve Jason Maxiell had 15 points for Detroit, while Billups added 13 points and 11 assists. 
Miami led for most of the first half and had an eight-point advantage late in the second quarter, but Detroit narrowed the gap to 45-43 at intermis­sion. The Heat outrebounded the Pistons 20-15 in the half, including a 6-1 advantage on the offensive boards. 
The Pistons went ahead early in the third quarter, but wasted an opportunity to build a big lead. They missed seven free throws in the period, including five by Antonio McDyess. 
That let the Heat stay in the game, but Detroit had expand­ed the margin to 66-55 by quarter's end. Maxiell had 11 points and five rebounds in the period. 
Miami got within 70-65 with 

7:30 to go, but Rasheed Wallace answered with a 3­pointer. Afflalo's three-point play moved the lead to 80-69 with 2:39 left and the Pistons finally took control. 
Friday, March 28, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
ROWING 

Squad opens spring season 
Captains will split time between Pac-10 Challenge and Lubber's Cup 

By LULU ZHANG Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's crew team, led by senior cap­tains Allison Marsh, Laura Pearson, and Amanda Polk, will open its 2008 spring season with two challenges -part of the team will head to Palo Alto, Cal. to compete in the Pac-1 0 Challenge presented by Windmere Real Estate, while the other will head to Grand Rapids, Mich. to compete in the Lubbers Cup. 

Notre Dame faces Stanford on Saturday morning, UCLA on Saturday afternoon, and UC Berkeley on Sunday morning. The team has won the women's trophy the past two years at the Lubber's Cup, and although they have a reduced squad this year, Coach Stone says they are up to the challenge. 
Coach Stone said the team had scrimmaged Northeastern over break, but has a more solid-line up at this point. The team has been training hard, and Stone is expecting a great performance from each mem­ber of his squad in its opening weekend. 
Contact Lulu Zhang at lzhang5@nd.edu 

BASEBALL 
Irish gear up for 3-gam_e series against Bearcats 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
About a week and a half ago, Notre Dame (12-7-1, 3-0) seemed to hit rock bottom after blowing a seven-run lead in the last two innings to Texas Pan­American. Talk about a turn­around. Headed into their three-game series against Big East rival Cincinnati (10-9, 2-1), the Irish have won five in a row since the Broncos' debacle. 
"We're much more confident now," Notre Dame coach Dave Schrage said. "We've been pitching a lot better and our offense has been explosive. It also helps when you have Evan Sharpley batting as well as he is. He's knocked six homeruns within the past couple of games and driven in a bunch of runs." 
After the sweep of Big East rival Georgetown, the junior was named the Big East player of the week for his offensive production, making him the first Irish player to gain the honor since Craig Cooper did so in April2006. 
With the win streak, Schrage said he can feel his younger players gaining confidence and starting to fit into their roles. 
"Oh, they're defmitely matur­ing," he said. "They're develop­ing as a group, and overall just playing with more confidence.· A lot of them are starting to understand where they fit in on the team. Sometimes when you come in as a freshman, you're not exactly sure what to expect, and since we play a lot of first­year kids, we had some early struggles." 
Notre Dame looks to stay undefeated in conference play against the Bearcats this week­end, while Cincinnati would love to gain some ground in the league standings. 
Despite the Irish momentum, Schrage does not want to take the Bearcats lightly, mainly because of their own recent bot streak. 
"They're playing real well," Schrage said. "They're coming in as a talented bunch on a four-game streak of their own. Their pitching is much improved from last season. [Cincinnati] also has a veteran lineup that features some speed. They're leadoff man, [senior] Tony Campana is the fastest guy in the league. They've got speed in the middle of the lineup, mixed in with some solid hit­ting." 
In the Irish five-game win streak, two factors have been constant -an offensive explo­sion, in addition to solid pitch­ing performances. In the five contests, the Irish have outscored their opponents by a margin of 58-9. 
At the heart of this offensive outburst have been a key num­ber of players, including sopho­more A.J. Pollock, who went 4­for-5 against Wisconsin­Milwaukee in the Irish 14-3 vic­tory Wednesday. He registered three singles, a triple, a stolen base, and RBI as well as scoring five runs in the contest. The sophomore even flashed some leather earlier this week, com­ing up with a pair of impressive diving catches in right field. Pollock leads the team in both hits (29) and batting average (.454). 
Pitching has also been strong for Notre Dame. Freshman Ryan Sharpley tossed five score­less innings, including a no-hit­ter through four against the Panthers. In addition to picking up his first career victory, the freshman also drastically cut his ERA in half, from 5.40 to 2.70. 
Taking the mound against Cincinnati in the series opener Friday will be junior right-han­der, David Phelps, who had three straight solid starts. Despite struggling in his opener, the right-hander has come back and frustrated opposing batters, going deep into games. In 20 of his past 21 starts, Phelps has lasted at least five innings. 
In the second game of the series, senior southpaw Wade Korpi will take the mound as he looks to improve on his 4-1 record. Korpi has allowed a team-high five home runs, although none have come over his past three starts. 
To finish off the series, the Bearcats will face sophomore Eric Maust whose 1.93 ERA is the team-low amongst the Notre Dame starters. One of the more encouraging aspects of Maust's pitching is that he has improved in each of his following starts. 
Coach Schrage does not shy away from his beliefs that his starters' play has been a major reasons for the hot streak. 
"It's definitely one of the main reasons behind the turn­around," Schrage said. "Maust gave us eight innings and Korpi gave us seven last week, and that's what we've been asking of them all season -the ability to go deeper into the games, and let Uunior] Kyle Weiland close out the games. We've been able to do that as of late and its turned into wins." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, March 28, 2008 
MEN'S TRACK 

Irish tc> head outdoors for the first time at ASU 
New players and new events will challenge ND 
By EUGENIA ALFONSO 
Sports Writer 
After a good showing at the indoor NCAA Championships, Notre Dame 
can finally take  a.  breath of  
fresh air.  
Notre  Dame  is  heading  

outdoors for the Arizona State Invitational in Tempe, Arizona, home of the 2008 Men's and Women's Indoor NCAA Champions Sun Devils. 
While only consisting of sprints and field events, the Irish will try to compete against the likes of Brigham Young University, Loyola Marymount, Air Force and more. Not only does Notre Dame face new competitors, it faces new events as well. .I unior Austin Wechter will be running in the 400-rneter hurdles while sophomore Brandon Denon, junior John Bnlcher and senior Mike Schubert will test their skills in the discus. 
The 4-by-400-m.eter rnlay team of junior Billy Buzaid, freshman Mikloi> Szflbeny and sophornorn Halasz Molnar will ar~eompany toammatn Wechtr·r on their trip to Tompe. Buzaid and 
FREAKY 
f~ST! 
Szebeny will also participate in the 400-meter run, hop­ing to finish well and help boost the Irish running events. 
Freshmen Tyrell Atkins will also sprint for the Irish. He's expected to run in the 100-meter and 200-meter dash. 
The throwers include freshmen Greg Davis, fresh­man Denes Verez, junior Jeff Mensch and upperclassmen Denon, Belcher and Schubert. Davis, Belcher and Mensch will be doing the weight throw while Denon and Schubert partici­pate in the shot put. Verez will take part in both events hoping to repeat his second­place finish at the Big East Conference meet last month. 
As for the jumps, sopho­more Eric Quick will par­take in the long jump and triple while junior Blair Macjina will compete in the high jump. Junior Brian Mahon and sophomore Matt Schipper are both partici­pating in the pole vault. 
The Arizona State University Invitational begins on Friday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Sloppy UCLA ekes by WKU 
Associated Press 

UCLA can make a double-digit victory look difficult. 
With Kevin Love scoring a career-high 29 points, the Bruins nearly frittered away a 21-point halftime lead and hung on to defeat Western Kentucky 88-78 in the NCAA West Regional on Thursday night. 
Top-seeded UCLA (34-3) will play No. 3 seed Xavier on Saturday for a trip to its third consecutive Final Four. 
The Bruins were more relieved than happy to survive the Hilltoppers, who took advan­tage of UClA's sloppy play to pull within four points late in the game. 
"Unacceptable, unacceptable, unacceptable," Love said. "That's all I can say. 
"It was unacceptable the way we played in the second half. If we're going to keep playing like that, we're not going to be in this tournament very long." 
The Bruins routed over­matched Mississippi Valley State in the first round but haven't resembled a No. 1 seed since. They sweated out a two-point victory over Texas A&M in the second round. 
"That was another exciting game for all the Bruin fans out there," UCLA coach Ben Howland said. "We want to keep you guys awake and on the edge of your seat." 
Without Love, the Bruins would be in hibernation already. Love had 14 rebounds and hit 1 0-of-14 shots from the floor. 
Love had help from James Keefe, who had 18 points and 12 rebounds, both career highs. Russell Westbrook added 14 points and 11 rebounds. 
Keefe, a sophomore who has 

As ostudent of Saint Mary's College, Holy Cross College, or the University of Notre Dome, you ore automatically eligible for membership. 
In addition, you qualify for o 
Visa® Credit Cord with o S1,500 line-of-credit ond olow 7.9%APR* on oil balance "' transfers. 
battled back from shoulder sur­
gery last August, played sparing­
ly most of the season. 
"I mean, this is why I came back, you know?" Keefe said. 
Tyrone Brazelton scored 31 points -25 in the second half­and Courtney Lee added 18 for 12th-seeded Western Kentucky (29-7). 
"We just dug ourselves too big of a hole in the first half," Western Kentucky coach Darrin Horn said. ''I'm unbelievably proud of my team." 
Early on, the Bruins looked primed for a blowout, blitzing the Hilltoppers with a 23-4 run midway through the first half. 

UCLA led 41-20 at halftime, but Western Kentucky wouldn't go away. The Hilltoppers began pressing, and the Bruins started to unravel. They had 12 turnovers in the first 15 minutes of the second half and finished with 19, a season high. 
The Bruins appeared in trou­ble when point guard Darren Collison fouled out -for the first time this year -with 5:39 to play. Collison had four points and four turnovers. 
"They came out in some differ­ent angles," Collison said. "We didn't read the plays right. Everybodywas sped up." 
As the U.S. Airways Center crowd got behind them, the Hilltoppers went on a 19-6 run to whittle the lead to 61-57 with 
6:50 to play. Brazelton capped· the run by scoring eight unan­swered points in less than a minute, on back-to-back 3-point­ers and a layup. 
But A.J. Slaughter missed a 3­pointer that would have pulled Western Kentucky within one point, and then Love scored from close range. Josh Shipp, an erratic long-range shooter, hit a 3 to push UClA's lead to 68-59 with 4:30 to play. 
"That in a nutshell was the 

game," Horn said. "It changed 
all the momentum. We had spent 
so much energy to get back into 
it, played so hard to get back, if 
that three goes down and we cut 
it to one, it's a totally different 
situation down the finish." 
Howland was so desperate to stem the tide that he called his final timeout. Steadied, the Bruins did not let the Hilltoppers draw closer than six the rest of the way. 
Perhaps it was no surprise that UCLA let the scrappy Hilltoppers back in the game. The Bruins rolled into the desert on a 12­game winning streak, but they hadn't been dominant. Five of their last eight wins had been by three points or less, and another came after they forced overtime. 
The Hilltopper's had won eight straight games and reached the round of 16 for the first time since 1993, when Horn was a sophomore guard. At No. 12, Western Kentucky was the low­est remaining seed in the tour­ney, along with Villanova. 
Early on, Western Kentucky looked the part of a 12th seed. The Hilltoppers came out jittery, with four turnovers in the first three minutes. And they had more turnovers (nine) than field goals (six) in the first half. 
Lee made two of his lirst 13 shots from the floor. 
Things were no better at the other end, where Western Kentucky had no answer for Love. 
D.J. Magley and Jeremy Evans each fouled Love in a 5-second span in the first minute, and Evans went to the bench with his second foul three minutes into the game. 
-------------~-­
Friday, March 28, 2008 
Pearce 
continued from page 28 
has a positive outlook on hav­ing to compete for his position, even during the season. 
"As the season's gone on and I've played more and more, I've felt more confident in the net, learn­
ing from expe­"No matter who wins Friday night [in a rience," Friday night or 2-1 overtime loss Pearce said. to No. 3 Miami
Saturday night or in
''I'm not com­(Ohio)]." 
placent and the Frozen Four, a big Pearce's per­
I'm not taking part ofit is going to formance on my spot for Friday, and really
be because of
granted even throughout his
goa/tending.''
now-I know whole junior sea­I have to play son, hasn't come and battle for as much of a sur­
Jeff Jackson 
my own posi­prise to Jackson
Irish coach 
tion. 
"Competition always breeds excellence, as they always say. You look down the ice and you see Phii[lips] and [sophomore] Tommy [O'Brien] making big saves and playing well, and it makes you even better, makes you want to work even harder." 
While the favorite for the job was a mystery to the players, Jackson said he was confident Pearce would eventually be the one to emerge. 
"I told him going into the sea­son that it was his job to lose," Jackson said. "He was a junior, he had paid his due, he didn't mope, he didn't [complain]. He fought through the last two years, and I think that's a part of why he's having success now -he didn't let it impact him in a dramatically negative way." 
If anything, Pearce said, watching Brown, a Hobey Baker finalist last season, con­tributed positively to his play. 
"The one thing I admired most about David Brown was his eonsistency, especially last year," Pearce said. "He always was on top of his game, and our team was always in it -I don't think he ever had a bad game. and I remember one bad goal through the whole year, maybe." 
And Pearce, who boasts a eonference-best 1.95-goals­against average, has done just that. even through Notre Dame's second-half scoring drought that has seen the Irish score more than two goals just three times since the end of January. 
"The thing that has impressed me is that there's been a lot of pressure on him because we haven't been scor­ing," Jackson said. "Every game has been like if he gives up a goal, we might lose-1-0, 2-1, or whatever. He's dealt with that pressure very well, he hasn't broken down, and I think he played his best game as our goaltender 
-though the 
third-year Irish 

coach did have his initial questions about his net­minder. 
"I had the confidence to think he could be a good goaltender," Jackson said. "I was more con­cerned about his mental make­up, as far as his ability to over­come adversity, his mental toughness -because I didn't really know what it was. I'd challenge him all the time in practice, and I never got much of a response from him, so I didn't really know what to expect in that area. 
"Ability-wise, I thought he had it, and he's proved to me that he's ready to compete, battle, play tough when he needs to play tough. He has a great temperament in that he doesn't let things rattle him." 
That will be key for Pearce and the Irish tonight against a high-powered New Hampshire offense. Rest assured, though, that if Notre Dame extends it season, Pearce will have been a major factor. 
"No matter who wins Friday night or Saturday night or in the Frozen Four. a big part of it is going to be because of goal­tending," Jackson said. "You can't win a championship with­out great goaltending, at any level. It's just like winning a championship without a great pitcher or a great quarterback -you have to have that go-to­guy, that guy that can make the difference in goal." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
LadyVols 
continued from page 28 
many weapons that you really can't just go at one person and try to shut one person down." 
Because of that, McGraw said, she would look for a defense that could guard many people simultaneously. 
"The problem with Tennessee I think they're all going to get their points," she said. "So we've got to make a stand somewhere. That's what we'll have to decide." 
To combat Parker, Notre Dame has a senior class that isn't quite done yet. Gaines and guard Charel Allen, whose career-high 35 points put Notre Dame in the Sweet 16, continue to drive the team, McGraw said. 
"I think Tulyah and Charel have a great sense of urgency," McGraw said. "Tulyah has had that all year long. She has been the driving force of the team. She is the heart and soul of our group. She gives us energy and makes us go." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrinkl@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish try to stretch win streak to 6 
In-state rival No. 24 Indiana faces No. 19 Notre Dame at home 
By DAN MASTERTON Sports Writer 

No. 19 Notre Dame (12-7) will put its five-game win streak on the line against the No. 24 Indiana Hoosiers Sunday at 12 p.m. in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Indiana (14-3) entered Friday with a seven-game win streak and has a chance to extend that streak to eight against Michigan State on Friday before the Hoosiers travel to South Bend for just their fourth road match of the year. 
Indiana is 2-1 in road matches but faces a tough test coming to Notre Dame as the Irish are 6-1 at home for the dual season. 
The Hoosiers' impressive overall record comes against an unimpressive schedule. Indiana has played just two ranked opponents and lost both matches whereas the Irish are battle-tested, going 2-6 against their eight ranked opponents. 
Indiana has also yet to face 

much individual competition. Over their 17 matches, the Hoosiers' singles players have faced only eight ranked singles players all season. The Irish have a 17-29 record in singles matches against ranked players. 
In their match-up with the Irish, the Hoosiers will face three ranked singles players in Notre Dame's No. 38 jun­ior Kelcy Tefft, No. 105 soph­omore Cosmina Ciobanu, and No. 114 sophomore Kali Krisik. 
The strength of Indiana's singles lineup is at the bot­tom. Brianna Williams, who has been playing No. 5 sin­gles, has won seven matches in a row and is 16-1 for the dual season. 
Myriam Sopel, who has been playing No. 6 singles in the Hoosier lineup, follows Williams. Sopel has tri­umphed all six times she has taken the court this dual sea­son. 
This dynamic pair teams up to comprise Indiana's most successful doubles duo. The pair of Sopel and Williams is 10-1 playing together, primarily as the No. 3 doubles team for the Hoosiers. 
The Irish doubles attack has dropped just two of 18 matches amidst a streak of six doubles points wins in a row. The pair of Tefft and senior Brook Buck remain No. 1 in the country while the No. 50 pair of Ciobanu and sophomore Colleen Rielley continue to quietly dominate with a 12-1 record. 
On the singles side, the Irish win stre-ak has been led by the strong play of Krisik. She is 16-3 on the dual sea­son and has won 14 of her last 15 matches. The domi­nance of Krisik and solid play and the bottom can often go overlooked in the lineup. 
The competition between Indiana and Notre Dame's strong bottom halves should be intense and could ulti­mately decide if the Irish streak will grow to six. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastet@nd.edu 


Lafayette Square · Townhomes 
Now Leasing for 2008-2009 
424 N. Frances Street 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

-~----~­
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 28, 2008 
NCAA 
continued from page 28 

The No. 4 Irish will mateh up against thn No. 1 sr,ed University of Nnw Hampshire in the first round of the Wes1; regional in Colorado Springs, Colo. The Wildeats are led by senior for­wards Matt Fornataro and Mike Hadja, who combined for 89 points on the season. In net, Kevin Hegan led the !Iockey East Association with a sterling 2.12 GAA and .933 save percentage. 
game a little differently." 

Van Guilder compared the Wildcats' offensive talent, if not playing style, to CCIIA rival Miehigan. 
'They have that kind of talent and that kind of speed," Van Guilder said. "We're going to try to frustrate them again like we do against offensive-minded teams. It'll be a challenge." 
This is the second straight year the Irish have qualified for the NCAA tournament; and only the third time in the program's histo­ry. Last year, the Irish beat Alabama­Huntsville 3-2 in 
"We 'vn seen a "We're going to try to double overtime little bit of them in the first round,
frustrate them again 
on film already." but fell to eventu­
Irish senior cap­like we do against al champion tain Mark Van offensive-minded Michigan State in Guilder said. the second round. 
teams. It'll be a
"But they're a This year, the
challenge. " 
talented team Irish head into [with) good the Tournament speed." Mark Van Guilder with a slightly dif­The speed may ferent mindset
Irish center
play to New Hampshire's advantage on the Olympic-size iee sheet at World Arena, whieh is slightly bigger than the NI-IL­sizn rink on which the Irish are used to playing. The Wildcats, on the other hand, play their home games on the large!' sheet. 
.Jackson, though, has plenty of experience on the larger rink during his time coaching the United States junior team. lie said some efl'ects of the rink, like the theory that the added open space leads to more offense, were nxaggnrated. 
"I think it actually hurts the game o!l'nnsively bneause there's so mueh additional space that you can kind of get lost in," .Jaekson said. "The biggest thing is that you have to learn to play mom inside the dots." 
"It's an ocean, so if you get trapped playing outside the areas that you normally do, you ean play a lot of perimeter hock­ey." 
However, .Jackson said the Wildcats like to spl'ead the puck out around the ice and this could work to their advantage on the bigger sheet. New Hampshire, like the rest of the IlEA. plays a much more open, free-flowing game. The eonfewnce is tradi­tionally smaller andl quiekcr than tho rough-and-tumble CCIIA. 
"They're an extrPrnely talented team," .Jackson said. "They have the same kind of talent as a team like Miami, but they play the 
than last year, when they were the No. 1 overall seed. 

"It's a little different, obviously you're opponent's going to be a little bit stronger," junior for­ward Garrett Regan said of being the underdog. "[But] we know what we've got going on inside of our locker room, and from that standpoint, it doesn't really change from last year." 
If the Irish beat UNH on Friday afternoon, they will move on to faee the winner of the Miehigan State-Colorado College matehup. 
The Irish have plenty of expe­rience with the Spartans, having played them twice in CCI-lA play this season, falling 3-1 in East Lansing and tying 1-1 in the Joyce Center. Notre Dame hasn't faced the Tigers, though, since it lost 3-1 in the 2005 season. 
"That bracket is awesome," Van Guilder said. 'There's awe­some teams there." 
For now, though, Jackson and 

the Irish  are focused  on  New  
Hampshire  and  only  New  
Ilampshire.  

"We're 120 minutes away from playing in the Frozen Four, and that's the way we have to look at it," Jackson said. "But we've got to tick off every minute with great play. We have to worry about the first minute before we worry about the first 20 or the first 60." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


TOlJR GUIDES 
I\lEEDED 
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions intends to hire new guides for the summer o8, fall o8 and spring 09 sessions 
Ps.. 
~~~ 
.iili··~
.,,.e_,,.•.. 

~ 

Applications are available for pick up now: 
220 Main Building 
Please return by 5pm on Tuesday, Aprilt. Q1,1estions? E~mail Beth Giudicessi: egiudice(~lnd.edu 
~. ~~ 
.. . 
~ .. \f ;it 


UNH 
continued from page 28 

because they were good. From 1992 until the present, the Wildcats have missed the NCAA Tournament only three times (1993, 1996, 2001 ). They played for the national championship twice (1999, 2003), and tickets to see their games were hot commodities mostly gotten from friends who knew friends who had a eouple extra. 
UNH players came to skate and teach at our youth hockey practices, ·and we played a lot of our games on their massive Olympic ice surface at the Whittemore Center. During the winter that the Whit was being built, the Wildcats practiced at our local rink, a 30 second bike ride from my house. 
My teammates from the youth hockey league would line around the rink during their practices, hoping for a stray puck shot over the net or trying to snag a broken stick. 
The Wildcats were larger­than-life celebrities to kids and adults alike, regarded much in the same way that Notre Dame football players often are. 
Not much has changed since then. And that goes for the one stigma that sticks to UNI-I like wide right haunts Scott Norwood. 
The Wildcats choke in the NCAA Tournament. For a Notre Dame team that 
struggled the second half of the season and lost two games before backing into the Tournament as a No. 4 seed against No. 1 UNI-I today, the Wildcats' Tournament history is a bright spot. 
Last year, No. 1 seed UNH lost to No. 4 Miami in the first round regional game played in Manchester, N.H.-a 60­minute drive from their cam­pus. 
The Wildcats have lost by scores of 7-1 (as a No.3-seed to No.2-seed Harvard in 1994) and 9-2 (in the first round to No. 6-seed Denver in 1995 as a No. 3-seed). In 2000, auto­bid Niagara wiped them out of the first round with a 4-1 sur­prise. 
Overall, UNI-I has a 12-20 reeord in the NCAA Tournament, including losses in the championship game to Maine and Minnesota -the latter a 5-1 slaughter that was never close. 
Notre Dame has played a grand total of three Tournament games with a 1-2 record, two games of which came last year with a first­round win before a quarterfi­nal loss to Michigan State. 
The UNI-1 Tourney history book is a leather-bound Encyclopedia Britannica vol­ume to Notre Dame's Chinese food takeout menu. And that experience counts against a lot of teams. 
But maybe not the Irish. 
Notre Dame has an ace up its sleeve, the king of hearts that took the Irish from league bottom feeder to national con­tender. That man is Irish coach Jeff Jackson. 
Jackson already has won three national championships and seems destined to paek on a few more before he's done. He knows how to eoaeh his players for the biggest stage in college hockey, which has always been a criticism tossed around UNH coach Dick Umile. 
In hockey, the intangibles ­the ability to motivate, to instill eonfidence, to never under or overestimate an opponent-make a huge impact. The truth is any team can win a hockey game, no matter how bad they look on paper. It only takes a weird carom ofl' the corner boards to the front of the net or a lucky deflection to turn a game. 
UNI-I's Tournament futility could just be a case of bad luck repeated on an endless loop that is finally broken this year. Or Notre Dame's strug­gles in the second half of the season eould disappear behind a miraeulous playoff run. 

It could go either way. But if the Irish pull off the upset on Olympic ice and defeat No. 1­seeded New Hampshire in the Rockies tonight, don't be sur­prised. 
New Hampshire doesn't always do what it should, trust me on that one. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

Friday, March 28, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

DIDIER LEWIS 
Have anice day, sorry about that 


LINAPAEK
THE SINGLE LIFE 

WILLSHORTZ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
MARAD j 


__..... 
STINCH j (] 
THE: SE:Cf<E:TARY 
CONCE:NTRATE:O
rJ r 
www.jumble.com 
ON THIS. 
I BROSAB ± 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I I r J I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: THE 

rI I I I JrI I I ) 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: MAIZE CHANT ADROIT FINITE Yesterday's Answer: What he paid when he hired the tax advisor -ATTENTION 
HOROSCOPE FRIDAYS WITH FRAN 
ARIES (March 21-April19) Liquor? You hard­
ly even know her. Lick me? Okay. TAURUS (April20-May 20) Don't get hit by
Maxwell's silver hammer... dummy. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20) Did vou know Dustin Hoffman plays Captain Hook7 Also, how 
-
cool would it be to liave a hook for a hand? CANCER (June 21-July 22) In the same vein,
what's the deal with cyborgs that have wheels 
for legs. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22) Did Y,OU know there's a school in California called Ucla? Dumb name. VIRGO (Aug. 23-SeP.t. 22) Don't settle for 
plain pee. Try to dehyarate yourself and make 1t orange. LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23) Gyrate. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov.21) It's time tore-scab. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) Hey, wanna 
__ ,.. 

go between the buns? I mean, do you wanna go to Between the Buns? 
CARPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) Look out for 
the Butt-baby. He's growing up. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) Bend and snap.
Text (585)975-9265 if_you know where that reference comes from. The winner will get my
main props. Not propellers, just props! PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20) Oh, WORD! 
CROSSWORD 
Across 1 Didn't take advantage of 
9 Muscleheaded 15 He conducted the premiere performances of "Pagliacci" and "La Boheme" 17 Bands of holy 
men 18 Become one 19 Newspaper 
column separators 

20 ________ Elliot, heroine of Jane Austen's "Persuasion" 
21 Star of "Gigi" and "Lili" 
22 Put on an unhappy face 
23 Revival movement's leader? 
24 Strand at the airport, maybe 
25 Maker of Coolpix cameras 26 Stray animals don't have them 


27_Couple (yearbook voting category) 
28 "Field of Dreams" actress Amy 
31 1979 #1 hit for Robert John 32 More of the same 33 Like St. Basil's 341ncite 35 Center 36 Yielding ground 
39 Young cowboy in "Lonesome Dove" 
40 Ships on the seafloor 41 Roofing choice 42 Compliant 44 Gives up responsibility 45 Sometime soon 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
470ne with a guitar and shades, stereotypically 

48 Bathe in a glow 
49 Most mawkish 
Down 1 Game featuring Slinky, Pinky, Inky and Clyde 2 Photographer/ children's author Aida 3 Jelly seen on buffet tables 4 Kind of protector 5 Pennsylvania's 
Flagship City 6 Vet, e.g. 7 Stage actress 
who wrote "Respect for Acting" 
8 Pilot light? 9 Treat badly 10 Albee's "Three 
Women" 11 Vast 12 One that gets 
depressed during recitals 13 Awaiting burial 14 Files a minority opinion 16 Boxy Toyota product 
21 Some emergency cases may be found in them 
24 Steely Dan singer Donald 25 Some Degas paintings 
261939 film taglined "Garbo laughs" 


For answers, cali 1-900-285-5656,'$1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Puzzle by Patrick Berry 
27 First African-born Literature Nobelist 
28 "Is There Life Out There" singer 
29 Titular mouse in a classic Daniel Keyes novel 
30 1600 to 1800, on a boat 31 Big hit 

33 Number to the left of a decimal point, maybe 
35 Unlikely to rattle 
or squeak, say 

36 Trifling 
37 Political extremists 
38 Roughly a third of the earth's land surface 
40 Carthaginian statesman who opposed war with Rome 
41 Rwandan people 
43 Blue shade 
44 Great literature's opposite 
46 Possible work force reducer 
-.. 
_, 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, March 28, 2008 
page 28 
HOCKEY 

It's Tourney time 
Squad faces NH after nearly missing NCAAs 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
Notre I>anw may be lucky to have made the NCAA tourna­ment, but now that it has, the Irish plan on making some seri­ous noise. 
"We have nothing to lose. It's one game or done," Irish head eoach Jeff Jackson said. "We might as well go out and empty the tank and play tho very best we can to see if we can't play again Saturday with an opportu­nity to get to the Frozen Four." 
Just making the Tournament was a challenge for the Irish, who qualified despite losing in tho CCIIA semifinals against Miami, and then falling to Northern Michigan in the eonso­lation game. Due to the eomplex nature of the seleet1ion proeess, if Notre Dame had tied NMU instead of lost, it probably would have bmm left out of the NCAA Tournament. 
see NCAA/page 26 

-


After playing backup, Pearce claims top spot, CCHA top goalie honor 
By MATT GAMBER 
Associate Sports Editor 
What a differenee a couple of months has made for Jordan Pearce. 

When the junior goalie took the net in the season opener on Oet. 12 against Wisconsin, he was still in the midst of a battle for his starting spot with high­ly-touted freshman Brad Phillips right on his heels. 
When Pearee skates into goal tonight with Notre Dame's sea­son on the line, however, he'll do it as Notre Dame's unques­tioned baekstop, the 2008 CCIlA goalie of the year. 
"If it wasn't for him, we prob­ably would have had a difficult time making the Tournament," eoaeh Jeff Jackson said. "He's played well throughout this whole !second-half] stretch. He's become the baekbone of our team, and he's gotten bet­ter as the season's progressed." 
But that doesn't mean he did­n't showcase his ability right from the get-go, right wing Mark Van Guilder said. 
"The first game of the season against Wiseonsin, he was amazing in that first period, right away," the senior captain said. "That was huge for his eonfidenee, and he's built on that and rode it all the way through the season." 
Though Pearee is in his third year with the Irish program, his action was rather limited for his first two as the back up to All-American David Brown. 
fefffackson brings in winning ways for Irish 
I grew up a 20-minute drive away from the University of New Hampshire's campus, along one of the wooded, two­lane roads that pass for major thoroughfares in my state. 
Like someone who was born and raised in Tusealoosa on 'Barna football, there was no college team more important than UNII hoekey. OK, Alabama football and New Hampshire hoekey may differ more than their fans' aceents, but there was no denying that in rural New Hampshire, the Wildcats were king. 
They were hoekey gods 

Kyle Casslly 
Senior Sports Writer 
see UNH/page 26 

Pearee started six games as a freshman and just three a year ago, and while he was impres­sive in posting a 2.01 goals­against average as a sopho­more, he remained a relative unknown. 
"There were question marks," Van Guilder said. "We knew he was a good goalie coming into the snason, but everyone, with losing Brownie from last year, was saying 'I low are we going to replaee him?' Well, we'rn going to replace him with Jordan Pearec, that's what we're going to do. 
"There's a lot of people that were doubting that he eould have the year that he's having, and he's got so much confi­denee now after the snason he's had." 
Pearce agreed. though he still 
see PEARCE/page 25 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

After 24-point loss earlier in the year, Irish to face Lady Vols 
Sunday at 9:30 p.m. during the happy with my team, and can't thinking about improving two legitimate 3-point threats. 
r 
By BILL BRINK 

Sweet 16 of the NCAA wait to play Tennessee." perimeter defense. Guard Alexis Hornbuckle hits Sports Writer 
Tournament. Not surprising, considering the "That's something in the back 43.5 pereent of her 3-point But Irish coach Mu!Tet MeGraw outeome of the last game of our mind that we know we attempts, and although 
On a neutral court, Notre said these are the obstacles between the two teams. need to work on," Mallory said. Bjorklund averages a eompara­Dame will face a two-loss team Notre Dame must look past to be Tennessee hit 11-of-20 3-point "We've just gotta get out and tively middling :H.4 pereent from that beat them by 24 points in succnssful. attempts when it beat Notre play. We can't let fVols guard behind the arc, she buried seven the Joyee Center. A li~am that has · "We have a lot of respect for Dame 87-63 on Jan. 5 at the Angie] Bjorklund or anyone get of nine against the Irish in won all I 9 of its games against Tennessee and what they've Joyce Center. Notre Dame still hot on their team." .January. the Irish. A team with the best done, but we eannot come into has trouble guarding teams McGraw agreed and said the Not to mention Parker, who player in thn eountry and onn or the game feeling intimidated," behind the are -Oklahoma team put too mueh stress on post averages 21.1 points per game tlw bnst c:oaehes in the history of she said. guard Jenna Plumley hit six of defense. and 8.2 rebounds per game. She the ganw. And a team who can Notm Damn reached the Sweet her 10 3-point attempts and the "We just have to get that atti­had 20 points and eight shoot from the outside, some­16 for the first time sinee 2004. team hit nine of its 16 during tude of. we're going to get out rebounds in the first contest thing the Irish struggle to defimd. Players who have been to the Notre Dame's 79·75 overtime and guard the 3-point line," she against Notre Dame. 
Notrn Dame is in it deep. Tournament before are telling win over the Sooners in the said. "I think we're too worried "I think we were worried so 
These arn the obstacles that the freshmen to enjoy it. Tournament's second round about inside." mueh about Candace Parknr we eoaeh Pat Summil.t, forward "I was talking to [guard Tuesday. Both MeGraw and the players didn't pay enough attention to Candace Parker and No. 1 send Mnlissal Lech[litnerl. she said, "We definitely got yelled at for stressed team defense as a nec­the perimeter," McGraw said. Tennessee present when they 'Soak it up, it doesn't happen that," guard Tulyah Gaines said essary factor for a win over "And I think that they have so face the No. 5-seed Irish at the very often,"' freshman guard of Plumley's performance. Tennessee. The Lady Vols seore Ford Center in Oklahoma City Britfany Mallory said. ''I'm very Mallory said the team is always 78.8 points per game and have see LADY VOLS/page 22 



