
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Santorum discusses 1war on terror' 
Former senator calls conflict's label inaccurate, urges Americans to understand the enemy 
being perceived as politically incorrect. Instead, the military campaign has the inaccurate title of the "war on terror," he said. 
"Terror is a tactic," Santorum said. "It's like [President Franklin Rooseveltl getting on the radio and saying we're going to 'war on kamikaze.' Are we at war on ter­rorists? Are we at war against all 
terrorists?  Absolutely  not,"  
Santorum said.  
Instead,  Santorum  said  

America is at war against radical jihadists. Like President Bush has emphasized in the past, Santorum was careful to note that this is not a war against Islam. 
''I'm not fighting a religion, we're fighting radicals within the religion. There is a war within 
see SANTORUM/page 6 

Candidates' health care plans scrutinized 

By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
The United States' "war on ter­ror" is a battle against a specific set of theologically motivated groups, former Sen. Rick Santorum said in McKenna Hall Tuesday. 
In a lecture titled "Gathering Storm of the 21st Century," Santorum, a Republican from Pennsylvania, blasted the govern­ment for misidentifying the enemy and urged the audience to accept the notion that America must fight alone. 
The war is a campaign against Islamic jihadists, he said, but the Bush administration and the news media have refused to define it as such out of fear of 
By MARCI<.LA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
More than 60 students took a study break Tuesday to hear John McCain supporters say Barack Obama's health care plan is too focused on long-term results and Obama supporters say McCain's plan won't signifi­cantly improve Americans' ability to afl'ord insurance premiums. 
Two professors and two stu­dents made up the panel that dis­cussPd the presidential hopefuls' proposals rogarding health care. 
Sophomore Adam Joines kicked otr the discussion support­ing Obama's plan. which focuses on making health care available to the 4 7 million Americans ­including 9 million children ­that currently don't have access to it. 
Joines said about $50-100 bil­lion of the health care budget goes to overhead costs and administrative expenses, instead of these 47 million people. 
"That money is going nowhere," he said. 
But senior Karen Stockley, the student panelist representing McCain, said Obama is "wrong if he thinks we can solve problems by trimming the fat in the sys­tem." 
She said improving cost effec­tiveness wouldn't result in signifi­cant cost savings. Stockley also disapproved of Obama's proposal to raise more money for health care by forcing employers to pay a fee if they fail to provide their workers with the appropriate medical insurance. 
"If this 'play or pay' fee is enforced, employers will simply pass the cost down to their work-
see FACULTY/page 3 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group approves 2008-09 treasurer 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
The Council of Hepresentatives (COlO met Tuesday for the first time since Feb. 5 to approve current Student Union Board treasurer Kadeja Gaines for the same position next year. 
The meeting was delayed an hour and a half because only 11 council members showed up -one member short of quorum, the minimum number of representative needed to hold a vote. Student body pres­ident Liz Brown, however, insisted on delaying the meet­ing rather than canceling it because Gaines needed to be 
see COR/page 8 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Club pays for kids' nevv srrilles 
Students fundraise for reconstructive surgeries 
By LAURA LISOWSKI 
News Writer 
A smile can go a long way. With that in mind, a student club has taken on the task of raising money to pay for the reconstruc­tive surgery of thousands of chil­dren around the world who suf­fer from facial deformities. 
The Notre Dame chapter of Operation Smile -the interna­tional medical charity that aims to change lives one smile at a time -donated about $4,000 to its parent organization last year, funding the operations for as many as 17 children, club presi­dent Susie Dee said. 
Dee said Operation Smile ­which helps children in more than 26 countries, including Bolivia, Egypt, Ethiopia, Haiti, India, Kenya, Peru, the Philippines, Israel and Vietnam -can cover all of the expenses of a single surgical procedure with as little as $240. 
"It will pay for the full amount of the operation: doctor's fees, any supplies needed and any recovery the patient might need ... as well as any other expenses that come up." Dee said. 
Since its inception in 1982, Operation Smile has treated more than 115,000 children suf­fering from facial deformities, such as cleft lip and cleft palate, the organization's Web site said. There is currently a network of about 500 Operation Smile Student Associations -includ­ing the Notre Dame chapter ­across the U.S. and around the 
see SMILE/page 8 


Fashion is new forn1 of expression for feminists 
Modern women use style to make statements 
By ELIZABETH KELLY News Writer 
The feminists from "The Feminine Mystique" era were intentionally everything but fem­inine, but that attitude has erod­ed, the director of women's studies at Oakland University said Tuesday. 
Jo Reger argued that modern feminists not only embrace styl­ish clothes and makeup, but they also use these symbols of womanliness to make political statements. 
Titled "Fashion and Feminism in the Contemporary U.S. Women's Movement," Reger's lecture focused on the research she conducted over the past five years of young women across the country. She supplemented her case studies with content analysis of a fashion column that appears regularly in the popular feminist magazine "Bust." 

The "Bust" articles feature a different woman each month, describing the subject's outfit in great detail. Reger noticed that the featured women often chose to dress in clothing either pur­chased in thrift stores or vintage shops, or they made the apparel themselves. Mter noticing this trend in the magazine and 
see FASHION/page 4 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Orioles tnag1c• 

Hight now in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., 
my bnloved Baltimore Orioles are 
beginning Spring Training. 
Most fans sen this time as one 
whnre every team 
has a chance to 
win because, until 
Opening Day, 
every team is in 
first place. Even 
Cubs closer Ryan 
Dempster thinks 
that the "loveable 
losers" will win 

the World Series Jay Fitzpatrick
-and some 

Cubbies fans even Associate 
believe him. 

Sports Editor 
I have my own 
bold prediction to 
make for the 2008 season: The 
Orioles will suck. 

Baltimore's young talent is still a 
few years away from developing-if 
it ever does-and its "veteran lead­
ership" consists solely of Kevin Millar. 
The O's have no pitching (rotation or 
bullpen), no solid cleanup hitter and 
a few glaring holes on defense. 
(One quick note on Millar, who 

many people call a "great clubhouse 
guy." All that means is that he can't 
hit, ean't catch and can't run, but, 
boy, he sure is funny.) 

Saying the Orioles will be terrible is 
not a novel notion this year, just as it 
has not been any of the last 1 0 sea­
sons. The real reason I am writing 
this is beeause this annual 162-game 
suek-fest has influenced my develop­
ment at least as mueh as anything 
else in my lifetime. 

I still pine for the Orioles to succeed 
every year, anticipating each game 
with youthful exuberance. I love to 
see the O's play at Camden Yards, 
going as often as possible, but often 
brood silently as I watch them miser­
ably founder. 

But how the Birds have scorned me. 
Incompetent ownership, absurd free 
agent signings and overall poor play 
have crushed my spirit, leaving me a 
bitter, jaded fan. The on-the-field fail­
ures of my other favorite teams this 
season -Irish football and the 

Baltimore Ravens-I can look past; 
there is hope on the horizon for both 
and I can see it. 
Not for the Orioles. 

It seems as though they get some 
sadistic pleasure in losing, and they 
enjoy passing their pain onto their 
slowly dwindling loyal fan base. They 
tease fans with early successes, 
bringing the naysayers and fair­
weather fans back into the fold 

before ruthlessly tearing them down 
after the All-Star Break -if not 
sooner. 

And yet I continue to support them. 
Maybe it's stupid or crazy to keep 
cheering for them now, but for as 
long as I can remember, I have sup­
ported the Orioles; baseball and the 
O's was not a part of my youth, they 
helped defined it. 

Like I often tell my girlfriend, even 
though I love her. the Orioles will 
always be my first true love, the kind 
you ean never let go -no matter 
how hard you try. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a professional publiGnion and strive; for the highe;t standards of journalism at all time;. We do, howc"Ver, recognize that we wiU make mistake;. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conract us at 631-4541 so we can correct otu error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 27, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE BREAKFAST CEREAL AND WHY? 



Cara Norton  Jose Duarte  Katie DeMartini  Michael Verdeyen  
freshman Pasquerilla East  junior Keough  junior Welsh Family  junior offcampus  
"Life because I  "Choco Krispis.  "Captain Crunch  "I'd have to  
love life in  They're Cocoa  because I've  say Cooooookie  
general."  Krispies except  always wanted to  Crisp because  
Hispanic. "  be the 'captain's  it's cookies for  
,,mate.  breakfast."  

Theater group to auction toilet seats 
ROYAL OAK, Mich. -A community theater group in Royal Oak is lifting the lid on its latest fundraising plans. The Detroit Free Press reports toilet seats ornately decorated by artists will be auctioned March 20 to raise money for Stagecrafters. 
A public preview is Wednesday at the Baldwin Theatre. 
A production of "Urinetown: The Musical" starts next month, and the group wanted an appropri­ately irreverent fundraiser. 
TODAY 
c::: 
LLI 
:::1: 
!;;: 
LLI 
3: 
...... 
c:t 
(.) 0 


HALEY BEAUPRE!The Observer 

Students pick up free "Safe Spring Break" merchandise on their way Into North Dining Hall Tuesday. 
OFFBEAT 
Joshua Hillard said the authorities went to a home Monday morning with an arrest warrant for a man accused of violating his probation in a drug traf­ficking case. Hillard said people in the house said the suspect wasn't home but invited the officers in. 
That's when they found the gators, one about 2 feet long and another about 5 feet. Animal control was summoned, and an exotic animal expert arrived to snatch up the reptiles. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
The seats' names include "Royal Flush," for one with playing cards, and "Bottom of the 9th," for another with Detroit Tiger stripes. 
Development Director Lesley Phillips says most of the seats are functional. 
Marshals looking for suspect find gators 
DAYTON, Ohio-Dayton police and U.S. marshals called for backup from ani­mal control when they found two alligators instead of the suspected probation violator they were after. 
Deputy U.S. Marshal 
TONIGHT THURSDAY ,FRIDAY 

~·
~ 

..... HIGH 23 HIGH 19 HIGH 25 HIGH 28 
LOW 8 LOW 2 LOW 20 LOW 10 

Michele Monk T.J. Smith 
freshman freshman McGlinn Knott 

"Crack/in' Oat "Lucky Charms Bran. It's a because really, great way to how could you 
,

start the day. not eat something thatsmagically delicious?" 
IN BRIEF 
ND women's basketball will play South Florida tonight at 7 in the Joyce Center. 
The Gender Relations Center is presenting a Notre Dating panel discussion tonight at 9 in the Coleman-Morse lounge. The discussion will address how competition and perfec­tionism affect gender relations at Notre Dame. 
The Bengal Bouts quarterfi­nals will be held Thursday at 
6:30 p.m. at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Tickets are avail­able at the Ticket Office. 
The film "The Diving Bell and the Butterfly" will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Thursday at 7. p.m. 
University President Father John Jenkins will appear on "Office Hours," hosted by sen­ior Bob Costa, Thursday at 9:30p.m. on NDtv, channel 53 on campus cable. The episode will also be available online at www.ndtv.net shortly after it airs. 
There will be Stations of the Cross on Friday at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 
The film "I'm Not There," which tells the story of leg­endary singer Bob Dylan at dif­ferent stages of his life and with different actors in the lead role, will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Friday at 7 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

Wednesday, February 27, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Groups seek funding 
for Nevv York City trip 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Members of the Intercultural Learning Community Program (ILCP) and the Center for Women's Intercultural Learning asked the Board of Governance {BOG) for funds Tuesday to send 24 Saint Mary's students to New York in April to explore Ellis Island. 
"We are going to a lot of things that are important to America but there are also a lot of things that are interna­tionally significant," ILCP member and presidont of the German club Sarah Davenport said. 
The program hopes to expose students to places of importance to the multicultur­al idPntity of the United States, like the United Nations headquarters and Ellis Island, said Davenport and fellow ILCP members Meghan Ferrara, Karolyn Wojtowicz, Kelley Fitzgerald and Jeanne Choquehuanca. 
The trip is scheduled for April 4-6, but the group is still searching for money to pay for it. They are hoping to change that through fundraisers. The program will be holding a trivia night on March 13 in the Student CAnter Lounge that will be open to all three cam­puses. Teams of six will be charged an entry fee and the winning team will be given a cash prize. 
The ILCP will also hold a raffle for a Saint Mary's sweatshirt and sell hot choco­late to help raise money. The group is hoping to raise the money in order to "see the richness and the culture New York has to offer," Ferrara said. 
In other BOG news: 
+Student body president Kim Hodges said there will be a Chicago Bus Trip on March 
15. Students interested in going must pre-register with BOG. 
+The Student Activities Board (SAB) will be having breakfast in Le Mans Hall on March 10 said SAB president Cassie Calion. Panera bagels and juice will be served. 
+Women's Appreciation Week will be March 10-14, said Abby Hinchy, president of the Student Diversity Board (SDB). The board will be giv­ing out 500 flowers in honor of the week, in addition to showing a movie. 
+Theology on Fire will be held tonight at 8 in the Student Center Lounge, said Mary Frantz, Campus Ministry commissioner. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 
ers," Stockley said. "Ultimately, the workers will not be better off." 
She said estimates predict employers trying to make up for Obama's fees could result in the layoff of as many as 224,000 workers. 
Joines said this might not nec­essarily be true because the plan would also offer subsidies to qualifying small and medium­sized employers that legitimate­ly may not be able to offer their workers health insurance. Obama's proposals, he said, would place more of the burden on large corporations. 
"A lot of people don't like these additional costs but that's when it's important to remem­ber those 47 million," Joines said. "What good is having the best health care in the world if so many people don't have access to it?" 
Economic professor Bill Evans, the faculty member rep­resenting McCain, agreed with Joines and said the number of uninsured Americans -which make up 16 percent of the coun­try's population -is a problem that can only be fixed at its root cause, the rise in insurance pre­miums. 
McCain, however, has said he believes he can make these costs more affordable through tax credits. Evans said that, by providing individuals with a $2,500 credit and families with a $5,000 one, McCain is hoping to create an incentive to buy health insurance. 
This would also fuel the cre­ation of a broader market for health insurance plans, which would further drive costs down for consumers. 
"If people can afford to buy insurance, they will buy it," said Evans, explaining the rationale behind the McCain plan. 
But these credits are not enough to make premiums affordable, said his counterpart on the Obama side, Dr. Rudolph Navari, director of the Indiana University School of Medicine in South Bend. 
"A tax credit of $2,500 will purchase very little in this mar­ket," Navari said. 
But he actually urged voters to stop thinking in terms of short­term savings and tax credits and focus instead on the bigger problems facing the health care system. 
Navari told the audience the hypothetical story of two women who discover a lump in their breast. One is the mother of a Notre Dame student and as soon as she detects the lump she has a mammogram and a biopsy, allowing her physicians to diag­nose cancer in its early stages, where she can treat it and fully recover. The second woman, Navari said, is one of the 47 mil­lion Americans that don't have access to health care. 

She ignores the lump for months until one day she col­lapses, is rushed to the hospital and the doctors tell her she has advanced breast cancer and all the chemotherapy in the world could not save her. 
"How much longer are we in this country going to put up with more of these cases?" Navari asked. "Are you willing to pay more money to make health care available to people who can't afford it?" 
The student-faculty debate was hosted by the Student Senate's University Affairs com­mittee. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

Looking for solid business and accounting experience to put on your resume? 
The Observer is accepting applications for a 2008-09 Business Manager and Controller. Responsibilities include preparing a yearly budget and handling payroll for a 200-person staff. 
Since the Controller will take over as the 2009-10 Business Manager, Controller applicants should be sophomores, or juniors staying for a fifth year. 
Both positions are salaried, about six to 10 hours a week. Please contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu or Kyle West at kwest1@nd.edu if interested. 

Fashion 
continued from page 1 
sponding sovoral years inter­
vinwing young women across 
tho country. Heger came to the 
conclusion that this trend ­
which sho describes as "opposi­
tional fashion" -is making an 
important statement for contem­
porary feminism. 
Heger noted that the feminist movement of the 1960s and 1970s "looked at fashion as a form of enslavement" and viewed conventional concepts of femininity and sexuality as something created by patriar­chal society. In her research, however, she found that contem­porary feminists "arc now reclaiming the feminine as something powerful." 
Sho suggested that the trend is a backlash against the 1960s feminist stance on sex. Heger said some contemporary femi­nists eomplain that earlier femi­nism "made fnminists so rnprnssed and uptight that feel­ings of snxuality had bnnn totally dnstroynd." 
Wonwn who wnn~ a part of the feminist movements of the 1960s and 1 <J70s oftnn have troubln undnrstanding this trnnd among !~ontnrnporary feminists, vinwing curnmt fashion state­nwnts as a stop back in the fight for wonwn 's rights. H!~g!~r said. Otlwrs may trivialize contnmpo­rar·y feminist fashion as "just playing with dothns." 
Hngnr. hownvnr, said the wonwn who make full usn of thnir clotlws and bodins to nxprnss thnmsPlves-and in the prowss n~dnfine idnas of fmni­ninity and sexuality -arn doing sonwthing significant. 
"In politirizing fashion, the hody has beeomn a sign of resistance," Heger said. 
Slw told the audience about a photograph taknn at the 2004 Mard1 for HPproductive Hights, in which the two women are shown topless-with the excep­tion of' two eardully placed stickers promoting abortion rights. 
"They want you to look at them in a certain way," Heger . said. "When~ tlwy're drawing your eye has a political mes­sage." 
But bneause of the tendency to ignore the reality of eontempo­rary feminists' "oppositional fashion" as a form of protest or nxpwssion. several soeiologists bnlinvn the feminist movement is dnad, Heger said. But Heger bnlinvns the movernnnt is "very much aliV!\" even though mod­ern fnminists may not organize in the same ways they did 40 ynars ago. 
Contact Elizabeth Kelly at ekelly7@nd.edu 

"recycle 
The 
.,·..:,:.;:.:
Observlet' 


1J£1!!!D 
Graduate Students 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies provides grants and fellowships for graduate students studying contemporary Europe. 
Research & Travel Grants up to $5,000 
Dissertation Fellowships up to $15,000 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 29, 2008 
For more information, call631-52.5.3 or visit www.nd.edu/-nanovic. 
*
Hmx 
cnoss 
COLLEGE 

You can advance the Catholic Mission of Holy Cross! 
HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED 2008-2009 HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
MARRIED OR SINGLE GRAD STUDENTS LAW STUDENTS 
CONTACT RESUFE(a!HCC-ND.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATfON 


-~-----~-~----.-------------.. 
ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 27, 2008 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Rebels attack buses, bomber kills 8 
BAGHDAD -Insurgents targeted passenger busns north of Baghdad on Tuesday, as a suicide bomber killed at least eight people west of Mosul and gunmen seized 21 men traveling through Diyala province. 
The latest bloodshed highlighted the slow-going, punch-counterpunch U.S.-led campaign against al-Qaida in Iraq, more than a month after Iraq's prime minister said he expected the fight for Mosul would bn a "decisive battle." 
The Americans view the northern campaign as a chance to subdue al-Qaida in Iraq in areas sur­rounding Mosul, a major transportation hub which the military has described as the terror group's last urban stronghold. 
Tuesday's bombing, 40 miles west of Mosul, struck a bus heading from that city to the Syrian capital of Damascus. 
Russia limits liberties as election nears 
MOSCOW-The Kremlin has clamped down on frendoms in the run-up to Russia's presidential election, an international rights group said Tuesday. 
Amnesty International released a report ahead of Sunday's vote in which it said Hussia had cur­tailed the rights of freedom of expression, associa­tion and assembly in recent years. 
"Human rights defenders, independent civil sodety organizations, political opponents and ordinary citizens have all been victims of this roll­back on civil and political rights," the report said. 
The London-based group said the decline has been seen in authorities' breaking up of opposi­tion demonstrations, harassment of rights activists and journalists, and restrictions imposed on civil sodety groups. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Power plant shutdown affects 3 million 
MIAMI -A problem with Florida's electrical gtid caused a nuclear plant to automatically shut down Tuesday and intermittently cut power to up to 3 million people from Daytona Beach through the Florida Keys. 
Authorities said there were no safety con­cerns at the nuclear plant and were working to pinpoint the outages' cause. While many areas were hit hard, most of the outages were brief and only a few hundred thousand people lacked electricity for the evening commute home. 
An equipment malfunction in a substation near Miami disabled two power distribution lines between Miami and Daytona Beach, and in response, the Turkey Point nuclear plant south of Miami stopped operating around 1 p.m., Nuclear Regulatory Commission spokesman Kenneth Clark said. 
Storms ravish Southeast, kill two 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -A broad storm system spread heavy snow across the Great Lakes region Tuesday and fired up violent thunder­storms that knocked out power to thousands of homes and businesses in the Southeast. 
At least two deaths were blamed on the stormy weather. 
Fallen trees and other debris on roads slowed travel and several traffic accidents brought morning rush hour traffic to a stand­still in Birmingham, authorities said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Anti-terror official returns to Purdue 
INDIANAPOLIS -The head of Indiana's Department of Homeland Security is resigning to return to Purdue University, the governor announced Tuesday. 
J. Eric Dietz has been the agency's executive director since March 2005, when Gov. Mitch Daniels combined the emergency management and homeland security functions into a single department. 
Daniels named Joe Wainscott, director of training at Homeland Security, as Dietz's replacement. 
Dietz's last day as director will be March 14. The retired Army colonel plans to return to the Purdue Homeland Security Institute as a tenured faculty member in the College of Technology. 
"Col. Dietz was the ideal person to take on the diflicult assignment of merging the state's public safety services into one efficient department to prepare and protect Hoosiers," Daniels said. 
CoMPILED FR01\l THE OBsERVER's wmr SERVICEs page 5 
Republicans to debate anti-war bill 
Discussions will allow GOP to present case that conditions in Iraq are improving 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -In an about-face, Senate Republicans on Tuesday agreed with Democrats to advance an anti-war bill because they said the debate would give them time to hail progress in Iraq. 
The change of heart came after months of blocking sim­ilar measures. But unlike most of last year, security conditions in Iraq have improved, and Republicans say they now feel they have the upper hand on the debate. 
"We welcome a discussion about Iraq," Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell declared. 
The measure, by Democratic Sens. Russ Feingold of Wisconsin and Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada, would cut off money for combat after 120 days. It had been expected to fall short of the 60 votes needed to overcome a proce­
dural  hurdle  and  move  
ahead.  
But  after  Republicans  

agreed in a private meeting that the debate could help make their case, the Senate voted 70-24 to begin debat­ing it in earnest. 
Aides said a final vote could come later this week, but may be pushed into next week. 
The White House said the president would veto such a measure. 
"This legislation would substitute the political judg­ment of legislators for the considered professional mili­tary judgment of our military commanders," the adminis­tration said in a statement. 
Democrats said they wel­comed the debate, although they accused Republicans of stalling on plans to debate other issues, namely the nation's housing crisis. 
Reid said "a civil war rages" in Iraq and shouldn't be the responsibility of U.S. taxpayers. 
"Americans need to start taking care of Americans," he said. "We cannot spend a half billion dollars every day in Iraq." 

In recent months, violence in Iraq has subsided signifi­cantly and the Baghdad gov­ernment has made small steps toward political recon­ciliation, including plans to hold provincial elections on Oct. 1. 
While Democratic voters remain largely against the war, polls have shown, the security improvement has helped to cool anxiety among Republicans and turned vot­ers' focus to economic prob­lems at home. 
Still, Republicans say they have more convincing to do if they are to control the White House next year. 
Sen. John McCain, the GOP's likely presidential nominee, said this week that to win the White House he must convince a war-weary country that U.S. policy in Iraq in succeeding. 

If he can't, "then I lose. I lose," the Arizona Republican said. He quickly backed off the statement. 
Tuesday's Senate vote came as the Army's top gen­eral said he wants to reduce combat tours for soldiers in Iraq from 15 months to 12 months this summer. 
Gen. George Casey, the Army chief of staff, told the Senate Armed Services Committee that he would not embrace going back to the longer tours even if Bush decided to suspend troop reductions for the second half of the year. The Army is under serious strain from years of war-fighting, he tes­tified, and must reduce the length of combat tours as soon as possible. 
"The cumulative effects of the last six-plus years at war have left our Army out of bal­ance, consumed by the cur­rent fight and unable to do the things we know we need to do to properly sustain our all-volunteer force and restore our flexibility for an uncertain future," Casey said. 
Casey, who was the top 
U.S. commander in Iraq before taking the chief of staff job last spring, told the committee that cutting the time soldiers spend in com­bat is an integral part of reducing the stress on the force. 

NORTH KOREA 
Orchestra's visit brings hope for better ties 
Associated Press 
PYONGYANG -The New York Philharmonic's unprecedented con­cert could herald warmer ties between North Korea and the United States. After three encores, some musicians left the stage in tears as the audience waved fondly. 
Between horn fanfares and the flourishes of the conductor's baton, the U.S. and North Korea found common ground in a concert Tuesday that spanned American and Korean musical traditions. 
Whether the feeling lingers after the music will depend on the North's compliance with an international push to rid it of nuclear weapons. 
After the New York Philharmonic played the last notes of the folk song "Arirang," the adoring audience stood and applauded enthusiastical­ly, waving to the musicians. 
Orchestra members -some moved to tears -paused with their instruments and waved back, an emotional finale to the concert that was the highlight of the Philharmonic's 48-hour visit. 
The enraptured crowd drew music director Lorin Maazel and concert­master Glenn Dicterow out for a final bow after the rest of the ensemble left the flower-adorned stage at the East Pyongyang Grand Theater. 
The concert was broadcast live on North Korean TV, meaning it was heard beyond the 2,500 people in the theater. North Korean leader Kim Jong Il, one of the world's most reclusive leaders, did not attend; there was no way to know whether he watched. 

"We may have been instrumental in opening a little door," Maazel said after the performance. 
He dismissed the significance of Kim's absence, saying: "I have yet to see the president of the United States at one of my concerts. Sometimes a statesman is too busy." 
Former U.S. Defense Secretary William Perry attended the perform­ance and called it a "historic moment," remembering how close the countries came to war in 1994 amid a crisis over the North's nuclear program. 

Santoru01 
continued from page 1 
Islam already," hn said. Santorurn 
also said moderato Muslims 
would bn tlw most important peo­
ple to engaw· and dnbatn the radi­
c.als. 
With tlw discussion of tlw "war 
on tnrror" pnrmnating tho coun­
try, Santorum said the American 
people nPnd to nducato thom­
sPlvns on tlw actual nnnmy. 
Santorum said tlwm arn thren 
issuns that rwnd to bn address1~d 
morn dearly: who Anwrica is 
lighting, tlw difl"nrnncl' between 
the two warring culturns. and the 
origins of that conflict. 
lin said lw delinns tlw nnmny­
radical jihadists-in rnligious 
tnrms lwcausn they ddirw them­
sPlvns in rPiigious tPrms. 
"Lot's snn if it h<L'> anything to do 
with rdigion. I think it dons." hn 
said. "Thny an~ peopl1~ of deep 
faith and tlwy lwlinvn that th1)y 
arn caiiPd to lilwratn soddy from 
laws that an• not of ( ;od and insti­
tute divirw law. and that is lib,~rat­
ing. I can uiHIPrstand how thny 
see that. Tlwy Sill) tlwmsnlves as 
lilwrating all of us in the West 
from impnrfi•ction." 
Also, Santorum said tlw way 
the nrwmy dl'firws Westerners is 
proof of its rl'li1,rious motivations. 
"llow do thny dnf'irw us'! 
lnlidnls. It's a rPiigious tnrm," lw 
said of jihadists. "Tiwy arn in a 
holy war. J·:v,~rything tlwy say, 
nverything tlwy do, is based on 
tlwology. Ynt wn ignorn that. Wn 
try to make it a politimlly corrnct 
war. Tlw AmPrican pnopln will 
not sustain this war unlnss they 
know why WP arn fighting it. And 
thny don't." 
Santorum said the most pro­
found difference bntween the 
Amnrican and Islamic cultures is 
in the conception of tinw. 
"The culture we're d1mling with is andnnt and has a difli1nmt pnr­speetive of time and importancn. Amnrica is a brand new baby," he said. "As a rnsult of us being so young, wo happnn to think we're really important, n1ally spedal." 
The way the two cultures look at problnms is also important in the war against the jihad. 
"We think we can deal with problems and deal with them quickly. Tlw ancient world is dif:­filrent. They look at problems dif­f'Pnmtly -tlwy havn much mom patiencn in dPaling with nnnmies. The jihadis count on the young­ness and thP impatience of America," Santo rum said. 
Santorum answered his third primary question on the origin of the conflict and tim diflilrnnces by looking at the livPs of the two cul­tures' resper.tive central religious figures -Jesus Christ and the l'rophnt Muhammad. While Jesus W<L'> a pPaePful lnadPr who "never won," Santorum said, Muhammad nstablished a king­dom, killed by the sword and nnactnd laws -lwlinvnd to bP divinn-to govPrn tho kingdom . 
.Jihadists thus have an easier t.inw looking at Muhammad as a roln model for acts of violence than thn Christian tnrrorisl<> have in looking at .Jnsus, he said. 
Santorum said tlw light against the jihadists is best viewHd in terms of the distinction bntween Sunni and ShiitP Muslims -a dis­tinction most Amerimns who !ill­low f'on~ign afl'airs should know, hut don't. 
i\l'tnr Muhammad's dPath. many elders wantPd to 1l11~ct among tlwmsnlvns a rw~ lnader. Others bnlinvnd tlw lnadnrship should rnmain within Muhammad's bloodlirw. Tlw f'ormnr group hP1~amn tlw Sunnis, whiiP t.lw lat­ter bneanw tlw Shiitns. 
Tlw m<~jority Sunnis attPmptPd to purge Islam of tlw Shiites by killing oil" tlw rulfng dnsnmdPnts of Muhammad, who took thn title "Imam." After the death of' the hand, want to revive the Caliphate 11th Imam, who most Shiites and return it to the height of its bnlinved to be tlw last descendant. power, when the Ottoman Empin~ the Sunnis thought they were vic­stretched deep into Europe. They torious. But in Shiite tradition. a look to recapture the power and 12th Imam, the Mahdi, revealed the means to "spread what they himself at the funeral of his pred­believe is their manifest destiny," ecessor and then went into hiding. Santorum said. 

Many Shiites, who make up the And while the war against the majority of Iran's population and radical jihadists has to be fought 
political leaders,  by  America,  
beliHve the Mahdi will even­ "The culture we're  Santorum stressed that  
tually return either at the end of' time or at the Armageddon.  dealing with is ancient and has a different perspective of time and  solutions must come from within Islam. "The problem  
Santorum said an understand­ing of that theo­ importance. America is a brand new baby."  has to be solved by people with­in thn Islamic  
logical perspnl~­tivn shapPs  Rick Santorum  world," he said. "We need to  
American for­ former U.S. Senator  crnato space for  
eign policy with  bravo moderate  
Tnhran  - but  Muslims  to  

U.S. leaders will not admit that engage theologically the ideology publidy. of' thn jihadists. And we need to 
"If you bring about condmnn thosn who are pseudo­Armageddon, you nnd Limn, and moderates who eondnmn the vio­the Mahdi will return," Santorum lence but support the thnology." said. " ... That's why we am really Santorum also said that tough on Iran. But we'rn afraid to America must not only be educat­talk in t1mns of religious proph­ed on the history of its enemies, nsy. We're afraid to offend any­but also on itself' and what is at body." stake. Catholicism is especially 
Sunni radicals, on thn other important in the war against the 
It's 8:30 pm on Tuesday, and 
I need help with m computer 
No worries! 
Call the OIT Help Desk at 
631-8111 
jihadists, he said, as it is America's most powerful religious force. He called the Notre Dame students in the audience at the McKenna Center "the jewels." 
"If you guys go south, that is bad news for this country. The Catholic Church is what is holding us together," he said. 
Although the war on radical jihadists is often portrayed as a conservative cause, Santorum said the American left has more at stake than the right. 
"If you think about what arn the pillars of' the American left ­feminism, hornosexual rights, eivil rights, separation of church and state, reason ovnr faith in the public squarn, pacifism. abortion on demand -can you think or any group of pnople on tho face or the earth that are, point-for-point, 180 degrees from the Amnrican left, any morn than the jihadisl<>?" he said. 
In the radical Islamic world. "the very act of thinking makes you an infidel," Santorum said. "There is no room li1r reason or thinking. You simply submit to the will of God irrespective of its rationality." 
The idea that "any man-made law is an afl'ront to God," is stick­ing points between dmnocraey 
In addition to our regular hours, we offer computer help over the phone from 5:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday.* 
You can even call us on Sundays between 3:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. 
and the Islamic jihadist world, Santorum said. 
"When you try to spread democracy in the Islamic world, this is a complete afl"nmt to every­thing they belinvn. This is a theo­logkal problnrn. Yet we havn not dnseribnd it in those terms," he said. 
Santorum mnduded his ledurn by stressing thn urgency of the war against the jihadists and by comparing our currnnt condition to that of Britain in l 1)40. 
In .June of that ynar. France had l'allnn to Nazi Gnrmany and Adolph llitler turrwd his military toward Great Britain. For thn nnxt 18 months -until Japan attacked Pearl Harbor -tlw United Kingdom acted alorw as Amoriea allownd its only ally to f'ight "objective ovil" by itself". That, he said, was "Britain's hour." 
"This is Anwril:a's hour," Santorurn said. "Like Britain in 1940, wo arn alonn. Completnly alone. We will not havn anybody at our side. Just us. Just thosn who hold on to the tenets of Westnrn civilization, tiWSI) who have a reason to light." 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne1 @nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Wednesday, February 27, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow .Jones  12,684.92  +114.70  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,331  81  997  4,102,204,169  
AMEX  _:~;~47i81  ~~2!2:  

NN'AY.SSEDAQ ~Jli1,~~--2'*%?~lZ~2,~t­
...9,302.80 Wf''if92~'4+ S&P 500 1,381.29 +9.49 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 14,007.32 +182.6Q, FTSE 100 (London) 6.087.40 +87.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.75 +1.03 138.36 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.39 +0.17 44.07 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +1.94 +0.54 28.38 CITIGROUP INC (C) +0.85 +0.21 24.95 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.08 -0.042 3.860 13-WEEK BILL -1.66 -0.035 2.075 30-YEAR BOND -0.15 -0.007 4.657 5-YEAR NOTE -2.00 -0.059 2.888 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.65 100.88 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +8.40 948.90 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -1.00 94.30 
Exchange Rates YEN 107.3500 EURO 0.6677 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9820 BRITISH POUND 0.5032 
IN BRIEF Dow up on IBM's $15 billion buyback 
NEW YOHK -Wall Street reversed earlier losses and rallied Tuesday after IBM approved a $15 billion stock buyback, suggesting to investors that there are still some companies out there with financial muscle. The Dow Jones industrial average rose more than 110 points. 
IBM Corp., one of the 30 companies that make up the Dow, said the buyback will boost its earn­ings for 2008 past Wall Street's prior forecasts. Shares of Big Blue vaulted $4.30, or 3.9 percent, to $114.38. 
The buyback news followed two dismal eco­nomic reports showing core wholesale prices shot up more than expected last month and that consumer confidence is waning. The data rein­forced worries that the United States is suffering from stagflation, a state when the economy weakens amid rising costs. 
"The market is kind of overcoming negative news. which is potentially a next step toward higher prices," said Ryan Detrick, senior techni­cal strategist at Schaeffer's Investment Hesearch. "At least in the short-term. it's a nice change here." 
Writers Guild approves new contract 
LOS ANGELES -Members of the Writers Guild of America have overwhelmingly approved a new contract with Hollywood stu­dios that increases payment for shows offered on the Internet, the union said Tuesday. 
The deal was endorsed by 93.6 percent of the 4,060 votes cast in Los Angeles and New York. 
"This contract is a new beginning for writers in the digital age," said Patrie M. Verrone, presi­dent of the guild's western branch. "It ensures that guild members will be fairly compensated for the content they create for the Internet, and it also covers the reuse on new media platforms of the work they have done in film since 1971 and in TV since 1977." 
The term of the three-year deal runs from this Feb. 13 to May 1. 2011. 
"We're very happy with the turnout," said guild spokesman Neal Sacharow. "In all of the key votes that took place in this negotiation ... including the vote to end the work stoppage, we had terrific turnout and better than 90 percent approval from the membership in each case." 
Economists fear stagflation returning 
Toxic mix of rising prices and slowing economy could be on the horizon, experts say 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -It's a toxic economic mix the nation hasn't seen in three decades: Prices are speeding upward at the fastest pace in a quarter century. even as the economy loses steam. 
Economists call the dis­ease "stagflation," and they're worried it might be coming back. 
Already, paychecks aren't stretching as far, and jobs are harder to find, threaten­ing to set off a vicious cycle that could make things even worse. 
The economy nearly stalled in the final three months of last year and probably is barely growing or even shrinking now. That's the "stagnation" part of the ailment. Typically, that slowdown should slow infla­tion as well -the second part of the diagnosis -but prices are still marching higher. 
The latest worrisome news came Tuesday: a govern­ment report showing whole­sale prices climbed 7.4 per­cent in the past year. That was the biggest ammal leap since 1981. 
"We're in a slowdown," Press Secretary Dana Perino said at the White House, where the economics talk was still upbeat until recent­looking to the Federal full. It is preoccupied with shore up the ailing economy. ly. Reserve for help, but the the economic slowdown at "That's the war that needs to 
Once the twin evils of Fed's job is complicated by the front door, but inflation be fought. The war on infla­stagflation take hold, it can the situation. looks to be sneaking in the tion will have to come anoth­be hard to break the grip. The mission of Federal back door," said Greg er day," Bethune said. People cut back on their Reserve Chairman Ben McBride, senior financial Maybe things won't be so spending as they are stung Bernanke and his colleagues analyst at Bankrate.com. "If bad. Stock prices rose for the by rising prices and shrivel­is to nurture economic that trend continues. the Fed day, continuing a recent ing wages. Businesses, also growth and keep inflation would need to show the mini-rally. And Federal socked by rising costs and under contr:ol. To brace the economy some tough love, Reserve vice chairman declining demand from cus­teetering economy, the Fed meaning higher interest Donald Kohn said in a tomers, clamp down on their since September has been rates to keep inflation from speech that he doesn't hiring and capital invest­ratcheting down its key getting out of hand." expect the recent elevated ment. interest rate. Another cut is On the other hand, Brian inflation readings to persist. 
That would be a night­expected in March. However. Bethune, economist at "But the recent informa­mare scenario for Wall to combat inflation, the Fed Global Insight, said tion on prices underlines the Street investors, businesses, would be expected to boost Bernanke can fight only one need to continue to monitor politicians and most every­rates instead. war at a time, and the more the inflation situation very one else. They're already "The Fed has its hands pressing issue right now is to carefully," he added. 

House prices still falling nationwide 
cent in the final quarter of 2007 "We reached a somber year-end
Associated Press 
compared with a year ago, accord­for the housing market in 2007," NEW YORK-House prices may ing to the Standard & Poor's/Case­said Robert Shiller, one of the archi­still have a long way to fall. Shiller home price index released tects of the S&P/Case-Shiller index. 
Across much of the nation, home Tuesday. That marked the steepest "Home prices across the nation and values are dropping -even those decline in the index's 20-year histo­in most metro areas are significantly backed by solid mortgages -and ry. lower than where they were a year banks are repossessing more every Meanwhile, the narrower Office of ago. Wherever you look, things look day. Most experts say the dive won't Federal Housing Enterprise bleak." hit bottom for another year and only Oversight said Tuesday that nation­That's bad news for Sheila Prior after excess inventory is sharply wide prices dipped 0.3 percent in the and her husband, Matthew. Despite reduced and credit markets improve. fourth quarter, the first annual the weakness in the housing market, 
More government intervention decline in 16 years. Eleven states the couple is putting their three-bed­may be needed, too, if the free mar­posted declines in values for the room home in Durham, N.C., up for ket system doesn't work quick year, while prices in nine states sale this week. After being laid off in enough. appreciated more than 5 percent. December from GlaxoSmithKline 
"The housing value crisis is The OFHEO index is calculated PLC, Matthew accepted a job offer in spreading and deepening," said using mortgages of $417,000 or less Plymouth, Minn. David Abromowitz, a senior fellow at that are bought or backed by gov­The couple, who has a 1-year-old the Center for American Progress. ernment-sponsored mortgage com­daughter, initially wanted to list "It has gone way beyond subprime panies Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. their home for $250,000. But after borrowers stretched too far with bad That excludes properties bought checking what other homes sold for loans and now has clearly extended with some of the riskier types of in the area recently, their real estate into the housing markets more home loans or homes in more expen­agent recommended $233,000 -the broadly." sive markets like California and the same price they paid for it in June 
U.S. home prices dropped 8.9 per-Northeast. 2006. 
tants are studying abroad this 
semester, and the incoming
COR 

The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
continued from page I 
approved before March 1. 
If tho Council had not met, it would havn marked the fourth timn in fivn weeks that a mnet­ing did not take place. This semester. the Council has only met four timns. Brown has eitnd siekness, not having nnough voting mmnbors and a lack of issues as the reasons for cancnling the last thrPe rneotings.Brown declined to furthnr eommPnt on the situa­tion. 
Tlw Coundl approvml Gaines unanimously during thP rescheduled meeting. Normally, one of tho treasur­er's assistants from the provi­ous ynar takns over the posi­tion, but both of Gainos' assis­treasurer takes over on March 1. 

Because Gaines is only a jun­ior, she decided to hold the position again next year. 
In other COR news: 
+The representatives unani­mously voted to approve the Financial Management Board's reanocation of funds for the Student Union's budget. This year's budget resulted in a sur­plus of $10,972.32, which Caines said would be made available to the elass councils and extracurricular clubs. 
Whatever amount of money is lef't over will be put into the technology fund for studPnt organizations, Gaines said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a notnination form, please visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/programs-and-links/dennymooreaward.shtml 
Nominations are due by Tuesday, March 11, 2008. 
S01ile 
continued from page I 
world that contribute to these ld'l'orts with funds and volun­tnnrs. 
During November and Dnenm bor last ynar, Don and the 14 otlwr mmnbnrs of Opnration Smiln hold a cookie sale, the higgnst fundraisnr in the dub's history, and raised about $2,000. 
"W11 sold eookins in LaFortune and by going door to door," Dec said. "Studnnts sold to friends, family, and dormmates ... we had rnally dndkatnd s•~llers. And it didn't hurt that it was Christmas time." 
Tlw dub hopes to repeat that success when it holds a second cookie sale before St. Patrieks' Day, Dnn said. Operation Smile is also planning a "Best Smile on Campus" fundraiser. 

The club plans to find 5-10 people on campus with a "fan­tastic" smile, take their picture and it above a collection bin in LaFortune, Dee said. Students will donate money to the person they want to win. She said any­body internsted in being one of the best smiles on campus should e-mail her. 
She also encouraged students to join the dub to help make "a tangible dill'erence in the lives of children around the world. 
"It is so rewarding to see all of the money we raisn go directly to those who need it," Dee said. 
Dee became involved in Operation Smile because she believes in "the power of a smile," she said. 
The Notre Dame chapter of Operation Smile began in 2003 with then-student Dan Musick. 
Contact Laura Lisowski at llisowsk@nd.edu 

Wednesday, February 27, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Tow-n evacuated after w-ildfires 
Associated Press 
HOBERT LEE, Texas-Fire officials kept watch Tuesday on a wildfire threatening this town of 1,500 people, but evacuated resi­dents were allowed to return. 
Wildfires across the state, mostly in West Texas, since Monday have charred nearly 390 square miles -about 250,000 acres. The largest was a 219­square-mile blaze some 50 miles west of Robert Lee, and officials expnct that number to be revised upward once assessments can be made, said Anne Jeffery, an information officer for the Texas Forest Service. 
Officials were monitoring a roughly 30-square-mile fire that threatened Robert Lee, about 250 miles southwest of Dallas. While residents were allowed to return, schools remained closed Tuesday. 
"It's still hot here," said Robert Lee Superintendent Aaron Hood, who sent his wife and two chil­dren to nearby San Angelo overnight while he assisted in evacuations. "You can still smell the smoke and smell the fire. If the high winds get up again, we just have to be ready." 
l-Ie said some houses burned in the smaller communities of Silver and Edith near the E.V. Spence Reservoir. 
On Tuesday, fires were stoked by winds up to 50 mph. Three firefighters were injured in a truck accident. 
David Abernathy, an incident commander with the Texas Forest Service, said Monday he was aware of at least two dozen separate fires across the state and expected there were "many, many more that we won't know about" until local fire depart­ments report in. 
TURTLE CREEK AMENITIES 
<:>Tan for FREE at Fun Tan 
() Heated Pool and I-lot Tub 
<:> Pet Friendly 

¢"On Site Security 
52555401 

"We had so many fires that there is no possible way to have enough firefighting resources for that many fires," Abernathy said. "Texas had the same conditions that you might expect in Southern California with some of their Santa Ana winds. The right conditions came together. It's extremely rare for us to see that." 
Some fires were likely started by wind blowing down power lines, he said. 
Four firefighters were injured in Archer County, about 200 miles northwest of Robert Lee, when two fire trucks collided head on after one swerved around a car that pulled out into the road, said Becky Purser, the county's emergency management coordinator. Jeffery said two fire­fighters in West Texas were treated for smoke inhalation Monday. 
PAKISTAN 

Suicide bolllber kills high-ranking general 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD -A suicide bomber on Monday killed the Pakistan army's surgeon gener­al, the highest-ranking military officer to die in an attack since President Pervez Musharraf joined America's war against terror. 
The strike was a reminder of the extremist threat just as Musharraf resists pressure to quit from opponents who swept last week's parliamentary elec­tion. 
A presidential spokesman on Monday dismissed suggestions from three U.S. senators that 

Furnished Studio Apartments (.Jne Bedroon1 Apartments 'Iwo Bedroon1 One Bath Aparhnents 'Iwo Bedroon1 One and a Half Bath Apartments with Fenced in Patio 
ere 

TurtleCreek 
APARTMENTS 
e shouts G s~:e-th~ l ts 



1710 E., Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Phone: 574-272-8124 
(112 block east of campus on Vaness Street) 
Fax: 574-273-6921 
l¥.~~5L~l-::t.l•.L¥:.J:IYK:Ug<;;rg~kt.~.£!En ~6. 


the embattled Pakistani leader might beat a "graceful" retreat from power. 
Musharraf was elected to a new five-year presidential term last year by Pakistani lawmak­ers, "not by any senator from the United States," spokesman Rashid Qureshi told Dawn News television. "So I don't think he needs to respond to anything that is said by these people." 
The lone suicide bomber tar­geted Lt. Gen. Mushtaq Baig's black Toyota sedan when it stopped for a red signal on a busy road in Rawalpindi, a city justsouth of the capital, offi­cials and witnesses said. 
Baig, the army's top medical officer, died along with his driv­er and guard, the army said. Five civilians were also killed, it said. 
Dozens of troops and plain­clothes security officials cor­doned off the area, where at least six other damaged cars stood. Plastic-gloved investiga­tors gathered debris, including pieces of flesh, and put them in plastic bags. 
Iqbal Ali, a witness who had been walking toward a nearby government office to get an identity card, said he saw a man run into the road shortly before the explosion. 
Army spokesman Maj. Gen. Athar Abbas said Baig was the most senior army officer killed in an attack since Pakistan sided with Washington after the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States. 
Musharraf himself survived at least three attempts on his life before he retired as army chief in November. 
Abbas said it was unclear who was behind Monday's attack. 
The government blamed "extremist elements" who were "damaging the cause of Islam" and spoiling Pakistan's interna­tional reputation. Authorities will "not let the perpetrators succeed in their evil designs," caretaker Prime Minister Mohammedmian Soomro said. 
Suicide bombers have struck repeatedly in Rawalpindi, where the army has its head­quarters, in recent months, mostly targeting security forces. A gun and suicide attack also killed opposition leader Benazir Bhutto as she left a campaign rally in the city on Dec. 27. 
Bhutto's party fmished first in Feb. 18's parliamentary elec­tions, while supporters of Musharraf were trounced, prompting some opposition leaders to call for him to resign. 
The Bush administration appears to want Musharraf to continue in office even as it shifts its focus to his successor as army chief and the next gov­ernment. 
However, Sen. Joe Eiden, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, who met Musharraf after observing the election, said Sunday he would advise the president to seek a dignified way to leave office. 
"I firmly believe if they [polit­ical parties] do not focus on old grudges -and there's plenty in Pakistan-and give him a graceful way to move," then it could happen, Eiden, a Democrat, said on ABC televi­sion. 


B
ecome a jesuit Volunteer for a one year 
commitment in the U.S. Have the opportunity to: work and live among those who are poor and marginalized; live simply and in community with other Jesuit Volunteers; examine the causes of social injustice; integrate Christian Faith. 
APPLY ONLINE TODAY! 

www.jesuitvolunteers.org 
JESUIT 
VOLUNTEER 
CORPS 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page I 0 Wednesday, February 27, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Soldiers' dilemma 
1~0. Box 779. Norr< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining !!all. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hinc 

MANAGING EmTOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily ASST. MANAGING ElliTOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karm Langley 
VIEWI'OINT ElliTOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine ScENE EmTOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
Pmrro EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROlLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS AoMINISTRAIOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 News DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.J@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
fHE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

Th~ Observer is rhc independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contmt, including advertisements, is not gowrned by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refi.tse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe ()bserver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of.111 opinion~ through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor mltst be signed and must include contact intormation. 
Quemlms l'o/.arding Obsm'er policies should be dirrcted w Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'llu: OIJKM't (US I'~ 1'}'1 1-.WC.lO) t1 l'ub4ahc:d Munday rhruu.:h Mid.ty ~'q't during cum ~nd r.M.~twll pcrit>~.lt. A ml~npuun It~ lltc Ol'K'tvcf If $100 for unc .audo:mh: 
ye.mS'i5fnrum:~emcu,.r 
The Oblervct •• puhH,I•cd .u POSTMASTER 
024 ~'lntuh L>inintc lbll Send o~.ddrcu c:;om:ctiom to; 
Non~ D.tmt-.IN 1M%-Om ThtOlmrver 
Pcrmdi..,"tl JK~•ugc p.-mi ,u Notre D.nnc P.O. Bolt Tl9 
.md Jtidirion.ll rn~ilutK ulfkn 024 Sourh Dinmg Ibll 

Notre Damr. IN 46~,6.0779 
ThC" ( lllK'rwr '' .t rncm~r uf the AMI~~.:I ..I!cd Ptu.,, All rcprno.iucnon rights arc rnrrvc--d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Marcela Berrios Deirdre Krasula 
Madeline Buckley Lorenzo Reyes John Tierney Chris Doyen Graphics Scene Madeline Nies Tae Andrews 
Viewpoint John Dailey 

Last month, the Washington Post reported that suicides among active­duty military personnel have reached their highest level since 1980. It was also reported last month that the U.S. is not prepared 
Zach Einterz
for a catastrophie attack on the eountry. The sui­Bulletproof cide rate among Ideas soldiers and America's lack of preparedness for a national emergency are both symp­toms of a larger problem: Our over­seas commitments have stretched our military too thin. Redeployments and longf1r stays in war zones are putting increasing amounts of mental and physieal stress on the servieemen in our armed forces, and our two-front war has left much of our military equipment inoperable. Clearly, our current military policy is unsustain­able. 
Thus, it is no surprise that all of the leading presidential candidates have called for an increase in the size of our military. llillary Clinton has called for increasing our military by 80,000 troops. Barack Obama, although pledging to remove all com­bat brigades from Iraq within 16 months of his presidency, believes that our military should be enlarged with 65,000 additional forces in the Army and 27,000 in the Marines. John McCain doesn't give a specific number for a troop increase, but one can only imagine how many more troops we'll need to carry out his planned 100-year occupation of Iraq and "bomb, bomb, bomb Iran" mili­tary adventurism. 
The leading candidates feed us feel­good proposals for a larger military, but they seem to be overlooking the feasibility of their plans. In 2005, the Pentagon announeed plans to inen~ase the size of the Army by 30,000, but by the end of the year the Army had had the worst reeruiting year in three decades. How do Obama, MeCain and Clinton expect to add 100,000 troops to our military when we can't even increase it by 30,000? In 2006 and 2007, the Army got baek on track and met its recruit· ing goals, but only beeause it enlisted a larger percentage of applicants with low test scores and it recruited more soldiers who require a waiver for felony convictions. The Army wants 90 percent of its recruits to have high school diplomas, but only 79 percent of last year's recruits did. Lowering standards to increase enlistment can cover shortages for a brief period of time. But if done for too long, the quality of our armed services will suf­fer. 
Finding adequate replacements for our military will be a daunting task, so I'd like to offer up the following four-part plan to any presidential candidate who wishes to adopt it as his own. 
1. 
Reintroduce conseription. America's youth have become too apathetic, and most college students will graduate feeling unfulfilled hav­ing never burned their draft cards, marched on Washington (or the Main Building) or smoked weed while lis­tening to Bob Dylan. It's time to rein­vigorate a true spirit of patriotism among young Americans by reinstat­ing the draft. 

2. 
Increase immigration. McCain has received a lot of flack from con­servatives for his amnesty-granting comprehensive immigration plan, but this plan is a surefire way to increase the size of our military. Open our bor­ders, let immigrants in, and then send them to the Middle East. 


3. Outlaw abortion. If our politi-

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing for spring break? 
Sl16r11'if a etter

Service Going somewhere warm 
1
to··th9J!~ Editor at
. ,.,/%. . . ·...·'

Going home 
Staying on campus 
www.ndsmcobserver.com
·.:..,:~krw:::::= 1:::. ·::. :-.:}~: ··· ... · · , .. ,.,.,,," =::···.:······ =

Stuck at work Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


cians want more pinees for their war games, our eountry has to stop killing pawns before tlw ehoss mateh even starts. 
4. Hedueo our f'ornign military eom­mitments. This is probably the most radieal part of my plan. Not including the 250,000 troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, we currently have 300,000 troops stationed in 120 eoun­tries around the world. I don't know why we have 1,300 troops in Belgium and another 1,300 in Senegal, whieh makes me suspect that they could be put to better use elsewhere. We also maintain 56,000 troops in Germany and 33,000 troops in Japan even though these countries are two of the world's top-five economies. I realize there's a possibility that llitler will return, but I also think that Germany and Japan they ean afford to take care of themselves. Finally, let's put a stop to any further military entangle­ments. AhmadinPjad might be insane, but he's easier to deal with than the anarchic terrorists that would replaee him if we were to overthrow Iran's government and attempt an occupa­tion. 
Our military is currently in sham­bles from over expansion. Our per­sonnel are worn out, our equipment is damaged and America has been left unguarded. Instead of spouting rheto­ric about an increasingly large mili­tary, our presidential candidates should be reeonsidering the role of our foreign troop commitments and start making promises to bring home as many as possible. 
Zach Einter:i is a serlio'flhajorcng irr"... economics and environmental sciences. Contact him at zeinterz@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Loyalty to P.etrified opinions 
never yet broke a chain or freed 
a human soul in this world ­
and never will. " 
Mark Twain author 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 27, 2008 page 11 

U-WIRE 
Nader presents third option 
It's deja vu all over again. 

On NBC's "Meet the Press," Ralph Nader announced his decision to make a run for the White House. Again. The self-proclaimed independent has tried and failed to do so four times already, Tim Strube and apparently, he's not intimidat­
Daily Trojan
ed by the heated race. To say the least, the Democrats aren't jumping for joy over the news. 
The last few times he's tried to make a run, Democrats cried waterfalls over his siphoning votes away from their candidates, namely AI Gore in 2000. Nader himself said it was the Democrats' fault their candidate failed to establish a platform that could nix the Republicans' chances. 
Democrats are already on the offen­sive. 
John Pearce, the director of ralph­dontrun.com, said on the website, "We continue to strongly believe that any third party candidacy in the U.S. two­party system has the inevitable effect of helping elect those most hostile to one's agenda. In this case, that means helping elect Republicans." 
Pearce and others hope a Sen. Barack Obama nomination will make Nader more invisible than he was in 2004, thereby staking the claim that a Hillary Clinton-led Democratic party would falter to the Republicans as a result of yet another Nader intrusion. 
As Pearce suggests, only the power of Obama can prevail in November, and only he can guide our country in the right direction. 
But the fact that someone would suggest that it's "Two party or Bust" is rather upsetting, as if there were only two degrees of understanding in poli­tics; that for every election, it's one or the other. 
It's your choice between two candi­dates whose overall outlook is, at the end of the day, only marginally differ­ent. 
It's John Jackson or Jack Johnson. 
Disagree with both? Then tough shit, you're out of luck. 
Nader was never siphoning votes. He was giving people what they wanted: a candidate who agrees with their poli­tics. 
Americans shouldn't have to com­promise their political integrity simply because the candidates operate on a narrow ideological base. The progres­sive community demands real change to turn this country around and a can­didate that embodies that mentality. 
In our current political atmosphere, change is not easy to come by. It is more than just a word that a candi­date can use to get his supporters riled up at a rally. 
John Nichols of The Nation 

.t,. l-
Get the help you need 
My name is Tara Gilbride, and I would like to share a secret with you in recognition of National Eating Disorder Awareness Week. 
I have an eating disorder. 

Now I would like to share another secret: I am not alone. An esti­mated 25 percent of college-aged women are affected by some form of disordered eating. This means that here at Notre Dame, approximate­ly 1,000 women are affected. The problem with this statistic is these women are not getting help. And eating disorders carry a stigma. 
Despite being a disease, people operate under the assumption that eating disorders are not serious problems and believe that they can overcome an eating disorder without the help of a doctor or counselor. No one should have to go through the pain of an eating disorder alone. 
Notre Dame has an amazing group of professional counselors, doc­tors and nutritionists who are fully equipped to help people deal with eating disorders. It takes a lot of courage to ask for help in treating an eating disorder, but I promise it could change your life or the life of someone you know and love. 
In honor of National Eating Disorder Awareness week, I am asking you to seek help if you are one of the many women or men on this campus suffering from this disease. I sought help, and it may have saved my life. It could do the same for you. 
Tara Gilbride sophomore Lewis Hall Feb. 25 
End the chant 
Dear Notre Dame student body: 

While attending the Syracuse game this weekend, I came to the real­ization that we desperately need to end the "suck it" cheer debate ­and the cheer altogether. I don't find it morally reprehensible, or even disrespectful to the opponent. ... I just think it's stupid. The last time I uttered the phrase "suck it," I was watching pro wrestling in .seventh grade. I could be wrong, but I believe we're more clever than this. 
Ryan Sarb senior offcampus Feb. 25 
explained, "Nader is running for the same reason he has run in the past: Because the likely nominees of the two major parties do not begin to meet the standards that might reasonably be asked of progressive contenders in 21st-century America." 
I'll admit, rather reluctantly, that I voted for Nader in 2004. I was young and easily duped by what I thought were the possibilities of American democracy. All it takes is one vote, right? 
His stark progressivism seduced me only four years ago and he's slowly starting to do it again. 
In the simplest matter of under­standing, he's like Ron Paul minus the radical libertarianism. He's slightly tamer than Dr. No but still remains radically different from his political counterparts. 
His platform revolves around decon­structing the debilitating control of corporatism. 
In compliance with philosophers such as Leo Tolstoy, he believes ram­pant corporatism is simply a form of under-the-table fascism, where the public's interests are continually sub­verted by the needs of the market. 
It's most likely too late, however, for Nader, and his chances at the Oval Office certainly fall under the "slim to none" category. 
Paul's grassroots campaign (which has undoubtedly failed to get him a Republican bid despite its strength) was brewing for well over a year. He had a surprisingly effective marketing team that knew how to spread the word through e-outlets and motivate youngins from across the nation to spout "Ron Paul '08!" like it was their job. 

But, perhaps Nader is in the game for the same reasons as Paul -to spice things up a bit, to bring to the forefront issues that would otherwise escape the askew perspectives of American politics and our unchecked media machine. 
As Nichols suggests, Nader is "quite rational in his awareness that he will not be sworn in as president on Jan. 20, 2009." He's there on principle. 
While I probably won't vote for Nader again, his participation in the race is a righteous personal journey that's unfolded since his first presi­dential bid in 1992. A crusade, if you will, to show that progressives can still have a say in our country's affairs. 
This column first appeared in the Feb. 26 issue ofthe Daily Trojan, the daily campus newspaper ofthe University of Southern Cal{fornia 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Offensive comic strip demeans women 
Last I checked, The Observer was "an inde­pendent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." Yet, The Observer staff forces its audience to turn against itself several times a year. I know Viewpoint has been pretty dull lately. In fact, it rarely stirs an exciting debate -which perhaps speaks to the actual intellec­tual vigor of its audience -but publishing a truly offensive comic that disparages against women and 2,000 of the students you suppos­edly "serve" should not be your fall-back for increasing readership. 
The "midterms" comic published on Monday actually hurts the opposite group that it intends to. It makes Notre Dame students look like arrogant bullies. How pathetic that a university the size of Notre Dame feels the need to pick on a small liberal arts college that even US News and World Report's rankings would not place in the same category. The fact that SMC is a women's college makes Notre Dame look even worse -and sexist. The saddest part of all of this for me is that SMC students make up part of The Observer staff. I can't believe any self-respecting Saint Mary's woman would allow this completely unwanted, uncalled for and offensive material to be a part of what they represent. 

I love Notre Dame. Some of my closest friends are NO students. Stop making them look ignorant and arrogant. Notre Dame is a big fish in a little pond: South Bend. Outside of South Bend there are much bigger ponds that NO would feel much smaller in. Remember that and stop trying to instigate a debate that isn't even valid and has been beaten into the ground. Not to mention one that I truly believe the majority of this community does not want to have. 
If The Observer's mission is to serve the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community, then I suggest it start promoting the shared and unique aspects of both schools that we are all proud of, and stop encouraging material that turns this community against itself. 
Liz Froehlke junior Holy Cross Hall Feb. 26 



-~-­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 
Wednesday, February 27, 2008 

Scene's Top Video Picks 
JJ Ross' Dunk 


Judging from the crowd's reaction, apparently JJ does this two or three times a game. 
Popelbon Learns Spanish I 
The man catch pitch, and 
we know the man can 
dance -but it appears 
he can't speak Spanish 
all too well. 

Ever thought about 
. painting your dorm room to look like a giant mural of Google's Gmail? 
, Just in case, you should , watch this. 
'# .Ai.!ML\)$...~-lil 

L!O ..... ··:HIJk-'!':"~~-l'"~~~~~~­
Apple Soundtrack 


-----.;) 
Po rko u r Soccer 
h ~-••• • ' .... 
.~ --·•;..:":!-.· .----~ -,_., __ . 
Even if you aren't ofan 
of the beautiful game, 
you will admire the skill 
of these guys passing 
the ball back and forth ­
while doing front hand 
springs ... on a bridge. 

Star Wars According to a 3-Year-Oid 
In case the mysteries of the galaxy far, far away are just a little too confusing, you can have them explained to you by this 3-year-old girl. 


, Someone with too much f time on their hands t t makes a song using the t computer presets from :;, i a Mac. Way better than ~-you would imagine. 

MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 


By MYCHAL STANLEY Scene Writer 
With the title of its latest album, British Sea Power asks the world a simple question: "Do You Like Rock Music?" Well, British Sea Power, most people do. But they might not be so sure if they like your rock music. 
See, rock music is supposed to be more than just the music. It's a state of mind. It's a way of life. It's an atti­tude. Everyone knows that, but British Sea Power seems to have forgotten that when it made one of the most boring and derivative rock albums in recent memory. 
Well, it's all right to be a little derivative. Every good act is bor­rowing from someone else. Even The Beatl~s made their share of covers, and the Fab Five sure didn't invent the genre. They just fit it to themselves -made it their own ­and by doing so, they made it better. 
This is not trying to say that British Sea Power should be The Beatles. But honestly, what's the point in trying your hand at an han­est rock album if you're not going to inject your own personality and emotion into ideas that you stole from other acts? 
In this album, there are echoes of The Arcade Fire, U2, The Pixies, among others. And that's OK! Heally, it is. These are great bands, and any band worth its weight in salt water would be honored even to be mentioned in the same sen-· tence as these bands. 
But the problem here is that the sounds are stolen from these bands are not changed at all. BSP doesn't apply them to a new aesthetic. They don't give them better arrange­ments. They don't treat them well in your hands, care for them, and nourish them. No, in BSP's hands, these stolen sounds die because they have no heart. 
Don't get mad. This is not saying BSP doesn't play them well. In fact, BSP is a very technically proficient band. All the instruments are played well. The production is solid. It all sounds fine, but it's just all so empty -so cold. 
Take the song "A Trip Out," for example. This song was everything 
this album could be: 
short, punchy and fast 

Do You Like Rock Music? 
British Sea Power Released by: Rought Trade Records Recommended Tracks: "A Trip Ouf' and ''The Great Skua" 
paced. It's a fist-pumper to be sure. And it's a good rock song. But instead BSP buries it in the middle of the album, and starts out with what sounds like an Arcade Fire demo tape and a bloated, formless, shape­less blob of a song that tries so many rock song cliches, that it just breaks down under the weight. 
BSP's lead singer 

sounds like he's just snoring through the lyrics. The lyrics might not be very exciting to begin with, but at least he could. have injected some due energy into the words. It's pret-
This is not trying to say that British Sea Power should be The Beatles. But honestly, what's the point in trying your hand at an honest rock album ifyou're not going to inject your own personality and emotion into ideas that you stole from other acts? 
ty sad when the album's lone instru­mental piece, "The Great Skua," is one of the more exciting songs on the album, but nothing one couldn't get from any Explosions in the Sky song. 
If BSP had reached far with this album and failed, it would have been something to talk about. They would have tried. They would have attempted greatness. Instead, BSP tried to make a modest rock album -and modestly failed. That is somehow more crushing than any­thing else. 
So; yes, British Sea Power, people do like rock music. Just not yours. Not yet. But they haven't given up on BSP yet. Maybe by the next ­album's release, BSP will have gone to the Wizard and asked for a heart. That would do wonders for their music. 
Contact Mychal Stanley at wstanley@nd.edu 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 

NBA 

Marion's big night helps Heat snap 11-game skid 
Turkoglu chips in 17 points in the fourth quarter to seal win over Nets; Howard picks up 50th double-double ofseason 
on our part."
Associated Press 

Miami's franchise-record 
MIAMI -For one night, it all streak of' 125 straight sellouts worked. llalf-rourt alley-oop ended; there were 357 unsold passes, 3-pointers in transition, tickets. even the oecasional lueky bounce The Heat couldn't have com­ofl' the glass. plained about much else. 
The Miami lll~at still have the Mark Blount finished with 14 worst reeord in the NBA. points and nine rebounds, Earl 
But they looked nothing like Barron and Ricky Davis each the league's worst team Tuesday scored 11, while Jason Williams night. added 10 points. Williams 
Shawn Marion seored 24 matehed Wade with a game-high points on 10-ol'-14 shooting, nine assists for Miami, which Udonis llaslmn added 17 and the won for the first time since trad­Ileal used a hugp, third quarter ing Shaquille O'Neal to Phoenix to beat the Sacramento Kings earlier this month. 107-H6 and snap an 11-game The Heat started the third losing streak. quarter on a wild 25-4 run, 
"I know we've had it in us," a capped by Wade's three-point visibly relieved lleat eoaeh Pat play. He got hit by Brad Miller on Hiley said. "I don't know where a drive, the ball teetered on the it's been. But tonight, we played rim and eventually dropped extrP.mely wP.ll. We just played a through. complete game l(>r 48 minutP.s. All of Sacramento's scoring 
"I feel like a mosquito in a nud­during that 9-minute stretch ist colony," Hiley added. "I know came on free throws by Artest. what to do. I just don't know "Wow. Wow," Artest said, when where to start." asked about the third quarter. 
l>wyane Wade finished with 15 "They came out and took that points and nine assists for the third quarter in the first couple Heat, who won for just the sec­of' minutes. Usually when you do 
-ond time in their last 2H games that, you've got a good chance to -and did so in style, with their win the game." largest margin of the sea..'ion. Indeed, it was a rare easy night Miami held Sacramento to 10 for Miami, which enjoyed a 20­percent shooting (2-for-20) in the point lead only one other time third quarter, a Heat franchise this season. The Heat led record. The Heat held a 31-11 Charlotte by as many as 29 edge in that period, the first time points on Nov. 27 in a 110-90 vic­another show Tuesday night, confidence in him. He hits a lot of right shot." in more than a year Miami tory. scoring scored 17 his 25 points in tough shots in the fourth quarter Carter scored on a jumper to outscored a foe by at least 20 Sacramento still has slim play­the fmal quarter in decision over to win games for us." get New Jersey within five points, points in a quarter, and went on off hopes in the loaded West, but the New Jersey Nets. Vince Carter had 26 points and but Howard, Turkoglu and Keith to become the final NBA team has dropped two straight and "We have great confidence in Richard Jefferson 20 for New Bogans combined,Jor four fcee this season to reaeh the 1 0-victo­will need an epic run to catch the him," coach Stan Van Gundy Jersey, which is 2-2 since trading throws to push the lead to 94-85. ry mark. top eight teams in that half of the said. "He gets the opportunities star point guard Jason Kidd to "We have played through him "That was our best third quar­league. It led by seven points late and he comes through when we Dallas in an eight-player deal on in the fourth quarter because he ter in two years running since in the first quarter, and seemed have put the ball in his hands in Feb. 19. has proven this year he is a the championship year," Wade poised to do what just about those situations." Trailing 81-78 after Kidd's clutch player," said Keyon said. "That's what you like to see, everyone else does against Turkoglu was almost perfect in replacement, Marcus Williams, Dooling, who added 14 points especially coming out at halftime, Miami. the final 12 minutes. He hit all hit a 3-pointer with 6:13 to go, along with Maurice Evans. "So putting a team away and really This time, though, the Heat four of' his shots from the field, Turkoglu took off, like he has all we ride him in the fourth quar­showing that we wanted the had resolve. including two 3-pointers, and 7 season in the fourth quarter. ter, because not only can he game." Haslem had nine points in the of 8 free throws. He also had two Coming into the game, score, but he can create shots for Spencer Hawes scored 16 second quarter as Miami began rebounds, an assist and a steal Turkoglu had scored 10 or more other people. He's a unique play­points, while Hon Artest and building a lead, while Marion, playing the entire quarter. points in the fourth quarter 12 er. He's 6-10 and can shoot the Kevin Martin each finished with Wade and Williams all scored "When the time came, I was times. He made his 13th look ball, handle it, pass it and post 14 for the Kings, whose starters late in the half to help the Heat ready and did my part," said easy. up. He's one of the most versatile were outscored 80-48 by Miami's take a 56-48 edge, their largest Turkoglu, who said Rashard Turkoglu hit an open 3-pointer players in the league and every­first live. to that point. And after halftime, Lewis kept the Magic in the game to tie the game at 81 with 5:18 to body is seeing it now." Saeramento missed its first 14 they were never challenged. in the third quarter by scoring 11 go. With the scored tied at 83, Josh Boone had 12 points and
-
shots of' the third quarter, not "It feels good to get this first of his 25 points. ''I'm glad I did it Turkoglu scored uncontested 11 rebounds for New Jersey, getting anything to fall until one," Marion said. "Now let's try and we got a W." when the Nets' defense fell whieh gave up 32 fourth-quarter Quincy J)(mby's jumper with 2:37 to string a few of them along." Slam dunk champion Dwight asleep, added a fading, rainbow points in seeing its four-game left in the period. Howard had his 50th double­3-pointer and two free throws for winning streak at home snapped. 
By then, Miami was in full con­Magic 102, Nets 92 double of the season (17 points, a 90-83 lead with 2:55 to play. "They made plays down the trol. With the game on the line in 10 rebounds) as Orlando ran its "When you have a couple going stretch, a bunch of guys," 
"That probably is about the the fourth quarter, the Orlando streak of 100-point games to in, you always feel hot," Turkoglu Jefferson said. "I felt like we worst we've played all year," Magic have no problem getting nine in winning its third straight said. "By the way, that wasn't a could have executed a little bit Kings coach Heggie Theus said. the ball to Hedo Turkoglu. game. fadeaway 3. That was my normal better, but they are a good team. "The guys were not focused on The 6-foot-10 forward has "He's our go-to guy," Howard 3. It was a tough shot though. They are a team that has experi­what they were trying to do. I been money for the Magic in said of the forward he teasingly Like I said, it always feels good enced players, and they showed just thought it was a bad effort crunch time all season. He put on calls "Catfish." "We have total and you always think it's the it down the stretch." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
- NOTICES NOW HIRING ALL POSITIONS jwillys Grill EXCITING NEW MENU APPLY FRIDAY 2-4 P.M.  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with physical disabilities. Located on shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI. Positions available for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation, Nurses,  NOW HIRING ALL POSITIONS jwillys Grill Exciting New Menu Apply Friday 2-4 p.m. www.jwillys.com FoR RENT  3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2-car garage, 1Ox20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 or 574-340-1844. 5 bedroom house just off Angela & 31. Available now & for  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  "Some people call me the space cowboy, yeah, Some call me the gangster of love Some people call me Maurice Cause I speak of the pompitous of love People talk about me, baby Say lm doin you wrong, doin you wrong Well, doni you worry baby  
www.jwillys.com  Therapists, Food Service, and  Blue & Gold Homes  next year. 2 baths & laundry. 232­ Doni worry  
WANTED $14.25 BASE-APPT.  Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 8 through August 3. Salary, room & board, and experience of lifetime provided. Call or write for applica- Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com  6964. PERSONAL  Adopt: Active, young, loving couple, teacher and business owner, wish more than anything to raise your newborn with care. warrnth and love. Expenses paid. Please call  Cause lm right here, right here, right here, right here at home Cause lm a picker lm a grinner 1m a lover  
STUDENT WORK  lion and information. Bay Cliff  HOUSES FOR RENT  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME- Josette and nm 1-800-418-0230.  And lm a sinner  
flexible, no experience  Health Camp, P.O. Box 310, Big  FOR 08-09 CLOSE TO  ONE WHO IS? You do not have to  I play rny rnusic in the sun  
needed, customer sales/service. conditions apply, ages 18+, 57 4­ Bay, Ml49808, (906) 345-9314, email BayCiiffHC@aol.com. Visit us  CAMPUS. RANGING FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR.  be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­ If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit  lm a joker lm a smoker  
273-3835,  at  CALL 574-234-2436 OR  800-No Abort or visit our web site at  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  lm a midnight Ioker  
www.workforstudents.com  www.baycliff.org  KRAMERHOUSES.COM  www.lifecall.org  shtml  I sure doni want to hurt no one"  



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, February 27, 2008 
NCAA Women's Basketball Associated Press Poll 
team points pret•ious 
1 Connecticut 1232 1 2 North Carolina 1170 2 3 Tennessee 1116 3 4 Rutgers 1084 5 5 Maryland 1076 4 6 LSU 1023 6 7 Stanford 996 7 8 Baylor 883 9 9 California 812 8 10 Oklahoma 784 11 11 Old Dominion 751 10 12 Duke 702 12 13 West Virginia 677 13 14 NOTRE DAME 559 14 15 George Washington 489 17 16 Utah 462 18 17 Oklahoma State 407 16 18 Ohio State 324 20 19 Texas-EI Paso 321 19 20 Texas A&M 305 21 21 Kansas State 299 15 22 Georgia 178 24 23 Vanderbilt 150 25 24 Wyoming 94 NR 25 Marist 82 NR 
NCAA Women's Basketball Coaches' Poll 
team points previous 
1 Connecticut 771 1 2 North Carolina 734 2 3 Tennessee 698 3 4 Rutgers 680 4 5 Maryland 657 5 6 LSU 618 6 7 Stanford 612 1 8 Baylor 544 9 
'i'lQl · Galifonlia u ,;:uw1' . '"529 i •. ~):V1 au.! 1$ 10 Oklahoma 480 10 11t Duke 444 11 11t Old Dominion 444 12 13 West Virginia 382 13 14 NOTRE DAME 355 14 151 George Washington 291 16 15t Utah 291 18 11 Kansas State 255 15 18 Texas A&M 241 19 19 Oklahoma State 226 17 20 Georgia 154 22 21 Maris! 126 23 22 Ohio Stale 119 20 23 Texas-EI Paso 94 25 24 Vanderbilt 78 NR 25 Wyoming 45 NR 
CCHA Conference Standings 
team conference overall 
1 Michigan 19-3-4 26-4-4 2 Miami 19-6-1 27-6-1 3 Michigan State 17-6-3 21-9-5 4 NOTRE DAME 14-8·4 21-11-4 51 Bowling Green 13-13-0 16-16-0 51 Northern Michigan 12-12-2 15-16-3 51 Ferris State 11-11-4 14-13-5 51 Nebraska-Omaha 11-13-4 14-16-4 9 Alaska 8-16-4 8-19-5 10t Ohio Slate 7-16-3 11-21-4 101 lake Superior 6-15-5 8-18-6 12 Western Michigan 3-21-2 7-24-3 
around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Kansas at Iowa State 7 p.m., ESPN West Virginia at DePaul 9 p.m., ESPN2 Georgia Tech at Duke 9 p.m., ESPN 
CnMPlUD FROM THE t)BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NBA 
-


AP 

Houston Rockets center Yao Ming will miss the rest of the season because of a stress fracture in his left foot. The Rockets had won 12 straight games before the team announced Ming's status. 
~ockets lose Ming for retnainder of season 
.l . . ... ,JJo. . . . 
be treated surgically and compromises Houston's Morey said. "We feel like 
Associated Press 
we are working with him playoff hopes. The Rockets our supporting cast is 
HOUSTON -All-Star to get other opinions just to were 36-20 entering superior to when we center Yao Ming is out for be certain that that is Tuesday's game. played without Yao in the the season with a stress indeed what should be "We've been playing past. We remain ready for fracture in his left foot, a done." exceptional ball and Yao's the challenge ahead." stunning blow to the surg­If Yao chooses surgery, been a huge part of that," Clanton said there was ing Houston Rockets. Clanton said, it would Morey said. "We feel very no specific event that led to 
General manager Daryl involve placing screws confident about our playoff the injury, but rather an Morey made the announce­across the bone to hold it push. We've managed to "accumulation of stresses ment Tuesday, hours together. The second option step up and play well with­on the bone. Yao first expe­before the Rockets put would be to treat it with a out Yao in the past and rienced soreness and pain their 12-game winning cast and crutches. Both coaches and players feel in his ankle before the All­streak on the line against options involve a healing confident that we're going Star game and tests were the Washington Wizards. time of about four months. to continue to play well and done Monday when the sit­
Yao was having a terrific Clanton would not say make the playoffs this uation didn't improve. season, averaging 22 when Yao could play again, year." This is Yao's fourth major 
-

points and 10.8 rebounds but said he doesn't expect Morey acknowledged injury in the last two years. per game. the center to miss the that it was difficult news to He missed 32 games last 
"It is not an injury we Beijing Olympics in August. receive when the team has season with a fracture in feel he can play with," Morey told the team been playing so well. his right leg and 21 games Rockets team doctor Tom before Tuesday's "It's a pretty big swing in late 2006 with a toe Clanton said. ''I've made shootaround, and added he from a high to a low, with infection that required sur­the recommendation that it doesn't believe the injury how we were playing," gery. 
IN BRIEF 
Clemens looking to move 
beyond drug discussions 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. Roger Clemens arrived at the Houston Astros' minor league clubhouse on Tuesday and walked straight to a fenced-in bullpen to greet his oldest son, Koby, a catcher in the Astros' system. 
He snapped at a photographer who started clicking pictures. 
"This isn't a zoo!" Clemens barked. 
The seven-time Cy Young Award winner was calmer a few minutes later, but refused to answer ques­tions about the Mitchell Report or a possible criminal investigation into . his denials of steroid use. 
"Everything's been said that needs to be said on that," Clemens said. "We're moving forward. It's baseball time." 
Clemens thinks the public is tired of hearing about performance­enhancing drugs in :the sport. He sure is. 
De La Hoya announces plan to 
retire, altieit slowly 
CARSON, Calif. -Oscar De La Hoya plans to fight three times this year, then retire. 
''I'm at that stage of my career now where I can't take it further," the 35-year-old De La Hoya said Tuesday. "I can't go on for the next two years, three years. It's just time to hang up the gloves. 
"This is the year." 
De La Hoya was speaking with a small group of reporters after a news conference to discuss his May 3 bout against Steve Forbes, a run­ner-up on television's "Tournament of Contenders." 
De La Hoya was speaking with a small group of reporters after a news conference to discuss his May 3 bout against Steve Forbes, a run­ner-up on television's "Tournament of Contenders." 
A former c-hampion in five weight classes and one of boxing's most rec­ognizable fighters, De La Hoya wants to meet Floyd Mayweather Jr. in a September rematch of their bout last May. Mayweather won by split deci­sion. 

Glove wizard VIZquel to miss 
four to six weeks 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -San Francisco probably will be without Omar Vizquel's sparkling defense at shortstop on opening day. 
Vizquel will have arthroscopic sur­gery on his left knee Wednesday and is expected to miss four to six weeks. ­The 11-time Gold Glove shortstop, who turns 41 in April, tested his knee Tuesday but said the pain was too much to handle. 
"My knee was feeling good," Vizquel said. "I wanted to give it a hard shot in order to make a deci­sion. It didn't work. I felt a little pop when I was running. That's what I wanted to see -to see if I could sus­tain the pain, and I couldn't." 


NFL 

Pats' Colvin a111ong nevvest cuts 
New York Jets cut three former starters; Vikings trade Williamson 

SPRING 2008 CAREER FAIRS 

NACE INTERNATIONAL STUDENT VIRTUAL CAREER FAIR 
February 18-May 16 
-
-
-

t:Qirl/TIR'I'IIf/:6 
CAREER FAIRCAREER AND INTERNSHIP FAIR 
1.-farch 14 in Ne\v York City April 11 in Chicago 
VIRTUAL CAREER FAIR 
March 24 -April 27 
. 
C INDIANA CAREERS CONSORTIUM :~~~nr~ CAREER & INTERNSHIP FAIR 
March 28 in South Bend 
EVENTS ARE SPONSORED IN PART BY THE CAREER CENTER. 
for more information, visit: http://careercenter.nd.edu. The Career Center 
IJNI\'f:R,t'tl:' (H ~(ll'IH r>·\¥.f 

Associated Press 
Linebacker Hosevelt Colvin, who played on two Super Bowl­winning New England teams but was plagued by injuries throughout his time with the Patriots, was released by the team Tuesday. 
Colvin, who went out with a foot injury after 11 games last season, was signed as a free agent from Chicago in 2003. He missed 14 games in 2003, then played all 16 games the next three seasons, registering 20? sacks in those seasons. 
The Patriots also cut line­backer Oscar Lua, who missed all of 2007 with a knee injury after bning drafted in the sev­enth round last April. 
With the free-agent deadline three days away, sevnral teams cut players to create more cap room. 
Wide rnceiver Eddie Kennison was released by Kansas City after seven seasons there. The 35-year-old Kennison was the Chiefs' top wide receiver for most of that time, but was limit­Pd last season by hamstring and

-
shoulder injuries to only eight games, catching 13 passes for 101 yards. lie had 1,000-yard nH~eiving snasons in 2004 and 2005, join­ing Carlos Carson as the only players in Chiefs history to accomplish that feat. Washington released disap­
pointing receiver Brandon Lloyd, who had only 25 catches in two seasons with the team. The Hedskins traded two draft picks to the San Francisco 49ers for Lloyd before the 2006 season, then signed him to a long-term contract that includ­ed $10 million in guaranteed money. 
The New York Jets released three former starters: WR Justin McCareins, CB Andre Dyson and G Adrien Clarke. 
McCareins, acquired in 2004 in a trade with Tennessee, never developed into an impact receiver. In four seasons in New York, he had 141 catches for 2,062 and seven touchdowns. lie saw limited action last sea­son, catching just 19 passes for 232 yards. 
Dyson, signed as a free agent from Seattle in 2006, had live interceptions in two seasons with the Jets, but just one in nine games last year as a back­up. lie started every game at left cornerback until he was injured in Week 15 of the 2006 season, and was then replaced by rookie Darrelle Revis in 2007. 
Dyson, bothered by a foot injury throughout training camp, was inactive for six games and didn't play in the Jets' last live games. 
Clarke struggled as the replacement for Pete Kendall, starting 14 games at left guard last season. He may have sealed his fate when he was beaten by Hichard Seymour on Kellen Clemens' first pass against New England in Week 14. Eugene Wilson intercepted the ball for a touchdown, and the quarter­back missed the rest of the game and the following week with a rib injury. Clarke was inactive the last two games. 
In a deal that won't be official until the start of the trade/free agency season at midnight Feb. 29, Minnesota agreed to send disappointing receiver Troy Williamson to Jacksonville for a sixth-round pick, according to someone familiar with the trade. Williamson was the sev­enth overall pick in the 2005 draft. 
San Francisco re-signed line­backer Hoderick Green shortly before the veteran pass-rusher would have become an unre­stricted free agent. Green spent parts of the last two seasons with the 49ers. 
Cincinnati re-signed receiver Antonio Chatman and defensive end Jonathan Fanene. Chatman agreed to a two-year deal rather than become an unre­stricted free agent. lie had 19 catches with one touchdown in 2007 and averaged 5.2 yards on 18 punt returns. 
Fanene got a three-year deal. The fourth-year player appeared in 14 games and had six tackles and one sack. 


Wednesday, February 27, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Indiana holds on for narrow victory over Buckeyes 
Hoosiers beat Ohio State for first home win under interim head coach Dan Dakich; freshman guard finishes with 17 points 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-Dan Dakich thinks Indiana basket­ball should be about the play­ers. One day soon, it might be again. 
Not yet. 
The Hoosiers' high-profile coaching change again over­shadowed basketball Tuesday night, and Indiana fans show­ered Dakich with a victory stroll after No. 12 Indiana beat Ohio State 72-69 -even though Dakich didn't think he deserved it. 
"This isn't about my stamp or anything like that," he said afterward. "This is about these players and what they had in front of them before last Friday." 
At stake for the Hoosiers (24­4, 13-2 Big Ten) is their first possible outright Big Ten title since 1993. a high seed in the NCAA tournament and, of course, a sentimental finish for former coach Kelvin Sampson, who resigned amid NCAA alle­gations of five major rules infractions on Friday. 
Oakich was;;hosen his interim successor and after avoiding a potential player boycott Saturday, won at Northwestern. 
But after 410 career games as an assistant coach on the Indiana bench for Sampson and Bob Knight, Dakich found him­self in new territory Tuesday night. He was greeted with a standing ovation when he walked onto the floor and heard loud cheers when public address announcer Chuck Crabb called his name during pregame introductions. 
It was a stark contrast to the torrent of boos Sampson heard during the previous three games at Assembly Hall, and 
changes  were  evident  all  
around.  
Kent Benson,  a  star  on  

Indiana's undefeated national championship team in 1976, made his first appearance of the season after promising not to come back to Assembly Hall until Sampson was gone. 
"They made the right decision getting rid of Sampson," Benson said. "l-Ie should have never been here in the first place and now we can move ahead with the integrity and character that Indiana basketball is all about." 
Little changed on the court, though. 
Armon Bassett scored 23 points, hitting four 3-pointers to lead Indiana. Eric Gordon, the Big Ten's top scorer, finished with 17 points and six rebounds despite shooting just 4-of-16. 
D.J. White added 16 points and eight rebounds despite fighting cramps and Indiana won its fourth straight, all coming since the university released the NCAA report on Feb. 13. 
Several players again wore the initials "KS" on their sneak­ers, yet the crowd was filled with images of the tumult that has rocked this storied program over the past two weeks. 
One fan waved a sign that read "Dan Dakich 4 Prez." Others held placards that read "KS" and "If you ain't cheating, you ain't trying." A woman even got caught looking ahead, voic­ing her opinion for Dakich's suc­cessor by waving a sign in front of Ohio State's Thad Matta near the end of the halftime break. It read "What's The Matta? Hire Thad." 
After enduring the circus-like environment of the past two weeks, the Hoosiers just wanted to play basketball. 
"We love coach Sampson and we wish he was out there with us," Bassett said. "But we're right up there at the top of the Big Ten and we can't do nothing but get used to it." 
The Buckeyes made that very clear in Tuesday night's physical slugfest. 
Kosta Koufos scored 21 
-

points, Evan Turner had 13 and Jamar Butler and Othello Hunter each had 12, not quite enough to pull the upset. Ohio State (17 -11, 8-7) has now lost three straight and five-of-seven, but fought back from a dismal opening to nearly pull the upset. 


Have.some.fun. Save.some.:!:ives. L.egends Thursday, Feb:rJtlary 2~th l?lidn:ight 
WIN :~A SEASoN -OF GREY1S! 


's 
a 

'%. '%.
T 
v a 


-
f 
NHL 

Penguins beat Islanders despite allowing 52 shots 
Pittsburgh now 1 point behind Devils for Eastern Conference lead; Bruins' Thomas gets second shut-out of season 
Associated Press 
UNIONDALE. N.Y. -If the Pittsburgh Penguins can win when giving up 52 shots, just think how good they'll be when Sidney Crosby and Marian Ilossa are passing the puek to each other. 
On the day the Penguins won the trade deadline sweepstakes and acquimd I fossa from Atlanta to play with Sid the Kid, Ty Conklin stole the show. 
Conklin made an eye-popping, earner-best 50 saves Tuesday night in the l'onguins' 4-2 virtory over the New York Islanders. 
"Sometimns shot doeks aren't indieative of the game necessari­ly," a humble Conklin said. 
Evgeni Malkin and Jeff Taffe seored first-period goals for trado-depleted Pittsburgh, and Conklin did the rest. Sinee com­ing up in December after Mare­Andre Fleury injured an ankle, 
Conklin has gone 17-4-5. 
Pittsburgh jumped over Ottawa and is just one point behind New .Jersey for the lead in the Eastern Conference and Atlantic Division. 

-
"I haven't seen a goalin steal a game like that this year," Penguins defenseman Hyan Whitney said. "lie is probably our MVI' since Sid went out, he and Malkin. It's not something we want to make a habit of though." 
.Just hours after the Penguins made the biggest splash by acquiring llossa ror rorwards Colby Armstrong and Erik Christenstln, Pittsburgh pulled out a win despite being outshot 52-21. 
Frans Nielsen scored on Conklin in the second period to get the Islanders within 2-1. Trent Hunter hit the crossbar less than 2 minutes into the third, and Nnw York dropped its second straight following a six­game winning streak. 
"We thought if we keep pres­suring them, we'd score some goals and take over the game, and we didn't do that," forward Miroslav Satan said. "It just was­n't our day. We just have to remembnr what we did for six games in a row." 
Pittsburgh went 2-for-4 on the power play, compared to 1-for-9 for New York. on the outside of the Eastern playofl" raee. 
''I'm not really sure we played our best game," Conklin said. "We got some breaks, a couple of crossbars, and a couple of good ehances they missed, too." 
Jordan Staal scored during a delayed-penalty eall with 7:05 remaining to restore Pittsburgh's two-goal lead, and Connor James -just up from the minors -rnad1~ it 4-1 with 3:02 left on his first NIIL goal. 
The Penguins played two men short until James and Nathan Smith arrived in the seeond peri­od. The bnneh got even shorter after Hyan Malone broke a skate and Hob Seuderi hurt a linger. 
"It was like pickup hockey," coach Miehel Therrien said. "Who is fresh goes on the ice." 
Huslan Fedotnnko's power-play goal brought thn Islanders to 4­2. 
llossa and del"enseman llal Gill, acquired from Toronto, are nxpeeted to play Thursday when the Penguins visit Boston. Once captain Crosby returns from a high ankle sprain and joins llossa on a line, the Penguins will possess one of the NIIL's most potent offenses. 

"It's a privilege for us to get help like that and we're going to be ready to play well and make a long run," Whitney said. "We're a good team, but we just got a lot better." 
The Islanders dominated the Penguins in the first period, yet wem down 2-0. New York regis­tered a season-best 23 shots and gave up six. 
The Penguins grabbed the lead 
10:50 in and they did it with their second shot, both eoming on thn same shill. Malkin got to a rebound of Petr Sykora's drive and <:arried the puek behind the net and out the left side. 
lie drifted backward into the left drde and snapped off a shot while gliding that beat Hick DiPietro. It was Malkin's 36th goal and his 13th in 18 games since Crosby was injured on Jan. 18. 
Tall"e doubled the lead during a 5-on-3 power play with 2:08 remaining in the first. l-Ie has four goals on the season, two in three games. 
New York couldn't do anything with four power plays in the first period and three more in the seeond. Multiple odd-man rush­es produced little against Conklin on the choppy ice. 
Bruins 4, Senators 0 
Boston Bruins general manag­er Peter Chiarelli kept his team together at the trading deadline, and then he told the players why. 
"He said he believed in this team," said Bruins forward David Krejei, who scored his first NHL goal on Tuesday night to back Tim Thomas's second shutout of the season and help Boston beat the Ottawa Senators. "lie said we have good chemistry on the iee, and that's why he didn't make any trades." 
Ottawa acquired Blaekhawks forward Martin Lapointe at the deadline, sending a sixth-round draft pick to Chicago. Lapointe was not yet with the Senators on Tuesday, when they could have used some more offense. 

Ottawa, which leads the NIIL with 210 goals, was shut out for the seeond conseeutive game; it had not gone two games without scoring since November 2000. The Senators have won just twice in their last eight games to fall into second place in the East after leading the conferenee for much of the season. 
"We're deep into frustration right now," coach John Paddock said. "We have to move the puck better, and we're not winning any battles." 
Thomas, who was pulled from his last outing after giving up four goals on the first 12 shots on Thursday, made 22 saves to lead Boston to its fourth straight win. 
"It was nice for me to come back with a strong game," Thomas said. "Important for me, but important for the team to keep the streak rolling." 
Zdeno Chara scored twice, including an empty-netter, and Shawn Thornton also scored for the Bruins, who took the ice shortly after Chiarelli held on to his young players and said, "I have confidence in this tnam." 
"This is a group of guys that has done a lot to try to grow as a toam, and grow into their roles," Bruins coach Claude Julien said. "We'vn got a good mix of young and old. We've built some good ehemistry." 
Martin Gerber made 25 saves for the Senators, who also had a pre-game talk amid speeulation that more changes am in storn. 
"We had a good meeting," Paddock said. "I don't know if there's any reason to shake it up." 
Attention Seniors! 

Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Adtnissions staff, the counselor is expected 
to 1nake an in1portant contribution to the recruittnent and selection of the first-year class by managing relations \Vith the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and cotnmunication \Vithin the geographic area, assessn1ent and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual infonnation sessions. Additional responsibilities \vill be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Atnong our candidates, \Ve \¥ill specifically seek an 
African American Recruitment Coordinator. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity \Vith all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong cotnmunication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the \Villingness to \Vork long hours, including many evenings and Saturday motnings. 
Please Note: Interviews will be scheduled after April 1. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2008. 
Please forward your resume to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions 220 Main Building Attention: Alisa M. Fisher, Senior Associate Director 
---~­ -­ 
Wednesday, February 27, 2008  The Observer + SPORTS  page 19  

. . .

-.-,_:s_-:_"_-__ .e··-··_----_s----.__
:. ··-. ·=··.-.... '::. :: ·.·... . .. . 
: 
.·· ..· .;·. ,·
n .:_./
: ...
Ed 

-'--·---~....... Auditorium 28th 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Vandy upsets UT, win streak now at 7 
Commodores 18-of-18 at home this season 

-
Catholic Charities USA® 

Fr. larry Snyder, President of Catholic Charities USA will discuss: 
• 
The mission of Catholic Charities 

• 
Getting involved in Catholic Charities 

• 
Professional and entry-level postilions 


Tuesday, March 11, 2008  
5:30-6:30 p.m. Pizza Provided  UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  
Mendoza College of Business  
Giovanini Commons, lower level  
Mendoza College of Business  

For information contact (574) 631-3277 • Jean.Meade@nd.edu 

Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. ~ The Tennessee Volunteers found out being No. 1 can be tougher than beating No. 1. 
Shan Foster scored 32 points and No. 18 Vanderbilt knocked ofT Tennessee 72-69 on Tuesday night ~ a day after the Vols moved into the top spot in the rankings for the first time in school history. 
The Vols {25-3, 11-2 Southeastern Conference) beat then-No. 1 Memphis on Saturday night 66-62 on the western edge of Tennessee for their ninth straight victory to earn that spot themselves, then had to travel back to the middle part of the state to defend their top ranking for the first time. 
Vanderbilt (24-4, 9-4) has hosted the No. 1 team nine times in its 56 years at Memorial Gym, and the Commodores improved to 6-.3 overall in those games with victories in the past four, including then-No. 1 Florida last year. The Commodores also now have won all 18 home games this season and 31 of their last 32. 
Jermaine Beal added 17 points and Alex Gordon 11 as Vanderbilt won its seventh straight. The Dores moved into a tie with Kentucky for second in the SEC East, a mere game behind the Vols with three games to play. 
Chris Lofton led Tennessee with 25 points. Tyler Smith, playing with the flu, had 11 points and a career-high 17 rebounds. 
The Commodores celebrated by high-living classmates as they walked and skipped between the student section and the campus officers keeping them off the court. 
These rivals separated by less than 200 miles hadn't played in Nashville with both ranked since 1968. Vandy won that game also. 

This time, the Commodores  
had a sellout crowd making it  
even louder than what the Vols  
faced from a bigger group in  
Memphis' FedExForum. In  
Memorial, sound just rolls off  
the cinder block walls and back  
onto the floor, and one sign  
summed up the Vols' fate:  
"Enjoy Second Place Next  
Week."  
The combination of the travel  
and quick turnaround left the  
Vols exhausted, and it showed in  
the first half as they hit only  
eight of 34 shots, too often  
shooting away from beyond the  
3-point line where they hit only  
5-of-17. They fmished 20-of-61.  -­ 
Wayne Chism, who had 18  
points and 18 rebounds when  
Tennessee beat Vandy in  
Knoxville 80-60 last month, had  
four points and four rebounds.  
Vanderbilt led 31-28 at the  
break after nearly blowing a 14­ 
point lead in the opening half.  
The teams swapped the lead  
four times with three ties before  
Alan Metcalfe's 3-pointer broke  
a 43-all tie with 14:20 left, and  
Vandy never trailed again.  
Tennessee stayed close enough  
to keep sending Vandy to the  
free throw line and pulled within  
72-69 on Chism's dunk with 7.5  
seconds.  - 
But Ross Neltner got the ball  
past the Vols' pressing defense,  
Foster threw it upcourt to  
Keegan Bell. The Vols fouled  
him with 1.8 seconds left, and  
he missed both attempts. But a  
late throw at the basket went  
deep into the seats after the  
buzzer.  
Vanderbilt nearly ran  
Tennessee out of the gym in the  
opening minutes by scoring 10  
of the first 13 points and jump­ 
ing out 23-9 on A.J. Ogilvy's  
dunk with 10:36 left in the first  
half. Then they went cold. finish­ 
ing by hitting only two of their  
final 12 shots. They went nearly  
seven minutes between field  
goals before Foster hit his fourth  
3 with 3:57 to go.  

Bulls 
continued from page 24 
help us win, we are not in any way a one man team." 
Sophornort~ Eriea Williamson has taknn over in tlw faen of' injurios. Tho h-f'oot-4 center is averaging .477 from the field with 4.6 rtdwunds por game. Williamson led the Irish ofT the boards against Craen is a threat from both inside and outside the arc, averaging .373 from the l'ield and .408 for 3-pointers. 

"I thought she was a really good player last year but she was kind of overshadowed with JJessical Dickson .... Now shB's really come into her own, she's playing really well," McGraw said. 
But McGraw said she feels her defense is strong enough 
to handle Grace. 
After struggling 

l>nl'aul with early on with
"We're happy with our
eight. their defense, 
''I'm rnaIIy defense and now we the Irish have 
happy with can take up with the improved dra­tlw way slw's matically over
offense a little
bncome a the last month.
bit more." 
prnsnneo in They are liknly thn game at to look to even both ends of Muffet McGraw further improve tho f"loor." their defense.
Irish coach 
M e <; r a w s a i d "Defensively, you don't know if' she's gonna bltH:k the shot or take the chargn whieh makes it a lot harder for tht~ offense.... She's playing tht;, best baskntball of' lwr earner. 
Evon with players like Williamson leading tlw Irish at both onds, McGraw isn't undnrnstimating South Florida. Senior guard Shantia 

Belles beat Olivet 
in MIAA tourney 
By GRIFFIN DASSATI Spons Wrirer 
A five-point lead wasn't good enough for Saint Mary's Tunsd;ty. 
Tho Belles went into the loeker .room with a 25-20 load ovor Olivet in the l'irst round of' the MIAA tourna­ment, and ondod with a 71-62 win. The Comets 

held the Bolles "The biggest thing was 497, set last 
to 33.:~ per­that we wanted to get year. Rashid cent shooting and sopho­
into the paint to score."
from the field more for­in the first ward Anna half'. Jenn Henley Kammrath Black ingenuity is an 
The Belles Belles coach each tallied 
integral part of everyday
emerged from the locker room hungry for a win. But Belles coach Jenn Henley said the talk in the locker room didn't go much beyond basic strategy. 
"The biggest thing was that we wanted to get into 
the paint to score," Henley said. "We wanted to execute our two man game 

-
and get to the foul line as mueh as wo eould because that's what we 'vo been doing all sea­son. 
Tho Belles r.ame out on 

"/Hope is/ still the No. I team in the country so we have our hands full. " 
Jenn Henley Belles coach 
fire in the second hall', jump­ing out to a I 6-2 run fueled by threo straight throe-point­ers by junior guards Katie Hashid and Meghan Conaty and snnior guard Alison Kessler. 
The run put the game all but out of' reach for thn Cornets, who didn't get within "We are really 

looking for 
these last three games to kind of get better at some things," McGraw said. "We're happy with the defense and now we can take up with the oiTensn a little bit more." 
Notre Dame takes on South Florida tonight at 7 in the Joyee Center. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
singlt~ digits of Saint Mary's until thero were 55 seconds left in the game. The Belles succeeded in getting to the paint-the team shot 51.9 perc11nt from the field in the second half and went 4-10 from 3-point range. 
Kessler again led the Belles in scoring with 23 points to bring her season total to 520, breaking her own single­season scor­ing record of 
10, and jun­
ior forward life. Peek into the lives of a Erin Newsom suburbanite family as they
scored eight 
try to survive in a world
points and grabbed 10 rebounds. gone mad when the Saint Mary's will face unde­
inventions of Africans and
feated Hope on Thursday, the 
No. 1 team in the Division III African Americans 
Coaches' Poll. The Belles 
disappear!

most recent­ly lost to Hope 82-73 on Jan. 26. Despite the loss, Henley said the team is look­ing forward to the game. 
"I thought we played them well at home, but that was so long ago," 
Staying on campus during spring break? Need something to do? 
Date: Friday, February 29, 2008 Time: 7:00 PM Location: Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
she said. "They're still the No. 1 one team in the country and they're still undefeated, so we have our hands full. But, I like how we're playing and I think it's anyone's game." 

bserver. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 
Wednesday, February 27, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
VeNard 
continued from page 24 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson before he was hired. It didn't take long for VeNard to make an impression on his future coach. 
"It was interesting because he had real, real long hair," Jackson said. "But he's just a model citizen, and I could tell that from my first official meeting with him as a coach." 
VeNard played in 29 of the team's 36 games in Jackson's first year as coach -missing the first three due to a stress fracture -and participated in only 17 the next season. 
Jackson said injuries were always the main reason VeNard was not starting. 
"By the time he got back, somebody else had been play­ing real well," Jackson said. "So it was hard for him to get back in the lineup. It wasn't a .matter of him not playing well." 
So far this season, VeNard has played in every game for the Irish. He credited his new­found durability to an extra 10 pounds he added in the off-season, bulking him up to 198 pounds. 
"This year I came in much heavier and more in shape than I ever have," VeNard said. "I think the extra weight definitely helped me." 
Also, VeNard has been put­ting the puck in· the net more than ever before -notching five goals on the season after only scoring two career goals in his first three seasons. 
"He's got a deceptive shot," Jackson said. "Sometimes he's erratic, but he can shoot the puck." 
VeNard said his offensive production is about luck, rather than skill. 
"I was just going out there, putting my head down and shooting as hard as I can," VeNard said. "I think it might be more or less out of luck. I don't think about scoring goals when I go out there, but it sure has been fun." 
Fellow senior Brock 
Sheahan said VeNard's main role is not as a sniper, but as a leader. 
"He's done a really great job showing guys how to be a great guy on and off the ice," Sheahan said. 
Jackson echoed Sheahan, saying the senior was a great role model for younger team­mates. 
"He's just a level-headed young man," Jackson said. 
VeNard's leadership abilities extend off the ice. He is presi­dent of the Student Athlete Advisory Committee, a group that serves as a liaison between the administration and student-athletes. 
"It's actually really impor­tant and it's a great honor for him," Sheahan said. "He's always honest for making sure we're out in the commu­nity." 


VeNard's executive role, however, doesn't make him immune from a good locker room ribbing. 
"It's always fun to give him a hard time about it, calling him 'Prez' or 'El Presidente,' that kind of stuff," Sheahan said. "It's always fun giving it to him." 
Faced with the task of rally­ing a team that has suffered from poor play in recent weeks, VeNard is optimistic about upcoming games. 
"We never faced this type of adversity last year," VeNard said. "My message to the guys is to just stay positive. Stay positive with each other and stay positive with yourselves." 
As VeNard's experience at Notre Dame shows, positive thinking can pay off. 
"[VeNard]'s gone through some really tough times here that other players might not be able to deal with, dealing with injury after injury," Sheahan said. "He's shown that he's a very good defense­man and I'm very impressed with what he's done." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Ruth 
continued from page 24 
said. "And instead of getting nothing for [Fedorov], they got a good hockey player." 
The Russian center, who won the Hart Memorial Trophy for the NHL's most valuable player in 1994, has 469 goals and 663 assists in his career. He is fourth in points, goals and assists in Detroit history. 
The Capitals currently sit in 11th place in the Eastern Conference and are five points behind the Philadelphia Flyers, who occupy the final playoff spot. The Blue Jackets are in a similar position in the Western Conference, sitting at 11th overall and five points behind the final playoff berth. 
The Capitals drafted Ruth (6-foot, 201 pounds) in the second round (46th overall) of the June 2007 Entry Draft. Prior to the draft, Central Scouting ranked Ruth as the No. 11 draft-eligible North American and 32nd among all North American skaters. 
Jackson said there was a good chance that Don Boyd, the Blue Jackets' director of player personnel, was on hand at last weekend's Notre Dame-Ohio State series because Boyd's son, Peter, is a freshman forward for the Buckeyes. 
Fedorov left the Red Wings in 2003 for Anaheim. He played two seasons there before moving to Columbus in 2005. 
Fedorov was drafted by Detroit in 1989 while he played for the Red Army club team in Moscow. He defected from the Soviet Union at the Goodwill Games in Seattle in 1990 and caught a plane to Detroit. 
Ruth has one goal and two assists in 31 games this sea­son and a plus-13 rating. Last season, he was an alternate captain for the under-18 U.S. national team. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

Record 
continued from page 24 
shot," llillesland said. 
Notre Damn lflads the league in n~bounding margin (+4.8 in confcrenefl play) and total rebounds with 43.6 per game, and forward Luke llarangody is first in conference with 11.9 boards per gamH. Even though Syracuse, who's second in rebounding margin, out­rebounded Notre Dame 51-33 on Sunday, the Irish aren't wor­ried performances like that will be a trend. The team has worked to eorrm~t the problems they had against the Orange. 
"When we get beat on the boards, I think the guys on the perimeter -myself, Hyan, ]point guard] Tory (Jackson]­Wfl lose our guys because [box­ing out is) really not a priority for us but it should be," McAiarney said. "But when we're really boxing out and nveryonn is boxing out their own guys that's when we out­n1bound tnams and that helps out our big guys a lot." 
Fnw would have guessed the Irish would lnad the Big East in rebounding, eonsidnring thn Irish don't have a skyserapnr in the middle likfl (;eorgetown's Hoy llibbert or Connecticut's llasheem Thabeet and they play a lot of 2-3 or 1-2-2 zones -defenses that make it harder to box out the opponent. 
"It's something we enforce in practice when we're in zone, to block the guy out in your area," Irish coaeh Mike Brey said. "It's easier said than done some­times in zone. I think also sometimes you can bn too wor­ried about bloek outs. It's a bal­ance point and a line line. 
But Broy said boxing out isn't always the best way to grab rebounds. 
"Sometimes you just need to go get the ball. llarangody and Kurz, llillesland -they can just go get the ball sometimes," he said. 
Once Kurz or llarangody grab a defensive board, they're look­ing right away for Jackson who'll take ofT down the floor. llillesland, meanwhile, has the quickness and the ball handling ability to take it the length of the rloor himself. But when both Jackson and llillesland arc dribbling in transition, they try to get an open look for MeAlarnny befonl thn defense ean get set to guard him. 
"That's the No. 1 priority when I'm pushing the ball is I try to get Kyle easy looks b(1eause he shoots such a high percentage and its such a weapon that when we're in transition I try to lind him for an open look," Hillesland said. "Whenever I get the ball, he knows II'm looking for him I because he sprints down the line and triflS to spot up at the elbow-extended or the wing." 

Contact Chris Hine at-chine@nd.edu 

RecycleThe,q;d' 
Observer. 

For more information go to http://ace.intern~googlepages.com/home 
ACE UNDERGRADUATE: NTERNSHIPS 


Announcing the Year 2008 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gifl from the Albert Ravarino family~ the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2008 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and \\ill not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue reseai·eh or a tom1al program of summer study in Italy arc invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will nom1ally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students arc invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1)  an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a persona] statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals;  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow~  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved;  
5)  t\vo letters ofrecommendation  
6)  a transcript showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list ofother sources of funding (being sought or confirmed) for the same project  
(i.e. Office of lntemational Studies, Nanovic Institute, etc.)  
Application Deadline: \Vednesday, February 27, 2008  
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship  
Pr·ogram in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University of Notre Dame  

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 

The average college  · But none of that  WATER CUP!  
home/apartment bas  matters when you've  
the following on it's  .got a ....  
floor: dust. dirt, ba.ir't  
slime, bacteria, vom.it't  
mud, parasites. dead  
skin cells~ used  
band-aids? feces. and  
AIDS.  

LINAPAEK

THE SINGLE LIFE 
Wednesday, February 27, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
J)(JJOOJM1JJ;. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NOFET 
j
I I r [) 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
i~fftJ
tDRIZAL 
WHEN THE: GOOSE: 
FE:ATHE:RS FLEW UP
IJ I tJ 
ANO mAY, 11-\f?Y
www.jumble.com 
WERE:--­
IROWMAR t 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I I I IJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: rI I I I J " (I I I J" 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's JAumbles: PAUSE BORAX MYSTIC CODGER 
nswer: A judge will do this when he has a tennis match -GO TO "COURT" 
CROSSWORD 
Across 40 Plague Leams 41 Brute 1958 sci-fi 
42--­classic starring 43 Altoids holder 
Steve McQueen 44 Saint of dancers 
5 Jose Cuervo, for one 46 Once, in old 
times 7 Director Ivan 47 Letters before B Most monstrous gimels 3 Taylor, Wilson or 48 "The Guiding 
Harding Lighf airer ::!Rear-_ 
5 --­
50 Very 

2 Book in the 53 Jazz's Peterson Book of Mormon 
::l Column of boxes 
3 ''That's all 1  "  55 It may be said  
while crossing  
4 Rice dish  the fingers  
7 Place for a houseplant  58 1984 film with the tagline "It's 4  

a.m., do you 

on a 
know where your 

questionnaire car is?"
1 Defendants, legally 61 A deadly sin 4 Prize 63 Of tremendous 7 ---fervor 3 Supporters of 
64--­the arts 65 Holiday meals 66 Bun toppers 

Down 
Pivoting razor 2 Existed 
3 1/64 of a checkerboard, maybe: Abbr. 
4 So last year 
5 Country singer with the 1997 triple platinum hit "How Do I Live" 
6 Fill in the _ (a hint to this puzzle's theme) 
7 Ocean liner? 
8 "Oy, vey!" cause 
9 Show of affection 1 0 Film developing order: Abbr. 
11 Give a rundown 
12 It may be on a property 
13 Bone: lt. 
14 Red and black, perhaps 
21 Flexible blade 
23 Startle 
25 Classic camera 
26 Org. 
27 Parade honoree, briefly 28 Tabriz native 29Admit 30 '04, '08 and others 
31 Not so well done 
32 Hwy. planners 
33 Explanatory phrase 
35 Dry white 
36 Dark 
WILLSHORTZ 


.NSWER TO PREVIOUS P_UZZ~L~E'r:'"'l 
Puzzle by Matt Ginsberg 
38 St. _(common hospital name) 40 Class of '08 in 
'08, e.g. 42 Ornery sort 45 Risque 
beachwear 47 Sauce 48 Venae 
(major blood vessels) 

49 Some fasteners 50 The sun, moon 
and stars 51 Toolbar heading 52 Boom 
54 Famous Mama 55 What each completed pair of theme answers in this puzzle is 
56 Frozen drink brand 57 Former first lady 59 "0 patria _" ("Aida" aria) 60"So ...?" 62 Dietary std. 

For answers, call t-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytfmes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytirnes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, Fehrary 27, 2008 
page 24 
HOCKEY 
Injury-free VeNard leads on and off the ice 
By SAM WERNER Sports Wrircr 
It. may have taknn I>an VeNard three years to find a n~gular spot in the Irish line­up, but now that he has, hn's making his prnsnnee known. 
Af'tnr !wing shu!'fled in and out of tlie liiwup, mainly dun to injurins, the senior clnfnnsnman from Vernon llills. Ill., has finally found a regular spot on thn Notre I>arnn blunlirw. 
"I guess I just stayed out the way of pnopln," VeNard joked. 
Af'tcr the first II games of his freshman season, VeNard was sidelined with a separat­ed shouldnr that would eost him seven games; another shoulder injury later in the season would put him out for six more. 
VeNard was one of the play­ers on the panel interviewing 
see VENARD/page 21 

Young and old 

,.. 
Washington Capitals trade freshman Ruth 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Wrirer 
The Washington Capitals traded their rights for Notre Dame freshman defensnrnan Teddy Huth to the Columbus Blue Jackets in nxchange for Snrgni Fedorov. · 
The deal came shortly bPI'ore TuPsday's trade dead­line for the National Jlockey League. 
Fedorov, a 17 -y1mr Nil L vet­eran who won three Stanley Cups as one of the iconic players of the Detroit Bed Wings in the 1990s, was in the final year of a l'ive-year, $40 million contract with the Blue Jackets. lie will be an unrestricted free agent next season. 
"[The Blue Jackets are] trading for a good prospect, and they're trying to build their organization," Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson 
see RUTH/page 21 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Offensive boards help K-Mac set 3-point record 
llillesland on the offensive luck that McAlarney, who is hit­yelling at me, or he's yelling at defense looks skyward andBy CHRIS HINE glass. ting 46 percent of his 3-pointers [forwards] Hob [Kurz]. or Ryan loses track of shooters like 
Sports Wrirer 

· In the second half against the this year, was open after an [Ayers! or whoever to spot up," MeAlarney. Orange, llillesland grabbed two offensive rebound, but in faet, McAlarney said. "As a shooter "The defense is kind of a little 
Kylo MeAiarney broke a Notrn offensive rebounds, and each the Irish work on finding their you get held and people don't stirred up as it is, and some­Dame reeord by draining nine time he did, he passed to shooters after an offensive leave you all game so you havn times we have trouble getting :{-pointers in Sunday's 94-IH Mci\.larney who found an open rebound beeause it's a prime to find ways to get shots and Kyle open looks, so when we win over Syracuse, hut the spot beyond the are against opportunity for them to get an one of the best ways to get get an offensive board, it's a roeord would have remainod Syraeuse's scrambling zone open look. shots is broken plays and offen­good time to g(lt Kyle an open intaet if not for a littln help defense. "Every time we get an offen­sive rebounds like that." from junior forward Zaeh It might have se.emed like sive rebound, Coach Brey is Once a shot goes up, the see RECORD/page 22 
... 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish return home to face South Florida after three-game trip 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
Mul'f'et MeCraw's nervns 
might be thanking the Irish, 
but hor appotite isn't. 
The unsteady Irish in 2007 gave Me<;raw enough stress to f'ill up on chocolate and steak without gaining weight. This year, sitting at 21-6 going into tlw Big East tour­nament. MeCraw must cat salad to keep lwr figure. 
No. 14 Notre Dame returns home today to take on South Florida in tlw first of three games hnl'oro the start of the Big East tournament. The Irish look to finish their sea­son 3-0 on tlwir f'inal run, securing a bye in the l'irst round of the tournarncmt. 
"It's really important for us to finish strong," Notrn Damn coach Muffpt McGraw said. "Hight now we've got a bye and we'rn in rontrol of our dostiny, we have to win out to keep that bye. 

"Mathematically we might not have to, but that's what we want to do. Two wins will do it but that's not gonna be good enough for us." 
The Irish enter tonight's match after going 2-1 on a throe-game road trip. Notre Dame defeated Syracuse and DePaul 79-67 and 66-64, respectively, and fell to No. 5 Hutgers 57-51. 
But McGraw isn't too wor­ried about the loss to the Scarlet Knights. 
''I'm so proud of this team and of what we've accom­plished because last year we had three road games in a row -against ranked teams -and wont 0-3," MeG raw said. ''And we had the same situation this year, and we go 2-1, and we played really well at Hutgnrs." 
The Irish take on the Bulls with a much smaller bench than they had at the start of the season. Freshman Devereaux Peters is out for the rest of the season with a torn anterior cruciate liga­ment and freshman Becca Bruszewski underwent sur­gery ~r a broken hand. McGraw said Bruszewski's surgery went well but said she is likely to sit out the rest of the week. 
Multiple injuries haven't slowed Notre Dame's success. McGraw noted that the Irish are a well-balanced team this year -especially compared to last year. Toward the end of 2007. the Irish often relied on then-junior Charel Allen to come up big, but this year, everyone is stepping up. 
"I feel like we're light years ahead of where we were last year," McGraw said. "We're playing with a lot of confi­dence, we're getting great prod uetion from a lot of peo­ple. It's amazing how every­body's doing something to 
see BULLS/page 20 








