
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Thieves burglarize student residences 
More than 20 off-campus break-ins reported during winter break; complexes step up security 

By JOSEPH MCMAHON News Writer 
For Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students in 10 residences at Clover Ridge Apartments and 11 at Stadium Club Condos, the fear of burglary became reality when thieves broke into their residences during winter break and stole several items, ranging from television sets to jars of change to pots and pans, man­agers at the housing complexes said. 
Police investigated the rash of break-ins on Dec. 27. Kristie Nozykowski, the property man­ager for Clover Ridge Apartments, said "there was no rhyme or reason" to what 

STUDENT SENATE 
thieves stole. 
"They didn't take a lot of stuff. In some of the apartments it looked like [the burglars] weren't even there. They actual­ly spent more time breaking in than they did stealing stuff," Nozykowski said. 
But she was still shocked by the break-ins, prompting Clover Ridge to hire additional security. 
"We've never had any break­ins, but we have always had a police officer that lived on site," Nozykowski said. "This is our first incident where we've had break-ins at Clover Ridge Apartments. Because our main goal is that they are happy and safe where they live, when the 
see BURGLARIES/page 4 
Stadium Club Condominiums was the site of 11 break-ins during winter break. 

Senators discuss partnership with Apple 
Montes, Finnigan plan to present idea to University academic technology committee 
dents could also view public University information on iTunes U and that other univer­sities, such as Duke and Stanford, have used this tech­nology to attract outstanding high school applicants. Duke launched the program in 2004, giving incoming freshmen iPods to download professors' lec­tures, she said. 
Although the University has known about iTunes U for some time, it has not yet been able to implement the program due to 
see SENATE/page 6 


By CLAIRE REISING 
News Writer 
Senators discussed recent off­campus break-ins and a possi­ble partnership between the University and iTunes at their meeting Wednesday. 
Residential Life Committee chair Mariana Montes said Notre Dame might be consider­ing a partnership with Apple's iTunes U, which would allow audio and visual material for classes to be distributed through iTunes. She said prospective stu-


ACE Consulting moves forward 
Under new director, program offers under-resourced schools free services 
By EMMA DRISCOLL News Writer 
The Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) Consulting Initiative -a program that aims to provide under­resourced elementary and secondary Catholic schools with free consulting services -is underway with recent hires and plans. 
ACE Consulting appointed Stephen Perla, superintend­ent of schools for the Catholic Diocese of Worcester, Mass., as director, according to John Staud, ACE director. 
ACE Consulting is a response to the 2006 final report of the Notre Dame Task Force on Catholic Education, which was com­

missioned by University President Father John Jenkins and chaired by Father Timothy Scully, direc­tor of the Institute for Educational Initiatives at Notre Dame and ACE founder. 
The report, entitled "Making God Known, Loved, and Served," proposed the development of the ACE Consulting Initiative, "which will work to provide expert­ise to elementary and sec­ondary Catholic schools in a variety of areas, inCluding marketing, governance, board training, management, strategic planning, and investing." 
Under-resourced or strug­gling schools are often unable to afford key consult­ing services of this nature, Staud said. 

"A lot of Catholic schools do not have the resources to pay for consulting," he said. "We would hope that if a diocese is contemplating closing a school or parish, they would contact us first." 
Assistant Director of ACE Consulting Chuck Lamphier said there were about 60 applicants for the position of director. 
"We knew the decision would be an important deci­sion in the life of this pro­gram and. we were very pleased with who we could hire," he said. 
Lamphier, a Master of Nonprofit Administration stu­
see ACE/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

University VPplansto step dovvn 
Crnkovich will return to Ill. to be with family 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 

Hilary Crnkovich will leave her job as vice president for public affairs and communica­tion at the University on Aug. 1, she announced Wednesday. 
Crnkovich said she is going to return to Chicago to be clos­er to her family. She has occu­pied her current position since March 2005. 
As vice president for public affairs and communication, Crnkovich has presided over events and initiatives including the inauguration of University President Father John Jenkins, the production of three Notre Dame forums, the redesign of the University Web site, the production of the University institutional spots during foot­ball game broadcasts and last October's tribute to University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh in Washington, D.C. 
Crnkovich cited as one of her most meaningful undertakings at Notre Dame the Washington tribute, which honored both Hesburgh's 90th birthday and the acceptance of a photo­graph of him with Martin Luther King, Jr. into the National Portrait Gallery of the Smithsonian Institute. 
"That was one of my proud-
see VP/page 6 





Professor reflects on student voters 
By DAVIS RHORER JR. 
News Writer 
Sean Savage, a political science professor at Saint Mary's, commented Wednesday on the role of college-aged voters in the recent Iowa, New Hampshire and Michigan presidential caucuses. 
A highly-regarded authori­ty on the American political system, Savage has given his insights on the recent pri­maries to a number of media outlets. 
"The youngest voters are more likely to believe voting is not the only way to be a good citizen," Savage said, contrasting the current gen­eration of college students to older Americans. 
Older voters, he said, are more likely to look at voting as an obligation similar to that of paying taxes or the military draft. Savage cited young Americans' frequent service in their local com­munities and the Peace Corps as two examples of how they are diversifying the idea of responsible citi­zenship. 
Savage identified a process he called "socializa­tion," or the steps taken by 
see VOTERS/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, January 17, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Nevv Year's resolutions 
It is the time of year where 
inevitably the gyms seem to be more 
crowded. 

People are reenergized after a 
holiday break and, of course, it is 
the month of 

New Year's Madeline Buckley resolutions. People talk 
News
about getting 

JtWre Editor
more exercise, 
eating more 
vegetables and 

less earbs and finally attaining that 
perfeet 4.0 GPA for the spring 
semester. 

Every year, it always seems like 
the resolution fever lasts a few 
weeks at most and then dies down. 
Well, let me tell you, I hate New Year's resolutions. 
I hate them mostly because I have never once kept a New Year's reso­lution and I believe that this is the sad fate of resolutions for most peo­ple. 
IIonestly, what is the point of waiting until January to make an improvement'? 
I recently read an article listing the top 10 New Year's resolutions of the average American compiled from surveys. 
Here is the list of lof'ty aspirations: 
1) Spend more time with family and friends 
2) Get more exercise 
3) Lose weight 
4) Quit Smoking 
5) Quit Drinking 
6) Heduce stress 

7) Manage money better 
8) Learn something new 
9) Get a better job/promotion 
10) Become more organized. I wonder if there is a study on the success rate of these resolutions. 
I'm sure I could pick up the January edition of various maga­zines and they would tell me 10 easy tips for keeping my resolution. 
I'm guessing, however, that most people will find it difficult to keep their resolution or they will simply forget about it in a few weeks. 
If I want to improve something about myself, why wait until Jan. 1'? The mere fact that it is the new year is not enough motivation because it is not much more than a change in the calendar. 
Aside from new classes, my life is more or less the same. 
Changes should be made when a person feels the need. Why should people make changes just because it is now January once again? 
I think this is why most of my res­olutions are always doomed and once I slowly but surely give up a resolution what remains is a tiny bit of guilt. 
This year, I am firm in my decision to eliminate the guilt and not make a New Year's resolution. 
Why waste a perfectly good goal on New Year's when I know I won't keep it? Perhaps I will make a spring resolution, an end-of-the­year resolution or simply a resolu­tion when I want to. 
Then, at least, the motivation will be there. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do. however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING FORWARD TO MOST THIS SEMESTER? 






up as Captain Planet on Earth Day." 
IN BRIEF 

Hegistration will begin today for instructional classes from 8 a.m. to midnight at Rolfs SportsRec Center at the HSRC registration desk. 
Jeffrey Herbst, Provost and Executive Vice-President for Academic Affairs at Miami University (Ohio) will deliver the lecture "Why We Were Wrong About Zimbabwe" in room C­103 of the Hesburgh Center today at 4:15p.m. 
The film "Golden Door" will be shown tonight at 7 in Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center as part of "Immigration: A Notre Dame Perspective" two-part fibn series. Tiekets are $3 for students. 
There will be a "Family Guy" Trivia Contest tonight from 7 to 10 in the LaFortune Ballroom. Sign-ups will begin at the door at 
6:30 p.m. Test out your "Family Guy" knowledge for a chance to win a life-sized Stewie and a Family Guy DVD set. 
Men's and women's indoor track will host the ND Indoor Opener Friday at 5 p.m. at the Loftus Sports Center. Admission is free. 
Men's swimmimg will host Louisville Friday at 5 p.m. in Rolfs Aquatic Center. Admission is free. 
The film "Miss Navajo" will be shown Friday at 10 p.m. in Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Director Billy Luther is scheduled to be present. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 12 HIGH 20 LOW 17 LOW 10 
Andrea Kochert Michael Albrecht Jessica Sheehan Eileen Wilkie Tom Furlong 
sophomore senior junior senior junior Pasquerilla West Alumni LeMans offcampus Alumni 
"The horse "Graduating. " "Visiting with "Earth Week." "Eileen dressing 
show for the my friends that equestrian were abroad team." last semester. " 

CHRISTIAN SAGARDINThe Observer Senior Sheremy Cabrera performs a Tahitian dance at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center as part of a demonstration for the RecSports dance classes offered this semester. 
OFFBEAT 
Yep, 76 tickets will land youlnjall 
HARLINGEN, Texas ­Tickets for expired car reg­istration usually don't result in jail time. Unless, of course, that ticket is a dri­ver's 76th. Valerie Ortiz Sanchez, 31, was arrested Monday during a routine traffic stop when officers discovered she had 76 out­standing traffic warrants and nearly $19,000 in unpaid fines and court fees dating back nine years. 
Sanchez was arrested on charges of having an expired car registration, no insurance and driving with an expired license, accord-
TODAY 
a:: 

ing to an arrest report. She remained in the Harlingen jail Wednesday, and it was unclear whether she had a lawyer. 
Sex toy triggers bomb scare in Sweden 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden ­A Swedish bomb squad called out to disarm a suspi­cious package on Wednesday did not find a ticking bomb. But they did fmd a vibrating sex toy. 
A janitor alerted police after he found the package in a garage of an apartment building in Goteborg, the country's second-largest city, police spokesman Jan Strannegard said. 
The package was hum­ming and vibrating suspi­ciously, so police took no chances and sent out a team of explosives experts. After having cordoned off the area, they opened the package with bomb disposal equipment, only to find the battery-operated device inside. 
"The package was vibrat­ing when the janitor found it, but I think it had sort of died out by the time it was disarmed," Strannegard said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
1.&.1 :::c !;;: 1.&.1  \, -p~  c;+6v~~-. ~ ~  ~~ '"' ~  -~v(J-i ~~  
== ..... cs:  ~  ~~.  w~  ~~·  
0  
0 .....  HIGH  33  HIGH  28  HIGH  25  HIGH  14  
LOW  18  LOW  13  LOW  3  LOW  -3  
Atlanta 48 I 30 Boston 35 I 19 Chicago 35 I 23 Denver 16 I 10 Houston 51 I 45 Los Angeles 69 1 48 Minneapolis 19 1 15 New York 41 I 30 Philadelphia 43 I 29 Phoenix 62 I 41 Seattle 41 I 29 St. Louis 40 I 26 Tampa 68 1 42 Washington 46 128 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, January 17, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Kroc Institute offers nevv Ph.D. 
New doctorate in peace studies among few offered in nation 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
The Kroc Institute is now accepting applications for its new doctoral program in peace studies, making Notre Dame one of the few major universities in the country to offer a Ph.D. in the field. 
The recent addition to the University's doctoral program will make Notre Dame a worldwide leader in peace studies research, said profes­sor Robert Johansen, director of doctoral studies at the Kroc Institute. 
The program will welcome its first class of doctoral stu­dents this fall. 
"Peace studies is a growing field because of a recognition that violence is not going away, and secondly, that we are not very well-equipped for knowing how to deal with it." Johansen said. 
The new Ph.D. program is designed "to turn out some of the leading peace research doctoral people in the world who will do research that gives us a much better understanding on how to pre­vent armed conflict from spi­raling out of control." Johansen said. 
The program's inception came after the Kroc Institute received a generous donation from 1953 alum John Mullen. chair of the Kroc Institute Advisory Council, and his family, a news release said. 
But before it became a reality, the program needed support from the University administration and academic departments such as political science, history and psychol­ogy. 
The proposal also had to be approved by the Arts and Letters Council, the Graduate Council and the Academic Council. 
"In each case we got unani­mous approval," Johansen said. "This was a very warm and reassuring vote of confi­dence for this program from the highest levels in the University." 
And that may be because the program fits well with the University's mission, he said. 
"Notre Dame is a natural for this in my view, Johansen said. "Our program looks a lot at ethical ques­tions that bear on major war and peace issues. This is something that Notre Dame is especially good at because of its Catholic heritage, which gives Notre Dame a special advantage with this pro­gram." 
Applicants interested in the peace studies Ph.D. will have to pass through two separate admissions committees and have excellent academic and service credentials, Johansen said. But academic ability is only a portion of the admis­sions decision. 
"We are looking for clear evidence from the applicants of a long-term commitment to peace building," Johansen said. 
Most doctoral graduates will likely teach peace studies and do research, Johansen said. 
"The program prepares people to beome scholars," he said. "But some will go into work with intergovern­mental organizations like the United Nations. Others may work within the diplomatic community." 
A third group, he said, might work with non-govern­mental organizations such as Amnesty International or Human Rights Watch. 
"We really think this is part of the Catholic mission," Johansen said. "Concern for all human beings in the world is uppermost. We need to look at the threat of vio­lence like doctors look at dis­ease. We need to find anti­dotes and ways to prevent them." 
The anticipated size of the doctoral program is of about 20 to 25 students, according to the Kroc Institute Web site. Approximately four students will be accepted in each incoming class. 
The deadline to apply for the 2008-09 year is Feb. 1. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 




RecSports touts new group-training 
By LINDSAY SENA 
News Writer 
Keeping that New Year's going­to-the-gym-more-often resolution may be easier this year with the help and supervision of profes­sional trainers for small groups of friends, a new workout option available to students through RecSports. 
In addition to the personal trainer program, RecSports cre­ated the small group-training program for students who like to work out with their friends, said RecSports fitness coordinator Shellie Dodd-Bell. 
"This gives them the opportuni­ty to learn some instruction and come play with their friends," Dodd-Bell said. 
While she said personal train­ers can be an easy way to "spice up" a dull exercise routine and "keep you from getting bored," Dodd-Bell believes having friends to exercise with will provide that "I ittl e extra motivation" that many students need to make the trip to the gym. 
Similar to individual personal training sessions, which first became available last February, small group personal training is sold in packages ranging from "Domer" (which indudes three sessions) to "Fighting Irish" (which consists of 10 sessions). Before beginning the actual training, students must take a fit­ness assessment, in which their body composition, muscle strength and cardiovascular endurance are evaluated. 
In addition to contributing to the students' motivation for exer­cising, group personal training is less of a financial strain than individual personal training, Dodd-Bell said. For groups of two students, the "Domer" pack­age costs $57 per person. For groups of four, each student has to pay only $48. Individual per­sonal training costs a student $69 for three sessions. 
Junior Patrick Kennedy said training in a group could create another incentive to fit a quick workout into his weekly routine. 
"I think it's a great idea. Unless I have something scheduled, it's hard for me to find the time to work out but if I had someone else with me, it would be much more fun," Kennedy said. 
But other students, like sopho­more Raymond Clark, may prefer to keep exercising on their own. 
"Working out is more personal for me. I'm individually motivat­ed, so I'd rather work out by myself," Clark said. 
The small group personal training program has ongoing registration and allows students to eustomize their fitness goals and request a male or female trainer. 
Contact Lindsay Sena at lsena@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 17, 2008 
Burglaries 
continued from page 1 
students are gone, we have added additional security." 
In addition, she said, the St. Joseph's County Police Department has been conduct­ing a full investigation. 
"We did have detectives out and they got fingerprints on anything they could," Nozykowski said. 
South Bend police spokespeo­ple did not return multiple Observer phone calls through­out the week. 
Like Clover 

H i d g e , "We're exploring every And while he Stadium Club possible solution to make was upset 
-which had about the
Stadium Club even more
also never break-in and experienced secure so that our the material any brnak-ins students are protected. losses, he said 
bofore this he didn't think
That's our number one
winter, there was
goal."
according to much the com­property plex could manager have done to
Susan Miller 
Susan Miller prevent the
Stadium Club 
-has also burglary itself. 
property manager 
taken addi­"On the secu-
Nevertheless, many students were upset with the way the sit­uation was handled, and several Clover Hidge residents said their landlords should have done more to notify them of the bur­glaries. 
"I had a missed call from Clover Ridge and I tried to con­tact the office but I wasn't able to get through and they never called me back. It was only when I called my roommate that I found out when happened," said senior Jordan Beltz, a Clover Hidge resident. 
Beltz said he lost nearly $600 in stolen DVDs as well as $60 
from his 
change jar. 
tional steps to nnsurn the safety of its tenants. 
Miller said the complex had a private security detail circulat­ing its property during the break -but the thieves were able to elude it. 
"We care about the security of the students at Stadium Club. And we've had around-the­clock security, but still the thieves were able to elude us. It's just really frustrating," Miller said. 
In response to the burglaries, the complex has hired a new 24-hour security service, she said. 
"After the break-ins we now have a new 24-hour security service that we will continue from now on. We're also going to have a police ollicer living on the property," she said. 
rity front, I really don't think [the complex­es] can do anything. It's just bound to happen on winter break here," he said. "But I think they could definitely imp.~ove how they notify peo­ple. 
Improving the students' safety will continue to be a top priori­ty, Miller said. 
"We're exploring every possi­ble solution to make Stadium Club even more secure so that our students are protected. That's our number one goal," she said. 
Nozykowski suggested stu­dents purchase renter's insur­ance, "because you never know what's g<!ing to happen." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
ACE 

continued from page 1 
dent hired last June, has had "three major responsibilities" in the early stages of ACE Consulting, including staffing the search for the director, he said. He also began drafting the business plan and assist­ed Scully in forming the advi­sory committee. 
M a n y 
Catholic 

This will help the program's staff determine what families, faculty and staff members want for the school. 
"Listening is first," he said. "Then [we] identify not only where [the schools] need help, but also see what we can do." 
But instead of simply telling schools what changes they need to make, ACE Consulting plans to work with them to make improvements, Lamphier said. "We will 
schools "In the last 40 or 50 never come in 
struggle years, Catholic schools and dictate t o d a y how they
have gone through a
because of ought to be. changes in tremendous But we hope to the last transformation. " enter into a decades. relationship," 
"In the he said. 
Chuck Lamphier 
last 40 or 50 Staud also 
years, ACE Consulting emphasized Catholic assistant director the importance 
schools have g o n e through a tremendous trans­formation," Lamphier said. 
He explained that the tran­sition from nuns to lay people at the helm of Catholic schools had a financial impact. Unlike lay people, nuns did not require a lot of pay, retirement funds or other benefits -and the costs to attend Catholic schools were not as high, he said. 
Moreover, inner city Catholic schools face declin­ing enrollments because many Catholic families move from inner cities to suburbs and attend Catholic schools there, Lamphier said. 
To help Catholic schools overcome these challenges, ACE Consulting's first step will be to listen to the needs of the schools, he said. 
"When we first get to a school, we're going to want to talk to a lot of people," Lamphier said. 
of building relationships with schools. 
"We may not just say 'You need to do an annual report,' but we will help them fig­ure out how 
"[There are] many
to do it and schools became work with people in the country a powerful them," he influence for
who recognize the 
said. that," he said.
amount ofwork
Staud added "Whether or not that it is not [Catholic schools] do the kids were only a lack of Catholic was not
and continue to do." 
financial important." resources that But despite poses a prob­John Staud their contribu­lem to ACE director tions, American 
members, as well as the sup­port of other members of the Notre Dame community. 
"We hope also to engage other friends of Notre Dame -graduates, members of the business community -to help pro bono," he said. 
Staud cited the keynote speech delivered by Margaret Spellings, U.S. Secretary of Education, at the ACE gradu­ation in 2006. Spellings referred to Catholic schools as "national treasures," Staud said. 
"[There are I many people in the country who recognize the amount of work !Catholic schools] do and continue to do," he said. 
Education for children in under-resourced areas ­whether or not they are Catholic -is "one of the most vital resources for the Church, and even for our country," Staud said. 
Catholic schools as an insti­tution have the potential to impact the nation, he said. 
"After the second Vatican 
council, we 
emphasize jus­
tice. Catholic 

Catholic schools, but also that many Catholic schools are "stretched." Oftentimes one person must do several jobs to keep the school running, not leaving enough time to deal with business matters. 
Eventually, Lamphier hopes that ACE Consulting will have five to nine full-time staff 
Catholic schools 
still face diffi­cult times. Financial pres­sures, Staud said, are a criti­cal reason why many inner city Catholic schools have closed their doors, especially in the Northeast and Midwest regions. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

GRAND OPENING 
RICO'S FILLING STATION MESO AMERICAN GRILLE 
Be T'ankful! There's Finally A Hot New Hangout Close To Campus 
Located in the Campus Shoppes 1841 South Bend Ave across the parking lot from Studebagels­Formerly Orbit Music Ph: (574) 247-1400 
Cajun • Caribbean • Southwestern 
Huge Burritos • Cuban Sandwiches Tacos • Nachos • Salads Gumbo & .Jambalaya 
r ____V_e_g~!=!.rJ~ ~_!\:!~'!I! .!1.!1~ _s!}_f!.1 ~~~ -~~a:.eJ ___ , 

I 
Special Offer I Clip this coupon for a Ft·ee Taco with the Purchase of a Specialty ot· Classic Entn~e. 
(OtTer excludes steak tacos-Cnnnot be com hined with other offers) Expires 01/31/2008 
OFFICE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS ~UNIVERSITY OF 3H> MAIN Ill 'ILl)IN(; No-nu; DAM!'., INDL\NA 46556
WNOTREDAME PIIONE 574/63[.5550 
FAX 574/631-5656 

REMINDER! 
2008-2009 RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS 
MUST BE SUBMITTED BY: 
FRIDAY,JANUARY18, 2008 
to the 

Office ofStudent Aftairs 
316 Main Building 
Applications are available for downloading at: osa.nd.ed.edu or osa.nd.edu/hall-staff-opportunities/ra.shtml 
-----------------------------------~ 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, December 17, 2008 CoMPILED FR01\t TilE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Egypt endorses Bush's peace plan 
SHARM EL-SHEIK, Egypt-President Bush's fast-track plan for a Mideast peace agreement got a welcome endorsement Wednesday from a nation long seen as a key Arab mediator. Bush responded by pulling his punches on the human rights backpedaling in Egypt that has cooled relations with this longtime ally. 
The president closed an eight-day Mideast trip well-fed from several lingering meals with his Arab hosts and upbeat about what even some of America's closest allies say is an unexpected and ambitious drive. An Israeli-Palestinian agreement has eluded U.S. presidents for decades, and Bush didn't put much etiort into trying for the first seven years of his presidency. 
Bush had a message for skeptical Ar,ab states whose help he needs to make any accord stick and who doubt the president's intention to per­sonally shepherd a deal. "I mean what I'm say­ing," Bush said. 
Bomber kills 9 holy-day worshippers 
BAGHDAD -A female suicide bomber struck black-clad worshippers preparing for Shiite Islam's holiest day, killing at least nine Wednesday in an attack that highlighted insur­gents' widening array of tactics against a U.S.­led offensive in key areas on Baghdad's doorstep. 
A witness said people shouted slogans against al-Qaida in Iraq as they carried the dead and wounded from the blast scene near a market­place in Diyala province -a region of farmland and palm groves northeast of Baghdad that holds strategic havens for extremists. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Navy exempted from environment law 
LOS ANGELES -Conservationists on Wednesday blasted President Bush's decision to exempt the Navy from an environmental law so it can continue using high-power sonar in its training off Southern California -a practice they say harms whales and other marine mammals. 
The president's action by itself won't allow the anti-submarine warfare training to go forward because an injunction is in place, but the Navy believes it will significantly strengthen its argument in ceurt. A three­judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco is expected to make a determination on the future of the Navy exercises on Friday. 
The White House announced Bush signed the exemption Tuesday while traveling in the Middle East. In his memorandum, Bush said the Navy training exercises "are in the para­mount interest of the United States" and its national security. 

Dam removal to restore salmon runs 
GRANTS PASS, Ore. -More than 300 miles of struggling salmon runs would be restored along the Klamath River as part of a landmark $1 billion proposal that represents the largest dam removal project in the nation's history. 
The plan, announced Tuesday, followed two years of closed-door negotiations between farmers, Indian tribes, fishermen, conservation groups and government agen­cies battling over the fate of scarce water and fish protected by the Endangered Species Act. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Attempting robber shot self in groin 
KOKOMO, Ind. -A man accidentally shot himself in the groin as he was robbing a con­venience store Tuesday, police said. 
A clerk told police a man carrying a semiau­tomatic handgun entered the Village Pantry demanding cash and a pack of cigarettes. The clerk put the cash in a bag and as she turned to get the cigarettes, she heard the gun dis­charge. 
Police say surveillance video shows the man shooting himself as he placed the gun in the waistband of his pants. The elerk wasn't injured. 
A short time later, police found 25-year-old Derrick Kosch at a home with a gunshot wound to his right testicle and lower left leg. 


KENYA 

Police haltprotests overelection fraud 
Oppositionleader Raila Odinga had calledfor protests after violence didn't reverse corrupt results 
Associated Press 

NAIROBI -Police firing tear gas and bullets halted protests Wednesday, block­ing mass rallies the opposi­tion hoped would show the power behind their demands for the president to step down. At least two people were fatally shot by police. 
Opposition leader Raila Odinga called for three days of protests after vio­lence that killed more than 600 people and internation­al mediation failed to move President Mwai Kibaki. Observers say the vote tally from the Dec. 27 election was rigged. 
"We will go the extra mile for democracy. We are ready for bloodshed," said Philomen Bett, a teacher in the western city of Eldoret. 
N a tiona! police spokesman Eric Kiraithe had no word on casualties Wednesday, but a mortuary attendant in Kisumu, Kenya's third-largest city, said there were two bodies with bullet wounds. Nurses in the city said they were treating three wounded people. 
In Nairobi, at least three men were taken to a hospi­tal after they were shot and wounded in Kibera slum, where police fired tear gas and bullets to disperse pro­thousands of panicked grew, police lobbed tear gas block on the outskirts of testers. office workers in suits and canisters, forcing them dis­Eldoret, a dead dog was 
Odinga told The high heels streamed away perse. They regrouped, and draped over a pile of rocks Associated Press that two on foot. police then fired live with a sign saying "Kibaki people were killed in Some people, annoyed at rounds, clearing the Death." Kisumu and one in another the disturbance, shouted streets. Thirteen nations, includ­western town, Migori. "Raila go home!" "The police are overre­ing the United States and 
Riots and ethnic killings His supporters chanted acting. People are just Britain, increased pressure after the disputed vote have "No Raila. No peace." demanding their rights," on politicians to find a solu­marred Kenya's image as a Odinga vowed he would said one of the wounded, tion, threatening stable democratic oasis in a lead the march on Nairobi's 26-year-old Dominic Okoth, Wednesday to cut aid to the war-ravaged region and downtown Uhuru Park, in Kisumu, where burning government "if the commit­damaged its tourist­which was ringed by police. tires blocked roads and ment of the government of dependent economy. The Though Odinga drove sent columns of acrid Kenya to good governance, violence has also aggravat­through town, neither he smoke into the air. democracy, the rule of law ed ethnic tensions and con­nor any other opposition When police opened fire and human rights weak­flicts over land. member made it to the in Eldoret, a crowd of about ens." 
Police had declared park. 4,000 fled. Workers at a Foreign and local election Wednesday's protests ille­Protesters' fervor was gas station crouched under observers have said the gal. In Nairobi, helmeted dampened by rain across cars, their heads in their vote count in the election riot police on horseback much of the country, and by hands. Women fled with was deeply flawed. chased small clusters of the response of police. one shoe on. Although the electoral chief protesters from skyscra­In Kisumu and Eldoret, In Kisumu, protesters pronounced Kibaki the vic­per-lined streets down­thousands of rowdy young carried a coffin with tor, he later said he had town. Businesses shut as men massed, first marching Kibaki's name on it. been pressured to do so tear gas was fired, and peacefully. As the crowds On one makeshift road-and did not know who won. 

Adtriral: Pakistan now more open to U.S. aid 
He called this an important change Pakistani military said Wednesday
Associated Press from Pakistan's traditional focus on that Islamic militants overran a mili­India as the main threat to its securi­tary outpost close to the Afghan bor­ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -Pakistan ty, and it meshes with Defense der in a battle that killed seven is taking a more welcoming view of Secretary Robert Gates' recent com­Pakistani soldiers and left 20 missing. 
U.S. suggestions for using American ment that al-Qaida terrorists hiding Although Pakistan has been a close troops to train and advise its own in the border area are increasingly U.S. ally in the war against terrorism forces in the fight against anti-gov­aiming their campaign of violence at since Sept. 11, 2001, the extent of ernment extremists, the commander targets inside Pakistan. U.S. military involvement inside of U.S. forces in that region said "They see they've got real problems Pakistan is a highly sensitive subject Wednesday. internally," Fallon said in a 20-among Pakistanis. 
Navy Adm. William J. Fallon, com­minute interview with three reporters "My sense is there is an increased mander of U.S. Central Command, accompanying Adm. Mike Mullen, willingness to address these prob­said he believes increased violence chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, lems, and we're going to try to help inside Pakistan in recent months has at a private conference here of mili­them," Fallon said. He said U.S. assis­led Pakistani leaders to conclude that tary chiefs from Middle Eastern coun­tance would be "more robust," but he they must focus more intensively on tries, hosted by Fallon. Pakistan was offered few details. "There is more extremist al-Qaida hideouts ncar the not attending. willingness to do that now" on border with Afghanistan. In the latest sign of trouble, the Pakistan's part, he said. 
..----------------~­
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, January 17, 2008 
independence that many 
young people experience
Voters 

today. This contrasts with continued from page I the more sedentary 
lifestyles of older voters, each citizen to form his or who often lived in the her own political views same regions where they and opinions. grew up, adopting their 
"The pMi­parents' political beliefs. od of social-Savage said ization for individual
"The period of
t h e issues, rather youngest socialization for the than party voters has af!"iliations,
youngest voters has 
become are impor­
become more
more com­tant for col­plicated and complicated and takes lege students t a k e s longer.,, today. longer," "There are Savage said. so many
Sean Savage
T h e young voters, youngest Saint Mary's even in their people political science professor 20s, who vote 
ltodayl are candidate by much morn candidate likely to go away to col­and issue by issue rather lege. Compared to 10 than by some party affilia­years ago, students are tion or set ideology," he more likely to study said. abroad." Savage said many young 
Savage spoke about the voters will shift their polit-
VP 
"We have advanced the efforts to paint and present a 
more robust experience of continued from page I the institution for all, audi­
ences," Crnkovich said. est moments," she said Jenkins said in a statement Wednesday. "To do some­Wednesday he will initiate a thing meaningful for Father national search for her sue-Ted and to cessor soon. leave a per­In the search
"We have advanced 
manent process, Jenkins mark in the the efforts to paint will seek someone Smithsonian and present a more who will build on for the Crnkovich's work
robust experience of
institution." rather than seek­
Crnkovieh the institution for all ing to "revolution­s a i d audiences.,, ize" the depart­University ments, University communica­spokesman Don
Hilary Crnkovich 
tions efforts Wycliff said 
during her Vice President for Wednesday. tenure have Public Affairs and Crnkovich has featured been responsible
Communication 
improved for overseeing the portrayal of Office of News and Notre Dame's mission and Information, the Office of richness within its advertis­Community Helations, the ing and recently revamped Hobinson Community Web site. Learning Center, Notre Dame 
ical values in favor of indi­vidual concerns such as global warming. 
Young people, according to Savage, are much less concerned with issues like race or gender and more concerned with innovative ideas and speeches. Whereas young people might downplay any con­troversies behind candi­dates Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, older vot­ers may be more inclined to recognize them as key aspects in their voting decisions. 
"The youngest voters seek changes the sooner the better," Savage said. 
Savage is also a pre-law advisor at Saint Mary's. lie will be appearing on future media outlets pend­ing invitations and future caucus results, he said. 
Contact Davis Rhorer Jr. at drhorer@nd.edu 
Magazine and the marketing communications units of Notre Dame Web Group, Notre Dame Media Group and ND Works. 
Crnkovich has not deeided upon her next professional engagement. 
"I am going to take some time and think about where and in what type of organiza­tion I can add meaningful value," she said. 
Though Crnkovich will leave her office at Notre Dame before the start of the fall semester, she said the relationship she's formed with the University will not be over. 
"I plan to not leave for good," she said. "My hus­band is an alum, and I hope we are and plan to be part of the Notre Dame family forev­er." 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle 1 @nd.edu 
Colbert photo hung at D.C. museum 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Stephen Colbert was denied when he tried to run for president this year in South Carolina. Now the fake TV pundit is getting some love from the eity of his birth. 
His portrait was hung Wednesday at the Smithsonian Institution's National Portrait Gallery in Washington for a six­week showing in what the museum considers an "appro­priate place" -right between the bathrooms near the "America's Presidents" exhibit. Museum ollkials stress it's only temporary. 
"We agreed to go along with the joke and hang it for a short limn in between the bath­rooms," said rn usnum spokes­woman Bethany Bentley. "Let me tell you two key things here: !lis portrait is not coming into the collection, and it's not hang­ing permanently." 
That may come as a surprise to Colbert, who has campaigned for tlw honor and boasted on his Comedy Central show Tuesday night that his portrait was "hanging in the hall of presi­dents, just a few yards from the father of our country -exactly where I believe it belongs." 

Colbert, who plays a pompous conservative talk-show host on "The Colbert Heport" and recently tried to run for presi­dent as a Democrat, went to great lengths to persuade Smithsonian Institution officials he was worthy. 
The portrait -actually three portraits in one -depicts a debonair Colbert standing at a fireplace in front of a similar portrait of himself posing in front of the same mantel with a third picture of himself. 
After the work was rejected by the National Museum of American History, Colbert even­tually made his way to the por­trait gallery. Bentley said Colbert wasn't begging so much as "making his case." She said they welcome the conversation about whose portraits are included in the gallery's collec­tion. It was just not Colbert's time, she said. 
"Who's the competition? Who do I need to knock out of here to get me up?" Colbert asked gallery director Marc Pachter. 

Senate 
continued from page I 
"legal issues," Montes said. 
Montes and senior Patrick Finnigan, the undergraduate rep­resentative to the University com­mittee on academic technology, will propose the iTunes U option to the committee Jan. 25. Montes expects the committee to be recep­tive to the proposal because the legal implications have now been thoroughly explored with Apple, she said. 
Student support for iTunes U is essential to bringing the technology to Notre Dame, Montes said. 
"From my understanding, the legal issues are almost resolved .... They want student support to make sure this is something that students arc definitely going to uti­lize within the classroom," she said. 
While Montes' committee is anticipating success in its endeav­ors, Community Relations chair Colin Feehan said his committee has forming a team that will work to give students the option of increas­ing their print quotas online. 
"That is on its way to getting accomplished," Hendrickson said. 
In other Senate news: 

+ 
The Senate briefly discussed the number of Catholic faculty members. History professor Tom Noble said the December Faculty Senate meeting focused on the hir­ing and retention of Catholic facul­ty. I Iendrickson said the Academic Committee may discuss the Catholic character of the faculty this semester. 

+ 
Social Concerns chair Karen Koski said the Michiana Social Forum, a localized version of the World Social Forum, will be held at the St. Joseph County Public Library Jan. 26 from noon to 4:30 


p.m. Discussion topics will include labor and human rights, peace and justice and sustainability, Koski said. 
+ Gender Issues chair Brenna Doyle said the speakers for the 
experienced set­"Our committee will backs due to 
be looking into the 
break-ins at off­

different security 
campus student apartment-; during measures that winter break. 
dif!erent complexes 
According to 

and landlords took to
Feehan, there were approximately six see how they did and to 12 break-ins on didn't do so well. ,,
Vaness Street, 11 at Stadium Club and 

Colin Feehan
10 at Clover Ridge. In most cases, stu­Community Relations dents reported Commitee chair 
stolen appliances and other items. 
"Our committee will be looking into the different security meas­ures that different complexes and landlords took to see how they did and didn't do so well," Feehan said. 
Academic Affairs Committee chair Carol Hendrickson, who examined the increased price of course packets last semester, said some Arts and Letters course pack­ets are not being sold in the book­store. In some cases, she said, they are being sold in Decio. The Office of Information Technologies is Health and Body Image Conference, which will be held from March 11-13, have been selected. Speakers inelude graduate students, doctors and physi­cians, and two keynote speakers. One of these will be Anne Simonton, who lectures about sexist and racist propa­ganda in the media, according to her Web site. 
+ Multicultural Affairs Committee 

chair Ninny Wan said the commit­tee has planned community service events for Martin Luther King Jr. Day, which is on Monday. Most events will take place between noon and 4 p.m. University President Emeritus Father Theodore I Iesburgh will commem­orate the national holiday by speaking at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 


Large Pizza 
Cheese & 2 Toppings 


$ ?o! 
ONLY On Campus 

Llnite:-:1 tme o~. Plio:~ tl!x, ddi·J~ 11re.'1s & 
dlllr~ rmy '!llry l>y loclltOI\ EXdud~ othef 
~s. G::ood 11t J)llrtldpll tng loo::~~tlals ally. 

SOUTH BEND 
52750 IN 933 {N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
(Seflti ng Notre Da rre & St. Ma r1s) 

574-243·1122 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Thursday, January 17, 2008 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,466.16 -34.95
.Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 838 96 2,496 307,841,830 
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE 

COMPANY  0(oCHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  -0.86  -1.19  136.98  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -12.38  -2.81  19.88  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -1.07  -0.50  46.05  
CITIGROUP INC (C)  -2.60  -0.70  26.24  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.30  +0.011  3.712  
13-WEEK BILL  -1.46  -0.045  3.040  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.65  +0.028  4.320  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.57  -0.017  2.979  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.00  90.84  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -19.40  882.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.15  84.48  
Exchange Rates  
YEN  106.9900  
EURO  0.6813  
CANADIAN DOLLAR  1.0230  
BRITISH POUND  0.5094  

IN BRIEF 
Wall Street down on day of fluctuations 
NEW YORK-Wall Street staggered through another volatile session Wednesday, closing mostly lower after a Federal Reserve report showed some economic growth at the end of 2007 and after Intel Corp.'s disappointing profit report. 
Stocks gave up a modest rally in the fmal 20 minutes of trading, continuing the fluctuations seen throughout the session as investors pored over corporate profit reports and economic news that supported varying views about the soundness of the economy. 
Stocks initially gained after the Fed report­its Beige Book survey of regional economies ­suggested economic activity increased modest­ly from mid-November through December, though at a slower pace than in a previous survey. 
The report seemed to quell some concerns about prospects for the economy that took on fresh urgency after Intel issued disappointing earnings after the closing bell Tuesday. 
The Fed's report bolstered enthusiasm among bullish investors who pointed to better­than-expected results from JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. The banks' reports appeared to remind Wall Street that while the fallout of souring loans was widespread, it wasn't necessarily evenly felt. Buyout news in the tech sector also gave a boost to sentiment. 
Congress nears economic stimulus bill 
WASHINGTON -Under pressure to act quickly on the sagging election-year economy, Democratic and GOP leaders held talks Wednesday amid increasing optimism that the warring factions might actually agree soon on an economic stimulus bill. 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, 0-Calif., and Hepublican leader John Boehner of Ohio emerged from a rare meeting promising to develop legislation that would both provide a boost to the economy and pass with little con­troversy. 
"There is an agreement that we will work together to try to put together a package that truly is stimulative, that will happen quickly, and those conversations are going to continue in coming days," Boehner said. 

Fed: Economy losing momentum 
Retailers, builders, manufacturers to face more hard times as economic picture uncertain 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Hetailers, home builders and many manufacturers should brace for even more rough times ahead, a somber Federal Reserve suggested Wednesday amid growing fears that the U.S. might be sliding into reces­sion. 
The Fed's snapshot of business conditions showed a national economy losing momentum heading into the new year and a future riddle.d with uncertainty. The persistent housing slump and harder-to-get credit are making people and businesses ever more cautious, it said. 
Separately on Wednesday, more big banks reported losses and said people were having trouble making pay­ments for everything from credit cards to cars. Stocks were mostly down for the day, the Dow Jones indus­trial average declining 
34.95 points, or 0.28 per­cent. 
The Fed report was the unwelcome icing on a recent batch of economic indicators -ranging from a plunge in retail sales to a big jump in unemployment -raising concern that the country is heading for its first recession since 2001. market. That threw Wall during the first part of recession. That may well 
At the beginning of last Street into new turbulence. 2008." mean a bold half-point cut year, many economists put The economy probably Fallout from a meltdown at the end of a two-day the chance of a recession at grew at a feeble pace of in risky "subprime" mort­meeting on Jan. 30. The less than 1-in-3; now an about 1.5 percent or less in gages continued to sock Fed started cutting rates in increasing number say 50-the final three months of financial institutions. September, but some critics 50 or even worse. Goldman last year and will stay weak JPMorgan Chase & Co. and on Wall Street and else­Sachs, the biggest invest­in the first quarter of this Wells Fargo Inc. both where say Bernanke should ment bank on Wall Street, year as consumers -major reported Wednesday that have acted sooner and thinks a recession is shapers of the nation's eco­their earnings fell -raising more forcefully. inevitable this year. nomic health -tighten fresh fears of a widespread "Clearly there is a high 
The Fed report said the their belts. lending crisis. level of caution," said Ken economy did grow during After retailers suffered Federal Reserve Mayland, president of the survey period -from their worst sales season in Chairman Ben Bernanke, in ClearView Economics. the middle of November five years in 2007, "the out­a speech last week, pledged "Everyone's guard is up to through December -but look for 2008 among retail to aggressively cut a key protect and insulate one's more slowly than during the merchants was cautious," interest rate as needed to businesses from the high late fall. Credit problems the Fed said in its report. try to prevent all these degree of sluggishness that intensified in December as And the outlook for housing problems from plunging the is expected to prevail in the did troubles in the housing remains gloomy: "weak economy into a major months ahead." 

House Democrats pass mine safety bill 
improve mine safety because of the for safety violations; place it completely 
Associated Press 

Bush administration's total failure to in control of a rescue site, including 
work aggressively to keep miners safe communication with mining families; 
WASHINGTON -Defying White on the job," said Rep. George Miller, D­and create an ombudsman's office to House veto threat'>, the Democratic-con­Calif., chairman of the House Education handle miners' safety complaints. The trolled House on Wednesday passed and Labor Committee. bill also would allow for independent sweeping mine safety legislation aimed Representatives voted 214-199 to investigations when more than one at preventing future underground disas­pass the Supplementary Mine miner is killed in an accident. ters like the one that took nine lives last Improvement and New Emergency U.S. coal mines saw 33 deaths in year at Crandall Canyon mine in Utah. Response Act, also called S-MINER. 2007, according to the Mine Safety and 
Hepublican and mining industry offi­The legislation would add safeguards Health Administration. That compares cials complained that Congress and to "retreat" mining, the type of mining to 47 miners who were killed in 2006, President Bush already had passed that was being done at central Utah's 23 killed in 2005 and 28 killed in 2004. mine safety legislation in 2006 after 12 Crandall Canyon, where nine people But mine safety was brought back West Virginia miners were killed in the died in August 2007. The bill would into the national spotlight last year Sago mine disaster. New legislation, improve emergency response to mine because of the deaths at the Crandall they say, would imperil the safety sites and require coal mines to install Canyon mine in Utah, where six miners changes already under way. advance tracking technology, died in a roof collapse in August. Three 
"We're stepping on something we Democrats said. rescuers died in a failed attempt to haven't even implemented yet," said Mine operators would be required to retrieve their bodies from the mine. Hep. Howard "Buck" McKeon, R-Calif. use new coal-dust monitors to reduce The cause of the disaster is still under 
Democrats accused the Bush adminis­miners' exposure to coal dust, which investigation. tration of being lax on getting the causes black-lung disease. "It would be premature to legislate on required changes in the 2006 law in The bill also would give the federal many of these issues until the Crandall place. Mine Safety and Health Administration Canyon investigation is complete," said 
"Congress has been forced to act to subpoena authority; increase penalties Rep. Joe Wilson, R-S.C. 
------------, 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, January 17, 2008 
Siljander charged in conspiracy


Marine suspected 
Ex-congressman indicted for raising money for terrorist group 



of fleeing country 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, N.C. -A Marine suspected of killing a pregnant comrade told friends he would flee to Mexico to avoid being convicted of raping her, and investigators said Wednesday they are working with Mexiean authorities to track him down. 
A wide-ranging manhunt for Cpl. Cesar Armando Laurean began last week, after authori­ties said he fled North Carolina and left a note in which he admitted burying the body of Lance Cpl. Maria Lauterbach, but said she committed suicide. The 20-year-old had accused him of rape. 
Investigators found Lauterbach's burned remains, and those of her 

The court documents are included with an FBI criminal complaint charging Laurean with unlawful flight to avoid prosecution. He is also wanted in North Carolina on a state arrest warrant for murder. 
Laurean appears to have mailed letters back to his wife in North Carolina, according to two law enforcement officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the ongoing investiga­tion. 
It was not immediately clear what the letters said, how many of them were sent or where they were sent from, but one of the officials said at least one of the letters was postmarked from Houston. 
Authorities have said Laurean's wife, Christina Laurean, is 
child, in a fire pit cooperating 
Islamic American Relief Agency 

"We strongly suspect, 
in Laurean's back­with authorities 
of paying Siljander $50,000 for 

but have not 
yard and conelud­and provided 
the lobbying -money that 

ed she did not kill confirmed, that them with the 
turned out to be stolen from 

herself. note her hus­
the U.S. Agency for

Laurean may be in 
Court docu-band left before 
International Development. 

Mexico."
ments filed this skipping town. 
The charges paint "a trou­

week by the FBI Lauterbach 
bling picture of an American 

state that died of "trau­
charity organization that

Richard Kolko 
J.aurean; 21, told matic head 
engaged in transactions for the

FBI spokesman 
members of his Marine Corps unit he would flee to Mexico if it appeared he would be found guilty of rape. Laurean's wife also told authorities she believed he would head to Mexico if he was in trouble. 
"We strongly suspect, but have not confirmed, that J.aurean may be in Mexico," FBI spokesman Hichard Kolko said in Washington. "We have a strong working relationship with law enforcmnent partners in Mexico and we'rn working with them to l01:ate and apprehend him." 
l.aurnan, 21, of Las Vegas, is a naturalized U.S. eitiznn who was born in Mexico and still has some family there, authorities said. 
unanswered Wednesday. His attorney in Kansas City, James 
H. Hobbs, said Siljander would plead not guilty to the charges against him. 
"Mark Siljander vehemently denies the allegations in the indictment," Hobbs said in a statement. He described Siljander as "internationally recognized for his good faith attempts to bridge the gap between Christian and Muslim communities worldwide" and plugged the ex-congressman's upcoming book on that topic. 
The charges are part of a long-running case against the charity, which had been based in Columbia, Mo., before it was designated in 2004 by the Treasury Department as a sus­pected fundraiser for terrorists. The indictment alleges that lARA also employed a fundrais­ing aide to Osama bin Laden, the al-Qaida leader blamed for the Sept. 11 attacks. 
lARA has long denied allega­tions that it has financed ter­rorists. The group's attorney, Shereef Akeel of Troy, Mich., rejected the charges outlined in Wednesday's indictment. 
"For four years I have not seen a single piece of a docu­ment that shows anyone did anything wrong," Akeel said. 
The government accuses lARA of sending approximately $130,000 to help Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, whom the United States has designated a global terrorist. The money, sent to bank accounts in Peshawar, Pakistan, in 2003 and 2004, was masked as donations to an orphanage located in buildings that Hekmatyar owned. 
Authorities described llekmatyar as an Afghan muja­
hedeen leader who participated 
in and supported terrorist acts 
by al-Qaida and the Taliban. 
The Justice Department said 
Hekmatyar "has vowed to 
engage in a holy war against 
the United States and interna­
tional troops in Afghanistan." 
Siljander was elected to Congress initially with the sup­port of fundamentalist Christian groups, and said at the time he won because "God wanted me in." In 1983, he claimed that "Arab terrorists" planned to kill him during a pro-Jewish rally; the FBI and Secret Service said they knew of no such plot. Siljander attended the rally wearing a bulletproof vest. 
After leaving the government, he founded the Washington­area consulting group Global Strategies Inc. and, according to the indictment, was hired by lARA in March 2004 to lobby the Senate Finance Committee to remove the charity from the panel's list of suspected terror fundraisers. 
It's not clear whether Siljander ever engaged in the lobbying push, said John Wood, 
U.S. attorney in Kansas City. Nevertheless, IAHA paid Siljander with money that was part of U.S. government fund­ing awarded to the charity years earlier for relief work it promised to perform in Africa, the indictment says. 
In interviews with the FBI in December 2005 and April 2007. Siljander denied doing any lobbying for lARA. The money, he told investigators, was merely a donation from IAHA to help him write a book about Islam and Christianity, the indictment says. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A former congressman and delegate to the United Nations was indicted Wednesday on charges of working for an alleged terrorist fundraising ring that sent more than $130,000 to an al-Qaida supporter who has threatened 
U.S. and international troops in Afghanistan. 
Mark Deli Siljander, a Michigan Republican when he was in the House, was charged with money laundering, con­spiracy and obstructing justice for allegedly lying about being hired to lobby senators on behalf of an Islamic charity that authorities said was secretly sending funds to ter­rorists. 
The 42-count indictment, unsealed in U.S. District Court in Kansas City, Mo., accuses the 
injury due to 

blunt force trau­ma," according to autopsy results released Tuesday. But authorities said the exam failed to answer all the questions detectives have about Lauterbach's death, including whether she gave birth before her death and of the identity of the father. 
Authorities believe Lauterbach was killed around Dec. 15. Marine officials have they attempted to find her after she failed to report to work on Dec. 17, but had evidence -includ­benefit of terrorists and con­spired with a former United States congressman to convert stolen federal funds into pay­ments for his advocacy," Assistant Attorney General Kenneth Wainstein said. 
Siljander, who served in the House from 1981-1987, was appointed by President Reagan to serve as a U.S. delegate to the United Nations for one year in 1987. 
Calls to Silander's business in a Washington suburb went 

ing a note left for her roommate in which she wrote she was tired 
. of the Marine Corps lifestyle ­that led them to bdieve she left on her own. 
GOOD CALL or BAD CALL? 


At the Development Department Phone Center, 
YOU MAKE THE CAlL! 
STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Calf alumni. parEtnts and friends on behalf of Nofre Dame's Annual Fund. 
. 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
. 
GREAT ENVIRONMENT 
. 
EVENING HOURS . 
. 
PAID TRAINING MERIT PAY INCREASES 

Questions? Call the Phone Center-Moira Madden or Mark Seiler at 631-3152. 
Email phcenter<!Ynd.edu for on application. Application deadline is 8:00am on Monday, January 21•1• 
Make money, win prizes, and build your resume. Apply Today! 

Notre Dame 
ANNUAL FUND 

NEW CALLER SPRING SCHEDULE 
TRAINING: week of January 27th 
START CALLING: February 411• 
SHIFTS: Sun. .5:30-7:30pm, 7:30-9:30pm Mon. -Tues. 6:30-8:30pm. 8:30-1 0:30pm Wed. 7:00 -1 O:OOpm 
Thursday, January 17, 2008 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
JAPAN 

Protesters force suspension ofAntarctic whale hunt 
Japanese government says it will temporarily shut down operations after activists gained access to harpoon vessel 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -Protesters scored a victory in a high-seas campaign to disrupt Japan's whale hunt in the Antarctic, forcing the fleet to a standstill Wednesday while oflicials scrambled to unload two activists who used a rubber boat to get on board a harpoon ves­sel. 
The faceoff was a rapid escala­tion of the annual contest between the fleet that carries out Japan's controversial whale hunt in southern waters and the envi­ronmentalist groups that try to stop it. 
The founder of the Sea Shepherd anti-whaling group, Paul Watson, told The Associated Press by satellite phone that the Japanese arc tar­geting vulnerable whale stocks and said his organization will keep harassing the fleet. 
"We will chase them until they stop their hunt." Watson said from the bridge of the Steve Irwin. a Sea Shepherd vessel. "As long as we are chasing them. they aren't killing whales." 
Japanese officials said a Greenpeace boat also was shad­owing the whaling fleet. 
Watson claimed the two activists were being held as "hostages" on the Japanese har­poon ship Yushin Maru 2, but no Sea Shepherd boat had been sent to retrieve them. 
Japan condemned the inci­dent, calling the boarding of har­poon boat an act of "piracy" and accusing Sea Shepherd of stalling a handover of the activists to get publicity. 
Authorities repeatedly tried to contact Sea Shepherd to arrange a return of the activists, but the group didn't responding and its boat appeared to be speeding from the area, Foreign Ministry spokesman Tomohiko Taniguchi said. 
Taniguchi said the Japanese whaling boat was chasing the Steve Irwin in an attempt to return the protesters, but he declined to disclose the vessels' locations, citing security con­cerns. 
"These people aren't hostages, they're unwanted guests," he said. "We want them off our ship immediately, but they're not giv­ing us the chance." 
Japanese officials said Sea Shepherd must agree not to attack the whaling vessel during any rendezvous to turn over the two protesters. Watson refused to comply, demanding an "unconditional" release. 
"When people hold hostages and make demands, that's the behavior of a terrorist organiza­tion," he said. ''I'm not going to acquiesce to their demands." 
Japan was considering trans-. ferring the two activists to a third party, such as the Australian government, fisheries ollicials said. An Australian gov­ernment ship, the Ocean Viking, was in southern waters although neither side announced a han­dover deal. 
Australian Foreign Minister Stephen Smith called for caution on both sides. 
"We're dealing with the great 
RUSSIA 
Britishgroupaccuses policeofharassment 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBUHG -A British cultural organization accused Hussian authorities on Wednesday of harassing its staff and said it had temporarily closed its offices in St. Petersburg. 
The British Council, which acts as the cultural arm of the British Embassy. said the director of its St. Petersburg office was followed and stopped by Hussian law enforcement authorities and that intelligence agency officials had interviewed its Hussian employ­ees. 
British Foreign Secretary David Miliband described the Russian actions as an attack on the coun­
cil. Britain's Foreign Office said Hussia's ambassador to London was summoned for talks with British officials. 
"We've also heard very serious reports of intimidation and harassment of British Council offi­cials," Miliband told reporters outside Prime Minister Gordon Brown's Downing Street office. "Obviously we take that very seri­ously indeed. ... Any intimidation or harassment of oflicials is obvi­ously completely unacceptable." 
The new troubles came amid persistent tension between the two countries over the fatal 2006 poisoning in London of former Hussian security agent Alexander Litvinenko. 
The long-simmering dispute over the British Council flared this week after the orgartization defied Russian orders to shut its offices from Monday in St. Petersburg and the Ural Mountains city of Yekaterinburg, which Russia says operate illegally. 
After an angry exchange Tuesday in which Britain's ambassador warned that action against the British Council would violate international law and Hussia's foreign minister accused Britain of colonial-era arrogance, Hussia's Federal Security Service said it was interviewing the coun­cil's Russian employees. 
The Federal Security Service, or FSB, said it was conducting "explanatory work" with the employees with the aim of "pro­tecting Russian citizens from pos­sibly being drawn into the Britons' provocative games as tools." 
FSB officials refused to com­ment further Wednesday. 
The British Council said its Hussian staff in St. Petersburg and Yekaterinburg were "sum­moned for interview by the FSB at their headquarters and subse­quently visited in their homes late last night by officials of the Russian Ministry of the Interior and have been called for further interviews today." 
distance of the southern ocean. The capacity for adverse inci­dents is high, and the capacity for rescue or assistance is low," he said. 
An official at the Japanese Fisheries Agency, Takahide Naruko, said the fleet would not resume its planned hunt of about 1,000 whales until the activists were handed over. He said there was "no telling what Sea Shepherd would do" if the fleet hunted with the activists on board. 
The two protesters Benjamin Potts, 28, of Australia and Giles Lane, 35, of Britain ­jumped from a rubber boat onto the deck of the Yushin Maru 2 in the icy waters off Antarctica on Tuesday after a high-speed chase. 
Sea Shepherd protesters earli­er attacked the harpoon ship with bottles of acid and tried to entangle its propellers, both Japanese officials and Watson said. 
Watson claimed the two activists were not involved in throwing the acid and said they intended only to board the ship to deliver a protest letter. 
The men were detained and briefly tied up. Watson alleged the Japanese crew assaulted the activists, which Japanese offi­cials denied. 
"It is completely illegal to board anyone's vessel ... on the high seas," said Glenn Inwood, a spokesman for Japan's Institute for Cetacean Research, which organizes the hunt. "So this can be seen as nothing more than an act of piracy by the Sea Shepherd group." 

Japan sent ships to Antarctica in November to kill minke and tin whales under a program that skirts an international moratori­um on commercial whaling. 
The ban allows limited hunts for scientific research, a loop­hole Japan has used to kill near­ly 10,000 whales over the past two decades, according to the International Fund for Animal Welfare. 
Opponents say Japan's pro­gram is commercial whaling in disguise because the meat is later sold on the market. Environmentalists say Japan's hunts are detrimental to vulner­able whale populations in the area. 

Japan's top government spokesman defended the catch. 
"The activists are obstructing what are legal activities in inter­national waters. and in an extremely dangerous way," Nobutaka Machimura said. "Japan strongly condemns these actions." 
The whaling fleet's mother ship, the Nisshin Maru, has been chased 435 miles from the standoff scene by a boat belong­ing to the environmental group Greenpeace, Japanese officials said. 
PAKISTAN 

Opposition urged not to hold rallies 
Musharraf cites terror threat in recommendation to other candidates 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD -Pakistan's government urged opposition leaders Tuesday to refrain from holding rallies ahead of next month's elections, citing an escalating terrorist threat. 
The party of opposition leader Nawaz Sharif quickly rejected the recommendation, accusing officials of trying block its cam­paign against President Pervez Musharraf. 
The political squabble comes in the aftermath of the Dec. 27 assassination of Benazir Bhutto, whose Pakistan Peoples Party is expected by many to emerge as the largest in parliament after the Feb. 18 elections. 
Musharraf came under heavy criticism for alleged security lapses that allowed suspected Islamic militants to launch a gun and suicide bomb attack on for­mer prime minister Bhutto as she left a campaign rally. It was one in a wave of more than 20 suicide bombings to hit Pakistan in the past three months. 
In apparent response to the accusations, the Interior Ministry on Tuesday issued guidelines to political leaders "for their safety and security." These included recommenda­tions to heed the advice of local police commanders on security matters and to keep authorities informed of their movements. 
"It is of paramount impor­tance that the political leader­ship is sensitized about the looming threat and asked to adopt a security conscious approach," Interior Ministry spokesman Javed Iqbal Cheema said. "Big rallies should be avoided as much as possible." 
Large political rallies have tra­ditionally been the main method to drum up support during elec­tion campaigns. Opposition groups say Musharraf's own party is unable to exploit this because of its declining popular­ity after it supported his purging of the judiciary and failed to contain skyrocketing food prices. 
Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League party denounced the government's guidelines. Party spokesman Ahsan Iqbal accused authorities of "playing with ter­rorist threat to stop opposition parties from reaching out to the people." 
"This is a failure of Pervez Musharraf. If he resigns, the law and order situation will become normal," Iqbal said. "This is intended only to stop the opposi­tion from campaigning." 
The United States hopes the elections will stabilize Pakistan, a key ally in the war against the Taliban and al-Qaida in neigh­boring Afghanistan. But militant violence in Pakistan's border regi<?ns -where support for the Taliban remains strong -has spread to the entire nation, seri­ously undermining public sup­port for the president. 

Al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden and his top deputy are believed to be hiding out some­where in the lawless tribal region straddling the Pakistan­Afghan border. 
Also Tuesday. a suicide bomber blew himself up when troops opened fire as he drove a car toward a checkpoint in Mohmand, a tribal region close to the Afghan border where a clash the previous day left 30 dead, an army statement said. A second militant in the car was killed by gunfire. 
On Monday night, a bomb explosion near a textile factory in the country's largest city, Karachi, killed 10 people and wounded 52. 
In a related development, three militants were found guilty Tuesday of plotting to kill Musharraf by setting off a car bomb near his convoy in Karachi in 2002. Judges said the car did not explode because the remote cont-rol device used to detonate it malfunctioned, according to state prosecutor Naimat Randhawa. 
The three were from the out­lawed Harkatul Mujahideen Al­Almi militant group, which police have blamed for a 2002 bombing at the U.S. consulate in Karachi that killed 14 people. 
-------------., 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, January 17, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Where have you gone, Walter Cronkite? 
P.O. Box 779. Notr< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notr< Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIEI' Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
ASST. MANAGIN{; EDITOR: Kyle Cassily AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEws EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine ScENE EDITOR: ·1:1e Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR! Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 

(574) 631-6')27 ADVERTISING (S74) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 63I-4512 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5.323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 vicwpoint.l@nd.cdu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu SAINT MARY's DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colk-gc. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vitwpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions chrough lccters is encouraged. Letter; to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions rrgarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'l1u; Oll'«'tV('f (USPS '\1)C) 2-4UOO) i• puhh.hcd Mnnd.ty through !'ridJy except d~tr!Og nilnt and ~-".1\'oHum period. Awh-.crtp1i1•U rn '11tc Olm::rver is $100 fnr nnc.u.:adt"mk y~;:ar; $5"i tUruuc!ICIII(J!Cr 
The Ob.krvcr is puhl••hcd J.t POSTMA;TER 1124 Sou1h Oming Hall Send o~ddros corrccrium to: N(luc Oounc. IN 465'"1(,...077? ThcOb~rvc:r l'ctindk;tl pt.~5r~c paid .n Norrc Darnc 1~0. Box 779 and .tddhiuno~l mll.iling uffice1. 024 South Dining HJll 

Notre Dame, IN 465%-0779 
The Observer it a mrmhn ut the Ailoct,ltcd P~. All rcprvdm:don ntttm are 
ror:rvcd. 

Last week Stephen Colbert, in his typical ollhand manner, made one of' the most tronchant observations on the manner in which this year's presidential campaign is bning eonducted. Discussing the off-put­ting "wait for Florida" strategy of John Everett former New York City Mayor Rudy 
Kids These 
Giuliani, Colbert 
Days

speculated that Giuliani would gov­ern in a similar fashion, Jetting the terror­ists win a few rounds to build up their confidence before sweeping in to tako the day. 
What Colbert's witticism points to is the growing trend, especially in the realm of the tlm~e giant 24-hour cable news net­works, or viewing the electoral process in this country as a game. Giuliani's large­state strategy is merely one permutation of' ways in which candidates for the presi­dent of all 50 United States, with the media giddily tagging along for the ride, have thwarted and neglected the mission of campaigning to all the people of those 50 states in favor of gaming the system, showcasing and being hugely rewarded for skills which have little-if anything­to do with the awesome responsibilities of governing this nation. 
The greatest problem resulting from a eampaign structure which so easily invites dodges and misdirection is that the media become more interest1~d in the games­manship than the game. Aside from the possible exceptions of Senator John McCain's well-publicized collaboration with Ted Kennedy on illegal immigration and Mike Huckabee's oddly-intriguing support of the Fair Tax, no issues have really garnered traction in the primary election coverage. 
MSNBC might be the worst offender of the three major networks. After Iowa, I suggested that they change the station's acronym to represent "Must Say Nothing Besides Change." The network's talking heads spent hour after hour reiterating how each campaign had made use of the desire for change, how Hillary Clinton had perhaps erred in Iowa by trying to make herself out as a "change agent," when . most voters really saw Barack Obama as the apparent true candidate of change. What was lost in the discussion was any sense of what was going to be changed, why change was necessary, and how one candidate's version of change would be difl'ernnt from any other candidate's. 
The core of the problem is lazy journal­ism. Chris Matthews is not really interest­ed in the economy, or healtheare, or any­thing really, because he doesn't find those things fun. Elections are fun for him for the same reasons they arc alienating to an inercasing portion of Americans. Matthews laughs at negative attack ads that torture logic to the breaking point. lie smiles at the underhanded tactics employed with virtuoso precision by Hillary Clinton, wherein campaign stall' members make the less dignified attacks on the opposition, sueh as bringing up Barack Obama's drug use or the idea that Obama's support is a symptom of white guilt, giving the candidate herself distance from these unsavory remarks. Meanwhile, I doubt Matthews, or Brit llume, or Anderson Cooper with his "Best Poiitical Team on Television" even knows what Mitt Romney thinks about anything. I mean, of course, what Mitt Romney thinks now, not what he may have thought yes­terday, which could be wildly difl'erent. 
The sad thing is that the proliferation of news on television has somehow, almost inexplicably, led to the public being less well-informed about the world around it. There is so much time to fill on these net­works, and yet we get the same people talking about the same few things over and over again, with the election and its intrigues taking over this year from miss­ing white teenagers and murdered wives. 

In all this coverage, there is so little that 
could pass mustnr as true journalism or 
reporting as to be funny if the stakes 
weren't the identity of the leader of the 
free world. Arbitrarily assigning blame ({Jf 
tho discrepancy between the exit polls and 
the actual resull'i in New llampshire is not 
mporting, it is guessing. Crediting I Iillary 
Clinton's rise to her tearing up mildly at a 
rally is baseless and uninformative, the 
definition of the antithesis of news. 
Instead of having campaign stall' mem­bers on to disingenuously "analyze" the election process or de!imd thoir candi­date's doeision on which states and votnrs to ignore, the news networks could have people on to discuss the actual positions the candidates have. I would like to soc leading economisl<> on the air discussing the advantages and disadvantages of the Fair Tax. I want national security experts talking about Iraq, and whether we can end the war, as many Democratic eandi­dates want to, or whether we may be thnre for 100 years or more. 
I understand that there am avnnues f(>r me to discern this information on my own, through the Internet or elsewhere. I humbly submit that I am ashamed of my own lack of knowledge on certain topics. and while I am the most rnsponsible for this, I do believe that there is a tacit soda! contract being largely ignored by the news modia to actually report facts, not specu­lation. We in Ameriea need our news media to rise to the level of seriousness we would like to see in the campaign itself. 
John Everett is a senior English major. He is thought to be somewhere between 21 and 45 years ofage. He is armed only with a sharp wit and is considered can­tankerous. Ifyou have any information regarding his whereabouts, please contact jeverett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF QUOTES OF THE DAY 
QUOTES OF THE DAY
News Scene Marcela Berrios Tae Andrews Joseph McMahon Sports John Tierney Chris Khorey Graphics Bill Brink 
"The road to hell "Laugh and the world laughs with 
Matt Hudson Sam Werner 
is paved with adverbs. " you, snore and you sleep alone. " 
Viewpoint Ellyn Michalak Jordan Gamble Pete Reisenauer Ste(lhen King Anthony Burgess 
Amer1can author British novelist 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, January 17, 2008 page 11 
Find inspiration for New Year's resolutions 
Welcome back! Welcome to your new classes, new books, clean notebooks, your new professors and to the fresh start that a new year always brings. As a student, I used to feel as if I had three "New Year's" 
Kate Barrett 

-one on the first of January, and one at the beginning of 
Faithpoint

each new semester. 
With all the reso­lutions, plans and sacrifices we embark upon for New Year's we should all find ourselves daily-exercising, healthy-eat­ing, moderate-drinking, non-smoking, regular-praying, teeth-flossing, non­procrastinating, homework-completing persons of virtuous habits. Perhaps this year, this will be true. I won't hold my breath. Why? Because along with mak­ing all these earnest plans we make one common mistake: We believe it's all about us, that somehow we can become the people we want to be if we just try hard enough. Well, maybe that's true for flossing and exercising, and sometimes for dieting, but instead this could be the year we hear the call to a true conversion of heart, to new depths in our love for God. And maybe then a lot of other things will fall into place. This year, Lent begins awfully early-Feb. 6, to be exact. So early that by then, you certainly won't have given up on your New Year's resolu­tions yet! 
Since we're about halfway in between New Year's resolutions and Lenten sacrifices, here's an idea you could use for either. It has two parts. First, read the gospels, the story of Jesus' life, public ministry, death and resurrection. You can move around between all four of them, or just pick one. The Church is reading Matthew this year; you could start there. As you read, notice -really notice -what Jesus is like. Second, ask-really ask -God to help you try to be like Jesus. 
I suppose it would be easy to think, "Jesus' life was so different than mine. It would really be a stretch to think entering into his life will help me live mine." Though he may have lived under different circumstances and in a different culture, Jesus became human precisely to show us how to be human. And that's all God wants from us as well: that we live our human-ness to the fullest. To the extent that we can, we will start looking a little more like ... Jesus. 
It wouldn't be boring, being like Jesus. First of all, he enjoyed life. He made sure a big party had plenty of wine; he loved to eat with friends; he told stories that the disciples had to puzzle out to understand. He could be demanding; he got angry at injustice; he hung out with unexpected people and confused and irritated the religious and political leaders of the time. He didn't stand idle when he knew another was in need. He had the charisma to convince mere acquaintances to drop every bit of their livelihood and follow him on an unknown and improbable journey. 
All of this does come back to those pesky New Year's resolutions, by the way, as well as to the Lenten sacrifices you may already be considering. Jesus certainly got plenty of exercise; he had no other way but walking to get any­where. He probably ate right, simply because he didn't have as many unhealthy choices as Martin's, McDonald's and Starbucks offer us. Even when it meant leaving everyone else, from his dear friends to great crowds of people, so that he could be alone with God, Jesus made regular prayer a priority. He didn't appear to be a procrastinator; he started warning the disciples quite early on that things would seem to end badly for him. More importantly, however -much more importantly-Jesus lived, prayed, made choices, acted upon those choic­es, and loved, all with his relationship to God as the foundation and center of his life. If we could do the same, maybe we would take better care of ourselves out of gratitude because God created us. Maybe we'd pray more regularly just because we wish to spend more time with the Lord. Maybe we would treat others with the utmost respect 

and honor because we can see our 
common bond in our creation and our baptism. 
Jesus tells us in John's gospel, "I have set you an example, that you also should do as I have done ... " (Jn. 13:15). Though this passage comes from a specific moment in the story, when Jesus has just washed the disci­ples' feet, we can remember that everything about Jesus' life sets us an example. In the still-fresh newness of 2008, perhaps our most significant res­olution ought to be to ask God to help us follow that example as closely as we can. 
Kate Barrett is the director of Resources and Special Projects for Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 
Cold-hearted tech firms block progress, charity 
Optimism abounded when Nicholas Negroponte announced his goal to design the $100 laptop, an item that could improve learning for millions of poor chil­dren in developing countries. Finally, it 
seemed advanced Brian Solomon 
technology would help the disadvan­taged among us and The Dartmouth do more than just increase the stock values of Silicon Valley companies. 
Unfortunately, some of those cold-heart­ed, profit-mongering corporations such as Intel and Microsoft lack the morals to assist this noble effort, and instead choose to stand in the way of progress and charity. 
Negroponte-co-founder of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Media Laboratory and the non-profit organization, One Laptop Per Child -built the innovative "XO" laptop to account for many of the problems that underprivileged students encounter. 
For example, the computer has a built-in hand crank to charge the battery in places where electricity is sporadic. The computer also comes with long-range wireless, a ver­sion of the open-source operating system Linux, and an interactive interface that allows users to communicate and work with others nearby. 
While the price still hovers above $150, many students around the globe, in places like Peru where 270,000 XOs have already been distributed, will soon be reaping the benefits of such cheap technology. 
But the executives at entrenched soft­ware and hardware companies are more interested in padding their bottom lines than helping kids. 
Intel Chairman Craig Barrett mocked the XO laptop as a "$100 gadget," saying, "What people are looking for is something that has the full functionality of a PC... that can run all the applications of a grown-up PC... not dependant on hand cranks for power." 
His remarks miss the point of OLPC com­pletely. The XO laptop is not intended for use by corporate offices, or even college students; the project is geared toward put­ting computers in the hands of people who are so impoverished that they have most likely never touched a full-featured PC before. 
Even within the United States, the city of Birmingham, Alabama has agreed to pur­chase 15,000 laptops for its students. 
The truth is that companies like Intel do not care about the hundreds of millions of people who have entered the 21st century unable to read a book or even sign their names. 
Although in the last year Intel spoke about contributing millions of dollars to the cause and constructing a microprocessor to use in future generations' affordable lap­tops, it pulled out of its deal last week amidst claims that it had stabbed its non­profit partner in the back. 
Turns out, Intel has its own ambitions about supplying cheap computers to the developing world -for profit. According to Negroponte, for months Intel has been urg­ing countries that may be potential XO-cus­tomers not to buy the device because the company is releasing its own low-cost lap­top, the "Classmate PC." 
Just as Intel has been sabotaging its fledgling teammate, the software behe­moth Microsoft has also been antagonistic toward OLPC and its mission. While the company views emerging markets as an important next frontier for its Windows operating system -and founder Bill Gates said that they have "always believed in cheap PCs" -Microsoft has refused to col­laborate on giving the XO dual-boot Windows XP support. 

The company's shortsighted goals pre­vent it from embarking on a mission that could both help millions of children and expand its market share into the develop­ing world of computing. 
We should not strive for communism, but perhaps capitalism has gone too far when companies seek to crush a well-meaning nonprofit with a great chance of making a difference in thousands, or even millions of lives. Is a little respect, or even -dare I say it-help, too much to ask for? 
The OLPC goal is not dead yet, but given the resistance to its philosophy from the corporate world, it will not be long before its efforts to bring education to far-flung reaches of the globe are cut short. In addi­tion to more basic supplies, laptops for poor students around the world could help bridge the so-called "Digital Divide" and encourage growth, learning and hope in small communities everywhere. 
When will Intel and Microsoft see that? 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 16 edition ofThe Dartmouth, the daily news­paper at Dartmouth University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 
Thursday, January 18, 2008 
Photo courtesy of hbo.com 

SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
You 
;..,;; dcc)St Yourself ··~ 
Peyton Manning United Way NFL Spoof 
See the darker side of 
Peyton Manning's 

.competitive edge as he plays apickup game of football with some underprivileged kids. 
The Five Sta es of aGiraffe Death 
Feel the longneck's pain as he ~inks his way to an untimely demise. 
Check out Notre Dame's latest commitment on the recruiting front. 
ritish babies biting ach other. What more needs to be said? 
MATT HUDSON I Observer Graphic 
By T. EDWARD ANDREWS Scene Editor 
Time Magazine, Entertainment Weekly and the Chicago Tribune have all called it "the best show on television" and yet as HBO's "The Wire" enters its fifth and final season, the show still lacks a large mainstream following. Despite its crimi­nal under-appreciation by the masses, "The Wire" promises to return to its roots as one of the hardest hitting, most innovative and best dramas in the history of television. 
Set on the mean streets of Baltimore, Md., "The Wire" depicts a grim picture of urban life in inner city America, follow­ing the ravaging effects of the drug trade and the accompanying violence and crime it stains the streets with. 
In its first season, "The Wire" con­cerned itself primarily 


with the criminal empire drunk and his home life of Avon Barksdale (Wood Despite its criminal is consumed by failed Harries) and Stringer under-appreciation by marriage and his love of Bell (ldris Elba) and liquor and lascivious
the masses, 'The Wire" 
detective work done by conduct. Detective Jimmy promises to return to Nefarious stick-up McNulty (Dominic West), artist Omar Little
its roots as one ofthe 
Lieutenant Cedric (Michael K. Williams) has 
hardest hitting, most
Daniels (Lance Reddick), become a fan favorite as Detective Lester innovative and best the roughest, toughest Freamon (Clarke Peters) dramas in the history gunslinger on the streets. and others to bring lie also happens to be
oftelevision.

down that empire. The gay, and by doing so, 
show derives its name from a wiretap the police set up in order to build a case against Barksdale's crew. However, in subse­quent seasons the show expanded from its original status as a cops-and-robbers drama to an inner city magnum opus sprawling across all facets of urban life in Baltimore, including the politics of police work, the politics of education and the politics of politics. 
The best part of "The Wire" is that the show doesn't try to push a message about morality -it just portrays real life through fiction and shows things the way they are on the drug-and crime-ravaged streets of urban America. The show por­trays the horrors and hardships of drug abuse, wanton violence and killings relat­ed to the drug trade in colors as bleak and unrelenting as the cement jungle landscape the show sets itself on. 
MATT HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

"The Wire" wouldn't be the show it is without its stable of characters, which span from cops to criminals and from high-class politicos to homeless people. A talented and versatile cast of no-name character actors have assumed their roles with poise and a gritty sense of reality. Like the best forms of fiction, "The Wire" doesn't have any eut-and­dried cookie cutter character molds. Instead, the people populating the world of "The Wire" sound and act like real human beings. with all their flaws, imperfections and seemingly eontradicto­ry natures. "The Wire's" key theme is that nothing is set in black and white ­the show creates several penumbral areas of gray. 
For example, one of the main charac­ters, Detective Jimmy McNulty (Dominie West) is a stubborn, persistent hound of a cop and is very good at what he does, but 
he's also an inveterate 

"The Wire" challenges conventional norms of masculinity and homosexuality. 
Politician and Mayor Tommy Carcetti (Aidan Gillen) made a lot of campaign promises to cleanse the streets of crime and work to protect the children, but as he takes the job the exigencies of the office and his own political goals cause him to alter his original aims. 
Series creator David Simon's commit­ment to continued excellence has paid ofT through "The Wire's" first four seasons. Now as he draws several of his ongoing storylines to their final close and adds a few new wrinkles to the mix, it's a good bet he'll close out the series with the same level of excellence with which he started it. 

Drug kingpin Marlo Stanfield (Jamie Hector) has left a trail of bodies In his bloody rise to the top, but the pollee have started uncovering his handiwork. 


--------------------------., 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, January 17, 2008 
page 13 

MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 




Photo courtesy of hbo.com Colonel Cedric Daniels (Lance Reddick) encounters the politics of police work as he climbs the ladder. 



Photo courtesy of hbo.com Detective Lester Freamon (Clarke Peters) begins to Hard drinking detective Jimmy McNulty (Dominic exhume a slew of murders by Marlo Stanfield. West) has begun sliding back into his wild ways. 

courtesy of hbo.com Photo Roland Pryzbylewskl (Jim True-Frost) tries to make Big brother Michael Lee (Tristan Wilds) cares for his a difference as a schoolteacher. little brother while rising in the drug ranks. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 17, 2008 
NBA 

Celtics end two-game skid with win over Blazers 
Wallace scores 36 points in Bobcats' upset win over Magic; Knicks record third-straight victory over rival Nets 
Associated Press 
BOSTON Hay Allen impressed teammate Paul Pierce with his shooting. For Allen, satisfying himself proved to be a tougher task. 
Allen scored a season-high 35 points, Kevin Garnett had 26 and the Boston Celtics rebound­ed from their first consecutive losses of the season with a 100­90 win over Portland on Wednesday night. 
Allen, who scored 26 points in the second half on 9-of-13 shooting, wasn't about to get caught up in the excitement of his scoring. 
"Every time I leave here I feel like I've left something out there on the table," he said. "I feel that way right now. There were some shots I should have knocked down." 
The 12-year veteran had Pierce enjoying his work, though. 
"It was great to watch. When you've got a hot player like that who's done it so many times throughout his NBA career, you just try to ride the hot hand," Pierce said "We just tried to get him the ball as much as we could. He made plays off the ball, on the ball and finished it with the shot." 
The Atlantic Division-leading Celtics, who had lost three of their last four games and two straight at home, also got 12 points from Pierce and 10 from Eddie House. Boston had lost its last two games, both to Washington. 

Brandon Roy led the Northwest division-leading Trail Blazers with 22 points. Travis Outlaw and Jarrett Jack each had 17. 
Portland, which lost for just the third time in 21 games over­all, fell to just 6-12 on the road. 
The surprisi"ng Trail Blazers may have come into the game hoping to compete with Boston instead of working like they have so far this season. 
"I don't think we believed we could beat them," Roy said. "We've been playing to win lately, but tonight I think we just came in to give them a good game. The next time we play them we have to believe that we can actually beat them." 
Allen scored 12 points, including eight straight in the third quarter, helping the Celtics take a 7 4-69 lead after three. 
Portland tied it at 56 before Kendrick Perkins' free throw moved the Celtics ahead for good. House followed with a 3 from the right corner before Allen took over, scoring off drives to the basket three times and hitting a pair of free throws to give Boston 68-63 lead. 
After the Trail Blazers cut it to 71-69, Allen completed his quarter with a reverse layup. He then opened the fourth with a jumper from the right base­line on Boston's first possession and Tony Allen had a break­away dunk, giving the Celtics a 

AP Boston forward Kevin Garnett grabs one of his seven rebounds during the Celtics 100-90 win over the Trail Blazers Wednesday. 
78-69 advantage. 
Portland cut it to 80-75 on 

Outlaw's 3 with 7:55 to go, but 
Ray Allen hit a key 3, followed 
that with a turnaround jumper 
and added a 3 with 50 seconds 
left to help Boston seal the win. 
Ray Allen capped his second half with four free throws in the final 31 seconds. 
"They showed why they're the best team record-wise in the league right now," Portland coach Nate McMillan said. 
Portland led 45-43 at half­tiple. 
Bobcats 99, Magic 93 
The Charlotte Bobcats' awful start this season might be too much to overcome, but the fourth-year team is finally start­ing to look like a playoff outfit. 
Behind 36 points and 14 rebounds from Gerald Wallace and late-game heroics from Jason Richardson, the Bobcats rallied from a 19-point third­quarter deficit Wednesday night to stun the Orlando Magic 99­93. 
The Bobcats fourth win in six games -all against teams above them in the standings ­still left them eight games below .500. But suddenly Charlotte is full of confidence and perhaps close to reaching its potential. 
"It's very satisfying but we still have a long way to go," first-year coach Sam Vincent said. "We're 15-23. If we were .500 then we'd be getting close to being happy." 
The latest in a stretch of wild finishes and big wins left plenty of smiles in the Bobcats' locker room. 
Richardson, who scored 26 points, hit a 3 with the shot clock running down with 31.2 seconds left to put Charlotte ahead 93-88. Raymond Felton and Richardson then combined to hit six straight at the foul line as the Bobcats avoided a season sweep to the Southeast Division leaders. 
"That's big for us. It shows a lot of growth," Richardson said. "This team is growing every game." 
Dwight Howard had 24 points and 21 rebounds and Carlos Arroyo came off the bench to score 17 points for the Magic, who went on a turnover spree after point guard Jameer Nelson left in the third quarter with a strained tendon in his right foot. 
"Our turnovers were mindless and mindboggling," coach Stan Van Gundy said of the 19 times the Magic threw it away. "You've got to be able to handle the ball. When you have a 19­point lead and a good veteran team that handles the ball solidly and makes solid plays and doesn't break down defen­sively, then you're probably going to win that game. But we didn't do any of those things. It's frustrating." 
Charlotte, which had been 0-3 against Orlando this season by an average margin of 13 points, took its first lead since 9-8 on Richardson's 3-pointer with 
8:20 left. Matt Carroll's 3 with 
5:50 left made it 88-82. 

Orlando, struggling to run its offense with Arroyo and Keith Bogans, went nearly four min­utes without a point until Hedo Turkoglu's driving layup made it90-87. 
Richardson then hit his 3 and the Magic fell to 16-9 on the r 
Knicks 111, Nets 105 

For the first time since Jason Kidd showed up in New Jersey, the guys on the New York side are having more fun in the Hudson River rivalry. 
Jamal Crawford scored a sea­son-high 35 points and hit a tiebreaking 3-pointer, leading the Knicks to a 111-105 victory Wednesday night over the New Jersey Nets that gave them the season series for the first time in eight years. 
Zach Randolph added 24 points and 11 rebounds for the Knicks, who are 3-0 against their cross-river rivals after the Nets had owned them for years. New York hadn't won the series since going 3-1 in the 1999-00 season, with New Jersey bring­ing a 24-4 mark, counting the playoffs, into this season since Kidd's arrival in 2001. 

'Those guys really put it to us for a long time. As long as I've been here, every time we played them it seemed like we lost," Knicks center Eddy Curry said. "But as of late, last time we played them very well and tonight we played them very well. I think if nothing else we showed them that they're not going to be able to beat up on us every time they play us." 
New York has won three in a row for the first time in a year, all without starting point guard Stephon Marbury, who is side­lined by a sore left ankle that he believes will require surgery. Curry finished with 17 points and Nate Robinson had 13. 
"Our resiliency, just persever­ing, we're starting to play with the type of grit that we were playing with last year," Knicks coach Isiah Thomas said. "I thought New Jersey, they were tough tonight, and we got off to a pretty rocky start but our team battled back." 
Two of the Knicks' three road wins have come in New Jersey, where they hadn't won twice in the same season since 1994-95. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FoR SALE FoR RENT 
4 bedroom. 2 bath, 1900 sq. ft. tri· Executive House available for out­Large house available for 2009-Nice Rental Home within a block of level house of-town guests of wedding, special 2010. NO & Med School. 718 events,and graduation. Full renovations completed 2007. Napoleon,3bdrm,attach<:d 2 car garage, kitchen appliances, Walking distance to campus. Close to campus. garage,basement,large lot,new Nissan 98 Sentra, 1 or 2 bdrm. apt. Quiet historic 4 bedrooms 4 baths. Sleeps 10-14 4,000+ square feet,5 bathrooms. upgrades/appliances. 574-339­neighborhood. 1 mi. to NO. Recent smoke and security system. easily. Irish pub/basement with pool 0275. 164,000 miles. renovations & laundry. $500/mo. table, bar, pub table, and game MacSwain@ gmail.com 574-532-8718. Three miles to NO, tables. Great car, new clutch & brakes. High-end home. Gourmet kitchen 705 NO Ave. 3 Bedroom $1 ,000.00. PERSONAL 3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to move in clean condition. with granite counters. Blue Book $3.1 00; campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, Very tasteful house. All brick exteri­273-4889 Available 08/09 PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­fireplace, 2-car garage, 1Ox20 deck, $1600/mo during the school year+ or. Built 1935. ONE WHO IS? You do not have to asking $2,900. deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. utilities. 705 NO Ave. 3 bedroom $1000. be alone. We want to help. Call our Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 See website: www.irishhearth­24 hour confidential hotline at 1 · 574-299-0351. or 574-340-1844. 57 4-272-5453. manor.com 574-273-4889. Available 08/09. 800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, January 17, 2008 CoMPfLF.D FROM THt. OBSERVERs WlRF. SERVICES page 15 
NCAA· CSTV Ments 
Poll 

team ter:ord · pr&vtous 
1 Michigan 20·2 2 Miami 21~3 3 Colorado College ·1Mi 4 Denver 17·5 5 New Hampshire 13~6~1 6 North Dakota 12"8~1 7 Michigan State 14.·5·4 8 NOTRE DAME 18·7-1 9 Northeastern 11•5•2 10 Massachusetts 9·5-5 11 Boston College 10·5"5 12 Clarkson 12·7-1 13 St. Cloud State 14 Quinnipiac 15 UMass·lowell 16 Minnesota-Duluth 17 Wisconsin 18 Minnesota 19 Princeton 10·8 20 Minnesota State 9·8·4 
team 
Connecticut Rutgers Pittsburgh NOTRE DAME 
~DePaul 
Seton Hall West Virginia Syracuse Marquette Providence St. John's Louisville Villanova ·., Cincinnati Georgetown South Florida 

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Vanderbilt at Tennessee 7 p.m., ESPN2 



NFL 


AP New England wide receiver Randy Moss answers questions Wednesday regarding his alleged assault of Rachelle Washington. A hearing is scheduled for Jan 28. 
Patriots receiver Moss accused of assault 
Associated Press 

FOXBOROUGH, Mass. ­Randy Moss joined the Patriots this season deter­mined to avoid off-field problems. Now he's in the middle of one, just days before Sunday's AFC championship game. 
A temporary restraining order was issued Monday · requiring the star wide receiver to stay at least 500 feet from a woman who alleged he committed "battery causing serious injury" to her at her Florida home on Jan. 6. 
Moss denied the allega­tion by Rachelle Washington, which he called "this situation of extortion," and said he 
McMackin hired as Hawaii 
bead coach 

HONOLULU -Greg McMackin's first head coaching job was with the Warriors of Aloha High School in Oregon. Now, 40 years later in the land of aloha, he has come full circle. 
McMackin was hired as Hawaii's football coach Wednesday after serv­ing as its defensive coordinator last season on a team that went undefeat­ed until losing the Sugar Bowl. ­
He replaces June Jones, who left the Warriors to coach SMU less than a week after they were routed by Georgia. McMackin agreed to a five­year deal that will pay him $1.1 mil­lion a season, making him the highest paid coach in school history. He will earn 10 times his 2007 salary. 
The 58-year-old former assistant with the San Francisco 49ers and Seattle Seahawks said the Warriors will not change their wide-open offense that flourished last season behind NFL-bound quarterback Colt Brennan. 
was "furious" about it. The restraining order was issued in the Broward County 17th Judicial Circuit of Florida. 
A hearing on whether to issue a permanent restraining order is sched­uled for 3 p.m. Jan. 28, six days before the Super Bowl. 
Moss broke his usual midweek silence as he was surrounded by two dozen reporters and 10 video­cameras at his locker on Wednesday. He didn't identify the woman but said she has been a friend for 11 years and that she asked for "six figures" for what he said was an acci­dent in which she was hurt. 
"I want to make some­thing clear," Moss said. "In my whole entire life of liv­ing 30 years, I've never put my hand on one woman, physically or in an angry manner." 
David McGill, the attor­ney for Washington, had no comment, according to his legal assistant, Melissa Miller. A telephone mes­sage left by The Associated Press with Moss' attorney, Jim DiPiero, was not immedi­ately returned. 
In his previous nine sea­sons seven with Minnesota and two with Oakland -Moss was involved in several off-
O.J. Simpson violates bail 
terms 
lAS VEGAS-An angry judge dou­bled O.J. Simpson's bail to $250,000 on Wednesday for violating terms of his original bail by attempting to con­tact a co-defendant in his armed rob­bery case. 
Simpson, clad in jail attire, grimaced as the amount was announced and meekly acknowledged that he under­stood. 
"I don't know Mr. Simpson what the heck you were thinking -or maybe that's the problem -you weren't," Clark County District Court Judge Jackie Glass told Simpson. 
"I don't know if it's just arrogance. I don't know if it's ignorance. But you've been locked up at the Clark County Detention Center since Friday because of arrogance or ignorance -or both." 
Glass said that the initial court order to not contact other defendants was clear and she warned that if anything else happened Simpson would be locked up. 

field incidents. 
"This is a negative," he said of the latest allega­tion, "a black cloud hang­ing over my head, and that's something that I did not want coming into the season.... Everything I tried to do from getting here early, to make sure I eat the right food, all the way to practicing and playing, I wanted all of that to be A-plus. 
"Everything's been posi­tive, so why would I bring something negative on. As much as I care and love the game of football and love my teammates, I would never put myself or them in a situation of something like this." 
Sparano hopes to fix 
Dolphins' problems 
DAVIE, Fla. -Discussing his new job as Miami Dolphins coach, Tony Sparano sounded like Tony Soprano. 
''I'm just happy to be part of the fam­ily," Sparano said. 
The family includes his mentor, Bill Parcells, and general manager Jeff Ireland, who are transforming their new team into the Miami Cowboys. 
Sparano is the latest transplant from Dallas. He was the Cowboys' assistant head coach before accepting an offer Wednesday to rejoin Parcells and Ireland. 
The trio worked together in Dallas when Parcells was head coach in 2003-06. 
"I know what the people here are capable of, and I'm excited about that," Sparano said at a news conference. 
Parcells sat in a corner of the room, smiling occasionally like a proud papa. He declined to meet with reporters, leaving the talk to his proteges. 
-----------------------------------------., page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, January 17, 2008 
NHL 

Islanders beat Devils for fifth-straight time 
Associated Press 
NEWAHK; N.J. -The New York Islanders have the New Jersey Devils' number, and it's starting to bug the perennial Atlantic Division champions. 
Hiek DiPietro had 37 saves and Bill Guerin scored two goals in a 3-1 vietory Wednesday night that gave the Islanders their fifth win in as many games against New J1-1rsey this season. 
"We just seem to play well against them," said DiPietro, who has given up five goals in four games against New Jersey this season. "You find if you play long enough, there aro eor­tain toams you play well against. The last eouple of years, it has been the Devils." 
Mike Sillingor also seorod for Nnw York. whieh has won four · or tho live meetings in regula­tion. Tho Islandors have won six straight ovorall against the Devils. 
Travis Zajac scored for Now Jersey, which had a three-game winning stroak snapped in los­ing for only the seventh time in 26 gamos (19-5-1 ). 
"It doesn't take a rocket sci­entist. dons it'!" Dovils forward l'atrik 11lias said or the Islanders' streak. "Thoy are playing woll against us. Th11y aro playing well against Philly and us. Thosp, arP big points to lose. We had our opportunities to gnt back in tho game, but it's still disappointing to lose. Tlwir goaltender played awesome tonight." 
DiPintro was spectacular in tho third period, stopping 15-of­16 shots, including one in close by Dainius Zubrus in the final 90 sneonds that had the Devils 
cnntP.r looking up at the rafters in the Prudential Center. 
"Th~nl wore a eouple of pucks whaeked away and I was able to get my glove up on it," DiPietro said of Zubrus' shot from Jess than 10 feet away. 
Guerin  downplayed  the  
Islanders' dominance.  
"Jiave wn  eome  out on  top  

every gamo? Yns!" Guerin said. "It's not like it's been a domi­nating effort by us eaeh and every single time. They have been good hockey games." 

DiPietro, who shut out the 
Devils in his only other game at 
the Prudential Center, had to 
work hard in the final six min­
utes to preserve the win. 
Brian Gionta, whose shot was deflected by Zajac on the Devils' goal, had a good chance from the right circle with six minutes to play. Jamie Langenbrunner, who was stoned in close early in the game, was stopped in close again seeonds later. 
Zajae and Zubrus were also stopped in close in the final minutes. 
"Tonight, Hieky saved us a couple of points," Guerin said. "I thought we played a solid game, but when they turned it up and got good scoring oppor­tunities, Ricky was there. He saved at least four goals I ean think over. He kept us in it. He's been doing it all year for us." 
The Devils are now winless in nine games against their New York-area rivals, including an 0-2-2 record with the Hangers. 
"Nine straight is something we have to take notice of obvi­ously," Langenbrunner said. 
"It's nine straight against the Now York teams," Gionta added. "We have to tinct a way to win." 
The Islanders had a two-man advantage when Guerin gave thorn the lead with less than five minutes to go in the first period. Colin White and Mike Mottau were both given two­minute penalties at the same time. 
Rangers 2, Sabres 1 
The setting was the regular season instead of the postsea­son, but the stakes seemed nearly as high for the New York Hangers and Buffalo Sabres. 
Not since the seeond round of last year's playoffs had the Hangers faced their Eastern Conference foes. Buffalo moved on to the conference finals then, and now both clubs face a sec­ond-half struggle just to get back into the tournament. 
Petr Prueha and Brandon Dubinsky each had a goal and an assist to lift the Rangers to a victory Wednesday night that stretehed the Sabres' losing streak to 10 games. 

Buffalo snapped its run of three straight shootout losses, but couldn't find a way to win. The Sabres haven't eome out on top sinee a 6-5 shootout victory at Philadelphia on Dee. 22 (0-5­5). 
New York jumped from 1Oth place to eighth in the East with the win, five points in front of No. 11 Buffalo -the team with the NHL's best record last sea­son. 
The Rangers shook off 

Monday's poor 4-1 loss at Pittsburgh and earned their seeond eonseeutive win at home. Still, New York has won only twice in eight games (2-5­
1). 

"Obviously, we've had a bad string, but for our team and our season's sake, we've got to turn the eorner and make sure we're bringing that effort and intensi­ty every night," Dubinsky said. 
The Sabres are trying to get out of their doldrums. They picked up some points recently by losing in overtime, but that's not enough. They are two losses from matching thp, worst win­less skid in franchise history. 
"It's better than getting blown out," goalie Hyan Miller said of the Sabres, who have lost by more than two goals once dur­ing the skid. "We're right there and it's "something to build ofT of'. 
"It's frustrating any time you lose and when you put yourself in this kind of' position in this league." 


A Great Cloud ofWitnesses: Saints in the Catholic Tradition January 18-19, McKenna Hall 
On the occasion of the first feast day celebration of Blessed Basil Moreau, founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, this conference \-viii explore the development of the canonization process and the significance of the saints in Catholic life and devotion. 
Friday, January 18 
4:00p.m. Thinking Seriously about the S'aints Lawrence Cunningham, University of Notre Dame 

7:30p.m.. Afaking S'aints Kenneth Woodward, Fonner Religion Editor, Newsweek 
Saturday, January 19 
9:00a.m. All Saints: The Universal Call to Holiness Ann Astell, University of Notre Dame 

10:30 a.m. A Great Cloud ofWitnesses Msgr. Kevin Kostelnik, Rector, Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels, Los Angeles 
2:00p.m. Blessed Basil Moreau Cardinal Theodore McCanick, Archbishop Emeritus of Washington, D.C. 
3:30 p.m. Saints in Everydc~v L~fe Robert Ellsberg, Editor, Orbis Books 

On Sunday, January 20, Cardinal McCarrick \Vill preside at the Eucharistic liturgy at the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart at 10:00 a.m. 
"By canonizing some of the faithful. i.e., by solemnly proclaiming that they practiced heroi<.: virtue :md lived in fidelity to God's grace, the Church recognizes the power ofthe Spirit of holiness within her and sustains the hope ofbelievers by proposing the saints to them as models and intercessors." (Catechism ofthe Catholic Church, #828) 

Thursday, January 17, 2008 Thursday, January 17, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 


NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Scheyer's free throws key to Duke's 70-57 win 
Temple tops ranked Xavier for first time in two years; Harris nets 22 points to carry Massachusetts over Dayton 
just 1:35. Fran Dunphy replaced the Hall
Associated Press 
"We've struggled here in the of Fame coach last season. 
TALLAHASEE. Fla. -For past, but this is a new team," "This win means a lot for us awhile it looked like No. 7 Scheyer said. "Last year they going into the next game," Duke might just lose a third beat us at home so we had Christmas said. "We have a lot straight time to Florida State, something to prove." of confidence. We know what a team trying to get back to The Blue Devils led 34-22 at we're capable of." NCAA tournament for the first halftime before Hich, who had This was the type of domi­time in 10 years. all 18 of his points in the sec­nating effort that became typi­
But coach Mike Krzyzewski's ond half, keyed the comeback cal on North Broad Street youthful Blue Devils rallied by Florida State (12-6, 1-2). when Chaney guided Temple from a second-half swoon just "He imposed his will on us, to 17 NCAA tournament in time Wednesday night. which he can do," Krzyzewski appearances, including five 
Jon Scheyer scored 21 points said. "We just played harder." NCAA regional finals. and four teammates combined Toney Douglas added 13 But the program had fallen to make eight straight free points for Florida State while on hard times in recent years. throws in the final 1 :34 to beat Uche Echefu, who had 24 Dunphy is doing his best to Florida State 70-57 and snap points and 12 rebounds in a turn things around. This could the unlikely two-game losing double-overtime loss at be the start. streak to the Seminoles. Clemson on Saturday, was "I think it's just a matter of 
"For awhile there it looked held to six points and seven time before they regain their like there's no way we're rebounds. national prominence," Xavier going to win it and (then) our "We got beat by a team that coach Sean Miller said. "They kids got tough," Krzyzewski executed and maintained their have a great coach. We said. "After they had been the poise for longer periods than respect them a great deal." weakest they got to be the we did," Florida State coach Derrick Brown had 14 points toughest. I don't know how Leonard Hamilton said. "They for the Musketeers {14-4, 2-1 ), that works, but it worked have so many weapons." who had won six in a row by tonight." Gerald Henderson added 11 an average margin of 25.3 
Florida State took its only points and Singler had 10 for points ~ince losing to then-No. lead of the second half at 55-Duke. Henderson's eight 12 Tennessee on Dec. 22. 54 on Jason Rich's layup with rebounds helped the Blue But Temple came ready to 
3:45 left before Duke put the Devils to a 44-32 advantage on play from the start. game away with a closing 16-2 the boards. Luis Guzman scored all 13 of run. Kyle Singler's 3-pointer his points in the first half to tie put the Blue Devils ahead for Temple 78, Xavier 59 his career-best. Sparked by good with 3:30 to play. · Not since John Chaney Guzman's performance, 
"There are shots and then patrolled the sideline has Temple played one of its best there are huge shots, and that Temple played so well against halves using a 12-2 run to coming in, had just two field streak ended with a 77-69 loss was a huge shot," Krzyzewski a better team. Dionte take a 27-21 lead. goals in the first half. He to Massachusetts (12-4, 1-1). said. Christmas scored 19 of his 23 Xavier answered with six found his scoring touch after This was the first home loss of 
"That slowed our momen­points in the second half and straight points, including a the break, getting 15 of the the season for the Flyers, who tum," Hich said. "Actually Mark Tyndale added 22 to lead thunderous dunk by Brown off team's next 20 points. beat then-No. 6 Pittsburgh stopped the momentum." Temple to a victory over No. an alley-oop pass from Stanley Christmas hit two difficult 3-here. 
Duke (14-1, 2-0 Atlantic 20 Xavier on Wednesday Burrell. Brown followed with pointers a minute apart to give "In our offense, anyone can Coast Conference) nearly blew night. two free throws to tie it, but Temple a 47-43 lead. After a have a breakout day. Today a 17-point lead it built in the The Owls (7-8, 1-1 Atlantic Temple took a 30-27 halftime three-point play by Jason was my day," Harris said. "I first half on a 16-0 run led by 10) beat a ranked opponent lead. Love, Christmas nailed his came out early and made Scheyer, who had 10 points on for the first time in two years Christmas, Temple's leading fourth 3 and the Owls broke it shots, and that helped me stay a variety of shots in a span of to earn their biggest win since scorer with a 20.5 average open. confident." 
Hyan Brooks and Chris Clark Dayton's Brian Roberts fin­finished off a 10-0 run with ished with 21, but consecutive 3-pointers, Massachusetts put the clamps extending the lead to 60-47 on the Flyers' leading scorer with 9:02 left. Seven-footer in the first half, holding him to Sergio Olmos excited the two points and forcing Dayton crowd on the opposite end, to look for other scorers. blocking shots on consecutive "We focused on Hoberts as possessions. much as we could to shut him 
Christmas then showed off down. We executed almost to his inside game, spinning and perfection," Massachusetts driving to the basket for a coach Travis Ford said.The tough layup to make it 65-50. Minuteman finished with 13 3­
Xavier made only one shot pointers and used their speed over a 6-minute span before in the open court to beat Drew Lavender scored to end Dayton's defense, scoring 14 the slump. points off fast breaks. 
"We played as good a game "We gave up way too much as we can play on both ends of dribble penetration, which led the court," Dunphy said. to open 3s," Dayton coach "We're improving as a team." Brian Gregory said. "If they're 
Temple's last win over a Top going to double Brian Roberts, 25 team came against No. 6 other guys need to step up and George Washington in the make plays. We didn't do quarterfinals of the A-1 0 tour­enough of that tonight consis­nament in 2006. A small-but­tently." enthusiastic crowd ran onto Dayton finished 4-of-25 from the court to celebrate this vic­3-point range. When Dayton tory -one of the few times tried to take the ball inside, they've had reason to cheer the Minutemen would col­lately. lapse, blocking shots -six in 
"It's a great builder going all -or forcing the Flyers to into the A-10 games," Tyndale kick the ball back out. said. "It's a big win for us." Dayton took a 57-56 lead 
with 10:10 remaining on a UMass 82, Dayton 71 layup by Roberts. With the 
Massachusetts hasn't heard Flyers leading 59-58 after the about Dayton being so tough teams exchanged baskets, to beat at home. Lowe hit two free throws to 
Ricky Harris scored 22 put Massachusetts ahead for points and Chris Lowe added good. A minute later he made 19 to lead the Minutemen to a layup off a missed 3-point an victory Wednesday night, attempt by the Flyers, and the their second in as many years Minutemen never trailed in Dayton and one that again. snapped the Flyers' 13-game "I told our team to expect winning streak. them to come back," Ford 
Dayton {14-2, 2-1 Atlantic said. "They came back and 
10) won its first 14 home even took the lead, but we games last season before that responded well." 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 17, 2008 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 
With baby looking on, Davenport bovvs out 
Sharapova defeats new mother in second-round match 
Associated Press 
MEI.BOUHNE. Australia Maria Sharapova looknd up and spotted a 7 -month-old kid staring hnr down. 
"I thought I saw lwr little kid g1v1ng me dirty looks," Sharapova said. 
The boy, Jagger, was eourt­side. llis mom. Lindsay Davenport. winner of throe Grand Slam titles and with a 1!J-1 record since returning to thn tour, was across the net. 
Sharapova beat Davenport 6-1, 6-3 Wednesday night to move into the third round of the Australian Open against a fellow Hussian, Elena Vesnina. 
"Tell you thn truth, I approaehnd it like it's a final," said Sharapova, straying from her 'one-match-at-a-time' mantra. "Ever since I took a penk at the draw and saw that Lindsay was second round." 
Davenport was only five tournamnnts into a eomeback after giving birth to Jagger last June. Still. Sharapova was preparing for a matehup wor­thy of the second week of a major. 
"You probably don't get to see too many second rounds where you see two Grand Slams champions, former No. 1 s playing against each other," she said. "The buildup to the match, the excitement, the showtime -l love that. As an athlete, that's what you play for." 
And that's probably what brought Davenport back. 
"It was fun. The crowd was great. I wish l could've given them a little more to cheer for," the 31-year-old Californian said. "The key was starting off' well, and l really didn't do that." 
Sharapova never faced a break point. She broke for the fourth time when Davenport nettnd a forehand on seeond match point. 
''I'm disappointed with the way this mateh went and this tournament went, but l have to look big pieture at this point in my eareer," Davenport said. "So far it's gone pretty well the last few months." 
Justine lienin could say the same about her time back on thn tour after a marriage broakup that kept her from Melbourne last year. She domi­nated the rest of the 2007 sea­son with a 63-4 record, includ­ing wins at tlw Freneh and 
U.S. Opens. 
ller 6-1, 7-5 victory over Hussia's Olga Poutchkova on Wednesday extended the Belgian's streak to 30 conseeu­tive wins since an upset semi­f'inal loss to Marion Bartoli at Wimbledon. 
No. 3 Jeiena Jankovic, who had to save three match points in a 22-game third set in the first round, had a routine 6-2, 7-5 win over Edina Gallovits in the second round. 
Serena Williams made a eomeback of her own last year, eapturing an eighth Grand Slam title with an emphatic victory over Sharapova in the Australia Open final only three weeks after one of her worst career losses in a tournament at Hobart. She was ranked No. 81 and was only the second unseeded woman to win a Grand Slam title. 
Now ranked No. 7, she's growing in confidence for an Australian title defense. ·she improved her record to 25-1 in her five most recent trips to Melbourne Park with a 6-3, 6­1 win over China's Yuan Meng. 
Sister Venus, whose first­round win was her first at Melbourne Park since a fourth-round exit in 2005, is in the opposite half of the draw. 
Venus, ranked No. 8, plays Camil Pin first up on Vodafone Arena on Thursday, with No. 2 Svetlana Kuznetsova begin­ning play on center court against Tsvetana Pironkova. 
Roger Federer is next at Rod Laver Arena against French veteran Fabrice Santoro, play­ing in a record 62nd Grand Slam tournament. Federer has reached the finals of the last 10 majors, winning eight of those to move within two of Pete Sampras' record 14 Grand Slam titles. He's 27-1 at the season's opening major since the start of 2004. 



KING OF THE BLUES WORLDWIDE

B.B. KING
AND THE B.B. KING BLUES BAND 

THURSDAY JANUARY 31 at 7:30PM MORRIS PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
SOUTH BEND, IN 

TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE MORRIS BOX OFFICE & SUPER SOUNDS in GOSHEN BY PHONE (574) 235-9190 www.MORRISCENTER.org. 
Balance 
continued from page 24 
Luke Harangody has thrown his hat in the ring for Big East player of the year considera­tion. lie's leading the league in scoring (19.3 points per game) and is fourth in rebounds (9.6). Harangody had some trouble contending with the double­team agairist Marquette Saturday, but fared much bet­ter against Cincinnati Tuesday, seoring 24 in the second half. 
Guard Kyle McAlarney lit up Connecticut for a career-high 32 points and has developed a consistent touch from the out­side after some early-season struggles. McAlarney is also well on his way to perfecting the floater in the lane, which has enabled him to score over guys seven or eight inches taller than he. 
Meanwhile, Hob Kurz is as steady as always, averaging 
13.8 points and 8.3 rebound;; per game. 
But for everything the Irish are doing well right now, the 92-66 blowout at Marquette showed what can go wrong. 
If Ilarangody or McAlarney has an off-night shooting, oth­ers need to pick up the slack. It could be Tory Jacksop finding his way inside, Luke Zeller or Hyan Ayers (whose defensive efforts are almost as unappre­ciated by the casual observer as Kurz's overall career at Notre Dame) nailing a few more three-pointers and fight­ing their way inside, or Zach Hillesland using his size and quickness to find his way to the basket. 
All of that could happen ­but it hasn't very often this sea­son. 
Against Marquette, 1-larangody had 29 points and Kurz added 11, but no one else scored in double figures. 


If Notre Dame expects to compete with the upper eehe­lon of the Big East, especially on the road, it needs a little more help from its role players on the nights when Harangody is held in check by someone a little taller than him -like 7­foot-3 Hasheem Thabeet of Connecticut-or when McAlarney faces tough one-on­one defenders, like he did against Marquette. Not every team in the Big East has a Thabeet, or guards as quick as Marquette, but the upper-level teams, like Georgetown and Pittsburgh, do. 
Right now, Notre Dame could easily finish 12-6 in conference and make the NCAA Tournament, but with a little extra boost from its supporting cast, the Irish can challenge for the league title. 
Notre Dame faces its biggest test of the season Saturday when it goes on the road to face Georgetown. The Hoyas are on a bit of a downturn, struggling at home against Connecticut and falling at Pittsburgh, but then again, Marquette was in a similar situation Saturday. 
And we all know how that turned out. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris 1/ine at chine@nd. edu. 


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) 

Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Baustista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) 
Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

Thursday, January 17, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Tar Heels edge Georgia Tech 
Hansbrough's blockwith seconds left keeps North Carolina perfect 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -North Carolina usually does its best work at the offensive end. 
This time, it was a defensive play that kept the top-ranked Tar Heels perfect. 
With Georgia Tech poised to pull off a monumental upset, Tyler Hansbrough made a game-saving block in the clos­ing seconds and the Tar Heels escaped with an 83-82 victory over the pesky Yellow Jackets on Wednesday night. 
Hansbrough scored 27 points, bullying inside for shots and drawing one foul after another, but he saved his biggest play for the end -getting a hand on Zack Peacock's shot that could have won it for about the second attempt. 
"It was the cleanest shot you'll ever get in a basketball game," he moaned. "Next time, it's going in." 
Hansbrough finished 7 -of-14 from the field and kept getting to the foul line, where he had more attempts (15) than Georgia Tech's entire team (1 0). The burly, 6-foot-9 junior made 13 free throws, and North Carolina needed every one of them. 
"My face really got beat up, '"'said Hansbrough, who also had 11 rebounds. "It was really, really rough." 
North Carolina is off to its best start since the 1985-86 team began the season with 21 straight wins. Another encour­aging sign for the 
the Yellow Tar Heels: This is
"My face really got 
Jackets. their first 3-0
beat up. It was really,
"Tyler was start in the con-really some­really rough. " ference since thing else," Tar 2004-05, and Heels coach Roy that team went
Tyler Hansbrough
Williams said. on to claim the
Tar Heels forward
Danny Green NCAA champi­
put North Carolina (18-0, 3-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) ahead by making one of two free throws with 22 seconds remaining. 
Georgia Tech (7-9, 0-3) had a chance -a couple of them, in fact. Peacock retrieved the loose ball after Hansbrough"s block and got off another shot with 3 seconds to go. It rimmed out, allowing North Carolina to escape. 
Peacock insisted that some­one hit his hand on the first shot, but he made no excuses onship. 
This season, 

they have won all but four of their games with double-digit blowouts. North Carolina came into Atlanta averaging 92.2 points and win­ning by an average margin of 22.1. 
With snow covering the ground outside after a rare winter storm in Georgia, the Yellow Jackets almost pulled off an even bigger surprise. They put together an 11-2 run for their biggest lead of the game, 63-56. 
Anthony Morrow hit a 3­pointer falling down and Peacock completed the spurt with a basket on the inside. 
In the unaccustomed role of playing from behind, North Carolina responded. The Tar Heels worked hard for second chances and pulled even at 70 on Ty Lawson's three-point play with 8:52 remaining. 
But the Yellow Jackets· kept matching North Carolina shot for shot. D'Andre Bell hit a jumper to reclaim the lead for the horne team. Lawson scored on a fast-break drive to make it 72-all. Georgia Tech took off the other way for Peacock's dunk. 
It was close to the end. Jeremis Smith hit two free throws with 1:13 remaining to make it 82-82, and Georgia Tech squandered a chance to go ahead when Morrow missed a jumper from the corner with the shot clock running down. 
Green was fouled by Peacock on the rebound, and walked to the other end of the court to shoot two. Only one went in, but that was enough to give the Tar Heels another victory. -­
''I'd rather have the winning points than the winning point," "Green quipped. 
Smith led the Yellow Jackets with 15 points, Peacock had 14 and Morrow added 13.' Freshman Gani Lawai also had 13 but fouled out with more than 5 minutes remaining. 
Georgia Tech scored three more baskets than the mighty Tar Heels, including eight 3­pointers, but couldn't overcome their 21-of-26 showing at the foul line. 
ed 
?
• 

yon love neeo:ls help 
1Jense onll. 
c.,nj;Jf!SH.tMI~,-tau..I (ifiJJ-~ ~;!Jk at N.,nll!' D~ 
• ~ ]e.Ui.l.c-Jii.!it o~. ~L..t Aild:..41-~40~ 
• ~.~D-.., OP,~l-.t A:H;m,;, 1-~19 Ddlo., CaiiJ''U ~1-~ 6.3 
DtL.,Cm•:t• 1'-'.hd:~ 1-~63 (rt< »•~ ~P~ co~l::q: c..tu· 1-4365 
.·.··., ....... j r r 
•. ~--JI.. K'L.·r~ Ho.Jd. f!t.1•doee~, 1--62,&6 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 17, 2008 

Wildcats 
continued from page 24 
t.hn 6-4 load in the first five 
minutns of thP gamn. With 
l'etnrs on the court, though, 
Notre Dame took the game 
hack in its own hands. 

Thn strong Irish prnss con­tinued to forrn turnovnrs as Notre Dame stn~tchnd its lead. Dnspitn staying strong up top, Notre Dame struggled to dnl'nnd the Wildcats' three­point game. Villanova went 9­for-1 (J from tlw three-point linn. lnd by Junior Lisa Karcic, who madn' thnH~ for four. 
McGraw knnw the Irish had thnir work cut out for them. 
"That was ,.LL great win for us," Mdiraw said. "[Villanova[ is a rnally diffieult team to guard, thny obviously shoot tiHl throe very Willi." 
The game also brought an excess of fouls from both sides. Villanova headed to tho locker room af'tnr the 11rst half with eight fouls, Notre Dame with six. 
The Irish were able to con­trol tlwir fouls in the second half and finished the game with 12: Villanova had 18. 
This made tlw difTerencn for the Irish as they went 17-for­18 in free throws, just one shy of the tnam record. Villanova only wnnt three for four from the line. 
The match wasn't all ups for Notre Dame. With 4:55 lel't in the first half, Lindsay Schrader was down on the floor grab­bing h1~r left knne. McGraw said she was immediately con­cerned, since the guard had torn her right ACL last October. 
"Bad memories went through my mind and I was worried," McGraw said. "Siw's benn such a big key for us and she's hav­ing such a great year you hate to see that happnn." 
Schradnr re-entered the game in the second half. after doctors said she had hyper­extendnd her knee, whieh was not enough to knnp her on the bench. 
Schrader came back for the Irish to finish the game with 12 points. 
Laura Kurz. sister of Notre Dame men's basketball captain Hob Kurz. led Villanova with 20 points. 
Notre Dame had some trou­bln with the ball as the Villanova defense succeeded in foreing 19 turnovers from the Irish. but McGraw wasn't too worried. 
"I don't think they're the type of turnovers you worry about because they weren't bad de<~isions," she said. 
Notre Dame's athleticism helped slow Villanova's offense for the win, Villanova coach llarry Perretta said. 
"When have you have ath­leticism that disrupts any­body's of'fense," Villanova coach Perretta said. 
Petnrs' role in Notre Dame's press isn't always to get the ball herself. 
"!My role isl really to got in their vision and really just force them to through it long so other people can get the steal," Peters said. 
Note: 
+The game started with a moment of silent prayer for Notre Dame faculty member Patricia McAdams, a longtime Irish fan who was injured in an accident on her way home from the West Virginia game Sunday. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
Peters 
continued from page 24 
beat Peters, she used the only outlet available to her 
to take out her frustration. As Peters backed into the 
lane, Karcic reached around and popped her in the jaw. 
Unfazed, Peters found guard Lindsay Schrader for the layup, then proceeded to steal a pass, run the length of the court, and make both free throws after she was fouled attempting a layup. 
By disrupting Villanova's offense, Peters put together one of her best games of the season. 
"She's everywhere. She takes up a lot of ground," Villanova head coach Harry Perretta said. "She's guard­ing our guards. She's faster than our point guard." 
Along with her 15 points, which came on 5-of-8 shooting, Peters had six rebounds, three blocks and seven steals in the game. No player has had seven steals in a game since Megan Duffy did it on Jan. 


30. 2005, when the Irish ended No. 9/10 Connecticut's 112-game winning steak at home against conference oppo­nents. She was also perfect from the foul line, hitting all five free throws she took. 
Peters made a living on the block underneath the basket and waited for a lob pass from her teammates. Once it came, her adeptness at turning for the lay-in made life difficult for defenders. 
Her natural affinity for defense made itself appar­ent as soon as she entered the game. Seconds after entering the lineup, she tipped a cross-court pass that resulted in a turnover and scored on the ensuing Irish possession. 
"Our game plan changes when she comes in the 
'
R 
RAM
' . 
game because she can do so many things, so many things well defensively," Irish coach Mul'f'et McGraw said. "We really want her on the floor as much as we can have her there." 
Villanova's offense suiTo­cated when Peters partiei­pated in the press. ller height and long arms got in Villanova's way, and her quick feet carried her back and forth as she blanketed the Wildcat guards. 
Villanova guard Siobhan O'Conner's eyes grew wide with fright as Peters descended on her during the press. Indeed, the Wildcat offensive machine suffered technical difficul­ties and at times lost even the ability to dribble and pass when Peters applied pressure. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authoer and not necessarly those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu. 
I 


Irish guard Charel Allen guards Villanova guard Maria Getty in Notre Dame's 69-58 win over the Wildcats Wednesday at the Joyce Center. Getty did not score in the game. 
Live, learn, and work in Washington, DC, during Fall2008 or Spring 2009 with Notre Dame's 

Deadline for applications: January 23, 2008. www.nd.edu/~wp 
Sophomore and First Year Students of all majors may apply. 
Thursday, January 17, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLACK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
I HAVe A ?002 Set,F-I~e ••• ANt> A(...$0••• wet.t. THIS MIGHT SOUNl> 
Cf!AZY euT••• 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
SOMeTIMeS I Fee(... YOU2 WOMMATe MIGHT Se HIDING IN THe C02Ne2. 

WILLSHORTZ

CROSSWORD 
37 Ho.,.J eoq)ert>IP wori<: IHolliCIIy


ExoroioSI"l\ o.~ 5 Coll:llin 38SpoMdo 135 Cor11)1111~Y lolliCieror;:: Abllf.
lli«O pho1~ &1.1 'Nire me.~~G~.rM= 
9 arclo &1.21'1ot lor(! or 1313 Hubb.1b -short Abbr. 
D­
&1.3 E:-:lretYiely 

1 Okl nOI,'JoS!llliPOr
&l.&l."l-s:1h.-rt _?' 

~ction 
Tco:t-s: &1.5 Bor(ler;o,.1x •mriety 
2 It'-s: ,,b~ll: 200 Socldi~g &1.7Lon~mo 
miiM= -s:o~th of a~oo.oy dfori~g l'.licle!Mt le.~~(ler Goorgi, 
Oyfrom Slll1"tll! &1.8 Shot, i"tformllllly 
3 Arti-M-sh ~~~ge~rt Dol~ -si(le 50Vo11) in Ill &!. f>lo•Jill(.., oily 
(l~leoSUOn from
Jul~

Abbr. 
~el<:or, 52 Somo 11~1111:« frecp.1etl"ltj 
59 Dioo"lllrgeos: 

13 Cir~~~> 130 f>lot lllllo...Ji~g for 7 Como __ 001'11llfOIYii~ 
(llfOI:«itioro) 131 Duelme.~~G~.rM= 
8 Aumi1111~ plli•t« 132Con~« Scl-.ielo 133 __ 'Nirto~r. 9De•~ 
rollll-lifo odtor on 

10 H111~•-s:in 
Pooall. .... ,Joe, IQ-­

I,'Jhom "ll~ Doo.oil 11 Looked ~.) 
'Ne.~~r-s: PrlliCI.,. i-s: 30 "NI"Illt'-s:11~o 39 f>l1111~oy DrOI,'/-s: 53 S.?dl)«kfig~rM=
12 Proc~1o:t I,'Jith 
__"?.

b-d g~l'j
OlllriJI.ICk: 5&1. r.lod«l~ I,'Jritil~
32 , Stil See __• 

&1.0 P«'IO'OI~fiomia~
13 Liter«y 55 Ge1~0 oStl"llo'IHk: 
~Pilli1t 'ro~r &1.5 G-eek pe.~~k
1'1101~0{1MIYI 
513 c~~a....
'Nillga~· 'IO'OI~u. 

&1.13 P..,oo to o5t«t Ill
~~~ 18CloM-sio a~oo.oy 
57 r.lCI111nd o:tl~r-s:33 Eocle-sillloStiollll loo5t-(..i•.-.eo

offeril~ ~~~~~ 58 Q~e cf S7-00I,'A~,
&1.9 "'-•il:e Ill bit
~..;f~ 21'Ni•~ ord« 3S G-o...J impllllie~rt in En9id~
51 Cl-.i~k: wth 52 Trtlo j>OM i~ Ill 59 Go•Jt or~ I,'Jth Ill 
2&1. P')o tob oooo 
hllloS t 
37 All-__ (G-Illlteo:l) 1 ':.t57biq)io. flo.,..oeor in t-s: logo
..;+~~~ 25 "'Nhllll: 1-s: to Be 
Do1~'?" 
j)1111Y1phleto«, For llln'!r'.ver-s:, ooll 1-000-28S-513St\ 11. .olJ 111 •.,;mite", or, •.mh 111 orodt oor(l 1-800-814SSS.ol.
1001 
P.m.IIlii G~.lb-s:orip1ion-s: «e lli'.Mi..,ble for 11~o be-st of S..n~l111y
~~~ 213 Co1tor cf j)OI,'J« oro~.vor(k;: from11~e lllloSt SO ye.~~ror;:: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
llllloSt IJI.I:z:zlo-s:, rt_rtimM'. 001Y1/oro~.vordo5 (1:'39.9S Ill yo«). informllllly Sh«o 1ipor;:: rt_rtimM'. oaYI~JI.I:z:zlefor~nYI. Cro~.vor(k;: for yo~n~ ..;;.,a..-..,..-..,.-. 29 Di-s:oo-«lll Gl.ffiX oo•.-.eoror;:: ~~~IYIOoS'.OOIYIAe«nil~b:o.vorck:. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
PRIPE 
I [ J (] 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
POZAT 
j
I [X I I GRENED j[XI I I 
WHY HIS PAL-S WE:RE: L-IKE: IC.E: C.UBE:S. 
www.jumble.com

tPROWED j Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. J I r I I 

Ans: 

THEY"( I I I I I I JITJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: STOIC TYING GATHER INVESTYesterday's Answer: 
What the bartender told the tipsy driver to do-SIT "TIGHT" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Chad Lowe. 40; Mario Van Peebles. 51; Andrea Martin. 61; Margaret O"Brien. 71 
Happy Birthday: You will accomplish far more this year if you just quietly move for­ward with your plans. Trust your own judgment and put your knowledge and expertise to use. Your numbers are ll. 19, :!I. 25. 33. 39 
ARIES (March 2l-Aprill9): You will be a little anxious and idle time will be what leads to mistakes. Look at the big picture and, if you aren't happy with what you see, change it. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Stick to what bas to be finished and don't let anyone take your mind off your task at hand. If you fall short of your expectations. someone will be sure to point out your shortcoming. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): There will be no time to mull over things. Action will be the key to your success. Your intuition will be on the mark, so trust in your own judg­ment. not someone else's. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): If you feel you are too dose to a situation to make a good decision. don't move forward. Look around you and see what everyone else is doing. It should give you an indication where you fit in and how you can proceed. Hon­esty will win favors. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This is a perfect meet-and-greet day, especially where inspira­tional people are concerned. A love connection can be made or you cau get closer to your current partner by discussing your future plans. S stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If you complain or criticize others, you aren't likely to get anywhere. However, if you focus on implementing a couple of changes that will ease your stress, much can be accomplished. Start doing for yourself. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Keep busy doing things that will eventually help you get ahead. Courses, hobbies. picking up information or spending time with someone experi­enced in a field you want to pursue will all work to your advantage. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may have to lake an alternate route to get to where you belong. Keep on top of what everyone else is doing so you can outsmart any com­petition you face. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You should be spending time looking for love or doing something special "~th your current parUter. Travel may entice you but you can accomplish just as much sticking close to home. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Listen and assess your situation. Someone will give you a bird's eye \~ew of what you need to do to accomplish your goals. Be smart and play your cards close to your chest. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Consider your options and you "~II be able to fit far more into your schedule. Planning your next vacation will encourage you to be more productive.4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll fmd it difficult to stick to one thing. Your mind will be wandering and you may need to question your motives. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You investigate, determine what to do and react quickly and precisely. You are channing. sensitive, emotional and able to fmd solutions when any problems occur. 
Euge11ia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for full. cTtgenialast.com for conjiderttial co11su/tatio11s 

, 
_..., . 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, January 17, 2008 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Grit and determination 
Irish top Wildcats / for second Big East win in three games 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
Villanova loads the nation with the fewest turnovnrs per gamtl, but that didn't stop Irish freshman Devereaux Peters rrom playing her role. 
Peters forcnd seven of Villanova's 24 turnovers in Notrn Danw's 69-58 win over Villanova Wednesday night at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish felt Peters' impact as SCHill as she stepped on the court at 15:4 7 in the first half'. Slw grabbed her first steal only 20 seconds into the game and put her first two points on the board just 29 seconds later. 

"She's a really good defender in the rront of the press and I think she makes a difference in our press, which is why we were able to force the turnovers tonight," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Villanova looked strong com­ing out of the gate and took 
see WILDCATS/page 22 


MEN'S BASKETBALL COMMENTARY 
ND needs balanced scoring 
Team must have points from more players in upcoming contests 
Do you remember the transi­tive property from your high school math dasses? You know, if a is gnmter than b. and b is greater than c, then a is greater than c? 
That may work fine in math, but it hardly applies to the wild and crazy Big East. 
Pittsburgh sufl'r.rs injuries to two key players, loses to Villanova, but some­how pulls it togethnr to knock oil' league-favorite <;eorgntown. Wnst Virginia handily beats Marquette, but Marquette turns around and crushes Notre Dame, who beat West Virginia nine days earlier. DePaul, who was 4-7 out of eonfnrence, startnd the Big East 3-1. Most teams have played four conference games, and nobody escaped without at least one loss. 
So how can Notre Dame pull through the mayhem and finish near the top of the Big East 

Chris Hlne 
Sports Editor 

standings? 
A little balance. 
Notre Dame (13-3, 3-1 Big East) is one of six teams with one loss atop the conference standings. Before the season began, the Big East coaches picked Notre Dame to fmish ninth in their preseason poll. Last year, the Irish were 

picked 11th, and finished fourth. 
Judging by the way they played their first four games, Notre Dame can finish that high again this year -maybe even a little higher. 
Through four games, forward 
see BALANCE/page 20 
Peters' efforts on both ends of floor spur team to win 
After 37 minutes of basket­ball. Villanova forward Lisa Karcic was frustrated. Her team was down by 10 points, and they couldn't mount a comeback despite shooting 
56.3 per" cent ft·om behind the arc. 
But she had to be frustrated with Irish freshman forward 

Devereaux 
Peters. All Sports Writer night, Peters had disrupted the Wildcats offense, throwing her lanky limbs in front of shots and passes and destroying Villanova's momentum. She had also lived on the block all night and finished with a career-high 15 points. 
So because Karcie couldn't 
see PETERS/page 22 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Kessler's record night powers Belles to win 
Senior guard scores 41 as Saint Mary's tops K-Zoo, 72-69 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI 
Sports Wrirer 
Alison Kessler rebounded from a slow start during Wednesday's game against Kalamazoo, scoring a school­record 41 points in the Belles' 72-69 win. 
The Saint 
Mary's sen­ior guard missed her first two shots and had a turnover early in the first half. 

She didn't Kessler get on the board until five and a half min­utes had gone by. Once she started, though, Kessler never stopped. The Belles edged Kalamazoo for their third conference win of the season. Kessler, the only Belle to score in double figures, shot 14-27 from the field and pulled down nine rebounds in the win. Despite Kessler's stellar per­
formanee, the Hornets (4-10, 1­5 MIAA) went shot-for-shot with the Belles for the first half, always staying within at least six points. 

After the break, Kalamazoo took a 42-41 lead at the 16:41 mark, and stretched that lead to 12 with 7:48 left in the game. But Saint Mary's took a 70-69 lead after a layup by Kessler with 34 seconds remaining. 
Twenty seconds later. Kessler iced the game and scored her 40th and 41st points with two 
free~throws. 
Sophomore Anna Kammrath was the Belles' second leading scorer with eight and junior forward Erin Newsom chipped in eleven rebounds. 
Kalamazoo senior guards Kelsea Howell and Therese Demres led the Hornets, scor­ing 22 and 19 points, respec­tively. 
With the win, the Belles reached .500 both in the MIAA (3-3) and overall (7-7). 
The team hopes to continue its success Saturday at home against Tri-State. The contest with the Thunder will be the second home game for the Belles this season, and the first since Dee. 5 when the Belles lost to Calvin. 
Contact Griffin Dassani at gdassatt@nd.edu 





