
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Jenkins addresses economic crisis in letter 
President tells faculty and staff that University will survive the recession, but that it must operate more efficiently 
was not sent in response to how to address the ship of the University's ments to financial aid,
By AARON STEINER specific concerns, but he said University's situation with resources is necessary at all research, graduate student 
News Writer 
Notre Dame is aware of regard to the recession have times, it is critical in these support, library funding, con­
potential been ongoing during the past grave economic conditions," struction projects, and faculty 
On the day when govern­concerns two or three weeks, stating he said, stating he has asked and staff salaries. ment officials announced that and issues. that such discussion are sim­academic and administrative University Executive Vice the country has been in a "We're ply "prudent planning." leaders to identify possible President John Affleck-Graves recession since December of not oblivi­In the e-mail message, savings and reduce costs confirmed that current con­2007, University President Fr. ous to the dated Dec. 1, Jenkins said the where possible. struction projects will contin­John Jenkins wrote to faculty economic University is "well positioned Jenkins also wrote that he ue to function, telling The and staff about the current conditions to weather the current asked the University budget Observer on Nov. 20, "All of economic downturn and its that are storm," but also wrote that office to develop contingency the construction projects we potential effect on the facing the economic pressures would plans "in the event that eco­have on campus are fully University. university force the University to "do nomic conditions worsen." funded, and we are not going 
Notre Dame Assistant Vice communi­more with existing resources Jenkins said Notre Dame to stop construction." President for News and ty," he in order to reduce expendi­would remain committed to Affleck-Graves said con-Information Dennis Brown s a i d . tures." the core mission of the told The Observer the letter Brown said discussions about "While responsible steward-University, noting commit-see ECONOMY/page 4 



Reish to use survey results as guide 
Many students identify off-campus safety as a concern, but say they feel safe on-campus 

By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
The results from last month's student survey, which was taken by 3,658 students, will help guide future student gov­ernment initiatives and influ­ence the final months of his administration, student body president Bob Reish said. 
"I think this information will be very valuable both in the different initiatives our office decides to pursue as well as helping provide hard numbers in support of some of these ini­tiatives to both the faculty and administrative offices on cam­pus," he said. 
Reish said there was "no sin­gular, pressing issue" that arose from the survey results, but said safety off-campus was a major concern for many stu­dents. While 94.6 percent of students said they felt safe walking around campus at night, 78.9 percent of students said they did not feel safe walking off-campus at night. 
Reish said 89 percent of women feel unsafe off campus at night, compared to 67 per­cent of men. More upperclass­men said they felt unsafe off campus than underclassmen, he fjaid. 
Reish said student govern­ment would respond to these concerns with several initia­tives, including a winter break safety forum "where students will find out how to help keep their off-campus apartment or house safe as well as be able to sign up for an off-campus safe-
see SURVEY/page 4 

TCEs n1ove to Internet 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame will be imple­menting a new system to evaluate professors and courses at the end of this semester, according to the Course Instructor Feedback Web site. 
Course Instructor Feedbacks, nicknamed CIFs, will replace Teacher Course Evaluations (TCEs) this semester. According to Gunty, the new system will be completely online, so stu­dents will have a longer time to fill out the evaluations. 
see CIFIpage 4 

Irish fans disappointed, en1barrassed by USC loss 
Students cite Marching Band's halftime show as highlight of game; Notre Dame falls 76-3 in two years to Trojans 

By LIZ HARTER and KATIE 
KOHLER 
News Writers 
Notre Dame students who traveled out to the University of Southern California this week­end were hoping for a miracle -but instead they got a mas­sacre, watching the Irish fall 38-3 at the Coliseum. 
Waiting until only seconds left in the third quarter for the Irish's first first down, students were disappointed in the last game of the regular season. 
"I was disappointed overall," said Saint Mary's senior Allison Buddie, a member of the Band of the Fighting Irish. "Our defense was able to keep it close through the first quarter which gave me a lot of hope, but then the offense was unable to come up with even a first down until the third quarter." 

Senior George Packer said he was not only disappointed in the loss, but embarrassed. 
"It's embarrassing. We have lost 76-3 to USC the past two years. Father Jenkins only gave Ty Willingham three years. Why should Charlie [Weis] get more than four?" Packer said. 
"It sucks that we fell apart right at the end [of the sea­son]," Buddie said. "But I think Weis will stay another year ... too much money and overall improvements have been made to have Weis leave now." 
Breaking Charlie Weis' con­tract could cost the University 
see USC/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, December 2, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

U111brellas in the snovv 
I don't think anyone is a fan of the 

snow that fell on campus on Monday. 
It doesn't settle on the ground in aes­

thetically pleasing drifts. It just kind of 
meekly melts on the sidewalks or feebly 
tries to cover the grass on the quad. It's 
either hard and stinging or wet and 
slushy-not that 
big, feathery kind 
that elicits visions Jordan Gamble 
of idyllic Christmas 
cards. 
Having Christmas Scene Writer 

card snow fall on 
your bare head is 
cool, because it settles all angelically 
and stuff. But the kind of snowfall we 
had yesterday? I'd much prefer to keep 
it off my hair, face and clothing, thank 
you. I don't relish being wet and cold 
once it all melts when I go inside ­
especially when outside. Notre Dame is 
going to be some degree of both for the 
next four months. 
To protect against the undesirable 

snow, some people wear hats, others 
hoods, others are just tough and zip up 
their jackets and saunter through the 
elements. But me, I use an umbrella. 
I know, I know. An umbrella in the 

snow'! Who does that? 
One my friends, a native Californian 

who had never seen snow before com­
ing to South Rend, had the same ques­
tion freshman year. Some people told 
her it was nerdy, that you'd definitely 
stick out as a newbie to winter weather 
if you were seen with an umbrella in 
snowfall. 
I told her what I saw as the most 

rational approach: If it works for rain, 
why not just use it for crystalline water 
ice? 
Needless to say, I was the only person 

who had such an argument. 
Maybe the novelty of walking through 

such precipitation discourages most 
from using umbrellas. Maybe they relish 
the light, white, fluffy, swirling good­
ness in a way that I cannot, seeing as 
how I have grown up in the crazy 
weather of Indiana and have had quite 
enough of "wintry mix" to fill up my 
novelty quota. 
And, if you have trouble remembering 
to grab an umbrella even when it's rain­
ing, the distraction of aforementioned 
swirling goodness will even further 
deter you from using one when its 
snowing. 
So, in defense of snow umbrellas: 
They keep you dry (at least your head 
and shoulders). All those layers ofT­
shirt, sweatshirt, fleece jacket, parka, 
scarf, ski mask, sock hat and earmuffs 
will not be for naught. Seriously, if they 
get wet, they are useless. 
And, if you choose to go hatless, prob­
ably in an effort to retain some sign of 
hygienic attention to your hair, the 
snow will do your painstakingly styled 
coif no favors. Sure, it looks all angelic 
and stuff outside, but once you go into a 
heated building'! Not so much. 
Most importantly, umbrellas often come in bright, cheery colors, which stand out nicely against the (a) pristine white blanket of snow, or (b) the brutal, churning mess of slush and mud. Either way, the umbrella wins. No one will be able to resist the quirky charm of a bright red umbrella on the frozen tun­dra of South Quad. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The ( )hservcr regards irself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards ofjounalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU BELIEVE IN SECOND CHANCES? 







Daniel Reimer  Jenna Heffernan  Liz Peterson  Meghan Lee  Nick Ward  
senior off-campus  freshman Walsh  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  senior Duncan  
"Absolutely. How would Top Gun' have ended if Maverick didn't  "Yes, as long s the 'second chance' only lasts one more football game. "  "Yes, but I don't believe in third, fourth or fifth ones.  "Yes, but how many second chances does one person get?"  "No, but I believe in miracles, you sexy thang. "  

graduate?" 


ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer The referee seperates Notre Dame players from USC players as a fight breaks out during the game Saturday at the Coliseum. 
OFFBEAT 
Man says God told him to crash into car 
SAN ANTONIO -A man who rammed his truck into a woman's vehicle on a highway early Friday told author­ities he crashed into her while going more than 100 mph because God told him "she needed to be taken off the road." 
The truck rear-ended the car on U.S. Highway 2 81, both vehicles spun across a median then came to a stop along a barrier in the opposite lanes. Both drivers suf­fered only minor injuries. 
TODAY 
..... 
<
(,) 

0 
HIGH 35
..J 
LOW 25 

"He just said God said she wasn't driving right, and she needed to be taken off the road," Bexar County Sheriff's Office spokesman Kyle Coleman said in the online edition of the San Antonio Express-News. 
Deer attacks hunter who shot him 
SEDALIA, Mo. -A hunter bagged a big buck on the second day of firearms season, but the kill caused him a lot of pain. Randy Goodman, 49, said he thought two well-placed shots with his .270-cal­
iber rifle had killed the buck on Nov. 19. Goodman said the deer looked dead to him, but seconds later the nine­point, 240-pound animal came to life. 
The buck rose up, knocked Goodman down and attacked him with his antlers in what the veteran hunter called "15 seconds of hell." The deer ran a short dis­tance and went down, and died after Goodman fired two more shots. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 


25 HIGH 37 HIGH 30 15 LOW 25 LOW 18 
IN BRIEF 
Join the Creative Writing Program for a reading by poets Graham Foust and Catherine Wagner. They will read selections from their work at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore tonight at 7:30 p.m. The readings are free and open to the public. 
Human rights activist Winona LaDuke will speak on "The New Energy Economy: Nonviolent strate­gies of change utilizing indigenous knowledge" tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Auditorium in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Students for Environmental Action (SEA) and GreeNO are hosting a Green Fashion Show tomorrow from 8 p.m. to 9 at the LaFortune Ballroom. Tickets are $5 and proceeds go to the Majora Carter Sustainable South Bronx. 
Circle K, Knott Hall and the Class of 2009 will make fleece blankets to donate to cancer patients as part of The Aidan Project. The project will take place Saturday from 11 a.m. to 
2:30 p.m. in the East Wing of South Dining Hall. 
Notre Dame Women's Basketball team plays Purdue at 2 p.m. Sunday in the Joyce Center. Call 574­631-7356 for tickets or visit the Athletic Ticket Office Web page. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mailed detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
HIGH 33 HIGH 34 LOW 20 LOW 23 



Atlanta 49 I 32 Boston 50 I 40 Chicago 34 I 21 Denver 54 I 31 Houston 72 I 45 Los Angeles 67 I 55 Minneapolis 381 19 New York 49 I 38 Philadelphia 48 I 37 Phoenix 78 I 50 Seattle 51 I 46 St. Louis 46 I 27 Tampa 62 I 48 Washington 49136 
.---------------­
Tuesday, December 2, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Dance Marathon hosts purse party for charity 
By ALICIA SMITH News Wrirer 
Saint Mary's students gath­ered in the basement of the College's student center Monday to purchase designer handbags and accessories for a good cause. 
"We are hosting the event to raise money and awareness. It also brings something fun to 
Saint  Mary's,"  said  senior  
Sarah  Voss.  the  Dance  
Marathon president.  

Over 150 bags were brought to Saint Mary's for the event. Brands like Coach, Kate Spade, Prada and many other design­er bags filled three tables. Along with the designer purs­es, designer sunglasses, wal­lets, jewelry, headbands and scarves were available to be purchased at discounted prices. 
Saint Mary's freshman Hanna Vicary attended the event. 
"It's supporting a good cause and I want to get involved with Dance Marathon. It's a fun fundraiser. A Jot of times it is like they are selling cookies or candles. This is something that I think more people can get involved with." she said. 
Sophomore Mary Castle also shopped at the purse party. 
"I knew all the money went to a good cause, and that's really important to me. I also need to do some Christmas shopping. I got a lot of girls on my list and I think they'll like these purses." 
Students paid a dollar entrance fee to the event. A portion of the profits from the items sold will benefit Riley Children's Hospital. 
"The proceeds will go towards Dance Marathon and the final donation will go towards Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis," Voss said. 
Dance Marathon has hosted several events this fall, and is planning on hosting many more in the future, closing with the Dance Marathon. 
"We'll be having a lot of events next semester, so we are really excited," she said. Saint Mary's junior Kelly Deranek, the vice president of publicity for Dance Marathon, Kelly Deranek said they were planning another purse party next semester. 
"The money goes to the gen­eral benefit fund at Riley which helps the area of the hospital that has the most need. It changes from year to year what our donation directly benefits," Voss said. 
"I think it's an incredible cause," Castle said. "The Riley Children's Hospital is a really important institute and I think it's wonderful what they are doing. I am glad I get to partic­ipate." 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Profs return to grad school 
Scholarship program lets faculty study Catholic intellectual tradition 
Special to The Observer 
University of Notre Dame economists Richard Jensen and Kasey Buckles went back to graduate school last year. 
Both had the chance to par­ticipate in an Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts (ISLA) program that allows Notre Dame faculty members course-release time for study of the Catholic intellectual tra­dition. 
Jensen and Buckles are two of seven participants in the program since its inception two years ago, says Ken Garcia, associate director of ISLA. 
"The program is designed to., make faculty members famil­iar with the Catholic tradition and how they might incorpo­rate relevant aspects of Catholic teaching into their coursework," he explained. 
The program is open to both Catholic and non-Catholic fac­ulty members from any college or school in the University, excluding the theology depart­ment. It allows faculty to be released from one course to allow time for study, and offers a $7,500 stipend to the depart­ment to provide for their replacement. 
Rather than taking a formal graduate seminar. both Buckles and Jensen worked on independent reading and research with members of the theology faculty. 

Jensen, department chair and professor of economics and econometrics, is interested in environmental economics­what would people be willing to pay to preserve the rain for­est, for example. Part of the reason for his taking the course, he says, was to better understand how the environ­ment figures into Catholic social teaching. 
Jensen worked with Matthew Ashley, associate pro­fessor of systematic theology. 
"I read all the papal encycli­cals, and just kept reading from there," Jensen says. "I also read [Notre Dame theolo­gian] Dick McBrien's 1,200­page tome 'Catholicism.' I became curious about what it means to be Catholic, as well as what it means to pursue the Catholic intellectual tradition." 
The pope, he notes, has begun directly addressing environmental concerns. 
"He points out that in Genesis, when man inherits the earth, it doesn't mean he inherits the earth and wastes the resources," Jensen said. "John Paul II specifically argues that we have to be good stewards of the environ­Jnent." 
For Jensen. one of the most interesting aspects of his stud­ies was that he learned a great deal about what the popes actually said -as opposed to what people think they said. 
Buckles, assistant professor of economics and economet­rics, worked through a series of readings with moral theolo­gian Todd Whitmore, associate professor of theology and director of the Program in Catholic Social Tradition, beginning with Pope Leo XIII's 1891 encyclical Rerum Novarum and moving forward through documents on the role of women in the Church. It was interesting, she notes, to see how the Church's teach­ings have evolved over the last 30 years. 
Her studies also have had the interesting result of mak­ing her -in many cases ­more educated about Catholic social teaching than her stu­dents who were raised in the faith. They may know the prin­ciples, but have never read the actual documents. 
What she's gained from the program is a better under­standing of her students and what they know about Church teachings. 
"It's up to me to make sure my students understand that economic models aren't incon­sistent with Catholic social teaching," she said. "Having had this class, I feel much more prepared to do that." 
"I think [the program] was quite valuable," Jensen says. "I don't have the same kind of understanding I'd have if I'd been raised Catholic, but I have a much better under­standing." 
Rttjidvv _Now! 
BAUG-30210 
This one credit-hour course will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society during the next decade. A series of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts. business.nd.edu/tenyearshence 
Pu~ iJJ;o fiu. g'tilPv 'It~: 'Jhe-'J~ aJ'Ui !JM,()valioi'V~ 'IoVjilvj aJt, Abwuia..ni Socid.ta iJ1, 13alo.J1a, klifh _NaiuJu, 
.Josh Dorfman, Founder 8. CEO, Vivavi 

'Io!t£W]ht Dvvdoptvteni iJ't, cv Wo!tU o6 ~~e.,: 'IhoWj~ ~lt.om a;, &o De,vo 'Ju~.J, 
John Smart. President. .Acceier-ation Studies Foundation 
s~~; PaJl, Pvu)lt, aJ'Ui., 'Jut.A.JtL ~Jt.om ({, CJJtF~ Vtav 

Jean Sweeney, Vice President, 3M -Environmental, Health & Safety Operations 
Ke~ NvteJt,icfv gJtutt Da\1d ~v'1. Wa!ker. President & CEO. Peter G Peterson Foundation 

SuAfA.uw};~ aJ'Ui Co!tfO·'tAU ~()MJ,~: 'Jfu, _Ak0ott4U:~ S~1t1;1 Jack Da~;. Senior \11ce President. Corporate Relations, McDonald's C~orporation 
'It{iuM7huJ: Now ty Put ~e., iJ1, Pe,~e, a1t~ Su-_,t,t.o,u. ~ rvhd ~ CJ~'VLi~t'J Edie VVeiner, F'resic!ent 'Weiner, Ec!r-ich, Brown, Inc 
7ED Seventh speaker to be determined 

"Ten Years Hence" is listed as BAUG-3021 0, and is open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and employees, There are no prerequisites 
to enroll. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. You are expected to attend all lectures and be prepared to engage speakers. No unexcused absences. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course. This course requires no textbook purchases, examinations or term papers. Registration is available online. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December 2, 2008 

Econo01y 
continued from page 1 
struetion does not begin until 100 percent of the funding is pledged, and 75 percent is received. 
Joseph Husso, director of Student Financial Strategies in tho Office of Student Finaneial Serviens, told The Observer on Nov. 14 that th11 Univt~rsity remains commit­ted to making a Notre Dame education al'fordabln and aecnssibln, confirming Jenkins' remarks. 
Jenkins' letter specifically addmssed possible concerns about employment. "It is a priority for the University that our current tHn pI oyees rem a in part of thn Notre Dame community. Whiln we cannot guarantee that tlwrn will be no changes to our workforce, our cur­rent assnssnwnt of the eco­nomic situation ... does not lead us to anticipate any 
such changes," he said. will be a minor miracle," he Jenkins' letter addressed said. the University's "most signif­Jenkins mentioned that 
administrators are "very much aware that eco­nomic pres­sures on some of our dedicat­ed benefactors may limit their current ability to support our efforts." 
Jenkins thanked University staff and faculty for their work in the letter. 
"Without your presence, dedi­
course," Gunty said. 
Laura Lindsley, a Notre Dame sophomore, is opti­mistic about the new forms. 
"Sometimes the questions [on the TCEs] were redun­dant or didn't fit," Lindsley said. "Hopefully these new forms will be helpful, and this in turn will encourage people to fill them out." 
According to the Web site, the layout of the CIF will consist of the parts: the "university tier," which con­tains 21 items used for all courses; the "learning goals tier," which includes six goals tailored for each course; and optional ques­tions added by the instruc­tor. The responses from pre­vious semesters will be available in the future on the Class Search feature on InsideND for students to read when selecting classes. All contact information is kept completely confidential. 
The surveys open on Dec. 2 and close Dec. 14, according to the Web site. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

about situations when a student needs to call "Student government 
NDSP or resi­will try to host more 
dence hall staff 

events that inform 
to help treat someone, since students to be more 
72.8 percent of' proactive ... in students who 
regards to student
have been put in that situation safety." consider the pos­sible disciplinary 
Bob Reish 
consequences 

Student Body President 
before they call. "For this we dents said they wern in favor of this. 
Heish said his administration has already begun pushing for printers in every dorm, and last week the Campus Life Council 
(CLC) passed a resolution encouraging Vice President 
CIF 
continued from page 1 
"You'll be completing CIFs on your own time and you'll see more questions that are tailored to the specific class, rather than the uniform set of' questions used for TCEs," 
said Dr. Mark Gunty, assistant dirnctor of Institutional Hesearch at Notre Dame. 
Other universi­ties that have implemented an online form have found success, Cunty said. 
"We think that the overall quali­
ty of feedback will improve," he said. 
Ambour Dawson, a Notre Damn sophomore, thinks the new f'orms will be beneficial. 
"TIH~y'll be much more helpful than the in-class TCEs," Dawson said. "Most people are ready to leave by thn end of class, and don't 


Write 
icant finan­cial asset," its endow­ment. which amounted to $7 billion by the close of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008. 
S c o t t Malpass, University vice presi­dent and chief invest­ment officer, told The 

"While we cannot guarantee that there will be no changes to our workforce, our cur­rent assessment ofthe economic situation ... does not lead us to anticipate any such changes." 
Fr. John Jenkins University President 
Observer in September that a "tough year" lies ahead. 
But Malpass said at the lime he was "downplaying expectations" for next June's return. 
"I don't know how it will end up, but I think it will be a tough year. If we are posi­tive again this year, I think it 
\ 
want to fill out the TCEs." 
The switch to the new sys­tem has been in the works for a while. 
"The switch to the new system has been in the plan­ning and implementation stages for two years," Gunty said. "A core team of about 10 people have been work­ing on this." 
G u n t y 
said the 
"We think that the problems that his
overall quality of 
team is
feedback will 
aware of improve. have been worked out. One dif­
Dr. Mark Gunty 
f'erence 
assistant director 
noted by 
Institutional Research Gunty was the new ranking of' 
"learning goals." In the old TCE system, only one goal was selected out of a list and ranked for the course. In the new CIF system, six goals will be available per course, and all will be ranked. 
"[The goals [ have been selected to match the con­tent and format of the cation, and contributions, Notre Dame's traditions would not be carried for­ward and its potential as a preeminent research ~niv~rsity ~ould not be real­Ized, he said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 


''As You Wish" 
-WALLEtS -SCARVES -PURSES -CHANGE
Imports 
-INCENSE. PURSES 
LOADS OF SILVER & ~EADED JEWELRY. SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS. 1APESTRY WALL HANGINGS/ ~EDSPREADS AND MUCH MUCH MORE 
... f'et'u -Mexico-Thal:a11d -India La Fortune-Sorin R~~ [.kc. J -6 (Sal.) 11-Spm M-F Eves 7:30--lOpm 
Proceeds from ~ales of jewelry guaranTee The loving hands of GuaTe.ma.lar 
families 3 "t1mes Their over"age salary, as well as funds for "their educaTion 


Survey 
continued from page 1 
ty listserv run by [the South Bend Police Department]." 
"We will continue our talks with local community leaders and members and bring up this concern," he said. "On the whole, student government will try to host more events that inform students to be more proactive, rather than reactive in regards to student saf'ety." 
However, students do contin­ue to place themselves in dan­gerous situations, with 65.3 percent of respondents saying they had walked back to cam­pus at night for some reason. 
Heish said he was concerned Oversight Committee might decide to pursue this initiative by informing students about the student union structure," he said. "This will not take time away from other initia­tives we plan to pursue, but if there is a way to combine an event by providing more infor­mation we might seck to address this issue with that venue." 
Two initiatives which received an overwhelming response from students were adding printers to every resi­dence hall -84.4 percent of students who do not currently have a printer in their dorm would like to have one -and the creation of an online syl­labus database. The survey showed 94.8 pereent of stu­

plan to do more external of Student Affairs Fr. Mark research at other universities Poorman to show support f'or to see the different types of the idea. 
'good Samaritan' clauses they "Since this resolution was have in place," He ish said. passed by the CLC last Monday, "This will probably be a joint he will give the Council a for­
initiative between the Director mal, written response before of External Affairs and our the semester's end," Reish Residence Life committee." said. 
Reish said there were not Suggestions f'or the "Last many differences between Lecture Series" were "over­male and females responses, whelming," Heish said, with 
but added that "there were a the top two vote getters beingfew outliers." University President Emeritus 
One of these outliers was Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and how men and women feel they professor James McKenna. are treated within the Notre "We should have our next Dame dorm system. Reish said Last Lecture scheduled by the 
55.4 percent of men believe the end of the semester for the difference between men and upcoming spring semester," women's dorms is either mod­Heish said. erately or extremely different, Two other initiatives which but is not an issue, while 53.4 also received support were the percent of women Campusbelieve that the Farmer's 
dif'ference "The [Senate] Gender Market, which 
between men and 46.5 percent of
Issues committee will 
women's dorms is respondentseither moderately most likely take on said they or extremely dif­would be very
gender equality in 
ferent and believe likely to
dorms as an initiative
this is an issue. attend, and the "The [Senate] next semester." ND "day of 
Gender Issues service," which committee will Bob Reish 39.8 pnrcent of most likely take students said
Student Body President 
on gender equali­they would be 
ty in dorms as an initiative next semester," Heish said. 

However, both men and women agreed sexual assault/rape was the most important gender issue on campus, with 61 percent of students listing it as one of their top three concerns. 
"Because of this, the Gender Issues committee will be help­ing host a sexual assault awareness week and giving out t-shirts on the quad next week," Heish said. 

Also of interest to Heish, who had made it one of his top pri­orities to make student govern­ment more approachable, was the percentage of students who seemed to know very little about student government ­
40.7 percent of respondents said they did not know any­thing about the Student Union, and 71.6 percent of' respon­dents said they were unsure if there was an undergraduate Student Constitution. 
"As far as the numbers regarding an individual's knowledge of the student con­stitution, the [Senate] 
very likely to 
attend. Heish said these would be the "top priorities" of the Senate Social Concerns Committee. 
Heish also said 44.1 percent of students said they would likely not use Domer Dollars for charitable contributions. showing a lack of support for a resolution recently passed in the Student Senate. 
"Since the legwork behind Domer Dollars donations has already been done, we will lin­ish up with this initiative, even if it did not receive an over­whelmingly positive response," he said. 
Overall, Heish and Senate Student Outreach committee chair Sarah Hodts, who designed the survey, said they were very pleased by the num­ber of responses. 
"This shows a general inter­est in some of the initiatives we are pursuing," Heish said. "Our campaign focused on trans­parency and I think this survey helps achieve that goal." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

---------------------------------------. 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, December 2, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE ()ssERVER'S WIRE SERV[CES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
French first lady joins AIDS fight 
PARIS -France's glamorous first lady threw her considerable star power behind the global fight against AIDS on Monday, as the world tallied the victims of the HIV virus that infects a new person every 15 seconds. 
As ceremonies marked World AIDS Day, Carla Bruni-Sarkozy signed on to become a goodwill ambassador for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which said it has provided life­saving treatment to two million people liv­ing with IIIV worldwide. 
"I think the world has become used to AIDS." the model-turned-singer told a news conference in Paris. "We no longer see it as a scandal or an emergency." 
Thai leader avoids capital amidst crisis 
BANGKOK. Thailand -Thailand's prime minister stayed away from the capital Monday, unable to quell a political crisis that has paralyzed his government for weeks and shut down the city's two main airports and stranded 300,000 foreigners. 
Prime Minister Somchai Wongsawat has refused to send in police to evict protesters besieging the airports or occupying his office complex for fear of bloodshed, instead mak­ing weak pleas for them to go home. The demonstrators vow to stay until Somchai resigns; he has refused. 
The monthslong crisis has drained millions of dollars from the economy and is worsen­ing divisions in Thailand. 
Late Monday, an explosion hit protesters camped outside Bangkok's airport for domestic flights. Mongkut Wattana hospital said 13 people were injured, including three who suffered serious shrapnel wounds. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush works on leaving a legacy 
WASHINGTON -President George W. Bush says history will judge him, but he is getting his own crack first. Bush is using his final 50 days in oflice to tout his legacy, hoping to leave a lasting impression of overshadowed progress. 
On Monday, World AIDS Day, Bush was her­alded for his leadership in fighting the disease, a point that even his Democratic critics readily concede. 
The anti-AIDS program Bush championed in 2003 has delivered lifesaving medicine to more than 2 million people in five years, up from 50,000 people before it began. Many of those helped live in impoverished sub-Saharan Africa. where AIDS is the leading killer. 

Holiday parade accident injures nine 
OVERTON, Texas -A hospital official says an accident at a holiday parade in east Texas has injured at least nine people, some of them children. 
Mother Frances Hospital spokesman John Moore says eight people are being evaluated Monday night at the facility in Tyler. Another person was flown to a Dallas hospi­tal after the accident in the town of Overton. 
Moore says the injured include three women and five boys ranging in age from 6 to 11. Their conditions are not available. 
Moore says the accident is connected to an annual Christmas parade. No other details on the accident are immediately available. 
LOCAL NEWS 
BMV to hold holiday food drive 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles will again sponsor a holiday food drive in coordination with food banks across the state. 
Collection boxes will be placed in all 140 license branches from Tuesday through Dec. 
24. BMV Commissioner Ron Stiver says the agency is encouraging everyone who visits a branch to bring in non-perishable food items to support the needy during the holiday sea­son. 
More than 27,000 items were donated and distributed as part of last year's food drive. 
INDIA 



India demands Pakistan take action 
Nation seeks answers as businesses reopen, life begins to return to nor-
Associated Press 

MUMBAI, India -India demanded Monday that Pakistan take "strong action" against those behind the deadly Mumbai attacks, and Washington pressured Islamabad to cooperate with the investigation. 
The only known surviving attacker told police that his group trained for months in camps operated by a banned Pakistani militant group, learning close-combat tech­niques, explosives training and other tactics for their three-day siege. 
Teams from the FBI and Britain's Scotland Yard met with top Indian police as they prepared to help collect evidence, a police official said. 
Soldiers removed the remaining bodies from the shattered Taj Mahal hotel, where the standoff finally ended Saturday morning, with at least 172 people dead and 239 wounded. The army had already cleared other siege sites, including the five-star Oberoi hotel and the Mumbai headquar­ters of an ultra-Orthodox Jewish group. 
India's financial hub returned to normal Monday to some degree, with parent..c; dropping their children off at apparently carried out by 10 onistic standards -carefully reinforced by the United school and shopkeepers gunmen, exposed glaring refrained from making state­States as Secretary of State opening for the first time weakness in India's security ments that could quickly Condoleezza Rice, who will since the attacks, which forces and police. In the past lead to a buildup of troops visit India later this week, Indian authorities blamed on two days, the country's top along their heavily milita­said the perpetrators of the banned Pakistani mili­law enforcement official has rized frontier. attacks "must be brought to tant group Lashkar-e-Taiba. resigned and two top state In India, Pakistan's high justice." 
"I think this is the first officials have offered to quit commissioner to the country Pakistan must "follow the Monday I am glad to be com­amid growing criticism that met with Foreign Ministry evidence wherever it leads," ing to work," said Donica the attackers appeared bet­officials and was told that she said during a visit in Trivedi, 23, an employee of a ter trained, better coordinat­"elements from Pakistan" London. "This is a time for public relations agency. ed and better armed than had carried out the attacks, complete, absolute, total 
Jewelry stores, clothing police. said ministry spokesman transparency and coopera­shops and food kiosks in a Prime Minister Manmohan Vishnu Prakash. His phras­tion, and that's what we winding side street near the Singh promised to strength­ing, though, carefully avoid­expect." Jewish center were back in en maritime and air security ed blaming the Pakistani Pakistan has repeatedly business. But the normally and look into creating a new . government. insisted it was not behind the bustling street was half­federal investigative agency. The commissioner was attacks. Pakistani President empty, and business owners While the cross-border told that India "expects that Asif Ali Zardari said Monday said customers were slow in rhetoric between Pakistan strong action would be taken the gunmen were "non-state returning to an area so close and India has increased against those elements," actors," and warned against to the violence. since the attacks, both coun­Prakash said. letting their actions lead to 
The 60-hour attack, tries-by their often-antag-India's demands were greater regional enmity. 



Obama announces sercurity team 
prefer, he said the withdrawal turn in Clinton's extraordinary
Associated Press timetable he emphasized in the career, a show of faith in Gates and CHICAGO -Barack Obama prom­presidential campaign is still "the action to support Obama's frequent ised "a new dawn of American lead­right time frame." talk of desiring robust debate ership" in a troubled world Monday, Clinton, as secretary of state, and among seasoned, opinionated peo­announcing a strong-willed national Gates, remaining as defense secre­ple in his inner circle. security team headed by Hillary tary, will be the most prominent Denouncing White House "group Rodham Clinton, who fought him faces -besides Obama's own -of think," Obama signaled a break long and bitterly for the presidency, the new administration's effort to from President Bush's tendency and Robert Gates, the man who has revamp U.S. policy abroad. toward an insular management been running two wars for George At a Chicago news conference, style and go-with-the-gut diploma­
W. Bush. Obama also tapped top advisers cy. 
The president-elect said he hadn't Eric Holder as attorney general and "The time has come for a new changed his mind about bringing Susan Rice as ambassador to the beginning," said Obama, flanked by most U.S. combat troops home from United Nations. He named Arizona flags on a stage with Vice President­Iraq within 16 months but added a Gov. Janet Napolitano to be home­elect Joe Biden and his six newest cautionary note-he'll consult with land security secretary and retired appointees. While Gates will stay at his military commanders first. Marine Gen. James Jones as White the Pentagon, Obama said the mili­
While his new team may be a bit House national security adviser. tary's new mission will be "respon­more centrist -some war oppo­The choices had been telegraphed sibly ending the war in Iraq through nents might even say hawkish -days earlier but were remarkable a successful transition to Iraqi con­than many Obama supporters might all the same -still another major trol." 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December 2, 2008 
usc 
continued from page 1 
thinks that as an alum of the 
Univnrsity, Wnis should walk 
away. 
"As an alum. he should walk 
away from tlw buyout and not 
rnakn thn school pay ... out of 
respnet for thn school and the 
students who havn had to watch 
thn past two years," Packer said. 
"llopefully it gets better. There is 
nowhnrn to go but up." 
The only positive thing for Packnr and many other Notrn Dame fans was the beautiful California weathf~r. he said. 
Senior Luke Tabit thought thn problem wasn't the lack of tal­ent, but the lack ofemotion. 
"I don't think it would look good for Notre Dame to fire another coach afler throe years, but we d1~finitPiy need change. Our tnam has a lot of talnnt, but they don't look like they are motivated at all. We don't play as a team and we don't play with emotion." he said. 
Kristi Pellegrini, a Notre Dame senior in the Band of the Fighting Irish. said she was glad she had the opportunity to travel to Los Angeles to support the team. 
"It was definitely a unique experience bning out there and supporting the football team." she said. "I wish the outeome of the game had been better, but I'm glad I had the opportunity." 
Pellegrini said she thinks the best part of the game was the band's halftime show. 
"So many USC fans even eame down and complimented the band on our performance," she said. "And during the game, our 

band was even audible above the 
mic-nd USC band." 
The Trojan Marching Band's halftime show was a dig at the fact that the Band of the Fighting Irish hadn't traveled to Southern California in 35 years, she said. 
"USC's halftime show was a classless attack on Notre Dame," Pellngrini said. 'Their show was desigm~d to remind Notre Dame of what we missed out on in the 35 years that we haven't been traveling to USC." 
Even though they felt attacked, Pellegrini said the band listened to the USC halftime show and were commended by fans at their respect during their show. 
"Our band was commended by both Irish and Trojan fans as having the better halftime show," she said. 
She said most of the band is talking about how they outplayed the Trojan Marching Band by playing a better arrangement of A-lia's "Take on Me," a song that USC played during their halftime show, during the second half. 
Senior Matt Meinig, a saxo­phone in the band, said traveling to USC will be something he always remembers from his time at Notre Dame. 
"It's something that I'll remem­ber for the rest of my life, to be sure," Meinig said. "As a snnior, it was a great way to top off my final season. Despite the out­eome of the game and the hostile environment, it was probably the best away game I've played at because l could tell that every Irish fan out there appreciated the band's presence." 
Contact Liz Harter at EharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Katie Kohler at KkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
USAFhonors engineering professors 
Tomar, Xing were selectedfrom 210 proposals, will receive research grants 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame's Vikas Tomar, assistant professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, and Huili (Grace) Xing, assistant professor of electrical engi­neering, are two of the 39 engineers and scinntists selected by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFSOR) as part of the 2008 Young Investigator Program (YIP). 
The program, which is only open to engineers and scien­tists at U.S. research institu­tions who have received a doctoral degree within the last five years, recognizes those who "show exceptional ability and promise for conducting basic research." This year's YIP honorees will share approximately $12.1 million for research efforts over the next three years as outlined in their winning proposals. 
As in previous years, compe­tition for the award was very competitive. The ASFOR received 210 proposals encompassing a broad range of areas, including aerospace, chemical and materials sci­ences, physics and electronics, mathematics, information technologies, and life sciences. 
Tomar, who joined the University in 2006, is investi­gating nanoscale thermal con­duction and mechanical strength correlation in high­temperature ceramics as part of his efforts in the YIP. It coincides well with his work in the department's Multiphysics Laboratory, where he is studying advanced ceramic matrix composites for usn in energy plants. lligh-temperaturn ceramics that can work in extreme environments ­radiation or corrosion ­would significantly benefit thn coal industry and the develop­ment of nuclear power. For example, a simple increase in operating temperature (made possible through new high­temperature ceramics) can result in increased energy effi­ciency. 
Although not part of his YIP research, Tomar also is study­ing biomaterials such as bone issue and biosensors. In one project, he is analyzing the structure-property relation­ships for bone tissue in differ­ent chemical environments to determine how different drugs affect the properties (includ­ing strength) of bone tissue. 
In another research effort using molecular analyses, he is focusing on understanding the fundamental mechanisms that control biofunctional materials in extreme environ­ments, such as a highly radioactive environment or sensitive physiological envi­ronment (a diseased part of the human body). 
Xing's YIP focuses on the quantum limits of nitride HF high-electron mobility transis­tors. Through experimental and theoretical approaches, she is investigating the physi­cal origins of the upper limit of speed and power-handling capabilitins in gallium-nitride based semieonduetor transis­tors in order to advance the development of the next gen­eration radio frequency appli­cations. 
Similar electronic devices, featuring reduced size and lower energy consumption. have already been employnd in cell phone base stations. Xing envisions that high-elec­tron mobility transistors could replace bulky power adapters with millimeter size chips, deployed in hybrid engines in automobiles, efficient tera­hertz (Thz) emitters and a host of other applications. 
Xing's project aligns with her interests in nitride semi­conductors and electronic and optoelectronic devices. ller current research activities in this area include the integra­tion of heterogeneous materi­als using direct wafer bond­ing, development of high ener­gy effieiency green light emit­ting diodes for solid state lighting, as well as ultraviolet and infrared emitters, and Thz detection technologies for medical applications. 

World Renowned Human fi,~gqts ..Activist 


Winona t:aDuR& 
On 

"The New Energy.;J~Economy~--;;· 
Nonviolent Strategies of Change Utilizing · Indigenous Knowledge 
Wednesday, December 3, 2008 7:00PM· Hesburgh Auditorium* 

Hesburgh Center For lnternatiorialltudies 


"Promoting Equity through Intellectual Exploratiqn and Cultur~l•.Cel~pration" 
Harvard educated Winona LaDuke, Ojibway from the Mississippi Band of Anishnaabeg, is a world renowned activist and advocate for environmental, women's, and indigenous .. peoples rights. LaDuke's powerful lectures 
y:·::i:·:·.-=<>r,:: 

!N introduce audiences to issues of energy, . justice, and opportunities to "democratize power production." Sustainable energy presents an amazing opportunity to promote peace, justice, and equity nationally and internationally. 
S···· o·.cia! Ch·····a·······
JJCo-Sponsored by Center for the Study of Social Movefuenf·s.·. and.. .. ...~g~;'Kroc•fnstitute ... f,....·o···r.f~:r::.".·.,·:··.:ona.·I·P·.~ace S·t·u·d.'.·es···.. Center for Social Concerns,
(4 Gender Stud1es Program, and..the Office ofM.q!ncultural Student L?rograms ~nd Serv1ces (MSP$) 
Tuesday, December 2, 2008 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 
Jones 8,149.09 -679.95 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 523 48 3,358 2,420,784,979 

AMEX 1}2!6;55 •.•. ~f.;l5i4~l] NASDAQ 1,398.07 -137.50 NYSE 51092.66 ~506.64 S&P 500 816.21 -ROJH NIKKEI (Tokyo) 7;964.28 -432.94 FTSE 100 (London) 4,065.49 -222.52 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -8.86 -7.98 82.11 CITIGROUP INC (C) -22.20 -1.84 6.45 FORD MOTOR CO (F) -5.20 -0.14 2.55 FANNIE MAE (FNM) -27.59 -0.32 0.84 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -8.05 -0.238 2.719 13-WEEK BILL -50.00 -0.010 0.010 30-YEAR BOND -7.20 -0.251 3.236 5-YEAR NOTE -11.37 -0.221 1.723 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -5.15 49.28 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -42.20 776.80 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -1.68 92.23 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 93.7750 EURO 0.7931 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2448 BRITISH POUND 0.6715 
IN BRIEF 
Retailers offer deals on 'Cyber Monday' 
NEW YORK -Retailers who saw Thanksgiving holiday sales drop off as the weekend progressed stepped up online pro­motions on the day known as "Cyber Monday" to try to get consumers tired of the crowds at stores to keep shopping. 
But after weeks of already heavy dis­counting both at regular stores and online, experts were doubtful that the day would give much of a lift to what is still expected to be one of the weakest holiday seasons in years. 
"People are expecting that deals will only get better as we approach the Christmas time frame," said Youssef H. Squali, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. "So while Cyber Monday is significant I wouldn't say today is the only day to track. People may opt to wait a little more." 
The Monday after Thanksgiving was dubbed "Cyber Monday" by the National Retail Federation trade group in 2005 to describe the unofficial kickoff to the online retail season -when customers shopped at their desks as they returned to work. But with more deals advertised ahead of time and more consumers with high-speed access at home, the day has lost some lus­ter. 
Manufacturing falls to 26-year low 
WASHINGTON -A gauge of U.S. manufac­turing activity that fell to a 26-year low Monday followed similarly weak readings in Europe and China, fueling fears of a deepen­ing global downturn. 
The Institute for Supply Management's index of manufacturing activity for November fell to 
36.2 from October's 38.9. The reading was worse than Wall Street economists' expecta­tions of 38.4, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters. A figure below 50 indicates the sector is contracting. 
The November reading is the lowest since May 1982, the Tempe, Ariz.-based ISM said. The report is based on a survey of corporate purchasing managers. 
The report came the same day that the National Bureau of Economic Research, a pri­vate group, said the U.S. economy has been in a recession since December 2007. 

\ 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 

U.S. officially declared in recession 
Wall street tanks, experts say economy is likely to suffer well into 2009 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Most 
Americans sorely knew it 
already, but now it's official: 
The country is in a reces­
sion, and it's getting worse. 
Wall Street convulsed at the 
news -and a fresh batch of 
bad economic reports ­
tanking nearly 680 points. 
With the economic pain 
likely to stretch well into 
2009. Federal Reserve 
Chairman Ben Bernanke 
said Monday he stands n~ady 
to lower interest rates yet 
again and to explore other 
rescue or revival measures. 
Hushing in reinforcements, 
Treasury Secretary Henry 
Paulson, who along with 
Bernanke has been leading 
the government's efforts to 
stem the worst financial cri­
sis since the 1930s, plndged 
to take all the steps he can in 
the waning days of the Bush 
administration to provide 
relief. Specifically. Paulson is 
eyeing more ways to tap into 
a $700 billion financial 
bailout pool. 
On Capitol Hill, House 
Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D­
Calif., vowed to have a mas­
sive economic stimulus 
package ready on 
Inauguration Day for 
President-elect Barack 
Obama's signature. 
That measure -which 
could total a whopping $500 
billion -would bankroll big 
public works projects to gen­

erate jobs, provide aid to intervention. Economic Research, a group Unlike past recessions, 
states to help with Medicaid None of the pledges for of academic economists, consumers are bearing the 
costs and provide money more action could comfort concluded Monday that the brunt of this one. Clobbered 
toward renewable energy Wall Street investors. The country has been suffering by job losses, hard-to-get 
development. Crafting such Dow Jones industrials through a recession since credit and hits to their 
a colossal recovery package plunged 679.95 points, or December 2007. wealth from sinking home 
would mark a Herculean 7. 70 percent, to close at With NBER's decision, the values and plunging portfolio 
feat: Congress convenes Jan. 8,149.09. United States has fallen into investments, consumers 
6, giving lawmakers just two It was another white­two recessions during Bush's have cut back sharply on 
weeks to complete their knuckle day, punctuated by eight years in office. The first their spending, throwing the 
work if it is to be signed on grim economic reports. An one started in March 2001 economy into chaos. 
Jan. 20. index of manufacturing and ended in November of Watching customers' 
President George W. Bush, activity sank to a reading of that year. appetites wane, employers 
in an interview with ABC's 36.2 in November, a 26-year The economy jolted into have throttled back on hir­
"World News," expressed low, the Institute for Supply reverse in the final three ing. The unemployment rate 
remorse about lost jobs, Management reported. months of last year. After a in October zoomed to 6.5 
cracked nest eggs and other Construction spending fell by short spring rebound, it con­percent, a 14-year high. So 
damage wrought by the a larger than expected 1.2 tracted again in the summer. far this year, 1.2 million posi­
financial crisis. ''I'm sorry it's percent in October, the Economists say it is still tions have disappeared. The 
happening, of course," said Commerce Department said. shrinking and will continue jobless rate is likely to climb 
Bush. The president said Adding to the gloom, the to do so through at least the to 8 percent or higher next 
he'd back more government National Bureau of first quarter of next year. year. 




Bush apologizes for economic crisis 
National Bureau of Economic that Saddam did not have the 
Research reported on Monday. weapons, Bush replied: "You know, 

WASHINGTON President Many economists believe the cur­that's an interesting question. That George W. Bush expressed remorse rent downturn will last until the is a do-over that I can't do. It's that the global financial crisis has middle of 2009 and will be the most hard for me to speculate." cost jobs and harmed retirement severe slump since the 1981-82 During a discussion about what accounts and said he'll back more recession. Americans should know about what government intervention if needed On the war in Iraq, Bush said the it is like to be president, Bush was to ease the recession. biggest regret of his presidency asked what he was most unpre­
''I'm sorry it's happening, of was the "intelligence failure" pared for going into the office. course," Bush said in a wide-rang­regarding the extent of the Saddam "I think I was unprepared for ing interview with ABC's "World Hussein threat to the United States. war," he said. "In other words, I News," which was airing Monday. With the support of Congress, Bush didn't campaign and say, 'Please "Obviously I don't like the idea of ordered the U.S.-led invasion of vote for me, I'll be able to handle people losing jobs, or being worried Iraq in March 2003 -a decision an attack.' In other words, I didn't about their 401(k)s. On the other largely justified on grounds -later anticipate war. Presidents -one of hand, the American people got to proved false -that Saddam was the things about the modern presi­know that we will safeguard the building weapons of mass destruc­dency is that the unexpected will system. I mean, we're in. And if we tion. happen." need to be in more, we will." Asked if he would have ordered On the presidential election, Bush 
The U.S. economy fell into a the U.S.-led invasion if intelligence called Barack Obama's victory a recession in December 2007, the reports had accurately indicated "repudiation of Republicans." 
Associated Press 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, December 2, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Ka£ie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EmToR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VU:WI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
All DF-~IGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS AllMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
AovERTJSING 
(':i74) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(':i74) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper publish(•d in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Collegt·. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not gowrncd by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials reprc'Sent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department edirors. Commt·nraries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lcrrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom rrgarding Obsm'rr policies should be directed to Editor in CbiifCbris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
11u: Ohacrwr (USPS 599 2-4000) a-published Monday through Nicllly n:o:pt during c:um and V.&QIIhll pcrioJ.~ A\Ut..:fipunntn11K Ohcrvcr iJ $1CKI hu unc ~c.~dcmk yc~:r; SS'5 fur one aemcstcr. 
The Obtcrvcr ia publilhcd at POSTMAsTER 02.\ Snurh Oinu\ll. llall Send addrw currmiuns ro: Nmtt 0Jmt, IN 1.6'556--0779 Thc:Ohwrvcr Periodical pmrJ~c ~~id 011 Notrt D.&mC' P.O.~l!C77tJ 11nd addiuonJI m~ilinK vlllca. 024 South Oining Hall 
None Dame, IN 46"i"i6-0779 
nac Observer 11 a rncmbcr nf rhc AJ.soc••u~ Press. All rcprndtKIIun riW••• arc 
....,....~. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Dan Murphy John Tierney Alex Barker Sarah Mervosh Michael Blasco 
Graphics Scene Mary Jesse Jess Shaffer Viewpoint 
Lauren Brauwciler 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alternatives to go green 
While GreeND's campaign to lower energy use and cost by handing out lluorescent lights are admirable, I feel that it's important to note that there are altnrnatives to fluorescent Lighting that also save energy and don't have all of' the nngative aspcets of' fluores­cent bulbs. 
First of all, many pnople forget or ignorn the fact that fluorescent lighting simply isn't a feasible alternative for some people and locations. Because fluorescent Lights don't work properly in very cold temperatures, they don't work well as outdoor lighting in cer­tain parts of the country. Other problems with fluorescent lights include the mercury inside them, which is released if they are acci­dentally broken, and is released into the ground and water when they arc thrown in the garbage. Other negative efl'ects of fluores­cent lighting occurs at a more personal level. In the workplace and in schools, studies have shown that fluorescent lighting increas­es irritability, blood pressure, and misbehavior among children. Many individuals with conditions that can cause photosensitivity, such as epilepsy and lupus, experience health problems due to lluorescent lighting. Many people also experience severe headaches and eye strain due to fluorescent light bulbs. 
It's certainly true that fluorescent lighting is the most energy efficient option, but its unpleasant light (even among "warm" CFLs, many people consider the light unflattering and unpleasant) and the immediate health ramifications led me to search for other options. Although they give oil' a lot of heat, some halogen lights are far more efficient than other incandescnnt bulbs without the hideous light and mercury of its fluorescent counterparts. Philips has released a line of natural-light bulbs called EcoVantagn that save 25 pnrcent on energy. A<> LED technology improves, it may prove to be a viable alternative for accent lighting. 
I fully agree with GrecNI)'s desire to save energy, but I believe it's important to do so without introducing highly unpleasant and even dangerous light. What I believe is most important, however, is ensuring that we don't force lluorescent light bulbs on people who don't want to fill their homes with limited-spectrum light that may cause them headaches or health problems. As I said, I fully support GreeND's desire to save the Earth through energy conservation, but we should also explore other options that arc more pleasant and healthy, and ensure that if' consumers want to pay the higher eneq.,ry bills to continue using f'ull-speetrum, warm, pleasant incandescent lighting, they are free to do so. 
Kelsey Robertson junior Regina Hall Nov 18 
Please don't stop the m_usic 
So we may not be doing so hot in football, but at least we can four or five drunken guys, two with solo cups in hand, stnppnd still proudly say we have tradition: the Friday afternoon pep inside the circle and interrupted the performance. They tried rally, the band's performance at Bond Hall, the football player's to quiet the protesting crowds; one was yelling slurred words exiting mass, tailgating with friends and family, and the list to announce that a top recruit for next year was among them. goes on. For me, the epitome of Irish football tradition is llonestly, I'm not exactly sure what he was saying or who this Friday's Drummer's Circle at midnight. recruit was, nor do I care. For me, not even Jimmy Clausen is 
I look forward to yelling and dancing as I scream my lungs important enough to interrupt the drumline. out. I am obviously a huge fan of the Notre Dame drumline and Anyway, what makes me really upset is the fact that NDSP love to show my support by coming out and cheering with did nothing about it. They were not shining lights in their eyes, them every single home game weekend. This is the best oppor­they were not pushing them out of the circle, they were tunity to show my school spirit and get amped up for the game. nowhere to be seen! It just makes me wonder if it is a coinei­This past weekend was no exception; I went to the steps of dence that NDSP was conveniently absent while these drunken Main Building, despite the low temperatures and the good guys who were possible future football players interrupted the amount of snow on the ground, for the last Drummer's Circle of performance, that maybe this was preferential treatment the year. Once I made my way to the front of the crowd, I was towards athletes, especially the football play!~rs. Would NDSP rudely pushed back by NDSP as they shined their flashlight in have been missing if' it were normal students the ones in there'? my eyes. Although this got me a bit upset, NDSP was doing its job; they were making room for the drumline. I only question what was, according to me, excessive use of' force. Like I said, Caroline Green however, I don't mind being pushed a little as long as I get to sophomore hear those beats. McGlinn Hall 
But what ruined this last Drummer's Circle for me was when Nov23 

True tneaning lost 
Being a senior I admit that I was disappointed with how the game ended on Saturday, but when I read the view­points in November 23rd's paper, I was even more disap­pointed. Nobody talked about our senior football players. We arc so wrapped up in the future of the coaching staff and what was thrown during the game that the true meaning of the day was lost. 
I remember the end of sophomore year after the Army game and the farewell that the senior football players received. I'll tell you now that the current senior worked just as hard as they did and deserve the same amount of credit even though the last two years have not been the best in the history of the program. In fact, they stuck it out through a transition that we all knew would be bru­tal, and yet they came back full of energy and willingness to serve a storied tradition during its darker days. 
What are we giving them in return for four or five years of lives? If there is anything that has defined my last four years at this wondering institution, it has been my friends, my major, and Notre Dame Football. I have loved every minute of it: the tailgating, the games, the feelings of triumph and the feelings of' despair. Every weekend of fall semester, the student body has been brought together as one by Notre Dame Football. 
It is time that we all thank the seniors for what they have done for us all. So on behalf of myself, the senior class, and the student body, I would like to thank you, seniors. We appreciate everything that you have done for us, and we will not forget your devotion or determina­tion. 
James Welle senior Stanford Hall Nov 24 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Such is the inconsistency ofreal 
Should Charlie be fired? Love, that it is always awake to 
suspicion, however unreasonable; 
always requiring new assurances 
from the object ofits interest .. " 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Ann Radcliffe author 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, December 2, 2008 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Syracuse, snow-balls, and seniors 
After watching the egregious show of ineptitude that was the football game against Syracuse, three major problems stood out in my mind as l reflected upon my last Notre Dame football experience as a student. Just chatting with depressed fellow seniors after the game, I could tell that these three issues-despite all the craziness that transpired -stood out perhaps the most: 
1. 
We lost. Obviously. Not only did we lose, but we lost to a team that. according to Sagarin rankings, is worse than 12 non-bowl-subdivision teams. It would be easy to rip apart our coaching, or our effort, or just the team in general-but I don't want to. l want to believe in Weis. I want to believe ND will return to prominence. Plus, that's a topic for another article. 

2. 
Lack of respect for the senior class. Please, do us a show of respect-we've stood by you through thick and thin, good (2005, 2006) and bad (actually, the worst season in ND history, 2007). It would have been a nice gesture to address the senior section at the end of the game, instead of the traditional march over to freshmen. 

3. 
The senior walk-ons and non-starters. Those who don't quite make the depth chart deserve a 


chance to play at home, which presumably is why former AD Kevin White scheduled such a patsy of an opponent for the last home game of the season. Oops. These guys work hard, day in and day out, for little to no recognition. They are the ones who keep the guys that see the field -and television cameras and fame (infamy?) associated with it-in fighting form. The unsung heroes, in this case, remain unsung, and it was a heartbreaking sight for all of us seniors to behold. 
Oh, and a note about the snowball-throwing debacle: 99.9 percent of the seniors in the section not only were not throwing at the team, but also thought that the idiots who were should be ejected. And some were, from what l saw. Moreover, it sure seemed like these clowns were aiming at the Indiana State Troopers (mean­mugging, goofy-hat-wearing and all) rather than the team. God knows we have more animosity towards those guys than any football team, losing or not. 
Kevin Marvinac 
sen1or 
off-campus Nov. 24 

Weren't you listening? 
This year, I participated in the creation of College HAS Issues, the annual presentation that is mandatory for all incoming freshman. Of course, HAS represents Hookups, Alcohol, and Sex, and we hoped to prevent the incoming freshman from making serious mistakes in any of these areas. Apparently, Melissa Buddie in her Nov. 19th letter concerning her own first semester at ND must have slept through my portion. I spoke for roughly fifteen minutes about ... that's right, the hook-up culture and its negative effects on the formation of lasting relationships. 
The following are direct quotations of what I said to the entire freshman class this past August: 
"Obviously the hookup culture is not very conducive to strong and lasting relationships. l would say that it actually impairs you in how you approach your relationships, because you are so used to doing it one way ... with no strings attached and most times with alcohol. But this is not a relationship, and rarely ever can it lead to a meaningful relationship. In fact, all it ever really leads to is an awkward moment in the dining hall." 
"As I talked with other friends, over and over I heard that the outcome of hook-ups is awkward run-ins in the dining hall the day after; never talking to that person again; and that it makes relationships -even friendships -nearly impossible. You quickly realize that campus is not that big after all ... really!" 
"The hook-up culture creates a situation where we are not striving for real relationships; we just want what is quick and easy. The work hard/play hard mentality translates to sexual activity; in fact, sexual activity becomes just another thing to check off our "to-do list" for the week -and almost always it involves serious binge drinking." 
"Given the hook-up culture, I think many people have a skewed idea of how real relationships work. If you only go through your college career pursuing hookups, then you won't be prepared to form successful relationships once you get out of college. From my experience, getting caught up in the hookup culture only leads to a skewed perspective on your self-value and your value of others. It's objectification of the opposite sex, especially women." 
At the time, I had assumed that most incoming freshman were old enough and mature enough not to need such advice. But upon reading that letter, it became clear that perhaps some of us may need a friendly reminder (especially as every aspect of the harmful effects of hookups discussed was also found in what I had already said). We don't need to run any experiments to demonstrate the harmful effects of such interactions (especially not six times). We just need to practice some common sense. 
Jim Ogorzalek sophomore Siegfried Hall Nov. 24 


Alutnni need cotnpassion 
My last game as a student at Notre Dame was pretty much as painful as could possibly be expected. Yes, I cried. I stood the entire game, including half time, in the freezing cold, just like the rest of the senior class. I cheered my hardest. I did every possible thing I could think of to make the experience the best I possibly could. I went to the Pep Rally and Drummers' Circle. I tailgated. I ate a steak sandwich at the Knights of Columbus stand and a brat from a student-run concession stand. I participated in the marshmallow fight at half time. I did NOT throw snowballs. At anyone. And I DID ask those around me to stop. I got hit with a pretty hard snowball right in the neck and I suffered the redness and cold for the rest of the game. 
I don't think that students were trying to injure the players or anyone. They were trying to make the best of the fact that they were stuck in the snow for four hours. The snowballs that I saw being thrown were all well before we even considered it a possibility that we might lose that game. It was very immature and childish, but for me, the snowballs were the very least of what made my experience so sad. I didn't get to celebrate the end of my football fan-dom as a student. Instead, I got to see Syracuse jumping around in the middle of our band during the Alma Mater and Fight Song. I will never be able to forget that sight and how terrible it made me feel. I didn't get to see our senior players run around the field one last time. The team ran out that tunnel as soon as they possibly could. We students stayed out there for a long time afterward, but the players were gone immediately. 
And then, to top it all off, now alumni are writ­ing in to the Observer and saying things like, "Class of 2009, you are an embarrassment to yourselves and to Domers everywhere." Thanks a lot alumni. I really appreciate your support. The Notre Dame family is really making me feel loved. You're really helping an already painful situation. You guys are saying that you thought the student body was better than that. Well, I thought our alumni were smarter than to make hurtful generalizations like that. Apparently we were all wrong. 
Tanya VanSkyock 
senior 
Breen-Phillips Hall Nov. 24 
page 9 


Pianos duel controversy 

In response to Tyler Deschamps's "Dueling Pianos and the Catholic Identity", I agree with your sentiments wholeheartedly. I, too, was in the audience at the Dueling Pianos show at Legends. I assumed it would be a night of simple entertainment in line with Notre Dame's Catholic identity. This, as would be proven later that evening, was clearly a false assumption. Like Tyler, I was shocked and offended by the performers' choice of songs. "FHG"-I dare not say the actual title, but you know what it is -shocked my sensibilities. Of course, not wanting to seem a wet blanket, I laughed and chortled along with the rest of the crowd, but inside I was deeply offended. Tyler, if that music violated your personal taste as it did mine, I have a nice album of Gregorian chants you can borrow if you want. Track 6 is particularly moving. 
Michael Scully senior Zahm Hall Nov. 21 


Snowball reactions 

Coach Weis said he was "taken aback" by the snowball throwing incidents at the Syracuse game. It's funny that he should feel that way. I for one have been taken aback for the entirety of my two seasons as a Notre Dame student by this team. Since pro football dominates my hometown of New York, I didn't know much about college ball before coming here, but I was given some impressions. Notre Dame was a premier program. They recruit the top players in the country, win things, and generally don't embarrass the University. Perhaps the part about top recruits is correct, but I've seen anything but premier football under Charlie Weis. I'm not calling for his termination, just suggesting that Charlie Weis should be taken aback by how he doesn't get top performance out of his "top recruits" rather than snowball throwing. Thankfully motivational wizards Jeff Jackson and Mike Brey will carry us through the winter. 
Brian Wysocki sophomore Keenan Hall Nov. 24 


Band tops USC 

Occasionally, USC loses a football game. But like our perpetual sunshine, the SC Band always wins, easily outclassing the lesser bands of the Pac-10. So imagine SC fans' shock and surprise when our Irish band not only visited the Coliseum for the first time last weekend, they conquered it. NO's band easily outplayed, out-marched, and out-choreographed the Trojan marching band. They even got an ovation from the usually tough SC crowd. Most of my USC friends have never been out of the Coliseum or the Pac-10. Many didn't even know we had a storied marching band of our own. They do now. As a native of Los Angeles and 1985 grad of ND, I know the Coliseum can be a lonely place for Domers. To the Notre Dame Fighting Irish Band, thanks for making the trip and giving all of us, including my SC friends, something else to talk about besides the final score. See you again in 2010! 
Tod Tamberg alum class of'85 Nov. 30 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 Tuesday, December 2, 2008 

"Weird and Twisted Nights" is credited to By ANALISE LIPARI Halph Steadman, Hunter S. Thompson and Scene Ediwr Mo Dean, and features a slower beginning 
and low-key vocals that pick up spr.ed as the 

Tlw namfl "lluntnr S. Thompson" may song continues through its images of "man­seom unfamiliar to most young pr.oplo today. gled bodies." On a historical note, Steadman To a g<'IH'ration born well after the monu-was a British cartoonist who is bnst known mental changes of the 1960s. Thompson's for giving illustrated life too much of brand of writing, Conzo journalism, might Thompson's work. only conjure up imagos of a fuzzy blue One of Thompson's favorite bands, MuppPt rathPr than the dPeidedly countercul-Jefferson Airplane, contributes a lesser tuntl approach to writing and to life that known track of theirs, "It's No Secret," to the Thompson embodiod throughout that decade album. It's something o/' a departure from and the rest of his life. Tlw author of "Fear better known Jefferson Airplane releases, and Loathing in Las Vogas" and "Hell's such as "White Habbit," but still feels dis­Angnls: The Strang<' and Terrible Saga of the tinct. The liner notes reveal that Thompson Outlaw Motorcyde Gangs," a pioneering had a crush on lead singer Grace Slick, journalist and a t~ountereultural icon, whose distinctive voice shines on this guitar­Thompson was a man to be reckoned with driven anthem. Another countercultural icon, for his litnrary foree alone. Lou Reed, adds "Walk on the Wild Side" as 
!\ documentary film titled Thefilm's the album's eleventh song. "Gonzo: The Lifr and Work of Dr. One of the soundtrack's lluntnr s. Thompson" was soundtrackfeatures strengths is its curious diversity; mlnasnd earlit1r this year, and it clips ofactor Johnny in addition to tracks like those tracks Thompson's .life .and Depp's narration listed aboye. it includ.es one of earner. as well as l11s unique . ' Thompsons other musical loves, plaet1 in tho rising tides of tho recordzngs of bluegrass, on "My Old Kentucky 1960s in Am~riea. The .film's. Thompson himselj; Home. Go~>dnig?t'' The song i~ an soundtrack features clips of and a slew of 60s exerCise m qmet, vocally-dnven aetor Johnny Depp's narration, bluegrass. Hight afterward is a recordings of Thompson himself. rock tracks that track by Big Brother and the and a siPw of 60s roek traeks pepper the film as Holding Company, the band that that peppPr the film as tlwy did they did Thompson's brought Janis Joplin to the Thompson's life. . world. "Combination of the Two" 
''The Edw\" tho album's third life. allows Joplin's grainy, powerful 
track. is tlllP of the most striking narration dips on the soundtrack, summing up much of llw philosophy that ran through Thompson's vivid writing. 'The odg 
P. Tht>rt' is no honest way to rxplain it. BneausP tht~ only pnoplt) who n)ally know whnrn it is arP tlw ones who haVI) gone over. The others. tlw living, an~ those who push thnir control as far as they felt they can han­diP it and pullnd ha1~k or slowed down. The ndgP is still out tlwre." 
Thn term "(;onzo" comes from Thompson's love for a wacky, instrumental track, "Gonzo" by James Booker. tlie album's fifth track. The song bPgins with a whimsieal air, employing f'lute and elnetrie organ in its decidedly "mod," meandering melody. This instrumen­tal traek pfl'PI~tively sets up the listener with an elmTwnt of Thompson's mindsnt. 
Gonzo: The Soundtrack 
Various Artists Released by: SonyBMG Music Entertain men Recommended Tracks: "Maggie's Farm," "Help Me," "Get Together" 
vocals to float sharply above the music of this Haight-Ashbury 1:ont~oetion. 
On the subject of life and living in San francisco, Depp's smooth reading of Thompson on "The Wave" belies the rising power of the countereultural movement. "It was madness in any direction, at any hour. You could strike sparks anywhere. There was a fantastic universal sense that whattwer we were doing was right. that we were winning. 
"And that, I think, was the handle. That sense of inevitable victory over the forces of old and evil... We were riding the quest of a high and beautiful wave." 
Other highlights of the soundtrack include Hot Chocolate's "You Sexy Thing," the album's pair of Hob Dylan traeks, including a live version of "Maggie's Farm," and "Get Together" by The Youngbloods. Thompson himself would often champion The Youngblood's work as more powerful than most critics gave it credit for, down to the track's recognizable chorus. "C'mon, people now/ Smile on your brother/ Everybody get together/ Try to love one another right now." 
If anything, the "Gonzo" soundtrack is a fascinating look into the mind of a revolution­ary man through the music he knew and loved. Any fan of sixties music, ranging from Creedence Clearwater Revival to Lou Reed, should check out this album. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 





NSIDER 
O
THE Tuesday, December 2, 2008 BSERVER USC 38, Notre Dame 3 
Good grief, Charlie 
Irish gain just 91 yards ofoffense in blowout at the Coliseum 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
For the second time in as many years, No. 5 Southern California hung 38 points on Notre Dame en route to a 38­3 victory in Los Angeles Saturday. 
The Trojans rolled to their seventh straight victory over the Irish -the longest streak in the rivalry's history ­behind an impressive showing from senior quarterback Mark Sanchez. Sanchez fin­ished his final home game with 267 yards passing and two touchdowns. 
"Well, it's a rivalry game and it's always tough to lose to any rival, but losing like this is obviously tough," Irish senior Pat Kuntz said. 
On the other side of the ball, the No. 1-rated USC defense stopped the Irish in their tracks. Notre Dame was held to a field goal on its only trip into Trojan territory and did not pick up a first down until the final play of the third quarter. 
The Irish defense kept things close through most of the first half, but the offense didn't help it out. With just over nine minutes until the break, Trojans senior corner­back Cary Harris picked off a tipped Jimmy Clausen pass to give USC the ball at the 45­yard line. Clausen finished the day 11-for-22 with two interceptions. 
The very next play senior Joe McKnight broke loose and juked his way through the the air, hitting an open call that gave the Trojans a Walker came in and hit the defender. secondary to give USC a 14-0 Damian Williams over the first down on the 11-yard 41-yard field goal attempt. "That really bothers me lead. The score was the first middle for the score. Williams line. Aldridge could play a big that a guy gets punched in of the season for McKnight. led all receivers in the game From there Gable took over, role in a potential bowl game the face and he gets thrown 
"I think that our lack of with seven catches for 86 rushing three times before for the Irish, who may be out of the game, you know, productivity on offense with yards. getting into the without their for getting punched in the USC defense led to our On the following drive, end zone for his two other run­face," Weis said. defense wearing down and Notre Dame got backed up to team-leading ning backs for The two rivals got in several giving up some of those big its one-yard line before it was eighth touch­"We were ready to go. at least the shoving matches late in the plays," Irish coach Charlie forced to punt to Johnson. down of the first half. game and almost broke into a
From the time we left
Weis said. Johnson made it to the end year. Sophomore brawl during pre-game 
All three USC running backs zone on the return, but the The Irish South Bend we Armando Allen warm-ups. The two teams -C.J. Gable, Stafon Johnson play was called back due to a finally cracked weren't going suffered a leg met as Notre Dame came out and McKnight -finished the block in the back. the scoreboard injury early in of the tunnel to stretch and
to back down." 
day with a touchdown and Sanchez drove his team on their first the game needed to be separated by combined for 175 yards on inside the red zone once more drive of the Saturday and coaches. the ground. before settling for a field goal fourth quarter. Jimmy Clausen did not return. "We were ready to go," 
The Trojans followed with under a minute to go, The Irish gave Weis said after Clausen said. "From the time
Irish quarterback 
McKnight's score with back­giving USC a 24-0 lead going the ball to jun­the game that we left South Bend we said to-hack scoring drives to into the break. ior James he was not cer­we weren't going to back dose out the half. The score stayed there until Aldridge on tain of Allen's down." 
Sanchez connected with midway through the third seven of eight status. The Irish finished their reg­McKnight for a 14-yard gain quarter when Sanchez got hot plays -the eighth was an Fellow sophomore back ular season at 6-6 with losses and then he found fullback once again. This time he con­incomplete pass intended for Robert Hughes will also miss in four of their final five Stanley llavili on the next nected with Patrick Turner Aldridge -to move the team the first half of his next game games. play for another 39 yards. for a gain of 17, then Irish into field goal range. He because he was ejected in the 
After one unsuccessful run linebacker Toryan Smith got rushed for 51 of his 64 yards final minutes after getting in Contact Dan Murphy at play, Sanchez went back to hit with a pass interference on the drive before Brandon a scuffle with a Trojan dmurphy6@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Damian Williams USC receiver Williams caught seven passes for 86  45 Minutes it took Notre Dame to get a first down  Joe McKnight's 55-yard touchdown run in the second quarter The play put USC up by 14 and  "Ifyou ever want to be a championship team, that's where you have to be. "  
yards and a touchdown  turned the tables after Notre Dame threw an interception  Charlie Weis Irish coach  

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, December 2, 2008 
report card 
D 
quarterbacks: Clausen threw two inter­eeptions, one on the second play of the 
game and another that led to a USC 
touchdown. lie struggled to keep driv11s going with the passing game. 
D 
running backs: The backs rush11d for 50 
yards, <m average of 1.9 yards pp,r c~arry. 
They couldn't eonvcrt third-and-shorts, 
and Hughes got ejected from the game. 
receivers: The receivers weren't a'iked to doc a whole lot, but couldn't do much once they got thn ball: the longest catch of the game wa'i 11 yard<;. 
F 
offensive line: Clausen wa'> sacked lhur times and had to leave the pocket often. The line didn't clear any holes fbr the 
backs and left the ball-carriers open for 
tackles lhr losses. 

c 
defensive line: USC rushed for 175 yards, less than other Irish opponent<>. 
but the line allowed some big runs and couldn't get much pressure on Sanchez. 
linebackers: The backers held their own 
c 
against an athletic USC offense, but they 
couldn't keep points oil'tho board. 
Sanchez had success through the air and the Trojan backs ran wild. 
8-
defensive backs: Blanton, Gray and McCarthy each intercepted passes, but the secondary couldn't stop Sanchez. 
Blown coverage allowed Sanchez to find 
a wide-open Williams for a touehdown. 
c 
special teams: Walker gave Notre Dame its only points with a 35-yard field goal, and the eoverage teams played fairly well. 
The unit as a whole did not disappoint, 
but also didn't make big plays. 
F 
coaching: The playealling wa'i predictable, the team looked flat and uninspired and W<L'> not prnparnd to play a team of USC's 
caliber. The olli.msive gmne plan lhlled ;md the defense eouldn 't stop tht> Trojans. 
overall: The lri'ih landed them­
selves on ac,ademic probation 
thL'i week. They've got some 
1.4 

studying to do before a possible bowl bid at thP end of thL'i month. 

adding up the numbers 
First downs Notre Dame earned in the game. 
4 
5 
Times the Trojans scored when in the red zone, 
on six chances. 

Average yards per rushing attempt for Notre Dame. 
1.4 
15.8 Yards per carry for Trojans tailback Joe McKnight. 
Yards rushing for Notre Dame. 
50 
8 
Years since Notre Dame beat USC in the 
Coliseum. 

Time of possession for Notre Dame 1 7 ·. 4 7 
during the first three quarters. 
Yards on offense USC racked up against the 
Irish.

449 

LOS ANGELES -Dear Charlie Weis Jr., 
We've never met so I don't know what your personality is like, or how you handle criticism of your father, but I can probably guess that it hurts, probably more than when someone says something bad about you. 
Every coach's son grows up idolizing his father. You think he's the smartest guy in the world. You think nobody is Editor-in-Chief a better coach than he is. And you don't believe it when anyone says otherwise. 
At least that's how I felt growing up. My father, Chet, was the head basketball coach at my high school, Bishop Hoban, in Wilkes­Barre, Pa., for 33 years. After my junior year, his job status was up in the air. A handful of angry par­ents were displeased with his per­formance -we finished just around .500 that year -and felt he should be doing better with the talent he had. 
It was only a handful of parents, but it was the right parents ­those with the deep pockets -that wanted him out. The boneheaded principal listened to them and took the matter under consideration and for weeks, we waited until he made the decision. 
Waiting was truly the hardest part. 
While we waited, people made accusations about my father and stabbed him in the back, 
just as I'm sure you've probably seen reports in various newspa­pers or Web sites, quoting sources -both named and anonymous ­that take shots at your father. 
And maybe you heard the USC fans Saturday -and even the Notre Dame fans last week -say-


ing you're dad stinks and should be fired as he was walking into the locker room. It's cheap and it's petty. 
But at the same time, you proba­bly realize that the team that dejectedly walked off the field Saturday wasn't the same team it was at the beginning of the year. It resembled the team that took the field week in and week out last season: The offensive line strug­gled mightily and as a. result, the offense did nothing. The defense, while spirited in the beginning, wore down from being on the field too much. As happened all last season, and Notre Dame can't have its team looking like it did in 2007. 
You don't want these critics to be right, but when you see the team play like this, you begin to worry if they're right to say your dad can't inspire his team and can't develop the talent that he brings in because he can't relate to college players. 
As for my dad, his critics said he many of the same things couldn't motivate the team to play, that he was wasting talent, and that he couldn't relate to high school kids. Funny, because after all, I was a high school kid, and he always related to me pretty well. But I recognized that we had talent and things just weren't clicking that season, and it frustrated a lot of people. I worried that people would think those critics were right. 
The mistake was, I took it all personally. It was hard to get up and go to school every day, and have to face the same rumors and accusations from these small peo­ple all over again. 
For weeks, we kept waiting. The parents who wanted my dad out even organized a meeting to rally support for their cause. 
In my head, I imagined all the conversations they were having with each other, all the long phone calls they must've had to plot dad's removal. I thought, "Don't these people have anything better to do with their lives than worry about the basketball team? After all. it's just sports, there are more impor­tant things to worry about." 
When you see these Web .sites, read the newspaper or watch ESPN, you might have the same opinion. 
I was distracted in every aspect of my life. There were some long, even sometimes tear-filled nights where I couldn't stop worrying. I saw what they were doing to my dad. He, too, became sadder and angrier during this time, and that made me even angrier. 
Finally, the school let him have one more year. An odd arrange­ment, but we made the most of it, winning our district title and advancing to the state quarterfi­nals. So much for the argument that he couldn't coach anymore. 
Charlie Jr., you're going to hear a lot of rumors -many more at Notre Dame than we heard at my high school. Tune them out. 
You're going to hear a lot of talk on TV. Turn it off'. 
And you'll probably see some things in the newspaper. Throw it in the trash. 
People, young and old, have said and will always say nasty things about your father. Sadly, this sort of dialogue is a part of' our American sports culture. 
When my dad was done coach­ing, it was tough, but everything did work out in the end. The whole ordeal actually brought us closer together than ever. Nobody can take away all that he accom­plished, just as nobody can take away all your dad has accom­plished -Remember, he's the only guy on campus with four Super Bowl rings. 
As you go through the next few weeks, don't let the waiting get to you. It's just not worth it. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris !line at chine@nd. edu 

Tuesday, December 2, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Ineffective offense dooms Irish 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Assistant Managing Editor 
LOS ANGELES -Anyone looking for the main reason that Notre Dame fell to No. 5 USC Saturday needs to look no far­ther than the top of the stat sheet. 
In the 38-3 loss, the Irish ran 49 offen­sive plays for 91 yards, good for a 1.9 yards per play average. On the other side of the ball, the Trojans had an aver­age of 6.8 yards per play, with 449 yards gained on 66 plays. 
The rest of the stat sheet looks to favor the Irish, who played a disciplined game (except for the occasional scuffle). The turnover margin was even with three apiece and USC actually had more penal­ties than Notre Dame did (eight flags for 80 yards against the Trojans and only two for 22 yards against the Irish). 
Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis credit­ed a lot of his team's offensive inability to the Trojan defense, which was one of the best in the country in both scoring and yards going into this game. 
Weis said the Trojans backed into a cover-2 shell, something they have not done often this year. 
"They're more of a press-man, bring an extra guy down in the box," he said. "But they felt they could stop us with their front seven and they were able to do that." 
The Trojans managed to sack Notre Dame quarterback Jimmy Clausen four times Saturday, all from the front seven and only one from a linebacker. Irish running back Robert Hughes tries to break a tackle during Notre 
"They were able to get to us without Dame's 38-3 loss to USC Saturday. Hughes had nine yards on three carries. having to bring any heat early in the game. Really I think that at the end of The low yardage totals are most sur­ing only 7-0 despite giving up five times the day, the lack of productivity on prising, since the deep ball had been one as much total offense to USC (118 yards offense and USC's defense led to our of Notre Dame's most potent offensive to 21 through the first 15 minutes). Weis defense eventually wearing down and weapons during the first 11 games of the attributed this early score to his giving up more and more big plays," season. But against the Trojans, the defense's passion and emotion going into Weis said. leading Irish receiver in terms of yards the game. 
Clausen said the way to adjust to the was wide-out Golden Tate, who had two "In this game, I think that our defense cover-2 defense would be to try running catches for 15 yards. In the loss to let us hang around there for a while the ball more and checking down to Syracuse on Nov. 22, Tate had seven because their defense was working us shorter options in the passing game. catches for 146 yards and two touch­pretty good right until the end of the 
Notre Dame's offense could not do this downs. third quarter," he said. effectively, in large part due to USC's The Irish only managed one first down But early in the second quarter, after defense. Any running plays or short in the first three quarters of play: a 15-the defense had just forced a Trojan passes were quickly snuffed out by the yard run by James Aldridge as the last three-and-out, Clausen threw a pass Trojan linebacking corps, led by play of the third quarter. Later on that intended for tight end Kyle Rudolph into Bednarik finalist Ray Maualuga. drive Notre Dame's offense would see heavy coverage. Maualuga tipped the 
"They're one of the top defenses in the Trojan territory for the first time. pass, which linebacker Kaluka Maiava country, if not the best defense in the Aldridge accounted for more than half grabbed for the pick, Clausen's second. country," Clausen said. of the team's total offense against USC, That play ended up as a turning point 
The forced check-downs made the with 58 yards on 12 carries. Most of for the game, since Joe McKnight fol­passing game Saturday easily the worst those yards came on Notre Dame's field lowed it immediately with a 55-yard in Weis' tenure with the Irish, and goal drive spanning the end of the third touchdown run to double the USC lead. Clausen finished the game 11-of-22 and the beginning of the fourth quarter. passing with 41 yards and two intercep­The Irish did hang with the Trojans ContactJay Fitzpatrick at tions. through the first quarter, and were los-jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Anello breaks leg making tackle on return 
first half of any bowl game Century Man gain, the entire crowd ­
By FRAN TOLAN and GREG 
Notre Dame goes to. This With a tackle late in the Irish and Trojan faithful
ARBOGAST 
means Robert Hughes will first quarter on Anthony alike -gave the Notre 
Sports Writers 
see the majority of the car­McCoy, Irish strong safety Dame offense a standing ries in a potential bowl Kyle McCarthy registered ovation. 
Notre Dame kick cover­game. his 1OOth tackle of the sea­age standout Mike Anello son. With the tackle, Future of the program was injured midway Early bird gets the points McCarthy became the first Notre Dame athletic through the first quarter When USC tailback Stafon player in the Notre Dame director Jack Swarbrick covering a punt. Anello Johnson scored on a two­secondary to hit the centu-said he will meet with Weis made the tackle, but he yard plunge ry mark for next Monday to discuss the injured his leg in the with 4:06 tackles. season. Speculation swirls process. Anello was subse­remaining in "Our players that Weis will be fired, but quently carted off the field the opening Standing Iris safety Kyle McCarthy
practiced hard this 
with a full-leg brace, and quarter, it Ovation said the rumors didn't reports after the game was the first week and had a good It took until affect the players. were that he fractured a time an oppo­game plan going in. the last play "It didn't affect us at all," bone in his leg. The tackle nent scored a of the third McCarthy said. "Our play­
We really had our 
was Anello's 23rd of the first-quarter quarter for ers really practiced hard season. good for 1Oth on touchdown on mind on this game Notre Dame this week and had a good the team. the Irish only and to pick up game plan going in. We defense since their first really had our mind on the
unfortunately this is 
Two down, one to go Sept. 27. On first-down of game only and unfortu­Armando Allen left the that day, how the game the game, nately this is how the game game in the first quarter. Purdue tail-turned out." but the turned out. We're a couple Weis said he had a lower back opened accomplish­wins away from being a leg injury, and Allen was the scoring ment was nine-win team and that
Kyle McCarthy 
on crutches in the second with a 22-duly noted. falls on the players." half. Robert Hughes was yard scamper When James ejected in the fourth quar­for a touch­Aldridge Contact Fran Tolan at ter for fighting, and by down during Notre Dame's burst through the middle ftolan@nd.edu and Greg NCAA rule will miss the 38-21 victory. of the line for a 15-yard Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  0  0  0  3  3  
usc  7  17  7  7  38  

First quarter 
USC 7, Notre Dame 0 
Staton Johnson 2-yard run with 4:06 remaining (Buehler kick). Drive: 12 plays, 79 yards, 7:11 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
USC 14, Notre Dame 0 
Joe McKnight 55-yard run with 9:05 remaining (Buehler kick). Drive: 1 play, 55 yards, :10 elapsed. 
USC 21, Notre Dame 0 
Damian Williams 12-yard pass from Mark Sanchez with 4:48 remaining (Buehler kick). Drive: 5 plays, 67 yards, 2:33 elapsed. 
USC 24, Notre Dame 0 
Buehler 35-yard field goal with 0:24 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 32 yards, 2:09 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
USC 31, Notre Dame 0 
C.J. Gable 1-yard run with 5:03 remaining (Buehler kick). Drive: 6 plays, 44 yards, 2:37 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
USC 31, Notre Dame 3 
Brandon Walker 41-yard field goal with 11:45 
remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 51 yards, 3:51 
elapsed. USC 38, Notre Dame 3 
Patrick Turner 17-yard pass from Mark Sanchez 
with 7:57 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 84 yards, 
3:51 elapsed. 
statistics 

I ' ' I 
NO usc 449 
rushing yards 
11&.111 
passing yards 
~~~------­
-~­
return yards 

.,. 
time of possession NO 
usc ...... 

passing 

Clausen 11-22-2 Sanchez 22-31-2 
rushing 

Aldridge 12-58 McKnight 4-63-1 Allen 4-7 Tyler 7-59 
receiving 

Hughes  3-9  Williams  7-86-1  
Allen  3-3  Turner  6-83-1  
Tate  2-15  McKnight  3-0  
Kamara  1-7  McCoy  2-26  
Rudolph  1-4  Johnson  2-24  

tackling page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, December 2, 2008 

Blanton  7  Maiava  5  
McCarthy  7  Morgan  3  
Gray  5  McAllister  3  
Johnson  5  Moore  3  
Bruton  5  Casey  3  



Laying do"Wit 
the L.A. law-
The battle began before the game started. Irish and Trojan players 
clashed on the field, emotions overflowing. Once the game began, how­ever, the battle turned into a bloodbath. Notre Dame hung with the Trojans in the first quarter and was only down by seven, but an inter­ception and a long touchdown run quickly changed that. USC's 17 points in the second quarter put the game out of reach. 
USC added to its lead with a one-yard touchdown run in the third quarter. It took the Irish 45 minutes-right up to the end of the third quarter-to get a first down, and the Irish didn't reach Trojan territo­
ry until the fourth quarter. Rrandon Walker's field goal averted the shutout. but another Southern Cal touchdown pass ensured that Notre Dame could not eover the 31.5-point spread, the largest in the history of' the series. Late-game scul'lles on the field did nothing to change the outcome. and Notre Dame limped out of the Coliseum with an even record. 


Clockwise from top, Clausen throws a pass to Robert Hughes; linebacker Kerry Neal dives to recover a loose ball; Notre Dame and USC players get in each other's faces before the game; Irish linebackers Steve Quinn, right, and Kevin Smith force Trojans running back Staton Johnson to fumble; Trojans defenders sack Clausen. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE 
page II 
It provides theright musical blend for vampires and their sig­nificant others, and it can do the same for ordinary people as well. This 14-song mix is just some of the music that set the mood for the hOliday season, teen blockbuster, Twilight. And for those, who {despite constant attention paid to Bella and Edward in books, movies, and the on the Web) still can't get enough, this soundtrack will help feed the Twilight addiction. Still, the album has an eerily unusual and enjoyable mix that can stand on its own, even without the Twilight phenomena. 
With a peculiar, and yet satisfYing, blend of pounding, aggres­sive techno-rock hybrid, hypnotic indie, and tender, slow love the Twilight soundtrack is surprisingly cohesive. An under­anomaly connects the tracks with an indescribable quality 
created by sound, lyrics, and tone that unpredictably work to~rettter. Going off the heavily beaten path of solely popular hits, the mix generates an oflbeat concoction that translates from film to album, and has potential to suit Twilight fans and those not so vampire obsessed alike. 
The appeal of Twilight's soundtrack is that it's atypical and unpredictable in equal parts. At one moment, the processed sound of techno-rock pushes a fast, beating tempo and, at the next, captivating raw vocals are crooning over minimal instru­mental. And yet, the swings from one end of the spectrum to the 
are well balanced and coherent, starting off with fast paced 
and descending to soothing opera and instrumental. 
first tracks are generally high energy. But they go beyond a 
--·-stereotypical "power jams." Instead, characterized by a 
of the better attributes of rock and techno, these energetic 
a distinct tension. Maybe it's the mixing of genres or 
it's the lyrical themes of empowerment and temptation 
obviously speaks to the themes of Twilight on the whole). 
expressly, this appealing tension seems to derive from all 
artists attempt to control their powerful music, keeping it 
• Without being overbearing or chaotic. A good example of this is Mutemath's "Spotlight." Using rhyth­
mic clapping and melodic humming to make a rewed up tempo, 
track translates to an equally empowered feeling for listen­
Additionally, "Supermassive Black Hole" by Muse sets the 
for the entire album with its thumping pace and tough vibe. 
similar chanting, rhythmic vibe is continued in other tracks 
Blue f'oundation's "Eyes on Fire" and The Black Ghost's"Full 
"other album highlights. It's not only the rhythmic quality of the tracks that sew a thread from one high powered track to another but also an eerily off beat sound that is nonetheless confi­
-inJI$ atypical power~ Tracks like these, while more subtle, are the strength arid backbone of the album that help transition etween mellow and vigorously aggressive melodies. 
The heart wrenching love songs are all similarly unhurriHd and deliberate. More importantly, they all seem to have an enthralling spirit. Iron and Wine's contribution, in their never-fail heart­warming, romantic style, enchants listeners with the magical "Flightless Bird, American Mouth." 
But perhaps the most surprising musical contributor is the star of the movie himself, Rob Pattinson. Lending two tracks to the album, Pattinson's crooning is soulful, measured, and breathtak­ingly redolent of pain and love. While he's said that a musical career is a backup. his musical talent has a captivating ability that reeks a maturity that his acting skills lack. Sadly, these are the only two tracks available from Pattinson, whose talent could no doubt create more beguiling music. 
Also, the instrumental and classical portions of the soundtrack are worth being mentioned. While Carter Burwell created the entire score for the Iilm, his touch is only found on the soundtrack in "Bella's Lullaby," which comes off a bit more like seductive piano playing rather than calming, bed-time lullaby. More from Burwell would have been a welcome addition. His talent easily could have replaced tracks from more predictable, unexciting artists like Paramore, which probably should have been left out in the first place. Additionally, "Clair de Lune" provided a classical, charming piece that nicely works in with the rest ofthe album. 
Unconventional film themes somehow translate into an atypical sound that is just as appealing as the story for which it sets the mood. Some tracks utilize a powerful tension that encompasses equal parts of aggressive passion, empowering poignancy, and measured restraint. Others have an affecting sensitivity that will pluck at listeners' heart strings. And still other songs instrwnen­taiJy create charmingly enchanting melodies. 
Perhaps all styles are in their own way memorizing and this is the quality that defmes and unites tl1e album as a whole. And while, of course, certain tracks are so evocative of their respective cinematic scenes that it is hard not to be sucked into the film, for the most part, the Twilight soundtrack can stand on its own as a offbeat, captivating mix. It will speak not only to Twilight fans but also to those who simply love a cohesive variety of none-generic, satisfYing music. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel@nd.edu. 
Twilight: The Soudtrack 
Various Artists Released by: Chop Shop Records Recommended Tracks: "Spotlight", "Let Me Sign," Flightless Bird, American Mouth," "Full Moon" 
By MARTHA KARAM Scene Writer 
Time has treated David Byrne and Brian Eno well. Over 25 years after their collabo­rative and experimental 1981 release "My Life in the Bush of GhosL'>," Byrne and Eno team up in a familiar sounding summer Internet release, "Everything That Happens Will Happen Today." Byrne and Eno's latest collaboration sounds exactly how you would expect a Talking Heads and Brian Eno album to sound. Take Byrne's vocals and soothingly sanctified lyrics and place them onto Eno's distinctly warped electron­ic-rock sound and you get "Everything That llappens." 
If you're looking for an album that goes outside of what you expect from Eno and Byrne, "Everything That llappens" will not suffice. Most of the songs on the album are comparable in either lyrical mode or saun­tering beat to any Talking Heads album you've heard. lf you happen to be a big Talking Heads fan, this album is a lot like what you would expect from the band somewhere between "Remain in the light" and "Speaking in Tongues." 
Byrne's vocals have changed little, if at all, for the better, becoming slightly less comical and irritating than his Talking Heads days. The tracks "I Feel My Stuff," "Poor Boy," and "Wanted For Life" carry the most obvious influence from Eno with their more synthesized sound and stick-out on the albwn as more current and accessi­ble. 
The ironic single off the album, "Strange Overtones," is a poppy song about a song. The concept of a song about songwriting seemed doomed. But despite its literal lyrics of "melting snowballs" and "hearing your feet in the apartment next door", the song's subject ties together the entire albwn's idea of the transcendent pleasures of music over time and even Byrne's per­sonal beliefs. 
The second song off the album, My Big Nurse, is testament to that subject. As an ode to Byrne's confidence in a high being, and the biblical references scattered throughout the entire album hints that Byrne's higher being just might be God. 
The music on the album is contemporary, but the lyrics could easily be placed on an album over a half-century earlier and still be appreciated in a completely different context. The ability of the lyrics to match Eno's instrumentation is why Byrne and Eno make a good team. 
The ability of the lyrics to be timeless as well as modern makes Byrne's influence on the album more overtly memorable than Eno's influence. It is also Byrne's influence that makes the album sound more like a Talking Heads' album than anything else. 
There is one difficulty in listening to this album. When a producer and his artist get together to make an album again, it's a chore to avoid similarities and associations in sound to their previous work. If you are willing to accept that this album is not going to be a refreshingly novel sound check out "Everything That Happens Will Happen Today." The album manages to be unique from most music being released today, regardless of Byrne and Eno's expe­rience and practice in music for three decades. 
The full streaming albun1 is available on the official site (http://www.every­thingthathappens.com), but for the deluxe edition, which contains 5 extra tracks, you can now order a physical copy. 
Contact M. Karam at mkaram2@nd.edu 
EverythingThat Happens Will Happen Today Brian Eno and DavidByrne Released by: Legacy Records Recommended Tracks: "I Feel 

MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 
Richardson, Bobcats ease past Timberwolves 
Pierce's strong fourth quarter helps Celtics earn ninth straight victory; Magic's road winning streak snapped at six 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, December 2, 2008 

Associated p...,ss  guys in together, we get extra passes," Brown said. "That  
CIIAHLOTTE.  N.C.-The  makes other people better."  
point guard  was  nearly mis­ Handy  roye  scored  23  
take-f'ron. The big  man  was  points and Mike Miller added  
finally getting the ball  - and  19 points and 10 rebounds for  
converting.  The  shooter  Minnesota, which  was  never  
looked as good as ever follow­ in sync in its second straight  
ing arthroseopic surgery.  loss. Top  scorer AI Jefferson  
It  took  a  while.  but  the  was held to eight points on 3­ 
Charlotte  Bobcats  finally  of-11 shooting and Minnesota  
appear to  understand eoach  commit ted  14  of  its  18  
Larry  Brown's  complex  turnovers in the first half.  
offense.  It was the end to a bad day  
.Jason Hichardson seored 25  for the Timberwolves, who  
points in another strong per­ lnarned in the morning that  
formance after  top  defender  
being  side- Corey  Brewer  
lined with knee trouble,  "It's pretty difficult  will miss rest of' the  the sea­ 
leading  the  because there are so  son with a torn  
s u d d n n Iy nl'f'i ­eient Bobeats to a 100-90 win over the error-prone  many demanding things that he wants you to do."  anterior cruci­ate ligament in his right knee. "There are going to be  
Minnesota Ti rn berwol ves  Jason Richardson  nights you don't have it  
on  Monday  Bobcats forward  offensively,"  
night.  coach  Handy  
After start- Wittman said.  
ing 3-9, the Bobcats have won  "II' you don't continue to do  
three of' Uwir last live games,  things at both ends of' the  
with  a close loss to defending  floor, then you can't play. I've  
champion Boston during that  got to find people to play."  
stretch.  In his record ninth  With  Bobcats part-owner AP  
NBA  head  coaching  job,  Michael Jordan back in his Charlotte Bobcats guard Raymond Felton, right, tries to steal the ball from Minnesota  
Brown appears to  be making  courtside seat for  a  second Timberwolves guard Randy Foye during their game Monday night in Charlotte, N.C.  
progress with  a  team  that  straight game following  a  
won  only  32 games under  two-wonk absence, Charlotte  teams," Okaf'or said. "When  pass to Ray Allen, who nailed  coach Stan Van Gundy said. "I  
Sam Vincent last season.  took  the  lead for  good  on  he  first  comes  in  it takes  a  3-pointer from the top to  think  more  than anything it  
"It's pretty difficult because  Hichardson's  reverse alley­ some time to adjust. There's a  make it 71-57.  was  a  problem  with  our  
there arc so many demanding  oop  dunk  on  a  feed  from  learning curve.  Once every­ After Pierce scored easily  schemes and preparation."  
things that he  wants you  to  Augustin midway through the  body learns it, people get  against Turkoglu, the Magic  The Magic had their four­ 
do,"  Hiehardson said of' the  seeond quartnr.  going."  tried Hashard Lewis against  game  winning  streak  
(J X-year-o I d  Brow n .  " But  After Minnesota cut a  12­ Pierce, with only  a  little bet­ snapped. Orlando had won six  
we're a  team that's willing to  point dBiieit to five, Charlotte  Celtics 107, Magic 88  ter success.  straight  road  games,  one  
lnarn, was ready to listen and  then pulled away in the final  Everything was working so  "He  did  what  he's  been  short of its club reeord set at  
looking for something differ­ period,  highlighted  by  well for Paul Pierce that his  doing all his career," Boston  the start of last season.  
ent. We still don't have every­ Hichardson 's  spectaeular,  teammates just kept getting  point guard Rajon Rondo said.  Similar to the opening min­ 
thing down, but the things  spinning alley-oop dunk off  him the ball.  "He had  a  rhythm and  we  utes  of'  the  game,  when  
we're  doing  are  heading  Felton's pass that made it 84­ Pierce scored 17 of his 24  continued to call plays for  Boston broke ahead by  10  
toward it."  70  with  6:16  points in the third quarter to  him."  points, the Celtics controlled  
W h i e Hichardson scored at least 21 points for the third straight game sineo his roturn  "They're doing a great job ofjust acting like they're going and stunting. It's messing me up."  left. The Bobcats had 28 assists and only 10 turnovers. "A lot of guys played very,  lead the Boston Celtics to their ninth straight win over the Orlando Magic on Monday night. "We were just taking advan­tage of the matchups," Pieree said. "We saw something that  Allen added 21 points, Rondo had 16 points with 12 assists and Kevin Garnett scored 15 points for the Celties (17 -2) in a win over a top Eastern Conference rival. There were eight technicals  the tempo and appeared to run whatever they wanted on offense. Boston, which held Orlando to 39 pereent shooting in the first three quarters, led 77-65 at the break.  
af'ter sitting out  very  well,"  we could do  whistled in the  Eddie  House's  3-pointer  
seven contests AI Jefferson Brown said. following T h eTlmberwolves forward exploratory Timberwolves surgery on his never had a right knee, he got plenty of' shot with Jefferson strug­help. gling. In his first game in  and we just kept going to it. My teammates did a good job of set­ "We were just taking advantage ofthe matchups. We saw something that we could  game, with ref­eree Bob Delaney calling four in the first half. "This was one  made it 92-75 with 6:50 to play, and Boston cruised the rest of the way, mixing starters with reserves. In the opening half, the Celtics shot 60 percent and  
Emeka Okafor. of'ten invisi­ble in the paint this season, added a season-high 24  Charlotte since scoring a career-high 40 points in April, Jefferson added nine  ting me up." Pierce, who scored  do and we just kept going to it . .,  interesting game. A lot of technicals,"  led 28-18 after one. They opened it up to 37-22 on Glen Davis' jumper before the  
points on  9-of-14 shooting.  rebounds  and  bloeked  six  only  five  Boston  coach  Magic  scored  10  straight  
The notoriously poor free­ shots, but eouldn't contribute  points in the  Paul Pierce  Doc Rivers said,  points to get back into it.  
throw shooter made all six from the line and added 10  on offense as he struggled with Charlotte's defensive  opening half, carried  Celtics guard  before joking: "I better be quiet  The Magie were without their starting baekeourt for  
rnbounds.  scheme.  the  Celtics  before  I  get  a  the second consecutive game.  
Haymond Felton had  a  sea­ "They're doing a  great job  from  a  two-point halftime  technical."  Jameer Nelson  was sidelined  
son-high  14 assists, and did­ of just acting like  they're  edge to a 12-point lead enter­ Lewis paced Orlando (13-5)  for his fourth straight with  a  
n't eomm it his only turnover  going and stunting," Jefferson  ing the fourth quarter.  with 30 points. Turkoglu had  hip flexor and Miekael Pietrus  
until just more  than 2 min­ said. "It's messing me up."  Isolating  against  Hedo  19 and Dwight Howard, the  is  on  injured  reserve  with  a  
utes remained.  Felton and  After messing up for weeks  Turkoglu  on  a  number  of  NBA's leading rebounder, had  torn right thumb ligament.  
rookie D . .J.  Augustin (nine  under Brown, the Bobcats  trips,  Pierce scored 15 of  14 points with 15 boards and  "Yeah,  they  smacked  us  
points, four assists) continued  appear to  be finally getting  Boston's  20  points  as  the  four blocked shots.  tonight,"  Orlando  guard  
to play well in  Brown's two­ what their Hall of Fame coach  Celtics pulled ahead 68-57.  "We didn't do  a  very good  Anthony Johnson said. "But  
point guard backcourt.  wants.  When Pierce was contained  job on  the pick and rolls in  with two healthy squads I feel  
"When  we  have those two  "That's  his  history  with  driving the lane, he fired  a  the seeond half'," Orlando  very good."  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Furnished 2-bdrm. house.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  Sleigh bells ring, are you listening?  Feliz Navidad,  
FoR RENT  Living room, kitchen, dining room,  PERSONAL  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  In the lane, snow is glistening  Feliz Navidad,  
full bath. 6.5 blks to NO. $795/mo.  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09·1 0  Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann  A beautiful sight, we're happy  Feliz Navidad,  
SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS  Avail Jan. 1.  If you or someone you care about  Firth at 574-631-2685. For more  tonight  
AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER  Call605-397-8135 or 574-234-3007  has been sexually assaulted, visit  information, visit our website at:  Prospero Ano y Felicidad.  
PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR  or 574-261·4444.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap  http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslpreg- Walking in a winter wonderland.  
KRAMERHOUSES.COM  I  nant.shtml  Roll Tidel  



OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, December 2, 2008 COMP!LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S Wl RF. SERVICES Page 13 
NFL 
NCAA Football BCS Top 25 
team  BCSavg  
1  Alabama (58)  0.971  
2  Oklahoma  0.935  
3  Texas  0.922  
4  Florida  0.885  
5  usc  0.808  
6  Utah  0.784  
7  Texas Tech  0.781  
8  Penn State  0.737  
9  Boise State  0.703  
10  Ohio State  0.634  
11  TCU  0.563  
12  Ball State  0.531  
13  Cincinnati  0.483  
14  Oklahoma State  0.428  
15  Georgia State  0.405  
16  Georgia  0.331  
17  Boston College  0.320  
18  Brigham Young  0.314  
19  Oregon  0.304  
20  Missouri  0.282  
21  Michigan State  0.255  
22  Northwestern  0.122  
23  Pittsburgh  0.101  
24  Florida State  0.077  
25  Virginia Tech  0.057  

NCAA Football AP Top 25 
team points 
1 Alabama (62) 1,620 2 Florida (3) 1,516 3 Texas 1,488 4 Oklahoma 1,480 5 usc 1,355 6 Penn State 1,257 7 Utah 1,216 8 Texas Tech 1,197 9 Boise State 1,103 10 Ohio State 1,069 11 TCU 885 12 Ball State 834 13 Cincinnati 824 14 Oklahoma Stale 798 15 Georgia Tech 708 16 Oregon 630 17 Georgia 495 18 Boston College 482 19 Missouri 479 20 Brigham Young 385 21 Michigan State 312 22 Mississippi 280 23 Pittsburgh 241 24 Northwestern 190 25 Oregon State 122 

NCAA Hockey 
previous 
1 3 2 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 14 15 16 12 22 11 21 18 23 13 19 24 25 20 NR 

previous 
1 2 4 3 5 6 8 7 9 10 14 15 16 11 18 19 13 20 12 20 22 25 NR 24 17 

USA Today Rankings 
Men  Record  
1  NOTRE DAME (33)  10·3·2  
2  Minnesota (1)  7·2·5  
3  Boston College  9·4-1  
4  Miami {Ohio)  8~3·3  
5  Boston University  9·4-0  
6  Colorado College  9·4·3  
7  Denver  9·5·1  
8  Northeastern  10·3-2  
9  Princeton  9·2.0  
10  Air Force  13·1-0  

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Duke at Purdue 
9:00 p.m., ESPN 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK, N.Y. ­Taken to court in hand­cuffs, Plaxico Burress post· ed $100,000 bail on weapons possession charges Monday as the frenzy grew around the Giants star receiver who accidentally shot himself in a nightclub. 
Authorities said team­mate Antonio Pierce was being investigated over his role in the weekend shoot· ing, while the Super Bowl­champion Giants weren't sure what action they would take, if any, against Burress. The NFL said it was monitoring develop· ments. Mayor Michael Bloomberg also weighed in, saying it would be an outrage "if we didn't pros­ecute to the fullest extent of the law." 
Burress shot himself in the right thigh in the VIP section of the Latin Quarter nightclub in Manhattan about 1 a.m. Saturday, police said. He did not have a permit to carry a handgun in New York. 
A witness reported hear­ing a popping sound before Burress' legs began to shake, according to a criminal complaint. It said the person saw a bloody pistol fall out of his pant leg and land on the floor before Burress said "Take me to a hospitaL" 
It's believed Pierce took Burress to a car and then left with him, according to police. Burress was treat­ed at New York­Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center and released later Saturday. 
Burress was charged with two counts of second­degree criminal possession of a weapon, which could result in a prison sentence of 3 years to 15 years if he is convicted. He was not required to enter a plea Monday and is due back in court on March 31. Burress did not say any­thing in court. 
"He is standing talL He is a mature adult," said Benjamin Brafman, his defense lawyer. "I think any professional athlete in this situation would be concerned." 
He said Burress is feel· ing OK. "If they let him play, he will be able to play.... I think he will be a superstar for the rest of his career." 
Originally, police had said that running back Derrick Ward was with Burress and Pierce at the club, relying on informa­tion given to them from security guards at the bar. But police said later that it was unclear if Ward was at the club, and the run­ning back denied that he was. 

IN BRIEF Marbury's future with Knicks 
uncertain after tirade 
GREENBURGH, N.Y-Stephon Marbury did not get the divorce he wants, but he and the New York Knicks agreed to a separation. 
Marbury was ordered Monday to stay away from the Knicks \\-bile the team looks for a solution to its $21 million problem ­one that has lingered since the preseason and exploded last week when the team sus­pended him for refusing to play and he retaliated with a series of inflammatory remarks about coach Mike D'Antoni. 
Marbury's future was "not resolved" dur­ing a meeting with team president Donnie Walsh at the Knicks' practice fu.cility, accord­ing to the players' mmciation attorney rep­resenting him. The sides will continue to talk, but Marbury won't be around in the meantime. 
"After meeting with Stephon and his rep­re;entative this afternoon, we have directed Stephon not to participate in practice or attend games until further notice," Walsh said in a statement 'We want to continue to meet with him to discuss a long-term resolu­tion." 
Red Raiders' Harrell's tinger 
broken in nine places 
LUBBOCK, Tex. -Texas Tech quarter­back Graham Harrell was recovering Monday from surgery to repair nine breaks in two fingers of his non-throwing hand, but he won't miss any playing time. 
Texas Tech spokesman Orris Cook con­firmed details of Harrell's injury and Sunday surgery. He didn't have specifics on whether Harrell's fingers got caught in a facemask or slammed against a helmet in Saturday's 35-28 win over Baylor. 
ESPN.com first reported the details involving the nation's leading passer. Surgeons inserted 17 pins and two plates into the pinkie and ring finger of Harrell's left hand. 
Harrell, a contender for the Heisman Trophy, will play when the No. 8 Red Raiders (11-1) appear in their ninth straight bowl, likely the Cotton BowL 
The fifth-year senior played in the sec­ond half and finished with 309 yards and two touchdowns, the second one coming midway through the fourth quarter to cap a 21-point rally by the Red Raiders. 
Anderson out for season,
Dorsey to lead the Browns 
BEREA, Ohio-Derek Anderson's season is officially over, yet another slap for the down-on-their-luck Oeveland Browns. 
Anderson, who lost his starting job to Brady Quinn several weeks ago, will miss the final four games after !Paring a lig'dlllent in his left knee on Sunday against Indianapolis. 
An MRI taken Monday revealed Anderson tore the medial collateral ligament when he was sacked in the final minutes of Oeveland's 10-6loss to the Colis. Anderson, making his first start since Nov. 2 after being benched for Quinn, will not need surgery. He will be placed in a brace and will need four to six weeks to recover: 
Quinn, too, is done for the season with a finger injury. He has not yet decided whether to have surgery on his broken right index finger, which he hurt on Nov. 17 at Buffalo. 
The injuries to their top two Qll'> mP.arJs the Browns (4-8) will start third-stringer Ken Dorsey on Sunday against the Tennessee Titans (11-1). Return specialist Joshua Gibbs will serve as Dorsey's backup. 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 2, 2008 
CYCLING 

Armstrong affirms Tour de France return in 2009 
Seven-time champion Lance Armstrong will make a surprising return when he rides in next year's Tour de France 
"II' you've been away for tions. Also riding with Astana
Associated Prrss 

three or four years, it would is Germany's Andreas 
AUSTIN, Texas -Lance be silly for anybody to think I Kloeden, American veteran Armstrong will ride in the could pick up where I left Levi Leipheimer and top sup­2009 Tour de France, mark­ol'l'," Armstrong told The port rider Yaroslav Popovych. ing the l"irst time hn will Associated Press in a tele­Astana is considered by far eornpete in that race and thn phonn interview from the strongest multistage Giro d'Italia in tho same Tenerife in the Canary team. year. Islands where Astana is "We'll abide by the same 
"I'm committed to riding training. "I can tell you I feel code that I do: cyeling is a for the best guy," Armstrong better than ever, I feel team sport, while we'd all said Monday. stronger than like to win." he said. acknowledg-ever on Dec. The 37-year-old stunned ing the tax­1. How that the cycling world in
"If you've been away for
ing sclwdule translates to September. when he could leavP three or four years, it racing. we'll announced he was ending his him riding in would be silly for have to see. three-year retirement. He a supporting Mentally, in said then his goal was to
anybody to think I could 
role in terms of moti­race in the Tour but stopped France. pick up where llej~ ojJ" vation, this short of' a guarantee. The Ciro feels like Beached by telephone, runs May 9-1998-1999 to French anti-doping agency
Lance Armstrong 
]1, and the rne." chid Pierre Bordry would
Team Astana rider 
Tour bngins Armstrong's not comment on Armstrong's .July 4. decision to decision but did say "he will 
With such ride gives the be treated like everyone a quick turnaround bntween powerhouse Astana team a else" when it comes to drug two grueling races, the superstar lilwup in France, testing. seven-tinw Tour champion including 2007 Tour winner .Jonathan Vaughters, arknowlndgNl his body might Alberto Contador. lie missed Armstrong's U.S. Postal not perform at the same level last year's race because teammate during the 1999 it. did wlwn lw won his last Astana was barred from rid­Tour win and now Garmin Tour in 2005. ing l'or previous doping viola-Chipotle's sporting director, 
STUDY ABROAD THIS SUMMER THROUGH NOTRE DAME! 

Notre Dame will offer faculty-led programs in: 
Cape Town, South Africa Dublin, Ireland Paris, France Toledo, Spain Vienna, Austria 
SUMMER PROGRAMS INFORMATION SESSION THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 7PM 125 DEBARTOLO 

Proprietors V.larren & Linda
Y?occo's 
Restaurant 
!Jrrsl Orijiila.f::Azza in 7o.wn! 
Since 1951 

Specializing in ltiJiian Entrees 
Tues.-Thuf'5.: 5:00 PM • 11:00 ?M Fri. • S.U.: 5:00 PM • 1:00AM 53 7 North St. louis • Sour'l Berd. IN 
574-233-2-'64 



said he was not surprised by AP the news. Lance Armstrong rides past the Arc de Triomphe in Paris during 
"I never considered it a the final stage of the Tour de France July 24, 2005. realistic possibility he wasn't going to do the Tour," recent years. organizers have petitive as possible," he said. Vaughtnrs said by tr~lephone. taken additional steps to pro­"The main objective is the "It's the biggest race in the teet ridel's. message or the foundation. world. Why Armstrong That's the first priority and if wouldn't. he dismissed any we ride moderately well, it want to do potential helps get the message out." that?" threats He's scheduled to n~turn to
"We'll abide by the same
In recent Monday: "It's elite racing Jan. 20 for the
code that I do: cycling is 
interviews, not going to Tour Down Under in Armstrong a team sport, while we,d keep me from Australia. That's also when revealed all like to win. ,, going and the drug-testing program worries doing my job, he's arranging with Don about his and it's not Catlin, America's top anti­personal Lance Armstrong going to keep doping expert, will be in safety while Team Astana rider me from place. riding in the spreading my But no race provides a open roads of message." stage similar to the Tour. france and lie has dedi­"The Tour is the biggest through the throngs of fans cated his comeback to raising bike raee in the world; we that pack the route. awareness for the Lance need it to tell this story on 
The Tour has its own police Armstrong Foundation and the biggest stage," force to guard each stage his global fight against can­Armstrong said. "There's a and ensure safety, and cer. mutual respect there, it has­French police paid particular ''I'm happy with the record n't always been mutual love. attention to Armstrong's (seven wins). I'm training We need them, they need safety when he was riding. In hard and trying to be as com-us." 
Tuesday, December 2, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish end season with sweep 
By JARED )EDICK Sports Writer 
The Irish finished up their season in style with a 3-0 (25-23, 25-19, 25-22) win over Xavier on Friday, sending their two seniors, middle blocker Justine Stremick and out­side hitter Mallorie Croal, off into the sunset with a good taste in their mouths. 
"We all would have rather been playing in the NCAA's," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "But it was important for those two to go out with a win. We all have a lot of respect for Justine and Mallorie." 
Notre Dame (17 -14; 9-5 Big East) did not disappoint on senior day, dominating all facets of the game against Xavier (16-15; 8-5 Atlantic 
10) to pull out the sweep win and earn the team its 80th victory in the seniors four years. 
"Overall. we did pretty well, despite a somewhat poor showing statistically," Brown said. "Our main goal wa<> to get everybody into the match and gain some experience." 
Freshman outside hitter Kristen Dealy and junior outside hitter Christina Kaelin had 10 kills apiece to lead the Irish in scoring, who hit .225 as a team. Sophomore outside hitter Kellie Sciacca tossed in eight kiUs with five blocks with Strernick nailing five more kills. Sophomore libero/defensive specialist Megan Dunne led the Irish with 14 digs, fol­lowed closely by freshman libenvdefensive specialist Frenchy Silva's total of 10. 
But the real story of the day was the send-off for the seniors, who have been important leaders for the Irish for some time now. 
Croal could not make it onto the court this year for any extended period of time because of injury, but she took over the role of doing whatever she could on the sidelines, according to Brown. 
"Mallorie was just an outstanding leader," Brown said. "She could not be the leader she was on the court because of her injury, but she did everything she possibly could off of it to help the team." 
Brown found the hard work and insights of Croal to her fellow team­mates to be inspiring and an impor­tant aspect of the team down the stretch and through the surprising run to the Big East Championship. 
"Mallorie tried everything to get back out there, but her ability to do everything you would expect a leader to do was important down the stretch," Brown said. "She was an inspiration to us." 
The last month of the season saw Stremick coming on as the player and leader Brown always knew she could be. 
"Justine is our dominant presence at the net," Brown said. "This last month saw her playing up to the ability that she always had." 
Strernick came from a small town by the name of Langdon, North Dakota, and did not even play for a club team, but she found a way to keep rising to the occasion and become a key player on a Big East team, according to Brown. 
"When she came onto the team as a freshmen, she had to sit and learn from some dominant players already on the team," Brown said. "But she stepped up into the start­ing role sophomore year and just kept getting better and better. She is really pretty remarkable." 
After failing to reach their goal of making the NCAA's this year, the Irish have to look to next season, as they would like to move beyond the inconsistencies that plagued them for most of this year. 
"It is a little frustrating when you have an up and down year," Brown said. "The early losses really hurt us, especially with all the injuries." 
But Brown believes the season ended on a high note with the team coming together in the Big East tournament, bolstered by the fact that the team is only losing two players to graduation and will boast six returning seniors and four jun­iors. 
"Overall we improved as a team," Brown said. "Nobody on this team ever crumbled, and no one threw in the towel." 
The expectations are even higher next year than this. 
"We have very high expecta­tions," Brown said. "We felt that this year would be the year we made it back to the NCAXs and returned to an elite status. That did not happen this year, so there is no question we want to make it there next year." 
The Irish will be back next fall looking to build on the momentum gained from a furious run at the end of the year. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 



page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 2, 2008 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles break streak against Wheaton 
By KATE GRABAREK and 
MICHAEL BLASCO 

Sports Writers 
The Belles certainly had a full plate over Thanksgiving break, opening a two-week home stand with three games in four days. 
Saint Mary's (2-3) earned its first win in eleven meetings against Wheaton on Wednesday, triumphing 81-78 over the visiting Thunder, bel'ore dropping two matches in the Saint Mary's College Thanksgiving Classic over the wneknnd. The Belles took a close, 66-63 loss to Otterbein, beforn No. 21 University of Chicago edgnd out Saint Mary's 73-(14 on Sunday. 
Bnllns head coach .len Henley is looking for lwr squad to step up across thn board this sea­son. 
"I expnct us to have more depth in our program this ynar," lienley said. "We need to improve our overall team defense and be more balanced in our offense from last sea­son." 
In its lirst home game of the season, Saint Mary's survived a late rally from Wheaton to take home the vietory 81-78. 
After trading points through the early going, a 24-11 Belles charge late in the first half gave Saint Mary's a 50-37 lead heading into the locker room. Wheaton hung tough in the sec­ond period, tying the contest at 78 with only 39 seconds remaining. 
Belles freshman guard Maggie Ronan pulled down an offensive rebound with 27 sec­onds left, before a crucial foul sent her to the free-throw line. She sunk the first to take a 79­78 lead. After missing the sec­ond, Saint Mary's junior for­ward Anna Kammrath picked up the most important of her fourteen rebounds on the night. The Belles would not relinquish the lead. 
Senior forward Erin Newsom notched a double-double with 22 points against 10 rebounds on the night, while the squad shot 43.8 percent from the field and 42.9 percent beyond the arc. 
After the holiday, Saint Mary's dropped both contests of the weekend's SMC Thanksgiving Classic, opening the tournament with a 66-63 loss to the Cardinals. 
Otterbein shot over 55 per­cent from the floor in the open­ing half to take a 38-34 lead at the half, while the Belles kept it close by going B-for-16 from thfl charity stripe. A pair of field goals from Honan to open the second tied the game up quickly. The two squads traded the lead seven teams before a Cardinals three-pointer halfway through the second gave them the lead for good. 
In its Sunday match against the Maroons, Saint Mary's kept it close until halfway through the first, in which a 17-4 run for Chicago broke the 15-15 tie. The Maroons would not let up until claiming a 73-64 victory. 
Newson repeated her double­double performance adding 10 rebounds to her 20 points. Belles senior forward Nicole Beier tallied a career-high 20 points alongside a perfect 6­for-6 effort from the free-throw line. Beier led the Belles with 32 points for the tournament and was named to the All­Tournament team. She also earned her first ever MIAA Player of the Week Award for her efforts off the bench. 
Saint Mary's has struggled through the early part of the season having been exacerbat­ed by the graduation of an out­standing senior class last spring, notably guard Alison Kessler. 
"There certainly was a void to rill after the graduation of Alison," llenley said. "But every program goes through that transition when seniors gradu­ate. The team has adjusted well." 
The Belles open their MIAA­conference schedule Wednesday with a 7:30 p.m. game against Trine at Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility in Notre Dame, Ind. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
missed opportunities. 

"I obviously feel sorry for the seniors," Notre Dame coach Bobby Clark said. "They've had a great career. This is the first time they've fallen in the second round. It's always tough when that hap­pens. This group of guys have worked so hard over the past four years and this year they have been superb. It's been a great senior class. I felt we deserved more, but soccer can be a cruel game sometimes." 
Cruel would be the word to describe the end to Notre Dame's season. Kupe hit the game winner with only 1:14 remaining on the clock when he took a pass from senior defender Brian Usinger and fired past Irish keeper Phillip Tuttle. 
The goal put a cap on a strong Wildcat performance in the second half that saw Northwestern out-shoot Notre Dame 7-4 after intermission. The comeback started early in the· second half when the same duo responsible for Northwestern's game-winning goal tied the game. In the 66th minute, Usinger slotted a through ball putting Kupe behind the Irish defense, and the forward made no mistake dispatching the ball past Tuttle. 
"[Kupe] came on and caused trouble for us," Clark said. "We had a little bit of a problem with getting our feet in the back at that time. They pressed forward and it was a very good win for them." 
Northwestern's second-half surge couldn't have been more different than the first 45 min­utes. Before halftime, the Irish constantly pressured the Wildcats goal registering 11 shots to Northwestern's four. The pressure paid off in the 24th minute when senior defender Jack Traynor ripped a shot from near the top of the 18-yard box that beat Wildcats keeper Misha Kosenthal to the far post. 
Kosenthal would give up nothing more, ending the game with seven saves. In the 38th minute, junior midfielder Michael Thomas beat Kosenthal again to the far post, but his shot rebounded back off that post into play. Junior midfielder Dave Donahue was there for the rebound, but his attempt was saved by Kosenthal. 
"I thought we played excep­tionally well in the first half," Clark said. "I also thought we played well in the first part of the second half. They scored the goal and they certainly got into the game. They finished the game very strongly. We had our opportunities. We needed to get a second goal." 
That second goal never came, and Notre Dame paid dearly for it. It was the second time this season that the Irish let in a goal in the final min­utes that ultimately cost them the game. In a regular season tilt at Louisville, Notre Dame conceded the tying goal on a penalty kick in the 90th minute before losing in overtime. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture•s Schmitt lecture Series 
Science,Beauty, and the Transcendentals 
Peter Kilpatrick 
Dean of the College of Engineering University of Notre Dame 
Tuesday, December 2, 2008 
McKenna H a II Auditorium 
4:00 PM 


for more n(ormat on go to eth cscenter.nd.edu 
Tuesday, December 2, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Maui 
continued from page 20 

winning streak record -origi­nally set from 1943-48 at Notre Dame Fieldhouse. Against North Carolina and Furman, McAlarney shot a combined 19­for-35 from 3-point range. 
Notre Dame 81, Texas 80 

Notre Dame did not trail for the entire second half Tuesday night but that doesn't mean the Irish had an easy time with A.J. Abrams and Texas. 
In a game that resembled a Wild West shootout. No. 8 Notre Dame prevailed over the No. 6/7 Longhorns 81-80 to advance to the linal game of the EA Sports Maui Invitational. 
But not before Abrams drained four second-half 3­pointers and saw his despera­tion 60-foot prayer graze the front of the rim and fall just short as the linal buzzer sound­ed. 
"We did a good job defending the 13-point] line the whole game," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "A couple that he hit were bombs." 
But Abrams' biggest bomb just missed. 
"I was wondering if the [good] karma reversed, quite frankly," Brey said. "Because he got a pretty clean look and he was feeling good." 
Abrams got the shot off after Irish junior Luke Harangody, who led Notre Dame with 29 points and 13 rebounds, missed two free throws with 3.5 sec­onds left. Harangody's foul shooting was part of a second­half trend for the Irish, who hit just 6-of-13 freebies during the period. 
The free throw misses were some of the only mistakes Notre Dame made all day. The Irish committed just six turnovers against a physical Texas team. 
"We should be a single-digit turnover team no matter who we play," Brey said. "I wasn't sure if we'd be able to do that against Texas. That's really tak­ing care of the ball because they come aftnr you." 
Irish guards Kyle McAiarney and Tory Jackson, who scored 19 and 16 points, respectively, high-fived over Brey in the postgame press conference after they heard they had limit­ed Notre Dame's turnovers to single digits. 
With just over 12 minutes remaining in the first half, the Irish held a 19-13 lead. But Texas went on a 14-4 run over the next five minutes of play to take a 27-23 
2:34 left in the period, senior forward Luke Zeller drained a 3-pointer to give Notre Dame a 40-35 lAad. After Texas cut the deficit to one on a pair of free throws, llarangody answered with a jumper and a three-point lead the Irish would not surren­der in the half. 
Texas cut the Irish lead to two or fewer six times in the second hall' but Notre Dame responded each time with a bucket of its own. 
"That's maturity and experi­ence. Young teams panic, young teams panic in a situation like that," Brey said. "You can't inject an experience into a team because when these guys were young they got smacked a little bit when runs came like that ... That's being old and poised." 
Brey and his players said Texas' physical play provided the Irish with a good template for their Big East schedule. The Longhorns outrebounded the Irish 48-37 but Notre Dame came up with several key rebounds in the game's waning minutes. 
"That was definitely the toughest challenge I've had this whole season," Harangody said. "They have a great front line with [forwards Connor] Atchley and [Damian] James." 
Brey said the win over Texas will benefit the Irish during the selection process for the NCAA Tournament at the end of the season. 
''I'm trying to figure out how to get a bid from the Big East right now with the schedule we play," he said. "Certainly, this was a great resume win and we have the opportunity for anoth­er one so anything we can stack up." 
North Carolina 102, Notre Dame 87 
At the Maui Invitational, Notre Dame showed why it was one of the top 10 teams in the country, but in Wednesday's champi­onship game, North Carolina showed why it was the No. 1 team in the country. 
The Irish, who defeated No. 6/7 Texas Tuesday, fell to the Tar Heels 102-87 despite 39 points and a Notre Dame record 10 three-pointers from Irish guard Kyle McAlarney. 
"They're an elite team. We're not that," Brey said. "We like to aspire to be that in time. Maybe, hopefully by the league season, maybe by February. We know where the bar is." 
Notre Dame simply had no answer defensively for the Tar Heels, specifically Tyler Hansbrough and Ty Lawson. Hansbrough, the reigning Naismith and Wooden national player of the year, scored 34 points and grabbed five rebounds. Lawson, a lightning­quick guard, scored 22 points, dished out 11 assists and claimed tournament MVP hon­ors. Forward Deon Thompson also pitched in 19 points and 13 rebounds. 
"I was disappointed, we did such a good job against Texas' bodies in the paint last night," Brey said. "We couldn't do it tonight and that's disappointing for all of us." 
One reason for Notre Dame's trouble defensively could have been the condition of junior for­ward Luke Harangody, who scored 13 points 
advantage. "We're not on North despite suffering The Irish from flu -like
Carolina's level yet, 
fought back. symptoms
but we can be."
though, to take a Wednesday. 43-40 ndge into Even with the locker room Harangody not
Kyle McAiarney 
at halftime. With at 100 percent,
Irish senior 
McAlarney shot 8-of-13 from 3­point range in the second half, 10-for-18 for the game. 
"I just felt good. I got my legs under me. My teammates did a great job, especially [senior for­ward! Zach Hillesland. I have to give him a lot of credit. He did a great job the past three days of getting ball exchanges and set­ting good screens on my guy." 
But as was the case all night, every time Notre Dame made a run, North Carolina responded. 
"We were in desperation time and I was just trying to put some points on the board," McAlarney said. "But we can't win without getting stops and we can't come back without get­ting stops. It's as simple as that." 
McAlarney hit another shot that would've pulled Notre Dame within eight, but the ref­erees had called a foul on Thompson. Irish junior guard Tory Jackson missed the front end of a one-and-one. North Carolina then scored six of the next eight points. 
Two more McAlarney three­pointers made it 93-81 with 
1:57 to play, but time was run­ning out on Notre Dame. A 3­point play from Thompson and a pair of free throws from Hansbrough gave the Tar Heels a 100-81 lead with 1:17 to play. 
"We're not at North Carolina's level yet, but we can be," McAlarney said. 
Early in the first half, Notre Dame did play at North Carolina's level. A dunk from senior forward Luke Zeller pulled the Irish within 24-21 with 10:17 to play, but then they went on a dry spell, scoring just five points in the next 6:40. 
During that stretch, North Carolina grabbed a 40-26 lead. Brey said the lack of offensive production was more Notre Dame just missing open looks, instead of North Carolina shut­ting the Irish down. 
"I think we missed a lot of 

clean looks. Clean threes. [Senior forwardJ Ryan Ayers and Zeller had a couple there, but they have to keep shooting them because that's who we are. We're a team that needs to knock down a good percentage of those when we get clean looks, especially against a team like this, where we're not going to be able to maneuver inside as easy with all those bodies." 
Brey added: "We're going to need a few more of those to go in because we're going to need to score a lot against this team to beat them. We're not stop­ping them or shutting them down." 
For the game, Notre Dame shot 32-for-78, 41 percent, while the Tar Heels shot 39-for­70, or 56 percent. North Carolina also shot 19-for-21 from the free-throw line 
Notre Dame 93, Furman 61 

Playing without Harangody, the Irish still steamrolled Furman Sunday night in the Joyce Center as McAlarney hit another nine 3-pointers and fin­ished with 32 points. Jackson pitched in 17 points, eight assists and six rebounds while Zach Hillesland added 12 rebounds. Ayers added 19 points on 8-for-13 shooting. Notre Dame plays South Dakota tonight. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu and Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
North Carolina 
only led 46-36 at 
the half, but 
extended its lead to 58-43 with 15:15 left to play. After the media timeout, Hansbrough scored North Carolina's next six points. Then a 12-4 run, featuring a three from Lawson and a dunk from Hansbrough, gave North Carolina a 76-53 lead with 8:49 to play. 
Then, McAlarney put on a shooting clinic the rest of the game, hitting shots from well beyond the 3-point line and with defenders in his face. Within a 
3:20 span, McAlarney hit four three-pointers and scored 14 points and Notre Dame pulled within 84-73 with 5:15 to play. 
Be a part of a mission that's larger than all of us. The CIA's National Clandestine Service seeks qualified applicants to serve our country'$ mi."Ssion abroad. Our careers offer rewarding, fa.st-paced, and high impact challenges in intelligence collection on issues of critical importance to US national security. Applicants should posses'S a high degree of personal integrity, strong interpersonal skills, and good 
written and oral communication skills. We welcome applicants from various a<:ademic and professional backgrounds. Do you want to make a 
difference for your country? Are yOtJ ready for a challenge! 
All applicants for National Clandestine Ser~ice positions must successfully undergo several personal Interviews. medical and psychological exams, aptitude testing, a polygraph interview. and a backgrolmd inve."Stigation. Following entry on duty, candidates will undergo extensive training. US citizenship required. An equal opportunity employer and a drug-free work force. 
For more information and to apply, visit www.cia.gov 
YOU CAN MAKE AWORLD OF DiFFERENCE. 
NATIONAL CLANDESTINE SERVICE CAREERS 
Tuesday, December 2, 2008
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 
lift olf the bench." defense from 3-point range, hit­Against the Spartans, the ting 6-of-9 from 3-point land.
Peters 
dnfense struggled to defend for­McGraw said Watson always 
goal at such a critical time as the game-winner," Waldrum
Cary 

said. "She's just so good in the 
air." 

Waldrum said Schuveiller has been moved forward on corner kicks due to the recent injury to senior forward Brittany Bock. 
"That's something new we've been doing, moving her up front on dead ball situations," the coach said. "She's been going up ever sinco Brittany's been out and it workod out great Friday." 
On a cold night at Alumni Field,. which will bo replaced next season by the Alumni Soccer Stadium, the Irish rolied on a trio of Texans to take them to the College Cup. Hanks, Schuveiller and Knaack all hail from the Lone Star Statn. 
"It's kind of funny, with all the cold-weather games we've been playing in the past month, that three of the players from Texas were the ones who hooked up on our goals. So it was kind of nice to see the warm-weather girls do that for us," Waldrum said. 
The Texas Irish and as well as the rest of the squad will get a welcomed break from the cold when they travd to North Carolina to take on Stanford in the semi-finals Friday at 4:30 p.m. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

continued from page 20 
"Our man-to-man defense is a lot better than last year at this time," McCraw said. "We're willing to take some risks, we're not as conservative." , 
(~uard Brittany Mallory seored 19 points and hit 3-of-4 3-point­ers against the Eagles. McGraw said Mallory's consistent per­formance in otlwr areas of the game, rather than her 3-point shooting, makes her valuable. 
"I wanted her on the floor at the end of the Michigan State game because she knew what to do," McCraw said. "She's fnar­less on defense. She's always a ward Aisha Jefferson, who stays after practice to work on scored a career-high 34 points her shot, but there's more to and grabbed 11 being an effective rebounds. The shooter than Irish also strug­"We're going to take practice. gled to rebound ~ "It has to hap­
a look inside and 
the Spartans pen in a game to
take advantage of
grabbed 48 gain the confi­boards to Notre that." dence," McGraw Dame's 32. said. 
"The defense The Irish (5-0)
Muffet McGraw 
on [Jefferson] travel to Eastern
Irish coach 
was not very Michigan today to good," McGraw fac.e the 2-4 said. "But it was-Eagles, who n't dei(Jnse so much as rebound­recently competed in the ing." Caribbean Challenge in Cancun, Freshman forward Kellie Mexico. Both wins for the Eagles Watson torched the Spartans have come at home. McGraw said the Irish have a siZe advan­
continued from page 20 

"We have a little bit of a rival­ry with Florida State so that made it nice," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "But what really made me happy was how well we played. We were clearly the better team out there." 
Irish senior Kerri Hanks assisted on both Notre Dame · goals in,the win over Florida State,. passing soccer icon and former ·North Carolina forward Mia Hamm on the NCAA all­time assist list. Hanks is now tied for second in the category. 
"Kerri has broken so many records but I think this was the biggest," Waldrum said. "It couldn't have GOme at a better time and she passed Mia Ilamm, who is the benchmark for women's soccer -not only collegiately but on the interna­tional level, as well." 
Freshman defender Jessica Schuveiller and sophomore for­ward Taylor Knaack both scored off of passes from I Ianks to give Notre Dame the win. When Schuveiller headed in a corner kick just over 18 min­utes into the contest, she became the 19th different Irish player to score this season. 
"That was really great for [Schuveillerl. to get her f'irst 

' \ 

Weekly Specials: 
,I 

Tuesday-$1 Do'Tirestic Draft, $1 Slice of Cheese Pizza . Wednesday-All you d'l11>eat, homemade,?paghetti $5.95 
. ( ·; 
DonS,.oie 
Notre Dam  eofessor  
sings and perfor  ery Tuesday  
..  I  

Nicola's Resturant and Bar 1 705 South Bend Ave South Bend, In 277-5666 (Located within walking distance to campus, 
tage against the Eagles, who start three players who are under six feet tall. 
"We're go·ing to look inside and take advantage of that," she said. 
McGraw said she wants the defense to play better against Eagles guard Cassie Schrock, who leads the team with 16 points and 8.8 rebounds per game, than it did against Jefferson. 
The Eagles play an active defense, McGraw said. 
"They can trap, they can press, they play zone, they play man," McGraw said. "We have to be ready for their aggressive­ness." 
Note: 
u Watson was named the Big East Freshman of the Week fol­lowing her performances against Georgia Southern and Michigan State. She averaged 
12.5 points in the two games and hit 7 -of-11 3-point shots. She is the first Notre Dame freshman to earn the award since current senior Lindsay Sehrader in 2005. 
No. I 
continued from page 20 

them all. Kuhn finished the game with 35 saves. 
After a scoreless overtime period, they moved into a shootout. Western Michigan scored early and Maday and sophomore Calle Ridderwall both missed their chances. Jackson decided to move Thang to the third spot because of his play late in the game and the move paid off. Thang buried his shot to send things to sudden death. 
"Tbe shootouts are kind of a feeling out process at this point. I went in with a certain order of guys I would use, but I changed that based on the way we were playing late in the game," Jackson said. 
Two shooters later Condra stepped up and finished things ofT for the Irish. 
Friday night was a little bit easier for Notre Dame. The team skated to a 4-1 win while going four-for-four on the power-play. 
Western Michigan's Campbell got things startnd with his Jirst of two goals in the series halfway through the first period. 
Junior Kevin Deeth answered late in the period with his third goal of the year. Deeth's unit which also includes Hanson, Ridderwall, Maday and Brett Blatchford was on the ice for all of Notre Dame's goals. 
"There is no question they have had a lot of success over the past couple weeks," Jackson said. "Teams are going to start looking for ways to shut them down, so the are going to have to be ready to make adjustments." 
Ridderwall picked up the next two goals in the second period and Maday rounded out the scoring in the third. Ridderwall had four points in the game adding two assists to his pair of goals. Hanson also had three assists in the game. 
The Irish will defend their No. 1 spot this weekend in Big Rapids, Mich. with a pair of games against Ferris State. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

right next .to l_vy Court)  Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu  
,~,1,~~-"  
t ''/(~~. •I~  

y ,,~~~...1 ·__.........._............................._.~...... 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore & the Varsity Shops I & II 
Cordially invites you to our Student Appreciation Event 
Tuesday, December 2nd & Wednesday, December 3rd 9:00am-I 0:00 pm 9:00am -5:00pm Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Varsity Shops I & H In the Eck Center Joyce Athletic Center 57 4.631.6316 57 4.631.5683 
Refreshments will be served at all locations Free tall coffee* available from Irish Ink Cafe only available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
As a token ofour appreciation, during the event we will be extending a 20°/o total discount on select merchandise* 
•Student I D required. Valid during event on select items in-store only. See store fo•· details. 


WU VUE/The Observer Junior Ryan Thang picks up a loose puck during Notre Dame's 9-1 win over Bowling Green on Nov. 21 at the Joyce Center. 
Tuesday, December 2, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJIJJWIDI1JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, Come in. May I offer 
you a liqueur?
to form four ordinary words. 
HOYNE 

I [J I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
iffi (] 
RYLAIF ± 
www.iumble.com 
YARPIC j

[J ( I I Print answer here: "(IIIIIIJ" 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  WAGER  FORCE  (Answers Monday) BEHAVE QUARRY  
Answer:  When he got a dead battery from the  
junkyard, it was  -FREE OF "CHARGE"  


A NICE: WE:L.COME. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Creamy soup 64 "Unfortunately " 
Does sums 38 City where Van 65 Give a hard time 
5 Pillow filler Gogh painted sunflowers 66 Nobodies 
9 Flapper hairdos 13 Scuttlebutt 40 Suffix with suer­
67 Small field size 
and lact-68 Branch of Islam 14 Like a manly 
man 41 Pacific republic 69 Plow pullers 15 Escapade 70 Jean who wrote
42 Substantial 16 Part of the eye "Wide Sargasso 
portion

that holds the Sea" iris 
45 Pile 
17 _and pains 46 Component of 

Down 18 What "thumbs bronze 
No longer aup'' means 47 Permit minor 19 Bandleader in 48 Washington's 2 Couchthe Polka Music 
Capitol_ 

3 Made a stand 50 Precipitates at and would go no Hall of Fame 
22 Explosive initials about 32°F further 

23 Pinocchio, 4 Polaris, e.g.

52 Left hurriedly 
famously 5 Bangladesh's54 New Deal24 Mock capital, old-style 

program inits.
28 Dance with a 6 Color of fall wiggle 57 One who lost leaves

what's hidden in
30 Lord 7 "Thank
19-, 34-and 42­
31 Card that's taken goodness!"
Acrossonly by a trump 8 Rhinoplasty

60 Hawaiian isle 

32 Mail carriers' 
9 Chapassignments: 63 More than 
10 Tree loved by Abbr. perturbed squirrels 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Maidenform
product 

s P E E D o~s A P s A G o 12 Cloud's site H I N T 0 N S T A E A M E A 14 Psycho 0 N C A L L T A I P L A N E 20 90° turn 
~~g~L ..!:.~ ..!!.g~ S E T T I 21 Ushered cM~,M. A.CVE. p E E L 25"Fantastic
TI 

A L I A H 0 D E G A U E L Voyage" actress'N'E'A P T I D E F A I A L Y 26 Honda division A A L 0 M A A C-27 Get ready to 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ D F ~ ~ ~ ~ IE ±fi drive, in golf 
...,....~ ~ 29 _·friendly T c B . . . L -=-_£_N _SJL!. 30 Agents under J.
_ ~ ~
v •.r!.IB 

H A L F M I L E T H A 0 A T Edgar Hoover, 
0 D I 0 U S L V T 0 0 T L E informally M I N U T I A E E S T H E A 32 Balsa transports E A G L E T S A E S 0 D S 33 Path 
THE OBSERVER 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Lynn Lempel 
35 Booty 49 Wedding VOW 56 Basilica recesses
36 Tempe sch. 51 Doolittle of "My 58 Fearsome dino 
Fair Lady" 59 Jack of early 37 Comedian Mort 

52 Distress signal 

391972 late-night TV 
U.S./U.S.S.R. shot into the air 
60 

missile pact 
53 Divulge Butterworth's 43 Latin American 
55 Explorer who 61 What a doctor with mixed proved that might ask you to ancestry 
Greenland is an say 44 Oedipus' realm island 62 Israeli gun 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Sarah Silverman, 38; Carol Alt, 38; Jnlie Condra, 38; Bette Midler, 63 
Happy Bii1hday: A lot rides on your interaction with others and how yon handle situa­tions, so get ready to think before you speak, act out or take charge. Diplomacy is the key this year. There is plenty to consider, much that can be gained and, most ofall, friend­ships that can be salvaged. Yow· numbers are 9, 11, 17, 22, 26, 43,45 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Start thinking more about your financial future and stop overdoing it in all aspects of your life. It's time to put a dollar figure on yow· talent and make the most of the services you have to offer. Put some money away. ** 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): You can make a couple of adjustments that will help you engage in a brighter future. Consider the job of your choice and foms on what you have to do to get it. Get moving in a direction that will satisfy you fmancially. ***** 
GEI.VIINI {May 21-June 20): Look at the relationships you are involved in and make plans to do things with the people you favor most. Don't hesitate to back away from those who bring you down. You need to be around upbeat, motivated individuals who will spark your creativity. *** 
CA."'CER (June 21-July 22): Let your feelings be known. This is a great time to stabi­lize your situation at home or to size down if that will help you financially. Your percep· tion of how someone views you may be off if you let your sensitivity take over. *** 
LEO (Jnly 23-Aug. 22): Put your to-do list together and move quickly to complete what needs to be done. Once you have your work out of the way, you can enjoy other aspects of your life. Shop, plan a vacation or socialize with people who make you think and who spark your imagination. *** 
VIRGO (Ang. 23-Sept. 22): Make arrangements to do things with friends who will allow you to explore new· avenues. A change in plans will lead to greater love and ro­mance. Shopping will bring practical resnlts. ***** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl. 22): Sticking too dose to home will lead to disagreements with someone you care about. Overindulgence or taking on too much will cause more trouble. Don't push the one you love. Ultimatum~ will not work. ** 
SCORPIO ~Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let anyone bnlly you or take credit for something you have done. You have to be aggressive if you want to get ahead. A change of plans will actually turn out to be to your advantage.**** 
SAGITIARfiJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Work with someone who can teach you and you will be able to incorporate an added twist to your findings. Don't make a snap decision ifyou haven't assessed the situation thoroughly. Time is on your side. *** 
CAPRICORN {Dec. 22-Jan.19): Yon'll have plenty to think about financially and per­sonally. Protect your assets. Love looks promising if you are straightforward about your 
intentions.*** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb.lS): If you share your secrets with anyone, expect rumors to spread. It 1nay be time to 'fess up to anything you feel guilty about and start anew with someone you care deeply about. A commitment can be made that will lead to greater sta· 
bility. *** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Do what you say instead ofjust talking about it. Once you put your plans into motion, you will feel better about yourself and your future. Now is not the time to let others guide you. A good p:ntnership is apparent and will help you achieve more.**** 
Birthday Baby: You are aggressive, playful and very competitive. You are an adventurer. a thrill-seeker and an enthusiastic leader. You give your all. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenia/ast.com for c01ifidentiai consultatio11s, mvspace.comleugenial<m for Eugenia's blog, astroadvice.comfor ftm 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _____________ State ______ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, December 2, 2008 
page 20 
HOCKEY 

Irish nallled top tealll in the country after w-eekend svveep 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 

Notre Dame has rnachnd the top again. 
With a pair of wins over Western Michigan this weekend the Irish moved to No. 1 in the polls for the first time since the 1~nd of tho 2006-07 season. 
"It's all well and good," Irish coach Jeff .Jackson said. "Polls are polls, I didn't really discuss it with [the team[. I want them to focus on the process not on where they are ranked." 
Notre Dame entered the week­end just behind Minnesota in the national rankings. A loss and a tie from the Gophers were enough to drop them behind the Irish who received 33 of 34 first place votes. 
The team improved its unbeat­en streak to ten games, but it didn't come easily. Western Michigan took the Irish to their second sudden death shootout of the season Saturday night before senior captain Erik Condra scored the game-winner. The shootout victory was the second of the season for Notre Dame in as many tries. 
Senior forward Christian Hanson got the scoring started midway through the first period when he snuck behind the Bronco defense and buried his team-leading ninth goal of the season. Christiaan Minella and Garrett Regan both picked up assists on the play. 
Not to be outdone, freshman Bill Maday netted his ninth of the season only three minutes later on the power-play to give his team an early 2-0 lead. 
"[Hanson and Maday] are play­ing with a lot of confidence. Once they start feeling good about their game they start playing even better," Jackson said. 
Western Michigan then took over with three unanswered goals from Patrick Galivan, Tyler Ludwig and Max Campbell. Jackson said he felt his team lost the momentum quickly, giving 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Going out on top 
Irish win final game on home turf Friday 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

Farewell Alumni Field. hnllo North Carolina. 
The top-ranked Irish took down No. 6 Florida State 2-0 Friday night in the final game ever at Notre Dame's current home field. Th1~ Irish rnmained undnfeatod and advanced to tho College Cup as one of' tho top four teams in the country !'or tho third season in a row. This year's championship wnnkond will be hnld at WakeMed Soccer Park in Cary. 
N.C. 

Florida State knocked Notre Dame out ol' last ynar's national semifinals but the Irish rnturned thn favor by denying the Seminoles a trip back to the College Cup. IAN GAVLICK and JESS LEEfThe Observer 
Left: Irish senior Brittany Bock and her team are headed to the College Cup once again. Right: see CARY/page 18 Junior Dave Donohue plays defense in Notre Dame's 2-11oss to Northwestern at Alumni Field. 

the Broncos a 3-2 lead heading into the final period. In the lock­er room between periods, Jackson said he called out his upperclassmen to take over. They rnsponded. 
Six minutes junior Ryan Thang, who has had a slow start to the season, tied the game with a power-play goal. The Irish had several chances late in the game but Western Michigan goalie Jerry Kuhn managed to stop 
see NO. 1/page 17 
MEN's SoccER 

Tealll falls in NCAA 2nd round 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

The Irish must have left Alumni Field last Tuesday night with a bitterly cold feeling that had nothing to do with the win­tery conditions they faced dur­ing their second-round NCAA Tournament game against Northwestern. 
For the first time in any of the current Notre Damn players' career exempting fillh-year sen­iors, they won't be tasting the Sweet 16. 
After a 2005 trip to the Sweet 16 followed by two Elite Eight berths, the Irish were undone by two second-half' goals f'rom freshman forward Oliver Kupe giving the Wildcats a comeback 2-1 win and giving Notrn Dame an offseason to contemplate 
see WILDCATS/page 16 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Peters reinjures knee in vvin over the Eagles 
By BILL BRINK Spons Ediror 

Bad news tempnred No. 11 Notm Damn's spiril'i eoming oil' a successful wnnk -forward Devereaux Peters torn her lef't anterior CTudate liganwnt (i\CU in Notre Dame's 102-54 win over Boston College last Saturday. Peters, who tore the same ligament on Fnb. 10 against Pittsburgh last s1mson, will miss the rest of' the season. 
Peters had surgery to repair the torn ligar111~nt and success­fully rehabbNI tlw knee. Shn returrwd to the court this sea­son, seeing time in throe gamns and starting in one, before re­injuring thn knen. She averaged 
7.3 point" and 4.3 rebounds p1~r game and had six blocks this season. 
"She was doing a tPrrific job so far," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "It was devastat­ing news at first." 

McGraw said the presence of assistant coach Niele Ivey, who also had multiple i\CL surgeries while at Notrn Dame, will have a positive efl'ect on Peters' recovery. 
"That was the first thing we talknd about," McGraw said. "It's a grnat rnfi~rence point !or her." 
McCraw also said she asked the rest of the players to fill one gap left by Peters' absence. 
Despite losing Peters, Notre Dame won two games over the holiday break. beating Georgia Southnrn 85-36 and No. 21 Miehigan State 78-72. The Irish hPld Georgia Southern to 21.4 percent field goal shooting and forced 24 turnovers. 
see PETERS/page 18 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Making waves in Hawaii 
By CHRIS HINE and FRAN TOLAN Sports Writers 

MAUl -Notre Dame faced its biggest tests of thP season over Thanksgiving break when it faced Texas and North Carolina in the Maui Invitational. The Irish proved they belong among the top teams in the country when they beat Texas 81-80 and learned what they needed to get to the same level as thn No. 1 Tar Heels. Of course, hav­ing a healthy Luke Ilarangody, who contracted pneumonia in Maui, could have helped against the Tar Heels. 
Irish guard Kyle MeAiarney hit a Notre Dame record 10 3­pointers against North Carolina and then hit nine more Sunday against Furman at the Joyce Center. In that game, Notre Dame snapped the school home 
see MAUll page 17 

• 



