
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 39 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28 2008 NDSMCOBSER 11;11•131 ELECTION 2008 
Columnist puts historical spin on .108 race 
Presidential contest fits with past trends, breaks with other norms 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Wrirer 
Dr. Matthew Dallek, a for­mer speechwriter and a columnist at Politico.com, gave a lecture Monday at DeBartolo about the 2008 presidential election's posi­tion in history. 
Dallek, who received his Ph.D. in history from Columbia University, focused on three main issues that he said have been influential in shaping this election: identity politics, experience, and Ronald Reagan's legacy. 
Dallek began with political identity in the primaries, say­ing, "We witnessed some­thing quite remarkable -the first woman with a serious shot at the nomination run­ning against the first African American with a serious shot at the nomination." 
Dallek cited the women's movement and the civil rights movement as being key fac­tors that influenced Clinton and Obama, respectively. 
"I think the women's move­ment on some level drove some of [Clinton's] supporters to send money, which is cru­cial, to write op-eds, and also urging her to stay in the race even when her path had nar­rowed," said Dallek. 
Dallek also talked about how a historical memory of gender inequality fueled her candidacy, citing an example of a man holding up a sign that said 'Iron my shirt' at a rally, which riled her sup­porters. 
Likewise, Dallek said that memories of the civil rights movement and racial 
see HISTORY/page 6 

Dr. Matthew Dallek, a columnist at Polltlco.com, said this year's election has been influenced by three main issues Monday. 

Campus groups raise awareness about Haiti 

Prof speaks on the importance of 
Two-week clothing drive, ending understanding nation's history Nov. 9, to help the 'poorest ofthe poor' 
By BECKY HOGAN By AARON STEINER 
News Writer News Writer 
The Hands and Hope for Haiti Project held a With the help of Notre Dame students and alum­lecture Monday which featured Anthropology ni, 50,000 pounds of donated clothing will make professor Karen Richman, who spoke to stu­its way to Haiti and the Dominican Republic this dents and faculty about the importance of December to clothe the "poorest of the poor," sen­understanding the Haitian history in order to ior Erin Wash said. grasp the complexities of Haiti's modern cul­Wash, a member of the Class of 2009 Council, is ture. helping to organize a two-week clothing drive that 
The lecture was the last of three discussions began Monday and will continue through Nov. 9. aimed at increasing awareness about Haiti. The drive is the primary initiative of a project Richman, who researches Haitian culture called "Poorest of the Poor: A Call to Solidarity -
Proressor Karen Richman d'ISCussed the importance of looking at see HAITI/page 4 Haiti's history when looking at the nation's modem culb.Jre. see DIUVE/page 4 
Stud gov. issues survey over break 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Assistant News Ediror 
Student government unveiled its new survey, which attempts to gauge reaction to a number of issues, including trust in the Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) and how students feel about stadium security over Fall Break in an e-mail sent to the entire student body. 
Senate Committee on Student Outreach chair Sarah Rodts said 2,363 people had taken the survey as of early Monday evening, adding that 92 percent of students who began the sur­vey finished it. 
"One of the concerns with a long survey was that people would stop taking it," she said. 
Rodts said the survey will help student government, espe­cially Senate committees. focus on issues most important to students. 
"We really wanted to nail down the initiatives we were taking a look at for the year. It really helps the committees focus on what they're going to be doing and what the student body wants to happen," she said. "This survey will really help everybody narrow down what they want to work on and I think it will help them because these will be things that the students really want so there will be a little more drive 
see SURVEY/page 4 



Fans trek across country for game 
First Irish away victory re-energizes students who made fhe trip 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame fans were proud and happy about Saturday's 33-7 victory over the University of Washington -especially those who traveled many miles to see the game in person. 
Students who made the trip to Seattle for the game noticed an outpouring of 
Notre Dame spirit  - and  
little  enthusiasm  from  
Washington fans.  

Junior Ken Hamilton said: "We were doing a lot of cheering in the Notre Dame section. We were screaming. People around 
see GAME/page 6 

Running back Armando Allen (5) wears the Leprechaun's hat during the Alma Mater after the Irish victory over Washington. 

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 28, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Quit the 

My roommates and I have man­
aged to achieve a grnat feat: a bipar­
tisan living situation. I am of one 
politician persuasion and they arc of 
tlw other, and yet we have managed 
to eo-exist and even discuss polities 
without coming to blows or even 
insults. 
Looking 
Stephanie DePrez 
around at the 
country today, 
this seems like Assistant 
somn sort of mir­Scene Editor 
aeln. A non-heat­
ed political dis­
cussion? Unheard of'. A debate 
about the government that doesn't 
become an argument? Nonsense! 
But I ean proudly say that the 
Disney princess nametags outside 
our room have calmly carried both a 
McCain/Palin pin and an 
Obama/Bidcn pin, side by side. 
(That is, of course, until some politi­
cally charged vandal deeided to rip 
one down.) 
This utopian living situation is in 
stark contrast to what I see daily 
outside of our room. 
Whenever politics come up, the 
badges come out and tempers flair. 
As a country and as a campus we have reached the point where the nlection is treated like the Super Bowl. You've picked your team to win and you're betting your country on it. Now you must display as much election flair as possible, not just showing support for your team but condnmning the other. 
I can't really criticize here, because I've donn it too, but if you step back and look at the attitude with which we approach politics today, it becomes a bit comical. 
No one wants to talk, they just want to spar. No one wants to hear what the other guy has to say, bncause simply by the nature of his existence, he must be wrong. Now tell me, where does this attitude end up bning beneficial? 
In one week, the election will be over and we will have a new presi­dent. We, as in all of us, will have a new president. He won't be govern­ing half of the country, his "winning" half, he will we governing all of us. You and your mortal political ene­mies. We will all follow his lead and experience his take on laws. 
How can it be that we have practi­eally demonized the man who, let's face it, has a 50 pereent chanee of' being our president? It's not fair to you or your countrymen. 
I have my posters and pins, my arguments ready-at-hand to be used when challenged, my 15-point list as to why I am voting the way I am, but honestly, the only one who cares to hear it is me. 
What good does wearing my guy's t-shirt do? It eneourages those of my politieal persuasion, but they were voting for him anyway. 
It also immediately polarizes those with an opposing view. This works for sports, not for politics. 
Yea, I say unto you, keep your comments civil, don't be politically swayed by the loudest person in the room, and be ready to support who­ever lives in the White House come January. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion anJ strives for rhe highest stanJards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU DO FOR FALL BREAK? 


Kerry McGuire  Sean Gaffney  Christina Crespo  Jen Padgett  Rebecca Gannon  
senior off-campus  senior offcampus  senior Pasquerella East  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  
"Sat around in a robe and drink mimosa. ''  "/ went to the dirty south and was greeted  "/gathered nuts for winter with all the  "/ baked a cake in the shape of Wall-E."  "/saw a Siberian tiger. "  






IN BRIEF 
"Calm...with Respriation Biofeedback," a demonstration of the Inner Hesources Hoom will be presented by Ann Flies and Michaela Bucchianeri, Practicum Counselors at the University Counseling Center at noon today. The demonstra­tion will take place in 305 Saint Uam Hall and is open to students, faeulty, and staff. 
Cheri Daniels, the First Lady of Indiana, will speak about reducing the risk of heart dis­ease for women at the Heart to Heart lnitiavive today at 5:15 
p.m. at the Eck Visitors' Center Auditorium. Ms. Daniels' talk will be preceded by cholesterol and glucose screenings provided by the Indiana Heart Hospital at 4 p.m. 
The annual Blue Mass will be celebrated at 5:15 p.m. today at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The Mass is offered for police officers, fire­fighters, rescue workers, and their families. 
The Forum with Presidential Campaign Top Advisors will feature howard Lerner from Obama-Biden '08 and Ike Brannon from McCain-Palin '08 and will be held at 6 p.m. today at the McKenna Hall Auditorium. The event will be moderated by Rev. William M. Lies, C.S.C., and is sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. Lerner and Brannon will be on hand to answer questions on Energy, the Economy, National Security, and Health Care. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 60 HIGH 53 LOW 38 LOW 40 
with the fine squirrels." 
southern plati­tude, 'Yer a long way from home, boy."' 

JESS LEE/The Observer The Notre Dame Alumni Band performs at the Washington game on Saturday, October 25. The Irish were victorious over the Huskies by a score of 33-7 to improve to 5-2 on the season. 
OFFBEAT 

Restaurant closed after dead deer found in kitchen 
HAMBURG, N.Y. -Health officials shut down a subur­ban Buffalo restaurant after an inspector found employ­ees butchering a dead deer inside the business. Erie County Health Department officials said they got a tip Friday about a dead deer in the China King restaurant in the town of Hamburg, just south of Buffalo. 
An inspector soon arrived and saw the deer being butchered in the kitchen. 
State health laws prohibit butchering an animal inside a restaurant. 
Officials don't know 
TODAY 

whether the deer had been killed by a hunter or a vehi­cle. They said there was no indieation the deer meat was served to any cus­tomers. 
The message on the restaurant's answering machine Monday says it was closed because of "family emergencies." 
Man pleads guilty in fork, frozen chicken attacks 
JACKSON, Mich.-A man accused of stabbing his mother with a fork and attacking a second woman with 10 pounds of frozen chicken has pleaded guilty to one count of felonious assault. Frederick McKaney, 40, entered the plea Friday in Jackson County Circuit Court. Prosecutors dropped addi­tional assault, larceny and other charges. 
Prosecutors said McKaney stabbed his moth­er with a fork June 23 and later exchanged words with another woman as he rode a stolen bicycle. They said he hit her in the head with a plastic bag of frozen chicken, opening a wound that required five surgical staples to close. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
....1 
<C 
(,) 



0 

..... HIGH 45 HIGH 39 HIGH 57 HIGH 65 
LOW 30 LOW 30 LOW 38 LOW 43 
Atlanta 52 I 35 Boston 48 I 44 Chicago 45 I 28 Denver 70 I 34 Houston 71 I 42 Los Angeles 83 160 Minneapolis 47 120 New York 54 I 42 Philadelphia 58 I 38 Phoenix 93 I 66 Seattle 60 I 41 St. Louis 52 I 29 Tampa 66 I 4 7 Washington 53 141 
Tuesday, October 28, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 

Wednesday, October 29 -. 7.00 pm DeBartolo 140 
Mike Brey
Head Coach -Notre Dame Basketball 

Jonathan Jensen 
Art Director -Relay Worldwide 

Tom Valdiserri 
Sports Marketing -The Marketing Store 

Dave Knickerbocker 
Marketing Executive -Chicago Cubs 


Jeff Jeffers 
Sports Anchor-WNDU NBC Affiliate 



page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 28, 2008 
sweatshirt, Wash said. Shoes, clothing in Haiti is definitely student body," Wash said. 50,000 pounds of clothing, summer and spring clothes needed," he said, but for the Wright began to develop the Wash said.

Drive 
continued from page 1 
Hound Table Discussions and A Clothing Drive for Haiti" which began Sept. 30. 
"It's really for the poorest of the poor," Wash said. For impoverished Haitians, "it's a question of, am I going to buy food to feed my family, or am I going to buy clothing. Food always wins out," she said. 

The group is accepting elothing of all kinds. in all dorms, and in bins in the LaFortune Main Lounge, the Graduate Student Office and 
the  Law  School  Student  
Lounge.  
In addition, the  Hammes  

Notre Dame Bookstore is aecepting clothing donations, and students and faculty who donate clothes at that site will receive a coupon for a 20 per­cent discount off a T-shirt or 

Survey 
continued from page 1 
behind it." 
Student body president Bob Heish said he was pleased by how many students had already completed the survey, and was surprised by some of the results. 
"It was a w.ay to say 'We 

think this is what the stu­
dents  want,  
let's  make  
sure.  And  
some  of  the  

res uIts were contradictory to what we were initially hop­ing," he said. "We're going to use it as anoth­er measuring stick. It defi­nitely won't be the end all." 
Heish said the survey was not 
released earlier because he wanted to ensure it was flaw­less. 
"I wanted to make sure it was right. We could have easily rushed it out as soon as wo got back to campus," he said. 
Although Heish refused to release many of the initial lig­ures due to fear they would sway people who had not yet completed the survey, he 
"That was something Grant and I had on our original platform, but then it kind of took a backseat because we really didn't get much of a responsfl from that from the student body during our cam­paign," he said. 
Heish said he eould use those overwhelming figures in con­vincing the Hegistrar's Offiee and the Notre Dame faculty. 
"It gives us power in num­bers," he said. "Now showing that 90 percent of the students actually care, we can take that to the Hcgistrar's Office and the professors and try to get this done." 
Heish also said they had and clothes in sizes smaller time being, the donated cloth­than extra-large are especial­ing is "better in the hands of ly needed, she said. the Haitians than in our clos­

Senior Joey Leary, a mem­ets here." ber of the Haiti Working Wash said the clothing drive Group, said was an idea the drive is a of Notre type of short-Dame 1972 term solution graduate Paul to a desperate "A longer-term strategy for Wright, a car­
situation. clothing in Haiti is diologist with 
"I think that ties to Mother
definitely needed. " 
most of us Teresa. have more Wright began clothes than Joey Leary coordinating we need in Haiti Working Group clothing our dorm drives for rooms and at impoverished home, and countries with the after meeting changing seasons, it's getting Mother Teresa. He discussed colder, it seems like a pretty the idea of a drive for Haiti reasonable idea to give one or with Wash in April during a two T-shirts to a population conference at Notre Dame. that has literally nothing," "He basically conceived this Leary said. idea to do a joint clothing 
"A longer-term strategy for drive with the alumni and idea and Wash, along with class councils and members of the Haiti Working Group, a Notre Dame club, began to plan the campus drive and lecture series. 
"Introducing a new clothing drive without any educational aspect makes it [more likely[ to fail," Wash said. 
The group planned lectures and showings of two docu­mentary films to help make students more aware about the situation in Haiti. 
After the clothing drive is finished on Nov. 9, volunteers will help sort the clothing and load it onto a truck to be sent to Youngstown, Ohio, Wright's hometown. Wright will take the clothing provided by the Notre Dame community and donate additional clothing he has collected from his drives -he has done drives for 20 years -to gather a total of 
received over 1,800 sugges­tions for speakers for the "Last Lecture" series, with University President Emeritus Fr. Ted Hesburgh and Anthropology professor James McKenna being the top two vote getters. 
"There were a lot of other suggestions [for the 'Last Lecture' series] too that we weren't talking about initially," Hodts said. 
Reish said he was also sur­
"It's a way to say 'We think this is what the students want, let's make sure.' And some ofthe results were contradictory to what we were initially hoping." 
Bob Reish student body president 
prised that there was an even dis­tribution among all four classes. 
"I thought for sure there would maybe be more freshmen who were interested or maybe more seniors who were interested in leaving their mark, but really it was consis­tent," he said. 
Reish said the possibility of win­ning an iPod or a 
gift certificate to Chipotle may have encouraged some to finish the survey, but was convinced many took it to aid student gov­ernment's efforts. 
"I think the incentive helped, but I think a lot of students were just generally interested in student government," he said. "Given the opportunity, students are willing to have 
their voice 
heard." 
Reish said he

said one fig­"Ifthis continues over the 
ure that espe-had one more
next 10 years it will defi­

cially sur-s u r v e .y prised him nitely be helpful to the planned for was that 89.9 next semester.
University on things like 

percent of stu­"I think the
student safety .. " 

dents were idea we had very interest-with the ed in an Sarah Rodts breaks worked out pretty well,
online syl-Student Senate 
labus data­and because
committee on student

base. we want to do 
outreach chair 
one a semes­
ter, we're look­ing at doing one over spring break," he said. 
Rodts said she hoped the sur­vey will be conducted once every semester, arguing it would allow the University to collect a lot of useful data about its students. 
"I think this is a good starting point. If this continues over the next 10 years it will definitely be helpful to the University on things like student safety," she said. 
The survey is open until 12 
a.m. Saturday. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
"Haiti has remained unthinkable in the modern

Haiti 

world ... you cannot trust continued from page 1 anything you read in the 
news about Haiti ... you have and immigration, said that to be very skeptical," today Haiti is an island of Richman said. "Haitians did immigrants. the unthinkable and have 
She said that as a result of been placed in this box as 
Christopher Columbus' con­quests in the West Indies, the natives of the Haitian Island, called Tainos, were eliminated by cruelty and disease as a result of European colo­nization. 
"Everyone who arrived in Haiti was an immigrant because the aboriginal pop­ulation had 

"Now we have a presidential candi­date ... who is a descendent from that group. We need a much more nuanced understanding of mixed race if we want to understand Haitian history." 
Karen Richman anthropology professor 
been wiped out," she said. 
According to Richman, more than 10 million Africans were forced into slavery and brought over to Haiti in what was the "largest forced immigration of human beings in history." 
When Haitian slaves won their independence from France in 1804, they shocked the world, Richman said. 
"The reaction in 1804 in the U.S .... was to lead the so-called 'civilized world' in a boycott of this freed state," she said. 
"White supremacy and slavery was embedded in [the United States] from the beginning of the country. There was great fear that our slaves would get the idea to revolt from Haitian slaves." 
As a result of its rise to independence, Richman said that Haiti has remained "unthinkable" to the rest of the world even today. 
and that France with the most powerful navy in the world could not retake its colony," she said. 
Richman explained that racial diversity in Haiti has implications for under­standing race in the United States today. 
She said unthinkable, weird and exotic." 
She said that when slaves in Haiti won their inde­pendence from France -the most powerful nation at the time-it was "a huge world event." 
"It was unthinkable that a rag-tag group of slaves revolted and won 
that in 1791, slaves out­number free people 10-to-1, and those who populated the island fell into three groups -450,000 were slaves, 40,000 were whites and 30,000 were free people who were not white. 
Those who control Haiti today are descendants of 

Two U.S. Air Force cargo planes, donated for the proj­ect, will transport the clothes to the Dominican Republic. About a third of the donations will stay in the Dominican Republic, with the remainder sent to Haiti, Wash said. 
The clothing should arrive in early December, Wash said, when Rotary Clubs and other service groups will help dis­tribute it. 
Wash said that the Alumni Association has already col­lected 50 boxes full of cloth­ing, totaling over 1,500 pounds, and she is certain that the Notre Dame commu­nity will collect much more in the coming days. 
"Ideally, we'd be able to col­lect [25,000 pounds or more]," she said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
"People [in Haiti] feel home as lazy." In Leogane,
very ambivalent 
Haiti, Richman

about migration. 
said that most People are resenting families had at 
them for ever having least one of 
their members

left. Meanwhile, 
abroad -most migrants here [in the of them living in 
U.S.] see the people southern 
Florida.

back home as lazy. " 
According to 
Richman, 

Karen Richman Haitians are 
anthropology professor part of a "trans­
people who had both white and African ancestry, Richman said. 
"Now we have a presiden­tial candidate ... who is a descendent from that group. We need a much more nuanced understanding of mixed race if we want to understand Haitian history." 

Richman also said that in rural Haiti, people remained tied to the land even when they emigrate from Haiti. 
"Every child grows up believing that they are going to leave to send money back home," she said. "There are supposedly 8.3 million Haitians, and their numbers in the U.S. are probably woll over a million." 
Richman said that there are mixed feelings about immigration in Haiti. 
"People [in Haiti) feel very ambivalent about migration. 
People  are  resenting them  
for  ever  having  left.  
Meanwhile,  
migrants  here  
[in the U.S.]  see  
the people back  

national orbit" because unlike most immi­grants which 

leave their country of origin and never look back, the people of Haiti are "inti­mately involved in each oth­ers lives no matter where they live." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

---------------, 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 28, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S W[RE SERvrcr:s page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mobs stone peacekeepers in Congo 
GOMA, Congo-Furious mobs stoned U.N. peacekeepers' compounds Monday and thou­sands of desperate people fled advancing rebel troops as chaos returned to eastern Congo, fueled by festering hatreds left over from the Hwandan genocide and the country's unrelent­ing civil wars. 
In what appeared to be a major retreat, hun­dreds of government soldiers pulled back Monday from the battlefront north of the provin­cial capital of Goma -fleeing any way possible, including using tanks, jeeps and commandeered cars. Soldiers honked their horns angrily as they struggled to push through throngs of displaced people on the main road. 
Crowds of protesters threw rocks out<>ide four 

U.N. compounds in Goma, venting outrage at what they claimed was a failure to protect them from rebels. Later in the day, peacekeepers in helicopter gunships attacked rebel forces surg­ing on Kibumba, about 30 miles north of Goma, said U.N. spokeswoman Sylvie van den Wildcnbcrg. 
Prime MinHer campaigns slart in Israel 
JEHUSALEM -Israeli opposition leader Benjamin Netanyahu has opened his cam­paign for prime minister by staking out a hardlinc position toward Syria and the Palestinians. 
Netanyahu told parliament on Monday that if he becomes prime minister, he will seek peace with Israel's neighbors. But he says Israel must keep the Golan Heights, large parts of the West Bank or any of Jerusalem. 
Netanyahu, who takes a tough stances against ceding land won in war, is roughly evm1 in opinion polls against the moder­ate Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Roundup saves 47 child ptOOtutes 
WASIIINGTON -More than 600 adults have been arrested and 4 7 children rescued in a three­day roundup targeting people who force children into prostitution. 
The FBI said the roundup by federal, state and local law enforcement occurred in 29 cities, adding that the raids dismantled 12 large-scale prostitution operations run through call services, truck stops, casinos and Web sites. 
At a news conference announcing the results of Operation Cross Country II, FBI Deputy Director John Pistole said the arrests were made possible by intelligence gathered during a similar series of raids in June. 
"Sex trafficking of children remains one of our most violent and unconscionable crimes in this country," Pistole said. 
Staph causes more serious illnesses 
WASHINGTON -Drug-resistant staph bac­teria picked up in ordinary community set­tings are increasingly acquiring "superbug" powers and causing far more serious illness­es than they have in the past, doctors report­ed Monday. 
These widespread germs used to be easier to treat than the dangerous forms of staph found in hospitals and nursing homes. 
"Until recently we rarely thought of it as a problem among healthy people in the com­munity," said Dr. Rachel Gorwitz of the feder­al Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana receives $152 million for homes 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana will get $152 mil­lion to help cities and towns buy abandoned or foreclosed homes, demolish or redevelop vacant properties and help low-and moderate-income home buyers purchase properties, Gov. Mitch Daniels said Monday. 
Of the state total, $84 million is Indiana's share of the $3.92 billion appropriation to all 50 states under the federal Neighborhood Stabilization Program. The remaining $68 mil­lion will go to Indiana directly from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Daniels said. 
SYRIA 

U.S. raid kills al-Qaida linked le•ader 
Operation targeted home ofIraqi Badran Turki al-Mazidih; at least seven found dead 
Associated Press  
SUKKARIYEH, Syria -A  
cross-border raid by U.S. spe­ 
cial forces killed the al-Qaida­ 
linked head of a Syrian net­ 
work that smuggled fighters,  
weapons and cash into Iraq, an  
American counterterrorism  
official said Monday.  
Blood stained the earth in  
this border village as  
anguished Syrians buried rela­ 
tives they said were killed in  
the U.S. helicopter attack  
Sunday. Some shouted anti­ 
American slogans and carried  
banners reading "Down with  
Bush and the American  
enemy."  
The operation targeted the  
home of Abu Ghadiyah, the  
nickname for the leader of a  
key cell of foreign fighters in  
Iraq, the U.S. oflicial told The  
Associated Press from  
Washington. lie spoke on con­ 
dition of anonymity because of  
the sensitive intelligence.  
The U.S. Treasury  
Department has named Abu  
Ghadiyah as one of four major  
ligures in ai-Qaida's Iraq wing  
who were living in Syria.  
U.S. authorities have said  
Abu Ghadiyah's real name is  
Badran Turki ai-Mazidih, an  
Iraqi in his early 30s who AP  
served as al-Qaida in Iraq's Syrian villagers shout anti-U.S. slogans and gather near coffins of relatiives who died  
head of logistics in Syria since Sunday when U.S. military helicopters launched an attack on Syrian territory.  
2004. His job included provid­ 
ing foreign lighters with pass­ al-Qaida operatives this year.  into custody by U.S. forces, and  ers who worked from dusk to  
ports, weapons, guides and  The Syrian goverrunent said  whisked away by helicopter. He  dawn," said the man's wife,  
safe houses as they slipped into  Sunday's attack by four U.S.  spoke on condition of anonymi­ Rima. She said work at the  
Iraq and made their way to  military helicopters targeted a  ty because he feared for his  construction site started last  
Baghdad and other major cities  civilian building under con­ life.  week.  
where the Sunni insurgency  struction in Sukkariyeh shortly  At the targeted building, the  Asked about U.S. reports that  
was raging.  before sundown, and killed  floor was bloodstained Monday,  an al-Qaida-linked group used  
Sunday's operation in  eight people, including four  with abandoned tennis shoes  the site, Siharn, the widow of  
Sukkariyeh, about five miles  children.  scattered amid pieces of  one of the man"s sons, lbrahinl,  
from the Iraqi border, came  However, local officials said  human flesh. A tent pitched  said: "I don't know about any of  
just days after the commander  seven men were killed and two  near the site had bags of bread,  that."  
of U.S. forces in western Iraq  people were wounded, includ­ pots and pans and wool blan­ "All I know is that they went  
called the Syrian border an  ing a woman. An AP reporter  kets.  to work and never came back,"  
"uncontrolled" gateway for  saw the bodies of seven men at  There was no visible security  said the mother of seven.  
fighters into Iraq and said  the funerals Monday.  presence and visitors could  Syria's Foreign Minister  
efforts were being stepped up  Amateur video taken by a vil­ move freely, a sign the normal­ Walid al-MoaHem denounced  
to secure it.  lager on a cell phone Sunday  ly tightly restrictive govern­ the raid as "cowboy politics."  
The raid was another sign  showed four helicopters flying  ment wanted the damage seen.  "I hope it doesn't come to a  
the United States is aggressive­ overhead as villagers pointed  About 30 women dressed in  confrontation, but if that's what  
ly launching military raids  to the skies in alarm. The  black wept in a small courtyard  they want, then we'll be ready,"  
across the borders of  grainy images, viewed Monday  outside the home of Dawoud  he told reporters in London.  
Afghanistan and Iraq to  by the AP, did not show the hel­ al-Hamad, who was killed in  Iran condemned the attack  
destroy insurgent sanctuaries.  icopters landing.  the bombing along with his  as did Russia, which has had  
In Pakistan, U.S. missile strikes  Another villager told the AP  four sons.  close ties with Syria since  
have killed at least two senior  he saw at least two men taken  "They were innocent labor- Soviet times.  

Court convicts Stevens of seven charges 
from a wealthy oil contractor. Jurors changed his mind and did not immedi­
began deliberating last week. ately set a date. 
WASHINGTON -Alaska Sen. Ted Visibly shaken after the verdicts were The monthlong trial revealed that Stevens was convicted of seven corrup­read -the jury foreman declaring employees for VECO Corp., an oil serv­tion charges Monday in a trial that "guilty" seven times -Stevens tried to ices company, transformed Stevens' threatened to end the 40-year career of intertwine his fingers but quickly put modest mountain cabin into a modern, Alaska's political patriarch in disgrace. his hands down to his side after notic­two-story home with wraparound 
The verdict, coming barely a week ing they were trembling. As he left the porches, a sauna and a wine cellar. before Election Day, increased Stevens' courtroom, Stevens got a quick kiss on The Senate's longest-serving difficulty in winning what already was the cheek from his wife, Catherine, who Republican, Stevens said he had no a difficult race against Democratic testified on his behalf during the trial. idea he was getting freebies. He said he challenger Mark Begich. Democrats He declined to talk to reporters waiting paid $160,000 for the project and hope to seize the once reliably outside. believed that covered everything. Republican seat as part of their bid for Stevens faces up to five years in He had asked for an unusually speedy a filibuster-proof majority in the prison on each count when he is sen­trial, hoping he'd be exonerated in time Senate. tenced, but under federal guidelines he to return to Alaska and win re-election. 
Stevens, 84, was convicted of all the is likely to receive much less prison He kept his campaign going and gave felony charges he faced of lying about time, if any. The judge originally sched­no indication that he had a contingency free home renovations and other gifts uled sentencing for Jan. 26 but then plan in case of conviction. 
Associated Press 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 28, 2008 
GaiDe 
continued from page 1 
me were doing push-ups." 
Sophomore Mackenzie Keller added: "The Washington fans cleared out pretty 
the band's drum line with Hamilton. The two stayed with friends of Flores. 
"Seattle is a beautiful town, a great place," Hamilton said. "I wish we could have stayed for longer." 
Hamilton and Flores arrived in Seattle Friday night a n d 
quickly after returned
"It was the least hostile 
the game Sunday
away _game environment
started. night. "It was the I've ever been in, probably K e I I e r 
least hostile because the Washington said, "I've 
away game always
fans realized they were
environment wanted to 
I've ever been goin_q to lose from the see the in, probably start." West Coast because the because my Washington roommate 
Mackenzie Keller
fans realized is from they were sophomore Portland, 
going to  lose  
from  the  
start."  

The students who attended the game enjoyed visiting Seattle and the experience of an away game. 
"It was honestly fantastic," Hamilton said. ''I'm in the band, so this was my first time to actually watch a game." 
"I've always wanted to go to an away game," Hamilton said. "This game fell during fall break and the band was­n't traveling, so there was that availability." 
Hamilton flew to Washington with Holy Cross Senior David Flores, who is in 
Ore. and 
since this 
game was over fall break, it was the perfect situation." 
Keller, with a group of friends, flew to Portland and then drove to Seattle. 
"We ran into another group of Notre Dame fans we knew from school," Keller said. "It was fun to be so far away and still have that feeling of Notre Dame community." 
"I think the Notre Dame fans were really excited to get our first away victory, even over a lesser team." 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 



History 
continued from page 1 

inequalities propelled Obama's candidacy. 
Not only do some African Americans support Obama because of their memory of the civil rights movement, Dallek said that Obama also has the sup­port of some upper income white liberals 
"! think it is very 
who view his outsiders. candidacy as hard to win unless "Since 1976, 
a sort of people see you as only one Vice 
"racial heal­President has
connecting to them,
ing." won the presi­V a I I e k the issues they care dency, and 
spoke of Bill about, their kitchen everybody else, 
Clinton, com­have all been
table concerns." 
paring governors. Most Obama to importantly, J e s s e Dr. Matthew Dallek they all cam­Jackson, a paigned on the
columnist for 
candidate for theme of

Politico.com
President in the 1980's. 

"The impli­cation ... was that Obama was just like Jackson, that he was popu­lar among African Americans but that's pretty much it," said Dallek. "A lot of support, not just black support, hardened behind Obama." 
Dallek went on to discuss the role of identity politics in the general election, focusing mainly on the idea 
that both parties are com­peting to identify with the people. 
"I think it is very hard to win unless people see you as connecting to them, the issues they care about, their kitchen table concerns," said Dallek. 
Dallek also spoke of politi­cal experience, saying that people who have won the presidency in recent decades have all been Washington 
change," said 
Dallek, who, for 
these reasons, 
believes that Obama's lack of experience is actually an asset to him. 
Sophomore Erin McNeil said after the talk, "I think he did a very good job of explaining why Obama's lack of experience actually helped him, instead of hurt­ing him as his opponents have been trying to do." 
Finally, Dallek spoke of how Reagan has influenced 
both Obama and John 
McCain. 
Dallek compared Obama to Heagan, citing that both President George W. Bush and President Jimmy Carter's rating were both low, and that Obama, like Heagan, is an outsider to Washington, and is criti­cized as being inexperienced and an extremist. At the same time, both were strong communicators. 
Dallek also said that McCain is similar to Heagan in that he runs on a country first campaign, focusing on his service to, and love of, the United States. 
"I thought that he took the Obama/Heagan analogy a lit­tle too far," senior Greg Barr said. "There are so many differences in the kinds of campaigns they've been run­ning. Why isn't he closer to Jimmy Carter or Kennedy, people whose careers were more disappointing?" But Barr said that overall, he enjoyed the lecture. 
"It was an interesting to try to connect history with current events and I hope people do that more in the future," he said. "I think a lot of voters don't have a sense of history and can't always make these impor­tant analogies and connec­tions." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 





As Dow reaches new low, economic worries rise 
In a 'devastating month,' market concern increases at closing bell, especially with the spread ofthefinancial crisis overseas 
That malaise grew particu­came ahead of possible inter­
Associated Press 
larly after credit ratings est rate moves from central 
NEW YOHK -Wall Street agency Moody's Investors banks inc! uding the has ended another highly Service in the last half-hour of Federal Heserve, which is set volatile session with a big trading Monday downgraded to begin a two-day meeting last-minute loss as the mar­General Motors Corp. further Tuesday. The Fed is expected knt's stubborn worries about a into "junk" status, pointing to to lower its fed funds rate by protraetnd nconomic down­the sharp contraction of the a half-point to 1 percent on turn and tight credit erased U.S. auto market. Shares of Wednesday. Investors are also budding optimism about a GM, one of the 30 Dow com­optimistic that the European housing snctor recovery. The ponents, sank 50 cents, or 8.4 Central Bank is moving Dow Jones industrial average percnnt, to $5.45. toward its own cut after skidded 203 points to its low­Earlier, banks got a boost President Jean-Claude Trichet ost dosn in 5 112 years, with after the Treasury said it said Monday such a step was almost all thn decline coming signed agreements with nine "a possibility." in the last I 0 minutns of the financial institutions to buy But while policymakers session. stoek in the companies this around the world have been 

The Stroot's back-and-forth week. An upbeat home sales trying to find a remedy for the moves wnrn typical for a tur­report also gave the market fear of' bad debt that has par­bulent market that has seen support until late afternoon. alyzed parts of the credit many rocent rallies evaporate The Dow fell 203.18, or 2.42 markets in the past month, -particularly as hedge and percent, to 8,175.77 after ear­lending conditions have eased mutual funds sell ofT even lier rising by as many as 220 only slightly. Investors are strong assets so they can meet points. Even before the late­worried that a drop-off in invostors' domands for their day snllofT, it was an extreme­lending has damaged the money hack. These forced ly volatile day for Wall Street economy. sell-ofTs lend to happen late in -the Dow crossed between The U.S. government is tak­the day, when the funds figure positive and negative territory ing some of its first steps to cents to settle at $63.22 a reported that sales of new out how much cash they'll 60 times during the session. steady the banking sector. The barrel on the New York single-family homes rose by need to nwet redemptions. It's been a devastating Treasury said it signed agree­Mercantile Exchange. 2.7 percent in September to a 
But tho market's anxiety month for the stock market so ments with nine banks and The gyrations in U.S. stocks seasonally adjusted annual also increases as the dosing far -if the Dow were to fin­will buy stock in the compa­have been sizable since the rate of 464,000 homes. bell approaches, espncially ish the month at Monday's nies this week. The proceeds market's peak a year ago, but Economists had expected with growing concMn about levels, it would be the worst from the stock sales are particularly since last month's sales would drop from August. thn spread of the financial cri­month since September 1931. intended to bolster the banks' bankruptcy of Lehman But home prices -a big sis oversnas. News from Asia The blue-chip index is now balance sheets so they will Brothers Holdings Inc. and factor causing banks to tight­and Europe tends to break 42.28 percent below its peak begin more normal lending. the government rescue of en their lending standards ­ovnrnight and before trading of 14,164.53, reached Oct. 9, "Clearly, what's most impor­insurer Amnrican are still falling. The median on Wall Street resumns in the 2007, and at its lowest closing tant is that the funding crisis International Group. With price of a new home declined morning. level since April 1, 2003. On needs to be contained at this investors uncertain about the by 9.1 percent from a year 
"We wnrn trading higher Monday, it did not plunge point," said Chris Orndorff, economy, the market appears ago to $218,400, its lowest earlier .on very light volume, bf1low its Oct. 10 trading low director of equity strategy at to be bouneing along a rocky level since September 2004. but thn huynrs just couldn't of 7,882.50. Payden & Hygel in Los bottom after falling sharply Even with some welcome gather nnough momentum to Broader stock indicators Angeles. "The banks need to earlier this month. news, investors around the knep it going," said Alfred E. showed monJ sizable losses. start taking on some more News that sales of new world remain worried about (;oldman, ehief market strate­Thn Standard & Poor's 500 risks," he said. "I think it's homes increased in the prospects for economie gist at Wachovia Securitins. index fell 27 .85, or 3.18 per­going to take months." September was a weleomn expansion. A surge in the yen "When cont'idencn is razor­cont. to 848.92, and the Declining issues outnum­surprise. While median home illustrated investors' nervous­thin, tho nnrvous tension goes Nasdaq composite index fell bered advancers by about 4 to prices have dropped to the ness about how much eco­way up ar~.d bam -the snllers 46.13, or 2.97 percent, to 1 on the New York Stock lowest level in four years, nomic activity could slow. The take over. 1,505.90. Exchange. Consolidated vol­investors appeared pleased -yen is seen as a safe haven 
"It's just an overall malaise The Hussell 2000 index of ume came to 5.48 billion at least initially -that the holding for investors who con­about how bad the economic smaller companies fell 22.72, shares, down from 6.45 bil­market was beginning to chip tend the Japanese economy slump is going to be globally," or 4.82 percent, to 448.40. lion Friday. away at an inventory glut. will fare better in a global he said. The waffling in the market Light, sweet crude fell 93 The Commerce Department recession. 

Tuesday, October 28, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 8,175.77 -203.18

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 730 55 2,727 1,358,369,695 

AMEX 1,284.00 ~7:74 NASDAQ 1,505.90 -46.13 NYSE 5,196.53 -23LOl S&P 500 848.92 -27.85 
NIKKEI (Tokyo) t;OS3.97 ··~•108193, FTSE 100 (London) 3,852.59 -30.77 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -3.55 -3.09 83.95 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -2.78 -0.82 28.69 FIN SEL SPDR (XLF) -2.42 -0.05 2.02 !SHARES MSCI (EEM) -2.73 -0.37 13.18 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.87 +0.032 3.729 13-WEEK BILL -10.98 -0.090 0.730 30-YEAR BOND +0.44 +0.018 4.105 5-YEAR NOTE +1.84 +0.048 2.651 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.93 63.22 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +12.60 742.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.08 86.40 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 93.1850 EURO 0.8092 
IN BRIEF 
Kodak ends 22-year NNiCAR spomDShip 
ROCHESTER, N.Y.-Eastman Kodak Co. is ending its 22-year sponsorship in NASCAR and putting more sports marketing dollars into pro­fessional golf. 
The photography pioneer, betting its future on electronic imaging, said Monday the realignment lits better with a new effort to highlight its brand digitally, such as on PGA Tour scoreboards. 
Kodak also wants to engage more customers overseas since 60 percent of its sales are outside the United States. 
Kodak said it is also ending a four-year spon­sorship of Penske Haeing at year-end. 
Since signing on with NA'lCAR in 1986, Kodak­sponsored cars have won the Daytona 500 four times -with Hyan Newman's car this year, Sterling Marlin's in 1994 and 1995 and Ernie lrvan's in 1991. 
".Just as we have transformed our company, we are transforming our marketing," said Betty Noonan, Kodak's vice president of corporate marketing and branding. "We want to express our deepest thanks to our friends at NA'lCAR and Penske Racing for their partnership and support. We remain big fans." 
British beer sales fall with economy 
LONDON -Britons may be reeling from the international financial crisis, but few are crying into their beer. 
Beer sales are falling as the economy worsens, defying predictions in some quarters that con­sumers would buy their brew at supermarkets to escape higher priees at pubs. 
The British Beer and Pub Association reported Monday that total beer sales fell about 7 percent in the third quartnr-the equivalent of 161 million fewer pints compared with the same period in 2007. 
Sales of the iconic British pint in pubs have been in decline for years, leading to the closure of thou­sands of hostelries around the cow1try. 
Now the association's Quarterly Beer Barometer reveals that the downturn has broadened to supermarket sales. 
"The accelerating decline in beer sales is a clear sign of' a worsening economy, worried households and weakening spending," said Rob Hayward, the association's chief executive. 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

Bailout money to head to nine banks 
Treasury Department will move $125 billion; Fed plans to buy short-term debt 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The government prepared Monday to move the first batch of bailout money to banks as fretful world mar­kets plunged again. Wall Street ended with a big drop at the closing bell. sending the Dow Jones industrials to their lowest close since the f'inancial meltdown began. 
The Treasury Departm~nt said it would start moving $125 billion to nine major banks this week by buying ownership stakes, the first big transfer since the $700 billion bailout package was passed early this month. 
Assistant Treasury Secretary David Nason -said the infusion would go to the largest banks in the nation, including Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo. 
A group of smaller but significant regional banks, including Capital One Financial and SunTrust Banks, began announcing their own preliminary deals with Treasury for another $125 billion. That money should be released as soon as paperwork is finished. 

The Fed also began a major program to buy up the short-term debt, known as commercial paper, that businesses use to pay for everyday expenses and their lowest close of the matic move later this week than a few weeks ago but salaries. Lending, the year. Remarkably, it was by cutting interest rates, remains tight. lifeblood of the economy, the 28th time in the 31 perhaps lowering the key "All these efforts are froze up after the collapse trading sessions since the federal funds rate by as doing some good, but the of investment house financial meltdown began much as a half-point, driv­question is whether they Lehman Brothers in mid­that the Dow has moved ing the federal funds rate will do enough," said David September and has thawed triple digits for the day. down to 1 percent. Wyss, chief economist for agonizingly slowly since. But the carnage was The question is whether Standard & Poor's in New 
On Wall Street, buying worse elsewhere on anoth­all the efforts, including York. "The credit markets and selling that was half­er day when investors wor­billions of dollars of loans are still pretty locked up." hearted by the standards of ried about a looming to banks by the Fed and Besides pumping money the past month had major worldwide recession. Major other central banks around into the banking system, averages drifting higher stock markets in Hong the world, will be enough Treasury Secretary Henry and lower throughout the Kong, Tokyo, Britain, to get lending going again. Paulson and other Treasury day. Then stocks plunged in France and Germany So far, it hasn't helped officials are considering a the f'inal 10 minutes of dropped sharply earlier in much. A closely watched round of requests for help trading. the day. Tokyo's Nikkei 225 measure that tracks what from other industries, 
The Dow Jones industri­index closed at its lowest banks charge each other including big insurance 
. als finished the day down level in 26 years. for loans, edged down mar­companies, automakers 203 points, or 2.4 percent, The Fed was expected to ginally on Monday, suggest­and foreign-controlled closing at the 8,176 level-make an even more dra-ing credit is a bit looser banks. 

Sales of new homes rise unexpectedly 
Associated Press September sales still left them 33.1 New home sales !'ell by 21.4 percent 
percent below the level of a year ago in the Northeast and were down 5.8 
WASHINGTON -Sales of new as the country is battered by the percent in the Midwest. However, homes recorded an unexpected worst slump in housing in decades. sales rose by a sharp .22.7 percent in increase in September as median The report on a rise in new home the West, a region of the country home prices dropped to the lowest sales followed news last week that which has seen some of the biggest level in four years, the Commerce sales of existing homes rose in declines in prices, a development Department reported Monday. September by 5.5 percent, the largest which has spurred saies. Sales were 
Sales of new single-family homes monthly gain in more than five years. up 0.7 percent in the South. rose by 2.7 percent last month to a Analysts are not convinced that the The rise in sales ]left a total of seasonally adjusted annual rate of sales increases are signaling a bottom 394,000 unsold new homes on the 464,000 homes, Commerce said. for the housing market. They note market at the end of September, down Economists had expected sales would that the September gains came before a record 25.4 percent from the num­drop from the August level. the latest upheavals in financial mar­ber of unsold homes on the market at 
The median price of a new home kets which have raised new worries the end of September 2007. sold in September declined by 9.1 about the overall state of the econo­Builders have been sharply cutting percent from a year ago to $218,400, my. back on production, trying to get the lowest price level since September Many analysts believe the country inventories more in line with sales. 2004, a period when home prices has already entered a recession. They Even with the latest drop in total were rising rapidly as the country are forecasting significant increases unsold new homes, the inventory rep­experienced a five-year housing in job losses which will make it even resents a 10.4 months supply at the boom. harder to mount a sustained rebound September sales pace. still a histori­
The surprising increase in in housing. cally high level. 
Tuesday, October 28, 2008
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
ZIMBABWE 
African leaders to hold sum111it 
Neighbors concerned about fight between Mugabe, Tsvangirai 
Associated Press 
IIAHAHE -All Zimbabwe's neighbors will hold a summit to try to resolve the southern African nation's power-sharing impasse, officials announced after regional leaders debated the issue into the early hours Tuesday. 
An agreement signed Sept. 15 has stalled over how to share government ministries among President Hobert Mugabe's party, Morgan Tsvangirai's Movement for Democratic Change and a smaller opposition 
).,>TOUp. 
Tsvangirai accuses Mugabe, who has led Zimbabwe since independence from Britain in 19HO, of trying to hold on to too many of the most powerful posts. 
Tomas Salomao, executive secretary of the 14-member Southern African Development Community, said at a news con­ference in llarare early Tuesday that the ministry in charge of police -accused in widespread attacks on the opposition -was the main sticking point. Salomao said the planned summit would eonsider a recommendation that the ministry be rotated, with the two main parties -Mugabe's and Tsvangirai's -holding it !iJr six months or a year. 
The opposition has resisted such an arrangement, which could further complicate an already cumbersome power­sharing proposal. But Tsvangirai gained at least a small victory in getting the members of a key SADC committee that met in Harare Monday and Tuesday to accept his call for a full summit. The opposition says only a full SADC summit has the authority to pressure Mugabe. 
Zimbabwe has been on the agenda of repeated SADC mini­and full summits, and the lead­ers have slowly but surely pushed longtime, increasingly autocratic leader Mugabe to accept more and more compro­mises. Several SADC leaders have shown growing impatience with Mugabe, and may press him hard behind closed doors at a summit. 
The meeting Monday and Tuesday was attended by Mugabe, Tsvangirai, opposition faction leader Arthur Mutambara and leaders from South Africa, Angola, Mozambique and Swaziland ­the last three make up SADC's troika, a special committee on politics, defense and security. Former South African President Thabo Mbeki attended as the mediator who brokered the deal. 
Salamao said the troika rec­ommended "the holding of a full SADC summit to further review the current political situation in . Zimbabwe as a matter of urgency." A date and place were not immediately set. 
U.N. 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said prior to the sum­mit announcement that Monday's meeting was a "critical opportunity" to form a new gov­ernment based on an equitable division of power, U.N. spokes­woman Michele Montas said at 

U.N. 
headquarters in New York. 


She said Ban "remains dis­tressed about the growing human cost of the crisis in Zimbabwe, in particular given the signs that the humanitarian situation in the country may worsen in the course of 2008 ~nd 2009." 
Montas said Ban was con­cerned about critical shortages of food, essential drugs, basic services and clean water. 
An agreement in Zimbabwe would allow politicians to turn their attention to the nation's economic meltdown, which has led to chronic shortages of food, gasoline and most basic goods; daily outages of power and water; and the collapse of health and education services. 
Zimbabweans are struggling with the world's highest official inflation rate of 231 million per­cent. The U.N. predicts half the population will need food aid by next year. 
SUDAN 



Kidnappers kill 5 
Chinese workers 
Associated Press 
KHARTOUM -Kidnappers who abducted nine Chinese oil workers killed five of them execution-style on Monday, the Sudanese Foreign Ministry spokesman said. 
Two other abducted workers managed to flee, while two remain in captivity, ministry spokesman Ali Sadiq said. 
The ministry said in a state­ment that security forces were deployed in the area where the kidnapping occurred. No further details were provided on the killings, including how the government learned of them. 
Chinese diplomats in Khartoum were not reachable for comments. 
The nine Chinese were abducted on October 18 while traveling in the southwestern oil-rich region of Kordofan near an oil field. 
Sudan's government has blamed rebels from the adja­cent, war-torn region of Darfur for the kidnapping, but a spokesman for the group on Monday denied involvement. 
Sadiq said that by slaying the hostages, the kidnappers were apparently going ahead with their threats to drive 

Chinese interests from Sudan. He said Monday's killing came "without provocation." 
"It was execution-style," he said. "Two others (of the kid­napped Chinese) were injured and ran away. They were then taken in by the authorities. Two others are still with the kidnappers." 
Sadiq stressed that no clash­es occurred and the ministry said tribal chiefs in the area had been negotiating with the kidnappers to resolve the issue. 
Still, Sadiq maintained the kidnappers took directives from Darfur rebels from the Justice and Equality Movement. They had demand­ed a share of the oil wealth through jobs. 
But JEM spokesman Ahmed Hussein told The Associated Press that his group had "nothing to do with this inci­dent." 
This was the third attack on Chinese targets over the past 12 months. Last year, JEM rebels attacked a Chinese oil field in Sudan and kidnapped two foreign workers, giving at the time Chinese and other oil companies a week to leave the country. The kidnapped were released unharmed. 
Singer Hudson's 7-year-old nephew found dead in SUV 
Hudson's sister's estranged husband listed as person of interest in slaying deaths ofher nephew, mother, and brother 
Associated Press 
ClllCACO -Oscar winner Jennifer Hudson's 7-year-old nephew was found dead in the back of an SUV on Monday, end­ing a frantic search that began after the shooting deaths of her mother and brother three days oarlinr. 
The singer and actress was among seven family members and closn f'ritmds who cried and lwld hands as tlwy identified Julian King's body from a live image on a television screen at the Cook County Medieal Examiner's ollice Monday after­noon. 
Chicago police spokeswoman Monique Bond said the boy, like his grandmother and undo, had been shot. The medical examin­er's offien planned a Tuesday autopsy. 
Chicago Poliee Supnrintnndnnt .Jody Wnis said a motive rnmained unelear Monday but addnd, "It wasn't a ease of a strangt~r-type homicide." 
Poliee have eharactnrized the slayings as "domestic: rnlated" and authorities havn been quns­tioning .Julian's stPpfather. who has bonn nstrangtHI from the boy's motlwr and is being held on a paroln violation. No onn has been chargml in the slay­ings. 
Julian's body was found short­ly al'tnr 7 a.m. in thn rnar seat of the SUV, which matched the one nwntionnd in an Amber Alert for thn boy and was parked on the strent in a neighborhood of brownstone homes and apart­ment buildings. 
The vehicle was about 10 
miles from the house where the other victims were found, which was where Julian lived and where Hudson grew up. 
Hudson had ofl'ered $100,000 Sunday for information leading to the safe return of her nephew, the son of her sister, Julia Hudson. Hudson's publicist did not immediately return calls and e-mail messages Monday. 
"Miss Hudson wanted to request privacy," Cook County spokesman Sean Howard said aftnr the family left the medical examiner's oflice. ''This is a very trying time for her and her fam­ily." 
Hudson's aunt, Dorothy lludson, said the Chicago timer­a! home she owns with her hus­band will handle arrangements for the family, but details were pending. 
"We're just sad. We're going through this stage where we're just sad and in shock," Dorothy Hudson said. 
The Amber Alert had listed William Balfour, the estranged husband of .Julia Hudson, as a suspect in a "double homicide invt~stigation." lie is not the boy's fathnr and has not been charged in the slayings. 
Weis said Monday that Balfour "remains a person of interest." 
The ehief said he was confi­dent that with two crime scenes, investigators would find impor­tant dues. 
Balfour, 27. was taken into custody for questioning Friday after the bodies of Hudson's 57­year-old mother, Darnell Donerson, and 29-year-old brother, Jason Hudson, were found. 
On Sunday, Balfour was trans­ferred to the Illinois Department of Corrections, where a spokes­woman declined Monday to dis­cuss his parole violation. 
Corrections records show Balfour spent nearly seven years in prison for attempted murder, vehicular hijacking and possessing a stolen vehicle. He was expected to remain in state custody until the Illinois Prisoner Review Board looked at his case. 
Balfour's mother, Michele Balfour, has said Hudson's mother kicked Balfour out of the family home last winter. She denied her son had anything to do with the killings. 
It was unclear whether Balfour had an attorney. 
Lynette Louden, 47, said she called police about the SUV aeross the street from her home on Chicago's West Side after her family's Chihuahua started barking at it early Monday. Some neighbors said they hadn't seen the vehicle before Monday, but Louden said it had been there since at least Saturday. 
"I only hoped the body wasn't in there," she said. "When they said that it was, I cried." 
Weis said police were waiting for the autopsy to determine how long the boy had been dead, but estimated the vehicle was parked on the street "a cou­ple of days." 
When asked how officers could have missed the SUV dur­ing their massive search, Weis noted that Chicago is a big city. and that the vehicle was "sever­al miles away from the first crime scene." 







ELECTION 2008 
Tuesday, October 28, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wmE SERVICES page 9 
CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Heartland unsure about McCain, Obama 
COLUMBUS -Political allegiances are as divided as football loyalties in the country's heartland, home to deeply depressed economies, middle America values and profound doubts about whether either Barack Obama or John MeCain will be able to reverse the worst fmancial turmoil this country ha.<> seen since the Great Depression. 
"I don't want four more years of Republicans, let alone eight," said independent Craig Phipps, echo­ing nearly everyone else decked out in Ohio State University gear during a pre-game tailgate party. All but one in this group agreed when Phipps said: "McCain is no different than President Bush." 
Across the parking lot, under a Purdue University tent. it was McCain who was the favorite -by default. it seems. Obama, although a fellow Midwesterner. "doesn't understand our values at all -even though Chicago's in the Midwest," said Tami Lee. She's a Democrat who once backed Obama but later became disenchanted with him. 
Not far out from Election Day. weighing their choices in the midst of an economic crisis. there were still plenty of undecided voters in this swath of tailgaters, many of whom echo the doubts of Shannon Wells: ''I'm not convinced that either one of them can change anything." 
Obama promises "hope over fear" 
CANTON. Ohio-Oosing his case for the presi­dency, Barack Obama presented himself Monday a.<> a unifinr for an embattled country, promising to deliver days of"hope over fear." 
Obmna's bid lor a knockout blow, delivered in the vitally competitive state of Ohio, was not bare­knuckled. Hather, buoyed by front-runner status and frenetic crowds. Obama used the moment to get beyond the sparring with John McCain and restore a theme of inspiration. 
"In one week, we can choose hope over fear, unity over division, the promise of change over the power of the status quo," Obama said. "In one week, we can come together as one nation, and one people, and once more choose our better histo­ry. That's what's at stake." 
The SIJI~Pch also was aimed at positioning Obama as a statPsman-in-waiting. Ilis soaring language was a throwback to a tim(~ before the conversation drew more specific and ugly. 

White supremacists plot killing spree 
WASHINGTON -Two white supremacists allegedly plotted to go on a national killing spree, shooting and decapitating black peo­ple and ultimately targeting Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama, feder­al authorities said Monday. 
In all. the two men whom officials described as neo-Nazi skinheads planned to kill 88 people -14 by beheading, according to documents unsealed in U.S. District Court in Jackson, Tenn. The numbers 88 and 14 are symbolic in the white supremacist com­munity. 
The spree, which initially targeted an unidentified predominantly African­American school. was to end with the two men driving toward Obama, "shooting at him from the windows," the court documents show. 
"Both individuals stated they would dress in all-white tuxedos and wear top hats dur­ing the assassination attempt," the court complaint states. "Both individuals further stated they knew they would and were will­ing to die during this attempt." 

Candidates fight for Ohio voters 
McCain, Obama pledge to fix suffering economy, move away from Bush era 

AP Republican presidential candidate Sen. John McCain, left, participates in an economic roundtable in Cleveland, Ohio, while Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Barack Obama, right, speaks at the Canton Civic Convention in Canton, Ohio, Monday. 
Associated Press 
CANTON, Ohio-Fading in the polls, John McCain fought Barack Obama for support in economically hard-hit Ohio on Monday, each man pledging to right the economy and turn the page on the Bush era in a state with an impressive record for picking presi­dents. 
Eight days from the elec­tion, however, Republicans looked and sounded increas­ingly like a party anticipating defeat, and possibly a sub­stantial one. 
McCain betrayed no such pessimism, assailing ·Obama as "the most liberal person ever to run for the presiden­cy" and warning that Democrats would tax and spend the nation deeper into recession if they win the White House and keep con­trol of Congress. 
Referring to Obama, he said, "We both disagree with President Bush on economic policy. The difference is that he thinks taxes have been too low, and I think that spending has been too high." 
Obama, running to become the nation's first black presi­dent, countered that when it comes to the economy, "John McCain has stood with this president every step of the way." 
He added, "The question in this election is not 'Are you better off than you were four years ago?' We know the answer to that. The real question is, 'Will this country be better off four years from now?'" 
The polls suggest the coun­try is leaning toward an Obama presidency. The Illinois senator runs ahead in national surveys. He also holds an advantage in sever­al polls measuring sentiment in states that voted for Bush four years ago, as well as at least one -Virginia -that last voted for a Democrat four decades ago. 
In a fresh show of GOP concern, officials inside both parties said the Republican National Committee was moving into Montana with a television advertising cam­paign for the first time this year. The party also is expanding its advertising in West Virginia to run statewide. Both states had presumed safe for McCain for weeks, and RNC advertis­ing has generally run in Republican-leaning states where he is in trouble. 

The candidates' travel plans underscored the Electoral College math. 
With scarcely a week remaining, McCain remained largely pinned down in tradi­tionally Republican states, trying to eke out a majority. 
By contrast, Obama's after­noon stop in Pittsburgh marked the first time in more than a week that he had bothered to visit a state fellow Democrat John Kerry won four years ago. 
In a show of confidence, he has spent the rest of his cam­paign time in the past week or more in "red" states ­Missouri. Florida, North Carolina, Virginia, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico and Ohio -as he reaches for a sizable triumph. 
Whatever doubt remained about the presidential race, only the size of Democratic gains seemed to be in ques­tion in the campaign for con­trol of Congress. 
Republican Sen. Ted Stevens' conviction in a cor­ruption trial in Washington gave fresh momentum to the Democrats' drive for a 60­seat Senate majority that would strengthen their abili­ty to overcome Republican filibusters on key legislation. 
McCain himself has endured numerous slights in recent days, induding anony­mous sniping between his aides and those of running mate Sarah Palin. That came on the heels of the disclosure that clothes and accessories totaling $150,000 had been purchased with donor funds for the Alaska governor and her family. 
McCain announced over the weekend that $50,000 worth of merchandise had been returned. and Palin pointedly told one crowd she was back to wearing duds from her "favorite consign­ment" store in Alaska. 
In another blow, fellow Arizona Republican Sen. Jon Kyl speculated openly over the weekend that McCain's candidacy may end in defeat. 
Ohio was Monday's battle­ground, with McCain cam­paigning in Cleveland and Dayton, while Obama was in Canton. 



SouND BYTE: THE EcoNOMY 
What is one way that you plan to create more jobs? 
"We've already lost three-quarters ofa million jobs this year, and some experts say that unemployment may rise to 8% by the end ofnext year. We can't wait until then to start creating new jobs. That's why I'm proposing to give our businesses a new American jobs tax credit for each new employee they hire in the United States over the next two years.'' 


"IfI am elected president, I wil'l help to create jobs for Americans in the most effective way a president can do this -with tax cuts that are directed specifically to cre­ate jobs, and protect your life savings. I will stand up to the corrupt ways ofWashington, the wasteful spending and the abuses of power and I will end these abuses, whatever 
McCain 

it takes."

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------­THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page I 0 Tuesday, October 28, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Barack the socialist 
P.O. Box 779, N01re Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Him· 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Firzparrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
A<i-H. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Billllrink 
ScENE EmToR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: l.iz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
All OF.~IGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROlLER: Stacey Gill SYSTI!MS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(S74) 631-6900 obmvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vil-wpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spom.l @nd.cdu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and onlint· by the students of the University of Notre Dame du L1c and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comem. including advertisements, is not govt•rnt·d by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right 10 refuse advt'((iscmt·nts based on content. 
'l'hc news is reported as accunuely and objectively as possible. Unsir;ned editorials represenr rhe opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Ao;sisranr Managing Editors and dt·parrment edirors. Commentaries, k·tters and columns present the views of the amhors and nor necessarily those ofThe <>b.crver. 
Vitwpoint space is available 10 all readers. The !Tee expression ofall opinions throur;h letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include mntact intimnation. 
Joe Wurzelbacher, more commonly known as Joe the Plumber, gained nation­wide fame a few weeks ago when he asked an innocent question to a man who may very well become the next president. Since then, he has come under vicious, unwar­ranted scrutiny by the media and Obama supporters, all for exercising his First Amendment right. Ilow dare he?! 
So mueh for Democrat<; being champions of toler­ance and free speech. 
Here is a sam­pling of what we have learned from the investigative efiorts of professional journalists: Joe the plumber isn't really a plumber at all because he doesn't have a plumbing license. He also doesn't make $250,000 a year, and thus would receive a tax cut under Obama's plan. Furthermore, "Joseph" isn't even his first name; it's Samuel. lie owes back taxes, has made "racist" statements, is divorced, and is not registered to vote. He also enjoys kicking puppies, stealing walkers from the elderly, and making small children cry (ok, I made that last part up). 
or course, they conveniently ignore the fact that Wurzelbacher doesn't need a plumber's license to work because his employer has one, that his current salary is irrelevant because he told Obama that he was "getting ready to buy a company that makes about 250, 270 -80 thousand dollars a year," and that he is registered to vote. As for being racist, here is the actual quote that drew the accusation: 
"You know, I've always wanted to ask one of these guys a question and really corner them and get them to answer a question of--for once instead of tap dancing around it. And unf(Jrtunately I asked the question but I still got a tap dance. Do you--almost as good as Sammy Davis Jr." 
Apparently making comparisons to famous black entertainers is oflensive to some. Who knew? 
Yet all of this information is completely irrelevant. Wurzelbacher could be all those things and more, but it still wouldn't change the significance of his question, or more importantly, what the response to his question revealed. Americans have the right to ask tough questions of candidates for public oflice, especially those running 

Christie Pesavento 
Right Winging It 

for the most powerful elected oflice in the 
nation. Attacking a concerned citizen for 
trying to make an informed decision is just 
plain wrong. 

If the mainstream media had applied the same zeal in their investigations of the man who is actually vying for the presi­dency, they might have discovered some interesting information before Joe the Plumber divulged Obama's true intentions while unwittingly sacrificing his own pri­vacy on the altar of truth. For instance, Obama is an associate of a Chicago-based branch of the Democratic Socialist<; of America, and was endorsed by the group while running for the Illinois state Senate in 1996. Moreover, he campaigned for self-described socialist Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who won the seat in 2006. 
Sadly, most of the public had to wait for Joe the Plumber before reali71ng Obama's socialist tendencies. And still they dismiss attacks as "name-calling" and "fear-mon­gering," then accuse his opponents of "trafficking in Joe-McCarthy-like smears." 
Judging by his actual statement, howev­er, it becomes obvious why these attacks are justified: 
"It's not that I want to punish your suc­cess. Ijust want to make sure that every­body who is behind you, that they've got a chance for success too. My attitude is that if the economy's good for folks from the bottom up, it's gonna be good for every­body ... I think when you spread the wealth around, it's good for everybody." 
Yet to his most loyal supporters, even Obama's "spread the wealth around" com­ment is not enough to convince them of his socialist leanings. Indeed, Webster's Dictionary defmes socialism as "any of various economic and political theories advocating collective or governmental ownership and administration of the means of production and distribution of goods." While there is no specific mention of wealth redistribution in this definition, it is an established fact that socialists advocate the creation of an egalitarian society in which wealth is distributed more evenly among the people. According to his response, Obama favors a similar goal. 
To some, this might not sound so bad. Why shouldn't the Paris Hiltons of the country, who have more money than ean possibly be spent, be forced to give some to the people who have nothing? 
The problem with tl1is sentiment is that it violates one of the founding principles upon which our nation was built. According to English philosopher John Locke, whose words inspired Thomas Jefferson's avowal of the inalienable rights to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happi­ness" in the Declaration of Independence, states, "government has no other end than the preservation of property." lienee, gov­ernment does not exist to see to i1 that all people end up equal, but to protect what people have rightfully aequirod as theirs. 
Allow me to use an example to illustrate the injustice of redistributive practices. Suppose you are taking a moderately dilli­cult class for whieh you have worked hard and managed to earn an A by midterm, while some other student'> have slacked otr and are receiving lower grades. Your professor, who feels sorry for the studenl'i who haven't performed so well, decides to take everyone's grades and averag£~ them out, then redistribute them so that every­one receives the same grade. Now you have a B-. While the studenl'> whose grades improved might be happy, you would dearly be upset. 
Moreover, you and the other students who received higher grades would proba­bly decide that the class isn't worth the effort and refuse to do any more work, hoping that the rest of the elass will pick up the slack. As a rnsult, the average grade by the end of the semester falls sub­stantially. Thus not only does redistribu­tion hurt those who are productive, it also results in an overall decrease in productiv­ity. 
Additionally, one must take into consid­eration where Obama draws the line between those who are not making enough and those who are making too much. The number he has chosen is $250,000. While this might seem like a substantial amount of wealth in some regions of the country, for those Americans who live in areas where the cost of living is very high, $250,000 a year is next to nothing. 
To be clear, I am not using the socialist label to scare anyone; I'm simply stating what I believe to be true based on the evi­dence presented. Americans have the right to know who they are really electing to oflice, and learning the life story of Joe the Plumber is not going to help them make informed deeisions at the voting booth. If you like socialism, then by all means vote for Baraek the Socialist. But for the rest of you, I would recommend reconsidering your faith in the vague yet seemingly reassuring promises of "change." 
Lnristie Pesavento is a junior Political Science major. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsen,er. 
Qurstions "?;arding Obs~rva policies sbottld be dirrcttd to Editor in G'hitfChris Hine. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports 
Jnnn Mntz Daniel Murphy Who would you rather spend a nightJohn Tierney Gregory Arbogast 
on the town with? 
Emma Driscoll Douglas Farmer Graf>hics Scene 

John McCain "If men could only know each other. 
Mary Jessn Analise Lipani 

Barack Obama they would neither idolize nor hate. " 
Viewpoint Joe Biden 

Lauren Elbert Hubbard 
Mr. Sarah Palin authorBrauweiler 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
( 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 28, 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
For clarification 

I am pro-choice. I think women, and dence that any crisis pregnancy center all human persons for that matter, is concomitantly referred to as a should have the right to the freedom to women's care center. This is because it make their own decisions. However, in is generally recognized by most pro-life the years I have been actively involved people that, before any baby-saving can in pro-life work, never have I encoun­occur, the life and well-being of the tered or heard of a woman who 'want­pregnant woman must be saved frrst. ed' or 'chose' to have an abortion, The full and healthy life of her unborn rather she always has said, "I have no child is dependent upon the full and other choice." I believe the late Pope healthy life of the pregnant woman so John Paul II expressed it best when he that she can fully exercise her rights. said, "Free will is not having the free­The humanitarian, Mother Teresa, dom to do as we wish, but having the once said of abortion, "It is a poverty to freedom to do what we ought." decide that a child must die so that you 
A pregnant woman ought to be able to may live as you choose." In this sense, give birth to her unborn child. A preg­"abortion is a terrible predicament to nant woman who finds herself in a posi­experience" (Schwartz, Oct. 13). Just as tion in which abortion seems the only poverty is a risk to the rights of an indi­answer (whether it be for reasons of vidual to choose to live a full and health, economics, sociocultural, aca­healthy life, a pregnant woman placed demics, familial, etcetera) is not being in a position to seek an abortion feels afforded the right to choose, she is being that she does not have the right to denied the right to exercise her free will choose to be able to give birth to her to act as she ought. For one to claim to unborn child, a true poverty. For these be "pro-choice" in the capacity of being reasons, Right to Life included two signs "pro-the-woman 's-choice-to-have-an­declaring, "Women deserve better than abortion-if-she-chooses-to" (Lindsay abortion," and a four-foot tall cross Schwartz, Viewpoint, Oct. 13) is to be memorializing the 50 million women "pro-abortion." Being in favor of the who have been hurt by abortion, in the availability and accessibility of abortion United States alone, in their South Quad is to be pro-abortion. Cemetery of the Innocents last Tuesday 
Let us avoid language technicalities and Wednesday. Like Ms. Schwartz, I, and look at the stark reality. To be pro­too, hope that I will never be in a situa­life (anti-abortion) is to be pro-woman tion where abortion is a choice I would and to be truly "pro-choice." To assume have to make. Because, then, it would that the pro-life mission is "to get the not be a choice message out to ... respect the life of an unborn [child]" (Schwartz, Oct. 13) is to Mary K. Daly overlook, perhaps deliberately, a signifi­junior cant portion of the mission and work of Welsh Family any pro-life association. It is no coinci-Ocr.l3 
Non-partisan? 

The Observer article on Tuesday, Oct. higher standard. 14 covering the "Pizza. Pop, and Politics­With respect to the upcoming election, Morality and Social Issues" event brings Obama is described as a supporter of Roe to light an appallingly narrow definition v. Wade without considering that uphold­of life issues. The fact that the "night ing the reproductive rights of women focused almost entirely on the abortion includes supporting a woman's right to issue" demonstrates a lack of understand­have a baby. Many argue that Obama's ing of the holistic nature of Catholic social social policies will reduce the need for teaching. While Professor Mary Keys abortion, as paternity and maternity brings up the strong point that "there is leave and closing the wage gap between no common good if an entire class of men and women will make having chil­human beings is denied protection by the dren more feasible for all families, and law," this quote could just as easily will especially aid women in financially describe the Immokalee tomato pickers precarious situations who may otherwise who work under atrocious conditions in turn to abortion. As a supposed nonparti­Florida or the 50,000 women and chil­san event, this Pizza, Pop, and Politics dis­dren trafficked as sex slaves around the cussion was skewed toward one particu­world as it does fetuses. lar group's political agenda. The larger 
Parkinson, an Indiana Right to Life issues of morality and social justice were supporter, may want to acquaint himself ignored, as a fair discussion would with the Inquisition, the Crusades, the encompass poverty, immigration, discrim­slave trade, and the hegemonic domina­ination, and the uninsured as well as tion of colonialism before asserting that other vulnerable groups. We urge NO the "primary purpose of politics was to Votes to live up to its declaration of non­seek that which was just" throughout the partisanship and host an event which history of western civilization. Also, covers morality and social issues in their Parkinson's limiting description of materi­entirety. alism as all politics boiling down to eco­nomics falls far short of materialism's Mary R. DeAgostino concern for real individuals, their activi­semor ties, and the material conditions under Lewis which they live. With an abundance of Sarah Lyons highly qualified academics at this senior University, NO Votes has the responsibility off campus and the resources to hold their events to a Oct. 15 
Counter for Schvvartz 
I'd like to respond to Lindsay Schwartz's mental right to life of every human being Jetter to the editor by identifying and from conception until natural death. The countering some points she made in the pro-choice viewpoint does not. It rests on letter. a conditional right to life, by which the 
1. 
"If anyone really cared to dissect the right to life of the child is determined by issue ..." This statement insults all those the mother, and the "fullness" of her life is who have taken a lot of time, often much more valuable than the chance of life for of their lives, to really dissect the issue her child. They contradict. and defend their stances. 6. "Abortion is a tragedy for all parties 

2. 
"They'd see that the real issue at involved and not ideal." Abortion is a stake has nothing to do with abortion per moral evil, a grave infraction of the moral se." This issue revolves around abortion order; to say that it is not ideal is an and has everything to do with it. This is understatement. not a matter concerning a woman's right 7. "What about the right of would-be to choose to vote. It is a matter concern­mothers to live that same full, healthy ing the so-called right to choose abortion. life?" What idea do we have of mother­If one thinks abortion is a grave evil, he hood if one of the "rights" is to choose to could not lovingly condone the choice of a have her child killed? I think most of us fellow human being to partake in that are glad that our mothers didn't view action. their vocation in this way. 

3. 
"Whether a woman has the right to 8. "While it is a regrettable situation ..." have domain over her own body ..." Her This terminology once again trivializes own body is the vessel for the small one the gravity of the situation. A mother's inside of her. There are two distinct bod­choosing the death of her child is more ies, two human beings. And we cannot than just a regrettable situation. It is an forget who gave her that body, so where evil, disordered, unloving action. And how does she derive the right to destroy that cruel are we that we'd want to allow gift and that of her child? women to enter into such situations? So, 

4. 
"The pro-choice viewpoint dictates if one cares to dissect the issue, he'd that it's her right, not the government's." uncover all that's burled beneath the term It's a fairly shocking belief that any one pro-choice, from its basic denial of rights individual has the right to choose death to the unborn, to its disregard for the for another innocent human being. It's a good of fellow human beings .. To answer more acceptable and logical belief that the question, we all have a right to life the government has the right, the duty, to from our conception to our natural death, protect the right to life of its citizens. The and the sooner we realize that the better. pro-choice viewpoint upholds that first belief and rejects the second. Laura Lindsley 

5. 
"Pro-life and pro-choice viewpoints sophomore don't necessarily contradict each other." McGlinn The pro-life viewpoint rests on the funda-Ocr. 13 


Abortion and :mutilation 
I'm writing in response to the arti­Considered in this way, abortion is cle, "Who has the 'Right to Life'?" comparable to a woman cutting off First of all, the central issue is her own arm. In most cases, the risk whether or not a fetus is a living per­of abortion outweighs the benefit and son. Abortionists have decided that a normal birth is the safer option. It the fetus is not a child and, conse­has been shown in studies that women quently, can be taken care of by what­who have had an abortion suffer from ever means necessary. To say that the double the risk of breast cancer, more issue is about limiting women's rights than double the risk of cervical, ovari­is missing the issue of controversy an, and liver cancer, cervical lacera­entirely. But let's just suppose -for tions, and possibly death (abortion the sake of argument-that it is carries all the risks of major surgery). about women's rights. We won't even Even if the abortion goes smoothly, consider the fetus a living person. the mother may eventually feel like Women should have rights. Voting, the having children later on in life. Due to ability to own property, equality of the abortion, problems arise such as pay, availability of education to placenta previa (a life-threatening women-all good stuff. Women's condition for mother and child), labor rights, however, are not all-encom­complications, ectopic pregnancies, passing; they can't do everything that and the list goes on. Also, many they would like. women who've had an abortion suffer 
This includes everything a woman from a psychological disorder that would like to do to her body. For resembles Post-Traumatic Stress example, we would say it would be Disorder. Don't believe me? Google reasonable for a woman to pierce her "effects of abortion" and see. A com­ears. It would not be reasonable, how­parison of abortion and normal birth ever, for a woman to cut her own arm shows that birth presents less of a off. (If you disagree with that state­physical and mental health risk to the ment, stop reading. There is no way women. Therefore, birth is the neces­we'll be able to understand each sary alternative to abortion. other.) Why is cutting an arm off unreasonable? It presents too much of Jordan Bergmann a risk to the person's life and, if the sophomore person were to survive, would pose Keough significant problems in the future. Oct. 13 
Hopefully, choice is still an option 
In response to Lindsay Schwartz's letter ("Who has the 'Right to Life"'), I wish to declare my hope that I never have to choose whether or not to kill my lifestyle-cramping son or daughter. If. however, "that day ever comes, my hope is that the government will still allow me to make my choice." 
Jo:seph McCrary 
JUniOr 
Carroll Oct. 13 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 

The plot is incredibly 
that act entails. room where the Coincidentally, you hackneyed, and trap has been might feel like puk­already triggered,
impossible to 
ing after seeing this the group ventures
understand for 
marathon of stereo­to their deaths in types and pointless anyone who has not the adjoining violence. Hopefully, seen the previous rooms. They do this it will be forgotten multiple times. No
four installments. 
by all, though the one alive would 
By RYAN RAFFIN 
Scene Writer 
Provocative. Original. Well­acted. These are all words that could rightly be used to describe tlw brilliant 1995 thriller "Sn7en." None of those could be applied to 2004's "Saw," a shame­less rip-ofT of "Se7en," minus all subtlety. 
Unfortunately, the annual sequels got progressively worse, culminating in the utterly atro­cious, recently released fifth entry, "Saw 5." 
Make no mistake; this is one of the worst movies of all time. It's not comically bad -it's insulting­ly bad. Watching it is akin to see­ing a video of someone vomiting for lJO minutes, minus the sincerity still appears in flashbacks. Why'? Most likely, to make retroactive additions to past events in the series, thus stretching out the plot and allowing a maximum amount of sequels. Plotlines are left dan­gling, presumably to be resolved in the subsequent sixth, seventh, or even eighth editions. 
Who will bring Jigsaw's succes­sor to justice'? What was in the box left for Jigsaw's widow'? Or more importantly -who cares, and to what institution can we commit them'? 
The cliches -sorry, characters -often make completely nonsen­sical decisions. This is by far the most infuriating thing about the film, though singling out that fea­ture is like picking your favorite kind of car crash. For example, rather than wait to be rescued in a safe 
standards for terri­ble f1lmmaking have been raised so high that such bliss seems unlikely. 
"lligh School Musical" seems like "Casablanca" next to this. 
Nothing about this movie is good, unless it is compared to, say, contracting terminal cancer. The cinematography, which has been gimmicky and cheap throughout the series, has regressed to the point that anyone with even thfl slightflst knowledge of lilmmaking could do better. The screenwriters didn't even bother to makfl compelling characters, and the acting ref'lects such paper-thin characterizations. 
"Vengeful police officer." "Hich­kid drug addict." "Sarcastic jour­nalist." "Criminal mastermind." Those are complete descriptions of four characters in the film. 
The plot is incredibly hack­neyed. and impossible to under­stand for anyone who has not seen the previous four instal­ments. Half the movie takes the form of flashbacks, and it becomes nearly impossible to chronologically order the events depicted. Main character Jigsaw died at the end of "Saw 3, "but 
SawV 
Director: David Hackl Starring: Tobin Bell, Costas Mandylor and Scott Patterson 
make the decisions these people do. 
The only way this movie could have ended on a satisfying note would be if everyone in it died. The characters are that un­appealing. 
Unfortunately, this does not happen, as the producers need to put out "Saw 6" next October, because they don't have enough money already. This film is not art; it is tripe that somehow man­ages to undershoot the ever-plum­meting lowest common denomina­tor. If violent, artfully produced film is what you want, go see "Taxi Driver," go see "No Country for Old Men," go see anything but "Saw." 
If you had the misfortune to see "Saw 5," you almost certainly felt stupider after viewing it. If you enjoyed it, you have taste so hor­rendous that your intelligence should be questioned. 
Do not see this movie. Do not make the mistake of humoring a friend and accompanying them to see it. Smack anyone who sug­gests seeing it. You will never get the hour and a half you spend viewing it back. You will never get your ticket price back. 
A closing note: Scene only viewed this movie because of a friend who inexplicably enjoys the entire series. Unfortunately, the lowest score Scene can give is half a shamrock out of four, which is far more than "Saw 5" deserves. This film is an abortion. 
Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 28, 2008 
By JAMES DuBRAY 
Scene Wrirer 

OAR's a band that's ripe ff critical bashing. 
With a fan hasP akin to th< of Dave Matthews Band, hipstf music magazine writers won give a fair review to a grou loved by frat boys and pseud hippies. Foreseeing this conflil of interest, reputable outle1 such as "Pitchfork," "Spin" an "Paste" have yet to review a 
O.A.R. album, studio or live. 
What these critics fail t understand is that O.A.f gained a f'ollowing by doin things the right way. They bui their fan base on sweat an beer, touring nonstop to an place in the country where a audience would listen. lnstea of relying on concocted adveJ tising plans, the college buddi< let their music spread throug word of mouth and sharing ( live tapes. 
Acknowledging that mu isn't a commodity like a car a retirnment plan, the worked to connect with listeners on every level. assumed that this relationsh was based on the band's love music and the sometime beautiful culture that su rounds it. 
If their recent album prov· any indication, O.A.H. ei never did or no longer does music. "All Sides," rele earlier this year on the Everfine Hecords, b annoys and ultimatBly d points. 
Maybe it's that they've be on the road too long, if opening track "This Tow defines the album. This a anthem crashes to the as the group abandons th reggae influenced jam rock a hookless plea to be more U2. Maybe the issue is le singer Mark Hoberge's Oh 
All ides 

O.A.R. Released by: Atlantic/W 


NSIDER 
OTHE 

Tuesday, October 28, 2008 BSERVER Notre Dame 33, Washington 7 
Road Runners 
Notre Dame racks up 252 rushing yards en route to its first away victory 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Ediwr 
On Notre Dame's third play from scrimmage, freshman Michael Floyd took a screen pass 51 yards to the endzone for an early 7-0 lead. 
That would be all the points the Irish would need. 
They reeled off another 26 straight points before Washington managed to punch in a meaningless touchdown late in the fourth quarter to bring the final score to 33-7 at Husky Stadium Saturday night. 
"I was really concerned and wanted to make sure we didn't come out flat in the game, so I put it on the coaches too to be aggressive in play calls early," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. 
Notre Dame (5-2) held the Huskies (0-7) to 124 yards of total offense -69 of which came on the touchdown drive after most of the defensive starters were taken out of the game. That drive took away Notre Dame's chance for its first shutout since a 42-0 win over Rutgers on Nov. 23, 2002. 
"You always want a shutout, but at the end of the day it's a good time to get some other guys in and get some experi­ence," sophomore linebacker Harrison Smith said. 
Smith had five tackles including two sacks for a com­bined loss of 21 yards. He also picked up 35 rushing yards on his second successful fake punt of the season. 
The Irish defense finished the game with four sacks and a handful of hurries that kept Huskies quarterback Ronnie much action as he did. pass defense efficiency. think that had anything to do but was perfect against Fouch on his toes all game. "You never know going in, The sophomore signal caller with it," he said. Washington. He connected 
"Until that last drive, we go into different modes and got off to a hot start connect­The Irish scored touchdowns from 28 yards out to start the Washington didn't even cross whatever mode we go into, if I ing with Floyd for two big on their first two possessions second quarter and again from midfield," Weis said. "That happen to be in it, I just try to plays, but ended of the game. 42 yards in the third. was as good of defense as we get out there and do the best I the half with a Floyd's long run "Every kick for me is a new have played in quite some can," he said. completion rate was followed by season so right now I'm 0-for­time." After jumping out to a com­under 50 per-a 21-yard end 0 in my mind," Walker said. 
Sophomore running back manding 17-0 lead at the half, cent and an around from Walker was also 3-for-3 one
"We got a victory and

James Aldridge led the way Weis and the Irish settled into interception. Golden Tate to extra points before he was offensively for Notre Dame a running mode with only "I got out of that's all I really care stretch the lead taken out of the game to give with 86 yards and his first seven pass attempts in the rhythm in the to 14. Notre newly-added walk on David
about." 

career multiple touchdown entire second half. second quarter Dame faked the Ruffer some experience in the game. Aldridge started the Armando Allen led the team and I just had to end around on fourth quarter.
Jimmy Clausen 

third quarter by pounding the in carries with 15 for 62 yards get my timing the play before Ruffer, a sophomore, joined ball in from four yards out on and freshman Jonas Gray back and I got Irish quarterback setting up a the team after the North the team's first drive of the came off the bench in the back into in the huge hole for Carolina game and hit the half then added a second score fourth quarter and picked up third quarter," Tate up the upright in his collegiate debut. with another hard run to start 62 of his own yards with his Clausen said. middle. "I just told him to go out and the fourth quarter. first touches of his career. "We got a victo-Tate, who was get the next one," Walker said. 
"It felt good. I just try to get Irish quarterback Jimmy ry and that's all I really care originially recruited as a run­Notre Dame returns home in when I can and like I always Clausen had a relatively light about." ning back, said he was happy next Saturday to take on the say I'm happy just filling my work load going 14-for-26 for Clausen said that the extra to get a chance to carry the Pittsburgh Panthers and try to role," he said. 206 yards passing. Clausen's week without playing did not ball. move to a perfect 5-0 on its 
Aldridge, who ran the ball 13 numbers were surprisingly low have any negative effects on Notre Dame also added two own turf. times and had a catch, said the considering the fact that his timing. field goals from sophomore he didn't know going into the Washington entered the game "We came out gun-slinging Brandon Walker. Walker was Contact Dan Murphy at game that he would see as ranked 119th in the country in in the first quarter so I don't 2-for-8 coming into the game dmurphy6@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
James Aldridge Notre Dame running back  124  Michael Floyd's 51-yard touchdown reception  "That was as good ofdefense as we have played in quite some time. "  
Aldridge powered his way to 86 yards rushing and two touchdownns  Total yards ofoffense for Washington in the game. The lowest total for any Irish  Clausen and Floyd connected on the third play ofthe game and set  Charlie Weis Irish coach  
to lead the Irish.  opponent this year.  the pace for a dominant win.  

.:nqSli.:J tfJ-Vl:::. _ .. 1 =IGd::R 1 ,-:. ·. 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 28, 2008 
report card 
C+ 
quarterbacks: Clausen finish(1d 14-for­26 with a touchdown and an intereep­tion. After a quick start he was out of 
syne with his receivers for most of the gamH. 
A 
running backs: The Irish rwming backs put 
up over 200 yards, inducting a earner 
high X6 fhnn 1\ldrictw~. Freshman Jonas 
(;ray also played well in his debut. 
receivers: Floyd added another 1 00-yard 8+ game. but tho passing game played second fiddiP to the hrround attack against the overmatched lluskies. 
offensive line: Clausen was sacked twice by a team that had three total 
sacks in their first six games. lie was also hurried several times, but the run blocking opened plenty of holes. 
A defensive line: Johnson and Hiehardson split a sack and Foueh had a man in his face for most of the game. 
A 
linebackers: Mr. and Mr. Smith both 
picknd up sad<s-llarrL<>on had two. 
They also held Washington to 23 total yard<> on the ground. 
8+ 
defensive backs: The numbers look impressive, but I Iusky receivers dropped several open p<L<>ses. A better team could 
have exploited those plays. 
A-
special teams: Walker hit two field goals mul Smith's fake punt went for 35 yard<>. Hulli1r's mL<>sed extra point and Jonas 
c;ary's bobble on the kick return were 
the only problmns tllis week. 
A 
coaching: After an extra week to think about a tough loss to North Carolina, Weis had his team well-prepared. The game 
wa<> never in doubt and the Irish won with da'iS. 
3.56 
overall: The Irish were clearly the better team on Saturday, but them wa<> still room lor improvemrmt. 
adding up the nun1bers 
Punts for Notre Dame's Eric Maust in Saturday's game. The first time Maust has 
0 
been idle for an entire game. 
54 
Minutes before Washington's offense crossed the 50-yard line. Their only trip into Irish territo­ry resulted in a touchdown. 
Average yards per play for Washington. The Huskies picked up 
2.6
124 total yards in the game. 
5 
Touchdowns so far this season for freshman Michael Floyd. The most ever for a Notre 
Dame freshman receiver. 
More rushing yards than passing yard for the 45 Irish. The first time all-season they ground game has outgalned the air attack. 
6 
Times the Irish went for it on fourth down 
Including twice at 4th & 19. They were success­ful twice. 
Consecutive successful extra point attempts 
43 
for Brandon Walker. Astreak that dates back to last year's 33-19 loss to Purdue. 
The average starting position for Notre46 Dame's offense during the second quarter. 


No disrespect to Yin Diesel, but Notre Dame must take issue with his words of wisdom. 
"It doesn't matter if you win by an inch or a mile," he says in 'The Fast and the 
Furious.' "Winning's win­ning." 
Sort of. 
In Notre Dame's case, winning isn't exactly win­ning. At least not over win­

Bill Brink
less Washington, whose terrible Sports Editor season got no better Saturday. Notre Dame needs to heed the reverse of what Diesel intended: winning by a mile doesn't mean you're miles ahead of your oppo­nent. Nor will you be miles ahead of future opponents. 
Washington had three first downs in the first half. At halftime, Huskies quarterback Ronnie Fouch had completed just one of his nine passes for five yards. Not to put the passing game's struggles all on him, let's discuss his receivers, who dropped passes that hit them in the hands. The defense, which was in the bottom 10 in the nation in rush yardage entering the game, let Notre Dame run at will. Washington rushed for only 26 yards. Notre Dame 
sacked Fouch four ''To be good you have to 
times. The list know you're good. That's goes on. 
not arrogant or cocky,
Beware taking 
these facts to sig­you just have to know nify a great per­that." formance by the Irish. Rather, they 
Harrison Smith 
displayed the true 
Irish linebacker
woes that have 
befallen the Huskies this sea­son. 
The Irish can still use this game as a confidence boost, but they have to exercise caution in the process. The game has two meanings, one in the short Like Aldridge said, it comes down run and one in the long run. When to focusing on the team's own play taken together, the experience can and how that translates into the create optimism and momentum. If coming weeks. Irish receiver not, a false sense of security and Golden Tate said mistakes need cockiness could envelop the team correcting despite the final score. 

and impede its  "I don't think  
progress.  Washington was  
The really posi­tive sign? The  "Anytime you can win  terrible," Tate said. "I feel like we  
players know the difference. "The only thing we can control is  the game with a score like that you gain confi­dence but at the same  made some mis­takes." Both Aldridge and linebacker  
how we play," Irish running back James Aldridge  time you don't want to have arrogance. "  Harrison Smith said the perform­ance helps drive  
said. "If everybody focuses on the task  Golden Tate  the team from week to week.  
they have in front  Irish receiver  Aldridge spoke of a  

of them they'll be successful." 

That's where the short-term benefits will come into play. The Irish must focus on their performance. Certainly, the 252 yards the Irish gained on the ground will boost their confidence in the running game. Aldridge's 84 yards and two touchdowns must have pleased him. Quarterback Jimmy Clausen struggled com­pared to his recent performances but showed improvement in suc­cessfully evading the pass rush to keep plays alive and prevent sacks. 
The defense stifled both the run and the pass. Before Washington's 
final drive against Notre Dame's backups, Fouch had passed for 23 yards in the game. Washington pos­sessed the ball 10 times in the game. It scored on its final drive -but punted at the end of the first nine. 
Short-term prog­nosis: the Irish played great. Long­term prognosis: the Irish played great against a terrible team and, should 
they get too full of themselves, will set themselves up for failure in the future. 
"flow," while Smith 
called it a momen­

tum, but the idea was the same: It doesn't matter 
who they beat. The win alone, and 
the quality of play, create all the 
confidenee the team needs. With 
confidence, however, can come arrogance, but Notre Dame knows to leave arrogance alone. 
"Anytime you can win the game with a score like that you gain con­tidenee but at the same time you don't want to have arroganee," Tate said. "Thinking we're good, we're good, whatever we do we're going to win." 
The mantra that will bring the most suecess to the Irish in the rest of the season mirrors Tate's train of thought. Focus on what you do. Forget about who you play. Don't get complacent based on the tina! score. Remember that every oppo­nent won't roll over so easily. 
But don't completely write the win off to the quality of competi­tion either. Smith summed up this principle best. 
"To be good you have to know you're good," Smith said. "That's not arrogant or cocky, you just have to know that." 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu. 
Tuesday, October 28, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Walker looks sharp on the road 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Edi ror 
Coming in to Saturday's game against the Huskies Irish placekicker Brandon Walker had hit two field goals in six games. Walker doubled that number on a windy night in Seattle that saw a near-perfect performance from the entire special teams unit. 
Walker's struggles -six misses in six games including his first four attempts of the season -have been well docu­mented and discussed frequently among the Irish faithful. Walker seems to have found his stride for the moment with three consecutive successful attempts, two of which coming from more than 40 yards away. 
"You find one small thing in your form and you change it ... and the ball will fly off pretty well," Walker said. 
The sophomore kicker was highly recruited out of high school and began his career by hitting four of his first five collegiate attempts. After that Walker hit a slump making only three of his next 14 tries leading up to the North Carolina game. 
Then Walker hit a 42-yarder to start the second quarter against the Tar Heels. 
"I don't know if it was a confidence boost, I think overall it probably gave my team and the coaches more confi­dence than it gave me," Walker said. "Every kick is a new kick." 
Walker said he found a glitch in his mechanics while watching film, and he was able to correct it. 
Earlier this week, Irish coach Charlie Weis added some insurance to his ros­ter in sophomore David Ruffer. Up until that time Ruffer was kicking field goals for Siegfried Hall in the interhall foot­ball league. 
"I think having a little competition is 

always a good thing, [Walker] was pounding the ball pretty good out there today," Weis said. 
Walker said that Ruffer's presence was­n't really a big factor in his performance against Washington. 
"A lot of people would say it would push me to be a lot better. but to be honest if I had lost my job or if I do lose it down the road that just 
means a better guy won the job," he said. 
Ruffer got his chance in the spotlight when Notre Dame scored a late touch­down, but rang the extra point attempt off the right upright. 
"He definitely showed a few first-
game jitters," Weis said. 
Walker siad that he talked to his counterpart following the kick and told him to keep his head up. 
"I just told him to go out there and 
"You find one small thing in your form and change it ... and the ball will fly offpretty well." 
Brandon Walker Irish kicker 
get the next one," he said. 
Walker successfully converted the first three extra points of the game to keep a perfect 24-for­24 tally on the season. 
Ruffer's slip up was one of the very few things that went wrong for the Irish on special teams in Washington. The kickoff team held the Huskies to less than 16 yard per return pin­
ning them inside the 25 yard line on five of the seven kickoffs. Special teams standout Mike Anello had another big hit on Notre Dame's second kick of the day. 
"I think our kick coverage teams have been pretty solid all year. Overall, I think the special teams had a good game," Weis said. 
The punt team only saw the field once, but made a big impact when they did. Sophomore Harrison Smith cut off the snap and ran the ball 35 yards before he was dragged down by the Huskies punt returner. It was the sec­ond successful fake punt for the Irish this season, the first came three weeks ago at home against Stanford. 
"It's a look based on what other peo­ple line up in and when you see it you get pretty excited," Smith said. "I knew it was gunna go for some yardage right when I touched the ball." 
That drive eventually led to Walker's 42-yard kick that gave Notre Dame a very comfortable 27-0 lead with under five minutes to go in the third quarter. 
Weis did not address the situation specifically after the game, but it seems that at least for the moment Walker has secured his job as the Irish kicker. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
page 3 
•
scorirtg 

SUIIlffictry 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  14  3  10  6  33  
Washington  0  0  (I  7  7  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, Washington 0 
Jimmy Clausen 51-yard pass io Michael Floyd (Walker kick) with 12:35 rema,ining. Drive: 3 plays, 63 yards, 1:1Bi elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Washington 0 
Golden tate 21-yard touchdown run (Walker kick) with 7:48 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 70 yards, 2:43 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 17, Washington 0 
Brandon Walker 28-yard field goal with 11:10 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 15 yards, 1:12 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 24, Washington 0 
James Aldridge 4-yard touchdllwn run (Walker kick) with 12:55 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 61 yards, 1:57 elapsed 
Notre Dame 27, Washington 0 
Brandon Walker 42-yard field IJOal with 4:31 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 15 yards, 1:12 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 33, Washington 0 
James Aldridge 5-yard touchdown run(Ruffer failed kick) with 12:33 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 60 yards, 5:23 elapsed 
Notre Dame 33, Washington? 
Ronnie Fouch 6-yard pass to D'Andre Goodwin (Perkins kick) with 2:56 remaning. Drive: 10 plays, 69 yards, 3:17 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 
uw
ND 
124
459 

rushing yards 
uw
ND 
26
252 

passing yards 
uw
ND 
98
207 

return yards 
Crum named finalist for CLASS award 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
Senior linebacker Maurice Crum Jr. was named one of 10 finalists for the Lowe's Senior CLASS Award. CLASS, which stands for Celebrating Loyalty and Achievement for Staying in School, focuses on student-athletes who use their status to position to help their surroundings. 
Crum, a fifth-year season, graduated with a degree in Sociology last May and is currently enrolled in gradu­ate studies. He is serving his second year as Notre Dame's defensive captain. 
Robinson filling In 
Freshman guard Trevor Robinson, who usually spells right guard Chris Stewart, switched sides to fill in for left guard Eric Olsen after Olsen left the game because of an ankle injury. Olsen later returned to the game. 
"Olsen was fine," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "That ankle he rolled a few other times." 
Linebacker Brian Smith also left the game in the sec­ond half after a hard hit. Smith did not return to action but Weis said he was fine and was held out because the game was no longer in doubt. 
Rewriting the record books 
Michael Floyd's touchdown catch in the first quarter, his fifth on the season, set the freshman school record for most touchdown receptions. The 51-yard catch was also his longest of the season. 
Floyd, with 31 catches, is also one catch away from the freshman reception record. Duval Kamara had 
32 in 2007. Kamara also previously held the fresh­man touchdown record with four scores last season. 
"Everyone looks at [Floyd] and they say, I don't know how fast he is, but you throw a quick slant to him and see him slip past," Weis said. 
Getting in good position 
The Irish ran 30 of their 42 plays (71 percent) in the first half in Washington ter­ritory. Washington, con­versely, did not run one of its 2 6 first-half plays in Notre Dame territory. The Huskies did not cross midfield until there was 5:50 remaining. 
Career Day 
Running back James Aldridge set season-highs in carries (13), yards (84) and touchdowns (2). He now has three touchdowns this sea­son. 
Washington Ty's 

Former Notre Dame head coach lost for the second time in two tries to his old team. 
Willingham's Huskies lost to Notre Dame 36-17 in 2005, his first season in Washington. 
Weis said any rivalry that existed between the two coaches was taken care of in 2005. 
"I don't think anyone thought about it at all. That was put to rest last time," Weis siad. Staying perfect 
The Irish moved to 7-0 all time against Washington with Saturday's win. 
The two teams first met in 1948 when the No.2-ranked Irish won 46-0. Five of Notre Dame's seven wins have been by 20 points or more. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
uw
ND 
111
51 

time of possession  
ND  uw  
37:28  22:32  


Clausen Sharpley 
Aldridge  13·84 Dailey, T.  8·24  
Allen  15·62 Freeman  5·16  
Gray  9·62 Goodwin  2-14  
receiving  
Floyd Tate Parris  4·107 Goodwin 3-47 Bruns 3·19 Hawkins  7·47 1-21 1-12  

Herring 
w 
passing 
14·26 Fouch 11-25 1-2 
rushing 
tackling 
6 Foster 10 

Crum 6 JohnsCin, T. 9 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 28, 2008 

Taking care of business 


The lrio.;h ventured to the Great Northwest alter taking an extra week off to think about their heartbreaking loss to the Tar Heels. Heavily favored against the 
home temn Huskies, Notre Dame wasted no time in getting out to a lead. 
Fn~hman phenom Michael Floyd scooted down the sidelines for his fifth score 
thi'> year before most fans had settled into their seats. The Irish struck again on 
the very next drive when Golden Tate took a handoff 21 yard<; to the end zone 
and the rout was on. 
Notre Dame's stingy defimse took over from there. The lri'>h didn't allow Washin1,rton's struggling oflfm'ie into enemy territory until late in the final quarter and ma.intainnd a shutout until Washington's last drive of the game. Brandon Walker added two field goalo.; to help the eau.<;e, but the issue was never in doubt. Notre Dame picked up thnir first win on the road in 2008 in impressive fashion against a dearly ovnrmatched Wa'ihington team. 
-Dan Murphy 



Clockwise from top, James Aldridge carries a pair of Washington tacklers. Aldridge and Golden Tate celebrate an Irish touchdown. Sophomore Brian Smith breaks through the line and chases down Ronnie Fouch. Michael Floyd races down the sideline for his fifth career touchdown reception. Smith picks up one of Notre Dame's four sacks. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Tuesday, October 28, 2008 
page 13 
State edueation, if the lyrics l'rom "Something Coming Over" say something about what he learned in his four years. 
ll's just so darn insightful to hear metaphors like, "Used to watch this game from the side­lines/ Now its time to get on in and play." 
Maybe the problem is the group's lack of knowledge of roek and roll history. The Holling Stones already had a hit song ealled "Shattered." It was a real rock and roll song. And The Stones' tune had more guts than O.A.R.'s recent joke, even as Mick Jagger licked Ronnie Wood's lips during the band's memorable "SNL" rendition of the "Some Girls" single. 
Or maybe it's that the band is like Dylan in much of the 80s or U2 today, bored with nothing to say but too arrogant and pressured by record exeeutives to admit it. Either way, the plea to populate teenybopper pop radio is ofT-putting. Instead of making an album with the same exuberanee and yearning that populated their popular 2002 live recording "Any Time Now," the band went with a career ruiner. 
Someone noeds to tell the recently turned thirty-year olds that they're not in eollege any­more. 
Perhaps the saddest thing about O.A.H. is their eomplete laek or sineority or self-aware­ness -or both. In the album's liner notes, Hobt~rge talks of taking a cross-country road trip to reflect before making "All Sides." If' this road trip even happoncd, the only things that was going through the front man's head were dollar signs. The band populated their Los Angeles studio with record pro­ducer Matt Wallace. Much like O.A.R., Wallace moved from working in reputable territory with acts such as The Replacements to greener pas­tures with "poignant" groups like Maroon 5. 
Here's to hoping this record teaches the hand a lesson. Insincere, unoriginal people may be tho toast of the busi­ness world, but they don't belong in roek and roll. 
Contact James DuBray at jdubray@nd.edu 

about it." Jess Shaffer 
Once again, it seems that 
Assistant
Lindsay 
Scene Editor 
Lohan's wis· dom is far from infallible. 
Halloween is one ofmy boll~ days of the year. I mean,· who can complain about free candy and the opportunity to dress up? Unfortunately for us college stu­dents, age appropriate etiquette forces many of us to give up our trick-or-treating ways. With our opportunities for free goodies dwindling, it is only logical that we instead use costumes to throw ourselves into the Halloween festivities. With the endless possibilities of gn:lwxHJ.p dress-up, Friday's wardrobe choices promise to cover the range of good, bad, hilarious and alarming. 
As per the opening "Mean Girls" quotation, let's talk about girls' costume ehoices. You don't have to he Miss Cleo to predict the onslaught of scandalous out­fits in this weAkend's future. "Naughty" costume choices seem to be a collegiate Halloween sta­ple.And my guess isthatwe've all been guilty of donning shock­ing apparel at one point or anoth­er. Or, at least most of us can admit to the temptation oftaking a break from our normally dassy attire. The mix of tenacity and bravery it takes to pull off that ultra-short, ultra-skimpy costume can be undeniably intoxicating. 
But, honestly, what would Stacy and Clinton ofTLC's "WhatNot To Wear" fame say to your Catwoman outfit? Better yet, whatwoQld your <J.ad sa,;yto the scantily clad pirate. wardrobe option? 
And then, the weather is always a concern. Considering last night's irrst snowfall, that micro-mini skirt might not be the most prudent choice for an off­campus trek. So before you choose to don your most scandal­icous outfit, be forewarned that your health (unfortunate colds, etc.) and your rep might take a hit. Remember: Lindsay Lohan isn't always right, and Halloween isn't always an excuse for sala­ciousness. 

Girls are not the only Halloween revelers that need a reality check. Most boys seem to exist on opposite ends ofthe spectrum as far as Halloween revelry is eoncerned. They seem to either go all out, or to express a stereotypical apathy. 
To the former, good for you. To the latter, muster up some enthu­siasm. Stop leaving all the dress­ing up to the girls. Half~hearted costumes shouldn't cut it. For example, wearing all black and being a body guard is lame. Similarly, wearing ND apparel and being a fan is equally pathet­
ic. Unless you are dressing up as a Halloween Scrooge, half-heart­ed and nonexistent costumes won't suffice. Additionally pimps and gangsters are equally unin­teresting. For once, please shy away from boring, stereotypical, and lackluster outfits. 
With this aforementioned list of concerns and complaints, per· haps some costume suggestions are in order. For boys, you can't go wrong by dressing up as a kissing booth, an easy and adorable option. Knights in shin­ing armor won't fail to sweep the girls off their feet. And for the extra committed, there's always full on body suits, like a gorilla or a chicken. 
Girls. don't be afraid to opt for eute over scandalous. Creativity is always appreciated. Maybe ditch the overused costume ideas, and come up with something original. Or add twists to common ideas. Ensemble costumes, like the Spice Girls or easts ofmovies, are delightful and fun ways to coordinate. 
Ultimately, it takes all types to contribute to Halloween's won­der. It takes a mix of racy appar­el, eute classics, and creative geniuses to bring out every side of the holiday. And with four days until the big day, there is plenty of time for students· to get their Halloween spirit into full gear. But with the combination of sugar highs, fright fests and costume creativity, there's not much to complain about this fall tradition. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd. edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Twesday, October 28, 2008 
NHL 

Selanne's third-period goal gives Ducks win 
Spezza notches two goals and assist to help Senators snap four-game losing streak, hand Sabres first regulation loss 
back to .500," coach Randy
Associatc:d Press 
Carlyle said after his team 
COLUMBUS, Ohio-Things evened its record at 5-5-0. weren't going well for the "After a rough start, now Anaheim Ducks. so they hit we're at .500.... We're just the road to find themselves. going to savor this for about 
Teemu Selanne scored a 10 minutes." power-play goal with 3:55 J can-Sebastian Giguere left, helping the Anaheim had 30 saves for Anaheim: Ducks beat the Columbus "We've got too much talent Blue Jackets 3-2 on Monday and character in this dress­night. The victory capped a ing room," Giguere said. string of four straight road "Guys fought hard to get wins in seven nights, three their game back together." of them one-goal games. Jiri Novotny and Derrick 
''I'm very happy about the Brassard gave the Blue road trip," Selanne said. Jackets a 2-1 lead through "Obviously when you win two periods before 10,494, four in a row you know the smallest NHL crowd ever you've done something good. at Nationwide Arena. This wasn't pretty tonight. "For us to win we had to We were grinding pretty play 60 minutes, full out, of much the whole game. But I great hockey and we played always think the last game of 50 minutes," Columbus a road trip is always the coaeh Ken Hitchcock said. toughest one because the "It's not good enough­food is in the plane and you've got to win games 2­
you'r~; about ready to go 1." home. The Ducks pulled even at 

Coq~y Perry and Hyan the 9:19 mark of the third Getzlaf each had a goal and when Steve Mantador's shot an assist for the Ducks, who from the right point was for only the second time in redirected by Perry for his the near post for the game­backhanded centering pass who have lost two straight, franchise history swept a second of the year. winner. to Brassard who buried the including a 2-1 shootout loss road trip of four games or Columbus goaltender Getzlaf needed just 1:17 to one-timer from the slot for to Colorado on Saturday. longer. After an 0-4-0 start, Fredrik Norrena stopped get the Ducks on the board. his third goal of the season. Buffalo, the top defensive the Ducks have won five of Franeois Beauchemin's shot, Columbus forward Michael Brassard, a rookie, has team in the league after their last six. but the rebound went right Peca tried to push the puck points in seven of his nine allowing just 1.6 goals per 
"There was a lot at stake to Selanne on the left side along the back wall but games. game coming in, was without 
for our hockey club to get and he beat Norrena inside Corey Perry defleeted it, with "I hope they are, like I am, defensemen Craig Hivet Chris Kunitz putting up a frustrated," Hiteheock said. (knee) and Ilenrik Tallinder shot that Norrena stopped. "To play this well and give it (lower leg laceration). The rebound, however, went away, I'd be frustrated." After Schubert scored his to Getzlaf who had an empty first of the season late in the net in front of him for his Senators 5, Sabres 2 first period while on the third of the year. Jason Spezza had two goals power play, Ottawa broke 
Shut out in his first six and an assist, and Alex Auld the game open with a three­games, Getzlaf now has goals made 25 saves in Ottawa's goal second period. in the last three. Kunitz and victory over the Buffalo Heatley made it 2-0 just 19 Perry both extended their Sabres on Monday night that seconds into the second on points streaks to four games snapped the Senators' four­the power play, wristing a with assists. game losing streak. shot from the slot past 
Anaheim was controlling The Sabres (6-1-2) came in Lalime. the action when it went on as the only Eastern Spezza scored 4:29 later, the power play shortly after Conference team without a lifting the puck over a the start-not much of an regulation loss. sprawled Lalime on a partial advantage for the Ducks, Dany Heatley had a goal breakaway, then inereased who were 0-fo-13 while los­and an assist, and Christoph Ottawa's lead to 4-0 late in ing their first four games. Schubert and Shean Donovan the second by banging home 
Late in the kill, Columbus also scored for the Senators a bouncing puck in the tied it when Andrew Murray (3-5-1), while Daniel crease. took a long pass behind the Alfredsson added two Donovan made it 5-0 near­defense and got off two shots assists. ly 6 minutes into the third that Giguere swept aside. Auld, playing in his third after re-directing Jesse Murray then continued straight game in relief of Winchester's pass in tight behind the net, took the puck injured starter Martin before MacArthur spoiled from Beauchemin and slid a Gerber, improved to 5-0-2 Auld's shutout bid with a centering pass to Novotny in lifetime against the Sabres. power-play goal with Ottawa the slot for a one-timer with Ottawa won for the eighth down t w·o men with 5 : 2 3 2 seconds left in the time in the last 13 games remaining in regulation. Anaheim power play. against the Sabres in Numminen capped the 
Just 37 seconds into the Buffalo. scoring on the power play second period, the Blue Clarke MacArthur and with 32 seconds to go. 
AP Jackets took a 2-1 lead. Teppo Numminen scored, Buffalo converted just two Buffalo winger Thomas Vanek shoots the puck on Ottawa goalie Alex From the back boards, and Patrick Lalime finished of its 10 power-play opportu­Auld during the Senators' S-2 win over the Sabres Monday. Jason Chimera flipped a with 23 saves for the Sabres, nities. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for comem without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 




Gorgeous Completely Rehabbed  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Two teachers ready to adopt new­ 
FoR SALE  House, 4 bedrooms, 3 full baths, washer dryer, dishwasher, new  TICKETS  PERSONAL  Do not go it alone. If you or some­ born and provide a wonderful life for him/her. Confidential. Expenses  
stainless steel appliances, 3 car  one you love needs confidential  paid. Stephenandliz@aol.com or  
CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO  garage, central air, beautiful light fix- support or assistance, please call  call us toll free  
NO. PLEASE CONTACT TED @  tures, deck and front porch. Marble  Wanted:  If you or someone you care about  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819  1-888-760-BABY  
574-233-6191 MSL#231736  entryway.  NO football tix for family.  has been sexually assaulted, visit  or Ann Firth at 574-631-2685. For  
http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap/  more information, visit our website  ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple  
All new. 2 miles to NO. Available  574-251-1570.  Spring Break 2009. Sell Trips, Earn  at:  looking to adopt a baby (babies),  
FoR RENT  immediately, fourth month free or flat screen TV installed.  VICTORY TICKETS  Cash and Go Free. Call for Group Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml  please call Marie and James (301)977-5069 or (866) 202-1424  
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,  PIN 5448.  
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10  $1180 per month.  Buy-Sell NO football tickets.  Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre,  FREE HAIRCUTS! Color 1/2 price  
SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS  Florida. Information/Reservations 1­ at SALON ROUGE, 620 W. Edison,  Question of the Day:  
AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER  Call Harold  www.victorytickets.com.  Mish. CALL 258-5080. Licensed  Which is the worse football team?  
PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR  800-648-4849 or  apprentice stylists only. Expires  -2008 Washington Huskies  
KRAMERHOUSES.COM  574-315-7781.  574-232-0964.  www.ststravel.com  11/15/08.  -2007 Notre Dame Fighting Irish  

OUND THE NATION 
Colv\PTLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVlCES

Tuesday, October 28, 2008 page 15 



APTop 25 College Football Poll 
team points previous 
1 Texas (65) 1,625 1 2 Alabama 1,542 2 3 Penn State 1,503 3 4 Oklahoma 1,361 4 5 Florida 1,337 5 6 Texas Tech 1,280 8 7 usc 1,234 6 

games to one. have let the Phillies win sheets they were done for
8 Georgia 1,212 9 Associated Press There has never been a with a game that was the night. By then, many
9 Oklahoma State 1,168 7 

PHILADELPHIA rain-shortened game in called after six innings. had fled their seats for
10 Utah 1,027 12 

Game 5 of the World Series history. Whenever "It's not a way to end a cover.
11 Boise State 946 13 

Series was suspended this one resumes, it will World Series," he said. "I The game began in light 
12 TCU 848 15 

because of rain in the pick up right where it left would not have allowed a rain, but Selig said MLB
13 Ohio State 834 10 

14 Missouri sixth inning Monday night off, with the Phils about to World Series to end this was optimistic it could get 
791 16 

with the Philadelphia bat in the bottom of the way." it in. Quickly, however,
15 LSU 649 11 

16 Florida Slate Phillies and Tampa Bay sixth. Tuesday was supposed the showers turned to a
558 24 

17 Brigham Young 553 18 Rays tied at 2 and the "The weather tomorrow to be a travel day, if nec­steady downpour and the 18 Ball Stale 542 20 field already a sloppy, is supposed to be worse," essary. Instead, the teams field became a quagmire. 19 Tulsa 527 22 soggy mess. said Bob DuPuy, MLB's will stay in Philadelphia By the middle innings, 20 Minnesota 438 25 "I can't tell you tonight chief operating officer. and then head back to the grounds crew was 21 North Carolina 228 Nr when we'll resume," com­Carlos Pena hit a tying, Tropicana Field if the running shuttles onto the 22 Michigan State 219 Nt missioner Bud Selig said. two-out single in the sixth Rays win. The delay, how­field, carrying bags of a 23 Oregon 188 NR "We'll stay here if we for the Rays, and the ever, forced the Rays to drying agent -baseball's 24 South Florida 100 14 have to celebrate umpires called it find a new hotel in the version of cat litter -to 
25 Maryland 

89 NR Thanksgiving here." moments later. By then, area. absorb the water. 
It might be a day or every ball and every pitch About 10 minutes after No luck. 
two, at least, before the had become an adventure the game was officially A puddle formed on 
Phillies get a chance to because of the miserable suspended, an announce­home plate and umpire 
wrap up their first cham­conditions. ment was made at Jeff Kellogg resorted to
USTFCCCA Division I 

pionship since 1980. If Pena had not tied it, Citizens Bank Park telling using a towel rather than Cross Country Rankings Philadelphia leads three Selig said he would not fans wrapped in plastic the usual whisk broom to 
Men's 
team 
1 Oregon (8) 
2 Stanford 
3 Okla State (4) 
4 Portland 
5 Alabama 
6 Wisconsin 
7 lona 
8 Northern Arizona 
9 Michigan 
10 Georgetown 
Women's 
IN BRIEF 

team Washington (12) 1 McAllister among those 18. Hasselbeck to miss 
Oregon 2 under investigation Johnson char!!ed with fourth consecutive game
Florida State 3 assault, will nor play

NEW YORK -Six to eight players RENTON, Wash.-The Seahawks' 
Princeton 4 KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Larry
are under investigation by the NFL first win in five weeks over the dys­
West Virginia 5 Johnson, already facing possible sus­
for violating the league's drug policy functional San Francisco 49ers didn't 
Villanova 6 pension by the NFL, was charged
by taking a weight-loss diuretic that answer Seattle's most pressing ques­
Minnesota 7 Monday with simple assault for spit­
is considered a masking agent for tion.
Michigan 8 ting his drink in a woman's face.
steroids. Matt Ilasselbeck has returned to
Michigan State 9 Several hours later, the Kansas City
A person familiar with the case Los AngelRs for a second visit to a
Illinois 10 

Chiefs indicated the two-time Pro
provided the number of players back surgeon, leaving coach Mike 
Bowl running back would not play
involved Monday, saying estimates Holmgren to prepare for Sunday's
for the foreseeable future. 

of a higher figure were untrue. The game against Philadelphia with 
A person familiar with the situa­
person spoke to The Associated Seneca Wallace as his starting quar­
tion told The Associated Press that terback.
Press on condition of anonymity 

Johnson would meet with league
because the players are appealing "Right now, he's our quarterback,"
officials in New York on Tuesday.
around the dial 

the fmdings. Holmgren said of Wallace_ on 
The person requested anonymity
The Denver TV station Fox 31 Monday. "And we rally behind him." 
because the league has not
reported last week that six to 10 Hasselbeck was having another 
announced the meeting. 

players had tested positive for evaluation on the bulging disk in his
NCAA FooTBALL Johnson also faces a Dec. 4 court
Bumetanide, a pill that decreases back. The disk is pushing on a nerve 
date for another incident that
the amount of water retained in the that is weakening the three-time Pro 
occurred last February when he
Houston at Marshall body by increasing urination. It Bowler's hyperextended right knee. 
allegedly pushed a woman's face in
causes the kidneys to get rid of Unless Hasselbeck passes a
8 p.m., ESPN2 
another Kansas City nightspot.

unneeded water and salt from the strength test for the knee so he can 
This most recent alleged incident
body into the urine. Other reports practice before Friday, he will miss 
on Oct. 10, marks the fourth time
put the number of cases as high as his fourth consecutive game. 
Johnson has been accused. 

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 28, 2008 
NCAA FooTBALL 

Willingham to leave Huskies after season 
Washington coach, told of news after loss to Oregon State on Oct. 18, wouldn't have resigned on his own 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE Tyrone Willingham's ouster Monday as Washington's football coach surprised only his players. 
Two days after tl11~ lluskins fell to 0-7, athlntie director Scott Woodward sat next to Willingham at the coach's wenkly 1wws confnrnnce and announced Willingham will bo replaced after the season. 
A move that seemed sea­sons in tho making was aetu­ally days in thn making. University president Dr. Mark Emnwrt said Willingham was told a chango would be made after the Huskies lost 34-13 to Oregon State on Oct. 1H. 
"Scott and Tyrone wern talking about the best ways to handle it, what the timing could bn or should be and just working on details of tho transition," Emmert said. "There wasn't anything par­ticularly strategic about it." 
Word of his firing, howev­nr, was slow to leak to the team, which plays at No. 7 USC on Saturday. 
Quarterback Honnie Fouch said Willingham pulled him aside just minutes before the announcement. 
"It's tough. lin's the rea­son I came hnrn," Fouch said. "It's going to be tough to see him gone after this year." 
When asked if it was his deeision to leave, Willingham said rtatly, "no" and added he JHJVer considered resign­ing. 
Willingham was under fire for failing to restore Washington to national prominence. lie's 11-32 overall in his four seasons, and the Huskies just lost their ninth consecutive game-an embarrassing 33-7 loss to Notre Dame on national television. 
"WP. didn't win enough football games. That's it," Willingham said. "Hopefully, we've done all the other things right, (and) it's a good strong program for someone to jump into and do things." 
With a year left on his eon-tract, Willingham will receive a $1 million buyout. 
Now, he has five games to try to salvage this lost sea­son for the Huskies, winless through SP.VP.n games for only the second time in school history. 
Two of Washington's final rive games will be at home, where many fans have gotten in the habit of leaving at halftime and where Willingham has faced boos recently when his image is 
shown on the stadium's video sereen. 
It's unclear how Washington's players, almost entirely recruited by Willingham and his staff, will react to the challenge. 
"Change can be a good thing. Change can be a bad thing," said quarterback Jake Locker, out since Sept. 27 with a broken thumb. "It depends on how we approach it." 
Willingham was hired in 2004 just weeks after he was fired at Notre Dame, where he went 21-15 but only 11­12 in his final two seasons. 
When he arrived at Washington, Willingham was charged with restoring the integrity of the program that spiraled out of control dur­ing former coach Rick Neuheisel's tenure, whose UCLA team will visit the Huskies on Nov.15. 
Willingham brought stabili­ty and order to the program but that didn't add up to wins on the field, where the Huskies were plagued by second-half collapses, criti­cal injuries and some unin­spired performances in Willingham's tenure. 
"It became quite obvious with the performance on the football field it wasn't up to what we talked about at the beginning of the season and previous to the season," Woodward said. "It became more obvious as time went on this season." 


With a team full of fresh­men and sophomores, this season is on pace to be one of the worst in school histo­ry. Washington went 1-10 in 2004 and 1-9 in 1969. The only hope for a victory this season would seem to be the Nov. 21 Apple Cup at rival Washington State. 
And Willingham will bn on the sideline-a position he's not eager to give up, not even next season. 
"I will not rule out any­thing," he said when asked about his future. 
Are you interested in... 
Master's degree in Theology? Catholic Identity? Spiritual Formation? Professional Development? Community Living? 
Working with kids, teens, and adults? Teaching Theology? 
Apps and more at 

Then come learn more Oct. 29
echo.nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 28, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Second loss leads to doubts for LSU 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE, La. -Les Miles is willing to concede now that he might have been in denial. 
Costly interceptions, like the three thrown by redshirt fresh­man Jarrett Lee against Georgia, are the kinds of mis­takes that young, inexperienced quarterbacks are bound to make against the best defenses in the Southeastern Conference. 
The answer, Miles said, is a combination of coaches recog­nizing plays in which Lee is most comfortable and urging the quarterback to speak up more about calls he doesn't like. 
"We have to do a better job of removing some of those options of making the mistake that was made in this last game," Miles said Monday after his film review of last Saturday's 52-38 loss to Georgia. "We'll try to limit some of those until we feel like he's in a groove.... When he's playing and comfortable, he's pretty talented." 
The way Miles sees it, Lee's ability is as obvious as his youth. Take away the three interceptions-two of which were returned for touchdowns and one of which led to a field goal-and Lee's day doesn't look so bad. He still threw for 287 yards and three touch­downs. 
There's also no telling how much closer the game could have been if not for the turnovers. 
Miles noted that LSU (5-2, 3-2 Southeastern Conference), which has dropped to No. 15 in the polls, still racked up nearly 500 yards and had little trouble scoring against Georgia (7-1, 4­1), which is now ranked eighth and remains among the favorites to win the SEC. 
The Tigers had 188 yards rushing, led by Charles Scott's 144 yards and two scores. 
"In order to dominate a game, you've got to play great the whole time, so I think we've got to focus right now on con­sistency," Scott said. 
That applies to both sides of the ball. LSU's defense, long a strength, was plagued by a lack of discipline and missed assign­ments while giving up 443 total yards and 38 points to the Bulldogs. 
Miles said talent is not LSU's problem, nor is it the schemes called by first-year co-defensive coordinators Doug Mallory and Bradley Dale Peveto. Rather, certain players are trying to do too much at critical times, rather than focusing on their own jobs and trusting their teammates, Miles said. 
"They're pressing, if you will, maybe trying too hard," Miles said. "Frankly, we have to let them know that the call is plen­ty. The exceptional play is, after you have done your assignment and ripped through your gap, held your area responsibly and then, pursue the play and allow your teammate to make some great plays." 
Many of the breakdowns have occurred in LSU's defensive backfield, which lost senior starting cornerbacks Jonathan Zenon and Chevis Jackson, along with All-America safety Craig Steltz, after last year's national championship. 
The trust and discipline that comes with experience can be tested when the defense is under heavy pressure to make a third-down stop or create a turnover, as it was while LSU sought to come from behind, both against Georgia and Florida, which beat LSU 51-21 three weeks ago. 
"It could possibly be the pres­sure of playing from behind, with everybody wanting to do so good, trying to make a play," safety Chad Jones said. 
"The way our defense is, you can't do that," Jones continued. ·"It's easier said than done, because on the field you always know what the score is and you always know how the game is 
going  in  the  back  of your  
head."  
This  weekend,  LSU  hosts  

struggling Tulane before per­haps the biggest game remain­ing on its schedule-at home against Alabama and former coach Nick Saban on Nov. 8. 
LSU must beat the Crimson Tide, then win its last two SEC games against Ole Miss and Arkansas while hoping Alabama loses again, just to have a chance to defend its SEC title. 


800.424.8580 Iwww.peacecorps.gov 
NCAA FooTBALL 

Vols still searching for ansV\rers 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. Tennessee coach Phillip Fulmer can't think of a time in his career when he's had so much trouble with players struggling to execute. 
That's the main reason, Fulmer says, the Vols have been so woeful on offense through much of the season. 
"It's execution by different players at different times. It's the inconsistency of the run game and it's the youth at quarterback. In the SEC it's just a few plays and a few players that make a differ­ence," he said. 
The trouble is figuring out what's behind the execution problems before Tennessee (3­5, 1-4 Southeastern Conference) faces South Carolina (5-3, 2-3) on Saturday night. 
Vols coaches have denied that their players are having problems in practice or with preparation or effort or any of the areas that might explain a lack of sound execution. 
Fulmer has made some changes this season that he thought would solve Tennessee's problems. 
He switched quarterbacks. He made practices more physi­cal. He even tried to play Tennessee's star safety, Eric Berry, as a special teams returner and wide receiver. Those changes don't appear to have helped enough. 
Quarterback Nick Stephens is making far fewer mistakes than Jonathan Crompton did before he was benched, but the sophomore and his receiving corps weren't able to make enough plays to keep Tennessee competitive in loss­es to Georgia and Alabama or to make up for a struggling run game. 

Stephens said he couldn't quite identify where the execu­tion problems came from either. 
"We can all do things better, that's what it comes down to. The (offensive) line, me-l can do a lot of things better-the receivers. We've just got to take care of our business," he said. 
After its first week of physi­cal practices, the offensive line got a better push against Mississippi State two weeks ago, allowing for a solid day of rushing. The problems returned in the 29-9 loss to the Crimson Tide on Saturday night, and the Vols gained only 36 yards on the ground. 
"It's different things. If you could just put (a finger on it) and fix it, you'd fix it," Fulmer said. "It's been a step forward, and then a step back. And then a step forward, and a step back. That is very frustrating." 
Berry averaged 16 yards on two kickoff returns against Alabama, but didn't have the breakaway play Fulmer was looking for. His only catch at wide receiver was worth 3 yards. 
Tennessee has been penal­ized for an average 57.5 yards per game this season, making the Vols the third-most-pun­ished SEC team. Holding, off­sides, illegal motion and pass interference calls-on both offense and defense-are mak­ing things harder in an already difficult situation for the Vols. 
"I haven't quite had this kind of issue that I can recall in my career as a head coach. We've had difficulties from time to time but none that have con­tinued like this, particularly the penalty thing. That's really a concern," Fulmer said. 
The 17-year coach insists that Tennessee's execution problems aren't related to the new offensive schemes installed by first-year coordi­nator Dave Clawson. All the kinks were worked out during the offseason, he sa:ld. 
And Tennessee's opponents aren't giving the Vols any unexpected looks, either. 
"After watching film, it really wasn't anything Alabama did to mess up our running game," offensive lineman Vladimir Richard said. "Whether it was penalties, mistakes or missed assignments, it was basically just us." 
One problem Fulmer isn't having: keeping his players focused on improvement. That could be a tough sell for many coaches when championships and top bowl games are out of the picture. 
There haven't been any off­the-field incidents during the season that seem to have trou­bled Tennessee teams in recent years. Fulmer said players are showing up for their classes and giving plenty of effort dur­ing practice. 
Stephens listed multiple rea­sons why his teammates haven't given up: sending the seniors off on a positive note, earning a bowl bid and setting the tone for next season. 
But what was his top reason? 

"Pride. We are Tennessee still. We're proud of that," he said. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 28, 2008 
ND WoMEN's TENNIS 
Irish take Doubles Chan1pionship 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sporrs Writer 
Arter five days of competi­tion. tho Notro Dame Wonwn's Tonnis learn earned tlw ITA Midwost Hegional Doubles Championship with a vi<:tory from the Irish duo of senior Kelcy TeiTt and fresh­man Krisly Frilling. 
Af'tnr sneuring a spot in Monday's finals with an S-4 victory ovPr Cami Hubbs and Kristina Knnsey ol' Ohio State on Sunday. ToiTt and Frilling matrhod up against tho DePaul pair of Dunja Anlunovie and Kristin c;;unbnll and overpowen~d the Blun Devils with an S-5 victo­ry to oarn the title. Teff'l and Frilling improved to 10-0 on tho season with tho win. 
The vielory was Tnfft's third consecu live Midwest regional doubles titlo. ller prnvious two titlns eame with her for­mer partnnr Brook Buck who graduated in May 200S. 
Tefft also narned a spot in the finals of the singles main draw. Arter advancing to the snmifinals with a straight sets 6-2, 6-4 victory over Irish freshman Kristen Hafael in the quartorfinals, Tnfl't defeat­nd DePaul's Antunovic for the second tim!~ with a 6-2, 6-1 straight sots win. Tefft, who is ranked No. 43 nationally amongst singles players, will face No. 30 Samantha Murray ol' Northwestorn in the final mateh this afternoon. 
Tefft and Rafael were two of four Irish players who advanced to the round of eight in singles play. Frilling advanced to the semifinals with a 6-3, 6-2 straight sets win over Northwestern's Elena Chernayakova. However, she was eliminated from the tournament when she fell to Murray 0-6, 3-6 in straight sets coming up one game shy of facing her dou­bles partner in the finals. 

Irish junior Kali Krisik rounded out Notre Dame's singles action with a 4-6, 2-6 loss to Antunovic. Krisik had earnod her spot in the round of eight with an upset over Northwestern's No. 36 ranked Lauren Lui. After dropping the first set 6-0, she rallied to win the next two sets 7-5, 6­4. 
In total, seven Irish players made it to the round of six­teen in the singles main draw. Juniors Colleen Hielley and Cosmina Ciobanu and fresh­man Shannon Matthews were defeated in the round of six­teen on Sunday. Hielley's match was ealled because of an injury, giving Hafael the default victory. 
The tournament wraps up today with Tefft's singles final. 
Contact Matt Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Start Your Career in Accounting. 

Northeastern's MS in Accounting/MBA for non-accounting maiors: 
• 
Earn Lwo degrees in just 15 nwnths. 

• 
Complete a 3-rnonth paid residency at a leading accounting finn. 

• 
Proven track record of 100% job piacernent. 


Take the first step. 
Visit us online or at an inforrnation session near you. Learn rnore about the prograrn and upcorning events at www.rnsarnba.neu.edu. 
617-P3-.Q44 
gspa@neu.edu www.rnsarnba. neu.edu 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
SMC happy with third-place finish 
more," Brodmerkel said. "MyBy KATE GRABAREK 
goal for the team is to 
Sports Writer 

improve throughout the sea­son, as we have been. I Saint Mary's took part in the would love to finish fourth or Manchnster Invitational last better in tho MIAA Conf<~rnnee week and finished in third again, which we did last year place overall. for the first time in our histo­
"The team was awesome at ry. We dofinilnly have the tal­Mane hester," head coach ent to do it again this year." Jackie Bautnrs said. "It was Catie Salyf~r. .Joanne the first raee everyorw ran a Almond, and Hannah Vicary 6K and they did a great job -each had top-30 finishes to aeross the round out the board. I think Bollos who had the team went scoring finishes out competi­in tho race.
'The difference for 
tively and held Salyer fin-on to it. It was me this season is due ished in 21st an exciting raee to summer training." place with a 
and I'm very limo of 24:36, proud of them." while Almond 
Megan McCiowry 
Junior Megan finished 25th McCiowry onee Belles junior with a time of 
again led the Belles in their first 6K race of the season. McClowry fin­ished 12th with a time of 24:23. 
"The difference for me this season is due to summer training," McClowry said. "I was able to come in with a good base and then my team­mates have helped push the pace at workouts this sea­son." 
Senior Caitlin Brodmerkel finished in 15th and was the next Belle across the finish line with a time of 24:28 only 11ve seconds behind McClowry. 
MeC!owry and Brodmerkel have both stepped up all sea­son to lead the Belles after losing last season's top runner Megan Gray to graduation. 
"So far my senior year has been all I could ask for and 
24:49, and 
Vieary rounded 
out the top five with a time of 25:03, good for 29th place. 
Arianne Rodriguez finished just behind Vicary in 30th place with a time of 25:04. 
Sophomore Clare McVey was the next runner across the finish line with a time of 25:09, good for 34th place in the raee. 
Senior Becea Mason 11nished 55th with a lime of 25:49, and sophomore Kristy Kucharski finished 56th with a time of 25:50. 
The Belles will next travel to Kalamazoo to compete in the MIAA Championships on Nov. 1. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at KgrabaO 1 @saintmacys.edu 




Tuesday, October 28, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 


MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish fall to USC in first n1eet ofyear 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
At least the Irish got their feet wet. 
Notre Dame (0-1) dropped its first meet of the season on Saturday against USC (1-0), falling 159.5 to 126.5 at the McDonald's Swim Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. Irish sen­ior Daniel Rave and juniors MacKenzie LaBlanc and John Lytle each won individual events. 
Despite the disappointing start, Irish coach Tim Welsh relishes the opportunity the strong competition provides. 
"Once again we've put together an extremely strong schedule which gets tougher and tougher," Welsh said. "This one is as hard as we've ever had. All the challenges we want will be offered to us throughout the season. What's exciting about this meet for us is that we have the opportunity to race again after several weeks of tough training." 
Rave finished first in the 200-yard breaststroke 
(2:08.94), while Lytle tied for first in the 200-yard freestyle (1 :39.88} with Trojan Zoltan Povazsay, who represented his native Hungary at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. 
Three Irish swimmers fin­ished in the top four for the 500-yard freestyle -fresh­man Ryan Belecanech (4:42.33), junior Andrew Deters (4:44.02), and sopho­more Steven Brus (4:45.52) earned points for Notre Dame. Detp,rs (3rd, 9:39.44) and Balecanech (4th. 9:40.68) 
VANESSA Junior swimmer Andrew Deters races during Notre Dame's 169-135 loss to Louisville on Jan. 18. 
also finished in the points in the 1,000-yard freestyle. 
Senior Jeff Wood placed second in the 100-yard back­stroke (0:51.94), finishing ahead of sophomore Michael Sullivan (4th, 0:52.53). 
Sullivan (1:51.61), Wood (1:53.58), and sophomore Joshua Nosal (1:56.03) all fin­ished in the top four in the 200-yard backstroke. 
LeBlanc (0:50.71) and soph­omores Patrick Augustyn 
(0:52.47) and Chris Willis 
(0:52.76) all placed in the 100-yard butterfly. LeBlanc claimed first in the 200-yard butterfly (1:52.16), with Augustyn (1:54.20) and Willis 
(1:55.55) finishing third and fourth. 
Deters (4:08.97). Brus (4:12.83), and Rave (4:19.47) all placed in the top four in the 400-yard individual med­ley to round out the swim­ming efforts. 
In diving, senior Michael 
Bulfin, sophomore Eric Lex, and junior Caleb Dunnichay finished third, fourth, and fifth in the 1-meter dive to earn points for the Irish. Bulfin claimed second in the 3-meter dive, while Dunnichay and Lex placed fourth and fifth, respectively. 
After the loss, Welsh was eager to see his team's devel­opment produce results. 
"We put ourselves through that training for meets such as these," Welsh said. "After a great summer we're looking forward to having some of the guys parlay their improve­ments into invitations to the [NCAA Championships]. We're beyond the hopeful stage and into the expectation stage." 
Notre Dame will host Big East foe Pittsburgh on Friday, races begin at 5:00 p.m. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles lose t1WO more close games 
Alma and Kalamazoo both top Saint Mary's by one-goal margin 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 

The ball has bounced rather unfavorably for Saint Mary's so far this year. That trend continued last week as the Belles dropped two more tightly-contested games, both by a one-goal margin. 
In the first game, confer­ence opponent Alma spoiled senior day for the Belles by claiming a narrow 2-1 victo­ry as Saint Mary's wrapped up its home schedule. The Scots claimed the early lead on a breakaway opportunity in the 28th minute, the only scoring of the first half despite many quality chances for both sides. 
Alma added to its lead in the 53rd minute to give them the decisive second goal. 
The Belles fought back to pull within a goal in the 79th minute on freshman Katelyn Tondo-Steele's sec­ond goal of the season, but were unable to net the equalizer. 
Junior Patty Duffy record­ed four saves in goal for Saint Mary's. 
In the second game, the Belles hit the road and suf­fered a tough 1-0 overtime 
defeat  at  the  hands  of  
Kalamazoo.  
A  defensive  struggle  

resulted in a scoreless finish of regulation before the Hornets scored just seven minutes into the first over­time to grab the vietory. 
Saint Mary's failed to capi­talize on numerous scoring opportunities despite a 7-0 corner kicks advantage. 
Duffy played the full match in goal once again for the Belles and made three saves. 
This match marks the sev­enth time Saint Mary's has dropped a one-goal decision this season. 
These losses drop the Belles to 2-11-1 overall and 1-6 in the MIAA conference this season. 
Saint Mary's will finish out the regular season schedule when they travel to play Albion on Wednesday. Kickoff is schedutled for 4 p.m. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 28, 2008 
Sweep 
continued from page 24 
"Ofl"ensive zone, broken play -it came from guys battling," Cole said. "I got it up top, had some time, and IMiamiI packs it in pretty tight around the goal, so I waited, waited, wait­ed, found a lane, shot it, and it went in." 
Miami would regain the lead on a power-play goal -the Hedllawks' second of the night -with three minutes to play in the second period, and the visitors made it 3-1 less than two minutes later with an even-strength goal. 
Irish senior center Christian IIanson capped the scoring with under two minutes to go on a play started by freshman defenseman Sean Lorenz. With Notre Dame senior goaltender Jordan Pearce pulled, Lorenz gave the puck to senior captain Erik Condra. who found Hanson alone in the slot. 
Friday's shutout was Notre Dame's first at home since a 2­0 loss to Alaska on March 4, 2006. RedHawks freshman netminder Cody Riechard stopped all 29 Irish shots, including 15 on eight power play chances, for his first career shutout, and a pair of Notre Dame turnovers led to both Miami goals. 
"You really need to make good decisions with the puck when you're under pressure like we were," Jackson said. "Great players learn how to play under pressure, and that's something we've got to improve on. In pro hockey, they call it 'panic threshold'. We have to raise our panic threshold to where under heavy pressure, we can still make good decisions." 
The Irish went 0-for-8 on power plays on each night, which they also did in a 5-2 season-opening loss at No. 4 Denver on Oct. 11. Notre Dame 
WU YUE!The Observer 
Freshman forward Billy Maday weaves through defenders dur­ing Notre Dame's 2-0 loss to Miami on Friday night. 
killed all three of its penalties on Friday but allowed two power-play goals on Saturday as Jackson continues to search for the right special teams combinations. 
"Mostly on the power play," Jackson said about where he intends to make changes. "The basics of our penalty kill are strong, and it's just about win­ning all those little battles and footraces. We need to build a little more depth in our penalty kill -I use four guys an awful lot, and we need to get six guys going for sure." 
Hanson, senior left wing Garrett Regan, and sophomore center Ben Ryan are potential penalty killers, Jackson said. 
The losses represent a disap­pointing start for the Irish, who entered the season No. 3 in the polls but fell to No. 13 this week. But with more than four months on the schedule before the CCHA playoffs begin, Notre Dame is far from being in a state of panic. 
"We've had the rough start, but it's a marathon, not a sprint," Pearce said. "What's most important is that you play your best hockey at the end of March and into April, when it counts the most. That's not to say that these games aren't important, but it's important to learn the lessons about coming to the rink, working hard and seeing what we need to do to be successful in March." 
Cole said the losses could be seen "in a good light" if the Irish can rebound and play well at Northern Michigan in a two-game CCHA series this weekend. 
"It's good that it happened now instead of instead of February like it did last year, when most times it's too late," Cole said. "It's a wake-up call that hopefully will get us going and get us battling harder." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bath roor11s Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

Split 

continued from page 24 
1-8 Big East) for a three-set sweep. 
Leading the Irish was junior outside hitter Christina Kaelin's 10 kills with sophomore outside hitter Kellie Sciacca pitching in with seven kills and seven blocks. 
The Irish hit at a .317 rate with 27 assists from junior set­ter Jamel Nicholas. The Irish hit over .300 in the final two sets, chipping in a .375 average in the second set and a .324 average in the final set. 
The team next made the long flight to California to face Long Beach State (18-4) in a rare non-conference tune-up for the rest of the Big East season. The game against Long Beach State was meant to keep the team in shape over the long break without any classes. 
Freshman Kristen Dealy led the Irish against the 49ers with 16 kills, 11 digs, six blocks, and an ace for her team-high fifth double-double of the season. 
Also pitching in for the Irish was sophomore outside hitter Kellie Sciacca with six blocks and junior middle blocker Tara Enzweiler with five blocks. 
The Irish won the first set of the game in comeback fashion, but Notre Dame's momentum was stopped by the powerful arm of Long Beach State senior outside hitter Quiney Verdin who had 21 kills on 33 attempts. 
The Irish lost the next three sets to drop the match 3-1. 
The Irish finished up break on Saturday and Sunday with a pair of matches against Big East foes Villanova {13-11, 4-4 Big East) and Seton Hall {12­11, 4-4 Big East). 
The Irish dropped another close battle to Villanova squad in a five sets. This was the sec­ond consecutive time Villanova defeated Notre Dame in five sets after capturing its first­ever win over the Irish last sea­son. 
Notre Dame is now 0-3 in five-set matches this season and 2-9 in matches extending past the three-set minimum. 
Junior outside hitter Serinity Phillips paced the Irish with 11 kills and 22 digs. Philips' dig total equaled sophomore libero/defensive specialist Megan Dunne's season high against Western Michigan. 
The Irish finished up on Sunday with a strong showing against Seton Hall (12-11, 4-4 Big East). Notre Dame swept the Pirates in three straight sets to earn another Big East victory and keep pace with the conference leaders. 
Kanlin conneetnd for 14 kills for a .440 average and Dealy picked up her third double­double of the week. 
Senior middle blocknr Justine Stremick, Phillips and Sciacca each finished with seven kills as the Irish hit .266 over the three sets. Philips and Sciacca also pitched in with two blocks each. 
The Irish will be back on the court in the Joyce Center on Saturday for another key Big East match against Syracuse. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

'·'·'···---ase recycle e Observer . 
ru~::.,t~J.~S!: 
The Quest Project Fall Lecture Series 
The Q.uest Continues ... 
Theories ofEmerging Complexities: A Theological Approach to the Question 
Thursday, October 30 7:30P.M. 
Saint Mary's College Little Theatre Moreau Center for the Arts 
Antje Jackelen Past Director of the Zygon Center for the Study of Science and Religion, currem Bishop of Lund, Sweden, and first woman bishop in the Church ofSweden 


CENI'ER FOR SPIRI11JAllTY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE saintnlarys.cdu/spirituality 
(574) 284-4636 
Supported by the Saint Mary's College Endowed Fall Lecture Series and the John Templeton Foundation 
Free and open to the public Tuesday, October 28, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
"We had chances to win for sure, but we just didn't take them," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "The soccer gods can be very cruel at times, but the team did a lot of good things ... The nice thing about it was that it wasn't the way we planned the week, but we've got two games remaining, and if we win, we win the league." 
Senior defender Alex Yoshinaga netted Notre Dame's only goal of the trip against the Pirates, an equalizer in the 82nd minute that would force extra time. Senior forward Bright Dike fed Yoshinaga, who blasted it from 20 yards out for his first goal of the sea­son. 
Notre Dame dominated the stat sheet against Seton Hall, but the Pirates struck in the 13th minute to force the Irish to play from behind. Notre Dame's 27 shots and 13 corner kicks were both season highs, while Seton Hall took just 18 shots and four corners. 
Dike led the Irish attack with seven shots, including three on goal, but was unable to beat Pirates goalkeeper Paul McHenry, who made eight saves. 
"We just somehow didn't quite finish that game off, as we obviously played very well," Clark said. "We carried the game and we generated a lot of offense. Some of it was good goalkeeping [by McHenry] and some of it was not quite putting it away." 
The Irish attack managed only 10 shots in Saturday's overtime loss to the Huskies, who received a golden goal 
Observer 


from Cruz Hernandez in the third minute of overtime. 
Notre Dame's defense held strong during the first half despite being out-shot 9-2. The team's only first-half chance was a shot from junior mid­fielder Michael Thomas that hit the side of the netting. 
The Irish offense came alive in the second half, twice com­ing close to gaining the advan­tage while out-shooting the Huskies 8-5. 
Senior defender Jack Traynor narrowly missed a free kick in the 63rd minute, sending the ball just over the crossbar from 20 yards out. Junior forward Tamba Samba sent a shot just wide of the post in the 77th minute. 
"That was one where there just weren't a lot of chances at either end, and I guess you could say we were a little bit unlucky not to take something out of that game," Clark said. "That's a credit to Connecticut . . . it was a game with a lot of respect for both teams, and it was very windy, so obviously the team that was playing with the wind had a little bit more of the game." 
The Irish host third-place Georgetown tomorrow at 2:30 
p.m. in a rescheduled game. The Big East tilt was originally scheduled for Oct. 5 but was postponed after a norovirus outbreak on the Georgetown campus. 
The Hoyas (9-3-3, 4-2-3 Big East) trail the Irish two points in the Blue division, which means a victory would catapult Georgetown into the divisional lead. 
"It'd be nice if we had [the division] already in our pocket, but we can't do anything about that now," Clark said. "Our aim is to get ready for Georgetown and take care of that game." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Internship Information 
Campus Ministry Session 

Thursday, October 30, 5-6 PM 316 CoMo Pizza will be provided. 

Perfect 

continued from page 24 
and age, especially with the kind of schedule we play," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. ''I'm just proud of them and now we just gotta go into that second phase of the sea­son." 
In her first career start Sunday, senior forward Kerry Inglis made Notre Dame's Senior Day one to savor. She scored her first NCAA goal to put the Irish on the board then capped the scoring with a tally in the 85th minute. 
Inglis, who got injured dur­ing her first preseason prac­tice freshman year, has had several major ankle surgeries and now wears a brace on the field. But her most memorable regular-season game was worth the wait. 
"It's a great 

storyline. You "It's a great storyline. the kids played 
couldn't write a You couldn't write a really well on a better script for field! that was
better script for Kerry 
Kerry Inglis," pretty sloppy
Inglis."
Waldrum said. against a good "Her career has Rutgers team. never been able So I was really
Randy Waldrum 
to really take pleased with the
Irish coach 
off like she could have had it. To see her come in today and get two goals -get the game-winning goal on the first one -I mean, you couldn't have asked for a better script for her." 
Irish freshman forward Melissa Henderson added a pair of goals Sunday as junior Michele Weissenhofer and sophomore Taylor Knaack also scored. 
Kerri Hanks' school record of 11 consecutive games with a goal was snapped against Seton Hall, and may have been the only aspect of the win that could be considered mildly dis­appointing. With just under 13 minutes to play, Hanks came out of the game after notching a pair of assists. With the two helpers, she ran her point­scoring streak to 14 games, tying Katie Thorlakson for the school record. 
"We could've made the deci­sion to leave [Hanks] in and try to help her continue that [goal-scoring] streak but I think she realizes it -as we do -we would all kick our­selves in the rear end if we left her in the game if we're win­ning and she got an injury," Waldrum said. "And I think she'll be the first to tell you if it helps us and keeps her fresh and ready for the playoffs, she'll pass on the streak. But ... she got some points in the game today so she keeps the scoring streak alive." 
Before the blowout of Seton Hall, the Irish picked up road wins over Providence and Connecticut last weekend before defeating No. 24/18 Rutgers 3-1 Friday on a wet night at Alumni Field. 
"Friday, it rained all day and the night before [but] the soc­cer gods were watching us and it just stopped right about kickoff time," Waldrum said. "Considering that, we had some good fan support out, and 
performance." 
But even after 
outscoring its 

opponents 16-1 in its last four matches, Notre Dame will now wipe the slate clean and prepare for the Big East tournament. The Irish earned a first-round bye and will host a quarterlinals match next Sunday. The conference semifinals and finals will also be held at Alumni Field. 
Waldrum said he knows his team's record up to this point will not earn it any wins in the postseason. 
"It's a great storyline, I think, as long as the players and the staff keeps putting it in perspective that it's great that you go undefeated but you still have a lot of work to do with your conference tourna­ment coming up," he said. "We're hosting it so you want to make sure you're in it and you wanna do everything you can to win it." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Feed your future 
Get the inside story on working abroad. 


~----·-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, October 28, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 

PATRICK GARTLAND 

FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 

CROSSWORD 
A.ero-11* 

Cur park!:'i' 6 $h(w.f h~"'f, W1 
iJ W.il'/ l t Sl'mkv sha~ t-4 F~gttt l;ite Hi Rel!eali11g 
W:"A'113tl Oil TV? Hl TV .:oolrol ti'fb·. l7 Gr~..K:h tlttt:i ~> 
J:(~nt; ma!P Hl ' '"''Pm 'lOll 
2D_Ieflllta 
(ele<:t¥XI ~e) ?I Fmau~t 
22 Atit>l befoto;) a Mfl!'M' 01\St"l i.'l'tvelt.,ope ;?3 Alviil't'$o, in 
~ 25 l~efll'•~l h::6ter 
71 Pifll"'l.OOilk un.im 
c~ 
pgmifl.abon? 

32 Bnd f'i i!le "Araoon ,....gnrs· 
3:,1_-B,.,.II•;m:>;t@;:l 
Wffn(l) 
3lt 2') Oti'*-1>)(;$ 
turn 
'31 So~ blmt.'l'O 
~ D<11~y MQ~t~'& 
mill' 42 C"!<>#ili*tW!Mt &Me 
<VlT!w~m 
OOI!Oli11<nding 4~ AQMI);;!;d >.il<J•W 
47 ta.L I''rlil!o; 48 w~ kid lr.>bd by
Lire Fd~trs? 
s-:2 ~t<i~.>IJ)OOP to o::t.:'io!JI) 54 Sillllll 1f6fl !i6 11t'ha1 r.::Jlrlll~ oo 
~~II )l!'!l.h 
pi'¥'1/!t(lm; 
&9 f~l. !l<lgn? 
6:3 Cla!ii& fA f:\I.Jrrwo:l·(lij• 
!,Y~Jl? 
00 S!!rult _ M!!tle. Mdt. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
67 'Ckli.i\Jfi!)ht' gl!l r::t S(W)!} o~;a 1\r.v.ilmlt on Troy, 
rn g. 
69 Shtt'e r:~oooo-~ 
sta~:u-. s n!Nld 71 Ch<JiC>£i W.&!de/1 
Down 
&.'~Jmrtgfy 
linlillw.m 2 t.rnlffk: Jtiwson 3 l'm.ut's look 
• 
., Ul~l linieh 
l~ C;~p with· a p:lff'f!U!l 6 ~~xt.tu.~r 
1('1\'lal!t 
t Tallat:bg.1 600, 
rn.g B tttrem !} E\•un (wilh) 
1 0 'Gh<;•}(IIAIJ:.' ~ 
11 Fi'm taltt r.t~ 1:¥ MJiid:mrn~ 12 fM lir111 !O?ttet cl 
·un::ltf (lui no1 
thewihi 
13 Ma,•e fwli•~et,­1a 'Ttm~ 1<-W'' 22 Clear _ (hrl!Jrd 
10 urtde>J!l>'loiind} 24 L(J{If) trMS!Xi!'t$ 2613e<alni(& "Get 
it?" 
27 M::•rtmb•::.ilrct 
t~r 
28 Caitteo, l:l'•Q· 29 P~\'1 warm;:~r­~..fl~Jlilf 
30 She'-s col'd!Y,J 
CUI 
-36 A/!, >l.lf;(,}imdy 1:b.-::~.·1t aflf:<l' 'iri 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

36""murr~.f! :50 Pr{)("~ l.lkl%''!9 ®Sart!(;.:n~.
,.
_; 11¥1 Wmiil{: '41th ~.~r 38<~'\Whaf>ll: 51 5~rd mM1 ir.J ti!FI~tnard Will~: Ql1 ttW:i
M}Wtllpup 
ISZ 0~ !'1Ulkt!'l9 01 41 Bwt fiW pklkwtg moon ·~'i~m.l
52 Matdl ttmtcl'tt!ts 44 Did notHrg a&~t 
53 Nick.~ 
64 Yu~ t~·e&
41; ('-:,:)If bl.lll'$ p<¥($! 'Affk:W.m' 4'!}~!1 57 Feoor~;::o ot me (If} ,.'The Star­moort..illn chain, C!il¥k.'fl cabif!£<1 SJ:0ngW wifh "llw~ !:iii Emtc loodeo1 E'IW"iner• k!ind 
For <V'!:>!'Ner$, <;ail 'f•900•2a5·$6$ti, $1.4'S ffl minutf;l; {)<!', mith iii etlldit caro, t-OO<l-.&14-5&54. 
An!"~Val ~bscri~m,; 041'9 ,Q¥ailath# tor ttl~ best ~ Sur!day Ct03!tWMthl from the •Wlt 00 y~Mft!l; 1-aM-7-ACROSS.. 
CXllimil f'ub!>c~m;; T~•$. puz:zlii:~<lOO !11019 1hao 2.000 p;!l.&-1 puZZleS, l'lfliltl&!':I.Com!CtM!lWOfd9 ~$39.95 a ~er}. 
Stl~re tips: nybm~$.t::Oml))uutefurum Cr~ iw VOY!"!i9 so!v.M®: fi)'liiM$.e()f!)/J&amihfP:wotds. · 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJ1JJWJ]]1J!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
DYBER 

1 rJ (j 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
~~·~~;fl 
(j dJ~1~/;k 
I ROUPAR j ~­
WHAT m: PR.O 
WR.~STL.~f<. GOT

rJ r I I 
WH~N H~ WON
www.jumble.com 
TH~ M.A:rC.H. 

I ONBEAM I 

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as

rJ (J
1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: " [ I I J" [ I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: BATHE ELUDE ZENITH BARIUMSaturday's 
Answer: Why the fighter pilot refused to tour the submarine -IT WAS "BENEATH" HIM 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kelly Osboume, 2-t; Scott Weiland, 41: Roberto Benigni, 56; John Cleese. 69 
Happy Birthday: You have a lot riding on your performance this yeall'. Solid. steady progress can be yours if yon don't try to fit too much into too short a I ime. Gauge your every move and present your ideas when least expected to catch ever;;one off-guard. Work more from home if possible where you can take care of both personal and profes­sional matters without losing time in transit. Your nwnbers are 4, 10. 16. 26, 34, 37, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This could be a day ofreconciliation. Focus on making amends or tmning a wrong into a right. You will feel better and can make some worth­while advancements. Speak from the heart. *** 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Too much of anything can be your demise today. Keep things simple both professionally and personally. Be smart, cautious ;md moderate. giving attention to reform, budgeting and creativity. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You've got everyone's attention. so what are you waiting for. Get busy making your mark or establishing your position. You have to strike while the iron is hot and today the stars have aligned and they are in your fnvor. ***** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let your emotions or lack of confidence throw you in the wrong direction or ruin your chances to excel. A problem with a friend. loved one or child may cause some upset but, if yon show your strength, you will be the hero. ** 
LEO (July :B-Ang. 22': You have to be true to yourself today if you want to come out on top. Look for love and you will find it. Go after a deal and you will close it. Think of an idea and you "~11 be able to exploit it. **** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't go overboard for someone else. Concentrate on the jobs, projects or engagements that will get you into a lead position. Open up regarding your ideas but keep your emotions under vvraps. *** 
LffiRA (Sept. 2.~-0ct. 22): You'll find it difficult to get past emotional issnes, if you don't deal with them quickly and move on. You have too much riding on your perfor­mance today to let anyone or anything get to you. You know what must be done, so stop waffling and proceed. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Any revealing of your own doings will ignite the compe­tition. Partner with someone who has just as much to bring to the tablie as you do. You must, however, have mutual respect. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be caught in someone else's crossfire if you engage in talks that you don't belong in. Concentrate ou doing wbat's best for your­self. Doing something special will lead to greater love. **** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put everything you've got into getting ahead. As soon as you take too much time to discuss your plans, you will lose momentwn and have to face strong opposition. Stick to what you know will work and you will advance to the finish line. ** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let someone else's aggressive action get to you. Follow your heart and stick to your convictions. This is a new beginning and a chance 
..... 
for you to test your ability to stand on your own. ***** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A little exaggeration will go a long way for now but be prepared to back up what you said you can and will do. You always work best when the pressure is on. If you believe you can do something, chances are you can. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have drive and are engaging and fun to be around. You always express yourself in an interesting manner. You are popular and aggre:;sive . 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugeninlasl.comfor coJifidential consultations, myspace.comleugellinlast for Eugenia's blog, a.mvatfvice.comfor ftm 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Tuesday, October 28, 2008 
page 24 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Picture Perfect 
NO completes regular season without a loss 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
No. 1 Notre Dame has not yet entered the second phase of its season but the Irish have made plenty of history so far. 

With four wins since last Friday, the team is off to its best start in the program's 21 seasons. The undefeated Irish downed Seton Hall 6-0 Sunday at Alumni Field to cap not only an unbeaten fall break but also a perfect regular season. Notre Dame beat a quartet of Big East squads to run its overaii record to 18-0-0 head­ing into the postseason. 
"This is the first time we've gone through a regular season unbeaten and that's not an easy thing to do in this day 
see PERFECT/page 21 


MEN'S SOCCER 
Offense struggles over break 
Irish cling to division lead after tie and loss 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 
No. 13 Notre Dame was left clinging to a one-point lead in the Big East Blue standings after scoring just once in two conference road games -a tie and an overtime loss -last week. 
The Irish (9-5-2, 5-2-2 Big East) played Seton Hall (6-7-4, 2-4-4 Big East) to a 1-1 draw Wednesday and lost a 1-0 over­time decision Saturday to No. 15 Connecticut on the road (8­3-5, 5-3-1 Big East), the Blue division's second-place team. 
see BIG EAST/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish finish fall schedule with disappointing tournament 
plus-38 326 on the first day of the fmal day. good enough for 12th place over­their performance in the upcom­
Hunter shoots 12­
the tournament, their worst Holt said that she, along with all. ing spring season. round in two years. the team as a whole, was very "(Huffer] had a really good "I would say [the fall season]
over to lead team in 
"On paper, we should have fin­disappointed in their perform­individual performance. She'd was pretty average. We have 
Landfall Traditional ished no worse than fourth. We ance in the last tournament of been close on several other times pretty high expectations and cer­just played really bad the first the fall season. this semester to really putting in tainly we weren't able to fulfill day," Irish coach Susan Holt said. "It was disappointing because a solid round," Holt said. "Based those," Holt said. 
By ERIC PRISTER 

"You can't go out and put your­we don't feel that we got beat. on the conditions, I though she "Hopefully we '11 be able to 
Sports Writer 

self in a 30-shot hole after round We beat ourselves. Those are played really well." rebound in the spring. We play one and try to rebound after harder to take," she said. The freshman shot back-to­some really good competition, 
The Irish finished off their fall that." Despite the teams overall per­hack plus-one rounds and fin­which should give us the oppor­season with a somewhat disap­The Irish dropped to 11th formance, Holt was encouraged ished the tournament with four tunity to be in the mix of the top pointing performance, finishing place at the Jack Nicklaus Pines by the individual performance of birdies and 38 pars. 25." in seventh place at the Landfall Course after day one. They were freshman Becca Huffer. Huffer The Irish now take a three­Traditional tournament in able to jump up to sixth on day led the team and finished the month hiatus from tournament Contact Eric Prister at Wilmington, N.C. The Irish shot a two before dropping one spot in tournament with a plus-12 228, play, but will look to improve eprister@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Hectic week ends in split 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 

The Irish split their four­game stretch over Fall Break, defeating Big East foPs DePaul and Seton Hall and losing to Long Beach State and Villanova. 
The Irish (11-11, 6-3 Big East) find themselves in a tie with Pittsburgh (14-1 0, 6-:{ Big East) for third place after nine matches of Big East play. Notre Dame trails St. John's (16-7, 7­1 Big East) and Cincinnati (20­5, 7-2 Big East). 
Tho Irish have already lost to Pittsburgh and Cincinnati, but they still have a match against Big East leader St. John's in two weeks that they hope will bring the standings even dos­er. 
The weekend began with a 
CASEY CARNEY (The Observer 

quick jaunt up to DePaul (3-19, 
Irish setter Beth Wildermuth sets a ball during Notre Dame's see SPLIT/page 20 3-1 win over Nevada at home on Aug. 30. 

HOCKEY 

Miami's pressure leads to two weekend vvins 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 

Irish coach Jeff Jackson blamed himself for a pair of home losses to No. 10 Miami as No. 8 Notre Dame (2-3-0, 0-2-0­0 CCIIA) opened its conference slate by falling 2-0 on Friday and 3-2 on Saturday. 
"We weren't prepared for their pressure, whether it was their penalty kill, their forecheck, or their defensive zone coverage, and that's my fault," Jackson said. ''I've got to make sure our guys are ready for that kind of an opponent." 
But a surprising Miami game plan shouldn't have stifled the Irish the way it did, Jackson said. 
"We need to work harder at competing -winning more battles, more one-on-one races for the puck -and that applies to our power play, 5-on-5, penalty kill, everything," he said. "I thought [Miami) played with a lot of physicality, and with us back on our heels, that's how we're supposed to play at home, not the visiting team." 
The Redllawks (3-1-2, 3-0-1­
0) scored the first three goals of the series before Irish sopho­more defenseman Ian Cole got his team on the board with under five minutes to play in Saturday's second period. 
Sophomore left wing Calle Hidderwall and freshman right wing Billy Maday worked the puck loose near the Miami net and eventually found Cole, who put it home from the left point for his second goal of the sea­son and a 1-1 tie. 
see SWEEP/page 20 





