
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 78 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2008 
ND looks to boost financial aid 
Long-term goal is to fund all undergraduate scholarships with endowment income 

By BRIAN McKENZIE 
NewsWritor 
Approximately 1,800 stu­dents hoping to secure a job or internship attended the Winter Career and Internship Fair Wednesday night at the Joyce Center. 
Unlike its fall counterpart, which was geared toward pre-professional students, the Winter Career Fair largely focused on compa­nies that would be attrac­tive to Arts and Letters majors. "Arts and Letters is what this fair was about," said Anita Rees, the Career 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Brazilian Carnaval celebrated 
Kellogg Institute sponsors SDH event 
By LINDSAY SENA 
News Writer 
South Bend will be getting a little taste of Brazil tonight as the Kellogg Institute for International Studies hosts its 10th annual celebration of Brazilian Carnaval in South Dining Hall. 
A celebration similar to Mardi Gras, Carnaval takes place each year at the begin­ning of Lent and is celebrated in many European and Latin American countries. 
Brazilian Club officer Valerie Kornfield explained the tradi­tion behind Brazil's Carnaval. 
"It is a unique opportunity for people from every social class to party and celebrate together on the streets," Kornfield said. "There are huge, elaborate parades and presentations in Rio de Janeiro and Salvador, as well as some in Sao Paulo. Thousands of tourists flock to Rio de Janeiro and Salvador to participate in the festivities." 
Events Coordinator for the Kellogg Institute Dina Dinovo said Notre Dame's Carnaval celebrations have "grown exponentially each year." The event has been held at a vari­ety of locations -first at Reekers, then Legends, LaFortune Ballroom and the Palais Royale in downtown 
see CARNAVAL/page 4 
dent's need to take out loans for his or her education. 
Notre Dame is not alone in its work to ease financial bur­dens. 
Last year, Harvard University announced it would significantly change its finan­cial aid policies in order to make college more affordable for the middle class. 
Harvard's decision has sparked a recent trend, with many other elite universities across the country, including Yale, Duke and the University of Pennsylvania, making simi­lar changes to their financial aid programs. 
Specifically, Harvard fami-


University hosts Winter Career Fair 
Annual event focuses on job and internship options for Arts and Letters majors 
By KATE McCLELLAND 
News Writer 
With a price tag of more than $44,000 each year, a Notre Dame education is not cheap. But the University, like many top-tier private colleges around the country, is working to ease the financial burden for tuition-paying families. 
Over the past 18 years, spending on financial aid at Notre Dame has risen from $55 million to $72 million, a 13 percent increase. Meanwhile, tuition over the same period has only increased about five to six percent, said Joe Russo, direc­tor of student financial strate­gies. 
"Our goal is to continue to reduce the need to borrow by providing more scholarship money," Russo said. The University's current fundrais­ing campaign aims to collect $1.5 billion in donations by 2011. The campaign's largest component will be used to provide undergraduate schol­arships, Russo said. 
Russo said his office does not publicly express the details of its financial aid poli­cies. 
"We haven't communicated information about our finan­cial aid program publicly but to those who ask -students, parents, alumni -we can reassure them that we are making things happen," Russo said. "We have a lot to be proud of, and I think it's reflected in the growing num­ber of students every year who. want to attend this University." 
The University has three "premier policies" that make its financial aid program unique, Russo said. The first is need-blind admissions. When deciding whether or not to accept a student, the University does not consider one's ability to pay tuition. The second policy is Notre Dame's commitment to meet the full demonstrated financial need of accepted students. Third, the University allows outside 

scholarships to reduce the stu-see AID/page 4 
Center's Associate Director. Many Arts and Letters stu­dents were pleased by the wide array of job options available at the fair, which was attended by 165 differ­ent employers. 
"I think there are enough offerings for Arts and Letters. If you're confident, you can sell yourself for any job," said senior Corey Mehlos, who is currently enrolled in the program of liberal studies. 
"Although he would have liked to see a few more law firms, Mehlos said he was 
see FAIR/page 6 



SMC administrators concentrate on diversity 
Callege spo,nsors third-annual Students' Leadership Conference 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College will bring experts, college students and high-schoolers together Feb. 13­15 for the third-annual Diverse Students' Leadership Conference (DSLC). 
"The mission and intention is to educate and foster intercultural interaction among partici­pants," said Larisa Olin Ortiz, director of multi­cultural affairs. "What the students wanted is to challenge participants and to reconsider how diversity plays such an important role in our world today." 
Organized by the Diversity Board, the DSLC was first held at Saint Mary's in 2006. It was the first conference organized by students for the College's campus. 
see DSLC/page 4 

CWIL to become part ofAcademic Affairs as Lillyfunding runs out 
By MANDl STIRONE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's administrators have decided to make the Center for InterCultural Leadership (CWIL). which is responsible for some of the College's multicultural programs, a part of the College's Academic Affairs Division. 
CWIL was originally funded by grant money from the Lilly Endowment Inc., a private foundation which "affords spe­cial emphasis to projects that benefit young people and promote leadership education and financial self-sufficiency in the nonprofit, charitable sector," according to the Endowment's Web site. 
"The Lilly Endowment awarded Saint 
see CWIL/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, February 1, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Worldvvide loser in sports 
Where have you gone, ESPN? 
Sure, the self-proclaimed 
"Worldwide Leader in Sports" is 

thriving, but it's not the same chan­
nel it was even a few years ago. 

I ean remember a kinder, gentler 
era of' sports pro­

gramming when Jay Fitzpatrick 
the big forum for 
Associate
open debates 

Sports Editor 
was the "Sports 
Heporters" -a 
calm Sunday morning show with 

some of the best sports journalists 
in the eountry. People like Bob 

Hyan, Mike Lupica and the venera­
ble Dick Schaap would discuss the 
week's issues calmly and rationally. 
They respected each other's opin­

ions and worked to find some kind 
of answer to major issues in the 
sports world. 

And then "Around the llorn" hap­
pened. 
ESPN decided to repackage the 
"Sports Heporters" every day at 

5:30 p.m. So they replaced the best journalists who were intelligent and n~speetful for. quite simply, stupid ones. 
Woody Paige and Jay Mariotti ­two common guests on the show­say and do silly things to garner arbitrarily given points from host Tony Heali for more face time. The more you say things that Heali likes, tlw more chances you get to say things he might like later in the show. 
Nowadays ESPN has found a way to bring this sensationalized style of news to the masses with the morn­ing show ESPN "First Take." 
As the show has evolved over the years, it has two basic parts. The bulk of the show is interviews with journalists and athletes from around the country. The rest? 
Skip Bayless vs. black people. 

It's not always an African­American, but since Bayless is a 57­year old white man, ESPN figured it would be best to pair him with some of its younger, black analysts often like Shaun King, Jalen Rose and Jemele Hill and wait for the controversy (and ratings) to start. 
In thn segment "1st and 10," Bayless answers questions with absurd, superlative-laced state­ments that make him sound like a fool. This is until the person on the other end of the table contradicts whatever Bayless says with his or her own ridiculous, off-the-wall statement. And then the yelling starts. The two "analysts" yell rebuttals at each other without regard to any sense of order until host Jay Crawford makes a snide remark about one of the two views and moves on. 
I do not understand why ESPN feels the need to show this on the air. It has had a history of such great coverage and journalism, but now they have devolved into this. Its sourees are not always real interviews or newspapers. Instead it thrives on rumors and the bastion of journalism -TMZ.com. 
I do not know where the ESPN of old has gone. I just want it to come back. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at ffitzpa5@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards i1self as a professional publica!ion and mives for 1he highes! s1andards of journalism a! all limes. We do, however, recognize 1ha1 we will make mis1akes. Ifwe have made a mis!ake, please comac! us a! 631-4541 so we can correc! our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How WOULD YOU CAPTURE BIGFOOT IF YOU KNEW HE EXISTED? 





Erika Shults  Steve Atkinson  Michael Parme  Danl Leary  
freshman  freshman  grad student  junior  
PW  Stanford  offcampus  Pangborn  
"/ would dress  "Well, we'd  "With a Nature  'Td tackle him to  
up like Mrs.  need a lot of  Valley granola  the ground."  
Bigfoot, and  quarter dogs ... "  ,bar.  
seduce him. "  

Man sneaks into church to view pornography 
HAMILTON, N.J. -A civilian State Police employee was accused of sneaking into a church to look at pornography on a nun's computer. Police arrested Thomas G. Findler Wednesday and charged him with burglary and tbeft. 
Authorities said Findler had been sneaking into Grace St. Paul Episcopal Church in the night over the last three weeks to look at pornography. 
Wednesday morning, a church custodian found Findler, who worships at the church, on a nun's computer. 
TODAY 



VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 
Katy McCullough, left, talks to Joe Schonoff and Katie Moran about the Student Union Board's movies in the entrance foyer of South Dining Hall. This weekend SUB will show "Gone Baby Gone." 
OFFBEAT 

the southeast corner of the state. Beam's bill covered five cable boxes and five remote controls. 
She immediately called the cable company, but a man who identified himself as a manager said there was nothing the company could do. 
"They said I would have to take the bill and turn it in to my insurance compa­ny," Beam said. 
But her cable equipment was nine years old, and the insurance company would pay only a depreciated value that wouldn't cover her bill, she said. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
The custodian chased him out, right into a police officer who happened to be nearby. 
Findler works in a local office for the state poliee. 
Time Warner Cable forces tornado victims to pay 
WHEATLAND, Wis. ­Having a tornado demolish her home was bad enough. But when Ann Beam received a $2,000 cable bill a few weeks later, she was floored. "I just couldn't believe it," Beam said. "I was like, 'What are they thinking?' Time Warner Cable billed a number of Wheatland residents for equipment destroyed in the Jan. 7 twister that struck 

.TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
.... 
c:C 
(,) 0 



.... 

LOW 18 LOW 12 LOW 20 LOW 23 

Sunny Chung  Natalie Valent  
sophomore PE  freshman McCandless  
'Tlljust ignore it.,  "Tranquilize him then call the zoo."  

IN BRIEF 

The mini-conference "Pornography: Fantasy, Reality and Industry" will take place today from 12::lO p.m. to 5:15 
p.m. today at the Center for Continuing Education in McKenna Hall. 
The film "Jimmy Carter: Man from Plains" will be shown at 10 p.m. in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Pnrforming Arts Center. Tickets arn free. 
Men's hockey will play the 
U.S. Under-18 Team Friday at 
7:35 p.m. in the Joyce Center iee rink in an exhibition. 
The film "Enemies of Happiness" will bn shown at 3 
p.m. Saturday in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are free. 
There will be a Saturday Vigil Mass at 5 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Music will be provided by the Women's Uturgical Choir. 
Men's basketball will play DePaul Saturday at 6 p.m. in the Joyce Center. TV coverage will bP on ESPN Classic. 
The Student Activities Office will sponsor a Super Bowl XLII party Sunday from 6 p.m. to 11 
p.m. in the Main Lounge of LaFortune. 
On Tuesday, there will be an Alumni Panel for Teaeh for America at 7 p.m. in 100-104 McKenna Hall. 
To submit information to be included in t~is section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH 28 LOW 23 
Friday, February 1, 2008 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Wash U. professor lectures on Islam 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
Dr. Fatemeh Keshavarz, director of Eastern Religious Studies at Washington University in St. Louis, present­ed a lecture entitled "The Role of Women in the Muslim World" Thursday in the Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's College. 
"Knowledge about Muslim women is more than just facts, it's about their culture, their history, and their talent," Keshavarz said. Originally from Iran, Keshavarz said women are often alienated in the Islamic world, despite the fact that they are an integral part of it. 
"Women are culturally dis­tant yet so close at the same time," she said. 
Muslim women still face great obstacles, especially since they are considered the proper­ty of their husbands, Keshavarz said. However, they are begin­ning to overcome these obsta­cles and receive education. In Iranian universities, 70 percent of the students are women. But the government is considering establishing a quota system because women are doing such better than men. 
"!The quota system] would just be holding women back and is a ridiculous idea," Keshavarz said. 
The majority of her lecture focused on the fact that many American students know very little about Iran and Muslim culture. Although Keshavarz says even the most intelligent students do not know 60 to 70 percent of the facts or real story behind the history of Iran. 
According to Keshavarz, only 300 Americans a year travel to Iraq, and when applying for a visa, "the United Nations gives you a million reasons not to go." Keshavarz said she was happy to speak at Saint Mary's and "bridge the gap between the Muslim world, especially Iran, and the United States." 
According to Keshavarz, who received all of her facts from the United Nations, every Iranian woman needs her hus­band's consent to travel abroad. 
"If the husband does not approve-than she cannot go, it is absurd and the law needs to change," Keshavarz said. 
Kashavarz is involved in the 1,000,000 Signatures Campaign with many other Muslim women between the ages of 17 and 25. The all­female organization send mem­bers from village to village in Iraq asking for signatures to support gender equality issues. 
The talk was sponsored by the Justice department, CWIL, and the Political Science and English departments. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO1@saintmarys.edu 

Military not ready for attack 
Reports say American combat forces lack sufficient equipment, training 
Chairman Arnold Punaro said in to a three-tiered response force
Associated Press an interview with The totaling about 4,000 troops.WASHINGTON -The U.S. Associated Press. "Even though There would be a few hundred military isn't ready for a cata­there is a lot going on in this first responders, who would be strophic attack on the country, area, we need to do a lot more. followed by a second wave of and National ... There's a lot of about 1,200 troops that would Guard forces things in the include medical and logistics
don't have the "Right now we don't 
pipeline, but in forces. equipment or have the forces we the world we live The third wave, with the training they in -you're either remainder of that initial 4,000
need, we don't have 

need for the rea~y or you're troops, would include aircraft
them trained, we don't

job, according not. units, engineers, and other sup­to a report. have the equipment.,, In response, Air port forces, depending on the Even fewer Force Gen. Gene type of incident. A r m y Renuart, chief of Punaro, a retired Marine
Arnold Punaro

National U.S. Northern Corps major general, had sharp

commission chairman

Guard units command, said criticism for Northern are combat-the Pentagon is Command, saying that com­ready today than were nearly a putting together a specialized manders there have made little year ago when the Commission military team that would be progress developing detailed on the National Guard and designed to respond to such cat­response plans for attacks Reserves determined that 88 astrophic events. against the homeland. percent of the units were not "The capability for the Defense "NorthCom has got to get reli­prepared for the fight, the panel Department to respond to a gion in this area," said Punaro. says in a new report released chemical, biological event exists He said the military needs to Thursday. now," Renuart avoid "pickup 
The independent commission told the AP. "It, game" type is charged by Congress to rec­today, is not as 
"Even though there is response~. such 
ommend changes in law and robust as we as the much-criti­
a lot going on in this
policy concerning th~ Guard and would like cized federal Reserves. because of the area, we need to do a reaction to 
The commission's 400-page demand on the lot more ... ,, Hurricane report concludes that the nation forces that Katrina, and put "does not have sufficient trained, we've placed in place the kind

Arnold Punaro
ready forces available" to across the of detailed plans respond to a chemical, biological country.... I can commission chairman that exist for vir­or nuclear weapons incident, do it today. It tually any inter­"an appalling gap that places the would be hard-national crisis. n_ati~? and its citizens at greater er on the (military) services, but I He also underscored the com­nsk. could respond." mission's main finding: the 
"Right now we don't have the Over the next year, Renuart Pentagon must move toward forces we need, we don't have said, specific active duty, Guard making the National Guard and them trained, we don't have the and Reserve units will be Reserves an integral part of the equipment," commission trained, equipped and assigned U.S. military. 



The Observer is accepting applications 
for the 2008-og term for the following positions: 
Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Sports Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Scene Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, Graphics Editor, Advertising Manager, Ad Design Manager, Web Administrator, Systems Manager, Business Manager and Controller 
Applicants for Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor should demonstrate strong journalistic and management skills. An in-depth understanding of newspaper production, including skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop, is required. Experience with Macintosh computers is helpful. 
Applications for Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor should be 12 pages long and should explain the applicant's qualifications and goals. Applications for other editorial positions should be at least five pages. 
All applications should be submitted this week to Chris Hine in The Observer office, located in the South Dining Hall basement. 
Please direct questions about these positions to Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu or Maddie Hanna at mhanna1@nd.edu 
Friday, February 1, 2008
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Carnaval 
continued from page 1 
South Bend. 
Carnival returned to campus in 2005, Dinovo said, and has been held in South Dining Hall ever since. 
The family-friendly event brings together a variety of people: students, faculty and staff from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, as well as from other are colleges, Dinovo said. 
"We have members of the community that return each year dressed in the colors of Brazil," Dinovo said. "It is really a pleasure to have all of these people come together and enjoy dancing, singing and having fun." 
As in previous years, Notre Dame's Carnaval will feature Chicago Samba. The Chicago­based Brazilian musicians have been together for over eighteen years and play "a variety of styles of the most popular artistic expression in Brazil," according to the group's W1~b site. 
Kornlield describes Brazilian music as "full of spirit and fun and movement, beautifully woven together. The lyrics of traditional sambas often speak about central elements of Brazilian history or culture." 
In addition to music, compli­mentary snacks will be served and professional Brazilian dancers in costumes will be performing and teaching dance steps to a variety of tra­ditional and popular Brazilian rhythms. 
Dinovo estimates at least 400 people will attend the celebra­tion, which begins at 8 p.m. Admission is free and the event is open to the public. 
Contact Lindsay Sena at lsena@nd.edu 
Aid 
continued from page 1 
lies with an annual income of $120,000 to $1 HO,OOO will now only have to pay 10 percent, or up to $18,000 a year, for tuition according to the New York Times. 
Moreover. financial aid offi­cers at IIarvard will no longer consider the value of the family home when calculating finan­cial need. 
Some schools, Harvard included, are eliminat­
"Ideally, all undergraduate 
ing parental ships. The contribu­scholarships would be paid rest is tions to invested in
with endowment income 
tuition when making
some day -that is our
the family improve­makes less goal." ments to the t h a n University to $60,000 a keep tuition
Joe Russo 
year. costs down,
director of student
N o t r e Dame does not have this policy. 
"There are too many factors that go into a financial aid decision to make a blind com­mitment based simply on incomn, but on average lower income families don't pay very much," Husso said. 
And, while Notre Dame does collect information about a family's horne through the CSS PHOFILE application, Russo said home values are not a major factor in the financial aid package that a student is ofTered. 


CWIL 
continued from page 1 
Mary's one of the large grants they have given to select Indiana colleges and universities to build on their strengths through transformative centers of distinction that bring national recognition to the institution," Meyer-Lee said. 
But that grant money will be exhausted by this summer, Meyer-Lee said, which will force CWIL to operate on a Community Program will be taken over by other divisions of the College. Despite these cutbacks, Saint Mary's officials are still fully invested in the CWIL and hope to see it grow in the future. 
"The good news is that we will be able to contin­ue the vast majority of our opportunities for students within our reduced budg­et, albeit on a somewhat smaller scale," Meyer-Lee said. "The details of the transition are still in a draft proposal form that is being vetted across the campus and will be final­

slimmer ized within
"The good news is that we 
budget the next few
will be able to continue
and nar­weeks." row its the vast opportunities for CWI L will objec­continue to
students within our 
tives. advise inter­
reduced budget. " 
C WI L national stu­will be dents, devel­added to Elaine Meyer-Lee op programs t h e like the
CWIL program director 
Academic Affairs budget, in line with Saint Mary's College President Carol Ann Mooney's New Strategic Plan, Meyer-Lee said. 
The Strategic Plan, which was presented to the Board of Trustees last October, reads, "The College's goal is to more fully integrate CWIL into the Academic Affairs Division and that divi­sion's budget so that we may continue to reap the benefits of its presence on our campus. In the future, the Center's reduced budget will necessitate a narrowing of its activities and a clearer focus for its work." 
Therefore, programs like the Encuentro summer program and the Intercultural Living 

On Jan. 24, the Senate Finance Committee sent out a request for information to the 136 wealthiest schools in the nation, including Notre Dame. According to the New York Times, the committee is gath­ering information on how uni­versities spend their endow­ments. The committee is look­
. ing into the possibility of pass­ing legislation that requires universities to spend a certain percentage of their endowment evBry year on financial aid. 
Notre Dame's endowment is currently worth more than $6 billion, of which $1 to $1.5 bil­lion is used for scholar­
Russo said. 

"Ideally, all undergraduate scholarships would be paid with endowment income some day -that is our goal" Russo said. 
The key to doing that, Russo said, is fundraising. 
"The current fundraising campaign is a big part of that," Russo said. "Ultimately, we want to keep Notre Dame affordable and help young peo­ple make their dreams come true." 
Contact Kate McClelland at mmcdell@nd.edu 
Catalyst Trip 
and the Certificate in Intercultural Leadership, distribute mini-grants, and bring intercultural events to campus. It will also hire interns each summer and sponsor Fellows and staff who teach at the College, said the program's direc­tor, Elaine Meyer-Lee 
"CWIL advances the College's mission of 'preparing students to make a difference in the world' by empowering women to realize their call to leadership and to develop the intercultural knowledge and compe­tence critical in today's increasingly interdepend­ent world," Meyer-Lee said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


DSLC 
continued from page 1 
The DSLC will address issues including immigration and race issues, social and economic injustice, sexual orientation, disability awareness, women in the business world, cultural diversity and body issues through a variety of presenta­tions, according to Erin McGuire, Student Diversity Board public relations chair. 
Some presentations will be in the form of a workshop, while others may be lectures or inter­active seminars. 
Educator and humanitarian Dr. Johnetta B. Cole will deliver the closing keynote address entitled "Are Diversity and Inclusion on Your Agenda?" McGuire said. Cole served as president of Bennett College for Women from 2002 to 2007 Walgreen's and First Source Bank. "There's a lot of stuff going on besides panels and workshops," McGuire said. 

Conferences organizers have extended the invitation beyond Saint Mary's. "We have stu­dents coming from IUSB, some students coming from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, University of St. Francis, Goshen College and Manchester College," Ortiz said. "We're focusing on reach­ing out to dHTerent institutions of higher education so that they .... will come and not only learn, but also share with us some other experience." 
Local and prospective high school students are invited to the conference. 
"[They will learn about) the same issues, but more geared toward a high school audi­ence." 
Student body president Kimberly Hodges said the DSLC 
not only attracts 
prospective cul­

and as presi­"{The conference] is turally diverse dent of students to the
about women making
Spelman campus, which 
a difference in the
College from is important for 1987 to 1997. world.'' recruitmont and Both are his­retention, but torically black the conference
Dr. Johnetta B. Cole
colleges. also helps build "She repre­educator and humanitarian Saint Mary's 


4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
sents what 
the confer­
ence is all about," Ortiz said. 
"It's about leadership, it's about 
women making a difference in 
the world. We're thrilled to 
have her as our keynote speak­
er." 
Dr. Gwendolyn Dungy, execu­
tive director of NASPA: Student 
Affairs Administrators in 
Higher Education, will deliver 
the opening keynote address. 
The DSLC also offers a 
Diversity Showcase, which will 
include poetry readings and 
performances by the Notre 
Dame First Class Steppers and 
G-Mime, McGuire said. 
DSLC will also offer a career 
fair with companies such as 

424 N. Frances Street 
relationship with 
the community. 

"[The DSLCI puts Saint Mary's back to where it needs to be in the community of South Bend," Hodges said. "Instead of just being in South Bend, we are part of the com­munity of South Bend because, speaking fi·om my experiences, this conference continues to connect us to underrepresent­ed individuals of the communi­ty," Hodges said. 
Ortiz hopes that attendance is even higher than last year, when 300 people came to the conference. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscoll@nd.edu 



ORLD & NATION 
Friday, February 1, 2008 COMPILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Snow paralyzes Chinese rail services 
GUANGZIIOU, China -Hundreds of thou­sands of desperate travelers, some hoisting terrified children or baggage over their heads, pushed their way onto trains Thursday as service resumed after the worst winter storms in decades paralyzed China. 
Piles of suitcases, dirty blankets, duffel bags, clothing and shoes, abandoned in the chaotic stampede, littered the rain-soaked train station in Guangzhou, the starting point for the busy rail line north to Beijing. 
Railway officials said the restored service could carry 400,000 passengers a day, but hundreds of thousands of stranded people, most of them migrant workers, were still waiting to leave the city. 
Australia to apologize to Aborigines 
CANBERRA, Australia -Aborigines have long lived on the fringe of Australian society, but they will take center stage when Parliament holds a historic ceremony to acknowledge the nation's capital is built on their land. 
On Thursday, Aboriginal leaders welcomed the latest step in a new era of indigenous relations in Australia. 
The first act of Prime Minister Kevin Rudd's new government will be to ask Parliament on Feb. 13 to pass a motion apol­ogizing for past policies of taking mostly mixed-race children from Aboriginal moth­ers to try to make them grow up like white Australians. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

FBI clears Egyptian college students 
TAMPA, fla. -Two Egyptian college stu­dents arrested near a South Carolina Navy weapons station last year were carrying low­grade fireworks, as they claimed, not the dan­gerous explosives as charged by federal prose­cutors, the FBI has determined. 
Ahmed Abdellatif Sherif Mohamed, 26, and Youssef Samir Megahed, 21, have been in jail since sheriffs deputies found what they called bomb-making materials in the trunk of their car during a traffic stop near Charleston, S.C. 
The FBI report was submitted to the court Wednesday by Megahed's public defender as part of a motion seeking bail. U.S. Attorney's Office spokesman Steve Cole declined com­ment on the filing Thursday. 
The two men, both engineering students at the University of South Florida, were indicted on federal charges of transporting explosives illegally. 

Colleges stand against climate change 
PORTLAND, Ore. -Global warming issues took over lecture halls in colleges across the country Thursday, with more than 1,500 uni­versities participating in what was billed as the nation's largest-ever "teach-in." 
Organizers said the goal of the event, dubbed "Focus the Nation," was to move past preach­ing to the green choir, to reach a captive audi­ence of students in many fields who might not otherwise tune in to climate change issues. 
Faculty members from a wide spectrum of disciplines -from chemistry to costume design -agreed to incorporate climate change issues into their lectures on Thursday. Community colleges and some high schools also took part. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Property tax leads legislative agenda 
INDIANAPOLIS -Property tax relief and reform remains the dominant issue as lawmakers head into the second half of this year's legislative session, with compromises on some key sticking points needP.d ifa final package for major change is to pass. 
There are plenty of other bills still alive after passing either the Democrat-controlled House or Hepublican-ruled SenatP., including ones dealing with illegal immigration, abortion and legalizing some low-stakes gambling in bars and taverns. 
The primary focus is still on property taxes, however, and Republican Gov. Mitch Daniels and legislative leaders say they are still optimistic that a plan providing immediate, significant and last­ing relief can be enacted. 
AFGHANISTAN 


Explosion kills deputy governor 
Suicide bomber kills five others and wounds 18 in mosque, Taliban claims responsibility 
Associated Press 
KANDAHAH -A suicide bomber blew himself up Thursday in a mosque in southern Afghanistan, killing a deputy provincial governor and five other people in another blow to President Hamid Karzai's U.S.-backed government. 
The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack, which came as U.S. officials were warning that the six-year mission to sta­bilize Afghanistan faces a crisis due to Taliban resilience and weakening international resolve. 
Pir Mohammad, deputy governor of Helmand province, was attending noon prayers at the mosque in the provincial capital of Lashkar Gah when the bomber struck, according to police chief Mohammad Hussein Andiwal. 
At least 18 people, including two children, were wounded by the blast, Andiwal said. 
Haji Ikramullah, who was walking to the mosque when the explosion occurred, said he saw bod­ies inside and wounded people shrieking in pain. 

A Taliban spokesman, Zabiullah Mujahid, claimed responsibility for the attack, which he said the "enemies of James Jones and former the drawdown by midyear was carried out by an Afghanistan" against U.N. Ambassador Thomas to determine whether they Afghan named Qudratullah "innocent civilians and Pickering warned that can hold on to security from the eastern province Muslim people." Afghanistan risks becom­gains with fewer American of Paktia, one of the cen­The assaults raise fears ing a failed state because troops. ters of Taliban resistance. that a resurgent Taliban of deteriorating interna­At the same time, 
Helmand province is the will step up their suicide tional support and the NATO's European mem­center of the world's attacks, which have raised growing Taliban insur­bers are refusing to send opium and heroin produc­alarm in Washington and gency. soldiers to Afghanistan's tion and the scene of other Western capitals The study concluded the dangerous south, opening intense fighting_ between over the future of the six­United States risks losing a rift between the U.S., militants and U.S., British year mission to stabilize the "forgotten war" in Britain, Canada, the and Afghan forces, which Afghanistan. Afghanistan unless it re­Netherlands and others claim to have killed thou­The Taliban launched energize anti-terrorism which have borne the sands of Taliban fighters. more than 140 suicide efforts in Afghanistan and brunt of fighting. 
Also Thursday, a suicide missions last year -the Pakistan, where al-Qaida The U.S. contributes bomber attacked an most since they were oust­is regrouping. one-third of NATO's Afghan army bus in Kabul, ed from power in late 2001 But the United States 42,000-member the capital, killing one by the U.S.-led invasion remains heavily committed International Security civilian and wounding a that followed the Sept. 11 in Iraq with about 160,000 Assistance Force mission, soldier and three other attacks on New York and troops. Plans call for making it the largest par­people. Washington. reducing that figure to ticipant. That does not 
Karzai condemned the This week, an independ­about 130,000 by July, include the 12,000 to attacks as "brutal and ter­ent study co-chaired by although U.S. officials have 13,000 American troops rorist acts" carried out by retired Marine Corps Gen. signaled they may suspend operating independently. 


Border guards require proof of citizenship 
Associated Press 

DETHOIT -Tougher identification rules went into effect Thursday along the nation's borders, but there appeared to be little added delay as travelers unprepared for the change were in many cases allowed to cross with a warning. 
Rather than seeing a bottleneck over the Ambassador Bridge into Detroit, truck driver Paul Kraus said, "It's actually slow today." The 42­year-old regularly crosses the bridge from Windsor, Ontario, and said he always carries required documents. 
U.S. and Canadian citizens enter­ing the country are no longer allowed to simply declare to immi­gration officers at border crossings that they are citizens. Instead, those 19 and older must show proof of citi­zenship, such as a passport or a "trusted traveler" card issued to fre­quent border crossers. Driver's licenses must be accompanied by proof of citizenship, such as a birth certificate. 
Orville McFarlane of San Diego had just his driver's license as he returned from a sports betting parlor in Tijuana, Mexico, but was still allowed past San Diego's main bor­der crossing. 
"I was taken aback a little bit" about being asked for a birth certifi­cate, the 36-year-old pharmacy tech­nician said. "I said I didn't have it. He gave me a reminder slip." 
Customs officials said that delays were minimal across the country and that most motorists had the docu­mentation they needed. 

"It's been a very smooth transi­tion," said Thomas Winkowski, assis­tant commissioner of the Office of Field Operations, Customs and Border Protection. "There have been no issues with wait times." 
Officers at the ports had latitude to admit people who are unaware of the changes once their identities were confirmed. and many points were offering a grace period and handing out fliers explaining the changes. 
P----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, February 1, 2008 
resume and interview, the better," he said.


Fair 
continued from page 1 
very excited to see U.S. Department of Justice booth. "That would be a wonderful opportunity to serve," he said. 
Several company repre­sentatives said they appre­ciated the variety of skills Arts and Letter majors have. Ernest 
Thompson said the appli­cant's degree was only "the tip of the iceberg. What you're trying to hire for is the whole person." 
But some students were still dissatisfied. English major Andrea D'Souza, who is originally from India, said she was concerned the Career Center did not pro­vide enough job opportuni­
ties for 

Adams, a sfln­interna­ior recruiter for "The more you can tional stu-Abercrombie illuminate who you dents in and Fitch. said Arts and
are, through your 
the company Letters. eonsiders all cover letter and "All of my 
majors for resume and interview, experi­entry-level ences with
the better. " 

positions. the Career 
"We're look­Center ing for appli­Joe Thompson have been cants with command production r e a I I y sharp, strong good," she
manager for the office of 
eommunica­said. "But
Naval intelligence 
tions skills," he it worries said. "We. want me that I passion. have only 
Command Produetion year Ieft on my visa and Manager for the Office of' most companies in Arts and Naval Intelligence Joe Letters won't sponsor you. Thompson said the federal I'm really stressing now," government will make she said. 194,000 hires in a wide D'Souza said the Career range of positions over the Center is "very friendly," next two years, offering but offered a few sugges­opportunities for every tions for improvement. major. "Holding a workshop for 
"It's a very strong mar­international students that ket," he said. aren't business or engi­Thompson emphasized that neers would help," she making a positive impres­said. ''I'd hate to think that sion with a striking applica­the only other option is tion can really distinguish a graduate school." candidate. 
"The more you can illumi­nate who you are, through Contact Brian McKenzie at your cover letter and bmackenzie.12@nd.edu 

Drifter sentenced to life in prison 
Hilton pleads guilty to killing of24-year-old hiker in botched robbery 
numbers," Darragh said. "He known in the area where
Associated Press 
mentioned at one point that he Emerson was hiking with her 
DAWSONVILLE, Ga. -The knew eventually he would take dog, a black Lab named Ella, wiry, graying drifter sought for her life." investigators have said. He was several days in the New Year's But Emerson gave him false often seen with his own dog, Day disappearance of a 24-PINs, and Hilton finally took a Dandy, and a police-style year-old hiker pleaded guilty tire iron to her head, the prose­baton. Thursday to murdering her in cutor said. llilton decapitated Authorities lieldnd numerous what authorities called a frus­her to make it harder for calls after releasing a descrip­trated robbery attempt. · authorities to identify the body, tion of him, and caught him 
In a startlingly swift resolu­said John Cagle, a special agent Jan. 4 after h11 trind to use tion to the case, Gary Michael in charge with the Georgia Emerson's cmdit card, accord­Hilton was immediately sen­Bureau of Investigation. ing to an arrest warrant. tenced to life in prison with the Authorities have said they Hilton led invnstigators to her possibility of parole after 30 are looking at whether Hilton body after proseeutors agrn1~d years. The judge said she had a hand in the October dis­not to seek the death penalty, signed off on the deal because appearance of an 80-year-old Darragh said. ller dog was the 61-year-old likely would hiker and his 84-year-old wife found in a grocery store park­have died in prison anyway in western North Carolina, and ing lot in Cumming, a suburb before the state had a chance in two other killings in Florida. north of Atlanta, 50 miles from to execute him. Cagle and where Emerson was last seen. 
Hilton was Darragh declined On Thursday, Hilton indicted 'The sole purpose to say what appeared in Dawson County Thursday was to acquire (bank) effect, if any, Superior Court before Judge morning by a Hilton's plea deal Bonnie Oliver with an orange
cards and PIN

specially called might have on jumpsuit and a bulletproof vest Dawson County numbers." those investiga-draping his lanky frame. He grand jury that tions. said little beyond answering, accused him of Sheriff David "Guilty," when asked for his
Lee Darragh 

bludgeoning Mahoney in plea.
Dawson County 

Meredith Transylvania Emerson's father, David Emerson on district attorney County, N.C., told Emerson, told the judge no Jan. 4, three the Asheville punishment was too great for days after he Citizen-Times Hilton. was seen with her on a trail in that investigators began ques­"Our days are filled with the mountains of northern tioning Hilton on Thursday tears and blank stares," he told Georgia. about the killing of Irene Oliver. 
Hilton told investigators he Bryant and the disappearance The judge made it clear she abducted the physically fit of her husband, John. was not issuing the life sen­woman in a plan to steal cash Hilton's lawyer, Brad Morris, tence out of pity. from her bank accounts, did not comment after the "Justice, in your case, Mr. Dawson County District hearing and did not immediate­Hilton, would be an immediate Attorney Lee Darragh said. ly return a message later execution," she said. "The 
"The sole purpose was to Thursday. court is not taking mercy on acquire (bank) cards and PIN The grizzled Hilton was well you because of your age." 

For mot'P infonnation: lYWw.salt:>sianvueation.cmn 
E mail: .;;a1Yoc,4htol.l-:-om 
Phom•: (9~3) "61 0201 

To rt>ad .Jolm Allt•n's at1idc• abou~ the Salt>shms visit: h t t p : ..· n n t i o n a I cat h o II c n• 1> o r· • e L o ~:· g 'w o n.L \\'ordtt63HU6.htm 
"SALESIAN LIFE IS VERY APPEALING TO "\"OUNG MEN WHO SEEK TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THIS WORLD." 
Setnl 1-Jogan, Notre D;une~04 

I '\t'tite this to t~ncotU"Ilg,e; thofie young n1en 'Who much like me dtuiug my t.bne at N(ttn~ llmtu• yearned for $<OJUdh.ing Jmu·.: Htau just a j~tb, who yearned for a calling to serve, to give WI they bad fm· others. l\:Iost espedaUy for those who botH:: to set'Ve yonug 1•eople and bring them dw•;cr to .Jesus. 
Hl~ F:m Sean Hogan da~s of \(}4 and still a Keough Roo at btart. A:Ue•· gr~duating from Notl:e D~une~ 1 found myself in a small tow.n in China working$ a lay ml.ssiomwy with Ute Salesiwt~ ifSt..Jolm Do~(·o. '"1tNt I apJliicd for a year of ser·vice and U'Nt bdon· 1 idt for China, I knew ve•-y 1U1fe about t.he SaJ.eniilns, bu.t bdng ti.l'Vrttud tht:~Ul fot· a shot1 timt~ it "'ftS ea.,y to see what thdi' Ufe u·~ alJ about. 
I sovtHi r't'aUzed why this gJ'OUJ' <tf num. Utese Saleshut pdests and hn:tthers. v~~r·e the :ou:-:t:ond b1rgest •~Ugious order' in the Ch.un-:h. 
Salt:~:dan liff• h vtt-y aJlpealing t.o young men \vtw seek to mal<e a 1.U1Ierence in this .,vorld. :Salt<sians, wheUt.et' the men I wod(t:d ·wUh iu China, Ko1·eu, or tlu-ones: l W<t.rk with iH.l\\' in the state:<i. line for young. people. :Salesians meet tbe youth \\'here they a1·e at, in seboqls, ~·outtt eentei"S,. f~aris:hes aud every\w.l•.e.J·e dse in bef.n·een. :Salesians lh•t< a life that allonc;s •heru ta off~•· a great pn:1u~U('C to young [WOJ•k. l('adiug. n:nd pret;aring Utt-m to be 20<ld (~~lnisthmn ~ntd hout-st citizens. 
St. ,:fohn Bosfo,. foutuler of the Salt:SiiUt'i, \\~ts dt:dt.tl'ed the ~~rttnm. or the :ymmg; becnusc of hi"> wo1"k for· poor and !umtdess ;;·omtgstcrs, Uc fotnHled tht' Sale$iam to t·ontlnue God's ·work for' tht' young. a ·wor•k tbat now rea~~::hes 134 (·onntries. .Jolm Allen. Vatlcau t~on·est•onderu for the National CadtoUc Rcpot1:er, -,.vrites of them~ ··The Salesians are set>n as rohu:~>tJy t•dhihle . not tlteoJ&gir~d inno\'~ato••s,. hnt do\·nl to ear·th JHlstot'S
.w 

and ednt·ators, iiUtd geu:erally w.ith. a good sense of hmuor ••. the Salesian pastoral nmdd is; solid, orthodox Catholit' J•iety: an ·in the tr·e~tdu~·s • commitment to tile young, Ult-poor, and to education: and a smmng t'IOSeHI("St> to tbe JlNlpk." 
\Vorking \Vith the Salesiaus has changed my life, t am now t•repal'ittg to join them. and cont.inue St. John Bosco's WOi'k of reaching out to those who ar-e young and JlOOJ'. rr you have t'V<'l' felt Utt ··holy ft'lUIItaHou-to fie'l'"li'C C'htist in nus 'li~'ay, check U:'ii out. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Friday, February 1, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,650.36 +207.53
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,525 89 824 1,090,894,716 
AMEX 
NASDAQ ..?,]89:8~ +40.86 NYSE .. ''9~126:16' 'TIP13i~~l S&P 500 1,378.55 +22.74 NIKKEI (TOkyo) 1S'i581:~'f.'tr1::~1Q"9{5 FTSE 100 (London) 51879.80 +42.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +1.82 +2.46 137.37 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +1.71 +0.76 45.13 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +4.07 +1.14 29.14 CITIGROUP INC (C) +2.21 +0.61 28.17 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -2.52 -0.094 3.639 13-WEEK BILL -12.62 -0.270 1.870 30-YEAR BOND -1.78 -0.079 4.354 5-YEAR NOTE -3.81 -0.112 2.826 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.58 91.75 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +1.70 928.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.85 94.55 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 106.4850 EURO 0.6729 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0021 BRffiSH POUND 0.5032 
IN BRIEF 
Economic woes hurt Google profits 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -Google Inc.'s fourth-quarter profit fell below analyst expec­tations, signaling the crumbling U.S. economy has dented the Internet search leader's mon­eymaking machine. 
The Mountain View-based company said Thursday that it earned $1.21 billion, or $3.79 per share, during the final three months of 2007. 
That's up 17 percent from net income of $1.03 billion, or $3.29 per share, in the same period a year earlier. 
If not for stock awards given to its employ­ees, Google said it would have made $4.43 per share -a penny below the average estimate among analysts polled by Thomson Financial. 
Revenue totaled $4.83 billion, a 51 percent improvement over $3.21 billion in the previous year. 
In a more important measure to investors, Google retained $3.39 billion in revenue after paying commissions to its thousands of adver­tising partners across the Web. 
The net revenue missed analyst estimates by about $60 million, or just under 2 percent. 
Fuel prices and credit hurt spending 
WASHINGTON -Buffeted by soaring fuel prices and tighter credit, consumers increased their spending at the weakest pace in six months. In other signs of trouble, applications for unemployment benefits last week soared by the largest number since Hurricane Katrina. 
The Commerce Department reported Thursday that consumer spending edged up just 0.2 percent in December-the year's peak shopping season. That was down sharply from a 1 percent gain in November. It was the weak­est performance in this area since a similar 0.2 percent rise in June of last year. 
Meanwhile, the Labor Department reported that the number of laid-off workers filing appli­cations for unemployment benefits increased by 69,000 to 375,000 last week. That was the highest level for jobless claims since the week of Oct. 8, 2005, when the economy was dealing with the disruptions caused by Hurricane Katrina and other Gulf Coast hurricanes. 


Bushbudgetmayexceed $3 trillion 
President expected to propose $200 billion in federal health care savings on Monday 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON President Bush's 2009 budget will virtually freeze most domestic pro­grams and seek nearly $200 billion in savings from federal health care programs, a senior administration official said Thursday. 
Overall, the Bush budget will exceed $3 trillion, this oflicial said. The deficit is expected to reach about $400 billion for this year and next. 
Bush on Monday will present his proposed budget for the new fiscal year to Congress, where it's unlikely to gain much traction in the midst of a presidential campaign. The president has prom­ised a plan that would erase the budget deficit by 2012 if his policies are followed. 
To that end, Bush will propose nearly $178 bil­lion in savings from Medicare over five years­nearly triple what he pro­posed last year. Much of the savings would come from freezing reimburse­ment rates for most health care providers for three years. An additional $17 billion would come from the Medicaid pro­Bush's proposal. The OMB official said The Centers for gram, the state-federal Both officials spoke on the president views the Medicare and Medicaid partnership that provides condition of anonymity budget as a final opportu­Services said the Bush health coverage to the because the budget has nity to slow the growth of budget would project the poor. not yet been released entitlement programs but 10-year cost of the pro­
The budget for most In his State of the Union recognizes that Congress gram, from 2008 to 2017, domestic programs fund­address Monday, Bush probably won't go along. at $915 billion. That's ed by Congress will look said his budget envisioned He said spending on $117 billion less than similar to last year's, a surplus in 2012. Medicare would increase what had been forecast according to the official, "American families have under Bush's new budget, last summer. The agency from the Office of to balance their budgets, but not as quickly as had attributed the lower esti­Management and Budget. and so should their gov­been expected. "Medicare mate to smaller increases 
"It's a very small ernment," he said. will grow at 5 percent. It in the cost of medicines, increase," he said. "Very The federal government just won't grow over 7 and better deals negotiat­small." is expected to spend about percent," he said. ed between insurers and 
A second administration $650 billion on Medicare Savings also would drug manufacturers. official said domestic dis­and Medicaid in 2008. It come by charging wealthi­The agency said 25.4 cretionary spending represents more than $1 er people higher monthly million people were now would increase by less out of every $5 spent by premiums for Medicare's enrolled in a Medicare than 1 percent under the federal government. drug program. drug plan. 

Investors optimistic as market rises 
out from the housing and mortgage market and the resulting souring Associated Press crisis and celebrated any news that mortgage debt. 
indicated the damage might limited. "Today is really more of a relief 
NEW YORK -Wall Street ended its Still, the market ended the month rally because the Fed did what the worst January since 1990 with a huge with heavy losses, evidence of how Street wanted. They did what was advance Thursday after investors set dejected investors have become. The expected of them and the MBIA news aside worries about bond insurers Fed's 1.25 percentage points in inter­relieved the fears of some investors," and grew more optimistic that the est rate cuts, designed to stave off a said Ryan Detrick, strategist at Federal Reserve's interest rate cuts recession, ultimately gave Wall Street Schaeffer's Investment Research in will indeed help lift the economy. some reassurance that the economy Cincinnati. "For once there's actually 
The Standard & Poor's 500 index, might soon show signs of recovery -maybe some calm coming into Wall the market measure most closely fol­although the market still gyrated Street." lowed by professional traders, lost 6.1 after the latest 0.50 percentage point The Dow rose 207.53, or 1.67 per­percent for the month, its biggest cut on Wednesday. cent, to 12,650.36. January drop since 1990, when it fell Bond insurer MBIA Inc. also molli­For the month, the Dow lost 4.63 
6.88 percent. Meanwhile the Dow fied Wall Street Thursday when its percent -its worst January since Jones industrials rose more than 200 chief executive, Gary Dunton, told losing 4.84 percent at the start of points Thursday but still suffered investors he is confident the company 2000. their worst January in eight years. can retain its crucial AAA credit rat­Broader stock indicators also 
The day's trading emerged as a ing and that MBIA will still be able to jumped Thursday. The S&P 500 index microcosm of the entire month, with raise fresh capital. rose 22.74, or 1.68 percent, to the Dow first falling more than 190 The notion that bond insurers could 1,378.55, and the Nasdaq composite points, and then by late afternoon, perhaps avoid being felled by a rush index rose 40.86, or 1. 7 4 percent, to soaring more than 250. It capped a of claims over swaths of bad debt 2,389.86. January that saw frequent triple-digit offered solace for investors who have The Hussell 2000 index of smaller moves in the blue chips as investors for months worried about the fallout companies rose 17.81, or 2.56 per­alternately anguished about the fall-from a sharp pullback in the housing cent, to 713.30. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, February 1, 2008 
new election, while Kibaki has made dear he will not negotiate 
So close to c•mpus you caa llear the shoats ••II set tlte lightshis position as president. In Nairobi, negotiators from the two ~~amps began the first day of 
Furnished Studio Apartments 
talks mediated by former U.N. 
One Bedroom Apartments
Secretary-General Kofi Annan. But the talks were delayed after 
T""o Bedroom One Bath Apartments 
a morning session, with Annan 
Two Bedroom One and a Half Bath Apartments with Fenced in Patio 

KENYA 
Officershoots<>ppffiitionleader 

Authorities say killing was a crime of passion over a woman 
Kenya descended into ethnic tion for his family. Associated Press 
cleansing and possibly genocide. "I know the woman who was In Paris, French Foreign with Too very well," LangatELDOHET -A policeman Minister Bernard Kouchner said, speaking from Too's homeshot and ki lied an opposition called on the U.N. Security village of Chepkoiyo. "In fact she 
lawmaker Thursday in what 
Council to act, saying France is my relative and there was noauthorities say was a crime of feared Kenya would "sink into a way that she was involved with 
passion over a woman. But 
murderous conflict of an ethnic the legislator in a love triangle." 
machete-wielding protesters 
character." In Eldoret, protesters usedconvinced it was an assassina­Too's death came two days large rocks to block the roadtion dashnd with police, leaving after another opposition law­outside the hospital and torched at least thme dead. 
maker, Mugabe Were, was fatal­a lumber yard belonging to aThe lighting interrupted talks ly shot as he drove to his house Kikuyu businessman. 
aimed at calming a nation 
in suburban Nairobi, setting off The violence also spread toJ.,rripped by violence since a dis­more violence in the capital's areas near Too's home villageputed election a month ago. 
slums and in western regions. and the western city of Kisumu, At least one person died and Opposition party secretary­an opposition stronghold, where 21 people were injured in this general Anyang Nyongo said the sky turned black with smoke western city after the lawmak­there was "an evil scheme" to from burning tires. A truck waser's death. In Eldoret's main kill legislators and rob the oppo­set on fire outside the police sta­hospital, bloody trails led to sition of its majority in parlia-tion, and a mob lobbed stones at
overcrowded wards where bandaged vic-m e n t . the station. 
Legislative "Kibaki must go! They are fin­
tims shared dirty mattresses "Too had expressed elections held ishing off our leaders!" the pro­
the same day testers yelled. 
on the floor 
fears that his life was 
as the presi­Police and protesters lobbing 
because there 
weren't enough in danger, especially dential vote stones at them engaged in run­beds. during the campaign gave the ning battles, then police fired opposition 99 into the crowd as a reporter
Police said period as he 
parliament watched. He saw a middle-agedDavid Too was 
crisscrossed the 
seats to 43 for man, shot in the stomach, lying 
shot by a police ollicer who dis­constituency to seek Kibaki's party. in the street. 
Were and A protester, Jane Akelo, saideovered the law­votes." 
Too would she saw an officer shoot amaker was hav­have been teenager in the head and theing an alTair Julius Langat freshmen law­youth died on the spot. She said with his girl­makers. While she saw another body lying on
friend. The spokesman 
neither was the road. 
woman 
seen as partic­Outside the main police sta­whom Too fami­ularly influential, they had local tion in Eldoret, about 40 people ly members deny was linked to followings that defeated incum­lay in the gravel trying to sleepthe politieian -was shot in the bents in hard-fought races. after they fled the violence insame attack also died, a hospital Police said Too's death was the nearby town ofNakuru. 
ollidal said. 
not linked to the political tur­Helen Kidogo cuddled her 11­Too was the second anti-gov­moil. Eldoret Deputy Police month-old son as her 6-year-old ernment legislator killed in a Chief Gabriel Kuya said the traf­daughter sat in the shadow ofweek; opposition politicians said fic officer had discovered that the police station. The familyboth were victims of assassina­his girlfriend was having an had fled their home withouttion plots. A Too family 
affair with Too, and chased the anything.
spokesman accused the police of pair on his motorcycle when he ''I'm seared for my children,"a cover-up, saying the lawmak­saw them together in a ear. Kidogo said. "People are burn­er was not involved with the "He drove toward the side of ing houses, killing people andwoman and had feared for his the woman and shot her in the burning them." 
safl1ty. 
stomach twice. Her partner (leg­Orwe Collins, a 23-year-old"Too had expressed fears that islator Too) pleaded with the mechanic, looked over the smol­his liliJ was in danger, especially officer not to kill her but he dering ruins of the lumber yard. 
during the campaign period as turned his pistol on him instead, "Life is not back to normal. Wehe crisscrossed the constituency hitting him four times in the are ready to die for change,"to seek votes," said spokesman head," Kuya told the AP. Collins said. "The situation can.Julius Langat. 
Langat, the Too family go from calm to bad in aKnnya has been embroilod in spokesman, said the woman minute, like when this MP wasnthnic violence since President was a police ollicer and that Too shot today. It was peaceful thisMwai Kibaki was declared the had gone to her to seek protec-morning."
winner of the Dec. 27 election and opposition candidate Raila Odinga, head of Too's party, rejeeted the result, saying the vote had been rigged. 
Much of the bloodshed has pittnd other tribes, including Odinga's Luo, against Kibaki's Kikuyu people. Kikuyus, Kenya's largest ethnic J.,rroup, have long been resented for their domi­nance of the economy and poli­ties. Western Kenya's Hift Valley has seen some of the worst vio­lence. 
Odinga has said he wants a 
saying leaders needed to calm their followers following Too's death. 
TURTLE CREEK AMENITIES
"We will postpone our session this afternoon and work all day 
.''"Tan for FREE at Fun Tan 
tomorrow so they ean attend to urgnnt mattnrs, call eonstituen­
I-Ieated Pool and Hot Tub 
eins and talk to other people," 

Pet Friendly
Annan said. At a summit in Ethiopia, the 

<'On Site Security
head of the African Union warned leaders of the continent they could not stand by while 

ND professor exatnines regulatory agencies 
fairly common condition in
Special to the Observer 
environmental regulation. 

In an article published in "The ESA should be peri­UCLA Law Review, Alex odically and methodically Camacho, associate profes-evaluated to determine if it sor of law is advancing the public goals at the 
it was proposed to cultivate," N o t r e Camacho said. "Though the Dame Law ESA has been modified sev­School, eral times since its original criticizes adoption in 1973, neither Congress Congress nor the Fish and and the Wildlife Service has really 
U.S. Fish bothered with rigorous a n d analysis of its efficacy." Wildlife Service for Camacho Camacho points to the misman-Habitat Conservation Plan of agement of the Habitat the ESA as a promising regu­Conservation Plan (HCP) pro­latory innovation for its stat­gram under the Endangered ed goal of saving endangered Species Act (ESA). The arti­species via negotiated agree­cle is the first comprehen­ments between private sive assessment of what landowners and the federal Camacho calls a "pioneering government rather than by but ultimately defective pro­government mandate alone. gram." "Though these agreements 
Camacho contends that may have promise for regulatory agencies like the addressing conflicts over 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife species conservation and Service fail to systematically economic development," he review the effectiveness of said, "with few exceptions their programs and therefore they are adopted with little do not have the information participation from the public necessary to know what or independent scientists. works and what doesn't. This too often produces risky 
He says these agencies regulatory approvals that would benefit greatly by lack basic yet vital informa­incorporating an experimen­tion." tal approach to regulation: Camacho cites the often­try a course of action, gather touted Plum Creek agree­data and assess the pro­ment in Washington. gram's effectiveness, adjust "The agreement remains in the approach based on the effect despite a 50 percent information gathered, and decline in endangered spot­continue to monitor and ted owls attributable to an adapt throughout the life of alarming influx of invasive the program. Such an barred owls -a contingency approach is particularly cru­unforeseen during agree­cial when there is substan­ment approval," he said. tial uncertainty regarding "With monitoring and adap­the best regulatory approach tation, this could be prevent­for an agency to take -a ed." 



se recycle 

MBObserver 


,,. 
::.::-:-.
~~:,··'··.·.·(:7/
~ 
±4:, 




TurtleCreek 
APARTMENTS 
1710 E. Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Phone: 574-272-8124 
(112 block east of campus on Vaness Street) 
Fax:574-273-6921 
'W'tVV\.1~LiveTurtleC'reek.<:.'~>m
,',W'NNU'.w-o""'--.'o.V.WoY,'M''~--..........,.,,..,._-~.......,...w;..w,·w''"""A._......, ""-· .....; ................Y..,W."Mon•'-'•" '·"'"""'""''·-,_.._.,' 


:®6­

Friday, February 1, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT • page 9 
know no boundaries 

WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 

THIS IS A FREE BUT TICKETED EVENT • TICKET OFFICE: 631.2800 • PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
Upcoming Desert Bayou The Kite Runner Blood Diamond World View Events February 22 March 14 April 3 
Director Alex LeMay will discuss his film Cospoilsored with Center tor Social Concems 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
.rJf''WI: DEBAR T 0 l 0WNOTREDAME ''~~'' ;f!.' PERFORMING ARTS Cf.NTER 
Office ofthe President 
page 10 • The Observer + WORLD NEWS Friday, February 1, 2008 
IRAQ 
Civilians killed as Iraq violence continues 
Britain's airport base pummeled with 20 rockets as officials realize fragility of recent security improvements 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD Violence 
returned Thursday to the south­
ern city of Basra, where mili­
tants pummeled Britain's air­
port base with 20 rockets and 
British gunners answered with 
volleys of artillery. Civilians 
were killed and wounded in the 
crossfire. 
In Baghdad, a bomb-rigged 

car blew apart at a bus stop, 
killing at least five people in a 
Shiite enclave that had not seen 
major violence in months. 
The two attacks -in areas 

considered relatively stable ­
were troubling reminders that 
recent improvements in Iraqi 
security were fragile and far 
from deeply rooted. 
The Basra battle also exposed 

potential security gaps around 
Iraq's second-largest city less 
than two months after a scaled­
down British force handed over 
control to Iraqi police and mili­
tary. Hival Shiite factions are 
locked in fierce struggles for 
dominance in Basra and the 
rest of the oil-rich south. 
U.S. forces, meanwhile, have expanded offensives in central and northern Iraq, seeking to build on gains against al-Qaida in Iraq in the past year. But the latest campaigns also have driv­en up the military's death toll after months of decline. 
A U.S. soldier was killed 

Thursday by a roadside bomb 
in Baghdad, the military report­
ed, but gave no other immedi­
ate details. The victim's name 
was not given because family 
had not been notified. 
At least 38 U.S. soldiers have been killed in January -well above the 23 in December but still sharply lower than a year ago. In January last year, 83 soldiers were killed in Iraq. 
Since the beginning of the war in 2003, at least 3,942 members of the U.S. military have died. The total for January could rise; occasionally the mili­tary reports new casualties a f'nw days after they occur. 
Casualty figures were uncer­tain in Basra, where militants launched a 45-minute barrage at dawn with 20 Katyusha rock­ets hitting Britain's base at the airport. The unguided Katyusha, which can be fired from mobile launchers, is a common part of militant arse­nals in Iraq and used elsewhere by militias, including llezbollah in Lebanon. · 
Three British soldiers were reported wounded, but there was little damage to the base. 
The British military said it mspondnd with six high-explo­sive artillery shells -killing at least one person and wounding live. 
An Iraqi military intelligence ol'licer at the British base said about 10 Iraqi civilians were either killed or wounded, although he could not provide a breakdown. The officer spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to release the information. 
"We regret all deaths and injuries in Basra, from whatev­er cause," said Capt. Finn Aldrich, a British military spokesman in Basra. 
"The only people that arc suf­fering because of these attacks are the people of Iraq. These attacks are delaying the devel­opm!~nt of Basra and thtl pros­perity of the people of Basra. Without security and stability, there will be limited foreign investment -investment that will speed up the development of Basra," the spokesman said. 
Although Iraqi forces have command of security in Basra, about 340 miles southeast of Baghdad, Britain currently maintains about 4,500 troops at the airport outside the city and can provide assistance if called. British forces have come under sporadic attacks at the base, but the numbers have fallen dramatically since the hand­over Dec. 16. 
The number of British troops could be further cut to 2,000 by spring. In the months soon after Saddam Hussein was toppled, there were about 40,000 British troops in Iraq. 
In Baghdad, the car bomb was parked near a bus stop used by workers in factories 
scattered throughout that part showed, the lowest monthly of the Kazimiyah district, which death toll since December 2005, is home to one of the Iraq's holi­and continuing a downward est Shiite shrines. trend since the fall. The figure 
The area, like many Shiite­as tabulated by Iraqi officials in dominated neighborhoods in the ministries of Defense, the capital, had returned to Interior and Health was slightly 
near normal in  lower, at 543.  
recent  months  In another part  
with the overall improvement of security and expansion of  "The only people that are suffering because of these attacks are  of the capital, Adnan al­Dulaimi, one of Iraq's most influ­ 
checkpoints and barriers. The  the people ofIraq. ,,  ential Sunni politicians, had  
workers were heading home under scudding  Capt. Finn Aldrich British military  planned to meet with Iran's ambassador to  
clouds traces  and of light  spokesman  discuss the secu­rity situation and  
snow mixed with  other issues. But  

rain -in what has been an Iraqi soldiers prevented the unusually cold Baghdad winter. Shiite diplomat from reaching 
The number of Iraqi civilians the talks, officials said. and security forces killed so far Ambassador Hassan Kazemi in January fell to at least 599, Qomi was turned back at an an Associated Press tally Iraqi army checkpoint near a!­
Dulaimi's compound, according to officials from both sides. 
Security has been stepped up in the volatile Adil district after car bombs and other explosives were found there in late November -prompting the arrest of al-Dulaimi's son, Maki, along with a temporary parlia­mentary walkout by Sunni law­makers. 
Thursday's incident, however, appeared to be a communica­tions mix up. Al-Dulaimi's office had not given the Iraqi army proper notice about the visit, a director in the Iranian ambas­sador's office said, speaking on condition of anonymity in exchange for discussing diplo­matic discussions. 
But it was the latest point of friction between the Sunnis and the Shiite-led establishment that is tempering optimism about a broader decline in vio­lence. 

SCHEDULE OF THE MINI CONFERENCE 



12:30 pm Introduction 
12:45 pm Robert Jensen, Ph.D. 
•Ph.D. 
in Media Ethics and Law at the University of Minnesota 

•
Associate Professor in the School ofJournalism at University of Texas at Austin 


•
Author of Getting Off. Pornograp~ and the End of MasCNJinity 

•Co-author 
of Pornograp~: The Prodllction and Cons~~mption of IneqNality 

•Co-editor 
of Freeing the FirstAmendment: Critical Perspectives on Freedom of Expression 




2:30pm Gail Dines, Ph.D. 
•Ph.D. 
from the University of Salford in England 

•Professor 
of Sociology and Women's Studies at Wheelock College in Boston 


•Co-editor of Gendet; Race and Class in Media 
•Co-author of Pornograp~: The ProdtiCtion and Cons~~mption of Ineq~~ality 
•Featured in ABC News, National Public Radio, Time, Newsweek, Vogue 


4:15pm Notte Dame Panel 
Sister Susan Bruno~ OSF -Rector, Pasquerilla West Hall Reverend Peter)arret, CSC -Religious Superior, Corby Hall Stephanie Brauer -French major & Anthropology minor Patrick Tighe -Philosophy major & PPE minor 
5:15pm Closing Remarks 
Friday, February 1, 2008 Center for Continuip.g Education McKenna ffall Refreshments Provided 
Office of the President, Gender Relations Center, Gender Studies, Feminist Voice, Identity Project of Notte Dame, Men Against Violence~ Progressive Student Alliance 
Friday, February 1, 2008 
The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 

Cellmate claims woman confessed 
Arnold microwaved baby, Williams says 
Associated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio -A former cellmate of a woman accused of killing her month-old baby by burning the girl in a microwave testified Thursday that the woman confessed to the crime, saying the baby "fit right in" the oven. 
Linda Williams testified that she developed a sexual relation­ship with defendant China Arnold when the two were cell­mates in the Montgomery County jail in March and that Arnold confided in her about what hap­pened to her baby. 
She said Arnold feared that her boyfriend believed he wasn't the child's father and that he was going to leave her. 
"She said she put the baby into the microwave and started it and left the house," Williams said. 
Williams said "She said she put the boyfriend over she asked baby into the whether they
Arnold how she had been faith­
microwave and started
got the child into ful to each the oven. it and left the house." other. "She said she When the fit right in," couple took the
Linda Williams 
Williams said. baby to the hos­
inmate
Sitting at the defense table, the 27 -year-old Arnold showed little emotion as her trial got under way in the August 2005 death of Paris Talley at their Dayton home. 
Under cross-examination by defense attorney Jon Paul Rion, Williams acknowledged that she met with detectives after the alleged conversation and told them Arnold had said she didn't know how the baby died. 
Williams, who has since been released from jail, said she lied to detectives in that initial inter­view because she had feelings for Arnold. 
In his opening statement. Hion said: "The evidence is going to show that she did not purposely take the life of her own baby." 
Rion said that other people had access to the baby, that Arnold was intoxicated to the point of blacking out when the child died and that people questioned about the case changed their sto­ries. Rion also raised questions about the reliability of the sci­ence when it comes to determin­ing the effect of microwaves on humans. 
Coroner's officials have said the baby suffered high-heat internal injuries and had no external burns. They have ruled out scalding water, open flame or other possible causes of death that could have damaged the skin. 
During the opening statement by Assistant Montgomery County Prosecutor Daniel Brandt, a photo of the burned baby was flashed on a screen for the 12­member jury to see. Arnold sat quietly, occasionally jotting notes on a yellow legal pad. 
Brandt said Arnold killed the 
child after argu­
ing with her 
pital, Brandt 
said, Arnold exclaimed: '"I killed my baby. I killed my baby."' 
Brandt said Arnold later told police it never would have hap­pened had she not gotten so drunk. He said Arnold, who has been in jail since she was charged in November 2006, told Williams she had killed the baby in the microwave and other inmates that she hadn't meant to do it. 
Rion said Arnold, who has three sons, loved having a daughter and quit college and her job so she could stay home and take care of her. Rion said that Arnold's boyfriend was the father of the child, and that it couldn't have been anyone else. 
Suicide numbers trouble Army 
Attempts to curb problem largely unsuccessful as rate continues to climb 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Multiple new efforts aimed at stemming suicides in the Army are falling short of their goal: The service anticipates another jump in the annual number of soldiers who killed themselves or tried to, including in the Iraq and Afghanistan war zones. 
As many as 121 soldiers com­mitted suicide in 2007, an increase of some 20 percent over 2006, according to prelim­inary fig-u r e s 
"We have been perturbed 
released ing deployments Thursday. by the rise despite all of in Iraq. That 
The num-our efforts. '' compared with 
ber who 27 in Iraq the tried to previous year.
Col. Elspeth Ritchie 
commit sui­Four were con­cide or psychiatry consultant to the firmed in injured Army surgeon general Afghanistan 
themselves for some other reason jumped six-fold in the last several years -from 350 in 2002 to about 2,100 incidents last year. Oflicials said an unknown portion of that increase was likely due to use of a new electronic tracking system that is more thorough in capturing health data than the previous system. 
The increases come despite a host of efforts to improve the mental health of a force that has been stressed by lengthy and repeated deployments to the longer-than-expected war in Iraq, and the most deadly year yet in the now six-year-old conflict in Afghanistan. 
"We have been perturbed by the rise despite all of our efforts," said Col. Elspeth Ritchie, psychiatry consultant to the Army surgeon general. 
Those efforts include more training and education pro­grams, the hiring of more men­tal health professionals and the addition of screening programs launched after a succession of studies found the military's peacetime health care system overwhelmed by troops coming home from the two foreign wars. 
"We know we've been doing a lot of training and education," Ritchie told a Pentagon press conference. "Clearly we need to be doing more." 
The preliminary figures on 2007 show that among active duty soldiers and National Guard and Reserve troops that have been activated there were 89 confirmed suicides and 32 deaths that are suspected sui­cides but still under investiga­tion. 
Less than a third of those who committed suicide ­
about 34 ­
happened dur­
compared with three there in 2006. 
The total of 121, if all are confirmed, would be more than double the 52 reported in 2001, before the Sept. 11 attacks prompted the Bush administra­tion to launch its counter-terror war. The toll was 87 by 2005 and 102 in 2006. 
Oflicials said the rate of sui­cides per 100,000 active duty soldiers has not yet been calcu­lated for 2007. The 2006 toll of 102 translated to a rate of 17.5 per 100,000, the highest since the Army started count­
ing in 1980,  "Until they come to  Patty Murray,  
officials said. The rate has fluctuated over those years, with  grips with how long and frequent deployments are shattering lives we will continue to see this  D-Wash., a leading critic of the treat­ment given returning Iraq  
the low being 9.1 per  frightening trend."  a n d Afghanistan  
100,000  in  veterans,  
2001.  Patty Murray  called the new  
That  toll  U.S. senator  ligures "heart­ 
and rate for  wrenching."  
2006  is  a  "Until  they  

revision from figures released come to grips with how long in August. Officials earlier had and frequent deployments are reported that 99 soldiers had straining soldiers and shatter­killed themselves in 2006 and ing lives we will continue to see two cases were pending -as this frightening trend," she opposed to the 102 now all con-said. 
firmed. It's common for investi­gations to take time and for officials to study results at length before releasing them publicly. 
Ritchie said Thursday, as she did last year, that officials are finding that failed personal relationships are the main motive for the suicides, fol­lowed by legal and financial problems as well as job-related difficulties. 
Long and repeated tours of duty away from home con­tribute significantly in that they weigh heavily on family rela­tions and compound the other problems, oflicials said. 
"People don't tend to suicide as a direct result of combat," Ritchie said. "But the frequent deployments strain relation­ships. And strained relations and divorce are definitely relat­ed to increased suicide." 
With the Army stretched thin by years of fighting the two wars, the Pentagon last year extended normal tours of duty from 12 months to 15 months and has sent some troops back to the wars several times. The Army has been hoping to reduce tour lengths this sum­mer. But the prospect could depend heavily on what Gen. David Petraeus, the top U.S. commander in Iraq, recom­mends when he gives his assessment of security in Iraq and troop needs to Congress in 
April. 
U.S. Sen. 

Inmate granted reprieve minutes before execution 
Associated Press 
ATMORE, Ala. -A murder­er who would have become the nation"s first executed inmate in months won a reprieve Thursday from the 
U.S. Supreme Court a little more than an hour before he was scheduled to die by lethal injection. 
James Harvey Callahan, set to die at 6 p.m. CST. was granted a stay, Holman prison warden Grantt Culliver told officers on death row. The Supreme Court"s brief order did not detail why it granted the stay. 
It would have been the nation"s first execution since September, when the high court agreed to consider whether lethal injection is cruel and unusual punish­ment. The inmate"s attorney had asked the high court to halt the execution after a fed­eral appeals court lifted a stay granted by a Montgomery judge. 
Callahan was sentenced to death for the 1982 murder of Jacksonville State University 
student  Rebecca  Suzanne  
Howell, who  was  abducted  
from  a  coin  

laundry and raped before b e i n g strangled a n d dumped in a creek. 
H e r mother, 


V e r n a Callahan 
Coheley, and sister, Karen Greer, had arrived to witness the execu­tion. A corrections officer quoted them as saying it was "cruel and unusual" for them to get there only to learn of the stay, said prison system spokesman Brian Corbett. 
The Supreme Court on Sept. 25 agreed to hear a challenge filed by two Kentucky death row inmates over that state"s lethal injection method. No 
U.S. executions have taken place since then, except for one that occurred in Texas just hours after the decision was made. 
Courts have put off several executions pending the Kentucky case, including that of Alabama death row inmate Tommy Arthur. He was to have been put to death at Holman prison near Atmore on Dec. 6, but the Supreme Court stopped the execution a day earlier. 
Callahan challenged Alabama"s method of lethal injection, which like most cap­ital-punishment states is simi­lar to Kentucky"s. The Atlanta-based 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled Tuesday, however, that he waited too long to do so. 
In its 2-1 ruling lifting a lower-court judge"s Dec. 14 stay, the appeals court said it did not make any finding on "the relative merits of Callahan"s constitutional claim because we conclude the claim is barred by the statute of limitations." 
The Supreme Court heard oral arguments in the Kentucky case Jan. 7; a ruling is unlikely before spring. 
Kentucky death row inmates Ralph Baze and Thomas Clyde Bowling Jr. claim that lethal injection as practiced by the state amounts to cruel and unusual punishment, in viola­tion of the Eighth Amendment. 
Lethal injections, devised as a humane alternative to elec­trocution and the gas cham­ber, have come under attack in recent years amid reports that the three-drug cocktail doesn't always work as quick­ly as intended and that inmates are subjected to excruciating pain before they die. 
Callahan, who has been on death row for more than a quarter-century, met with a half-dozen relatives, including two sisters and his son, as the hour of the execution approached. He had only a cheeseburger and a Coke for what could have been his last meal. 
Corbett, the Department of Corrections spokesman, said Callahan appeared confident he would get a stay but was "anxious" at times. 
The warden said family members were "overjoyed and applauded when told of the stay." 
Separately Thursday, a young man who says he fatally shot a retired police officer in 2003 because he thought the "A" on the victim's cap meant he was the Antichrist had his death sentence reduced by the Florida Supreme Court. 
The justices unanimously ordered that Ryan Green, 24, be sentenced to life in prisoo without parole based on evi­dence of schizophrenia. A Pensacola jury had rejected his insanity p.lea in convicting Green of first-degree murder, but he appealed only his sen­tence. 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, February I, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dam<, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Nmr< Dam<, IN 46556 
EorroR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USINFSS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Kyle Cassily Ass1; MANAI;ING EI>ITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NF.ws EDITOR! Karen Langley 
VmWI'UINT EDrroR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR! Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR! Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
Ao DF.~IGN MANAGER! Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR! Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily nt'WSpaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer rt'SCrves the right to refuse adwrrisenwnrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Un~igncd edirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columm present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofTh,• Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QueJtions regarding Observer policit!S should he direcud to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'l11c l)h<~Ctver {l!SPS ~l)t) 2-41100) is pt.~blishc:d Munday rhruugh 1-'rl~ld)' ~o-xc,:ept dur1ng cx;ana ounl v:t~'lldull (ltrimb. AllllhM:npriun to ·nu· Observer is $1()0 fm llflt' 11mdc:mk ycau;$551iH•ulC~mclltcr 
The Ohn:Mr is publi~hl;t1 At: POSTMASTER 
024 Souch Diniu(( Ih.ll St'nd :addrco;., corr~Xtioru to: 
Norre I>:ame, IN <if.'\~ft-0779 ThcOb~rvcr 
Periodkal P'•'·'Kt: p1ud a1 Notre Dam< P.O.Boxn9 
and WdiliQfllli mailing ntlk"C!i. 024 Sourh Dining H.dl 
Nom Dame, JN 465S6-0n9 
The Ohscrver i5 11 mcmbct ofrhc Ailloc.l.art:,l Prcn. All reproduction riglu~ arc 
I'Qiervc.!. 
TooAv's STAFF 

News Sports Joseph McMahon Deirdre Krasula Katie Peralta Chris Hine Brian McKenzie Michael Bryan 
Graphics Griffin Dassatti Mary Jesse Scene Viewpoint Mark Witte Kara King 

Acknowledging, not promoting, racism 
It would be easy to pretend that the racist letters sent last week to hundreds of Notre Dame students were mean­ingless garbage. It would be easy to quickly toss them in the trash without a second glance -although their mes­
sage would certainly continue to trouble many recipients. It would be easy to do, but it wouldn't solve anything. 
Some people have questioned our decision to publish a prominent story about hateful, horribly misguided letters. And they have a point: The man who wrote them doesn't deserve the stir he's caused. At Ohio State, does still exist. There are many injustices in this world that should make people uncomfortable. The reader has a right to know. 
In writing about the letters, we chose to focus on the fact 
OTHf BSERVER 

Editorial 
where students received similar hate mail last year ­based on the name found in the letters, presumably from the same man -the school newspaper chose not to print a story, "for fear of perpetuating such racism," according to a staff editorial. 
Writing about -and thus acknowledging the existence of-racism doesn't mean promoting it. It doesn't mean presenting it as credible, and it also doesn't mean perpetu­ating it. It means informing people that, sadly, hate speech 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
We also decided not to print the man's name, since we had been unable to contact him and confirm that he was, in fact, the writer. His name was not in online phone direc­tories. We weren't sure if the name is real. We didn't want to print what we couldn't confirm. 
It's hard to cover a story started by a man who doesn't deserve coverage. The alternative, however, is worse: to act like nothing happened. That's not a solution. It's igno­ranee. 




that they had been sent, and then the University's response to them. We questioned how much -if anything -from the letter we should print, since we didn't want to give the man a platform to spout hate speech. At the same time, we needed to give readers enough information to understand the story. We quoted minimally and paraphrased certain portions of the letter. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"All right, brain, you don't like me, and I don't like you, but let's just get me through this, and I can get back to killing you with beer. " 
Matt Groening 
U.S. cartoonist 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Friday, February 1, 2008 page 13 
The Wall came tumbling down 
On Jan. 23, Hamas militants destroyed several large stretches of a seven-mile barricade between Egypt and Gaza, erect­ed by Israel before Hamas came into power last year. Many journalists have referred to the barri­cade as "Gaza's Berlin Andrea Wall," a parallel they Laidman continued to draw last 
week. High Sounding However, the differ-Words ences -not vague similarities -between the collapse of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the "fall" of the Gaza border fence are the most important part of the story unfolding in the Middle East. The Berlin Wall fell as a step toward consensus in Germany and as a sign of public desire for unity. The fence intended to keep Palestinians in Gaza and most everything else out was brought down, with the help of blow-torches and explo­sives, out of desperation from within. Reporters on the ground in Gaza and Egypt last Wednesday described the move­ment of tens of thousands of Palestinians in and out of the border city of Rafah as a major shopping spree for food and medi­cine (any movement in or out of Gaza had been prohibited by Israel for more than a week. punishment for rocket attacks on southern Israel). Rather than stop the flow of people or even attempt to direct the crowds, Egyptian soldiers stood aside, reportedly smiling, letting the Palestinians pass. Necessities like sugar for baking and cement for building homes, which are scarce in Gaza and absurdly expensive 
when and where available, were being lugged back across the border openings in huge quantities. 
Some officials in Hamas called the events last Wednesday the beginning of the end of Gaza's isolation. A senior Hamas political advisor in Gaza said, "Actually it's more than just looking for medical or food supplies, it's something like a sense of relief, a sense of freedom." 
These Hamas officials predict a new dynamic in political policies surrounding Gaza, a moral victory for Palestinians and Hamas, and a blow to U.S.-Israeli policy. Hamas also hopes the breakdown at the border will spur a new dialogue with Egypt that will create an arrangement other than re-sealing the Gaza strip. 
These sentiments serve to align the events of last week with the effects of the fall of the Berlin Wall, but the reality is that neither Israeli nor Egyptian officials are viewing the breach of the border in this light. 
The contrast with Berlin comes to a head in this point: the fall of the wall in Gaza does not indicate decades of conflict coming to an end, but, it seems, decades of conflict escalating further still. 
The reaction from Israeli government officials was not the desire to work with Palestinians, but either to seal off Gaza and wave off any responsibility for its resi­dents, or to invade and renew their authority over the territory. 
The Israeli deputy defense minister, Matan VIlnai, called the rush of Palestinians across the border an opportu­nity for Israel to "disconnect" from Gaza. 
"We need to understand that when Gaza is open to the other side we lose responsi­bility for it. So we want to disconnect from it. We want to stop supplying electricity to them, stop supplying them with water and medicine, so that it would come from another place," Vilnai said. 
That place would likely be Egypt, where Israel (and indeed, the U.S.) was throwing responsibility for restoring security and closing the border, and where officials like Vilnai would like to see the burden of Gaza re-positioned. 
But while Egyptian Foreign Ministry spokesman Hassarn Zaki said that the bor­der would be open "as long as this is a humanitarian crisis," Egyptian officials have been clear about their intention to re-seal the border-and not to develop any new or cooperative relationships with Ham as. 
Meanwhile, the Israeli defense minister, Ehud Barak, spoke of considering a major invasion of Gaza. 
"Probably we will find ourselves there," Barak told the Associated Press. "We are not rushing to reconquer Gaza, but we will not remove any option from the table when it comes to the security of our citi­zens." 
In Washington, White House spokes­woman Dana Perino characterized the blockade as a means of self-defense for Israel, who she said was also committed to preventing a humanitarian crisis. She called Harnas the "genesis of the prob­lem." 
"The blame for this problem can be laid squarely at the feet of Barnas," Perino said, stating last Wednesday that the polit­ical group sends "upward of 150 rockets a day into Israel." 
The perception of Harnas on the ground at the border openings was quite the opposite. "This is the best thing Barnas has ever done" was the resounding anthem of the day, repeated by Palestinian citizens. 
One woman told a New York Times reporter, "We thank Barnas for this. I'm a Palestinian. not Fatah or Barnas. But I thank Harnas. This is the best thing they have done." 
This range of reactions and conflicting intentions demonstrate that the day "Gaza's Berlin Wall fell" was not like its supposed historical precedent. That does not mean, however, that 1989 Berlin has no lessons to offer the U.S., Egypt, Israel and Palestine in dealing with the question of what to do next in Gaza. Rather than attempt to parallel what has happened, all players must turn to what is needed today. The answer is not dissimilar from what the world needed a dose of in 1989: multi­lateral cooperation, international unity, and practical hope for the future. 
Andrea Laidman is a senior political science and peace studies major. Her columns title recalls advice given to John Adams by his wife, Abigail: "We have too many high sounding words, and too few actions that correspond with them. "She can be contacted at alaidman@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Workers and the Catholic university 
I am a Catholic novelist, which makes me a member of a distinct minority in the world of letters. When I arrived at Notre Dame in 1993, I looked forward to teaching at a university where my work would not be regarded as exotic. A veteran of Catholic undergraduate education, I 
thought I kne~ wh_at to_expect Valerie Sayers from a Catholic uruverstty. I was wrong. Notre Dame, 
Guest 
because it is our country's preem­
Columnist 
inent Catholic university, debates, trumpets and worries about our Catholic identity more than any other institution I know. One of the administration's biggest current worries is how to attract and retain gifted, productive Catholic fac­ulty and those drawn to our Catholic mission. The Provost's Committee on Recruiting Outstanding Catholic Faculty recently issued a report filled with sensible rec­ommendations about how we might achieve that goal. 
As a fairly-paid, well-treated faculty member, I'd like to add one more suggestion to the list: let's make Notre Dame the Catholic university known for the fairest labor practices in the country. What's the connection, you ask, between attracting a first-rate faculty to a Catholic uni­versity and treating the other workers on campus fairly? 
The way we treat our extensive staff and our part-time faculty says everything about the ethos and morals of this University. Paying our workers fairly and listening to their concerns will demonstrate that Notre Dame's Catholicism is more than a pious group identity. Fair labor practices embody the Gospel values at the heart of Notre Dame's mission. 
We should all be encouraged that Notre Dame staff members receive many of the same benefits as faculty. We should be proud that the University has chosen to retain many food service jobs that other colleges have outsourced. But when Notre Dame says that its wages are locally competitive, we should examine the claim carefully. We don't have to drive very far from Notre Dame's campus to see the visible signs of how very trou­bled the local economy is, or how many South Bend workers struggle. We are competing with wages that sen­tence many local workers to constant anxiety and, often, to two jobs just to pay the bills. That kind of "competi­tion" is hardly Catholic. 
I teach a course called "Class, Labor, Narrative" whose reading list includes Pope Leo XIII's encyclical Rerum Novarurn and the Catholic Worker Dorothy Day's memoir The Long Loneliness. Like so many of my students, I am troubled by the gap between the struggle for fair labor practices I teach about and this Catholic University's insti­tutional reality. When the University outsourced book­store jobs to a private corporation, many University employees lost their Notre Dame affiliation and benefits. I know office workers who put in a long week at Notre Dame, then moonlight to provide for their families. And recently, I met a custodial worker at Notre Dame, a single mother of four, who admitted embarrassment that she must supplement her full-time Notre Dame wages with food stamps. Now, there's a challenge to our Catholic identity. 
Last summer Father Wilson Miscamble, professor of history here, published a compelling article, "The Corporate University," in the magazine America. Miscamble argued that "Catholic schools, especially those with significant financial resources, should undertake to provide a 'living wage' for their lowest paid employees." Of course paying our workers better without outsourcing any more jobs will require either a different allocation of resources or more resources, and of course there is already fierce competition for those resources. But com­mitted faculty, administrators, staff and alumni might undertake the joint task of fully supporting our workers with a renewed sense of common purpose. 
Our first step should be to listen to workers themselves. Dorothy Day, in the midst of a strike by cemetery workers employed by the Diocese of New York, reminded Cardinal Spellman of the workers' "right to talk over their griev­ances .... They have indeed labored with the sweat of their brows, not lived off the sweat of anyone else." Notre Dame workers should know that they are surrounded by faculty who recognize their hard work and support their desire to be treated with dignity and to discuss their visions of a just working environment. 
They should know that they are surrounded by faculty who believe that fair labor practices will attract precisely the kind of students, teachers, staff, and administrators who belong at a Catholic university. Fair labor practices will help us match our stated beliefs to our practices. Fair labor practices will affirm our University's identity and our own commitment to each other, members of a truly Catholic community. 
Valerie Sayers is a professor ofEnglish. She can be contacted at vsayers@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

PERSPECTIVE: OCTOBER 3, 1983 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 14 
Friday, February 1, 2008 


MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 
By TAE ANDREWS 
Scene Ediwr 
Hocky Votolato slows things down on the Legends concert slate this weekend with his unique combination of folk and eountry. Votolato takes the stage at 10 p.m. Saturday as the first half of a twin bill with piano 
Rocky Votolato 
b a n d 
and Jukebox
"Jukebox the Ghost" the Ghost at set to follow Legends
him. Saturday
With song titles like IO:OO p.m. "Postcard Admission: Free 
f r o m Kentucky." "Tennessee Train Tracks," and "White Daisy Passing" and lyrics like "Please slow it down I There's a secret magic past world I That you only notice when you're look­ing back at it I And all I wanna do is turn around," Votolato's soulful voice conjures images of open roads and American countryside and brings to mind John Denver. 
Based on his earlier work, Votolato hasn't always been so mellow. According to his website, roekyvotolato.eom, he grew up in the town of Frost, Texas (pop. 
647) before moving to Seattle, Wash. Despite listing Willie N1~lson, Steve Earle, Lynyrd Skynyrd and Johnny Cash as his musical inspirations, Votolato went on to form a punk band named Waxwing with his brother Cody. With albums like 2003's "Suicide Medicine," Waxwing pre­sented a more volatile Votolato. 
Since taking a departure from his roots, Votolato's more recent work bettor represents his music as a product of his environment. After striking out on his own as an artist. it may have been a rocky road for Hocky, but his more recent offerings, 2006's "Makers" and his latest album, "The Brag and Cuss," represent a calm and maturation that comes with ag1L Now 29, Votolato wrote much of "The Brag and Cuss" while on the road touring to pro­mote "Makers," away from his two childnm. 

Hocky Votolato's Legends con­cert looks to be one of his last performances in the country for a while. llis myspace page lists a slew of concerts seattered throughout Germany and other parts of Europe. llis concert at Legends will likely be the last ehance to take in an earful of his distinct brand of Americana bPI'ore he takes his act abroad. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewI@nd.edu 

By MARK WITTE Assistant Scene Editor 
On Sunday, Notre Dame kicked off a competition that it hopes will renew recycling efforts around campus. Heeyclemania is a 1 0-week, nationwide competition in which more than 400 schools will compete to reduce waste and increase recycling. In order to motivate students to recycle, Notre Dame has decided to make the intercollegiate com­petition interhall as well. 
The Energy and Environmental Issues Committee and student government are sponsoring the event and the competition between dorms is being monitored and tallied by the Students For Environmental Action. There aren't many rules to this competition, just recy­cle. Oh, and steal. 
In addition to encouraging each dorm to increase its own reeycling, the compe­tition allows students to lift recycling from other dorms, but warns that getting caught in the act will likely incur retalia­tion. Students are permitted to take recy­clables from other buildings on campus, but under one stipu­lation: The recy­clables must be dug out of trash bins. 
Sifting recyclables from garbage may sound like a dirty job, but it's some­thing that some stu­dents on campus already do. Junior Ann Kelley, a mem­ber of Notre Dame's Students for Environmental Action (NDSEA), says that she and many fellow students often root out recyclables they find improperly placed in trash bins. "We're used to dig­ging through the trash," she said. 
In addition to the recycling competi­tion, other recycling-oriented events will be taking place in the upcoming weeks. In the fourth week of Recydemania, a Mass will be held at DeBartolo, and Notre Dame's waste will be put on dis­play. Also, about seven weeks in, there will be an art competition that will encourage students to create artwork out of recycled products, including crafting a 

Plastics, aluminum cans and newspaper are among the many things that can be 
recycled. 

trophy, which will be given to the dorm that wins the competition. 
NDSEA is hoping Hecyclemania will be remind students how easy it is to recycle on campus. 
This school year, Notre Dame began a new single-stream recycling system. Similar in design to Game-Day Recycling, an aU-in­one recycling plan implemented last year largely thanks to NDSEA Core members Lourdes Long and Colleen Kelly, single-stream recycling allows stu­dents to put all their recyclables in one 
place. Unlike the recycling infrastructure from previous years, which confused stu­dents with different bins for different recyclables, single-stream simplifies the system down to one bin where students can recycle everything from newspaper to empty cans and bottles. 
However, single-stream recycling didn't produce the immediate results it should have. "We feel it wasn't very well publi­cized," Kelley said. But it might be more than just a eommunication problem. 
Fellow NDSEA member Jackie Mirandola-Mullen, a sophomore in 
Howard Hall, put things plainly. "We're just lazy," she said. Mirandola-Mullen pointed out that a student will often toss a bottle in a trash can, rather than depositing it in the recycling bin right next to it. 
Kelley and Mirandola-Mullen also believe that the labels on recycling bins are insufficient. They stressed that stu­dents often don't realize all the things that they can recycle. "There's a very minimal amount that should actually be thrown away," Kelley said. 
NDSEA wants students to know they can recycle cardboard, newspaper, alu­minum cans, bottles of every kind and many types of plastic. The Styrofoam cups from the dining hall can even be recycled. However, Kelley said the cups used at Starbucks are not recyclable, and NDSEA encourages students to bring their own mugs to the coffee shop. 
With recycling now conveniently locat­ed around dorms, stealing it from your cross-campus rival should be relatively easy. But while Hecyclemania is about fun and mischief. it's also about being aware. Kelley said she once made a sign that read "Every time you don't recycle, a kitten dies." While throwing a bottle in the garbage instead of the recycling bin may not kill a cat, hopefully the thought will help you rethink a careless decision. 
Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 
In addition to encouraging each dorm to increase its own recycling, the competition allows students to lift recycling from other dorms, but warns that getting caught in the act will likely incur retaliation. 



Photo courtesy of Ann Kelley Recyclables pulled from DeBartolo's trash bins during the raid. All of these Items could have originally been recycled. 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Friday, February 1, 2008 
page 15 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 
There are three notes in a musical triad and three members of Jukebox the Ghost. Coincidence? In the case of Jukebox, probably not. With its mix of eccentric lyrics, piano proficiency and upbeat tem­pos, the upstart band from Washington, 
D.C. has struck a chord with casual lis­teners and seasoned fans alike, inspiring ·· rave reviews and building a growing underground following. 
Legends keys up its calendar this week­end with a performance from the indie pop-rocking trio, set to storm the stage after Rocky Volatalo performs at 10 p.m. 
In devising band names, Jukebox the Ghost came up with the perfect stage name for itself, as the group's music calls to ear bygone bands and shades of songs past while infusing its tunes with an up­tempo and youthful flair. 
The genius of Jukebox starts with the talented fingers and vocal chords of pianist and singer Ben Thomewill. The man tickling the ivories has also tickled the fancy of listeners and reviewers, who have compared him to both Ben Folds and Queen, high praise for any piano man. And as far as his voice goes, Thomewill tends to maintain a fairly tem­
perate pitch while occasion­
Let Live And Let Ghosts 

Jukebox the Ghost Label: This Side Up Sounds Recommended Tracks: "Good Day," "Hold It In," "Under My Skin," "Lighting Myself on Fire" 

ally breaking into falsetto forays. 
Don't let the cascading ripples of piano notes and shrill trilling fool you, how­ever -Jukebox can jam with the best of them. Guitarist Tommy Siegel enters this department as Jukebox's resident rocker. Drummer Jesse Kristin keeps the band on beat by alternately pounding out the percussion backbones to the band's frenetic songs and slowing things down for its low-key tunes. 

Part of that diversity of sound comes from the band's musical inspiration. "All of the members have incredibly different influences," manager Seth Kallen said. "Ben (piano) is classically trained, and takes a lot from classical composers. Tommy (guitar) is a big Frank Zappa fan and Jesse (drums) played in a bunch of punk bands throughout high school." 
Thomewill and company met during their years at George Washington University and decided to form the band from there. Thomewill said he originally planned on a career in politics, but then changed tracks, becoming a music major. It seems safe to say he made a wise career decision. Although Jukebox has graduated from college, its manager says that the band's origins make for great university concerts. 
"The band has never been to South Bend, but are really looking forward to playing at ND," Kallen said. "Their early shows were at a ton of college parties at GWU, their alma mater, so it's great doing stuff like this on the road." 
The band has come a long way and continues to travel wide and far since arriving on the scene in our nation's capi­tal. Jukebox is currently in the midst of a tour spanning the Midwest to the East Coast and then down south. 
Photo courtesy of thissideupsounds.com 
Jukebox the Ghost is bringing its hip, piano-driven sound to Legends. 
With its hip combination of quirks, craftsmanship and cool factor, Jukebox the Ghost figures to bring panache to the stage for its Saturday night show. Even better, since all Legends concerts have free admission for students, you won't even have to part with a quarter to hear this Jukebox play. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1 @nd.edu 

By CAITLIN FERRARO Scene Writer 
"One Tree Hill" creator and writer Mark Schwahn decided to do something different with the typical teen soap for­mula this year, skyrocketing his charac­ters four years into the future. Rather than create a fake university for all his characters to magically attend after high school (like "Beverly Hills 90210"), he had 

them go their separate tering in the music ways after last season's The jump into the future business, Brooke high school graduation. will bring more adult (Sophia Bush) is a Now that season five has famous, but lonely fash­
storylines -previous

started up again, view­ion designer and ers are witnessing their seasons have tackled Nathan (James Lafferty) favorite Tree Hill-ers controversial issues like and Haley (Bethany Joy leading post-college Galeotti) are struggling
teen pregnancy, breast 

graduation lives. This with the premature end new angle offers a boost cancer, and death and to Nathan's basketball of realism, as well as the school shootings. career. However,
capability to give viewers instead of wallowing for refreshing change for an aging fan base. Unfortunately, the adult roles of Coach Whitey, Karen Roe and Deb Scott have passed to possible guest stars. As well, the opening credits no longer feature Gavin DeGraw's "I Don't WannaBe." The changes are a risky leap for the show, but ones that will hopefully pay off. 
The show's storyline has been infused with even more drama. Lucas (Chad Michael Murray) is struggling to write his second book, Peyton (Hilarie Burton) is fal­

more life-altering twists -like engagements, weddings and career drama -to propel the plot forward. 
Schwahn's decision to skip ahead four years presents several advantages. The actors and actresses are playing charac­ters much closer to their actual age, a 
half of the season, the characters have decided to get their lives back on track. Peyton quit her thankless job and headed back to Tree Hill, but too late, finding her ex, Lucas, dating his edi­tor, Lindsey (Michaela McManus). As well, Brooke has returned home to be by Peyton's side and Nathan has realized he's an alcoholic. 

New actors have also joined the cast. Last season's villain, Dan Scott, the father of Lucas and Nathan, is in jail for mur­dering his brother, so soap veteran Daphne Zuniga is the new baddie in town. She plays Veronica, the domineer­ing executive of Brooke's company as well as Brooke's hellish mother. Torey DeVitto plays Nanny Carrie who is filling Haley's role of wife and mother. The best addition to the cast has been Jackson Brundage as Nathan and Haley's son, James Lucas Scott. Brundage is an adorable boy with serious acting chops. 
The jump into the future will bring more adult storylines -previous seasons have tackled controversial issues like teen pregnancy, breast cancer, and death and school shootings. Luckily it appears that the love triangle of Peyton, Lucas and Brooke will be avoided this time around. 
Due to the writers strike, "One Tree Hill" is scheduled to end after only seven new episodes. The last will be the show's lOOth episode. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar 1 @nd.edu 
NHL 
Ovechkin nets four goals despite broken nose 
Dumont and Predators continue hot streak in win over Blue Jackets; 'Canes Brind'Amour scores game-winner in OT 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 1, 2008 

Associated Press  he also did it on Dee. 29, at Ottawa. Oveehkin leads the NHL  Montreal Tuesday's  had 4-0  40 shots in victory, but  
WASIIINGTON  -The Capitals'  with 43 goals and took over the  Washington's defense slowed  
Alnx Ovnchkin broke his nose,  points lead with 70. It's the first  down the free-skating Canadiens  
nonded stitches in his lip after  time he's been the league leader  and  limited  their  scoring  
getting hit with a puck and then  in scoring.  chances.  ·  
shownd the Montreal Canadinns  "We scored five, and he was in  The  All-Star  scored  
tho true nwaning of' th1-1 word  on all five," Washington coach  Washington's first, third, fourth  
tough.  Bruce Boudreau said. "So, how  and fifth goals. He also assisted  
Thn battornd Ovechkin, who  can you say enough about him?  on Kozlov's goal.  
also sportnd a eut bnlow his eye  He's an amazing person."  The Capitals couldn't hold a 3­ 
from  a  high stick on  Tuesday  Ovechkin was one of several  0 second-period lead and a 4-2  
night, scorod his fourth goal of  Capitals who were very aggres­ edge in the third.  
the night with 1:26 left in over­ sive on the ice from start to fin­ Sergei Kastitsyn scored for  
time to give the Washington  ish as Washington was apparent­ Montreal less than a  minute  
Capitals a  5-4 Canadiens on  ly angered by how the Canadiens  after Washington's third goal,  
Thursday night.  tried to score in the final minute  and Andrei Kastitsyn cut the  
Ovechkin tied  career highs  of Tuesday's game in Montreal  lead to 3-2 with a power-play  
with four goals and five points,  despite having a four-goal lead.  goal with less than one second  
but the last one was the biggest.  Washington took the game's  remaining in the second period.  
I In took a erossing pass from Jnfl'  first seven shots, and the Caps  
Schultz and boat Montreal goalie  were all over the ice and created  Predators 4, Blue Jackets 2  
Cristobal lluet from in front for  a  number of scoring chances,  The Nashville Predators don't  
the overtime goal.  finishing with a  38-21 edge in  have the big guns they had last  
"Today was a special day," Ovnchkin said with a smile. "I brokH my nose, have stitches  shots. But even though Viktor Kozlov had one goal and two assists,  season, but they do have one of the hottest lines in the NHL. J.P. Dumont extended the  Capitals forward Alex .Ovechkin scores on Canadiens goalie Cristobal Huet in Washington's 54 win on Thursday.  
(and)  scorn  four  goals.  and  Mike  Green  added  two  longest current points streak in  the slot, he blasted a one-timer  our two points."  
EvHrything (went) to my faee."  assists, the Washington offense  the NHL to 16 games with two  between the leg pads of goal­ Walker gave Carolina a  2-1  
lie brokH his  nose when he  revolved around Ovechkin.  assists  and  the  Nashville  tender Pascal Leclaire 26 sec­ lead 3:29 into the third period  
was sent hard into the boards by  "The way Ovie scored the goals  Predators beat the Columbus  onds after the opening face-oft'.  when he deflected Gleason's slap  
Montreal defenseman Francis  today, he's pretty amazing," line­ Blue Jackets on Thursday night.  shot by Toronto goalkeeper Vesa  
Bouillon.  mate Kozlov said. "Alex's game  His  linemates  Alexander  Hurricanes 3, Maple Leafs 2  Toskala,  who  had  his  stick  
Oveehkin's fourth  career hat  is excellent, excellent. Hitting  Radulov and Jason Arnott were  Captain Rod Brind'Amour was  knocked from his hands. The  
trick was his lirst ever at home.  people, passing, scoring. I don't  the recipients of those assists,  in the right place at the right  goal  was  reviewed but it was  
It was Oveehkin's second carfler  know what else forwards could  each scoring a goal. Radulov has  time for the Carolina Hurricanes.  determined that Walker's stick  
four-goal and livp,-point game  - do."  at least one goal in each of his  Brind'Amour scored the game­ was below the crossbar when he  
last live games. Arnott has points  winner with 1 :40 left in overtime  made the deflection.  
in his last eight games.  and Carolina beat the Toronto  "One goal is  no  big deal,"  
"We know that is our role,"  Maple Leafs 3-2 on Thursday  Walker said. "We've got a bunch  
Dumont said. "It is good pres­ night.  of guys in here who've got good  
sure. That is the pressure that  Scott Walker and Tim Gleason  offense. We stuck to our system  
you want as a hockey player. You  each had a goal and an assist,  and battled back."  
want to be the go-to guy.  while Ray Whitney extended his  Toskala said he couldn't tell if  
"You want to be on the ice  point streak to four games with  Walker's stick was too high.  
when we  need a  goal. That's  an assist.  "I was going to catch the puck  
what we  are doing now.  It is  Toronto captain Mats Sundin  but they tipped it in. I don't  
something that comes with expe­ scored with 11.4 seconds left in  know. It's a tough call," Toskala  
rience. We  are the guys that  regulation to send the game into  said. "If it was a high stick or  
have to do it."  overtime. It was  the mirror  not, I can't tell that."  
Also scoring for Nashville were  opposite of the last time the  Carolina has won four of its  
Vernon Fiddler and Scott Nichol.  teams met in Raleigh on Dec. 18,  last five games, while the Maple  
Dumont finished the month of  when the Hurricanes scored a  Leafs  dropped  their  third  
January with 20 points. Only  pair late in regulation to force  straight. It was only the fourth  
Washington  superstar  Alex  overtime. But in the end, the  time all season the Hurricanes  
Ovechkin had a better month,  result  was  the  same  - a  have come  back to win after  
with 23 points.  Carolina victory.  trailing at the end of the first  
"When I signed here two years  Brind'Amour's game-winner  period.  
ago I knew I was going to have  came on the power play after  Toronto took an early 1-0 lead  
an offensive role," Dumont said.  Nikolai Antropov took a hooking  3:20 into the game when Jiri  
"Every line is scoring some big  penalty with  2:26  left.  The  Tlusty beat goalkeeper Cam  
goals. But the prime lines are  Hurricanes took advantage of  Ward with a blast from the slot.  
going to be the first two lines.  the extra space on the ice, play­ The Maple Leafs took advantage  
They have to score goals."  ing 4-on-3.  of an odd-man rush that left  
Nikolai  Zherdev  and  Dan  "We got a lucky break that we  Ward with almost no defensive  
Fritsche scored for Columbus.  got a power play and their guy  help.  
Radulov wasted little time put­ didn't clear the puck and it ends  But Ward came back with  a  
Blue Jackets defenseman Jan Hejda checks Predators wing Vernon  ting the Predators on the board.  up in their net," Brind'Amour  stellar effort the rest of the way,  
Fiddler Thursday In Nashville's 4-2 win.  Moving forward midway through  said. "I don't care how we get  finishing with 24 saves.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Fabulous condo walking distance to Blue & Gold Homes Showing for PREGNANT OR KNOW Happy 21st Hannahl!!ll! 
Notre Dame, open concept, com-08/09, 09/10 Now offering "flex" SOMEONE WHO IS? FoR SALE pletely remodeled, granite counter-leases bluegoldrentals.com TICKETS You do not have to be alone. If a statue in the park of a person 
Oakhill Condo for Sale. Students will love living here and parents will love knowing their child is looked after and safe! Secure, upstairs, two-level fur­nished two-bedroom, two-bath condo unit with loft area. One thousand twenty-two square feet of beautifully redecorated living space -includes 42" HD flat screen TV and parking spaces in front of condo. Garages are available at an additional cost. Parking lot surveillance cameras. pool, clubhouse. water and rubbish removal included as part of the own­ership package. Only $180 per month exterior maintenance fees. Five minute walk or less to the Notre Dame campus, shopping and restaurants. Less than ten minutes to other hot spots and mall by car. $200,000. Only serious offers considered. 562-733-5166. 
tops, bamboo hardwoods, Wi-Fi, approx. 1,350 sq. ft., 2 bedrooms. 2 baths. Kristi Ryan, Re/Max 100, 574-532-2071 
FoR RENT 
Large house available for 2009-2010. Full renovations completed 2007. 
Close to campus. 4,000+ square feet,5 bathrooms. 
MacSwain@ gmail.com 
HOUSE FOR RENT: 608 ND Ave., walk to campus. 3 Lg.bed/2bath, sleeps up to 5. Central Air. new appl., carpet, WID, off street parking. 
Call 620-704-4663. 
522 Napoleon Street:1-2 students. Newer ktchn,bath.Bsmnt storage. Washer/dryer. 5 blks W off ND Avenue. $570/mo+utl (219)629-5483 
Denise 
For rent: Two story house ready for immediate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage, new furnace and central air, new kitchen including appliances, large living room, free trash removal. Garage available for car-extra. Call 289-4071. 
TICKETS­
3mens 
DePaul 
Feb. 2. 
Call 716-628-6232. 


PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit 
http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
ADOPTION -Catholic family will provide your baby with a life of unconditional love, opportunity & security. Exp paid, Atty involved. 
1-888-833-8230. 

We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 
1-800-No Abort 
or visit our web site at 
www.lifecall.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­7819. For more information, visit our web­site at: 
http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
on a horse has both front legs in 
the air, the person died in battle; if the horse has one front leg in the air, the person died as a result of 
wounds received in battle; if the 
horse has all four legs on the 
ground, the person died of natural 
causes. 
Armadillos, opossums, and sloth's spend about 80% of their lives sleeping. 
No word in the English language rhymes with month, orange, silver and purple. 

It is estimated that at any one time, 0.7% of the world's population are drunk. 
Donkeys kill more people annually than plane crashes. 





OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE ()nsrRVER'S WIRE SERVJCES 
Friday, February 1, 2008 
page 17 

NCAA Women's Basketball AP Top 25 Poll 
rank team record previous 
1 Co nneclicut 19·0 1 
2 Tennessee 17·1 2 
3 North Carolina 18·2 3 
4 Rutgers 17·2 5 
5 Maryland 22·2 4 
6 Baylor 1&·1 6 
7 Stanford 17·3 7 
8 LSU 16·3 9 
9 Duke 15-4 10 
1 0 California 17-3 8 
11 Oklahoma 13-4 11 
12 West Virginia 16·3 12 
13 Old Dominion 16·3 13 
14 Pittsburgh 16·3 19 
15 Wyoming 1&-1 18 
16 George Washington 16·4 20 
11 Georgia 16-4 17 
18 Kansas Slate 14·5 22 
19 Ohio State 15·4 15 
20 NOTRE DAME 15·5 16 
21 Oklahoma State 16·3 14 
22 Syracuse 16·3 24 
23 DePaul 15-4 NR 
24 Illinois Stale 17·1 NR 
25 Texas 15·5 NR 
NCAA Women's Basketball ESPN/USA Today Poll 
rank team record previous 
1 Connecticut 19-0 
1 

2 Tennessee 18-1 
2 

3 Maryland 18-2 
3 

4 North Carolina 17-2 
4 

5 Rutgers 22-2 
5 

6 Baylor 18-1 
6 

7 Stanford 17-3 
7 

8 LSU 16-3 
9 

9 California 17-3 
8 

10 Oklahoma 13-4 
11 

USCHO.com/CSTV Division I 
Men's Hockey Poll 

rank 
1 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
10 
11 12 
13 14 
15 16 
17 
18 
19 20 
team 
Miami (OH) 
Michigan · North Dakota Denver Michigan State Colorado College New Hampshire NOTRE DAME Boston College Clarkson Wisconsin Minnesotra-Du loth Northeastern Providence Massachusetts UMass-lowell Quinnipiac Minnesota Princeton St. Cloud State 
record 
25-3-0 22-3-1 
16-8-1 18-6-0 . 17-5-5 18-7-1 
15·7-1 20-9·1 
12·5·7 
15·7·2 
11·10·5 10·8·6 
11·8·3 
11-9·2 
9-8·6 11·8·4 14-7·3 
12·11-5 10·8·0 
11-12·3 
previous 
2 
1 
4 5 6 3 7 9 8 10 16 
19 11 NR 
14 15 12 17 
18 

MIAA Women's Basketball Conference Standings 
rank  team  conference  overall  
1  Hope  9·0  17·0  
2  Albion  8·3  15·4  
3  Olivet  6·3  8·9  
4  Calvin  7·4  11-7  
5  Adrian  4·5  6-11  
6  SAINT MARY'S  4·6  8-10  
7  Alma  3·6  6-10  
8  Tri-State  2·8  5-13  
9  Kalamazoo  1·9  4·14  

around the dial 
NBA 
Utah at Washington 8 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Tennessee Titans comerback Adam "Pacman" Jones, left, listens Thursday in a courtroom in Murfreesboro, Tenn., as District Attorney William Whitesell recommends that charges against Jones be dismissed. One criminal charge is still pending. 
Judge drops 2 charges against Pactnan 
Associated Press 
MURFREESBORO, Tenn. -Adam "Pacman" Jones is busy clearing away the legal problems that led to his suspension from the NFL. 
Jlis biggest challenge may be proving he can control himself. 
Suspended for the 2007 season, the NFL will review Jones' status aftPr the Pro Bowl. But commissioner Roger Goodell has said actions, not words, speak loudest. 
A Tennessee judge dis­missed two misdemeanor charges Thursday from an incident Aug. 25, 2006, leaving only one criminal charge still pending against him in Georgia. But Jones didn't help himself by being in an Atlanta strip club Jan. 3 while the Titans were prepping for a playoff game. 

An attorney who asked that Jones be arrested for allegedly punching her withdrew her request Jan. 
16. Atlanta police said Thursday they will not investigate Jones without the victim's help. 
Worrick Robinson, one of Jones' attorneys, said the issue of the cornerback being in a club remained and that there's no excuse for that. 
"He's a grown man.... But he's got to take respon­sibility for his actions. When he's asked, he's 
IN BRIEF Forsberg spurns Modo, 
wants to return to NHL 
STOC:KIIOLM, Sweden -Peter Forsberg has decided not to play for his hometown team Modo this season, instead setting his sights on a return to the NHL. 
Forsberg made the announcement to Modo hours before the deadline for transfers in the Swedish hockey league. "My goal is to go back to the NHL," Forsberg told Swedish tabloid Aftonbladet. 
The 34-year-old Forsberg has been sidelined with a foot and ankle injury since finishing last season with the Nashville Predators, but has recently indicated he wants to return to the NHL if he is healthy. 
He has practiced with Modo in his hometown of Ornskoldsvik, raising hopes there that he would play for the team in the Swedish league. Modo sports director Erik Holmberg said that Forsberg informed the club Thursday he would not be available this season. 

going to have to step up and say he was there, that there is no excuse," Robinson said. 
Goodell's strict standards are well documented. 
Bengals linebacker Odell Thurman is hoping for full reinstatement by April after sitting out the last two seasons. 
Originally suspended the first four games of the 2006 season for skipping a drug test, the punishment was extended to a full sea­son after a drunk driving arrest. Two Georgia men accused Thurman of kick­ing and hitting them at a party last June. No charges were filed, but Goodell turned down Thurman's request to reinstate him for 
Upshaw, union threaten 
strike if owners opt out 
PHOENIX -A defiant Gene Upshaw said that if the NFL's owners opt out of the current labor agreement later this year, the players' union is ready for a strike or the decertification tactics it used to get free agency after the 1987 walk­out. 
"If they want to get out of the deal, there's nothing we can do about it," the executive director of the NFL Players Association said Thursday before the union's annual Super Bowl news confer­ence. "But we'll be prepared." 
The labor agreement reached after tough bargaining in March of 2006 gave both sides the right to opt out in November. That would lead to 2010 being an uncapped year before the con­tract expires in 2011. 
Several owners, including Denver's Pat Bowlen, have suggested that the current agreement is leaving some teams cash­strapped and making it likely that the owners will opt out next year. 
last season. 
The Titans might not want Jones back. 
They went from giving up the most yards defensively in the NFL with Jones in 2006 to fifth best and a 10­6 record with a playoff berth without him. A video popped up recently on the Internet showing Jones saying he saw himself in Dallas with a couple Pro Bowls in two or three years. 
Jones did not comment Thursday when asked if he had done enough to be reinstated. Robinson said the video was shot last summer when Jones was upset at not being allowed to take part in training camp. 

~acks.on protests umpire
mvest1gat10ns 
NEW YORK -Jesse Jackson criticized Major League Baseball on Thursday for sending investigators to the hometowns of umpires to ask neighbors questions that include whether the umpire belongs to the Ku Klux Klan. 
"Major League Baseball has done a dis­service to its progressive social history by equating southern whites with white supremacists," Jackson said in a state­ment. "I am surprised the professional league which helped change social atti­tudes in all sports leagues about segrega­tion, by championing Jackie Robinson, would make such a destructive move." 
World Umpires Association president John I-lirschbeck and union spokesman Lamell McMorris said Wednesday that Tom Christopher, the Milwaukee-based supervisor of security and investigations in the commissioner's office, had asked ques­tions about Klan membership to neighbors of umpires Greg Gibson and Sam Holbrook, who reside in Kentucky. 
Friday, February 1, 2008 1 I
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 

Nash, Paul among All-Star reserves 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Chris Paul and David West were picked for their first All-Star game Thursday night, giving the hometown Hornets a pair of players for the event New Orleans will host next month. 
Detroit, Phoenix and Washington also had multiple players chosen as reserves for the Feb. 17 game. Boston will only send two of its Big Three to the Big Easy. Paul Pierce was voted in by Eastern Conference head coaches to join starter Kevin Garnett, but Hay Allen fell short. 
"No Hay? That's crazy," Pierce said. "I think Ray should have been on there based on our reeord and what we're doing team-wise." 
The Pistons' Chauncey Billups and Hichard Hamilton arc headed back for the third straight year, while the Suns will be represented by Steve Nash and Amare Stoudemire. Caron Butler and Antawn Jamison also were recognized for their strong play, which has kept the Wizards in the middle of the playoff race despite the absence of injured guard GilbPrt Arenas. 
"To find a way to turn things around and play at a very high level and be very competitive in our confer­ence," Jamison said, "it speaks volumes for the type of year Caron and myself are having." 
Toronto's Chris Bosh and Atlanta guard Joe Johnson were the other players picked for the East, which will be coached by Boston's Doc Rivers. Dallas forward Dirk Nowitzki, the reigning NBA MVP, Utah's Carlos Boozer and Portland guard Brandon Roy were selected from the West. 
Paul, Nash and Roy emerged from a crowded group of West guards to beat out the likes of Golden State's Baron Davis, Utah point guard Deron Williams, and Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili from the defending champion San Antonio Spurs. 
Also missing out during the worst season of his career was Shaquille O'Neal, ending his streak of 14 consecutive All-Star selections. That tied the record held by Jerry West and Karl Malone. 
Paul, the 2006 Rookie of the Year, and West have helped the Hornets to a 32-13 record, which led the Southwest Division entering the night. New Orleans could still get another representa­tive, as Byron Scott will coach the West if the Hornets win their next game, or Dallas loses either of its next two. 
Paul is averaging 20.8 points, 10.7 assists and a league-leading 2.6 steals. He has just one fewer steal (110) than turnover for the season. 
David West averages 19.6 points and 9.4 rebounds. 
Garnett, LeBron James, Orlando's Dwight Howard, New Jersey's Jason Kidd and Miami's Dwyane Wade were voted by fans to start for the East. The West starters are Denver's Carmelo Anthony and Allen Iverson, the Lakers' Kobe Bryant, San Antonio for­ward Tim Duncan and Houston center Yao Ming. 
Coaches were then required to vote for two guards, two forwards, a center and two players regardless of position. East coaches bypassed a nat­ural center, picking Bosh, a power forward, at that spot. 
Allen, averaging 18 points for a Boston team that began the night with an NBA-best 35-8 record, was perhaps the most noticeable omission in the East. Orlando was hoping for a spot for Hedo Turkoglu, averaging a career-best 19.4 points. 
"Obviously, I think Ray should have made it," Rivers said. "The fact that he had to sacrifice the most of the three. It's unfortunate that the other coaches didn't see it that way." 
Allen was beat out by Billups and Hamilton, who were selected for the first time together in 2006, when the Pistons were en route to a franchise-best 64 wins. 
"I am excited. I'm geeked," Hamilton said. 

NFL 


Spagnuolo turns Giants 'D' around 
Associated Press 
CHANDLER, Ariz. -Steve Spagnuolo didn't mind setting the record straight about his last name. 
It's Italian and, as his father would say, the 'g' is silent. 
"Spah-NYOO'-loh," said the New York Giants defensive coor­dinator and the man responsible for coming up with a Super Bowl game plan to stop Tom Brady and the New England Patriots' run to a perfect season. 
The 48-year-old Spagnuolo has made a pronounced difference with the defense in his first year after making the trip up from Philadelphia, where he spent eight seasons learning the Eagles' attacking defense under veteran coordinator Jim Johnson. 
In the eight months after his hiring, Spagnuolo taught that same aggressive system to a team that had given up 362 points in posting an 8-8 record the previous season. The hope was that the Giants would became the Eagles of northern New Jersey, one of the NFI;s elite defenses. 
The early result was utter fail­ure. New York gave up 80 points in the opening two weeks of the season, losing 45-35 in Dallas and then dropping a 35-13 deci­sion at home to the Green Bay Packers. 
At a time when there were calls for Tom Coughlin's job, there were also questions about Spagnuolo and whether he had learned anything from Johnson. 
The day after the loss to the Packers, the defense went over the videotape with "Spags," as they call him-the 'g, of course, pronounced. 
"He came in and never wavered," defensive end Justin Tuck said. "He never cussed any­one out or downgraded guys. He just stayed the course and that meant a lot to me. He didn't know us and we didn't know him. For him to come in and continue to show faith in us and tell us that he believed in us and what we could do, that made a big impression." 
Spagnuolo said the most important thing he learned from Johnson was patience. 
"When we put in a blitz or something, if the first time it did­n't work, it was OK with Jimmy," Spagnuolo said. "He stuck with it. He stuck with what he believed in. We won many games because of that." 
With the Giants, Spagnuolo knew the system worked and he was certain he had the talent to make it work. The only question was how long would it take. 

Join the Depart1nents of Music, film, Television, &Theatre, and Art, Art History, &Design 

Deciding your major. 
Learn about majoring in the visual or performing arts 
I 

ACELEBRATION OF THE VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS 
Free food, usic, a , film, &more! 
Monday, February 4 • 6:30pm DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
DEBARTOLO 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 

Friday, February I, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles drop third straight 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI 
Sports Writer 
Ringing in a victory hasn't been easy lately for the Belles. After losing to two of the strongest teams in the MIAA [Calvin and Hope] last week, the team was dealt a third loss by the Olivet Comets Wednesday. 
Saint Mary's started off strong in Wednesday's game. Junior Megan Conanty quickly racked up nine points in the first four minutes of play. Olivet went on a scoring run with 8:27 in the first period, quickly closing the gap. Thanks to a 3-pointer by junior Erin Newsom with nine seconds left in the half, the Belles led 33-31. 
But they weren't able to hold on. After increasing their lead to 38-31 less than 
two minutes into the second period, Saint Mary's defense wasn't able to stop Olivet from getting the ball into the net. Olivet quickly rebound­ed with a 55-49 lead with ten minutes left in the game. 
The Comet's continued to score, winning 80-70 over the Belles . 
Saint Mary's manages to score and average 67.6 points per game, but some­how its opponents are find­ing ways to overrun the players. The team has lost the last three games by ten points or less, including a nine-point loss to first­ranked Hope last Saturday. 
The Belles struggled on the boards Wednesday night as they were outrebounded 38-34. Rebounding hasn't been much of an issue lately for Saint Mary's. Coach Jenn Henley said she feels the team's rebounding has 
"improved all season and we need to continue those efforts." 
The Belles will head to Adrian College in Adrian, Mich. Saturday to take on the Bulldogs at 3 p.m It will be Saint Mary's last away game this season before the MIAA Championship tourna­ment starts Feb. 25. 
Adrian (4-5 MIAA, 6-11 overall) is ranked one spot above Saint Mary's (4-6 MIAA, 8-10 overall) in the MIAA. But the Bulldogs haven't been a problem for the Belles recently. In the teams' two meetings last season, the Belles won both, 56-48 and 84-72, respective­ly. Saturday's meeting is the first of two for the season ­the two face off again at Saint Mary's on Feb. 20. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 


SMC SWIMMING 
Belles look to rebound at ho111e versus Hornets 
By PETE REISENAUER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will look to get back to winning tonight when it takes on Kalamazoo College in its only home meet of the year. 
The Belles have dropped their previous three matches and hope their fortunes will shift in tonight's meet. Belles coach Ryan Dombkowski thinks his team has a chance to come away with a victory -though it won't be easy. 
"I think we'll need to swim out of [our] minds to win, but that's what you're trying for every day. So, anything could happen," Dombkowski said. 
The Belles have been posting solid times lately, but the swim­mers will have to strive for faster races. Dombkowski said Kalamazoo is "probably a much deeper team, if you look at past results on paper" and has a returning All-American in swimmer Katie Stefl. 
Still, he thinks his team will field some close matchups. 
"We'll be competitive in most of the events," Dombkowski said. "So digging deep to find that little bit extra during the last few yards is going to mean a lot in a meet like this." 
Dombkowski sees the race as a warm-up for the MIAA swim­ming and diving championships that will take place Feb. 13-16. 
"We want to use this as an opportunity to work on our race strategies," Dombkowski said. "Improve some of the finer points of our technique ­starts, turns, etc. -and really get prepared for our confer­ence meet coming up in two weeks." 
Tonight's meet against Kalamazoo begins at 7. 
Contact Pete Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu 

NFL 

Everett continues steps toward full recovery 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Kevin Everett slowly unbuttons his suit jacket and sits down. 
It hardly seems like a big deal, those three little buttons. For Everett, though, it is nothing short of amazing. Less than five months after the catastrophic collision that doctors said might leave him paralyzed -or worse -he is walking and slowly regaining full use of his hands. 
''I'm happy people ean know me like this," Everett said Thursday in an interview with The Associated Press. "They can look at me and see what I've overcome and I'm still trying to overcome, and just see that life isn't that bad after all. 
"It could be a whole lot worse." 
The Buffalo Bills tight end was playing speeial teams when he taekled Domenik Hixon on the second-half kiekoff Sept. 9. His helmet struck Hixon's helmet and shoulder pad, and he inlme­diately fell face-down on the turf. He lay motionless for what seemed like hours as medical personnel worked on him and the crowd at Halph Wilson Stadium watched in silent hor­ror. 
His spinal-cord injury was so severe, orthopedic surgeon Andrew Cappuccino said the next day that Everett's chances of a full neurologic recovery were "bleak, dismal." It was 
unlikely he would ever walk again. 
"He was just going off of past research on the injury. I couldn't expect him to say anything else but what he said beeause he did­n't know the outeome. Nobody did," Everett said. "I was just hoping for the best. We were giv­ing everybody the worst-ease scenario." 
Everett is telling the story of his aeeident and recovery, as well as its impact on everyone around him, in "Standing Tall: The Kevin Everett Story," which was written with Sam Carchidi and eomes out Friday. Although his main goal in telling his story was to inspire others with spinal­cord injuries, he believes anyone can learn from it. 
He and fiancee Wiande Moore are spending two days doing interviews before f1ying to the Super Bowl, courtesy of an invi­tation from NFL commissioner Hoger Goodell. Moore said the couple will root for the New York Giants against the unbeaten New England Patriots because they're the underdogs. 
As Everett has proven these last five months, never count out an underdog. 
"I just saw it as a temporary little injury," he said. "It's not anything that's going to hold me back." 
He is, though, trying to figure out where his life will take him next. 

Plug in to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
Campus Ministry  
Tree iTu11es subsaiptio11 for reflective listening on your iPod.  
A">l)))))  Type "ndprayercnst" 011 tile iTunes search engine, -or -log onto www.ndprayercast.org  
M www.ndprayercast.org  Hear it here this week: Rev. Pete McCormick, c.s.c. Songs of the NO Folk Choir • psalms • homilies • prayers • meditative music  

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, February 1, 2008 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Drew rebuilds Baylor after tragedy, scandal 
Associated Press 
WACO, Texas -Scott Drew came to Baylor from Valparaiso in 2003 with a task no coach should have to face: rebuild a program ravaged by the mur­der of' a player by a tmunmate and seandalized by a former coach who tried to cover up NCAA violations in tlw after­math. 
Tlw rostnr was decimated al'tN the top thn~e scon~rs toi>k advantage of' relaxed transfer ruins. Sr.hool-imposed sandions rnduend scholarships and n~eruiting visits. The NCAA later strippnd the team of' play­ing a nonconfnrnnce schedule. 
Thn best advice Drew got was from his father -a basketball coach and his mentor -and had nothing to do with X's and O's. Instead. llomer Drew told his son to read Job, a Biblical chapter that diseussns the suf­fering of the righteous and true faith. 
Consider where Baylor stands today. The No. 25 Bears (16-3, 4-1 Big 12) are ranked for the first time in 39 years. They are nnar the top of' the Big 12 and headed for their first NCAA tournament si111:e 19X8. 
"I don't sen how anybody out­sidn could totally appreciate how dnvastated and how far down it was," former Baylor football coach (;rant Tea!T said. "This is good not only from the standpoint of restoring the pro­gram, but gives a chance for Baylor to move away from that devastating time." 
That was five summers ago, when Patrick Dennehy's body was discovered six weeks after he was reported missing. Carlton Dotson pleaded guilty to murder and is serving a 35­year prison term. 
The death sparked a scandal that led to the resignation of coaeh Dave Bliss, who on tapes secretly reeorded by an assis­tant coach tried to portray Dennehy as a drug dealer. School investigators already had determined Bliss paid up to $40,000 in tuition for Dennehy and another player and improperly solicited $87,000 from boosters. 
Baylor, the world's largest Baptist university, offered the job to Scott Drew. lie was 32 then and a head coach for only one season at Valparaiso, where he won 20 games after nine years there as his father's assistant. 
"The greatest thing that Scott did was bring energy, enthusi­asm and a positive attitude," said athletic director Ian McCaw. who was hired a couple of weeks after Drew. "That's what really paved the way for us to move the program for­ward and really mitigate some or the challenges." 
Drew's infectious optimism and enthusiasm were exactly what Baylor needed. 
"It was just a good lit," said Homer Drew, who then 


returned to the Valparaiso bench. 
"Each and every game, he has so much energy that he makes you just want to go out and play that much harder for him," said Curtis Jerrells, the leading scorer (14.4 points) on a team with live double-figure scorers. 
With only five scholarship players available at times dur­ing Scott Drew's first season, 

the overmatched Bears went 8­21 but managed to win three Big 12 games. 
A year later, Baylor had the nation's most inexperienced team with only one returning scholarship player. Then came the 2005-06 season when the NCAA, after considering a full­season ban for the wrongdoing under Bliss, took away the non­conference schedule and the Bears went more than 300 days between games before going 4­13. 
"The toughest times were when we lost that season, then we started playing and things didn't go well," Drew said. "You see your players down, sec them frustrated. Like a parent. you hate seeing that." 
It wasn't until last season that the Bears linally got to play a full schedule with a full roster under Drew, and went 15-16. 

Friday, February I, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NBA 
Prince's 3 lifts Pistons over Lakers 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. ­Kobe Bryant was unstoppable at times, scoring 10 straight points in the third quarter and finishing with 39. 
With the game on the line, though, the Detroit Pistons prevented him from attempt­ing a game-winning shot. 
Tayshaun Prince made a 3­pointer with 4.5 seconds left and Lamar Odom shot an air­ball, giving Detroit a 90-89 victory over the Los Angeles Lakers on Thursday night. 
Bryant was upset about not getting a chance to lift the Lakers to a rare win at The Palace, but talked calmly about it 30 minutes later. 
"What are you going to do when guys are open? If I catch the ball, what am I going to do, go one on three?" he asked. "We made the right play, we just didn't complete it." 
Bryant had an unusual triple-double, adding a career­high 11 turnovers and 10 rebounds to his scoring total. 
"I have to make smarter decisions with the basketball," he said. 
The Pistons have won nine straight at home over the Lakers, including three games to win the 2004 NBA finals, dating to Jan. 18, 2002. 
Detroit led by as many as 17 in the first half, then fell behind when Bryant scored 10 straight to put the Lakers ahead 62-58 with 4:18 left in the third. 
The Lakers led 72-67 enter­ing the fourth, and it was a seesaw game the rest of the way. 
Prince led the Pistons with 22 points while All-Stars Chauncey Billups and Richard Hamilton scored 16 and 14, respectively. Rookie reserves Arron Afflalo and Rodney Stuckey added 10 apiece. 
"Tay hit the shot, but the bench is what won it for us," Billups said. 
Bryant didn't have much help. 
Derek Fisher scored 15 and reserve Ronny Turiaf had 12 points, but lamented missing a free throw with 17 seconds remaining that proved to be costly. 
"I feel terrible because I let the guys down," Turiaf said. 
Detroit has won four straight, while Los Angeles has dropped four of its last five games. 
The Lakers had a chance to end their skid at The Palace, but could not corral a key rebound before Prince made the game-winning shot. 
With 16 seconds left, Prince passed to Billups, who dished to Rasheed Wallace, who missed a shot. The Pistons got to the offensive rebound and Prince was later open in the corner for a 3-pointer. 
"When another team gets an offensive rebound, it always seems that's the easiest time to hit a 3," Detroit coach Flip Saunders said. 


It was a disheartening way for the Lakers to start a nine­game road trip, where they will be challenged by a gruel­ing schedule and short-hand­ed roster. 
They dressed just 11 play­ers, as Luke Walton (hip) was active but not in uniform with day-to-day status. Andrew Bynum (left knee), Chris Mihm (right ankle) and Trevor Ariza (right foot) were on the inac­tive list. 
"It's a tough loss because I felt like we had the game, but we made mental errors down the stretch," Bryant said. "But I'm encouraged and if we keep playing hard like this on the trip, we'll be all right." 
Detroit, which began a five­game homestand, had played 10 of the previous 14 games on the road. 
Los Angeles got off to a rough start, matching a sea­son high with nine turnovers in the first quarter -with Bryant contributing three of them -as it fell behind 29­22. 
The Pistons built a huge lead in the second only to see it whittled to a seven-point advantage at halftime. 
Los Angeles took advantage of a disparity at the line, mak­ing 16 of 22 free throws while Detroit connected on both attempts in the first half. 
The Lakers finished with 35 free throws to Detroit's 16, leading to constant bickering from the Pistons' players and coaches that drew three tech­nicals. 
"We were able to kind of get back into the game because of that," coach Phil Jackson said. 

NBA 
Pierce, Allen lead Celtics past Mavs 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Rajon Rondo knows he isn't going to outjump Dirk Nowitzki. So the 6-foot-1 Celtics point guard had to out­think him. 
Rondo had a season-high 12 rebounds, swiping the ball from Nowitzki and putting in a reverse layup with 42 seconds left to give the Celtics the lead, and Boston held on to beat the Dallas Mavericks 96-90 on Thursday night. 
"He didn't block me out, so I went up under and got the ball," Rondo said. "I just wanted to get it up quickly before the defense recognized that I had the ball." 
Playing without Kevin Garnett for the third straight game, Paul Pierce and Ray Allen scored 26 points apiece to help the Celtics remain unbeaten against the Western Conference. And they did it against one of the West's best teams while overcoming 31 points and 11 rebounds from Nowitzki. 
Nowitzki, who along with Pierce was picked as an All-Star reserve about an hour before the game, made a pair of free throws with 58 seconds left to tie it at 90. The Celtics got the ball to Pierce, but his shot went around the rim and out. 
Along came Rondo to grab the ball away from Nowitzki and put in the game-winner. 
"I had the rebound in my hand," Nowitzki said, "and then Rondo came out of nowhere and snuck it up to the basket before I could react." 
A miss and an offensive 
rebound gave the Mavericks the ball out of bounds with 17 sec­onds left, but Jason Terry's run­ner was altered to avoid a blocked shot and James Posey came down with the rebound. Posey hit two foul shots, then tipped the ball away from Terry at halfcourt in the closing sec­onds to ice it. 
"Any game we win without Kevin is important for us, part of our growth process," Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. "Dallas is a team that we are still trying to catch, in our minds. They've been there. So when we play those types of teams, they're important." 
The nationally televised game between two of the NBA's top teams drew the usual collection of celebrities at courtside, including Red Sox players Jonathan Papelbon and Coco Crisp. Celtics Hall of Farner Bill Russell got a big cheer when he took his seat near the Mavericks bench. 
No players from the New England Patriots this time, though: They're down in Arizona preparing for Sunday's Super Bowl against the New York Giants. 
The Celtics had lost two of their last four and five of their last 11 since opening the season 29-3 to earn Rivers the honor of coaching the Eastern Conference at the Feb. 17 All­Star game in New Orleans. Dallas' loss deprived Mavericks coach Avery Johnson of the chance to coach the West, which instead went to the Hornets' Byron Scott. 

pplications Available 
for men interested in applying to live in Duncan Hall 
to complete your application visit 
home u n de rt he dome. n d. e d u 
before Thursday, February 7, 2008 
Learn more about Notre Dame's newest living option 
orlh.nd.edu 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
305 Moin Building 1 Notre Dome, lndiona 46556 Phone: 574.631.5878 I E-Mail: orlh@nd.edu

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 1, 2008 
NCAA BASKETBALL 



Lopez's big game propels Stanford 
Associated Press 
SIL,\TTLH -This wonk. Stanford roa('h Trent Johnson stat111l his workmanlike team lacked a look-at-me scorer who <:ould put up :w points pnr ganw. 
Well, look at Brook Lopez. 
Tho 7 -l'ootf'r scorPd a earner­high :J I points and had 1:J rnhounds as tlw No. 14 Cardinal hulliod Washington in a 65-51 vif'l.ory. t.lw lluskios' worst honw loss in live yPars. 
So was LopPz, a sophomor·p who was averaging 17.X points, attPmpting to provo his coach wmng? 
"No," Lopf'Z said, smiling bmadly and laughing. "I wasn't at all." 
It only lookNl that way. lie was 11-l'or-17 shooting nn rout!~ to tlw biggest s!'oring night by a Cardinal sincP Dan Grunfeld smrml 31 against Arizona Stat~ in 2006. 
.Johnson's response was a who-know? shoulder shrug. 
"Tlwrn aro so many part of his ganw whoro he needs to i m provn," tlw demanding .Johnson said. 
C'mon. eo;u:h. Aren't you happy with Brook's game? 
"On onn nnd of the floor. oll'nn­sivnly, yns," .Johnson said, stay­ing in stoic eharaeter. "''m nev11r happy with anybody dnfnnsive­ly." 
Stanford (17-3, (J-2 Pae-10) won lilf tho first timn in Snattle since 2001 and for thn fourth consocutivn limn overall hnading into Saturday's ganw at No. 9 Washington Statn. Thn Cardinal are currently alone in sncond place in tho l'ac-1 0, because Washington State lost Thursday night at honw to California. 
Stanford had lost livn consoeu­tivn gamns to Washington in Seattle, plus a second-round upset loss in tlw 2004 NCAA tournament to Alabama in KnyArPna across town, wlHln Stanford was a top send. 
"Even wlwn the team was undPfoatPd we came in lwre and lost," Lopez said. 
The Cardinal's last win in the Emerald City was .Jan. 25, 2001, over Washington whnn Stanford was ranked No. 1. 
Quincy l'ondexter sr.ored 15 points and .Jon Brockman had 13 points and 1:~ rebounds for out-mannnd Washington (12-9, 3-5). 
The lluskios had won three of last four games to dimb out of tho Pac-1 0 basement. But that was before Lopez and his 7 -foot twin, Hobin, arrived to send the Huskies to their worst homo loss since Gonzaga thumped them by 24 points on Dee. 3, 2003. 

NO WOMEN'S TRACK & FIELD 
Tean1 faces challenge at IU Relays 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 

One week after staging a comebar.k in the final two events of the Notre Dame Invitational to salvage a tie with Miehigan State, the Irish will compete in the biggest meet so far this season, the Indiana Helays at Indiana University Bloomington. 
"This weekend's competition will be a stop up from previous mnets," Irish coaeh Tim Connelly said. 
The Irish will r.ompete with 20 other teams including No. 22 Indiana and fellow Big East opponents Marquette and Cincinnati. 
The Irish posted a solid per­formance in last week's ment. However, Connelly is not com­pletely satislied. 
"We still have a very long way to go to be at full strength and be close to our full potnntial." Connelly said. "The big focus for us this weekend will be to eontinue to improve and com­pete well against tough compe­tition." 
Anna Weber had a earner­high throw in the weight throw and a season best time for the 400-meter relay team. The Irish made great strides last week as Anna Webor threw a carePr-high 1H.HH meters in the wnight throw and the Irish 400­metnr relay tnam finished with a snason high time of 3:52.61. Notre Dame set SIWI~ral more Big East qualil'ying marks and Weber's throw was nnough to qualify her for an NCAA bid. 
The Irish will look to keep this monwntum going as they lwad on tlw road for the first time this season. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarkerl@nd.edu 

MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Runners look to carry momentum 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO Sports Writer 

After an impressive first-place finish at the Notre Dame Invitational last Friday, the Irish will travel to Bloomington today for the Indiana Relays at Indiana University. 
For the races, the Irish will depend on junior Billy Buzaid and senior Bob Kueny to contin­ue their stellar performances from the Notre Dame Invitational in the 500-meter dash. Senior Kurt Benninger, who obtained an NCAA provi­sional time of 4:02.9 in the mile, will lead the middle-and long­distance group. 
Sophomore Blake Choplin and senior Jake Watson who both finished with season-best times in the 800-meter run of 1:51.1 and 1:51.38, respectively, will also aid the middle and long-dis­tance teams. 
Sophomore Erie Quick. fresh­man Greg Davis and sophomore Brandon Denon are also expeet­ed to turn in strong performall(:­es for the Irish. 
The Indiana Helays is the largest meet yet and the Irish are likely to Iw chaliPngnd as they take on Cincinnati, Marquette, and DePaul. 
Already qualilied for the Big East. many of tlw Irish runners. throwers, and jumpnrs arn look­ing to achieve the fastest possi­ble seed times li>r tho Big East Conferenen Championship on Feb. 23 and 24. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonro@nd.edu 

Friday, February 1, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
FENCING  MEN'S lACROSSE  
Irish face top competition  Exhibition vvith Bison  
Top epeeist Hurley to make dual meet debut at Northwestern Duals  to challenge No.5 Irish  



By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
Two days in February. 
Two crucial days in February. 
Notre Dame travels to Evanston, Ill., this weekend to take on Penn State, Northwestern, Ohio State, Wayne State, Cal-State Fullerton and Stanford at the prestigious Northwestern Duals. 
The event is a crucial part of the regular season for the Irish, who are looking to make a mark in their final team road event before the March 2 NCAA Midwest Regional com­petition. 
The Irish are coming off a mixed performance at the NYU Duals. The men fared well, fin­ishing 5-l with their only loss by a single bout to second­ranked Ohio State. The Notre Dame women, who fenced without top soph­omore epeeist Kelley Hurley, 
Bednarski said he thought Notre Dame could have beaten Ohio State if Hurley were in the lineup, but needed a better all-around performance against Columbia. 
"The girls, they didn't have Kelley on the board," 
Come explore the I ife of zeal of the 
Congregation of Holy Cross 
with an evening of prayer and conversation with HolyCross rei igious and other discerning men. 
Feb1 
DISCERNMENT 
with Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. Torn Eckert,C.S.C. & Seminarian Thomas Haan from Old College 
FebS 
PRAYER 
with Fr. NickAyo,C.S.C. & Fr. Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. 
Feb22 
COMMUNITY 
with Fr. Peter Jarret, C.S.C. Fr. Austin Collins, C.S.C. Fr. Gary Chamberland, C.S.C. 
s:J0-7:30 p.m. beginningat Log Chapel with dinner to followatthe Coleman-Morse Center 

L_ 
Bednarski said. "So there's a certain explanation, but of c.our~e it's not a full explana­tion. 
This weekend, he will get to 
test that theory. 

finished 4-2 with "Jt,s twice more identical 15-12 
bouting than we had

losses to Ohio 
in New York.,, 

State and Columbia. 
Still, Irish 
Janusz Bednarski 

coach Janusz 
Irish coach 
Hurley, who has been com­peting in Europe on her quest to secure a spot on the U.S. Olympic team for the Beijing Summer Games, will make her dual meet season debut at 
Northwestern. 
Including Ohio State, the quality of opponents this week­end is high. Penn State, ranked No. 1 on the men's side and No. 

"We want to take
Magazine's pre­Inside­
season poll, will everything we,re Lacrosse top-
hope to repeat 50 players list
doing up a level, and 
its strong for 2008. The
do it on a daily
Sunday perform­highest ranked
basis.,,
ance against the Notre Dame Colonials in their player was opening exhibi­goalkeeper4 among women's teams, did 
Kevin Corrigan
tion. Joey Kemp,not compete in New York but 
Irish coach 
While score iswill duel the Irish, Buckeyes 
not kept for the
and Wildcats. 

exhibitions, the Irish con­
Bednarski is eager to get a trolled play on both the offen­shot at the Nittany Lions, who 

sive and defensive ends
he expects will be ready "to 

against Robert Morris. Irishcross the blades with us, to 
coach Kevin Corrigan was
check how strong we are." 

encouraged by the team's
With more than a dozen 

play.
teams competing, the weekend 

"We got up early, and
will be physically draining for played at a pretty good levelthe fencers. 

pretty consistently," said
"It's twice more bouting than Corrigan.

we had in New York," The Bison enter 2008 com­Bednarski said. "... In volume, 

ing off their best season in
it will be a bigger tournament." 

program history. BucknellAfter the Northwestern 
returns nine of 10 starters
Duals, Notre Dame's only regu­

from last year's 11-4 team,
lar season team event remain­

which finished third in the
ing is the two-day Notre Dame Patriot League.

Duals from Feb. 9-10. 

Leading the returning Bison offense is sophomore attack­
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

man Austin Winter, who led the team last season with 20 goals and 29 assists. The 
Bucknell defense is headed up by junior Billy Haire, an all­around defender that can deliver big hits as well as apply tight coverage.
Is God 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


• 
OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

Blessed Brother Andre Bessette, C.S.C. Dinners 

By MIKE BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will try to prove its No. 5 preseason ranking Sunday in an exhibition against No. 13 Bucknell. 
After dominating its exhibi­tion last week against Robert Morris, Notre Dame will face tougher competition against the Bison. Notre Dame, ranked fifth in Lacrosse 
The Bison defense, which finished seventh in the NCAA in scoring defense last season, will face a huge challenge against the explosive Irish. Notre Dame returns virtually its entire offense from last year's NCAA Tournament team. 
"We're very strong on the offensive end and in the offen­sive midfield," Corrigan said. 
The Irish recently had four 
players hon­
ored in the 
the 2007 Great 

Western Lacrosse League player of the year. A four-year starter for Notre Dame, Kemp has a 26­11 record and 7.43 goals­
against  average  for  his  
career.  
Two-sport  athlete  Will  

Yeatman, the 2007 LaxPower rookie of the year, was 15th on the list. Yeatman was the only underclassman in the top 20 on the list. 
Senior Sean Dougherty, a preseason All-American selec­tion, was tabbed No. 35 on the list. Dougherty anchors the Notre Dame defense that held opponents to a team­record 6.66 goals per game last season. 
The last Irish teammate on the list was senior midfielder Michael Podgajny, who was ranked 37th. Podgajny was the only Notre Dame player to score a goal in every game last year. 
Corrigan said while the team has high expectations, players are focused on meet­ing daily goals in practice. 
"We want to take everything we're doing up a level, and do it on a daily basis," Corrigan said. 
The exhibition with the Bison will conclude the Irish preseason. Notre Dame's first game will be Feb. 16 against Loyola. 
Contact Mike Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 1, 2008 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Team beats Northwestern for second-straight win 
The Irish dominated singles still has a few things to learn 
By KATE GRABAREK 
action again. strategically, but he's making Sports Writer 
Helgeson played No. 1 sin­significant strides." gles and beat junior Mark At No. 2 singles Parbhu took 

The Irish won their second Dwyer 6-3, 6-2. the first set match in a row Thursday, The Irish took from Tharns 6­dnl'eating Northwestern 7-0. a eommanding 4, but Thams Thn win puts the Irish record 3-0 lead when "Stahl needs to try fought back to at 3-1. freshman force a second­
and stay out of the
Notre Dame opened the Daniel Stahl set tiebreak. match on a high note winning defeated Parbhu came

middle of the court all three doubles matehes Seyferth 6-4, 6-during his out on top in easily. Frnshman Stnven 3 but his coach the tiebreaker
matches.,,

Havens and Andrnw Hoth saw some 10-8. 
del'Hated graduate student things he needs Roth had a 
Alnxander Thams and Peter to work on in Bobby Bayliss tough battle on 
Haspoli 8-3, at No. 2 doubles. practice. Irish coach his hands at the 

"The No. 2 doubles played "Stahl needs No. 3 slot well." head coach Bobby to try and stay against Bayliss said. "We needed to out of the mid-Sanborn. He win tlw doubles point, and we dlH of the court during his took the first set 6-3, but did !Thursday!." matches," Bayliss said. dropped the second set 6-2. 
Brntt Helgeson and Sheeva With a win at no. 5 singles, Roth took a 5-4 lead in the Parbhu also won their match the Irish clinched the match. third set, but Sanborn battled 8-5 ovnr Mark Freshman David back and made Hoth serve for Dwyer and Alex Anderson the third set. Hoth pulled it Sanborn. defeated senior out, winning the third set 6-4. 
"They return Juan Gomez 7-"Roth has a very deter­
"We needed to win 

as well as any­5, 6-4. mined work ethic, and that body, but they the doubles point, Havens helped him a lot tonight," break down at and we did dropped the Bayliss said. "He has a big net," Bayliss first set 6-2, to heart, and when he sinks his
[Thursday].,,

said. "They Hispoli, but teeth into a match he doesn't have made rebounded in let go. He makes the other gn~at improve­Bobby Bayliss the second set guy battle through the entire ment." Irish coach to win 7-6 (2) in match." 
Frnshrnan a tiebreak, and The Irish will travel to Tyler Davis and continued his North Carolina to take on the junior Santiago dominance in Duke Blue Devils Sunday Montoya dPI'eatnd Juan the third set supnrtiebreak starting at 4 p.m. Comez and freshman David winning 10-2. Snyf'nrth 8-6 in a tight match "IIavens is a great ball Contact Kate Grabarek at Irish junior Brett Hegelson attempts a return during Notre Dame's at No. :~ doubles. striker." Bayliss said. "lie kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 5-2 win over Penn State on Jan. 20. 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Struggling Irish fall to Michigan 
By LORENZO REYES 
Sports Writer 

This was hardly the start No. 12 Notre Damn envisioned li>r the narly weeks of the dual mateh season. Aller beating Louisville to opnn a three-game road trip, the Irish li1ll to Vanderbilt last week­end and to No. 23 Michigan Thursday. 
The contest started off hopeful as thn No. :~ rankl~d doubles team of senior Brook Buck and junior Keley Teln took the first match of three 8-6. 
The Wolverines quickly fought back and evened the score as the freshman duo of Whitney Taney and Hika Tat-;uno delimted soph­omore pair Cosmina Ciobanu and Kali Krisik 8-4. 
With the doubles point still up for grabs, the Irish doubles team of freshman Kristen Hafael and 
THIS WEEK IN 
sophomore Colleen Hielley fell to junior Lindsey Howard and fresh­man Denise Muresan. 
Now that Michigan had taken a 1-0 lead, it was time for Notre Dame to make up ground in sin­gles play. 
llowever, the Wolverines weren't backing down. Michigan junior Chisako Sugiyama beat No. 62 Ciobanu in straight sets 6-3, 6-1. 
Brook Buck made sure the Irish would put some point'> up against their rivals and notched the first point with a 6-4, 6-2 victory over sophomore Tania Mahtani. 
The Irish, now in striking dis­tance at 2-1, entrusted No. 88 Hielley to come through over Taney. But the sophomore fell 6­4, 6-1 in straight sets. 
Notre Dame realized that if it was going to win the match, it would have to aggressively gain some point'>. Tefft did just that ­not allowing her opponent to win a single game. The junior dis­posed of Tatsuno 6-0, 6-0 in straight sets. 
No. 89 Krisk then faced off against Howard and effectively knotted the score at 3-3, but not before her first set went into a tiebreaker with her 7-6(4), 6-3 win. 
The entire contest finally reached its culmination in the deciding match between No. 82 junior Katie Potts and Muresan. The match proved to be a tight meeting, going into three sets, but eventually going to the Wolverine freshman 6-3, 4-6, 6­3. 
After the rocky start of the dual match season, the Irish will return horne as they take on the BYU Cougars Tuesday. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

Casbo~ 
Marionettes 
Thursday, Febrw1ry 7 

7:30 P.M., O'Laugblin Auditorium 
The internationally acclaimed 
(ashore Marionettes redefine 
the art of puppetry. The 
program, Simple Gifts, is a series 
of touching portrayals and 
poignant scenes from everyday 
life set to stunning music by 
such composers as Vivaldi, 
Strauss, Beethoven, and 
Copland. This performance is 
recommended fo adults and 
children age eight and up! 


Friday, February 1, 2008 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Loud crowd distracts Hall, moves Irish to victory 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
The Leprechaun Legion proved to be the Legion of Doom for Providence center Ray Hall and the rest of his Friars teammates Thursday night. After Hall failed to even hit the rim on a free throw in 
Friars 
continued from page 28 
ing his say. With 18 seconds left, the Notre Dame sopho­more stole a rebound from Providence forward Geoff McDermott and hit two free throws to send the game to overtime. 
In the extra period, the Irish jumped out to an early lead and held off a furious Friars run to extend its home win­ning streak to 32 games, 81­74. 
"We didn't want to lose, especially on our home court," Irish point guard Tory Jackson said. "If we could get it to overtime ... we thought we would win." 
Just seven minutes before Harangody's heroics, Notre Dame (15-4, 5-2 Big East) appeared to have the game in hand. They led 58-50 and jun­ior guard Kyle McAlarney had just brought the home crowd to its feet with a slashing layup. 
But that field goal was the last one the Irish would score in regulation. Providence went on an 11-1 run, capped by Xavier's shot with 1:08 remaining, to take the lead. 
With 18 seconds left, Notre Dame found junior guard Ryan Ayers for an open three that would have given the Irish the lead and probably the win. 
Ayers shot found nothing but iron, and McDermott grabbed the rebound. llarangody con-the second half, the crowd taunted him with repeated chants of "Airball" on all of his subsequent trips to the line. Hall made just 2-of-1 0 free throws in the game and missed four straight in overtime to help seal his team's fate. 
"He was just throwing up bricks," Irish forward Zach Hillesland said. "The fans were 
tinued to harass him, howev­er, and then somehow ended up with the ball. 
"I was just standing right there, and I don't know if he lost it or what, but it ended up in my hands," Harangody said. 
The Irish forward lent in for a layup and drew a foul, then nailed both free throws. 
"It was a pressure situa­tion," Harangody said. "I just had to have confidence." 
The Friars (12-8, 3-5) had one last possession. With time running down, McDermott tried to hold for the winning shot, but Irish point guard Tory Jackson stole the ball. With two seconds left, Jackson~ desperation heave caught front iron and the game headed to overtime. 
In the extra frame, Notre Dame jumped on top quickly, going on a 14-5 run capped by a runner in the lane from Jackson to take a 75-66 lead with just under two minutes remaining. 
Once again the Friars wouldn't go away. Guard Brian McKenzie nailed back­to-hack NBA-range 3-pointers to get his team within three ­but that was as close as Providence would get. 
Harangody led all scorers with 31 points for Notre Dame. He also pulled down 14 rebounds. 
Jackson, Ayers, and senior forward Rob Kurz were also in double figures for the Irish, with 14, 10, and 11 points respectively. 
Kurz played the last 12 min­utes of regulation and all of overtime with four fouls -but never fouled out. 
"When you've played a lot of basketball, you know how to play without getting a stupid silly foul," he said. 
Providence, who out­rebounded the Irish 48-38, including grabbing 22 off the offensive glass, was led by guard Dwain Williams, who had twenty points. McDermott, Xavier, and McKenzie each chipped in 10. 
Harangody scored the first eight points of the game for Notre Dame, who opened up a 18-6 lead with 13:46 left in the first half. 
Providence stormed back, going on a 15-3 run and tak­ing the lead 22-21 with 6:50 left in the half on a 3-pointer by Williams. 
Irish forward Zach Hillesland put the Irish back up by one with a jumper, but the Friars regained the lead on another 3-pointer, this time by guard Jeff Xavier. 
The Friars held the lead until the last possession of the first half, when McAlarney hit backcourt teammate Tory Jackson with a perfect pass for a layup to give Notre Dame a 32-31 lead going into the locker room. 
Notes: 
+As part of the Joyce Center's "Camo Night," cam­ouflage T-shirts were handed out to fans in the lower bowl. At halftime, sergeant first class John Adams was hon­ored for his service in Iraq and a video was shown detail­ing Brey's trip to Kuwait over the summer for Operation Hardwood. 
+Notre Dame freshman for­ward Carleton Scott was not in attendance at Thursday's game. Sports Information Director Bernie Cafarelli said Scott was at home recovering from the flu. 
+Before Thursday's contest, Notre Dame had not gone into overtime since March 20, 2006, an 87-84 loss at Michigan in the NIT. 
The game was the first over­time contest at the Joyce Center since an 85-82 Irish loss to Georgetown on Jan. 24, 2006. 
+The win kept Notre Dame alone in second place in the Big East, 1 112 games behind conference leader Georgetown. 
+Notre Dame will return to action Saturday night at 6 
p.m. against DePaul at the Joyce Center. The Blue Demons are 9-11 on the year and 4-4 in the conference and are tied with West Virginia for 1Oth in the Big East. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Irish guard Kyle McAiarney passes while coach Mike Brey looks on during Notre Dame's 81-74 win over Providence on Thursday. 
great to keep calling out that 'Airball' chant during stop­pages of play for minutes on end,; That really helped us out. 
Besides the student section, the fan turnout seemed sparse at the outset of the contest. But as the game continued, the entire crowd at the arena began to energize the home squad. Most of the Notre Dame supporters stood for the dura­tion of overtime. 

"Our building, our fans really helped us tonight," Irish coach Mike Brey said. 
"There's where your home­court advantage kinda gets you the win tonight." 
Point guard Tory Jackson said the crowd was instrumen­tal in helping the Irish win their 32nd straight game at the Joyce Center. 
"I love our crowd even when they heckle some of our oppo­nents," Jackson said. 
"They kept me laughing; they kept me fresh." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Jackson 
continued from page 28 
ball to his teammates when Notre Dame needed it most. 
Forward Rob Kurz hit a three to begin overtime and Jackson made it possible with his dribble penetration and kickout. Later in overtime, with Notre Dame up two, Jackson stole the ball from Providence guard Dwain Williams, then found an open Ryan Ayers who drilled a 3­pointer. On Notre Dame's next two possessions, Jackson drove into the lane and found Harangody each time, allowing the Irish to take a seven-point lead. 
"I didn't feel like I had to make something happen, I felt like I could make something happen," Jackson said. "Once I got in the lane, I felt like I could drive because the big men kept coming up to get charges, so I felt like I could drop it off to the side and [Harangodyl was there three times in overtime." 
And when Providence guard Brian McKenzie decided he was going to drain two ridiculously­long 3-pointers to keep the Friars alive, it was Jackson who hit three of four free throws down the stretch to make sure Providence wouldn't return from the dead. 
And it was Jackson who sent the game into overtime by com­ing up with a key steal on Providence's last possession of regulation. The 5-foot-11 guard followed Providence forward Geoff McDermott around a screen, knocked the ball away and nearly made a 30-footer that would've ended the game. 
"I was sneaky. I'm thankful for being short right now," Jackson said of the steal. "He wouldn't of seen me if I was a big guy." 
Harangody's clutch free throws made Jackson's unsung heroics possible. The soft-spo­ken Harangody, who is a canQ.i­date for the Naismith award, turned into a creature pos­sessed out on the floor. For example, nine seconds into the second half, Harangody made a layup, was fouled, and subse­quently began throwing a few chest bumps into the air before fmally connecting with junior Zach Hillesland. But he would need to suppress that intensity at the free throw line, with the game hanging in the balance. 
Harangody pulled a Dwight 

. Schrute, the popular "Office" character who once claimed he could raise and lower his heart rate at will, and calmed himself enough to knock down the free throws. 
"I just had to stay poised, stay confident and concentrate," Harangody said. "It was just one of those times when you can't be as intense." 
For Irish coach Mike Brey, the play of Harangody and Jackson came as no surprise. 
"I thought our two sopho­mores would not let us lose the game," Brey said. "They made big plays at big times." 
The Irish found a way to win when one of their main scorers, McAlarney, had an off night. It wasn't just Jackson hitting the big shots either. Hillesland knocked down a few jumpers, Ayers finished with 10, includ­ing the big 3-pointer in over­time, and Kurz had another steady 11-point performance. 
But Jackson's outburst Thursday gave his team, and most importantly, Jackson him­self, the confidence that he can score a few baskets when his teammates struggle. 
That only means trouble for the rest of the Big East. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Friday, February 1, 2008
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
lrishlllustrated.com, a mem­ber of the Rivals.com network of 
Tenuta 
Web site, first reported the hir­ing. The Atlanta Journal
continued from page 28 
Constitution and The Sporting community relations represen­News also reported the deal tative. Thursday before Notre Dame 
"This job opportunity gives me sent out a news release con­a chance to stay very close to firming the deal. the football team, coaches, play­In his statement, Weis said he ers and everyone else in this had planned to announce the great place," Lewis said in the staff changes next week, pre­statement. "It also gives me a sumably on Wednesday, when 
chance to stay involved with this recruits can sign binding letters wonderful uni-of intent. versity and great Tenuta will 
community." begin his tenure Weis said he "Corwin /Brown/ and at Notre Dame and Brown on Feb. 18, near­
I talked to a few 
bngan discussing ly two weeks
candidates and
the possibility of after National hiring Tenuta agreed that Jon was Signing Day. 
after Lewis men­the best person for Recruiting ana­
tioned the possi­lysts expect
the job." 
bility of stepping Notre Dame's down but before class to be one of the final decision Charlie Weis the top in the was made. nation -four
Irish coach 
"I spent time top linebackers with Corwin have orally com­Brown in mitted to signing January discussing possible with the Irish. replacements for Bill in case Dean Buchan, Georgia Tech's this situation arose," Weis said assistant athletic director for in the statement. "Corwin and I media relations and primary talked to a few candidates and football spokesman, said he did agreed that Jon was the best not know if assistant coaches' person for the job. Corwin and deals there expire on or around Jon had numerous conversa­National Signing Day. tions on how they would work together and they both agreed Contact Ken Fowler at this would be a great fit." kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

challenge to the troubled plan of attack. And it's an Notre Dame perimeter opportunity for other people
Cinci 

defense. to step up." "The biggest thing we're Sophomore guard Kahla
continued from page 28 

worried about is that they all Roudebush leads the Bearcats tion. shoot threes," McGraw said. in scoring, dropping 15.1 
"We try to mix things up a "We gotta get out and guard points per game. Junior for­little bit," she said. "One thing the three-point line, as we talk ward Jill Stevens isn't far I've realized, finally, is that we about every game is some­behind with 13.5 points and can't play man to man for 40 thing we need to work on. But 9.5 boards per game. Stevens minutes. We can't play any now the post players are shoots 41.5 percent from one thing for 40 minutes. We shooting threes. three-point range. The have to con-"We've had a Bearcats as a team rank sec­stantly mix up few games ond in the conference in free the defenses." where we did­throw percentage, shooting 
Against the "Eventually teams n't have to 74.8 percent from the foul Friars, Notre figure it out when you worry about line. Dame used the post play­Notre Dame ranks third the
do the same thing
man-to-man ers stepping Big East in scoring offense defense along over and over again, out to shoot it, with 79 points per game and with different and I think teams but now we're second in field goal percent­variations of back to back to age at 46.2 percent. Freshman
have figured out our 
zone. In combi­having [sopho­forward Devereaux Peters is
half-court press." 
nation with the more center! second in the Big East in shots blanketing full­E r i c a blocked, averaging 2.05 per court press the Muffet McGraw [Williamson] game. Irish employed run around on McGraw said she would like
Irish coach 
to slow the three-point to use a smaller lineup against Providence's line and that's Cincinnati, but was afraid that advance up the always a prob-the defense would give up court, the Irish defense held lem." points in the block because the Friars to just 19 points in The Bearcats are without the Bearcats have two 6-foot-3 the first half. junior guard/forward Shelley players (Natasha Graboski and 
"Eventually teams figure it Bellman, who will miss the Jill Stephens). out when you do the same entire season because of a leg "[Peters! can handle one of thing over and over again, and injury. them, but that's the question, I think teams have figured out "You have to kind of rework will that give us a disadvan­our half-court press," McGraw your own game plan when you tage at some point on the said. "So we're throwing some lose your best player," block," McGraw said. man to man, we changed the McGraw said. "Going right up look of the press." into the first game, now you Contact Bill Brink at 
The Bearcats present a new have to change your whole wbrink@nd.edu 
Scrinnnage 
continued from page 28 
squad. 

"It's a huge day, especially when you're coming to a place likfl Notre Dame with all its tradition," he said. "It'll be a special night for them, espe­cially for the recruits commit­ted here. I remember coming in a couple years ago and it be such a big night -sening future teammates, thn place you're going to spend your next four years -and anytime 

with that sort of an attitude, 
because 

you play a col­lege team. especially a college team ... it's what those guys play for." 
A pair of future Irish 
icers  - for­ 
ward  Pat rick  
G  a  u  I  

(Pittsburgh. Pa.) and defense man Sean Lorenz (Littleton. Colo.) -are both signens 
"They're extremely quick, they're skilled, and they're well-coached, so we'll be challenged in those areas that we're trying to work on." 
Jeff Jackson Irish coach 

who will enroll next fall. They will also skate for the first time in the .Joyce Center and should receive a warm wel­come from their future team­mates-kind of. 
"Maybe in shaking their hands arter the game, but it's all business out here on the iee," Lawson said with a laugh. "We won't be too friendly, but artm the game, I'm sure we'll all share a couple words with them." 
While the game won't count toward the CCIIA or even the overall record, the Irish hope to repay Team USA for the 7-2 thrashing it handed Notre Dame in the last meeting on Nov. 19, 2004. Though current Irish coach Jeff .Jackson wasn't around for that debacle, he and his team certainly want to avoid a similar fate tonight. 
"When you're not playing conference opponents, a little bit of the pressure's off and it's game, we have to spend a little a bit more of a free-spirited more time on preparing for state of mind that team. This I in practice I." week we were said Jackson, able to work who gave his "It's a huge day, more on individ­
team Tuesday ual skills."
especially when 
off to avoid Another bene­
falling in to the you're coming to a fit of tonight's 
lull of "the dog place like Notre Dame exhibition skate, days of Jackson said,
with all its tradition." 
February". will be the "That certainly opportunity to doesn't mean Kyle Lawson get certain play­we can come in Irish defenseman ers additional 
the kids we're playing are good hockey players. 
"They're extremely quick, they're skilled, and they're well­coached, so we'll be challenged in those areas that we're trying to work on." 
The main con­cern of late has been the power play, and even last weekend's four-goal outburst with the man-advan­
tage against Bowling Green hasn't solved the special teams issues completely. The Irish also hope to improve their transition play in preparation 
playing time. 
Phillips, for 
example, will "get back on the horse" by get­ting tonight's start in net, his first since allowing four goals against No. 1 Michigan two weeks ago. 
"It's meant to help [Team USAJ get better as young play­ers, and that program has been extremely good to Notre Dame," Jackson said. "On the other side of the coin, it gives us an opportunity to maybe play some guys that don't play as much, and it also gives us an opportunity to keep in game shape. We've got to turn around in a week and play Ferris State, and that'll be a very tough series -so there definitely are benefits for us." 
So despite the somewhat laid-back approach that defined this week in practice, there's no con­fusion among 
for the remain­the Irish play­
"It's been our
der of their ers: tonight is 
CCIIA slate, emphasis all week still a game 
which resumes that we're trying not night. with next week­"It's been our
to take it as a night
end's series emphasis all
off"
against Ferris week that we're State. trying not to "You take it as Kyle Lawson take it as a kind of an off­night off,"
Irish defenseman 
week, but it's not necessarily an off-week where we slack off," Pearce said. "We took a little bit of extra time to get some rest, but we also spent a lot of time on more specific areas of our game -shooting, scoring techniques -whereas when you're preparing for a league 
Lawson said. " It's a chance for us to get better. and that's the way we're going to approach it. They have 20 of the best kids in the country, and they're going to challenge 
us." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

WU VUE/The Observer 
Irish center Christian Hanson skates down the Ice In Notre Dame's 4-1 win over Bowling Green on Jan. 26. 
Europe is calling. Will you answer? 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies provides financial support for undergraduate summer research, study, and internships. 
RESEARCH AND TRAVEL GRANTS UP TO $4,000 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 8, 2008 
EUROPEAN INTERNSHIP STIPENDS UP TO $3,500 ROLLING DEADLINES 
II 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL 1-S 2 S 3 OR VISIT 
WWW.ND.EDU/~NANOVIC 
Friday, February 1, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 

BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

CROSSWORD 
Across Musical genre 
that uses a flatted fifth Violin 
attachments 
5 It vibrates during snoring 
6 Novel that nobody reads 
7 Three-time U.S. presidential 
candidate 
8 Net sales? 
9 Multigallon 
container 1 Grave mound Hostage holder 
King's successor as S.C.L.C. president 
Shrink 
29 Cannibal of Anglo-Saxon legend 
31 "Science made clear'': Cocteau 32 Stole, slangily 33 Sweetums 36 Perseveres 37 You may need it going in 38 Union station? 41 Seven-foot star of 1960s TV 
43 They may raise some people's spirits 
45 Films that require a lot of shooting? 
46 Sentence ender 
47 Their work stinks 
49 What a lack of evidence of forced entry might indicate 
51 Send to the front? 53 Unchangeable situation 
54 Van _ ("Jump" band) 
55 Orthodox Church council 
56 Inception 
Down 1 Roll 2 Actress who was 
the voice of Duchess in "The Aristocats" 
3 The Pearl of the Danube 
4 Sucrose polyester, more familiarly 
5 "Travelin' Thru" singer 
6 City largely destroyed by the Normandy campaign 
7 Literary pal of Tom 8 Witness statement 9 Rain clouds 10 Worked one's wiles on 11 Longtime NBC sports exec 
12 "Man of Constant (old folk standard) 
13 On the way 
14 Stick on the grill 
20 One of 
Ferdinand ll's 
kingdoms 22 House on a hacienda 
23 One of the Marsalis brothers 
25 "Wild Thing" band, with "the" 

WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by Patrick Berry 
26 1946 Literature 36 Without 44 "Politics is the Nobelist apparent effort of the 30 University of 

imagination": ian 37 Bonus Army 
North Texas McEwan 
member
home 

47 Oz visitor 32 Product lines? 38 Venomous 48 Supine, possibly 33 Who's left? 50 Dutch painter
39 Cabin addition 34 Assessment paid Steen only by those 40 Heel bone, e.g. 
52"We Know who benefit 
42 Bridge Drama" 35 Moving vehicles declaration sloganeer 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJW/WliDrLIE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SYNIH 
rJ 
1 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

r;I;fl)
tGINENE j
J r
1 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer here: [IIIIIIIIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: BLOOD LLAMA PAYOFF BEDBUG Answer: What it can take to rekindle a romance ­AN OLD FLAME 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Justin Timberlake, 27; Portia DeRossi, 35; Minnie Driver, 38; Suzanne Pleshette, 71 
Happy Birthday: Don't give in to pressure; take care of your own needs. You cannot do it all and, once you realize your limitations, you will be far better posi­tioned to accomplish what's necessary. Your numbers are 8, 11, 24, 27, 36, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Taking action to resolve issues will be admired by some and not by others. Getting involved in something you believe in will bring you the information needed to pursue something important. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This is a perfect time to sign up for a course or surf the Internet for important information. Travel will enhance your views and help you realize your true potential. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-Jone 20): It's in the stars that, if you take action, good things will happen and you will excel in ways you never thought possible. Forget about past regrets. Changes made to your personal life, home and family will turn out well in the end. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Lighten up and enjoy what life has to offer. A long-lasting relationship or partnership can he taken to the next level. Take action or you'll have regrets. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aog. 22): Money may be on your mind but the way you go about getting it must be on the level. You may be tempted to get involved in something that could lead to trouble. Instead, stick to the rules. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Make those changes you've been contemplating. If you don't make your move, you will probably miss out on something that could lead to greater freedom. You can do no wrong when it comes to love. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Wait before you make a promise. There will be more involved than you first realized and little aggravations will crop up, holding you back and making your job more time-consuming than expected. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't be fooled by what others tell you. Do your own research and don't give in to emotional blackmail. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be a real go-getter today but watch out --someone is likely to pull a fast one or try to catch you off-guard. Use your imagination and you will find solutions that will be difficult for even your big­gest competitor to get wind of. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jao. 19): An unusual way of doing something will catch the eye of someone who can help you out financially. An emotional mix-up may infringe on your time. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't pay too much attention to someone who is trying to talk you into doing something you don't feel right about. Focus on learn­ing, travel or spending time with the one you love. Plan an activity that requires physical exertion. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A change of heart will lead you in a better direc­tion with greater status. You can close a deal, form a partnership and take a stance where love and romance are concerned. Play by the rules and win. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You question everything and everyone, never giving in. You are secretive, imaginative and emotional regarding personal issues, friends and family. 
Eugenia's Web sUes: astroadvice..corn for fun. eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 


~------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, February 1, 2008 
page 28 
-
FOOTBALL 
Lewis retires, former G-Tech coordinator Tenuta joins staff 
program." in the game." But he and Irish assistant Brian the University's athletics com­By KEN FOWLER Tenuta, who will replace Bill Tenuta said he is looking for­Polian were the position coaches munity relations stall'. Sporrs Writer Lewis, has been a hot free-agent ward to working with Irish for linebackers in 2007. Lewis told Irish coach Charlie 
commodity on the college coach­defensive coordinator Corwin Tenuta, whose defenses were Weis in January that his Notre Dame has hin~d Georgia ing market since Georgia Tech Brown, who is entering his sec­known for their aggressive zone impending surgeries might Tech's widely respected defen­replaced Chan Gailey with for­ond year with the team. The blitzes that utilized linebackers' require him to leave the coach­--sive mordinator, Jon Tenuta, as mer Navy coach Paul Johnson. pair of Tenuta and Brown gives ability to get to the opposing ing staff. In the meantime. assistant head coach for "Two things attracted me to Weis flexibility with his defen­quarterback, served as Ohio Lewis said in the statement, defense. this job, Coach Weis and Notre sive staff. State's defensive backs coach Notre Dame athletic director 
"Jon's track n~eord speaks for Dame," Tenuta said in the state­Prior to becoming Notre from 1996-99. Kevin White asked him if he was itself," Irish coach Charlie Weis ment. "It's an opportunity to Dame's defensive coordinator a Lewis, 66, is retiring from interested in leaving the coach­said in a statement Thursday. coach at one of the greatest tra­year ago, Brown was an NFL coaching because he needs to ing staff and filling a new posi­"lie is a coach with an immense ditional powerhouse programs safety from 1993-2000 and have both of his hips replaced. tion in the department as a amount of defensive knowledge in college football and to work coached defensive backs for the He coached the Irish secondary and will undoubtedly help our with one of the brightest minds New York Jets for three years. from 2005-07 and will now join see TENUTA/page 26 


Irish forward l..!Jke Harangody, left, dunks the ball, while Irish guard Tory Jackson dribbles up the court during Notre Dame's 81-74 overtime win over Providence Thursday in the Joyce Center. see JACKSON/page 25 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
ND downs Providence in overtime, improves to 5-2 in conference 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Notre Dame was falling apart Thursday night. 
With just over a minute left in th c game, a 
See Also:

jumper by 
"Loud crowd

guard Jeff 
Xavier gave distracts Hall, Providence 
moves Irish to

a 61-59 lead. The victory." Irish hadn't 
page 25

scored in over six minutes, and it looked like the Friars would snag the first vic­tory over the Irish in the Joyce Centm in 32 games. 
But the game wouldn't end without Luke Harangody hav­
see FRIARS/page 25 

Fried Friars 
IAN GAVL/CK!The Observer 
Jackson's best game of the season propels Irish to key Big East victory 
Yes, Luke Harangody finished with 31 points and 14 rebounds against Providence and nailed two huge free throws to tie the game with 18 seconds remain­ing, but Notre Dame would have lost Thursday night with­out the play of Tory Jackson. 
Jackson played his Chris Hine best game of 

the season Sports Editor against the Friars, picking up the slack for a struggling Kyle McAlarney by scoring 14 points. But most importantly, Jackson did what he does best, distributed the 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Schedule lightens with 1-7 Bearcats 
By BILL BRINK Sporrs Writer 
Since losing two straight and four of nine overall after Jan. 5, the Irish are finally getting a break. 
They travel to Cincinnati to face the Bearcats Saturday at 3 p.m., three days after hand­ily defeating Providence at horne. The Bearcats arc 10-10 overall, but have struggled with conference opponents ­thny are 1-7 in Big East play and, af'tnr bnating Georgetown on Jan. 8, have lost six straight to conference teams. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw said every road game would be a "gnl11.t test" for Notre Dame. which will play three consecutive road games later this month. 
Hegardless of the opponent, McGraw feels the team has work to do. 
"We just have to get sharp­er," she said. "I feel like we've lost a little bit of our execu­tion." 
The Irish aren't too far from where they need to be. They are 16-5 (4-3 Big East) and recently beat Providence by 17 points. However, consecu­tive losses to DePaul and No. 1 Connecticut highlighted faults in the Irish defense. McGraw said improvements on defense come from varia­
see CINCI!page 26 
HOCKEY 

leers scrimmage Under-18 squad 
By MATT GAMBER Sporrs Wrirer 
After battling ranked confer­ence opponents for three con­secutive weekends, tonight's 
7:35 exhibition matchup with the U.S. National Under-18 Team will allow the No. 8 Irish to recharge their batteries and rehash some old memories. 
Five current Notre Dame (20-9-1, 13-6-1 CCHA) players -junior goaltender Jordan Pearce, sophomore defense­man Kyle Lawson, freshmen defensemen Ian Cole and Teddy Ruth, and freshman goalie Brad Phillips -are alumni of the National Team Development Program, and Lawson understands the draw of competing against top­notch NCAA competition even before suiting up for a college 
see SCRIMMAGE/page 26 

wu Irish junior center Justin White, right battles for a faceoff in Notre Dame's 4-1 win over Bowling Green on Jan. 26. 







