
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND physicists help with 'Big Bang' experiment 
Six faculty members joined dozens of scientists in particle project to gain insight into universe's creation 
ByJENN METZ 
News Editor 
Notre Dame particle physicists are par­ticipating in an experiment almost 20 years in the making designed to uncover the mysteries of the universe moments after its creation. 
The experiment, which uses a particle accelerator called the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), launched Wednesday in Geneva, Switzerland. 
The Notre Dame team, part of a larger contingent of American physicists and sci­entists from many countries around the world, at the forefront of the field of par­ticle physics, has been working on the project since its inception in 1993, Associate Professor of Physics Colin Jessop said. 
"We've been a part of this community for many, many years," he said. 

Six faculty members are involved in the project: Professors Randy Ruchti, Michael Hildreth, Mitchell Wayne, Kevin Lannon, Dan Karmgard, along with Jessop. 
Two post-doctoral researchers, Jeff Kolb and Nancy Marinelli, are currently at the European Organization for Nuclear Research, better known by its French acronym, CERN, in Switzerland, the oper­ation center for the LHC. 
The LHC collides protons -subatomic particles -together at extremely high energies. The $10 billion machine is located about 300 feet beneath the ground on the French-Swiss border and spans a circumference of 17 miles. 
A ring of superconducting magnets accelerates the particles to extremely high energies, "almost to the speed of light," Jessop said. 
As the particles circulate around the 
see PHYSICS/page 4 

Photo Courtesy of Colin Jessop One of the first images produced from the experiment in Switzerland shows energy deposits from particles. 


ByJOHN-PAUL WITT 
News Writer 

Despite the economic woes facing the United States, things were looking up at Wednesday's Fall Career Expo, which featured 148 companies in the Joyce Center, Career Center director Lee Svete said. 
The plethora of companies ranged from "Fortune SOOs to small businesses that are looking to grow," Svete said. 
Final numbers on attendees were not available Wednesday night, but the Joyce Center was a crowded mix of hun-


Students pursue careers, internships 
The Career Center hosted the annual Fall Career Expo, which featured 148 companies 
dreds of students and recruiters, as well as Career Center employees dispensing last-minute advice and mak­ing introductions. 
Although last year's Fall Career Expo featured more companies, with a tally of 196, students were generally happy with the number of businesses and organizations represent­ed. 
"It was encouraging to see so many companies interested in Notre Dame students," sen­ior theology major Chris Aguilar said. 
Many students, like Aguilar, 
see EXPO/page 8 

.Welsh Fam hosts 'fiesta' on quad 
By ROBERT SINGER 
News Writer 
Spurning their usual location on West Quad and introducing a theme for the first time, the Welsh Family Block Party organ­izers decided to head "south." 
They put on their sombreros and threw a "Fiesta" on South Quad for three hours Wednesday night. 
As music blared, partygoers were entertained by an array of carnival games. An inflatable obstacle course and fun house, free pizza, chips and salsa, bal­loon darts, volley ball, wiffie ball and a ping pong toss for the chance to win a gold fish were among the attractions. In addi­tion, an iPod shuffle was raflled off and T-shirts were sold. 
Wednesday's Fiesta was the highlight of Welsh Family Hall's spirit week, which has tradition­ally been an effort to boost hall pride and raise money for a wor­thy cause. In years past, the event has raised donations for Hurricane Katrina victims and for schools in third world coun­tries. 
Dorm president Tara Schimpf said earlier events this week have included yoga, dorm break­fasts, s'mores and an after-mass social. 
see WELSH FAM/page 6 

Campuses re111e111ber 9/11 attacks 

Residence halls to host prayer service 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Associate News Editor 
Seven years ago today, Lewis Hall rectress Linda Cirillo was doing an internship as a chaplain at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington D.C., when terrorists flew an airplane into the Pentagon in nearby Arlington, Va. 
Cirillo, who had retired as a lieutenant colonel in the Air Force after 20 years of service, became "intimately involved" in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 ter­rorist attacks, a day when planes also struck the World Trade Center Towers in New York City and a plane crashed to the ground in Shanksville, Pa. 
"I was actually there on the frontline in the hospital with one of the burn victims that escaped and got out of the Pentagon alive, but not without being burned from head to toe," she said. 
Cirillo, who is now a certified Catholic chaplain, ministered to the burn victim, a lieutenant colonel in the Army. The man survived his injuries. 
Cirillo will share her memories of Sept. 11 today during a prayer service on Fieldhouse Mall to commemorate the seventh anniversary of the worst terrorist 
see 91111page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 11, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

I just love football 
When I began actively watching foot­
ball, there was no NFL team in 
Baltimore. I was stuck in the interreg­
num between the Colts leaving in 1984 
and the Havens showing up in 1996. 
This lnft me with a gaping hole in my 
fandom. Sure, I had the Orioles for 
basoball and the Terps for basketball, 
but what was I to do on Sundays? Who 
would be my team'! 
And then, I remember this gun-sling­
ing eountry boy who just loves football. 
Brott Favre. 
No, this is not Jay Fitzpatrick meant to be sar­castic, nor is it my 
Managing 

own personal take 
Editor 

on the Frank 
Caliendo-John 
Madden bit. Brett Favre just loved the 
game, and that made him and the 
Packers fun to watch. 
And so my hopes and dreams rose and fell with the fate of the Green Ray Packers. I can remember how great I felt when Favrn led his team to Super Bowl glory against the Patriots, and how down I was when he fell to the Broneos the next year. 
Evon after the Havens moved to town, I still held a special place in my sporting heart for Favro, who was thankfully in the other conference. To me, he was the unparallelnd best football player in the league, and I did nothing but support everything he did. 
Fast forward to 2008, when Brett 
Favrn rntiros in winter. 
;\ part of me is sad that one of my last childhood ieons is moving on, going the way of Cal Hipken, Jr. But the !-,>"UY had just brokon every major career passing record and was a sure-thing Hall of Famor. EA Sports announcnd that Favre would graen tho eover of' Madden 09 ­the first rntirod player to do so. 
But then, over the summer, as you all assurndly know if you watched, listened to or read anything sporL<>-related dur­ing a three-month span, Favre came back in a kind of sleazy way. Most of his former fans (except a few diehards in Wiseonsin) turned their back on him. The conversations changed from where he ranks among all-time 6'1"eatest quar­terbacks to a more South Parkian ques­tion of whether he is a giant douche or a turd sandwich. 
And yes, even I turned my back on him. 
But then, during my fantasy football draft, as I scrolled through the QB rank­ings searching for a backup quarter­back, I saw "Favre, B. NYJ." Debating between him and the Broncos' Jay Cutler, I took nearly my full 90 seconds. And then I caved. In a rebirth of my childhood passion for the Packers, I took Favre. 
And then last Sunday, when the NFL made its long awaited return, I watched the JeL'> game -likely the only time I have watched a Jets-Dolphins game with such vigor and enthusiasm, to watch Favre do his thing. And he did not disappoint. Watching the Jets last Sunday, I saw the same Brett Favre that made me a Packers fan in my youth. 
The city has changed. The shade of green has changed. But the Favre remains the same. He is still the gun­slinging country boy he always was. 
So lay off Brett Favre. He just loves football. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
jfitzpa5@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do. however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

Jennie Hiatt 
junior McGlinn 
"FBI Secret Agent.,, 
Man crashes motorcycle into bear 
MISSOULA, Mont. -A middle school teacher suf­fered some bruising and a big scratch on his back after he struck a bear while riding his bicycle to school. 
Jim Litz said he was traveling about 25 mph Monday morning when he came upon a rise and spotted a black bear about 1 0 feet in front of him. He didn't have time to stop and T-boned the bruin. 
He tumbled over the handlebars, his helmet hit the bear's back and the two went eartwheeling 
WHAT DO YOU WANT TO BE WHEN YOU GROW UP? 

Lindsay Williams 
junior Lyons 
"Ask me when I grow up. 

Tom Carnevale 
freshman Dillon 
"Pirate. ,, 


Machado began per­forming mouth to mouth on the animal as he car­ried it outside. 
Video shot at the scene shows Machado bent over, breathing into the eat's mouth several times. The cat, a tiger angora, was revived and resting com­fortably soon after. 
No humans were injured in the fire. A man and woman whose last known address was the building that burned were arrested and charged with arson, authorities said. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
down the road. 
The bear rolled over Litz's head, cracking his helmet, and scratched his back before scampering up a hill above the road. 
Firefighter revives cat in burning apartment NEW BEDFORD, Mass. ­A lucky cat owes one of its nine lives to a firefighter who revived it with mouth-to-mouth resuscita­tion. AI Machado rescued the eat from a burning apartment Tuesday, telling The Standard Times of New Bedford that he saw immediately that it needed air. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY a: 
LLI ::::a: 
!;;: 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
<C 
(,) 0 

~ HIGH 78 HIGH 71 HIGH 83 HIGH 78 
LOW 72 LOW 65 LOW 70 LOW 63 

Patricia Santamaria 
sophomore Welsh Family 
,,
"Imagineer. 
IN BRIEF 
The Army ROTC is sponsoring a blood drive through the American Red Cross today from 
9:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom of LaFortune Student Center. 
Michael Novak will be speaking regarding his book "Business As A Calling" on today at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Auditorium, room 101. 
The Mendoza College of Business is sponsoring a lecture Friday at 10:40 a.m. is the Jordan Auditorium of Mendoza featuring Executive Chairman Herb Kelleher and President Colleen Barrett of Southwest Airlines. 
The first campus-wide carnival "Cirque du Lac" will take place Friday from noon to 4 p.m. on South Quad. The event will include twenty-five dorms and clubs and will raise money to benefit Hannah and Friend<>. 
The Student Activities Office is hosting a concert at Washington Hall called "Recycled Percussion" Friday at 9 p.m. Recycled Percycled Perceussion infises Junk rock with visual effectS. 
The Student Activities Office is hosting "Pop Culture Night" on Saturday at 10 p.m. It will include a pop culture trivia con­test, food and music. 
The Saturday Scholars Series: "Peter Pan as a Cultural Icon" hosted by the College of Arts and Letters will take place Saturday at noon in the Annenburg Auditorium of the Snite Museum ofArt. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

~ (\i\/~.
·\-Y·tY"'·< 1z 
~/ '-<;;;$

:::1, ,::= 
'l)JJt~ 

HIGH 72 HIGH 
67 

LOW 47 LOW 
45 

Atlanta 88 I 72 Boston 77 I 64 Chicago 69 I 49 Denver 86 I 40 Houston 93 I 73 Los Angeles 83 I 68 Minneapolis 69 I 45 New York 75 I 71 Philadelphia 77 I 71 Phoenix 101 I 81 Seattle 73 I 57 St. Louis 83 I 65 Tampa 92 I 78 Washington 81 I 75 
-------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, September 11, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary's al ulllna share post-college tips 
By ALYSSA PINON News Writer 
Even though the school year is less than a month under­way, Saint Mary's juniors and especially seniors, are well aware that life after college is quickly approaching. 
To help ease the tran­gain
'"Grace under Pressure'" 
sition, the hearing Alumnae is really a time for about the Association careers of
students to connect with 
Board of SMC alum­
women who have gone 
Directors is nae, so that 
holding an through the stresses of life I can apply event called after Saint Mary's and are it to my own 
"Grace Under [career
willing to help in any way
Pressure". path]," she 
The event they can" said. presents an Students opportunity said they
Jessica Stuifbergen 
for juniors are hoping

assistant director 
and seniors to to use what 

Alumnae Relations
listen to dif­they learn 
dinner party," Stuifbergen said. "This event will help current Saint Mary's women in the transition from being Saint Mary's College students to alumnae". 
Senior Sarah Dalton is plan­ning to attend the event. 
"I am excited to see what opportuni­ties and insight I can 
from 
ferent alum­nae from all over the country who have come back to talk about the many places their SMC education has taken them. 
Jessica Stuifbergen, an SMC alumna and the assistant director of Alumnae Relations, said "Grace under Pressure" "is really a time for students to connect with women who have gone through the stress­es of life after Saint Mary's and are willing to help in any way they can. 
"The panel will hot just be discussing interviewing and networking skills, but also proper interviewing attire, and even correct etiquette at a 
at this event 
in the 
remainder of their time at Saint Mary's. 
''I'm excited to learn more about networking. I believe that [the Alumnae Association] is a great tool to not only help me network, but to keep me connected to Saint Mary's," senior Anna Hoefer said. 
"Grace Under Pressure" will be taking place today in the Saint Mary's Student Center Lounge. Space is limited, but students who are still interest­ed are asked to contact alum­nae@saintmarys.edu with any questions. 
Contact Alyssa Pinon at apinon@saintmarys.edu 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 




Group plans election events 
College aims to inform, register voters for absentee ballots by Nov. 4 
age students to vote, but
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
teach them how to be 
News Writer 
informed voters as well. 
"It's a privilege, that we as Saint Mary's will be host­women are among the third ing events every Tuesday or fourth generations to prior to the November presi­vote. We have the right to dential election, Sarah King, vote," King said. 
the Saint Mary's  S  a  i  n  t  
Board  of  Mary's  core  
Governance (BOG) missions  "It's a privilege, that  value this year is jus­ 
commissioner,  we as women are  tice,  she  
said Wednesday. Saint Mary's chapter of the "Rock the Vote  among the third or fourth generations to vote. We have the  said. They are hoping to tie this in heavily with  
Campaign" will be hosting a  right to vote."  their move to get stu­ 
kick-off day Sept. 16 from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. in  Sarah King missions commissioner  dents to vote. BOG meet­ 
the  Student  Board of Governance  ings  are  
Center.  always open  
Information  to  the  stu­ 

tables will be set up to talk dent body, but the Board about absentee ballots and said Wednesday they are so students can ask ques­hoping to hear more from tions about voting. students. 
After the informational "If there is something they event, Project Vote Smart's really want to talk about and national bus will arrive on they bring it up at the meet­campus at 3 p.m. and ing, we will be more than remain until 6 p.m. Project willing to listen and see Vote Smart is a non-partisan what we can do about it," education system that visits student body president colleges to teach young vot­Sarah Falvey said. ers about the Election Day The Board is working to process. have the meetings in larger 
The College is holding locations to make students events that not only encour-feel more welcome, she said. 

The first open forum will be Wednesday, Sept. 17 at 6:30 
p.m. and the other will be held later in November. The locations of both meetings will be announced as the date gets closer. 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
BOG will be sponsoring a bus trip to Chicago on Sept. 20, student body presi­dent Mickey Gruscinski said. Students will receive e-mails from BOG with details about the trip. 

+ 
A Constitution Day panel discussion will take place in Haggar Parlor ·Sept. 17 at noon. Assistant professor of political science Amy Cavender, Hodge Patel, dis­trict director for U.S. Rep. Joe Donnelly (0-Ind.), and Brooks Grainger, a South Bend criminal defense lawyer, will be speaking on the panel. 

+ 
The one-year anniver­sary of the beatification of Basil Anthony Moreau is Monday, Sept. 15, King said. In honor of the day, Saint Mary's will have a special dinner in the dining hall on Tuesday, Sept. 16, and there will be masses held in his honor. 


Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 


Save the date. Keep it really, really OPEN. 
join us on Software Freedom Day September 20th. It's your opportunity to show support for all things open source. While you're at it, join aSun Open Source University Meetup at sun.com/swfreedom. Change (Y)our World. Support Software Freedom Day. 


+sun. 
microsystems 
The Network is the Computer TM 
© 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Sun and the Sun Microsystems logo are registered marks and The Network is the Computer is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September II, 2008 

Particles 
continued from page 1 
ring, they gain more and more energy until they are smashnd together, he said. 
Large detectors, "sort of like a giant digital camera," whkh were in part designed by the Notre Dame team, will be there when the collisions happen to collect data, Jessop said. 
These machines deteet all the partieles that arn ereated in the eollisions, whieh will replicate the partieles in existence about one microsecond after the Big Bang 13.7 billion years ago. 
This, Jessop said, is extrnmely important. "We are the remnants of the Big Bang," he said. 
The data will help in "understanding the interac­tions ol' the partieles at the early stages of the universe that have determined how the universe is today," he said. 
Three Notre Dame gradu­ate students -Ted Kolberg, Jamie Antonelli and Sean Lynch -are currently in Switzerland collecting data and helping to operate the deteetors. They will remain at the experiment site for one or two years before rP.turning to Notre Dame and finishing their degrees. 
The Notre Dame team worked on the detectors in all phases-inducting "com­missioning the detector, making it work, and running it," Jessop said. 
Wh11n the switeh was first turned on Wednesday at 1:30 here, and we expect to make a.m., it was "our time," amazing discoveries to eluci­Jessop said. "We put the first date problems about how the beam !into the accelerator] universe is right now," he . . . It was a seminal moment said . for us." Notre Dame physicists ­
A principle goal of the graduate and undergraduate experiment is to discover the -will be analyzing the data 
existence of  from  the  
the Higgs boson parti­cle-"a key to under­standing our theories of  "It's very exciting. It's taken 20 years to get here, and we expect to make amazing  experiment for the next 20 years. Graduate students have already  
the uni­verse," Jessop said. Physicists  discoveries to elucidate problems about how the uni- begun looking at the data, and will con­tinue to do so  
have been looking for  verse is right now. "  for the entire­ty of their  
this particle -deemed  Philip Jessop  Ph.D pro­grams,  
"The  Holy  physics professor  Jessop said.  

Grail of par­t i c I e physics" -for 42 years. Its discovery will help answer the question of what is mass. 
Mass is property of objects in the universe. The Higgs boson particle, named after Scottish physicist Peter Higgs, is that which gives every particle mass, Jessop explained. Without this parti­cle, scientists do not under­stand why there is mass in the universe. 
'This is crucial to our theo­ries of explaining the proper­ties we have. It is a key con­stituent in understanding why every other particle has mass," he said. 
The experiment will proba­bly last for 20 years, Jessop said. During the project the machines involved will con­stantly improve. 
"It's very exciting. It's taken us 20 years to get 
The data 
will be avail­
able to undergraduate 
physics majors, who possess 
the technical knowledge to 
comprehend it, in the next 
several months. The results 
of the experiment will be 
taught to general science 
classes at the University. 
Notre Dame is involved in 
an outreach program called 
QuarkNet -named after the 
particle called a "quark," the 
most fundamental of all par­
ticles that everything is built 
of -which allows high ·school teachers and students to do research at Notre Dame. The results of the LHC experiment will be shared through this program, "bringing the results to younger students as well," Jessop said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

Students protest CIA at Fall Career Expo 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
Six members of the Notre Dame Peace Fellowship, in partnership with the Progressive Student Alliance and Human Rights ND, dis­tributed flyers outside the Fall Career Expo Wednesday at the Joyce Center protesting the pres­ence of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and Raytheon, a defense and aerospace systems sup­plier. 
The protestors entered the Joyce Center to distribute flyers, but were immediately escorted out by Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) officers and physically barred from re-entry by police. The protest dispersed as the career fair ended at 8 p.m. 
Representatives from the CIA and Raytheon were not authorized to speak with the media, and NDSP officers on the scene had no com­ment. 
When reached at home Wednesday evening, Notre Dame Security/Police Director Phil Johnson said he was not willing to comment without "complete infor­mation on the situation." 
Event coordinator Alicia Quiros, a Notre Dame junior, said the group had been informed that they would be permitted by the Student Activities Office and Student Affairs to pass out fliers inside the JACC after "three meetings" with Notre Dame officials. She said there was a contradiction between what the groups were told in writing from Student Affairs, and what later hap­pened. 
"We did not have banners, we were not yelling, we were simply passing out flyers to educate mem­bers of the Notre Dame community, and if the University will not permit this, it's gone down a road that's dangerous," Angulo said. 
Peace Fellowship member Michael Angulo said he opposed Notre Oame allowing the two organ­izations to solicit applicants at Notre Dame. 
"The CIA eontinues to torture detainees, 60 years after the pas­sage of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the U.N.," Angulo said, ''I'm against AI-Qacda, but I'm also against the CIA kidnapping peo­ple. People recruit at Notre Dame because Notre Dame students are engaged and intelligent -these organizations want to take these qualities and corrupt them." 
Raytheon's career fair handouts describe the company as a "technol­ogy leader specializing in defense, homeland security and other gov­ernment markets." 
But Angulo protested Raytheon's role in perpetuating the use of weapons. 
"They manufacture things that kill people, and we're against things that kill people, especially civilians," Angulo said, "Cluster bombs ­mines released through the air ­are still exploding in Lebanon today, maiming and killing people." 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 

The beacon in multi-million dollar investment decisions 
BainCapital is one of the world's leading private investment firms, managing more than $83 billion of leveraged buyout, public equity and credit funds. Sankaty Advisors, the debt investment group of BainCapital, is one of the nation's leading buy-side private investment management firms. 
With approximately $33 billion in committed capital, Sankaty is a world-class team of over 70 investment professionals with extensive experience analyzing and managing high yield investments. 
Representatives from Sankaty Advisors will be visiting campus throughout the year, speaking with undergraduate students about internships and full-time positions that will put your education to work on global, multi-million dollar investment decisions. 
Please look for us on campus in the coming months to leam more about the great opportunities we offer in Boston and London. 
Resume Deadline: Sunday, September 14th 
For more information, visit us at www.sankaty.corn. 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 11, 2008 CoMrrtED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
British seek rebial for explosive plot 
LONDON -British prosecutors are seeking the retrial of seven men accusHd of plotting to down trans-Atlantic airliners using liquid explo­sives disguised as soft drinks. 
Britain's Crown Prosecution Service said ·Wednesday it will ask the courts for a second trial al'tnr a London jury was unable to agree on charges related to an alleged plan to bomb jet­liners in 2006. Jurors convicted three men on separate conspiracy to murder charges and acquitted an eighth man. 
Aller the plot was announced, airports in the 
U.S. and Europe ground to a halt. New security precautions were imposed severely restricting the quantity of liquids in carry-on luggage ­limit<; that remain in place until today. 
South Korea: Kim Jong II in recovery 
SEOUL-North Korea's Kim Jong II is on the road to recovery from a stroke and still in control of his isolated country's commu­nist regime, South Korea suggested Wednesday, disputing reports that the leader is gravely ill. 
President Lee Myung-bak convened a meeting of top security ministers, who were briefed on intelligence that indicates Kim was recovering, said Lee Dong-kwan, the president's chief spokesman. 
Tlw North Korean leader was currently "not sm~n to be in a serious condition," the spokesman said in a statement after the meeting late Wednesday, citing the contents of the briefing. 
Earlier, South Korea's spy agency told a closed door meeting of lawmakers it had intelligence showing the 66-year-old Kim's condition had much improved, an agency official said on condition of anonymity, cit­ing official policy. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Town turns to tourism after 9/11 
SHANKSVILLE, Pa. -Searching for an eco­nomic boost and home to perhaps the most compelling story of 9/11, rural Somerset County is trying to pull off a balancing act: Remembering the victims of United Airlines Flight 93 in a way that encourages development and job growth without devolving into tackiness and disrespect. 
Three years before the anticipated opening of a memorial that the National Park Service expects will bring in 250,000 visitors a year, officials say they are working to make this area of western Pennsylvania more hospitable to tourists. 
By necessity, they say, this would bring more inns, restaurants and other new businesses and jobs to a region where the traditional industries -steel, coal-mining, manufacturing and farm­ing-have declined over the decades. 
Teen arrested for four murders 
lANCASTER, Calif. -A teenager was arrested for investigation of four counts of murder Wednesday in the killings of a woman and three girls whose bodies were found in a burning house, authorities said. 
Bail for Corey King was set at $1 million, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Deputy Aura Sierra said. 
Authorities had called King, 18, of Altadena, an associate or friend of the victims when he was brought in for questioning Tuesday. A telephone listing for King could not be immediately located. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Official expects high voter turnout 
INDIANAPOLIS -The state's top election official predietnd Wednesday that a'i many as 65 percent of registered Indiana voters will go to the polls on Election Day, largely because of interest in the presi­dential race. 
That would mark the highest turnout for a presi­dential election since 1992, when 7 4 percent of vot­ers went to the polls. Secretary of State Todd Rokita also prndicted the state will add at least 200,000 new or updated voter registrations by the Oct. 6 deadline. As of Saturday, 539,325 Indiana residents this year have newly registered to vote or updated their regis­trations with new addresses or other changes. 

Officials urge 1 million to evacuate 
Storm threatens nation's largest concentration of refineries, chemical plants 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -The frail and elderly were put aboard buses Wednesday and authorities warned 1 million others to flee inland as Hurricane Ike steamed toward a swath of the Texas coast that includes the nation's largest concen­tration of refineries and chemical plants. 
Drawing energy l'rom the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico, the strengthening storm was expected to blow ashore early Saturday somewhere between Corpus Christi and Houston, with some forecasts saying it could become a fearsome Category 4, with winds of at least 131 mph. . 
Such a storm could cause a storm surge of 18 feet in Matagorda Bay and four to eight feet in Galveston Bay, emergency officials warned. The surge in Galveston Bay could push floodwaters into Houston, damaging areas that includfl the nation's biggest refinery and NASA's Johnson Space Center. 
Four counties south and east of Houston announced mandatory or voluntary evacuations, and authori­ties began moving weak and chronically ill patients by bus to San Antonio, about 190 miles from Houston. A mandatory evacuation was also ordered for the west end of Galveston Island. No imme­diate evacuations were ordered in Harris County, which includes Houston. 
Johnny Greer, a 54-year­old retired plant operator at Dow Chemical Corp., boarded up his house a mile from the Gulf of Mexico in Brazoria County and planned to hit the road. 
"Gas and stuff is high. But you can't look at all that," he said. "I think my life is more valuable than high gas prices." 
About 1 million people live in the coastal counties between Corpus Christi and Galveston. An additional 4 million live in the Houston area, to the north. 
The oil and gas industry 

watched the storm closely, fearing damage to the very heart of its operations. 
Texas is home to 26 refineries that account for one-fourth of U.S. refining capacity, and most are clus­tered along the Gulf Coast in such places as Houston, Port Arthur and Corpus Christi. Exxon Mobil Corp.'s plant in Baytown, outside Houston, is the nation's largest refinery. Dow Chemical has a huge opera­tion just north of Corpus Christi. 
Refineries are built to withstand high winds, but flooding can disrupt opera­tions and -as happened in Louisiana after Hurricane Gustav -power outages can shut down equipment for days or weeks. An 
extended shutdown could lead to higher gasoline prices. 
As always, some hard­ened old-timers decided to ride it out. Fourth-genera­tion fisherman James Driggers, 47, planned to spend the storm aboard his 80-foot boat docked in Freeport. 
"We like to stay close to our paycheck," he said. 
At 8 p.m. EDT, Ike was a Category 2 storm with winds near 100 mph. It was about 700 miles east of Brownsville, Texas, and was moving northwest at 8 mph, after ravaging homes in Cuba and killing at least 80 people in the Caribbean. 
No matter where Ike hits, its effects are likely to be felt for hundreds of miles, said Mark Sloan, emer­gency management coordi­nator for Harris County, which includes Houston. 
"It's a very large storm," Sloan said. "The bands will be over 200 miles out from the center of storm, so we have to be aware of its size as it grows over the next 24 to 48 hours and what 
impacts  it  will  have on  
Friday,  Saturday  and  
Sunday."  

Isaias Campos, 27, board­ed up the church he attends in Freeport. lie said he was grateful the church planned to evacuate much of the congregation to Houston by bus. 
"If it wasn't for the church, it would be difficult for many of our members to leave," Campos said. 

VENEZUELA 


Chavez deploys strategic bombers 
Associated Press 
CARACAS -Two Russian strategic bombers landed in Venezuela on Wednesday as part of military maneu­vers, President Hugo Chavez said. wel­coming the unprecedented deployment at a time of increasing tensions between Moscow and the U.S. 
The Venezuelan leader said the two Russian Tu-160 bombers will conduct maneuvers and that he hopes to "fly one of those things" himself. 
Russian military analysts said it was the first time Russian strategic bombers have landed in the Western Hemisphere since the Cold War. The provocative foray into Venezuela was certain to add to the strain in U.S.-Russian relations created over Russia's war in Georgia. 
Chavez called the deployment part of a move toward a "pluri-polar world" ­a reference to moving away from U.S. dominance. "The Yankee hegemony is finished," Chavez said in a televised speech. 
The Russian Defense Ministry said the bombers flew to Venezuela on a training mission and would conduct training flights over neutral waters in the next few days before returning to Russia, according to a statement carried by Russian news wires. 
Ministry spokesman Alexander Drobyshevsky refused to say how long the deployment would last or say whether the planes were carrying any weapons. Military officers in the past have said Russian strategic bombers do not carry live weapons on patrol flights. 
NATO fighters escorted the two Russian bombers on their 13-hour trip to Venezuela over the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans, the Defense Ministry said. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 11, 2008 

STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, Septemher 7th and September 14th, at 7:00pm in Room 102 of Debartolo Hall. 
The session will last approximately 45 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transpot·tation.nd.edu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Poolyou may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467 

9/11 

continued from page 1 
attack in American history. 
Cavanaugh, Zahm, Keenan, Stanford, Breen-Phillips, Farley and Lewis are sponsoring the prayer service, which will start at 
9:45 p.m. and last between 30 and 45 minutes, junior Angela Rossi said. 
Rossi, one of the organizers of the service, said the event should symbolize "hope for the future." 
"I think it would be something people should be interested in coming to, because when it hap­pened, a lot of us were younger, and we might not necessarily have been able to process every­thing that was going on," Rossi said. "But now, seven years later, we have seen how it has affected us and how it has affected people physically, psychologically and emotionally, but that doesn't mean we can just give up and for­get about it. I think it's important to keep it close in our hearts." 
Though the event is sponsored by mostly North Quad dorms, Rossi said the entire campus is invited. Seven years ago, on the day of the attacks, a mass for the entire Notre Dame community was held on South Quad. 
Rossi said North Quad campus ministry commissioners wanted to start a new tradition to commem­orate Sept. 11. 
"It seems like there are smaller things every year, but maybe not necessarily something planned by the students to remember it, so we really wanted to get that start­ed," Rossi said. 
In addition to the prayer serv­ice, a special Mass for peace will be celebrated in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 5:15 p.m. today, Father Peter Rocca, the rector of the Basilica, said. 
On Saint Mary's campus, Campus Ministry will hold a prayer service in the Stapleton Lounge at 4:30p.m. 
Notre Dame Army ROTC has a run planned for Thursday morn­ing and after the run, Father Rocca will lead the HOTC cadet in prayer to commemorate the anniversary. 
Sept. 11 is also the second day the Army ROTC is hosting a blood drive, along with the American Red Cross, in the Grand Ballroom of LaFortune Student Center, Captain Joseph Kosek of the Notre Dame Army HOTC program said. 
"In a way, you ean kind of say it something we are doing for Sept. 11 ... " he said. "It will all go to the Red Cross blood bank. So obvious­ly the intent is to help out anybody who needs blood, so doing some­thing good for the local communi­ty here." 
In years past, the Notre Dame Tri-Military Command has held a ceremony on Sept. 11, designated as Patriot's Day, but this year they will not hold a similar event. 
"Patriot's Day is not necessarily a military event and probably shouldn't be perceived as such," said Capt. Dale Nees, the com­manding officer of the Notre Dame Navy ROTC unit and a pro­fessor of Naval Science. "About 98 percent of the people that lost their lives that day had nothing to do with the military. We didn't want it to take on the context of it being a militaristic celebration or memorial-it was more than just that." 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

join the cause by sponsoring research, service and internship
WelshFam. 
programs abroad. By every indication, Welshcontinued from page 1 
Family's event was a success. 

"We are very thankful for the Block Party co-commissioner great turnout this year," sopho­Lauren Cooney explained the more Dennise Martinez said. change in location and addition Sophomore Jordan Heidrich of a theme. also attended. 
"We're just trying to switch it "It really showed us how up this year," she said, 'To make much the Notre Dame student it more accessi-body cares about ble to Notre issues affecting Dame students, "It really showed us humanity we wanted to abroad,"
how much the Notre 
make sure every­Heidrich said. 
body had a Dame student body More than 300 
chance to come." cares about issues people attended Proceeds from the party
affecting humanity 
the event will be throughout the
abroad.,

sent to the night and event Touching Tiny organizers L i v e s believe close to
Jordan Heidrich 
Foundation, $1,000 was
sophomore

which is commit­raised for the ted to fighting Touching Tiny AIDS and Lives Foundation. expanding care in rural parts of "The party was a very big suc­Southern Africa. The University cess this year," Block Party co­has a special relationship with commissioner Meghan Manning the Foundation, as the Rev. said. "We had a good turnout Theodore M. Hesburgh Initiative and everyone was excited to help supports the overall mission and our cause." strategic plan of Touching Tiny Lives. The Initiative encourages Contact Robert Singer at the Notre Dame community to rsinger@nd.edu 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, September 11, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  11,268.92  +38.19  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,846  107  1,551  2,332,839,295  
AMEX  4;;  1,885,-~!}  %17~9$11  

NASDAQ 2,228.70 +18.89 NYSE 7;957:26> ·· +86.11 S&P 500 1,232.04 +7.53 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,185~01 s:14S~f>S FTSE 100 (London) 5,366.20 -49.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY  +0.41  +0.50  123.72  
LEHMAN BROS HLD (LEH)  -6.93  -0.54  7.25  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -1.22  -0.26  20.97  
WASHINGTON MUTUAL (WM)  -29.70  -0.98  2.32  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.25 +0.045 3.641 13-WEEK BILL -1.22 -0.020 1.620 30-YEAR BOND +0.79 +0.033 4.225 5-YEAR NOTE +1.21 +0.035 2.917 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.68 102.58 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -29.50 762.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.08 85.73 
Exchange Rates YEN 107.4850 EURO 0.7166 
IN BRIEF 

NFL Players marketing files lawsuit 
MINNEAPOLIS -The for-profit market­ing arm of the NFL Players Association has filed a lawsuit in federal court in Miami against CBS Interactive over the use of player statistics in fantasy football games. 
The lawsuit, filed Tuesday, comes the week after CBS Interactive sued the NFL Players Association in federal court in Minneapolis. That suit seeks to clarify who controls the statistics that underlie its fan­tasy football games. 
NFL PLAYERS, which handles all licens~ ing and sponsorships for the players, con­tends CBS Interactive filed the lawsuit in the wrong jurisdiction. It also argues that the filing in Minneapolis names the wrong defendant -the NFL Players Association rather than NFL PLAYERS. 

Database publicizes vehicle accidents 
WASHINGTON -The government unveiled a new public database Wednesday that will enable consumers to look up the number of alleged deaths, injuries and cases of property damage involving pas­senger vehicles. 
Consumer groups have sought the infor­mation, which was part of legislation passed by Congress after the massive recall of Firestone tires in 2000. 
The law required manufacturers to pro­vide data on numerous safety complaints and was devised to help the government quickly detect potential problems. 
The so-called "early warning" data was released because of a ruling by a federal appeals court in July that barred the gov­ernment from withholding key data report­ed by manufacturers. 
Some data was allowed to remain confi­dential, including warranty claims and field reports submitted by the manufactur­er. 
The data, which goes back to 2003, is reported to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration by automakers, tire makers, motorcycle companies and child seat manufacturers on a quarterly basis. The public database now provides infor­mation from 21 automakers. 

Lehman Brothers tries to rescue itself 
Investment firm open to options; stock plunges from $67.73 to $7.25 in one year 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK -Lehman  
Brothers put itself on the  
block Wednesday as part of a  
last-ditch effort to rescue the  
investment bank from bad  
bets on real estate-related  
holdings that have already  
laid low other storied Wall  
Street firms.  
The 158-year-old compa­ 
ny's chief executive Dick  
Fuld, known as "the gorilla"  
for his bloody-minded  
approach to investment  
banking, outlined a plan to  
sell off Lehman's well­ 
respected investment man­ 
agement unit and spin off its  
commercial real estate  
assets after it reported an  
almost $4 billion third-quar­ 
ter loss.  
Fuld, 62, the longest serv­ 
ing CEO on Wall Street, also  
said the firm would examine  
all other options ­including  
a sale of the company he  
joined right out of college.  
Finding a buyer might pre­ 
empt any hostile takeovers  
now that Lehman's stock has  
plunged from $67.73 a year  
ago to $7.25 Wednesday, giv­ 
ing it a shrunken market  
capitalization of $7.6 billion.  
"If anybody came with an  
attractive proposition that  
was compelling for share­ 
holder value, it would be  
brought to the board, dis­ 
cussed with the board, and AP  
evaluated," Fuld said on a Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld, Jr.  
conference call. "We remain takes part in conference in National Press Club in Washington in January.  
committed to examining all  
strategic alternatives to max­ these problems, and at this  could fetch about $3 billion.  ners to pull business -a  
imize shareholder value."  point he has failed miser­ Further, the firm is also  scenario that felled Bear  
For investors, the strategy  ably."  taking a big bet that a spin  Stearns six months ago.  
Fuld presented seemed long  The nation's fourth-largest  off of its commercial real  Wall Street remains skit­ 
on hope, short on details and  investment bank plans to sell  estate assets will get a strong  tish about financial stocks  
raised questions about tim­ a 55 percent stake in its  market reception in early  since a run on Bear Stearns  
ing and execution, analysts  investment management  2009. The new entity will be  caused the U.S. government  
said. Investors had hoped to  division, which includes its  called Real Estate  to orchestrate its sale to  
see a solid plan in place to  prized Neuberger Berman  Investments Global, and will  JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  
offset nearly $6.5 billion of  asset management unit.  be run by an independent  March. Lehman, the biggest  
losses during the past two  Lehman said it is in  management.  U.S. underwriter of mort­ 
quarters.  advanced talks with several  Williams believes that Fuld  gage-backed securities, was  
"This is agonizing for  bidders, but refused to give a  now has a limited amount of  automatically scrutinized.  
shareholders, said Mark  timeline about when a deal  time, perhaps until Monday,  Global banks have lost  
Williams, a professor of  would take place.  to unveil a bona fide deal or  more than $300 billion from  
finance at Boston University  Investors were discour­ run the risk of shares tum­ write-downs since the hous­ 
School of Management.  aged that no buyer had been  bling even further. And, he  ing slump evolved into a full­ 
"Fuld was supposed to have  named. Lehman began  said, that could lead to a  blown credit crunch. Many  
a war room started in  pitching a deal to private­ worst case scenario where  on Wall Street believe anoth­ 
March, when Bear Stearns  equity firms two months ago.  rumors about the company  er major bank failure is  
nearly collapsed, to solve  Analysts believe the sale  cause anxious trading part- probable.  

Government wastes money after storm 
It found that FEMA wasted at least agreed with the IG report and would 
WASHINGTON -The government $45.9 million on the four contracts that further investigate the $45.9 million in wasted millions of dollars on four no-bid together were initially worth $400 mil­questioned costs and recoup the money contracts it handed out for Hurricane lion. FEMA subsequently raised the as necessary. FEMA said it has taken Katrina work, including paying $20 mil­total amounts for the four contracts several steps to improve its disaster lion for a camp for evacuees that was twice, both times without competition, response since the 2005 storm, such as never inspected and proved to be unus­to $2 billion and then $3 billion. requiring a standard invoice form and able, investigators say. FEMA did not always properly review better tracking inventory. 
A report by the Homeland Security the invoices submitted by the four com­The agency also noted that the four Department's office of inspector gener­panies, exposing taxpayers to significant no-bid contracts were rebid on a com­al, obtained Wednesday by The waste and fraud, investigators wrote. In petitive basis in August 2006. The con­Associated Press, is the latest to detail many cases, the agency also issued tracts were subsequently awarded to six mismanagement in the multibillion-dol­open-ended contract instructions for companies, including Shaw, Bechtel, lar Katrina hurricane recovery effort, months without clear guidelines on CH2M Hill and Fluor, which received which investigators have said wasted at what work was needed to be done and the original no-bid agreements. least $1 billion. the appropriate charges. "As FEMA works toward refining its 
The review examined temporary "We question how FEMA determined programs, the office of inspector gener­housing contracts awarded without that the amounts invoiced were allow­al's independent analysis of program competition to Shaw Group Inc., Bechtel able and reasonable," the IG report performance greatly benefits our ability Group Inc., CH2M Hill Companies Ltd. states, warning that its review was lim­to continuously improve our activities," and Fluor Corp. in the days immediately ited in scope so that additional waste wrote Marko Bourne, director of before and after the August 2005 storm and fraud might yet to be found. FEMA's office of policy and program that smashed into the U.S. Gulf Coast. Responding, FEMA said it generally analysis. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, September 11 , 2008 
wouldn't be anything for me, but companies were interested

Expo 
even though I'm a grad student 
continued from page 1 and an international student. I 
just need more resumes," Su 
wen"l interested not in typical said. 
corporations but in opportuni­Career fairs at Notre Dame 
ties for service with corpora­have a history of association 
tions like the Peace Corps or with the Mendoza College of 
the Alliance for Catholic Business, Svete said, but this 
Education (ACE). fair catered to students of all 
"Service organizations majors. seemed to be well-represented "Before this fair, we were see­proportionally," Aguilar said. ing 200 students a day [at the 
A service-oriented Career and Career Center], of all levels and 
Internship Fair will be held colleges, business, liberal arts, 
through the Center for Social engineering and science," Svete Concerns (CSC) Oct. 1, Svete said. said. Arts and Letters students in 
The busiest booths were particular shouldn't be discour­financial services companies aged when confronted by cor­like KPMG and Deloitte, who porate recruiters, since many each rented three booths-worth accept qualified applicants from of' space. Most companies pres­all backgrounds into their train­ent in the fair had a ing programs. Midwestern connection and "You have consulting firms­were recruiting for the Chicago Boston Consulting Group and area, Svete said, although com­Bain & Company -which peo­panies like IISBC and Credit -ple may think of as for business Suisse have offices around the students, but they're hiring peo­world. ple from all majors," Svete said. 
Even students who aren't sen­Svete encouraged students iors, like Saint Mary's sopho­who did not find a suitable posi­more Megan Smith, found the tion not to lose heart, and fair worthwhile. In her first instead look forward to time attending a career fair, January's Winter Career and Smith said she was impressed Internship Fair. by how friendly the companies "For-profit businesses are were, even to students who able to project their hiring were not about to graduate. needs eight months in advance, 
"I wasn't sure at first because -but not-for-profit organizations I know that companies don't and government agencies won't oll'er many internships to soph­know their full-time and sum­omores, but I found one I mer hiring needs until later in liked," Smith said. the year, and we expect to see 
Svete advised students to more of them in January," Svete start early in their hunt for said. internships, since companies At companies like internation­are looking especially for soph­al financial services firm Credit omores and juniors for summer Suisse, "good grades are impor­positions. tant," but the company espe­
"A few years ago, only 20 cially looks for new employees percent of companies at our who "have an idea of what career fair would hire interns, they're getting into," recruiter but 70 percent of the companies Sean Turner said. Turner was here today we.re recruiting for attending the Expo for the third interns as well as full-time posi­straight year. tions,'' Svete said. "You need to make sure you 
Although every company like what you 'II be doing -in present was recruiting under­any job, if you'll be working 100 graduates, according to the hours a week, it doesn't matter Career Expo leaflet included in how smart you are, you won't Wednesday's Observer, even be good at your job if you don't Ph.D. students like chemical like it," Turner said. engineer Changsheng Su had luck finding potential jobs. Contact john-Paul Witt at 
"At first I was worried there jwittl@nd.edu 
Teenager arrested for four murders 


CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 


STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay~esbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
http://corecouncil. nd.edu/ 
Associated Press 
LANCASTER, Calif. -A teenager was arrested for inves­tigation of four counts of murder Wednesday in the killings of a woman and three girls whose bodies were found in a burning house, authorities said. 
Bail for Corey King was set at $1 million, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Deputy Aura Sierra said. 
Authorities had called King, 1H. of Altadena, an associate or friend of the victims when he was brought in for questioning Tuesday. A telephone listing for King could not be immediately located. 
Los Angeles County firelight­nrs on Tuesday found the victims in dill'erent rooms of the burning house in Lancaster. a Mojave Dnsert dty of about 145,000 rns­idnnts about a 70-mile drive north of' I .os Angeles. 
Coronnr's officials on Wmlnesday identified the dead woman as Sonya Evctte Durlield, 43, of Lancaster. The identities of the other three vic­tims were not immediately con­firmed because the bodies were badly burned, said Ed Winter, assistant chief of the coroner's office. 
The victims had "trauma to the body" not associated with the fire, Winter said. He did not elaborate. 
Gregory Kealikea Stewart identified himself as the estranged husband of the slain woman and said the young vic­tims were his three daughters, ages 8, 12 and 14. 
Stewart said he was in a "world of disarray." He received a cell phone call while standing in front of reporters outside the fire scene Tuesday and said, "Oh Lord, it's my wife." 
Sheriff's Lt. Patrick Nelson said Wednesday that King was a "dose friend" of the woman's 19-year-old son, who currently lives out of state. King appeared to have been a frequent visitor to the woman's home, Nelson said. 

Thursday, September 11, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
~----------------------------------­



CELEBR Tl 
We express our gratitude to the Andrews and McMeel fam i I ies for sponsoring over 1600 students in the Summer Service Learning Program in the 28 years of the James F. 
Andrews Scholarship Fund. As we gather with the 148 Andrews Scholars for 2008 this evening, we celebrate the inspirational legacy of James F. Andrews. 
THE 2008 ANDREWS SCHOlARS 
Christine Anderson Adrianna Chuh Anne Frazer Megan Hrdlicka Sandra lucero Anna Nanigian Kathleen Schenkel St Vincent Downtown Baycl iff Health Camp Daybreak Loaves and rishes Kalamazoo Bronson Fresh Start Surgical Gift, Matthi)W iS Health and ct·1apel Soup Kitchen Ho'.pital Dental Clinic 
Michael Collins George Frey Mai NguyenTeresa Backes Op1)ratinn Helping Hands Lo1 H1)rrnanos Cristianos Joshua Hubert Matthew lynch Lazarus House Kimberly SchlesingerTerry Rl)illy Health Services East 10th StrL>et Methodist Shalom Cat11olic Good CounsHI Home 
Kelsey Conlon Sarah Furman Yotrt.h Center Worker House Quyen NguyenMarie Bader El Ccntrito de ia Colonia Philadelpi·Jia Cornrnittee to lJ;;)Ciifl Heall11 Camp Elizabeth Scott Missoula Youth Homes Fnd Homelessness Courtney Hummel Maeve Maher Boys and (;iris Club 
Mariana Cuervo Growing Home St.Ann·s Infant and Trevor O'Brien Nicole Balduf Catholic ctwritic>S-Atlanta Elizabeth Furman Maternity Homr) Bo~ and Girls Club Rebecca Sharbaugh 
I. ivin~ Room/ ProjHct H 0 MJ Eleanor Huntington of awrence Clelian HeighL>ScllooliDePa mer House Joe Czerwien Bridgr: Project • Genevieve Malone Westmoreland food Bank 
Pylt'S Bnys Carnp James Galla\ter Helena roocl Share Patrick O'Brien Courtney Ball Gleaners Fooci lank Evan James Auarelli Outrr.ach Clinic Brittany Shelton Casa leresa Margaret Devany Wiii-Grundy Medical Clinic Kaitlyn Maloney Hampton Roads 
Hope rvh:dical Clinir Michelle Garber St. Ann ·s Infant ami Rachel Odioso Ynutf1 Centel lillian Bauer CASA Colorado Springs Melissa Janisch Maternity Hornt! Kimbm ly Home Cornrnunity Meal Program Casey Dolezal Pio Decirno Center Kevin Smith 
Northern III innis Special Anthon~ Ginocchio Nicholas Mancinelli Erin O'Laughlin Mother Iewsa House Patrick Bears Recreation !Dsociation De La Sa le Middle School Amanda Johnson Bridge Pr~lllCI Hampton Rnads Des Moines Catholic Siena/Francis House Youth Center Chelsea Smith Wm ker House Kendall Downer Dennis Goebel Anita Marquez. Manon Hall 
!Ianyon f\oacls Sharing Muadovv"> Patrick Johnson Casa Tt1resa Daniel Peck laura Bodien Yout ·1 Center Guardian An\Jel Horne Hope Clinic Angelique SnyderOpen Arms Katherine Gruenberg Kirsten Martin Albrecht Acms 
Adeline Dozois Beta Center Rebecca Jones Covenant House Shanna Pereira Sarah Boeding Homeless Farnily Center Catholic Charities of Office for Social Ministry Rachel Staran Hibiscus CIJntHr Will Gua~pone Knoxville Stephanie Martinez Rnscue Mission of Roanoke 
Betty Dubbs Mount St. 'incerll Horne -Gorazon aCorazon Brian Pieh Alessandra Bouchard De La Salle Center Michael Kaiser Prqje<-1 Renrwal Joe Stranix Col Marr Boys and AshleJt Hardy Colorado Enterprise Fund M~anMarlino Youti1 Lead~N1ip Foundation Girls Club Clark DuMontier East1 !11 Street Methodisl OC .atholic Worker Callie Pogge
Wingra Clinic Youth Centm Elizabeth Keating SumrneriJ1 idqe at SL Yanning SUn Claudia Braga-Henebry Jersey Shom Medical Ryan McDermott Andrew> Sci;ool St. Anthony Founclation Albuquerque Boys and Amy Elliot Michael Hariman Trauma Center Catholic Mobile Medical Girls Club Boy. Hope Girls Hope Habilat for Hurnanity Servir,es Jessica Pollum Gabb_yTate
Mackenzie Keller L'Arche LitHe friends Caitlin Broglie Christopher Esber Khadija Hashil Covenant Hot.r;e Derek McQuade Krejci AcademyWilliam Byrd Mt. Carmel Hospital CSJ Volunt!Jers in Missfon Projc'Ct Hospitality Michelle Pratt Community House Kevin Kelly Bethany House Kath~ Thesing
Emily Everett William Hayman St Lou is Center Kathryn Merriam Upper .onrn Matthew Brown Rosemont Center Pahoke-e f\ecreationa ICenter St. Anthony's Elizabeth PurgertCamp Scully Jack Kile~ Sacred Heart Rc~idenw Brian Torro 
Anastassia Fagan Marissa Henry Hearts ide i eallh Clinic Rachel Michels St. Mary's of the A1;urnptionKieran Bulro;r Opportunity House St. Francis House/Cheyenne L' Arci·Jc Spokane Maeve RaphelsonOperation He ping Har¥Js River Youth Pn~ject Colleen King Casa Juan Diego Krystyna Traudt 
Bianca Fernandez Operation Hr!lpiny Hands Meeghan Miller St. Ann's Center Jacquet~ Bunick Black Hills Club for Boys Caitlin Hildebrand Catholic Charities--Kerry Reardon Catholic Jwities of Sparta Health Clinic Rachel Koch Al!entown Mount Carrnel Marisa TruongLake County Claire Fisher Community Suoported Carnp ctu istopr1er
Clairemont Boys and Kimber~ Hildner Garden · ' Leah Miller Erin Rider Jacquelynn Burke Girls Club Brother's P.t>per and Boggy Good Counsei Cardinal Hayes Catherine Twetten Eiizal>eth House Creek Carnp leeah Kohley Ro~edale 
Kevin Flanagan Casa de Esperanza Elizabeth Mitchell Casey Robertson Rebecca Cabrera Cri1to Rey Kansas City Noelle Hilmer Hesed House senior Friendship Center Alexa WagnerCatholic Community Innvision Georgia Natalie Kratz Heart Hou\e of Au~tin Serviw~ Kel~ Flynn Travis Center Don M i li(!r HOlt-~) Annie Mokris lisa Russ 
San .lfltonio UTSA PREP Mother Teresa House Senior rriendship Center Emily Whalen Alexis Calabrese Matthew Hire laura Lauck Hilton Head Boy.; and Alilan(v County NC'/1 York lisa Folkerth Fan Free Cl!llic DuP~e Count.y-L ittle Andrew Mrugala Eric Saito GtrlsCiuiJ Fami yCourt Life Resourr.e r-erller Frier s Crotona Center Pyle Boys Camp
Danielle Hoehn James WinteringGail Cech Emily Forester-I. Arche Harhor House Meehan Lenzen Caitlin Murphy Malisha Samarasekera Boy; and Girls Cluh of St. I. ouis Center I. os Hermanos Crislianos Sacred Heart Residenr.e Sders Ar.aderny Rosemont Center laivrence 
Mike, HopkinsonConstance Chen Nicole Fortuna f<EACH Jonathan lopez Mary Murphy Catherine Scal!en 
Jen Wulf

Infant Mortality Program Azzarelli Outreach Clinic Sharing Meadows Misericordia BoG and Gir Is Club Hampton RoadsPembroke Village of awrence 
Youth Center 
~' 1\Ssoc.

€..S~CIAL ~-~~. 
-0
< . ::
~CONCERNS 
Community Service 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 
Thursday, September 11, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
John McCain and veteran affairs 
P.O. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fit7.patrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING ElliTOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jcnn Met7 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 

SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

('>74) 631-6900 obmvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('>74) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

('>74) 631-'>.303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du be and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policit-s ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Oh'ierver reserves the right to refi.tse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of Ult' majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editon; and department editon;. Commemaries. letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Obscrv<:r. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The frt-e expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lcncrs to the Editor must be signed and must include contact int(>rmation. 
Qu~stio11s r~gardi11g Oburver policies should be dirr:cted to Editor i11 (,'hiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'11tc Ul~r (liSPS 'i')'} l--40UO) I5J'Ub115iKtl Mnnd;ty 1hruugh Frid.1y ~cpt tlurm~ n.,un .md vJ,·.umn pc:riud( A '1\lh"l·npriunw Thr OltJC:rvtr is $100 for unr ator.J..:mk: yt:<trtS55filttlllt'.CIIll!.'llcr 
TI1c OhKrver i~ publi~hcd .u POSTMASTER 
Ul<i So111h Dimnsllo~IJ '\end .1ddrt'SS corrections to: 
Nurre Ihmc. IN 46'iS6·077CJ Tht'llh'-Crvtr 
1\ort<ldt\.a.l pmt.lj.IC p•uJ ~• Notre D.:~me r.o Bm;779 
~nd ~Jdniun.ll mail in}!: otfi~;eS. 024 South Dining ll.all 
Nutrt' D.1mc, IN 465'56.0779 

Tht' Ob.ierver 1£ ~member of (he A.~uci.ltc'l Prcu. All n:prudw.:ti(ln ri~ts arc rr:Krved. 
Let me first make myself clear: I honor John McCain's service to this country as a· man in uniform during the Vietnam War. Furthermore, I applaud his courage in standing strong as an American P.O.W. 
for just over five years. 
Now, let me talk about how absurd it is that this line is necessary before anyone, anywhere criticizes John McCain or his poli­

cies. Because this Jason Coleman point of character is unassailable, McCain has taken Man at Large to using it as a defense for all sorts of missteps and mistakes that tend to be unrelated to his armed service experi­ence at all. The constant use of this plea to patriotism diminishes not only his sacrifices, but also the sacrifices all vet­erans have made for their country. 
We'll start with the gaffe-related inci­dences and move on to those that gener­ate much more cause for concern. In an interview, McCain was asked how many houses he owned. After a bit of thought, he realized he was not sure and told the show to get that information from his staff. While embarrassing and perhaps a little efl'ete, this was a slipup that could probably be overcome. 
To me, what was embarrassing was the following week when McCain was featured on the Tonight Show. Jay Leno and John McCain were doing the usual late night spiel, joking around about the campaign and the headlines. Everything was fine until Leno asked McCain about the house gaffe. 
"For one million dollars, how many houses do you have?" 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
.......-..... 


Cam chose 
oman forhrS \LP. runnrng
mate... 

He replied: "Could I just mention to you Jay ... I spent five and a half years in a prison cell, I didn't have a house, I didn't have a kitchen table ... " 
Again, I honor his service, but to bring his service up in this context is a dis­credit and an affront to the thousands of other Vietnam P.O.W.s who may or may not even own one house, much less five, the number McCain later estimated for himself. The question had nothing to do with his record, nor was it an attack or insult to it. Hather, it was a late night comedian joking about an interview misstep with a politician known for his ability to kid with the press. 
While this seems to be much ado about nothing, this actually brings me to my point: the larger, more pertinent paradox that John McCain seems to bring to the table with his veteran policy decisions. On the one hand, he implies that he rightly deserves what he has in reward for his time in uniform. But, on the other hand, he consistently votes against legislation that would enable other veterans to achieve similar suc­cess in reward for their service. 
· Earlier this summer, a new G.I. bill was put to vote that, if put into efl'ect, would give aid in full to veterans to attend any public four-year college after three years of service. The bill was fair­ly popular and passed with a veto-proof (Bush had threatened to veto it) majori­ty easily. The sponsors of the bill in the senate, however, met some resistance. John McCain and a group of nine other senators were pressing against the bill, in part because they thought it was too expensive. Granted, $4 billion per year is a lot of money. But this amount seems trite in contrast with the $10 billion per day spent in Iraq that was authorized by these very senators. 
One could give McCain the benefit of the doubt, assuming this is a rare case 
•..flormaiiY.: we wovrd 
report thtsstor~ 
around-the-clock 
noh-stop fOr 
Week:s...bvt If 
we did that we could11i devote 
all Of our 
t1me to.. 
for him: voting against veterans. Unfortunately it is not. In fact, Disabled Americans for America found that McCain has voted against veteran fund­ing 70 percent of the time. 70 percent. That means 7 out of 10 times he was saying that veterans should not have the opportunity to go to college until they served for 12 years, or shouldn't have a full and immediate mental and physical evaluation on returning home. 
Of course, it is unfair to make a claim on every bill that he voted on over the past two decades. Given the system of committee review, where the VA sub committee reviews each GI bill, it is accurate to say, however, that each bill was beneficial in some way to veterans. We also have to take into consideration that to increase spending so many times would be irresponsible, but it is also probably inaccurate that 70 percent of the bills introduced were too expensive to be enacted in good conscience, espe­cially if such extravagant spending on the war was so easily justified. 
The heart of the issue lies in the ease with which McCain will play the P.O.W. card at any criticism leveled against him in light of his dismal record on veteran funding bills. While 1 do not doubt in the least that John McCain understands and appreciates the sacrifice of our men in the armed services, I also don't under­stand how he can so easily use his own experience as a defense against almost any criticism without working to improve the benefits for others who have shared with him in those sacri­fices. 
Jason Coleman is a junior majoring in management. He can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Fran Tolan Becky Hogan Jared Jedick Emma Driscoll Scene Graphics Mark Witte 
Blair Chemidlin Viewpoint Lianna Brauweiler 
OBSERVER POLL 
Should the Dillon Pep Rally be rescheduled? 
Yes 
No 

I don't care 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The rung of a ladder was 
never meant to rest upon,

but only to hold a man s foot 
long enough to enable him to 
put the other somewhat higher. " 
Thomas Henry Huxley biologist 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 11, 2008 page 11 
Lessons from an atheist: Deep into the life of Christ 
A few years ago at a Marriage Prep retreat at Notre Dame for young alum­ni, I was responsible for meeting with all the inter-faith couples. I knew well that these relationships, however lov­ing, often present­ed unique chal-Fr. Lou Delfra lenges for the cou­ple. But even I was caught a little off-Faithpoint guard when, before the retreat, the Director of the Marriage Retreats approached me and said, "This woman from Notre Dame is a practicing Catholic. And the man she is marrying is an atheist." Courageously, I tried to get out of it, arguing that having no faith can't possibly count as an inter­faith couple! But they didn't buy it. 
So, with a bit of apprehension, I decided to take a walk with this young man -break the ice in a casual way, try to figure out what he thinks about things that matter deeply to his bride­to-be, like Christianity. So, we're walk­ing around St. Mary's Lake, and to my surprise, we quickly hit it off. This guy was great, one head, no weapons. Even more, our conversation revealed him as a great lover of humanity. He believed in respecting every human being, tried to treat others fairly and was profound­ly ethical. So finally, about a half-hour into the conversation, I asked him, "So, what do you think about Jesus?" 
And without missing a beat, he shoots back an amazing reply, which was more or less: "I think Jesus was a profound teacher. He gave the world an incredi­ble system of morals. And the thing I respect about him the most is that he lived by what he taught -even when it cost him his life. For me, he's one of the great moral examples we have of what it means to live life with total integrity and to be fully human." · 
And as he's answering, I'm thinking, "Darn, that's pretty good!" And then I got nervous. I felt sure he was going to ask me, "So what do you think about Jesus?" And in the moment, I wasn't sure I could come up with anything more! 
Now, fortunately, he didn't ask, but the question lurked in the back of my mind for the rest of our walk. When I went to bed that night, I was still think­ing about our conversation, and the question really started to hit home: "What more do I have to say about who Jesus is?" Call it a matter of pride, but I really want to be able to say more about Jesus than an atheist can! 
Looking back, the encounter reminds me of a similar exchange between Jesus and his disciples. Jesus asks his disci­ples what people are saying about him. They respond with some pretty flatter­ing descriptions: Some think he's John the Baptist back from the dead, others that he's Elijah or one of the great prophets. And these are not hugely bad guesses. 
So perhaps, like me, the disciples squirmed when Jesus paused, looked at them and asked them the very same question that I was faced with after my 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame presence essential in CIA, Raytheon 
In a recent Viewpoint article ("Career fair participants unwelcome," Sept. 10), you were criticized for welcoming the CIA and the Raytheon Company onto campus. The four co-authors laid forth impressive statis­tics and numbers on both the Central Intelligence Agency and Raytheon Company, which I will not dispute. The CIA and its domestic counterpart, the FBI, have both used tactics that range from questionable at best and at worst violations of human rights. 
Mr. Angulo, Ms. Haas, Ms. Quiros and Ms. McKinney said that "students [ ... ] are presented with a contradictory picture at the Career Expo." On the one hand, we, the University community, are called to "develop a 'dis­ciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many."' On the other hand, the University Administration and the Career Center welcome to campus organizations that will, by their very nature, cause pain and suffering to people in the world, on the basic level of human rights. 
It is for this reason that the CIA and Raytheon must be allowed and indeed encouraged to recruit students from the Notre Dame community. Students that have lived the Notre Dame experience will have lived at a place where "learning becomes service to justice". The University has done well in training moral and upstanding men and women for decades and these are exactly the kind of men and women we want in the CIA and Raytheon. 
I believe we can all agree that sending people with consciences and strong moral compasses (like those from Our Lady's University) will fit well in any role where a strong moral compass is needed. Whether it be signing a torture order for a prisoner to extract information, selling small arms to private contractors or making the cut-throat deal in the board room, I would much rather have people from our community that will stop and-think twice in those roles. I want people that have grown and learned with the mission of Notre Dame clear in their minds to be the ones that stand up in the briefing rooms or the board rooms and protest what the organization is doing or how it is conducting business. 
So keep inviting the CIA and Raytheon back. Send our fellow students to work from the inside and change these organizations. Keep listening to the critics and the protesters of your policies. But don't send these com­panies to recruit at other, less mindful campuses. 
Hope for a more peaceful future, with Our Lady guiding the way. 
Matt Florian Holy Cross College Sept. 10 
walk with the atheist: "But you, who do you say that I am?" 
Peter, when confronted with the ques­tion, is given the grace to blurt out, "You are the Christ, the Son of God!" But such a gift of immediate recognition is not always at hand. More often, I have to wrestle with my belief. And as I wrestle with the question, "Who do you say that I am?" I find myself reflecting on other stories from the Gospels, con­nected to particularly significant moments in my life, gracing me with a deeper, more intimate understanding of Jesus. 
"Who do I say that Jesus is?" I am led, for example, to the scene of the healing of the paralyzed man: "Your sins are forgiven. Take up your mat and walk." I start to form an answer: "Jesus is my healer -He is the one who forgives my sins and heals my soul, my hurts and tells me to walk where he leads." 
I am led to the encounter on the road to Emmaus -and I think, "Jesus is the one who has walked beside me my entire life -and sometimes I hardly knew it -but then, suddenly, I knew nothing more certainly than Him." 
I think especially of my favorite pas­sage: the beautiful encounter between Jesus and Mary Magdalene at the tomb on Easter morning. She doesn't recog­nize him, but when he says her name ­"Mary" -she suddenly knows it is him and tries to throw her arms around the one she loves. And I think, "Jesus is the one who knows me most intimately, my whole being, and calls me by name to a deeper friendship with Him." 
Who do we say that Jesus is? When Jesus invites us to know him more deeply than before -as I believe he invited me, through this encounter with this atheist-how do we respond? When we are led past our everyday, comfortable images of Jesus, to ones of deeper, more intimate friendship with him, who do we discover? I believe, in the end, through the gift of our faith, that we are all being led to Peter's graced insight-"You are the Christ!" 
But sometimes, to deepen our faith, it takes time. It takes challenges-a sick­ness, the death of a loved one, tragedies like 9/11 that we remember today, moments of unbelief. And we're sud­denly confronted with the question: "You, who do you say that I am?" 
When these challenges unfold in our own lives, stir up our hearts, make us restless and invite us to come to know Jesus more deeply, let us pray for the grace to really wrestle with the ques­tion: "Who do you say that I am?" 
So that in the end, we might be led, little by little, challenge by challenge, to Peter's revelation -"You are the Christ!"-the very fulfillment of our lives. 
This week's article is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, Director of Campus Ministry Bible Studies. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Obam.a's health care plan can decrease abortion rate 
In response to Gregory Barr's article searching for any "proportionate reasons" to vote for Obama ("Dude, where's my pro­portionality?" Sept. 9), I write today to offer one reason. My argument is that an Obama presidency would likely lower the number of abortions in the United States despite his pro-choice stance due to his heath care plan. 
To make my case, I'd like to look at ­Western Europe and Latin America. Western Europe has the lowest number of abortions for any region in the world (11 per 1000 pregnancies) while Latin America has among the highest (37 per 1000). The oddity lies in the fact that abortions in Latin America are almost completely illegal while abortions in Western Europe are legal. 
I am not trying to make the point that anti-abortion laws promote abortion. There is no conclusive evidence that I am aware of that suggests there is a direct correlation between abortion laws and the prevalence of abortions. Instead, I am trying to make the point that abortion is an extremely com­plicated issue that cannot be solved merely by making it illegal. While no one knows for sure why Europe's abortion rates are so low, a popular and, in my mind, convincing argument is that abortion rates are low due to their high quality of life -specifically, the quality of health care and education. 
Without going into a prolonged debate, his health care plan provides many potential solutions to the problems our health care system faces. Currently, about 46 million Americans are uninsured. If our healthcare system improves under his presidency like I assume it would, abortion rates would arguably decrease despite his pro-choice stance. If the problems in our health care system are not rectified, it seems clear to me that abortions would likely increase over the next decade. To me, this is a more-than­proportionate reason to vote for Obama. 
Michael Massengale 
senior 
off campus Sept. 9 


.-------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------··--­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Thursday, September 11, 2008 

By JAMES DuBRAY 
Scene Writer 

Will Sheff had an idea for a dou­
ble album, but decided against it, 
thinking it would be "super preten­

ious." Maybe Sheff just didn't 
ant the inevitable, lazy compar­
to Exile that come with every 
album because pretentious­
ness doesn't seem to be a problem 
for the Okkervil River frontman, 
who once wrote an article to Mick 
Jagger telling the king of rock and 
roll, "for God's sake, give it up." 
There certainly are more people 
than Sheff who believe that the 
androgynous, British leader of the 
Stones has started it back up too 
many times, but it's an odd decla­
ration coming from the lyricist 
who most recently declared that he 
was in a "mid-level band." 
Sheff & Co. continues what they started with 2007's lauded "The Stage Names" with their most recent release entitled "The Stand Ins." The record is meant to be related to its predecessor and the covers match up to form the full picture. Yet, the titles are some­hat deceptive. "The Stand Ins" is t simply a b-side to "The Stage ames," rather it explores similar themes, this time from the per­pective of the not so successful artist. The irony here is not sur­prising considering Sheff's hyper iterate lyrics, which have led to comparisons with Portland's "The Decemberists." This linkage com­pletely forgets that Sheff isn't fak­ing a British accent and a more apt analogy may be to fellow 
The Stand Ins 
Okkervil River Label: Jagjaguwar 
Austin in ie roc ers Spoon. Okkervil River could easily be opening for Spoon in an upcoming tour, a shame because Spoon should be opening for them. Sheff blows Spoon's somewhat childish and annoying Britt Daniel out the water. 
"The Stand Ins" is the fifth studio effort by Okkervil River, and is largely an album about an up and coming rock band trying to avoid categorization. This doesn't seem to be a problem for Okkervil River: the second song of the album, "Lost Coastlines" roughly sounds like an up-tempo mixture of alt­country and indie-pop. The tune features a duet between Sheff and now defunct member of OR, Jonathan Meiburg, who is now officially devoted to his fellow Austin band, Shearwater. With this single, Sheff 
worl s. T is pro em oes not affect Okkervil River, whose reflec­tive piano shines in the song "On Tour with Zykos," which features Sheff commenting "I go home, take off clothes/ Smoke a bowl, watch a whole TV movie/ I was supposed to be writing the most beautiful poems,/ and completely revealing divine mysteries up close." In the bombastic "Singer Songwriter," Sheff calls out all hipsters, singing, "You've got taste. What a waste that that's all you have." 
The highlights of "The Stand Ins" are the fifth and seventh songs, "Blue Tulip" and "Pop Lie" respec­tively, which are separated -by a short, 31-second instrumental clip. "Blue Tulip" is a six and a hal minute guitar driven epic, which echoes early Zeppelin and is fol­lowed by the explosive "Pop Lie," 
where Shef 
reflects on tour-bounces and ing, comment­croons like he's
The ultimate lesson of 'The
ing, "And every on fire. These
Stand Ins" is to not get too
night finds us two songs echo rocking and wrapped up in rock culture, the brilliance of rolling/on waves Okkervil River.
and it is meant to apply to
wild and The album
the hipsters, pop lovers, arena
white/where we closes with have lost our rockers, and indie "Bruce Wayne way/but no one Campbell
bands alike. 
will say it out­Interviewed on right." The song the Roof of the 
almost acts as Sheff's goodbye letter to Meiburg, saying "Its alright, I understand why you had to leave, buddy." 
Unlike their previous album, "The Stand Ins" feature three brooding instrumental tracks, "Stand Ins, One," "Stand Ins, Two," "Stand Ins, Three," possibly used 
to give the crew 
time to change the set. The new album is fun, diverse, and insightful, which is rare combina­
tion considering the recent direc­

Recommended Tracks: "Lost CoasHines," "On 
Tour with Zykos," "Blue Tulip" and "Pop Lie" 
tion of indie rock. Bands like The Hold Steady and The National some­what compart­mentalize them­selves to create their respective 

Chelsea Hotel, 1979," a song about the 70's glam rocker, Jobriath. Campbell was both the first mass-marketed pop star as well as the first openly gay, one. The huge marketing cam­paign behind J obriath failed though, and he released only two poor selling albums. Campbell eventually changed his "stage name" to Colin Berlin, morphing into a cabaret singer who per­formed in diners and at small par­ties until he died of AIDS in 1983. 
The ultimate lesson of "The Stand Ins" is to not get too wrapped up in rock culture, and it is meant to apply to the hipsters, pop lovers, arena rockers, and indie bands alike. Sheff gives give some simple advice: sit back, enjoy life, maybe catch a rock show, and during that time, God forbid, have some fun. 
Contact James DuBray at jduhray@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Thursday, September 11, 2008 
page 13 

Service on North Quad 9:30 p.m. Fi 
ur day off right by attending a pr service to remember those whose lives lost or affected by the tragedy of the World 
ade Center bombings. The service will take place by Stonehenge/Fieldhouse Mall on North Quad. It will include music by the 
4:7 band Totus Tuus, prayer, reflection and the luminous mysteries of the rosary. The service will last until 10:30 p.m. Also on Thursday, festivities at Legends beginning at 10 p.m. A full night of fun at beginning with Student Comedy and Humor Artists, fol­lowed by the Late Night Tailgate at 12:00 
a.m. Come for free tailgate food, a corn hall tournament and other festivities. The events at Legends are free, but a ND/SMC/HC ID is required. 
Movies pres­ents "Iron Man" in 101 DeBartolo at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. "Iron Man" is more than just another super hero movie. It centers on the character of Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.), a sarcastic, morally ambiguous playboy and engi­neering genius. While in Afghanistan showing off his new missile Stark is captured by evildoers who want him to build the missile for them. Instead, he creates an armored suit and breaks out, escaping back to the United States where he announces that his company, Stark Industries, will stop producing weapons. But not everyone is happy with Stark's change of heart. Can 'Iron Man' stop his nefarious foes? The film also stars Gwyneth Paltrow, Jeff Bridges and Terrence Howard as Stark's friend Col. James Rhodes. Admission is $3. (There are also show­ings on Thursday 10 p.m., Friday 8 p.m. and 10:30 
just for you. By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Editor Egg Salad Sandwich... Only Better In having to feed thousands This is an easy way to take of students and visitors with egg salad that is a bit bland very diverse tastes, the dining and overly creamy and make it halls have a very difficult task. a little more sharp and savory. In order to offend none, it has Fill a bowl with a dab of to pull back some of its flavor Dijon mustard, black or green 
punches. But that means there olives to your taste, and are plenty of good foundations enough of the dining hall's pre­that are hanging around, ready pared egg salad to fill your 
to be given a bit of pizzazz. sandwich. It takes some creativity and a Pick up bacon slices, spinach,
! lot of walking around (some of and good sandwich bread. these recipes are best not done Rip up the bacon and add it at peak dining hall hours, you to the bowl. Mix together the have to visit so many bars that ingredients. sometimes its worth giving up Spread the egg salad mixture and just picking up one of the on bread and add in spinach. dining hall's creations, all set to go and, admit it,·pretty Balsamic Vinaigrette over tasty). but you can dress up the Greens and Oranges basics into something made The vinegars and oils that the 
:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. in Brownin Cinema. Get a jump-start on the Notre Dame Forum this year by venturing out to see "Up 
Yangtze," directed by Yung Chang. Chung's film depicts the difficult situation surrounding China's Three Gorges Dam on 
Yangtze Hiver. It will be the I 
power station in the world, 
displacing more than a million residents and destroying numerous historical sites. The film follows two young people, each affected by the construction and captures the beauty of the landscape before it is destroyed and lost forever. At just over an hour and half, this is a great way to get caught up on pertinent current event before the forum. 
are $3. 

un ay, Ultimate Frisbee Tournament 12-8 
p.m. Do you love to play ultimate Frisbee or just want fun plans fo this Sunday? Join in the campus wide ultimate tournament by forming co­ed teams of at least five people to play in 20 minute 5-on-5 games a Stepan Fields. Sign up at LaFortune between 8-11 today! If you win yo bracket, you will compete in th championship bracket. The entranc fee is $5 per person and all proce go to Robinson Community Learni Center. Even if ultimate is not you game, go out to Stepan to suppo your friends and a great cause! 
dining hall provides by the salad bars are a blessing in making various dishes, espe­cially your own salad dress­ings. When you're in a rush, a splash of one of these is enough to dress a salad if you're tired of the usual offerings, but add in a couple of other ingredients and they become truly yummy. Adding honey and lemon to this dressing helps balance out the balsamic vinegar's tang. 
Fill a bowl with enough bal­samic vinegar to pour over your salad and a dab of honey. 
Pick up a lemon wedge. 
Layer a plate with greens. I recommend the mixed greens, romaine or spinach. Iceberg lettuce has been cultivated to remove 'bitterness.' It's mostly water, thus nearly tasteless and of little nutritional value. Add oranges (mandarin if they have them, or grab an orange and · peel it yourself), red onion, olives and crumbled feta. 
Squeeze the lemon into the vinegar and honey and then .... mix. Add salt and pepper. Pour w over salad. 
Quick Tip ·~• 
Add your own vegetables to ·~.· dining hall pasta sauces. This 1 will make the dish not only~· more interesting and colorful, f. but more healthy as well. If you » like cooked vegetables, look at t' the lighter side bar. For " uncooked vegetables, try the E. salad bar. Sometimes the ; Mexican bar offers a few things ' the others don't as well. 
Have your own dining hall • recipe? We would love to fea­ture it! E-mail mfordice@nd. edu. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 11, 2008 
MLB 
Nolasco fans eight for Marlins in rout of Philadelphia 
Brewers avoid sweep in comeback win over Reds; Cameron's late-inning hit seals come-from-behind victory 
Nolasco struck out the side
Associated Press 
in the fourth and was staked 
PIIILADELPIIIA -Ricky to a 3-1 lead when he ran Nolasco struck out eight in 7 into trouble. Chris Coste had 2-3 innings and Luis Gonzalez an HBI double to center that homered to lead the Florida made it 3-2. Coste, though, Marlins to a 7-3 win over the was stuck on third after a Philadelphia Phillies on sacrifice bunt and Jimmy Wednesday. Hollins popped up. Jayson 
Josh Willingham snapped a Werth. who has been sensa­3-all tie with an HBl double in tiomtl as a starter, poked an the eighth inning and helped HBI single to left that tied the the Marlins win the three­score. game serins. Dan Uggla added Myers gave the bullpen a a two-HBI double in the ninth. breather a day after six pitch­
The Phillies fell three ers combined to go 7 1-3 games behind the NL East­innings in a 10-8 loss. He leading New York Mets, who started strong, striking out played latnr Wednesday four of five batters he faced night. in one span, then allowed a 
The Phillies also dropped two-run shot to Gonzalez in four games bnhind Milwaukee the third. Gonzalez's eighth in the wild-card race. The homer of the year gave the Phillies hopns for a second Marlins a 2-1 lead. s trai gh t pI a yo ff appearance Myers allowed Dallas could get a boost -or be McPherson's leadoff double in thwarted -when they open a the fourth and the Marlins four-game series with the third baseman scored on Brewnrs on Thursday at Nolasco's RBI single to left for Citizens Bank Park. a 3-1 lead. 
Hyan Howard hit his major Howard put the Phillies league-leading 42nd horner ahead 1-0 in the second when for the Phillies. his 42nd homer of the season 
Nolasco (14-7) struck out smacked off the scoreboard in Howard. Pat Burrell and left. Shane Victorino in the fourth, and evPn had an RBI single. Brewers 4, Reds 3 lie hasn't allowed more than Mike Cameron sure hopes three runs in any of his last his clutch hit carries over to pennies, and some guys are hanging Sabathia with his to pitch," Sabathia said. "But nine starts and is 4-1 over the sputtering Milwaukee playing for gold right now," first NL loss. "But that is the I do get to pitch in Chicago, that span. Brewers' biggest road trip of Cameron said. way the game goes, keep it which is going to be another 
Brett Myers (9-11) had the season. Milwaukee entered with a close and they made it hap­big series. It's a big road another solid outing -nine "I tell you what, it was a three-game lead over pen in the eighth." trip." strikeouts, four runs in 7 1-3 good spark today leaving up Philadelphia in the wild-card Milwaukee loaded the bases Jerry Hairston Jr., activated innings -but lost for only out of here," Cameron said. race with St. Louis and with no outs before Tony from the DL on Tuesday, hit a the second time in 10 starts "We got the fuse lit." Houston close behind. The Gwynn Jr. hit into a double three-run homer off the big since he was recalled from Cameron singled in the go­Brewers also were 4 112 back play that scored J .J. Hardy left-bander to give Cincinnati the minor leagues on July 20. ahead run in the eighth of NL Central-leading for the tying run. Cameron a 3-1 lead, but the Reds' 
Myers went from opening inning Wednesday, and Chicago. All four teams play then singled in Ryan Braun to errors cost them a chance to day ace to the minor leagues Milwaukee rallied to beat the later Wednesday, including make it 4-3. sweep the Brewers in Miller and back to arguably their Cincinnati Reds, avoiding a the Cubs at St. Louis. "When Cameron got that Park for the first time in five second-hal!' MVP as the three-game sweep. "This is horribly fun, if you hit, I couldn't hear the rest of years. defending NL East champs The NL wild card-leading can understand what I am the players screaming "The unearned runs, those make another late-season Brewers, who have won just saying. It's a lot, a lot of fun, because I was screaming," are two runs you gave away, playoff push. lie retired 10 three of their last 10 games, but it's a grind and there's a Yost said. you can't give away runs," straight until Gonzalez looked destined for another lot of pressure that goes with Cameron didn't hear any­manager Dusty Baker said. touched him with a leadoff loss against Cincinnati. They it," Yost said. "We know what thing, either. "That was the difference in single in the eighth and the trailed 3-1 after six but their we're doing. We know what "I was screaming myself," the game." game tiPd at :L meager offense, which scored we're up against." he said. Hairston's fifth-inning 
After another single put 28 runs in the 10-game Cameron, one of the veter­Guillermo Mota (5-5) tossed homer appeared to be enough runners on tho corners, man­homestand, did just enough. ans brought in for exactly this a perfect eighth to get the win for Arroyo, who got out of a ager Charlie Manuel saw "Yeah. there's a sigh of reason after Mil waukee and Salomon Torres struck bases-loaded jam in the bot­enough of' his tiring right­rnlief. and a change of coughed up an 8?-game lead out the side in the ninth for tom half by getting J .J. Hardy hander. scenery does people good, last summer, was at the cen­his 27th save in 34 opportuni­to hit a hard grounder that 
Willingham ripped a too," Brewers manager Ned ter of the important rally. He ties. third baseman Edwin ground-rul£1 double down thP Yost said. "We've been here drew a leadoff walk in the Sabathia, who remains 9-0 Encarnacion turned into a third-base linn for a 4-3 lead. 10 days, as much we like seventh, moved up on a in 13 starts, struck out eight nifty double play. The ball was touched by a playing here, it's been a groundout and scored on and allowed eight hits in But Cameron delivered with fan, likely preventing pinch­struggle. Now we'll go else­shortstop Jeff Keppinger's seven innings. He also drove the heart of the Brewers' runner Hobert Andino from whern and see if we can't get throwing error off Jason an unearned run with a order -Hyan Braun, Prince scoring. After an intentional on a big roll." Kendall's infield single. groundout in the third and Fielder and Corey Hart -hit­walk. Chad Durbin retired Elsewhere is Philadelphia, Heds starter Bronson added a double in the fifth. ting a combined .208 (22-of-Paul Lo Duca on a double where the Brewers will start Arroyo outpitched CC Sabathia won't pitch against 1 06) with no homers and six play to Pnd tlw inning. a 10-game, 11-day trip Sabathia and handed a 3-2 the Phillies, but will go in the HB!s in the homestand. 
The Marlins scored three Thursday night with four lead over to David Weathers opener against the Cubs on "It's always good when you more times in the ninth to put games against the Phillies, (2-6), who couldn't hold on to Tuesday. can get a big hit, especially the game away. The Phillies followed by three games the advantage. "I was thinking about that where we've been the last didn't have a hit after the against the Cubs. "(It) would have been nice today, we're going into that few days, the highs and fifth inning. "Some guys are playing for to bury him," Arroyo said of big series and not being able lows," Cameron said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
If you or someone you care about Home for rent for ND football week-WANTED: Ml tix. Will trade. 574­has been sexually assaulted, visit ends. 3 bdrm. 1.5 baths with eat-in 276-8507. PERSONAL http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap/ kitchen. Just 2 blocks from ND TICKETS LOST & FOUND 
campus. Need MICH tix. 574-329-0308. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Contact Rocky at Wanted: ND football tix for family. MISSING-One musical not go it alone. We have many Rock0299@aol.com. 574-251-1570. Leprechaun bear
FoR RENT 

resources in place to assist you. If from

WANTED 
you or someone you love needs con-House for rent. Newly remodeled, Football Weekend B&B close to VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND the fidential support or assistance, beautiful 2 bedroom, 2 bath home ND(574)243-9279 football tickets. Need sitter as needed for our 5 South Dining Hall. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or on large lot. Walking distance to www.victorytickets.com. 574-232-year old son. Need transportation. Please return to Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more infor-Notre Dame Campus on Berger House near ND. 574-310-3663. 0964. $10/hr. 574-271-1216. the 
mation, visit NDs Pregnancy Street, just east of the university. South Dining Hall Resources website at Ideal for faculty and/or small family. Homes available now & 2009-1 0 & BUYING SAN DIEGO STATE, Quarterback for New England Patriots. and http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-$1000/month +utilities. Call (574) football wknds. MICHIGAN & PURDUE TIX. 574-Required that he know how to read no questions nant.shtml 340-3895. 57 4-329-0308. 654-0169 (LOCAL CALL). opposing teams defensive signals. asked. 




OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM TI-·-IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Thursday, September 11, 2008 
page 15 

-
NFL 
Men's NSCAA/Adidas Div. I Soccer Poll 
team points previous 
1 Wake Forest 550 ··1 z Akron 497 5 3 Creighton 483 4 4 SMU 464 7 5 NOTRE DAME 430 8 6 California 422 11 7 Connecticut 407 3 8 Maryland 401 9 9 Boston College 377 z 10 Ohio State 344 10 11 StJohn's 338 22 12 North Carolina 324 15 13 UC Santa Barbara 293 21 14 Northwestern 211 16 15 Tulsa 187 18 16 Illinois-Chicago 182 25 17 Saint Louis 176 23 18 Brown 162 12 19 Indiana 155 6 20 Georgetown 103 NR 21 South Florida 86 14 22 Virginia Tech 64 13 23 Loyola, Md. 55 NR 24 UCLA 53 19 25 Dartmouth 48 NR 
Women's NSCAA/ Adidas Div. I Soccer Poll 
team points previous 
1 UCLA 782 2 
2 NOTRE DAME 763 5 
3 usc 694 1 
3 Stanford 694 7 
5 North Carolina 665 3 
6 Portland 630 9 
7 Florida State 601 4 
8 Texas 597 8 
9 VIrginia 571 6 
10 Tex:asA&M 514 1t 
11 Penn Stale 482 10 
12 Duke 391 12 
13 Boston College 367 1a 
14 West Virginia 366 13 
15 Santa Clara 328 16 
16 Oklahoma State 280 18 
17 Florida 265 23 
18 Illinois 257 15 
19 Wake Forest 244 17 
20 California 149 21 
21 Kansas 132 25 
21 Cal Stale Fullerton 132 24 
23 Tennessee 121 20 
24 WI·Milwaukee 67 NR 
25 Connecllcut 38 19 
CBS College Sports Network/AVCA Volleyball Poll 

Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Denver Broncos quarterback Jay Cutler was on a conference call with San Diego reporters Wednesday when the subject veered from the injured Shawne Merriman to one of his backups, Jyles Tucker. 
"Who?" Cutler said. 
Jyles Tucker, it was repeated. "Nothing," Cutler replied. It turns out Cutler does 
know a little bit about Tucker, who's played in only seven regular-season games for the San Diego Chargers in his two-year NFL career. Tucker will be asked to help fill the chasm left when Merriman told the Chargers on Tuesday that he will have surgery on two torn ligaments in his left knee. 
"Didn't he just sign a new deal?" Cutler said about Tucker, who indeed was given a five-year contract extension late last month ­despite his limited experi­ence -as uncertainty sur­rounded Merriman's situa­tion. 
"He's going to come out and want to f:tll the role that Merriman had. I don't know if he's going be able to play at that high level right away, but he's definitely going to make some plays for them." 
Tucker didn't seem to care that Cutler doesn't know who he is. Perhaps the two will meet up 
Sunday, when the two-time defending AFC West cham­pion Chargers play their first division game, at Denver. 
"That's cool," Tucker said. "As long as we win the game, that's all that mat· ters.' It's not about me, it's about winning the game and getting to the champi­onship. That's all that mat· ters." 
The Chargers were upset 26-24 by the Carolina Panthers on Sunday, then found out two days later that they'll be without Merriman for the rest of the season. Merriman was placed on injured reserve on Wednesday. The team said it didn't know when he'll have surgery. 
Merriman had an NFL­high 39 1/2 sacks in the past three seasons and played in three straight Pro Bowls. 
Nicknamed "Lights Out" because of his punishing hits, the normally media· friendly Merriman remained mum for the sec­ond straight day. He didn't return e-mails seeking com· ment, and a team spokesman said he wasn't at Chargers Park. 
An associate of Merriman's said the line­backer probably wouldn't talk until doing a radio show on Wednesday night. It's believed that Merriman is paid for doing the show. 
Late in training camp, Merriman said that the pos­

Men's  Women's  
team  team  
1  Penn State  Penn State  1  
2  Pepperdine  Nebraska  2  
3  LoQ.lJ Beach State  Texas  3  
4  BYU  California  4  
5  Cal State Nor1hridge  UCLA  5  
6  UCLA  usc  6  
7  OhioState  Stanford  1  
8  UC Irvine  Florida  8  
9  Stanford  Washington  9  
10  Ball Stale  Hawaii  10  

around the dial 
NCAA fOOTBALL 

North Carolina at Rutgers 7:30p.m., ESPN 
Tennessee Tech at Southeast Missouri St. 
7:30p.m., ESPNU 
• 

IN BRIEF 
Ohio State rtlill1ing back Wells 
back in practice this week 
COLUMBUS -Ohio State tailback Chris "Beanie" Wells worked out with the team in pads and is on targ-et to play against No. 1 Southern California on Saturday night. 
Jim Bollman, one of the Buckeyes' two offensive coordina­tors, said he was encouraged by Wells' play. 
"I would say he was 75 percent, something like that. He got a lot of work today, certainly more than he's had," Bollman said. "We'll see how sore he is tomorrow, then go from there." 
Darrell Hazell, also an offensive coordinator, said Wells had a good practice Wednesday and did not limp off. 
"We won't know until game time on Saturday night," Hazell said when asked whether Wells would be fully recovered. "If I know him 
he'll be out there ready to go."Cowboys' OB Romo banged 
up after Cleveland game 
IRVING, Texas-The bandage was off, the stitches hardly visible nnder the stubble around Tony Romo's chin. 
Asked about it, Romo mumbled, "Just stitches. It'll be all right. They can be exposed." 
When the injury came up again min· utes later, Homo was just as dismissive, saying only, "It's fine, I'll be good." 
Romo doesn't like talking about injuries or even acknowledging them. He's also not into all the praise he's got· ten from teammates and coaches for the way he handled his pair of injuries in the opener Snnday at Cleveland. 
The biggie was getting sandwiched by a pair of 300-pounders. He winced while on the ground, then stood up to fmd blood coming out of his chinstrap. He'd later need 13 stitches to close the wound, but on the very next snap he threw a 19-yard completion. He led the Cowboys to a touchdown on that drive, too, before trainers got a chance to 2._atch him up.Patriots' QB Cassel says
he is ready to take over 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -The day after Matt Cassel dropped a fly ball in a high school game, his teammates thought they'd tease him. 
So they posted a picture of his mis­cue on his locker. 
''I've never seen so many guys scramble out of that locker room in a hurry when he went in there and saw 
-.
that," said Tom Meusborn, the coach of that Los Angeles area team. "He was going to track the guy down and probably body slam him. He had fun with it." 
Cassel can take a joke. But he hates making mistakes, whether it's on the baseball or football field. 
On Sunday, the Patriots' new quar· terback will shake off what remains of seven years of cobwebs and deal with any butterflies in his first start since high school -against the 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 11, 2008 

NFL 

Saints' Colston to be out four to six vveeks 
Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS -Marques Colston, the New Orleans Saints' top receiver during the past two seasons, had surgery on his left thumb and will miss four to six weeks. 
Colston said he had a torn lig­ament resulting from a play Sunday when he reached for­ward to make a catch while taking a helmet-first hit to his hands from Ronde Barber. 
"I don't know if my thumb just got caught in an awkward position. It just bent all the way backward," said Colston, who was wearing a cast over his left hand. "I guess the only silver lining is that I'm going to have a chance to come back and play a good portion of the season and hopefully be back in time for that playoff push." 
Colston tried to continue play­ing with the injury during the Saints' 24-20 victory over Tampa Bay, but finished with only three catches for 26 yards. He made one catch after the injury. 
Colston was a seventh-round draft choice out of Hofstra in 2006. At 6-foot-5, 225 pounds, he provides quarterback Drew Brees a big target and emerged as one of Brees' favorite receivers during his rookie year. Colston went on to com­pile 2,241 yards receiving for 19 touchdowns in his first two seasons. 
His 168 catches are more than any NFL receiver has had through only two seasons. During the summer, Colston agreed to a three-year contract extension that could keep him in New Orleans through the 2011 season. 
"It's tough, especially when you lose a guy as productive as him," Brees said after Wednesday's practice. "But there's always an opportunity for a younger guy to step up or guys that might not get as much playing time ordinarily to step up and contribute even more. 
''I'm confident with all our guys. However we piece it together, whoever is on the field knows what to do and they know they'll get their opportu­nities." 

The College Football Hall of Fame 10am-4pm 
For information and tickets Call 702-885-3501 
800.424.8580 I www.poacecorps gov 
Thursday, September 11, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
' 
~ 
I I I 
l l 
l 

AS OUR COUNTRY OBSERVES THE SEVENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ATTACKS ONNEWYORK CITY, WASHINGTON, DC AND SHANKSVILLE, PA, ASPECIALMASS FOR PEACE WILL BE CELEBRATED TODAY 
BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART Thursday, September 11, 2008 • 5:15p.m. 
C-M 


Campus Ministry 
THURSDAY, SEPT. 11 -MIDNIGHT'TIL LATE 

F NOTRE DAME 

NO COVER I ND/SMC/HC ID REQ'D I LEGENDS.ND.EDU 


I 
·._ I 
Sil'ftJili)LlY, SI~I•'I\ I!J 
)Jfi)NJC1U'I' ''I'IIJ IJ\'1'1~ 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 11, 2008 
Come meet the ellowships Office Mentors and learn abo research and fellowship 
__,...e-_,_.......... ilgate Par 
at the new 



lice ofUndergrad Post-Baccalaureate Fellowships 
Friday September 12 11 :30am~2pm 346 O'Shag 

NFL 

Colts' DT under arrest for drug possession 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Indianapolis Colts starting defensive tackle Ed Johnson was arrested early Wednesday on a drug possession charge. 
Colts president Bill Polian said the team was still gathering facts about the case before determining how it will disci­pline Johnson, but Johnson will not play Sunday at Minnesota. 
"He will not play this week, for sure," coach Tony Dungy said. 
Polian said Johnson was stopped for speeding between midnight and 1 a.m. on Interstate 465 just north of Indianapolis. Police also charged him with marijuana possession. 
He later was released on bond from the Hamilton County Jail. 
Johnson was temporarily expelled from Penn State in 2005 for violating the school policy on sexual misconduct and confining another student against the student's will. He was reinstated in 2006, but later suspended for the Outback Bowl for violating team rules. 
Once considered a first-day draft prospect, the big defensive tackle went undrafted in 2007 draft. 
"We had a talk with him and I thought he was going in the right direction," Dungy said last summer when Johnson was try­ing to make the team. "He has to understand the environment he's coming into and what we expect from him." 
Johnson's past indiscretions could also have an impact on whether the league takes action. 
"As in any other incident of this nature, it will be reviewed under the league's substance abuse policy," league spokesman Greg Aiello wrote in an e-mail to The Associated Press. "A player's prior history can be considered in evaluating potential discipline under the program." 
The 6-foot-2, 296-pound Johnson was the biggest sur­prise in training earn p last year. lie took advantage of an injury­depleted defensive line to start all 16 games, finishing with 63 tackles, one sack and one forced fumble. 
The Colts (0-1) had even big­ger expectations for Johnson this year, but Wednesday's arrest has the Colts reassessing those plans. 
Johnson was not in the locker room Wednesday to answer questions. 
The arrest couldn't have come at a worse time for the Colts. They allowed Chicago to run for 183 yards and average 4.7 yards per carry in a season­opening 29-1:~ loss and now face back-to-hack games against two of the NFL's best running tandems: Minnesota's Adrian Peterson and Chester Taylor, and Jacksonville's Fred Taylor and Mauriee Jones-Drew. 
One option for Dungy is mov­ing 274-pound defensive end Raheem Brock inside, where he was the starter last season. Second-year player Keyunta Dawson is the other starter. They also could use their most experienced tackle, Darrell Reid, in the lineup. 


Save the date. Keep it really, really OPEN. 
\ 

join us on Software Freedom Day September 20th. It's your opportunity to show support for all things open source. While you're at it, join aSun Open Source University Meetup at sun.com/swfreedom. Change (Y)our World. Support Software Freedom Day. 









+sun 
microsystems 

The Network is the Computer ™ 
© 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Sun and the Sun Microsystems logo are registered marks and The Network is the Computer is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc. 

Thursday, September 11, 2008 

Close by campus, Martin's has what you want. 
Starbuck's Coffee® beverages WiFi free in Side Door Deli area 70+ item Salad Bar 
·,_ 
Complete Tailgating Supplies New Sandwich Express made-to-order subs Sushi selections made fresh daily Hot Deli Fried Chicken, egg rolls, sides and more Panini bar featuring meat and veggie varieties Party trays custom made Donuts made fresh daily in store College logo cakes, balloons and more Kitchen Fresh entrees, just like homemade ATM and stamps Party supplies Fuel Center 


Toll Road 



marfinr 
Count On Us! 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 11, 2008 
NFL 

Titans rallying around Young after incident 
Associated Press 
NASIIVILLE -·If Vince 

Young isn't sun~ lw wants to 
play football anymore, he did­
n't show it Wedrwsday. 
lin reported to work, 

watched part of practice with 
a wrap around his sprained 
lnf't knnn and avoided 
reporters wanting to talk 
about his rnotlwr's cornn11mts 
indi!:ating lw doesn't want to 
play beeausn of the negativity 
he's faced since bPing booed 
heavily during a 17-10 win 
over Jacksonville. 
llis coa!"h and teammates 

are sticking with tlwir quar­
terback and tlw official story 
that whatever happerwd that 
promptPCI !:oach .lefT Fisher to 
alert police to help locate 
Young and check on his mno­
tional wnll-lwing was just a 
misundnrstanding. And that it 
was blown out of proportion 
by tiH~ nwdia. 
And no, Young donsn't have 

to prove his !:ommitmnnt to 
nitiH'r Fishnr or his team­
mates. 
"lin IPd us to the playoffs 

last year. WP just want him to 
get lwalthy and back on the 
f'iPid," Fisher said. 
Young stood with linnbacknr 

Keith Bullu!"k and former col­
lege tearnrnatP Michael 
Criff'in for part of' practice. 
Bulluck said lw knows Young 
is f'inn al'tnr speaking with 
him. Tho lwst way they can 
hnlp tho quartPrback? Go 
boat Cincinnati on Sunday. 
Bulluck said ho's seen 

Donovan McNabb and Steve 
McNair get down after losses, 
something that goes with the 
pressures of' being the quar­
tnrback. lie expressed his 
confidence that Young will 
takn the good and the bad of 
his position. 
"That's just things quarter­backs go through. They prob­ably wear red shirts l'or a reason. They're a little more sensitive than any position on the l'ield," Bulluck joked before becoming serious. " ... Being his third year I'm sure he has a lot on his plate like we all do. I know he'll rnbound, and we'll be all right. That's why I'm saying that the situation will takn caro of itself'." 
Center Kevin Mawae called 
Young still a leader whose 
teammates trust and believe 
in him. 
"Anything that happens out­side the locker room will be outside the realm of football, that's something that's betwe!m him and his family and whoever's handling that with him," Mawan said. 
The quarterback didn't talk to reportnrs, but Fisher did promise Young will speak "at some point." 
Young is the only person who knows what he was thinking Monday whon he s k i p p e d an MIU exam to determine tlw extent of his sprairwd nwdial collateral lig­ament. Fisher and a psychol­ogist met with the quarter­back at his horne. then he took ofT in his M1\rcedes to eat ehiekon wings and watch football. 
But whatever he said at honw prompted someone to call Fisher, who said Tuesday night the information he had didn't allow him the luxury of' 
waiting. On Wednesday, 
Fisher only called it a misun­
derstanding, but defended 
what the team did as concern 
for an employee. 
For now, voteran Kerry 
Collins will start. The Titans 
signed Chris Simms as insur­
anen Wodnosday and will not 
project when Young will be 
healthy enough to play. 
Fisher said the starter's job 
remains Young, but admitted 
the quarterback has some 
work to do. · 
"lie has to put some things 
back in perspective, and first 
and foremost has to get 
healthy," Fisher said. 
Young was booed in 2004 
while in college when Texas 
was shut out by Oklahoma. 
and he was benched for the 
second half of a win over 
Missouri the next week. He 
responded by never losing 
another game. 
"Anybody that knows Vince 
knows how competitive he 
is," Texas eoaeh Maek Brown 
said. "lie has a very high 
standard for himself. When 
he doesn't feel like he 
readwd that standard at that 
moment, he does get disap­
pointed. 
"But ho's f"ine. lie's moving forward. ll!~·s been booed bnf'ore. lin's been eriticized before. llis worst moment h o n~ w as h i s bcs t m o m e n t bneause al'ter he played so poorly against Missouri he never lost another game." 
Young's fellow quarterbacks are offering up suggestions on dnaling with the unique pressure of playing in this league. 
Collins, the fifth overall pick in the 1995 draft, said he did­n't learn how to handle all the attention until he wound up with his third team, the New York Giants in his fifth season. lie said he'll be happy to be a resource for Young, but hasn't shared his own story yet. 
"I was a young guy who played a lot, had success early and did some things that looking back probably wercn 't the right things to do. I learned from it. I think that's the most important thing, as it is in lif"e. You make mistakes, you learn from it and move on," Collins said. 
Bengals receiver Chad Johnson said football is fun, while pressure is being sent to fight in fraq. Cincinnati quarterback Carson Palmer, who had to heal up from his own knee injury, doesn't know Young well. But he believes the key is not to worry about what anyone outside the team says. 
"If you're a guy who is always worried about what people are saying about yoli, it's going to be tough, it's going to cat at you and get at you. But you need to experi­nnce it and figure it out and learn to roll with it," Palmer said. 
Aaron Hodgers has dealt with his share of criticism in Green Bay and suggests keep­ing priorities straight. 
"If" you live your life and you decide your joy and happiness in lif"e (is based) on what peo­ple say about you or think about you, you're going to be up and down every day." 


prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1.,rJob in the far east, strategically chosen to match your career aoals. Apply by October 31~ 2008. 

The Observer. 

--------------.. 
Thursday, September 11, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
49ers' QB Alex Smith to miss rest of season 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. -Alex Smith's season is over with another shoulder injury. The high-priced quarterback's short career with the San Francisco 49ers is probably finished as well. 
Th-e 49ers put Smith on injured reserve Wednesday with a broken bone in his right shoul­der. The top pick in the 2005 draft probably will require more surgery on the joint that limited him to seven games last season. 
Coach Mike Nolan improbably claimed to know little about the injury that ended his former franchise quarterback's fourth NFL campaign before Smith even played in a regular-season game this fall. Smith's team­mates expressed more concern than their gruff coach over his latest injury, which popped up during the club's final practice before last week's season open­er. 
"I feel sorry for him," said running back Frank Gore, the Niners' third-round pick in 
Smith's draft. "He was a great teammate and worked hard. I just hope the best for him, and hope he gets well." 
After paying Smith more than $31 million during his four years with the 49ers, the bleak realities of NFL salary cap life mean the club is likely to release him before next season. General manager Scot McCloughan said last week that San Francisco can't risk paying $9 million in base salary to a backup quarterback in 2009. 
Smith lost his starting job to journeyman J.T. O'Sullivan in training camp. 
''I'm not going to answer any hypothetical questions about the future," said Nolan, who had an embarrassing public spat with Smith last year over the severity of the quarterback's shoulder injury. "We'll cross that bridge when we get there. My focus right now is on (Sunday's game against) Seattle." 
Smith refused to comment after practice, and didn't respond to an additional request for comment Wednesday after­noon. --' 
Smith had surgery on his shoulder in December to repair three torn ligaments, the prod­uct of a separated shoulder from a game in late September 2007. He attempted to play through pain after the injury, but obviously struggled in all three games, culminating in an awful effort in a 24-0 loss at Seattle. 
"I thought he wasn't ready to go," said Seahawks linebacker Julian Peterson, Smith's former teammate in San Francisco. 
·. "' ,·: :, i:• 
' 
';-~>f-:?vtr. :lc•lin and~:A-trs. •.B,,nnt<:· Vt•'n"'-Vlla.J><' 
Fr~·~~-,_.._..,,r 'An..~r :B..•.sc._~ 
-rn~·~ lfu_.,. ·i~r~YP<!t~.t:~· ~.'f-'.Jt:! !_;,,~ !/ 
in Lta/iun ...,~,.~lie.,.· wa.\· esrdhllshcd In 2005 through !generous gtfi C!r Mr. John A. c~nl·u:,.n,~..?d the progr.arn.••; and <..u.:til-•Urt.'.<tc' 1n lh:dt,.·n-1. ,..;,•tudic~s . JVoJru IJanz.c, f."lnd has helped pn:'f.'!ff-11/'U.tfZI ~cnk'r )'i)r tf1e sN;~d,v c-~r Irahan. .s~tudents <.., d .fi:J.cu/ty .qfit a ban owe lv.fr. 
growing sti·enRth at /h(l.· ttnrvti!r.~lfy f!{ N¥H1"e l.>arrz.c:. l•'trst tgught at the l Jnlver...·ll'y ofNotre · l~tMI llo:vc.w (Pia.J>.. l·lurvaftl.. 1942). who tar-1ght at lVofr£;.· J:>ame fi.;~r ./~fly year~· Wllh hi.r; F>•lv.•r..•oiOJ 1~7~-'N'!nc4'!, 19~'f4). Ita/tan has g,..own to a teitch.ing ittc~lt' o.J" rwen.Jy and about lan.xuaJ.:-e at N~:ttre l>t:lmc-..·. lh·eat rt..·...·ource~ori..out.'.;tanclln;,:fac:ulty. and xround 
•arr.nt~'"'"' opportti-11/tif't.'."!-' ,fi'lr both ,gradtulltt nnd !/..tndargrac.luat,; st·udy. 
Sciacca 
continued from page 24 
to push through and make some noise in the Big East this year." 
So far, Sciacca said, so good for the Irish. 
"We've had a few up-and­down games," she said "But we're on the upswing now." 
As far as her own play goes, the management major has also been happy with herself this year. 
"So far, I've had one off game against Eastern Washington, where I didn't play as well as I wanted to," Sciacca said. "But overall, I've been pretty pleased with how things are going, personally." 
Sciacca currently is third on the team with 51 kills, and sec­ond with a .273 hitting per­centage. 
As far as Sciacca sees those numbers, though, there's only room for improvement. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


SERVICE .. 
· 
Take the first step In the riQht direction with a Career Starter• Loan from USAA. Pay off student loans. Eliminate credit card debt. Invest in your future. At USAA, we know you're focused on your academic and military life right now, so we want to help you get a jump start on your financial future. 
»GO TO USAA.COM/ROTC OR CALL 877.820.8321 
~ 

USAA We know whatitmeans to serve~ 
Loan subjea tocredit approval and IS available to omcer candldeMWithin 18 months ol ccmmlssJonlno and newtv commiUionecl officers wlthln one year after comm!Aionlng. Loan f)llVments wtll be defer reel lor 90 days alter eommlsslonlnQ or 90 days a!Wr lotn dotlnQ date If already commiH!onlld. Automatic payment from. and dillld dllf)Oslt ot PIIY Into. a USAA Chec:kinQ account, and owrdt'aft protection uslno a USAA Cradlt Card or USAA SaYinqs account are roquli'Cid. In the IWilnt of a 10<11'1 default or hm ol status as commlnloned olllcer, loltn nne wllllncrHS8 to USAA's stll!ldard unsec\lred !olin ntl:e In effect at that tlme. Credit cards prtl'l!di!d by USAA Sllvlnqs Bank. Oth11r benklnQ produda provided by USAA federal SlvlnQs Bank. Both Member FOIC, C 2008 USAA. errn-oeoa 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 11, 2008 
Eagles 
continued from page 24 
run. All four of our goalkeepers corm~ to pradiee 1w1~ry day and perform very Wl'll. We're lucky for that." 
Though Notre Dame surely looks the part of the favorite on paper for tonight's tilt, the Irish are taking nothing for grantPd as they begin their quest to n~peat as Big East Blue Division champions. 
"Anyone who's ever coached or played in the Big East knows there's no easy wins in our league,'' Clark said. "It's going to be very competitive. You've got to stick with your lgamel and hope it works your way." 
Notre Dame will continue its Big 1\ast slate when the Irish host St. John's Sept. 19. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Olivet 
continued from page 24 
Mary's claimed its lirst victory over local rival Bethel in 15 years. The nailbiting, live-set win (25-22, 15-25, 12-25, 25­15, 18-16) nearly escaped the 

.-Belles, who rallied from behind 14-12 in the final set and faced four match point situations. Olivet is struggling through a five-game losing strnak and has dropped six of seven overall. In addition. the Comets have not puslwd a single one of its last five matches beyond three sets. Hegardless, Schroeder-Biek said Saint Mary's is not over­looking the Comets. noting the intensity of their play and the strides the program has made. "Olivet has been known to really play with a lot of emotion against us," Schroeder-Biek said. "They tend to make for a competitive match. Their pro­gram has continued to improve over the last few years. The key factor for us is simply playing our game, together with the intensity to win." The match begins tonight at 6 
p.m. at the Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
Write Sports:for The Observer. Call Dan at 631-4543. 

Big East 
continued from page 24 
we're excited for because we normally don't get to play them," he said. "Marquette always gives us a really tough game so that should be a battle." 
In the end. though, the Irish should end up contending with Connecticut and West Virginia for the Big East crown. West Virginia, which was the presea­son selection to win the American Division, defeated Notre Dame in the conference title game last year in a shootout. The Mountaineers are not on the Irish regular-season slate but Waldrum said his team might very well end up facing its pesky rivals. 
"There could be a great possi­bility that we see them in the [Big East] tournament," he said. "And I know our kids would love the opportunity to play them again because we didn't feel like we played as well as we should have in that game [last season]." 
So the Irish are still disappoint­ed about losing the conference title game in a shootout even though they went on to the College Cup semifinals as one of the top four teams in the nation last season. 
Add "extremely high expecta­tions" to the list of reasons for Notre Dame's unprecedented Big East success. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 



Thursday, September 11, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek

JJWJW~TE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
__.
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
YOOST 

[IJ II 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
g~~~Mi 

tFLOUND j () 
J I [ I I 
www.jumble.com 
I CHROID j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I ri I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answerhere: "[I I I I]" [ IIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: MIRTH PAPER · VERSUS ZINNIA Answer: When he won the distinguished gentleman contest, it was a -SIR PRIZE 



CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 37 Leaves port 59 Groups of spies 
mater 38 Bygone U.S. gas 60 Fails to keep 
brand pace5 Letter-shaped 
structural piece 39 Mother ··-··' 61 Without: Fr. 
1979 Peace 9 Lesser-played Nobelist Downhalf of a 45 41 Napkin's place "I_ sorry!"

14 Elementary 
particle 42 Former 2 Hawaiian president of cookout
15 Vex Harvard 
3 Homeowners' 45 Kodak, Pentax burdens 
16 Gucci alternative 
17 Upstate New and Nikon 
4 Like clocks with 48 The "L" in S.&L. hands 
York city and 

spa 49 Is wild about 5 Shipment to a
20 Remote areas 211mp 50 Mythical island steel mill that sank into 6 Home of the 
22 Head for the sea Cowboys,23 The boondocks 54 Cornie who familiarly 
24 Honeymooners' played Robin 7 "Sad to say ... " destination Williams's son in 
8 _judicata
28 Alternative to "Mork & Mindy" 9 Spread out .com or .edu 
56 Auto route from ungracefully29 Fix, as brakes Me. to Fla. 

10 Isle of Man's 30 Jacob's twin 57 1930s migrant Puzzle by Richard Chisholm
locale 34 Track events 58 Smell _(be 
11 Rumba or 27 Passionate 39 Garbage 50 Paul who sang 36 Asian New Year suspicious) samba 31 Time before "Put Your Head 
40 Besmirches talkies on My Shoulder"
12 Mystery writer's 43 Mountain ridges
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
32 Banned orchard 

award 44 Powerful rays 51 Tiny branch spray
13 Swiss city on the 45 Louisianan of 52 Tehran's home 
Rhine. old-style 33 Letter carriers' French descent grp. 53 Concordes, 
18 Dwellers along 46 Get of one's 35 Broad-minded briefly
the Volga own medicine 19 Working stiff 
37 Pago Pago 47 Pre-stereo 55 "You've got mail" resident recordings co.
23 French city 
where Jules For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
..~aaHEg~~~9i~m~ffid Verne was born 

24 Alaskan city where the 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
lditarod ends 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 25 Angers past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 26 Raises or lowers Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young a hem, say solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

.... CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ryan Phillippe, 34; Amy Irving, 55; Joe Perry, 58; Jose Feliciano, 63 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't make assumptions or let your emotions lead you to distraction. If your personal problems interfere with your ability to perfonn your duties properly, you will have an even bigger problem. Keep a clear bead. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take part in the social aspect of your work and enjoy the friendship being offered. The tighter you are with the people you work with and the better a job you do, the higher the position. Love can be enhanced with a mini trip for two. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Market yourself for success. Don't let someone who does a poor job or takes a lot of time off tempt you to join him or her. Hard work will pay off. A love interest will help you move ahead. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): Don't give away a secret. If you overreact, overdo or overindulge, you'll pay dearly in the end. Offer compassion but don't take on re­sponsibilities that aren't yours. Undertake a home improvement project. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Set up interviews or apply for a job that interests you or connect with a headhunter. Opportunities to make more money may develop through someone you used to work with or from a company that is in competition with the one you are currently working for. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-SeJ?,t. 22): Pay attention to your well-being and that of your close friends and family. Help those depending on you. Use your imagination and you will find ways to make your life better and improve your professional posi­tion. 5 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take action and plan your day strategically. Emotions will be difficult to contrnl and avoiding arguments will be important to your state of mind. If you venture out, someone new will capture your interest. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Talk your way through any difficult situation you face and you will come out on top. The silent treatment will only lead to someone's geltin$ the wrong impression and assuming something that may not be true. Be a little different. 4 stars 
SAGITTARWS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can listen but don't get sucked into doing somethin~ that sounds too good to be true. Do your research and you can avoid being swmdled by someone out to get your money. Love is in the picture but be cautious. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Treat everyone with kindness and refrain from letting your personal opinions interfere with what you must do. Talks and traveling will not solve what needs to be dealt with. Listen to complaints but reserve judg­ment. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't give up something you want. Stand up for your rights and protect what's yours. There is money to be made but only if you are the one who sets the rules and makes the first move. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A partnership can form with someone who likes the way you think. Expand your interests and you will develop new friendships with people who can help you out. Knowledge and experience are being offered; listen and learn. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have a flair for the arts, a way with words and a definite style. You are strong, relentless and eager to do well. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultaJions 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, September 11, 2008 
page 24 
·­
WOMEN'S SOCCER ANALYSIS 
ND ready to take home another Big East championship 
Surprise, surprise anywhere but under the radar. Irish send their conference chal­tain that mindset because tastic starts and we get [to play) Dame is once again "We'll definitely be out lengers home with a David Spade­Waldrum said the conference has them both," he said. the team to beat in the there with targets on our style "Buhbye." improved dramatically since its Notre Dame was the unanimous Big East. Beginning backs ... " Notre Dame In fact, the team is riding a 12-inception. preseason pick to repeat as Big with their llrst confer­coach Randy Waldrum year, 72-match unbeaten streak in "The conference, every year, East National Division champions. ence matr.hup against said. "I do think teams the conference. Waldrum attrib­gets better and better," he said. "In Marquette and South Florida, who DePaul on Sept. 19, will be gunning for·us." uted his team's staggering Big Ea.•;;t the 10 years since I've been rat are both in the Big East American the No.2 Irish will look But so what? Every success to its game-by-game Notre Dame]. I've seen it grow a Division, are uncommon foes on to capture their 11th year the Irish play each of approach. whole lot ... And this year we the Irish schedule. Waldrum said Big East crown in 13 their games against an "The [players] are very good expect the conference to be fantas­he is looking forward to those con­sea<>ons. opponent fighting for the about heading into the Big East tic." test<; because the Irish do not typi­
And the soar­win of its season. season with a workmanlike atti­In addition to the tractitional Big cally have the opportunity to face ing Irish-who Associate Sports Editor Other teams look tude," he said. "You don't hear East powers, Waldrum named those teams. defeated No. 3 for resume-build­them talking about any games Rutgers and Villanova as new, "Those are two good teams North Carolina and No. 12 Duke ing victories against Notre Dame. other than the next one." viable threat<>. over the weekend -will be flying But much more often than not, the The Irish would be wise to main-"Those two teams are off to fan-see BIG EAST/page 22 

MEN's SoccER 
Eagle hunting 
opposite direction. After han­
Streaking Irish get
... dling Bryant University in their 
ready for Marquette first match Sept. 1, the Golden Eagles played Penn and Columbia to scoreless draws at
By MATT GAMBER 
the Marquette Invitational over 
Associate Sports Editor 
the weekend. Clark. however, isn't fooled by 
When No. 5 Notre Dame hosts those statistics. Marquette tonight at 7 p.m. in "They played the last game both teams' Big East openers, with a man down and still dom­the Irish (3-1-0) will enter hav­inated the whole way," he said. ing scornd seven goals in their "I watched the whole tape·­last two games compared to the they just didn't score. We've got Golden Eagles' (1-0-2) zero. to go into it with the mentality 
But that doesn't mean it will that we've got to play 90 min­be an easy victory for the home utes. In fact, it wouldn't sur­side, Irish coach Bobby Clark prise me if it goes beyond that." said. The Irish came into the sea­
"They've played six games son with the mighty task of [including exhibition matches) replacing their leading scorer, and haven't lost." he said. "To All-American Joe Lapira. They come in unbeaten ... they're as have done so thus far by conl'ident as they can be. spreading the wealth, as seven They're a good side -it'll be a different players have scored tough game." goals. 
Notre Dame will try to ride Senior forward Bright Dike the momentum of a three-game leads the team with three goals win streak during which the while junior midfielders Irish have outscored opponents Michael Thomas and Justin 11-2. The Irish were shut out in Morrow each has scored twice. their season opener against While the Irish offense has Akron 3-0. gotten much of the credit for 
Marquette has gone in the Notre Dame's early season sue-
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Squad gets set for league doormat Olivet 
is there. We have just played
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
flat. That is the area of our
Sporrs Writer 
focus -bring not only our skill but our heart to the court." 
Saint Mary's began the season The Belles enter tonight's 4-1 before dropping two con­match coming off a loss to con­secutive MIAA matches. Now, ference opponent No. 17 Hope, the Belles are searching for who dominated in straight sets answers. (25-18, 25-21, 25-12) at its 
Saint Mary's (4-3, 0-2 MIAAJ home facility in Holland, Mich. will try to generate some Oft'ensive inconsistency, which momentum tonight when it has plagued Saint Mary's all takes on woeful Olivet ( 1-6, 0-3 season, reared its head once MIAA) at 6 p.m. at the Angela again as the Belles finished the Athletic Facility. Belles coach match with a disappointing .Iulie Schroeder-Hick empha­.099 attacking percentage to sized the importance of playing Hope's .333, with no Belles with emotion and passion when player contributing double-digit trying to break out of a slump. kills. Last week, however, Saint 
"We just need to turn up our game," Schroeder-Biek said. "It see 0 LIVET Ipage 22 
L t ______ 

cess, senior goalkeeper Andrew battling with junior Philip Tuttle trying to let our defense settle Quinn has played well since a for the starting spot all presea­in with just one of them, but I shaky first start. He has given son. hope I can give both of them a up just two goals in Notre "We've got two very good Dame's last three games after goalkeepers," Clark said. ''I'm see EAGLES/page 22 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Sciacca off to strong start 
Sophomore team leader hopes to build on outstanding first season 
By SAM WERNER 
Spans Writer 
A year after turning in what can only be described as one of the best freshman seasons of any Notre Dame volleyball play­er, don't expect Kellie Sciacca to rest on her laurels. 
The sophomore middle block­er has spent the offseason working and concentrating on making herself even better. Specifically, Sciacca has been practicing her blocking . 
''I've been working on it a lot in the offseason," she said. "And I feel very strong about my blocking. 
"I want to be a more domi­nant blocker than I was last year. I did fairly well with blocking last year, but I want to do even better and feel more confident with blocking calls and my footwork." 

Last year, Sciacca made an immediate impact for the Irish and was named the AVCA Northeast Region Freshman of the Year. The Monument, Colo. native was first on the team with a .343 hitting percentage. 
"I want to have a fairly high hitting percentage," she said. "I led the team in hitting percent­age last year, so I want to try and do that again." 
Despite Sciacca's phenomenal year, the Irish struggled, going 15-13 and falling to Louisville in the Big East semifmals. 
"It was hard," Sciacca said. "If I'm being successful but the team isn't, it's not worth any­thing." 
But Sciacca -and the rest of the Irish -are putting last sea­son behind them and focusing on one goal this time around ­a Big East title. 
"We went through a little bit of a frustrating year last year," Sciacca said. "But as a team we told ourselves to forget about that and just move on with this season. 
"Louisville is great competi­tion, but we feel confident that we have the talent on our team 
see SCIACCA/page 21 







