
THE-

Students present on social change 
Returned volunteers cite health, education, language as causes ofhardship 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
Barriers to health, education and language, as well as the corrupting influences of racism and sexism, cause economic hardship and social tension in the developing world. according to the 13 Notre Dame students who presented at the "Cultural Differences and Social Change Student Forum" Monday night. 
Senior Caitlin Ivester taught English at a high school in the mountains of Costa Rica for two months this past summer. She recalled· explaining to her students why it was important for them to learn English. 
"As I spoke I realized that my 
see CULTURE/page 4 



Senior sponsors meal for homeless 
By LIZ HARTER SainlMary's Editor 
Thanks to a Saint Mary's sen­ior, students were not the only ones able to enjoy the Noble Family Dining Hall's annual Student Christmas and Feast of the Immaculate Conception holi-· day dinner last night. 
About 35 guests, including babies and children, attended the event from the Center for the Homeless in downtown South Bend. 
Senior Theresa Klinkhammer brought the idea to Carrie Call, the director for the Office of Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE). The OCSE is a resource center for the College with infor­mation on community service, one-time volunteer events, serv­ice-learning, special speakers and events relating to communi­ty engagement. 
"Theresa was the one with the idea for the dinner and thougbt it was a great opportu­nity for us to share our bounty," Call said. 
Klinkhammer, a resident assistant in Regina Hall, sent an e-mail to her residents letting them know that the guests would arrive on campus at 5 
p.m. and inviting them to attend the dinner. Call sent an e-mail informing the student body of the eve·nt as well. 
Call told students that they 
see SMC/page 4 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 64 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2008 
Exams add stress to the holidays 

National study suggests students underprepared for class, finals; have other priorities 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
According to a national survey, studying and preparing for class is not high on many students' to do list, and as finals approach, this leaves many students feeling nauseous at the thought of exams. 
The most recent National Survey of Student Engagement, released last month, reported that about one in five students frequently come to class without completing readings or assign­ments -just one example of being underprepared. 
That may or may not be the case at Notre Dame, according to Learning Resource Center (LRC) 
NDSP to offer free winter storage 

Service will be available for bikes, cars and off-campus valuables beginning on Dec. 18 

By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
The Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) are offering free winter storage for both on and off cam­pus students, relieving them of worry about the safety of their items. 
NDSP offers three different stor­age areas for current Notre Dame students. 
Starting Dec. 18, students will have the opportunity to store their bikes in Gate D of the football sta­dium. They can drop their bikes off between the hours of 10 a.m. and4p.m. 
director Nahid Erfan. She said that students at Notre Dame are typically "motivated and hard working." 
But with final exams looming in the days ahead, many students reported feeling overwhelmed by coursework, especially exams. 
Senior Apurva Aslekar said he was "stressed" about the work he has to get done in the coming days. 
"I have 45 pages to write by next Monday," he said. 
Junior Gavin Green said that part of the stress is "the build up at the end of the semester" that really makes things difficult. 
"Usually when it's more spread 
see EXAMS/page 4 


The release date for when the bikes will be available for pick-up is yet to be determined, but there is also an option of pick-up by appointment. 
For students who will be leaving their cars on campus over the win­ter break, they can store their vehicles in the D2 South Parking Lot. After 5 p.m. on Dec. 20, the area will be locked and will reopen Sunday Jan. 11 at 9 a.m. 
NDSP requested that students remove all personal belongings from the car and certifY that it is locked before leaving. 
As with the bike storage, there is 
see NDSP/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

CLCpasses Transfer-0 resolution 
Weekend would focus more on student life 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
The Campus Life Council unani­mously passed its second resolu­tion of the year Monday, calling for Student Affairs to play an active role in Transfer Orientation. 
Meg MacCaughey, chair of the Task Force on New Student Introduction to Notre Dame, said the resolution seeks to encourage greater involvement of Student Affairs in the orientation. Currently, the Office of Admissions organizes the program. 
"We feel that it has a great aca­demic focus," MacCaughey said of the current format, "but not as much the student life portion of it ... and that's what we're really trying to target." 
The resolution asks Fr. Mark Poorman, the vice president of Student Affairs, to consider creat­ing a review committee to see how Transfer Orientation might better integrate the resources of his office, including the Office of Residence Life and Student Activities. 
Council members questioned whether the task force wanted to change the format to be more like Frosh-0. Some transfer students have expressed concerns that the program would be too much like 
see CLC/page 4 

page 2 The Observer + PAGE 2 Tuesday, December 9, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Fearing winter in the Bend? 
I can't rom em bcr nxpcriencing a winter without snow. I allegedly lived in the South as an infant, courtesy of an Air Foree dad, but if I lived through a winter without loads of that lluffy white stuff, l'vH chosen to block it out of my memory. 
l'vn bnen a proud resident of New 
Hampshire for the  
past fourteen years -well. when I'm  Analise Lipari  
not living in the  
Bend ­ and even if  
there's no snow on  Scene Editor  
Christmas day, you  
can safely have faith  

that tho good stuff will come eventually. 
There's skiing, sledding and snow­
trekking to be had, and it's all pretty 
wonderful. 
Snow has blanketed campus as well, and I couldn't be happier. I love that crunch underfoot as I cross snow-laden sidewalks, and the twinkle that lingers on your eyelashes after the flurries have melted. There's nothing like making snow angels. or having snowball fights (unless you get one of those back-of-the-neck­and-down-the-collar snowball hits that gives you a head cold. Boo). 
Well, at least during fall semester. 
As I look around a campus clothed in white !luff, I can't help feelif1g a slight sense of dread. Like the ethanol perma­doud that blankets our skyline in a weird, light-orangn haze, the dread of what's to come has me spooked. 
What's got me so concerned? The threat of February. 
I know, I should enjoy the moment and not freak out about the future. (I've tried to apply that Iogie to my s(mior year, by tho way, and have soundly failed.) But if then~·s one thing that can dampen my campus reverie, it's the spring semester wintnr blues. 
You know what I'm talking about -or, if you're freshmen, you will. l don't mean more snnw in general. I'm talking about the oppressive cold, bone-chilling winds and tundra-like fenl to campus that set­tles in during that second month of the year. 
You'II recognize its arrival. People start complaining of backaches from walking bent-over across the South Quad wind tunnel. You 'II start making fish faces whenever you come in from the cold, try­ing to establish feeling in your facial m useles. All semblance of a social life beyond your dorm. your classes and your occasional trips for food will cease, unlnss you, brave soul, dare to trek into the wild. 
l decided to go abroad last spring for a variety of reasons: academic concerns, timing issues, et cetera. Hut I'd be lying if I said I didn't want to skip out on spring sernnstnr winter blues. Turns out that it rarely snows in London, and the only time I experienced real "winter" weather while I was abroad was during a canyon­jumping excursion in the Swiss Alps (which was, by the way, totally ballin'). 
Did I miss the winter weather? Sure ­I'd bn a fool to complain about the joys of snow. 
But did I miss February on campus? IInck no. 
Ultimately, the weather is what you make of it: vow to stay positive, and you will. Me, I'm just trying to enjoy the beauty of the moment, because it will innvitably end too soon. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu 
CoRnECTIONS 
The Observer mis..<pelled "'The Aidan Project" in Monday's paper. The Observer regrets tbe error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING TO AFFECT SOCIAL CHANGE? 







"And on "Dismantling "Nothing." "Practicing my "/proudly brew Wednesdays, the patriarchy." Lauren Kummer Starbucks 
we wear pink. " impressions, coffee." 

and researching women's sexuality and HIV." 
IN BRIEF 
A public talk on "American Politics: A New Era?" is taking place Tuesday at 4 p.m. in the Intercultural Studies Auditorium of the Hesburgh Center. Dr. William Kristol will be speaking on the impact of the recent election. 
The 6th annual Christmas at the CoMo featuring the ND Celebration Choir and Instrumentalists will be held on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Center. The event will feature n~llec­tions on Christmas traditions by NO international students. A freewill offering will support the Holy Cross Missions in Haiti. 
SIBC will host a Cambodian dinner Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center. The club will sell rood to benefit Cambodian dinner. The donation is $5 and all are welcome to attend. 
The special lecture "What and When was the Christmas Star? An astrophysics per­spective" will be given by Grant Mathews, professor of physics, in the Jordan Hall of Science Digital Visualization Theater. The event, held on Friday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. is sponsored by Department of Physics. 
Glee Club will perform its annual Christmas Concert Saturday at 6 p.m. at the Leighton Concert Hall of Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents and proceeds will benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mailed detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 
e. 
e.
**• *
**· * 

HIGH 30 HIGH 39 LOW 25 LOW 34 

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 

Defensive end Pat Kuntz {96) and the Irish football team pray before their Nov. 29 game at USC. Notre Dame will take on Hawaii Dec. 24 in the Hawaii Bowl. 
OFFBEAT 
Nagging wife, sausage help man win lottery 
WELLINGTON, New Zealand -A "nagging" wife who pushed her hus­band to buy a lottery tick­et helped scoop the $4.2 million ($7.7 million New Zealand dollar) first prize -with only minutes to spare. The man from New Zealand's biggest city, Auckland, bought his ticket just two minutes before ticket sales closed Saturday night. 
"My wife had been nag­ging me all week to get a ticket, so I when saw the Lotto sign ... I sprinted in to get the ticket before 
• 
TODAY 
D:: 
1.&.1 
:::1: 
!ci: 
1.&.1 


0,,,,,,,
3: 
,,,,,,,
..... 
,,,,,,,
Ill( 
(,) 0 
HIGH 37
..... 
LOW 27 

they closed," said the man, who asked not to be identified -normal prac­tice among lottery win­ners in New Zealand . 
"I must have been their last customer of the night," he said, adding that the young married couple had had a "rough" couple of years, reduced to one income after hav­ing children. 
"Butt Bandit" gets 13 monts in jail 
VALENTINE, Neb . ..,.-A man dubbed the "Butt Bandit" for making greasy imprints of his nether parts on windows in the north-central Nebraska city of Valentine has been sen­tenced to more than a year in jail. Cherry County Attorney Eric Scott says police caught 35-year-old Thomas Larvie in the act on Nov. 19. 
Scott says Larvie was sentenced Thursday to 13 112 months in jail after being convicted of eight misdemeanor counts of public indecency and one of disturbing the peace. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0. 
~ 

***.
* * * * HIGH 32 HIGH 27 HIGH 32 LOW 27 LOW 22 LOW 25 
Atlanta 59 I 53 Boston 45 I 42 Chicago 38 I 20 Denver 32 I 23 Houston 73 I 39 Los Angeles 71 I 46 Minneapolis 19 12 New York 49 I 46 Philadelphia 50 I 47 Phoenix 67 I 44 Seattle 49 I 43 St. Louis 50126 Tampa 81 I 64 Washington 53148 
Tuesday, December 9, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Woo speaks on business education 
Dean emphasizes importance of broader role of industry in society 
Special to The Observer 
Carolyn Y. Woo, Martin J. Gillen Dean and Ray and Milann Siegfried Chair in Entrepreneurial Studies at the University of Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business, was a presenter at the first Global Forum for Responsible Management Education, held Dec. 4 and 5 at the United Nations headquarters in New York City. 
In her remarks during an address to U.N. Secretary­General Ban Ki-moon as part of the global forum, Woo urged attendees to refocus business education away from a too­narrow agenda of wealth-cre­ation for owners only to a broader perspective consider­ing the role of business in solv­ing the pressing global issues of poverty, disease and conflict. 
"In subtle but undeniable ways, through our focus and content, we have let our stu­dents walk away from the big­ger picture and the big respon­sibilities," Woo said. "As we go forward, let it not be our negli­gence that we continue to fos­ter an attitude of disconnected­ness from the common good, a disconnectedness that sows the seeds of unbridled self-inter­est." 
Attended by senior adminis­trators from more than 150 academic institutions around the world, the forum provided a platform to advance the con­cept of corporate responsibility and sustainability in manage­ment education. 
At the close of her address, Woo also requested of the sec­retary-general two hours of programming time to further engage business school deans on this message. Immediately after the conference, Ban sent word to the dean that her request was granted. 
The forum in particular cen­tered on the Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME), a U.N.­backed global initiative devel­oped to promote corporate responsibility and sustainabili­ty in business education. Woo spearheaded an international task force of 60 deans, univer­sity presidents and official rep­resentatives of leading busi­ness schools who developed the initiative, which was launched under the patronage of Ban in July 2007. 
Participating institutions, including the Mendoza College, make a commitment to align their mission and strategy, as well as their core competencies -education, research and thought leadership -with 
U.N. values embodied by the six PRME principles. Actions encouraged under the initia­tive's framework include cur­riculum development around the corporate responsibility agenda and research in sup­port of sustainable manage­ment systems, as well as public advocacy and opinion leader­ship to advance responsible business practices. Currently, more than 175 business schools have endorsed the ini­tiative. 
PRME is part of the U.N. Global Compact, a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environ­ment and anti-corruption. 
"PRME is an important coun­terpoint to the direction that business education has taken over the last 60 years," said Woo, who added that the cur­rent analytical framework often turns human endeavors into competitive battles that glorify a winner-take-all men­tality. In contrast, she described how PRME and the 
U.N. Global Compact re-orders priorities, shifting attention to the fundamental canons of human communities. 
"First, human rights takes precedence over all other interests. As such, economic enterprises must serve people and uphold these rights, not the other way around," Woo said. "Second, as a community, by definition, we flourish and advance collectively, not indi­vidually." This last point calls for "mutuality," a balance between what a person or organization takes and what is given back. 


Keane nallled director of Executive Education 
Special to The Observer 
Sharon E. Keane has been named the director of Executive Education of the Mendoza College of Business at the University of Notre Dame. 
Keane will provide strategic direction to the Executive MBA programs in South Bend and Chicago, as well as executive non-degree programs, which include custom, online, interna­tional and open-enrollment offerings. 
"The deeply rooted mission of Executive Education at Notre Dame has always been to pre­pare individuals for new levels of leadership that emphasizes not only work performance but also personal integrity and responsi­bility to the greater community," Keane said. ''I'm excited to be carrying forward this tradition." 
In her new role, Keane also will be responsible for oversee­ing the transition to a new Executive Education center. Notre Dame recently received a $20 million gift from alumnus Ralph C. Stayer, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Johnsonville Sausage, for the construction of the new center just south of the business school. 
Keane joined the Executive Education program in August 2000, focusing primarily on developing custom programs, which earned c.t BusinessWeek ranking of 15th among Executive Education custom pro­grams worldwide in 2007. Previously, Keane was a vice president of South Bend, Incl.­based Corporate Staffing Resources. She also worked for the federal government for nine years in policy analysis, sales and consulting positions, and served as a legislative assistant to Sen. Hank Brown, R­Colorado. 
Keane earned a bachelor's degree in the Program of Liberal Studies from Notre Dame and a master's degree in public admin­istration from Syracuse University's Maxwell School. 
"Sharon brings to the position a strong understanding of the challenges faced by executives seeking additional education, particularly in today's ever-more complex global business envi­ronment," said Carolyn Woo, Martin J. Gillen Dean of the Mendoza College. 
Founded in 1980, Notre Dame Executive Education provides leaders in the executive and management ranks the opportu­nity to develop and strengthen their leadership abilities and business acumen skills with an emphasis on values-based prin­ciples in keeping with the Notre Dame mission. Today, Executive Education offers degree as well as non-degree programs in South Bend and Chicago, award­ing about 120 MBA degrees annually and delivering pro­grams throughout the United States and abroad. 

Tuesday, December 9, 2008 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Exa01s 
continued from page 1 
out during the course of the semester it isn't as bad," Green said. 
.Junior Bridget Tully agreed that the end of the semester is the hardest "when you have to eram everything in." 
"I think you have to get things done. no rnattnr what. It'll get donn. It just might not be the best work you would have done with morn time," she said. 
Hrfan said that studnnts often lack onough time to study, and may mismanage the t.imn they do havo. 
"It's a little bit of both," shn said. "Many studenL'i, nspecially first year students, have not pnrfeeted their skills l"or man­aging time well." 
Otlwr studenL'i just don't have enough hours in tho day to do it all. 
"There are many students who have excellent time man­agement skills, and are still unabln to complete all assign­numts," she said. "They simply do not have enough time between elasses, meetings, meals and other comm.it­ments." 
The national study, based on surveys earlier this year of close to 380,000 college stu­dents, said that students spend about 3.5 hours a week pmpar­ing for each class, about half what instructors expect from a 
NDSP 
continued from page 1 
al'io an option lilr early pick-up. Students must call NDSP and have proper identification in order to exercise thL'i option. 
Studenl'i who live off campus have thn option of storing items like electronics, musical instru­menL'i and other items of great vaJue with NDSP. 
Tim drop on· for these items will take plaee in thn second lloor of the llanumlS Mowbray I I all in the Investigations room. 
Students have the option of dropping ofT their belongings Wednesday from 8:00 p.m. to l 0:30 p.m. During final exams week, thern will also bn drop-off times available on Wfldnesday, Thursday and Friday. 
typical student. 
Erfan said that it is normal for professors to expect more from students. 
"lligher expectations promote learning," she said. 
For those feeling stressed and underprepared for their finals, Erfan o!1ered some suggestions to students as they approach exam week. 
"First, [students] should not panic," she said. "Second, they should take full advantage of the resourcns the University ... has to oll"er." 
Erfan said students should start by arranging a meeting with their instructors to get a bettor idea about their situa­tion, and to find out what resources are available. 
She also said not to "blame yoursnlf"' li1r past mistakns, but instead to correct them. This ineludes reviewing midtnrms, tests and other assignments. 
"Considnr the linal as the last opportunity to learn what the course is all about." she said. 'This way you remove some of the exam stress since you place the focus ... on learning." 
When the final arrives, stu­dents should remain calm and prepare by taking care of them­selves. 
"Go to the exam room on time and in good physical and mental state," Erfan said. "Eating well and sleeping well during exams week can help." 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
Pick-up times for these items will be olli~rnd every day during the first week of the second semester. In addition, there will 
also  be  pick-up  times  on  
Wednesday,  Jan.  14  and  
Thursday, Jan. 15.  

In order to use this method of storage, students must box their items and have their name clearly printed on the box. StudenL'i must also bring their student IDs when dropping off and picking up the items. 
Question<; about ~1orage for off­campus students should be addressed to NDSP officer Keri Kei Shibata at kshibata@nd.edu . 
For more information about bike storage, studenl'i can call e­mail Cappy Gagnon at rgagnon@nd.edu 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 



Foru01 
continued from page 1 
_________:___:::.______ own answer to that question did­n't seem signilicant," she said. "Most of them would not travel ouL'iide Costa Rica." Ivester said that "larger lbrces were at work," since, she said, local education initiatives are allected by the global economy. Because Costa Hica is commer­cially dependent on English­speaking countries, she said, the government mandates that English is a central part of the curriculum. Many of the students who pre­sented on the international serv­ice projects they completed over the summer reported their lind­ings in the 

employ these women as "scape­goats," knowing that they will be arrested when they arrive at the Sao Paulo airport. They tip off the 
authorities so that when the women are arrested, the smug­glers who do carry large quanti­ties of eontraband escape atten­tion from the police. Senior Emily Newport focused on "the disconnect between gov­ernment directives and the local implementation of health initia­tives" in Urubamba, Peru that has kept hepatitis-B vaccination pro­grams from working e!Ii~ctively. Scardty of resources L'i not the main problem, Newport said, but rather, programs should attempt to negotiate cultural attitudes and misunderstandings about medi­cine. "People ctidn't want the vaccine because they were 
larger context afraid that it might
"Empowerment at
of their host cause their child to 
region's cultur­the grassroots level die," she said. al history and is the most essential Senior Kerry global nconom­McGuire worked in
element for 
ics. Oaxaca, Mexico over Senior Mary development." the summer to help DeAgostino reintroduce the worked for the plant amaranth into
Jonathan Kennedy 
Global Service 
senior
Corps' AIDS education pro­gram in Tanzania while also con­ducting anthropology research. She found that perceptions about gender roles have led to a high infection rate among women. 
She proposed gender equality and increased education as part of a solution to the spread of the disease. 
"General women's empower­ment can spill over into sexual decision making,'' she said. 
The problem with one of the major AIDS education programs is its focus on fidelity in marriage as a solution, DeAgostino said. 
"Being faithful requires two people and that's not something you can control as a married per­son," she said. 
In Sao Paulo, Brazil, senior Casey Engelbert spent time at a prison for female foreigners. He said that many of the women came from South Africa and were imprisoned for smuggling small quantities of drugs into the coun­try. 
"A lot of these prisoners are mothers,'' he said. "Their mother­hood is the number one reason why they decided to smuggle drugs." 
He said they are motivated by "desperation and love of their families" to help make ends meet. 
Engelbert said the drug lords the populace's diet. 
High in fiber, pro­

tein and calcium, the crop is easier to grow than corn and helps to prevent birth defects, but it was all but elimi­nated from the region when Spanish colonialists destroyed fields because of the plant's use in native religious rituals, McGuire said. 
Senior Jonathan Kennedy trav­eled to Bugembe, Uganda to help with a local program that part­nered with the Foundation for Sustainable Development. 
He criticized development pro­grams of recent decades that have attempted to stimulate growth by providing fund'i to gov­ernments and counting on official leadership to implement policies effectively. According to Kennedy, directly helping the communities and building trust with the people who need help is the best model. 
"Empowerment at the grass­roots level is the most essential element for development," he said. 
Students Tiffany Nelson, Sarah Miller, Brendan Apfeld, Casey Hobinson, Lauren Kummer, Kerry McGuire, Ellen Rolfes and Joe Demott also gave presenta­tions on their summer service projects abroad. 
Contact Rober Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
Frosh-0, which they feel wasn't appropriate for transfers who already have college experience. 
"We'm trying to not necessarily have a freshman orientation for them,'' MaeCaughey said. "Having said that, there are definitely aspects of freshman orientation that could be brought into trans­fer orientation." MacCaughey said things like get­ting to know your rector and dorm better were examples of what they would like to see. 
Council membnr Sr. Sue Dunn, assistant vice president for Student All"airs, said that the reso­lution is "oll"ered in the spirit of utilizing the rieh resources ­inducting people-t11at we have." The various departments within Student All"airs could contribute greatly to the orientation, she said. 
"We've emated a resolution that we hope wiJI enhance the lives of transfer students," MacCaughey said. 
Student Body President Bob Heish said that he would create a eover letter and submit tl10 reso­lution to Poorman this week. 
In other CLC news: 
u Nicole O'Connor, the student government parliamentarian and chair of the Task Force on Student Safety said her task force has spoken with the Office of the University Architect about con­cerns about safety and lighting near Hyan Hall, the newest women's dorm on campus. She said administrators were aware of con1~erns. 
u O'Connor said meetings are ongoing regarding creation of the off-campus Web site. The content is being finalized in the coming weeks, and student government -in conjunction with the Office of Student Affairs -hopes to launch the site in February. 
u Student body vice president Grant Schmidt, chair of the Ta'ik Force on Technology and Study Spaces in Dorms, said his task force will continue to investigate the increased use of Google Calendars throughout campus next semester. The group is also investigating the use of study spaces across campus, with the help of the Office of Student 
Affairs. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Dinner 
continued from page 1 
ATTENTION: DON'T MISS OUT: DIRTY SEXY MONEY 

AN ABSOLUTE MUST-SEE TV: WEDNESDAYS, ABC, 10:00 P.M. EST. 
WITH ASTELLAR CAST OF ACCLAIMED, AND SEXY, ACTORS: WILLIAM BALDWIN [OF "BACKDRAFT" FAME & AGREAT NOTRE DAME FAN], PETER KRAUSE, DONALD SUTHERLAND [OF "MASH" the Movie & KIEFER SUTHERLAND FAME], JILL CLAYBURGH & BLAIR UNDERWOOD. 
TUNE IN AND GET "SEDUCED" BY THE FILTHY AND WEALTHY "DARLING" FAMILY OF MANHATTAN. 
[FICTION, OF COURSE,-OR, IS IT???©$©$©$©$©] 

could help welcome to guests to Saint Mary's by eating with them at tables reserved in the West Wing of the Dining Hall. 
While students attending the Holiday Dinner had to swipe a meal from their meal plan to enter the Dining Hall, tickets were made available for those living off-campus to attend for free. 
Many students gave the guests a warm welcome, helping fami­lies with childcare as parents enjoyed the candlelit dinner until around 6 p.m. when the families moved to Hegina Hall. Call said about half the families would attend a Vespers, or evening prayer, service for the Feast of the Immaculate Conception and Advent. 
The other half went to the Regina North Lounge to play games with students, Call said. 
This Message Approved By the Newly-Elected New York Senator Patrick Darling-or, is it???©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©© 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, December 9, 2008 .. CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVEKs WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Greek riots continue for third day 
ATI-!ENS. Greece -Gangs of youths smashed their way through central Athens, Thessalonild and other Greek cities Monday, torching stores, buildings and cars in the third day of mayhem after the fatal police shooting of a teenager. 
In the country's worst rioting in decades, dozens of shops, banks and even luxury hotels had their windows smashed and burned as youths fought running battles with riot police. Black smoke rose above the city center, mingling with douds of tear gas. Broken glass littered the streets. 
High school and university student!joined self­styled anarchists in throwing_ everything from fruit and coins to rocks and Molotov cocktails at police and attacked police stations throughout the day. 
Taliban vows increase violence 
KABUL, Afghanistan -The Taliban's fugitive leader said the planned increase in U.S. troops in Afghanistan will give his fighters incentive to kill and maim more Americans than ever. 
Mullah Omar, who is believed to be sheltered by fiercely conservative tribesman on the Afghan-Pakistan border, said battles would "flare up" everywhere. 
'The current armed clashes, which now num­ber into tens, will spiral up to hundred of armed clashes. Your current casualties of hundreds will jack up to thousand casualties of dead and injured," said the statement, which was written in broken English and posted on a Web site Sunday that has previously carried militant messages. 
Violence in Afghanistan has spiked in the last two years, and 2008 has been the deadliest year for U.S. troops since the 2001 invasion to oust the Taliban for hosting al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Military jet crashes, kills three 
SAN DIEGO -A fighter jet returning to a Marine base after a training exercise crashed in flames in a San Diego neigh­borhood Monday, killing three people on the ground, leaving one missing and destroying two homes. . 
The pilot of the F/A-18D Hornet jet ejected safely just before the crash around noon at Marine Corps Air Station Miramar. Explosions rocked a neighbor­hood of half-million-dollar homes, sending flames and plumes of smoke skyward. 
"The house shook; the ground shook. It was like I was frozen in my place," said Steve Krasner, who lives a few blocks from the crash. "It was bigger than any earthquake I e':er felt." 
Calling in gay to work is latest protest 
SAN FRANCISCO -Some same-sex marriage supporters are urging people to "call in gay" Wednesday to show how much the country relies on gays and les­bians, but others question whether it's wise to encourage skipping work given the nation's economic distress. 
Organizers of "Day Without a Gay" ­scheduled to coincide with International Human Hights Day and modeled after sim­ilar work stoppages by Latino immigrants -also are encouraging people to perform volunteer work and refrain from spending money. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Puruse auctions off naming of species 
INDIANAPOLIS-Searching for a truly one-of­a-kind holiday gift, one that could bestow a bit of immortality on a loved one or a friend? 
If so, Purdue University has the goods: The school is auctioning the naming rights to seven newly discovered bats and two turtles. Winning bidders will be able to link for the ages a rela­tive, friend -or even themselves -to an ani­mal's scientific name. 
The first of the nine auctions began Monday when the school put up for grabs the naming rights to a tiny gold and black insect-munching bat found in Central America. 
9 I 11 masterminds plan to confess 
Five men seek to formally confess, throwing Gitmo 9/11 trials into confusion 
Associated Press 
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba -Khalid . Sheikh Mohammed said Monday he will confess to masterminding the Sept. 11 att_acks, throwing his death­penalty trial into disarray and shocking victims' rela­tives who watched from behind a glass partition. 
Four other men also aban­doned their defenses, in effect daring the Pentagon to grant their wish for martyr­dom. The judge ordered lawyers to advise him by Jan. 4 whether the Pentagon can apply the death penalty -which military prosecu­tors are seeking -without a jury trial. 
"When they admitted their guilt, my reaction was, 'Yes!' My inclination was to jump up and say 'Yay!' But I man­aged to maintain my deco­rum," said Maureen Santora, of Long Island City, New York, whose firefighter son Christopher died responding to the World Trade Center attacks. 

Santora was one of nine victims' relatives watching the proceedings, the first time relatives of the 2,975 people killed in the attacks have been allowed to observe the war-crimes tri­als. She watched from the back of the courtroom, wearing black and clutching a photo of her son in uni­form. were abandoning their "complete lack of contrition" pected that the judge, Army 
Alice Hoagland of attempts to mount a vigor­and deserved to be execut­Col. Stephen Henley, was Redwood Estates, California, ous defense and instead ed. uns-ure how to proceed. He whose son Mark Bingham requested "an immediate The formal confessions noted that the law specifies was on United Flight 93 hearing session to announce were delayed, however, that only defendants unani­whose passengers fought our confessions." when the judge said two of mously convicted by a jury hijackers before it crashed However, that didn't mean the defendants couldn't can be sentenced to death in in rural Pennsylvania, said they had repented. enter pleas until the court the tribunals. No jury has the defendants should not be "I reaffirm my allegiance determines their mental been seated. executed and become mar­to Osama bin Laden," Ramzi competency. The other three "It seemed like a real tyrs. Binalshibh blurted out in said they would wait as well. bombshell to me," said 
"They do not deserve the Arabic at the end of the "Our plea request was She told reporters that she glory of executions," hearing. "I hope the jihad based on joint_ hoped President-elect Hoagland said. "I want these continues and I hope it hits strategy,""said defendant Ali Barack Obama, "an even­dreadful people to live out the heart of America with Abd al-Aziz Ali. minded and just man," their lives in a U.S. prison .... weapons of mass destruc­In a letter read aloud by would ensure the five men under the control of people tion." the judge, the defendants are punished, though she they profess to hate." Hamilton Peterson, of implied they want to plead stressed that wouldn't heal 
In an about-face that Bethesda, Maryland, and guilty, but did not specify the loss of her son. appeared to take the court whose father and stepmoth­whether they will admit to "I do not seek closure in by complete surprise, the er died on United 93, said specific charges. my life," she said, blinking five men announced they the defendants showed a Their letter was so unex-back tears. 

PAKISTAN 

Suspected Mumbai. plotter arrested 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -Troops raided a militant camp and arrest-_ ed a suspected mastermind of the Mumbai attacks, Pakistan's first reported response to U.S. 'imd Indian demands for action against alleged plotters on its soil, officials said Monj.ay. 
The arrest in Pakistani Kashmir of Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi could signal the beginning of a wider crackdown aimed at reducing ten­sions between the nuclear-armed neighbors and satisfying Washington. 

Lakhvi is. allegedly a member of Lashkar-e-Taiba, a banned group blamed for other attacks on its soil. Analysts say it was created in the 1980s by Pakistan's intelli­gence agencies to act as a proxy fighting force in Indian Kashmir. 
Many analysts suspect elements within Pakistan's intelligence agen­cies keep some links with Lashkar and other militants, either to use against India or in neighboring Afghanistan, but U.S. counterter­rorism officials say there is no evi­dence linking Pakistan state agen­cies to the Mumbai attacks. 
The United States says Lashkar is linked to al-Qaida. In May, the U.S. 
blocked the assets of Lakhvi and three other alleged members of the group, including its leader, Hafiz Mohammed Saeed. 
Indian officials in New Delhi and Islamabad were not available for comment. 
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack did not confirm Lakhvi's arrest, but said the reported raid was a "positive step." 
India says the 10 gunmen who killed 171 people in the country's financial hub on Nov. 26-29 were Pakistani members of Lashkar-e­Taiba. Washington said Sunday the attack was planned in Pakistan. 
r---------------------------­
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, December 9, 2008 
Defense leaders: Marines to shift from Iraq to Afghanistan 
International think tank estimates that the Taliban has "permanent presence" in nearly three-quarters of country 
said that when thP. 22,000 stands the Marine's desire to The report described the In particular, Conway said 
Associated Press 
Marines in Iraq's Anbar be in the fight. And there cer­Taliban as "the de facto gov­that there are serious prob­
WASIIIN<;TON -There is a province leave, he beliP.ves tainly is more of a fight these erning power" in somA towns Jp,ms in southern Afghanistan growing eonsnnsus among they should all go, and not days in Afghanistan than in and villages in southern that the Marines can addn~ss. ddenso leaders to send a sub­leave training teams behind. Anbar," said Morrell. "But, as Afghanistan, and it said the Insurgents there, he said, stantial eonting1mt of Marinos More than a year ago, when for the suggestion of the militant group has managed to have lines into Pakistan, much to Afghanistan, probably early discussions of sAnding Marines pulling up stakes advance into Afghanistan's like the Sunnj Arab insurgents beginning next spring, while more Marines to Afghanistan from Anbar and setting up western and northwestern in Iraq's western Anbar dramatically n~ducing their became public, Gates signaled camp in Afghanistan, there provinces, as wPII as _some province had n~mote passages prnsencn in western Iraq, tlw opposition to the idea, prefer­has been no such formal areas north of Kabul, the capi­from Syria, to move fighters top Marine general told Tlw ring to maintain the concen­request made." tal. and finances. Associated Pross on Monday. tration on Iraq. Morrell said that when a Gen. David McKiernan, the Gates has not yet approved 
Cen. James Conway, the At that time, request to commander of U.S. and NATO additional forces for Marino Corps commandant, Conway said that move specifie troops in Afghanistan, has Afghanistan, but it's expected ~ said in an intPrvinw that Gates and others "!think [Secretary of units comes said he needs up to 20,000 he may do that fairly soon. Marinn units tentatively believed the tim­across Gates' additional troops, including-. After that, military leaders
Defense Robert Gates] 

sdwduled to go to Iraq next ing wasn't right desk, the sec­four combat brigades and will decide which units will go. spring are already incorporat­to shift the understands the retary will thousands of support troops. Conway said several Marine ing somn training for Marines out of Marine's desire to be consult eom­Other military leaders have units will be moving into Iraq Afghanistan into their prepa­Anbar province. manders and cautioned, however, that the-y in January and F1~bruary, and
in the fight. And there

rations. On Monday, the Joint first need to build the infra­it is too late to redirect them Ito said he has had diseus­however. Conway certainly is more of a Chiefs of structure to accommodate the to Afghanistan. Instead, he sions with Ddensn Secretary took a decidedly fight these days in Staff to troops -including housing said another large turnover of Hobert (;atos, and bolioves tho di!Terent tone. determine and helicopter pads. units in Anbar around April
Afghanistan than in 

I' e n t a go n e h ild" " w o u Id n o t "I just see that the right Conway countered that the could be shifted to objoet to the icka of a fairly people have, over Anbar." course of Marines could move in far Afghanistan if they are noti­strategie shift of focus .of time,. understood action. more quickly because they fied soon. Marirws from Iraq to we don't want to. In an illus­don't need to wait for such To plan for that possibility,
Geoff Morrell 

Al"gh anisian." take over tration of the logistical improvements. Marines training at 
Pentagon press secretary growing c_hal­

"I don't want to put words in Afghanistan, such "We're prepared to live aus­Twentvnine Palms, Calif., are his mouth," said Conway, who as was rumored lenge for the tere for a time in order to take prepa;·ing for battle in both has made no socrnt of his when we first U.S. in the fight to the enemy and eountries. bolief" that Marirws eould be started talking about a shift of Afghanistan, an international build our infrastructure Asked about the expected put to heWn usn fighting in forces," Conway said. Instead, think tank estimated in a around us on deck," said cut in U.S. forees in Iraq, Afghanistan than their current hn said officials now realize report released Monday that Conway. "We have done that Conway aeknowlndged there's pmu:nkeeping, nation-building that the Marines are an expe­the Taliban has a "permanent before, we can do it again." a running joke in the military mission in Iraq. (;atos under­ditionary lighting force that is presence" in nearly threl~­Marine units generally enter that his Marinos want to leave stands, he said, "my public better suited to the quarters of the country. The combat with whatever Iraq beeause there's not stanee on the fact that we can Afghanistan battle. International Council on resources they need, including enough aetion there. be better used nlsewhere. And Pentagon press secretary Security and Development said their own combat aviation Peacekeeping and nation­lw e!H·tainly hasn't told me to Geoff Morrell also signaled a the Taliban presence has units and helicopters that building -roles that troops pipe down. So I like to think more positive reaction from grown from 54 percent of would enable them to move are playing to a larger degree ho understands the logic of it." Gates. Afghanistan a year ago to 72 through the mountainous ter­in Iraq now -are "not our 
At tho same time, Conway "I think the secretary under-percent today. rain. forte," Conway said. 
RING IN 2009 WIITH #11RiiSH HOCKEYI 
JAN.. 2: MINUESOTA-DuuJTH vs. UMAss-LoWH..L (5:05 P.M.. CT) NoTRE DAME vs. UNION (8:05 P.M. CT) 
JAN. 3: UN10N vs.. UMD OR UMAss-LO\!VELL (4:06P.M. CT) 
NoTRE DAME vs. UMD OR UMAss-LowELL 
(7:05 P.M. CT) 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Tuesday, December 9, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,934.18 +298.7() 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
3,061 73 825 3,141,272,258 

AMEX l;i319i13 ~~~~, NASDAQ 1,571.74 +62.43 NYSE 5,639;68 ;f:t!i38.43 S&P 500 909.70 +33.63 NIKKEI (Tokyo) S,450J45 :fj:Jli1{4;~ FTSE 100 (London) 4,300.06 +250.69 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +3.49 +3.07 91.00 FORD MOTOR CO (F) +24.26 +0.66 3.38 CITIGROUP INC (C) +9.86 +0.76 8.47 FIN SELECT SPDR (XLF) +6.71 +0.86 13.67 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.90 +0.077 2.734 13-WEEK BILL -50.00 0.00 0.00 30-YEAR BOND +1.35 +0;040 3.15 5-YEAR NOTE +3.78 +0.063 1.730 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.90 43.71 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +17.10 769.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.85 89.45 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 92.7950 EURO 0.7751 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2534 BRITISH POUND 0.6723 
IN BRIEF 
Anheuser-Busch InBev to cut 1,400 jobs 
BRUSSELS, Belgium -Anheuser-Busch lnBev announced Monday it would cut some 1,400 U.S. jobs -or another 6 percent of its 
U.S. work force -to help save the world's largest brewor at least $1.5 billion a year. 
It said three-quarters of the jobs cut will dis­appear from Anheuser's North American headquarters in St. Louis, both at downtown offices and a campus in suburban Sunset Hills, Mo. 
A letter employees received Monday said affected workers had not yet been notified, and they will likely be people who hold engi­neering, information technology and other corporate positions. Unionized workers at the company's 12 North American breweries will not be affected. 
laid-off workers sieze factory in protest 
CIIICAGO-The nation's grim economy now has a rallying point: Employees at a window­and-door factory that went out of business have taken over the building in a siege that has come to symbolize the woes of the ordinary worker. 
The Republic Windows and Doors factory elosed abruptly last week after Bank of Amorica canceled the company's financing. Since then, about 200 of the 240 laid-off work-· ors have taken turns occupying the factory, declaring that they will not leave until getting assurancos they will receive severance and accrued vacation pay. 
But the standoff has also come to embody mounting angor over the government's willing­noss to bail out deep-pocketed corporations but not average people. 
"There's a simplicity and straightforward­ness to this particular case that anybody can wrap their head around," said James Thindwa, executive director for the Chicago office of Jobs With Justice, a national coalition of unions, community groups and other organizations. 
Apolinar Cabrera, a 17 -year Republic employee, lost his job and benefits just as his wife is about to deliver their third child. 
"I don't know what to do," said Cabrera, 44, who worked in Republic's shipping depart­ment. He has been shuttling between the plant and horne so he can check on his wife. 
Congress proposes 15B auto bailout 
Congress, Bush administrationnegotiate, are optimistic differences will be solved 
Associated Press 
WASI-IINGTON Congressional Democrats and the White House worked to resolve their last disputes Monday over terms of a $15 billion bailout for U.S. auto makers -complete with a "car czar" to oversee the indus­try's reinvention of itself ­that's expected to come to a vote as early as Wednesday. 
Top Democrats gave the . White House their proposal for rushing short-term loans to Detroit's Big Three through a plan that requires that the industry remake itself in order to survive. The Bush adminis­tration gave a cool initial response, saying the meas­ure didn't do enough to ensure that only viable companies would get longer-term federal help. Negotiators worked into the night Monday to resolve dif­ferences. 
"We've made a lot of progress in recent days to develop legislation to help automakers restructure and achieve long-term via­bility," Dana Perino, the White House press secre­tary, said in a statement. "We'll continue to work with members on both sides of the aisle to achieve legis­lation that protects the good faith investment by taxpay­ers." 

President George W. Bush himself said it was "hard to Harry Reid, D-Nev. "This is haircut here," Pelosi said. president's overseer. The tell" if a de.al was imminent no blank check or blind Still, the White House said latest proposal suggests because definite conditions hope." a preliminary look at the Congress may have to get had to be met. "These are The 'bill puts a govern­draft didn't appear to con­involved again in a few important companies, but ment overseer named by tain strict enough condi­months and pass a law to on the other hand, we just Bush-a kind of "car czar" tions to ensure that long­force a company to stick to don't want to put good -iri charge of setting term financing would be its own plan -a potentially money after bad," he said guidelines for an industry­available only to companies unwieldy political step. in an interview with ABC's wide overhaul, with the that could survive, accord­Rep. Barney Frank, D­"Nightline." power to revoke the loans if ing to officials who would Mass., the House Financial 
Despite optimism on both the carmakers weren't tak­comment on the continuing Services Committee chair­sides that Congress and the ing sufficient steps to rein­negotiations only on condi­man who is leading negoti­White House could reach a vent themselves. tion of anonymity. ations on the measure, said swift agreement on the House Speaker Nancy The crux of the White he was optimistic that the measure, it was still a tough Pelosi, D-Calif., said the House's concern is that differences could be sell on Capitol HilL restructuring would require there may not be enough resolved. 
"While we take no satis­tough concessions from clear, immediate protection "There are a couple of faction in loaning taxpayer management, labor, credi­for taxpayers if a company specific issues to be negoti­money to these companies, tors and others. is not meeting its own ated. I think they can be we know it must be done," "We call this the barber­promises for long-term via­worked out," Frank said said Senate Majority Leader shop. Everybody's getting a bility after review by the Monday afternoon. 

Major publisher files for bankruptcy 
Associated Press "When you look at the near term, was something of a special case. 
prospects for the company and the "Tribune's debt was so outsized and 
NEW YORK-Tribune Co. -owner industry are certainly not very bright," so disproportional to its cash flow com­of the Los Angeles Times, Chicago said Dave Novosel, an analyst with the pared to these other companies that it Tribune, Baltimore Sun and other Gimme Credit research firm. can be the sore thumb sticking out dat·s -filed for Chapter 11 bankrupt­Tribune Co. employees, who received rather than an example of the industry," cy onday, the first major newspaper an ownership stake in the company said Ken Doctor, media analyst with publisher to take such a step since the when Zell came in, could also see the Outsell Inc. Internet plunged the industry into a des­value of their holdings wiped out. Most of the company's debt comes perate struggle for survivaL Tribune Co., which has. 20,000 from the complex deal engineered by 
The media conglomerate was smoth­employees, owns baseball's Chicago Zell. The company's lending agreements ered by a drop-off in advertising and a Cubs as well as 10 daily newspapers, require it to keep its debt at a certain crushing $13 billion in debt from the including The Hartford (Conn.) Courant point relative to its cash flow. Those tompany's takeover a year ago by and the Orlando (Fla.) Sentinel, cable deals became harder to meet as rev­Chicago real estate mogul Sam Zell. channels and 23 TV stations. Its papers' enue declined because of the poor econ­
Chapter 11 would buy the Tribune Co. total cireulation of more than 2 million omy and competition from the Internet. time to put its finances in order. puts the Tribune Co. among the top Although the Tribune Co.'s next major Analysts said the company will almost three most-read newspaper groups debt payment is not due until June, the certainly have to sell off some of its nationwide. company was in danger of missing the major holdings -and that could prove Other newspaper companies have financial targets set by its lenders. The extremely difficult because of the bad also struggled with heavy debt, a down­bankruptcy filing could give the economy and the poor outlook for news­turn in advertising and the loss of read­Chicago-based company some time to papers. ers to the Internet, but the Tribune Co. press its lenders to ease their targets. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, December 9, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Christmas messages 
PO. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46551> 024 South Dining 11.111, Notre Dame. IN 465S6 
EI>ITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay l'it7patrick John Donovan 

A~s"l: MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AsS'I: MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
Ntws EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SI•OIITS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: l.iz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPIIIC.S EDITOR: Mary jesse 

AI>VEIUISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
All DF.~IGN MANAGER: Mary ]esse 

CONTROI.I.ER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
AovERTISIIiG 
('i7 4) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN GIIIEF 
(574) 631-4142 
MANAGING EDITOR 
('i74) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGII~G EDITOR (574) 63 I -4324 BUSINESS OFFICE 
('i74) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5313 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
('i74) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADPIIINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
nn 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES. 

The ( )bscrvcr is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by tht· studenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ediwrial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. Tlw Observer reserve'S the right to refuse advertisements based on comcnt. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objt•ctively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of rhc majority of the Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department edirors. Commentaries. letter; and columns present the views of tht· authors and not nece.sarily those o!Thc ( )h"·rvcr. 
Virwpoint space is available to all readers. The free t·xpression of.oil opinion' through kttcrs is encouraged. I ~·trers to rlw Fditor must lw signed and mUst include contact inf(,rmouion. 
Questiow rtgttrding ObstnJFr policies should bt directed to Editor in (}JiefC"'hris Hint', 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

1"11<· (lh~1·tvra (l/SI'"i ')•)'} .!·411UI)) t• ~·uhh~hnl Munday thrnu~h f<nd.ay cxt.qn rhmng c~o,,uu .md ....t~.munJ~ru.,h. A,ul""'"l'''unw ·nl<' Oh.\t"rYC'r i~ $1(10 fl1r nne o~c~Jcmk yc,~r, $1j5 fi1r Ullt",CIIIC\ICf, 
The ()!..,~:rver i~ put-.h~ho:d .u. l'{lSTMASTER (Jl4 ~muh !linin~ II.\IJ Sere\ .1ddn:.\.\ currccciou5 co; Nom· !Jo~mc. IN 4l>'.i5&0n1J TI!.;Oh~rvcr 1\<raodilo~l pu\I.I(;C' jMid Jf Not.tc lhm(" 1~0. Oux 779 -'lld ,~,/duiuuJ/m.ulin~ uflicca. Ol•! South Dining 11211 
NHctc I>"mc, lN 46')~6·077!1 

The {)h\t"l'l/tr ~~ ,1 rncmhcr of rbe A.~K.1.uc:d Pre:~ All reproduction ri~ln~>atc: rt'l("rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Kaitlynn Hiely Lorenzo Heyes 
John Tierney Laura Myers Sarah Mervosh Eric Prister Graphics Scene Andrea Archer Jess ShatTer 
Viewpoint 
Lauren 
Brauweiler 
Eaeh Christmas Day, the Pope deliv­ers a message "Urbi et Orbi" to the City and the World. Last year, Benedict XVI said that at Christmas, "the great hope that brings happiness entered the world." PHrhaps in his Urbi et Orbi this yHar, Benedict will sound again the Christmas note of hope. It would be familiar to the American people who have just elected a President who promises "change" through "the audacity of hope." That political hop(l, however, is different from the hope Benedict sees in the Christmas event. 
In his 2007 annual Christmas address to Home's univecsity students, the Pope urged them to reneet on "the hope of the modern age" as described in his encyclical Spe Salvi ("In hope we were saved."). From the 17th century on, he said, "human progress" was seen as the work only of "science and technology." Heason and freedom were separated from God so as to construct the "kingdom of man ... in opposition to the kingdom of God." In this "mate­rialistic concept ... changing the eco­nomic and political structures... could finally bring about a just society where peace, freedom and equality reign." The "fundamental error" in this, said Benedict, is that man is not merely the product of economic and social condi­tions. "[W]ithout ethical principles, sci­ence, technology and politics can be used, as ... still happens... for ... the harm of individuals and humanity." 
Some changes promised by our pres­ident-elect could serve as Exhibit A for the truth of that last comment. Barack Obama not only pledges that "the first thing I'd do as President is sign th~ Freedom of Choice Act," which would remove all restrictions on the "funda­mental right" to abortion.-He also strongly supports, and co-sponsored as a Senator, federal funding of embryon­ic stem-cell research (ESCH) beyond the limited funding allowed heretofore. Each embryo is a living human being. In ESCR, human embryos are pro­duced, by cloning or otherwise, for the purpose of killing them by removing their stem cells which are then used for biomedical research. This is not only wrong in itself. It opens the door to the mass production of human beings as objects of science, the cre­ation of "designer" human beings, etc. 


In his 2002 book, "God and the World," Cardinal Joseph Hatzinger, now Benedict XVI, discussed the description in Genesis 3 of the posting of angels east of Eden with naming swords to keep man, after the Fall, from eating of the Tree of Life (p. 133­138). After the Fall, man was forbid­den to eat of that tree which gave immortality, "since to be immortal in this [fallen] condition would ... be perdition." People are now, llatzinger said, "starting to pick from the tree of life and make themselves lords of life and death, to reassemble life." "[Pirecisely what man was supposed to be protected from is now actually hap­pening: he is crossing the final bound­ary ... [Mian makes other men his own artifacts. Man no longer originates in the mystery of'love, by ... conception and birth ... but is produced industrial­ly, like any other product." 
This is serious business, indeed. "[WJe can," said Ratzinger, "be certain of this: God will take action to counter an ultimate crime, an ultimate act of self-destruction, on the part of man. He will take action against the attempt to demean mankind by the production of slave-beings. There are indeed final boundaries we cannot cross without turning into the agents of the destruc­tion of creation itself, without going far beyond the original sin and the first Fall and all its negative consequences." 
In' this presidential interregnum we already know that the "hope" offered by our political messiah includes the utilitarian abuses described above. In that "hope," man can be treated as an object and the intnntional killing of the innocent is an optional problem solving technique. Perhaps some Catholics, especially in the professoriate, will come to reconsider the enormity-and frivolity-of their voting into power a politician committed to the implementation of such a "hopP." 
Christmas tells a different story. Christmas overturned "the world-view of that time. which ... has become fashionable ... again today. It is not ... the laws of matter and of evolution that have the final say, but reason, will, love-a Person ... who in Jesus has revealed himself as Love." Spe Salvi (SS), No. 5. 
The smart guys of the media, the · academy, and the politieal world can't tell you where you came from, where you are going and how you get there. But "Christians ... have a future: it is not that they know the details of what awaits them, but they know in general terms that tlwir life will not end in emptiness. Only when the l'uture is cer­tain as a positive reality Iis itl possible to live the present as well." SS, No. 2. We know this by experience. We ask ourselves, "What's it all for'?'' We look for answers here but we know there has to be more. "[W]e nm1d," said SS, "the grnater and lesser hopes that keep us going day by day." But "any­one who does not know God, even though he may entertain all kinds of hopes, is ultimately without hope, without the great hope that sustains the whole of life." SS, No. 27. 
So what is the lesson of Christmas? As Pope Benedict said last year, it gives us the "great hope" that is true. That hope transcends political counterfeits because the Person born at Christmas is, himself, Truth with a capital T. In him we "have a future." Merry Christmas. 
Charles E. Rice is professor emeritus at the Law School. He may be reached at rice.1 @nd. edu or 574-633-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The only way to get rid ofa temptation is to _qie{d to it. Resist it, and your sourgrows sick with longzng for the things it has for5idden to itself" 
Oscar Wilde dramatist, novelist, poet 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ have always thought the actions 
ofmen the best interpreters oftheir 
thoughts." 
John Locke philosopher 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, December 9, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Thanks, -wom.en's soccer 
f 

On behalf of the entire Notre Dame community, I would like to thank the women's soccer team. Your season was an inspiring show of excellence that made everyone proud to be Irish. Throughout the year, you constantly demonstrated your fighting spirit by never becoming complacent. It was clear you were striving to improve every game, always hungry for improvement, which is a difficult level of effort to maintain when you're undefeated. Your first~class behavior on and off the field has made you well-respected and loved by your peers, and we are all so proud of you. The last game of y<mr season didn't go as you planned; this does nothing to weaken the incredible performances that marked your entire year. Keep your heads up and be proud of yourselves. We are. 
Caitlin Lynch sohphomore Pasquerilla East Dec. 7 
Lies, fritters, and South 

This past Thursday, I sat down with pointed again. In the end, I was met my tray and my Observer to relax a bit with a feeling I have become very between classes and enjoy lunch. I sur­accustomed during football season: dis­veyed the tray before me with very appointment. The fritter was empty mild enthusiasm. The repetitiveness of again. I don't know who to blame for the meals and my relatively picky taste this. Is it a case of false advertising by in food had forced me to resort to the dining hall, or are the fritter mak­peanut butter & jelly, Captain Crunch, ers skimping on the filling? I don't even yogurt, and an apple fritter. I can say know if I am just incredibly bad at that the only thing I was really looking choosing fritters. forward to was the apple fritter, which But I felt obliged to write this letter only makes seldom appearances in the not only because I feel like I can make dessert section, especially considering a difference but also because the run­it is forced to share playing time with ning commentary about snowballs, the not as delicious cinnamon fritter. Charlie Weis, and ND arrogance are However, I also glanced at my dessert bringing me down. In conclusion, I with a hint of skepticism as I worked hope someone out there feels my pain through the main part of my food. and does something concrete .about it. 
The thing is, this was probably the I, on the other hand, will keep hoping fifth or sixth time I had grabbed an for more apple in my fritters and hope­apple fritter this year, and each and fully more of those cinnamon muffins every time I have been met with no that are far too rare. apple. I have even resorted on a few occasions to cutting my fritter in half Jack Vogel before eating it in order to avoid disap­sophomore pointment. But on Thursday, I had O'Neill some hope that I would not be disap-• Dec. 8 
Students' interests at m.ind 
As Associate Dean for much at stake for each student. I met Undergraduate Studies in the College with Eric, and we were able to resolve of Arts and Letters, I would like to the issue about which he wrote in The address the concerns that Eric Prister Observer. expressed in The Observer on Still, it is worth keeping in mind that December 4. In writing, I wish to reaf­the demands upon the Assistant Deans firm the Assistant Deans' commitment at the end of the semester can be pret­to helping undergraduates flourish ty overwhelming because the requests while they are at Notre Dame and well we receive are so urgent. Students after they graduate. We try to meet the have exam conflicts that we try to needs of every student who comes to resolve, we are doing graduation see us, whether it's about fulfilling a checks for students who plan to com­requirement or inquiring about the plete their degrees by the end of the availability of funding for research, semester, and we are trying to insure attending graduate or professional that students who are struggling can school, applying for post-graduate fel­finish out the semester. lowships, finding the right study­We also meet with many students abroad program, or acquiring an who are trying to finalize their sched­internship. ules. It would be unfair to allow stu­
We would maintain that we have stu­dents like Eric to overload before zyery dents' best interests in mind-as is · student has an opportunity to complete the case when sophomores like Eric their schedules. This is why we ask Prister ask for an overload. Over the students who want to "overload" to years, we have seen any number of wait until after a new semester begins. students make a similar request only I appreciate E.fic Prister's concern to drop a class within a few weeks that the Assistant Deans and I treat after a new semester begins. It is easy each student as an individual. This is for students to feel overwhelmed by what we strive to do in the Office for the demands of coursework and the Undergraduate Studies. And this is other activities they participate in. what I think sets Notre Dame apart Thus our response is to be a bit pro­from other universities. We can always tective. We want to help students avoid do better. getting in over their heads. 
However, Eric makes the very legiti­mate point that the Assistant Deans Stuart Green should be willing to listen to students Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies who may have a very good reason to College ofArts and Letters depart from standard policy. There is Dec. 8 
Returning the m.ystique 
Dear Editor, great product to the country and cement­
I was watching a sports program this ed the mystique in the minds of its fans. past weekend in which one of the talking Today, we are at a crossroads of sorts. heads proclaimed that in the minds of It is uncomfortable to think that our crit­today's athletes, Notre Dame was no ics have a point. Is Notre Dame still a spe­longer a special place to play football. cial place to play football, or have we . While the reporter was a much older gen­become too comfortable with benefits tlemen who seemed ulllikely to know earned in the past? Hereis a modest pro­much about the inner thoughts of young posal for re-energizing the mystique to a athletes, his comment caught my atten­national audience. Just as Notre Dame's tion. football team has struggled, so too has 
To our critics, Notre Dame football is a Catholic education in America. Every privileged program living on past per­year, underdog Catholic schools struggle formance. The mystique that attracted a to survive financially, while winning national following in the past is gone. And major victories in student performance, there really has been nothing special especially in poor urban areas. about the on-field performance in some The University should take a sheet from time. Knute Rockne's playbook and convert all 
Maybe so, but I think the mystique goes of the revenue from the NBC contract into much deeper than wins and losses. The scholarships for poor kids to attend spirit of those who went before us is real Catholic schools. This would remove a -perhaps in need of some nourishment, major criticism of the University and its but real all the same. Notre Dame's mys­football program, while building a whole tique began in a time when religious affil­new image of the Fighting Irish as cham­iation mattered. Catholics perceived pions of the underdog. While I am getting themselves as underdogs -the first older as well, I think it would be truly Catholic President was not elected until special for any young person to know that 1960. Notre.Dame, a small school, was they played or cheered for something also an underdog to bigger, wealthier pro­more than their peers. Wake up the grams. Yet, the Fighting Irish usually echoes. found a way to win, endearing the University to its fan base. I am told that when radio emerged as the internet of its Timothy Connors day, Knute Rockne gave away the nation­alum al broadcast rights to Notre Dame football class of'97 for free. Nationwide broadcasts brought a Dec. 8 
Co111111ents on Weis 
I enjoyed Ryan Shestak's letter like a Judo or karate teacher, he can Monday for its frankness about Weis. not give out what he does not possess. " ... you'd have to say he's the exact Second, he is undisciplined personally opposite-an obese, foul-mouthed, as seen by his weight problem and uninspiring leader... " I graduated from therefore as head coach severely ND the same year as Weis, although I handicapped in instilling the discipline started in 1970. While he grew up in of tackling and blocking which New Jersey, I grew up in Wisconsin Lombardi says makes up the core of under the year of Lombardi. My junior what football is. Thirdly, at a Catholic year in high school our football team university it is imperative that the was in last place and my senior year coach be a role model spiritually. we were first place. My football coach Lombardi and Holtz went to Mass wanted me to go out for ND football almost every morning. even though I weighed 145 lbs and When I was attending ND it was was slow. understood by many serious 
I feel compelled to mention this in Christians in the area that the dioce­light of Ryan's main argument why sesan bishop, Pursley, had said in pri­Weis is not successful: "This is obvi­vate that Notre Dame was under the ously the result of Charlie never hav­control of a dumb spirit called Titan, ing played football and therefore in Greek Colossae. (cf. The Institutes being unable to teach the fundamen­of Lactantius, Father of the Church) It tals and intricacies of the game." The is my belief that Notre Dame's obses­first year Weis was coaching in South sion with trying to win football games Bend I was hosting a weekly hour long is primarily a spiritual problem. TV show through cable access with another ND alumnus. It was men­tioned quite frequently during that fall Peter Helland season that Charlie could not be a suc­alum cessful head coach for three reasons. class of'78 
He has never played the game, and Dec. 8 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE 


Scene Edit<>r It's is undeniably that time of the week It's snowy and, windy and .cold @~ ultaneously Uggs, Northfaces and N()T YOUR 1'!lEE'S .T~IMMINGS ""''O<J'rC have become ubiquitous on Notre Deckyoux:treeS., hut'don't campus. The three "S's" are. oti the •~selfi:n shiny; funbaubles. ueam)antas, sloppiness, shapelessness and sleepi~ · pl')r• Blair Waldoff, lll'l'l yery in right It's an unfortunate developmen(that t the. tr()nd does extend outside of 
should just Mt settle for! Fashionistas py,.~l~an~cutlooks.lf polo shirts and this campus deserve more than. perm a~ float y()ur boat than fat patterned . or. t ponytails, never ending st.ints< of S()lored h~adba;nds aref'or you. lf 
jeans and pjs and other tired lqol(s. more ()Jl the trendy siqe, look for · 
you don't necessarily need a Paris size ]:)al}qs ~ith lace, sparkle, feathers, and budget to manage a sharp, current, tag().frill, Looks Hke<this add in+n•·n~.·H~. (~xciting wardrobe, Here are some wi r detail inati intricatebuteontained 
styling tips for those of US confined by StU• ..< ngld. bracelets, eari"it1gs, and Uv..LA.J.<Lv'"·" dent budgets and South Bend weather.< can also ••add §ome.detailto tired.lo· k bt~ acces$ories can hold their LAYERING LOVE st¢hun¥ysweaters and other ne:iVl43t 
This might seem like the most obvious ieces. Once itga,in sparkle, knit fashion. advice ever. It's .proh3:.hly a ··make knitearting~and . sage that has been crammed down ··· .. l't1~ialtp sing a 
throat sinee•FroshMO. But that do atl$fresh. it any less true. This is the e to (a) .stay warm and (b) m ~ultlWlll1l' pieces last longer, You s ..... and cash, who doesn't love that?·• 
Summer tops. dresses.and skirts are all · excellent candidates for· yout wtn wardrobe. ·Simple •.. nf!\ltrals. and cri ..··· ·. . .••··••••····vnl>'" are all ideal qualities to look for when try~ .• ing to transition a pie(Je from a .... 
. look to a chic wmter style. . pieces, add tank tops, long sleeve .,""''""'"~Jgings. tights and sweaters build 
piece. The possibilities less, and it's easier than you'd ·· ·. ate a completely hew look. Bre from the hoard and ignore Gap . . American Eagle modelS, instead have ·. contidet1ce and look through magazines tor inspiration. Mix and match with conf'i~ deuce, and layering can be a novel way to 
stand out in a wintry crowd. · ······.. 

HAIRY SITUATION . NOT SO STANDARD STAPLES .... \-Ve'yf! a,U done,jt. \-Ve've all gone just a Scarves, mittens. arid hats are obVious.. bittoolong ',Vith that messy ponytail. But it 
choices -cute and comfy. lt's nice when ·?oesn't pa}re to be t~a:t ~ay, Even gym· the elements coordinate. but not nE!cessary. JU · ·have t0. ~et thi)il' hair do~n every Overall, pick colorful, vibrant accessrifies, o ...··....•... a while, So braid, create cool 
like a patterned hat. bright gloves .:t:nd a. qua:t~s with bobby pinf>, ~uri, straiten, clip. t'unky scarf. Or combine neutrals like Whatever it takes ghre y~u.r hair a chance cream, grey, navy or tan. · to escape the con.tit1esof robber bands. 
,·
But winter accessories do extend outside 

Fashion should he fun, even when the
of the standards. Scarves are not justfot vveather isn't. So don'tlimit yourself by fol­cross campus treks. They can be used a 

nice accessory over sweaters and tees to lowing the crowd. Have confidence and fol­low your inspiration. No matter the weath· 
change it up. Look in LaFun and check out 

er, stylf doesn't take a snow day! So keep itthe recent craft fairs (Haitian crafts are fresh, hip a.nd cozy whUe rocking 'roundbeing sold tomorrow in the Sorin Room) the Christmas tree and the Bend. 
and l'ree trade sales. Sarongs can also be used as colorful. brigl}t scarves. Just 

Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel @nd.edu. 

·'· ··~., 

ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

I 

You can sing; Yes, you can. "But I Everyone can sing. Everyone who sound terrible." You speak. You talks has the physical capability of phonate. Therefore, you can hold a making noise with his or hervocal pitch. ''I can't carry a tune." Mollt chOrd.s:fwould like to erasethisstig­likely, ifyou are e & Hean ····· at~heonl)t:P~optewho 
singing along with a . · d::nng a.re t~~:.~ew.wbo song, you are carrying Stephaine DePrez · ing tMit life to it. its tune; ... I'm tone · Assistant Scene Thi~? isn'tthe case. deaf." Alright. this does Editor . People sing not onlytosound happen; but not as beautiful, but also to express often as you think, and feelings on a higher level. To probably not true, unless you.'ve sing is to pray twice, which means sp_ecifically had a musician say to God doesn't matter if you're tone you, ~shutup,you're tone deaf." .· deat ·nwants you to have the 
Too Oftenl see people singil.lg along expe · £lifting your :v{}i~e in .... with a song while dancingorhum~ song, e fyou have noidea what ming a Christmas carol only to shrink pitch you!re lifting it to. · · · · · away from the idea of singingwhen On SaJuJ;day night I wentt~nbe specifically asked to do it. There are Voices off'aith Gospel Choir concert. a myriad of excuses as to why a per~ It was a· phenomenal. moving experi· son doesn't feel comfortable singing, ence not only because the music and when·in r~ality most of us do: itall performlng was, itllelf. very g{):od. but 
day lopg; .· · . · ·. ..•... ·••··•••······ .•· also ~Y~fY p~r§O.Il s
There iS some stigma tl1<tt¢P::IJies singt ~ tight te(!sO e With offering to Sing at mass (jt in a Was t .. cause th(;)y ~ choir tha.f assumes anyo11~. \\Tilling to smart .. 'n a choir and app~~r well do it has.openly declared·thetnselves rounded on their resume; or because to be God's giftto the musical world~ their · thought it ­This isn't the case. idea, · they .,.,, ....t...i 
Most people who sing forJlin (Le., fill are anyt;l.tY:tg other than a.v()iq(l maj()r) · eq(!use jt'~just~B,t ~ fun.•Th 't necessarily think they're hot stutr, but they d9n'~ fe.el ashamed of letting their owri musical light shine. 
So why are so many people afraid to sing in public? This is a problem · that frustrates me to no end. I am a voice major; Jt's my jo}:) to sirig: For some reason, whenever I .er people to sirig. with tne atd . •.. • .mass or justb(l:cause, someJnevit ply excuse themselves and say, ··· · 
"You're the voice major." Okay, kids, just because I've devoted my time here to studying music dot:Jsn't mean my presence makes you sing any n fact, l am far more inter hearing . p~Jlple sing that myselfa lot • · time because I spend most of the day lis­tening to myself. 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, December 9, 2008 
NFL 
Crennel working despite job fears 

Associated Press 
BEHEA. Ohio -As spocula­
tion about his shaky future 
mounted and the rumor mill 

churrwd up another big-name 
eoaeh with Clovoland ties, 
Horneo Crnnnel pushed a/wad. 
lie has to. It's his job. For at least three more wonks. 
Cronnol, who will likely be f'irod onco the Browns finish this disheartening season, reit­orated Monday that hn isn't worrind about reports that he will be replaced al'tor his fourth year. It's out of his hands, so Crennel. down to playing his third-string quar­terback because of injuries, is f'oeusing only on getting his team rnady to play its last three games. 
"It's tough when you lose. I don't earn what the circum­stances," Crennel said of the engulfing distractions. "If you're in this profession, you don't like losing. But you have to get up every day and do the best that you can. and if the coaeh doesn't get up and do the best he can then it's hard for the players to do the best they can." 
On Sunday, the Browns (4-9) lost for the fifth time in six games, 28-9 to the Tennessee Titans. The loss guaranteed Cleveland its eighth losing sea­son in 10 yoars since returning to thn NFL as an expansion team. The Browns, who have not s1~ored a touchdown in three wneks, are on the verge of another rebuild. 
The hammer will come down soon. 
Changes are coming, with Cre.nnnl nxpncted to be the first to go. Owner Handy Lerner said he will not make a deci­sion on his coach or general manager Phil Savage until after the season. but Crennel's 24-37 record without a playoff appearanee is enough to justify a switch. 
Formnr Pittsburgh Steelers coach Bill Cowher is believed to be Lnrnpr's top ehoiee. llownver. Cowher. who now works as an analyst for CBS, has not indicated whether he will rnturn to coaching. Cowher enjoys his TV gig and recently said lw's leaning toward stay­ing in broadcasting for another yoar. 
If Cowher isn't an option, or is signnd Plsewhern, former Browns eoaeh Marty Schottnnheimer could be. 
ESPN .com reported that Clnvn I and is formulating a backup plan to bring baek 
Schottenheimer if Cowher can't 
be lured out of semi-retire­
ment. Sehottenheimer coached 
the Browns from 1984-88, one 
of the franchise's most success­
ful stretches in the past 45 
years. Sehottenheimer, who 
was lin~d in 2006 by San Diego 
despite leading the Chargers to 
a 14-2 mark, won three divi­
sion titles and went to two AFC 
ehampionship games with the 
Browns. 
Schottenheimer did not 
immediately return a phone 
message_sceking comment. 
On his weekly show on Sirius NFL Hadio, the 65-year-old Schottenheimer was asked if he was in the mix to coach again in Cleveland. 
"I don't see that as being likely at all," he said. "First of all, nobody has presented me with an overture and, secondly, I've kind of aligned myself and my lifp kind of where it is and if thPy want to pay me $30 mil­lion a year I'll have to talk about it. I don't see it (as being) likely." 
Obviously, Schottenheimer was joking about the salary, but Lerner will likely pay what­ever's necessary to get his team, which won 10 games last season, turned around quickly. Crennel has three years remaining on a contract exten­sion he signed after last sea­SOil. That deal is worth close to $4 million per season. 
Schottenheimer was driven out in San Diego because of a personality clash with general manager A.J. Smith. By the end of Sehottenheimer's tenure, he and Smith weren't talking. 
Cleve land's situation hasn't digressed to that point, but Crennel and Savage don't seem to connect, a problem Lerner wants to resolve with his next hire. Schottenheimer said his departure in San Diego would have no bearing on his desire to return to the NFL. 
''I'm a football junkie," he said. "There's no doubt about that. I enjoy it. But that doesn't put me necessarily in a situa­tion where I want to stand there and have every moment that I'm there, making deci­sions and all. The key for me is people. That is the most impor­tant thing." 
Sehottenheimer's experience could make him attractive to Lerner in another role, possibly in Cleveland's front office or on Cowher's stafT. Cowher was an assistant to Schottenheimer with the Browns and later in Kansas City, where he was Schottenheimer's defensive coordinator. 
SWIMMING 

Phelps to publish autobiography 

Associated Press 

Jason Lezak was nearly a full length behind Frenchman Alain Bernard on the final turn of the 400-meter freestyle relay at the Beijing Olympics, putting Michael Phelps' bid for a historic eight gold medals in jeopardy. 
Rut Bernard made "a stu­pid, and what would turn out to be colossal, mistake" that allowed Lezak to pull out an amazing comeback victory. 
Phelps recalls the moment in a new book, "No Limits: The Will to Succeed," avail­able in stores today. 
"After the flip, instead of swimming in the middle of his lane, he had drifted to the left," Phelps writes. "That meant that Jason, now to Bernard's left, could again tuck in behind him. Bernard was d·oing the hard work. Jason was cruising, preparing to slingshot by Bernard." 
Lezak touched the wall first with the fastest relay split in history, helping the U.S. win in a world-record time and give Phelps his second gold of the games. 
In the book, co-authored by Alan Abrahamson of NBCO!ympics.com, Phelps describes himself as a kid who was given to whining and crying, and with his big ears and scrawny build, was con­stantly being picked on. In sixth grade, he was diagnosed with attention deficit/hyperac­tivity disorder and a doctor prescribed the stimulant Ritalin. 
Phelps took three doses daily during the week, includ­ing a lunchtime dose that required a trip to the school nurse's office, which made him stand out among his elassmates. 
By seventh grade, Phelps told his mother he wanted to stop taking·Ritalin. 
"I viewed it as an unneces­sary crutch," he writes. He was weaned off the med­icine. 
"I had proven to myself that I could set a goal and. through willpower and being mentally tough, not only meet 

that goal  but beat it,"  he  
writes.  
Phelps'  mother,  Debbie,  

became a recognizable face in the stands at the Water Cube during the Beijing Olympics. But his father, Fred, was not there and is never mentioned publicly by Phelps. 
In the book, he offers a brief glimpse of their early years together, recalling how his father took him fishing and to Baltimore Orioles games. 

"He taught me to look peo­ple in the eye when I was m·eeting them and to shake hands like I meant it," Phelps writes. "Unquesti"lmably, I inherited my competitive ath­letic drive from him. If I was playing sports, no matter what it was, my father's direction was simple: Go hard and, remember, good guys finish second." 
Phelps' parents were high school sweethearts in a mill town in western Maryland. Fred Phelps, who had played small-college football, moved out of the family's home when Michael was seven, the same year he started swimming. 
"As time went on, we spent less and less time together," Phelps writes. "Eventually, I stopped trying to include him in mv activities and he, in turn, ·stopped trying to involve himself in mine." 
Phelps writes that the last time he saw his father was at his sister Whitney's wedding in October 2005, and they didn't speak. 
"There just hasn't been any­thing to say for a while," he writes. "Maybe there will be later." 
In November 2004, a few months after winning six medals at the Athens Olympics, an under-21 Phelps was charged with DUI. In the book he recounts how his first phone call was to his agent, rather than his mother or coach Rob Bowman, both of whom he said he knew would yell at him. 
Later, he called Bowman, who was supportive but told him, "Michael, just because you want to blow off some steam doesn't mean you can be an idiot." 
Debbie Phelps cried at the news. 
"That hurt worse, maybe, than anything," Phelps writes. "I had never seen my mother that upset." 
In Beijing, Phelps was asked after winning his sixth gold medal what he would say to people who suspected his feats were aided by doping. 
"I know, for me, I am clean," he said. "I purposely wanted to do more tests to prove it." 
Phelps, along with team­mates Dara Torres and Natalie Coughlin, volunteered for extra drug testing leading up to the Olympics. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at 1he Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classificds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 
SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS 
AVAILABLE CONTACT KRAMER 
PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR 
KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
Furnished 2-bdrm. house. Liv1ng room, kitchen. dining room, full bath. 6.5 blks to ND. $795/mo. Avail Jan. 1. Call 605-397-8135 or 574­234-3007 or 574-261-4444. 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCASTI 
3 & 4 bedroom 3 full bath homes close to campus. Safe Neighborhood, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2 car garage. 1Ox20 decks. Call 574-232-4527 or 269­683-5038. From $1. 700/mo 
House of recent alums for Rent: 706 N Jacob St. 4 br, 2 ba 7 blocks from campus $1800/month, most util.inc. househousesllc@gmail.com 
(M)GRAD STUDENT looking to share upscale home during spring semester. Fully furnished, 2 blocks from campus. NS, No Pets. $625/mo inc. utilities. 330-565-5979 (John). 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, 
visit http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/csap/ 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574-631-2685. For more information. visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
THURSDAY, DEC. 11, IS THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER FOR THE SEMESTER. HAVE A SAFE AND HAPPY HOLIDAY SEA­SON. MERRY CHRISTMAS. 
I want a hippopotamus for Christmas Only a hippopotamus will do Don't want a doll, no dinky Tinker Toy I want a hippopotamus to play with and enjoy 
I can see me now on Christmas morning, Creeping down the stairs 

Oh what joy and what surprise When I open up my eyes To see a hippo hero standing there I want a hippopotamus tor Christmas Only a hippopotamus will do No crocodiles, no rhinoceroses, I only like hippopotamuses And hippopotamuses like me too 
Mom says the hippo would eat me up, but then Teacher says a hippo is a 
vegetarian There's lots of room for him in our two-car garage. I'd feed him there and wash him there and give him his massage 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, December 9, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BsERVER:s WIRE SERVICES page 13 
MLB 
Men's Basketball AP Top 25 

team  points  
1  North Carolina (72)  1800  
2  UConn  1710  
3  Pittsburgh  1633  
4  Gonzaga  1574  
5  Oklahoma  1529  
6  Texas  1381  
7  Duke  1256  
8  Tennessee  1203  
9  Louisville  1080  
10  Xavier  1041  
11  Wake Forest  957  
12  NOTRE DAME  954  
13  Syracuse  869  
14  Purdue  718  
15  Villanova  713  
16  UCLA  705  
17  Memphis  579  
18  Michigan State  536  
19  Georgetown  475  
20  Arizona State  462  
21  Ohio State­ 435  
22  Baylor  351  
22  Davidson  348  
24  Marquette  222  
25  Kansas  206 •  

Women's Basketball AP Top 25 
team points 

1 UConn (45) 1125 2 North Carolina 1076 3 Stanford 1010 4 Texas A&M 940 5 Oklahoma 878 6 Texas 846 1 Tennessee 844 8 NOTRE DAME 184 9 Cal 763 10 Baylor 721 11 Duke 685 12 Louisville 645 13 Auburn 637 14 Rutgers 526 15 Maryland 514 16 Pittsburgh 419 11 Virgina 380 18 Ohio State 365 19 TCU 317 20 Vanderbilt 202 21 Purdue 164 22 Arizona State 161 23 Florida 138 24 Oklahoma Stale 91 25 Kansas Slate 90 
record 
8·0 8·0 9·0 6·0 8·0 6·1 8·1 6·1 4-1 7·0 8·0 6-2 8·0 6·2 8·0 5·2 5·1 5·2 5-1 7-1 5·0 7·1 6-1 7-1 7·1 
record 
6-0 9·0 6·1 8-0 6·2 8·0 6·1 7-0 
7-1 
H 
6·1 
H 
10·0 3-2 
'7·2 6·1 7-2 7-2 8·2 8·2 5·3 6·2 8·1 3-2 
1·0 
NCAA Cross Country USTFCCCA Rankings 

team conference overall  
1 ­ Hope  2·0  5·0  
2  Saint Mary's  2·0  4·3  
3  Adrian  1·0  6·1  
4  Calvin  1·1  5·2  
5  Trine  1·1  4•2  
6  Olivet  0·0  3·3  
7  Alma  0·1  0·6  
8  Albion  0·2  3·3  
9  Kalamazoo  0·2  0·5  

around the dial 
NCAAB 
(22) Davidson vs. West Virginia 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 
(6) Texas vs. (12) Villanova 
9:00 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -Greg Maddux grew up with the same weekend ritual as so many other American kids. 
Tagging along with his big brother, he would run down to the park to play ball against the older guys from the neighborhood in regular Sunday scrim­mages. 
He met a pitching coach who preached movement over velocity, and pretty soon Maddux was striking out those stronger teenagers. Nearly three decades later, he walked away from baseball Monday as one of the greatest pitchers to put on a uniform. 

After 355 wins and 23 major league seasons, Maddux held a 30-minute news conference to announce his retirement on the opening day of the winter meetings -just minutes from his Las Vegas home. 
"I really just came out here today to say thank you," he said in a ballroom at the swanky Bellagio hotel. "I appreciate every­thing this game has given me. It's going to be hard to walk away obviously, but it's time. I have a family now that I need to spend some more time with. I still think I can play the game, but not as well as I would like to, so it's time to say goodbye." 
Next stop, the Hall of Fame. 
Wearing a casual shirt and slacks, Maddux spoke softly on stage and never appeared to get choked up. His parents and family -including brother Mike Maddux, the Texas' Rangers pitching coach and a former big leaguer himself -sat in the front row. 
A large poster with pho­tos of Maddux hung behind the podium. He wa.s introduced by agent Scott Boras, who said "Mad Dog" had a "model" career. 

Maddux leaves with four consecutive NL Cy Young Awards (1992-95) and a 
3.16 ERA, especially impressive in the steroid era. He ranks eighth on the career wins list, with one more victory than Roger Clemens. 
"I never changed," said Maddux, who turns 43 in April. "I think, hey, you locate your fastball and you change speeds no matter who is hitting." 
Maddux spent his final season with the San Diego Padres and Los Angeles Dodgers. finishing 355­
227. His remarkable resume includes a record 18 Gold Gloves, including one this year. · 
IN BRIEF Star quarterback McCoy to 
stay at Texas another year AUSTIN, Texas-Texas quarterback Colt McCoy confirmed thathe'll return to the Longhorns for his sen­ior season in 2009. 
McCoy has led No. 3 Texas (11-1) to a Fiesta Bowl matchup against Ohio State with 3,445 yards passing and 32 touchdowns, both team records. He's also the team's leading rusher with 576 yards and is expect­ed to be a finalist for the Heisman Trophy this week. 
''I'm not going anywhere," McCoy said in an interview published Monday on the Austin American­Statesman's Web site. 
McCoy said he wants to try to win a national championship next season after falling one spot short of the Bowl Championship Series title game this season. 
McCoy has said all season he plans to be back next year, but said recent­ly that he would at least inquire about his potential draft status. 

Wittman out, McHale in 
as Timberwolves coach 
MINNEAPOLIS -Kevin McHale is leaving Minnesota's front ofl'ice to coach the wayward team he assembled, returning to the side­line after Randy Wittman failed to turn around the rebuilding fran­chise. 
McHale stepped down as Timberwolves vice president of basketball operations on Monday, a position he has held since 1995, to become the coach after owner Glen Taylor fired Wittman. 
The job is not an interim one. McHale said he "plans on being here" for the long term and gen­eral manager Jim Stack and assistant GMs Fred I--loiberg and Rob Babcock will take over h-is executive duties for the remain­der of the season. 
Now it's up to McHale to breathe some life into a team that wasn't responding to the hard­nosed Wittman. 
NFL's career scoring
leader Anderson to retire 
COPENHAGEN, Denmark ­Kicker Morten Andersen, the NFL's career-leading scorer, is retiring because of knee prob­lems. 
The 48-year-old Dane, who scored 2,544 points during his 25-year career, played for the Atlanta Falcons the past two seasons but wasn't able to get a contract this year. Andersen said Monday he has given up his search and his NFL career. 
"I realized I no longer can train in an optimal way because of my knees," Andersen told The Associated Press in a phone interview. "So I am retiring." 
Andersen said that his knees were worn out after so many years as a professional player. 
"It's not that I cannot kick, play golf or go bicycling, but it's not the same anymore," he said. 

,_ 
Tuesday, December 9, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Sarkisian faces tough task as Huskies coach 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -Steve Sarkisian has already been successful selling air. 
So, heek, selling 105 Washington football players, plus wavering recruits, angry fans and turned-off boosters on how he will quickly turn around their rock bottom Huskies should be no prob­lem. 
''I'm going to bring a lot of passion to these kids. We just have to change the way they think," Sarkisian said after bning introduced as Washington's third coach in Jivn years Monday morning. 
Al'ter ending his career as a quartnrback in the Canadian Football League a decade ago, the former star at BYU briefly worked in the dot-com world. 
"I was selling vapor. We hadn't even made a product ynt -but I was selling it," Sarkisian said with a huge smiln. 
Minutes earlier, a couple hundred fans, cheerleaders, alumni and students chanted "Sark!" and the school's band played "Bow Down to Washington," as Southern California's offensive coordi­nator was hailed as the Huskies' anti-Tyrone Willingham, Sarkisian's failed predecessor. 
"I love it. Wow, what a moment!" a wide-eyed Sarkisian said, looking to his lef't past his wife, his 6-year­old daughter, Ashley, and 3­year-old son, Brady. 
There, he saw four shirtless students who had S-A-R-K painted in Husky purple on their chests. 
"I can't wait to get this thing going," he said. 
The 34-year-old Sarkisian got a Jive-year deal worth $10 million plus incentives for his first head coaching job as the third-youngest coach in major college football, after Lane Kiffin of Tennessee and Pat Fitzgerald at Northwestern. Sarkisian will continue to coach USC through its Rose 
Bowl on New Year's Day against Penn State, while recruiting for Washington. 
lie met with his new team on Monday morning and said his first calls to Huskies recruits were going to be Monday afternoon. 
Sarkisian's task seems as tall as nearby Mount Rainier: Turn around a once-proud program that just completed the first 0-12 season in Pac-1 0 history. Washington was the only winless team in major college football, and Willingham was 11-37 in his four seasons with the Huskies. 
"It's going to happen fast," Sarkisian said at a news con­ference at Husky Stadium's Don James Center -named after the coach who led the Huskins to Rose Bowls and national championship con­tnntion, the standard against which Sarkisian will be judged. 
Sarkisian promised to open practicns and the program to boosters, fans, alumni and media. That would be the opposite of Willingham's closed-ranks regime that chafed many around the for­mer powerhouse. 
That would also model the 
program run at USC by 
Sarkisian's mentor, Pete 
Carroll. 
Former Trojans linebacker 
Lofa Tatupu, now a star with the Seattle Seahawks, said Sarkisian has the same energy · and enthusiasm for games and especially practices for which 
Carroll is renowned. 
How open are USC's .prac­
tices? In Los Angeles, rapper 
Snoop Dogg and other stars 
frequently drop by, just for 
fun. 
"Might be tough to get 
Snoop up to the Northwest for 
practices," Tatupu said, 
laughing in the Seahawks' 
locker room in suburban 
Renton. "But Sark's got pull." 
Carroll brought Sarkisian to 
USC as an assistant in 2001, 
made him quarterbacks coach 
the following year and then 
added the title of offensive 
.coordinator in 2007. The 
Trojans are going to their 
eighth bowl. including their 
sixth Rose Bowl as Pac-1 0 
champions, since Sarkisian 
and Carroll arrived. 
Sarkisian spent one year 
with the Oakland Raiders as 
quarterbacks coach in 2004 
before deciding he belonged 
in college football. 
His Washington contract 
starts with a base salary of 
$1.7 5 million in the first year 
and incrementally increases 
each season, up to $2.3 mil­
lion in 2013. It includes incen­
tive clauses worth up to $1.25 
million for championships and 
bowl appearances, something 
the Huskies haven't had since 
2002. There's another 
$250,000 available for reach­
ing academic performance 
goals, plus unspecified bonus­
es for season tickets sold for 
all sports. 
"We think we got our guy," 
university president Mark 
Emmert said. 
Some critics are likely to 
scoff at Washington trusting 
the rebuilding of a program to 
a 34-year-old with no head 
coaching experience. To that, 
Huskies athletic director Scott 
Woodward scoffed back. 
MLB 

Players, teams meet in Vegas 
Yankees, Dodgers have eye on Sabathia as negotiations begin 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -The team names are spelled in lights on a huge board at the Bellagio Race and Sports Book, above dozens of padded brown seats: The Boston Red Sox and Chicago Cubs are 5-1 co­favorites to win next year's World Series, followed by the Los Angeles Angels and New York Yankees at 6-1. 
Twenty-six teams in all are listed. Sorry, no room for San Diego, Washington, Kansas City and Pittsburgh. 
Viva Las Vegas. 
Welcome to a winter meet­ings like· no other, where the lobby bar sells not hot dogs but Tzar Imperial Transmontanous caviar and foie gras terrine. 
"We're 6-1? That's crazy," Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said. 
General managers, walking the marbled floors past per­oxide blondes in revealing outfits, can head to a black­jack table and then go back to their suites to take a roll on a pitcher or two. 
Joe Maddon, manager of the AL champion Rays, had lunch with free agent Milton Bradley. Chicago Cubs man­ager Lou Piniella was talking in the middle of the casino 
· later in the day. 
"In the old days, the winter meetings would not have taken place here," said Arizona's Roland Hemond, who's been attending these sessions for about a half-cen­tury, "but times change and the game grows. What's a lit­tle difficult is it's so spread out here." 
With 3,933 rooms, the Bellagio can hold even more people than the Opryland (2,881) in Nashville, Tenn., where the meetings were held last year. While that hotel has 
. restaurants that shut down each night far before baseball executives, this is a 24-hour town, perfect for all-night trade-talk sessions. 

"Anybody got a motor 
scooter to get back?" Braves 
manager Bobby Cox quipped 
in the meeting area before 
heading back to the lobby. 
"It's a long walk." 
There's a fake Eiffel Tower 
and Brooklyn Bridge in 
Vegas, but GMs were looking 
for the real thing. 
CC Sabathia and Francisco 
Rodriguez were in town over 
the weekend, so teams want­
ing to make a bigger splash 
than the 1,200-nozzle foun­
tains outside the hotel could 
get an early start on the 
meet-and-greet sessions. Just 
12 of the 171 free agents had 
finalized contract agreements 
ahead of the four-day session. 
What happens in Vegas 
stays in Vegas, or so they say. 
But while it was hard to say 
how much would actually 
happen this week, teams 
were talking shop by early 
Monday. 
After meeting with 
Cashman, Yankees manager 
Joe Girardi and adviser 
Reggie Jackson on Sunday, 
Sabathia met with the GM for 
the second straight day. New 
York made a six-year offer to 
Sabathia more than a month 
ago. 
"We're not being played. 
We're not been manipulated. 
We're not being used," said 
Cashman, who said Sabathia 
was being deliberate in his 
decision-making. 
San Diego general manager 
Kevin Towers indicated the 
Chicago Cubs were the only 
team currently in the running 
to acquire 2007 NL Cy Young 
Award winner Jake Peavy. 
The Padres are trying to 
trade Peavy to trim payroll, but Towers pointed out that the Cubs might need to move some players before a deal ·· could be struck because they agreed to a $52 million, four­yeiu contract with pitcher 
Ryan Dempster. 
"At the end of this week, I'd 
like to know if there's enough 
pieces for a potential deal," 
Towers said. "I don't think it's fair to our fans or our ball­club to drag this thing on." 
Los Angeles Dodgers gener­al manager Ned Colletti said he hadn't heard from repre­sentatives for free-agent slug­ger Manny Ramirez and pitcher Derek Lowe after extending offers. 
"I sense Derek doesn't want to be here," Colletti said. "We're not spending much time to persuade him." 
Colletti also is trying to fill two holes in the infield and he met with representatives !'or free-agent shortstop Rafael FurcaL 
"If Manny Ramirez shows up at spring training in Glendale, Ariz., we'll find him a hat and find him a jersey," Colletti said. "But I can't wait until that day to pursue a third baseman, a shortstop, a starting pitcher." 
Asked if the Dodgers could get in on talks to sign Sabathia, Colletti said: "It's a possibility." 
Detroit and Texas complet­ed the first trade of the ses­sion. The Tigers acquired catcher Gerald Laird from the Hangers in a deal that sent right-handed pitching prospects Guillermo Moscoso and Carlos Melo to Texas. 
Also, pitcher Greg Maddux held a news conference to announce his retirement. The winter meetings are being held just minutes from his Las Vegas home. 
In other news, Major League Baseball planned a Tuesday news conference with the players' association to announce changes designed to strengthen wood bats. Players still would be allowed to use maple bats, however. And former Yankees second baseman Joe Gordon was elected to the Hall of Fame by a 12-member Veterans Committee. 
Also, MLB Advanced Media, the sport's Internet division, announced it was laying off 20 employees, about 4 per­cent of its staff. 
ATTENTION: DON'T MISS OUT: 
,

DIRTY SEXY MONEY 
AN ABSOLUTE MUST-SEE TV: WEDNESDAYS, ABC, 10:00 P.M. EST. 
WITH ASTELLAR CAST OF ACCLAIMED, AND SEXY, ACTORS: WILLIAM BALDWIN [OF "BACKDRAFT" FAME & A GREAT NOTRE DAME FAN], PETER KRAUSE, DONALD SUTHERLAND [OF "MASH" the Movie &KIEFER SUTHERLAND FAME], JILL CLAYBURGH & BLAIR UNDERWOOD. 
TUNE IN AND GET "SEDUCED" BY THE FILTHY AND WEALTHY "DARLING" FAMILY OF MANHATTAN. 
[FICTION, OF COURSE,-OR, IS IT???©$©$©$©$©] 
This Message Approved By the Newly-Elected New York Senator Patrick . Darling-or, is it???©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©© 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 9, 2008 
PGA 
Frazar leads at Q-school 
Associated l'ress 
LA ()UINTA. Calif. llarrison Frazar finished a nw 111 o r a b I P. wn n k t h a t included a 5<J by reaching his ultimate goal Monday, closing with a 5-under 67 at the PC/\ Tour qualifying tournanwnt to load 2R play­ers who earned their cards for rwxt SPason. 
Frazar. who has played :wo times on tlw J>(;;\ Tour without winning, seized con­trol of (}-school with a 59 in tlw fourth round. lie built such a big !Pad that nvnn with a doublP bogey on the final hole of thn Nicklaus Tournamnnt course at p(;A West. he still won by eight shots. 
Frazar, who playnd at Texas with .Justin Leonard, finislwd at :~2-under 400. 
Derek Fathaunr of Jensen Beach. Fla.. who made the nit at the U.S. Open this year as an amateur. and .lanws Nitties of Australia. each closed with a 70 to tin for second. 
Typical of (}-school, the drama took place around 
25% off 
the cutoff for the top 25 and tins to earn full status on the PC/\ Tour next year. 
Notah Begay, a four-time PGA Tour winner and col­lege teammatfl at Stanford with Tiger Woods, was one of only two qualifiers who fac(HI the to u giHH T PC Stadium course in tlw final round. Two shots below the cut line with four holes to play, Begay ran off three straight birdies for a 67 to make it by one shot. 
"TigPr and I always talk about, 'You gotta do what you golla do.' I was thinking about him tht~ last day," Begay said. ''I've got to gp,t this done. Those last three (birdies) out of four holes were gn~at." 
The othnr Stadium sur­vivor was Wil Collins of Hapid City, S.D., who kept his job in suspense to the very nnd. 
Collins, who made it to the l'inal stage for the l'irst time in his snventh try, made a l 0-foot birdie putt to reach the cutoff at 1<J-under par, and needed only a par on the tough ninth hole to earn 
Atria Salon 2 
speciolizing in color 574 271. 8804
0 
his card. 
lie steered his tee shot away from the water, but landed behind a steep mound. lie had 217 yards to the hole with mud on his ball. a difficult shot without having to dear the slope in front of him. lie chose to lay up, then hit his third shot to 18 feet. 
The par putt broke just enough to tlw right to catch the high -side of the hole and eurl in. giving Collins a 67 and a spot on the PGA Tour. 
"I finally have a home to play, and it's on the greatest tour in the world," Collins said. "It's going to take a while to sink in." 
Collins was among six players who earned their cards after going through all three stages of (}-school. The others were Tyler Aldridge of Caldwell. Idaho; Matthew Borchert of Orlando, Fla.; Troy Kelly of· Tacoma, Wash.; Leif' Olson of Golden, Colo.; and Brian Vranesh of Northridge, Calif. 
For most, the end of the six-round Q-school was sim­ply a relief. 
25% off 
Present this odd on your next hair services and receive 25 %off plus ofree eyebrow with any service. EXPIRES 12/19/08 
Atria Solon 2 2027 South Bend Avenue 46637 (inside the Martin's shopping center) 


Pam.pering and Prepa•·ing 
'"'Prornoting Equity through Intellectual Exploration and ,..--· Cultural Celebration~~ Co-Spom•ored by the Alliance for Catholic Edtu.~ation and the Office of Multicultural Student Progt•anls and Services 



MLB 
Former Yankee Gordon elected to Hall of F arne 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Joe Gordon joined former teammates Joe DiMaggio, Lou Gehrig and Bob Feller in tho Hall of Fame. 
For the likes of Joe Torre, 

Jim Kaat and Hon Santo, it 
was another shutout. 
Gordon was eleeted Monday by a 12-member Veterans Committee com­posed of llall members and historians that studied pre­1943 players. A nine-time All-Star, the late second baseman won five World Series titles with the New York Yankees and Cleveland. 
But another panel made up of the living 64 Hall of Famers didn't come dose to picking anyone who started after World War II. Santo fell short, followed by Kaat, Tony Oliva, Gil Hodges and Torre. 
This marked the fourth straight time that nobody was chosen from the newer group. 
"It's not our job to vote someone in," Hall of Fame manager Dick Williams said by phone from Las Vegas, where the results were announced at baseball's win­ter meetings. "It's our job to consider the candidates." 
"I thought Kaat would get in. I voted for him. And I think Joe Torre will, too, when he's done managing," he said. "I missed quite a few times before I got in. I know what that's like." 
It took 7 5 percent -48 votes -for election and Santo did the best with 39. The former Cubs slugger led Kaat (38), Oliva (33), Hodges 
(28) and Torre (19). 
"We just didn't have them lined up, I guess," Williams said. 
Rickey Henderson is the leading candidate in the upcoming Ilall election by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. Results will be announced Jan. 12. 
Induction ceremonies in Cooperstown, N.Y., are July 26. 
Gordon got 10 votes, one 
morn than nfleded. He began 
his career in 193R with a 
championship Yanknns team 
that included future llall 
members -DiMaggio, (;nhrig, 
Bill Dickey, Hod HutTing and 
Lefty Gomez. 
"Flash" Gordon playnd in 1948 with tho last Indians team to win the World Series. lie finished in l 950 alongside future llall of Famers Larry I>oby, Lou Boudreau. Bob Lmnon, Early Wynn and Fellnr. 
Gordon was tlw 1942 AL MVP, beating out Triple Crown winnnr Ted Williams, and hit .268 ovnrall with 253 home runs and <J75 HBis, big power numbers for second basemen in that era. lin died in 1978. 
"To mo. he was a major Hall of Farner," Feller said by telephone from Las Vegas. "lle'll probably go in as a Yankee because that's where he had most of his success. But he did well for us in Cleveland. 
"lie was a wild swinger at the plate, a free swinger with power," he said. "lie was an acrobat around the bag, he was all over the place in the field." 
Pitcher Allie Heynolds, traded from Cleveland to the Yankees for Gordon after the 1946 season, fell one vote short of election. 
The Veterans Committee format has been changed twice since 2001, when charges of cronyism followed the election of Bill Mazeroski. The 15-member panel was broadened to include every living Hall member. but it didn't pick anyone in three elections. 
"When our board of direc­tors restructured the Veterans Committee after the 2007 ldection. it did so with the goal of ensuring the voters the living Hall of Famers would review their peers," llall chairman .Jane Forbes Clark said Monday. "The proeess was not redesigned with the goal of necessarily electing some­one." 
The veterans panels will next vote on players in 2010. Managers, umpires and executives will be eonsid­ered in 2009. 




Tuesday, December 9, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

Welcome to 21st century student living. 
NEW RECREATION AREA JUST ADDED I FITNESS CENTER, TANNiNG & LOUNGE 
Woody 
continued from page 20 
went back to St. Louis in 2001 to cover McGraw's team's win over Purdue for the NCAA Championship. 
Despite his advanced age, he still has a great mind for basket­ball and for sports writing. His stories are remarkable in their consistency, and will always give you every fact you need to know. IIe knows the ins and outs of every team the Irish face, and would make as good a scout for McGraw as he was a writer for the Tribune. 
Woody also didn't have any trouble following the team. I have covered the women's team the last two seasons, and Woody has faithfully shown up for every interview and every game, pen and pad in hand. And even while I sit at a computer watching the gametracker, Woody travels all over the country every game to watch the Irish. Not just because he has to, but also because he is a genuine fan of the team. 
When the Irish played at Eastern Michigan on Dec. 2, Woody was still there, even if not for the Tribune. 
HooK SHoT 
GEMPISfThe 
Junior guard Ashley Barlow drives past a Spartan defender in 


Notre Dame's 78-72 win Nov. 29. 
"He came as a fan. He and his wife drove up. He's a season tick­et holder. I feel like he's going to be part of the fan base and cer­tainly part of the program for us," McGraw said in a phone interview with The Observer. 
McGraw said that, even though he was in Ypsilanti, it was strange not seeing him in the postgame press conference. 
"He's been there so many years, and traveling with us the last, I don't know how many years," McGraw said. "Just hav­ing him there was like having a little bit of home. You knew who he was and knew he was going to be there for us," she said. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick atifitz­pa5@nd.edu 
As if living in a brand new, You"!! find brand new. state-of~tbe:-.art t~nio contemporary, furnished e-qu~~t and fr~ ~ts mtJhe fi~ center and comfortable seating. a:~arge
apartment or luxury 
widescreen TV and !kitchen ;in thre iloonge;
townhome wasn't enough, 
ail just steps outside your froot OOol".
Ot as if living just one block east of Notre Dame wasn't enough. Now there·s Besides the new fitness area. taming alld even more reason to live at Irish Row lounge. your tease at Irish Row Apartments Apartments or Irish Crossings Townhomes. or !tish Crossing Townoomes g!ts you: 
Your Irish Row or Irish Crossings lease now • Up to four bedrooms gives you free access to the new Irish Row • Private. fuU bath in earn bedroom Fitness Center and lounge. Tanning will • furnished be available for a fee to residents only. • 42"' flat panel HOTV in each famiy room 
• 
laundry room with washer &dryer 

• 
FREE Internet & 100+ TV statioos 



• Oose to gnooeriies, i~rartts ,& rentertaiinrrrern 
• Walk to t~JnfJ!lS 

What more could you need? But hurry. units are filling fast. 
IIIrish 
ROW 

trishR~O>m I ~a. f.a~@~!shr~rt~t<,;..t'OO'! I '514..111~ 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 9, 2008 


.. 
""' ' " 
Study Break lunch:at the CoMo 
Lunch SConversation for Gay. Lesbian. BisexualS lluestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Friday. December 12 Noon to 1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman Morse 
The Core CDuncil invites gay, lesbian. bisexual Squestioning members of the Notre Dame 
family, along with their friends and allys, to an informal luncheon at the Co-
Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured. 
Lunch Wt/1 Be Served 
CORE COUNCil 
Hill MY, USMAN, MSft!JM &QUlSU!lNIMS SffiUfMTS 


Seniors 
continued from page 20 
the women, the sun, the atmos­phere in general of Hawai'i and just basically living a dream or a fantasy just to go out there," Bruton said. 
When presented with the option of bowls, Irish coach Charlie Weis asked for his play­ers input. He turned to the cap­tains and leadership council to help him make the decision. 
"Friday we met about it and just kind of, in order of the options, which one we thought was best for the team. And that's the one we thought was best," Crum said. 
The captains said the team was hoping to have a good time, but knew that they were going on a business trip not a vacation. All three agreed that the team would have no prob­lem focusing on the task at hand when it came time to work. 
"The party line, since we 

Kuhlke 
continued from page 20 
major began this season strong­ly, especially in her perform­ance in Columbus, Ohio this weekend. She swam in nine events, both individual and relay. 
"We did better than expect­ed," Kuhlke said. "We had been training hard for a long time. It was fun to see them do well in the middle of the season. when typically you're the most tired." 
Kuhlke came from obvious success in high school. Her times in both butterfly and freestyle events helped her win a qualifying spot at the 2008 Olympic trials.. 
"The Olympic trials was my first meet back after the sur­gery," Kuhlke said. "Going from not being able to do a 20th of a practice, to being at the Olympic trials, I was really happy 1 was able to experience that with all my teammates." 
found out. has bnen just to win the Bowl game. I think secondly is to enjoy a plaee like Hawaii, but definitely our goal it to win a Bowl game. 
Notre Dame has not won a postsflason game sinee 1994. 
Notes: 
uFriday evening the team met for their annual awards ban­quet. Crum was awarded the team's MVP. lie also shared the Nick Pietrosante Award with fellow senior Mikfl Anello. Anello also picked up a second award when he was named the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Hockne Student-Athlete Award winner. 
uFormer Irish coach Lou lloltz will also be collecting hardware this week. lloltz is set to be inducted into the College Football of Fame tonight in New York City. lie is being inducted with an impressive class includ­ing Troy Aikman, Pat Fitzgerald and Thurman Thomas. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

On Saturday, Kuhlke partici­pated in the 200-meter-medley relay along with teammates Colleen Fotsch, Samantha Maxwell and Amywren Miller in 1:40.92, breaking the previous pool record of 1:41.26. The girls were unable to beat Minnesota's relay team, but this NCAA 13-cut performanee proves they are in good shape for calling national attention as the season progresses. The team is oft' from competition for the next few weeks and over break. but Kuhlke and the girls are anticipating the bulk of the upcoming season against prominent teams, such as Northwestern, Michigan and Louisville, before attending the Big East Championship in mid­February. 
"It is great being able to final­ly represent Notre Dame and compete with all my teammates again. It's a great feeling of pride," Kuhlke said. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

Theismann also highlighted the significance of Notre
Weis 
Dame's loss to Syracuse, who continued from page 20 before the game had two wins, 
on Nov. 22, and that the team his job took the hardest toll, needed to work on finishing Weis said, on the coaches, play­games. ers and recruits and their fami­"We wouldn't be in the state lies. that we're in, to be honest with 
Former Irish quarterback Joe you, if we had beaten Theismann, who was the guest Syracuse," Theismann said. "A speaker at Friday's football play at the end of the Navy banquet, said he game, a play at believed Weis the end of the should return. "We have to learn to Syracuse game. 
"1 believe We have to
finish. You don't put it 
Charlie can build learn to finish. 
this program offand say it's a lot You don't put it 
back to where ofyoung kids. They o!T and say it's a we can compete lot of young
were young a year
on a BCS level," kids. They were
ago."
Theismann said. young a year ''I'm not just ago." blowing smoke. 1 Joe Thelsmann Weis had a do believe in similar outlook
former football player
Charlie Weis, and on the close
class of 1971
I'm glad he has losses this sea-the opportunity son and the to come back and work with effect wins in those games this program. 1 don't think a might have had. change at this point would have "You win one more game, been good for Notre Dame." you're 7-5, and you're going to 
Weis and Theismann both the Gator Bowl," he said. "Not separated the first two seasons, finishing those games out and where Weis took the team to closing out the year, if you're BCS bowls, and the last two, sitting hern 9-3 right now, pno­where Weis' team lost 15 ple are saying, that's not great, games. The senior leadership but it's a pretty good turn­on Weis' first two teams, around." Theismann said, gave the teams stability that helped Contact Bill Brink at them succeed. wbrink@nd.edu 

Tuesday, December 9, 2009 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

On Sunday, the women's soccer team lost in the national championship. They were awarded a dumb silver trophy. 
CROSSWORD 
Note: The circled letters in the answers to the seven starred clues, reading left to right or top to bottom, spell words that can complete famili.ar phrases that start with "break." 
Across 25 Snow 1 Throw 26 Les Trois 5 It may be found Mousquetaires. 
in a cone e.g. 9 Homes for mil. 28 Strain planes · 31 "Eat at 13 Object of a 34 Shopaholic's manhunt. maybe delight 14 Score just before 35 Canyon part 
winning 36 Daily or weekly, 15 Skylit courts e.g.: Abbr. 16 *Not just stupid 37 *Perplexed state 18 Where William 39 1970s polit. 
the Conqueror cause died 40 Early sixth­19 Kerosene century year 
20 N.B.A. center 41 Partner of aids who has pitched 42 Come clean, for McDonald's, with "up" Pepsi and Visa 43 Slippery 
22· *Setting in swimmer Sherlock 44 "The Holmes's "The Report," 1976 Man with the best seller Twisted Lip" 45 Co. with a 
24 The hots triangular logo 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-7-t-::+-=-t-±::-t'':+::-1 27 They replaced C Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young rations solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please cqmplete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive. The Observer in your home. 
Also Sunday, the football team was Charlie Weis had this to say: rewarded for a 6-6 season with a 
"Hahahahahahaha. That's hilarious. 
WILLSHORTZ 
47 Grill 49 *Informers 54 Seven Sisters 
grads 57 Major Italian tourist site 58 "lch dich" (German words of endearment) 59 *Dessert made from a product 
of a 10-Down 61 Satyric looks 62 Sleeper_ 63 This and that 64 "Finnegans 
Wake" wife 65 Major rtes. 66 Ivy League 
school in Philly 
Down 1 Cellist Casals 2 "That's !" 
(directo?Sery) 3 "Ditto" 
Puzzle by Paula Gamache 
4 Blunders 5 "Well,_!" 29 Pretense 38 Resort island 51 Author Zora ESE of Valencia Hurston
6 _ Hugo, 1975 30 Short hoLiday? Isabelle Adjani 
42 Cigarette box 52 Popular31 Shade of green feature Japanese beer role based on a 32 Garfield's
real-life story 45 Ocean rings 53 Squelch 
housemate
7 Through 46 "How foolish 54 Milan's Teatro 33 *Fairy tale !"
8 Granatelli of Scala
meanie
auto racing 48 Planetary 55 Collateral option
9 Bits 34 Put back in shadow 56 Individually 
10 *Orchard part 
37 Some luau 50 Be in force, as a 11 "Tres " dancers rule 60 Church perch 12 Did a number 

15 Stimulated For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a17 1890s gold rush credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
city Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 21 Completely crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
strange 23 Music download 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 source past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address City--~---------State ____ Zip_______ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJ!JJWIID11~. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. 


...
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GIMAC 
(IJ b
©2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
CABIS 
j
rJ r I ItENDECT I 
WHAT THE SINGL-E WOME:N DID WHEN
J I I [] 
THEY TOOK A
www.iumble.com 
CRUISE.
tSTENOX t 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as
I J I J I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: " 

rI I I I I J" THE rI rI J 
(Answers Monday) Yesterday's I Jumbles: PAYEE LOVER QUARTZ PARITY Answer: When the golfer caught a cold, he wasn't ­UPTO"PAR" 
• 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sinead O'Connor. 42; Teri Hatcher, 44; Kim Basinger, 55; James Galway, 69 
Happy Birthday: You can settle differences and complete unfinished business this year. A unique twist of fate will have you moving in directions that you never considered in the past. It will be a time of new beginnings and second chances. A change in lifestyle or your home will help your state of mind. Your numbers are 4, 10, 16, 23, 31, 35,47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Stop waiting to see what everyone else is going to do when you are the one with the ideas and wherewithal to make things happen. It's your own reluctance that will hold you back when you should be making changes to support your latest goals. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't be fooled by someone who just wants something from you. It's important to do things for the right reason so you don't have any regrets. An opportunity is available that can stabilize your professional position. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): Tum everything yot) do into an event. Include all your fa­vorite people to join you in whatever you do. It's the teamwork that will put you in a leadership position and help you control the situation around you. **** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Avoid anyone trying to convince you to donate your time or cash to a cause you really can't afford to support. Changes regarding an older family member may leave you with added responsibilities. Deal with what needs to be done and move on. ** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Plan a little get together that will reunite old friends. It's time to enjoy some of the end-of-year festivities and to make a decision that will have an effect on your personal life. Don't spend impulsively. ***** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Decide if you are in the right spot geographically. There is something to be said about moving to a location that is closer to work or can bring you greater opportunities for professional or educational pursuits. *** 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll be passionate about everything you do but this can lead to emotional upset and disruptions with friends, peers or neighbors. Try to focus on love and spending time with someone special. Keep things in perspective. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't waste your time trying to convince others to follow your beliefs. You stand a better chance of getting your way by moving forward alone and seeing who joins in. A service you have to offer can be launched with success. Don't let anyone's negativity lead you into rethinking your strategy. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make some alterations at home that will please others. Be careful, however, not to disrupt someone else's plans. Opposition can cause delays if you haven't gotten approval. Love should be one of your focuses for future plans.*** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't be fooled by what others tell you. You can offer help but not at the expense of losing out somewhere else. Put your own plans first. Don't let someone's anger about your choices stand in your way. ** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): If you can pick up part time work or volunteer for something that might lead to full time work, jump at the chance. Don't let an emotional issue stand in the way of an important decision that will influence your future and your earning potential. **** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't count on anything or anyone and you won't be dis­appointed. If you put everything you've got into something you believe in, you will make some forward motion. A questionable partnership must be reviewed. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are unpredictable, engaging and sensitive. You are a participant and a demonstrator. You fear little and will always give everything you've got to win. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, December 9, 2008 
page 20 
FOOTBALL 
After meeting, Weis, Swarbrick and Jenkins discuss changes 
everything eye to eye, but our national championship every What would be his commitment families. 
By BILL BRINK perspectives were married very y~ar, b~t y~u have to be in the to come back? and 3) Would "When I went into those 
Sports Edi10r 
closely." We is said. "Most of diSCUSSiOn. you be accountable? homes on Sunday, and they that list was covered on both Weis and Swarbrick met in Weis said he and Swarbriek asked me if I was the head Charlie's back. and he's got a lists. I think that if our discrep­San Jose, Calif. last Tuesday to had a plan in place. coach of Notre Dame, I said, plan to rejuvenate a Fighting aneies were more, they could discuss the future of the pro­The unsure nature of his job 'I'm sitting in your house,"' Irish tl~am that lackPd some have gone in another direc­gram and the changes required status didn't affect Weis' Weis said. '"What do you think, fight down the stretch. tion." to improve it. Swarbrick also recruiting, although he said he I'm recruiting for the next head 
lie said in his press confer­Weis said he understood what said Weis' views mirrored his. lost sleep after the 38-3 loss to coach?' That's the perspective ence on Dne. 5 that his views of both the University and people Weis said Swarbrick and USC on Nov. 29. "You deal with you had to have. And if some­how to fix the program closely who follow the team wanted: University President Fr. John the negative, and live off the thing happens and you're not mirrored those of athletie direc­BCS consideration. Jenkins asked Weis three things positive," Weis said. the guy, then you're not the tor .lark Swarbrick, and that "I think it's important that in relation to the future of the Weis was recruiting on the guy." helped him keep his job. you're moving towards the BCS football team, which finished 6-west coast and in Hawaii and The perceived insecurity of 
"I think when I sat down with discussion," he said. ''I'm not 6 this year. They asked him: 1) said he used that attitude when him on Tuesday, it wasn't saying you're playing in the Would he like to be here? 2) talking to recruits ·and their see WEIS/page 18 
1 Redetnption Song' 
Seniors looking to go out on top after rough season with bmvl win 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
Af'tnr a disappointing finish to the rngular season, Notrn Dame seniors have one last chance to end their up and down football carnnrs on a high note. 
Irish captains Maurice Crum, David (;rirnns and David Bruton met with nwdia Monday to dis­cuss tlwir upeoming appear­ance at the Sheraton llawai'i Bowl against the Hainhow Warriors in llonolulu. 
"This truly is my last chance to leavn a mark in the program, and also give those guys who are coming back somnthing to build ofT of." Crum said. "I real­ly do think that will lw a good way just to leave a good tastn in my mouth." 
The stmior class finished their final season with a 38-3 loss to USC in Los Angeles and also dropped their final home game 
to Syracuse the week before. It was lirst time since 2004 that the Irish lost on Senior Day. Grimes was also excited about the opportunity to freshen his breath, so to speak. 
"Kind of take that bitter taste out of our mouth that we had this last month, and get the sen­iors something to be happy about," he said. 
On top of a chance for redemption, Grimes was also excited to get a chance to get away from the bitter cold of South Bend to the sunny shores of llawai'i. 
"I think there's even more energy, because Hawaii, nice weather, beautiful women," Grimes said. 
Notre Dame had a choice of bowl games to pick from but opted to head to Hawai'i because of the uniq.ue atmos­phtlre, the earlier date -the game will be played at 8 p.m. EST on Dee. 24 -that would allow some players to be home for Christmas and of course the women. 
"What Little David said. just 
see SENIORS/page 18 


WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Kuhlke now developing after shoulder surgery 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sporrs Wri!l'r 
Al'tnr bning n~d-shirtnd for her freshman season. sopho­more swimmer Kellyn Kuhlke d1~buted with an outstanding weekend at the Ohio State Invitational after an unfortu­nate shoulder injury. 
"I was happy with how I swam." Kuhlke said. "This was the first time since my surgery that I've been back to whem I was beforn tlw aecidtml." 
This rneovery marked a m~w start li1r Kuhlke. 
"It was the light at the end o!' the tunnel. and I know this sea­son is going to be great." 
Kuhlke said. 
Last November was the turn­ing point of a shoulder injury, whieh would progressively plague Kuhlke in the pool. The diagnosis was made, and KuhlkP was out of activity for four to six weeks. 
"I had a hole in my rotator culT and labrum." Kuhlke said. "We tried cortisone shots and rehab." 
But Kuhlke didn't just sit on the sidPiines during her break. 
"I would help out the girls, <tnd the coaches." Kuhlke said. "I did whatever needed to get done for the team." 
The sophomore accounting 
see KUHLKE/page 18 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL COMMENTARY 
Miller no longer with SBT 
Women's basketball is a little bit different this season. 
It has nothing to do with the seniors who graduat­ed, indud-· ing Charel Allen, one of the best ever. 
Nor is it the incoming freshmen, even though they comprised another 

see WOODY/page 17 

top 15 recruiting elass for coach Muffet McGraw and her staff. 
The biggest change is one that the casual fan might not recog­nize. 
Woody Miller isn't writing for the South Bend Tribune. 
Forrest "Woody" Miller has been covering basketball for the Tribune for as long as anyone can remember, including McGraw, who has been the head coaeh at the University lor over 20 years. He is also the longtime Notre Dame baseball and South Bend Silver Hawks reporter for the Tribune. 
It's not hard to wrack up that kind of resume when you've been with the same paper for more than 50 years. 
But the real shame in this change is that Woody was let go as one of the 56 employees eut loose from the Tribune because of the hrrowing eeonomic crisis. This is not to say the paper eould have refrained from firing anyone, but by letting Woody go, they let go a piece of Tribune-and Notre Dame ­history. 
Woody was indueted into the Indiana Sportswriters and SporL<>casters Assodation I fall of Fame in 2004, and started working with the papor in 1955. lie has covered Irish -baseball since then, including the team's two trips to the College World Series t1957 and 2002). 
Woody was them when Digger and the men's basketball team knor.kPd off No. 1 UCLA. He was there at the program's Final Four in 1978 in St. Louis. lie 






