
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Fr. Riehle dies at 83 after briefillness 
Chaplain to sports teams remembered for his love of Notre Dame athletics, students 
By CHRIS HINE Editor-in-Chief 
Hev. James Riehle, C.S.C., chaplain to Notre Dame sports teams for nearly three decades and former dean of students died at Holy Cross House­Wednesday. He was 83. 
Riehle's died following a brief illness, the University said. 
"He was a man's man. He was always interested in sports... " said University presi­dent emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, who gave Riehle his final blessings before he died. "He was a good friend because I sat next to him over at the dining hall at Holy Cross Hall and I knew a good deal about him. I saw 
him every day. We were good friends." 
Riehle, w h 0 enjoyed c i g a r smoking 

a n d 
playing Rev. James Riehle g 0 l f ' began his role as chaplain in 
1966 and served his first foot­ball game in that capacity on Nov. 19 of that year-Notre Dame's classic 10-10 tie with Michigan State, when the Irish were ranked No. 1 and the Spartans were No. 2. 
Riehle, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1949 with a bachelor's degree in business administration, played the football team's chaplain in the 1993 movie "Rudy," and was featured in an Adidas football commercial with former Notre Dame and Super Bowl winning quarterback Joe Montana in which he asked Montana: "What did you ever end up doing after you left college?" 
But beyond his association with Notre Dame athletics, Riehle served in many offices at Notre Dame, including dean of students from 1967-73, dur­ing the student protests of the Vietnam War. At universities around the country, some stu­dent protests against the Vietnam War turned violent, but not at Notre Dame, where Hesburgh said students could protest as long as they did not disrupt classes or University business. Hesburgh said Riehle did a "very good job" enforcing this policy in a pragmatic way. 
"About 250 of my fellow presidents were fired at that time, or died, or just left in frustration during that period," Hesburgh said. "We had, like every university, a fairly rough time but we came through without any big disruption of 
see RIEHLE/ page 3 

OIS prepares abroad students for election 
Students overseas experience difficulties in making sure their votes are counted by election day 
ByJENN METZ News Editor 
As students on campus are scramble to send out absentee ballots before Nov. 4, the esti­mated 450 Notre Dame sopho­mores and juniors currently studying abroad are experi­encing a very different presi­dential election season, com­plete with logistical difficulties for sending their vote to the United States to make sure it's counted. 
The Office of International Studies (OIS) helped prepare students by reminding them of 
the upcoming election during orientation sessions last spring, sending out pre-depar­ture letters and posting links on their Web site. 
Kathleen Opel. director of OIS, told the Observer the Office believes "voting is a vital component of democracy and strongly encourage[s] stu­dents abroad who are U.S. citi­zens to exercise the right to vote." 
"How many students actually vote, I don't know," she said. 
Program managers remind­ed participants to remember to register for absentee ballots before they left the United States, a message that was repeated at OIS' "Bon Voyage" meeting for all students last spring, Opel said. 
Opel told the students their "franchise to vote is a privilege to be cherished, and recent elections have demonstrated the value of each vote" in a pre-departure letter sent over the summer. 
The Web site offers scrolling reminders of the upcoming election and a link to the Association of International Educators' (NAFSA) Web site, which provides information about absentee ballot proce­dures for students and educa-


Bush speechwriter delivers lecture 
Gerson speaks about changing political landscape in America 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Michael Gerson, former speechwriter to President George W. Bush, delivered the inaugural McCullough Lecture in Hesponsible Journalism and Government Wednesday. Corson spoke in the McKenna auditorium to a crowd of about fifty people. 
Gerson wrote two inaugural addresses. several State of the Union addresses and many important post-9/11 speeches during his time working for President Bush. In addition to writing speeches, he served as a White House policy advisor on global health, development 
see WRITER/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


ND no. 1 for athlete grad rates 
University at top of NCAA for 3rd time 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
For the third time in four years, Notre Dame ranked No. 1 among the 119 Football Bowl Subdivision institutions in the NCAA's 2008 report on student ath­lete graduation rates. 
The annual report, released Oct. 14, showed that 19 of Notre Dame's 22 programs received Graduation Success Rate (GSR) figures of 100, result­ing in a .863 percentage, which placed the University ahead of Northwestern (.789), Boston College (.740), Duke (.681), Vanderbilt (.667), Wake Forest (.642). Stanford (.629), U.S. Naval Academy (.578). Rice (.539) and Tulane (.500). 
The 2008 national GSR for Division I-A is 78 percent, a news release from Notre Dame Athletics said. The GSR data show the percent­age of student athletes earn­ing a degree in six years. 
All 11 of the women's ath­letic programs -basketball, cross country and track, fencing, golf, lacrosse, row­ing, soccer, softball, swim­ming, tennis and volleyball ­received perfect scores of 100. 
see NCAA/ page 4 
tors living abroad, which are different than domestic absen­tee ballot procedures. 
"Every state has different rules for voting, so it's hard to give specific voting informa­tion to a group of students from different states," Opel said. The NAFSA Web site, she said, provides that information for each state. 
In some locations in capital cities, students may be able to vote in person at consulates, she said; other students send their vote in the mail. 
Opel said OIS will assist stu­
see ABROAD/page 4 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Group approves budget after poll 
By LIZ HARTER and ASHLEY 
CHARNLEY 
News Writers 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) approved the Student Government Association (SGA) budget after the third vote on the issue at their meeting Wednesday night. The budget was approved with 24 .for it and one abstention. 
BOG polled the student body through e-mail as to whether or not they thought the Executive Board deserved a stipend on Tuesday. 
Student body president Mickey Gruscinski said 557 students, which is almost one third of the student body, voted and the majority did not agree with the stipend. 
Treasurer Mo Weaver pre­sented a revised budget to BOG for their approval. The revised budget did not contain· a stipend and the money for­merly allocated to the stipend was dispersed to funds for clubs and organizations, co­sponsorships, and the campus Readership Program which brings the USA Today. New 
see BOG/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Rays' play: 

not sexy 
Stupid Hays. 
Thanks to them, I have to wateh the 
"Sex and the City" movie. 
What in God's name brought about this unfortunate chain of' events? How did I bury myself' in this prndicament? I placed faith in the Hays, something which, as history should show us, I rwver should have donn. 
I had a bet with my girlfriend on the World Series. If the Hays win. she had Bill Brink to watch "Clerks" with me. "Clerks" is 
one of' my top 1o .(iports Editor favorite movies, one of' the gmatnst of' all time. Dante and Handall's witty banter demonstrate what's really important in life, especially in today's dreary cli­mate. Who earns that the economy is in tho dumpster'? Who earns that we're involved in two wars? Isn't it mueh morn important to understand the dichotomy between the dnstruetion of t.hn Death Star in "A Nnw Hope" and "Hnturn of the Jodi?" Tlw hockey game on the roof, the funeral, the unf'ortunatn dnath in the 1~onvnnienen store bathroom: shner hrilliancn. Instead, I have to watch Charlotte and Miranda parade around New York City eomparing their Prada handbags and Mar10lo Blahnik kicks. Game I was an abnrration. Game 2, the Hays got back on track. Game 3 was a great baseball game. Game 4 just sucked. Oncn Game 5 rolled around with llanwls as the starter, I thought the Hays wen~ done for. But tlum fate intervmwd; c;od didn't want me to watch "Sox and the City" after all. I~~~ let Upton steal second and scorn on P1ma 's single, meaning the ganw was tied when rain forced its stoppag1\. I thought for surn that was the last sign the Hays nendnd. But no, .Jon Maddon must have liknd the movin and wantnd to make sure I saw it. I have no interest. The only relation I havn to "Sex and the City" is the one time Charlotte was on "Seinl'eld." Jerry dropped her toothbrush in the toilet, prompting her to retaliate and send Jerry on a germaphobia-indueed dean­ing frnnzy. Good times. I've seen one episode of the TV show; I think I saw it with my step mom. It's the one where Kim Cattrall dates a rabid Knicks fan, and she can't sleep with him unless the Knicks win. As a rabid Knieks fan mysell', that episode wasn't half-bad. Maybn it will be like "How to Lose a Guy in 10 l)ays" and tlwn1 will be a scone at Madison Square Garden with the Knicks in the playoffs. So thanks to Hyan Howard and Shane Victorino and the rest of the Phillies, I won't enjoy watching Jay and Silent Bob waste their day away out­side the Quick Stop, or the egg­obsessPd shopper rolling eggs down the aisle to ensure their quality. Instead, I'll hear four 30-something-year-old women whining about their boyfriends -or lack thenmf. The whole time, I'll think of one thing: how sweet it will tastP when my beloved Yankees mop the floor with Tampa Bay next April. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are thosP of the author and not necessarily lhose ofThe Obseroer. 
Contact Bill /Jrink at wbrink@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we wi II make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 30, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DRESSING UP AS FOR HALLOWEEN? 

Dan Scheper Kimberly Hildner Patrick Doonan Cherie Ng
Chris Anderson 
freshman freshman sophomore senior freshman Keenan Keenan Lewis off-campus McGlinn 
,

':4 banana. .. "Snorlax. "The witch from "I'm going to be "Joe the Monty Python R.J. Jacobi." Plumber." 
and the Holy Grail." 

Tuesday and Wednesday in Jordan Hall. 
OFFBEAT  
Man hospitalized in car crash  struck two ears and was  to cause harm with a dan­ 
after firing at gas pump  injured in a crash follow­ gerous weapon after  
NAUGATUCK, Conn. -A  ing the shooting incident.  allegedly unleashing four  
man who police said fired  Police have an arrest  centipedes and bugs in his  
gun shots into a gasoline  warrant for the man and  neighbor's bed last week  
pump on Saturday morn­ his hospital room is being  following an argument.  
ing was expected to be  guarded 24-hours a day by  Prabakaran, 21, alleged­ 
charged with three  two police officers.  ly climbed on to the roof  
felonies when he's  to enter his neighbor's  
released from a local hos­ Man goes to jail following  house where he commit­ 
pital.  centipede attack on neighbor  ted the offense, Mazri  
Police said the man went  KUALA LUMPUR,  said.  
to the Sunoco gas station  Malaysia -A Malaysian  Prabakaran pleaded not  
on New Haven Hoad and  man has been accused of  ·guilty Tuesday in a court  
fired a shotgun at a gas  trying to hurt his neighbor  in the southern city of  
pump several times while  with a dangerous weapon  Johor Baru and has been  
customers stood nearby.  -centipedes. Prosecutor  released on bail, Mazri  
Luckily, nobody was  Mazri Mohamed said  said.  
injured and the pump did  Wednesday that H.  
not explode.  Prabakaran has been  Information compiled  
The man drove off and  charged with attempting  from the Associated Press.  
Gregory P. Crawford, Dean of the College of Science will 


TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY 
D:: 
1.&.1 
:I: 
~ 
1.&.1 

3: 
..... 
~ 
(,) 



IN BRIEF 
Today South Bend area students and their families will be welcomed to North Quad for Fall Fest -a com­munity relations event tak­ing place from :{::{0 p.m. to 4:30. 
Saint Mary's College will bless Spes Unica Hall, the new academic building, today with open houses and tours for tho Board of Trustees starting at 1:30 
p.m. and academic depart­ment presentations from 
3:30 to 5 p.m. throughout the building. The blessing will take place in the atrium at 5 p.m. with a reception to follow and a Mass of Thanksgiving in Holy Spirit Chapel, LeMans Hall at 6:30 p.m. 
Joan Payden, Chief Executive OITicer of Payden & Hygel Investment Management will speak as part of the Mendoza College to Business' Boardroom Insights Executive Speaker Series Friday at 10:40 a.m. in Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. 
give  a  lecture  entitled  
"Notre  Dame  Science:  
Making  a  Difference"  

Saturday at 11 a.m. in Room 105 of the Jordan Hall of Science. 
Black Images will be held on Saturday from 8:30 to 
10:30 p.m. It will be held in Washington Hall. Admission is $5. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information alwut an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 


48 
43 


60 38 

60 
45 

53 40 
HIGH HIGH 67
..J 0 58 LOW 49 LOW 52 

Thursday, October 30, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Third Day Brian Wilson Paul Aldrich Willie Nelson 
with a minimum of pain and Riehle received the 2001 strain." Moose Krause Man of the Year
With Revive & Concert Family Comedian & Family 
Hesburgh said Riehle was Award from the club.
Need to Breathe Pop Rock Legend 100% Clean &Funny Billy Bob Thornton 
able to enforce the policy Riehle was named an hon­
because he had a good rapport orary member of the with the students and as a Monogram Club, something result, Notre Dame became a Hesburgh said was very model for other schools deal­important to him. 
Sunday, Nov. 9 Thursday, Nov. 13 Saturday, Nov. 15 Friday, Nov. 28 

UP£()mino ~h()W§ 
ing with the student revolu­The intramural fields near 
Saturday, Nov. 8 
tion. the Stepan Center were also "He was very good with stu­named in his honor. dents," Hesburgh said. "They On Sunday, a visitation will 
Friday, Nov. 21 
say he was in the hot seat dur­begin at 3:30 at Moreau ing all of the student revolu­Seminary and a wake will be tion, but he met with them held at 7:30. A funeral mass very often. The fact is we were will be held Monday at 3:30 at one of the few universities that the Basilica of the Sacred not only did not have serious Heart. disruptions, but we gave lead­ership to the others. And when Jay Fitzpatrick contributed we faced possible disruptions to this report. 
SMC students enjoy Halloweenfestivities 
p.m.

By KATIE KOHLER In addition, all the residence 
News Writer 
halls on campus were given the 
opportunity to host Trick-or­
Saint Mary's students got in the Treaters from 6 to 8 p.m. Halloween spirit early last night Construction aside, Paul also as Holy Cross Hall and attributed some of the stress of Dalloway's hosted campus-wide preparing the events to getting a events. The activities, put on by late start on hall council this the Holy Cross Hall Council, resi­year. dent advisors, "Hall council and Residence was off to a slow 
Hall Association "Security told us we start, especially 
(RHA} were all can 't go on with since Halloween free and open to is really soon in
Haunted Tunnels 

students and the the year. This is a children of Saint becasue they are Holy Cross tradi­Mary's faculty undergoing tion and gener­and staff. ates money for
contruction and it's a

In years prior, Hall Council," she
safety concern for the

Holy Cross has said. "But there hosted Haunted students." was an excellent Tunnels, a turnout and the haunted house girls really took
Terrie Paul 

set up in the sub control of a last
Holy Cross Hall director 

basement of the minute situa­hall open to stu­tion." dents and chil-Dalloway's, the dren of faculty and staff. coffee shop on campus, also put However, this year, due to con­on "Haunted Tours" which is one struction and low-hanging pipes, of their most attended events, Saint Mary's Security said it Stephanie Anton, Dalloway's would be safer to cancel the commissioner said. It occurs activity. As a result, Terrie Paul, annually. Holy Cross Hall director and the The Haunted Tour is a walk rest of the Holy Cross Hall around campus hosted by the Council came up with a contin­Dalloway's Board. The guide of gency plan. the tour stops at a certain place 
"Security told us we can't go to tell a scary story related to the on with Haunted Tunnels event, Anton said. There was because they are undergoing free hot cider, cookies and candy construction and it's a safety available at Dalloway's. concern for the students," Paul Anton said the board has been said. preparing for the event for about 
Instead, Holy Cross hosted two weeks and focused mostly on "Ho'Cro Halloween" in the hall the decorations. The event was lounges. Activities included ghost open to the public, but mainly stories, eoloring for the children, 
Contact Katie Kholer at drinks and snaeks from 8 to 10 kkohler@saintmarys.edu 
STUDENT SENATE 
Group exalllines dorlll printing 
Printers not available in 18 residence halls, senators discuss expansion 

By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Prompted by a number of complaints, the Student Senate discussed the need for printers in every residence hall yester­day. 
"People complain about it on a regular basis," Alumni Hall Senator Zach Reuvers said. "It always comes up during hall elections." 
Students often complain of having to wait on long lines to print at the clusters. 
"I live in McGlinn and some­times when I go to DeBartolo in the morning before classes there are really long lines," Senate Committee on Student Outreach chair Sarah Rodts said. "I don't always get what I need printed." 
Currenly, Lyons, Carroll, O'Neil, Lewis, Farley, Dillon, Pasquerilla West, Pangborn, Siegfried and Keenan all have printers, while students in the other 18 residence halls are forced to trek to computer clusters. Senate Committee on Oversight chair Ian Secviar said all dorms should have equal access to printers. 
"Regardless of whether it reduces traffic or not, in the pursuit of fairness this is something that we should do," he said. 
Senate Committee on Technology chair Devin Fee said the University is currently pursing a new contract with an outside company for print­ers, but if the contract is too costly, printers in dorms could be cut. 
"It is something that could get cut if the bids are too low," Fee said. "I think they realize that it's significant to us, but it's some­thing that has to be worked into the budget." 
Fee said he would seek support from the University, which has a much larger budget than the Office of Information Technology (om. 
"I think it would be a lot easier to push this through with the University supporting than OIT supporting," he said. 
Farley senator Robyn Grant said the dorms' needs should not detract from the clusters in the Library, the Coleman-Morse Center and LaFortune. 
"I feel that you shouldn't detract from the clusters for the dorms," she said. 
However, in a simple straw poll taken by student body vice presi­dent Grant chmidt, there weren't any seriators against expanding printer service in dorms. 
In other Senate news: 
+The Senate received a brief presentation from Rachel Novick 
Riehle 
continued from page 1 
class or the University. Fr. Riehle stood firm on the policy that I put out that it was OK to protest in any way one want­ed, but you shouldn't disrupt the life of the University. 
"And they tried to shut down one of the University offices, and Fr. Riehle said, 'Either you leave here or you're gone.' He applied the policy that I had laid down. The students went along so it was successful. I give him some credit for get­ting us through the revolution Education and Outreach Coordinator at the Office of Sustainability. Novick, who is in charge of outreach on environ­mental issues, said the Office of Sustainability would by taking two different approaches to envi­ronmentalism. 
The top-down approach, she said, examines major infrastruc­ture problems, including the cam­pus' sprinklers. 
"The main change is that [the sprinklers] will all be electronical­ly controlled," said Novick, which she claimed would stop leaks and prevent the sprinklers from com­ing on right after a rainstorm. 
Novick said the bottom-up approach focuses more on indi­vidual efforts by "encouraging faculty and students to change their lifestyles a little bit." 
The bottom-up approach includes activities such as the recent dorm-wide recycling com­petition, which was won by Walsh Hall, who reduced their energy use by 31 percent. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
successfully, that was the end of the era. Things went quietly after that across the land." 
After leaving his post as dean of students, Riehle became the rector of Pangborn Hall in 1973 and served there until 1985. Riehle had previ­ously been rector of Sorin Hall in 1966 and chaplain of Sorin Hall in 1964. 
He was also chairman of the board of directors for the University Club from 1971-77 and director of energy conser­vation. 
Riehle also served as the executive director of the Monogram Club from 1978 through 2002 and in 2001, 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 30, 2008 
has been conducted, to the goal is probably perfection," athletes, coaches and aca­Heisler said. "You'd like to

NCAA 

demic advisors, but also to see 100s across the board." the "culture of Notre Dame." The 2007 NCAA report
continued from page I 

"It's a message probably showed Notre Dame had a 
Eight of thP men's sports that is sent early on, in the percentage of .818 (18 of programs -basketball, base­recruiting process. If you are 22), which made it No. 1. In ball, eross country and traek, interested in coming to col­2006, Notre Dame's percent­lacrosse, f'endng, soccer, lege and not going to elass age was .773 (17 of 22), swimming and tennis and sleeping late and doing which placed it at the No. 2 rnceivnd perfect scorns of nothing but concentrating on rank behind the U.S. Naval I00. athletics, then Notre Dame Academy. In 2005, Notre 
The three programs that isn't going to be the place for Dame's score was .800 (16 of did not receive you," he said. 20), which resulted in a No. perfect scorns "The idea is 1 rank, according to a news
"It is a testament to
did, however, all that athletics release on the Notre Dame rnc(dvn seores in the philosophy ofthe is only going Athletics Web site. thn 90s. llochy University in terms to take you so The numbers released in rncnivml a scorn far, no matter the fourth year of the NCAA
ofathletics that 
or 96, football a how accom­GSH survey are based upon scorn of 94 and graduation should be plished you entering elasses from 1998 golf a scorn or a routine part ofthe are as an ath­to 2001. 
90. lete." According to the Notre
experience.
"It is a tnsta­This year's Dame Athletics Web site, the nwnt to the phi­numbers are GSH was developed four l o s o p h y o r t tu~ John Heisler consistent years ago to account for Univnrsity in senior associate with how transfer student athletes and terms of athlnt­Notre Dame others not tracked by federal
athletics director
ies that gradua­has performed graduation rate accounting, tion should lw a in tho past, to account for increased routine part or thn oxpori­lleislnr said, and in some mobility of students. Under OIH~n." said John llnisler, the areas, Notre Dame improved. these standards, schools are senior associate athletics Last year, 18 of the not penalized for students director for media and University's 22 athletic pro­who transfer from the insti­broackast rPlations at Notre grams received a GSH score tution in good academic Damn. of 100. standing. 
Heisler credited the high "I suppose, in a lot of scores this year, and in each cases, that the numbers are Contact Kaidynn Riely at or the four years the survey impressive enough that the kriley@nd.edu 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
dents in the eases it advises it best not to use local mail to send absente!l ballots to the United States; on-location pro­gram directors will send these ballots by DSL to ensure they arrive on time to be counted. 
"Unfortunately, in some places, the local mail takes for­ever," she said. 
OIS will be sending out e­

i rnails today reminding abroad 
~ students once again about the election and referring them to
I 
the Youth Vote Overseas Web site in the event their ballots are lost or late in arriving. 

The United States election is a hot topic in various media outlets abroad, though not to the same degree as domestic eoverage. 
said. will never succeed, he said. 

I
The seeond factor is a lack of Heform is the key idea in improv­
Writer 
liberalism in polities, he said. The ing the conservative party, he last two presidents worked to said.
continued from page I 

change their respective parties, Gerson said that McCain has 
I 

and genoddn. Gerson said. There is none of that been such a reformer. In the past, 
Gerson's leetum concerned the in today's election and both par­he was willing to opposn his own changing politkal landseapn. IIn ties are running empty cam­party. However, he is also run­emphasized thrnn main aspects paigns, he said. Gerson said that ning an empty campaign now. He that an~ causing a shil't in the Obama is naturally talented in has made no announcement of political natun~ of tho United the art of polities, but that he has any kind of reform, he said. States. not made any "Candidates 

Tlw first factor is the economic rnovns to inno-need to decide if decline of mainstream media, vate his policies. they want to pro­which has led to a major ehangn A lack of any "A new presidency is vide a message for in the naturn of news, he said. sort of moder­the masses or be in
a chance for a new 
Tlw rise of Internet media, ate policy agen­business for them­
beginning."
aeeording to (;orson, has f'adlitat­da will nmpow­selves." «-d a eulturP of exclusion, encour­nr the Gerson also aging those who do not agren Democrat-led Michael Gerson asked why the 
with an idea to rnmain silent Congress, lead­presidential speechwriter winner of this rather than challenge it. ing to backlash year's election "Americans ean now if they from conserva-would even want dwosn live in an ideological uni­tives, he said. the presidency. V(~rsl' of their own choosing, and "Obama is a strong, able man," The three factors will certainly view nvPryone outside that uni­Gerson said. "But it may take a complicate the ofliee. There will vnrst~ as idiots, as fools," said strong president with a devel­likely be a recession, along with a Gerson. oped and cnntrist ideology to host of other problems. I Iowever, Gorson admitted that the main­shape and defy a democratic he said with a new leader comes stream media eould also be eor­Congress." new optimism. rupt, oven hypocritical. But The third factor relates to con-"A new presidency is a chance hypoerisy cannot exist without snrvatism, he said. Gerson said for a new beginning," Gerson standards, hn said. Without a the party is lost, exhausted, and said. "It is one of the best things mainstream media and journal­preparing for fratricide. Unless about this country." isL<; devoted to exposing the truth, Hepublieans change their tacties Arnorkans are loll with a news and apply creative, free-market Contact Irena Zajickova at media wlwrn anger rules, he ideas to human problems, they izajicko@nd.edu 
"I would imagine they are definitely talking about the election, especially in Europe," Opel said. 
Junior Clare Brady, currently studying abroad in Dublin, reg­istered to vote through the NAFSA Web site before she left; it was sent to her in Ireland. When she received it, she filled it out and sent it back, citing no problems with mail delivery. 
Brady said the United States election is a very popular topic of conversation in Ireland. 
"People here are very, very obsessed with the election and love [Sen. Barack] Obama, just because they hate [President George! Bush," she said. 
The level of interest in the United States political system is very high; Brady said she noticed "some people here care more than people at horne." 
She said the students do need to work and seek out election news a little bit, but that it's "readily available." 
Junior Molly Conway, cur­rently studying abroad in London, said "Londoners seem to be overwhelmingly pro­Obama." 
"They see him as being a breath of fresh air for American politics and they are very vocal about their endorse­ment," she said. 
Conway also voted by absen­tee ballot, which she also had mailed to her abroad location. 
She said that due to the time difference, six hours for those in London, many students have been watching presidential debates on YouTube or other Web sites after they occur Stateside. 
"But some people stayed up to watch them," she said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 







r---------.. 
I Buy 5Feet Get The 6111 Foot Free I 
For AUmited Time At 
I Participating locations Including: I 
11706 South Bend Ave* Downtown I 
US 31 N*~R 23.@Ironwood 1
1
I *UP Mall 1ndlan R1dge *WaiMart I 
I 







ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 30, 2008 CoMPILED FROM Tt·H: l)nsERVER's w1 RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israeli court clears way for museum 
JERUSAlEM -Plans for a Jerusalem museum dedicated to tolenmce and coexi.•;tence got the final go­almad Wednesday from l'IDIBI's Supreme Court, which rPjnet.nd an appeal by Muslims who complained the ~ite covers part ofan ancient Mu'ilim cemetery. 
The judgt'.S ruled they would not block construction ~inm no oqjection'> had been lodged in 1960 when the city put a parking lot over a small section ofthe grave­yard. 
ThP Mu'il.~um of Tolenmce i'> intended to bring the city's warring trilxJS together. But the planning alone sparkt~ a light with political. rnligiou'i and historir,al dimnrt'iion'> bPtwt'('n Mu'ilims and Jews. 
The Simon Wiesenthal Center, the Los Angeles­ba.'il.~d .h~wi'ih org<mization behind the pr~ject, wel­mm'(l the court ruling alter a two-yp,ar delay in work on the $250 million mu'>eum cau'il.~ by legal pnxoo­ing-;. 
"Nl citizens of l'irael. Jews and non-Jews, are the mal bmdidmi{'.S of thi'i dndsion," Rabbi Marvin Hier, !(Jundnr of the WiPsmthal Center the rmter, said in a 
~i.atnmenl 
Iraq outlines desired pact changes 
BAGIIDAD-Iraq want'> a security agnJement with the U.S. to inelude a dear ban on U.S. troops using Iraqi territory to attack Iraq's neighbors. the govnrnment spokesman said Wednesday. three days al'tnr a dramatic U.S. raid on Syria. 
Also Wednesday, the country's most influential Shiite deric expressed concerned timt Iraqi sov­ereignty be protected in the pact. Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani wields vast influence among the Shiite majority and his explicit oppo­sition could scuttln the deal. 
Governmnnt spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh said the ban was among ({mr proposed amendments to the draft agmnment approved by the Cabinet this week and forwarded to the U.S. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Thousands lack power in the Northeast 
ALBANY -More snow fell Wednesday in paris of the Northeast as utility crews labored to restore service to thousands of customers blacked out by the region's first big snowstorm of the season. 
The wet snow that began falling Tuesday collected on trees still covered with leaves, and its weight combined with gusty wind to send limbs crashing onto power lines. 
The National Weather Service reported storm totals of about 14 inches at northern New Jersey's High Point State Park, as much as 15 inches along the northwestern edge of New York's Catskill Mountains, and a foot in Pennsylvania's Pocono Mountains. 
Halloween returns to Pa. town 
011. CJIY, Pa. -For 16 years, mal horror overshad­owed the make-bnlieve terror of Halloween in thi'> Pnnm;ylvania town. whem trick-or-treating after dark was banm~ after an 11-yPM-old girl was abdueted ofl' the ~1n1et m1d murdmrl. 
But on Friday. pint-sized witches, princesses and vampin:JS will onc11 ag-d.in be shuflling from house to hou'in at night. thanks to a petition drive by a fifth-grad­m: 
Eli/,alx~th IIDN.-gathen~ signatums, wrote an essay outlining ht~r argument. and peThlladed City Council two month'> ago t.o bring back nighttime triek -{Jr-tn:>,ating. 
"I WdS a liUle scanrl that hapJXmiXl" Elizabeth said of the 1 992 slaying of' Shauna Howe. who was kidnappm while walking home lium a pre-Halloween party. But she added: "I did thi'i and now I'm so happy." · 

LOCAL NEWS 
Date set for racketeering trial 
HAMMOND -A federal judge has set Jan. 19 f'or the start of a civil racketeering trial against former East Chicago Mayor Hobert Pastrick and two of his top aides. 
Thn lawsuit claims that Pastrick and others used more than $24 million of city money for paving projects to buy votes in the 1999 Democratic primary election. 
U.S. District Judge James Moody, who in June rejected a request from Pastrick to dismiss the lawsuit, set the Jan. 19 trial date on Wednesday and scheduled a final pretrial conference for Jan. 8. 


College tuition up despite economy 
Students and families see no relief amid falling wages and job losses 
Associated Press  
As the economy walloped their  
tinam'ffi, students and fumilil'.S saw  
little n11ief thi'i tan from rising college  
costs. which jumped 6.4 pen;ent at  
~iate universitil'.S, according to new  
figt.Im5 out Wednesday.  
Next year i'i aln>_ady looking bad,  
too. More state budget cuts to higher  
{~ucation are virtually certain, and  
schools in at lea'it two states ­ 
Michigan and Rhod11 Island ­will  
take the unusual step of raising  
prices midyl:'m:  
"At a time of Oattening wages,  
widffiJJr?1id job lOO>ffi and shrinking  
home valuns, the la'>i thing parents  
need is another big increa'in in the  
cost of college," said James Boyle,  
president of the group College  
Parents of America  
But that's what they got  
For the current academic year.  
the avmage list prim of tuition and  
tees at tour-year public universities  
rose $:~94, or 6.4 peiT.ent. to $6,585  
lor in-stat.e studento:;. At private col­ 
legffi, price> ro>e $1,399, or 5.9 per­ 
cent, to $25,143, according to the  
annual "Trends in College Pricing"  
report from tho College Board.  
It's important to remember that  
many students don't pay the full ~i  
price. At private colleges, grants and  
tax breaks lower the average net  
price to about $14,900. At public  
universities the average actual cost is  
only about $2,900.  
And while some private colleges  
now exceed $50,000 when room  
and board are figured in, they are AP  
the exception. Overall, more than Erin O'Comell, right, Cl1d her mother listen during a visit to 8on University. The souring economy Cl1d  
half of four-year college students dr.matic slump on Wall Street are provking a cold dose clfmncial reality for RB1Y tcmlies.  
attend institutions where the list  
price for tuition and fees is less than  most cases the pressure to charge  "Despite every effort by our in'iti.­ economics professor at Skidmore  
$9,00l.  more will be greater.  tutions to increase aid to students  College and senior policy analyst at  
"No student should rule out a pri­ "Ifcurrent economic patterns con­ and fumilies, I am afraid this year's  the College Board, said in a tele­ 
vate college and university without  fume, it is pa;sible that some tuition  report may prove only to be a snap­ phone interview. While fumilies may  
first checking with the institution  increases next year will be higher  shot of a time in history that we  pustpone other big-ticket items, "It's  
about financial aid options," said  than the usual 5 to 6 pen;ent at our  might soon be referring to as the  harder to wait to go to college than  
David Warren, president of the  institutiom;," Warrensaid  'good old days,"' said Molly Corbett  to wait to buy a car," she said  
National A<nociation of Colleges and  At public institutions ­which  Broad, president of the American  Public two-year colleges once  
Universities. He noted that over the  enroll about three-quarters of  Council on Education, the principal  again were the biggest bargain.  
last decade independent colleges  American college students ­the  group representing colleges in  Average li.'it prices there ro>e $108,  
have increased financial aid at more  economy already has prompted big  Washington, D.C.  or 4.7 pen;ent, to $2,402. Factoring  
than three times the rate they've  increases. At least 21 states cut high­ The College Board report empha­ in financiaJ aid, the College Board  
increased tuition  er education spending this year, and  sized that, accounting for overall  estimates the average net cost is only  
But they've done so largely by tap­ some passed tuition increases well  inflation, price> ro>e less than 1 per­ about$100.  
ping rapidly growing endowments.  above the nationaJ average, accord­ cent this year, and actually declined  The College Board also reported  
Now, like family savings, college  ing to the Center on Budget and  at public two-year colleges. But  that the amount of private borrow­ 
endowments have taken a beating  Policy Priorities. The University of  that's only becauo:;e overall inflation  ing-the loans studento:; take out on  
on WaJI Street. just a'> demand for  Florida. for instanr,e, is eliminating  was unusually high-about 5.6  top of federal aid-declined slightly  
financial aid rises. Some colleges  430 fu.culty and staff p<Eit.iom;, low­ pen;ent  in 2007-2008. After years of double­ 
may try to hold down prices ­ ering enrollment by 1,00) students  "No one really thinks it's easier to  digit increases that fueled worries  
Benedictine University in llo:;le, Dl..  and increasing prirffl 15 pen;ent for  pay for college just because other  about student dnbt, private borrow­ 
has announced a freeze -but in  in-state undergraduates.  prices have gone up," Sandy Baurn,  ing has plateaued  
PAKISTAN  



At least 170 dead in Pakistan quake 
Associated Press 

Pakistan -Desperate villagers clawed through piles of mud and timber looking for victims of an earthquake that collapsed thousands of homes in south­western Pakistan before dawn Wednesday, killing at least 170 people. 
Army planes began flying in tents. medical supplies and blankets to the quake zone in Baluchistan province, but some 15,000 homeless people in the impoverished region faced a night in the open in near freezing temperatures fol­lowing the 6.4-magnitude jolt. 
"I have lost everything," said Haji Shahbaz, mourning the deaths of 17 rel­atives in Warn, a hard-hit village. 
"Nothing is left here, and now life is worthless for me," he added. then wailed in despair, tears streaking his dust-caked face. 
Pakistan is no stranger to natural dis­asters, but the quake comes at an espe­cially precarious time for the Muslim country, with the civilian government battling ai-Qaida and Taliban attacks while grappling with a punishing ceo­nomic crisis. 
As the army and other government agencies rushed to provide help, at least three hard-line Islamic organizations also were quick to aid quake survivors, according to an Associated Press reporter who toured the area. 
Among them was Jamaat-ud-Dawa, 

designated a terrorist group by the U.S. government for its links to Muslim sepa­ratists fighting in India's portion of the disputed Himalayan region of Kashmir. 
The group set up relief camps and won friends among survivors of a 7.6­magnitude quake that devastated Kashmir and northern Pakistan in October 2005, killing about 80.000 peo­ple and leaving hundreds of thousands homeless. 
Baluchistan is home to a long-running separatist movement, but has so far been spared the level of militant vio­lence seen in the northwestern tribal areas along the border with Afghanistan, where Muslim extremists are strong. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, October 30, 2008 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
York Times, Chicago Tribune, and thn South Bend Tribune 
to campus. 
The budget also allowed for an increase to the eontingnncy fund. 
"We upped !the conting1~ncy fundi just beeause we don't know about this rnadership program," Weaver said. "Last year, they budgeted $13,000 for it. 

however, he said he was dis­appointed with the way the issue was handled. 
''I'm appreciative of how much people were very pas­sionate about ... the budget and the stipend, but I was a little disappointed that it 
"We upped [the contingency fund] just becasue we don't know about this readership program. " 
Mo Weaver student body treasurer 
became very personal," Daniel said. 
Daniel reminded BOG and those in attendance at the meeting that student government will make decisions that they don't 
So, we just want to make sure we have that covered." 
Patriek Daniel, direetor of Student Involvement and BOG advisor, congratulated the board on passing the budget; agree with at times, and hopes people will focus on the issue instead of making things personal in the future. 

lie also said that with the passing of the budget, BOG 
UNITED KINGDOM 

Russell Brand quits BBC afterradioshovvSUSfX11dai 
Associated Press 
1.0 NDON -Every enter­tainer knows there's a fine lirw bntween offbeat and oiTnnsive. Hussell Brand has built a earenr walking it ­but now he may havn slum­bind. 
The wild-haired, motor­mouthed British comedian is rnnowned for risque rou­tinns, wrote a memoir recounting his drug and sex addiction and called President Bush "that retard­ed cowboy fellow" while hosting MTV's Video Music Awards. 
On Wndnesday, Brand quit his BBC radio show after he and fellow performer Jonathan Hoss were sus­pended indefinitely for leav­ing lewd messages on the voicemail of a 78-year-old aetor. Also under threat is the reputation of Britain's state-funded national broad­caster, which allowed Brand's routine to make it to air. 
The calls by Brand and Hoss to actor Andrew Sachs -best known for playing Spanish waiter Manuel in the 1970s Britcorn "Fawlty Towers" -have drawn more than 18,000 complaints. Prime Minister Gordon Brown called the eomrnents "inappropriate and unac­ceptable." 
In the ad-libbed messages, the pair claimed Brand had slept with Sachs' grand­daughter Georgina Baillie, and joked that Sachs might hang himself as a result of the news. Baillie, a 23-year­old burlesque performer, acknowledged she had a sexual relationship with Brand but said the calls to her grandfather were "cruel." 
Tho duo made further calls to Sachs in which they tried to apologize but continued to blurt out lewd messages. The calls were recorded Oct. 16 and aired on Brand's radio show two days later. 
Both Brand and Boss apol­ogized. 

"I am sorry that I upset Mr. Sachs," Brand, 33, told reportnrs outside his London 
home Wndnesday. Boss, 47, 
said he was sorry for his 
"stupid error of judgment." 
BBC director general Mark Thompson made a "personal and unreserved apology" for the "gross lapse of taste by the performers and the pro­duction team." 
lie said the pair would be suspended pending a full report into the affair. 
Brand later said he had decided to resign from his BBC radio program, which attracted 2 million listeners a week. 
"As I only do the radio show to make people laugh, I've decided that given the subsequent coverage I will stop doing the show," he said in a statement. "I got a bit caught up in the moment and forgot that at the core of the rude comments and silly songs were the real feelings of a beloved and brilliant comic actor and a very sweet and big-hearted young woman." 
Several politicians have called on the BBC to fire the pair. Telecommunications regulator Ofcorn said it would investigate whether the calls breached the broadcasting code, which sets standards for fairness and privaey. 
The case is reminiscent of the antics of American "shock jocks" such as Howard Stern -who paid repeated obscenity fines before j urnping to the unreg­ulated haven of satellite radio -or Don Irnus, who was fired from MSNBC and CBS Hadio for making racist and sexist comments about a women's basketball team. There have been numerous incidents of DJ-inspired out­rage in the U.S. In 2002, DJ team Opie and Anthony were fired by CBS Radio after broadcasting a live account of two listeners having sex in New York City's St. Patrick's Cathedral. 
Sachs said he did not plan to complain to the police or other authorities. 
"I respect his decision," he said about Brand. "I hope he moves forward, I really hope he does." 
has the opportunity to move about a boycott of the dining 
forward. "Let's  hall  which  
not let it be just  took  place  
about  the  ''I'm appreciative of  before  Fall  
money," he said.  how much people  Break in  stu­ 
"You have move forward  to as  were very passionate  dents discon­tent with the  
BOG."  about . . . the budget  food.  
After  dis- and the stipend. but I  She  said  
cussing the budget, Student Services corn­ was a little disappointed that it  Bowles told her that the boycott did not  
missioner  became very  significantly  
Catherine Meadors said  personal."  affect the number of stu­ 
Barry  Bowles,  dents  in  the  
General  Patrick Daniel  dining  hall.  
Manager  of  BOG advisor  Boles also pro­ 
Sodexo  at  the  vided her with  
College, provid­ figures  in  

ed her with more information response to the anonymous 

fliers calling for the boycott that were put under students' doors before break. 
"lie said we lhavel the twelfth lowest leostJ out of the top 100 liberal arts colleges for meal plans," Meadors said. She said Bowles wants to provide a variety of food in the dining hall, and he wants to make sure that it is the variety that students want. 
Bowles has an open door policy for students with con­cerns about the food, she said. 
Contact Liz Harter at EharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 




www.theteambus.com 
574-256-9956 1-877-EZ-TOUR BUS 


Ai hh.:tit~/At·mh:mi>t· (] Wl!p:-. Fr:t1ernit}: . .:snrority <imups Ormlpi/Cumpanr ( >utin~:-. Clwrh:r~.~n >urs Tht.~at~o·c tmct.'rts./Si·Hlrtin~ Evt~n1s C hurr~hes./Sc hoo I <kmiJl~ 


Convenient. Safe. Reliable. 



Day of the Dead 
Dia Cle los Muertos 
7 p.m. Oct 30 

Snit.e IVIuseum of Art. 
University of Not.re 

Eric Chavez of Oaxaca, 
Mexico, discusses 
Zapotec vveaving and Dia 
de los Muertos follovved 
by traditional Mexican 
music, dance, and 
refreshments. Free 
T-shirts to the 
first 50 guests. 
Co-sponsored by the 

Snite Museum of Art and the 
Institute for Latino Studies with 
support from the Kellogg Institute 
for International Studies, Campus 
Ministry, Multi-cultural Student 
Programs and Services. 

UNIVERSITY OF
s~~ 

NOTRE DAME
Museum ofART 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, October 30, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  8,990.96  -74.16  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,216  748  1,224  2,899,198,985  
AMEX  1,428~!4 ..  . +2.48  

NASDAQ 1,657.21 +7.74 NYSE 5,774;89 +41.44 S&P 500 930.09 -10.42 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,21L90 0.00 FTSE 100 (London) 4,242.54 +316.1() 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY)  -0.73  -0.68  93.08  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -0.25  -0.08  31.78  
FIN SEL SPDR (XLF)  -6.16  -0.94  14.31  
!SHARES MSCI (EEM)  -6.77  -1.64  22.60  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.41 +0.054 3.874 13-WEEK BILL -24.67 -0.185 0.565 30-YEAR BOND +1.58 +0.066 4.238 5-YEAR NOTE +0.59 +0.016 2.745 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +4.77 67.50 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +13.50 754.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.58 87.38 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 97.5200 EURO 0.7721 

IN BRIEF 
FDA officials opposed drug suit policy 
WA~HINGTON-Top scientists and career employ­ees at the Food and Drug Administration opposed agency regulations that weaken consumers' ability to sue drug makers, congressional investigators said Wndnesday. 
At issue is language in a drug labeling rule from 2006 that effectively limits when people can sue in state court over injury claims involving medications. The FDA contends federal regulations prevail when there i<> a conflict with state law. This concept is called pre-emption. 
Internal agency documents showed that career offi­cials opposed this approach, according to a report released by Rep. Henry Waxman, chairman of the I louse Oversight and Government Reform Committee. In the past, the agency had viewed private suits as an additional layer of protection against unsafe drugs, the report said. 
"Much of the argument for why we are proposing to invoke pre-emption seems to be based on a false assumption that the FDA approved labeling is fully accurate and up-to-date in a real time basis," the rnport quoted Dr. John Jenkins. who oversees FDA's new drug reviews, as saying. "We know that such an assumption is false." 
Patienl'i injured by drugs have won suits against drug manufacturers for failing to warn against certain dangers. 

World stocks higher as Fed cuts rate 
LONDON -World stock markets ended mostly higher Wednesday but many retreated from their session peaks as investors returned to fretting about corporate earnings in a global recession and a rally on Wall Street fizzled. 
The U.S. Federal Reserve met market expecta­tions by trimming a key interest rate by half a percentage point in a bid to revive the world's largest economy. Global markets surged Tuesday in anticipation of the Fed's move but there appean~d to be only lackluster follow-through. 
Late-session selling sent the Dow Jones indus­trials down 74.16. or 0.82 percent, to end at 8,990.96 after being up nearly 280 points, which would have given them a two-day gain of more than I.H>O points. 
European stock markets dosed mostly higher Wednesday, eatr.hing up with Tuesday's surge on Wall Street that started after European nxehanges had closed. 

Governors, mayors seek fiscal help 
Facing budget troubles, states ask Washington for public works projects 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A bevy of 
governors, mayors and inter­
est groups came to Capitol 
Hill Wednesday, pressing for 
tens of billions of dollars for 
new public works projects 
and help for cash-strapped 
states, among other ideas 
aimed at boosting the econo­
my. 

They found sympathetic 
ears at a pair of House hear­
ings -even from some 
Republicans -for ambitious 
plans to build roads and 
water and sewer projects, 
extend jobless benefits and 
help states cope with multibil­
lion dollar budget shortfalls. 
Democrats are eyeing a 
huge economic stimulus 
measure, either in a postelec­
tion session next month or as 
the first item of business next 
year. They are fO<~using more 
on the spending side of the 
federal ledger, as opposed to 
the tax rebate checks sent out 
earlier this year, with a key 
focus on generating new jobs. 
"Every billion dollars in 
spending on infrastructure, 
on highway and transporta­
tion expenditures does result 
in 35,000 new jobs," said Rep. 
John Mica, R-Fla., at a hear­
ing of the House 
Transportation and 
Infrastructure Committee. 
Before another panel, New 
York Gov. David Paterson, a 
Democrat, pressed for billions 
to help close a projected 
$12.5 billion budget gap 
caused in large part by the the size of the economy -or the spending-focused measures, she said the White 
chaos on Wall Street. He said about $300 billion -with a approach favored by House has not "seen a pack­
falling tax revenues will mean heavy emphasis on infrastruc­Democrats. While Democrats age that we could support." 
harmful cuts to in health care, ture projects such as road say there's no time to waste, "It remains a mystery to me 
anti-poverty programs and construction, railway repairs given the faltering economy, whether this hearing is mere­
other state services. and water and sewer proj­they may have to wait until ly a fact-finding expedition or 
"The cruel irony is that at ects. January to enact their plans whether it is laying the 
the time when citizens need "This time of adversity -ifBarack Obama is elected. groundwork for action in 
their state governments the should be translated into a Congressional aides say an Congress next month on a 
most, state governments are time of opportunity with extension of unemployment stimulus package," said Rep. 
least equipped to help them respect to our infrastructure benefits is likely next month, Jim McCrery, R-La., a mem­
because of plummeting rev­projects," Corzine told the but that a large stimulus bill is ber of the House Ways and 
enues," Paterson said. "When transportation committee. unlikely to pass while Bush is Means Committee. "If our 
states are hurting, our nation­"We should not lose the in office. goal is to make law this year, 
al economy suffers." opportunity to invest in our "A lot of the claims that are then I want to remind my col­
New Jersey Gov. Jon future, our children, and our made about how much trans­leagues that it is of little use to 
Corzine, a Democrat and for­grandchildren's future." portation could actually help draft a package ... if it cannot 
mer chairman of Goldman But the immediate future of build the economy are also pass the closely divided 
Sachs, called for a deficit­· any stimulus measure is overblown," said White House Senate and be signed by the 
financed stimulus measure murky at best, given resist­Press Secretary Dana Perino. current occupant of the White 
tagged at up to two percent of ance from President Bush to Generally on new stimulus House." 




Key interest rate lowered to 1 percent 
Associated Press the second biggest point gain in history, was credit crisis. While the goal is to encourage 
less impressed with Wednesday's activity. The banks to begin lending again, financial institu­

WASHINGTON -The Federal Reserve Dow Jones industrial average finished the tions are skittish about extending new loans slashed a key interest rate by half a percent­day down 7 4 points, a drop analysts said given the huge losses they have racked up in age point Wednesday, driving it to a level seen partly reflected growing worries about bad mortgages. only once before in the last half-century, and whether the government's actions will be suf­Meanwhile, the administration announced the government finally began distributing ficient to avert a deep and prolonged reces­that the spigot had been opened on the $700 funds from the billions in the financial rescue sion. billion fund created by Congress Oct. 3 to res­package. The Fed, as investors had hoped, cue the U.S. financial system. Treastn)' issued 
Those efforts and others were part of a announced a half-point cut in the federal a report showing cheeks had been disbursed concerted drive by officials, just days before a funds rate, the interest that banks charge for $125 billion in payments to nine major national election, to demonstrate they are each other on overnight loans, driving it down banks, including Bank of America, Citigroup, moving as quickly as possible to deal with the to 1 percent, a low last seen in 2003-2004. JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and most serious fmancial crisis to hit the country That rate has not been lower since 1958 Morgan Stanley. The goal is to bolster their since the 1930s. when Dwight Eisenhower was president. balance sheets so they will resume more nor­
"Policymakers have their foot to the ac,cel­Reducing the rate a<> low as zero cannot be mal lending. erator and they arc using every effort at their ruled out, some analysts said, but they cau­And the administration was nearing an disposal to stop the slide in the economy and tioned that rcdueing rates that far carried agreement on a plan to help around 3 million financial markets," said Mark Zandi. chief some risk'i, induding that if the credit crisis homeowners avoid forc>elosure, acc,ording to economist with Moody's Eeonomy.eom. "And suddenly worsenc'<i, the Fed would have used sources who had been briefed on the matter. it's not a moment too soon given the serious up its ammunition. The program would be thP most aggn:-.ssive damage that ha'i already been done." Analysts also noted that just lowering rates effort yet to limit damages from the severe 
Wall Street, which the previous day posted cannot serve as a panacea to overcome a housing slump. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 30, 2008 
CONGO 
NO, SMC, &HCC Students


Soldiers, refugees flee rebel fighters 
Rwandan Tutsi-led government denies charges that troops crossed the border, attacked soldiers 
Associated Press 
COMA -Firing wildly, Congolese soldiers comman­deered ears, taxis and motor­bikes Wednesday in a retreat from advancing rebel fighters, joining tens of thousands of ter­ri find refugees struggling to stay ahead of' the violence. 
As gunfire crackled in this eastern provincial capital, the Tutsi rebels said they had reached the outskirts of Goma and declared a unilateral cease­fire to prevent panic as the army retreats and residents flee. 
Congo said Hwandan troops had crossed the border and attacked its soldiers -raising tho spncter that neighboring nations will again be drawn into Congo's war. Hwanda's Tutsi-led government immedi­ately denied the charge, but Congo turned to Angola for help defending its territory. 
As tlw chaos mounted, the 
U.S. announced its ofTieials were leaving Goma and urged all American citizens to do the same. Tlw State Department said Assistant Secretary of State for African Afl"airs Jendayi 
spokesman 
S e a n 
McCormack. "This is of' deep 
concern to us." 
Thousands of panicked refugees dogged the dirt roads out of Genna, struggling to rnach safety. 
Wonwn carrying huge bun­dins on their heads and babies in tlwir arms trudged alongside rnnn pushing crude wooden earts crammed with c:lothing, food and cooking utensils. Bewi ldnnHI children walked alongside. Young boys lnd goats and pigs on tethers as men on bieydns weaved in and out. 

Thn U.N. High Commissioner for Hefugees said about 45,000 people fled the nearby village of Kibati. where they had been slenping in a makeshift camp in thn opnn air, in a matter of hours on Wednnsday. 
"It was vnry chaotic," said ageney spokesman Hon Hndmond, speaking from (;nrwva. Most of the n~fugees had arrived only the day before af'tm· flePing fighting farther north. 
"Tlwy suddPnly beeanw very agitatPd and p1~opln began lnav­ing thn ramp in a panic," Hndmond said. Tlwy first lwad­nd toward (;oma to tlw south, thPn l"hang1HI dirnetion and lwadt>d bark out as it lwcame dnar the dly was about to fall. 
Coma's gov<'rnor. .Julien Mpaluku. arknowlndgnd that panic was spreading, but strnsst>d that U.N. pnae:eknepnrs WPrn still in ehargp and rnlwls had not yl'l Pnlen~d t.lw city. 
U.N. spokesman Madnodjn Mounoubai said pnacnkewpnrs WPrn dnployPd at the~ airport and at other strategic points. 
A rebel statement said their fighters were just outside Goma. 
"We are not far from Goma," rebel leader Laurent Nkunda was quoted as saying on the BBC's Web site. "But because there is a state of destabiliza­tion in the town we deeided ... unilaterally to proclaim a cease-fire." 
Nkunda, who has ignored calls by the Security Council to respect a U.N.-brokered truce signed in January, ealled on government forces to follow suit. 
The U.N. says its biggest peacekeeping mission -a 17,000-strong force -is now stretched to the limit with the surge in fighting and needs more troops quickly. India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Uruguay and South Africa are the main contributors to the existing force. 
But hopes for immediate baekup from the European Union dimmed. French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner said Wednesday the EU had considered sending troops to reinforce the peaeekeepers in 
NO Club of DC bus transportation to and from Maryland and Virginia for Thanksgiving and 


Christmas. Fun &Easy! 

Book by 11/1 and save Money!! 

Contact Ann Rimkus arimkus@nd.edu 

"They suddenly 
Frazer was Congo but some heading to the became very agitated countries refused. capital, Fears have
and people began 
Kinshasa, and grown of a wider
leaving the camp 
would arrive war that could Thursday. in a panic, drag in Congo's "Tiwre is a neighbors. Congo lot of violence," suffered back-to­
Ron Redmond 
s a d hack wars from

Agency spokesman 
1996 to 2002 that 
embroiled eight 
Afriean nations and beeame a 
rush at the eountry's vast min­
nral wealth. 
The unrest in eastern Congo 
has been fueled by festering 
hatreds left over from the 1994 
Hwandan genoeide, in which 
half a million Tutsis were 
slaughtered. More than a mil­
lion llutu extremists fled to 
Congo where they regrouped in 
a brutal militia that helps fuel 
the continuing eonfliet in Congo. 
Hebel leader Nkunda, an eth­nie Tutsi and former general, quit the army several years ago, claiming the government of President Joseph Kabila was not doing enough to protect minority Tutsis from the llutu extremists. 

On Wednesday, retreating government soldiers entered Goma along with the fleeing refugees, grabbing cars, taxis and motorbikes to help in their escape. 
About 15 soldiers briefly eom­mandcercd a car carrying an AP cameraman and photogra­pher and demanded to be driv­en about 50 miles to the town of Saki. 
''I'll kill you! I'll kill you!" yelled one soldier in front of an airfield nnar downtown Goma. 
Tlw soldiers grabbed boxes that looked like ammunition from the U.N. compound at the airport, pill~d them into the SUV and took off. Some of the sol­diers piled onto tho roof, others hung from open doors. The journalists finally managed to get away, jumping out of the moving vehiele at a military poliee eheekpoint. 







ELECTION 2008 
Thursday, October 30,2008 COMPILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 9 
CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Obama on prime-time; McCain criticizes 
MIAMI -Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama plunked down $4 million for a cam­paign-closing television ad Wednesday night, sum­moning voters to "choose hope over fear and unity over division" in Tuesday's election. Republican John McCain derided the event as a "gauzy, feel­good commercial," paid for with broken promises. 
"America, the time for change has come,"Obama said in the fmal moments of the unusual ad, a blend of videotaped moments and a live appearance before thousands in Sunrise, Fla. 
"In six days we can choose an economy that rewards work and creates jobs and fuels prosperity starting with the middle class," Obama said. 
The 30-minute ad. aired on CBS. NBC. Fox and several cable networks, came just days from the end of a race in which Obama holds the lead in polls nationally as well as in most key battleground states as he bids to become the first black presi­dent. 
Hepublieans and even some Democrats said the race was tightPning as it neared the end. And while Obama made no mention of McCain in his paid tele­vision ad. both men sharpnned their rhetoric during the day. 
Palin suggesls she will be a GOP fixture 
TOLEDO, Ohio -Facing the unhappy prospect of dp({mt, Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin indicatPd Wednesday that she will not disappear from the national political scene if the GOP tickPt IOSPs on Tuesday. 
"Absolutely not. I think that, if I were to give up and wave a white flag of surrender against some of the political shot<> that we've taken, that ... that would ... bring this whole ... I'm not doing this for naught," Palin said in an interview with ABC News, according to excerpts of a transcript released by the television network. 
Palin was steadfast in saying Republican presi­dential nominee John McCain would defeat Democrat Barack Obama. 
''I'm just ... thinking that it's gonna to go our way on Tuesday, Nov. 4. I truly believe that the wisdom of ... of the people will be revealed on that day. As they enter that voting booth, they will understand the stark contrast between the two tickets," the Ala<>ka governor said. 
In addition to the interview, Palin delivered a poli­cy address in which she called for a "clean break" from the Bu.<>h administration's energy policies. She said the White House plans rely too much on importing foreign oil. 
Democrats dominate early voting 
WASHINGTON -Democrats are dominat­ing early voting in six key states President Bush won four years ago, forcing Republican .John McCain to play catch-up even before Election Day arrives. 
Democrats outnumber Republicans among early voters in Iowa, North Carolina, Florida, Colorado, New Mexico and Nevada, accord­ing to statistics from election and party offi­cials in those states. Bush won all six in 2004, and McCain needs to win most of them to claim the White House this year. 
Georgia, another red state, doesn't track early voters by party, but it does by race. About 1.4 million Georgians have already cast ballots, and blacks are voting in dispro­portionate numbers. Black voters over­whelmingly support Democrat Barack Obama, who is bidding to become the nation's first black president. 

Values issues highlight state ballots 
Voters can decide thier states' position on issues like abortion and gay marriage 
Associated Press 

Social issues so volatile that the presidential cam­paigns sidestepped them will be on the ballots in several states next week, including measures that would criminalize most abortions, outlaw affirma­tive action and ban same­sex marriage in California, one of only three states that allows it. 
In all, there are 153 pro­posals on ballots in 36 states. 
In Washington, voters will decide whether to join Oregon as the only states offering terminally ill peo­ple the option of physician­assisted suicide. Massachusetts has three distinctive measures on its ballot -to ban dog racing, ease marijuana laws and scrap the state income tax, a step that could unleash budgetary tumult. 
The main presidential rivals, Democrat Barack Obama and Republican John McCain. have rarely made proactive·comments during the campaign about same-s!')x marriage or affirmative action -issues on which the public is deeply divided. Abortion also has seemed like an uncomfortable topic for them at times, although Obama makes clear he supports abortion rights and McCain says he would like to ban most abortions. 
But in a half-dozen states, these three issues are front and center. 
Florida, Arizona and California have constitu­tiona! amendments on their ballots that would limit marriage to a man and a woman. More than two-dozen states have pre­viously approved such amendments, but none were in California's situa­tion -with same-sex mar­riage legal since a state Supreme Court decision in May and thousands of gay and lesbian couples already wed. 
The rival camps view the California vote in epic terms, with the outcome of Proposition 8 having enor­mous influence on 
prospects for same-sex marriage rights in other states. 
"If we lose California, if they defeat the marriage amendment, I'm afraid that the culture war is over and Christians have lost," said Donald Wildmon, founder of the American Family Association. "California is a big dam, holding back the flood -and if you take down the dam in California, it's going to flood 49 other states." 
Obama is expected to win easily in California, but the vote on Proposition 8 is expected to be close. Of keen interest to both sides is how churchgoing black and Hispanic voters -in general a pro-Obama constituency -will vote on the ballot measure. 
Both Obama and McCain say they oppose same-sex marriage. But Obama, unlike McCain, opposes Proposition 8 and endorses the concept of broader rights for same-sex cou­ples. 
Gay rights also is an issue in Arkansas, where a ballot measure would pro­hibit unmarried couples from adopting or being foster parents. Conservatives backing the idea say it's aimed at same-sex couples, who are able to adopt and be foster parents in most states. 

Abortion is a dominant campaign topic in South Dakota, which has an ini­tiative that would ban the procedure except in cases of rape, incest and serious health threat to the moth­er. A tougher law without the rape and incest excep­tions was defeated in 2006; a recent poll on the new version showed a dead heat. 
Colorado has a "person­hood" amendment on its ballot that would define human life as beginning at fertilization. It doesn't explicitly mention abor­tion, but activists on both sides in the campaign view it as a blunt challenge to abortion rights -so blunt that the National Right to Life Committee, Colorado's Roman Catholic bishops and some other anti-abor­tion groups have declined 
to endorse it on strategic grounds. 
Some of those skeptical of the idea believe it would run aground in legal chal­lenges. Abortion-rights activists contend it would -if approved -potential­ly lead to the banning of certain types of birth con­trol. 
Colorado and Nebraska have proposals that would ban race-and gender­based affirmative action, similar to measures previ­ously approved in California, Michigan and Washington. The man spearheading the move­ment, California activist­businessman Ward Connerly, says the candi­dacies of Obama, Hillary Clinton and Sarah Palin prove blacks and women no longer need affirmative action. 
"Anyone who raises $150 million in one month is being judged pretty much on the basis of their politi­cal abilities and not on the basis of race," Connerly said of Obama during a debate in Nebraska last week. 



SOUND BYTE: HEALTH CARE 
What will you do to improve the health care system? 
"My health care plan will make sure insur­ance companies can't discriminate against those who are sick and need care most. If you have health insurance, the only thing that will change under my plan is that we will lower premiums. If you don't have health insurance, you'll be able to get the same kind ofhealth insurance that Members ofCongress get for themselves. " 

''To use their money effectively, Americans need more choices. We should give additional help to those who face particularly expensive care. !fit is done right and the additional money is there, insurance companies will com­pete for these patients -not turn them away. It is a challenge to develop techniques that allo­cate the right amount to each ofthese fami­
McCain 

lies."

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page lO Thursday, October 30, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
The finish line 
!~0. Box 779, Notre D•m•. IN 46556 024 Smnh Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIEF Chris I line 

MANAt;ING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER J;J.y Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler Ass·I: MANAGING EDnUR: Deirdre Krasula 
NlWS EDITOR: Jenn Mctz 
VtEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SI•ORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: l.iz Harter 
J>uoTo EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTI.~ING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD O~~~IGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey (;ill SYSTEMS AI>MINISTRAI"OR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 63!-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6'.100 observad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6.H-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@1nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 63!-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

1l1e Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe smdents of the University of Nom: Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisuation ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe &:litor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Editors and department editors. Commemaries, leners and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe ()bserver. 
Viewpoint space is available m all readers. The free cxpres.~ion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Qumions rrgarding Obsn-verpo!U.·i~s should b~ dirrcted to FAitor in ChiifChris Hinr. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob.trver (USPS 'S99 2.-4000) ill pubiOOcd M~y rhralJih Friday m:cpt Juring eJ.am and v~tauon period.. A ~iptiun to The Oblcrvc:r 1l $100 for one aatdcmk ~ S'5'5 (or unc lt'rrtatcr. 
TI\c ONcrvet Ia J'IUhlamcd. •t: POSTMASTIR 
024 South Dminc Hall Nt-un: O.nK, IN 46'5')6-071'9 The Olv.rtvcr f>r-nndiaJI,.,~'• p!OO .u Nntn Dame P.O.Rtn:n9 .and addt11111111l malllug uffKCJ. 024 Suurh DinillK Hall 

No1rt Dame, IN <665S&On'J 
T1le Oh.crvc:r Ua member of the A»ociarcd Pm.~. All n:produ4.:tion rights. an: rc..:rved. 
With less than a week until election day, I have found myself wondering what I'll do with all the time I will save by not checking multiple blogs, new leeds, and polls several times every day. I also find myself reflect­
ing on the entirn election season as a whole, rnmember­ing-not quite nos­talf.,Tica.lly-some of the more sensation­al twist'> and turns, and deciding what I 


learned from my Jason Coleman 
first true immersion 
into American poli­

tics. Man at Large 
For me, it started last Christmas brnak when a friend of mine called me a li1w days bdbre New Year's, <L'>king if I wanted to drive up to Iowa to see the candidates make their pitches just days befi>rc the caucuses. Over a forty­eight hour span I would see stump speeeh­es from !bur candidates at middle schools and diners. 
It's funny to think baek on that now. First, I saw Mike lluckabee at a bar in some sleepy town. He was a mostly unknown Arkansas governor at the time, and made a strong enough pitch on values and compassion to win the contest. (MeCain came in fourth). I'm not sure any­body thought that he was going to be the runner-up in the GOP contest even with the win, surviving the deadly Republican National Convention primary system clear into March. 
Then, I walked a block or two down to a small diner, where Rudy Guiliani answered questions and signed autographs. Even as late as last Christmas, a lot of the smart money pegged him as the nominee. He had chosen to use Florida as his first (and last) stand in the process. The effectiveness of that position was more or less summed up 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
In response to the various abortion arguments gracing the Viewpoint's pages these cold fall days, all it really shows is the obvious discord between beliefs in this country. I thought an opinion from experi­enee would be useful to throw into the mix. 
I am a mother. I have faced the "choice." There are no words to express the flood of emotions which fill a woman when she di<;covers she is pregnant, especially at such a young age. From happiness to fear, it ranges across the spectrum. 
Overall, I agree with Mary Da.ly's opinion ("For Clarification," Oct. 28) when she says, "A pregnant woman who fmds her­self in a position in which abortion seems the only answer ... is not being afforded the right to choose." 
Unfortunately, in today's society, that is often the case. I have held a staunch pro­life view throughout my life, but not unti.l you are faced with the issue at hand do you truly question your beliefs. I will admit, abortion was an option, and a high­ly considered option for me the first few days. 
When one is flooded with ideas of today's norm of leading life (i.e. college, when a native Iowan shouted out "Why 
aren't you showing Iowa any love?" That 
was tough for even America's mayor to 
answer. It also probably explains why he 
finished behind Hon Paul. 
I.ater that evening, I watehed John Edwards in a middle school gym. His strat­egy, more or less, W<L'> to come out ahead or dose to ahead in Iowa as a result of vote splitting between the two superstar candi­dates, Clinton and Obama. I Ie ended up finishing second, edging Clinton out by no more than one percent. With his recent recreational activities exposed, I still shud­der to think what would have happened had he been the nominee. 
The next morning, on the way out of Des Moines, we stopped to see Baraek Obama speak in an elementary school auditorium. I had heard of him, like many others, after his 2004 DNC speech, but had not followed him or even knew what his chances were. Everyone figured Clinton would win any­how. But, we were intrigued and decided it was worth checking out. Uttle did we know that in a few days Iowa would shoek political circles, allowing Obama to draw first blood against the Clinton Machine. 
Of course, since then, there has been no lack of surprises and upheava.ls in thn political world. Some of these were com­pletely external; common knowledge through the spring indicated that Iraq would weigh heaviest on voter's minds. Who would have thought the global eeono­my would implode dramatically over a matter ofweeks? 
Other surprises were intentional. The GOP VP pick, for instance, comes to mind. Who saw that coming? Add to the mix "Joe Six Pack," Joe the Plumber and Joe "Foot in Mouth" Biden, and you could have a primetime sitcom. 
In all seriousness, the political education I received over the last year has provided more insight into the way America works 
I have chosen 
job, marriage, promotion, then children) and the more-common-than-not shame afforded to unwed mothers in our society, I felt very alone when, with a single deci­sion, I was ripped from that norm into a life-track of my own. This loneliness directed me to consider abortion; however, after a night of tears and prayer, that "ehoice" was forever deleted from my mind. 
What made me decide not to partake in this option given to me? It came down to one word: support. !learned of the sup­port offered to me by my family and friends. I discovered the support given to me by the University. I supported myself by knowing I could be a mother and still reach all the goals in my life. 
Too often today are women like me faced with the same decision and not given the support they need in order to know that abortion, while a legal choice, is actually the worst choice available to them. While I feel that this nation is a long way from making abortion illega.l again based on a rights disagreement, we should be focusing on making less and less women feel the need to terminate a preg­nancy because she feels there is no other than any book or course ever could. In some c&<;es, it was exporionce, such going up to Iowa or voluntoering to eanv<L'>S, that provided first hand insight into how a polit­iealfbllowing is built. In others, it W<L'> all the infiwmation gleannd from watd1ing CNN, or li>llowing tlw New York Times commentators. Most importrnltly, though, it was probably the argumnnL'> with my friends over such important issuos that helped me to darify my worldview and see how it lit with the way tlw world eurrnntly works. 
N! ofthis, however, lnd me to conclude that voting in and of iL<;elf is tantamount to being an American. Voting is the eonstitu­tional right of the people to change the face of America every time thny step to the bal­lot box, and one that should not bn volun­tarily given up. I understand that it is hard to justify voting <L'> a Demoerat in a deeply Hed state or visa versa, but I don't think this provid11s a rn&'>on not to do so. The vote is the strongest political statement one can make, regardless of how it tigurns into the bigger picture. It should not be taken lightly. 
So, let me send you oil", in my l&'>t eolumn of the election se<L'>on, with the charge to vote. Ifthe absnntee ballot is sitting on your desk, dose it up and drop it in the mailbox. If you are mgistnrnd horn in Indiana, brave the lines and make your voice heard on Tuesday. Make sure you remind your friends and family. Hegardless of who wins the raee, America wins if everyone partici­pates. Plus, as Bob Sehieffer reminded us in the third debate, voting "will make you feel big and strong." 
Jason Coleman is a junior majoring in management. lie can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
choice. 
How? Support, and unlimitHd amount<; of it. I still believe abortion is the murder of an innoeent life, but I now understand how a woman can tee! so trapped that she feels there is no other option available. Now, after going through the most difficult nine months of my life, I have a beautiful one-year-old daughter who never stops smiling, a wonderful fiance I am marrying next spring, high grades in school, a promising internship next summer and the most fulfilling life I eould have ever imagined. 
I do hope, as lindsey Schwartz ("Who has the 'Right to Life'?" Oct. 13) pointed out, that no one is put into the situation that I was; however, know that the choice you make can lead you to be the happiest you have ever been. I look at my daughter and tears fill my eyes with the thought that I might have never seen her big, beautiful, blue eyes with a "choice" I almost made. 
Staysha Sigler junior off campus Oct.28 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

News Sports 
Mandi Stirone Lorenzo Reyes Who would you rather spend a night 
Becky Hogan Alex Barker on the town with? 
Hobnrt Singer Scene 
"Success usually comes to
Viewpoint Mark Witte John McCain 
those who are too busy to be 
Kara King Graphics Barack Obama looking for it." Blair Chemidlin 
Joe Biden 
Henry David Thoreau

Mr. Sarah Palin 
U.S. author 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 30, 2008 page 11 
Sitting with Grandpop and God 
I wish you could have met Thomas Fizzano, my 1-,rrandfather. I think I wish you could have met him. lie was one intimidat­ing old man. The completely undisputed patriarch of our traditionally Italian family. 
IIe was steely quiet  
-in that aloof and  Fr. Lou Delfra  
intimidating kind of  
way ­and utterly unapproachable. I  Faithpoint  
can't remember ever  

actually talking to him. As a kid, I learned about him largely through legends that others would tell around the Christmas tabln after hn left the room. How he had built a huge concrete company from scratch. How he had invited his brothers and cousins from Italy, and supported tht~m until they got on their feet in /\me rica. Ilow he had llown a fighter jet in World War II. and returned home a hero. 
So, this is how I knew my grandfather for most of my life-more as an unap­proachable lngend than as a real human being. 
Then. in 7th grade, an unforeseen brnakthrough. My history teacher assigned us to interview someone who had lived through the Dnpression. My mind, of course. immediately jumped to my kind and gentle grandmother, but my mom informed me that she was not in the coun­try during the Depression. 
Then, I could read my mom's eyes ­and I screamed. "No way!"-as she asked. "Why not ask grandpop?" 
On the appointed day, my mom drove me to my grandparents' house. I pulled out a piece of looseleaf on which I had written out every word I was going to say to my grandpop. And, hiding behind the paper, I began the interview: "Where were you liv­ing when the Depression began?" 
I will never forget the next hour of my life. 
Because over the next hour, this man, in all of his inapproachability and intimida­tion, looked me in the eye, smiled, and spoke to me, quietly, gently. 
And one particular moment in our inter­view stands out. My grandfather spoke about losing his brother to cancer during the Depression, and regretted not having enough money to get better care for him. As he told this story, I heard just the slight­est pause in his voice. I remember stealing a glance, and caught sight of a tear that hung on the edge of his eyelash. 
Two years later, my grandfather himself died of cancer. In his last days, he couldn't speak and was barely conscious. And I used to sit next to his bed for an hour or two, just reading the names of the horses and jockeys in that day's races at Philadelphia Park Gust to complete the old Italian patriarch stereotype, my grandfa­ther loved horse racing). 
I remember during those days feeling oddly comfortable sitting next to my grandfather. This man, who had intimidat­ed me my entire life, suddenly seemed gentle, and approachable, and knowable. 
Today, when I want to really remember my grandpop, I think of two times: the day we sat at his kitchen table and he cried about losing his brother in the Depression; and the days I sat next to him as he died. 
My point is this: I think there is some­thing deeply revelatory about seeing some­one who you know to be powerful become suddenly vulnerable. Someone who seemed totally secure and in control, living in another world than ourselves, become suddenly helpless and human, and know­able. 
And I wonder if Jesus isn't sometimes one such person for us. 
Surely all of us have been attracted by Jesus' message, by his power, his goodness and holiness. And it is sometimes difficult, in the face of such overwhelming good­ness, to think that this person can truly love us in our own limitations. Pity us, per­haps, but not love. 
At some points in my life, I have a hard time praying because I feel, deep down, that God must be somehow disappointed in me. That is to say, God, in my weakness, can seem unapproachable. 
But when I walk into Church, I am con­fronted by this man on a cross. Jesus, the good and holy one, dying. And on the cross, precisely dying, we see Jesus as someone like us-for on the cross, Jesus takes on our greatest limitation and our certain fate -that one day we will die. And if he is willing to take on that limita­tion, which other of our limitations would drive him away? 
On the Cross, we see someone like us ­and in doing so, our Church invites us to see our God. 
We all have people in our lives, like my grandfather was in mine -people who seem unapproachable, because of their power or their authority or even because of their goodness. They can often seem larger-than-life. They can tend to make us see our own deficiencies, rather than our potential goodness. We can feel insufficient around them. 
Maybe, sometimes, Jesus is one such person for us? 
But the central mystery of our faith asserts a profound response to this natural question in our hearts. That our God has become weak like us, vulnerable like us, broken like us -human like us. And pre­cisely as such, he invites us to come to know him and to love him. 
Perhaps that is why, when Christians throughout the centuries have wished to spend time with their God, to know him and love him, in all his unapproachable glory, they have done so by sitting before Jesus, hanging on the cross. 
This week's Faithpoint is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, Director ofCampus Ministry Bible Studies. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this Faithpoint are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Scraping by on a quarter tnillion 
Like countless Notre Dame students, I started off my Tuesday morning by zoning out in my 9:30 and perusing The Observer, where I discovered a viewpoint entitled "Barack the Socialist" (Oct. 28). In her article, Christina Pesavento draws a contentious connection between Democratic presidential nominee Barack Obama's opinions and socialist tendencies. How original. I was on the verge of not completing the column based solely on the banality of the argument until I read the section in which she provides three reasons why Obama's intention to increase taxes for Americans that earn a net income of over $250,000 is unwar­ranted. 
First, Pesavento declares, " 000 English philosopher John Locke 
states, 'government has no other end than the preservation of property."' Yes, Locke's views greatly influenced Thomas Jefferson when he drafted the Declaration of Independence. However, Ronald Terry Constant, a historian, claims, "Next to the Bible, Locke's writings were the most quoted source in revo­lutionary literature." Furthermore, the Bible asserts, " 000 when you give a banquet, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind, and you will be blessed." This is not an argument against separation of Church and state. It simply emphasizes that Christian ideals truly inspired the framers of the Declaration, indicating that the government is obligated to support the impov­erished. 
Secondly, Pesavento compares Obama's tax policies to exam grades, where "A" students would have to give some of their points to students that "have slacked off and are receiving lower grades." Well, how about students who could not even afford books to study for this exam? Pesavento makes it seem as if all Americans are provided with the necessary resources to succeed monetarily in this country. False. Individuals who live below the poverty line are lucky to have a "Where's Waldo" book during their youth. 
Lastly, Pesavento asserts " for those Americans who live in
00. 

areas where the cost of living is very high, $250,000 a year is next to nothing." Seriously?
00. 

For the record, I am not arguing Pesavento's belief that Obama supports socialist principles. While I strongly disagree with her on that conviction, I do not have the time or political knowledge to debate that topic. Nonetheless, Pesavento's column fails to comprehend the atrocious financial conditions in which a great amount of Americans live. In fact, no one, including myself, can truly understand the horrid environment that these unfortunate people must experience daily. 
Clearly not someone making over $250,000. 
Mark Mihallo junior Sorin College Oct. 28 

Spread the logic 
I am proud of Sean Lyttle ("We need socialism," Oct. 29) and his future "lucrative career" as a trial lawyer. I'm sorry, however, that he feels guilty for everything from his upbringing to his race to his potentially successful future. There is no reason he should. 
It does, however, represent a key difference between the thinking of liberals and conserva­tives. Lyttle suggests that it is some kind of des­tiny that puts people in the life situations they are in, and there is really nothing good or bad that they can do to reverse the course. That's where the government must come in to "even out the playing field." In a debate with Hillary Clinton during the Democratic primaries, Charles Gibson asked Senator Obama why he would propose raising the capital-gains tax from 15 percent to as high as 28 percent, when it has been shown in recent years that raising the rate has actually decreased the revenues to the treasury. Obama, stunned that a mainstream reporter asked him a legitimate, tough question, responded: "Well, Charlie, what I've said is that I would look at rais­ing the capital-gains tax for purposes of fairness." 
Now we understand his true motive. It has nothing to do with the adopting the best policy or growing the economic pie, but rather deciding himself how best to divide up the pieces. Obama's running mate, Joe Biden, said recently that pay­ing taxes is patriotic. I can't see how, given the fact that taxes are involuntary. 
But if guilty upper-class liberals or trial­lawyers-to-be feel that they are not contributing a fair amount to the treasury, they should take the lead and voluntarily write checks to the govern­ment whenever they feel like not enough kids have the proper texthooks. Rather than let Obama decide the "fairest" allocation of the peo­ple's resources, why not decide for our guilty selves? 
Moreover, Lyttle claims that the leading cause of personal bankruptcy in this country is "cata­strophic medical bills." This very well may be true, and it reminds one of P.J. O'Rourke's quote: "If you think health care is expensive now, wait until you see what it costs when it's free." 
Lyttle is right that the recent bailouts on Wall Street were ludicrous, and it's forcing an already broke U.S. Government to print money to finance basic operations. Given all this, how can any rea­sonable person expect Obama to deliver on any of his never-ending promises, such as a health care utopia, when inheriting this astronomical debt? 
Lyttle writes that "perhaps according to Webster's dictionary, it is proper to label Barack Obama a 'socialist.' But to do so misses the point." I'm not sure which dictionary he would prefer to use, but I'd trust Webster's. And it does­n't miss the point at all. 
Lyttle accuses Pesavento ("Barack the socialist," Oct. 28) of a "classist bias," but it is he, not Pesavento, who wants different rules applied to people strictly based on class. Progressive taxa­tion was not introduced in this country until 1913, and since that time it has spun progressive­ly out of control. This class discrimination is not what America was founded on, though Barack Obama has made it clear that it is one of his guid­ing principles. 
Bradley Duffy alumnus Class of 2008 Oct. 29 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Thursday, October 30, 2008 
ByKARA KING Scene Writer 
.Just down Main Street in South Bond. El Paraiso is a Mnxiean rnstaurant that few students beyond the Irish ski tnam havn discovernd. And this needs to change. With prices and spnnd to rival Taco Boll, and traditional Mnxican food that is hard to l'ind past the Hod Hiver, it is morn than worth a visit. 
1~1 Paraiso looks (and feels) like tho typo of dive f'requented by Guy Fieri. Attaehed to a Mexican grocery store, it screams authenticity throughout the dining exp1~rience. The smell is overpowering when you enter, and it sets the stage for the din­ing expnrienee to follow. 
The restaurant itself is basic: a simple room with several cafe­teria-type tables, orange walls and. a few Mexican decorations spaced through­out. This sim-easily rivals those o Chipot e, except that instead of' being overly stuffed with rice and other fillers, they contain copi­ous amounts of meat with just enough sidns to enhance the fla­vor. Quite obvi­
chimichanga are especially deli­cious and even their lesSfH­known entrees are cooked to perfection. 
Best of all, it's cheap. Tacos start at $1.50 each and burritos at $5.00. Even 
ously, these bur-the most expen­ritos mean busi­sive offerings
With prices and speed to
ness. fail to bust the 
The food itself rival Taco Bell, and $10 mark. It is is amazing, traditional Mexican .food an nasy place to albeit a little bit visit on a budg­
that is hard to find past
greasy et and leave f'ull (although with the Red River, !El and satisfied. Mexican f'ood Paraiso] is more than Tho service is 
that should be good, for what
worth a visit.
expected). To it is. Mostly begin, pick an intended as a 
plicity belies all camole, and this plaen has to "Mexican style"
The beans and rice are
of'f'er. with cilantro 
a welcome break from 
The menu and onions. For otTers anything what passes for such in those less and everything adventurous,
the dining hall. The
Mnxiean, from they also offer 
favorites such as salsa actually has the traditional tacos, burritos. flavor and heat. "American and quesadillas style," with let-to chimichangas tuce, tomatoes 
entree. Then customize. Choose a main filling from steak, chicken. ground beef. pork or black beans. Several options, such as tacos and burritos, are offered in sev­eral styles, including 'El 
Paraiso,'  with  sour  cream,  
cheese  and  
ample  gua­ 

and m i lannsa. Most selections are a Ia carte, although thorn are several plate options and daily specials. Hice and beans can also be added to any order for a few dollars more. But with the exceptionally generous portion sizes, they aren't needed. The burrito size and cheese. 
Besides all the offerings for such a small place, even the lit­tle things are done right. The beans and rice are a welcome break from what passes f'or such in the dining hall. The salsa actually has flavor and heat. The wet burrito and 
take out restau­rant, the waitress managed to keep the chip baskr~t full (although they do charge for refills beyond a certain poinO and brought out the f'ood as it was ready and warm. And while service is clearly not the strength of El Paraiso, it is bet­ter than Pxpected. 
The attached grocery store is an added bonus and worth a walk through even if' you don't buy anything. With traditional Mexican produce year-round, if you ever find yourself in need of a mango or coconut, you know where to look. The Mexican candy section is also culturally enlightening and offers several interesting Halloween treats. 
Overall. El Paraiso offers an unexpected Mexican dining experience in South Bend on a college student budget. Go for the affordability. Beturn for the food. 
·.. oP:.. · wt·>····· 
. ·.. ·' .· ..· J ' : <.
3 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, October 30, 2008 
page 13 
Thursday: "Shaun of the Dead" at 
Legends, midnight. 
In light of this spooky holiday sea­son, Legends is getting into the horror game by sponsoring a showing of the 2004 British film "Shaun of the Dead." . This spot-on parody spoofs classic zombie movies while still scaring up its share of chills and Halloween 
thrills. 
In the l'ilm, slackerish Shaun (Simon 
Pegg) attempts to win back his girl­
friend Liz (Kate Ashfield) while he and 
his buffoon best friend Ed (Nick Frost) 
battle hoards of flesh-eating zombies 
across their North London neighbor­
hood. Not to be missed. 
Saturday: "Dracula" at the South : Bend Civic Theatre, 8 p.m. 
Yes, it's the day after Halloween, but 
why not keep the spooky spirit alive 
another night? 
The South Bend Civic Theatre, min­
utes from both the Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's campuses, will feature per­
formances of "Dracula" all weekend. As 
the Count himself says in the play, "I 
•want your fear ... for your fear renders · your veins rich and full." 
The play is an adaptation by Steven Dietz of the original Bram Stoker novel. Visit www.artseverywhere.com for more information. Tickets cost $17 and there is also a midnight showing on Friday. 
Friday: Notre Dame Glee Club Fall con­cert, Leighton Concert Hall, 8 p.m. 
If your Halloween plans won't start until the wee hours of All Hallow's Eve, spend the earlier portion of your evening with the men of the Notre Dame Glee Club. Their seasonal concert will feature several of their traditional stand-bys, classic Notre Dame music, and a variety of other liturgi­cal and secular pieces. The concert will also feature several of the smaller ensem­bles within the Glee Club, as well as some spooky llalloween-type selections. Also, watch for sales of the group's albums out­side of the concert hall. Ticketc; cost $8, $6 for faculty and staff, $5 for seniors and $3 for students. 
Sunday: The Alison Brown Quartet, Leighton Concert Hall, 2 p.m. 
Ever given bluegrass a try? Even if you've never seen a banjo, the Alison Brown Quartet is sure to impress. Alison Brown is a Grammy-winning banjo artist who has worked with a variety of bluegrass performers, including Alison Krauss. Billboard magazine once likened Brown's banjo playing to "James Taylor's voice or 
B.B. King's guitar" for its unique style and beauty. Tickets cost $38, $30 for faculty and staff, $28 for sen­iors and $15 for students. 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Editor 
We're back and the doors to .. the dining hall are flung open ~ once again, so it's time to get back to work finding good things to eat. Hopefully a week off has put a shine back on the offerings of North and South, but if not 
: here are some ideas to keep you going, so dig in! This week's recipes: 
Pitas with Garbanzo Beans and Spinach 
There is something about pitas that just makes them fun, so stuff away! Spinach has gotten a bad name, probably because it is often served over-cooked, but don't give in to the association. It has a great flavor and is a good shake up from the usual lettuce. Garbanzo beans (the stars of many Middle Eastern foods such as hummus and falafels) with their nutty flavor are a good source of protein. 
Fill a bowl with spinach, gar­banzo beans, mushrooms, feta cheese (Not a feta fan? Try blue cheese, or even sprinkle on a bunch of the parmesan from the pizza area.) and red onion. 
Mix a dab of Dijon mustard into red wine vinegar and pour over the contents of the bowl. You can squeeze some lemon on top as well, if that is to your taste. (Too much work? You can actually just toss a dab of Dijon mustard on the top, pour over the vinegar and mix it later.) 
If you want a hot pita, stop by the microwave and zap it for about 1 minute. If you're in more of a crunchy and fresh mood, just leave it as is. 
Make sure everything is well mixed and cut into bite sized pieces. Sprinkle with pepper. 
Stuff the mixture into the pitas. 
Black Bean and Bacon Salad 
Lettuce is hardly a require­ment for a salad. This one is based around black beans, a bunch of other yummy vegeta­bles and of course, bacon. There isn't much that beats bacon, is there? 
Fill a bowl with black beans, shredded carrot (or dice up a couple of carrot sticks). diced tomatoes, red onion and corn. 
Add a little red wine vinegar, but not too much, you don't want to overwhelm this one. 
Pick up a couple slices of bacon from the sandwich area 
(or hot from the breakfast area if it is early enough in the day). Shred and mix into the other ingredients. 
Warm up the bowl in the microwave for about a minute. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. You can try adding in some ranch dressing for another taste. 
Quick Tip 

Have a favorite sandwich you always make? Try transferring the same ingredients to a wrap. a pita, or even just some of the nicer breads you have t.o slice yourself. It will make a tried and true dish a little more special. Don't forget the pickle! 
Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to feature it! E-mail mfordice@nd. edu. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 30, 2008 
MLB 

Lidge closes 50-hour game to give Phils the title 
Pedro Feliz's gamewinning RBI single sealed Philadelphia's 4-3 victory in game five and clinched a 4-1 series win 
foul lines, creating a puddle
Associated Press 

at home plate and turning 
PIIILADEI.PIIIA -From every ball an adventure. 
losingest team to longest Commissioner Bud Selig even­
game, the Philadelphia tually ealled it -he got booed 
Phillies are World Series when he presented the MVP 
champions. trophy to llamels. 
Strange as that sounds. For Philly, it was more than 
Strang1~ as it was. a World Series win. It was a 
Brad l.idgn and tlw Phillies bit or redemption for all the 
l'inished ofT the Tampa Bay losses, tho jokes, the slights. 
Bays 4-:~ in a three-inning Finally. something to cele­
sprint Wednesday night to win brate. 
a suspended Game 5 nearly llow much did Philly fans 
50 hours artnr it started. want a champion to call its 
Lert in limbo by a two-day own? rainstorm. the Phillies sen­Well, the sports hero they sawed to tlwir first champi­point to with the most pride onship since isn't even a real I1)80. Pedro p1~rson -Roeky Feliz singled "It was a crazy way to Balboa. homo llw go­Yo, Adrian ...
win it with a suspended
alwad run in the Phillies did 
game but we did and
tho Sf\VI'nth it! and l.idge it's over and we're very "It's over," closed out shortstop Jimmy
excited."
his pPrfeet Rollins said. "It's season to over, man. de Ii v e r tIn~ Jamie Moyer Lidge went 48­title Philly Phlllies pitcher for-48 on save cravPd for so chances this long. year, including 
"It was a crazy way to win it two this week. lie retired two with a suspendPd gamtl but batters with a runner on sec­wn did and it's over and we're ond, striking out pinch-hitter very c x ei ted , " 4 5-y~~a r-o I d Eric llinske to end it. Phillies pitcher Jamie Moyer Lidge jumped in front of the said. "It has been a long wait, mound, landing on his knees but it's worth it." with arms outstretched. 
Bundled in parkas and blan­Catcher Carlos Ruiz ran out to knts. fans returned in force to grab him, and teammates Citizens Bank Park and saw sprinted to the mound to join the city claim its first major them as towel-waving fans let sports championship in 25 loose. YIHLI'S. No more references "At first, I couldn't believe needed to those sad-sack it. And then the gravity of Phillins teams in the past and what happened hit me," Lidge their 10,000-plus losses. said. 
"They could taste it just as A generation ago, it was Tug much as we could." Series McGraw who went wild when MVP Cole Ilamels said. the Phillies won their first 
It was among the waekiest title. A few days after country endings in baseball history. a singer Tim McGraw scattered best-of-seven series turned his dad's ashes on the mound, into a best-of-3 1/2 showdown it was Lidge's turn to throw when play resumed in thn bot­the final pitch. torn of' tho sixth inning tied at Despite low TV ratings and 
2. minus the majors' most glam­
llow bizarre? llamels was a orous teams, fans will always star in Game 5 -and the ace remember how this one never stepped on the mound wrapped up. And for the first Wednesday night; Two Hays time in a long while, kids saw relievers warmed up to start, a World Series champion and there was a pinch-hitter crowned before bedtime. before a single pitch; "God "I believe this firmly, our Bless America" was sung guys arc not going to be satis­rather than the national fied without playing in anthem, and it was quiekly October from now on," Rays followed by the seventh­manager Joe Maddon said. inning stretch. "And that's a good thing. And 
All because the game was that's all because of this suspended Monday night after group of people this year." rain made the field into a Reliever J .C. Romero got the quagmire, washing out the win, his second of the Series. 

1-Iamels went 4-0 in five postseason starts, beating the Rays in Game 1 and pitching six sharp innings in the rain during Game 5. He was set to be the first batter when the game resumed, and was immediately pulled for a pinch-hitter. 
While former NL MVPs Ryan Howard and Rollins drive the Phillies, it was their less-her­alded teammates who helped win it on this chilly night. 
Tied at 3, Pat Burrell led off the seventh with a drive off the center-field wall against 
J.P. Howell. Chad Bradford relieved and one out later Feliz singled home pinch-run­ner Eric Bruntlett. 
Rocco Baldelli's solo home run off Hyan Madson made it 3-all in the top of the seventh. The Rays almost got more, but All-Star second baseman Chase Utley alertly bluffed a throw to first on a grounder over the bag and instead threw out Jason Bartlett at the plate. 
Pinch-hitter Geoff Jenkins, the first batter Wednesday 

night, doubled and later scored on Jayson Werth's bloop single. 
In all, there were six new pitchers, three pinch-hitters and two pinch-runners when play restarted. 
Manager Charlie Manuel, whose NL East champions clinched a playoff spot in the final week, guided the Phillies' second overall cham­pionship in six World Series tries. The Phils helped them­selves by going 7-0 at home this postseason, beating Milwaukee and the Dodgers in the NL playoffs and then defeating the Rays. 
"I always thought we'd win the World Series. I knew we could beat anyone in the league," Manuel said. 
Once known as a city of champions, Philadelphia sports fell on hard times after Julius Erving and Moses Malone led the Sixers to that 1983 title. 
Since then, the Phillies, Eagles, Sixers and Flyers made it to the championship game or round -seven times, 
in total-and lost all of them. 
The city became so starved for a crown that it was ready to throw a parade down Broad Street for a horse. But local colt Smarty Jones lost, too, in his bid for the Triple Crown. 
"People enjoy being associ­ated with winning and a world championship is the ultimate," Mike Schmidt, MVP of the Phillies' other champi­onship, wrote in an e-mail to The Associated Press this week. "It unites a town behind one team." 
Cheesesteaks, on the house. 
Tampa Bay did itself proud, too, until this final week. Baseball's best success story this season, the worst-to-first Rays played like the down­trodden Devil Rays from the past decade. 

Even so, the gap between the Phils and Hays wasn't enormous. Had Evan Longoria's late, long drive off Jamie Moyer in Game 3 not been blown back by the wind, the teams might still be play­ing. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. A1 dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
ND.SMC & HCC students: NO Club of DC bus transportation to and from MD-VA for Thanksgiving & Christmas. Fun & easyl Book by 11/1 and save$$! Contact Ann Rimkus. arimkus@nd.edu 
FoR SALE 
HOUSE FOR SALE 1/2 MILE FROM NO. 3 BEDROOMS 2 FULL BATHS. CRESSY EVERETI PAM DECOLA 574-532-0204 947 RIVERSIDE DR., 4 BDRMS, 

2.5 BATHS, HISTORICAL HOME CLOSE TO NO. CRESSY EVERETI. PAM DECOLA. 574­532-0204. 
Villa ranch at 18133 Annettas Ct. in South Bend. 5 mins. to NO. Built in 2004. 3 bdrm. 2 bath. 1652 sq.ft. Vaulted great room. formal dining room. oak eat-in kitchen. all appli­ances. large 3-season room. first floor laundry. Finished basement plumbed for bath, egress window. Patio. $249.500. Handicap accessi­ble. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty Jack Egenhoefer. 574-280-7730 
FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
3/4 bedroom, 3 full bath deluxe homes, close to NO, fireplace, cathedral ceilings, skylights, 2-car garage, 10x20 deck. Much more. Call574-232-4527 or 269-683­5038. From $1,700/mo. 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
TICKETS 

Wanted: NO football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell NO football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 574-232­0964. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 

If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574­631-2685. 
For more information. visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml 
Two teachers ready to adopt new­bam and provide a wonderful life for him/her. 
Confidential. Expenses paid. Stephenandliz@aol.com or call us toll free 1-888-760-BABY 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments!csap/ 
The DYNASTY is back! 
TCU, FSU. TU. BGSU 
GetYoursl 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, October 30, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE ()ssERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 15 
USTFCCCA Women's Cross Country Rankings 
team points 
1 Washington (12) 360 2 Oregon 347 3 Florida State 334 4 Princeton 324 5 West Virginia 311 6 Villanova 302 7 Minnesota 280 8 Michigan 273 9 Michigan State 259 10 Illinois 245 11 Georgetown 237 12 Texas Tech 231 13 Arkansas 204 14 Florida 202 15 Arizona State 192 16 Wisconsin 183 17 Baylor 173 18 Stanford 165 19 Penn State 153 20 Rice 136 21 Iowa 112 22 Stony Brook 107 23 New Mexico 95 24 Providence 69 25 Wake Forest 55 
NSCAA/Adidas Men's Soccer Rankings 
team  points  record  
1  Wake Forest (23)  575  15-0-1  
2  Akron  535  13-1-2  
3  Creighton  510  10-1-2  
4  St. John's  497  12-1-3  
5  Maryland  495  13-3-0  
6  Northwestern  455  11-1-2  
7  Loyola (Md.)  451  14-0-1  
8  California  399  7-2-4  
9  Tulsa  383  11-3-1  
10  UC Davis  359  12-2-3  
11  South Florida  341  10-3-2  
12  North Carolina  317  11-3-1  
13  Illinois-Chicago  274  10·2-4  
14  UC Santa Barbara  265  9-4-2  
15  Connecticut  247  8-3-5  
16  Saint louis  223  7-2·5  
17  Indiana  184  9-4-2  
18  Michigan  183  10-4-2  
19  NOTRE DAME  152  9-5-2  
20  UC Irvine  133  8-1-6  
21  louisville  95  9-5·2  
21  Dayton  76  11·2·2  
23  Pennsylvania  65  9-2-3  
24  Drake  50  11-3·0  
25  Michigan State  44  9·5·1  

Big East Men's Soccer Standings 
Team League Record 
1 Sf. John's 6-1·2 2 USF 6-3·1 3 NOTRE DAME 5-2·2 3 Connecticut 5·3·2 5 Georgetown 4-2·3 6 DePaul 4-3·2 7 louisville 4-4-1 7 Providence 4-5·1 7 Cincinnati 4·5·1 10 Rutgers 3-4-2 10 Villanova 3-4·2 10 Pittsburgh 3-5·2 13 West Virginia 2-3·4 13 Seton Hall 2-4·4 13 Syracuse 3-5·1 
around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
No. 23 South Florida at Cincinnati 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 


Associated Press 

AUBURN HILLS Michael Curry wants the Detroit Pistons to project a new image, consistently attacking on offense and playing hard on defense. 
After Game One, it's a work in progress. 
The Detroit Pistons played well enough to build big leads only to allow the Indiana Pacers to rally before beating them 100­94 Wednesday night in the opener for both teams. 
Curry, though, can't fault the effort he saw in his debut as a head coach. 
"If you get a big lead, NBA teams are going to come back on you because they're too good," Curry said. "The key is minimiz­ing their runs and we did that." 
Tayshaun Prince had 19 points, Richard Hamilton scored 15, Chauncey Billups added 13 points and seven assists, and Walter Herrmann had 10 points to help Detroit's reserves easily outscore their counterparts. 
Danny Granger led the new-look Pacers with 33 points and got some help from new teammates T.J. Ford, Jarrett Jack and Rasho Nesterovic. 
Indiana had seven more turnovers and nine fewer offensive rebounds than Detroit. 
IN BRIEF Artest debuts in Rocket 
victory over Grizzlies 
HOUSTON -Since acquiring Ron Artest in the offseason, the Houston Rockets have talked boldly about contending for the NBA champi­onship. They have plenty of improvements to make before that happens. 
Yao Ming had 21 points and 10 rebounds, Artest added 16 in his Houston debut, and the Rockets overcame poor shooting to beat the Memphis Grizzlies 82-71 on Wednesday night. 
Luis Scola had 12 points and 13 rebounds for the Rockets, who were 28-for-76 (36.8 percent) from the field. They also went 5-for-16 from 3-point range and were outrebound­ed 49-44. 
"It was ugly," said Artest, who went 6-of-14 from the field. "But if it means we're 1-0, then we'll take it." 
Rudy Gay scored 20 and Darrell Arthur had 11 points and 15 rebounds for the Grizzlies, who've lost all eight season openers since moving to Memphis in 2001. 
"The difference in the game was the turnover dif­ferential and the offensive glass," Pacers coach Jim O'Brien said. "We shot 50 percent and we got to the line 13 times more than they did, but we shot our­selves in the foot." 
Just eight of the 15 play­ers on Indiana's opening­night roster were on the team at the end of last sea­son. 
The Pistons planned to shake up their core ­which helped them win a championship in 2004 and advance to six straight Eastern Conference finals -but they ended up standing pat and counting on Curry along with an 
influx of youth to  take  
them back  to  the  NBA  
fmals.  

Expectations are rela­tively low for Detroit after getting eliminated in Game 6 of conference finals the past three seasons. 
The Pistons have provid­ed fodder for doubters with inconsistent play and arro­gant attitudes that have stunted their potential. 
"We've earned the right for people to ask, 'Has this team made their last run?' We've earned the right [for people] to ask if we're going to be able to get it with the few changes we've made," Curry said. "We have to reassure ourselves, first and foremost." 

Utah outlasts Denver in 
Western Conference duel SALT LAKE CITY -Carlos Boozer had 25 points and 14 rebounds and Andrei Kirilenko added 16 points in his new reserve role and the Utah Jazz opened the season with a 98-94 win over the Denver Nuggets on Wednesday night. Mehmet Okur had 13 points and 10 rebounds and Ronnie Price finished with five assists start­ing in place of Deron Williams, who is out with a sprained ankle. Denver rallied from a 14-point deficit to tie it in the fourth quarter, but couldn't overtake the Jazz, who went 13-for-16 from the foul line in the final period to hold on. Allen Iverson had 18 points and eight assists to lead the Nuggets, who were missing star Carmelo Anthony while he served the first of a two-game suspension from a DUI arrest over the summer. 
Hagman's goal lifts 
Maple Leafs over Devils 
Nf:WARK, N.J. -Niklas Hagman pulled out a move he worked on in practice to beat Martin Brodeur in the shootout. 
Hagman scored on a nifty back­hand in the fourth round to give the Toronto Maple Leafs a 6-5 win over Brodeur and the New Jersey Devils on Wednesday night. 
Hagman came in very tight on Brodeur, whipping home the deciding goal while showering the goalie with a spray of ice shavings. 
"I decided I was going to try something else and I felt pretty confident with it," Hagman said, "I didn't want to put snow in his face. That's why I felt a little bad. I didn't want to celebrate too much. I didn't want to be cocky." 
After Hagman gave Toronto a 2-1 shootout lead, Vesa Toskala secured the win with a blocker save on Jamie Langenbrunner. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 30, 2008 
NBA 

Raptors hold off 
•
76ers In 
Associated Prc:ss 
PIIILAI>ELPIIIA-Chris Bosh just about single-hand­ndly carried the Toronto Haptors into the playoffs last snason. Now hn has a much­improved supporting cast. 
Bosh had 27 points and 11 rebounds to help the Haptors boat the Philadelphia 76flrs IJ5-H4 on Wednesday night in the opmwr for both tnams. 
.Jermaine O'Neal added 17 
and Jason Kapono had 15 for 
the Haptors, who finished 41­
41 last season. 
The Haptors improved drastically when they aequirnd O'Neal, a six-time All-Star. from the Indiana Pacers on .July IJ. lin appears to be healthy af'tnr missing 40 games last season bncausn of lingering pain from a torn ligament in his 111ft knee that was surgically r n p a i red tIHl p r n vi ous sum­mer. 
"I fnPI n•ally good," O'Nnal said. "I said from thn timn I got lwrn that I wantnd to be part of tlw team and bring playoff-typo intensity every night. Wn havn to trnat every ganw like a playoff gamn." 
Tho start of tho gamn was moved up an hour to (, p.m. bneause tho Philadelphia Phillies and Tampa Hay Hays were set to resume the bot­tom of the sixth inning of Game 5 of the World Series at S:37 p.m. across the street at Citizens Bank Park. 
Many fans attending the Sixers game were wearing Phillies attire in anticipation of the city's first major pro­fessional sports champi­onship since 1983 when Philadelphia swept the Los Angeles Lakers. Still, it was a sparse crowd with pockets of empty seats scattered throughout the 20,000-plus scat Waehovia Center. 
In the second half, chants of "Let's Go Phillics!" began to resonate in parts of the arena, espneially as fans began to file out. 
"I can't say enough about our defense," Toronto coach Sam Mitchell said. 
Lou Williams scored 16 points, Andre lguodala added 15, Elton Brand had 14 

c:JIL THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM presents
--uF 

Hibernian /,ecture 
"From Rags to Riches: The Irish in America" 
Friday. Octoher31, 2008 3p.m. Hc.:k Visitors· Center Auditorium 
opener 
points and 13 rebounds in his Sixers debut and Samuel Dalembert pulled down 17 rebounds. Andre Miller had 1:~ points. 
"It's disappointing," Brand said of the loss. "There's [game] tape in the back­ground and I see these layups they got. It hurts." 
The Sixers lured Brand away from the Los Angeles Clippers in the summer and signnd the free agent forward to a five-year, $79.8 million contract. Brand was limited to only eight games last sea­son because of a ruptured left Aehilles. 
Thn Sixnrs took a chance on the nine-year veteran, who is one of !'our active players in tho league to have averaged a double-double for a earner along with Tim Duncan, Kevin Garnett and Shaquille O'Neal. Brand nntnrnd the 200S-OIJ season with earner averages of' 20.3 points and 10.2 rnbounds. 
Philadelphia started 18-30 last season but rallied to fin­ish at 40-42. The Sixers then pushed the Detroit Pistons to six hard-fought games in the first round of' the Eastern Conference playoffs before falling short. 
Toronto outscored the Sixers 33-24 in the second quarter to take a 51-45 lead at halftime. 

The Haptors built a 14­point lead on a 3-pointer by Jose Calderon with 44.8 sec­

Internship
onds left in the third quarter. But a basket by Brand and three free throws by Williams -after being fouled on a 3­pointer-cut the lead to 74­65 at the end of the quarter. 
Toronto led by as many as 
Information14 in the second half and maintained a steady lead throughout most of the fourth quarter. 
A three-point play by Williams with 2:39 left cut the Haptors lead to 88-82. 
Campus Ministry Session
"I thought we had the momentum back, but it was­n't meant to be," Williams said. 
Bosh responded with a jumper and Kapono hit a 3­pointer, giving Toronto a commanding 93-82 advan­tage. 

ursday, October 30, 5-6 PM 

Thursday, October 30, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual SDuestioning Students at Notre Dame Tuesday. November 4 
7:00p.m.-9:00p.m. 
31S Coleman Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesbian. bisexual Hquestioning members of the Notre Dame family, along with their friends and allys. to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is Welcome and Confidenti.ality is Assured 

Coffee andl?efres.&ments Will Be Served 
~vt~nit~-St~te Take Out 
from Our Kitchen to Your Tailgate. 
Perfect for any 
large gathering. 
";ftuuity-Styte Jake Out 
portions typically serve 8-10 people 
Salads • Entrees Desserts 
NBA 
Oden sidelined 
with injured foot 
Trail Blazers star to miss two to four weeks 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. Portland Trail Blazers center Greg Oden will miss two to four weeks because of an injury to his right foot. 
The team said Wednesday that MRI and computerized axial tomography scans con­firmed Oden has a mid-later­al foot sprain. 
Oden, who missed all of last season after knee surgery, injured his foot in the first quarter of the Blazers' 96-76 season-opening loss to the Los Angeles Lakers on Tuesday night. 
"I was trying to go get a rebound, and kind of came down on Derek Fisher's foot on like the third play of the game. I kind of fell and didn't think twice about it," he said after the game. 
Oden missed four field goals and two free throws in 13 minutes of play. 
The 7-foot center was the top pick in the 2007 draft. But even before his rookie season started, it was post­poned by microfracture sur­gery on his right knee. 
Trail Blazers coach Nate McMillan had not yet heard of the MRI results when he addressed reporters Wednesday at the team's practice facility in Tualatin, Ore. 
"You don't want injuries, and he's worked so hard throughout this summer to get himself back," McMillan said. "And we tried to do everything we could to get him ready for the season and the opener, and he steps on a guy's foot." 
Blazers guard Brandon Roy, who also spoke before the tests were complete, said the team will prepare to move forward without Oden for Friday night's home opener against San Antonio. 
"I feel bad for him," Roy said. "I know this is a big year for him and he had a lot on his shoulders." 
Oden's first game was high­ly anticipated by Blazers fans, who had waited a long time to see the top draft pick. The team had not had a No. 1 pick since 1978, when they chose center Mychal Thompson of Minnesota. 
After he was held out last season, Oden rolled his ankle in the first practice of the fall. That injury wasn't seri­ous, however. 
At Ohio State, Oden aver­aged 15.7 points and 9.6 rebounds, but Oden struggled with a wrist injury. He led the Buckeyes to the national championship game, scoring 25 points and grabbing 12 rebounds in the loss to Florida. 
NFL 
Wilfork fined for hit on Cutler 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -New England defensive tackle Vince Wilfork will be fined but not suspend­ed by the NFL after meeting with commissioner Roger Goodell about a hit on Denver quarterback Jay Cutler, a per­son familiar with the situation told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
The Patriots nose tackle met Tuesday with Goodell and the commissioner decided to forgo a possible suspension. That's according to a person familiar with the case who asked for anonymity because there has been no official announcement. 
The NFL declined comment, noting that fines and suspen­sions normally are announced on Fridays. 
Wilfork was summoned before Goodell after the Broncos claimed tape of New England's 41-7 win Oct. 20 showed Wilfork elbowing Cutler in the helmet. 
However, the tapes that were reviewed during the hearing did not show that clearly, upholding New England's contention there was no intent to injure. They 
also showed Wilfork helping up Cutler and patting him on the back after the play. 
Wilfork was fined a total of $35,000 last season for four different episodes. They included hits on Buffalo quar­terback J.P. Losman and Dallas tight end Jason Witten. He also was fined for putting a finger inside the facemask of New York Giants running back Brandon Jacobs and grabbing the facemask of San Diego's Michael Turner dur­ing the AFC championship game. 
Wilfork has played for the Patriots since being drafted in the first round out of Miami in 2004. 
He said Wednesday that he didn't know what the outcome of the meeting would be, but felt the session was produc­tive. 
"I think both sides were happy," Wilfork said. "lie got a chance to hear my side of my story of how I approach the game. I got a chance to hear what he had to say about the whole situation of my past history and playing football and all that good stuff. So I think we both left pretty happy." 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
page 18 
NBA 

Nets past Wizards 
Hawks startfast, hold onfor victory over Magic 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON-Vince CartPr 
scon~d 21 points to lnad his 
rebuilding NPw .Jnrsny Nets to a 
95-H5 snason-opnning victory 
Wed nosday night ovnr a 
Washington Wizards team miss­
ing Gilbm·t Anmas. 
Cartnr-whosn teammates 
nlnctnd him tlw Nnts' captain. 
coa1~h Lawrpncn Frank 
announend before the game ­
mado a 16-foot fadeaway 
jumper ovnr Caron Butlnr to put 
tho visitors alwad 90-H2 with a 
minut1~ left and PITectivnly settln 
a back-and-forth game. 
Thesn arn tnams that took 
V!~ry dif'fnrent approaches this 
offsnason. The Wizards essen­
tially staynd pat, re-signing All­
Stars Arnnas and Antawn 
Jamison to big contracts, whilP. 
the Nets continued an overhaul 
that began when they traded 
away Jason Kidd. 
Carter had plnnty of help Wednesday, with 17 points from Yi Jianlian and 14 from former Wizards player Jarvis llayns. 
Six Wizards scored in doubln­
f'iguros, led by .Iamison and 
I>nShawn StevtHlson with 14 
apince. All-Star forward Caron 
ButiM shot 3-for-11 and fin­
ished with 13 points. 
Etan Thomas played in his first real NBA game since an April ;{O, 2007, playoff loss to Clnveland. Thomas missed all of last season after having open­heart surgery, but he looked lit and aggressive Wednesday and f'inished with 10 points and eight rebounds. 
The Wizards are opening the season without Arenas, who is recovering from a third opera­tion on his left knee in 1 1/2 years. When healthy, he is the Wizards' top scorer, most cre­ative player and go-to option when they need a buzznr-beat­er. They certainly could have used him whiiH managing to score only one field goal in last 6 minutes Wednesday. 
Arenas has offered varying estimates for when he might be back this season, and Washington coach Eddie Jordan was vague when asked about his star's rehabilitation. 
"No timetable. Due process. lie's on course. He's disciplined about it. lie's diligent about it,"Jordan said. "And we'll just have to see as it goes along." 
During a glittery prngame ceremony, Arenas was not introduced to the crowd. When play began, he sat on the side­line wearing a sports coat and brightly colored foullard. A row behind Arenas was eenter Brendan llaywood, who had a breakthrough 2007-OH season but nended surgery on his right wrist this month and eould be out for the season. 
Nnither team looked quite ready to go in a first half that lacked any rhythm and nnded with Washington leading 46-44. 
In the third quarter, Washington wont on 10-0 run, with half the points seored by Antonio Daniels. to takn a 62-5H lead with 4:14 left. But Hayes carne in to score live consecu­tivn points -with a back­ground of boos -and put tlw Nets back in front. 

Keyon Dooling scornd the last four points of the third quarter to give Nnw Jersey a 69-67 edge heading to the fourth. 
Tho Wizards' last lead was 75-74 with H:17 left, and New Jersey end11d the game on a 21­10 run. 
The Nets returned only one starter from last season's open­ing-night roster: Carter, of course. Overall, only three cur­rent players-Carter, Josh Boone and Scan Williams ­were on the roster at thn start of last season, the fewest num­ber of holdovers in franchise history. 
That is why Frank said he's installed less than half of his offense. 
"We're not going to be a fin­ished product now," he said. "This is going to be an evolving thing -dean up and improve and continue to put in things whenever the group is ready for it. We have hardly anything in." 
Still, on this night, it was enough. 
Atlanta 99, Orlando 85 
Jon Johnson scornd 25 points, including nine in the fourth quarter, to help the Atlanta Hawks hold off a late Orlando rally for a 99-85 win Wednesday night in the season opener for both teams. 
Dwight Howard had 22 points and 15 rebounds to lead the Magie, who lost their home opener for only the second time in the last nine seasons. Mickael Pietrus added 20 points. 
Josh Smith chipped in 17 for the Hawks. 
Orlando had a better road than home record last season in winning 52 games, and one of the Magic's priorities this sea­son was doing a better job defending their home court. 
The Magic, expected to con­tend with Boston and Detroit for the Eastern Conference title, fizzled more than sizzled, shooting only 37 percent. Atlanta led by as many as 19 before Orlando got within seven points in the final minute, but Mike Bibby hit three free throws after a flagrant foul by Hedo Turkoglu to seal the victo­ry. 
Orlando struggled early, mak­ing only three of its first 18 shots. Howard, who moments before tipoff told the crowd, "We're going to be something special this year," was anything but in the first half, missing 
four of his  first  five  shots,  
including  two  that  were  
blocked.  

Howard finished strongly, scoring 12 points in the fourth quarter. lie had his familiar struggle from the free throw line, going 6-for-13. 
Atlanta dominated on the boards early, and held the Magic without a point for nearly six minutes near the end of the first quarter in building a 23-8 lead. Hashard Lewis, Pietrus and backup point guard Anthony Johnson, who threw an alley-oop to Pietrus for a dunk, keyed a second quarter run that cut Atlanta's halftime lead to 4 7-40. 
The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 30, 2008 

YOU CAN MAKE AWORLD OF DIFFERENCE. 
NATIONAL CLANDESTINE SERVICE CAREERS 


Be a part of a mission that's larger than all of us. The CIA's National Clandestine Service seeks qualified applicants tO serve our cour1try's misston abroad. Our careers offer rewarding. fast-paced, and high impact challenges in intelligence collect.ion on issues of critical importance to US national security. AppHcants should possess a high degree of penonal integrity, strong interpenonal skills, and good writte11 and oral communication skills. We welcome applicants from various academic and profen!onal background.s. Do you want to make a difference for your country/ Are you ready for a challenge' 
All applicants for National Clandestine Service positions must successfully undergo several personal interviews. medical and p<)lchological exams, aptitude testing. a polygraph interview. and a background inve<tigation. Following entry on duty, candidotes will undergo extensive training. US citizenship required. An equal opportunity employer and a drug-free work force. 
For more information and to apply, visit: www.cia.gov 
THE WORK OF A NATION. THE CENTER OF INTELLIGENCE. 

Deluxe Walk-to-Campus Student Apartments 
U()N'T l\11SS ()l.JT!!! 
LIMITED NUMBER OF TWO BEDROOM APARTMENTS AVAILABLE 
2009-2010 ACADEMIC YEAR 
$595 PER BED 

• 
Swimming Pool, Tennis Court, Fitness Center, Sand Volleyball 

• 
24-HOUR Fitness Center, Tanning Bed 

• 
Unlimted Parking 

• 
24-HOUR EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE 

• 
Onsite Managment 

• 
Washer/Dryer IN ALL UNITS 

• 
Free Cable & Internet 


Clover Ridge Apartments 1801/rish Way (574) 272-1441 www.cloverridgeapartments.com 
Thursday, October 30, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 

NBA 
Thunder falter in franchise debut 
Three Bucks score 20 in opening night win 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY -A block party filled the street with fans in blue Oklahoma City Thunder shirts. NBA commissioner David Stern walked to midcourt and welcomed the city to the league. A banner was unfurled with the team's new logo. 
Then the ball was tipped off and the celebration promptly ended. 
Michael Redd, Richard Jefferson and Charlie Villanueva each scored 20 points and the Milwaukee Bucks gave Oklahoma City's sellout crowd little hope about by spoiling the Thunder's debut with a 98-87 win on Wednesday night. 
The Bucks were in control from the start, taking their first double-digit lead by the midway point or the first quarter, and they gave the 19,136 in atten­dance little to cheer about until it was too late. 
"We had to come out hitting. That was the whole goal tonight was to come out fast," Redd said. "We knew we were in a hostile environment." 
Oklahoma City started 2-for-12 from the field and never led, falling behind 20-9 and then watching Rookie of the Year Kevin Durant come out of the game with early foul trouble. 
Even when he returned, it did­n't make a difference. Durant was held scoreless in the first half, and instead it was Redd that broke through first. 
Coming off a 30-point per­formance a night earlier, Redd hit his first 3-pointer and then stole the ball from Durant for a fast-break layup during a 10-1 run that pushed the Bucks' lead to 39-21. 
By then, any electricity from the crowd had been turned off. 
"We were just hoping that if they were playing on a lot of emotion early in the game that we'd be able to weather it," said Bucks coach Scott Skiles, who got his first win with his new team. "And they were. I think that probably sometimes these kind of events can weigh on the home team a little bit also and we were able to take advantage of it." 
Andrew Bogut added 14 points and Bell scored 11 for Milwaukee. Villanueva also had 12 rebounds. 
Chris Wilcox led Oklahoma City with 15 points off the bench, first-round pick Russell Westbrook scored 13 in his debut and Durant finished with 12 on 5-for-14 shooting. 
"I thought the atmosphere was definitely great," Wilcox said. "We had a lot of fans here, fan support. and I think if we get that night in and night out, a lot of games that we struggle, down the stretch we will come out with." 
The Thunder had too big of a deficit for their excitable crowd to really play a factor. 
Jefferson, Redd and Villanueva each hit 3-pointers early in the second half as the Bucks had lit­tle trouble against a Thunder defense that was the fourth­worst in the league last season. The lead grew to 71-47 after Villanueva scored off the Bucks' fourth offensive rebound of the same possession and then he and Jefferson combined to hit four free throws. 
Westbrook got Oklahoma City within 90-79 when he capped a 20-8 run with a 3-pointer from the right wing with 5:11 remain­ing, but Redd scored an easy layup underneath sparked a seven-point spurt that put the game away for Milwaukee. 
"For one night at least, it came together well for us," Skiles said. 
Johan Petro had the Thunder's first official shot with a missed jumper from the left wing, and Bogut made the first basket of the game, 39 seconds in. Earl Watson had Oklahoma City's first points on a layup 13 sec­onds later. 
MASS 
IN THE AFRICAN AMERICAN TRADITION 
<A.K.A. REJOICE! MASS) 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 2ND 8:45PM COLEMAN-MORSE CENTER CHAPEL OF OUR LADY 
<CHOIR PRACTICE BEGINS Af 8:15PM IN THE CHAPEL ALL ARE WELCOME!) 
PIZZA AND FELLOWSHIP TO FOLLOW! 
C-M 
Campus Mlninr't 
fOR INfORMATION, CONTACT ]LlDY MADDfN AT 631-8508 OR JMADDfN2@NO.fDU 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 30, 2008 
NBA 

Knicks survive late Heat surge in season opener 
Jamal Crawford paces the way for New York, picking up 29 points; Dwyane Wade picks up 26 in losing effort 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK Mike !)'Antoni's Nnw York Knicks are off and running-and a eouple of former corn players could only sit and watch. 
Jamal Crawford scored 21J points, Zarh Handolph added 20, and thP Knirks beat tho Miami Ileal 120-11;-i on 
WPdnesday 

"/just liked the 
n i g h t i n t lw i r 

overall play. I think
first ganw undnr Jl'Antoni. those last Jive minutes Wilson 
... we kind (~{shut it 
Chandler had 

down. We can't do
17 points and nirw rPbounds, that. We're not that and llavid I.PP 
good to be able to do 
and <)uentin 

that.. " 
]{ i c· h a r d s o 11 each sc·orPd 16 points for NPw Mike D'Antoni York. Belying 
Knicks coach 
just as IIHIC h on solid dPfPnsP as [)'Antoni's uptPmpo ofTnnsP, tlw Knicks sniznd control latn in t.lw snr­ond quartPr, op('IH'd a 2:~-point lead in tlw third. them lwld on aftPr thP Ileal got within three points in tlw final minute. 
"I just likt>d tlw overall play," ll'Antoni said. "I think those last fivn minutes ... we kind of shut it down. WP can't do that. We're not that good to be ablP to do that." 
!)'Antoni kept both formPr starters on the beneh, ignoring rather loud chants of "We want Steph! We want Steph!" late in the third quarter. Curry spent the final period in the training room king a sore right knee. 
"fin should do whatever he fenls lw should do. I ean't eon­trot what he does. lie's thn eoaeh," said Marbury, who said lw undmstood !)'Antoni's dnci­sion. "If this is what it is, I nwan thorn's always nnxt year." 
Dwyarw WadP had 26 points, ninn assists and snven n~bounds in his rPturn to regu­lar-season action for the llnat, but foulnd out on what appeared to be a good block of Crawford's :{-pointer with 1:25 lnft af'tpr Miami closed within six. 
Ud o n i s II as In m ad d e d 2 ;{ points and 10 n~bounds for tlw Ileal in rookie roaeh Erik SpoPistra's dPbut. Spoelstra,:H. beeanw the youngest head c o a r h i n t lw N B A w lw n lw replan1(1 l'al Bih•y. 
HookiP MirhaPI BPasley, tlw No. 2 pick in tlw draft, had only ninP points on 4-of-14 shooting for thP Ileal.. Mario Chalmers also startod, giving tlw Ileal two rookies in tlw opening night lineup for tlw fi r s t t i nH' s i IH' P Wad P and llaslnm startod on Od. 2H, 2003, against Philadelphia. 
"WI' slartnd tlu~ ganw so slow. By llw limP WP woke up, it was too latn," BPasley said 
()'Antoni replac·ed Thomas, bringing his entertaining of'f'en­sivn style that lnd the Phoenix Suns to an average of 58 wins Wade hadn't played a regu­the last four seasons. The lar-season game since March, Knieks quickly pieked up the before the Heat decided to shut system. seoring 106.9 points him down for the season so he per game in the preseason, and could rest his surgically were even better in the opener. n~paired knee before playing in 

New York is coming of'f a the Olympics. lie was only 9­miserable 2:{-59 last season, its of-24, perhaps trying to do too snvnnth straight sub-.500 fin­much while his teammates ish. ])'Antoni won't promise a struggled for so long. 
winning team "I've been on a team like this yet, but he did 
vow the Knicks would play hard and be enter­taining, and that was enrtainly tnw on opening night. 
()'Antoni also has made it clear lw values 
the Knicks' future as mueh as· their present, 
whieh  is  why  
Marbury  and  
Curry,  who  

won't bn part of 

that futun•, found themselves out of tlw rotation. 
"Therp's cl'rtain guys I want to sen and make surn and it's a dnlieatn situation. Steph's been great. It hasn't been his fault," ))'Antoni said. "I know hn's not going to be happy about it and I wouldn't bn either, but the team goes on two different tracks. One is for the future and one is for 
And tlwv did it "We started the game trying to win 
w i thou t for nw r so slow. By the time now. eoaeh lsiah "I know it's
we woke up. 
Thomas' two not a great sit­prized acquisi­uation for him
it was too late. " tions, Stephon and so is Eddy, Marbury and it's not a great
Michael Beasley
Eddy Curry. situation. But
Heat forward 
nothing is closed. No door is eloscd. We'll 

see how it goes forward." 
The Heat were an NBA-worst 15-67 last season, and they'll be in for another long year if they can't find more help from CATERING Wade, who was visibly frus­
For e1·e~}' occasion 
trated in the third quarter after firing a pass out of bounds. 
before and I understand when it goes well, it can go well," Wade said. "And I also know when it goes bad, it can go bad, from last season. So just trying to figure out our identi­ty." 
Also returning to action was Shaun Livingston, who appeared in his first game since suffering a massive lnl't 
knee injury while playing for the Los Angeles Clippers on Feb. 26, 2007. lie had two points in 4 minutes. 
New York used a 19-3 run in the second quarter to build a 56-42 cushion. Beasley's 3­pointer (~Ut it to 10 with R:21 left in the third, but New York seorPd 13 straight over tlw next 4:20 for an H4-61 bulge. 


5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
Mishawaka • (574) 271-1692 1332 Hilltop Rd. St. Joseph, Ml • (269) 983-9900 
www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 

Thursday, October 30, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
field in a do-or-die scenario against top-seeded Calvin College when the MIAA tour­nament begins Nov. 1. The contest is scheduled to kickoff at noon. 
In a match up earlier this season with the Knights, the Belles did not fair well falling 4-0 at home. Saturday, Saint Mary's will look to reverse that result and claim its first MIAA tournament victory in school history. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
HOLDING ON STRONG 

VANESSA GEM PIS/The Observer Junior left guard Eric Olsen holds senior left tackle Mike Turkovich's hand prior to a snap in Notre Dame's 29-24 loss to North Carolina. 
NBA 

Suns win openerbehindStoudenUre 
Ginobili who is out until Game 1. Duncan tried anoth­
Associated Press 
December after ankle sur­er 3-pointer Wednesday that 
SAN ANTONIO -Amare gery. would have tied the game, Stoudemire patiently waited Nash added 13 points and but it bounced off the front of until the fourth quarter 13 assists for the Suns. the rim with eight seconds before taking over and giving Leandro Barbosa had 18 left. Terry Porter a win in his points, Shaquille O'Neal 15, "I thought, 'Oh, no. Not coaching debut. and Grant Hill again,"' 
Stoudemire scored 22 13. Stoudemire points -11 coming on 5-of-5 "Obviously, said. "Luckily shooting in the fourth quarter the first one is "Our guys really he missed that -and four other Phoenix nice, especially one, we got
gutted it out tonight. 
players scored in double fig­on the road," the rebound
It was great to see
ures to help the Suns beat the said Porter, who and went San Antonio Spurs 103-98 in was hired when that down the down the the regular-season opener for Mike D'Antoni stretch." floor." both teams Wednesday night. opted during Barbosa 
"It was just being patient," the offseason to added two
Terry Porter
said Stoudemire, who had coach the New free throws only six shots heading into York Knicks. Suns coach with three 
the fourth quarter. "That's "Our guys the main thing tonight -just really gutted it being patient. Just let the out tonight," he game come to me. said. "It was great to see that 
"There in the fourth quar­down the stretch." ter, I was able to get going." San Antonio won a five­
Tim Duncan and Tony game series over the Suns in Parker each scored 32 points the first round of the playoffs for the Spurs, who were play­last season, partly on a long ing without guard Manu 3-pointer by Duncan late in 
2009-2010 CHRIS AND MARY ANNE DECENZO GRANTS FOR THE STUDY OF ART HISTORY IN ITALY 
THE DEPARTMENT OF ART, ART HISTORY AND DESIGN IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE A NEW GRANT FOR STUDENTS PURSUING A FIRST OR SUPPLEMENTARY MAJOR IN ART HISTORY WHO SPEND A SEMESTER OR FULL YEAR STUDYING IN ITALY 
INFORMATION ON HOW TO APPLY AVAILABLE FROM THE DEPARTMENT OFFICE 306 RILEY HALL 

seconds to go. 
Stoudemire 

broke a tie game with 2:53 to go with a three-point play. 
"Amare was huge for us down the stretch," Porter said. "[Nash] also made a couple of big plays. It was a solid win for us and just a great way to start the sea­son." 
After Raja Bell stole the ball away from Duncan on the other end of the court, Stoudemire quickly scored on a fastbreak on an assist from Nash to give Phoenix a 99-94 lead with 2:31 remaining. 
The turnover and quick basket angered Spurs coach Gregg Popovich, who was 12­0 in season-opening games. 
"It was the worst transition defense I've seen in years," Popovich said. "I can't imag­ine how bad it was. 
"Several people made poor decisions in the game down the stretch. It was very disap­pointing." 
Bell stole the ball on a Duncan pass. Bell fired the ball to Nash, who set up Stoudemire for an easy layup. 
Phoenix led 101-98 with less than a minute remaining, but Parker missed a 3-pointer with 39 seconds left before Duncan missed his try. 
Once again the Spurs employed the Hack-a-Shaq that helped them last season in the playoffs. During the preseason, O'Neal called Popovich's liberal use of the Hack-a-Shaq during the first round last season "a coward move." 
Popovich poked fun at O'Neal in the opening seconds of the ballgame when Michael Finley grabbed the big center away from the ball a scant five seconds into the game. O'Neal laughed when he looked over to the Spurs bench and saw Popovich smil­ing while giving two thumbs up. 
"I thought it was funny ­bring a little humor to the game," Duncan said. 
It got more serious before halftime when the Spurs employed the Hack-a-Shack four times in the final 1:26 with Phoenix leading 46-40. 
Even though O'Neal made 5-of-8, the Spurs were able to cut the Suns' lead to 49-46 at halftime. 
Before the grabbing and pulling was done, O'Neal got tangled with Ime Udoka. Udoka was motioning to the official that he was going to foul O'Neal, and O'Neal raised his left arm toward Udoka and sent the Spurs defender flat onto the floor. Udoka was called for the foul and O'Neal made both shots. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 30, 2008 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
"Georgetown knew what was at stake today," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "It was a big game for their program, and they were very ready. To win the Big East two years in a row is a big accomplishment. It would be nicE~ to win it out­right this year." 
Leading the way for Notre Dame W11dnesday was forward .feb Brovsky who tallied both Irish goals. The first came in the 24th minute when, after receiving a pass from fellow forward Bright Dike, Brovsky slipped past a defender and tired past (;eorgetown km~per Matthew Brutto. 
Al'ter l'el!~r Grasso tied the game for the lloyas in the 53rd minute, Brovsky put Notre Dame back in front almost immediately. The soph­omore was the first to rise and get connect with a Jack Traynor free kick heading the ball past Brutto. Brovsky's game winning goal was his fifth tally of the season. 
"Both goals from Jeb were very good," Clark said. "The second goal was a great ball from .Jack Traynor, and the first goal was very well-taken. Jeb is arguably our most clini­cal finisher. He's developing into a first class player." 
What made Brovsky's goals even more impressive was whom they came against. Georgetown entered Wednesday's game with a miniscule 0.58 goals against avnrage, and Brovsky's goals were the first time an oppo­nent has found the back of the net against Brutto in 763 min­utes this season. 

Brovsky's tallies also helped the Irish break out of a mini­scoring slump. In their two games over Fall Break, Notre 
Dame scored only  one  goal  
against  Seton  Hall  and  
Connecticut.  Clark  was  

encouraged but not totally pleased by the team's effort on Wednesday. 
"Against Seton Hall, every­thing was there but the finish­ing," Clark said. "Against Connecticut, we had more of the game than we've ever had there, but to be fair, we didn't generate many scoring chances. There was some good buildup today, but the finish­ing still wasn't there to be honest. 
"We had three one-on-ones with their keeper in the sec­ond half, and we missed all three of them. That wasn't good, but in retrospect it was good because we had to fight to the end learning how to manage a tight game." 
There was one downer for Notre Dame Wednesday after­noon as starting goalie Andrew Quinn had to leave the game part way through the second half. In the 72nd minute, Quinn made a diving save, but he landed awkward­ly injuring his shoulder in the process. 
After the game, Clark said that the team would have a better idea of the extent of Quinn's injury after he gets an MRI, but Quinn will be out for at least a few weeks. Junior goalie Phillip Tuttle will start in his place. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogast@nd.edu 
Fresh01en 
continued from page 24 
helped out," he said. 

The freshman from Saint Paul, Minn. hauled in his team leading fifth touchdown against Washington to set a record for freshman receivers. He is also only one catch away from breaking sophomore Duval Kamara's freshman receptions record. 
The fast start for one of the most impressive freshmen classes in the country is due in a big way to the camaraderie thfl team was able to develop before they came to campus. 
"We were already close enough so when we're work­ing out and pushing one another you're not like, 'Ok who's this guy pushing me,' it's more like 'Ok this is my team­mate, this is my buddy, so we were able to all push one another pretty hard," Rudolph said. 
The class knew long before they arrived that they had the chance to be something spe­cial. That's why none of the recruits, who had their pick of the nation's top colleges, backed down even after the dismal 3-9 season in 2007. Several players said they were asked relentlessly if they would change their minds, but they all had the same response -no way. 
"I had a lot of people ask me about that, but I knew that Notre Dame with all it offered was too good to pass up," 
attempts. Hellmann also paced the
Trine 

team in digs and blocks with 14 continued from page 24 and 1.5, respectively. Junior 
setter Liana Rohr took over defense, tallying an astonishing duties from freshman Dani ftfteen blocks alongside 43 digs Brink, totaling 23 assists on the to hold the Belles to a .126 night. attacking percentage. Senior For Trine, senior hitter Sallie 
hitter  Kaela  Richardson domi­ 
Hellmann lead  nated both offen­ 
Saint with  Mary's 9 kills,  "We want to be  sively and defen­sively, with 15  
while fellow senior Kathy Kurczak added  playing for a championship. "  kills, 16 digs, and 1.5 blocks along­side her .483  
8 kills with a .389 attacking  Julie Schroeder-Biek  attacking percent­age. Freshman  
percentage.  Belles coach  hitter  Stefanie  
Junior  hitter  Pellegrom added  
L  o  r  n  a  4.5 blocks and a  

Slupczynski, who has been the . 429 attacking percentage for spark for the Belles' offense all the Thunder. season, posted only five kills After a disappointing 13-18 with seven errors in 36 season last year (6-10 in the quarterback Dayne Crist said. 
Crist threw for over 2,000 yards as a senior year at Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, Cal. Last year and was ranked the third best quarter­back prospect by Scout.com. He has yet to see the field this year, but said he was content learning the offense and wait­ing for his chance to perform with his classmates. 
"There are a lot of really unselfish guys. Guys who just really want to be part of some­thing special," Rudolph said. 
After a 6-2 start with major contributions from the frosh on both sides of the ball, they seem to have made the right decision. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
MIAA), Schroeder-Biek guided her team to a winning record and a fourth-place conference finish; smothering defense and superlative play from Slupczynski have been the deciding factors in the team's success throughout the season. 
"We need to build on that success," Schroeder-Biek said. "The players are well aware of what it will take to get to where we want to be. We want to be playing for a championship." 
Saint Mary's is off until the first round of the MIAA Tournament. With the fourth place finish, the Belles will host No. 5 seed Adrian in the first round of the tournament at Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility on Tuesday at 7 p.m . 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


Thursday, October 30, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~l1JWIIDJ1l! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 

I'm making a to form four ordinary words. 

cover for my /cast
RON ED 
I I I 
@2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ENMOY j 
BRAMKE 
CAN Bt: KNIITt:D 
1 
rJ 
WHIL-t: Mt:NDING.
www.jumbie.com
tTECJOB j 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

IJ r I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: A [ 

I I I I I JrI I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: DERBY LIVEN UPROAR BEMOAN Answer: What the pro wrestler got when he won the match -"PIN" MONEY 
EUGENIA LAST WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Amit Paul, 25; Winona Ryder. 37: Kate Jack­
Across 33 One pointing 58 Recess 
sari, 60; Richard Dreyfuss, 6! Eric's "Will & and clicking 62 Dick Grace" co-star 35 Oenophile's 
Happy Birthday: Take a close look at the possibilities that exist, especially in your per­
63 [See circles] 
sonal life. The opportunity to mo\'e ahead is a\'ailable but only if you are willing to put
6 Language from interest 
65 Egypt's_ yourself and your ideas on the· line. Forget the trivial little things. Problems with some­
which "divan" is 

39 80, for Hg one you are close to should not he allowed to hold you back. Separate your professional 
Simbel historical
derived and personal dreams. Your numbers are 8, 12. 17. 23, 27,-33. -l7 
40 Northern site 11 Dunderhead 
Europeans 66 Defensive retort ARIES (March 21-April19): You cannot count on everyone. Look for any signs of 
14 Thin as 
dishonesty or insincerity. Once you realize whom you can trust, you will be ahle to
41 Start time for 67 Scottish child 

move ahead with lightning speed. ***
15 Strand. many a military 68 Seedy sort? 
somehow 

mission TAURUS (April20-May 20): Take things as they L'Ome. Acceptance "·ill be half the
69 Majority of a
16 Nickname for #6 battle. Gauge the situation you face before reacting. An intense encounter will resolve
42 Colonel's div. 

crowd at a 
any differences you have with a partner. *** 
on the Sixers 

43 Check box Jonas Brothers 17 [See circles] option on a concert GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take what you bear as interesting but not necessarily fac­tual. Find out \vhat is actually going on. especially with work 9r a co-worker. Gossip or
19 D.D.E.'s W.W. II Spanish survey? 70 "I'm outta here!" 
false comments may cause you to make a poor decision. Don't let pressure be a deciding 
command 

44 "Dream Lover" factor for you. *** W Well-dressed, singer. 1959 
Down 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll be given an opportunity to present an idea to en­
photogenic male 
45 CNBC news 

Family pet in "Hi trepreneurial people looking for something worth investing in. A person who used to be ?1 [See circles] topics, for short and Lois" a part of your life will want back in your circle. Consider what this person has that will ?3 Delays set them complement what you do. *****
47 Business with a 2 Former "ER" co­
back: Abbr. register star La Salle LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expect complaints if you haven't contributed or given your all ?5 "No horsing 49 Paris's Basilique 3 Having one's to something you promised you would do. The people you need in your corner will not heart set (on) be happy with anything less than your best. Accept any changes going on at home. **
around!" -Ciotllde 4 Change colors? 
?6 Negligent 50 Language that VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Reconnect with old friends. Attend a reunion or plan a ?9 A.B.A. member's treats "dz" as a 
5 Oliver Twist, for trip to visit someone you miss. He or she will help you see more clearly a situation you one face. Travel or educational pursuit should be planned and pursued.****
title single consonant 

6 Hi-_
30 Burger order 53 Use a cell phone LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't fall short now. You have to put everything into your7 Result of Puzzle by Mike Nothnagel future through education or professional maneuvers. Find a way to drum up more
outside one's 31 "How Do 

overstrain demand for your expertise and you will be able to make a few adjustments to your fi­(1997 LeAnn calling area 32 Like some 46 Handles roughly 56 Drop paper in a nancial plans. ***
8 Concrete
Rimes hit) 55 [See circles] candles box, maybe 
9 Court huddles 48 Linguist SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It's time to state bow you feel and discover that open 
34 When flowers

10 Taken-aback Chomsky 57 Coli. major conversation can lead to some solid refomlS. Don't give in to someone \vho is trying to ~NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE bloom: Abbr. force unwanted changes to yonr home. Protect your interests and your assets. *** 
response 
SO Relatively cool 59 Tex's neighbor
36 Crew members

11 Start of many red giant SAGfiTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): If someone wants something for nothing. say no. dedications 37 "M*A*S*H" co-60 Especially Don't let anyone dump added responsibilities on your shoulders. If you don't speak up. 
12 -Detoo 51 Remain inactive
star you will ba\·e regrets. A love connection needs some adjustments. *** 61 It's about 21/2 
13 Finger of the 38 Feminizing suffix 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stay focused and on track and put your own needs
52 How actors times as high as
ocean 40 Attention-getting first. An unconventional alteration regarding your career will turn out in your favor.
should appear Vesuvius

18 Forms a union cry Stick to the facts and don't exaggerate. Your credibility will lead to your success. *** 
22 Program 44 Test sites 54 Jazz's Carmen 64 W.B.A. finales 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Expect the unexpected and you won't be caught off­24 Occupies an guard. Taking impulsive action without having all the facts will cause too much trouble. abandoned A trip back to your roots may be enticing but costly. ***** For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a
building 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Proceed to finalize a deal that can increase your income
26 Either of two 
or help you resolve your financial situation. By acting now, you can spare yourself anxi­
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
guests on 'To ety and grief. Money will come to you through an unlikely source. ***** 
Tell the Truth" crosswords frorn the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Birthday Baby: You have a strong code ofethics and demand justice. You are strong
27 Der _ (Konrad Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
and steadfast. You are changeable and strong-\\·illed.
Adenauer) past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 28 Deer __ Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Eugenia's Web sites: e11genialast.com for confidential consultations, 30 Garage job solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
mvspace.com!eugenia/astfor Eugtmia's blog, ostroadvice.comfor fim 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 

page 24 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Biting the Big East 

Irish clinch share of league title with win 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

It may have been the biggest game in Georgetown's recent program history, but it was Notre Dame who made the statement Wednesday al'ter­noon with a 2-1 victory at Alumni Field. 
Only two points behind the Irish entering the game, the Hoyas arrived in South Bend eyeing their first ever Big East Blue Division title. With the victory, the Irish not only denied Georgetown that accomplishment, but they also clinched at least a share of the Big East Blue Division title for the second consecutive season -Notre Dame shared the title with Connecticut in 2007. 
see BIG EAST/page 22 


fOOTBALL 

Highly touted freshman class beginning to show promise 

JESS ALLISON Observer Freshman receiver Michael Floyd, left, posseses the ball after a catch In Notre Dame's 33-7 win over Washington Saturday. Tight end Kyle Rudolph evades the Stanford defense in the 28-211rish victory Oct. 11 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 

More than half of Notre Dame's freshmen class met each other on January 5, 2008. 
15 of the team's 27 freshmen were invited to San Antonio that week for the Army All­America Bowl for graduating high school players. 
"We spent that week together down there and we kind of had our Notre Dame group and then there was everyone else," tight end Kyle Rudolph said. "I think that played a more role in our class coming so close together." 
The highly-touted group con­tinued to stay in touch with one another throughout the sum­mer to talk about how excited they were to get to South Bend and get things rolling. Once they arrived, they didn't waste much time. 
Rudolph is only one of several freshmen who have played a major role in Notre Dame's 5-2 start this season. lie has been listed as the No. 1 tight end since week one and currently has 14 catches for 166 yards and two touchdowns. 
Those numbers make him the second leading freshman receiver on the team behind wide receiver Michael Floyd. Floyd, who has 31 catches for 533 yards, was also in San Antonio at the All-America Bowl. 
"It was a good way to get to know all my teammates, getting to know them all then really 
see FRESHMEN/page 22 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Saint Mary's falls in lastgame before MIAA's 
By MICHAEL BLASCO Sports Wri tcr 
Saint Mary's, in a limtl tunn­up ganw bnf'orP tlw MIAA Tournanwnt nPxt wcwk, droppc~d a match WodnPsday night against struggling Trino to 11nish fourth in thP Mli\A this sc1ason. Tho BPIIos (IX-10, IJ-7 MIAAI laborod to gPiwratn any olli1nso in tlw thrnP sot loss (25­22, 25-22, 2fi-21 I against thn ThundPr (IJ-1 X. 4-Il MIAAI at tlw Trinn's IIPrslwy Hall in i\ngola. Mich. 

Saint Mary's head coach Julie Schronder-Biek was not con­cerned by the tough match, highlighting thn ability that hnr team has shown to bouncn bac~k after losses this snason. 
"Our approach is to keep going forward and finishing strong," Schroeder-Biek said. "I havP bnen incrndibly proud of my tnam for how well tlwy haw~ rnspc:.ndcd Ito struggles this sea­son I. 
The Thunder kept Saint Mary's in eheck with stil'ling 
see TRINE/page 22 
SMC SoccER 

Belles one goal short again 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 

Once again, the Saint Mary's found itself in a very tightly contested match. But, once again, they came up just one goal short. 
Saint Mary's endured its third consecutive one-goal loss falling 2-1 against con­ference foe Albion Wndnesday afternoon. 
A first half headlined by great defensive play yielded only one goal for Albion which came with just three minutes remaining before halftime. 
The Belles came out with a quick answer in the 51st minute off the foot of junior forward Micki Bedinger. Jledinger received a pass from fellow junior Sam Smogor and slid it past tho Briton keP.per to knot the game at one. 
IlowP-ver, the Saint Mary's resurgence was quickly matched when Albion eoun­tered with a goal of its own in the 58th minute. 
Junior Patty Duffy had another solid game in goal for the Belles recording five saves. Duffy has made 77 saves on the season. 
This loss brings the Bc1lles' season record to 2-12-1 over­all and 1-7 in MlAA play. Saint Mary's finishes eighth in the conference, good enough to clinch the final spot in the postseason tour­nament. 
In his lirst season as Belles head coach, Hyan Crabbe has had his work eut out for him taking over such a young and inexperienced team. Thn freshman class lc~d by KatPiyn Tondo-Steelf~'s two goals and one assist has contributnd about hall' of the offensive production this scmson. 
Saint Mary's will take thn 
see BELLES/page 21 


STORY BY KAITLYNN RIELY
PoUsters and pundits are making predictions about the outcome of the presidential election, but for all the pontificating, one of the biggest Election Day uncertainties is whether the "youth vote," young people between the ages of 18 and about 29, will vote in significant numbers. 
"Some people say, it's the young vote . . . that would decide the election one way or another, if they really get out and vote for [Democratic candidate Sen. Barack] Obama," said Jack Colwell, a political columnist for the South Bend Tribune and a Notre Dame professor in the Journalism, Ethics and Democracy program. 
If the youth vote does not materialize, he said, then Republican candidate Sen. John McCain has a better chance of winning. 
Nov. 4 marks the first time most Notre Dame students can vote in a presidential election. But based on the past youth voting record, it is likely that many students at Notre Dame, and many young people across the country, will not vote. 
"Young people just don't have a history of voting," Notre Dame political sci­ence professor David Nickerson said. Since young people tend to move around the country more often than older people, they are harder for cam­paigns to mobilize. Voting is a habit, Nickerson said, so once a person votes, he is more likely to vote the next time. 
Many young people have not developed the habit, he said. 
Others may believe their vote does not matter, Colwell said. 
"They may be soured by politics, or have the theory that they are all crooks, or that none of them are going to do anything, which isn't true, because elections do matter," Colwell said. 
The high point for the youth vote was the 1960s, Nickerson said, but since then, the percentage of younger voters has declined. When Bill Clinton ran for president in 1992, he made an "unprecedented outreach to young voters," Nickerson said, and that caused a jump in the num­ber of young people who voted. 
This year, Nickerson said, more young people than in the past have been responding in surveys that they are likely to vote. 
"The general consensus is that turnout will be higher amongst young people [this year] than in 2004," Nickerson said. 
Colwell agreed that young people seem more interested in the 2008 election than presidential elections four and eight years ago. 
"This time, they seem to be more interested in the election, probably realiz­ing that there is a lot more at stake," he said. 
Issues like the Iraq War, the environment and energy initially attracted the interest of the young electorate, Colwell said. 
Obama has inspired many young voters to become interested in poli­tics for the first time, Nickerson said. Obama has been aggressivelycourting the youth vote, pushing for people to apply for absentee ballots if they are out of state on Nov. 4. McCain has also targeted young voters, but where Obama's approach has been broad-based, McCain's is more selective, aimed at young people likely to vote Republican, Nickerson said. 
But it will be another week before the McCain and Obama campaigns will be able to tell whether their youth strategy has worked. 
Based on their observa­tions and interactions, some Notre Dame profes­sors and students predict­ed a high percentage of Notre Dame students would vote. 
Notre Dame students are more interested in 
the turnout of this elec­
tion than they have been 
in the past, Colwell said, 
offering anecdotal evi­
dence Trom his classes 
and his time on campus.
Two months a_go,Colwell was part ol a panel during a "Pizza, Pop and Politics" event 
see VOTE/Page 7 

page 2 The Observer + IN FOCUS Wednesday, October 29, 2008 


h'xcerpt 
superpower. McCain:., nomination speech to I promised he would not let I he Uepublican National America "retreat behind empty Convention. as released to the threats, false promises and Associated Press: uncertain diplomacy;" that he 
"In a time of deep distrnss at would "confidently defend our home, as tyranny stranglnd thn interests and values wherever aspirations to liberty of millions, they are threatened." and as war douds gathnred in I knew my confidence was well tho Wnst and East, Franklin placed when I watched him l>nlano Hoosnvnlt accepted his stand on thP. rubble of the World party's nomination by observing: Trade Center, with his arm 
"There is a mysterious cycle in around a hero of September human nvents. To some genera­11th, and in our moment of tions much is given. or other mourning and anger, strengthen gnnerations much is expnetnd. our unity and summon our This gnneration of Americans resolve by promising to right has a rendezvous with dnstiny." this terrible wrung, and to stand 
Thn awful evnnts of up and fight for the values we Snptembnr 11, 2001 dndared a hold dear. war we were vaguely aware of, He promised our enemies hut hadn't really eomprehnnded would soon hear from us. And so how nnar the threat was, and they did. how terrible were the plans of So they did. our mwrnies. lie ordernd American forces to 
It's a big thing, this war. Afghanistan and took the light to 
It's a light bntwenn a just our enemies, and away from our regard for human dignity and a shores, seriously injuring al malevolent forcn that dnliles an Qaeda and destroying the honorable religion by disputing regime that gavn them safe (;od's love for nvery soul on haven. earth. It's a light betwenn right He worked eiTectively to and wrong, good and evil. secure the cooperation of 
And should our enemies Pakistan, a relationship that's acquire for their arsenal the critical to our success against al dwmieal. biological and nudear Qaeda. wnapons they seek, this war will He encouraged other friends bncomn a much bigger thing. to recognize the peril that ter­
So it is, whether we wished it rorism posed for them, and won or not, that we have eome to the their help in apprehending tnst of our gemwation, to our many of those who would attack rendezvous with destiny. us again, and in helping to 
And much is expected of us. freeze the assets they used to 
We are engaged in a hard fund their bloody work. struggle against a cruel and After years of failed diplomacy determined adversary. and limited military pressure to 
Our enemies have made clear restrain Saddam Hussein, the danger they pose to our President Bush made the diffi­security and to the very essence attacked not for a wrong we had against terrorism is our govern­us all. cult decision to liberate Iraq. of our culture -liberty. done, but for who we are -a ment's most important obliga­War is an awful business. The Those who criticize that deci­
Only the most deluded of us people united in a kinship of tion. lives of a nation's finest patriots sion would have us believe that could doubt the necessity of this ideals, committed to the notion I don't doubt their sincerity. are sacrificed. Innocent people the choice was between a status war. Like all wars, this one will that the people are sovereign, They emphasize that military suffer. Commerce is disrupted, quo that was well enough left have its ups and downs. not governments, not armies, action alone won't protect us, economies are damaged. alone and war. But there was no 
But we must fight. not a pitiless, inhumane theoc­that this war has many fronts: in Strategic interests shielded by status quo to be left alone. 
We must. racy, not kings, mullahs or courts, financial institutions, in years of statecraft are endan­The years of keeping Saddam 
The sacrifices borne in our tyrants, but the people. the shadowy world of intelli­gered as the demands of war in a box were coming to a close. 
defense are not shared equally In that moment, we were not gence, and in diplomacy. and diplomacy conflict. The international consensus by all Americans. different races. They stress that America However just the cause, we that he be kept isolated and 
But all Americans must share We were not poor or rich. We needs the help of her friends to should shed a tear for all that is unarmed had eroded to the a resolvn to see this war through were not Democrat or combat an evil that threatens us lost when war claims its wages point that many eritics of mili­to a just end. Republican, liberal or conserva­all, that our alliances are as from us. tary action had decided the time 
We must not be complacent at tive. We were not two countries. important to victory as are our But there is no avoiding this had come again to do business moments of suecess, and we We were Americans. armies. war. We tried that, and our with Saddam, despite his near must not despair over setbacks. All of us, despite the differ­We agree. reluctance cost us dearly. And daily attacks on our pilots, and 
We must learn from our mis­ences that enliven our politics, And, as we've been a good while this war has many compo­his refusal, until his last day in takes, improve on our succnsses, are united in the one big idea friend to other countries in nents, we can't make victory on power, to allow the unrestricted and vanquish this unpardonable that freedom is our birthright moments of shared perils, so we the battlefield harder to achieve inspection of his arsenal. enemy. and its defense is always our have good reason to expect their so that our diplomacy is easier Our choice wasn't between a 
If we do less, we will fail the first responsibility. solidarity with us in this strug­to conduct. benign status quo and the blood­mw mission no American gener­All other responsibilities come gle. That is not just an expression shed of war. ation has ever failed -to pro­second. That is what the President of our strength. It was between war and a vide to our children a stronger, We must not lose sight of that believes. It's a measure of our wisdom. graver threat. Don't let anyone bdter eountry than the one we as we debate who among us And, thanks to his efforts we That's why I commend to my tell you otherwise. Not our crit­were blessed to inherit. should bear the greatest respon­have received valuable assis­country the re-election of ics abroad. Not our political 
Hemember how we felt when sibility for keeping us safe and tance from many good friends President Bush, and the steady, opponents. 
the serenity of a bright free. around the globe, even if we experienced, public-spirited And certainly not a disingenu­September morning was We must, whatever our dis­have, at times, been disappoint­man who serves as our Vice­ous film maker who would have dnstroyed by a savage atrocity agreements, stick together in ed with the reactions of some. President, Dick Cheney. us believe that Saddam's Iraq so hostile to all human virtue we this great challenge of our time. I don't doubt the sincerity of Four years ago, in was an oasis of peace when in could scarcely imaginn any My friends in the Democratic my Democratic friends. And Philadelphia, I spoke of my con­fact it was a placn of indescrib­human being capable of it. Party-and I'm fortunate to call they should not doubt ours. fidence that Pre~dent Bush able cruelty, torture chambers, We wern united. many of them my friends -Our President will work with would accept the responsibilities mass graves and prisons that First, in sorrow and anger. assure us they share the convic­all nations willing to help us that come with America's dis­destroyed the Jives of the small Then in recognition we were tion that winning the war defeat this scourge that afflicts tinction as the world's only children held inside their walls." 
Juhn ~idnt·~ \kC.tin Ill Cirhl~ L~m t.Hctl~l~y) ~l.;f),Un (m. t~>8.0); StHHht·rn B ..tpti~c 
. . ' .; . 
-\ugu~J ~9, Lt'J(l. C..tN.l Sh\.~pp (m, t'J~<!~ di\r; l9~U} l' nilt'll St•ttt.·~ Nan 
Cql~O ~olo N ..\\al :\ir St<cttion~ l)QughP·h ,'\1H.Jrcw~ Si,dncy, l\lcg~.tlll, (VktO<ll1l. pd~\>IWr of WM); H~nsdy & t:o.; 
P.m.un.t (. 't.u1al /q1w, Pan.un;.~. .ht>l:k, .Jimmy, Bridget. l 'n~Jt;J, Srart;~ t lllUSt~ ,)( ltt-prt·~t~nt<.tti\t.'s 
Phqt:(H\.1 Ad<?qtJ.,t. ~t,~k,rt;ll 1~)8.~) ;, Un~rt;d ~r ·*~~ ~~l\<1 (t· ~ "'k\_·rt:d l'lllt\.·~t ~(..t,tt·~ N;.tX<t.l.\.l:otdt;I)J\, ~-.. 195~ t9SS, h•~.·~•mtwnn 
Wednesday, October 29, 2008 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 3 
Excerpt from Sen. Barack Obama's nomination speech to the Democratic National Convention, as released to the Associated Press: 
Four years ago, I stood before you and told you my story of the brief union between a young man from Kenya and a young woman from Kansas who weren't well-off or well-known, but shared a belief that in America, their son could achieve whatever he put his mind to. 
It is that promise that has always set this country apart, that through hard work and sac­rifice, each of us can pursue our individual dreams but still come together as one American fami­ly, to ensure that the next gener­ation can pursue their dreams as well. 
That's why I stand here tonight. Because for 232 years, at each moment when that promise was in jeopardy, ordi­nary men and women, students and soldiers, farmers and teach­ers, nurses and janitors, found the courage to keep it alive. 
We meet at one of those defin­ing moments, a moment when our nation is at war, our econo­my is in turmoil, and the American promise has been threatened once more. 
Tonight, more Americans are out of work, and more are work­ing harder for less. More of you have lost your homes, and even more are watching your home values plummet. More of you have cars you can't afford to drive, credit card bills you can't afford to pay, and tuition that's beyond your reach. 
These challenges are not all of government's making. But the failure to respond is a direct result of a broken politics in Washington and the failed poli­cies of George W. Bush. 
America, we are better than these last eight years. We are a better country than this. 
This country is more decent than one where a woman in Ohio, on the brink of retirement, finds herself one illness away from disaster after a lifetime of hard work. 
This country is more generous than one where a man in Indiana has to pack up the equipment he's worked on for twenty years and watch it shipped off to China, and then chokes up as he explains how he felt like a failure when he went home to tell his family the news. 
We are more compassionate than a government that lets vet­erans sleep on our streets and families slide into poverty; that sits on its hands while a major American city drowns before our eyes. 
Tonight, I say to the American people, to Democrats and Republicans and Independents across this great land: enough! This moment, this election is our chance to keep, in the 21st cen­tury, the American promise alive. Because next week, in Minnesota, the same party that brought you two terms of George Bush and Dick Cheney will ask this country for a third. And we are here because we love this country too much to let the next four years look like the last eight. On Nov. 4, we must stand up and say: "Eight is enough." 
Now let there be no doubt. The Republican nominee, John McCain, has worn the uniform of our country with bravery and distinction, and for that, we owe him our gratitude and respect. And next week, we'll also hear about those occasions when he's broken with his party as evi­dence that he can deliver the change that we need. 
But the record's clear: John McCain has voted with George Bush 90 percent of the time. Senator McCain likes to talk about judgment, but really, what does it say about your judgment when you think George Bush has been right more than ninety per­cent of the time? I don't know about you, but I'm not ready to take a ten percent chance on change. 
The truth is, on issue after issue that would make a differ­ence in your lives, on health care and education and the economy, Senator McCain has been anything but independent. He said that our economy has made "great progress" under this president. He said that the fundamentals of the economy are strong. And when one of his chief advisers, the man who wrote his economic plan, was talking about the anxiety Americans are feeling, he said that we were just suffering from a "mental recession," and that we've become, and I quote, "a nation of whiners." 
A nation of whiners? Tell that to the proud auto workers at a Michigan plant who, after they found out it was closing, kept showing up every day and work­ing as hard as ever, because they knew there were people who counted on the brakes that they made. Tell that to the mili­tary families who shoulder their burdens silently as they watch their loved ones leave for their third or fourth or fifth tour of duty. These are not whiners. They work hard and give back and keep going without com­plaint. These are the Americans that I know. 
Now, I don't believe that Senator McCain doesn't care what's going on in the lives of Americans. I just think he does­n't know. Why else would he define middle-class as someone making under $5 mil­lion a year? How else could he propose hundreds of billions in tax breaks for big corporations and oil companies but not one penny of tax relief to more than 100 million Americans? How else could he offer a health care plan that would actually tax people's benefits, or an educa­tion plan that would do nothing to help families pay for college, or a plan that would privatize Social Security and gamble your retirement? 
It's not because John McCain doesn't care. It's because John McCain doesn't get it. 
For over two decades, he's subscribed to that old, discredit­ed Republican philosophy ­give more and more to those with the most and hope that prosperity trickles down to everyone else. In Washington, they call this the Ownership Society, but what it really means is, you're on your own. Out of work? Tough luck. No health care? The market will fix it. Born into poverty? Pull yourself up by your own bootstraps, even if you don't have boots. You're on your own. 
Well, it's time for them to own their failure. It's time for us to change America. 
You see, we Democrats have a very different measure of what constitutes progress in this country. 
We measure progress by how many people can find a job that pays the mortgage; whether you can put a little extra money away at the end of each month so you can someday watch your child receive her college diplo­ma. We measure progress in the 23 million new jobs that were created when Bill Clinton was president, when the average American family saw its income go up $7,500 instead of down $2,000, like it has under George Bush. 
We measure the strength of our economy not by the number of billionaires we have or the profits of the Fortune 500, but by whether someone with a good idea can take a risk and start a new business, or whether the waitress who lives on tips can take a day off to look after a sick kid without losing her job an economy that honors the dig­nity of work. 
The fundamentals we use ·to measure economic strength are whether we are living up to that fundamental promise that has made this country great, a promise that is the only reason I am standing here tonight. 
Because in the faces of those young veterans who come back from Iraq and Afghanistan, I see my grandfather, who signed up after Pearl Harbor, marched in Patton's Army and was reward­ed by a grateful nation with the chance to go to college on the GI Bill. 
In the face of that young stu­dent who sleeps just three hours before working the night shift, I think about my mom, who raised my sister and me on her own while she worked and earned her degree; who once turned to food stamps but was still able to send us to the best schools in the country with the help of student loans and schol­arships. 
When I listen to another work­er tell me that his factory has shut down, I remember all those men and women on the South Side of Chicago who I stood by and fought for two decades ago after the local steel plant closed. 
And when I hear a woman talk about the difficulties of starting her own business, I think about my grandmother, who worked her way up from the secretarial pool to middle-management, despite years of being passed over for promotions because she was a woman. She's the one who taught me about hard work. She's the one who put off buying a new car or a new dress for herself so that I could have a better life. She poured every­thing she had into me. And although she can no longer trav­el, I know that she's watching tonight, and that tonight is her night as well." 

page 4 The Observer + IN FOCUS Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
Hxcerpl from ,<.,'en. Joe !Jiden 's nomination speech to the /Jemocratic National Convention, as released to the Associated Press: 
Sinee I'vo never been called a man of few words, let me say this as simply as I can: Yes. Yes, I accept your nomination to run and serve alongside our next Pn~sidnnt of tho United States of America, Barack Obama. 
Let nw mako this plodge to you right hnrn and now. For ovory Amorican who is trying to do tho right thing, for all those poople in governmnnt who are honoring tlwir plndge to uphold tho law and respnet our Constitution. no longer will the night most drnadml words in the 1\nglish language bn: "The vice prnsidnnt's ol'fice is on the phone." 
Baraek Obama and I took very dill'nnmt journeys to this desti­nation. but we share a eommon story. Mirw began in Scranton, l'nnnsylvania, and then Wilmington, Dnlaware. With a dad who fell on hard eeonomic times, but who always told me: "Champ, when you get knocked down, get up. Get up." 
I wish that my dad was hnre tonight, but I am so gratd'ul that my morn, Catherir111 Eugenia t:innngan Biden. is hnrn. You know, she taught her children­all the children who flocked to our house-that you are defined by your sense of honor, and you are redeemed by your loyalty. She believes bravery lives in every heart and her expectation is that it will be summoned. 

Failure at some point in every­one's life is inevitable, but giving up is unforgivable. As a child I stuttnred, and she lovingly told me it was because I was so bright I couldn't get the thoughts out quickly enough. When I was not as well dressed as others, she told me how handsome she thought I was. When I got knocked down by guys bigger than me, she sent me back out and demanded that I bloody their nose so I could walk down that street the next day. 
After the accident, she told me, "Joey, God sends no cross you cannot bear." And when I triumphed, she was quick to remind me it was because of others. 
My mother's creed is the American creed: No one is bet­ter than you. You are everyone's equal, and everyone is equal to you. 
My parents taught us to live our faith, and treasure our fam­ily. We learned the dignity of work, and we were told that anyone can make it if they try. 
That was America's promise. For those of us who grew up in middle-class neighborhoods like Scranton and Wilmington, that was the American dream and we knew it. 
But today that American dream feels as if it's slowly slip­ping away. I don't need to tell you that. You feel it every single day in your own lives. 
I've never seen a time when Washington has watched so many people get knocked down without doing anything to help them get back up. Almost every night, I take the train home to Wilmington, sometimes very late. As I look out the window at the homes we pass, I can almost hear what they're talking about at the kitchen table after they put the kids to bed. 
Like millions of Americans, they're asking questions as pro­found as they are ordinary. Questions they never thought they would have to ask: 

Should mom move in with us now that dad is gone? Fifty, sixty, seventy dollars to fill up the car? Winter's corning. How we Now, we owe more on the retire? 
gonna pay the heating bills? house than it's worth. How are That's the America that 
Another year and no raise? we going to send the kids to col­George Bush has left us, and 
Did you hear the company lege? that's the future John McCain may be cutting our health care? How are we gonna be able to will give us." 
Joseph Robinette "Joe'' Biden, Jr.  Joseph (39), Robert (38),  
November 20, 1942  Naomi (deceased), Ashley (27)  
Scranton, Pennsylvania  W'ilmington, Delaware  
Jill Tracy Jacobs Biden (m.19i7),  BA, University of Delaware, 1965;  
I"\eilia Hunter (deceased; m. 1966-72)  JD, Syracuse l.'nh-ersity, 1968  

Roman Catholic 
U.S. Senator from Delaware (1972-present); New Castle County council member (1970-72); attorney 
tepu 

l:'xcerpl from G(m Sarah Associated Press: !'a/in's nomination speech to the "Our nominee for president is Hepuhlic:an National a truP profile in courage, and C'on.rwntion, as released to the peopiP like that arc hard to 
come by. 
He's a man who wore the uni­form of this country for 22 years, and refused to break faith with those troops in Iraq who have now brought victory within sight. 
And as the mother of one of those troops, that is exactly the kind of man I want as com­mander in chief. I'm just one of many moms who'll say an extra prayer each night for our sons and daughters going into harm's way. 
Our son Track is 19. 
And one week from tomorrow -September 11th -he'll deploy to Iraq with the Army infantry in the ·service of his country. 
My nephew Kasey also enlist­Ad, and sflrves on a carrier in the Persian Gulf. 
My family is proud of both of thflm and of all the line men and women serving the country in uniform. Track is the eldest of our live children. 
In our family, it's two boys and three girls in between -my strong and kindhearted daugh­ters Bristol, Willow, and Piper. 
And in April, my husband Todd and I welcomed our littlest one into the world, a perfectly bnautil'ul baby boy named Trig. From the inside, no family ever seems typical. 
That's how it is with us. 

Our family has the same ups and downs as any other ... the same challenges and the same joys. 
Sometimes even the greatest joys bring challenge. And children with special needs inspire a special love. 
To the families of special­needs children all across this country, I have a message: For years, you sought to make America a more welcoming place for your sons and daugh­ters. 
I pledge to you that if we arc elected, you will have a friend and advocate in the White House. Todd is a story all by himself. 
lie's a lifelong commereial fisherman ... a production oper­ator in the oil fields of Alaska's North Slope ... a proud rnembor of tho United Steel Workers' Union ... and world champion snow machine racer. 
Throw in his Yup'ik Eskimo ancestry, and it all makes for quite a package. 
We met in high school, and two decades and live childrnn later he's still my guy. My Mom and Dad both worked at the ele­mentary school in our small town. 
And among the many things I owe them is one simpln lesson: that this is America, and every woman ean walk through every door of opportunity. 
My parents are here tonight, and I am so proud to be tlw daughter of Chuck and Sally Heath. Long ago, a young farmer and haberdasher from Missouri followed an unlikely path to the vice presidency. 
A writer observed: "We grow good pnople in our small towns, with honesty, sincerity, and dig­nity." I know just the kind of people that writer had in mind when he praised llarry Truman. 
I grew up with those w~opln. 
They are the ones who do some of the hardest work in America ... who grow our food, run our factories, and fight our wars. 
Thny love their country, in good times and bad, and thny're always proud of America. I had the privilege of living most of my life in a small town. 
I was just your average hock11y mom, and signed up for the PTA because I wantnd to makn my kids' publi(~ education bntter. 
When I ran for eity council. I didn't need f'oeus groups and votnr proliles beeausn I know thosP voters, and knew their families, too." 



Wednesday, October 29, 2008 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 5 


AP In the first presidential debate, Sen. John McCain and Sen. Barack Obama face off over foreign affairs, in a debate moderated by PBS news anchor Jim Lehrer. 




Sen. John McCain addresses his opponent, Sen. Barack Obama, as moderator Bob Schieffer looks on. The CBS journalist asked the questions in the third and final presidential debate. 
AP 


Sen. Barack Obama answers a question posed by an audience member in a town hall debate with Republican opponent Sen. John McCain. The debate was moderated by Tom Brokaw. 
page 6 The Observer + IN FOCUS Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
Indiana registration an attractive option for so111e students 
Nov. 4 marks first time most undergraduates eligible to vote in a presidential election; many apply for absentee ballots 
Indiana, which traditionally also from California, agreed has voted Republican in pres­with Sands. idential elections, joins Ohio, "Unfortunately my vote Florida, Michigan and other probably will not reflect how states projected to be swing the rest of my state votes states this year. because it does tend to sway 
But the McCain and Obama on a certain side of the politi­campaigns have been encour­cal spectrum, but I am proud aging students to send in of my party and will never absentee ballots if they are miss the opportunity to exer­from prime battleground cise the right to vote because states like Ohio, Pennsylvania I value it· greatly," Gallegos and Florida. said. 
"I wanted my vote to count Due to the global financial in this election, so I regis­crisis, some students have tered in Indiana," said chosen to take a second look Nathan Feldpausch, a fresh­at the candidates to see who man from Michigan. "Even proposed the better solution. though :Michigan is a swing "I have always been highly state, 't" felt that my vote conservative, but now that we would make more of an are having such troubles with impact in Indiana." the economy, I want to make 
Regardless of what state sure that my vote is as Notre Dame students are informed as possible," Winny casting their ballots in, for llu, a freshman from New most, this fall marks the first York, said. time members of the under­She added: "With wars in graduate community can vote Iraq and Afghanistan and in a presidential election. with the economy doing as 
Courtney Sands, a freshman poorly as it is, this election is from California, said she is possibly the most important thrilled to be able to exercise one that has taken place in one of her fundamental rights our lifetime." as an American. Gallegos pointed out that 
"It's pretty exciting to be the presidential election is 
voting for the first time," she not the only important deci­
said. "It's definitely weird to sion voters will make on 
think that I'm finally going to Election Day. 
be able to take part in such "What will be equally 
they call home for eight Romero said. an important process that important is electing the right
By LIZ O'DONNELL 

months of the year, rather "We generally advised peo­essentially defines America as senators and Congressmen to
In focus Wrirer 

than their home state. ple that voting absentee a democracy." create and pass the kind of Students from states solidly would be much simpler, but But Sands, who is voting legislation that will help the 
Indiana's status as a possi­in the blue or the red have many chose to register in with an absentee ballot, said economy get back on its feet," 
ble swing state in the presi­decided their vote will make Indiana anyway, considering she does not think her vote she said. 
dential elections has prompt­more of a difference this year the fact that Indiana is more will make much of a differ­
ed many Notre Dame students if it is cast in Indiana, NO of a swing state in this elec­ence. Contact Liz O'Donnell at 
to register to vote in the place Votes '08 president Christine tion," she said. Sophomore Chelsi Gallegos, eodonnel@nd.edu 

Obama candidacy prompts questions about race 
Notre Dame professors, multicultural leaders ponder whether issue will dissuade people from votingfor Democratic ticket 
By JOSEPH McMAHON In focus Wrirer  ahead in the polls, still exists today. Iris Outlaw, the Multicultural Student Programs  for a black president. "That's unfortunate in this day and age, but that's just the  the campaign, particularly when he was forced to distance himself from his former pastor  for underrepresented people all over the country ... but I think that the racial divide is so  
and Services director, said the  truth," Tipton said.  Rev. Jeremiah Wright after he  ingrained in our country that it  
Though  polls  show  Sen.  issue remains a major question  But  at  the  same  time,  he  made  several  very  controver­ is going to take a lot more than  
Barack  Obama  pulling  away  that will only be answered on  added, there are  many people  sial statements.  this  to  disintegrate that," she  
from Sen. John McCain in the  Election Day.  voting  for  Obama  solely  "He has  so  far been able to  said.  
presidential race, many, induct­ "The  question  is  whether  because he is black.  avoid  really  intense,  racially  Davis said if Obama is elect­ 
ing some of Notre Dame's mul­ people  will  fall  back  on  that  Tipton said Obama's identity  controversial  issues,"  Davis  ed, he will face an intense level  
ticultural  leaders,  worry  that  race thing and say, 'You know, I  is  much  more  complex,  and  said. "In order to be taken seri­ of scrutiny.  
race could still dissuade people  really  can't  pull  that  lever,"'  combines  a  ously  as  a  "Usually, presidents are given  
from choosing Obama.  she said.  variety  of  candidate,  a honeymoon period when they  
"The polls are not really cap­Davis said it is not fear of a turing true black president, but opinions rather social pres­"The question isbecause of sures that cause  unique per­spectives unlike previ­ous black  "Usually, presidents are given a honeymoon period when they are first  given the extent of latent racism that contin­ are first elected. I think that people are going to be more critical of Barack Obama if he's elected president and he'll be  
political cor­rectness and social desir­a b iIi t y." Notre Dame political sci­ence profes­sor Darren Davis said.  whether people will fall back on that race thing and say, 'You know, I really can't pull that lever."' Darren Davis  many Americans to tell pollsters they will vote for Obama. "If it's fear it's more easily dis­missed than social pressure. I think people are saying things to pollsters  politicians such as the Rev. Jesse Jackson. "People walking down the street may view him as black, but  elected. I think that people are going to be more critical ofBarack Obama ifhe's elected president and he'll be on a shorter leash."  ues to exist, he needed to solidify his base. You have to sepa­rate yourself from tradi­tional black politician  on a shorter leash," he said. Obama represents a major icon for all black people, Tipton said, and although he agrees with Outlaw and Davis that there is still a lot of work to be done, he said Obama's run for the presidency has helped inspire a generation.  
"People  are  political science  that  they're  not  that's not just  Darren Davis  types  who  "It gives everybody  a  sense  
saying they will support Barack  professor  willing to follow up on," Davis said. "I really think that  a black man. He's black, he's  political science professor  are combat­ive." But if  that they can do anything like become the president of the United States when half a cen­ 
Obama when  they won't sup­ [given  the  political  and  eco­ white;  he  Obama  does  tury ago I couldn't even use the  
port him in the voting booth."  nomic  circumstances]  any  has  all  these  other  mixtures  win in November, Outlaw said it  same bathroom or drink out of  
Davis  said  the  so-called  other  Democratic  candidate  and  ties.  He  has  a  stronger  represents a major step for the  the  same  water fountain  as  a  
Bradley  effect,  named  after  would be much further ahead."  sense of that than anyone else,"  black  community,  although  it  white person," he said.  
1982  California  gubernatorial  Matthew  Tipton,  the  presi­ Tipton said. "He is America. He  does  not  mean  every  scar  of  
candidate Tom Bradley, who narrowly lost his election to a white politician despite being  dent of the black men's associ­ation Wabruda, said there are many people unwilling to vote  is a melting pot." Davis said Obama has han­dled the issue of race well in  racism has healed. "It's going to be a monumen­tal thing for the black race and  Conta(;t Joseph M(;Mahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu  

Make sure you vote on Nov. 4. 
• 
' .­

Wednesday, October 29, 2008 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 7 
Women contemplate possibility of first female VP 
Students agree Palin's candidacy is a milestone, but disagree about her qualifications and readiness for the job 

election. 
By LIZ HARTER 
Gov. Sarah Palin would make 
In Focus Writer 
history as the first female vice president if Sen. John McCain For the first time in the wins the election. Palin has nation's history, the United been governor of Alaska since States could see a woman in a 2006 when she defeated an position of power in the White incumbent governor in the House after next Tuesday's Republican primary and a for­
mer two-term Democratic gov­ernor in the general election. 
The possibility that Palin could become the nation's first female vice president has been a topic of discussion at meet­ings of the Notre Dame club Feminist Voice. 
"I think it's a big step to have a female on a ticket like this," said senior Mary DeAgostino, the secretary of Feminist Voice. "The idea of having a woman in a position of power like this is a great idea. I think it's a really important step for women in America. 
DeAgostino does not think, however, that Palin is the right woman to make this historic step. 
"I think the bigger issues that people need to look at are where different candidates stand on issues that are impor­tant for everyday women in America right now," she said. "I think it's important to be critical of different candidates' stances on women and gender issues, instead of just ascribing meaning to someone's gender." 
Notre Dame junior Colleen Moran, co-president of the Notre Dame club Women in Politics agreed that it is impor­tant to look at the issues, but she is happy that women have been active in the election this year. 
"While I do not necessarily support those policy measures Sarah Palin would endorse as vice president, I am encour­aged by the more active role women have assumed in this presidential election," she said. 
Moran said she is impressed that Palin has been able to rally so many people from different backgrounds to the Republican platform. 
"In the weeks immediately following her nomination, she was able to generate a great deal of enthusiasm for the McCain campaign," she said. 
But Moran is disappointed that Palin has not allowed the media much access because, 
she  said,  dealing  with  the  
media  is  a  necessity  in  the  
national political arena.  

"I believe both a level of com­fort with the media and an ability to respond eloquently and intelligently to public criti­cism are essential qualities for a national political figure," Moran said. 
Notre Dame senior Sarah Lyons, the vice president of Feminist Voice, said Hillary Clinton's historic run for the presidency should not be over­looked. 
"While Sarah Palin's vice presidential nomination is a critical step in women's politi­cal participation, I also think recognizing Hillary Clinton and how far she went for the Democrats is really important and should be kept in mind," Lyons said. "I think that was empowering and inspirational for many people." 
Lyons does not think Palin supports the issues women are interested in, like where candi­dates stand on equal pay, reproductive rights and vio­lence against women. 
"Personally, I'm not sure if Sarah Palin stands for my per­sonal interests," Lyons said. "I don't think she does." 
DeAgostino added: "I don't think she stands for feminists' interest." 
But, DeAgostino added, Clinton and Palin have con­tributed positively to the politi­cal discussion. 
"I think this election year has been critical in promoting women's political participation, and raising these issues," DeAgostino said. 
Moran said Clinton and Palin have different leadership styles, tailored to appeal to dif­ferent types of people. 
"Hillary Clinton has, in large part, tailored her leadership style to appeal to voters at the national level," she said. "Her husband's election to the presi­dency thrust her into the national spotlight, and she seized the opportunity to hone her own leadership skills. Clinton comes across as -if at times harsh -both intensely focused and articulate. 
"Palin, by contrast, has developed a leadership style geared towards voters at the local and state level. She demonstrates an ability to relate to everyday Americans as well as a freshness and enthusiasm at times lacking in Washington. Palin comes across as -if at times inexpe­rienced or uninformed someone Americans can con­nect with." 
Kaitlynn Riely contributed to this story. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
there were still students Senior Spencer Howard, what he said is an important Dame College Libertarians.Vote around wanting to talk about the co-president of the Notre election, especially for the Walking around campus or the election." Dame College Democrats, future of the economy. eating at the dining hall, 
continued from page 1 Junior Ed Yap, the presi­agreed with Yap that Notre "This election right now is Linskey said he overhears dent of the Notre Dame Dame students have been the most important for our people talking about the College Republicans, said he energized by the election. lifetime," Yap said. "It's the election. 
hosted by ND Votes '08, a thinks the majority of his "This year has been a real­election most prior to when "I think that's going to campaign of the Center for classmates have registered ly pleasant surprise," he we enter the workforce." translate into a lot of stu­Social Concerns. to vote. said. "Our students have Students realize they are dents going out to vote," 
"I was just amazed that the "I think Notre Dame stu­become excited by the elec­going to be affected by the Linskey said. [Coleman-Morse] Lounge dents will vote in higher per­tion." results of the election, said was standing room only," he centages than students at Yap said he hopes students sophomore Ben Linskey, the Contact Kaidynn Riely at said. "And even afterward, other universities," he said. turn out in large numbers for co-president of the Notre kriely@nd.edu 

AP With less than a week to go until Election Day, Sen. John McCain, above, and Sen. Barack Obama, traveled to Pennsylvania Monday to make a last-minute appeal to undecid­ed voters and to rally supporters. 

Wednesday, October 29, 2008 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 8 
UJhete lhey IIGAd • • .. J o .:J .J iQ "' o
o >) "' "' JJ .:J ,.. () 
•
lttvel ,, 
...""~,..~1'11 

ill,..,ultiiC~ 
Wants to overturn Roe v. \X1ade; Supported Supreme 
Court dt.'C.ision that upheld ban on p-Artial-birth abortion. 
Believes states should deride the abortion issue IO<;ally. 
Supports a mandatory cap-and-trade system to n.:durc carbon emissions MJ percent. below 1990 levels by 2050. 
\Viii purchase mortgages directly from financial institu­tions, will rut capital gains tax rare. Plans to maintain the Bmh tax curs~ will eliminate the alternative minimum tax. 
Supports compdition hctwtt:n ~chools for most cft('ctivc, character-building teachers, hiring them and rewarding them. Will provide tf..deral financial support so pttt(:nts can take children out of failing ~hoolS' an~.l !'end rlwm to lx·th."r on(~S. 
SupJ1l 1tts a ga11 rax holiday and opposes taxing windfall profits; oppose~ drilling in the Arctic hut !iupports off~hort' drilling; opfX1St:ll ethanol !!Uh!-~idi.<~"; ~upports t."xpartdi nt.t nudcar powt:r . 
W~tnt~ tc.' limit '~arhon cmi!lsilm!4; h~lrrwss market force~ to t'm:ouragt· advau<:ed ttx:hnolngil·~, like nuclear t:ncrgy. to rht· marl«.:t fa~rn Will tt:duct Amcrica•!i dt:ptndt?ll(:t: ()f1 fMeign supplieji of tnergy. 
Will rt~affirm. tht inMitution nf tnarriag<.: ht•rwctm orw man and orw woman. 
WmHll 11 fM.:"markN, r'Oil!tiitn('t-hii!!(XIllyMem~ Jilan!\ to HM' CIJtnptlttifm H1 improve tht· 'fttallry fJf ht•a!th in~ur:mu• ~> tllt'l't' ill a ft.rtaft~f Vltticty tt1 fhHH:h l1£1(J}ilt\ fitt·d ~llld lowt·r pritt~!i; will .,;vc th1nillt·~ tht-option of re:ct:i'ving a fa;; nt'dit of S2..1iOO for lJ1{Hvithml~ Muf $5,000 t(lf familiti!l to uffllrt the; H'!H of' i.tJMWtlitc, 
Plat1!t w iatrt·a~t· th(,• ~t~c of th<' U11iwd St~tfti!l milimry~ will modcrt1h~r, the /utwriew Mftic.d t(m;mi ;md dt-vdoty advauu~ wcapor1~ ~)'M.t<ffi~ and ~uldtt's~t fprtt f1rofettlom wili work H1 imf1ttwt: maltwry Ji'dY and l7end1t§ ittiti will lmptUV<.' quatity l1f Hfc ft1f mWtaty famiHe~, 
f ldpcd writt.< tht' 2007 tftltliiy,tattmi hilt that !lt1f:7pOttt<d a path r~' k~g~litatum fm iU{~gallmftli~f~ttmi that would im·tudr. lcarnittg Et~Kii~h a11d Jmyittg fmc!i~ lrur ha~ ~auf fli;it ht: Wflitld tltJ lt.JtlW/t' VOf.t' fur the' hiJlf !iHfJVt1ft~ bttdditig a tNttf' 1t~n1g the Mt~kati hofdt~r, 
Vmcd Jh 2H02 to )illfhortze inva~iutl Nf fr;itf, ~ttlpfitYt'tt'ff troop mtrex~. ur "~mgc/' WiU lttteinatc dw frltitiit1g iii"UI NJUiflfHHl!:-or fratp arm~·d fftft('~ ami f1oHcc w t'.tiahk· thNti to play a kry mk· iN ~W.tHrit1g lta{JI will clit:utnag~ tlu·· iHtnnatiot1~tl t:<Hnmtmity m lifYJilY pn·~~ittt to Syril'l m-ull raN in mtk·r ttJ !'<Wfi tht'ln fmm aidinr;t 111xl1ihctting tht· vlukru,'t~ ih fr·aq~ (~j~c!l ~ titneta.hlti ft1r witlidrr;wal. htif f7t'ojc.{:l~ ftiO~f tfnot~ ttrtd~j he· hottlt:' by 20 t_3, 
Supports a woman's right to choose to have an aborr.ion; says he will make upholding rights enumera-ted und(:>r 
Roc v. Wade a priority as president. Opposes any consti~ 
tutional amt·ndmt•nt ro overturn the Suprtmt· Court's decision in that cas,~. 
Support!! a mandatory cap-and-trade sy~rcm to rcduu carbon emissions 80 percent below 1990 k•vds by 2050. 
Will emu:t r.ax cut!i for iruJividual11 and bu.llim~~e~ to help copt with the current financial cri~is. Will IY,m mo~r home forcdo!!iu.rc~ for 1JfJ day~. Will repeal Prc~idcnr Hu!!ih•ti rax mtfl for hou~hod!'l t~arning mon~ than $25,000. 
Plans to rdHrm No Child Lefr Behind, Will crt·atc an Anwrkan Opportunity Tax Credit to ht~lp J\rru:ric1tn 5tud<mUi go w cnu,~gc. Will d(~Oh,' s1Hbillion ~l yttar w ttL'W fcdt>ral spmding on c-ttrly thildhood clal'~,-.., wadu:r rt~cruitnwnr.. ptrformana• P'~Y ~trld (Jfh<.~ initiativt-!J, 
Sup1~ trt!4 ti'txing windfitll prt,fit* for oil COntJYMlit~l t>ppo,.~!l drilling in the Atdic and off:11hmc~ ~upportii ethamtl nuli#tdit~jJ.; donhlt" !4tte'nc~ artd rt'~·t~rthing fut1ding for de1m~ttncrgy proJt~Ct§, 
lmplt'lfWtH ~t m:trkt·t~ba!lt'll t'afl"an.d"troot· !tY1tkm to rNlu<:t> <~arbon emi!i~iott~ hy HO pl~rc.em hdow 11J1JlJ Jwd!i by 205f)l lK"VdOf'l dttrtUi!Hk itlCNitfVt~~ tH rr,ward tHf~f uwrwr~, (armttr~t and tantht#'t~ wfwn tht1J7Iant treci'lf re~tore W'fl!Hthutt1jl m pr1tctk(l (~mntn.l{ trwth(;.Jji th~1t eifiWtt" utrbmt du~ldt-fmm tht• i'ltttul#phcrc; ilweM S1 ~~ IJHJkm OVt'f HJ year~ to adv~fit:t' Nt'W t!H@rgy t~NNt1JOgJ~~. 
Wlll end "'l)m'lt A!$k, Dml't Tell" ln tht milfmry, WiU fM~~ h?~ltr~ll ttmi.' diM:ntttln:~tiw1 tt~w in ,~mt1lt1)'tmtm thM 
mdmk·~ ~t~t:mHtyl wtli t~fend (~,~~u~d tuntf'fit-tlr ~~tmtt ~('~ t:(JUfilt·~ who liffW' II i:ifiHt''liiiif1f'Hm~tl dvihmlun, t1i1f flHittlaw·~ htrHttVtt!~~tllt~WIN~ dviJ-tmlottil ~~ 11 ~mt1-' #.~~tw, 
\VIH n·-~fulrtt thm aU diitdre:n havr f'W1thh in~lif)fffl:~~ WHI tnnk~· tlittionrd ht111fh c:art.r (:thm av~<tU:41Yfe tu ttli J\mf!ritllll~~ j'lMtU.:lf~Hif~ in di£" New jiHhHc ttl~m woukJ tw ~hi~ to mrwe frmn joh tn Joh withum t'h~tliWl1~ health t:an· tavEtrag.c', 
.. 

Will t•ht'fmt~tgi' hettf!t tytatet#ltth of (),~, (~f'utmitifl tyiM!t§ ftdffl potrtift~f terruti§t aff~k§~ witf d~dttp Jie:H~f MUUW" ~~tie~ f~ It ffatkiti~ #(1f!tit mu::kiM fHe'h Wllf ft't40itt: lftiffkfit' ttny fJlmmltt,t fttr fht: wnt5Wttiim of tyettplt: with tfJ1e~~ial M~d!i dutit~g· eme:fWJHtie-§, 
t#tJ1t1tift§ af1Ath to i~~dtlatitm (ut ffle~i lmttiWam~ t1t..tt #tdtuft~ i~~ft1tft¢ 1 1~titt)t~h ~ p#ftti~ fim~~~ Wtit!,heH f)t.ft.: ~JH~:tf'l fot hiring filewrt immjf!!nHt~. Vote~f ftw 1i· ftHit.ie tl1 hEo~ huilt HkJH~t the: M~k1il1 but~fe.r. 
OtJftft!~Nf itW~~uAt i;:t#ttnUy~ rtfTtJt~eJ troop it1l''t~~t~f~ Wl4Hf9 fU Wtft1£1faw l:fi'U'' Uf tWO f-m~k~ 11 fflfiHtf't tU fiH~h Wlthlh l {i ffllmt11~ itHd lf:Ht~idfttjt.tf the! tf~~ tt1 ftitffllt:}Jt; flRrif dlffilf~tttf~~.. 1'fu•ide ~2 M11k.m m~'i<lJ#lfttf ~wkt~!t tff fflltf~ n:ift~e~ iH t'U''i~Jfflt~ N1UHffk~<t 
Will hOffttNilte t<m~~·tv;ttive·, Ht.tf ;1t'livf~f, jud~e§~ WtJt HOrtdft!ffe ttid~§ wif11 fjjtt!ff~t:t. fjfli/V~~W€-t'it>W O( 
!:il~~ncd hutnitltitkm of Jolm f«,hats and ~liftttl€'1 Alito, tite: Ca#l~tlftif10th 11f1t1119etl ##1fflifuftlftri§ ufJotiH Jtt;;fieff!l atttf ~httmi~f Ahto.. 
All graphics by Mary Jesse for 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Fr. Riehle dies at 83 after briefillness 
Chaplain to sports teams remembered for his love of Notre Dame athletics, students 
By CHRIS HINE Editor-in-Chief 
Hev. James Riehle, C.S.C., chaplain to Notre Dame sports teams for nearly three decades and former dean of students died at Holy Cross House­Wednesday. He was 83. 
Riehle's died following a brief illness, the University said. 
"He was a man's man. He was always interested in sports... " said University presi­dent emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, who gave Riehle his final blessings before he died. "He was a good friend because I sat next to him over at the dining hall at Holy Cross Hall and I knew a good deal about him. I saw 
him every day. We were good friends." 
Riehle, w h 0 enjoyed c i g a r smoking 


a n d 
playing Rev. James Riehle g 0 l f ' began his role as chaplain in 
1966 and served his first foot­ball game in that capacity on Nov. 19 of that year-Notre Dame's classic 10-10 tie with Michigan State, when the Irish were ranked No. 1 and the Spartans were No. 2. 
Riehle, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1949 with a bachelor's degree in business administration, played the football team's chaplain in the 1993 movie "Rudy," and was featured in an Adidas football commercial with former Notre Dame and Super Bowl winning quarterback Joe Montana in which he asked Montana: "What did you ever end up doing after you left college?" 
But beyond his association with Notre Dame athletics, Riehle served in many offices at Notre Dame, including dean of students from 1967-73, dur­ing the student protests of the Vietnam War. At universities around the country, some stu­dent protests against the Vietnam War turned violent, but not at Notre Dame, where Hesburgh said students could protest as long as they did not disrupt classes or University business. Hesburgh said Riehle did a "very good job" enforcing this policy in a pragmatic way. 
"About 250 of my fellow presidents were fired at that time, or died, or just left in frustration during that period," Hesburgh said. "We had, like every university, a fairly rough time but we came through without any big disruption of 
see RIEHLE/ page 3 

OIS prepares abroad students for election 
Students overseas experience difficulties in making sure their votes are counted by election day 
ByJENN METZ News Editor 
As students on campus are scramble to send out absentee ballots before Nov. 4, the esti­mated 450 Notre Dame sopho­mores and juniors currently studying abroad are experi­encing a very different presi­dential election season, com­plete with logistical difficulties for sending their vote to the United States to make sure it's counted. 
The Office of International Studies (OIS) helped prepare students by reminding them of 
the upcoming election during orientation sessions last spring, sending out pre-depar­ture letters and posting links on their Web site. 
Kathleen Opel. director of OIS, told the Observer the Office believes "voting is a vital component of democracy and strongly encourage[s] stu­dents abroad who are U.S. citi­zens to exercise the right to vote." 
"How many students actually vote, I don't know," she said. 
Program managers remind­ed participants to remember to register for absentee ballots before they left the United States, a message that was repeated at OIS' "Bon Voyage" meeting for all students last spring, Opel said. 
Opel told the students their "franchise to vote is a privilege to be cherished, and recent elections have demonstrated the value of each vote" in a pre-departure letter sent over the summer. 
The Web site offers scrolling reminders of the upcoming election and a link to the Association of International Educators' (NAFSA) Web site, which provides information about absentee ballot proce­dures for students and educa-
Bush speechwriter delivers lecture 
Gerson speaks about changing political landscape in America 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Michael Gerson, former speechwriter to President George W. Bush, delivered the inaugural McCullough Lecture in Hesponsible Journalism and Government Wednesday. Corson spoke in the McKenna auditorium to a crowd of about fifty people. 
Gerson wrote two inaugural addresses. several State of the Union addresses and many important post-9/11 speeches during his time working for President Bush. In addition to writing speeches, he served as a White House policy advisor on global health, development 
see WRITER/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND no. 1 for athlete grad rates 
University at top of NCAA for 3rd time 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
For the third time in four years, Notre Dame ranked No. 1 among the 119 Football Bowl Subdivision institutions in the NCAA's 2008 report on student ath­lete graduation rates. 
The annual report, released Oct. 14, showed that 19 of Notre Dame's 22 programs received Graduation Success Rate (GSR) figures of 100, result­ing in a .863 percentage, which placed the University ahead of Northwestern (.789), Boston College (.740), Duke (.681), Vanderbilt (.667), Wake Forest (.642). Stanford (.629), U.S. Naval Academy (.578). Rice (.539) and Tulane (.500). 
The 2008 national GSR for Division I-A is 78 percent, a news release from Notre Dame Athletics said. The GSR data show the percent­age of student athletes earn­ing a degree in six years. 
All 11 of the women's ath­letic programs -basketball, cross country and track, fencing, golf, lacrosse, row­ing, soccer, softball, swim­ming, tennis and volleyball ­received perfect scores of 100. 
see NCAA/ page 4 

tors living abroad, which are different than domestic absen­tee ballot procedures. 
"Every state has different rules for voting, so it's hard to give specific voting informa­tion to a group of students from different states," Opel said. The NAFSA Web site, she said, provides that information for each state. 
In some locations in capital cities, students may be able to vote in person at consulates, she said; other students send their vote in the mail. 
Opel said OIS will assist stu­
see ABROAD/page 4 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group approves budget after poll 
By LIZ HARTER and ASHLEY 
CHARNLEY 
News Writers 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) approved the Student Government Association (SGA) budget after the third vote on the issue at their meeting Wednesday night. The budget was approved with 24 .for it and one abstention. 
BOG polled the student body through e-mail as to whether or not they thought the Executive Board deserved a stipend on Tuesday. 
Student body president Mickey Gruscinski said 557 students, which is almost one third of the student body, voted and the majority did not agree with the stipend. 
Treasurer Mo Weaver pre­sented a revised budget to BOG for their approval. The revised budget did not contain· a stipend and the money for­merly allocated to the stipend was dispersed to funds for clubs and organizations, co­sponsorships, and the campus Readership Program which brings the USA Today. New 
see BOG/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Rays' play: 
not sexy 
Stupid Hays. 

Thanks to them, I have to wateh the 
"Sex and the City" movie. 

What in God's name brought about this unfortunate chain of' events? How did I bury myself' in this prndicament? I placed faith in the Hays, something which, as history should show us, I rwver should have donn. 
I had a bet with my girlfriend on the World Series. If the Hays win. she had Bill Brink to watch "Clerks" with me. "Clerks" is 
one of' my top 1o .(iports Editor favorite movies, one of' the gmatnst of' all time. Dante and Handall's witty banter demonstrate what's really important in life, especially in today's dreary cli­mate. Who earns that the economy is in tho dumpster'? Who earns that we're involved in two wars? Isn't it mueh morn important to understand the dichotomy between the dnstruetion of t.hn Death Star in "A Nnw Hope" and "Hnturn of the Jodi?" Tlw hockey game on the roof, the funeral, the unf'ortunatn dnath in the 1~onvnnienen store bathroom: shner hrilliancn. Instead, I have to watch Charlotte and Miranda parade around New York City eomparing their Prada handbags and Mar10lo Blahnik kicks. Game I was an abnrration. Game 2, the Hays got back on track. Game 3 was a great baseball game. Game 4 just sucked. Oncn Game 5 rolled around with llanwls as the starter, I thought the Hays wen~ done for. But tlum fate intervmwd; c;od didn't want me to watch "Sox and the City" after all. I~~~ let Upton steal second and scorn on P1ma 's single, meaning the ganw was tied when rain forced its stoppag1\. I thought for surn that was the last sign the Hays nendnd. But no, .Jon Maddon must have liknd the movin and wantnd to make sure I saw it. I have no interest. The only relation I havn to "Sex and the City" is the one time Charlotte was on "Seinl'eld." Jerry dropped her toothbrush in the toilet, prompting her to retaliate and send Jerry on a germaphobia-indueed dean­ing frnnzy. Good times. I've seen one episode of the TV show; I think I saw it with my step mom. It's the one where Kim Cattrall dates a rabid Knicks fan, and she can't sleep with him unless the Knicks win. As a rabid Knieks fan mysell', that episode wasn't half-bad. Maybn it will be like "How to Lose a Guy in 10 l)ays" and tlwn1 will be a scone at Madison Square Garden with the Knicks in the playoffs. So thanks to Hyan Howard and Shane Victorino and the rest of the Phillies, I won't enjoy watching Jay and Silent Bob waste their day away out­side the Quick Stop, or the egg­obsessPd shopper rolling eggs down the aisle to ensure their quality. Instead, I'll hear four 30-something-year-old women whining about their boyfriends -or lack thenmf. The whole time, I'll think of one thing: how sweet it will tastP when my beloved Yankees mop the floor with Tampa Bay next April. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are thosP of the author and not necessarily lhose ofThe Obseroer. 
Contact Bill /Jrink at wbrink@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we wi II make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 30, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DRESSING UP AS FOR HALLOWEEN? 

Dan Scheper Kimberly Hildner Patrick Doonan Cherie Ng
Chris Anderson 

freshman freshman sophomore senior freshman Keenan Keenan Lewis off-campus McGlinn 
,

':4 banana. .. "Snorlax. "The witch from "I'm going to be "Joe the Monty Python R.J. Jacobi." Plumber." 
and the Holy Grail." 

Tuesday and Wednesday in Jordan Hall. 
OFFBEAT  
Man hospitalized in car crash  struck two ears and was  to cause harm with a dan­ 
after firing at gas pump  injured in a crash follow­ gerous weapon after  
NAUGATUCK, Conn. -A  ing the shooting incident.  allegedly unleashing four  
man who police said fired  Police have an arrest  centipedes and bugs in his  
gun shots into a gasoline  warrant for the man and  neighbor's bed last week  
pump on Saturday morn­ his hospital room is being  following an argument.  
ing was expected to be  guarded 24-hours a day by  Prabakaran, 21, alleged­ 
charged with three  two police officers.  ly climbed on to the roof  
felonies when he's  to enter his neighbor's  
released from a local hos­ Man goes to jail following  house where he commit­ 
pital.  centipede attack on neighbor  ted the offense, Mazri  
Police said the man went  KUALA LUMPUR,  said.  
to the Sunoco gas station  Malaysia -A Malaysian  Prabakaran pleaded not  
on New Haven Hoad and  man has been accused of  ·guilty Tuesday in a court  
fired a shotgun at a gas  trying to hurt his neighbor  in the southern city of  
pump several times while  with a dangerous weapon  Johor Baru and has been  
customers stood nearby.  -centipedes. Prosecutor  released on bail, Mazri  
Luckily, nobody was  Mazri Mohamed said  said.  
injured and the pump did  Wednesday that H.  
not explode.  Prabakaran has been  Information compiled  
The man drove off and  charged with attempting  from the Associated Press.  
Gregory P. Crawford, Dean of the College of Science will 


TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY 
D:: 
1.&.1 
:I: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
..... 
~ 
(,) 



IN BRIEF 
Today South Bend area students and their families will be welcomed to North Quad for Fall Fest -a com­munity relations event tak­ing place from :{::{0 p.m. to 4:30. 
Saint Mary's College will bless Spes Unica Hall, the new academic building, today with open houses and tours for tho Board of Trustees starting at 1:30 
p.m. and academic depart­ment presentations from 
3:30 to 5 p.m. throughout the building. The blessing will take place in the atrium at 5 p.m. with a reception to follow and a Mass of Thanksgiving in Holy Spirit Chapel, LeMans Hall at 6:30 p.m. 
Joan Payden, Chief Executive OITicer of Payden & Hygel Investment Management will speak as part of the Mendoza College to Business' Boardroom Insights Executive Speaker Series Friday at 10:40 a.m. in Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. 
give  a  lecture  entitled  
"Notre  Dame  Science:  
Making  a  Difference"  

Saturday at 11 a.m. in Room 105 of the Jordan Hall of Science. 
Black Images will be held on Saturday from 8:30 to 
10:30 p.m. It will be held in Washington Hall. Admission is $5. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information alwut an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 


48 
43 


60 38 


60 
45 
53 40 

HIGH HIGH 67
..J 0 58 LOW 49 LOW 52 

Thursday, October 30, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Third Day Brian Wilson Paul Aldrich Willie Nelson 
with a minimum of pain and Riehle received the 2001 strain." Moose Krause Man of the Year
With Revive & Concert Family Comedian & Family 
Hesburgh said Riehle was Award from the club.
Need to Breathe Pop Rock Legend 100% Clean &Funny Billy Bob Thornton 
able to enforce the policy Riehle was named an hon­
because he had a good rapport orary member of the with the students and as a Monogram Club, something result, Notre Dame became a Hesburgh said was very model for other schools deal­important to him. 
Sunday, Nov. 9 Thursday, Nov. 13 Saturday, Nov. 15 Friday, Nov. 28 
UP£()mino ~h()W§ 
ing with the student revolu­The intramural fields near 
Saturday, Nov. 8 

tion. the Stepan Center were also "He was very good with stu­named in his honor. dents," Hesburgh said. "They On Sunday, a visitation will 
Friday, Nov. 21 

say he was in the hot seat dur­begin at 3:30 at Moreau ing all of the student revolu­Seminary and a wake will be tion, but he met with them held at 7:30. A funeral mass very often. The fact is we were will be held Monday at 3:30 at one of the few universities that the Basilica of the Sacred not only did not have serious Heart. disruptions, but we gave lead­ership to the others. And when Jay Fitzpatrick contributed we faced possible disruptions to this report. 
SMC students enjoy Halloweenfestivities 
p.m.

By KATIE KOHLER In addition, all the residence 
News Writer 
halls on campus were given the 
opportunity to host Trick-or­
Saint Mary's students got in the Treaters from 6 to 8 p.m. Halloween spirit early last night Construction aside, Paul also as Holy Cross Hall and attributed some of the stress of Dalloway's hosted campus-wide preparing the events to getting a events. The activities, put on by late start on hall council this the Holy Cross Hall Council, resi­year. dent advisors, "Hall council and Residence was off to a slow 
Hall Association "Security told us we start, especially 
(RHA} were all can 't go on with since Halloween free and open to is really soon in
Haunted Tunnels 
students and the the year. This is a children of Saint becasue they are Holy Cross tradi­Mary's faculty undergoing tion and gener­and staff. ates money for
contruction and it's a
In years prior, Hall Council," she
safety concern for the
Holy Cross has said. "But there hosted Haunted students." was an excellent Tunnels, a turnout and the haunted house girls really took
Terrie Paul 

set up in the sub control of a last
Holy Cross Hall director 
basement of the minute situa­hall open to stu­tion." dents and chil-Dalloway's, the dren of faculty and staff. coffee shop on campus, also put However, this year, due to con­on "Haunted Tours" which is one struction and low-hanging pipes, of their most attended events, Saint Mary's Security said it Stephanie Anton, Dalloway's would be safer to cancel the commissioner said. It occurs activity. As a result, Terrie Paul, annually. Holy Cross Hall director and the The Haunted Tour is a walk rest of the Holy Cross Hall around campus hosted by the Council came up with a contin­Dalloway's Board. The guide of gency plan. the tour stops at a certain place 
"Security told us we can't go to tell a scary story related to the on with Haunted Tunnels event, Anton said. There was because they are undergoing free hot cider, cookies and candy construction and it's a safety available at Dalloway's. concern for the students," Paul Anton said the board has been said. preparing for the event for about 
Instead, Holy Cross hosted two weeks and focused mostly on "Ho'Cro Halloween" in the hall the decorations. The event was lounges. Activities included ghost open to the public, but mainly stories, eoloring for the children, 
Contact Katie Kholer at drinks and snaeks from 8 to 10 kkohler@saintmarys.edu 
STUDENT SENATE 
Group exalllines dorlll printing 
Printers not available in 18 residence halls, senators discuss expansion 

By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Prompted by a number of complaints, the Student Senate discussed the need for printers in every residence hall yester­day. 
"People complain about it on a regular basis," Alumni Hall Senator Zach Reuvers said. "It always comes up during hall elections." 
Students often complain of having to wait on long lines to print at the clusters. 
"I live in McGlinn and some­times when I go to DeBartolo in the morning before classes there are really long lines," Senate Committee on Student Outreach chair Sarah Rodts said. "I don't always get what I need printed." 
Currenly, Lyons, Carroll, O'Neil, Lewis, Farley, Dillon, Pasquerilla West, Pangborn, Siegfried and Keenan all have printers, while students in the other 18 residence halls are forced to trek to computer clusters. Senate Committee on Oversight chair Ian Secviar said all dorms should have equal access to printers. 
"Regardless of whether it reduces traffic or not, in the pursuit of fairness this is something that we should do," he said. 
Senate Committee on Technology chair Devin Fee said the University is currently pursing a new contract with an outside company for print­ers, but if the contract is too costly, printers in dorms could be cut. 
"It is something that could get cut if the bids are too low," Fee said. "I think they realize that it's significant to us, but it's some­thing that has to be worked into the budget." 
Fee said he would seek support from the University, which has a much larger budget than the Office of Information Technology (om. 
"I think it would be a lot easier to push this through with the University supporting than OIT supporting," he said. 
Farley senator Robyn Grant said the dorms' needs should not detract from the clusters in the Library, the Coleman-Morse Center and LaFortune. 
"I feel that you shouldn't detract from the clusters for the dorms," she said. 
However, in a simple straw poll taken by student body vice presi­dent Grant chmidt, there weren't any seriators against expanding printer service in dorms. 
In other Senate news: 
+The Senate received a brief presentation from Rachel Novick 
Riehle 
continued from page 1 
class or the University. Fr. Riehle stood firm on the policy that I put out that it was OK to protest in any way one want­ed, but you shouldn't disrupt the life of the University. 
"And they tried to shut down one of the University offices, and Fr. Riehle said, 'Either you leave here or you're gone.' He applied the policy that I had laid down. The students went along so it was successful. I give him some credit for get­ting us through the revolution Education and Outreach Coordinator at the Office of Sustainability. Novick, who is in charge of outreach on environ­mental issues, said the Office of Sustainability would by taking two different approaches to envi­ronmentalism. 
The top-down approach, she said, examines major infrastruc­ture problems, including the cam­pus' sprinklers. 
"The main change is that [the sprinklers] will all be electronical­ly controlled," said Novick, which she claimed would stop leaks and prevent the sprinklers from com­ing on right after a rainstorm. 
Novick said the bottom-up approach focuses more on indi­vidual efforts by "encouraging faculty and students to change their lifestyles a little bit." 
The bottom-up approach includes activities such as the recent dorm-wide recycling com­petition, which was won by Walsh Hall, who reduced their energy use by 31 percent. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
successfully, that was the end of the era. Things went quietly after that across the land." 
After leaving his post as dean of students, Riehle became the rector of Pangborn Hall in 1973 and served there until 1985. Riehle had previ­ously been rector of Sorin Hall in 1966 and chaplain of Sorin Hall in 1964. 
He was also chairman of the board of directors for the University Club from 1971-77 and director of energy conser­vation. 
Riehle also served as the executive director of the Monogram Club from 1978 through 2002 and in 2001, 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 30, 2008 
has been conducted, to the goal is probably perfection," athletes, coaches and aca­Heisler said. "You'd like to
NCAA 

demic advisors, but also to see 100s across the board." the "culture of Notre Dame." The 2007 NCAA report
continued from page I 

"It's a message probably showed Notre Dame had a 
Eight of thP men's sports that is sent early on, in the percentage of .818 (18 of programs -basketball, base­recruiting process. If you are 22), which made it No. 1. In ball, eross country and traek, interested in coming to col­2006, Notre Dame's percent­lacrosse, f'endng, soccer, lege and not going to elass age was .773 (17 of 22), swimming and tennis and sleeping late and doing which placed it at the No. 2 rnceivnd perfect scorns of nothing but concentrating on rank behind the U.S. Naval I00. athletics, then Notre Dame Academy. In 2005, Notre 
The three programs that isn't going to be the place for Dame's score was .800 (16 of did not receive you," he said. 20), which resulted in a No. perfect scorns "The idea is 1 rank, according to a news
"It is a testament to
did, however, all that athletics release on the Notre Dame rnc(dvn seores in the philosophy ofthe is only going Athletics Web site. thn 90s. llochy University in terms to take you so The numbers released in rncnivml a scorn far, no matter the fourth year of the NCAA
ofathletics that 
or 96, football a how accom­GSH survey are based upon scorn of 94 and graduation should be plished you entering elasses from 1998 golf a scorn or a routine part ofthe are as an ath­to 2001. 
90. lete." According to the Notre
experience.
"It is a tnsta­This year's Dame Athletics Web site, the nwnt to the phi­numbers are GSH was developed four l o s o p h y o r t tu~ John Heisler consistent years ago to account for Univnrsity in senior associate with how transfer student athletes and terms of athlnt­Notre Dame others not tracked by federal
athletics director
ies that gradua­has performed graduation rate accounting, tion should lw a in tho past, to account for increased routine part or thn oxpori­lleislnr said, and in some mobility of students. Under OIH~n." said John llnisler, the areas, Notre Dame improved. these standards, schools are senior associate athletics Last year, 18 of the not penalized for students director for media and University's 22 athletic pro­who transfer from the insti­broackast rPlations at Notre grams received a GSH score tution in good academic Damn. of 100. standing. 
Heisler credited the high "I suppose, in a lot of scores this year, and in each cases, that the numbers are Contact Kaidynn Riely at or the four years the survey impressive enough that the kriley@nd.edu 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
dents in the eases it advises it best not to use local mail to send absente!l ballots to the United States; on-location pro­gram directors will send these ballots by DSL to ensure they arrive on time to be counted. 
"Unfortunately, in some places, the local mail takes for­ever," she said. 
OIS will be sending out e­

i rnails today reminding abroad 
~ students once again about the election and referring them to
I 
the Youth Vote Overseas Web site in the event their ballots are lost or late in arriving. 
The United States election is a hot topic in various media outlets abroad, though not to the same degree as domestic eoverage. 

said. will never succeed, he said. 

I
The seeond factor is a lack of Heform is the key idea in improv­
Writer 

liberalism in polities, he said. The ing the conservative party, he last two presidents worked to said.
continued from page I 

change their respective parties, Gerson said that McCain has 
I 

and genoddn. Gerson said. There is none of that been such a reformer. In the past, 
Gerson's leetum concerned the in today's election and both par­he was willing to opposn his own changing politkal landseapn. IIn ties are running empty cam­party. However, he is also run­emphasized thrnn main aspects paigns, he said. Gerson said that ning an empty campaign now. He that an~ causing a shil't in the Obama is naturally talented in has made no announcement of political natun~ of tho United the art of polities, but that he has any kind of reform, he said. States. not made any "Candidates 

Tlw first factor is the economic rnovns to inno-need to decide if decline of mainstream media, vate his policies. they want to pro­which has led to a major ehangn A lack of any "A new presidency is vide a message for in the naturn of news, he said. sort of moder­the masses or be in
a chance for a new 
Tlw rise of Internet media, ate policy agen­business for them­
beginning."
aeeording to (;orson, has f'adlitat­da will nmpow­selves." «-d a eulturP of exclusion, encour­nr the Gerson also aging those who do not agren Democrat-led Michael Gerson asked why the 
with an idea to rnmain silent Congress, lead­presidential speechwriter winner of this rather than challenge it. ing to backlash year's election "Americans ean now if they from conserva-would even want dwosn live in an ideological uni­tives, he said. the presidency. V(~rsl' of their own choosing, and "Obama is a strong, able man," The three factors will certainly view nvPryone outside that uni­Gerson said. "But it may take a complicate the ofliee. There will vnrst~ as idiots, as fools," said strong president with a devel­likely be a recession, along with a Gerson. oped and cnntrist ideology to host of other problems. I Iowever, Gorson admitted that the main­shape and defy a democratic he said with a new leader comes stream media eould also be eor­Congress." new optimism. rupt, oven hypocritical. But The third factor relates to con-"A new presidency is a chance hypoerisy cannot exist without snrvatism, he said. Gerson said for a new beginning," Gerson standards, hn said. Without a the party is lost, exhausted, and said. "It is one of the best things mainstream media and journal­preparing for fratricide. Unless about this country." isL<; devoted to exposing the truth, Hepublieans change their tacties Arnorkans are loll with a news and apply creative, free-market Contact Irena Zajickova at media wlwrn anger rules, he ideas to human problems, they izajicko@nd.edu 
"I would imagine they are definitely talking about the election, especially in Europe," Opel said. 
Junior Clare Brady, currently studying abroad in Dublin, reg­istered to vote through the NAFSA Web site before she left; it was sent to her in Ireland. When she received it, she filled it out and sent it back, citing no problems with mail delivery. 
Brady said the United States election is a very popular topic of conversation in Ireland. 
"People here are very, very obsessed with the election and love [Sen. Barack] Obama, just because they hate [President George! Bush," she said. 
The level of interest in the United States political system is very high; Brady said she noticed "some people here care more than people at horne." 
She said the students do need to work and seek out election news a little bit, but that it's "readily available." 
Junior Molly Conway, cur­rently studying abroad in London, said "Londoners seem to be overwhelmingly pro­Obama." 
"They see him as being a breath of fresh air for American politics and they are very vocal about their endorse­ment," she said. 
Conway also voted by absen­tee ballot, which she also had mailed to her abroad location. 
She said that due to the time difference, six hours for those in London, many students have been watching presidential debates on YouTube or other Web sites after they occur Stateside. 
"But some people stayed up to watch them," she said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 


r---------.. 
I Buy 5Feet Get The 6111 Foot Free I 
For AUmited Time At 
I Participating locations Including: I 
11706 South Bend Ave* Downtown I 
US 31 N*~R 23.@Ironwood 1
1

I *UP Mall 1ndlan R1dge *WaiMart I 
I 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 30, 2008 CoMPILED FROM Tt·H: l)nsERVER's w1 RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israeli court clears way for museum 
JERUSAlEM -Plans for a Jerusalem museum dedicated to tolenmce and coexi.•;tence got the final go­almad Wednesday from l'IDIBI's Supreme Court, which rPjnet.nd an appeal by Muslims who complained the ~ite covers part ofan ancient Mu'ilim cemetery. 
The judgt'.S ruled they would not block construction ~inm no oqjection'> had been lodged in 1960 when the city put a parking lot over a small section ofthe grave­yard. 
ThP Mu'il.~um of Tolenmce i'> intended to bring the city's warring trilxJS together. But the planning alone sparkt~ a light with political. rnligiou'i and historir,al dimnrt'iion'> bPtwt'('n Mu'ilims and Jews. 
The Simon Wiesenthal Center, the Los Angeles­ba.'il.~d .h~wi'ih org<mization behind the pr~ject, wel­mm'(l the court ruling alter a two-yp,ar delay in work on the $250 million mu'>eum cau'il.~ by legal pnxoo­ing-;. 
"Nl citizens of l'irael. Jews and non-Jews, are the mal bmdidmi{'.S of thi'i dndsion," Rabbi Marvin Hier, !(Jundnr of the WiPsmthal Center the rmter, said in a 
~i.atnmenl 
Iraq outlines desired pact changes 
BAGIIDAD-Iraq want'> a security agnJement with the U.S. to inelude a dear ban on U.S. troops using Iraqi territory to attack Iraq's neighbors. the govnrnment spokesman said Wednesday. three days al'tnr a dramatic U.S. raid on Syria. 
Also Wednesday, the country's most influential Shiite deric expressed concerned timt Iraqi sov­ereignty be protected in the pact. Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani wields vast influence among the Shiite majority and his explicit oppo­sition could scuttln the deal. 
Governmnnt spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh said the ban was among ({mr proposed amendments to the draft agmnment approved by the Cabinet this week and forwarded to the U.S. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Thousands lack power in the Northeast 
ALBANY -More snow fell Wednesday in paris of the Northeast as utility crews labored to restore service to thousands of customers blacked out by the region's first big snowstorm of the season. 
The wet snow that began falling Tuesday collected on trees still covered with leaves, and its weight combined with gusty wind to send limbs crashing onto power lines. 
The National Weather Service reported storm totals of about 14 inches at northern New Jersey's High Point State Park, as much as 15 inches along the northwestern edge of New York's Catskill Mountains, and a foot in Pennsylvania's Pocono Mountains. 
Halloween returns to Pa. town 
011. CJIY, Pa. -For 16 years, mal horror overshad­owed the make-bnlieve terror of Halloween in thi'> Pnnm;ylvania town. whem trick-or-treating after dark was banm~ after an 11-yPM-old girl was abdueted ofl' the ~1n1et m1d murdmrl. 
But on Friday. pint-sized witches, princesses and vampin:JS will onc11 ag-d.in be shuflling from house to hou'in at night. thanks to a petition drive by a fifth-grad­m: 
Eli/,alx~th IIDN.-gathen~ signatums, wrote an essay outlining ht~r argument. and peThlladed City Council two month'> ago t.o bring back nighttime triek -{Jr-tn:>,ating. 
"I WdS a liUle scanrl that hapJXmiXl" Elizabeth said of the 1 992 slaying of' Shauna Howe. who was kidnappm while walking home lium a pre-Halloween party. But she added: "I did thi'i and now I'm so happy." · 
LOCAL NEWS 
Date set for racketeering trial 
HAMMOND -A federal judge has set Jan. 19 f'or the start of a civil racketeering trial against former East Chicago Mayor Hobert Pastrick and two of his top aides. 
Thn lawsuit claims that Pastrick and others used more than $24 million of city money for paving projects to buy votes in the 1999 Democratic primary election. 
U.S. District Judge James Moody, who in June rejected a request from Pastrick to dismiss the lawsuit, set the Jan. 19 trial date on Wednesday and scheduled a final pretrial conference for Jan. 8. 
College tuition up despite economy 
Students and families see no relief amid falling wages and job losses 
Associated Press  
As the economy walloped their  
tinam'ffi, students and fumilil'.S saw  
little n11ief thi'i tan from rising college  
costs. which jumped 6.4 pen;ent at  
~iate universitil'.S, according to new  
figt.Im5 out Wednesday.  
Next year i'i aln>_ady looking bad,  
too. More state budget cuts to higher  
{~ucation are virtually certain, and  
schools in at lea'it two states ­ 
Michigan and Rhod11 Island ­will  
take the unusual step of raising  
prices midyl:'m:  
"At a time of Oattening wages,  
widffiJJr?1id job lOO>ffi and shrinking  
home valuns, the la'>i thing parents  
need is another big increa'in in the  
cost of college," said James Boyle,  
president of the group College  
Parents of America  
But that's what they got  
For the current academic year.  
the avmage list prim of tuition and  
tees at tour-year public universities  
rose $:~94, or 6.4 peiT.ent. to $6,585  
lor in-stat.e studento:;. At private col­ 
legffi, price> ro>e $1,399, or 5.9 per­ 
cent, to $25,143, according to the  
annual "Trends in College Pricing"  
report from tho College Board.  
It's important to remember that  
many students don't pay the full ~i  
price. At private colleges, grants and  
tax breaks lower the average net  
price to about $14,900. At public  
universities the average actual cost is  
only about $2,900.  
And while some private colleges  
now exceed $50,000 when room  
and board are figured in, they are AP  
the exception. Overall, more than Erin O'Comell, right, Cl1d her mother listen during a visit to 8on University. The souring economy Cl1d  
half of four-year college students dr.matic slump on Wall Street are provking a cold dose clfmncial reality for RB1Y tcmlies.  
attend institutions where the list  
price for tuition and fees is less than  most cases the pressure to charge  "Despite every effort by our in'iti.­ economics professor at Skidmore  
$9,00l.  more will be greater.  tutions to increase aid to students  College and senior policy analyst at  
"No student should rule out a pri­ "Ifcurrent economic patterns con­ and fumilies, I am afraid this year's  the College Board, said in a tele­ 
vate college and university without  fume, it is pa;sible that some tuition  report may prove only to be a snap­ phone interview. While fumilies may  
first checking with the institution  increases next year will be higher  shot of a time in history that we  pustpone other big-ticket items, "It's  
about financial aid options," said  than the usual 5 to 6 pen;ent at our  might soon be referring to as the  harder to wait to go to college than  
David Warren, president of the  institutiom;," Warrensaid  'good old days,"' said Molly Corbett  to wait to buy a car," she said  
National A<nociation of Colleges and  At public institutions ­which  Broad, president of the American  Public two-year colleges once  
Universities. He noted that over the  enroll about three-quarters of  Council on Education, the principal  again were the biggest bargain.  
last decade independent colleges  American college students ­the  group representing colleges in  Average li.'it prices there ro>e $108,  
have increased financial aid at more  economy already has prompted big  Washington, D.C.  or 4.7 pen;ent, to $2,402. Factoring  
than three times the rate they've  increases. At least 21 states cut high­ The College Board report empha­ in financiaJ aid, the College Board  
increased tuition  er education spending this year, and  sized that, accounting for overall  estimates the average net cost is only  
But they've done so largely by tap­ some passed tuition increases well  inflation, price> ro>e less than 1 per­ about$100.  
ping rapidly growing endowments.  above the nationaJ average, accord­ cent this year, and actually declined  The College Board also reported  
Now, like family savings, college  ing to the Center on Budget and  at public two-year colleges. But  that the amount of private borrow­ 
endowments have taken a beating  Policy Priorities. The University of  that's only becauo:;e overall inflation  ing-the loans studento:; take out on  
on WaJI Street. just a'> demand for  Florida. for instanr,e, is eliminating  was unusually high-about 5.6  top of federal aid-declined slightly  
financial aid rises. Some colleges  430 fu.culty and staff p<Eit.iom;, low­ pen;ent  in 2007-2008. After years of double­ 
may try to hold down prices ­ ering enrollment by 1,00) students  "No one really thinks it's easier to  digit increases that fueled worries  
Benedictine University in llo:;le, Dl..  and increasing prirffl 15 pen;ent for  pay for college just because other  about student dnbt, private borrow­ 
has announced a freeze -but in  in-state undergraduates.  prices have gone up," Sandy Baurn,  ing has plateaued  
PAKISTAN  

At least 170 dead in Pakistan quake 
Associated Press 

Pakistan -Desperate villagers clawed through piles of mud and timber looking for victims of an earthquake that collapsed thousands of homes in south­western Pakistan before dawn Wednesday, killing at least 170 people. 
Army planes began flying in tents. medical supplies and blankets to the quake zone in Baluchistan province, but some 15,000 homeless people in the impoverished region faced a night in the open in near freezing temperatures fol­lowing the 6.4-magnitude jolt. 
"I have lost everything," said Haji Shahbaz, mourning the deaths of 17 rel­atives in Warn, a hard-hit village. 
"Nothing is left here, and now life is worthless for me," he added. then wailed in despair, tears streaking his dust-caked face. 
Pakistan is no stranger to natural dis­asters, but the quake comes at an espe­cially precarious time for the Muslim country, with the civilian government battling ai-Qaida and Taliban attacks while grappling with a punishing ceo­nomic crisis. 
As the army and other government agencies rushed to provide help, at least three hard-line Islamic organizations also were quick to aid quake survivors, according to an Associated Press reporter who toured the area. 
Among them was Jamaat-ud-Dawa, 
designated a terrorist group by the U.S. government for its links to Muslim sepa­ratists fighting in India's portion of the disputed Himalayan region of Kashmir. 
The group set up relief camps and won friends among survivors of a 7.6­magnitude quake that devastated Kashmir and northern Pakistan in October 2005, killing about 80.000 peo­ple and leaving hundreds of thousands homeless. 
Baluchistan is home to a long-running separatist movement, but has so far been spared the level of militant vio­lence seen in the northwestern tribal areas along the border with Afghanistan, where Muslim extremists are strong. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, October 30, 2008 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
York Times, Chicago Tribune, and thn South Bend Tribune 
to campus. 
The budget also allowed for an increase to the eontingnncy fund. 
"We upped !the conting1~ncy fundi just beeause we don't know about this rnadership program," Weaver said. "Last year, they budgeted $13,000 for it. 

however, he said he was dis­appointed with the way the issue was handled. 
''I'm appreciative of how much people were very pas­sionate about ... the budget and the stipend, but I was a little disappointed that it 
"We upped [the contingency fund] just becasue we don't know about this readership program. " 
Mo Weaver student body treasurer 
became very personal," Daniel said. 
Daniel reminded BOG and those in attendance at the meeting that student government will make decisions that they don't 
So, we just want to make sure we have that covered." 
Patriek Daniel, direetor of Student Involvement and BOG advisor, congratulated the board on passing the budget; agree with at times, and hopes people will focus on the issue instead of making things personal in the future. 

lie also said that with the passing of the budget, BOG 
UNITED KINGDOM 

Russell Brand quits BBC afterradioshovvSUSfX11dai 
Associated Press 
1.0 NDON -Every enter­tainer knows there's a fine lirw bntween offbeat and oiTnnsive. Hussell Brand has built a earenr walking it ­but now he may havn slum­bind. 
The wild-haired, motor­mouthed British comedian is rnnowned for risque rou­tinns, wrote a memoir recounting his drug and sex addiction and called President Bush "that retard­ed cowboy fellow" while hosting MTV's Video Music Awards. 
On Wndnesday, Brand quit his BBC radio show after he and fellow performer Jonathan Hoss were sus­pended indefinitely for leav­ing lewd messages on the voicemail of a 78-year-old aetor. Also under threat is the reputation of Britain's state-funded national broad­caster, which allowed Brand's routine to make it to air. 
The calls by Brand and Hoss to actor Andrew Sachs -best known for playing Spanish waiter Manuel in the 1970s Britcorn "Fawlty Towers" -have drawn more than 18,000 complaints. Prime Minister Gordon Brown called the eomrnents "inappropriate and unac­ceptable." 
In the ad-libbed messages, the pair claimed Brand had slept with Sachs' grand­daughter Georgina Baillie, and joked that Sachs might hang himself as a result of the news. Baillie, a 23-year­old burlesque performer, acknowledged she had a sexual relationship with Brand but said the calls to her grandfather were "cruel." 
Tho duo made further calls to Sachs in which they tried to apologize but continued to blurt out lewd messages. The calls were recorded Oct. 16 and aired on Brand's radio show two days later. 
Both Brand and Boss apol­ogized. 
"I am sorry that I upset Mr. Sachs," Brand, 33, told reportnrs outside his London 

home Wndnesday. Boss, 47, 
said he was sorry for his 
"stupid error of judgment." 
BBC director general Mark Thompson made a "personal and unreserved apology" for the "gross lapse of taste by the performers and the pro­duction team." 
lie said the pair would be suspended pending a full report into the affair. 
Brand later said he had decided to resign from his BBC radio program, which attracted 2 million listeners a week. 
"As I only do the radio show to make people laugh, I've decided that given the subsequent coverage I will stop doing the show," he said in a statement. "I got a bit caught up in the moment and forgot that at the core of the rude comments and silly songs were the real feelings of a beloved and brilliant comic actor and a very sweet and big-hearted young woman." 
Several politicians have called on the BBC to fire the pair. Telecommunications regulator Ofcorn said it would investigate whether the calls breached the broadcasting code, which sets standards for fairness and privaey. 
The case is reminiscent of the antics of American "shock jocks" such as Howard Stern -who paid repeated obscenity fines before j urnping to the unreg­ulated haven of satellite radio -or Don Irnus, who was fired from MSNBC and CBS Hadio for making racist and sexist comments about a women's basketball team. There have been numerous incidents of DJ-inspired out­rage in the U.S. In 2002, DJ team Opie and Anthony were fired by CBS Radio after broadcasting a live account of two listeners having sex in New York City's St. Patrick's Cathedral. 
Sachs said he did not plan to complain to the police or other authorities. 
"I respect his decision," he said about Brand. "I hope he moves forward, I really hope he does." 
has the opportunity to move about a boycott of the dining 
forward. "Let's  hall  which  
not let it be just  took  place  
about  the  ''I'm appreciative of  before  Fall  
money," he said.  how much people  Break in  stu­ 
"You have move forward  to as  were very passionate  dents discon­tent with the  
BOG."  about . . . the budget  food.  
After  dis- and the stipend. but I  She  said  
cussing the budget, Student Services corn­ was a little disappointed that it  Bowles told her that the boycott did not  
missioner  became very  significantly  
Catherine Meadors said  personal."  affect the number of stu­ 
Barry  Bowles,  dents  in  the  
General  Patrick Daniel  dining  hall.  
Manager  of  BOG advisor  Boles also pro­ 
Sodexo  at  the  vided her with  
College, provid­ figures  in  

ed her with more information response to the anonymous 
fliers calling for the boycott that were put under students' doors before break. 
"lie said we lhavel the twelfth lowest leostJ out of the top 100 liberal arts colleges for meal plans," Meadors said. She said Bowles wants to provide a variety of food in the dining hall, and he wants to make sure that it is the variety that students want. 
Bowles has an open door policy for students with con­cerns about the food, she said. 
Contact Liz Harter at EharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 





www.theteambus.com 
574-256-9956 1-877-EZ-TOUR BUS 



Ai hh.:tit~/At·mh:mi>t· (] Wl!p:-. Fr:t1ernit}: . .:snrority <imups Ormlpi/Cumpanr ( >utin~:-. Clwrh:r~.~n >urs Tht.~at~o·c tmct.'rts./Si·Hlrtin~ Evt~n1s C hurr~hes./Sc hoo I <kmiJl~ 
Convenient. Safe. Reliable. 



Day of the Dead 
Dia Cle los Muertos 
7 p.m. Oct 30 
Snit.e IVIuseum of Art. 
University of Not.re 

Eric Chavez of Oaxaca, 
Mexico, discusses 
Zapotec vveaving and Dia 
de los Muertos follovved 
by traditional Mexican 
music, dance, and 
refreshments. Free 
T-shirts to the 
first 50 guests. 
Co-sponsored by the 
Snite Museum of Art and the 
Institute for Latino Studies with 
support from the Kellogg Institute 
for International Studies, Campus 
Ministry, Multi-cultural Student 
Programs and Services. 
UNIVERSITY OF
s~~ 

NOTRE DAME
Museum ofART 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Thursday, October 30, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  8,990.96  -74.16  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,216  748  1,224  2,899,198,985  
AMEX  1,428~!4 ..  . +2.48  

NASDAQ 1,657.21 +7.74 NYSE 5,774;89 +41.44 S&P 500 930.09 -10.42 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,21L90 0.00 FTSE 100 (London) 4,242.54 +316.1() 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY)  -0.73  -0.68  93.08  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -0.25  -0.08  31.78  
FIN SEL SPDR (XLF)  -6.16  -0.94  14.31  
!SHARES MSCI (EEM)  -6.77  -1.64  22.60  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.41 +0.054 3.874 13-WEEK BILL -24.67 -0.185 0.565 30-YEAR BOND +1.58 +0.066 4.238 5-YEAR NOTE +0.59 +0.016 2.745 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +4.77 67.50 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +13.50 754.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.58 87.38 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 97.5200 EURO 0.7721 
IN BRIEF 
FDA officials opposed drug suit policy 
WA~HINGTON-Top scientists and career employ­ees at the Food and Drug Administration opposed agency regulations that weaken consumers' ability to sue drug makers, congressional investigators said Wndnesday. 
At issue is language in a drug labeling rule from 2006 that effectively limits when people can sue in state court over injury claims involving medications. The FDA contends federal regulations prevail when there i<> a conflict with state law. This concept is called pre-emption. 
Internal agency documents showed that career offi­cials opposed this approach, according to a report released by Rep. Henry Waxman, chairman of the I louse Oversight and Government Reform Committee. In the past, the agency had viewed private suits as an additional layer of protection against unsafe drugs, the report said. 
"Much of the argument for why we are proposing to invoke pre-emption seems to be based on a false assumption that the FDA approved labeling is fully accurate and up-to-date in a real time basis," the rnport quoted Dr. John Jenkins. who oversees FDA's new drug reviews, as saying. "We know that such an assumption is false." 
Patienl'i injured by drugs have won suits against drug manufacturers for failing to warn against certain dangers. 
World stocks higher as Fed cuts rate 
LONDON -World stock markets ended mostly higher Wednesday but many retreated from their session peaks as investors returned to fretting about corporate earnings in a global recession and a rally on Wall Street fizzled. 
The U.S. Federal Reserve met market expecta­tions by trimming a key interest rate by half a percentage point in a bid to revive the world's largest economy. Global markets surged Tuesday in anticipation of the Fed's move but there appean~d to be only lackluster follow-through. 
Late-session selling sent the Dow Jones indus­trials down 74.16. or 0.82 percent, to end at 8,990.96 after being up nearly 280 points, which would have given them a two-day gain of more than I.H>O points. 
European stock markets dosed mostly higher Wednesday, eatr.hing up with Tuesday's surge on Wall Street that started after European nxehanges had closed. 
Governors, mayors seek fiscal help 
Facing budget troubles, states ask Washington for public works projects 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A bevy of 
governors, mayors and inter­
est groups came to Capitol 
Hill Wednesday, pressing for 
tens of billions of dollars for 
new public works projects 
and help for cash-strapped 
states, among other ideas 
aimed at boosting the econo­
my. 

They found sympathetic 
ears at a pair of House hear­
ings -even from some 
Republicans -for ambitious 
plans to build roads and 
water and sewer projects, 
extend jobless benefits and 
help states cope with multibil­
lion dollar budget shortfalls. 
Democrats are eyeing a 
huge economic stimulus 
measure, either in a postelec­
tion session next month or as 
the first item of business next 
year. They are fO<~using more 
on the spending side of the 
federal ledger, as opposed to 
the tax rebate checks sent out 
earlier this year, with a key 
focus on generating new jobs. 
"Every billion dollars in 
spending on infrastructure, 
on highway and transporta­
tion expenditures does result 
in 35,000 new jobs," said Rep. 
John Mica, R-Fla., at a hear­
ing of the House 
Transportation and 
Infrastructure Committee. 
Before another panel, New 
York Gov. David Paterson, a 
Democrat, pressed for billions 
to help close a projected 
$12.5 billion budget gap 
caused in large part by the the size of the economy -or the spending-focused measures, she said the White 
chaos on Wall Street. He said about $300 billion -with a approach favored by House has not "seen a pack­
falling tax revenues will mean heavy emphasis on infrastruc­Democrats. While Democrats age that we could support." 
harmful cuts to in health care, ture projects such as road say there's no time to waste, "It remains a mystery to me 
anti-poverty programs and construction, railway repairs given the faltering economy, whether this hearing is mere­
other state services. and water and sewer proj­they may have to wait until ly a fact-finding expedition or 
"The cruel irony is that at ects. January to enact their plans whether it is laying the 
the time when citizens need "This time of adversity -ifBarack Obama is elected. groundwork for action in 
their state governments the should be translated into a Congressional aides say an Congress next month on a 
most, state governments are time of opportunity with extension of unemployment stimulus package," said Rep. 
least equipped to help them respect to our infrastructure benefits is likely next month, Jim McCrery, R-La., a mem­
because of plummeting rev­projects," Corzine told the but that a large stimulus bill is ber of the House Ways and 
enues," Paterson said. "When transportation committee. unlikely to pass while Bush is Means Committee. "If our 
states are hurting, our nation­"We should not lose the in office. goal is to make law this year, 
al economy suffers." opportunity to invest in our "A lot of the claims that are then I want to remind my col­
New Jersey Gov. Jon future, our children, and our made about how much trans­leagues that it is of little use to 
Corzine, a Democrat and for­grandchildren's future." portation could actually help draft a package ... if it cannot 
mer chairman of Goldman But the immediate future of build the economy are also pass the closely divided 
Sachs, called for a deficit­· any stimulus measure is overblown," said White House Senate and be signed by the 
financed stimulus measure murky at best, given resist­Press Secretary Dana Perino. current occupant of the White 
tagged at up to two percent of ance from President Bush to Generally on new stimulus House." 

Key interest rate lowered to 1 percent 
Associated Press the second biggest point gain in history, was credit crisis. While the goal is to encourage 
less impressed with Wednesday's activity. The banks to begin lending again, financial institu­
WASHINGTON -The Federal Reserve Dow Jones industrial average finished the tions are skittish about extending new loans slashed a key interest rate by half a percent­day down 7 4 points, a drop analysts said given the huge losses they have racked up in age point Wednesday, driving it to a level seen partly reflected growing worries about bad mortgages. only once before in the last half-century, and whether the government's actions will be suf­Meanwhile, the administration announced the government finally began distributing ficient to avert a deep and prolonged reces­that the spigot had been opened on the $700 funds from the billions in the financial rescue sion. billion fund created by Congress Oct. 3 to res­package. The Fed, as investors had hoped, cue the U.S. financial system. Treastn)' issued 
Those efforts and others were part of a announced a half-point cut in the federal a report showing cheeks had been disbursed concerted drive by officials, just days before a funds rate, the interest that banks charge for $125 billion in payments to nine major national election, to demonstrate they are each other on overnight loans, driving it down banks, including Bank of America, Citigroup, moving as quickly as possible to deal with the to 1 percent, a low last seen in 2003-2004. JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and most serious fmancial crisis to hit the country That rate has not been lower since 1958 Morgan Stanley. The goal is to bolster their since the 1930s. when Dwight Eisenhower was president. balance sheets so they will resume more nor­
"Policymakers have their foot to the ac,cel­Reducing the rate a<> low as zero cannot be mal lending. erator and they arc using every effort at their ruled out, some analysts said, but they cau­And the administration was nearing an disposal to stop the slide in the economy and tioned that rcdueing rates that far carried agreement on a plan to help around 3 million financial markets," said Mark Zandi. chief some risk'i, induding that if the credit crisis homeowners avoid forc>elosure, acc,ording to economist with Moody's Eeonomy.eom. "And suddenly worsenc'<i, the Fed would have used sources who had been briefed on the matter. it's not a moment too soon given the serious up its ammunition. The program would be thP most aggn:-.ssive damage that ha'i already been done." Analysts also noted that just lowering rates effort yet to limit damages from the severe 
Wall Street, which the previous day posted cannot serve as a panacea to overcome a housing slump. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 30, 2008 
CONGO 

NO, SMC, &HCC Students
Soldiers, refugees flee rebel fighters 
Rwandan Tutsi-led government denies charges that troops crossed the border, attacked soldiers 
Associated Press 
COMA -Firing wildly, Congolese soldiers comman­deered ears, taxis and motor­bikes Wednesday in a retreat from advancing rebel fighters, joining tens of thousands of ter­ri find refugees struggling to stay ahead of' the violence. 
As gunfire crackled in this eastern provincial capital, the Tutsi rebels said they had reached the outskirts of Goma and declared a unilateral cease­fire to prevent panic as the army retreats and residents flee. 
Congo said Hwandan troops had crossed the border and attacked its soldiers -raising tho spncter that neighboring nations will again be drawn into Congo's war. Hwanda's Tutsi-led government immedi­ately denied the charge, but Congo turned to Angola for help defending its territory. 
As tlw chaos mounted, the 
U.S. announced its ofTieials were leaving Goma and urged all American citizens to do the same. Tlw State Department said Assistant Secretary of State for African Afl"airs Jendayi 
spokesman 
S e a n 
McCormack. "This is of' deep 
concern to us." 
Thousands of panicked refugees dogged the dirt roads out of Genna, struggling to rnach safety. 
Wonwn carrying huge bun­dins on their heads and babies in tlwir arms trudged alongside rnnn pushing crude wooden earts crammed with c:lothing, food and cooking utensils. Bewi ldnnHI children walked alongside. Young boys lnd goats and pigs on tethers as men on bieydns weaved in and out. 
Thn U.N. High Commissioner for Hefugees said about 45,000 people fled the nearby village of Kibati. where they had been slenping in a makeshift camp in thn opnn air, in a matter of hours on Wednnsday. 
"It was vnry chaotic," said ageney spokesman Hon Hndmond, speaking from (;nrwva. Most of the n~fugees had arrived only the day before af'tm· flePing fighting farther north. 
"Tlwy suddPnly beeanw very agitatPd and p1~opln began lnav­ing thn ramp in a panic," Hndmond said. Tlwy first lwad­nd toward (;oma to tlw south, thPn l"hang1HI dirnetion and lwadt>d bark out as it lwcame dnar the dly was about to fall. 
Coma's gov<'rnor. .Julien Mpaluku. arknowlndgnd that panic was spreading, but strnsst>d that U.N. pnae:eknepnrs WPrn still in ehargp and rnlwls had not yl'l Pnlen~d t.lw city. 
U.N. spokesman Madnodjn Mounoubai said pnacnkewpnrs WPrn dnployPd at the~ airport and at other strategic points. 

A rebel statement said their fighters were just outside Goma. 
"We are not far from Goma," rebel leader Laurent Nkunda was quoted as saying on the BBC's Web site. "But because there is a state of destabiliza­tion in the town we deeided ... unilaterally to proclaim a cease-fire." 
Nkunda, who has ignored calls by the Security Council to respect a U.N.-brokered truce signed in January, ealled on government forces to follow suit. 
The U.N. says its biggest peacekeeping mission -a 17,000-strong force -is now stretched to the limit with the surge in fighting and needs more troops quickly. India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Uruguay and South Africa are the main contributors to the existing force. 
But hopes for immediate baekup from the European Union dimmed. French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner said Wednesday the EU had considered sending troops to reinforce the peaeekeepers in 
NO Club of DC bus transportation to and from Maryland and Virginia for Thanksgiving and 

Christmas. Fun &Easy! 


Book by 11/1 and save Money!! 
Contact Ann Rimkus arimkus@nd.edu 

"They suddenly 
Frazer was Congo but some heading to the became very agitated countries refused. capital, Fears have
and people began 
Kinshasa, and grown of a wider
leaving the camp 
would arrive war that could Thursday. in a panic, drag in Congo's "Tiwre is a neighbors. Congo lot of violence," suffered back-to­
Ron Redmond 
s a d hack wars from
Agency spokesman 
1996 to 2002 that 
embroiled eight 

Afriean nations and beeame a 
rush at the eountry's vast min­
nral wealth. 
The unrest in eastern Congo 
has been fueled by festering 
hatreds left over from the 1994 
Hwandan genoeide, in which 
half a million Tutsis were 
slaughtered. More than a mil­
lion llutu extremists fled to 
Congo where they regrouped in 
a brutal militia that helps fuel 
the continuing eonfliet in Congo. 
Hebel leader Nkunda, an eth­nie Tutsi and former general, quit the army several years ago, claiming the government of President Joseph Kabila was not doing enough to protect minority Tutsis from the llutu extremists. 
On Wednesday, retreating government soldiers entered Goma along with the fleeing refugees, grabbing cars, taxis and motorbikes to help in their escape. 
About 15 soldiers briefly eom­mandcercd a car carrying an AP cameraman and photogra­pher and demanded to be driv­en about 50 miles to the town of Saki. 
''I'll kill you! I'll kill you!" yelled one soldier in front of an airfield nnar downtown Goma. 
Tlw soldiers grabbed boxes that looked like ammunition from the U.N. compound at the airport, pill~d them into the SUV and took off. Some of the sol­diers piled onto tho roof, others hung from open doors. The journalists finally managed to get away, jumping out of the moving vehiele at a military poliee eheekpoint. 

ELECTION 2008 
Thursday, October 30,2008 COMPILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 9 
CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Obama on prime-time; McCain criticizes 
MIAMI -Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama plunked down $4 million for a cam­paign-closing television ad Wednesday night, sum­moning voters to "choose hope over fear and unity over division" in Tuesday's election. Republican John McCain derided the event as a "gauzy, feel­good commercial," paid for with broken promises. 
"America, the time for change has come,"Obama said in the fmal moments of the unusual ad, a blend of videotaped moments and a live appearance before thousands in Sunrise, Fla. 
"In six days we can choose an economy that rewards work and creates jobs and fuels prosperity starting with the middle class," Obama said. 
The 30-minute ad. aired on CBS. NBC. Fox and several cable networks, came just days from the end of a race in which Obama holds the lead in polls nationally as well as in most key battleground states as he bids to become the first black presi­dent. 
Hepublieans and even some Democrats said the race was tightPning as it neared the end. And while Obama made no mention of McCain in his paid tele­vision ad. both men sharpnned their rhetoric during the day. 
Palin suggesls she will be a GOP fixture 
TOLEDO, Ohio -Facing the unhappy prospect of dp({mt, Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin indicatPd Wednesday that she will not disappear from the national political scene if the GOP tickPt IOSPs on Tuesday. 
"Absolutely not. I think that, if I were to give up and wave a white flag of surrender against some of the political shot<> that we've taken, that ... that would ... bring this whole ... I'm not doing this for naught," Palin said in an interview with ABC News, according to excerpts of a transcript released by the television network. 
Palin was steadfast in saying Republican presi­dential nominee John McCain would defeat Democrat Barack Obama. 
''I'm just ... thinking that it's gonna to go our way on Tuesday, Nov. 4. I truly believe that the wisdom of ... of the people will be revealed on that day. As they enter that voting booth, they will understand the stark contrast between the two tickets," the Ala<>ka governor said. 
In addition to the interview, Palin delivered a poli­cy address in which she called for a "clean break" from the Bu.<>h administration's energy policies. She said the White House plans rely too much on importing foreign oil. 
Democrats dominate early voting 
WASHINGTON -Democrats are dominat­ing early voting in six key states President Bush won four years ago, forcing Republican .John McCain to play catch-up even before Election Day arrives. 
Democrats outnumber Republicans among early voters in Iowa, North Carolina, Florida, Colorado, New Mexico and Nevada, accord­ing to statistics from election and party offi­cials in those states. Bush won all six in 2004, and McCain needs to win most of them to claim the White House this year. 
Georgia, another red state, doesn't track early voters by party, but it does by race. About 1.4 million Georgians have already cast ballots, and blacks are voting in dispro­portionate numbers. Black voters over­whelmingly support Democrat Barack Obama, who is bidding to become the nation's first black president. 
Values issues highlight state ballots 
Voters can decide thier states' position on issues like abortion and gay marriage 
Associated Press 

Social issues so volatile that the presidential cam­paigns sidestepped them will be on the ballots in several states next week, including measures that would criminalize most abortions, outlaw affirma­tive action and ban same­sex marriage in California, one of only three states that allows it. 
In all, there are 153 pro­posals on ballots in 36 states. 
In Washington, voters will decide whether to join Oregon as the only states offering terminally ill peo­ple the option of physician­assisted suicide. Massachusetts has three distinctive measures on its ballot -to ban dog racing, ease marijuana laws and scrap the state income tax, a step that could unleash budgetary tumult. 
The main presidential rivals, Democrat Barack Obama and Republican John McCain. have rarely made proactive·comments during the campaign about same-s!')x marriage or affirmative action -issues on which the public is deeply divided. Abortion also has seemed like an uncomfortable topic for them at times, although Obama makes clear he supports abortion rights and McCain says he would like to ban most abortions. 
But in a half-dozen states, these three issues are front and center. 
Florida, Arizona and California have constitu­tiona! amendments on their ballots that would limit marriage to a man and a woman. More than two-dozen states have pre­viously approved such amendments, but none were in California's situa­tion -with same-sex mar­riage legal since a state Supreme Court decision in May and thousands of gay and lesbian couples already wed. 
The rival camps view the California vote in epic terms, with the outcome of Proposition 8 having enor­mous influence on 
prospects for same-sex marriage rights in other states. 
"If we lose California, if they defeat the marriage amendment, I'm afraid that the culture war is over and Christians have lost," said Donald Wildmon, founder of the American Family Association. "California is a big dam, holding back the flood -and if you take down the dam in California, it's going to flood 49 other states." 
Obama is expected to win easily in California, but the vote on Proposition 8 is expected to be close. Of keen interest to both sides is how churchgoing black and Hispanic voters -in general a pro-Obama constituency -will vote on the ballot measure. 
Both Obama and McCain say they oppose same-sex marriage. But Obama, unlike McCain, opposes Proposition 8 and endorses the concept of broader rights for same-sex cou­ples. 
Gay rights also is an issue in Arkansas, where a ballot measure would pro­hibit unmarried couples from adopting or being foster parents. Conservatives backing the idea say it's aimed at same-sex couples, who are able to adopt and be foster parents in most states. 

Abortion is a dominant campaign topic in South Dakota, which has an ini­tiative that would ban the procedure except in cases of rape, incest and serious health threat to the moth­er. A tougher law without the rape and incest excep­tions was defeated in 2006; a recent poll on the new version showed a dead heat. 
Colorado has a "person­hood" amendment on its ballot that would define human life as beginning at fertilization. It doesn't explicitly mention abor­tion, but activists on both sides in the campaign view it as a blunt challenge to abortion rights -so blunt that the National Right to Life Committee, Colorado's Roman Catholic bishops and some other anti-abor­tion groups have declined 
to endorse it on strategic grounds. 
Some of those skeptical of the idea believe it would run aground in legal chal­lenges. Abortion-rights activists contend it would -if approved -potential­ly lead to the banning of certain types of birth con­trol. 
Colorado and Nebraska have proposals that would ban race-and gender­based affirmative action, similar to measures previ­ously approved in California, Michigan and Washington. The man spearheading the move­ment, California activist­businessman Ward Connerly, says the candi­dacies of Obama, Hillary Clinton and Sarah Palin prove blacks and women no longer need affirmative action. 
"Anyone who raises $150 million in one month is being judged pretty much on the basis of their politi­cal abilities and not on the basis of race," Connerly said of Obama during a debate in Nebraska last week. 

SOUND BYTE: HEALTH CARE 
What will you do to improve the health care system? 
"My health care plan will make sure insur­ance companies can't discriminate against those who are sick and need care most. If you have health insurance, the only thing that will change under my plan is that we will lower premiums. If you don't have health insurance, you'll be able to get the same kind ofhealth insurance that Members ofCongress get for themselves. " 

''To use their money effectively, Americans need more choices. We should give additional help to those who face particularly expensive care. !fit is done right and the additional money is there, insurance companies will com­pete for these patients -not turn them away. It is a challenge to develop techniques that allo­cate the right amount to each ofthese fami­
McCain 

lies."

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page lO Thursday, October 30, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
The finish line 
!~0. Box 779, Notre D•m•. IN 46556 024 Smnh Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIEF Chris I line 

MANAt;ING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER J;J.y Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler Ass·I: MANAGING EDnUR: Deirdre Krasula 
NlWS EDITOR: Jenn Mctz 
VtEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SI•ORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: l.iz Harter 
J>uoTo EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTI.~ING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD O~~~IGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey (;ill SYSTEMS AI>MINISTRAI"OR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 63!-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6'.100 observad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6.H-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@1nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 63!-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

1l1e Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe smdents of the University of Nom: Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisuation ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe &:litor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Editors and department editors. Commemaries, leners and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe ()bserver. 
Viewpoint space is available m all readers. The free cxpres.~ion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Qumions rrgarding Obsn-verpo!U.·i~s should b~ dirrcted to FAitor in ChiifChris Hinr. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob.trver (USPS 'S99 2.-4000) ill pubiOOcd M~y rhralJih Friday m:cpt Juring eJ.am and v~tauon period.. A ~iptiun to The Oblcrvc:r 1l $100 for one aatdcmk ~ S'5'5 (or unc lt'rrtatcr. 
TI\c ONcrvet Ia J'IUhlamcd. •t: POSTMASTIR 
024 South Dminc Hall Nt-un: O.nK, IN 46'5')6-071'9 The Olv.rtvcr f>r-nndiaJI,.,~'• p!OO .u Nntn Dame P.O.Rtn:n9 .and addt11111111l malllug uffKCJ. 024 Suurh DinillK Hall 


No1rt Dame, IN <665S&On'J 
T1le Oh.crvc:r Ua member of the A»ociarcd Pm.~. All n:produ4.:tion rights. an: rc..:rved. 
With less than a week until election day, I have found myself wondering what I'll do with all the time I will save by not checking multiple blogs, new leeds, and polls several times every day. I also find myself reflect­
ing on the entirn election season as a whole, rnmember­ing-not quite nos­talf.,Tica.lly-some of the more sensation­al twist'> and turns, and deciding what I 


learned from my Jason Coleman 
first true immersion 
into American poli­

tics. Man at Large 
For me, it started last Christmas brnak when a friend of mine called me a li1w days bdbre New Year's, <L'>king if I wanted to drive up to Iowa to see the candidates make their pitches just days befi>rc the caucuses. Over a forty­eight hour span I would see stump speeeh­es from !bur candidates at middle schools and diners. 
It's funny to think baek on that now. First, I saw Mike lluckabee at a bar in some sleepy town. He was a mostly unknown Arkansas governor at the time, and made a strong enough pitch on values and compassion to win the contest. (MeCain came in fourth). I'm not sure any­body thought that he was going to be the runner-up in the GOP contest even with the win, surviving the deadly Republican National Convention primary system clear into March. 
Then, I walked a block or two down to a small diner, where Rudy Guiliani answered questions and signed autographs. Even as late as last Christmas, a lot of the smart money pegged him as the nominee. He had chosen to use Florida as his first (and last) stand in the process. The effectiveness of that position was more or less summed up 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
In response to the various abortion arguments gracing the Viewpoint's pages these cold fall days, all it really shows is the obvious discord between beliefs in this country. I thought an opinion from experi­enee would be useful to throw into the mix. 
I am a mother. I have faced the "choice." There are no words to express the flood of emotions which fill a woman when she di<;covers she is pregnant, especially at such a young age. From happiness to fear, it ranges across the spectrum. 
Overall, I agree with Mary Da.ly's opinion ("For Clarification," Oct. 28) when she says, "A pregnant woman who fmds her­self in a position in which abortion seems the only answer ... is not being afforded the right to choose." 
Unfortunately, in today's society, that is often the case. I have held a staunch pro­life view throughout my life, but not unti.l you are faced with the issue at hand do you truly question your beliefs. I will admit, abortion was an option, and a high­ly considered option for me the first few days. 
When one is flooded with ideas of today's norm of leading life (i.e. college, when a native Iowan shouted out "Why 
aren't you showing Iowa any love?" That 
was tough for even America's mayor to 
answer. It also probably explains why he 
finished behind Hon Paul. 
I.ater that evening, I watehed John Edwards in a middle school gym. His strat­egy, more or less, W<L'> to come out ahead or dose to ahead in Iowa as a result of vote splitting between the two superstar candi­dates, Clinton and Obama. I Ie ended up finishing second, edging Clinton out by no more than one percent. With his recent recreational activities exposed, I still shud­der to think what would have happened had he been the nominee. 
The next morning, on the way out of Des Moines, we stopped to see Baraek Obama speak in an elementary school auditorium. I had heard of him, like many others, after his 2004 DNC speech, but had not followed him or even knew what his chances were. Everyone figured Clinton would win any­how. But, we were intrigued and decided it was worth checking out. Uttle did we know that in a few days Iowa would shoek political circles, allowing Obama to draw first blood against the Clinton Machine. 
Of course, since then, there has been no lack of surprises and upheava.ls in thn political world. Some of these were com­pletely external; common knowledge through the spring indicated that Iraq would weigh heaviest on voter's minds. Who would have thought the global eeono­my would implode dramatically over a matter ofweeks? 
Other surprises were intentional. The GOP VP pick, for instance, comes to mind. Who saw that coming? Add to the mix "Joe Six Pack," Joe the Plumber and Joe "Foot in Mouth" Biden, and you could have a primetime sitcom. 
In all seriousness, the political education I received over the last year has provided more insight into the way America works 
I have chosen 
job, marriage, promotion, then children) and the more-common-than-not shame afforded to unwed mothers in our society, I felt very alone when, with a single deci­sion, I was ripped from that norm into a life-track of my own. This loneliness directed me to consider abortion; however, after a night of tears and prayer, that "ehoice" was forever deleted from my mind. 
What made me decide not to partake in this option given to me? It came down to one word: support. !learned of the sup­port offered to me by my family and friends. I discovered the support given to me by the University. I supported myself by knowing I could be a mother and still reach all the goals in my life. 
Too often today are women like me faced with the same decision and not given the support they need in order to know that abortion, while a legal choice, is actually the worst choice available to them. While I feel that this nation is a long way from making abortion illega.l again based on a rights disagreement, we should be focusing on making less and less women feel the need to terminate a preg­nancy because she feels there is no other than any book or course ever could. In some c&<;es, it was exporionce, such going up to Iowa or voluntoering to eanv<L'>S, that provided first hand insight into how a polit­iealfbllowing is built. In others, it W<L'> all the infiwmation gleannd from watd1ing CNN, or li>llowing tlw New York Times commentators. Most importrnltly, though, it was probably the argumnnL'> with my friends over such important issuos that helped me to darify my worldview and see how it lit with the way tlw world eurrnntly works. 
N! ofthis, however, lnd me to conclude that voting in and of iL<;elf is tantamount to being an American. Voting is the eonstitu­tional right of the people to change the face of America every time thny step to the bal­lot box, and one that should not bn volun­tarily given up. I understand that it is hard to justify voting <L'> a Demoerat in a deeply Hed state or visa versa, but I don't think this provid11s a rn&'>on not to do so. The vote is the strongest political statement one can make, regardless of how it tigurns into the bigger picture. It should not be taken lightly. 
So, let me send you oil", in my l&'>t eolumn of the election se<L'>on, with the charge to vote. Ifthe absnntee ballot is sitting on your desk, dose it up and drop it in the mailbox. If you are mgistnrnd horn in Indiana, brave the lines and make your voice heard on Tuesday. Make sure you remind your friends and family. Hegardless of who wins the raee, America wins if everyone partici­pates. Plus, as Bob Sehieffer reminded us in the third debate, voting "will make you feel big and strong." 
Jason Coleman is a junior majoring in management. lie can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
choice. 
How? Support, and unlimitHd amount<; of it. I still believe abortion is the murder of an innoeent life, but I now understand how a woman can tee! so trapped that she feels there is no other option available. Now, after going through the most difficult nine months of my life, I have a beautiful one-year-old daughter who never stops smiling, a wonderful fiance I am marrying next spring, high grades in school, a promising internship next summer and the most fulfilling life I eould have ever imagined. 
I do hope, as lindsey Schwartz ("Who has the 'Right to Life'?" Oct. 13) pointed out, that no one is put into the situation that I was; however, know that the choice you make can lead you to be the happiest you have ever been. I look at my daughter and tears fill my eyes with the thought that I might have never seen her big, beautiful, blue eyes with a "choice" I almost made. 
Staysha Sigler junior off campus Oct.28 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

News Sports 
Mandi Stirone Lorenzo Reyes Who would you rather spend a night 
Becky Hogan Alex Barker on the town with? 
Hobnrt Singer Scene 
"Success usually comes to
Viewpoint Mark Witte John McCain 
those who are too busy to be 
Kara King Graphics Barack Obama looking for it." Blair Chemidlin 
Joe Biden 
Henry David Thoreau

Mr. Sarah Palin 
U.S. author 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Thursday, October 30, 2008 
ByKARA KING Scene Writer 
.Just down Main Street in South Bond. El Paraiso is a Mnxiean rnstaurant that few students beyond the Irish ski tnam havn discovernd. And this needs to change. With prices and spnnd to rival Taco Boll, and traditional Mnxican food that is hard to l'ind past the Hod Hiver, it is morn than worth a visit. 
1~1 Paraiso looks (and feels) like tho typo of dive f'requented by Guy Fieri. Attaehed to a Mexican grocery store, it screams authenticity throughout the dining exp1~rience. The smell is overpowering when you enter, and it sets the stage for the din­ing expnrienee to follow. 
The restaurant itself is basic: a simple room with several cafe­teria-type tables, orange walls and. a few Mexican decorations spaced through­out. This sim-easily rivals those o Chipot e, except that instead of' being overly stuffed with rice and other fillers, they contain copi­ous amounts of meat with just enough sidns to enhance the fla­vor. Quite obvi­
chimichanga are especially deli­cious and even their lesSfH­known entrees are cooked to perfection. 
Best of all, it's cheap. Tacos start at $1.50 each and burritos at $5.00. Even 
ously, these bur-the most expen­ritos mean busi­sive offerings
With prices and speed to
ness. fail to bust the 
The food itself rival Taco Bell, and $10 mark. It is is amazing, traditional Mexican .food an nasy place to albeit a little bit visit on a budg­
that is hard to find past
greasy et and leave f'ull (although with the Red River, !El and satisfied. Mexican f'ood Paraiso] is more than Tho service is 
that should be good, for what
worth a visit.
expected). To it is. Mostly begin, pick an intended as a 
plicity belies all camole, and this plaen has to "Mexican style"
The beans and rice are
of'f'er. with cilantro 
a welcome break from 
The menu and onions. For otTers anything what passes for such in those less and everything adventurous,
the dining hall. The
Mnxiean, from they also offer 
favorites such as salsa actually has the traditional tacos, burritos. flavor and heat. "American and quesadillas style," with let-to chimichangas tuce, tomatoes 
entree. Then customize. Choose a main filling from steak, chicken. ground beef. pork or black beans. Several options, such as tacos and burritos, are offered in sev­eral styles, including 'El 
Paraiso,'  with  sour  cream,  
cheese  and  
ample  gua­ 

and m i lannsa. Most selections are a Ia carte, although thorn are several plate options and daily specials. Hice and beans can also be added to any order for a few dollars more. But with the exceptionally generous portion sizes, they aren't needed. The burrito size and cheese. 
Besides all the offerings for such a small place, even the lit­tle things are done right. The beans and rice are a welcome break from what passes f'or such in the dining hall. The salsa actually has flavor and heat. The wet burrito and 
take out restau­rant, the waitress managed to keep the chip baskr~t full (although they do charge for refills beyond a certain poinO and brought out the f'ood as it was ready and warm. And while service is clearly not the strength of El Paraiso, it is bet­ter than Pxpected. 
The attached grocery store is an added bonus and worth a walk through even if' you don't buy anything. With traditional Mexican produce year-round, if you ever find yourself in need of a mango or coconut, you know where to look. The Mexican candy section is also culturally enlightening and offers several interesting Halloween treats. 
Overall. El Paraiso offers an unexpected Mexican dining experience in South Bend on a college student budget. Go for the affordability. Beturn for the food. 
·.. oP:.. · wt·>····· 
. ·.. ·' .· ..· J ' : <.
3 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, October 30, 2008 
page 13 
Thursday: "Shaun of the Dead" at 
Legends, midnight. 
In light of this spooky holiday sea­son, Legends is getting into the horror game by sponsoring a showing of the 2004 British film "Shaun of the Dead." . This spot-on parody spoofs classic zombie movies while still scaring up its share of chills and Halloween 
thrills. 
In the l'ilm, slackerish Shaun (Simon 
Pegg) attempts to win back his girl­
friend Liz (Kate Ashfield) while he and 
his buffoon best friend Ed (Nick Frost) 
battle hoards of flesh-eating zombies 
across their North London neighbor­
hood. Not to be missed. 
Saturday: "Dracula" at the South : Bend Civic Theatre, 8 p.m. 
Yes, it's the day after Halloween, but 
why not keep the spooky spirit alive 
another night? 
The South Bend Civic Theatre, min­
utes from both the Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's campuses, will feature per­
formances of "Dracula" all weekend. As 
the Count himself says in the play, "I 
•want your fear ... for your fear renders · your veins rich and full." 
The play is an adaptation by Steven Dietz of the original Bram Stoker novel. Visit www.artseverywhere.com for more information. Tickets cost $17 and there is also a midnight showing on Friday. 
Friday: Notre Dame Glee Club Fall con­cert, Leighton Concert Hall, 8 p.m. 
If your Halloween plans won't start until the wee hours of All Hallow's Eve, spend the earlier portion of your evening with the men of the Notre Dame Glee Club. Their seasonal concert will feature several of their traditional stand-bys, classic Notre Dame music, and a variety of other liturgi­cal and secular pieces. The concert will also feature several of the smaller ensem­bles within the Glee Club, as well as some spooky llalloween-type selections. Also, watch for sales of the group's albums out­side of the concert hall. Ticketc; cost $8, $6 for faculty and staff, $5 for seniors and $3 for students. 
Sunday: The Alison Brown Quartet, Leighton Concert Hall, 2 p.m. 
Ever given bluegrass a try? Even if you've never seen a banjo, the Alison Brown Quartet is sure to impress. Alison Brown is a Grammy-winning banjo artist who has worked with a variety of bluegrass performers, including Alison Krauss. Billboard magazine once likened Brown's banjo playing to "James Taylor's voice or 
B.B. King's guitar" for its unique style and beauty. Tickets cost $38, $30 for faculty and staff, $28 for sen­iors and $15 for students. 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Editor 
We're back and the doors to .. the dining hall are flung open ~ once again, so it's time to get back to work finding good things to eat. Hopefully a week off has put a shine back on the offerings of North and South, but if not 
: here are some ideas to keep you going, so dig in! This week's recipes: 
Pitas with Garbanzo Beans and Spinach 
There is something about pitas that just makes them fun, so stuff away! Spinach has gotten a bad name, probably because it is often served over-cooked, but don't give in to the association. It has a great flavor and is a good shake up from the usual lettuce. Garbanzo beans (the stars of many Middle Eastern foods such as hummus and falafels) with their nutty flavor are a good source of protein. 
Fill a bowl with spinach, gar­banzo beans, mushrooms, feta cheese (Not a feta fan? Try blue cheese, or even sprinkle on a bunch of the parmesan from the pizza area.) and red onion. 
Mix a dab of Dijon mustard into red wine vinegar and pour over the contents of the bowl. You can squeeze some lemon on top as well, if that is to your taste. (Too much work? You can actually just toss a dab of Dijon mustard on the top, pour over the vinegar and mix it later.) 
If you want a hot pita, stop by the microwave and zap it for about 1 minute. If you're in more of a crunchy and fresh mood, just leave it as is. 
Make sure everything is well mixed and cut into bite sized pieces. Sprinkle with pepper. 
Stuff the mixture into the pitas. 
Black Bean and Bacon Salad 
Lettuce is hardly a require­ment for a salad. This one is based around black beans, a bunch of other yummy vegeta­bles and of course, bacon. There isn't much that beats bacon, is there? 
Fill a bowl with black beans, shredded carrot (or dice up a couple of carrot sticks). diced tomatoes, red onion and corn. 
Add a little red wine vinegar, but not too much, you don't want to overwhelm this one. 
Pick up a couple slices of bacon from the sandwich area 
(or hot from the breakfast area if it is early enough in the day). Shred and mix into the other ingredients. 
Warm up the bowl in the microwave for about a minute. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. You can try adding in some ranch dressing for another taste. 
Quick Tip 

Have a favorite sandwich you always make? Try transferring the same ingredients to a wrap. a pita, or even just some of the nicer breads you have t.o slice yourself. It will make a tried and true dish a little more special. Don't forget the pickle! 
Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to feature it! E-mail mfordice@nd. edu. 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, October 30, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE ()ssERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 15 
USTFCCCA Women's Cross Country Rankings 
team points 
1 Washington (12) 360 2 Oregon 347 3 Florida State 334 4 Princeton 324 5 West Virginia 311 6 Villanova 302 7 Minnesota 280 8 Michigan 273 9 Michigan State 259 10 Illinois 245 11 Georgetown 237 12 Texas Tech 231 13 Arkansas 204 14 Florida 202 15 Arizona State 192 16 Wisconsin 183 17 Baylor 173 18 Stanford 165 19 Penn State 153 20 Rice 136 21 Iowa 112 22 Stony Brook 107 23 New Mexico 95 24 Providence 69 25 Wake Forest 55 
NSCAA/Adidas Men's Soccer Rankings 
team  points  record  
1  Wake Forest (23)  575  15-0-1  
2  Akron  535  13-1-2  
3  Creighton  510  10-1-2  
4  St. John's  497  12-1-3  
5  Maryland  495  13-3-0  
6  Northwestern  455  11-1-2  
7  Loyola (Md.)  451  14-0-1  
8  California  399  7-2-4  
9  Tulsa  383  11-3-1  
10  UC Davis  359  12-2-3  
11  South Florida  341  10-3-2  
12  North Carolina  317  11-3-1  
13  Illinois-Chicago  274  10·2-4  
14  UC Santa Barbara  265  9-4-2  
15  Connecticut  247  8-3-5  
16  Saint louis  223  7-2·5  
17  Indiana  184  9-4-2  
18  Michigan  183  10-4-2  
19  NOTRE DAME  152  9-5-2  
20  UC Irvine  133  8-1-6  
21  louisville  95  9-5·2  
21  Dayton  76  11·2·2  
23  Pennsylvania  65  9-2-3  
24  Drake  50  11-3·0  
25  Michigan State  44  9·5·1  

Big East Men's Soccer Standings 
Team League Record 
1 Sf. John's 6-1·2 2 USF 6-3·1 3 NOTRE DAME 5-2·2 3 Connecticut 5·3·2 5 Georgetown 4-2·3 6 DePaul 4-3·2 7 louisville 4-4-1 7 Providence 4-5·1 7 Cincinnati 4·5·1 10 Rutgers 3-4-2 10 Villanova 3-4·2 10 Pittsburgh 3-5·2 13 West Virginia 2-3·4 13 Seton Hall 2-4·4 13 Syracuse 3-5·1 
around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
No. 23 South Florida at Cincinnati 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 


Associated Press 

AUBURN HILLS Michael Curry wants the Detroit Pistons to project a new image, consistently attacking on offense and playing hard on defense. 
After Game One, it's a work in progress. 
The Detroit Pistons played well enough to build big leads only to allow the Indiana Pacers to rally before beating them 100­94 Wednesday night in the opener for both teams. 
Curry, though, can't fault the effort he saw in his debut as a head coach. 
"If you get a big lead, NBA teams are going to come back on you because they're too good," Curry said. "The key is minimiz­ing their runs and we did that." 
Tayshaun Prince had 19 points, Richard Hamilton scored 15, Chauncey Billups added 13 points and seven assists, and Walter Herrmann had 10 points to help Detroit's reserves easily outscore their counterparts. 
Danny Granger led the new-look Pacers with 33 points and got some help from new teammates T.J. Ford, Jarrett Jack and Rasho Nesterovic. 
Indiana had seven more turnovers and nine fewer offensive rebounds than Detroit. 
IN BRIEF Artest debuts in Rocket 
victory over Grizzlies 
HOUSTON -Since acquiring Ron Artest in the offseason, the Houston Rockets have talked boldly about contending for the NBA champi­onship. They have plenty of improvements to make before that happens. 
Yao Ming had 21 points and 10 rebounds, Artest added 16 in his Houston debut, and the Rockets overcame poor shooting to beat the Memphis Grizzlies 82-71 on Wednesday night. 
Luis Scola had 12 points and 13 rebounds for the Rockets, who were 28-for-76 (36.8 percent) from the field. They also went 5-for-16 from 3-point range and were outrebound­ed 49-44. 
"It was ugly," said Artest, who went 6-of-14 from the field. "But if it means we're 1-0, then we'll take it." 
Rudy Gay scored 20 and Darrell Arthur had 11 points and 15 rebounds for the Grizzlies, who've lost all eight season openers since moving to Memphis in 2001. 
"The difference in the game was the turnover dif­ferential and the offensive glass," Pacers coach Jim O'Brien said. "We shot 50 percent and we got to the line 13 times more than they did, but we shot our­selves in the foot." 
Just eight of the 15 play­ers on Indiana's opening­night roster were on the team at the end of last sea­son. 
The Pistons planned to shake up their core ­which helped them win a championship in 2004 and advance to six straight Eastern Conference finals -but they ended up standing pat and counting on Curry along with an 
influx of youth to  take  
them back  to  the  NBA  
fmals.  

Expectations are rela­tively low for Detroit after getting eliminated in Game 6 of conference finals the past three seasons. 
The Pistons have provid­ed fodder for doubters with inconsistent play and arro­gant attitudes that have stunted their potential. 
"We've earned the right for people to ask, 'Has this team made their last run?' We've earned the right [for people] to ask if we're going to be able to get it with the few changes we've made," Curry said. "We have to reassure ourselves, first and foremost." 

Utah outlasts Denver in 
Western Conference duel SALT LAKE CITY -Carlos Boozer had 25 points and 14 rebounds and Andrei Kirilenko added 16 points in his new reserve role and the Utah Jazz opened the season with a 98-94 win over the Denver Nuggets on Wednesday night. Mehmet Okur had 13 points and 10 rebounds and Ronnie Price finished with five assists start­ing in place of Deron Williams, who is out with a sprained ankle. Denver rallied from a 14-point deficit to tie it in the fourth quarter, but couldn't overtake the Jazz, who went 13-for-16 from the foul line in the final period to hold on. Allen Iverson had 18 points and eight assists to lead the Nuggets, who were missing star Carmelo Anthony while he served the first of a two-game suspension from a DUI arrest over the summer. 
Hagman's goal lifts 
Maple Leafs over Devils 
Nf:WARK, N.J. -Niklas Hagman pulled out a move he worked on in practice to beat Martin Brodeur in the shootout. 
Hagman scored on a nifty back­hand in the fourth round to give the Toronto Maple Leafs a 6-5 win over Brodeur and the New Jersey Devils on Wednesday night. 
Hagman came in very tight on Brodeur, whipping home the deciding goal while showering the goalie with a spray of ice shavings. 
"I decided I was going to try something else and I felt pretty confident with it," Hagman said, "I didn't want to put snow in his face. That's why I felt a little bad. I didn't want to celebrate too much. I didn't want to be cocky." 
After Hagman gave Toronto a 2-1 shootout lead, Vesa Toskala secured the win with a blocker save on Jamie Langenbrunner. 
Thursday, October 30, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual SDuestioning Students at Notre Dame Tuesday. November 4 
7:00p.m.-9:00p.m. 
31S Coleman Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesbian. bisexual Hquestioning members of the Notre Dame family, along with their friends and allys. to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is Welcome and Confidenti.ality is Assured 

Coffee andl?efres.&ments Will Be Served 
~vt~nit~-St~te Take Out 
from Our Kitchen to Your Tailgate. 
Perfect for any 
large gathering. 
";ftuuity-Styte Jake Out 
portions typically serve 8-10 people 
Salads • Entrees Desserts 
NBA 
Oden sidelined 
with injured foot 
Trail Blazers star to miss two to four weeks 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. Portland Trail Blazers center Greg Oden will miss two to four weeks because of an injury to his right foot. 
The team said Wednesday that MRI and computerized axial tomography scans con­firmed Oden has a mid-later­al foot sprain. 
Oden, who missed all of last season after knee surgery, injured his foot in the first quarter of the Blazers' 96-76 season-opening loss to the Los Angeles Lakers on Tuesday night. 
"I was trying to go get a rebound, and kind of came down on Derek Fisher's foot on like the third play of the game. I kind of fell and didn't think twice about it," he said after the game. 
Oden missed four field goals and two free throws in 13 minutes of play. 
The 7-foot center was the top pick in the 2007 draft. But even before his rookie season started, it was post­poned by microfracture sur­gery on his right knee. 
Trail Blazers coach Nate McMillan had not yet heard of the MRI results when he addressed reporters Wednesday at the team's practice facility in Tualatin, Ore. 
"You don't want injuries, and he's worked so hard throughout this summer to get himself back," McMillan said. "And we tried to do everything we could to get him ready for the season and the opener, and he steps on a guy's foot." 
Blazers guard Brandon Roy, who also spoke before the tests were complete, said the team will prepare to move forward without Oden for Friday night's home opener against San Antonio. 
"I feel bad for him," Roy said. "I know this is a big year for him and he had a lot on his shoulders." 
Oden's first game was high­ly anticipated by Blazers fans, who had waited a long time to see the top draft pick. The team had not had a No. 1 pick since 1978, when they chose center Mychal Thompson of Minnesota. 
After he was held out last season, Oden rolled his ankle in the first practice of the fall. That injury wasn't seri­ous, however. 
At Ohio State, Oden aver­aged 15.7 points and 9.6 rebounds, but Oden struggled with a wrist injury. He led the Buckeyes to the national championship game, scoring 25 points and grabbing 12 rebounds in the loss to Florida. 
NFL 
Wilfork fined for hit on Cutler 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -New England defensive tackle Vince Wilfork will be fined but not suspend­ed by the NFL after meeting with commissioner Roger Goodell about a hit on Denver quarterback Jay Cutler, a per­son familiar with the situation told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
The Patriots nose tackle met Tuesday with Goodell and the commissioner decided to forgo a possible suspension. That's according to a person familiar with the case who asked for anonymity because there has been no official announcement. 
The NFL declined comment, noting that fines and suspen­sions normally are announced on Fridays. 
Wilfork was summoned before Goodell after the Broncos claimed tape of New England's 41-7 win Oct. 20 showed Wilfork elbowing Cutler in the helmet. 
However, the tapes that were reviewed during the hearing did not show that clearly, upholding New England's contention there was no intent to injure. They 
also showed Wilfork helping up Cutler and patting him on the back after the play. 
Wilfork was fined a total of $35,000 last season for four different episodes. They included hits on Buffalo quar­terback J.P. Losman and Dallas tight end Jason Witten. He also was fined for putting a finger inside the facemask of New York Giants running back Brandon Jacobs and grabbing the facemask of San Diego's Michael Turner dur­ing the AFC championship game. 
Wilfork has played for the Patriots since being drafted in the first round out of Miami in 2004. 
He said Wednesday that he didn't know what the outcome of the meeting would be, but felt the session was produc­tive. 
"I think both sides were happy," Wilfork said. "lie got a chance to hear my side of my story of how I approach the game. I got a chance to hear what he had to say about the whole situation of my past history and playing football and all that good stuff. So I think we both left pretty happy." 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
page 18 
NBA 

Nets past Wizards 
Hawks startfast, hold onfor victory over Magic 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON-Vince CartPr 
scon~d 21 points to lnad his 
rebuilding NPw .Jnrsny Nets to a 
95-H5 snason-opnning victory 
Wed nosday night ovnr a 
Washington Wizards team miss­
ing Gilbm·t Anmas. 
Cartnr-whosn teammates 
nlnctnd him tlw Nnts' captain. 
coa1~h Lawrpncn Frank 
announend before the game ­
mado a 16-foot fadeaway 
jumper ovnr Caron Butlnr to put 
tho visitors alwad 90-H2 with a 
minut1~ left and PITectivnly settln 
a back-and-forth game. 
Thesn arn tnams that took 
V!~ry dif'fnrent approaches this 
offsnason. The Wizards essen­
tially staynd pat, re-signing All­
Stars Arnnas and Antawn 
Jamison to big contracts, whilP. 
the Nets continued an overhaul 
that began when they traded 
away Jason Kidd. 
Carter had plnnty of help Wednesday, with 17 points from Yi Jianlian and 14 from former Wizards player Jarvis llayns. 
Six Wizards scored in doubln­
f'iguros, led by .Iamison and 
I>nShawn StevtHlson with 14 
apince. All-Star forward Caron 
ButiM shot 3-for-11 and fin­
ished with 13 points. 
Etan Thomas played in his first real NBA game since an April ;{O, 2007, playoff loss to Clnveland. Thomas missed all of last season after having open­heart surgery, but he looked lit and aggressive Wednesday and f'inished with 10 points and eight rebounds. 
The Wizards are opening the season without Arenas, who is recovering from a third opera­tion on his left knee in 1 1/2 years. When healthy, he is the Wizards' top scorer, most cre­ative player and go-to option when they need a buzznr-beat­er. They certainly could have used him whiiH managing to score only one field goal in last 6 minutes Wednesday. 
Arenas has offered varying estimates for when he might be back this season, and Washington coach Eddie Jordan was vague when asked about his star's rehabilitation. 
"No timetable. Due process. lie's on course. He's disciplined about it. lie's diligent about it,"Jordan said. "And we'll just have to see as it goes along." 
During a glittery prngame ceremony, Arenas was not introduced to the crowd. When play began, he sat on the side­line wearing a sports coat and brightly colored foullard. A row behind Arenas was eenter Brendan llaywood, who had a breakthrough 2007-OH season but nended surgery on his right wrist this month and eould be out for the season. 
Nnither team looked quite ready to go in a first half that lacked any rhythm and nnded with Washington leading 46-44. 
In the third quarter, Washington wont on 10-0 run, with half the points seored by Antonio Daniels. to takn a 62-5H lead with 4:14 left. But Hayes carne in to score live consecu­tivn points -with a back­ground of boos -and put tlw Nets back in front. 

Keyon Dooling scornd the last four points of the third quarter to give Nnw Jersey a 69-67 edge heading to the fourth. 
Tho Wizards' last lead was 75-74 with H:17 left, and New Jersey end11d the game on a 21­10 run. 
The Nets returned only one starter from last season's open­ing-night roster: Carter, of course. Overall, only three cur­rent players-Carter, Josh Boone and Scan Williams ­were on the roster at thn start of last season, the fewest num­ber of holdovers in franchise history. 
That is why Frank said he's installed less than half of his offense. 
"We're not going to be a fin­ished product now," he said. "This is going to be an evolving thing -dean up and improve and continue to put in things whenever the group is ready for it. We have hardly anything in." 
Still, on this night, it was enough. 
Atlanta 99, Orlando 85 
Jon Johnson scornd 25 points, including nine in the fourth quarter, to help the Atlanta Hawks hold off a late Orlando rally for a 99-85 win Wednesday night in the season opener for both teams. 
Dwight Howard had 22 points and 15 rebounds to lead the Magie, who lost their home opener for only the second time in the last nine seasons. Mickael Pietrus added 20 points. 
Josh Smith chipped in 17 for the Hawks. 
Orlando had a better road than home record last season in winning 52 games, and one of the Magic's priorities this sea­son was doing a better job defending their home court. 
The Magic, expected to con­tend with Boston and Detroit for the Eastern Conference title, fizzled more than sizzled, shooting only 37 percent. Atlanta led by as many as 19 before Orlando got within seven points in the final minute, but Mike Bibby hit three free throws after a flagrant foul by Hedo Turkoglu to seal the victo­ry. 
Orlando struggled early, mak­ing only three of its first 18 shots. Howard, who moments before tipoff told the crowd, "We're going to be something special this year," was anything but in the first half, missing 
four of his  first  five  shots,  
including  two  that  were  
blocked.  

Howard finished strongly, scoring 12 points in the fourth quarter. lie had his familiar struggle from the free throw line, going 6-for-13. 
Atlanta dominated on the boards early, and held the Magic without a point for nearly six minutes near the end of the first quarter in building a 23-8 lead. Hashard Lewis, Pietrus and backup point guard Anthony Johnson, who threw an alley-oop to Pietrus for a dunk, keyed a second quarter run that cut Atlanta's halftime lead to 4 7-40. 
The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 30, 2008 

YOU CAN MAKE AWORLD OF DIFFERENCE. 
NATIONAL CLANDESTINE SERVICE CAREERS 


Be a part of a mission that's larger than all of us. The CIA's National Clandestine Service seeks qualified applicants tO serve our cour1try's misston abroad. Our careers offer rewarding. fast-paced, and high impact challenges in intelligence collect.ion on issues of critical importance to US national security. AppHcants should possess a high degree of penonal integrity, strong interpenonal skills, and good writte11 and oral communication skills. We welcome applicants from various academic and profen!onal background.s. Do you want to make a difference for your country/ Are you ready for a challenge' 
All applicants for National Clandestine Service positions must successfully undergo several personal interviews. medical and p<)lchological exams, aptitude testing. a polygraph interview. and a background inve<tigation. Following entry on duty, candidotes will undergo extensive training. US citizenship required. An equal opportunity employer and a drug-free work force. 
For more information and to apply, visit: www.cia.gov 
THE WORK OF A NATION. THE CENTER OF INTELLIGENCE. 

Deluxe Walk-to-Campus Student Apartments 
U()N'T l\11SS ()l.JT!!! 
LIMITED NUMBER OF TWO BEDROOM APARTMENTS AVAILABLE 
2009-2010 ACADEMIC YEAR 
$595 PER BED 

• 
Swimming Pool, Tennis Court, Fitness Center, Sand Volleyball 

• 
24-HOUR Fitness Center, Tanning Bed 

• 
Unlimted Parking 

• 
24-HOUR EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE 

• 
Onsite Managment 

• 
Washer/Dryer IN ALL UNITS 

• 
Free Cable & Internet 


Clover Ridge Apartments 1801/rish Way (574) 272-1441 www.cloverridgeapartments.com 
Thursday, October 30, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 

NBA 
Thunder falter in franchise debut 
Three Bucks score 20 in opening night win 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY -A block party filled the street with fans in blue Oklahoma City Thunder shirts. NBA commissioner David Stern walked to midcourt and welcomed the city to the league. A banner was unfurled with the team's new logo. 
Then the ball was tipped off and the celebration promptly ended. 
Michael Redd, Richard Jefferson and Charlie Villanueva each scored 20 points and the Milwaukee Bucks gave Oklahoma City's sellout crowd little hope about by spoiling the Thunder's debut with a 98-87 win on Wednesday night. 
The Bucks were in control from the start, taking their first double-digit lead by the midway point or the first quarter, and they gave the 19,136 in atten­dance little to cheer about until it was too late. 
"We had to come out hitting. That was the whole goal tonight was to come out fast," Redd said. "We knew we were in a hostile environment." 
Oklahoma City started 2-for-12 from the field and never led, falling behind 20-9 and then watching Rookie of the Year Kevin Durant come out of the game with early foul trouble. 
Even when he returned, it did­n't make a difference. Durant was held scoreless in the first half, and instead it was Redd that broke through first. 
Coming off a 30-point per­formance a night earlier, Redd hit his first 3-pointer and then stole the ball from Durant for a fast-break layup during a 10-1 run that pushed the Bucks' lead to 39-21. 
By then, any electricity from the crowd had been turned off. 
"We were just hoping that if they were playing on a lot of emotion early in the game that we'd be able to weather it," said Bucks coach Scott Skiles, who got his first win with his new team. "And they were. I think that probably sometimes these kind of events can weigh on the home team a little bit also and we were able to take advantage of it." 
Andrew Bogut added 14 points and Bell scored 11 for Milwaukee. Villanueva also had 12 rebounds. 
Chris Wilcox led Oklahoma City with 15 points off the bench, first-round pick Russell Westbrook scored 13 in his debut and Durant finished with 12 on 5-for-14 shooting. 
"I thought the atmosphere was definitely great," Wilcox said. "We had a lot of fans here, fan support. and I think if we get that night in and night out, a lot of games that we struggle, down the stretch we will come out with." 
The Thunder had too big of a deficit for their excitable crowd to really play a factor. 
Jefferson, Redd and Villanueva each hit 3-pointers early in the second half as the Bucks had lit­tle trouble against a Thunder defense that was the fourth­worst in the league last season. The lead grew to 71-47 after Villanueva scored off the Bucks' fourth offensive rebound of the same possession and then he and Jefferson combined to hit four free throws. 
Westbrook got Oklahoma City within 90-79 when he capped a 20-8 run with a 3-pointer from the right wing with 5:11 remain­ing, but Redd scored an easy layup underneath sparked a seven-point spurt that put the game away for Milwaukee. 
"For one night at least, it came together well for us," Skiles said. 
Johan Petro had the Thunder's first official shot with a missed jumper from the left wing, and Bogut made the first basket of the game, 39 seconds in. Earl Watson had Oklahoma City's first points on a layup 13 sec­onds later. 
MASS 
IN THE AFRICAN AMERICAN TRADITION 
<A.K.A. REJOICE! MASS) 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 2ND 8:45PM COLEMAN-MORSE CENTER CHAPEL OF OUR LADY 
<CHOIR PRACTICE BEGINS Af 8:15PM IN THE CHAPEL ALL ARE WELCOME!) 
PIZZA AND FELLOWSHIP TO FOLLOW! 
C-M 
Campus Mlninr't 
fOR INfORMATION, CONTACT ]LlDY MADDfN AT 631-8508 OR JMADDfN2@NO.fDU 

Thursday, October 30, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
field in a do-or-die scenario against top-seeded Calvin College when the MIAA tour­nament begins Nov. 1. The contest is scheduled to kickoff at noon. 
In a match up earlier this season with the Knights, the Belles did not fair well falling 4-0 at home. Saturday, Saint Mary's will look to reverse that result and claim its first MIAA tournament victory in school history. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
HOLDING ON STRONG 

VANESSA GEM PIS/The Observer Junior left guard Eric Olsen holds senior left tackle Mike Turkovich's hand prior to a snap in Notre Dame's 29-24 loss to North Carolina. 
NBA 

Suns win openerbehindStoudenUre 
Ginobili who is out until Game 1. Duncan tried anoth­
Associated Press 
December after ankle sur­er 3-pointer Wednesday that 
SAN ANTONIO -Amare gery. would have tied the game, Stoudemire patiently waited Nash added 13 points and but it bounced off the front of until the fourth quarter 13 assists for the Suns. the rim with eight seconds before taking over and giving Leandro Barbosa had 18 left. Terry Porter a win in his points, Shaquille O'Neal 15, "I thought, 'Oh, no. Not coaching debut. and Grant Hill again,"' 
Stoudemire scored 22 13. Stoudemire points -11 coming on 5-of-5 "Obviously, said. "Luckily shooting in the fourth quarter the first one is "Our guys really he missed that -and four other Phoenix nice, especially one, we got
gutted it out tonight. 
players scored in double fig­on the road," the rebound
It was great to see
ures to help the Suns beat the said Porter, who and went San Antonio Spurs 103-98 in was hired when that down the down the the regular-season opener for Mike D'Antoni stretch." floor." both teams Wednesday night. opted during Barbosa 
"It was just being patient," the offseason to added two
Terry Porter
said Stoudemire, who had coach the New free throws only six shots heading into York Knicks. Suns coach with three 
the fourth quarter. "That's "Our guys the main thing tonight -just really gutted it being patient. Just let the out tonight," he game come to me. said. "It was great to see that 
"There in the fourth quar­down the stretch." ter, I was able to get going." San Antonio won a five­
Tim Duncan and Tony game series over the Suns in Parker each scored 32 points the first round of the playoffs for the Spurs, who were play­last season, partly on a long ing without guard Manu 3-pointer by Duncan late in 
2009-2010 CHRIS AND MARY ANNE DECENZO GRANTS FOR THE STUDY OF ART HISTORY IN ITALY 
THE DEPARTMENT OF ART, ART HISTORY AND DESIGN IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE A NEW GRANT FOR STUDENTS PURSUING A FIRST OR SUPPLEMENTARY MAJOR IN ART HISTORY WHO SPEND A SEMESTER OR FULL YEAR STUDYING IN ITALY 
INFORMATION ON HOW TO APPLY AVAILABLE FROM THE DEPARTMENT OFFICE 306 RILEY HALL 

seconds to go. 
Stoudemire 

broke a tie game with 2:53 to go with a three-point play. 
"Amare was huge for us down the stretch," Porter said. "[Nash] also made a couple of big plays. It was a solid win for us and just a great way to start the sea­son." 
After Raja Bell stole the ball away from Duncan on the other end of the court, Stoudemire quickly scored on a fastbreak on an assist from Nash to give Phoenix a 99-94 lead with 2:31 remaining. 
The turnover and quick basket angered Spurs coach Gregg Popovich, who was 12­0 in season-opening games. 
"It was the worst transition defense I've seen in years," Popovich said. "I can't imag­ine how bad it was. 
"Several people made poor decisions in the game down the stretch. It was very disap­pointing." 
Bell stole the ball on a Duncan pass. Bell fired the ball to Nash, who set up Stoudemire for an easy layup. 
Phoenix led 101-98 with less than a minute remaining, but Parker missed a 3-pointer with 39 seconds left before Duncan missed his try. 
Once again the Spurs employed the Hack-a-Shaq that helped them last season in the playoffs. During the preseason, O'Neal called Popovich's liberal use of the Hack-a-Shaq during the first round last season "a coward move." 
Popovich poked fun at O'Neal in the opening seconds of the ballgame when Michael Finley grabbed the big center away from the ball a scant five seconds into the game. O'Neal laughed when he looked over to the Spurs bench and saw Popovich smil­ing while giving two thumbs up. 
"I thought it was funny ­bring a little humor to the game," Duncan said. 
It got more serious before halftime when the Spurs employed the Hack-a-Shack four times in the final 1:26 with Phoenix leading 46-40. 
Even though O'Neal made 5-of-8, the Spurs were able to cut the Suns' lead to 49-46 at halftime. 
Before the grabbing and pulling was done, O'Neal got tangled with Ime Udoka. Udoka was motioning to the official that he was going to foul O'Neal, and O'Neal raised his left arm toward Udoka and sent the Spurs defender flat onto the floor. Udoka was called for the foul and O'Neal made both shots. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 30, 2008 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
"Georgetown knew what was at stake today," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "It was a big game for their program, and they were very ready. To win the Big East two years in a row is a big accomplishment. It would be nicE~ to win it out­right this year." 
Leading the way for Notre Dame W11dnesday was forward .feb Brovsky who tallied both Irish goals. The first came in the 24th minute when, after receiving a pass from fellow forward Bright Dike, Brovsky slipped past a defender and tired past (;eorgetown km~per Matthew Brutto. 
Al'ter l'el!~r Grasso tied the game for the lloyas in the 53rd minute, Brovsky put Notre Dame back in front almost immediately. The soph­omore was the first to rise and get connect with a Jack Traynor free kick heading the ball past Brutto. Brovsky's game winning goal was his fifth tally of the season. 
"Both goals from Jeb were very good," Clark said. "The second goal was a great ball from .Jack Traynor, and the first goal was very well-taken. Jeb is arguably our most clini­cal finisher. He's developing into a first class player." 
What made Brovsky's goals even more impressive was whom they came against. Georgetown entered Wednesday's game with a miniscule 0.58 goals against avnrage, and Brovsky's goals were the first time an oppo­nent has found the back of the net against Brutto in 763 min­utes this season. 

Brovsky's tallies also helped the Irish break out of a mini­scoring slump. In their two games over Fall Break, Notre 
Dame scored only  one  goal  
against  Seton  Hall  and  
Connecticut.  Clark  was  

encouraged but not totally pleased by the team's effort on Wednesday. 
"Against Seton Hall, every­thing was there but the finish­ing," Clark said. "Against Connecticut, we had more of the game than we've ever had there, but to be fair, we didn't generate many scoring chances. There was some good buildup today, but the finish­ing still wasn't there to be honest. 
"We had three one-on-ones with their keeper in the sec­ond half, and we missed all three of them. That wasn't good, but in retrospect it was good because we had to fight to the end learning how to manage a tight game." 
There was one downer for Notre Dame Wednesday after­noon as starting goalie Andrew Quinn had to leave the game part way through the second half. In the 72nd minute, Quinn made a diving save, but he landed awkward­ly injuring his shoulder in the process. 
After the game, Clark said that the team would have a better idea of the extent of Quinn's injury after he gets an MRI, but Quinn will be out for at least a few weeks. Junior goalie Phillip Tuttle will start in his place. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogast@nd.edu 
Fresh01en 
continued from page 24 
helped out," he said. 

The freshman from Saint Paul, Minn. hauled in his team leading fifth touchdown against Washington to set a record for freshman receivers. He is also only one catch away from breaking sophomore Duval Kamara's freshman receptions record. 
The fast start for one of the most impressive freshmen classes in the country is due in a big way to the camaraderie thfl team was able to develop before they came to campus. 
"We were already close enough so when we're work­ing out and pushing one another you're not like, 'Ok who's this guy pushing me,' it's more like 'Ok this is my team­mate, this is my buddy, so we were able to all push one another pretty hard," Rudolph said. 
The class knew long before they arrived that they had the chance to be something spe­cial. That's why none of the recruits, who had their pick of the nation's top colleges, backed down even after the dismal 3-9 season in 2007. Several players said they were asked relentlessly if they would change their minds, but they all had the same response -no way. 
"I had a lot of people ask me about that, but I knew that Notre Dame with all it offered was too good to pass up," 
attempts. Hellmann also paced the
Trine 

team in digs and blocks with 14 continued from page 24 and 1.5, respectively. Junior 
setter Liana Rohr took over defense, tallying an astonishing duties from freshman Dani ftfteen blocks alongside 43 digs Brink, totaling 23 assists on the to hold the Belles to a .126 night. attacking percentage. Senior For Trine, senior hitter Sallie 
hitter  Kaela  Richardson domi­ 
Hellmann lead  nated both offen­ 
Saint with  Mary's 9 kills,  "We want to be  sively and defen­sively, with 15  
while fellow senior Kathy Kurczak added  playing for a championship. "  kills, 16 digs, and 1.5 blocks along­side her .483  
8 kills with a .389 attacking  Julie Schroeder-Biek  attacking percent­age. Freshman  
percentage.  Belles coach  hitter  Stefanie  
Junior  hitter  Pellegrom added  
L  o  r  n  a  4.5 blocks and a  

Slupczynski, who has been the . 429 attacking percentage for spark for the Belles' offense all the Thunder. season, posted only five kills After a disappointing 13-18 with seven errors in 36 season last year (6-10 in the quarterback Dayne Crist said. 
Crist threw for over 2,000 yards as a senior year at Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, Cal. Last year and was ranked the third best quarter­back prospect by Scout.com. He has yet to see the field this year, but said he was content learning the offense and wait­ing for his chance to perform with his classmates. 
"There are a lot of really unselfish guys. Guys who just really want to be part of some­thing special," Rudolph said. 
After a 6-2 start with major contributions from the frosh on both sides of the ball, they seem to have made the right decision. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
MIAA), Schroeder-Biek guided her team to a winning record and a fourth-place conference finish; smothering defense and superlative play from Slupczynski have been the deciding factors in the team's success throughout the season. 
"We need to build on that success," Schroeder-Biek said. "The players are well aware of what it will take to get to where we want to be. We want to be playing for a championship." 
Saint Mary's is off until the first round of the MIAA Tournament. With the fourth place finish, the Belles will host No. 5 seed Adrian in the first round of the tournament at Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility on Tuesday at 7 p.m . 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


Thursday, October 30, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~l1JWIIDJ1l! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 

I'm making a to form four ordinary words. 

cover for my /cast
RON ED 
I I I 
@2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ENMOY j 
BRAMKE 
CAN Bt: KNIITt:D 
1 
rJ 
WHIL-t: Mt:NDING.
www.jumbie.com
tTECJOB j 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

IJ r I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: A [ 

I I I I I JrI I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: DERBY LIVEN UPROAR BEMOAN Answer: What the pro wrestler got when he won the match -"PIN" MONEY 
EUGENIA LAST WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Amit Paul, 25; Winona Ryder. 37: Kate Jack­
Across 33 One pointing 58 Recess 
sari, 60; Richard Dreyfuss, 6! Eric's "Will & and clicking 62 Dick Grace" co-star 35 Oenophile's 
Happy Birthday: Take a close look at the possibilities that exist, especially in your per­
63 [See circles] 
sonal life. The opportunity to mo\'e ahead is a\'ailable but only if you are willing to put
6 Language from interest 
65 Egypt's_ yourself and your ideas on the· line. Forget the trivial little things. Problems with some­
which "divan" is 

39 80, for Hg one you are close to should not he allowed to hold you back. Separate your professional 
Simbel historical
derived and personal dreams. Your numbers are 8, 12. 17. 23, 27,-33. -l7 
40 Northern site 11 Dunderhead 
Europeans 66 Defensive retort ARIES (March 21-April19): You cannot count on everyone. Look for any signs of 
14 Thin as 
dishonesty or insincerity. Once you realize whom you can trust, you will be ahle to
41 Start time for 67 Scottish child 

move ahead with lightning speed. ***
15 Strand. many a military 68 Seedy sort? 
somehow 

mission TAURUS (April20-May 20): Take things as they L'Ome. Acceptance "·ill be half the
69 Majority of a
16 Nickname for #6 battle. Gauge the situation you face before reacting. An intense encounter will resolve
42 Colonel's div. 

crowd at a 
any differences you have with a partner. *** 
on the Sixers 

43 Check box Jonas Brothers 17 [See circles] option on a concert GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take what you bear as interesting but not necessarily fac­tual. Find out \vhat is actually going on. especially with work 9r a co-worker. Gossip or
19 D.D.E.'s W.W. II Spanish survey? 70 "I'm outta here!" 
false comments may cause you to make a poor decision. Don't let pressure be a deciding 
command 

44 "Dream Lover" factor for you. *** W Well-dressed, singer. 1959 
Down 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll be given an opportunity to present an idea to en­
photogenic male 
45 CNBC news 

Family pet in "Hi trepreneurial people looking for something worth investing in. A person who used to be ?1 [See circles] topics, for short and Lois" a part of your life will want back in your circle. Consider what this person has that will ?3 Delays set them complement what you do. *****
47 Business with a 2 Former "ER" co­
back: Abbr. register star La Salle LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expect complaints if you haven't contributed or given your all ?5 "No horsing 49 Paris's Basilique 3 Having one's to something you promised you would do. The people you need in your corner will not heart set (on) be happy with anything less than your best. Accept any changes going on at home. **
around!" -Ciotllde 4 Change colors? 
?6 Negligent 50 Language that VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Reconnect with old friends. Attend a reunion or plan a ?9 A.B.A. member's treats "dz" as a 
5 Oliver Twist, for trip to visit someone you miss. He or she will help you see more clearly a situation you one face. Travel or educational pursuit should be planned and pursued.****
title single consonant 

6 Hi-_
30 Burger order 53 Use a cell phone LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't fall short now. You have to put everything into your7 Result of Puzzle by Mike Nothnagel future through education or professional maneuvers. Find a way to drum up more
outside one's 31 "How Do 

overstrain demand for your expertise and you will be able to make a few adjustments to your fi­(1997 LeAnn calling area 32 Like some 46 Handles roughly 56 Drop paper in a nancial plans. ***
8 Concrete
Rimes hit) 55 [See circles] candles box, maybe 
9 Court huddles 48 Linguist SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It's time to state bow you feel and discover that open 
34 When flowers

10 Taken-aback Chomsky 57 Coli. major conversation can lead to some solid refomlS. Don't give in to someone \vho is trying to ~NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE bloom: Abbr. force unwanted changes to yonr home. Protect your interests and your assets. *** 
response 
SO Relatively cool 59 Tex's neighbor
36 Crew members

11 Start of many red giant SAGfiTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): If someone wants something for nothing. say no. dedications 37 "M*A*S*H" co-60 Especially Don't let anyone dump added responsibilities on your shoulders. If you don't speak up. 
12 -Detoo 51 Remain inactive
star you will ba\·e regrets. A love connection needs some adjustments. *** 61 It's about 21/2 
13 Finger of the 38 Feminizing suffix 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stay focused and on track and put your own needs
52 How actors times as high as
ocean 40 Attention-getting first. An unconventional alteration regarding your career will turn out in your favor.
should appear Vesuvius

18 Forms a union cry Stick to the facts and don't exaggerate. Your credibility will lead to your success. *** 
22 Program 44 Test sites 54 Jazz's Carmen 64 W.B.A. finales 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Expect the unexpected and you won't be caught off­24 Occupies an guard. Taking impulsive action without having all the facts will cause too much trouble. abandoned A trip back to your roots may be enticing but costly. ***** For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a
building 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Proceed to finalize a deal that can increase your income
26 Either of two 
or help you resolve your financial situation. By acting now, you can spare yourself anxi­
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
guests on 'To ety and grief. Money will come to you through an unlikely source. ***** 
Tell the Truth" crosswords frorn the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Birthday Baby: You have a strong code ofethics and demand justice. You are strong
27 Der _ (Konrad Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
and steadfast. You are changeable and strong-\\·illed.
Adenauer) past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 28 Deer __ Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Eugenia's Web sites: e11genialast.com for confidential consultations, 30 Garage job solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
mvspace.com!eugenia/astfor Eugtmia's blog, ostroadvice.comfor fim 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 

page 24 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Biting the Big East 

Irish clinch share of league title with win 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

It may have been the biggest game in Georgetown's recent program history, but it was Notre Dame who made the statement Wednesday al'ter­noon with a 2-1 victory at Alumni Field. 
Only two points behind the Irish entering the game, the Hoyas arrived in South Bend eyeing their first ever Big East Blue Division title. With the victory, the Irish not only denied Georgetown that accomplishment, but they also clinched at least a share of the Big East Blue Division title for the second consecutive season -Notre Dame shared the title with Connecticut in 2007. 
see BIG EAST/page 22 


fOOTBALL 

Highly touted freshman class beginning to show promise 

JESS ALLISON Observer Freshman receiver Michael Floyd, left, posseses the ball after a catch In Notre Dame's 33-7 win over Washington Saturday. Tight end Kyle Rudolph evades the Stanford defense in the 28-211rish victory Oct. 11 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 

More than half of Notre Dame's freshmen class met each other on January 5, 2008. 
15 of the team's 27 freshmen were invited to San Antonio that week for the Army All­America Bowl for graduating high school players. 
"We spent that week together down there and we kind of had our Notre Dame group and then there was everyone else," tight end Kyle Rudolph said. "I think that played a more role in our class coming so close together." 
The highly-touted group con­tinued to stay in touch with one another throughout the sum­mer to talk about how excited they were to get to South Bend and get things rolling. Once they arrived, they didn't waste much time. 
Rudolph is only one of several freshmen who have played a major role in Notre Dame's 5-2 start this season. lie has been listed as the No. 1 tight end since week one and currently has 14 catches for 166 yards and two touchdowns. 
Those numbers make him the second leading freshman receiver on the team behind wide receiver Michael Floyd. Floyd, who has 31 catches for 533 yards, was also in San Antonio at the All-America Bowl. 
"It was a good way to get to know all my teammates, getting to know them all then really 
see FRESHMEN/page 22 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Saint Mary's falls in lastgame before MIAA's 
By MICHAEL BLASCO Sports Wri tcr 
Saint Mary's, in a limtl tunn­up ganw bnf'orP tlw MIAA Tournanwnt nPxt wcwk, droppc~d a match WodnPsday night against struggling Trino to 11nish fourth in thP Mli\A this sc1ason. Tho BPIIos (IX-10, IJ-7 MIAAI laborod to gPiwratn any olli1nso in tlw thrnP sot loss (25­22, 25-22, 2fi-21 I against thn ThundPr (IJ-1 X. 4-Il MIAAI at tlw Trinn's IIPrslwy Hall in i\ngola. Mich. 

Saint Mary's head coach Julie Schronder-Biek was not con­cerned by the tough match, highlighting thn ability that hnr team has shown to bouncn bac~k after losses this snason. 
"Our approach is to keep going forward and finishing strong," Schroeder-Biek said. "I havP bnen incrndibly proud of my tnam for how well tlwy haw~ rnspc:.ndcd Ito struggles this sea­son I. 
The Thunder kept Saint Mary's in eheck with stil'ling 
see TRINE/page 22 
SMC SoccER 

Belles one goal short again 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 

Once again, the Saint Mary's found itself in a very tightly contested match. But, once again, they came up just one goal short. 
Saint Mary's endured its third consecutive one-goal loss falling 2-1 against con­ference foe Albion Wndnesday afternoon. 
A first half headlined by great defensive play yielded only one goal for Albion which came with just three minutes remaining before halftime. 
The Belles came out with a quick answer in the 51st minute off the foot of junior forward Micki Bedinger. Jledinger received a pass from fellow junior Sam Smogor and slid it past tho Briton keP.per to knot the game at one. 
IlowP-ver, the Saint Mary's resurgence was quickly matched when Albion eoun­tered with a goal of its own in the 58th minute. 
Junior Patty Duffy had another solid game in goal for the Belles recording five saves. Duffy has made 77 saves on the season. 
This loss brings the Bc1lles' season record to 2-12-1 over­all and 1-7 in MlAA play. Saint Mary's finishes eighth in the conference, good enough to clinch the final spot in the postseason tour­nament. 
In his lirst season as Belles head coach, Hyan Crabbe has had his work eut out for him taking over such a young and inexperienced team. Thn freshman class lc~d by KatPiyn Tondo-Steelf~'s two goals and one assist has contributnd about hall' of the offensive production this scmson. 
Saint Mary's will take thn 
see BELLES/page 21 


STORY BY KAITLYNN RIELY
PoUsters and pundits are making predictions about the outcome of the presidential election, but for all the pontificating, one of the biggest Election Day uncertainties is whether the "youth vote," young people between the ages of 18 and about 29, will vote in significant numbers. 
"Some people say, it's the young vote . . . that would decide the election one way or another, if they really get out and vote for [Democratic candidate Sen. Barack] Obama," said Jack Colwell, a political columnist for the South Bend Tribune and a Notre Dame professor in the Journalism, Ethics and Democracy program. 
If the youth vote does not materialize, he said, then Republican candidate Sen. John McCain has a better chance of winning. 
Nov. 4 marks the first time most Notre Dame students can vote in a presidential election. But based on the past youth voting record, it is likely that many students at Notre Dame, and many young people across the country, will not vote. 
"Young people just don't have a history of voting," Notre Dame political sci­ence professor David Nickerson said. Since young people tend to move around the country more often than older people, they are harder for cam­paigns to mobilize. Voting is a habit, Nickerson said, so once a person votes, he is more likely to vote the next time. 
Many young people have not developed the habit, he said. 
Others may believe their vote does not matter, Colwell said. 
"They may be soured by politics, or have the theory that they are all crooks, or that none of them are going to do anything, which isn't true, because elections do matter," Colwell said. 
The high point for the youth vote was the 1960s, Nickerson said, but since then, the percentage of younger voters has declined. When Bill Clinton ran for president in 1992, he made an "unprecedented outreach to young voters," Nickerson said, and that caused a jump in the num­ber of young people who voted. 
This year, Nickerson said, more young people than in the past have been responding in surveys that they are likely to vote. 
"The general consensus is that turnout will be higher amongst young people [this year] than in 2004," Nickerson said. 
Colwell agreed that young people seem more interested in the 2008 election than presidential elections four and eight years ago. 
"This time, they seem to be more interested in the election, probably realiz­ing that there is a lot more at stake," he said. 
Issues like the Iraq War, the environment and energy initially attracted the interest of the young electorate, Colwell said. 
Obama has inspired many young voters to become interested in poli­tics for the first time, Nickerson said. Obama has been aggressivelycourting the youth vote, pushing for people to apply for absentee ballots if they are out of state on Nov. 4. McCain has also targeted young voters, but where Obama's approach has been broad-based, McCain's is more selective, aimed at young people likely to vote Republican, Nickerson said. 
But it will be another week before the McCain and Obama campaigns will be able to tell whether their youth strategy has worked. 
Based on their observa­tions and interactions, some Notre Dame profes­sors and students predict­ed a high percentage of Notre Dame students would vote. 
Notre Dame students are more interested in 
the turnout of this elec­
tion than they have been 
in the past, Colwell said, 
offering anecdotal evi­
dence Trom his classes 
and his time on campus.
Two months a_go,Colwell was part ol a panel during a "Pizza, Pop and Politics" event 
see VOTE/Page 7 

page 2 The Observer + IN FOCUS Wednesday, October 29, 2008 

h'xcerpt 
superpower. McCain:., nomination speech to I promised he would not let I he Uepublican National America "retreat behind empty Convention. as released to the threats, false promises and Associated Press: uncertain diplomacy;" that he 
"In a time of deep distrnss at would "confidently defend our home, as tyranny stranglnd thn interests and values wherever aspirations to liberty of millions, they are threatened." and as war douds gathnred in I knew my confidence was well tho Wnst and East, Franklin placed when I watched him l>nlano Hoosnvnlt accepted his stand on thP. rubble of the World party's nomination by observing: Trade Center, with his arm 
"There is a mysterious cycle in around a hero of September human nvents. To some genera­11th, and in our moment of tions much is given. or other mourning and anger, strengthen gnnerations much is expnetnd. our unity and summon our This gnneration of Americans resolve by promising to right has a rendezvous with dnstiny." this terrible wrung, and to stand 
Thn awful evnnts of up and fight for the values we Snptembnr 11, 2001 dndared a hold dear. war we were vaguely aware of, He promised our enemies hut hadn't really eomprehnnded would soon hear from us. And so how nnar the threat was, and they did. how terrible were the plans of So they did. our mwrnies. lie ordernd American forces to 
It's a big thing, this war. Afghanistan and took the light to 
It's a light bntwenn a just our enemies, and away from our regard for human dignity and a shores, seriously injuring al malevolent forcn that dnliles an Qaeda and destroying the honorable religion by disputing regime that gavn them safe (;od's love for nvery soul on haven. earth. It's a light betwenn right He worked eiTectively to and wrong, good and evil. secure the cooperation of 
And should our enemies Pakistan, a relationship that's acquire for their arsenal the critical to our success against al dwmieal. biological and nudear Qaeda. wnapons they seek, this war will He encouraged other friends bncomn a much bigger thing. to recognize the peril that ter­
So it is, whether we wished it rorism posed for them, and won or not, that we have eome to the their help in apprehending tnst of our gemwation, to our many of those who would attack rendezvous with destiny. us again, and in helping to 
And much is expected of us. freeze the assets they used to 
We are engaged in a hard fund their bloody work. struggle against a cruel and After years of failed diplomacy determined adversary. and limited military pressure to 
Our enemies have made clear restrain Saddam Hussein, the danger they pose to our President Bush made the diffi­security and to the very essence attacked not for a wrong we had against terrorism is our govern­us all. cult decision to liberate Iraq. of our culture -liberty. done, but for who we are -a ment's most important obliga­War is an awful business. The Those who criticize that deci­
Only the most deluded of us people united in a kinship of tion. lives of a nation's finest patriots sion would have us believe that could doubt the necessity of this ideals, committed to the notion I don't doubt their sincerity. are sacrificed. Innocent people the choice was between a status war. Like all wars, this one will that the people are sovereign, They emphasize that military suffer. Commerce is disrupted, quo that was well enough left have its ups and downs. not governments, not armies, action alone won't protect us, economies are damaged. alone and war. But there was no 
But we must fight. not a pitiless, inhumane theoc­that this war has many fronts: in Strategic interests shielded by status quo to be left alone. 
We must. racy, not kings, mullahs or courts, financial institutions, in years of statecraft are endan­The years of keeping Saddam 
The sacrifices borne in our tyrants, but the people. the shadowy world of intelli­gered as the demands of war in a box were coming to a close. 
defense are not shared equally In that moment, we were not gence, and in diplomacy. and diplomacy conflict. The international consensus by all Americans. different races. They stress that America However just the cause, we that he be kept isolated and 
But all Americans must share We were not poor or rich. We needs the help of her friends to should shed a tear for all that is unarmed had eroded to the a resolvn to see this war through were not Democrat or combat an evil that threatens us lost when war claims its wages point that many eritics of mili­to a just end. Republican, liberal or conserva­all, that our alliances are as from us. tary action had decided the time 
We must not be complacent at tive. We were not two countries. important to victory as are our But there is no avoiding this had come again to do business moments of suecess, and we We were Americans. armies. war. We tried that, and our with Saddam, despite his near must not despair over setbacks. All of us, despite the differ­We agree. reluctance cost us dearly. And daily attacks on our pilots, and 
We must learn from our mis­ences that enliven our politics, And, as we've been a good while this war has many compo­his refusal, until his last day in takes, improve on our succnsses, are united in the one big idea friend to other countries in nents, we can't make victory on power, to allow the unrestricted and vanquish this unpardonable that freedom is our birthright moments of shared perils, so we the battlefield harder to achieve inspection of his arsenal. enemy. and its defense is always our have good reason to expect their so that our diplomacy is easier Our choice wasn't between a 
If we do less, we will fail the first responsibility. solidarity with us in this strug­to conduct. benign status quo and the blood­mw mission no American gener­All other responsibilities come gle. That is not just an expression shed of war. ation has ever failed -to pro­second. That is what the President of our strength. It was between war and a vide to our children a stronger, We must not lose sight of that believes. It's a measure of our wisdom. graver threat. Don't let anyone bdter eountry than the one we as we debate who among us And, thanks to his efforts we That's why I commend to my tell you otherwise. Not our crit­were blessed to inherit. should bear the greatest respon­have received valuable assis­country the re-election of ics abroad. Not our political 
Hemember how we felt when sibility for keeping us safe and tance from many good friends President Bush, and the steady, opponents. 
the serenity of a bright free. around the globe, even if we experienced, public-spirited And certainly not a disingenu­September morning was We must, whatever our dis­have, at times, been disappoint­man who serves as our Vice­ous film maker who would have dnstroyed by a savage atrocity agreements, stick together in ed with the reactions of some. President, Dick Cheney. us believe that Saddam's Iraq so hostile to all human virtue we this great challenge of our time. I don't doubt the sincerity of Four years ago, in was an oasis of peace when in could scarcely imaginn any My friends in the Democratic my Democratic friends. And Philadelphia, I spoke of my con­fact it was a placn of indescrib­human being capable of it. Party-and I'm fortunate to call they should not doubt ours. fidence that Pre~dent Bush able cruelty, torture chambers, We wern united. many of them my friends -Our President will work with would accept the responsibilities mass graves and prisons that First, in sorrow and anger. assure us they share the convic­all nations willing to help us that come with America's dis­destroyed the Jives of the small Then in recognition we were tion that winning the war defeat this scourge that afflicts tinction as the world's only children held inside their walls." 
Juhn ~idnt·~ \kC.tin Ill Cirhl~ L~m t.Hctl~l~y) ~l.;f),Un (m. t~>8.0); StHHht·rn B ..tpti~c 
. . ' .; . 
-\ugu~J ~9, Lt'J(l. C..tN.l Sh\.~pp (m, t'J~<!~ di\r; l9~U} l' nilt'll St•ttt.·~ Nan 
Cql~O ~olo N ..\\al :\ir St<cttion~ l)QughP·h ,'\1H.Jrcw~ Si,dncy, l\lcg~.tlll, (VktO<ll1l. pd~\>IWr of WM); H~nsdy & t:o.; 
P.m.un.t (. 't.u1al /q1w, Pan.un;.~. .ht>l:k, .Jimmy, Bridget. l 'n~Jt;J, Srart;~ t lllUSt~ ,)( ltt-prt·~t~nt<.tti\t.'s 
Phqt:(H\.1 Ad<?qtJ.,t. ~t,~k,rt;ll 1~)8.~) ;, Un~rt;d ~r ·*~~ ~~l\<1 (t· ~ "'k\_·rt:d l'lllt\.·~t ~(..t,tt·~ N;.tX<t.l.\.l:otdt;I)J\, ~-.. 195~ t9SS, h•~.·~•mtwnn 
Wednesday, October 29, 2008 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 3 
Excerpt from Sen. Barack Obama's nomination speech to the Democratic National Convention, as released to the Associated Press: 
Four years ago, I stood before you and told you my story of the brief union between a young man from Kenya and a young woman from Kansas who weren't well-off or well-known, but shared a belief that in America, their son could achieve whatever he put his mind to. 
It is that promise that has always set this country apart, that through hard work and sac­rifice, each of us can pursue our individual dreams but still come together as one American fami­ly, to ensure that the next gener­ation can pursue their dreams as well. 
That's why I stand here tonight. Because for 232 years, at each moment when that promise was in jeopardy, ordi­nary men and women, students and soldiers, farmers and teach­ers, nurses and janitors, found the courage to keep it alive. 
We meet at one of those defin­ing moments, a moment when our nation is at war, our econo­my is in turmoil, and the American promise has been threatened once more. 
Tonight, more Americans are out of work, and more are work­ing harder for less. More of you have lost your homes, and even more are watching your home values plummet. More of you have cars you can't afford to drive, credit card bills you can't afford to pay, and tuition that's beyond your reach. 
These challenges are not all of government's making. But the failure to respond is a direct result of a broken politics in Washington and the failed poli­cies of George W. Bush. 
America, we are better than these last eight years. We are a better country than this. 
This country is more decent than one where a woman in Ohio, on the brink of retirement, finds herself one illness away from disaster after a lifetime of hard work. 
This country is more generous than one where a man in Indiana has to pack up the equipment he's worked on for twenty years and watch it shipped off to China, and then chokes up as he explains how he felt like a failure when he went home to tell his family the news. 
We are more compassionate than a government that lets vet­erans sleep on our streets and families slide into poverty; that sits on its hands while a major American city drowns before our eyes. 
Tonight, I say to the American people, to Democrats and Republicans and Independents across this great land: enough! This moment, this election is our chance to keep, in the 21st cen­tury, the American promise alive. Because next week, in Minnesota, the same party that brought you two terms of George Bush and Dick Cheney will ask this country for a third. And we are here because we love this country too much to let the next four years look like the last eight. On Nov. 4, we must stand up and say: "Eight is enough." 
Now let there be no doubt. The Republican nominee, John McCain, has worn the uniform of our country with bravery and distinction, and for that, we owe him our gratitude and respect. And next week, we'll also hear about those occasions when he's broken with his party as evi­dence that he can deliver the change that we need. 
But the record's clear: John McCain has voted with George Bush 90 percent of the time. Senator McCain likes to talk about judgment, but really, what does it say about your judgment when you think George Bush has been right more than ninety per­cent of the time? I don't know about you, but I'm not ready to take a ten percent chance on change. 
The truth is, on issue after issue that would make a differ­ence in your lives, on health care and education and the economy, Senator McCain has been anything but independent. He said that our economy has made "great progress" under this president. He said that the fundamentals of the economy are strong. And when one of his chief advisers, the man who wrote his economic plan, was talking about the anxiety Americans are feeling, he said that we were just suffering from a "mental recession," and that we've become, and I quote, "a nation of whiners." 
A nation of whiners? Tell that to the proud auto workers at a Michigan plant who, after they found out it was closing, kept showing up every day and work­ing as hard as ever, because they knew there were people who counted on the brakes that they made. Tell that to the mili­tary families who shoulder their burdens silently as they watch their loved ones leave for their third or fourth or fifth tour of duty. These are not whiners. They work hard and give back and keep going without com­plaint. These are the Americans that I know. 
Now, I don't believe that Senator McCain doesn't care what's going on in the lives of Americans. I just think he does­n't know. Why else would he define middle-class as someone making under $5 mil­lion a year? How else could he propose hundreds of billions in tax breaks for big corporations and oil companies but not one penny of tax relief to more than 100 million Americans? How else could he offer a health care plan that would actually tax people's benefits, or an educa­tion plan that would do nothing to help families pay for college, or a plan that would privatize Social Security and gamble your retirement? 
It's not because John McCain doesn't care. It's because John McCain doesn't get it. 
For over two decades, he's subscribed to that old, discredit­ed Republican philosophy ­give more and more to those with the most and hope that prosperity trickles down to everyone else. In Washington, they call this the Ownership Society, but what it really means is, you're on your own. Out of work? Tough luck. No health care? The market will fix it. Born into poverty? Pull yourself up by your own bootstraps, even if you don't have boots. You're on your own. 
Well, it's time for them to own their failure. It's time for us to change America. 
You see, we Democrats have a very different measure of what constitutes progress in this country. 
We measure progress by how many people can find a job that pays the mortgage; whether you can put a little extra money away at the end of each month so you can someday watch your child receive her college diplo­ma. We measure progress in the 23 million new jobs that were created when Bill Clinton was president, when the average American family saw its income go up $7,500 instead of down $2,000, like it has under George Bush. 
We measure the strength of our economy not by the number of billionaires we have or the profits of the Fortune 500, but by whether someone with a good idea can take a risk and start a new business, or whether the waitress who lives on tips can take a day off to look after a sick kid without losing her job an economy that honors the dig­nity of work. 
The fundamentals we use ·to measure economic strength are whether we are living up to that fundamental promise that has made this country great, a promise that is the only reason I am standing here tonight. 
Because in the faces of those young veterans who come back from Iraq and Afghanistan, I see my grandfather, who signed up after Pearl Harbor, marched in Patton's Army and was reward­ed by a grateful nation with the chance to go to college on the GI Bill. 
In the face of that young stu­dent who sleeps just three hours before working the night shift, I think about my mom, who raised my sister and me on her own while she worked and earned her degree; who once turned to food stamps but was still able to send us to the best schools in the country with the help of student loans and schol­arships. 
When I listen to another work­er tell me that his factory has shut down, I remember all those men and women on the South Side of Chicago who I stood by and fought for two decades ago after the local steel plant closed. 
And when I hear a woman talk about the difficulties of starting her own business, I think about my grandmother, who worked her way up from the secretarial pool to middle-management, despite years of being passed over for promotions because she was a woman. She's the one who taught me about hard work. She's the one who put off buying a new car or a new dress for herself so that I could have a better life. She poured every­thing she had into me. And although she can no longer trav­el, I know that she's watching tonight, and that tonight is her night as well." 

page 4 The Observer + IN FOCUS Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
Hxcerpl from ,<.,'en. Joe !Jiden 's nomination speech to the /Jemocratic National Convention, as released to the Associated Press: 
Sinee I'vo never been called a man of few words, let me say this as simply as I can: Yes. Yes, I accept your nomination to run and serve alongside our next Pn~sidnnt of tho United States of America, Barack Obama. 
Let nw mako this plodge to you right hnrn and now. For ovory Amorican who is trying to do tho right thing, for all those poople in governmnnt who are honoring tlwir plndge to uphold tho law and respnet our Constitution. no longer will the night most drnadml words in the 1\nglish language bn: "The vice prnsidnnt's ol'fice is on the phone." 
Baraek Obama and I took very dill'nnmt journeys to this desti­nation. but we share a eommon story. Mirw began in Scranton, l'nnnsylvania, and then Wilmington, Dnlaware. With a dad who fell on hard eeonomic times, but who always told me: "Champ, when you get knocked down, get up. Get up." 
I wish that my dad was hnre tonight, but I am so gratd'ul that my morn, Catherir111 Eugenia t:innngan Biden. is hnrn. You know, she taught her children­all the children who flocked to our house-that you are defined by your sense of honor, and you are redeemed by your loyalty. She believes bravery lives in every heart and her expectation is that it will be summoned. 

Failure at some point in every­one's life is inevitable, but giving up is unforgivable. As a child I stuttnred, and she lovingly told me it was because I was so bright I couldn't get the thoughts out quickly enough. When I was not as well dressed as others, she told me how handsome she thought I was. When I got knocked down by guys bigger than me, she sent me back out and demanded that I bloody their nose so I could walk down that street the next day. 
After the accident, she told me, "Joey, God sends no cross you cannot bear." And when I triumphed, she was quick to remind me it was because of others. 
My mother's creed is the American creed: No one is bet­ter than you. You are everyone's equal, and everyone is equal to you. 
My parents taught us to live our faith, and treasure our fam­ily. We learned the dignity of work, and we were told that anyone can make it if they try. 
That was America's promise. For those of us who grew up in middle-class neighborhoods like Scranton and Wilmington, that was the American dream and we knew it. 
But today that American dream feels as if it's slowly slip­ping away. I don't need to tell you that. You feel it every single day in your own lives. 
I've never seen a time when Washington has watched so many people get knocked down without doing anything to help them get back up. Almost every night, I take the train home to Wilmington, sometimes very late. As I look out the window at the homes we pass, I can almost hear what they're talking about at the kitchen table after they put the kids to bed. 
Like millions of Americans, they're asking questions as pro­found as they are ordinary. Questions they never thought they would have to ask: 

Should mom move in with us now that dad is gone? Fifty, sixty, seventy dollars to fill up the car? Winter's corning. How we Now, we owe more on the retire? 
gonna pay the heating bills? house than it's worth. How are That's the America that 
Another year and no raise? we going to send the kids to col­George Bush has left us, and 
Did you hear the company lege? that's the future John McCain may be cutting our health care? How are we gonna be able to will give us." 
Joseph Robinette "Joe'' Biden, Jr.  Joseph (39), Robert (38),  
November 20, 1942  Naomi (deceased), Ashley (27)  
Scranton, Pennsylvania  W'ilmington, Delaware  
Jill Tracy Jacobs Biden (m.19i7),  BA, University of Delaware, 1965;  
I"\eilia Hunter (deceased; m. 1966-72)  JD, Syracuse l.'nh-ersity, 1968  

Roman Catholic 
U.S. Senator from Delaware (1972-present); New Castle County council member (1970-72); attorney 
tepu 

l:'xcerpl from G(m Sarah Associated Press: !'a/in's nomination speech to the "Our nominee for president is Hepuhlic:an National a truP profile in courage, and C'on.rwntion, as released to the peopiP like that arc hard to 
come by. 
He's a man who wore the uni­form of this country for 22 years, and refused to break faith with those troops in Iraq who have now brought victory within sight. 
And as the mother of one of those troops, that is exactly the kind of man I want as com­mander in chief. I'm just one of many moms who'll say an extra prayer each night for our sons and daughters going into harm's way. 
Our son Track is 19. 
And one week from tomorrow -September 11th -he'll deploy to Iraq with the Army infantry in the ·service of his country. 
My nephew Kasey also enlist­Ad, and sflrves on a carrier in the Persian Gulf. 
My family is proud of both of thflm and of all the line men and women serving the country in uniform. Track is the eldest of our live children. 
In our family, it's two boys and three girls in between -my strong and kindhearted daugh­ters Bristol, Willow, and Piper. 
And in April, my husband Todd and I welcomed our littlest one into the world, a perfectly bnautil'ul baby boy named Trig. From the inside, no family ever seems typical. 
That's how it is with us. 

Our family has the same ups and downs as any other ... the same challenges and the same joys. 
Sometimes even the greatest joys bring challenge. And children with special needs inspire a special love. 
To the families of special­needs children all across this country, I have a message: For years, you sought to make America a more welcoming place for your sons and daugh­ters. 
I pledge to you that if we arc elected, you will have a friend and advocate in the White House. Todd is a story all by himself. 
lie's a lifelong commereial fisherman ... a production oper­ator in the oil fields of Alaska's North Slope ... a proud rnembor of tho United Steel Workers' Union ... and world champion snow machine racer. 
Throw in his Yup'ik Eskimo ancestry, and it all makes for quite a package. 
We met in high school, and two decades and live childrnn later he's still my guy. My Mom and Dad both worked at the ele­mentary school in our small town. 
And among the many things I owe them is one simpln lesson: that this is America, and every woman ean walk through every door of opportunity. 
My parents are here tonight, and I am so proud to be tlw daughter of Chuck and Sally Heath. Long ago, a young farmer and haberdasher from Missouri followed an unlikely path to the vice presidency. 
A writer observed: "We grow good pnople in our small towns, with honesty, sincerity, and dig­nity." I know just the kind of people that writer had in mind when he praised llarry Truman. 
I grew up with those w~opln. 
They are the ones who do some of the hardest work in America ... who grow our food, run our factories, and fight our wars. 
Thny love their country, in good times and bad, and thny're always proud of America. I had the privilege of living most of my life in a small town. 
I was just your average hock11y mom, and signed up for the PTA because I wantnd to makn my kids' publi(~ education bntter. 
When I ran for eity council. I didn't need f'oeus groups and votnr proliles beeausn I know thosP voters, and knew their families, too." 



Wednesday, October 29, 2008 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 5 


AP In the first presidential debate, Sen. John McCain and Sen. Barack Obama face off over foreign affairs, in a debate moderated by PBS news anchor Jim Lehrer. 




Sen. John McCain addresses his opponent, Sen. Barack Obama, as moderator Bob Schieffer looks on. The CBS journalist asked the questions in the third and final presidential debate. 
AP 


Sen. Barack Obama answers a question posed by an audience member in a town hall debate with Republican opponent Sen. John McCain. The debate was moderated by Tom Brokaw. 
page 6 The Observer + IN FOCUS Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
Indiana registration an attractive option for so111e students 
Nov. 4 marks first time most undergraduates eligible to vote in a presidential election; many apply for absentee ballots 
Indiana, which traditionally also from California, agreed has voted Republican in pres­with Sands. idential elections, joins Ohio, "Unfortunately my vote Florida, Michigan and other probably will not reflect how states projected to be swing the rest of my state votes states this year. because it does tend to sway 
But the McCain and Obama on a certain side of the politi­campaigns have been encour­cal spectrum, but I am proud aging students to send in of my party and will never absentee ballots if they are miss the opportunity to exer­from prime battleground cise the right to vote because states like Ohio, Pennsylvania I value it· greatly," Gallegos and Florida. said. 
"I wanted my vote to count Due to the global financial in this election, so I regis­crisis, some students have tered in Indiana," said chosen to take a second look Nathan Feldpausch, a fresh­at the candidates to see who man from Michigan. "Even proposed the better solution. though :Michigan is a swing "I have always been highly state, 't" felt that my vote conservative, but now that we would make more of an are having such troubles with impact in Indiana." the economy, I want to make 
Regardless of what state sure that my vote is as Notre Dame students are informed as possible," Winny casting their ballots in, for llu, a freshman from New most, this fall marks the first York, said. time members of the under­She added: "With wars in graduate community can vote Iraq and Afghanistan and in a presidential election. with the economy doing as 
Courtney Sands, a freshman poorly as it is, this election is from California, said she is possibly the most important thrilled to be able to exercise one that has taken place in one of her fundamental rights our lifetime." as an American. Gallegos pointed out that 
"It's pretty exciting to be the presidential election is 
voting for the first time," she not the only important deci­
said. "It's definitely weird to sion voters will make on 
think that I'm finally going to Election Day. 
be able to take part in such "What will be equally 
they call home for eight Romero said. an important process that important is electing the right
By LIZ O'DONNELL 

months of the year, rather "We generally advised peo­essentially defines America as senators and Congressmen to
In focus Wrirer 

than their home state. ple that voting absentee a democracy." create and pass the kind of Students from states solidly would be much simpler, but But Sands, who is voting legislation that will help the 
Indiana's status as a possi­in the blue or the red have many chose to register in with an absentee ballot, said economy get back on its feet," 
ble swing state in the presi­decided their vote will make Indiana anyway, considering she does not think her vote she said. 
dential elections has prompt­more of a difference this year the fact that Indiana is more will make much of a differ­
ed many Notre Dame students if it is cast in Indiana, NO of a swing state in this elec­ence. Contact Liz O'Donnell at 
to register to vote in the place Votes '08 president Christine tion," she said. Sophomore Chelsi Gallegos, eodonnel@nd.edu 

Obama candidacy prompts questions about race 
Notre Dame professors, multicultural leaders ponder whether issue will dissuade people from votingfor Democratic ticket 
By JOSEPH McMAHON In focus Wrirer  ahead in the polls, still exists today. Iris Outlaw, the Multicultural Student Programs  for a black president. "That's unfortunate in this day and age, but that's just the  the campaign, particularly when he was forced to distance himself from his former pastor  for underrepresented people all over the country ... but I think that the racial divide is so  
and Services director, said the  truth," Tipton said.  Rev. Jeremiah Wright after he  ingrained in our country that it  
Though  polls  show  Sen.  issue remains a major question  But  at  the  same  time,  he  made  several  very  controver­ is going to take a lot more than  
Barack  Obama  pulling  away  that will only be answered on  added, there are  many people  sial statements.  this  to  disintegrate that," she  
from Sen. John McCain in the  Election Day.  voting  for  Obama  solely  "He has  so  far been able to  said.  
presidential race, many, induct­ "The  question  is  whether  because he is black.  avoid  really  intense,  racially  Davis said if Obama is elect­ 
ing some of Notre Dame's mul­ people  will  fall  back  on  that  Tipton said Obama's identity  controversial  issues,"  Davis  ed, he will face an intense level  
ticultural  leaders,  worry  that  race thing and say, 'You know, I  is  much  more  complex,  and  said. "In order to be taken seri­ of scrutiny.  
race could still dissuade people  really  can't  pull  that  lever,"'  combines  a  ously  as  a  "Usually, presidents are given  
from choosing Obama.  she said.  variety  of  candidate,  a honeymoon period when they  
"The polls are not really cap­Davis said it is not fear of a turing true black president, but opinions rather social pres­"The question isbecause of sures that cause  unique per­spectives unlike previ­ous black  "Usually, presidents are given a honeymoon period when they are first  given the extent of latent racism that contin­ are first elected. I think that people are going to be more critical of Barack Obama if he's elected president and he'll be  
political cor­rectness and social desir­a b iIi t y." Notre Dame political sci­ence profes­sor Darren Davis said.  whether people will fall back on that race thing and say, 'You know, I really can't pull that lever."' Darren Davis  many Americans to tell pollsters they will vote for Obama. "If it's fear it's more easily dis­missed than social pressure. I think people are saying things to pollsters  politicians such as the Rev. Jesse Jackson. "People walking down the street may view him as black, but  elected. I think that people are going to be more critical ofBarack Obama ifhe's elected president and he'll be on a shorter leash."  ues to exist, he needed to solidify his base. You have to sepa­rate yourself from tradi­tional black politician  on a shorter leash," he said. Obama represents a major icon for all black people, Tipton said, and although he agrees with Outlaw and Davis that there is still a lot of work to be done, he said Obama's run for the presidency has helped inspire a generation.  
"People  are  political science  that  they're  not  that's not just  Darren Davis  types  who  "It gives everybody  a  sense  
saying they will support Barack  professor  willing to follow up on," Davis said. "I really think that  a black man. He's black, he's  political science professor  are combat­ive." But if  that they can do anything like become the president of the United States when half a cen­ 
Obama when  they won't sup­ [given  the  political  and  eco­ white;  he  Obama  does  tury ago I couldn't even use the  
port him in the voting booth."  nomic  circumstances]  any  has  all  these  other  mixtures  win in November, Outlaw said it  same bathroom or drink out of  
Davis  said  the  so-called  other  Democratic  candidate  and  ties.  He  has  a  stronger  represents a major step for the  the  same  water fountain  as  a  
Bradley  effect,  named  after  would be much further ahead."  sense of that than anyone else,"  black  community,  although  it  white person," he said.  
1982  California  gubernatorial  Matthew  Tipton,  the  presi­ Tipton said. "He is America. He  does  not  mean  every  scar  of  
candidate Tom Bradley, who narrowly lost his election to a white politician despite being  dent of the black men's associ­ation Wabruda, said there are many people unwilling to vote  is a melting pot." Davis said Obama has han­dled the issue of race well in  racism has healed. "It's going to be a monumen­tal thing for the black race and  Conta(;t Joseph M(;Mahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu  

Make sure you vote on Nov. 4. 
• 
' .­

Wednesday, October 29, 2008 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 7 
Women contemplate possibility of first female VP 
Students agree Palin's candidacy is a milestone, but disagree about her qualifications and readiness for the job 

election. 
By LIZ HARTER 
Gov. Sarah Palin would make 
In Focus Writer 
history as the first female vice president if Sen. John McCain For the first time in the wins the election. Palin has nation's history, the United been governor of Alaska since States could see a woman in a 2006 when she defeated an position of power in the White incumbent governor in the House after next Tuesday's Republican primary and a for­
mer two-term Democratic gov­ernor in the general election. 
The possibility that Palin could become the nation's first female vice president has been a topic of discussion at meet­ings of the Notre Dame club Feminist Voice. 
"I think it's a big step to have a female on a ticket like this," said senior Mary DeAgostino, the secretary of Feminist Voice. "The idea of having a woman in a position of power like this is a great idea. I think it's a really important step for women in America. 
DeAgostino does not think, however, that Palin is the right woman to make this historic step. 
"I think the bigger issues that people need to look at are where different candidates stand on issues that are impor­tant for everyday women in America right now," she said. "I think it's important to be critical of different candidates' stances on women and gender issues, instead of just ascribing meaning to someone's gender." 
Notre Dame junior Colleen Moran, co-president of the Notre Dame club Women in Politics agreed that it is impor­tant to look at the issues, but she is happy that women have been active in the election this year. 
"While I do not necessarily support those policy measures Sarah Palin would endorse as vice president, I am encour­aged by the more active role women have assumed in this presidential election," she said. 
Moran said she is impressed that Palin has been able to rally so many people from different backgrounds to the Republican platform. 
"In the weeks immediately following her nomination, she was able to generate a great deal of enthusiasm for the McCain campaign," she said. 
But Moran is disappointed that Palin has not allowed the media much access because, 
she  said,  dealing  with  the  
media  is  a  necessity  in  the  
national political arena.  

"I believe both a level of com­fort with the media and an ability to respond eloquently and intelligently to public criti­cism are essential qualities for a national political figure," Moran said. 
Notre Dame senior Sarah Lyons, the vice president of Feminist Voice, said Hillary Clinton's historic run for the presidency should not be over­looked. 
"While Sarah Palin's vice presidential nomination is a critical step in women's politi­cal participation, I also think recognizing Hillary Clinton and how far she went for the Democrats is really important and should be kept in mind," Lyons said. "I think that was empowering and inspirational for many people." 
Lyons does not think Palin supports the issues women are interested in, like where candi­dates stand on equal pay, reproductive rights and vio­lence against women. 
"Personally, I'm not sure if Sarah Palin stands for my per­sonal interests," Lyons said. "I don't think she does." 
DeAgostino added: "I don't think she stands for feminists' interest." 
But, DeAgostino added, Clinton and Palin have con­tributed positively to the politi­cal discussion. 
"I think this election year has been critical in promoting women's political participation, and raising these issues," DeAgostino said. 
Moran said Clinton and Palin have different leadership styles, tailored to appeal to dif­ferent types of people. 
"Hillary Clinton has, in large part, tailored her leadership style to appeal to voters at the national level," she said. "Her husband's election to the presi­dency thrust her into the national spotlight, and she seized the opportunity to hone her own leadership skills. Clinton comes across as -if at times harsh -both intensely focused and articulate. 
"Palin, by contrast, has developed a leadership style geared towards voters at the local and state level. She demonstrates an ability to relate to everyday Americans as well as a freshness and enthusiasm at times lacking in Washington. Palin comes across as -if at times inexpe­rienced or uninformed someone Americans can con­nect with." 
Kaitlynn Riely contributed to this story. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
there were still students Senior Spencer Howard, what he said is an important Dame College Libertarians.Vote around wanting to talk about the co-president of the Notre election, especially for the Walking around campus or the election." Dame College Democrats, future of the economy. eating at the dining hall, 
continued from page 1 Junior Ed Yap, the presi­agreed with Yap that Notre "This election right now is Linskey said he overhears dent of the Notre Dame Dame students have been the most important for our people talking about the College Republicans, said he energized by the election. lifetime," Yap said. "It's the election. 
hosted by ND Votes '08, a thinks the majority of his "This year has been a real­election most prior to when "I think that's going to campaign of the Center for classmates have registered ly pleasant surprise," he we enter the workforce." translate into a lot of stu­Social Concerns. to vote. said. "Our students have Students realize they are dents going out to vote," 
"I was just amazed that the "I think Notre Dame stu­become excited by the elec­going to be affected by the Linskey said. [Coleman-Morse] Lounge dents will vote in higher per­tion." results of the election, said was standing room only," he centages than students at Yap said he hopes students sophomore Ben Linskey, the Contact Kaidynn Riely at said. "And even afterward, other universities," he said. turn out in large numbers for co-president of the Notre kriely@nd.edu 

AP With less than a week to go until Election Day, Sen. John McCain, above, and Sen. Barack Obama, traveled to Pennsylvania Monday to make a last-minute appeal to undecid­ed voters and to rally supporters. 

Wednesday, October 29, 2008 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 8 
UJhete lhey IIGAd • • .. J o .:J .J iQ "' o
o >) "' "' JJ .:J ,.. () 
•
lttvel ,, 
...""~,..~1'11 

ill,..,ultiiC~ 
Wants to overturn Roe v. \X1ade; Supported Supreme 
Court dt.'C.ision that upheld ban on p-Artial-birth abortion. 
Believes states should deride the abortion issue IO<;ally. 
Supports a mandatory cap-and-trade system to n.:durc carbon emissions MJ percent. below 1990 levels by 2050. 
\Viii purchase mortgages directly from financial institu­tions, will rut capital gains tax rare. Plans to maintain the Bmh tax curs~ will eliminate the alternative minimum tax. 
Supports compdition hctwtt:n ~chools for most cft('ctivc, character-building teachers, hiring them and rewarding them. Will provide tf..deral financial support so pttt(:nts can take children out of failing ~hoolS' an~.l !'end rlwm to lx·th."r on(~S. 
SupJ1l 1tts a ga11 rax holiday and opposes taxing windfall profits; oppose~ drilling in the Arctic hut !iupports off~hort' drilling; opfX1St:ll ethanol !!Uh!-~idi.<~"; ~upports t."xpartdi nt.t nudcar powt:r . 
W~tnt~ tc.' limit '~arhon cmi!lsilm!4; h~lrrwss market force~ to t'm:ouragt· advau<:ed ttx:hnolngil·~, like nuclear t:ncrgy. to rht· marl«.:t fa~rn Will tt:duct Amcrica•!i dt:ptndt?ll(:t: ()f1 fMeign supplieji of tnergy. 
Will rt~affirm. tht inMitution nf tnarriag<.: ht•rwctm orw man and orw woman. 
WmHll 11 fM.:"markN, r'Oil!tiitn('t-hii!!(XIllyMem~ Jilan!\ to HM' CIJtnptlttifm H1 improve tht· 'fttallry fJf ht•a!th in~ur:mu• ~> tllt'l't' ill a ft.rtaft~f Vltticty tt1 fhHH:h l1£1(J}ilt\ fitt·d ~llld lowt·r pritt~!i; will .,;vc th1nillt·~ tht-option of re:ct:i'ving a fa;; nt'dit of S2..1iOO for lJ1{Hvithml~ Muf $5,000 t(lf familiti!l to uffllrt the; H'!H of' i.tJMWtlitc, 
Plat1!t w iatrt·a~t· th(,• ~t~c of th<' U11iwd St~tfti!l milimry~ will modcrt1h~r, the /utwriew Mftic.d t(m;mi ;md dt-vdoty advauu~ wcapor1~ ~)'M.t<ffi~ and ~uldtt's~t fprtt f1rofettlom wili work H1 imf1ttwt: maltwry Ji'dY and l7end1t§ ittiti will lmptUV<.' quatity l1f Hfc ft1f mWtaty famiHe~, 
f ldpcd writt.< tht' 2007 tftltliiy,tattmi hilt that !lt1f:7pOttt<d a path r~' k~g~litatum fm iU{~gallmftli~f~ttmi that would im·tudr. lcarnittg Et~Kii~h a11d Jmyittg fmc!i~ lrur ha~ ~auf fli;it ht: Wflitld tltJ lt.JtlW/t' VOf.t' fur the' hiJlf !iHfJVt1ft~ bttdditig a tNttf' 1t~n1g the Mt~kati hofdt~r, 
Vmcd Jh 2H02 to )illfhortze inva~iutl Nf fr;itf, ~ttlpfitYt'tt'ff troop mtrex~. ur "~mgc/' WiU lttteinatc dw frltitiit1g iii"UI NJUiflfHHl!:-or fratp arm~·d fftft('~ ami f1oHcc w t'.tiahk· thNti to play a kry mk· iN ~W.tHrit1g lta{JI will clit:utnag~ tlu·· iHtnnatiot1~tl t:<Hnmtmity m lifYJilY pn·~~ittt to Syril'l m-ull raN in mtk·r ttJ !'<Wfi tht'ln fmm aidinr;t 111xl1ihctting tht· vlukru,'t~ ih fr·aq~ (~j~c!l ~ titneta.hlti ft1r witlidrr;wal. htif f7t'ojc.{:l~ ftiO~f tfnot~ ttrtd~j he· hottlt:' by 20 t_3, 
Supports a woman's right to choose to have an aborr.ion; says he will make upholding rights enumera-ted und(:>r 
Roc v. Wade a priority as president. Opposes any consti~ 
tutional amt·ndmt•nt ro overturn the Suprtmt· Court's decision in that cas,~. 
Support!! a mandatory cap-and-trade sy~rcm to rcduu carbon emissions 80 percent below 1990 k•vds by 2050. 
Will emu:t r.ax cut!i for iruJividual11 and bu.llim~~e~ to help copt with the current financial cri~is. Will IY,m mo~r home forcdo!!iu.rc~ for 1JfJ day~. Will repeal Prc~idcnr Hu!!ih•ti rax mtfl for hou~hod!'l t~arning mon~ than $25,000. 
Plans to rdHrm No Child Lefr Behind, Will crt·atc an Anwrkan Opportunity Tax Credit to ht~lp J\rru:ric1tn 5tud<mUi go w cnu,~gc. Will d(~Oh,' s1Hbillion ~l yttar w ttL'W fcdt>ral spmding on c-ttrly thildhood clal'~,-.., wadu:r rt~cruitnwnr.. ptrformana• P'~Y ~trld (Jfh<.~ initiativt-!J, 
Sup1~ trt!4 ti'txing windfitll prt,fit* for oil COntJYMlit~l t>ppo,.~!l drilling in the Atdic and off:11hmc~ ~upportii ethamtl nuli#tdit~jJ.; donhlt" !4tte'nc~ artd rt'~·t~rthing fut1ding for de1m~ttncrgy proJt~Ct§, 
lmplt'lfWtH ~t m:trkt·t~ba!lt'll t'afl"an.d"troot· !tY1tkm to rNlu<:t> <~arbon emi!i~iott~ hy HO pl~rc.em hdow 11J1JlJ Jwd!i by 205f)l lK"VdOf'l dttrtUi!Hk itlCNitfVt~~ tH rr,ward tHf~f uwrwr~, (armttr~t and tantht#'t~ wfwn tht1J7Iant treci'lf re~tore W'fl!Hthutt1jl m pr1tctk(l (~mntn.l{ trwth(;.Jji th~1t eifiWtt" utrbmt du~ldt-fmm tht• i'ltttul#phcrc; ilweM S1 ~~ IJHJkm OVt'f HJ year~ to adv~fit:t' Nt'W t!H@rgy t~NNt1JOgJ~~. 
Wlll end "'l)m'lt A!$k, Dml't Tell" ln tht milfmry, WiU fM~~ h?~ltr~ll ttmi.' diM:ntttln:~tiw1 tt~w in ,~mt1lt1)'tmtm thM 
mdmk·~ ~t~t:mHtyl wtli t~fend (~,~~u~d tuntf'fit-tlr ~~tmtt ~('~ t:(JUfilt·~ who liffW' II i:ifiHt''liiiif1f'Hm~tl dvihmlun, t1i1f flHittlaw·~ htrHttVtt!~~tllt~WIN~ dviJ-tmlottil ~~ 11 ~mt1-' #.~~tw, 
\VIH n·-~fulrtt thm aU diitdre:n havr f'W1thh in~lif)fffl:~~ WHI tnnk~· tlittionrd ht111fh c:art.r (:thm av~<tU:41Yfe tu ttli J\mf!ritllll~~ j'lMtU.:lf~Hif~ in di£" New jiHhHc ttl~m woukJ tw ~hi~ to mrwe frmn joh tn Joh withum t'h~tliWl1~ health t:an· tavEtrag.c', 
.. 

Will t•ht'fmt~tgi' hettf!t tytatet#ltth of (),~, (~f'utmitifl tyiM!t§ ftdffl potrtift~f terruti§t aff~k§~ witf d~dttp Jie:H~f MUUW" ~~tie~ f~ It ffatkiti~ #(1f!tit mu::kiM fHe'h Wllf ft't40itt: lftiffkfit' ttny fJlmmltt,t fttr fht: wnt5Wttiim of tyettplt: with tfJ1e~~ial M~d!i dutit~g· eme:fWJHtie-§, 
t#tJ1t1tift§ af1Ath to i~~dtlatitm (ut ffle~i lmttiWam~ t1t..tt #tdtuft~ i~~ft1tft¢ 1 1~titt)t~h ~ p#ftti~ fim~~~ Wtit!,heH f)t.ft.: ~JH~:tf'l fot hiring filewrt immjf!!nHt~. Vote~f ftw 1i· ftHit.ie tl1 hEo~ huilt HkJH~t the: M~k1il1 but~fe.r. 
OtJftft!~Nf itW~~uAt i;:t#ttnUy~ rtfTtJt~eJ troop it1l''t~~t~f~ Wl4Hf9 fU Wtft1£1faw l:fi'U'' Uf tWO f-m~k~ 11 fflfiHtf't tU fiH~h Wlthlh l {i ffllmt11~ itHd lf:Ht~idfttjt.tf the! tf~~ tt1 ftitffllt:}Jt; flRrif dlffilf~tttf~~.. 1'fu•ide ~2 M11k.m m~'i<lJ#lfttf ~wkt~!t tff fflltf~ n:ift~e~ iH t'U''i~Jfflt~ N1UHffk~<t 
Will hOffttNilte t<m~~·tv;ttive·, Ht.tf ;1t'livf~f, jud~e§~ WtJt HOrtdft!ffe ttid~§ wif11 fjjtt!ff~t:t. fjfli/V~~W€-t'it>W O( 
!:il~~ncd hutnitltitkm of Jolm f«,hats and ~liftttl€'1 Alito, tite: Ca#l~tlftif10th 11f1t1119etl ##1fflifuftlftri§ ufJotiH Jtt;;fieff!l atttf ~httmi~f Ahto.. 
All graphics by Mary Jesse for 





