
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 76 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2008 · 
University clarifies absence policy 
Provost: Students not allowed 3 unexcused cuts; ND extends Thanksgiving break 
without consequences," Burish sent to students and faculty alike believed Notre Dame allowed By BECKY HOGAN said in the letter, which was sent reiterating the University policy each student three unexcused 
News Writer 
to professors near the end of win­that classes must be held on all cuts. 
ter break. scheduled class days, including "Some people have strict atten­
Attendance policies may grow The letter also outlined a the days before and after holi­dance policies and some do not. stricter this semester following a schedule change for fall semes­days, and that class attendance But there was no University letter from University Provost ter: Students will now have the was expected." allowance of three cuts or that Thomas Burish reminding pro­Wednesday before Thanksgiving Executive Assistant to the every teacher had to let students fessors that students are not off, but will have one fewer study Provost Brandon Roach said the take them," Deane-Moran said. "I allowed three unexcused day before winter final examina­letter was sent out primarily to don't know where that idea got absences. tions. clear up any confusion about started." 
"Contrary to common student "Most" faculty members that attendance policies. University academic policy lore, there is no University policy were surveyed supported this But English professor Noreen states that instructors are permitting students ... three change, the letter said, providing Deane-Moran said she wasn't unexcused absences from class "a strong and clear statement be sure why students and professors see ABSENCES/page 4 
NDtv airs reva111ped progra111s 
First-ever female host takes over 'Late Night' 
By ELIZABETH KELLY 
News Writer 
Students can look forward to seeing all of their favorite shows return to NDtv for another season, with a few tweaks and the possibility of added programming. 
NDtv, the student-run TV station that airs 24 hours on channel 53 on Notre Dame's on-campus cable system, launched its 2007-08 lineup -featuring seven original shows -in September. Returning from the winter break hiatus, all of NDtv's fall programs will air new episodes this spring, said the station's executive director, sophomore Nick Andert. 
Fans of some shows, how­ever, will notice certain changes. 
NDtv's late night variety show, "Late Night ND," aired its semester premiere Monday night with a new host and head writer, junior Elise Yahner. As the first female host in the station's history, Yahner says that the 
jokes and overall tone of the show might be a little differ­ent from previous seasons. 
But fans of "Late Night ND" shouldn't expect female-centric humor. 
"It's not going to be 'The Girlie Show,"' she said with a laugh. 
Yahner said she intends to take the show in the same direction it was headed last semester under host Joe Kwaczala. 
"My only worry is that peo­ple don't think girls are funny," Yahner said. 
see NDTV/page 4 

Juniors win SMC election 
Gruscinski, Falvey named student body president, vice president 
By LIZ HARTER Assistant News Editor 
Juniors Mickey Gruscinski and Sarah Falvey were elected the next Saint Mary's student body president and vice presi­dent Monday after running an unopposed campaign. 
The pair received more than 50 percent of the vote, accord­ing to an e-mail the Board of Governance sent to the student body Tuesday. The e-mail did not specify how many students voted, or what percentage of students voted abstain. 
"We decided to run because it seemed like a great way to get involved on campus and meet students," Falvey said. "Though we took our cam­paign seriously, we had a lot of fun with it." 
The pair campaigned exten­sively last week, even though they ran unopposed. Gruscinski and Falvey visited all of the residence halls, 
see ELECTION/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Local kids treated to Pitt ga111e 
Unknown benefactor gives away 100 tickets 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Thanks to an anonymous donor, 100 children in the South Bend area have free tickets to see Notre Dame's women's basketball team play Pittsburgh on Feb. 10. 
Three quarters of the 100 tickets went to area children involved in Lead-NO, the cam­pus organization that takes Notre Dame volunteers to dif­ferent schools across South Bend to help the children develop leadership skills. The other 25 tickets were distrib­uted through Children's Campus, which treats severely emotionally disturbed chil­dren. 
And the children will get to see an important game for the Irish. 
Pittsburgh is ranked No. 14 in the country and is an important Big East opponent for the Irish. The game will be 
broadcast  nationally  on  
ESPN2.  
"It  just  happened  by  

chance," said junior John Wanek, an executive board member for Lead-NO. "We've done these trips before and I called the ticket office with this beautiful desperate speech to ask for tickets. But it turned out it didn't even matter what I said. They told me that some donor had bought 100 tickets and he wanted them to be used for kids. It just kind of fell into our laps." 

see TICKETS/page 4 

Popular 'E-club' attracts variety of majors 
operations board includes a By JOSEPH McMAHON biology major, a political sci­
Assistant News Editor 

ence major and a finance major, among several other 
Since its inception a mere disciplines. 15 months ago, the "The Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship Club has Club ... provides a profes­seen its membership sky­sional business outlook that rocket to become one of the is applicable to every major fastest-growing and most on campus," vice president active undergraduate organi­of operations Don Whitley zations on campus. said. "Unlike other clubs, 
The Entrepreneurship Club which may try to train you to -or "E-Club," as its mem­become an employee, the E­bers call it -attracts stu­Club will provide you with dents from a wide variety of meaningful team interac­disciplines -and that may tions and networking experi­be one of the reasons why it ences which will help you has seen its membership rise develop the marketable skill­to 70 in the last year, co­set of a leader and differenti­president Mark Bennett said. 
The group is proud that its see E-CLUB/page 4 

--------------------~----­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


National security 
In hnr anti-utopian novel Tho Giver, Lois 
Lowry pn~senl-; a superfkially idnal world 
that is later revealed to be fatally flawnd. 
One key dialoh'l!P occurs when tho 
eponymous Givnr 
describes onP of this Joey King 
sodnty's choicns. 
"We gained mntrol Viewpoint 
of many things. But we Editor 
had to let go of others." 
Thn 12-ynar-old pro­
tagonist, Jonas, immndiatnly replies, "We 
shouldn't have." 
The Giver is surprised that Jonas is so 
quiek to malizn this truth: that more was 
lost than was gainnd by tho trade-otl' their 
socinty elncted to make. Unfortunately, 
many decisions we make as a nation fall 
into tlw "shouldn't have" category -like 
the statn department's denial of Muslim 
scholar Tariq Hamadan 's entrance into 
the Unitnd Statns, whore he was to teach 
Islamic ethics in a nnw, tenured position 
at thn Kroe lnstitutn fi>r International 
Peace Studies. 
Hamadan i'i currnntly teaching at 
Oxf(>rd. Yns, that Oxfbrd. Beeausn he 
donated $1,336 to a Swiss charity later 
designatnd as a tnrrorist group, the United 
Statns didn't want him tnaching here. 
Wn'm big on national security threal'i in 
Amnrica-sometimp,s a Jittlp, too big. I 
don't think anyone fnnls that it was our 
attitudn toward eommunisl-; in the 1950s 
that was msponsible f(>r bringing us out of 
t.hn Cold War as eapitalisb. It makes sense 
t.hat national sPcurity is a top priority, but 
we rwnd to look at thP big pidurP in tnrms 
of' c:ost and bnnelit. 
Evm1 if'wp assunw that Hamadan's 
$I,:nh bought a tailfin of' onn of llamas' 
n><:knl-;, WP havt~ to at h•<L<;t admit thP pos­
sibility that his pnrspectivn could enlightfln 
us as lo what cxa\'tly is motivating terror­
ism in lhtl first plan~. Wo nnnd to nm.lizn 
that perspectives oul-;idn of' the Patriot Act 
have valw•-nwn whnn it comns to fight­
ing sn1·.urity thrPal-;. 
A-; a small illustration of' the importance of putting human capital high among national priori tins, onn of thn first aetions of' Ilitlnr's administration W<L<; to mmovn Jewish univt~rsity prof(~ssors f'rom thnir jobs. I \instPin had snnn this coming and I ell f(>r the U.S. justin time. Cal Tnch, Princeton and thn U.S. rnapnd the bene­lil-;. (~nrmany, not so much. 
Amnrica's poliey at tim time wa-;n't mueh bdter. J. Hobert Oppnnheimer headnd up thn dnwlopment pn~ject for the first nudnar wnapon. At thn time, Oppnnhnimflr wa-; regardnd w; a security risk for what were percnivnd a-; radically ld'tward political leanings. 
Long story short, the U.S. put iL-; suspi­cions on hold and Int. him build tim bomb. But af't.Prhis bomb-making days, the same lnl't-leaning political conneetions that had bn1m pushed under the rug earli­er lfld Oppnnlmimer to be eonsidered a sncurity risk (hn had also bngun warning against a U.S. and Soviet arms racfl). After rnfusing to resign. his security clearance was rnvoked in a public hearing. 
Our priorities on national security con­tinue to be too militaristic. We'd rather bar entry, pnriod, than try to learn some­thing, unless of course that something were even more militaristic. Were Hamadan an engineer oflering a terrori<>t­killer-o-matic1M instead of a theolohrian om~ring intellectual insight, we'd probably ignore his past transgressions and )p,t him in. But insight is not a'i immediately understandable a<> an advantage, so it goes to Oxford. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joey King at jking7@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publicatin and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 30, 2008 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH TEAM SHOULD WIN THE SUPER BOWL? 


Alex Stuckey  John Baty  Chelsea Smith  Meghan Huffman  Guillermo Pi  
sophomore Morrissey  sophomore Morrissey  freshman Lewis  freshman Lewis  freshman Siegfried  
"The Giants. My mom is a ,Manning fan.  "The Patriots. They're the best team right  'The Patriots because my roommate is  "The Giants. The Patriots are too cocky.,  "The Patriots. Brady is friends with George  





now. from Boston. , 


OFFBEAT 
Man sets station on fire over playlist 
AUSTIN, Texas -A vol­unteer at a community radio station set fire to the station because he was upset that his song selee­tions for an overnight Internet broadeast were .changed, police said. 
Paul Webster Feinstein, 24, has been eharged with seeond-degree felony arson for the Jan. 5 fire that eaused $300,000 damage to the studios of 91.7 FM KOOP. He faces from two to 20 years in prison and a $10,000 fine ifeonvieted. 
Feinstein told investiga­unhappy" about the changes to his playlist, said Austin Fire Department Battalion Chief Greg Nye. The songs were intended for an Internet broadcast that oceurs when the sta­tion is off the air. 
tors  that  ho  was  "very  
TODAY  
a::  

Man wins, then loses, then wins lottery 
SYDNEY, Australia -An Australian retiree won a $1.8 million lottery prize, then lost it, and then won it again Wednesday through a eourt ruling. 
Werner Reinhold bought the lottery ticket at a news­stand in Australia's largest eity of Sydney on Sept. 19, 1995. His original tieket did not print correctly, so he asked for a new one, which turned out to be the winner. 

But when Reinhold, now 73, went baek to elaim the $1.8 million jaekpot, he discovered that the replacement ticket had been caneeled, not the mis­printed original, and was unable to claim the prize. 
He sued NSW Lotteries, which oversees lottery tick­ets in New South Wales state, and the newsstand which sold him the ticket. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

LLI 
:::1: 

,f\1)''""'

~1~W/p_
~ 
LLI 
~3 


~;113: 
~.i~·­
(~
_, 
ct 
CJ 

..... 0 HIGH 22 HIGH 17 HIGH 30 HIGH 30 LOW 12 LOW 8 LOW 23 LOW 12 

Bush., 
IN BRIEF 

Prints from the Snite Museum of Art's eollection that foeus on artistic subjeets from the 17th century will be displayod today from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The exhibit, "Rembrandt and the Art of Printmaking in Holland," will highlight the golden age of Dutch art. 
The Winter Career Fair and Diversity Heception will be lwld today at the Joyce Center. Tlw Diversity Hflception will be held from 12 p.m. to 2::~0. Tho Carner Fair will bn hnld from 4 to S p.m. 
Further information  can  bP  
found  online  at  tho  Can~nr  
C!mtl'r WPb site.  

The SugarTone Brass Band, New York's promier New Orleans-style brass band. will perform tonight at 7::~0 in the Leighton Concert llall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Women's basketball will play Providence tonight at 7 in the Joyce Center arena. 
The film "In July" will be shown at 7 p.m. and again at 10 
p.m. Thursday in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. TiekeL<> will eost $3 for students, $5 for faculty and stall', and $6 f(lr gen­eral admission. 
Men's basketball will play Providenee on Thursday at 7 
p.m. 
at the Joyce Center arena. 

Men's hockey will play the U.S. Under-18 Team Friday at 7:35 

p.m. 
at the Joyce Center ice rink in an exhibition. 


To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
~~\'\:11;;
,, y·-",·~
,:::;:( )..,.... --;""\. /'"7"'
-~"l)-~
."II ,,
' . : ~ ·,\ ,, 


HIGH 29 HIGH 35 LOW 20 LOW 23 
Atlanta 4 7 I 36 Boston 45 I 35 Chicago 20 I 1 Denver 34 I 9 Houston 60 I 41 Los Angeles 61 I 45 Minneapolis 5 I -9 New York 4 7 I 40 Philadelphia 4 7 I 39 Phoenix 58 I 43 Seattle 40 I 34 St. Louis 35 I 14 Tampa 72 I 58 Washington 4 7 I 39 

------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, January 30, 2008 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Marathon planners request funds 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Pauline Kistka and Francesca Johnson, Saint Mary's dance marathon organizers, attended the Board of Governance's (BOG) meeting Tuesday asking for funding for the upcoming event, which has raised more than $68,000 in two years for Riley's Children Hospital. 
In its third year, organizers are looking to finance the marathon without resorting to money collected from regis­trants so far this year. 
"We feel it is our responsibili­ty to raise the money without dipping into the money we have raised for the hospital," Kistka said. 
The marathon, which has a staff of about 75, was recently voted the "Best New Dance Marathon" in the country by the Children's Miracle Network. Participants pay a $12 registra­
You've worked hord on your edqcotion, nO\.rV !et you bui!d your coreer GE hos a world-renowned !eodershi[) tnYrHn;J pro~Forn ond vvos nomed Best Company for 
Leodnrs by rh;...,r c:x-:.r~, 1t:i•n fv1a···,y::.·i·r-·, iq ')0Cf7 
-.· ,..,. ·, ~....n.;Lr t.•. '>t'.\..,.~ •.::_,.-.~.Pt:... ~ ~.:.. .. ~1~· ::-~.It::~ (.. ·' .t{,_ 
you to invest in yourse!t v;ith a coreer in engince(inq, 11nonce, monufactuhng, soles and marketing, human resources, or information technology. 


tion fee and provide the addresses of people they believe might donate money. Event organizers then send a letter to each address asking for a contribution. 
The dance will be held from 8 
p.m. on April 4 to 8 a.m. on April 5 in the Angela Athletic Facility at Saint Mary's. More than 150 dancers have already registered, and organizers are hoping to get as many as 400. 
After their presentation, Kistka and Johnson submitted a proposal to BOG requesting funds for the marathon. Board members did not discuss the proposal during Tuesday's meeting. 
In other BOG news: 
+ Elections commissioner Maggie Siefert confirmed that juniors Mickey Gruscinski and Sarah Falvey were elected the 2008-09 student body presi­dent and vice president, respectively. 
+ 
Sophomore parents week­end will be held Feb. 15-17, sophomore class president Camille Gilbert said. 

+ 
Athletics commissioner Noreen Sherrard said the first -and only -home swim meet for the Belles will take place at 6 p.m. on Feb. 1 in the Rolfs Aquatic Center at Notre Dame. 

+ 
Cassie Quaglia, president of the Residence Hall Association, said Little Sibs Weekend will be held Feb. 22­24. 

+ 
The all-school formal will be held this Saturday at the Palais Royale, Quaglia said. There will be a bus to drive attendees to and from the dance. 

+ 
The new Heritage wall will be unveiled Thursday at 2:15 


p.m. in the basement of the Student Center, missions com­missioner Mary Frantz said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 

Notre Datne turns to locally produced food 
Food Services aids community, environment by purchasing crops from neighboring states 
By DENNIS SLATER News Writer 
In an effort to give a boost to the economic and environmen­tal life of local communities, many people across the nation have turned to locally grown foods to fill their shopping carts -and Notre Dame is no exception. 
Jim Yarbrough, the senior associate director of Food Services and chairman of its social responsibility commit­tee, said that last year, Notre Dame spent more than $2,243,000 on local products. Any state that borders Indiana is considered local, and the food was predominantly pur­chased from Michigan and Wisconsin, he said. 
"We can get to Wisconsin faster and more efficiently than we can get to Bloomington, [Ind.] so we con­sider that to be local," Yarbrough said. 
He said more than $600,000 was spent on Michigan and Wisconsin cheese, milk and dairy products, and another $400,000 on local meat prod­ucts. Approximately $48,328 was used to buy Michigan and Wisconsin apples, and $27,675 for Indiana tomatoes. 
Resorting to local products, he said, cuts down on expen­sive fossil fuels that would be needed to transport the prod­ucts. It also limits -and in some cases eliminates -the need for chemical preserva­tives that could be detrimental to a person's health, Yarbrough said. 
Last year's local foods pur­chases were part of a regional effort a coalition of Indiana colleges began five years ago to drive up the demand for organically produced foods, he said. 
Food Services strives to ben­efit the community in other ways. 
"Usable leftover food is sent to the Hope Rescue Mission or the Center for the Homeless," Yarbrough said. "There is an energy conservation program within our staff to reduce food waste, conserve electricity, natural gas and water." 
The Food Services staff members involved in this pro­gram examine the campus, making sure to replace incan­descent light bulbs, which pro­duce more heat and waste more electricity, with fluores­cent light bulbs, which are more efficient and produce less heat. 
In addition to the conserva­tion program, Yarbrough is also responsible for maintain­ing a campus-wide recycling effort that has been in place for more than 18 years. 
Yarbrough and his crew have placed a multitude of recycling receptacles to make more students aware of how easy it is to recycle. Educating students to recycle their news­papers is a top priority for Yarbrough. 
"We have placed the blue recycling bins across campus and especially at the dining halls to discourage students from leaving their newspapers on their trays and tables or throwing them in the garbage," he said. 
Food Services, for its part, uses compactors to dispose of any cardboard boxes to make sure they can be reused. 
And these are not processes or programs that are ending anytime soon. It is an ongoing agenda exemplified by the weekly meetings to brainstorm ideas and maintain a greener Notre Dame, Yarbrough said. 
"Our staff is committed to purchasing locally grown foods and staying environmentally friendly," he said. "This is a continuing process and we are happy to be educating our stu­dents about recycling and the benefits of local food purchase and consumption." 
Contact Dennis Slater at dslater@nd.edu 


r------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 30, 2008 


NDtv 
continued from page 1 
She will have a chance to disprove that theory with the nnw comedy segment-sim­ilar to skit portion of "Saturday Night Live" -that she plans to add to the pro­gram. In one such skit, one of' last season's recurring characters, the flamboyant and opinionated hairdresser Andre, appeared on Monday's premier episode to ofTer Yahner some makeover advice for a new on-air look. 
Yahner is also looking to have more musical and per­formance guests. 
Besidn the changes at "Late Night ND," some of the 


Absences 
continued from page 1 
rnsponsible fi1r stipulating atten­dance polidns at the beginning of a smnester. They may also, at their diserntion. fail students for excessive absences. Before this happnns. however, instructors must warn students in writing. 
A class's attendance policy can depend on the dngree of impor­tance its professor gives to in­elass participation. For Deane­Moran, participation is a signifi­eant part of a student's grade. 
"Ill count dass partidpation as part of the grade and if a student is not in class, he or she can't very well bn participating. So my policy is that everyone should be 

E-club 
continued from page 1 
ate you in the business world, regardless of what profession you decide to go into." 
In order to market the dub to undergraduates, the mem­bers have been handing out key ehains and ping-pong balls stamped with the club's logo. 
"We just completed a huge marketing push," vice presi­dent of management Jaime Urquijo said. "We really think it's a groat elub and now a lot of people know about it." 
In a brief presentation to potential E-dub mnmbers on Monday, Bennett said the pur­pose of the dub was to "edu­eate, inspirn, network ... in the context of entrepreneurial leadership." 
Bennett gave several nxam­plns of successful entrepre­neurs, including Bill Cates, Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg and the CEO and founder of Virgin, Hichard Branson. 
And given the students that Notre Dame normally attracts, 

CANCUN, ACAPULCO, JAMAICA, 
BAHAMAS, PUERTO VALLARTA, SOUTH PADRE, flORIDA, CRUISES 

Sell Trips, Eam Cash ~~1:~ &Travel Free ~~::flu 
1-800-648-4849 
www.st~travel.fom 

station's other shows are also being updated and improved, Andert said. 
"On Campus," NDtv's first sitcom, which chronicles the fictitious adventures of Sarah, a freshman at Notre Dame, premiered in September and quickly became one of the station's most popular shows. 
In the fall, the series had a new plotline in each episode, but this semester the show will incorporate a season­long storyline to keep view­ers engaged, he said. 
Andert attributed some of the sitcom's success to NDtv's Web site, which fea­tures an "On Demand" sec­tion that allows viewers to watch full episodes of some of the station's shows at any 
there for every class," she said. 
Hoach said the University expects all faculty members to hold regularly scheduled classes -and students to regularly attend them. 
"Interaction between the facul­ty and students in the classroom is an inte).,rral part of the educa­tional experience and when dassns are held, students should attend," he said. 
But that concept seemed to be overlooked around breaks and long weekends, Roach said. 
Holly Goodson, professor of chemistry and biochemistry, said the letter clarified the University's stance on student<> that cut class the day before a break begins. 
"I think that there have been some faculty who have cancelled dass before major holidays, and I 
a mail-order record company speaker and dinner series 
1

I _, ··. ·~~ ',:~ A p A R T M E N T s )
i j
ISo close to c•:mpus yoa can lle•r the shouts ••fl set the lights f 
J Furnished Studio Apartments 1 1 One Bedroom Apartments 1, t --rwo Bedroom One Bath Apartments ' i Two Bedroom One and a 1-Ialf Bath Apartments with Fenced in Patio I 
--------------------~=================----' 
1710 E. Turtle Creek Drive
TURTLE CREEK AMENITIES 
time. For many viewers, he said, watching videos online is "the easiest way to catch a new show." 
lie said he hopes to put as many of the station's shows as possible on the Web site in order to generate more stu­dent interest online. 
NDtv's studio, located in the basement of Washington Hall, is undergoing renova­tions that will be completed by mid-semester. The plans include updated lighting and other technical equipment as well as new furniture and backdrops that will improve the look of various sets, especially those of "Late Night ND" and "NDTV News," the station's hour­long news program, Andert said. 
think that part of the purpose of the letter is to remind faculty that they are expected to hold elass when it is scheduled," she said. 
Goodson, who teaches a chem­istry class with more than 350 students, explained that class size allects attendance policy. 
"In a class such as a seminar, class participation is an impor­tant part of the learning process itself," she said. "In my large )chemistry) class, issues such as the number of classes missed by a given student are basically irrelevant. Student grades are determined by performance on exams and problem sets. Students who miss lots of classes are unlikely to do well on these." 
Sophomore Bill Warren said he felt it was warranted for profes­sors to take attendance -espe-
And he also hopes to add a new show to the station's current lineup by mid­semester. While the new pro­gram is under development, NDtv will continue to focus on its current shows, which include debate show "Talk it Out," movie review program "Final Cut," improvisational comedy "Humor Artists" and interview show "Office Hours." 
And Yahner said the sta­tion's staff is excited and optimistic about it hopes what will be a fun season with lots of new talent. 
"We're a fun bunch," she said. "We make each other laugh." 
Contact Elizabeth Kelly at ekelly7@nd.edu 
cially if it can help student<> boost their grade. 
"In smaller elasses, professors should at least take a mental note of who is there," Warren said. If someone is trying really hard in dass, class attendance should [be reflected in the student's grade]." 
But students like freshman Brian Cook believe that attending class should be left to the stu­dent's discretion. 
"I've always felt that since we are paying money [to attend the University], it should really be up to the student to choose to go to class. You're not going to get as much out of it lif you don't go], but that's your choice," Cook said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
where members get to meet leaders -two of whom were Sherry Barrett, president and CEO of the Fortune 500 com­pany Northern Trust, and Jaime Zobel de Ayala, CEO of Ayala Corporation and Harvard Business School's 2006 Management Man of the Year. In addition, the E-Ciub coordinates several service projects in the South Be.nd area. 
"I think the most important question we have is what have we done for each other," Bennett said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

Tickets 
continued from page 1 
Lead-ND consistently relies on donations to fund its pro­grams. 
"We acquire all our funds through different grants and donations. We really work off what people give us," Wanek said. 
Random acts of generosity like this donation are really not that rare at Notre Dame, 
said Stephanie Menio,  the  
director  of' operations  for  
women's basketball.  

"Things like this actually happen quite often," Menio said. "We have a 'Take a Kid to a Game' Day where fans donate tickets to under-privi­leged kids. We work with the Girls' and Boys' Clubs and Big Brother, Big Sister. Any place that's in need of tickets and can't really afford them, that's who we target." 
This season alone, Menio said, over 200 donors have provided more than 3,000 tick­ets to youths in need of them. 
As for the Lead-ND kids, the trip to see the women's team play in the Joyce Center is one of several they've enjoyed ­including a visit to the mayor of South Bend -but this one is just for fun. 
"We do lield trips throughout the year. They usually incorpo­rate service or learning," said senior Antoinette Bronesky, a Lead-ND volunteer. "This one is purely for fun but it is intended to show students what a college environment is like and where the volunteers spend their time. We hope it gives thorn something to aspire to." 
And the children are excited about this particular lield trip, Bronesky said. 
"The kids love the Notre Dame athletes. To them, they're like gods," she said. 
Lead-ND works to inspire under-privileged students to become leaders themselves. rather than merely give them aid. 
"We're trying to equip the kids with leadership skills so they can help out in their com­munity," Wanek said. "We're helping the kids to be leaders in South Bend." 
Contact Theresa Civantos tcivanto@nd.edu 

South Bend, IN 46637 
Phone: 574-272-8124 (112 block east of campus on Vaness Street) Fax:574-273-6921 ww"v.. LiveTurtleCreek.com 
®6. 
he said, he believes the University is the perfect place for an E-club. 
"Under the Golden Dome are some of the most intelligent people," he said. "[Notre Dame students] have an opportunity to become a leader in any field [they[ go into." 
Following Bennett's pitch, vice president of projects Bob lluguelet, Urquijo and two Operations board members, Kate von llol'fmann and Mark Streit, presented a case study of Branson. 
Branson built the multi-bil­lion dollar Virgin group out of he started in 1970. The club's officers analyzed the history, strengths, weaknesses and future ventures of Branson's group. According to Urquifo, one of' the major things E-club members can learn from Branson is to "always work towards a goal, not necessari­ly to make money." 
Modeling their club after similar organizations at Oxford, Stanford and Harvard, the E-Club officers put on a variety of events, including the opportunity to work on case studies on specific entrepre­neurs. 
The club also hosts a CEO 

¢Tan for FREE at Fun Tan 0 Heated Pool and Hot Tub 0 Pet Friendly 0 On Site Security 
52555401 





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 30, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE ()ssERVER'S W[RE sr:RvrcEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Battle for Mosul will be difficult, slow 
MOSUL, Iraq-The top U.S. commanders in northern Iraq predicted Tuesday the bat­tle to oust al-Qaida in Iraq from its last urban stronghold will not be a swift strike, but rather a grinding campaign for Mosul that will require more firepower from both the Pentagon and Iraqi allies. 
The statements appeared to discount sug­gestions by Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki that Iraqi forces were gathering for a "deci­sive" attack as soon as all reinforcements are in place. 
"It is not going to be this climactic battle. It's going to be probably a slow process," said Maj. Gen. Mark P. Bertling, commander of U.S. forces in northern Iraq. 
In a telephone interview from his head­quarters in Tikrit, Bertling described the strategy for Mosul -Iraq's third-largest city -as the same step-by-step tactics used in the U.S.-led troop offensives in Baghdad: win control of a district and keep troops there to hold it. 
Men caught after taking hostages in bank 
ALTAGRACIA DE ORITUCO, Venezuela ­Gunmen who held more than 30 hostages inside a Venezuelan bank for over 24 hours fled in an ambulance and were caught Tuesday along a roadside, where they sur­rendered and freed their last five captives. 
The gunmen first let three hostages go and then negotiated with police while holding on to the last two, Guarico state Gov. Eduardo Manuitt said. 
"This nightmare is over," Manuitt told state television. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Study: Mghanistan may be forgotten 
WASHINGTON -Afghanistan risks sliding into a failed state and becoming the "forgotten war" because of deteriorating international support and a growing violent insurgency, according to an inde­pendent study. 
The assessment, co-chaired by retired Marine Corps Gen. James Jones and former U.N. Ambassador Thomas Pickering, serves as a warn­ing to the Bush administration at a time military and congressional officials are debating how best to juggle stretched warfighting resources. 
The administration want<; to re-energize anti-ter­rorism efforts in Afghanistan and Pakistan, where al-Qaida is regenerating. But the U.S. still remains heavily invested in Iraq, and officials are sending strong signals that troop reductio:qs there will slow or stop altogether this summer. 

Iraq troop reductions to end this swnmer 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration is sending strong signals that U.S. troop reductions in Iraq will slow or stop altogether this summer, a move that would jeopardize hopes of relieving strain on the Army and Marine Corps and revive debate over an open-ended U.S. commitment in Iraq. 
The indications of a likely slowdown reflect con­cern by U.S. commanders that the improvement in security in Iraq since June -to a degree few had predicted when President Bush ordered five more Army brigades to Iraq a year ago -is tenuous and could be reversed if the extra troops come out too soon. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Hate crime bill will stall in House 
INDIANAPOLIS -A bill that would cre­ate a hate crimes law in Indiana would die in the House before a key deadline this week, its author said, and he did not expect it to be revived this session. 
Democratic Rep. Greg Porter of Indianapolis said Tuesday he was not going to call his bill down for considera­tion of changes before a deadline this week for bills to advance past the amend­ment stage. Bills that do not clear the amendment stage would not be eligible for votes before this week's deadline set for bills to clear their house of origin. 
Porter said a couple of amendments filed on his bill by Republicans in the Democrat-controlled chamber would give them a chance to attach political state­ments to his bill, not ones based on good public policy. 


McCain edges Romney in Florida 
Clinton wins on the Democratic side, but delegates will not be seated at convention 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Sen. John McCain won a breakthrough triumph in the Florida Republican primary Tuesday night, edging past former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney and seizing precious campaign momentum for next week's string of contests across 21 states. 
Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani was running third, and headed for the exits. Officials familiar with events said his aides were in discussions with McCain's advisers on a possible endorsement later in the week. 
"It shows one thing. I'm the conservative leader who can unite the party," McCain said in a brief interview with The Associated Press. 
"It's a very significant boost but I think we've got a tough week ahead and a lot of states to come." 
The victory was worth 57 national convention delegates for McCain, a winner-take­all's haul and the largest sin­gle prize to date in the race. 
Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee trailed, but told supporters he would campaign on. Texas Rep. Ron Paul was fifth, and last. 

Returns from 64 percent of the state's precincts showed McCain, the Arizona senator, with 36 percent of the vote Wyoming and Nevada. zenship for illegal immi­Even so, Clinton sought to and Romney, the former gov­A survey of voters as they grants. emphasize her performance ernor of Massachusetts, with left their polling places About 40 percent of self­in the state, holding a rally as 31 percent. showed the economy was the described conservatives sup­the polls were closing. 
McCain's victory was his top issue for nearly half the ported him, as well, com­She challenged Barack first-ever primary win in a Republican electorate. pared to about 25 percent for Obama to agree to seat the state that allowed only McCain led his rival among McCain. delegates on the basis of the Republicans to vote. His pre­those voters, blunting The poll was conducted by night's vote, but he vious victories, in New Romney's weeklong effort to Edison Media Research and demurred, saying he would Hampshire and South persuade Floridians that his Mitofsky International for abide by an agreement all Carolina this year, and in two background as a business­The Associated Press and the Democratic candidates had states in 2000 came in elec­man made him best-suited television networks. made months ago. tions open to independents. for heading off a recession. Sen. Hillary Rodham "Those decisions will be He campaigned with the sup­McCain also was benefiting Clinton won the Democratic made after the nomination, port of the state's two top from the support of self­race, an event that drew no not before," Obama told Republican elected officials, described moderates, as well campaigning by any of the reporters Tuesday on a plane Gov. Charlie Crist and Sen. as older voters and contenders -and awarded from Washington to Kansas. Mel Martinez. Hispanics. Giuliani ran sec­no delegates to the winner. "Obviously, I care a lot about 
Romney's only primary win ond among Latino voters, The Democratic primary the people in Michigan and a so far was in Michigan, a according to preliminary exit was controversial by its very lot about the people in state where he grew up and poll data. existence, an act of defiance Florida. And I want their claimed a home-field advan­Romney was favored by against national party offi­votes in the general election. tage. He also has caucus vic­voters opposed to abortion cials who wanted it held later We'll be actively campaigning tories to his credit in and to easing the path to citi-in the year. for them." 

KENYA 

Violence continues in once-stable nation 
Associated Press 

his head was off." unrest." 
The international community is pres­"We must not look back years from 
NAIROBI -Kenya, once a leader in suring Kibaki and his chief rival Raila now and wonder how and why things the region, is following neighbors like Odinga -who is a member of the Luo were permitted to go so horribly Somalia down a path of disintegration, tribe -to share power to end the cri­wrong," Obama said in a statement he with no solution in sight as burning sis over the disputed presidential elec­read on Capital FM radio. slums and thousands fleeing in fear tion. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice alter the nation's ethnic map -per­Former U.N. Secretary-General Kofi called the violence "deeply concern­haps forever. Annan is negotiating, but says it will ing," saying, "We are currently asking 
Police in helicopters on Tuesday fired take a year just to settle on a plan for everyone to maintain calm." to turn back mobs. Gunmen killed resolving the deep-rooted problems Political disputes in Kenya often opposition legislator Mugabe Were, that caused anger over the election to mushroom into ethnic dashes, but and slums where a tense peace had turn to murderous hate between neigh­never before with the ferocity that has held for days exploded with machete­bors of decades. left more than 800 people dead since wielding gangs setting fire to homes Barack Obama, the Democratic pres­the Dec. 27 election that the interna­and businesses owned by President idential candidate whose father was tional community and many Kenyans Mwai Kibaki's Kikuyu people. Kenyan, made a plea for peace agree had a rigged vote tally. 
Sabat Abdullah, a slum resident, said Tuesday, saying "Kenya has come too It was only the second free election in a gang dragged a Kikuyu doctor from far to throw away decades of progress Kenya, which suffered decades under his clinic "and then cut and cut until in a storm of violence and political one-party and authoritarian rule. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, January 30, 2008 

Election 
continued from page 1 
knocking on doors, posting fly­ers in restrooms and hallways and asking tlwir 1'1dlow students to vote on Saint Mary's PHISM WPIJ site-Monday. 
"Eve-n though tlwrn is only onn tickl't, ttwy are working just as hard as if thnre were fiVI) tickets." exPcutive director of elections Maggie Siefert said last Thursday. 
Grust:inski said she thought tlw pair's ell'orts "really helped voter turnout." 
The BOG also tried to iniTIHtse voter turnout by set­ting up a booth-like station in tlw Student Center where stu­dPnts nnlld east their votes. 
Plat:ing the booth in the atri­um, Sidert said, helped "to recruit more voters and to ere­ate a lwtter awareness of the polities of the Saint Mary's stu­dent government." 
Siefert, who was stationed at the booth, said she had seen a "very good" turnout. 
Falvey said she was happy with the number of students that participated in the elec­tions this year. 
If a majority of students abstained, it would have been a first in school history-and c;rusdnski and Falvey would have not benn able to take ollkn nnxt yPar. 
Sie-fert said slw was unsure how that situation would have bnnn handlml since there is no prn1:ndent for such a scenario. 
But those quBstions didn't botlwr Gruscinski and Falvey. lnstnad, tlwy foeused on the coming y1Htr. 
"It's surreal right now, since I'm just getting used to the fl)el­ing, but it is a very good feel­ing," (;ruseinski said. 
Falvny agrnPd, saying she's "a bit in shock" and eager to start working on the goals that made up tlwir platform during the campaign. 
Those ideas inelude extend­ing the Stud1mt Cnnter hours of opnration and improving the wirnlnss lntnnwt connection. 
"I think I'd like to work on getting wirelnss Internet in all tlw dorms. It's probably going to takn a lot of work, so the soonm wn ean got started the bl'ttnr," Falvey said. "We also have somP idPas under wraps that we want to get the ball rolling on." 
Contact Liz Harter eharteO I @saintmarys.edu 
..·::~'2:}' .. 
',.,.. ·· .. .'
63.1.>-i
.; 



l5323. 

IRAQ 
Insurgents blast U.S. patrol with roadside bo111b 
Five American soldiers killed in explosion, raising Pentagon's January death count to 36 
Associated Press 
BACIIDAD -In a daring ambush, insurgent<> blasted a U.S. patrol with a roadside bomb Monday and showered survivors with gunfire from a mosque in increasingly lawless Mosul. Five American soldiers were killed in the explosion -even as Iraqi troops moved into the northern eity to challenge ai-Qaida in Iraq. 
Iraqi reinforcements, along with helicopters, tanks and armored vehicles, converged on Mosul for what Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki pledged would be a dedsive battle against al-Qaida in it<> last major urban stronghold. 
The attack on the U.S. patrol ­the deadliest on American forces since six soldiers perished Jan. 9 in a booby-trapped house north of Baghdad -raised the Pentagon's January death count to at least 36. 
The toll so far is 56 percent higher than December's 23 U.S. 
military deaths and marks the first monthly increase since August. But the figures remain well below monthly death tolls of more than 100 last spring. 
Tensions in Mosul, Iraq's third largest city, have spiked after the explosion last week in an aban­doned apartment that authorities say was used to stash insurgents' weapons and bombs. As many as 60 were killed and 200 injured. 
The unrest in Mosul stands in sharp relief to a significant decline in bloodshed most else­where in Iraq in recent months. The relative calm has been cred­ited to a U.S.-led security crack­down -along with a Sunni revolt against al-Qaida in Iraq and a cease-fire order by radical Shtite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr for his powerful Mahdi Army militia. 
But influential members of al­Sadr's movement said Monday they have urged the anti-U.S. cleric to call off the six-month cease-fire when it expires in February -a move that could jeopardize the security gains. 
In Mosul, the attackers struck in the southeastern Sumar neigh­borhood, a middle-class district popular with former oflicers in Saddam Hussein's military and now a suspected hotbed for the insurgency. 
After the roadside bomb blew apart the American vehicle ­killing the five soldiers -gunmen opened fire from a mosque. A fierce gunbattle erupted as U.S. and Iraqi soldiers secured the area, the military said. Iraqi troops entered the mosque but the insurgents had already fled, according to a statement. 
"The insurgents are willing to desecrate a place of worship by using it to attack soldiers to fur­ther their agenda," said Maj. Peggy Kageleiry, a U.S. military spokeswoman in northern Iraq. 
There was other flghting in the neighborhood. An Iraqi oflicer, speaking on condition of anonymity bncause he was not authorized to release tlw infor­mation, said thrne civilians worn wounded and helicopters bom­barded buildings in the district, the scene of frequent attacks on 

U.S. and Iraqi I(Jrces. 
Also Monday. insurgnnts attacked f(Jur policemen heading home from work south of Mosul. killing two and wounding the other two, Ninevnh provincial police said. 
U.S. commanders have described Mosul as the last major Iraqi city with a significant ai­Qaida presence, although they have warned that insurgents remain a potnnt force in rural areas south and northeast of Baghdad. 
But the military has said Iraqi security forces will take the lead in the city-a major test of Washington's plans to someday shrink the American force and leave it as backup for Iraqi secu­rity forces. 

New Year's Resolutions for 2008 
1. 
I will download and run NO's free antivirus and antispyware software. 

2. 
I won't share my password with anyone. 

3. 
I will dispose of bank statements and credit card bills/offers using a crosscut shredder. 


Visit secure.nd.edu for more information. 
Are you secure? 
-------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, January 30, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  12,480.30  +96.41  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,243  108  1,071  4,235,698,887  
AMEX  2,~14.81  +16.39  

NASDAQ 2,358.06 +8.15 NYSE 9,046.02 +67.61 S&P 500 1,362.60 +8.33 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 131439.63·· +39.23i FTSE 100 (London) 5,885.20 -96.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.50 +0.67 135.91 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.18 +0.08 44.41 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +1.53 +0.43 28.58 CITIGROUP INC (C) +0.94 +0.26 27.91 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +2.01 +0.072 3.658 13-WEEK BILL -0.45 -0.010 2.205 30-YEAR BOND +1.26 +0.054 4.336 5-YEAR NOTE +2.84 +0.079 2.857 


Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.65 91.64 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.00 930.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.60 90.85 
Exchange Rates YEN 106.7900 EURO 0.6773 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9988 BRITISH POUND 0.5023 

IN BRIEF FBI, SEC target 14 companies for fraud 
WASHINGTON -The Federal Bureau of Investigation on Tuesday said it is investigating 14 companies for possible fraud or insider trad­ing violations in connection with loans made to risky borrowers, and investments spun off of those loans. 
Agency officials did not identify the companies under investigation but said the wide-ranging probe, whicb began in spring 2007, involves companies across the industry, from mortgage lenders to financial firms that bundle home loans into securities sold to investors. 
The FBI is working in conjunction with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Neil Power, chief of the FBI's economic crimes unit in Washington. said during a briefing with reporters. 
The development comes as authorities in New York and Connecticut investigate whether Wall Street banks hid crucial information about high­risk loans bundled into securities that were sold to investors. 
Power said federal authorities are looking into the practices of so-called subprime lenders, as well as potential accounting fraud committed by financial firms that hold subprime loans on their books or securitize them and sell them to other investors. 
Oversight of Microsoft continues 
WASHINGTON -Federal oversight of Microsoft Corp.'s market power, which began in 2002 after a landmark antitrust settlement. has been extended by 18 months. 
The court's ruling "should not be viewed as a sanction against Microsoft," U.S. District Court Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly said late Tuesday. She said her decision was based on delays by Microsoft in filing technical documents related to the licensing of its software. 
Ten states, led by New York and California, urged the court last year to extend its oversight until 2012. The Bush administration did not join the states' request. The Justice Department said Microsoft had complied with the settlement and it should be allowed to expire. 
Microsoft's shares fell 8 cents to $32.52 in after-hours trading, after dropping 12 cents to close at $32.60. 

House easily passes tax rebate bill 
Passage in Senate is less certain; Democrats, Republicans eye possible modifications 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The House voted Tuesday to rush rebates of $600­$1,200 to most taxpayers, but a partisan battle brewed in the Senate over Democrats' efforts to add jobless aid and help for the poor to the economic stim­ulus package. 
The House plan, approved 385-35 after lit­tle debate, would send rebates to some 111 mil­lion families and give tax breaks to businesses, cost­ing $161 billion over two years. 
President Bush and House leaders urged the Senate to take the biparti­san agreement and pass it quickly. Sen. Max Baucus, the Senate Finance Committee chairman, planned a Wednesday vote in his panel on a $196 bil­lion package that could faee a slower path to pas­sage. 
"The temptation is going to be for the Senate to load it up," Bush said in the Oval Office. "My concern is that we need to get this bill out of the Senate and on my desk." 

Baucus' measure adds $35 billion for senior citi­zens and the unemployed, divergent plans -and bids Medicaid and heating "This is a time to show and shrinks the rebate to by Senate Democrats and assistance for low-income we can rise above parti­$500 for individuals and some Republicans to people and spending on sanship, do something $1,000 for couples. It enlarge the package with infrastructure projects, important and do it quick­would deliver checks even more add-ons --: could among other things. ly," McConnell said. "The to the richest taxpayers, drag out that schedule. "I think that there's 51 only way to achieve that who are disqualified under House Speaker Nancy Democratic senators with­would be to take up and the House-passed meas­Pelosi, D-Calif., said she out exception who believe pass the House-passed ure. hoped the Senate would this package can be made bill." 
Congressional leaders "take this bill and run with better," Reid said, adding The House plan brought are aiming to send the it." that he also expected to together Democrats and package to Bush by Feb. Senate Majority Leader have substantial GOP sup­Republicans, both of whom 
15. The goal was to start Harry Reid, D-Nev., said port for changes. surrendered cherished mailing out rebate checks that was unlikely in the Sen. Mitch McConnell, R­proposals to reach a deal. in May and to have most of freewheeling Senate, Ky., the minority leader, Pelosi cautioned against them to taxpayers by July where members in both signaled he would try to adding items that could so that people would spend parties have elaborate block Baucus' measure hinder an economic recov­the money and kick-start a wish-lists for adding to the and prevent senators from ery or scuttle the biparti­slumping economy. But the bill, including food stamps, adding items. san agreement. 


Market up as interest rate cut looms 
Economic data will continue to be percent, up from 3.58 percent late
Associated Press 
scrutinized as investors try to determine Monday, and rose to 3.68 percent in 

NEW YORK -Wall Street advanced what the Fed's take is on the economy. after-hours trading. sharply Tuesday as the Federal Reserve Investors are angling for a half-point cut The dollar was mixed against most opened a two-day meeting expected to following an emergency three-quarter­major currencies, and gold prices fell. bring another interest rate cut to revi­point cut last week. Oil prices moved higher as traders talize the U.S. economy. "The market is just in a holding pat­waited to see what the Fed's next move 
The Fed's rate decision is clearly the tern," said Todd Leone, managing direc­will be. A barrel of light sweet crude market's focus this week, and trading tor of equity trading at Cowen & Co. "It rose 65 cents to $91.64 a barrel on the has been marked by investors' conjec­seems we've hit a short-term bottom, New York Mercantile Exchange. tures about policymakers' thoughts on and the market has been stabilizing as Wall Street has been extremely the weak economy and crunched finan­we wait to hear what the Fed says.'' volatile in recent weeks amid fears of a cial industry. With an announcement The Dow Jones industrial average U.S. recession and further write-downs not expected until Wednesday after­rose 96.41, or 0.78 percent, to in the financial sector. However, that noon, the market in the meantime 12,480.30. The blue chip index closed has given way to a inore quiet tone this digested data on earnings, consumer near its high of the day. week as investors looked for their sec­
·spending and durable goods. Broader indexes also rose. The ond-straight day of gains before the 
Investors did get some encourage­Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 8.34, Fed's decision. 
ment about the economy after the or 0.62 percent, to 1,362.30, and the Central bankers are widely expected 
Commerce Department said orders for Nasdaq composite advanced 8.15, or to lower its key rate, now at 3.5 percent, 
big-ticket items rose 5.2 percent in 0.35 percent, to 2,358.06. by as much as one-half percentage 
December, the widest jump in five Government bond prices fell as stocks point to 3 percent when policymakers 
months. In addition, the Conference rose, indicating that investors feel less wrap up on Wednesday. This will be the 
Board reported consumer confidence need for the safety of Treasurys. The last meeting for seven weeks, but that 
fell in January-pretty much as 10-year Treasury note's yield, which doesn't rule out another emergency cut 
expected. moves opposite its price, was at 3.66 in the meantime. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, January 30, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Consumer social responsibility 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EormR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
N~ws EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VU:WI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EmTOR: Katie Kohler 
I'HOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
All 0F$IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 63I-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 6.) 1-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('i74) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-454I obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-'i303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphow@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
IHE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudenrs ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institmion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrent. 
The news is reported as acatrately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majori ry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe ()bserver. 
Vit·wpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questio11s rrgarding Observerpolicits should be. directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Ha11na. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'11Jc Oh."Crvt•r (USI•S ~9!) 2-4HOU) '' puhltshed Mntltlay thrnltgh rrid:~y CX!.:tpf d1triug C~/11 ;and \1.1<,.,\tiUil l~rin·L~. A 111i~npriun to '11w ob~crvt:r ill' $1 no I(Jr nne ;u:adcmk 
ye;~r;$~~ filfllllC'ICIIIOICf. 

The Ob,ervcr it puhlidtcd .u PmTMASTER 014 Suuth Dining! !all Send Jddrcss corrcctioll!i to: Nmrc D.unc, IN <\MS6-0n9 The Observer Pctiodk;~l pn~rJ.,_>c p;lid ill Nom: DJmc r.o Sox 779 .md ;additintul rno~tiHtg offices. 014 Sourh Dining Hall 
Notre D;~mc, IN 46'5'56-0n9 
!"he Ohkrvc:r 1~ o1 member ul the ~ICt.ll~ P~. AU reprodm:uun nglus iUC 

te.~crvcJ. 
Big business has gotten a bad rap. No doubt some of it is well deserved. From the Enron and WorldCom scan­dals in the early part of this decade to the recent trend of rewarding failing CEOs with absurd severance pack­Zach Einterz ages, Americans have good reason 
Bulletproof
to feel a profound 
Ideas
distrust for many of our largest cor­porations. However, some of our vitriol seems to be directed at the wrong companies for the wrong reasons. It's popular to bemoan the profits and tac­tics of Big Oil, the auto industry, Wal­Mart or Starbucks, because these companies are large and seemingly indomitable. But what are we really complaining about? 
Is it the fault of.the oil companies that we are destroying our environ­ment? Can we blame Starbucks for putting all or our independent coffee­houses out of business? Businesses are dictated by profit margins, and the bottom line is largely determined by consumers. Most businesses are mere­ly providing the products and services demanded by the average American. Instead of blaming big business for all of our evils, perhaps we should be reassessing our own consumer habits. 
We are blessed to live in a country that has relatively little business and consumer regulation. By and large, we are free to purchase whatever we want from whomever we want. But as the old saying goes, "with freedom comes responsibility." Since we are free to choose, we have the responsi­bility to make wise consumer choices. Many of us blame all the evils in the world on large corporations because that's a lot easier than coming to grips with our personal responsibility as consumers. We blame the oil compa­nies for gouging us at the pump, yet few of us make any effort to reduce our fuel consumption. We still drive solo to work and are reluctant to trade in our SUV for a compact car. Or we blame Wal-Mart for contributing to an evil consumer culture, yet most of us still shop there because we know it has the best prices. Corporations are criticized for only caring about profit and trying to nickel and dime their operations, yet our consumer spending habits are no different from the busi­ness habits of these corporations. We often buy the cheapest good without regard to the social repercussions of our purchase. We talk a lot about cor­porate social responsibility, but very little is said about consumer social responsibility. 

As consumers, and as drivers of the bottom line, our spending habits affect the business practices of corporations. For example, many companies are making more efforts at sustainability due to increased demand from con­sumers for "green" products. Consumer boycotts can also be effec­tive tools to affect social change·. Life Decisions International has been suc­cessful in organizing boycotts of cor­porate contributors to Planned Parenthood, forcing many corpora­tions to give up this "charitable" fund­ing practice. When Don Imus made his racially charged remarks last year, it wasn't the FCC that booted him ol'f' the air. Bather, firms withdrew their advertising from CBS Hadio after sponsors were threatened with a boy­cott. And the decisions of Taco Bell and McDonald's to increase wages for tomato pickers did not come about through government regulations. It occurred because thousands of Americans protested and threatened to spend their money elsewhere. When consumers show corporations that we won't tolerate environmental destruc­tion, racism, low wages or abortion, and if we act accordingly, then corpo­rations will change to meet our stan­dards. 
In addition to our responsibility as consumers, we also have a responsi­bility as prospective employees. As many of you prepare for the Career Fair this afternoon, I urgn you to con­sider the typ(l of firm you want to work for. In addition to asking reeruiters about your opportunities for advancement, ask them how their firm gives back to the eommunity. Assess their business praetiees using your own values and don't be too tempted to aeeept a job just boca use it has a high compensation. Many·of us will have to frnndom to choose to work for multipl11 different firms. With freedom comes responsibility. 
Zach Hinterz is a senior majoring in economics and environmental sci­ences. Contact him at zeinterz@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
I t;E£ YOU CAST YOUR 64'-lOT WPAY. 
"NOW I HAVE
YOU'RE. W~RtNG ONE: 
THE RIGHT

OF TU();E Llffi~ \\I VOTE{;>''%CKa5. TO COMPLAIN:' 
WHAT'S TH~T ..........._ 
OTHER LliTL~ ?fiCKER~Y? 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Mareela Berrios Sports Are you more excited about the Madeline Buckley Bill Brink 
Notre Dame men's basketball 
John Tierney Sam Werner 
camouflage night or blackout

Graphics Meaghan Veselik "Clothes make the man. Naked 
Madeline Nies Scene night? people have little or no influence 
· on society"
Viewpoint Tae Andrews John Dailey 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at Mark Twain 
Author
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 30, 2008 page 9 
Save the 'knuckle children' 
In a recent edition of our tine student paper, The Observer. the Viewpoint con­tained an editorial on behalf of the March for Life, written by our esteemed professor emeritus Charles Rice ("Embrace Life," 
Brooks Smith 

Jan. 23). In this editorial, 
Professor Rice 
Guest 

explained the 
Columnist

moral and theo­logical evils inher­ent in what he termed "the contracep­tive ethic" in general, and the legaliza­tion of abortion in particular. The article as a whole is a beacon of holy light in a country currently shrouded in secular darkness, and an important step in the right direction. However, as much as I admire Professor Rice's courage in standing up for the rights of the millions · of unborn who are aborted every year ­those who are "nonpersons" as seen through the distorted lenses worn by our cynical, worldly lawmakers and judges -I feel that he does not go far enough in defending the rights of the unborn. 
Although he recognizes that "Contraception affirms that man
00. 00. 

[of both sexes]. rather than God, is the arbiter of whether and when human life shall begin. If you claim the right to decide when life begins you will pre­dictably claim the right to decide when it ends," he fails to see that his own focus on the evils of abortion and abortifa­cients is itself a delineator of "when life 
begins" -according to him, at concep­
tion. In this error, he is joined by most of 
the Catholic Church. I would argue that 
this is too late: that life; or its potential, begins far earlier than conception -at the creation of sperm and eggs in the testes and ovaries. 
Each of these tiny little cells has the potential for jointure and the creation of life. The importance of making sure that these cells carry out their mission is made clear in the Bible, where in Deuteronomy we see God strike down a man named Onan for the crime of "spilling his seed upon the ground." But abstinence, no less than masturbation, is a moral failing as well, for it does not recognize the intrinsic value of every human life -potential, conceived or born -instead subjecting gametes to death for the sake of social acceptance. 
Clearly the moral attitudes of the vast majority of the United States are intrin­sically disordered with respect to the unconceived millions, the potential pop­ulace. The girls who menstruate away their fertile ova, the boys who thought­lessly fire off knuckle children without even considering donating their unwant­ed semen to a sperm bank, the adults and doctors who encourage them to use condoms and IUDs -all perform a sep­aration far more sinister than the sepa­ration of the unitive and procreative purposes of sex: the separation of the very ingredients of life. The genocide­for there is no other word for murder on such an enormous scale -that results from such attitudes is simply horrifying: the wasted gametes that one 13-year-old boy expels in a month would make enough people to colonize and terraform the Moon, and send a sizable expedition to Mars besides. 
I also rebuke our social scientists: 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dismantle hate 

I was shocked to read the e-mail sent deleted, but that does not begin to rec­by Father Jenkins on Friday afternoon. tify the harsh reality of hate. As an African American student and As a member of the African person it was devastating to know that American community, racism is part of such hateful letters were sent to resi­my history and the history of the dence halls on campus. They tried to United States. It is part of the reality of shirk ol'f the remarks contained in the my life everyday. It is a disparaging letters, but I couldn't. force because not only does it manifest 
I thought about the letters all week­in the form of vicious actions, but it end and how they insinuated the infe­becomes a mentality from which peo­riority of African Americans. You could ple view the world. say that this attitude, this comment .In a couple of days Black History belongs in the 1950s <,Lnd 1960s whfln Month will begin. My hope is that dur­raeial debate was at the forefront of ing the month of February we as a our national agenda. The truth is that Notre Dame community celebrate the this type of destructive hate still per­achievements of African Americans sists in our world and gains power in and do not allow hate to dampen this the minds of individuals simply by time. The words written in those let­reading these remarks. ters were powerful in the sense that 
As much as I know that African they sparked an awareness of a view Americans are not inferior to other of African Americans. races, the preposterous idea rolled I hope that we can regain that power around in my head throughout the in constructive conversations about weekend; I realized how powerful understanding and dismantle the hate words are because they enter your the continues to cloud discussions mind and become a point of reference about race. whether or not they are true. 
We as a Notre Dame community can Lauren Lyman try to believe that racism does not sophomore exist, that the letters can be discarded, Howard Hall that the e-mail last Friday can be Jan. 29 
their focus on such evils as "war" and "poverty" leaves no room for the more important problem of uniting the men of the world with the women. If all the sperm and all the eggs were paired off as God intended, the loss of a few hun­dred thousand or a few million in this war or that natural disaster would be as a drop in the ocean of happy, healthy, fruitfully multiplying people who would cover the planet as thickly as the stars in the skies. 
But while it pains me to say it, the Catholic Church offers no solutions, only problems, to the conundrum of the unborn. Their stance on masturbation, bolstered by their conclusive scientific research proving that frequent self­abuse leads to headaches, loss of eye­sight, excess hair on the palms, and poor study habits, is laudable; but they offer no better direction for the young men and women of America than absti­nence-an equally poor line of action, and one which will likely lead to legions more of the unconceived perishing. 
Also, theologians of all denominations fail to address an important point: what happens to the souls of the unconceived? Do they go to heaven? Are they doomed to hell? Docs eternal limbo await them, these sinless little sperm and eggs? Or is there another spiritual locale entirely, known only to God and the cherubs and seraphs, where these poor halflings pass their dreary eternities? No religion yet established, as far as I know, addresses these essential questions. 
I recognize that, as a sexually absti­nent young man, I am no less guilty than others of this crime against the potential people. Untold millions of spermatozoa live and die within the confines of my gonads every month. How many Einsteins, how many Jeffersons and Franklins, how many Platos and Aristotles pass into oblivion through my selfish lack of sexual activity? What might this world be if I had sowed my wild oats like a good boy, instead of keeping my struggling seed imprisoned within my testicles to preserve our con­fused and immoral society's good opin­ion of myself? 
There is only one remedy I can see for this terrible state of affairs. Starting tomorrow, I will go around to each of the 13 girls' dorms on campus. I will take down names on clipboards, painstaking­ly penciling each one in for a particular time slot; and when that time comes, I will do my best to create a new life in each one of these hitherto barren wombs. I will accept no thanks for this heavy chore, for it is but my holy voca­tion to atone for the unconceived babies I slew. It is my sincere hope that the females ofNotre Dame, and later, of St. Mary's, will find it in their hearts to acceptthis extraordinary task, laid upon each one of us by the Lord in Heaven; and that my fellow male students will also do their part to stamp out the scourge of abstinence from our fair cam­pus. 
Brooks Smith is a math major and a member ofthe Class of2011. Hecan be reached at bsmith26@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TheDLonNFP 
Robert Mt:Keon erred greatly in his the form of children. January 23rd letter ("Contraception does­Thus the sexual act has two inseparable n't equal abortion") by equating artificial purposes: bonding and babies. To separate and natural family planning methods them artificially is intrinsically wrong as it (NFP). violates the divinely ordained nature and 
There are stark differences between the purpose of the act. When an act is intrinsi­two. NFP poses no health threats, while cally wrong, no good intention can justify it. artificial eontraception can double Catholic teaching does not mandatP a women's risk of depression, increase risk couple to unite with each other at a giwn of breast cancer, blood clots, bone density frequency and abstinence does not artifi­loss, weight gain, nausea and decreased cially separate these two purpos1~s. Thus . sex drive. as 1-lumanae Vitae states, it is licit for cou­
NFP, while challenging, leads to the ples to use NFP for "serious reasons." If development of virtue in marriage and NFP is used for arbitrary reasons with an deepened respect for one's spouse's total anti-life, anti-children attitude, it is morally gift of self, fertility and all. Contraception wrong. can lead to use of one's spouse as an o~ject The Church opposes contraception of pleasure and children can be seen as because it attacks tl1e heart of God's plan optional rather than the natural fruit of a for the world -that man and woman · healthy marriage. share in his love by imaging Him through 
Most importantly, these methods differ joyful, fruitful union. The Church does not morally. Man and woman fully image God desire to "deprive us of our sexual being," in the total gift of themselves to each other but to guide us to the full enjoyment of our in marriage. The sexual act is the outward sexuality by living in the freedom of the sign and consummation of the marital Truth. vows. Because the nature oflove is to over­flow (in God, who is love, the bond of the Caitlin Shaughnessy Dwyer Father and the Son overflows in the third alumna person of the Trinity), the love of a hus­Class of 2006 band and wife is designed to overflow in Jan.29 


With no Golden Globes awards ceremony to showcase designer gowns"'tm the red carpet, the stars of movies and tnlevision brought as much glitz and glamour as they
1 
could muster te 
Sunday night's Cassandra 
Semen Actors 

Claire Belek
Guild Awards. 
But even though 
Scene &
the guild was 
Heard
celebrating its 
75th anniversary, 
its 14th annual awards ceremony 
was underwhelming. 
There were few surprises on the TV side of the awards. Edie Falco and James Gandoltini both won lead acting awards for their roles on "The Sopranos," a fitting end to a television award season that has shut out the two actors. "The Sopranos" won Outstanding Performance by an E~,mble in a Drama Series, even though "l'vlad Men" took home the Golden Globe for best drama series. But the win for the mob drama still came as no surprise after the wins for Falco and Gandolfini -and after the series' win at the Emmys in September. 
Alec Baldwin and Tina Fey won top acting awards for their hilari­ous work on "30 Hock," but in an unexpected win, "The Office" took home the award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a 
"It's always been the work of other actors, and there are many actors in this room tonight, including my fellow nominees who have given that sense ofregeneration, and Heath Ledger gave it to me." 
Daniel Day-Lewis "There Will Be Blood" 

Comedy Series. "30 Hock" won the 
Emmy for best comedy series and 
has since been picking up the 
momentum that "The Office" had 
been losing before the writers' 
strike. 

Even though the evening offered few surprises, the awards show locked down four Oscar races. Daniel Day-Lewis ("There Will Be Blood") won Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Hole, Julie Christie ("Away From Her") won Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role, Javier Bardem ("No Country for Old Men") won Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Hole and "No Country for Old Men" won Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture. The three actors are almost guaranteed Oscar wins, and the momentum behind "No Country for Old Men" is nearly unstO;Jt)<l hie. 
OnP or the few Oscar races still wide open is Best Supporting Actress. While Ruby Dee ("American Gangster") took home the SAG award, Cate Blanchett · (''I'm Not There") won the Golden Globe, and Amy Ryan ("Gone Baby Gone") won the Critics Choice Award and awards from multiple cities' critic assodations. 
The evening's acceptance speech­es were more touching than humorous. The exception was Tina Fey, who said, "If you've seen me on the show with Alec Baldwin, then you know it's sort of like watching Fred Astaire dance with a hat rack. And after a while, you're like, 'Oh, that hat rack is pretty good, too.' So, you've given an award to the hat rack, and I thank you." 
In the most emotional moment of the evening, Day-Lewis, who had previously spoken out about the death of Heath Ledger on "The Oprah Winfrey Show," dedicated 
"If you've seen me on the show with Alec Baldwin, then you know it's sort oflike watching Fred Astaire dance with a hat rack. And after a while, you're like, 'Oh, that hat rack is pretty good, too.' So, you've given an award to the hat rack, and I thank you." 
Tina Fey "30 Rock" 
his award to the deceased young actor who he never knew. "It's always been the work of other actors, and there are many actors in this room tonight, including my fellow nominees who have given that sense of regeneration, and Heath Ledger gave it to me," he said. Day-Lewis praised Ledger's performance in "Monster's Ball" and said he was "perfect" in "Brokeback Mountain." He added, "And that scene in the trailer at end of the film is as moving as any-j 
-ailing that I think I've ever seen." 

· The ceremony also had to add Ledger to the deceased tribute at the' last moment. At the end of the evening, the SAG Awards remained little more than an entertaining diversion and a chance to see Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt on the carpet. The upsets were sparse, the awards show cemented the Oscar dreams -<lf a few hopefuls. And unless the Oscars are saved from cancellation, the SAG Awards may have been the last celebratory event of the award season. 
Contact Cassandra Claire Belek at cbelek@nd. edu · 
The views expressed in Scene Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TI-··IE OBSERVER 





CENE 
Scene Writer 
For music groups lumped into the "jam-band" category, studio albums are usually an afterthought. It is the live show that is crucial for groups sueh as Dave Matthews Band and the Grateful Dead. A band is judged in the jam-band community not by how well it mixes its tracks in some cramped New York City studio, but how innovative it can be on stage with guitar solos and melodic synco­pation, night after night. 
For moe. -Yes, that's the correct spelling for the uninitiated -being a great jam-band comes easy. Since forming at the University of Buffalo in 1990, moe. has released live and studio albums on its own independ­ent label. The band has developed a national fan base and has become a favorite at music festivals like Bonnaroo and Vegoose. 
Last week, moe. released "Sticks and Stones," a new studio album that features eight songs from the band that have never been performed live and two previously unreleased songs. On its previous albums, moe. released compilation albums of live material and fan-favorites played on the road. Albums such as "The Conch" (2007) and "Wormwood" 



Sticks and Stones 
moe. Released by: Fatboy Records 

(2003) were stellar· examples of the group's instrumental prowess, but it is "Sticks and Stones" that finally shows the band·~ ability to make magic happen outside of a live stage. 
For "Sticks and Stones," moe. recruited producer John Siket, who is well-known for his skilled production work on previous albums by Phish, Dave Matthews Band and Dispatch. Siket also worked with moe. on its previous records, including stand-out album "Dither," released in 2001. "Sticks and Stones" was recorded in three-weeks in an old New England church house. The effect of the set­ting is heard on the first track, "Cathedral," which has epic guitar melodies interspersed with a dynam­ic rhythm section. 
Various overdubs and final mixing were done at the world-renowned Allaire Studios in the Catskill Mountains. Mastering was handled by the legendary, Grammy Award­winning Bob Ludwig (Led Zeppelin, The Rolling Stones, Beck, Pearl Jam). This is an album where the produc­tion has enhanced the band's music -giving resonance to tunes such as "Queen of Everything" that capture moe. at its best, evoking both the Dead and classic rock bands from the 
1970~. 

"The material differs quite a bit from 'The Conch' and ,Wormwood,"' 
guitarist AI Schnier told 
the pre:;s in Novemb~r 
during · productio.n. "[Those albums] which were largely cultivBia'ld from songs nurtur"d through live improvisa­
tion." Schnier added th·at
Recommended Tracks: "Cathedral," "AJI 

"the songs that comprise
Roads Lead to Home" & "Raise a Glass'· 

"Sticks and Stones" a::-e much straighter, like many classic songs in the moe. canon, and have a roots rock quality to them, as opposed to the more progressive rock element of "The Conch." 
The group does not let itself get carried away on "Sticks and Stones," clocking the album at under 40 min­utes and sticking to concise songwrit­ing over the ambiguous but colorful live music for which they are known. Undoubtedly, the music from this. album will be fleshed out in a live setting this spring and summer to the delight of the band's enthusiastic fans. But for first-time listeners to this New England jam-band, "Sticks and Stones" is a tasty appetizer. 
Although the band has been around for close to eighteen years, its sound is truly coming into its own with "Sticks and Stones," with the\. band's new songs having an accessi-; bility and maturity that hasn't l revealed itself on every past moe.j album. "All Roads Lead To Home" is l a wonderful pop-rock track that il 
showcases moe.'s songwriting ability. ' Another great tune is "Raise A Glass," which shows the band loves to have some fun, blending Celtic grooves with good-natured vocal har­monies. 
The band is an independent band that releases its material on its own label. shunning any guidance from a major-label. Still, "Sticks and Stone" has a professional gloss that actually benefits the at times disorganized jam-band sound of moe. .. 
Over the years the band has devel­oped a reputation as down-to-earth and eager to collaborate within the jam-band community. Guest musi­cians on "Sticks and Stones" include Cornmeal's Allie Kral playing violin and viola on "Cathedral," "Conviction Song," "September" and "Raise A Glass". Emilio China also played vio­lin on "Cathedral." Notre Dame alumni and fellow-jam band Umphrey's McGee added backing vocals to "Raise A Glass," and Nadine Lafond lends additional vocals on several songs. 
• .. 

' ' 
' \ 
"· 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 30, 2008 
NBA 


Without Garnett and Allen, Celts still win big 
Nets end 9-game skid against Milwaukee; Jamison leads Wizards to OT victory over Bosh, Raptors 
Associated Press 

MIAMI -Ray Allen arrived at halftime, a white sweat jacket over his flu-riddled head, and took a glimpsfl toward the scorn­board. 
lie probably fPlt much better. 

Boston's 'Big 3' wenl almost silent, and the Celtics still put a big bnating on the haplnss Miami IIeat. 
Leon Powe scored a career­high 25 points, Hajon Hondo tied a career-high with 23 poinL<; and Tony Allen matched a season­host with 20 points as the NBA­best Celt.ics rolled to a 117-87 victory Tuesday night over the Heat -who followed the win that snapped their 15-game los­ing streak with an absolute clunker. 
"I'm embarrassed by the efl'ort," Heat coach Pat Hiley said. 
The Celtics played without Kevin Garnett (strained abdomi­nal musdel and Hay Allen (flu), and the third member of their star triumverate. Paul Pierce, was scoreless lor most of the first. half and finished with only seven points. 
Didn't matter. 

Boston led by 17 after one quarter, 31 in the second beforn settling for a 22-point edge at intermission. and wh1m Dwyane Wade checked out lor good with 
4:41 lel't. in the third quarter the Celtics were up 88-5:-J. 
"One of the things that we talked about before the game is that no one bnfore the game is that no one was going to be Ray Allen and no one is going to be Kevin Garnett," Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. "But all of them could do a little extra." 
They were listening. 
These numbers -51-36­told the story. That was Boston's edge in shooting percentage and rebounding. Former Heat guard Eddie House added 20 points for the Celtics, who improved to 35­8. 
"We got stops, we shared the ball and guys made plays," said former Heat forward James Posey, as he pulled his 2006 NBA championship ring out of his left pants pocket and fumbled with his specially-made culT links ­exact replicas of that ring. "If you do that on any team, you can have spurts like that." 
Mark Blount scored 20 points for Miami (9-34). which only matched its worst loss of the sea­son, thanks to Earl Barron's jumper with 4.8 seconds remain-


AP 

Heat forward Ricky Davis pulls down a rebound in the second quarter of Miami's 117-87 loss to the Celtics Tuesday night. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
-
ing. Luke Jackson scored 14 for 
the Heat. 
"It's almost as though t.he end­
ing of the losing streak pulled the 
plug," Hilny said. "Because we 
didn't bring anything." 
Wade finished with seven 
points on 1-for-9 shooting, and 
departed allnr the third quarter 
with flu-like symptoms. The Heat 
lost Udonis Haslem, who was the 
only Miami player to start all 43 
games, with a sprained lert ankle 
in the second quarter. 
llaslem left in a protective boot 
and will not play Wednesday 
night at Orlando. Wade's status 
for the game against the Magie 
won't be known until Wednesday 
morning. 
By the end, there wasn't much 
booing. 
Nets 87, Bucks 80 
Jason Kidd refused to say 
whether he wants out of New 
Jersey. First, he showed why the 
Nets won't just give him away. 
Kidd scored seven of his nine 
points in the tinal1:42 and added 
11 assists as the Nets snapped a 
nine-game losing streak with an 
vi<:tory over the Milwaukee Bucks 
on Tuesday night. 

Ignoring the distractions Kidd created a day earlier with his comments encouraging a trade, the Nets held the Bucks to 37.5 percent shooting and avoided their first double-digit skid sincP go. Blatclu~ had 19 points and 1~ight. dropping their final 11 games of "I enjoy it when the game is rnbounds in only his sm:ond start the 1999-00 season. dose," Kidd said. "to be a part of of thn season, and .Jamison lin­
"The guy has an unbelievable a play or makn a shot, and that is hod with 24 points and 20 ability to just focus and that's a hasn't changPd." rPbounds TuPsday night, leading large part of who he is," Nets Richard Jefferson scored 20 tlw Washington Wizards to an coach Lawrence Frank said. "We points and Vince Carter had 1(, overtime virtory ovnr the Toronto expected nothing less from him points and matched a season Haptors. and he obviously hit a big shot high with 12 rebounds for tlw "I knPw I had to bring it. and made big free throws." Nets. Bostjan Nachbar had t 4 becausn Caron's aw big shons to 
Kidd has been frustrated with points. fill." Blatrlw said. "After hitting the Nets' disappointing play and Royal lvey scored 19 points for my lirst shot. I knew I was going finally acknowledged Monday in the Bueks, who were without. to lw rolling." a story on ESPN.com that it leading scorer Michael Hedd for Chris Bosh lnd tlw way with 37 might be best to trade him. say-· the seeond straight game points and 12 rPhounds for tlw ing: "It used to b1~ if I got a tripln­bPcauso of a left knnP strain that Haptors. who traiiPd by as many double, that was an automatic will also keep him out of as 12 points in tlw fourth quart.nr. win. That's just not tJ1e easn now. Wednnsday's game at Anthony Parker's high-arching :~­We tried to makl' this work. Philadelphia. pointPr ruriNI into t.lw rwt as t.lw We've found out it doesn't. It's Mo Williams and Bobby rPgulation buzzPr soundPd. li•rr­time lilr us all to moVI'l on." Simmons eaeh addnd 14 points. ing the extra pnriod. 
The Nets aren't ready to do ";\ tough shot," .Jamison that just yet-Pspecially if it Wizards 108, Raptors 104, OT arknowiPdgPd. ";\ plwnonwnal mnans making a had deal. Ewn Andray Blatclw did what any shot.." with their skid. which inrluded 21-year-old understudy might do !\ bit slunHPd, thn Wizards six losses on a Westei·n after bPing told in the morning wnnt to tlw sidnlirll' not with f.onlerenee road trip. they are in he would nend to takP over a !wads hung low. but yPIIing at eighth place in the East. starring role that. night: I le wfml. nach otlwr that tlwy wnrn still ~Kidd wouldn't answl'r any home to rest up. going to win. And with Jamison 4uestions about his trade wishes. Relaxed and ready. Blatdw did scoring livP points in ovnrtinH', but showed why Nets fans -a line job filling in for an injurnd and I>eShawn StPvnnson making who cheered him before the Caron Butler. with plnnty of lwlp a key 3-pointnr. tlw Wizards did game despite the comments -from Antawn Jamison and oth­just that in a thrilling bal'k-and­would hate to see the point guard ers. li•rth gamP. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre I lame olllcc, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classificds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FoR SALE 
Fabulous condo 
walking distance to Notre Dame. 
open concept. completely remod­eled, 
granite countertops, bamboo hard­woods, Wi-Fi, 
approx. 1,350 sq.ft .. 2 bedrooms. 2 baths. 
Kristi Ryan. Re/Max 100. 574-532-2071 Oakhill Condo for Sale.Students will love living here and parents will love knowing their child is looked after and safe! Secure. upstairs. two-level furnished two-bedroom, two-bath condo unit with loft area. One thousand twenty·two square feet of beautifully redecorated living space-includes 42" HD flat screen TV and parking spaces in front of condo. Garages are available at an additional cost. Parking lot surveil­lance cameras. pool, clubhouse, water and rubbish removal included as part of the ownership package. Only $180 per month exterior main­tenance tees. Five minute walk or less to the Notre Dame campus, shopping and restaurants. Less than ten minutes to other hot spots and mall by car. $200,000. Only serious offers considered. 562-733­5166. 


FoR RENT 
3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2-car garage, 1Ox20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. tor Aug. 2008. 
Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 or 574-340-1844. 
Large house available for 2009­2010. Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ square teet,5 bathrooms. MacSwain@gmail.com 
705 NDAve. 3 Bedroom $1 ,000.00. 273-4889 Available 08/09 

HOUSE FOR RENT: 608 ND Ave., 
walk to campus. 3 Lg.bed/2bath, 
sleeps up to 5. Central Air, new appl., carpet, W/D, off street park­
ing. Call 620-704-4663.Biue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09, 09/1 0 Now offering "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com 

PERSONAL 

PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? 
You do not have to be alone. 
We want to help. 

Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 
If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­
7819. 
For more information. visit our web· site at: http:l/osa.nd.edu/depart­mentslpregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted. visit http:l/osa. nd .edu/depa rtments/rape. shtml 
ADOPTION -Catholic family will provide your baby with a life of unconditional love, opportunity & security. Exp paid, Ally involved. 1­888-833-8230. 
Happy Birthday Julia! Now that you are back from Brazil. I can't wail to meet you at Ruth's Chris for a SPECIAL Birthday treat.. Beijos pra voce, minha gatinha maravilhosa 
I read your article at 11 :47 p.m .. before the end of the d'ly, just like I promised Good job. by the way. 
I know it 1sn't very easy, when you find yourself out on your own. No it isn't very easy 
The Siegfried· Alumni hockey game Tuesday night was the most poorly officiated game in the long, sad his­tory of RecSports officiating. 
Thanks tor the hat, Joel 





OUND THE NATION 
Co1vtPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Wednesday, January 30, 2008 
page 13 
MLB
NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Boston 34·8 .810 5·5 Toronto 24-19 .558 7·3 10.5 New Jersey 18-26 .409 1·9 17 Philadelphia 17-28 .378 3·7 18.5 NewYork 14-29 .326 5-5 20.5 

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record perc . last 10 GB 
Detroit 3H3 .705 5·5 Cleveland 2H9 .558 8·2 6.5 Indiana 19·26 .422 3-7 12.5 Milwaukee 18·27 .400 3·7 13.5 Chicago 17·26 .395 4·6 13.5 

Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Orlando 28-18 .609 6-4 Washington 23-19 .548 6·4 3 Atlanta 18·22 .450 4·6 7 Charlotte 18-27 .400 5·5 9.5 Miami 9-33 .214 1·9 17 

Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record perc . last 10 GB 
utah 27-18 .600 9·1 Portland 23-19 .591 5-5 3 Denver 26-18 .591 5·5 7 Seattle 9-35 .205 0·10 9.5 Minnesota 8-35 .186 4-6 17 

Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
New Orleans 32-12 .727 9·1 Dallas 31-13 .705 8·2 1 san Antonio 28-15 .651 5-5 3.5 Houston 24-20 .545 7-3 8 

game," Mets third base­and the pitcher would Tuesday that he was
Associated Press 
Memphis 13-32 .289 3·7 19.5 

man David Wright said. have to formally waive accepting their proposal, NEW YORK -Johan The next step is for the his no-trade clause. which included their Nos. Santana is a contract Mets to negotiate a con­The Mets emerged as 2, 3, 4 and 7 prospects,
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
extension and physical tract extension with the top candidate for a according to Baseball 
team record perc. last 10 GB 

from going to the New Santana, who is eligible -trade after the winter America's ranking. New Phoenix 32-13 .711 7-3 York Mets. for free agency after this meetings, when the New York did not include its 
LA Lakers 27-15 .643 6·4 3.5 

After months of deliber­season. The three-time York Yankees withdrew top farmhand, outfielder 
Golden Slate 27·18 .600 7·3 5 

ation, the Twins reached All-Star is owed $13.25 their offer, which includ­Fernando Martinez. 
Sacramento 19·24 .442 6·4 12 

a tentative agreement million this year and like­ed pitchers Phil Hughes A left-bander who turns 
LA Clippers 13·28 .317 3-7 17 

Tuesday to part with the ly will seek an extension and Ian Kennedy, and the 29 in March, Santana two-time Cy Young Award of five-to-seven years Red Sox refused to gives the Mets a replace­winner for outfielder worth at least $20 million improve their proposals, ment for Tom Glavine, Carlos Gomez, and pitch­annually. which would have sent who left New York to ers Phil Humber, Deolis New York and Santana pitcher' Jon Lester or out­return to the Atlanta Guerra and Kevin Mulvey, have until 5 p.m. EST fielder Jacoby Ellsbury to Braves. New York, trying
Men's Hockey 

two people familiar with Friday to reach an agree­the Twins along with to bounce back from a CCHA Conference Standings the deal said, speaking on ment, a baseball official prospects. record-setting September team conference overall condition of anonymity told The Associated Minnesota general collapse last season, has because no announce­Press, also on condition manager Bill Smith called a projected rotation that
1 Miami 17-3-0 25·3-0 
ment had been made. of anonymity. If the Mets teams last weekend and also includes Pedro
2 Michigan 15·2-1 22-3·1 
"If it's true, obviously, and Santana strike a asked them to make their Martinez, John Maine,
3 Michigan State 13-2-3 17-5·5 
you're getting arguably deal, the players would best offers. Smith Orlando Hernandez and
4 NOTRE DAME 13-6-1 20-9-1 
the best pitcher in the have to pass physicals informed the Mets on Oliver Perez. 
5 Nebraska-Omaha 8-9-3 11-12·3 6 Bowling Green 9-9-0 12-12-0 7 Ferris Stale 7-9-2 10-11-3 8 Northern Michigan 7-11-0 10·15-1 IN BRIEF 9 Alaska 5-12-3 5·15-4 10 Ohio State 4-13-1 8·18·2 
Point guard Kidd tells Nets 60-year-old Crennel signs 2-Mizzou basketball players
11 Lake Superior 2-13-3 4-16-4 
he wants to 'move on' year deal with Browns suspended by coach
12 Western Michigan 3-14·1 7·17-2 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­CLEVELAND-Willie McGinest COLUMBIA, Mo.-Missouri coach Jason Kidd says he wants to be always believed Romeo Crennel Mike Anderson suspended five play­traded from the slumping New would turn the Cleveland Browns ers indefinitely Tuesday after a Jersey Nets. into winners. weekend brawl left his top scorer 
"We tried to make this work. For a long time, though, it with a broken jaw. 
We've found out it doesn't," seemed like the veteran line­In a statement from the university, Kidd told ESPN The Magazine backer was about the only who Anderson declined to indicate the on Monday. "It's time for us all did. reason for the discipline, calling the to move on." "There was a lot of prejudgment infractions a violation of team rules. NBA BASKETBALL The Nets, losers of nine in a about Romeo," said McGinest, who But the move comes as Columbia row, were scheduled to play the played for Crennel in New police confirmed that several team­
around the dial 
Cavaliers at Trail Blazers 

Milwaukee Bucks at home England. "And it was really unfair. mates were with senior guard
9 p.m., ESPN 

Tuesday night. Kidd attended It takes time. It takes players, and Stefhon Hannah when he was the team's morning it takes a coach to do that." attacked outside the downtown COLLEGE BASKETBALL shootaround but did not talk to Crennel did it. nightclub Athena early Sunday Virginia at Maryland reporters. The 60-year-old former defen­morning. The injury could cause Nets president Rod Thorn said sive assistant, whose future in Hannah to miss the rest of the sea­
7 p.m., ESPN 

he hadn't talked to Kidd on Cleveland was shaky after two for­son.
Cincinnati at West Virginia 

Tuesday, and declined to dis­gettable seasons, signed a two­Hannah, who returned home to
7 p.m., ESPN2 

cuss which teams have year contract extension on Chicago following surgery, senior Texas at Texas A&M expressed an interest in the Tuesday with the Browns, who guard Jason Horton and forwards 
9 p.m. ESPN2 nine-time All-Star. He said he won 10 games in Crennel's third Marshall Brown, Darryl Butterfield wouldn't be forced into making season and finally appear and Leo Lyons were suspended. Each a deal. repaired. is either a starter or a key reserve. 

page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, January 30, 2008 
HORSE RACING 

Barbaro to be interred at Churchill Downs 
Euthanized Derby winner's clinching stride will be immortalized with bronze statue at entrance to track 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -The image 
of Barbaro blazing down the 
stretch at Churchill Downs, all 
four hoovns ofl' tho hrrouml as the 
powerful bay mit cruslwd the field 
in tho 2006 Kt•ntucky Derby, is 
snarnd in Hoy .Jarkson 's mmnory. 
It's tlw way Jackson preli)rs to 
think of Barbaro, whose thunder­
ous sww• loll a liPid of 19 fi>llow 
:{-ynar-olds in his wake and whose 
c·ouragn af'l<>r a brnakdown at the 
l'rPakn<>ss two WPPks latnr made 
him an imn. 
When il came limn to decide 
how best to honor the horse. who 
was nuthanizPd on .Jan. 29, 2007 
from complic:ations of the break­
down, thorn was only one place 
Boy .Jackson and wifo Gretchen 
fnlt Barbaro would fi>el at home: a 
short gallop from tho sito of his 
gr<>atost triumph. 
Barbaro's ash<>s and a bronze 
statue will bn plan>d in fhmt of an 
<>ntranco gat<> at Churchill Downs 
sonwtimn in 2009. The .Jacksons 
annoutu:nd plans fin· tho memorial 
on tlw orw-year annivnrsary of 
Barbaro's dPath. a day thny caJIPd 
onn of the most diflicult of tlwir 
liVI)S. 
Yet tlwrn was no sadnnss on 
Tut>sday, only rnlinf and joy. 
Tlw .Jacksons agonized for 
months on wlwrn to place his 
aslws. which arn currently in a 
dosot in thn family's Pnnnsylvania 
home. Ultimatoly, they chose a 
placo whom tim public that inun­
datc>d Barbaro's stall at the New 
Bolton Cnntnr in Konnott Square, 
l'a., with get-well cards, candy 
and gifb during his rehabilitation 
could pay tributP whenever they 
wantml. 
"Arter the Derby and then when he got injurnd, he really became America's horse," Hoy Jackson said. "Wn sort of fdt an obligation that his remains and statue be nrncted some place where the general public could pay their rPspncL'i." 
As spectacular as the colt's camnr was -his 6 1/2-length win in tho Dnrby was the widest mar­gin of victory in 60 years -it was Barbaro's battln to survive li>llow­ing the brnakdown that made him an 11motional touchstonn for so many. 
"llis aceomplishments as a rm:nhorse arn certainly rivalnd by the 1:ourage and resolve he dis­played af'lnr his injury," Churchill Downs prnsidnnt Steve Sexton said. 
The .laeksons say they continue to bo armtzPd at the outpouring of support for Barbaro, much of it from non-racing fans who were c:aptivatnd by imagPs of him winc­ing on tho track at Pimlico Hace Course li>llowing the injury and his heroie attempts to deal with the myriad of setbaeks that ulti­matnly proved too much. 
"I don't think any of us know how widospn>ad the interest was," Hoy Jackson said. "We've gotten a trmnendous amount of rosponse and we continuo on almost a daily basis to got some correspondence and very artieulatn art on what he meant." 
As painful as Barbaro's battle was, the Jacksons say it was not in vain. I lis plight drew attention to the laminitis, an ollen-fatal hoof dismtse that Barbaro contracted in both roar hooves before his death. 
Morn than $2.7 million has been raised fill' the Laminitis Hoscarch Fund. The laminitis initiative will foster training programs and studies for new treatments of equine diseases. The fund includes a $7,000 donation receivod Monday from the Fans of Barbaro, a group of poople spread across the country who met ovtir the lntnrnet in support of the colt. 
It's a fund that grows a little bit each day. .Jennifer Campbell of Louisvillo stull'ed $20 into a dona­tion box fill' thn fund on Tunsday while the Jacksons autographed pkturns of jockny Edgar Prado urging Barbaro across the finish line at tlw Dm·by. 
"You just see how they perse­vomd undor thosn eireumstances, and how tlw horso persevnred," said Campboll, who was wearing a grenn Barbaro hat. "lie's an inspiration and I think it's great that tlmy chose to share him with us." 
Tho .l<u:ksons havn also helped raisn $1.3 million fi>r the Barbaro Fund at Nnw Bolton. Tho money will go toward expansion of the 



SUMMER STUDY INTERNSHIP PROGRAM 
George D. Widener Large Animal Hospital, and the purchase of equipment like a new operating table and reeovory raft. 
Tuesday, however, was about remembering the horse who cap­tivated the nation. 
Pietures of Barbaro from both his radng eareer and his rehabili­tation at the largo animal hospital at New Bolton flashed above a stage bef'orn the Jacksons spoke. Tho Jacksons smiled while watch­ing a short film featuring local schoolchildren talking about Barbaro and showing pietures they drPw of the horse following his injury. 
Barbaro will be the first Kentucky Derby winner to be buried on the grounds at Churchill Downs. Four previous winners ­Sunny's llalo, Carry Back, Swaps and Broker's Tip-are interred at the Kentucky Derby Museum, which is adjacent to the track. 
SUMMER TERM 

Barbaro wins the Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs in May 2006. The horse's ashes will be interred at legendary track. 

Areas of Study: 
• Arts and Culture 
• 
Business and Management 

• 
Film and Media Studies 

• 
Graphic and Web Design 

• 
International Studies 

• 
Politics and Public Policy 

• 
Psychology and Social Policy 

• 
Self-Designed Track 


APPLY BY MAY 2, 2008 
www.bu.edu/summer/internship 
617-353-0556 

"I was able to land an internship at the architecture firm of Shepley Bulfinch Richardson &Abbott. The firm currently designs buildings throughout the country and even internationally.! am interested In "green" building and SBRA makes this apriority." 
Graphic and Web Design intern, 2007 


Best Value 1n Town ,Collle See Why.' 
,.. Intloor/ Oul'tloor Tennis a.na Ba.sket'ball 
,.. Free Tanning 
,.. Hea.l'ea Pool 
,.. Hela..zing Jacuzzi 
,.. Gal'ea Co:mm unil'y 
,.. Co:mm unil'y Business Cenl'er 
,.. No App./ica.l'iru:J Fees for St'udenl's 
,.. Close l'o e...-eryl'hing__. far fro:m ordinary! 
Castle1'oint 
1.801.1. C.leve.l.and Rd._ South Bend, IN 46637
~·4 ptlr'f111 e11 Is ~ane: (574) 272-81.1.0 Fax: (574) 272-81.1.4 "ffJJU _ cppj _com­
Wednesday, January 30, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
•
w1nter 
wednesday 
january30 



~ 
~ 
0 
c. 
E 
cu 
AAR Corp Abercrombie & Fitch Academy Prep Centers Accenture Aerotek AFSCME International Air Force Flight Test Center ALDI Allstate Insurance Company Amate House American Eagle Outfitters American Red Cross AmeriCorps St. Louis Anning Johnson Aon AT&T Bank of America-Global 
Corporate & Investment Banking Baxter Healthcare Baxter Pharmaceutical Solutions BearingPoint Becker Professional Review Belcan Advanced Engineering & Technology Boeing Camp Sweeney Camp Tannadoonah Camp Tecumseh CapitaiiQ Central Intelligence Agency CHEP Chicago Partners Chicago Police Department Church World Service Citadel Solutions Citi Clarity Consulting College Football Hall of Fame College Pro Painters Countrywide Financial Covance Credit Suisse Crowe Chizek Data Ltd. Deloitte US Firms Department ofVeterans Affairs 
Division of Public Administration, Northern Illinois University 
DoubleCiick Duke Realty E & J Gallo Winery ECHO EchoStar Satellite eloyalty Enterprise Rent-A-Car Epic Systems Ernst & Young ExactTarget 
F.H. Paschen, SN Nielsen Family Justice Center of 
St. Joseph County Fifth Third Bank Follett Higher Education 
Group Fund for Public Interest Research 
Gallina General Electric General Mills Gentex Goldman Sachs Grand Prairie Services 
Behavioral Healthcare Grant Thornton Grassroots Campaigns Hewlett Packard Hewitt Associates Hill & Knowlton Hillstone Restaurant Group Houlihan Lokey Howard 
& Zukin HRP Construction HSBC Humanity in Action IBM Indiana Dunes Environmental 
Learning Center Indiana Secretary of State's 
Office INROADS lnfosys Technologies lnnoprise Software Intel Jesuit Volunteer Corp/Jesuit 
Volunteers International Johnson & Johnson KeyBank Kitson & Partners KPMG Land O'Lakes Lawndale Christian Health 
Center Liberty Mutual Little Brothers Friends of the 
Elderly Liz Claiborne Lockheed Martin M&T Bank Marathon Marine Corps Officer Programs Maxim Healthcare Services McGiadrey & Pullen Mercy Home for Boys & Girls Midwest !SO Motorola Museum of Contemporary Art National Space Biomedical 
Research Institute Navigant Consulting Nestle Retail Operations 
Company and Nestle Purina PetCare Company Nestle USA NIBCO 
Northwestern Mutual Financial Network-The Hoopis Group 
Office Depot Office of Naval Intelligence OfficeMax OMD P&M Corporate Finance Pace Global Energy Services Peace Corps PPG Industries Press Ganey 

diversity reception 
joyce center, monogram room 
all are welcome to attend 


career &internshipfair 
joyce center, north dome 

PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble Progressive Insurance Protiviti Quantitative Risk 
Management Raytheon Relay Worldwide Rothstein Kass Schneider Corporation SCORE Scott A. Jones Sears Holding Shaw Industries SMART Business Advisory 
and Consulting SPX Starcom Worldwide State PIRGS Stryker (Corporate) Stryker Medical Target Teach For America Tech Data The adidas Group The Bradford Group The Children's Museum 
of Indianapolis The Coca-Cola Company The HON Company The MATCH School The Walsh Group Travelers 
hockey rink side, enter gate 3 student ID required 
True Partners Consulting UNITE HERE University Directories University of Notre Dame-
Alliance for Catholic Education University of Notre Dame ­Center for Social Concerns University of Notre Dame ­Human Resources 
University of Notre Dame­Master of Nonprofit Admin. Program 
US Army Health Care US Department of Justice­
Antitrust Division US Department of State US Patent and Trademark 
Office US Probation & Pretrial 
Services Valassis Vanguard Virchow Krause Walgreens Weber Shandwick Worldwide WESCO International Western & Southern 
Financial Group Whirlpool WTAS Zimmer Zurich North America 
findoutmore! 

Go to http://careercenter.nd.edu 
To view a fist ofcompanies attending the Winter Career and Internship Fair: 
• 
Login to Go IRISH (top right hand corner of careercenter.nd.edu) with your NetiD and Password 

• 
Click on the Events Tab 

• 
Click on the Winter Career Fair link 


To view more specific information on available jobs and internships with companies attending the fair: 
• 
Login to Go IRISH (top right hand corner of careercenter.nd.edu) with your NetiD and Password 

• 
Click on the Jobs/Internships Tab and hit Go IRISH jobs from the pull down menu 

• 
In the box labeled "Keywords" type WCIF08, and click "Search" for a complete list of companies and available positions 

• 
For an alphabetical list of Employers, click on "Employer" 


.­
/ 

The Career Center ···'"
i 
~· 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
-

Wednesday, January 30, 2008

MLB 
Pettitte HGH Ineeting delayed until Monday 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Nnw York Yankees piteher Andy Pettitto's meeting with a congressional eommittoe invnstigating drug use in basoball was postponed until Monday. 
lie originally was slated to appear for a dnposition or tran­scribed intorview Wednesday. 
But tho date was changed Tuesday by the !louse Oversight and Government Heform Cornmittoe. It's tho latest in a sorins or switches to the schodulo or witnesses' mootings with stall" nwmbnrs before testifying at a 
Fob. 13 hearing. 
"Just a mutually agreeablo postponement," said Keith Ausbrook, Hepublican gerwral counsel for thn committee. "It givn us a littln more time to pre­parn and gives him a little morn time to prepan~." 
Also asknd to appear at noxt month's hearing are snven-time Cy Young Award winner Hoger Clomons, his former personal trainer Brian MeNamnn. his for­mer toammate Chuck Knoblauch, and former Nnw York Mots dubhouse Pmploye11 Kirk Hadomski. 
Pettitto and CIPnwns have bonn tnamrnates and workout part­rwrs; Pottittn also has trainnd with Mr.Namnn. 
"Mr. PettittP is eooporating vol­untarily with the wmmitteo, and wo look forward to his tostirnony on Monday," panel chairman Henry Waxman and ranking Hepublican Torn Davis said in a joint statement. "We appreeiatn Mr. Pettitte's willingness to assist the committnn." 
-
In last month's Mitchell Report on the use or performance­enhancing substances in base­ball, McNamee said he injected Clemens with steroids and human growth hormone, accusa­tions Clemens has denied repeat­odly. 
Two days after the report was released, Pettittn acknowledged receiving two IIGII injections in 2002 to help recover from an elbow injury. 
Pettitto is being represented by .Jay Roisinger, a lawyer who rep­resented Sammy Sosa when he tnstilied before the same commit­tee alongside Mark McGwire and Hafael Palmeiro in March 2005. 
Knoblauch now is scheduled li1r Friday and would bo the first of the live Feb. 13 witnesses to provide a deposition or tran­scribed interview. lie agreed to appear after a subpoena was issued. 
Clemnns is to follow Feb. 5, with McNamee down for Feb. 7, and Hadomski on Feb. 12 ­pnnding further changes to a rnpnatndly shutllnd sdu~dule. 
Letters sent by Waxman and Davis to Clemens, Pettitte and Knoblauch on Jan. 16, request­ing thnir appnarances both at the !waring and a pre-hearing meet­ing, said: "The committee asks that you provide testimony about allegations in Senator George Mitchell's n~port ... that you and other Major League Baseball players used performance enhancing drugs during your professional baseball career." 
Clemens, Pettitte and Knoblauch were among more than 80 players named in the Mitchell Heport. 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
424 N. Frances Street 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central. Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 


iJ 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DA,\1 E 
COLl£G£ 01' ARTS ANI> !..ETTERS 

Design, Copy & Logistic (DCL) Services Serving our Notre Dame Community 

Quality Color Qualit)' Blackf\Vhite Cories & Transparencies Copies & Transparencies 
Faxes Scanning Personal & Departmental Black/White & Color 
Postcrs/Flyt·rs/Brochures Comb-Binding Printing & Designing Various Sizes & Colors 
Heat-Binding Course Packets PRINTING available on binding Produced & sold by DCL Sen·ices 

Pick-UJl and Delivery Service Available on Can1pus 
FAST+ FRIENDLY+ REASONABLE PRICES Full-Service On-Campus Locations: 301 O'Shaughnessy (copv30 1 (a/nd.edu) 
631-5632 

235 Decio Hall ( derioctr. J::amd.edu) 
631-6672 

-t:Now offering charges to Student Accounts 
OPEN MONHAY through FRIDAY+ 8-5 PM 
Methods of Payment Cash + Check +VISA + IVlastcrCard + FOAPA L + Student Account 
Quality Paper Choices Colors/Weight/Non-Acid 
Laminating Various sizes 
Cutting Services up to 1T' 





----~~--------------------------­
Wednesday, January 30, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Vols shooting downs Barna 
Lofton, Smith nail threes to seal game 
Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA. Ala. -With the game in doubt, No. 7 Tennessee turned to its shoot­ers. 
Chris Lofton and JaJuan Smith delivered by both hitting three 3-pointers over the final 11 minutes to bail the Volunteers out of serious trou­ble and secure a 93-86 victory over Alabama on Tuesday night. 
Lofton had five 3-pointers and 23 points for Tennessee (18-2, 5-1 Southeastern Conference) while Smith added four 3s and 22 points. 
Smith's final shot from beyond the arc with just under 3 minutes left turned back the Crimson Tide's final attempt at a comeback. 
Offense 
continued from page 20 
game. 
"I feel our rebounding has improved all season and we need to continue those efforts," Henley said. "Our goals continue to be to 
shots to win ball games," Pearl said. "You love it 
when it comes "We were contesting 
from a senior." shots and they just The Vols blew 
kept knocking them 
most of a 10­
down."
point lead but went 9-of-12 from 3-point Brandon Hollinger range and shot 
Crimson Tide guard 
69 percent in the second half. 
The Tide (12­9, 1-5) managed to pull within two points five times in the final 7 minutes, but never grabbed the lead. 
Richard Hendrix's inside bas­ket made it 83-81 with 1:45 left. But Smith drained his fourth 3-pointer off a pass from Lofton and Lofton added two 
improve our defense and keep points out of the paint." 
Olivet (5-3 MIAA, 7-9 over­all) comes home after a three-game road winning streak. Freshman forward Ameina Ross led her team in scoring the last two games and is averaging 9.5 points per game this season. 
Henley called Olivet a "strong" team with "a lot of 
came a season-high 23 turnovers. 
The Vols had lost 16 of their last 17 trips to Coleman Coliseum and hadn't won in Tuscaloosa since 1998. 
"The big motivator is I'd never won here before," Lofton said. 
fresh faces." 
Olivet's new coach, Heather Bateman, served as assistant coach for the Comets for the past six seasons. 
"They are a solid team," Henley said. "I am anticipat­ing another great game." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

down 3s," Tide guard Brandon Hollinger said. "We were con­testing shots and they just kept knocking them down." 
The Vols, who lost at Kentucky last week and dropped from No. 3 in the rankings, over­

Defense 
continued from page 20 
better at our defense so I'm hoping that just continues to improve," McGraw said. "We executed our game plan much better [against Connecticut]. When we went to our triangle­and-two, we really did what we needed to do; we worked on it for three days and I thought it looked good, so to be able to carry out the game plan like that is really encour­aging." 
The Friars have had troubles of their own. They stand at 11­8 overall and only 1-5 in the Big East. Despite the numbers, the Irish will still need to bring their best defense against a tall Friars squad -freshman guard Mi-Khida Hankins is 6­foot-1 and junior forward Shantee Darrian is 6-foot-2. 
McGraw recognizes that the majority of her starters are on the smaller side and that the Friars are likely to try and post up Notre Dame's guards, but that isn't likely to change the team's game plan. 
"We are not going to try and do anything different," McGraw said. "We really just want to work on containing the ball and get back to the funda­mentals: box out, out-rebound them." 
Notre Dame's rebounding against Connecticut is evidence of its focus on getting back to 

The Nanovic Institute for European Studies provides financial support for undergraduate summer research, study, and internships. 
RESEARCH AND TRAVEL GRANTS UP TO $4,000 

APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 8, 2008 
EUROPEAN INTERNSHIP STIPENDS UP TO$ 3,500 
ROLLING DEADLINES 
, FORMO.. RE.INF.ORM.• PiT.ION, 
CALL 1-S253 OR VISIT 
WWW.ND.EDU/-NANOVIC 
the basics. On offense, the Irish have their four leading scorers and a guiding voice in senior guard Tulyah Gaines to drive their offensive game. 
"[Gaines'] job is to really run the team," McGraw said. "I think the offense is coming from [sophomore guard Ashley] Barlow, uunior guard Lindsay] Schrader, [senior guard] Charel [Allen], and [freshman forward] Devereaux [Peters.] We've got four people who are going to score so I don't think we need that from her as much. I think she is doing a great job of running the team and she's playing great defense and that's what we need her to do." 
With the combination of an improving defense and a con­sistent offense, the Irish will look to pick up a win over Providence tonight, even if they have to jump a little high­er. 
Note: 
+ Allen was named to the 2008 Naismith Trophy midsea­son candidates list. Allen is one of 31 players to make the list for the trophy, which is pre­sented annually to the nation's top collegiate women's basket­ball player. Allen currently leads the Irish and ranks 14th in the Big East in scoring (14.3 ppg.) and lOth in free throw percentage (.817). 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
Vols coach Bruce Pearl called it "a dagger shot." Alabama's Mikhail Torrance had another description: "The back crush­er." 
"You've got to make those 



Information Meeting 
Thursday, January 31, 6:00 PM ' DeBartolo Hall, Room 116 

For more info visit www.peacecorps.gov or call 800.424.8580 

The Staff of the Sandpiper Bea.con Beach Resort would love to come up ROCK STAR SPRING BREAK 
PANAMA CITY BEACH TOUR BUS ... sur If's JUS1 100 1*%# COLD \JP 1H See Ya. in Sunny Florida. ....• Love Ya. 
800-488-8828 
www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
free throws with 59 seconds left for an 88-81 lead. Alabama never found an answer for that duo. "JaJuan Smith and Chris Lofton just started knocking 
Wednesday, January 30, 2008 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 

Playoffs 
continued from page 20 

two games at home against Michigan on Feb. 8 and 9, a series that will be critical in CCHA playoff positioning. 
Michigan, 31 pts. 

After a 10-game winning streak culminating in a two­game sweep of Notre Dame on Jan. 18 and 19, Michigan ( 15-2-1 CCIIAJ looked to have a clear path to a CCIIA title, but a loss and tie against Michigan State this weekend may cause some concern for the Maize and Blue. 
Seniors Kevin Porter and Chad Kolarik make up the highest scoring duo in the country, combing for 72 total points on the season, while netminder Billy Sauer has posted a 1.68 GAA. 
While Michigan is still the favorite to win the CCIIA, it has by far the toughest remaining schedule of any contender, with two games at Miami and a road/neutral series against the Spartans on reb. 22 and 23. 
Michigan State, 29 pts. 

The Spartans (1 :~-2-3) went a long way toward helping their CCHA title hopes with four points against Michigan this weekend. Michigan State 
before the match, making him 

must continue to rely on its bound to drop points, and up in the standings. It would the highest-ranked player 
blistering power play. which with a little bit of luck, the take their best hockey of the
Spartans 

has scored on 26.9 percent of Irish can slide into the top season. though, with two continued from page 20 "Sheeva was a lot quieker 
Parbhu has defeated. 

its chances in CCIIA play so spot. games each against Notre than Inglot," assistant coach 
far this season -over three Dame, Michigan and Miami. With only thren f'rnshmen Hyan Sachire said. "If Inglot 
percent more than any other Nebraska-Omaha, 19 pts. on the Michigan Statn roster, doesn't overpower you, he's 
team in the CCIIA. Junior Tim With Notre Dame seemingly Northern Michigan, 14 pts. the Spartans boast more out of his game plan." 
Kennedy has netted 13 goals back on track, the Mavericks' The Wildcats (7-11-0) will oxpnrinnce than tho Irish. Parbhu played relentless 
overall, seven of them coming (8-9-3) hopes of gaining a have to rebound from losing Bayliss lhinks lhal H will be a lennis and stayed mentally 
with the man advantage. top-four seed and first-round four of their last five if they good test for thn young Irish tough in every point. lie 
Because the Spartans have bye in the CCIIA playoffs took want to improve their playoff squad, whieh features six played quality points, and 
two games at hand on the a serious hit. positioning, but it will be no f'rnshmnn. made lnglot grind out the 
leading HedHawks, a good UNO must now hope to hold easy task with two games "Wn will need to win the points, Sachire said. 
result this weekend against on to a tenuous one-point each against Michigan and doubles point," Bayliss said. Havens has been another 
Nebraska-Omaha could pro­lead over Bowling Green, Michigan State. "They are very strong at one bright spot for the Irish this 
pel them into second place in with the ralcons having and two doubles. and we will year. lie earned the other sin­
the CCHA. The late-season played two fewer games. A Alaska, 13 pts. nnnd to win the matclws that gles point for the Irish 
rematch against the rival Feb. 15 and 16 matchup Given Northern Michigan's we have a slight advantage Sunday, winning his mateh in 
Wolverines looms in the between the two teams will difficult schedule, the in." three sets. 
future and will certainly have likely determine the No. 5 Nanooks (5-12-3) have a defi­Miehigan Statn senior Nick "Havens made a lot of extra 
a large effect on both team's seed in the conference tour­nite chance to improve their Hinks is 6-0 and has defeated balls," Sac hire said. "Both 
title hopes. nament. standing for the playoffs. A all his opponents in straight players were fairly close in 
Feb. 15 and 16 trip to Notre sets. In the fall. Hinks teamed ability level, and that was 
Notre Dame, 27 pts. Bowling Green, 18 pts. Dame is the only overly diffi­up with junior Alex Forger to apparent in the last two sets." 
The Irish (13-6-1) rebound­The Falcons (9-9-0) hope to eult game remaining on their defnat Irish freshmen Stephen Sachire also said that 
ed from a 2-5-1 Christmas rebound from two losses to schedule. Havens and Tyler Davis at the Havens was conservative 
break slump with 6-1 and 4-1 Notre Dame in their next four Tom Fallon Invitational. when on defense but linished 
wins over Bowling Green this games against bottom­Ohio State, 9 pts. "fUnks is able to beat just points well. 
weekend and seem almost dwellers Alaska and Ohio Lake Superior State, 7 pts. about anybody in the coun­The Spartans and Irish 
assured of a top-four seed State. Bowling Green still has Western Michigan, 7 pts. try," Bayliss said. "We nor­know each other well. 
because of their easy remain­a shot at a top-four seed; a Hecent poor play, combined mally rely very heavily on our Michigan State head coach 
ing schedule. sweep this weekend would with difficult remaining top two singles spots, but we Gene Orlando has been 
To avoid any upsets, bring the Falcons within live schedules, give little hope to can't eount on those tomor­coaching there for 17 years, 
though, Notre Dame must add points of the Irish. The the Buckeyes ( 4-13-1), Lakers row. JUnks split sets with and Bayliss has been at Notre 
life to a power play that has Falcons still need help, (2-13-3) and Broncos (3-14­Stephen Bass two years ago." Dame for 20. Bayliss and the 
scored on only 14.2 percent though, to get a first-round 1). Though anything can hap­Against Virginia, Notrn Irish have won 18 in a row 
of its chances in CCIIA play bye. pen in the remaining games, Dame's own senior leader, ovet the Spartans. The head­
this season, 10th in the con­first-round playoff exits Sheeva l'arbhu, put his name to-head meetings date back to 
ference. Ferris State, 16 pts. appear likely. in an elite group, easily han­1926. 
But with the top three With two games at hand filing thn Cavalinrs' Dominie 
teams playing each other a against current fifth-place Inglot Sunday. lnglot was Contact Kate Grabarek at 
total of six times, somebody UNO, the Bulldogs (7-9-2) still Contact Sam Werner at ranked No. 3 in the country kgrabaO1@saintrnarys.edu 
ahead of Notre Dame is have a strong chance to move swerner@nd.edu 



Wednesday, January 30, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAcK DoG 
JofltJ.$;)tJ FiND oUT HoW MA~Y SPoOtJS wE Sl THIS SEMESTER I KNOW HoW MANY TD R.E'Oil-DEJ<:.. 
Yov f;USII'IHS MAJoRS Al.-WA'(.S WAIVT TO E_')(.l'E.r-JSE EVERYTHIIJIT. (..ET C.OUNT/ IJ '. 

TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 


CROSSWORD 
Across 

1 " Eat Cake" (1930s musical) 6 H'wood type 11 Familiar sitcom figure 14 Massey of old movies 15 Embassy figure 
7 Guy ready to sing the national anthem? 
9 Eggy concoction 
Era ended by 
Vesuvius? Cold one, so to speak 
March (through) "If all fails 
Author Calvina 
36 What shall be first ... or words that can precede 17·, 23-, 52· and 60-Across 
39 Vote against 42 Maker of the game Combat 43 Piece in the 
game go 
45 Pear type 
48 Martini's partner 
51 European 
erupter 
52 Belonging to a Hudson Valley tribe? 
55 Colgate 
alternative 56 Sinews 59 Janis _, with 
the 1975 hit "At Seventeen" 60 Museum exhibit? 64 D.D.E.'s purview inW.W.II 65 Convertible driver's option 66 Cache 
67 Div. 
68 Christmases 
69 Funny Fields 
Down 
V.I.P.'s ride 2 Pizazz 3 Unable to hit a 
pitch? 4 Tangle up 5 Brit's buddy 
6 Bleep out 7 Football lineman 8 Mid first-century year 9 Years and years and years 10 "Dang!" 11 Title brother in a 1973 Elton John hit 
12 Mr. Gorgeous 
13 Little canine 
18 Mgr.'s helper 
22 Project detail, for short 24 Daft 
25. Negri of silent films 26 Reveals, in verse 27 Brief life? 28 J.F.K. guess 32 Baseball's Little Giant 34 "___ a go!" 37 Detriment 38 Suffix with smack 
39 Less than wonderful 

WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by Victor Fleming 
40 Former Texas 47 Court worker. for 57 "Me neither" governor 
short Richards 58 ---'Pea
49 Gym class exercises41 Vote for 61 Payment pledge 

50 Patisserie 42 Liniment target 
employee 
62 Lance 44 Takes care of 53 Bottle ready to 

(U.S.M.C. rank)be recycled45 Unidentified 54 "For every Bird 63 Night that planes 
_":Emily "Happy Days" 46 Recently Dickinson was on: Abbr. 

For answers, call1-900·285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than.2,000 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


JUMBLE 
JJWJWIID~LE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DOBOL j 
1 
rx I I 
@2008 Tnoune Media Services. Inc. 
i~~~lJ 
FOYFAP 

[J I 
WlfiW.jumble.corn 
GEDUBB
rrJ I I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT IT C.AN TAKE TO REKINDl-E A ROMANC.E. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 
AN riiJ(IIIIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: BASIS ARBOR LACKEY EITHER Answer: Followed the horses in ancient Rome ­CHARIOTS 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jonny Lang, 27; Heather Graham, 38; Oprah Winfrey, 5-l; Tom Selleck, 63 
Happy Birthday: This year. you must stabilize your home. family and financial situa­tion and also find something to do that makes you happy. Try a hohhy or a form ofen­
tertainment that doesn't cost too much but \ViH hdp ynu rdax. You wil1 find it easier to conl..~entrat~ and thus accomplish the goals you set. Your numbers are 1. 8. 1::;, 22. 36 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Get things done, especially if it will influence your 
reputation. You can't leave anything to chance or take anything or anyone for granted today. It is important to choose yow· words \Visdy when communicating about per­sonal matters. 3 ~tars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can make a life-changing. professional move. 
Look for the perfect position. This is not the day to seU your~elf short but instead tht." 
time to he hold and ,·ery .:onfident. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put time and money into your place of residence. Check 
over your investments and look at any lung-term contracts and agreements. You can cut costs if you renegotiate your position. A settlement can be finalized. 3 stars 

-
-
CANCER (June 21-July 22): If you can see your way to accept change, you will end up in a far better position by the end of the day. Concentrate on love <md you will score 
big with someone you meet or with the person you are currently engaged with. 5 star.s 
LEO (Jnly 23-Aug. 22): Today you may have to spill the beans. and give in to the 
qut>stions being asked. If you don't. your evasiveness will work against you, making 
you look bad. Be honest and straightforward. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get in the mood to enjoy and have fun because low ts in 
the stars anJ you won't want to miss out on an enjoyable and entertaining time. l\1ake plans to do something special with your partner or attend mt event '":here you can meet a new partner if you are single. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't waste tim< trying to fix problems you have with family or the people you live with. Nothing will be resolved and arguments v.~lllead to more trouble. Instead •. get out and do something you enjoy and you'll meet new friends. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Nothing will go right at home if you are pushy. Focus 
on working to make things more comJortable or livable but not at the expense of argu­ing with someone you care ahout. Put your efforts into what will please the people you care most about. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be fooling the people around you but it's time you stopped fooling yourself. Decide if your present course is really what you 
want. A new direction will lead to an interesting connection. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You've got everyone's attention so explain how you see things unfolding. You can make good financial decisions that will help your money 
grow. You can close deals. take care of any issues concerning loved ones and sign or 
formulate contracts with ease. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't be too trusting of anyone who wants to help you take care of your cash. You are far better off keeping tabs on what is spent and what is invested. A personal matter may confuse you if you don't ask the right ques­
tions. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Being argumentative will work against you but taking 
action and sho\:v·ing what you can do will be proof you have \vhat it takes. You1llleave 
an impression that will lead to success. 5 stars 

·j
Birthday Baby: You are a good friend and helper and v.·ill always do your best to 
please those around you. You will never stand by watching--you an: a participant. 
Eugenia '.s H-'t?b .sites: astroa.dvice.com for fim, eugenialast.com for cmifidential confuitalions 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, January 30, 2008 
page 20 
MEN'S TENNIS 
ND, MSU vvill fight to rebound 
Spartans play their third straight rood matdz 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sport.< Writer

-
Both Notre Dame and Miehigan Statn have a ehance to rebound after losses when the Spartans visit the Irish today at 4 p.m. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame lost to No. 1 Virginia, and Michigan State lost to Vanderbilt. Still, the Spartans are off to one of their best starts, heading into the eon­test against the Irish with a record of 5-1.

-
"They eamn very elose to bnating Vanderbilt this past wenkend," Irish eoach Bobby Bayliss said. 

Michigan State sophomore Tylnr Sauerbrey had a .5-4 lead in the third set of what turned out to be the deciding point of the Vanderbilt mateh, but lost the snt 7-5, and VandP-rbilt claimed victory. 
"They served for the mateh at 5-4 but couldn't hang on to the lead," Bayliss said. "We have beat them soundly in the past, but we're young and they returned just about nverybody." 
sec SPARTANS/page 18 
ND WoMEN's BASKETBALL 

Defying Providence 
McGraw pleased with team's focus on improving its defense 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
Even though the outcome of the past two games says other­wise, Irish coach Muffet MeGraw thinks her team is headed for a turnaround. 
"I feel like we are on the upswing," McGraw said. "I feel like we did a lot of good things against [Connecticut] that we can really build on and I'm anx­ious to get back out there and play somebody." 
No. 20 Notre Dame heads into tonight's match at home against Providence with a 1.5-5 record, but dropped its last two games -81-80 to DePaul and 81-64 to No. 1 Connecticut. 
Thanks to its improving defense, however, Notre Dame boasted an impressive showing against Conneetieut on the boards. The Irish outrebounded the Huskies 41 to 38 -the first time all season any team outre­bounded Connecticut. 
Even though the Irish failed to walk away with a win, McGraw said she was happy with the way the team performed against the Huskies. As a team that has struggled sinee last season with its defense, the Irish finally started to show prowess against the lluskies Sunday. 
"We arc finally starting to get 
see DEFENSE/page 17 


HocKEY  SMC BASKETBALL  
Playoff scenarios uncertain  Belles head to Olivet,  
Notre Dame still has chance at top spot in CCHA tournament  try to slow CoiTiets  

By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 

Aftnr an exhibition matehup this wnokmHI against the U.S. Undnr-1 X National Team, the Irish will have only eight games I e f't to so I i d i fy their CCIIA playoff position. All 12 tnams in tlw eonfPrnncn make tho CCI lA tournament. Thn top four teams in thn eonfercnee gnt a first-round bye, and the teams are reseeded after eaeh round. Here's a look at each tnam, along with its prospnets for the CCIIA tournament. 
Miami (Ohio), 34 pts. 
The Hedllawks (17-3-0 CCIIA) regain11d the national No. I ranking, as well as Jirst plaee in the CCIIA this week­end, boating Alaska twiee and reeeiving help from previous No. 1 Michigan, who failed to defeat Michigan State last wnekend. 
Miami has won seven straight, outscoring opponents 35-9 over that span. Junior goaltender Jeff Zatkoff has played himself into Ilobey 

By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Comets have a full head of steam, and it's up to Saint Mary's to slow them down. 
The Belles travel to Olivet, which has won its last three games by a com­bined .58 points, to face the Comets tonight at 7:30. 
Saint Mary's (4-5 MIAA, 8-9 overall) managed to hold its own Saturday against Hope (9-0 MIAA, 17-0 overall), leading 33-30 at the half. But Hope's leading scorer Jordyn Boles hit 18 points in the first 10 minutes of the seeond half to give her team a lead Saint Mary's couldn't over­come. The Belles lost 82­73. 

"I thought our team played very well all last Baker contention, leading the Michigan, it has played two 
week, despite two losses," CCIIA with a 1..50 goals more games than the 
Saint Mary's coaeh Jennifer against average and a .937 Wolverines. The RedHawks 
Henley said. "If we can save percentage. are idle until they face off for 
keep that same type of Though Miami currently has 
focus and intensity a three-point lead on see PLAYOFFS/page 18 
throughout the rest of the 
season, we will have a strong finish." 
Hegardless of the loss, Saint Mary's put up some impressive numbers. Senior guard Alison Kessler, who leads the MIAA in scoring, scored a team-high 21 points. The Belles shot 403 percent from the floor and 
81.8 percent from the free­throw line with four players scoring in double digits. 
Kessler, however, isn't the only scoring foree on the Belles. JunioFs Erin Newsom and Katie Hashid average 1O.R and 9.4 points per game, respectively. Sophomore Anna Kammrath holds her own in this group of upperclass­men with 9.9 points per game this season. 
Throughout the season, the Belles have worked on their rebounding-and they are starting to see results. Saint Mary's out­rebounded Hope this week­end 3R-37 and has aver­aged 41.4 rebounds pe.r 
see OFFENSE/page 17 





