
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Grad student lends aid in Bangladesh 
Shawn Ahmed postpones studies, liquidates accounts to chronicle service trip to East Asia 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
The mission of the University of Notre Dame calls its students to rise to extraordinary levels in service to others. Still, it is rare to see a student liquidate his accounts. postpone his studies, and travel halfway around the world to hand out mosquito nets and clean water in a disaster area. 
Shawn Ahmed. a 26-year-old graduate student in sociology, did exactly that, all the while chronicling his exploits on YouTube and Flickr under the pseudonym, "The Uncultured Project." Ahmed has been in Bangladesh since late June. 
"I call it 'The Uncultured Project' because there really is nothing sophisticated about it," Amed said. "I have no formal training or concrete plan. I just bought a camera, grabbed my computer, and flew to Bangladesh to see if I could make a difference." 
His mission was inspired by Notre Dame's 2006 forum on world health, which featured Dr. Jeffrey Sachs, a renowned pover­ty expert. 
"I would not have started [the Uncultured project] if I was just an undergraduate from my old University," said Ahmed, who previously attended Toronto University. "In September of 
see AHMED/page 3 

Irish Green construction to resUllle this spring 
University could complete park behind Debartolo Performing Art~ Center for Fall 2008 
ered part of the DPAC site in the 2002 Campus Plan, which aims to allow the University to expand in a way that retains the charac­ter of the campus, but also does not prevent or stifle growth. 
The park will feature 200 large specimen trees, a lawn, and a terrace extend­ing from the DPAC that "will act as a place for recep­tions, performances, and other special events," Marsh said. 
Weaving through the lawn 
see PARK/page 4 


ByJOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Construction on the Irish Green, a park behind the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC), will resume this spring, with the hope of being completed for the beginning of th~ Fall 2008 semester, University Architect Douglas Marsh said. 
The park is being built with an unspecified amount of money given by an anony­mous donor, Marsh said. 
The Irish. Green is consid-


Jazz Festival celebrates 50th anniversary at ND 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
The annual Notre Dame Collegiate .Jazz Festival (CJF) cele­brates its 50th anniversary in Wa<>hington llall this weekend, and features new judges, bands and performances this year. 
'To celebrate the 50th anniver­sary, we have added a few things that we normally wouldn't do," said senior Chris Francica, who is co-directing the festival with senior Katie Helm. 
The oldest college jazz festival in the nation, CJF will feature 12 uni­versity bands that will be judged by seven acclaimed musicians. In past years, the festival featured only 10 bands and five judges. 
Francica said the additions will make the performances more exciting and will allow the per­forming groups to get better feed­back on their playing. 
"This year, since we're celebrat­ing the 50th anniversary, we had a higher volume of bands and higher quality of jazz programs apply to the festival," he said. "Geographically, we have groups from as far away as Texas, Louisiana and Pennsylvania, as well as more local groups from uni­versities in Michigan and Illinois." 
The festival will also include per­formances from the African­American Jazz Caucus!Hi<>torically Black Colleges and Universities All­Star Big Band. This band features the best jazz musicians from the nation's historically black colleges and universities who come togeth­er to perform at select locations throughout the year. 
Another addition to the festival is the diversity of jazz music that will be played. From classical to con-
see JAZZ/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Wabruda sponsors conference 
Club promotes unity, history through event 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
In observance of African­American Heritage Month, the Notre Dame student group Wabruda will sponsor the first­annual Black History Conference this weekend. 
Wabruda, named Notre Dame's club of the year for 2006-07, means "brother" in Swahili.· The club has been around for about seven years and has grown to 20 members, said William l)avid Williams, who has been president of the club for the past two years. 
The group aims to promote brotherhood in the Notre Dame black community through pro­fessionalism, community service and intellectual elevation, Williams said. It also works to prepare its members for success after Notre Dame by educating them about the need for more black men in corporate America. 
Williams said service is an important part of the club's mis­sion and has included such efforts in the past as a Black History Month presentation at the Robinson Community Learning Center and playing bingo with seniors at Healthwin Center. 
"When you give back to the community, it makes you better as well," Williams said. 
see WABRUDA/page 4 


College to hold Hypatia Day 
By KATLYN SMITH News Writer 
Saint Mary's College will welcome over 90 seventh­grade girls from Michiana Saturday for the 18th annu­al Hypatia Day this Saturday in Madeleva Hall. 
The event is named for the first female mathemati­cian, Hypatia of Alexandria, and celebrates accomplish­ments of Saint Mary's s t u ­dents in math. 
Saint Mary's professor of mathematics and director of the event, Ewa Misiolek, emphasized the need for women to pursue math and science-orientated curricu­lum, despite the fact that students may find those classes more difficult. 
"There is a temptation in high school for students to choose unchallenging class­es to maintain a high GPA," 

Misiolek said. "We want them to meet other women interested in math and sci­ence and encourage them to stay with math their four years of high school." 
Saint Mary's professor of mathematics, Mary Connolly, has been involved with the event since its inception. She said Hypatia Day has been very success­ful in the past. 
"Girls leave Saint Mary's bubbling over what they have developed arid con­structed in the lab. We want to encourage them to hang on to that excitement over math," Connolly said. 
Close to 30 Saint Mary's math students are involved, along with representation 
from  the  math, science,  
nursing  and  chemistry  
clubs.  

This year's participants were specifically selected by their local math and sci­ence teachers. They had to demonstrate their abilities and mathematical talents and as a result, Misiolek has high expectations for the event. 
"After meeting in our classrooms and labs with our students who have suc­ceeded in math and sci­ence, we hope these younger students will feel confident that they can do it too," Misiolek said. 
Jessica Brinker, president of the math club and a math major, highlighted the event's significance. 
"Hypatia Day is a great opportunity for local girls to get a glimpse of college life and become more excit­ed in math and science," Brinker said. 
The day begins with a keynote speaker, typically a female figure in the math 
see HYPATIA/page 4 

.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Labor of Love 
I still mmeml:x~r three years ago what Tom 
Bettag, then tlw producer of ABC's 
"NightJinn," told my jounmli'im dass al:xmt the 
news indw;try. 
"You have to tx~ kind of ma<;oehi'itie and 
love hard work," he said. "If you can l:x1 nor­
mal. and not be so 
compul'iive. God bless 
you. But if you ean't, 
<md you're stuck witl1 
that. go into news." 
I'm stuek with that. 
I've known it fiIf years. 
What I didn't realizn 
yet was how many 
otl11~r pnople wern the 
same way. 
It's not that nvery­
one at "Ibn Observer i'> 
smiou'>ly considering a 
eamnr in journa.li'im. 
f[ben• are ju'it a li1w, 
act.ua.lly.) And it's not tlmt all ofu<> are pa<>Sion­
ate about news, eit11er. Nearly 200 hundred 
pnco1pln contributl~ tJJ tl1is paper, and for plenty 
of dillimmt rea<;(m..'i. M<lllY aren't a-; idealistic 
as tlmt "ethical obligation" t11 toll ilie truili, 
inli1nn the public and uphold d1~moeracy ­
thell~"'ilms we'n1 t.au).,rht injouma.li'i!TI dm>.'itlS. 
Still, t11nm's a little ma<;(x~hbt in so m<UlY of 
U'i. 
From 12-hour shill'> til thn1e-ht-;idor weeks 
t11 onn-dollar-an-hour payehnck<>, I'm continu­
ally cunazed by what pmple will t.oleratll ­
mul witJ1 little complaint. (OK, people do com­
plain about the paychecks.) 
I've watl~hnd peoph~ st11p int11 dem<Ulding 
editing roles tlmy didn't W<Ult because tlmy 
knew how much they worn needed. I've 
watl~hed writ11rs <Uld phot11graphers quickly 
agre11 tJI inconvenient last-minutl~ trips when 
t11e tl~cun tlu1y'vn l:x11m mvering makrl.'i it inw a 
toumcunnnL And J'vn watJ:hed reportJ1rs dmp 
1W1~rytl1ing whm1 something more importcu1t 
than midtern1 papnrs happens -like the 
d11atlt'i oftwo student<; earlier thi-; Wl-11-lk. 
Wlwthnr it's ditching dasses, skipping 
night<> out, nmning on thm~ hours ofsleep­
or putting up witl1 a certain stall"meml:x~r who 
li'itlms t11 noiliing but Carole King -everyone 
at thi<> paper makes sacrilicllS. 
But I've donn virtually nothing t.o iru;till thi'i 
sen<;(l ofresponsibility in ~tall' melllOOrs. 
lbey already have it 
I shouldn't be surpri<;(ld. After all, people 
show up in the ba.'*lment ofSouth Dining Hall 
intlmding tJl work. But you wonder how m/Uly 
extra art.ides 1Uld 4 am. nights a sane person 
is willing tJl h/Uldle. 
'lben agdin. most pllllple down hero aren't r~lmplntely sane. When people ~;tart making jokes about how eonvenient it would be ifwe had eots and a shower in the office, though, you know their sl(l(lping pattJmJS (Md person­al hygiene) are a little off. tl> say ilie least. 
I'm fully aware of how much ilie general public di'>tru'>iS ilie pnlSS. While I know many of their critiru.ms have merit -Jayson Blair, anyone? -I still di'ilike when people issue vague, ~WL>eping aUruk<> again'it "ilie media." l know iliat in my career, I'll mr~t those jour­na.li'il'i that give all of us a bad 111Ulle -the S(~lf-import1Ult, talking-head types who ilirive on spla<>hy headlines and ilieir own promi­nence. 
But I've spent fimr y<'ars with some pretty 
selfless people. Whatever you've thought of 
the paper ilii<> year, I know iliey worked hard 
lilr it. 
For me, masochism isn't something destructive. It's a lal:x>r of love. To all iliose who have lal:xlred with me, I'm beyond grate­ful. Th1Ulk you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal @nd.edu 


Maddie Hanna 
Editor-in-Chief 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer n:gards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we wiU make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can oorrect our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, February 22, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WILL GET BEST PICTURE AT THE 0SCARS? 






"Juno because  "/party harder  "No Country for  "Ratatouille. "  
it's a pro-life  than Paul Wall. "  Old Men."  
movie."  


Former Irish basketball great Austin Carr cries in jubilation during his welcom­ing in the Joyce Center at Notre Dame's 82-70 win over Pittsburgh Thursday night. Carr was recently inducted to the College Basketball Hall of !=arne. 
OFFBEAT 
Fish launched Into space to study motion sickness 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden ­Seventy-two small fish were briefly launched into space by researchers Thursday, hoping their swimming pat­terns would shed some light on motion sickness. 
German researchers sent the cichlids on a 10-minute rocket ride that blasted off from a launch pad in north­ern Sweden, said Professor Reinhard Hilbig, who was in charge of the project. 
"They were very happy, I think they want to have another flight," he said. 
The thumbnail-sized fish 
TODAY et: 
L&.l 
:::z:: 
!;( 
L&.l 
3: 
..... 
0
oct 
were filmed as they swam around weightlessly in small aquariums during the unmanned space flight. 
The German team will now study the video to see if some of the fish swam in circles because that is what fish do when they experi­ence motion sickness, said Hilbig, of the Zoological Institute at the University of Stuttgart. 
Man arrested twice within four hours 
MOSCOW, Pa. -Police say a Lackawanna County man suspected of drunken driving was released in cus­
tody of his sister, who took his keys. But four hours later police got another call. This time it was to a Covington Township inter­section where authorities say the man crashed his ear into a state Department of Transportation end loader. 
State police say Daniel Corbett, 56, of Spring Brook Township, was taken to Community Medical Center both times -about 2 a.m. Wednesday and again about 6 a.m. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
¢t)r'1(1)y/ft. 
~3
~f~ 

0 
0 
HIGH 27 HIGH 20 HIGH 33 HIGH 35
.... 
LOW 20 LOW 17 LOW 18 LOW 25 
Atlanta 57 I 40 Boston 34 I 20 Chicago 26 I 13 Denver 49 I 23 Houston 67 I 61 Los Angeles 61 I 51 Minneapolis 2616 New York 33 I 22 Philadelphia 32 I 21 Phoenix 78 I 51 Seattle 50 I 40 St. Louis 26 I 19 Tampa 79 I 66 Washington 32128 



'"Ten Things I  "Definitely  
/late About  Juno."  
You,' as a  
tribute to  
Heath Ledger's  
greatest role  
in a teen  
movie."  

IN BRIEF 
As part of the Ten Years lienee lecture series, profes­sor Karen Hunt Ahmed from the department of finance at DePaul University will speak at 10:40 a.m. today in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of' Business. 
Mass will be celebrated for the Feast of' the Chair of' St. Peter today at 5 p.m. in Alumni Hall Chapel. Father Brian Daley will preside and thn Notre Dame Gregorian Sehola will perform. 
Thern will be Stations of' the Cross today at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of' the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 
The 50th Annual Collegiate Jazz Festival will begin today at 7 p.m. with a concert fea­turing at least four different bands. The festival will eon­elude Saturday with an after­noon concert at 1 p.m. and an evening concert at 7 p.m. All events will be in Washington Hall. 
There will be a Lenten Retreat of reflection, mass, and reconciliation sponsored by Communion and Liberation at Notre Dame Campus Ministry in 330 Colman-Morse Center, Saturday from 9 am-12 pm. All are invited to attend. 
Notre Dame hockey will play Ohio State today and Saturday at 7:35 p.m. and 
7:05 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
0 

HIGH 40 HIGH 27 LOW 20 LOW 15 
Friday, February 22, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
AbiDed 
continued from page 1 
2006 we had the Notre Dame 
World Health Forum where 
[Sachs! basically said this is your 
homework -to end poverty in 
your lifetime. I was working 
towards my masters and Ph.D. 
in sociology [at Notre Dame], 
and eventually wanted to get a 
career field of development with 
a charity or the U.N. or some­
thing." 
Ahmed said that his mission is 
simply to spread awareness 
about global poverty issues 
through his online videos and 
photos, and he stressed that he 
is not looking for any money. 
"Anyone who does aid work 
knows that it's much easier 
when you don't have to carry a 
camera around and that it saves 
time when you don't have to edit 
video," he said. "The reason I'm 
doing all that is because I want 
to get the word out and get other 
people thinking about poverty. 
I'm not just trying to get a pat on 
the back for the aid work I'm 
doing. I'm trying to get people to 
realize that we can end poverty 
in our lifetime if our generation 
makes it their personal responsi­
bility to do so." 
One of the major reasons 
Ahmed chose Bangladesh is that he still has a lot of family there. His father attended Notre Dame College in Dhaka before deciding to immigrate to Canada during a bloody civil war when Bangladesh split from Pakistan. However, he still has roots in the ·rural villages, and his grand­mother still has a house in the 
small town of Mobipheur. 
"Well, Bangladesh was actually his time working in the local vil­area. It felt like a bomb had just lages, giving out water purifica­gone off -all the homes were tion systems, water bottles, mos­destroyed," he said. quito nets, and wind-up flash­· After Ahmed had run out of lights so that kids can do their blankets, the local villagers homework in the dark. He has chased him back into his boat. done all of this with only his own As he was leaving, he saw a and some of his parents' money. small boy standing on the shore, 
America, they rarely come  "The reason rm  kets to needy fami­lies, and chroni­ 
back.  In  my  doing all that is  cled his experience  
case the  reac­ because I want to get  in a video entitled  
tion was 'This person has  the word out and get  "Cyclone Disaster  - Sidr The  
come back and  other people thining  Hard Lessons of  
now he's trying  about poverty. "  Aid Work."  
to  give  us  "Some  of it  is  
stuff?' It sur­prised a lot of  Shawn Ahmed  rural villages, some of it is in the  
people."  Graduate student  outskirts  of  the  
Ahmed  has  city, and some of it  
spent much of  was in the disaster  

''I've been trying to do small naked and shivering. Next to him things off-camera and on-cam­was a family under a blanket. era to show people what they "So he slept in the cold and can do with very little money," those people get to stay warm at he said. 'Tm not trying to be a night. It didn't seem fair," Ahmed charity or NGO. I'm trying to said. "I thought that there would show what you can do with a lit­be this warm and fuzzy feeling, tle bit of money here and there but if I could be honest, it's not to inspire others." there because when you're on 
He has also been working with the ground, you can always see other organizations, including a that no matter how much I'm clinic that administers to native doing, there's always someone people sponsored by Notre else left out in the cold." Dame's Bengal Bouts in the vii-In addition, when he first 
However, he "/think we can [end in other dorms knows the ven­to send to
poverty in our time].
ture is financial­Bangladesh.
It's not going to happen
ly unsustainable "The first over the long automatically" thing I thought term, and he when I heard is hopes to eventu­story of just how
Shawn Ahmed 
ally enroll again amazing a per­
Graduate student 




Looking for solid business and accounting experience to put on your resume? 
The Observer is accepting applications for a 2008-09 Business Manager and Controller. Responsibilities include preparing a yearly budget and handling payroll for a 200-person staff. 
Since the Controller will take over as the 2009-10 Business Manager, Controller applicants should be sophomores, or juniors staying for a fifth year. 
Both positions are salaried, about six to 10 hours a week. Please contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna1@nd.edu or Kyle West at kwestl@nd.edu if interested. 
arrived in Bangladesh with his mother, she contracted dengue fever, which "basically turns you into a hemophiliac." The illness added several thousand dollars to the already expensive venture. 
"It's also been really tough on the family as well," he said. "I was really worried about my mom whe.n she got dengue fever." 
Nonetheless, Ahmed continues his aid work in Bangladesh, undeterred by these unfortu­nate events. 
at Notre Dame. 
"Right now I'm reapplying to resume the [sociology graduate] program," he said. "I haven't heard back from them yet. Other than that I definitely know aid work and development is something I want to do the rest of my life. I would keep doing what I'm doing now if it was something that was financially sustainable, but my family can only donate so much money to this." 
Moreover, Ahmed is still just as inspired as the day when he heard Dr. Sachs speak at the University, and he insists that we can end poverty in our lifetime, even though it will take a lot of hard work. 
"I think we can [end poverty in our time]. It's not going to hap­pen automatically," he said. "We're going to need a commit­ment to make poverty a top pri­ority back in America while poverty around the world may not be one of the top priorities right." 
Note: 
+Alumni Hall has decided to spend the remainder of the aca­demic year raising money for Ahmed, said Alumni Hall presi­dent Matt Kernan. Kernan met Ahmed through YouTube several months ago, and said he hopes to raise money not only in Alumni but also 
the easiest for me because I have 
family here, this way I don't have 
to worry that much about room 
and board and my transporta­
tion. I have aunts, uncles, and 
my grandmother here," he said. 
Ahmed said people in the rural villages are often surprised that . he has decided to return to his 
native country. 
"In the rural villages, where I 
have a family connection, most 
people are used to people emi­
grating out," he said. "Once peo­
ple go to North lage of Jalchatra. 
"I found a clinic not far from my grandmother's village that gets Bengal Bouts funds and hopefully I can go there and see what they need as well as film what is going on," Ahmed said. 
Since coming to Bangladesh, Ahmed has endured many trials, inclu.ding Cyclone Sidr -a storm more destructive than Hurricane Katrina that killed over 4,000 people. Ahmed decid­ed to travel to the disaster area 
to hand out blan­
son it takes to 
drop out of 
school and liqui­

date your checking account and just fly over there," Kernan said. "It really takes an amazing person and I think Shawn is the perfect guy for the job over there." 
Kernan actually had to con­vince Ahmed to take the money. 
"He said he's not looking for fundraising, he just wants to get the word out about his message of how we can end poverty," Kernan said. "I said that you want it to be inspiring, but what do you want to· inspire them to do. Most [Notre Dame students! aren't going to get up and fly to Bangladesh. The best thing you're going to have a chance at inspiring them to do it to give money." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmo6@nd.edu 
P---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 22, 2008 


Park 
continued from page 1 
and terrace will be path­ways. benches, and a mon­unwnt, that has not yet been designed. 
The opening of the Irish Green is timed to coincide with the beginning of the construction on the Eddy Street Commons, Marsh said. By incorporating the park into the Eddy Street plan, the University hopes the Irish Green will serve as a link between the cam­pus and the South Bend residential community. 
"It is designed to be a transitional space between campus and community," Marsh said. "We believe that it will be attractive to the entire Notre Dame and South Bend community." 
The Irish Green's proxim­ity to IWAC will also play a major role in its utility. 
According to Marsh, DPAC will be able to use both the terrace and the large expanse of the lawn to host performances and other events. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierneyl @nd.edu 


Wabruda 
continued from page 1 
Another defining aspnct of the 
group is that members dress in 
shirt and tie the first class day 
of fWery month. 
Wabruda also promotes unity betwnnn il<> members, Williams said, adding that he has become dose with many other men in the group. 
"I have been very encour­aged by the unity of this group," he said. "We want to bring all kinds of' people tognth­
er," 
Williams said he hopes to attract people of' all ages and races to the eonf'erence. 

"Black history is American history. It all'ecl<> everyone, and we all have a lot to learn about thesn issues." he said. 
The weflkm1d's events aim to educate audiences about black history and how it has afli1eted the lives of African Americans today. 
"(The event.<>) give homage to our aneestors," Williams said. 
The group encourages mem­bers to come together to share il<> exporiences, dill'erenees and commonalities. Williams said the group's advisor, Dr. G. David Moss plays an integral role in the life of' the club, and spends mueh of' his time advis­ing nwmbers. 
"lie is rnally passionate about our mission." Williams said. 
This weekend's eonf'erence not only aims to promote undnrstanding and apprecia­tion of' Af'ri<~an American histo­ry. but also to unitn f'aculty. starr and studnnts f'rom all of' Uw University. 
"I I' wn are going to solve 


Jazz 
continued from page 1 
temporary jazz, all-percussion steel drum bands to a salsa jazz band, and from groups of 20 peo­ple to less than 10 people, this year's CIP will be unlike any past festival<>. 
Francica said the biggest changn this year is the addition of a new concert block on Saturday from 1-5 pm. In previous years, the festival only ran Friday and Saturday nights, but it will now feature four extra hours of per­fi>rmance time on Saturday after­noon. 
Within this added time will be a student jam session where musi­cians from several of the visiting bands will gather onstage for an hour-long set. 
"Nothing like this has ever been done before at CJF, so we expect it to be an exciting performance," Frandr~ said. 
Unlike other collegiate festival<>, CJF is a non-competitive festival that focuses on learning. The seven judges will be critiquing the perfbrmances in private feedback sessions directly after the per­fbrmances. 
The judges include Jamey Aebersold, saxophone, Gene Bertoncini, guitar, Jim McNeely, piano, Dan Morgenstern, writer 
American problems, we have to come together to learn. It's like what they say in [Notre Dame] football -together as one," Williams said. 
The club has organized sev­eral weekend events, which include three lectures Saturday morning and afternoon, which are to take place in the Jordan Hall ofScience. 
The first, featuring Heginald 
L. Hobinson, a visiting Professor of Law and Critical Theory at Southern Illinois University, is entitled "Wake up! It's a Bleeping Con: Heawakening the Great Potential of Black Americans." 
The second lecture will foeus on African American history during the Civil War era. It will feature Verge "Brother Sage" Gillam, founder of the Association of African American Hole Models (AAAHMl, and is titled "Underground Hailroad." 
In the third lecture Bishop Gideon Adjei, founder of Crystal Horizons Investment, will give a talk titled "Vision for Victory." 
Saturday's activities will com­mence with a performance at Legends by spoken work artist Taalam Acey, from 10 p.m. until midnight. 
The conference will take its activities off the Notre Dame campus Sunday f'or a day of immersion in black history in several historieal sites in south­ern Michigan, including a visit to the Underground Hailroad Cemetery in Vandalia, Mich., a family farm in Paw Paw, Mich., and the Sojourner Truth statue in Battle Creek, Mich. 
Contact Katie PeraJta at kperaJta@nd.edu 
and historian, Larry Ridley, bass, Marvin Stamm, trumpet, and Clif Wallace, drums. Each of these judges performed at CJF when they were college students. 
Aside from judging, these seven musicians will perform in their own session Saturday night at 10 p.m. 
Bands chosen for the festival were selected from a group over 200 applicant.<> who were asked to submit a CD of their perform­ances. Groups were chosen based on their talent level and diversity of sound, Francica said. 
In past years, CJF has hosted jazz greats like Henry Mancini, Cecil and Dee Dee Bridgewater, John Faddis, the Clayton broth­ers, and 2008 Album of the Year Grammy-winner, Herbie Hancock. 
"For 50 years Notre Dame has been bringing top-tier jazz pro­grams to campus to celebrate this American-born style of music, and we are committed to keeping the standard high," Francica said. 
All CJF events are free for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross students. Tickets are required for Friday's 7-11 p.m. session and Saturday's 1-11 p.m. session and are available in the Lafortune Box Office. · 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 


Hypatia 
continued from page 1 
or  science  field.  This  
year's  speaker  is  
Professor  Joan  F.  

Brennecke, professor of chemical engineering at Notre Dame and the direc­tor of the Notre Dame Energy Center. · 
The seventh graders will work alongside Saint Mary's students in the col­lege's laboratories. Immersion activities include working with Fibonacci numbers and decoding messages. 
In addition, the day will involve a role-playing activity, featuring dressed-up Saint Mary's students portraying his­torical scientists and mathematicians. The sev­enth graders will also par­take in a campus tour. 
The Saint Mary's finan­cial aid office will offer presentations on financial preparation for college for parents. 
Contact Kadyn Smith at ksmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Professor studies west Irish vilages 
Special to the Observer 

A ghost town of stone houses frozen in time for decades, the island Inis Airc, located just off the western coast of Ireland, is an uninhabited 
graveyard where roof­less build­ings remain untouched after the islanders were forcibly relocated to 


the mainland Kuljt 
by the gov­
ernment in 1960. 

"It's eerie," said Ian Kuijt, asso­
ciate professor of anthropology at 
the University of Notre Dame. 
Kuijt, who in 2005 wrapped up 
a 5-year excavation studying the 
origins of agriculture at a 
Neolithic site next to the Dead Sea 
in Jordan, decided his next proj­
ect would take place in a more 
hospitable climate and now, along 
with some of his students, is 
exploring the history of lnis Airc, 
and other eroded, abandoned vil­
lages along Ireland's west coast. 
"My wife and I spent three weeks bicycling through western Ireland on our honeymoon in 1995," he explained through a grin, "and it was just so beautiful and so accessible. I fell in love with the place." 
His reasons for ultimately selecting this corner of the world to research are more dutili..Il and actually evolved from his wildly popular Archaeology of Ireland class, which he teaches every two years and for which he and his students travel to Ireland over fall break to tour heritage sites. 
"I wanted to look at what, in many ways, is very much an understudied problem," he said. "What process created the cultur­al landscapes of the Irish coast? The core of it, in many ways, is the archaeology or materiality of The Great Famine. There has been surprisingly little research on the human eeology and ethnol­ogy of this period of time." 
Kuijt's international, multi-dis­ciplinary research team is com­prised of graduate and under­graduate students and, along with Notre Dame, researchers from University College Dublin, Trinity College Dublin and Cardiff University. 
The group is conducting a gen­eral study of the mountainous Conemarra region and ca<>e stud­
ies on Inis Airc and Omey islands, 
Errislannan and Streamstown 
Bay in County Galway. Many of 
the islands have no road or train 
access, and there are no medieal 
facilities or services, which 
prompted their evacuation by the 
government. 
Last summer, Kuijt took seven 
Notre Dame undergraduate stu­
dents to conduct a feasibility 
assessment of the sites. 
Sophomore Hyan Lash helped 
with an archaeological survey of 
Omey Island. 
"We recorded all of the aban­
doned cottages and artifacts, 
including a medieval shell 
mound, by mapping them using 
satellite recording systems and 
describing their features," Lash 
explained. "We uncovered more 
than 100 sites." 
While the students took note of 
what was above ground, Mark 
Schurr, associate professor and 
chair of anthropology at Notre 
Dame, used a remote sensing 
(ground-penetrating radar) device 
to loeate underground remains. 
His detection of abandoned lire­
places, shell mounds and build­
ings buried by sand dunes will 
help minimize damage in future 
digs. 
"I was impressed with the incredibly rich archaeological record and how relatively little is known about it," Schurr said. 
Now that the "groundwork" ha<> been laid, this summer Kuijt and his team will spend a week at Inis Airc recording all of the aban­doned buildings and use this to understand other areas where destruction has taken place. They also will conduct excava­tions at several villages, where Kuijt hopes to learn more about the famine. 
"We have information about potatoes being a critieal resource, which they were," he said. "But we have no understanding of what other types of food people ate, so how do we understand the impact when one particular resource disappears?" 
In addition, three student.<> will interview people who lived on lnis Aire until 1960 but now reside in nearby towns. They'll ask what life was like baek then and what understanding they have of the years before and after the famine, a<> well as the migration of p1mple to the United States. They hope to eonvince at least a few people to journey back and be inter­viewed on video camera in an ell'ort to document folklore and life on the islands. 


Plug in to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Free iTimes subscription for reflective liste11i11g 011 your iPod. Type "ndprnyacnsf" 011 tile' iTunes senrcii cngi11e,-or -log onto www.ndprayercast.org
A"'))))) ) 

Hear it here this week: Rev. Dan Parrish, c.s.c.
M www.ndprayercast.org 
Songs of the ND Folk Choir • psalms • homilies • prayers • meditative music 







ORLD & NATION 
Friday, February 22, 2008 CoMPILED fROA,1 TI·IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ex-colonel to testify for terror suspect 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico -In a stunning turnaround, the former chief military prose­cutor at Guantanamo Bay said Thursday he would be a defense witness for the driver of Osama bin Laden. 
Air Foree Col. Morris Davis, who resigned in October over alleged political interference in the U.S. military tribunals, told The Associated Press he will appear at a hearing for Salim Ahmed Hamdan. 
"I expnct to be called as a witness ... I'm mme than happy to testify," Davis said in a telephone interview from Washington. Ile called it "an opportunity to tell the truth." 
At the April pretrial hearing inside the U.S. military base in southeast Cuba, Hamdan's defense team plans to argue that alleged political interference cited by Davis violates the Military Commissions Act, Hamdan's mil­itary lawyer, Navy Lt. Brian Mizer, told the AP. 
U.S. gives U.N. more data about Iran 
VIENNA. Austria -For the second time in recent weeks, Washington has given the U.N. nuclear watchdog information on what it says were Tehran's attempts to make atomic weapons, but much of it is of doubtful value, diplomats said Thursday. 
The diplomats also told The Associated Press that. after handing over a large file last week to the International Atomic Energy Agency, the 
U.S. agreed to let the Iranians look at some of thP material so they could respond, but Tehran has shown no interest. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
20 million pounds of recalled beef eaten 
LOS ANGELES -More than a third of the 143 million pounds of California beef recalled last week wnnt to sdwollunch programs, with at least 20 million pounds consumed, officials with the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture said Thursday. 
About 50 million pounds of the meat went to schools, said Eric Steiner, deputy administrator of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Food and Nutrition Service's special nutrition programs. 
or that amount, about 20 million pounds have been eatnn, 15 million pounds are on hold at stor­age faeilities and 15 million pounds are still being traced. he said. 
Otlicials said, however, that they still weren't able to provide the names of all the places the meat wound up. 
"Sitting here today, I cannot tell you how many locations the product has gone to," said Dr. Kenneth Peterson, of the USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service. "Our focus is identifying the locations and making sure the product is under control." 

Poor economy threatens clean energy 
Governors who want clean energy to be a national priority are trying to bring together states with wildly different ways of producing pownr, like tapping ocean temperature differ­ences ofT Hawaii and mining coal in West Virginia. 
But a souring economy has tightened state budgets and forced spending cuts that could temporarily short circuit renewable energy development. 
Twenty states now project budget gaps, which tognther total $34 billion for 2009. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Republicans protest immigration bill 
INDIANAPOLIS -Hepublicans walked off the floor of the Indiana I louse Thursday night in protest of a move by majority Democrats to pre­vent any GOP amendments from being offered to legislation aimed at penalizing employers who hire illegal immigrants. 
It was unclear whether they would return to the floor Thursday night. 
Some Republicans said the bill was too weak on tackling illegal immigration. Some wanted to offer changes that among other things would prohibit the state or local governments from providing public assistance to illegal immigrants. That would include help in obtaining employ­ment, housing, higher education or other types 
SERBIA 


Mob breaks into U.S. embassy 
Rioters protest American support for Kosovo's independence; one charred body found inside 
Associated Press 

BELGRADE -Angry Serbs broke into the U.S. Embassy and set fire to an of'fice Thursday night as rioters rampaged through Belgrade's streets, putting an exclamation point of vio­lence to a day of mass protest against Western support for an independent Kosovo. 
At least 150,000 people rallied in Belgrade, waving Serbian flags and signs pro­claiming "Stop USA terror," to denounce the bid by Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority to create their own state out of what Serbs con­sider the ancient heartland of their culture. 
Protesters burned American flags and the mob that attacked the embassy tore down the U.S. flag there. Crowds also ran­sacked a McDonald's, looted stores and fought with police in front of other diplomatic compounds in a display of the resentment seething in Serbia over the secession of what has been its southernmost province. 
A charred body was found in the U.S. Embassy after the fire was put out, but all staff were accounted for, embassy spokeswoman Rian Harris said. Belgrade's Pink TV said the body appeared to be that of a tity, to give up our brothers separatist sentiment else­their way inside the com­rioter. in Kosovo?" he told the where. The Kremlin has pound's consular building, 
White House spokesman crowd. underlined its displeasure tore down the U.S. flag and Dana Perino strongly criti­Coming after smaller out­by hinting it might back tried to throw furniture cized Serbia' government, bursts of violence in separatists in pro-Western from an o.tiice. They set fire saying the embassy "was Belgrade as well as attacks nations such as the former to the office and flames shot attacked by thugs" and on a United Nations build­Soviet republic of Georgia. up the side of the building. Serb police didn't do ing and police checkpoints Serbian officials dis­The State Department enough to stop it. State in Kosovo, the surge of riot­missed violence earlier in officials said no protesters Department spokesman ing underlined the determi­the week as "insignificant," got into the embassy's main Sean McCormack said the nation of Serbs not to give and no police were guard­chancery section, a sepa­
U.S. warned Serbian Prime up Kosovo quietly. ing the U.S. Embassy com­rate area that was manned Minister Vojislav Kostunica The Serbian government pound even though it had by a U.S. Marine guard unit and Foreign Minister Vuk has said it won't resort to been targeted previously. and some security person­Jeremic that it would hold military force, but the street American officials said the nel. them personally responsible violence could be a tactic to offices had been closed at Police arrived about 45 for further damage. slow moves by more coun­midday because of security minutes after the blaze 
At the mass rally earlier, tries to follow the U.S., concerns. broke out, and after the Kostunica attacked the U.S. Britain, Germany and Milorad Veljovic, a top rioters left the building. A and others for supporting France in quickly recogniz­Interior Ministry official, half dozen fire trucks also Kosovo's independent. "Is ing Kosovo's independence. said that security forces had appeared and quickly there any other nation on Hussia and China lead the the situation under control doused the flames, leaving Earth from whom (the great states standing with Serbia, and that mobs had been the front facade and two powers) are demanding worrying that Kosovo;s broken up. police guard posts on the that they give up their ideo-example could encourage Masked men smashed sidewalk smoldering. 

UCLA files for restraining order on activists 
according to the university. On at least several hundred ongoing research proj­
Associated Press 

one occasion a faculty member received ects that involve the use of animals, he 
a package rigged with razor blades, the said. 
LOS ANGELES -The University of statement said. Hampton said the suit specifically California went to court Thursday to try "Enough is enough," UClA Chancellor requests restraining orders and injunc­to keep animal rights activists away Gene Block said. "We're not willing to tions against the Animal Liberation from UClA employees and graduate stu­wait until somebody is injured before Front, the Animal Liberation Brigade, dents who say they have been threat­taking legal action to protect our faculty the UClA Primate Freedom Project and ened because of their research. and administrators from terrorist tac­five protesters believed to be affiliated 
Three times since June 2006, Molotov tics, violence and harassment." with those groups. cocktail-type devices have been left near The University of California's Board of The suit alleges that the defendants the homes of faculty members who Regents filed suit in Superior Court in invaded researchers' privacy, interfered oversee or participate in research that Santa Monica on Thursday, seeking a with business practices and intentionally involves animals, according to a state­temporary restraining order and perma­caused emotional distress. It also asks ment from the University of California, nent injunctions keeping activists away the court to prohibit the defendants Los Angeles. from UClA employees and graduate stu­from vandalizing their property, violat­
Researchers' homes have also been dents engaged in such research, said ing local noise ordinances or disseminat­vandalized and they have received university spokesman Phil Hampton. ing personal information about universi­threatening phone calls and e-mails, At any one time, the university has ty personnel over the Internet. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 22, 2008 
Clinton to Obama: Stop stealing words 
New York senator accuses rival candidate of political plagiarism, elicits disapproval from Democratic audience 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN -llillary Hodham 

Clinton accused presidential rival 
Barack Obama of political plagia­
rism Thursday night, but drew 
boos from a Dmnoeratie debate 
audilmcn when she ridiculed him 
as tlw !~andidate or "chang!1 you 
1~an Xnrox." 
Obama dismissed the charge 

out or hand, then turned the 
j11<1rs to applausn when he coun­
tered, "What we shouldn't be 
doing is tearing each other down, 
wn should bn lil'ting the country 
up." 
Tho nxchange marked an 

unusually pointed moment in an 
othnrwisn civil nncounter in the 
days bnfore March 4 primaries in 
Texas and Ohio -contests that 
cvnn sonw of Clinton's supporters 
say shn must win to sustain her 
campaign for the Whitn I louse. 
The former first lady has lost 

11 straight primaries and cau­
cuses, and trails her rival in con­
vention delegates. Obama has 
won a pair of big union endorse­
ments in the pa<>t two days. 
In a university auditorium in 

the hnart of Texas, the two rivals 
agreed that high-tech surveil­
lance measures arc preferable to 
construction of a fence to curtail 
illngal immigration. 
They disagreed on the proper rnsponse to a change in govern­ment in Cuba in the wake of Fidel Castro's resignation. Clinton said she would refuse to sit down with incoming President Haul Castro until he implements politi­cal and economic reforms. Obama said he would meet "without preconditions," but added the U.S. agenda for such a session would include human rights in the Communist island nation. 
They also sparred frequently about health care, a eore issue of Uw campaign. 
Clinton said repeatedly that Obama's plan would leave 15 million Americans uncovered. 
But he, in turn, accused the former first lady of mishandling the issue by working in secrecy wlwn her husband was in the Whitu I louse. 
"I'm going to do things dilfer­Pntly," he said. "We ean have great plans, but if we don't changu how the politics is work­ing in Washington, then neither of our plans arn going to hap~ pun." 
Clinton was combative and complimentary by turns, and rnlledud on her well-known per­sonal struggles in the debate's final moment<>. 
"Evnryone here knows I've lived through some crises and some challenging moments in my life," she said -a thinly veiled but dear reference to her hus­band's affair with Monica Lewinsky and subsequent impeachment. But she added that nothing she had been through matched the everyday struggles of voters. 
Then, offering unprompted praisn to her rival, the one-time front-runner said, "No matter what happens in this contest, I am honored to be here with Barack Obarna." 
Both candidates were plainly popular with the debate audi­ence. During one break someone in tlw crowd shouted "Si, se pucde," Spanish for Obama's trademark phrase, "Yes we can." 
Clinton largely sidestepped a question about so-called superdelegates, members of Congress, governors and party luaders who were not picked in 
primaries and caueuses. She said ences. Massachusetts Gov. Deval chart a new course in the presi­the issue would sort itself out, First, she said she had seen a Patrick. dential race. and "we'll have a united supporter of Obama interviewed "If your candidacy is going to She has lost 11 straight pri­Democratic party" for the fall on television recently, and unable be about words then they should maries and caucuses to Obama campaign. to name a single accomplishment be your own words," she said. -including an overseas compe­
But Obama, who has won more the Illinois senator had on his " ... Lifting whole passages from tition for support among primaries and caucuses said the record. someone else's speeches is not Americans living aboard -and contests must "count for some­"Words are important and change you can believe in, it's has fallen bnhind in the chase for thing ... that the words matter but chang~ you can the number of will of the voters actions speak Xerox. delegates needed
"Jfyour candidacy is 
... is what ulti­"Words are important louder than The debate to become the mately will deter­words," she said. audience booed. going to be about prnsidential nom­
and words matter but
mine who our Obama agreed Obama said the words then they inee. next nominee is actions speak louder with that, then entire controver­Obama's strong
should be your own
going to be." than words. " noted that ~y was evidence showing has Clinton went Clinton lately had of a "silly season" words." made him the into tho debate been urging vot­that the public man to beat in a 
Hillary Clinton 
needing a change ers to turn finds dispiriting. historic struggle
Hillary Clinton 
in the course of New York senator against him by Besides, he said between a black
New York senator 
the campaign, saying, "let's get of his speeches at man and a white and waited real." one point, ''I've woman, and even patiently for an opening to try to "And the implication is that the got to admit, some of them are former President Bill Clinton has diminish her rival, seated inches people who've been voting for pretty good." said his wife must win both Ohio away on the stage. "I think you me or are involved in my cam­The two rivals sat nflxt to one and Texas early next month to can tell from the first 45 minutes paign are somehow delusional," another in swivel chairs in a preserve her candidacy. New Senator Obama and I have a lot Obama said. University of Texas auditorium polls show Texas a dead heat, in common," she said. Clinton also raised Obama's for the 90-minute debate, one in and give Clinton a lead in Ohio, 
Barely pausing for breath, she use in his campaign speeches of a dwindling number of opportu­but far smaller than the one she went on to say there were differ-words first uttered by his friend, nities for the former first lady to held in recent weeks. 


Announcing the Year 2008 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2008 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not nonnally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normaHy be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, hut are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1)  an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals;  
3)  a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs invo.lved;  
5)  two letters ofrecommendation  
6)  a transcript showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list ofother sources of funding (being sought or confirmed) for the same project  
{i.e. Office of fntemational Studies, Nanovic Institute, etc.)  

Application Deadline: Wednesday, Februar-y 27~ 2008 Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notn• Dame 

THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Friday, February 22, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,284.30 -142.96
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
898 82 2,430 3,707,656,389 
AMEX 2,258.19i;~!!jiii! ~6.1'{ NASDAQ 2,299-?8 -27.32 NYSE 8/!r'ii•."f'j; •.::96;23 S&P 500 1,342.53 -17.50 NIKKEI (Tokyo) .13,467.szt +220.91 FTSE 100 (London) 5,932.20 +38.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.83 -1.13 134.79 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) ·0.96 -0.42 43.52 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.43 -0.12 28.10 LEVEL 3 COMM INC (LVLT) -4.89 ·0.11 2.14 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -3.40 -0.133 3.784 13-WEEK BILL ·1.61 -0.035 2.140 30-YEAR BOND -1.96 -0.091 4.553 5-YEAR NOTE ·6.21 -0.186 2.807 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.47 98.23 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +11.00 948.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.93 95.25 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 107.4650 EURO 0.6758 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0122 BRmSH POUND 0.5095 
IN BRIEF Chinese industry loses ground on cost 
SHANGHAI -The teddy bears selling for $1.40 in Shanghai's IKEA store may be just about the cheapest in town, but they're not made in China -they're stitched and stuffed in Indonesia. 
The llutry brown toys reflect a new challenge tor China: ll'> huge economy, which has long offered some of the world's lowest manufacturing costs, is losing its elaim on cheapness as factories get squeezed by rising prices for energy, materials and labor. 
Those expenses, plus higher taxes and stricter enforcement of labor and environmental stan­dards, are causing some manufacturers to leave for lower-cost markel<; such as Vietnam, Indonesia and India. 
Costs have climbed so much that three-quarters of businesses surveyed by the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai believe China is losing its competitive edge. 
The higher costs mean Western consumers are bound to tace steeper prices for iPods, TVs, tank tops and many other imported products made by small Chinese subcontractors. 
Britain, France. propose Iran sanctions 
UNITED NATIONS -Britain and France for­mally introduced a Security Council resolution Thursday calling for a third round of sanctions against Iran over its failure to suspend uranium enrichment. 
The United States pushed hardest for the sanc­tions, but China and Russia, as the remaining per­manent members of the 15-nation council ­along with (;ermany have been in general agree­ment on them. 
The six nations circulated a draft earlier calling lilf bans on travel and equipment that can be used in civilian and nuclear programs, more monitor­ing of Iran's financial institutions and inspection of air and sea eargo heading to or from Iran. 
Iran says it will only deal with the U.N.'s International Atomic Energy Agency, which timnd last November that Tehran was generally truthful about aspect-; of il<; nuclear history. But the new resolution, elaborating on the earlier draft. encourages European Union to continue working with Iran on linding "a negotiated solution ... with a view to enmte neeessary conditions for resum­ing talks" on il<; nudear program. 



Bleak data fans fears of recession 
Regional manufacturing nws and index ofleading economic indicators disappoint 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-The stock market finished with a sharp loss Thursday after bleak readings on the economy heightened investors' fears of reces­sion. The Dow Jones indus­trial average fell more than 140 points. 
Wall Street was disap­pointed when the Philadelphia Federal Reserve reported that regional manufacturing fell more than predicted. Another piece of bad news was the Conference Board's January index of leading economic indica­tors, which posted its fourth straight drop. 
Investors have already been pricing in another interest rate cut-per­haps up to half a percent­age point -after minutes from the Federal Reserve's last policy-setting meeting indicated central bankers will remain vigilant about the economy. The Fed, which meets again March 18, has forecast slower growth and continued risks tn the economy from hous­ing and credit markets. 
Though investors been assured by the central bank that it will lower rates again if necessary, that expectation has not but still, your house is or 1.17 percent, to fell to 3.78 percent from been enough to galvanize burning down." 2,299.78. 3.89 percent late their confidence in the The Dow fell 142.96, or "What you're seeing is a Wednesday. stock market and the econ­1.15 percent, to 12,284.30. tug of war out there," said Light, sweet crude for omy. Wall Street remains The biggest loser among Arthur Hogan, chief mar­April delivery dropped concerned that the econo­the 30 Dow components ket analyst at Jefferies & $1.47 to settle at $98.23 a my could be so weak that was General Motors Corp. Co. "There are those that barrel on the New York rate cuts, which take after lender GMAC LLC, believe we're in a reces­Mercantile Exchange, after months to work their way which is part-owned by sion and earnings will the government reported through the economy, GM, said it will slash hun­move lower, and others that U.S. crude oil invento­won't prevent further dete­dreds of jobs at its auto that feel we're working on ries increased by more rioration. finance business. GM fell a bottom. That can change than expected last week. 
'The Fed cutting rates is $1.24, or 4.9 percent, to the direction of stocks Crude had reached a new a little bit like a fire engine $24.30. minute-by-minute." record above $101 in pulling up to your house," Broader indexes also Bond prices moved overnight trading. said Brian Gendreau, declined. The Standard & sharply higher on expecta­Gold jumped to a record investment strategist for Poor's 500 index shed tions of a rate reduction. high above $950 an ounce lNG Investment 17 .50, or 1.29 percent, to The yield on the 10-year on Thursday, while the dol­Management. "You're 1,342.53, while the Nasdaq Treasury note, which lar dipped slightly against happy help has arrived, composite index fell 27.32, moves opposite its price, most major currencies. 

Earthquake hits northeastern Nevada 
"It just immediately jumped into spokesman at the scene.
Associated Press 

rattling the walls," she told The The temblor was felt across much Associated Press from the Wagon of the West, from northern Idaho 
WELLS, Nev. -Windows shat­Wheel residential motel where she and Utah to Southern California, tered and building facades and lives with her dog, Sis. She said it and as many as 30 aftershocks signs fell, but no one was seriously seemed like the shaking went on were reported. injured when a powerful earth­for "five or six hours" but probably "Definitely a lot of people felt quake shook this rural northeast­lasted only a few minutes. this, and if they were sleeping, they ern town on Thursday. "I wasn't terribly scared but it felt were awoken," said USGS geophysi­
The quake, which had an estimat­like everything was just going to cist Carrieann Bedwell. ed magnitude of 6.0, according to crumble down around us," she In Wendover, Utah, on the the U.S. Geological Survey's said. Nevada-Utah line, Tammy National Earthquake Information Gov. Jim Gibbons toured the area Wadsworth was ironing clothes Center in Golden, Colo., struck at and said most everyone was safe, when the quake hit. 
6:16 a.m., near Wells in a sparsely citing just three minor injuries. "I kept thinking, 'When is it going populated area near the Nevada­"I think we were just blessed that to quit?' A couple pictures fell ol'f Utah line. Mother Nature struck when it did the walls," she said. "One of my 
Elko County commissioners ... rather than some time later on grandkids ran outside. They didn't declared a state of emergency. when the people would be out and know what else to do. It scared "Almost all of the businesses are about and the sidewalks might have them." shut down. We have no services had more people on them when The most serious damage was and no fuel," Commissioner Mike these structures came down," he reported in Wells' largely unoccu­Nannini said. said. pied historic district, where an esti­
Donna Anderson of Wells said she Almost all the 700 residential mated 20 to 25 buildings have been was surprised by how abruptly the structures in town had some dam­"heavily damaged." Elko County quake hit. age, said Tom Turk, a state Sheriff's Sgt. Kevin McKinney said. 
page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 22, 2008 
CUBA 
Cuba to decide its future 
Country likely to keep Castros in power in Sunday's elections 
Associated Press 
11!\Vi\NA -i\ technocrat 

whose reforms are credited 
with saving Cuba's oconomy 
after the Soviet collapse. A 
former Fidel Castro aide who 
persuaded the U.N. to con­
demn Washington's embargo. 
The Communist Party's inter­
national relations man. 
These men are the next 

generation of Cuba's leader­
ship, and their fortunes in 
the government shake-up 
corning Sunday will say a lot 
about where the island is 
headed now that th<~ 81-year­
old Fidel is giving up the 
presidency. 
Parliamnnt will almost cer­

tainly keep the Castros in 
ehargn by replacing Fidel 
with his younger brother, 
Haul. Haul, 76, has been first 
in line for the presidency for 
decades and has been acting 
president since his brother 
took ill in July 2006. 
Already, Haul has spoken of 

unspecified "structural 
ehanges" and called for an 
open discussion of problems 
with the system. But it is 
unelear what kind of econom­
ic openings Cuba's commu­
nist leadership is willing to 
allow, and its choice of vice 
presidents will be crucial in 
determining whether the 
presidnnt has a mandate for 
change. 
It's up to the National Assembly -the 614-member parliament elected last month -to meet Sunday to selnct the 31 people who as the Couneil of State will lead Cuba for the next five years. 
A parliamentary committee has been privately debating the nnw council's makeup for several weeks, probably tak­ing into aecount the recom­mendations of the Castro brothers as well as top Communist Party leaders. 
On Sunday. the assembly will name the president, first vice president and five other viee presidents, and 24 other members of the Council of State. Fidel, who was re­elected to the National Assembly, could remain on thn council but is unlikely to receive a top position. 
The current Council of State is overdue for renewal, with two-thirds of its mem­bnrs over 60 and only two each in their 30s and 40s. Only four women sit on the council, and about half the members fought in the revo­lution in the late 1950s. 
While nothing is certain, most people expect Haul will be the next presidnnt. The No. 2 slot remains more up for grabs. 
Thn leading candidate is Carlos Lagn, balding and baby-faced, who at 56 is a gorwration younger than the Castro brothers. lie is alrnady a vice president, and as Cabinet secretary is a sort of de facto prime minister. Quint and unassuming, Lage has always sidestepped pub­lie feuds. 
lin is credited with design­ing the modest economic rnforms in the narly 1990s that hnlped Cuba survive the Soviet collapse. With Haul's support, lw pushed through proposals for limited self­employment, foreign invest­ment, cooperative farms, farmers markets and the legal use of the U.S. dollar. 
Those moves crnated cash flow that improved people's lives without sparking politi­cal turmoil many Cubans fear after witnessing the fall of communism in eastern Europe. But then. as now, both Lage and the Castros said there would be no­changes at the expense of socialism, including the free soeial services most Cubans consider a birthright. 
While he supported tempo­rary, limited economic open­ings in a time of crisis, l.age has suggested that is as far as he wants to go, telling state managers last year that Cuba will not copy the forays of communist-ruled China and Vietnam into capitalism. 
Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Hoque has a reputation for more ideo­logical ortho­period in which the Baltimore Orioles played baseball in llavana and young Elian Gonzalez was returned from Florida. 
Hemirez now serves as the Communist Party's represen­tative abroad and has trav­eled with Haul to Vietnam and China. With perfect English and a pleasant, bespectacled face, Hemirez would be a key player if the next U.S. president accepts Haul's pleas for talks. 
One nian who could thwart efforts to put a younger man in the No. 2 spot is Hicardo Alarcon, who would have to resign as president of the National Assembly to take the position. At 70, he is a long shot, but he has wide experi­ence, including a stint as for­eign minister and two tours as U.N. ambassador. 
Urbane and eloquent, Alarcon speaks fluent English and has long been Fidel's point man on Cuba-U.S. 
doxy, especial­affairs, repre­
"Fortunately, our
ly given his senting his 
seven years as process can still count country in 
Fidel's person­on cadres from the old talks with U.S. al secretary. officials. He
guard and others who 
lie fiercely was a key 
defended the were very young in the player in 
government's early days ofthe Cuba's suc­crackdown on cessful battle
Revolution. " 
dissidents in to return 2003, calling E i a n them merce­Raul Castto Gonzalez to naries. acting Cuban president his Cuban 
Short, slight­ly stocky and freckled, the 42-year-old has a narrower experience in government than Lage. But he has directed Cuba's for­eign policy for nine years, and as U.N. ambassador he is largely credited with orches­trating U.N. resolutions call­ing f<ir an end to the U.S. economic embargo. 
Less well known is Fernando Hemirez de Estenoz, 56, but he is some­one to watch. lie served as chief of Cuba's mission in Washington in 1995-2001, a 
'EAAT)VlKti 
father. 

Fidel seems ready for the generational shift, referring to both older and younger leaders in his resignation letter. 
"Fortunately, our process can still count on cadres from the old guard and others who were very young in the early days of the Hevolution," he wrote. " ... There is also the intermediate generation, which learned with us the basics of the complex and almost unattainable art of organizing and leading a rev­olution." 
LIBERIA 

Bush reassures ruined countryinAfrican tour 
Associated Press 

MONHOVIA -President Bush offered encouragement and help Thursday to lift this shattered country from years of ruinous fighting as he conduct­ed a tour of Africa and turnnd toward other global problems. 
In Liberia, the. final stop on Bush's five-country trip, almost nothing works and people are nervous about their future in the aftermath of a 14-year civil war that ended in 2003. 
The country is overrun with weapons, malnutrition is per­vasive, hail' of children are not in school, and many buildings are uninhabitable. There is lit­tle running water or eleetridty development compact and help providing an anti-malaria bed net for every child between 1 and 5 in that country. 
and  no  sewage or  landline  
phone  sys­ 
tem.  

+Benin, $6 million for text­books, teacher training and scholarships. Liberia: 1 million textbooks and 10,000 desks by the start of the next school year. 
Liberia, founded by freed American slaves, offered an opportunity to trumpet a suc­cess in Bush's "freodom agen­da," which faces an uncertain futurP in Iraq and many other nations. 
"We're working to heal the wounds of war, and strengthen democracy, and build a new armod forces that will be a sourcn of security for the Liberian people instead of a 
"It's easier "It's easier to tear a source of ter­to tear a ror," the presi­
country down than it is
country down dent said. 
than it is to to rebuild a country." Liberia's civil rebuild a strife brought country," unspeakable
George Bush 
Bush said. violence.
president
"And the people of this good country must understand the United States will stand with you as you rebuild your country." 
Though Bush's entourage was a bit jittery about his seven-hour stopover, Liberia's president, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, declared at one point, "You're safe." 
Bush used his five-country trek to showcase how billions in aid and diplomatic engage­ment are improving the every­day lives of people across the continent. 
Though each nation he visit­ed already receives huge amounts of assistance, Bush had new announcements for Africa ready to drop at each stop: 
+Ghana, $350 million to bat­tle tropical diseases across the developing world. 
+Rwanda, $100 million to train and equip Afhean peace­keepers going to Sudan. 
+Tanzania, a $700 million Jlundreds of 
thousands were massacred, boys were con­scripted as soldiers to commit horrifying atrocities against countrymen, and the diamond trade was hijacked to finance fighting. At the center of the problem was one-time rebel warlord ·and dictator Charles Taylor. 
As the crisis escalated in 2003, the United States imposed sanctions. Liberia's deterioration dominated Bush's trip to Africa that year, and on his return to Washington, the president ollered logistical sup­port for peacnkeepers -mostly offshore and arriving after Taylor fled into exile in Niger. 
The U.S. has since helped a transition government hold elections, supported Sirleaf's new government, and funneled millions in aid, inducting fund­ing for the modnrnization of Liberia's security forces "from the ground up," as White llouse spokesman Gordon Johndroe put it. 


SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO CONTINUE FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDY DURING THE SUMMER. 
Grants are designed to cover only a portion of program costs. 
For details and application fonns, go to: 
http://www.nd.edu/-sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies -(154 Hurley Building -Ph 1-5203) 
application deadline: WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2008 

Sponsored by the Office of International Studies, the College of Arts and Letters, the Nunovic Institute for Europe11n Studies & the Mendoza Colll'gl' of Business 
Friday, February 22, 2008 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Man poisons "Wife "With lethal dose of antifreeze 
Associated Press 
ELKHORN, Wis. -A man was convicted Thursday of poi­soning and suffocating his wife, who left behind a letter impli­cating him should she come to an "early demise." 
Mark Jens1m, 48, was found guilty of first-degree murder in the death of his wife, Julie Jensen, and faces a mandatory life prison sentence, with the judge to determine if he should ever be eligible for parole. 
Mark Jensen stared dourly at the jurors as each concurred with the judgment. Bailiffs led him quietly out the side of the courtroom afterward. 
''I'm convinced the jury reached the wrong decision," defense attorney Craig Albee said. ''I'm hopeful that Mark will get a new trial." 
Julie Jensen, 40, was found dead in her Pleasant Prairie home on Dec. 3, 1998, after being sick for a few days. Mark Jensen was charged with killing her in 2002, but legal wrangling over evidence repeatedly delayed the trial. 
The evidence included a let­ter she wrote implicating her husband of 14 years should anything happen to her, as well as her statements to police, a neighbor and her son's teacher that she suspected her husband was trying to kill her. At the time, Mark Jensen was having an affair with a woman he has since married. 
"I pray that I am wrong and nothing happens, but I am sus­picious of Mark's suspicious behaviors and fear for my early demise," Julie Jensen wrote in the letter. She told the neighbor to give it to police only if she died. 
Julie Jensen's four brothers spoke at a news conference afterward, thanking the jurors, law enforcement agents and witnesses who testified against Mark Jensen. 
"The witnesses had to endure hardship and muster a lot of courage to come forward," Michael Griffin said, adding that he hoped the case would give hope to other victims of domestic violence. 
Jurors deliberated for about 32 hours over three days 
before  reaching a verdict  
Thursday.  
Juror  Sandra  Schott  

described Julie Jensen's letter as "extremely important" in their deliberations. 
"At first, (the letter) wasn't making any sense to me. I was one of the people having doubts," she said. But she turned around as jurors delved deeper into Julie Jensen's words and the evidence sup­porting the prosecution's claims. 
In closing arguments, attor­neys on each side had said there wasn't enough evidence supporting the other's theory about the way Julie Jensen died. 
Prosecutor Robert Jambois said Mark Jensen plotted to kill his wife, searching the Internet for information on ethylene gly­col -commonly used as antifreeze -and then giving her sleeping pills and making her drink juice spiked with the toxic chemical. 
When Julie Jensen's health appeared to improve, her hus­band pushed her face in a pil­low and suffocated her, Jambois claimed. 


Peds research new flu vaccine 
Government hopes next year's shot will be more successful than this year's 
ing already laborious vaccine
Associated Press 
production. 
WASHINGTON -Next year's The flu vaccine must be refor­flu vaccine is getting a complete mulated every year to keep up overhaul to provide protect\on with the fast-evolving influenza against three new and different virus, and this year the govern­influenza strains -hopefully ment made a rare wrong bet on better protection than this year's which strains would cause the version. most disease. The flu season got 
Advisers to the Food and Drug off to a slow start, but it rocketed Administration unanimously in mid-January as some new backed the new recipe on strains arrived -and the CDC Thursday, echoing an earlier found the vaccine is a good 
decision by the World Health Organization. It's a highly unusual move: Seldom are more than one or two strains swapped out from one year to the next. 
Now the question is whether vac­cine manufac­turers can make such a big change in match for only about 40 per­cent of the
"There's a lot ofwork that 
virus now
will be going on ... to try spreading in and make sure that the U.S. 
T h a t
everything comes 
Brisbane/10
together in such a way strain is the 
that there will be plenty big culprit, one first spot­
of vaccine." 
ted in Australia late Dr. Nancy Cox last winter, 
director too late for scientists to
Center for Disease Control 
include in this 

and Prevention 
year's vaccine recipe even if they had pre­
time to produce more than 100 dicted it would gain steam. million doses by the fall. Flu viruses come in different 
"It's going to be a really busy strains that constantly mutate, spring and summer, and of until one that few people have course we're always looking for immunity against emerges and is fallback positions just in case able to spread widely. Each things don't work out well," said year's vaccine contains protec­Dr. Nancy Cox, flu director at the tion against two varieties of the Centers for Disease Control and harsher Type A flu -subtypes Prevention. "There's a lot of work known as H1N1 and H3N2 ­that will be going on ... to try and and one from the more benign make sure that everything comes Type B family. together in such a way that there CDC and international authori­will be plenty of vaccine." ties expect Brisbane/10, a version 
One concern: A strain called of the H3N2 flu, to still be around Brisbane/10 that's responsible for next year. They predict a second much of this winter's misery new Type A strain, known as doesn't grow very quickly in the H1N1/Brisbane/59, also will hit, laboratory, potentially complicat-along with a newer Type 

(I) 


Probability and Statistics 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Toxic chemi­
·-.... u 

cal pollution from industrial
ca February 29-March 1, 2008 
plants and factories declined by 2 percent in 2006 despite increases in the mining and petroleum sec­tors, the government said 
E (Friday-Saturday)
CD 

Thursday. Companies reported that 4.25
.1: 

ca 
billion pounds of toxic chemicals were released into the air, onto 
.... http:l/cam.nd.edu/upcoming-conferences/spring2008/ 
land, into waterways, injected:E deep into the ground, or stored on site as waste. That is about 105 million pounds less than-a 2005.
This workshop will bring together re­
About one-third of the chemi­
CD 

cals, or 1.41 billion pounds, were
·­searchers working on the frontiers of 
reported released into the air, 7 percent less than in 2005, the Environmental Protection Agency 
-
a. activities in probability and mathemati­a. cal statistics. Emphasis will be on ex­
said. An additional 250 million pounds of chemicals went into
pository lectures which survey the 
surface waterways, a 3 percent
c.. "state of the art" in a particular sub­decline . The annual Toxic Release
0 area with a specific goal of communi­
.. 
Inventory Report covers 2006, the latest year for which figures
... 
cating and promoting interactions with 
are available:
scientists, social scientists, and engi­
+ The metal mining industry
CD 

reported it released into the envi­
neers who wish to make use of methods
.... 

ronment or disposed of 1.22 bil­lion pounds of toxic chemicals. That was 4 percent more than in 
1: and concepts from probability and sta­
CD tistics. 

2005. 
+ The electric utility industry had the second largest release,
(.) 

1.02 billion pounds. But it also reported the largest decrease, about 6 percent. 

B/Fiorida strain, prompting Thursday's decision to put all three in next year's vaccine. 
It's a gamble based on traeking illness around the globe, and the CDC does have .a pretty good record: 16 of the last 19 flu sea­sons had well-matched vaccines. 
Still, "as we always say, influenza is quite unpredictable," Cox cautioned Thursday. 
The recipe must be set about eight months before manufactur­ers start shipping doses because flu vaccine production is so com­plex. I Iealth authorities come up with seed stocks of the virus strains that manufacturers then must grow in chicken eggs. 
Makers of vaccine for the Southern Hemisphere already have added the troublesome Brisbane/1 0 strain to their own shots, and found it doesn't grow easily. Scientists now are working on a solution to that technical problem, such as using a very similar virus -it's even called "Brisbane/10-like" -found in Uruguay that would provide the same protection, Cox said. 
"It's eertainly a challenge for all the manufacturers," said Nancy Kavanaugh of Medimmune Inc., which makes a nasal spray flu vaccine, the only non-shot ver­sion. "We're working with three new strains.... There's some unknowns related to those and how they're going to grow." 
As for the rest of this winter, the CDC says the current vaccine should provide some protection, perhaps resulting in a milder case of flu than ifsomeone hadn't been inoculated. It's too early to tell if this winter's flu will be more deadly than usual. Every year, the flu infects up to 20 per­cent of the population, hospital­izes 200,000 people and kills 36,000. 
EPA reports industry decline in toxic wastes 
+Next was the chemical indus­try, which reported a drop of 4 percent, to 514 million pounds . 
+ The petroleum sector report­ed 76 million pounds of releases, an increase of 8 percent. 
+About one-third of the chem­icals, or 1.4 billion pounds. were deposited on land . 
+ Industries injected about 14 percent, or 606 million pounds, injected into deep underground wells. · The 2006 figures reflected a change that the EPA allowed, reducing the amount of informa­tion that some companies needed to report. Companies could turn in shorter, less detailed forms if they used less than 5,000 pounds of toxic chemicals or released less than 2,000 pounds. 
In the past, more detailed infor­mation had to be provided in longer forms at a threshold of 500 pounds. The new rule main­tains that reporting threshold for only some of the most dangerous chemicals. 
Opponents of the change have said the more lenient reporting allows some facilities to hide data about toxic chemical releases. The EPA said the changes only streamlined the reporting process. 
The EPA said 22,880 industrial and manufacturing facilities sub­mitted 87,900 forms on the 2006 data. The reporting covered 650 chemicals. 
r---------------­
... 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, February 22, 2008 
~==============~ 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. fiox n9, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining flail, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHJEI' Maddie Hanna 
MANA<;JNG EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Kcnl'owler Kyle West 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A.~Sl~ MANAGING EI>ITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley VIEWPOINT EDIH>R: joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris !-line ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOII: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'IllCS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
AUVERTISING MANA<;ER: Jessica Cortez 

AD DF.SIGN MANA<am: Kdly Cronli CoNTROI.IJ"l: Tim Sobolewski SYSTFMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (~74) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4~41 obsmc@nd.cdn 

Harangody for Big East player of the year 
In light of his 23-point, 12-rebound performance in Notre we should be endorsing llarangody for llcisman. Throughout Dame's 82-70 win over Pittsburgh last night and his inspired the past two seasons, llarangody has built a hard-nosed rep­play this season, The Observer endorses forward Luke utation for himself by hustling, bustling and generally out­llarangody for Big East player of the year. working the competition, battling for hoards and scoring in 
The 6-foot-8 bear of a power forward has lifted the Irish all manner of put-backs, baby hooks and bank shots. throughout this season, displaying an uncanny combination It's safe to say no one would call the Big East the Big Easy. of raw power, ·intensity and skill. Bear in mind that Jlarangody's prodigious numbers come 
The numbers don't lie. Sporting a svelte new from grinding night in and night out against stilT frame, (having dropped a few pounds over the competition in a conference many claim to be the summer) llarangody has shown a velvety toughest in the country from top to bottom. And
OBSERVER
touch around the rim in averaging 20.5 points llarangody fits right in with the Big East's hard­per game go along with 10.4 rebounds per nosed style of play, having borne more than his
Editorial
game. Leaner and meaner, 1-Iarangody has share of hard fouls, bruises and floor burns in 
transformed himself into a veritable back-to­the-basket bucket machine. He leads the entire Big East in scoring and is currently ranked second in the conference in rebounding. 
Most importantly, due in large part to Harangody's etl'orts, Notre Damp, has built a 10-3 conference record and a 20-5 rncord ovPrall. The Irish also currently sit near the top of the standings. Ilarangody has also led the Irish to a scoring aver­age of 80.2 points per game, good for first in the Big East. 
Whether laying out for loose balls, muscling for boards or playing his physical brand of defense, his style of play brings football rather than basketball to mind at times. Perhaps 
this hardwood school of hard knocks. 
Nine days ago, llarangody turned in one of the best performances of' his young earner, dropping 32 points and grabbing 16 caroms in a losing nl'f'ort. against Connecticut on Feb. 1:{. lie scored a earner high in points despite having to contend with thn long arms of 7-foot-:{ Huskies center llasheem Thabeet, making his feat all tho more impressive. 
For leading the Big East in scoring, hmding Notre Dame to a likely NCAA Tournament berth, wn commnnd llarangody's play thus far this season and endorsP him for Big East player of the year. 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) (,31-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-~313 
NEWS DESK 
('i74) 631-'i323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 'ports.l@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. I @nd.edu SAINT MARY's DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
('i74) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Univwity of Notre Dame du L1c and Saint Mary's Collt•gc. Editorial contt•nt, including advertisements, is not gowrned by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer rt-serves the right to refuse advcrtiscmt·nts based on cometH. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chiet; Managing Editor, A<Sistant Managing Editors and department edirors. ( :ommcntari<-s, leners and columns prcsem the views of the amhors and not nt·cessarily those ofThe Observt•r. 
Vie-wpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. I.etters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qrmtiom rrgarding Observer polici~ should be dirrcttd to Editor in G'hiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oh.rrvrr (USI1S \1)') 1-.fllOO) "puhltahcd Munday rhrnugh Frido~y ~'Cpr durmg ~·xam •nd Vil~o111flll pcnuds /1. auil<ol·rtpriun rnThc {lb,erver i• $100 fur um.· """"lcmi\· vur:$55fnrullcJCmotcl 
The Obwrw:r i1puh!iahcd .u POSTMASTER lll4 Sourh Dining Hall Send addrc~ cmrccriun.ti 10: 
Nnrre IlliJUc,lN 461i';(,.0779 TheOhser~r 
l'cmudiu.l ~~~·r~c p«.td .11 Nocfl' Do~.mc 1~0 Boxn9 .md .addntiiiYI m.ulmg ntlke. 024 South Duun~ H.UI Notre D;um:, IN 4M56-0n9 
Tht" t1Ncrv('r 1~ 11 ttlcmhcr uf rhr AwKtAltd T1rm. All rcprndm::rion n~m lite 
lt'ICI'Wti 
lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
So gay? 

I was sitting in LaFortune a little while ago listening to two of my friends in the business school discuss a recent test. When discussing a certain section of the test, one of them exdaimed, "Yeah, that part was gay." I got this strange feeling when I heard this. It was not bncause I was shocked that he would use the word "gay" to describe a business tnst, but rather that describing things as "gay" has become such an integral part of our day-to-day conver­sation. 
I cannot pinpoint a reason or time when everything seemed to become "gay." But I can't think of any adults I know who n1fer to basic concepts and objects as "gay," so it is clearly some­thing that has developed during our generation. I also do not know why things have become "gay." For exam­ple, it is technically impossible for a test to be gay. Tests do not mate or have physical desirns to other tests Oast time I checked). But everything that we do not like now is "gay," and no one ever seems to stop and think why we do this. 
I will admit that at many points in my life I have described things as "gay." Friends who would annoy me would be "gay," teachers who gave lots of home­work were "gay," and music that I did not enjoy was "gay." Calling things "gay" is now natural. Yet in (almost) all of these instances, the thing I was describing was in no shape or form "gay." There are plenty of other good words that I could use to describe these things. They could be lame, stupid, dumb, weird, or idiotic. But whenever I encounter something that rubs me the wrong way, it instinctively becomes "gay," and it makes no sense. 
What makes this even weirder is that if we were to use another orientation to describe these disagreeable things, the reaction would be much dilferent. II' I were to describe a friend who was act­ing funny as "so Catholic," people would freak out. Same thing if I were to call a homework assignment "so Asian." Yet if either of these things were called "gay," everyone else would most likely agree, even though it makes no sense. 
Everyone knows that Notre Dame is not the most accepting place for homo­sexuals, but we should not use this as a reason liJr things to be called "gay." The issue at hand is not the morality or concept of homosexuality. It is about making sense and showing respect. No matter how you slice it, calling some­thing "gay" is nonsensical. There are much better, more accurate words to describe things we do not like. The rather significant portion of the world that is gay probably does not like to be associated with all thmgs lame either. No affiliation should suffer this fate, no matter how much one disagrees with it. 
I do not think that this name-calling will ever really end. It has become such a part of us that most ofus do not even think about it. In fact, I bet that some­one will road this and ironically pro­ceed to call it "gay." But I hope that at some point in the future we can all stop, think, and maybe come up with a better word to describe things that bother us. 
Tim Gallo sophomore Stanford Hall Feb. 20 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports 

Observer Poll 
Joseph McMahon Deirdre Krasula 
What is your favorite local pizzeria at Notre Dame? 
Katie Peralta Ellyn Michalak Brian McKenzie Pete Reisnauer 
Vote.'\ Percentage 
Graphics Scene 
ing, I gave up reading. ' 

Bruno's 310 26%
Viewpoint 
Henny Youngman 
Kant King 

Barnaby's 213 18% 
U.S. comedian 

Bolito's 101 8% 

THE OBSERVER_ 

IEWPOINT
Friday, February 22, 2008 page 11 
Confessions of a latte liberal 
By my count, this is my 200th column for the Viewpoint section. Throughout the years, my themes contained more than simply the seasonal political analy­sis. They featured a wide variety of top­ics including ath­letic department foibles, the mean­ing of Lent, earth­ly angels who inspire us on campus and even a retrospective of why I lost the Notre Dame stu­dent body presi­dency race to a king and his run­ning mate -a cat. Yet, despite a magnitude of issues, many readers still focus on a single word while turning a blind eye to the entire page. 
For me, readers seem to fall into two categories. The "Gottcha" reader is like comedian Lewis Black whose gesticula­tions flail about in an effort to refute me. How dare I recently suggest in what an Iowan called another of my "Clinton­Return-To-Glory-Friday columns" that primaries attract more voters than a caucus. Surely I dissect Iowa and must not have ever attended their caucus. Actually, in January I attended the Columbus Junction precinct where 98 Iowans stood up: Obama 38, Clinton 31, Edwards 26 and Biden 5 -out of 968 registered voters of which 371 voted in the 2006 election. Gottcha back! 


I will admit, however, that I purposely egg on the gottcha types by describing my experience in the last administration at the end of each column. Some of these readers suffer from the same germ that plagues our political process ... they cannot let go of the past. Mention the word "Clinton" anywhere in my col­umn, and instantaneously I become a vampire. In one e-mail, a reader proudly tied a newly discovered terrorist group to a bevy of Puerto Ricans whom President "You-Know-Who" pardoned ten years ago. Just shows that even presidents can have a cloudy crystal ball. Chalk a gottcha up for that reader. 
I describe my alternate category the "Schoolmarm" group because those readers scold and strictly correct my content. Last year, a Notre Dame Sports Information marm quickly e-mailed me to correct my bowl appearance compar­isons between Charlie Weis and Ty Willingham. I noted that both had ·equal­ly appeared in bowl games, but was painfully corrected by the fact that Willingham never appeared in a "BCS" bowl regardless of how much money his bowls paid to the university. In a uniquely marmly way, a postscript added that Weis was graduating stu­dents at a higher rate than Willingham. Unfortunately, I received no reply when I asked if those students were, in fact, Willingham's recruits. I'll call this one a draw. 
Apparently, I again showed my Clinton bias by describing elite, educated far-left Democrats who tend to support Obama as the Starbucks wing of the party. According to the reader, not only did I insult the entire liberal community of Notre Dame, I insulted everyone on campus because they are educated. Furthermore, I even displayed a disre­spect for those who support Obama. 
Suprisingly, I do confess to my trans­gressions. I am a Latte Liberal from that same educated elite wing of the Democratic party. I may not be of the pure skim version, but I belong behind the barista's counter. I'm more of a caramel macchiato ... one who out of a sense for history stood overnight in line to pass by Ronald Reagan's casket in the Capitol Rotunda. I strayed from the glo­rious liberal path because I worked in Bill Clinton's White House while watch­ing Hillary up close. I support her bid for the presidency based upon my first­hand knowledge and the belief that she is better qualified. You caught me. I con­fess. 
Over all, though, I have learned much from readers as I celebrate my bicenten­nial milestone. Comments through e­mail or Viewpoint's letters section fre­quently amuse me. Oftentimes what they read into this column is not what I 
Culture war at Notre Dame 
Vagina Monologues being held amid controversy, Catholic Faculty issues dividing the alumni, faculty, students and administration, Catholic Bishops avoiding campus in protest; the list goes on and on. I find it sur­prising that few have tried to relate these internal campus struggles to the wider Stephen Bant "culture war" being waged in America today. In it, conserva­Guest tives support pro-life measures Columnist and protect traditional marriage and family norms, while liberals back pro-choice poli­cies and sponsor gay marriages and adoptions. In my mind the two groups are strikingly similar, with many of the same people arguing these national issues tak­ing corresponding positions on these Notre Dame con­cerns. I feel that our contemporary issues on campus are parallel to, perhaps even a microcosm of, the over­all culture war in the United States today. However, unlike the national issues, ours can actually be solved. 
You may think I'm over-generalizing on this whole "culture war" idea, but my personal experiences sug­gest it exists. Shockingly, I seem to find that my more liberal friends don't care about a majority Catholic fac­ulty and think that the Monologues are part of aca­demic freedom and female expression, while my more conservative friends think having a preponderance of Catholic faculty is imperative to retaining our Catholic character and fmd the Monologues disgusting and an affront to women everywhere. The moderates seem either split, confused or apathetic on many of these issues, just as they are in the real political spectrum of the broader culture war. When I think about it, these unassuming and silent moderates appear to make up the plurality of students at Notre Dame ... at least for now. 
Perhaps unfortunately, widespread conversation and extremist proselytizing tends to polarize people to a point where nothing happens. Meanwhile, most Americans are actually everything but polarized. Here's an example. Poll data shows that a vast majori­ty of Americans support abortion in certain instances (ex. rape, incest, damage to mother's health, etc.); while about the same vast majority strongly opposes unrestricted and late-term abortions (ex. partial-birth abortions and "I don't want this baby" abortions). Very few people polled thought abortion should be legal or illegal in all circumstances. This may surprise you, as the media only portrays the extreme opposing sides of any issue; America is painted as chock full of rabid "baby-killers" and protesting religious "extremists". Cautiously, I would dare to say that this data is fairly indicative of how most people feel about culture issues and I feel this moderate approach could be applied to our problems and issues. 
For example, I think most would agree that women should be able to express themselves over the issues of female oppression and objectification, as the Monologues seek to do. However, I'm guessing many of these same people would agree that a woman rolling around on the stage faking an orgasm and the glorified raping of a 16-year-old girl by an older woman hardly qualifies as "healing academic expres­sion." 
A more important issue for Notre Dame is perhaps that of Catholic faculty, something where some moder­ation could definitely be helpful. I think most people would agree that Catholic faculty is important at Notre Dame and is valuable to us in any discipline, and per­haps more so in certain Arts and Letters subjects (e.g. Theology), due to the Catholic background and per­spectives they bring to our academic atmosphere. Further, I doubt anyone, even those who think a Catholic preponderance is important, wants the University to hire a Catholic professor over a better qualified non-Catholic professor to meet some quota. Still, there is nothing wrong with hiring practicing Catholics preferentially ifwe aren't surrendering qual­ity; the same argument applies and is used in defend­ing the preferential hiring of minority faculty. And for you extremists out there, don't try your whiney "but only 6% of [new] Ph.D.s are Catholics, so the applicant pool is insufficient when attempting to create a great research institution" argument on me. Only 9% of US Ph.D.s are granted to minorities, and they are in much greater demand than Catholic Ph.D.s as universities seek to diversify their faculty. Therefore, the challenge in seeking both targets is equally difficult, yet we should and are pursuing both. 
If I were a doctor, I would write Notre Dame a pre­scription of judicious moderation and reasoned discus­sion. Nothing is inherently wrong with anyone's ideas, but we need to be reasonable in our approach. Maybe we should present an altered version of the Vagina Monologues that doesn't promote lesbianism and appear like soft-core pornography, so we can cele­brate femininity instead of objectifying it. And perhaps we should dare to be bold and unique in our faculty hiring, as the Administration seeks to, by doing what's necessary to hold onto our slight Catholic majority, attempting to expand to a representative minority fac­ulty and becoming a premiere research institution all at the same time. While it sounds difficult and improb­able, it is possible as none of our objectives are mutu­ally exclusive. We can have it all. We can overcome extremism and partisanship to solve the problems we face in our lives, on our campus and in our nation. You just need to have faith and some moderation. 
Stephen Bant is a sophomore accounting major. He can be contacted at sbant@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
wrote. Still, I find it enlightening when others comment, regardless of whether or not I lump them into my gottcha or schoolmarm characterizations. Most importantly, I find my writing experi­ence exciting yet humbling. 
This column does not politically hack an issue, does not arrogantly dismiss an opposing opinion, nor does it retreat from an augument. Read every word for its challenge and humor. Read every word again for its nuanced balance. 
In his day, John Pierpont Morgan, financial magnate of the J.P. Morgan empire was pejoratively labeled a Robber Baron. He countered by saying that a man always has two reasons for what he does-a good one, and the real one. Conversely, let me play upon Morgan's quote by coining my own, namely, that a reader always has two reasons to reply-a good one, and an imaginary one. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, campaigned (Clinton) in Iowa for Hillary Clinton. He is a (Clinton) communications strategist who served as a (Clinton) legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's (Clinton) administration. His (Clinton) column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com 
The views expressed in this column are those oftheauthor and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Student section despicable 
In response to Michael Lenahan's Letter to the Editor ("End Juvenile Cheer," Feb. 19), I am in full agreement with his sen­timent that the "suck it" cheer is not only "unbecoming of a Domer," but also despicable, deplorable and a slap to Our Lady's pristine face. Lenahan's article was a good start, how­ever, his ideas did not go far enough. Not only should the aforementioned chant (I will spare you the awful words) be banished, but I propose that we, as the Domerist of Domers, ban all cheering against our respectable opponents. Our main concern should be focused on all of the players having fun, not on belittling our opponents. Thus, I urge all under Our Lady's caring watch, to replace all cheers with the cheeriest of cheers-"Let's have full! Keep it safe!" God Bless. 
Cameron Compton 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
Feb. 20 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Friday, February 22, 2008 
"No COUNTRY" SHOULD TAKE TOP HONORS 
Get ready for the best night of the year as Oscar turns 80 and we breathe a sigh of relief that the show can go on after the 100-day writers' strike. We'll see 
if host Jon  
Stewart can  Cassie Belek  
fair better  
his second  Assistant  
time around  Scene Editor  
or if we're  
left praying  

that Billy Crystal would just come back and host again. And even though we can't wait to see the best-dressed starlets and the monstrous suit that Johnny Depp will inevitably show up in, the real reason for Oscar night is to honor the industry's best. Assistant scene editors Cassie Belek and Stephanie DePrez give their picks on who will take home tho Oscar gold. Tune in Sunday at S:OO p.m. on ABC to see if they're right. 
Best Supporting Actor 
Javier Bardem ("No Country for Old Men"). llalllolbrook is brilliant and lwartbreaking in "Into the Wild" and I would love to see him take home the Oscar just for being an adorable old man. but Javier Bardem is guar­anteed to win for "No Country for Old Men." lin deserves it too. Bardem portrays a man who on the outside appears to be a psy­chopathic killer, but really, his character just operates by dif­ferent principles and a different morality. Bardem makes it so that by the end of the film, we don't hate his Anton. but we do fear him. 
Best Supporting Actress 
Amy Hyan ("Gone Baby Gone"). This is really the only major Oscar category that is still wide open. Hyan had some seri­ous momentum going into awards season. but now Cate Blanchett, Huby Doe, Saoirse Honan and Tilda Swinton have all caught up. However, Ronan is unlikely to win since hers is the only aeting nomination for "Atonement," which had a dis­appointing morning when the nominees were announced. The raee comes down between Hyan and Blanchett (who impressively morphed herself' into Bob Dylan), but I'm going to give it to Hyan just because I loved her so much in Season Two of "The 

Wire." 

Best Animated Film 
"Ratatouille." Although I was pleasantly surprised by the nom­ination of "Surf's Up" (it really should have been nominated at the Golden Globes too). nothing can stop the juggernaut that is Disney-Pixar. "Ratatouille" was received with such universal praise, that it is considered one of Disney-Pixar's best. Its critical and box office reception was enough of a victory considering the film's concerns about mar­keting something with a funny name centered around rats han­dling the food we eat. In fact, many people believed that "Ratatouille" should have been nominated in the Best Picture category, something that hasn't been done since 1991's "Beauty and the Beast," when there was no separate category for animat­ed lilms. 
Best Original Score 
"Atonement." Since "Into the Wild" and "There Were Be Blood" WAre excluded from this category, I'll throw "Atonement" a bone and go with it. Just for the record, my pick would have been "There Will Be Blood," but it was disqualified due to a little something called Hule 16, which determined that the score wasn't eligible because it included pre­existing music. Nevertheless, Hadiohead's Jonny Greenewood did a phenomenal job adding to the madness we felt watching Daniel Day-Lewis on screen. 
Best Original Song 
"Falling Slowly" (from "Once"). It's called vote-splitting folks, and that's what's going to ruin Alan Menken and Stephen Schwartz's chances with "Enchanted." The Disney duo are geniuses, but Glen Hansard and and Marketa lrglova's capti­vating performance of "Falling Slowly" is more than deserving. In "Once," the music is the film so it's only fitting that it gets a win in the original song catego­ry. 
Best Cinematography 
"There Will Be Blood." I wish "There Will Be Blood" had been nominated in a different year than "No Country for Old Men" because it deserves so many more awards than it will win. But this category is one that should go to Roger Deakins for his impossible shots in the film about an oil tycoon who loses his humanity to his ambition. There was one shot in particular in the film that made me gasp and turn to my friend to see if she had the same reaction. Films don't usu­ally take my breath away for those reasons. 
Best Actor 

Daniel Day-Lewis ("There Will Be Blood"). Day-Lewis' Daniel Plainview is a force to be reck­oned with in "There Will Be Blood." Much like Charles Foster Kane in "Citizen Kane," when Daniel is on screen no other character matters. Day-Lewis, who stayed in character even when the cameras turned off, intensely portrays the crazed effects of a man driven by ambi­tion until he finally drinks Paul Dano's milkshake once and for all. We can only hope that Day­Lewis' acceptance speech will be as touching as his Heath Ledger­inspired speech at the Golden Globes. 
Best Actress 

Julie Christie ("Away From Iler"). ller strongest competitor is Marion Cotillard ("La Vie en Rose") with Ellen Page ("Juno") gearing up for the surprise attack, but Christie will certainly add the Oscar to her already­filled awards shelf come Sunday. She last won the Oscar for 1965's "Darling." A win for Christie would be validation for older actresses throughout Hollywood. 
Best Adapted Screenplay 
"No Country for Old Men." The adapted screenplay and director categories will be (slightly) early indications as to whether or not "No Country" will win best picture. It's true that "No Country" was most cap­tivating in its silences, -but the dialogue we did hear was bril­liant. Its main competition is "The Diving Bell and the Butterl1y," which just won the BAFTA, but look for the Academy to show its love for "No Country." 
Best Original Screenplay 
"Juno." The indie comedy gem won't win best picture so origi­nal screenplay will be its conso­lation prize. That comes as no surprise since original screen­play is usually the best bet for indies anyway. Remember last year's "Little Miss Sunshine"? And while the script isn't per­fect, Diablo Cody deserves the Oscar for expressing young voic­es without dumbing them down. "Juno" is filled with heart and wit, and we have the mind and pen of Diablo Cody to thank for that. 
Best Director 
Ethan Coen and Joel Coon ("No Country for Old Men"). It's about time isn't it? These are the fine filmmakers who brought us "Fargo" and "0 Brother, Where Art Thou?" and now they've brought us the dark and suspenseful "No Country," tlHl film they may become best remembered for. However, Julian Schnabel could upset the duo in their quest for Oscar gold. lie won the Golden Globe in January and his "Diving Bell" failed to garner a best picture nod. The Academy could decide to share the wealth on Sunday. 
Best Picture 
"No Country for Old Men." If you haven't been able to tell from my previous predictions, I'm going witli "No Country for Old Men." The choice seems almost too predictable, but that's what everyone said about "Brokeback Mountain" and we saw what happened there (Heally? "Crash"?) The acting is impeccable, as is the directing and everything else. However, I think the upset watch goes to "Michael Clayton" and not "Juno." "Michael Clayton" man­aged to garner multiple acting nods, a director nod and an original screenplay nod. Let's just say that it's bringing its own set of weapons to compete with "No Country's" cattle gun and sawed-off shotgun. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Cassie Belek at 
cbelek@nd.edu 

t 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----­
Friday, February 22, 2008 
COMMENTARY 
Kurz's leadership crucial for success 
Each of Notre Dame's starting live brings something different to the table. 
Forward Luke llarangody is the star, the Big East Player of the Year eandidate who is 
eapable of putting up 30­plus point performances with a daz­zling array of hook shots, up-and­unders and 


out-of­Chris Khorey 
nowhere tip 
Sports Editor

ins. 
Guard Kyle Mr.Aiarney is the sharp­shooter -the short, scruffy guy from Staten Island with perfect form and a dead-eye jump shot. 
Point guard Tory Jackson is the distributor who seemingly raeks up assists just from being in the game and can hit run­ners in the lane even after he's disappmtred among mueh taller players. 
Swingman Zaeh llillesland is the high-flyer, throwing down alley-oops and darting around heavy-footed centers for reverse lay-ups. 
And then there's that other guy. 
lie's the one you never hear TV announcers yelling about. The one whosn highlight video consists entirely of mid-range jumpers. The other player in front-page photos waiting for a rnbound in ease llarangody misses that spinning hook shot. 
lie may not be flashy, but the Irish would not be where they are today without Rob Kurz. 
Kurz, the only senior on the 2007-OR roster, is also the team's only eaptain. He's a eoach on the floor, directing trallie and keeping everyone on the same page. 
Kurz keeps the squad on an even keel. lie's the only player on the roster that was here for the late season collapse in 2005, when the Irish lost live of their last six, including a first­round NIT game against Holy Cross. And he remembers the painful winter of 2006, when Notre Dame lost live straight games by a eombined 11 points. 
Maybe that's why the only snnior on the Irish roster seems to be the one to hit the big shot when his team needs it. 
On Jan. 5, after Notre Dame 
saw a 21-point lead slip away 
against Connecticut, it was 
Kurz who hit a three pointer 

with 3:11 left to give the Irish a 
64-61 lead they wouldn't relin­
quish. 

Last Sunday against Rutgers, with Notre Dame clinging to a 67-66lead and under a minute remaining, Kurz buried a base­line jumper to put his team up three and allow it to hold on for the win. 
Sometimes, however, the cap­tain realizes that his best con­tribution is to get out of the way. In both match-ups with the Huskies, the 6-foot-9 for­ward spent most of his time on the perimeter so that Connecticut forward Jeff Adrian couldn't help double team Harangody. 
Kurz's consistency this season has bordered on absurd. While other players have career highs one night and then are off the next, Kurz gets a near double­double every game. 
The senior has been in double ligures in either points or rebounds (often both) all but three conference games so far -and in two of those "off nights," against Marquette and Connecticut last week, he was battling the tlu. 
It hasn't been easy to be a senior in Notre Dame athletics this school year. The small number of football s_eniors was brought up by many (including myselt) as a main reason for the team's struggles. Other teams, like hockey and women's soccer, also have small senior classes. 

When a team has very few seniors, outsiders often assume it's a "rebuilding" year. Notre Dame was picked to finish ninth in the Big East this year. 
Hob Kurz made sure that did­n't happen. He accepted his mantle of leadership, brought his younger teammates togeth­er and, so far, has led the Irish to their best season since he's been in South Bend. 
Not bad for "that other guy." 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obserl!er. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd. edu. 


The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 2 
2008 Big East Standings 



''" 
'f 

(11-3) (11-3) (10-3) (10-3) (9-5) (8-5) 
(7-6) (7-6) (7 -7) ( 6-7) (5-8) (5-8) (4-10) ( 4-10) (2-12) (2-12) 

Last game W, 65-58, Prov. W, 61-50, Syr. W, 65-60, DePaul W, 82-70, Pitt W, 73-64, St. John's W, 52-51, USF L, 70-82, ND L, 56-78, Nova L, 50-61, 'Ville w, 78-56, wvu L, 60-65, UConn L, 68-89, WVU L, 64-73, Marq. L, 58-65, G'Town L, 51-52, Cincy L, 68-71, ND 
Next game 
vs Cincinnati 
at Pittsburgh atVillanova vs Syracuse vs Rutgers at Georgetown vs Louisville vs Providence at Notre Dame vs Connecticut at Seton Hall vs DePaul at Duke 
at WestVirginia vs Seton Hall at Marquette 

Crunching the numbers 
BIG EAST STATISTICS 
Points per game Opp. points per game 
Field goal shooting 





3-point shooting~ 



Friday, February 22, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Everybody loves Rob 
Only Irish senior leads with consistent play, 'wise' advice and a little unintentional humor 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
It takes a lot to make Rob Kurz angry. But two years ago, when Kurz watched the NCAA Tournament, he couldn't stand what he was seeing. 
Fresh off a 2005-2006 season full of agonizingly close losses, Kurz and his Notre Dame team­mates failed to make the Tournament for the second year in a row. For Kurz, his career at Notre Dame was not going the ing others succeed in the Tournament, Kurz and former guard Colin Falls resolved to banish that maddening sense of disappointment forever. 
"We absolutely learned a lot about ourselves and our team after the tough season with the close losses," Falls, who is play­ing professionally in Italy, said in an e-mail. "I think more than anything, Rob and I being the leaders of the team, set the tone in the off-season that hard work and sense of urgency were the only things that were going to get 

way he planned and watching others fulfill  "! tease him about being an old man or a  the Notre Dame basketball team back on track.  
their dream of playing in the N C A A  father or something like that.,,  And I think the pain of that sea­son and not  
Tournament  wanting to ever  
while he sat at  Tory Jackson  experience that  
home certainly didn't help his  Irish guard  feeling again is what drove us  
blood pressure.  that summer."  
"It  was  so  The next sea­ 

frustrating and as soon as the son, the Irish were playing in season ends, you're working the Big Dance, thanks in large toward next year and the first part to the play and leadership thing you think of is your No. 1 of Kurz, who averaged 12.3 goal to make the Tournament," points and eight rebounds per Kurz said. " ... It's incredibly game. Irish coach Mike Brey frustrating and just the amount said Kurz developed the voice of attention the Tournament he would need as the lone sen­gets, it's tough to not be a part ior on this season's team. of it. It's brutal watching the "I think toward the end of last Tournament games in your year, being around Colin, hang­room when the season is over." ing out with Colin, he saw how 
In Kurz's sophomore season, Colin helped manage the group, the Irish experienced enough and he took a page out of that heartache to inspire a B.B. King book and I thought he did a album -losing in overtime to great job over the summer," Louisville and then-No. 3 Brey said. "That was the first Connecticut, in double overtime time he was really a voice with to Pittsburgh, Georgetown and our guys." Michigan, and less than three Despite the Tournament points to No. 6 Villanova, West appearance, last season still left Virginia and Marquette. some unfinished business for 
"It was brutal because we felt Kurz. Notre Dame lost 7 4-64 to like we had a much better team Winthrop in the first round and and had more talent to be play­Kurz wants to make a run deep ing better than we did," Kurz in the Tournament this season. said. "The way we competed in "Obviously, my first two years a lot of games showed we could were learning experiences and have had a really good year, but I've gotten the opportunity to for whatever reason, we just really enjoy our success these couldn't get over the hump." past two years," Kurz said. 
But after living through the "Getting back to the 2005-06 nightmare and watch-Tournament this year would be 

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 

unbelievable but getting there isn't enough." 
But before the Tournament arrives, Kurz and the Irish have a chance to win the Big East regular season title. The Irish have a 10-3 record in confer­ence, and like two years ago, Notre Dame has faced its share of close games, but this time has come out on the winning end of most of them. 
And Kurz is a big reason for that change. He hit a clutch jumper to put Notre Dame up three in its 71-68 over Rutgers on Sunday, hit a tie-breaking 3­pointer late in Notre Dame's 73­67 win over Connecticut on Jan. 5 and hit another key 3-pointer in overtime to lift the Irish over Providence 81-74 on Jan. 31. 
"I think he's accepted the role as the silent enforcer," former Irish coach and current ESPN analyst Digger Phelps said. "He's the one guy that when it's crunch time, is always there to get it done. He'll end up with a double-double, and he's the one guy that makes this team what it is." 
Kurz said the difference this season is a change in the team's attitude late in games. 
"I don't think it enters into your mind because the focus this year is on 'Let's go out and win this one,' where two years ago it was 'Are we going to win the game? Can we escape with the win?'" Kurz said. "It was just a different mentality because it seemed like we couldn't win any of those close games. Now, our mentality has evolved to the point where we're going to leave it all on the floor and play fearlessly and aggressively." 
As the sole captain, his team­mates say his leadership style mirrors his style of play on the court -steady, consistent, never flashy, but always dependable. And that helps to keep everything together in close games. 
"I tease him about being an old man or a father or some­thing like that," sophomore guard Tory Jackson said. "But he's wise, keeps us out of trou­ble, just like a father would. He keeps everybody together. As a leader on the floor, he keeps everybody calm and in the game. Everything about his per­sonality is why we're in the position we are now." 
His teammates describe him as an easy-going guy who gets along with everyone, but most importantly, as captain of the team, he has everyone's respect, especially Jackson's. 
"He's willing to give you his whole house if he could," Jackson said. "He's just an open guy. Rob's a great person. If I had a kid, I'd have him look up to Rob to see how to carry him­self." 
Kurz lends a valuable voice in the huddle and in the locker room, but he's most effective as a leader when he says nothing at all. He's constantly in the gym, even on off days, and that lays a guilt trip on some of his teammates, who might want to spend their time off doing noth­ing. 
"Even during summer in the off-season, even if it's a day that I don't feel like working out or shooting, I know he's kind of the same way like me where I feel a Kyle McAlarney said. " ... I me look bad on TV!" Phelps always believed that no one said. works as hard as me when I Kurz then tries to hide until came here and I see what Rob Digger leaves. does and it makes me work "He usually gets on me after a harder." bad game, so if I see him in the 

Junior forward Zach training room after a loss, I'll Hillesland said that his work just try to sneak right by ~thic shows everyone on the because I know he's goCsome­team what it takes to play in the thing to say to me," Kurz said. Big East. But when the pressure is on 
"He's a steadying force. His late in the game, Kurz is always 
work  ethic  is  front and center  
kind  of conta­ willing to take a  
gious,  big shot or make  
Hillesland said. "He sets a great tone for the rest  "He,s a steadying force. His work  an aggressive move to make something hap­ 
of the guys who may not under­stand how much  ethic is kind of contagious.,,  pen instead of playing on his heels and hoping  
work it takes to  his team pulls it  
be a great player  Zach Hillesland  out.  
in college bas­ketball."  Irish forward  "My more  sopho­year we  
But Kurz isn't  felt the pressure  
all business all  in close games  
the  time.  because every- 

Jackson called him "the silent body was saying, 'You can't win prankster" and he will always the close games,' and we almost remember Kurz's special way allowed it to get to us to the with words when he leaves point where it affected us late Notre Dame. in games," Kurz said. "After 
''I'll miss his creative words. experiencing that, we knew we Just funny, such as quoting couldn't win like that, and we [dirty lines] from 'Superbad,' or had to be fearless and willing to instead of saying my name, he'll take the shot even if it means be like, 'What up Tee-Zee?!' it's your responsibility if you and he'll have me dying," lose that game." Jackson said. Even if Notre Dame's season 
Hillesland said he also makes ends prematurely and Kurz everyone laugh when he doesn't graduates without seeing the mean to, thanks to a propensity Sweet 16, the relationship he's to randomly forget where he is developed and the help he has or what he's doing. offered to the underclassmen 
"We were walking towards ensure that his mark on Notre the weight room one day and he Dame's basketball program will was walking with Kyle and last for years to come. [Irish forward Luke Harangody] "He is someone that every­and Rob was like, 'You know one likes being around and what?' and the guys were like has no enemies,'' Falls said. "I 'What?' and then he just didn't think that is just his upbring­say anything else," Hillesland ing, he comes from a great said. "He tends to space out. He family, he respects and treats went to the movie 'Fool's Gold' everyone the right way, and I and ordered three tickets to think people really respect 'Fools Rush In."' him because of that. I feel 
And when he messes up on lucky to have become so close the court, Kurz is always the with him over the last few first to admit his mistakes -years, and we're like brothers except when Digger comes now." around. 
Irish senior Rob Kurz drives to the basket in Notre Dame's 94-little guilty if I'm not in the gym ''I'll say, 'Come on, where Contact Chris Hine at 63 win over Colgate on Nov. 26 at the Joyce Center. and he's in there," junior guard have you been? You're making chine@nd.edu 
Friday, February 22, 2008 the Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 4 
Injuries slow Orange quest for NCAA berth 
Young Syracuse team in the midst of crucial eight-game stretch 
By FRAN TOLAN 
Sports Writ~r 
Notre Dame has a chanee to damago -if not burst -the bubble of NCAA hopeful and Big East rival Syracuse when the Orange visit Notre Dame Sunday. 
Syracuse defeated No. 8 (;eorgetown last Saturday but fell to No. 18 Louisville Monday. The team is in dire need of another resume-build­ing win before Selection Sunday. 
The Orange are in the midst of a month-long stretch in which seven of their eight opponents are or have previ­ously been ranked this season. 
Syracuse (17-10 overall, 7-7 Big East) has fought hard to remain in the thick of th~ Big East race. The squad lost jun­ior guard Eric Devendorf to a season-ending knee injury in a 125-75 victory over East Tennessee State on Dec. 15. 
Devendorf averaged 17 points per game in 10 games this season but has been con­fined to the bench for the entirety of Big East play. 
Notre Dame point guard Tory Jackson of Saginaw, Mich. played on an AAU squad with Devendorf, who is from neigh­boring Bay City. Jackson said he has rarely watched Syracuse play since his former teammate was sidelined. 

"I really haven't seen that much of them," Jackson said. "After my friend got hurt, I really haven't watched them too much." 
Jackson said Devendorf also has difficulty watching the Orange play as they attempt to make a late-season run. 
"I talk to him a lot and it hurts," Jackson said. "It kinda gets under his skin because he 

Syracuse's RPI. which currently stands at No. 46. 
Along with the contest at Notre Dame, Syracuse has remaining games against Pittsburgh, Seton Hall and Marquette to impress the NCAA Tournament committee. 
But Notre Dame captain Hob Kurz said the Irish are just as hungry as the Orange for strong conference wins. 
"It's obviously gonna be a critical game for them but at 
this point in the 
season, it's a 

sees he can't 'They've been hurt crucial game really help them for everybody,"
with a couple injuries 
out." Kurz said. 
but they're getting 
Orange fresh­The top four men Donte more experienced as Big East teams Green and .lonny the season goes on. " are awarded Flynn have byes in the first shouldered much round of the 

Zach Hlllesland
of the load to conference keep Syracuse Irish forward tournament and 
competitive in Devendorf's absence. Green averages 17.6 points and 7.4 rebounds per game while Flynn drops 15.2 points per contest. 
"They've been hurt with a couple injuries but they're get­ting more experienced as the season goes on," Irish junior forward Zach Hillesland said. "They've got a lot of confident players and certainly a great coach over there." 
Syracuse Hall of Fame coach Jim Boeheim is 767-271 in 31­plus years with the program but this year he has had his work cut out for him. Losses to Massachusetts, Cincinnati and South Florida have hurt 
the Irish (19-5 
overall, 10-3 

Big East) now sit in fourth place. 
On a national scale, Notre Dame has the No. 21 RPI, which would leave them in line for an NCAA Tournament seed between five and seven if the postseason were to begin today. 
"We're fighting for our lives to get an NCAA tournament bid and obviously to get a first­round bye in the Big East tour­nament," Kurz said. "So, I mean, to say that they have more to play for than us ... depends on how you look at it because we feel like we have just as much, if not more, to play for." 
Kurz said the Irish will focus on shutting down Syracuse's top scorers, who he feels can catch fire at any time. 
"The main thing for us: They obviously shoot a lot of threes and they have some young ath­letic guys," Kurz said. "The key for us is gonna be how well we defend them." 
Hillesland said the Irish know what this game means for Syracuse and will try to match the intensity of the visit­ing Orange. 
''I'm sure they relish the opportunity to get another resume-building win, to come in here and add to the win they got against Georgetown," he said. "We're expecting a very focused team to come in here and certainly we'II be focused as well." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


--------'--------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, February 22, 2008 
page 13 
"JUNO" SHOULD LEAVE WITH BEST PICTURE 
Best Supporting Actor 
Javier Bardem ("No Country for Old Men"). Give it up, peo­ple. Javier Bardem. He won the BAFTA, the Globe, the StephanieSAG, and 
DePrez 
every other award in Assistant 
every for­
Scene Editor 
eign country or American city's film society. He is vicious­ly perfect in "No Country for Old Men." There really is no other person to give it to. 
Best Supporting Actress 
Cate Blancett (''I'm Not There"). Amy Ryan is brilliant in "Gone Baby Gone." Her com­plete .and blatant portrayal of the hopeless and disastrously self-destructive mother of a kid­napped girl is frustrating and divine. She should win, but Blanchett will take it. She can't walk into the Oscars with two nominations and walk out empty-handed. The woman is a chameleon (one must realize that she is nominated for play­ing Bob 
Dylan and the Queen Elizabeth I). Tilda Swinton has been gaining accolades for her job in "Michael Clayton," but I think it will be Blanchett. 
Best Animated Film 
"Ratatouille." The movie is just too good. No one can topple the animation monster that is the precious union of Disney and Pixar. Any other non­Pixarific year, "Persepolis" would win. 
The unique film, based on a comic book about a girl growing up in Iran and then being edu­cated in Europe, manages to be touching and political at the same time. At a film festival or internationally "Persepolis" would win, but at the Oscars, Remy, the irresistible cooking rat, will reign supreme. 
Best Original Score 
"Atonement." I have to hand it to "Ratatouille." That score was awesome. The funky French melodies were lovely and it enhanced the story with textbook precision. That 

being said, "Atonement" is just too good. This is a film made with artistic flair, and.that is why it will clean up in the artsy categories. 
Best Original Song 

"Falling Slowly" (from "Once"). I am pulling for "Falling Slowly" from "Once." That was a funny film. Whether or not anyone liked the movie, this song is so complete and expressive that it doesn't need the movie at all. It could easily stand on its own. That being said, "Enchanted" has three nods, so odds are certainly in Alan Menken and Stephen Schwartz's favor. Sweet and catchy though these songs may be, "Falling Slowly" kicks its butt in the musicality category. Let's just hope that the Academy realizes this. 
Best Cinematography 

"Atonement." The movie is simply beautiful. The director of "Pride and Prejudice" once again gives us a movie in which any frame could be a painting. This is the "beautiful" category, and "Atonement" is just that. "No Country" and "Diving Bell" are meaty competition, but it would be a sin to ignore the film that is specifically made to be striking to the eye. 
Best Actor 

Daniel Day-Lewis ("There Will Be Blood"). Signed, sealed, delivered, he's yours. The man will easily go from black gold to pure gold on Sunday. He's already picked up the SAG, the Globe and the BAFTA. He per­formed as only Daniel Day­Lewis can. The man makes a movie every three years or so (his last was in 2005 and then "Gangs of New York" in 2002). I say give him the Oscar now and convince him to keep making more. Johnny Depp 
was great, but his is only a novelty nomination. 
Best Actress 

Marion Cotillard ("La Vie en Rose"). I will admit, I wish with all my heart it would go to Ellen Page for "Juno," but I'm afraid her honor was in the nomina­tion. Her performance was per-feet, and I don't know a teenage girl who wasn't touched by how true she was. But alas, Marion Cotillard will walk away with this one. "La Vie en Rose" has been a huge international suc­cess. Cotillard has already got the BAFTA and a Globe, which she won for musicaVcomedy, not even where the film should have been -in the drama category. If she does lose, it will be to Julie Christie. But here's hoping for Page. 
Best Adapted Screenplay 
"No Country for Old Men" It's really a bit of a split here, with "No Country" and "Diving Bell," and then of course "Atonement." "No Country" is a masterpiece, "Diving Bell" is a jewel and everyone I've talked to adores "Atonement." This really could go any of three ways, but since "No Country" is going to lose for best picture, I'm pegging it for screenplay. Hollywood has a bit more love for its own than a film in French or a British film. 
Best Original Screenplay 
"Juno." Diablo Cody, bless her little ex-stripper heart, gave us one of the most iconic stories this side of "Napoleon Dynamite." 
With an effortless indie feel, the screenplay faced teenage pregnancy head-on, danced around the precarious topic of abortion and left audiences feel­ing great. This nearly impossi­ble feat has racked up the awards, and everyone in the audience will smile contented when Cody walks up to accept what is rightly hers on Sunday. This is where the Academy will recognize the little-indie-that­could. 
Best Director 

Ethan Coen and Joel Coen ("No Country for Old Men"). Even though Julian Schnabel brought home the Globe for "The Diving Bell and the Butterfly," Hollywood has a ten­dency to stick close to home, and this director's specific choice to film in French won't hold. "No Country has already received the BAFTA for best directing, and the Coen Brothers received the top honor from the Director's Guild of America. Though heavy on nominations, this is one of the few categories "No Country" will win. 
Best Picture 

"Juno." Why not? It was everything a movie should be. It was funny, touching, but most of all it was real. 
~t was a good story that was more than just well done, and at the end of the day that is what we should be looking for as the best picture of the year. It was simple, not overwhelming, and it made you think. The quirki­ness of the film never ovetpow­ered the story. It wasn't gim­micky, it wasn't predictable, and it wasn''t contrived. It was honest. "No Country for Old Men" and "There Will Be Blood" are hard-hitting in their push for Oscar glory, and "Atonement" has Oscar drama written all over it, but "Juno" is just good enough to topple them all. 
Everything else would end up in the annals of Oscar history, with an "oh, yes, yes quite good," and eventually begin to gather dust. But in ten years I do believe I will still sit down to watch "Juno." Will it win? Probably not. But it should. 
Lastly, keep an eye out for Kevin O'Connell , coming up on his 20th nomination, this time for sound mixing for "Transformers." After a series of close losses, it should be about his time to come home with a win. 
Overall, this Academy Awards should be one of the most mem­orable shows in recent history. There have been so many good films that are deserving of an Oscar that the competition should make for a great cere­mony. 
Look for the favorites to come home sporting some new bling, but don't be surprised if there is more than one upset. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sttephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
~--------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 22, 2008 
NHL 
Walker's three pushes Hurricanes past Thrashers 
Flailing Flyers lose ninth straight at the hands of San Jose; Satan's late goal lifts Islanders 1-0 over Tampa Bay 
regular season. Peter Forsberg
Associated Press 
squashed his comeback 
HALEIGI-I, N.C. --In the con­attempt. Danny Briere has not gested Southeast Division, one played up to his hefty $52 mil­sustained stretch of solid play lion free-agent contract. could make the difference Throw in other assorted between winning the division or injuries and a confidence short­missing the playoll's. age and it's no wonder the 
After the Carolina Hurricanes Philadelphia Flyers are on a overwhelmed the Atlanta nine-game winless streak. Thrashers 5-3 Thursday night, Douglas Murray and Milan Carolina coach Peter Laviolette Michalek scored 42 seconds hopes the Hurricanes are in the apart early in the third period middle of such a spurt. to lift the San Jose Sharks to a 
"That's five out of six games victory over the Flyers on where I've really liked the way Thursday night. we've played," Laviolette said. "This is a challenge and there 
Even after losing captain Hod is nobody outside of our locker Brind'Amour to a season-end­room that is going to make a ing torn ACL on Feb. 14, the difference," Philadelphia coach Hurricanes are 4-1-1 in their John Stevens. "It's up to each last six to carve out what counts guy to make a difference." for breathing room in the The season keeps getting Southeast. worse for the Flyers, who start­
With thn victory, the ed the month as one of the top llurricanes exttmded their divi­teams in the Eastern sion lead to four points over the Conference. They lost their second-place Washington ninth straight game (0-8-1) and Capitals and five over the third­the home crowd booed a team place Thrashers. that dropped out of the confer­
Carolina is also 5-0-1 in its ence playofT standings. last six home games. "It's pretty much rock bottom 
"This time of your year, now," Flyers captain Jason you've got to look within your Smith said. "We better turn own stall and say, 'I've got to things around quickly now or bring what I've got tonight to we're not going to be in a good help out," Carolina's Scott spot." Walker said. "That's what Jonathan Cheechoo scored his everybody's been doing. I think 17th goal for the Sharks, who everyone's been doing a great snapp~d a five-game losing job." streak. Evgeni Nabokov made 
Walker led the way for the 26 saves for San Jose. Hurricanes with one goals and two assists. Hay Whitney, Hyan Islanders 1, Lightning 0 Bayda and Snrgei Samsonov This New York Islanders vic­scored second-period goals, and tory had it all: spotless goal­Keith Aucoin also scored for the tending from Hick DiPietro, Hurricanes. Cam Ward made 25 timely scoring from Miroslav saves. Satan, and blissful quiet from road run of earning at least one New York is enjoying its best Comeau and Frans Nielsen on 
Eric Perrin, Mark Hecchi and Chris Simon. point (7 -0-3). He blanked stretch since another six-game the Islanders' fourth line, and Todd White scored for Atlanta. The Tampa Bay Lightning Tampa Bay for the second time winning streak from Dec. 21-heard a few cheers and louder 
Thrashers goalie Kari never stood a chance. this season despite New York 31, 2003, and has climbed back boos when he hit the ice and Lehtonen had one of his busiest Satan snapped a scoreless tie missing key injured defensemen into the Eastern Conference touched the puck. nights of the season, making 41 in the third period and DiPietro Brendan Witt, Andy Sutton, playoff chase. "The most important thing is saves. Twenty-one of those stopped 32 shots for the New Bruno Gervais and Chris Simon returned from a record that we won," he said. "My came in the first period when York Islanders, who welcomed Campoli. 30-game suspension levied by teammates have been so sup­Carolina carried the play, out­back suspended forward Simon "Good living and good pray­the NHL against him in portive and have been great to shooting the Thrashers 21-5. and won their sixth straight ing. I'm not sure what it is," December for his skate stomp me. I can't control what other Only Lehtonen's stellar play with a victory over the Tampa Islanders coach Ted Nolan said. on the back of the leg of people think and how they kept Atlanta in the game. Bay Lightning on Thursday Ever since the Islanders broke Pittsburgh's Jarkko Ruutu. react. I respect that they have 
night. a seven-game skid on Feb. 12 Simon took his first shift 2 1/2 their opinion, and I'm just going Sharks 3, Flyers 1 DiPietro was perfect in snap­with a win against Philadelphia, minutes into the opening peri­to keep working hard in gaining Simon Gagne is out for the ping the Lightning's ·1 0-game they have been unstoppable. od, alongside rookies Blake them back." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds fqr content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
-
FoR SALE 
Oakhill Condo for Sale. Students will love living here and parents will love knowing their child is looked after and safel Secure, upstairs, two-level furnished two-bedroom. two-bath condo unit with loft area. One thousand twenty-two square feet of beautifully redecorated living space -includes 42' HD flat screen TV and parking spaces in front of condo. Garages are available at an additional cost. Parking lot surveil­lance cameras. pool, clubhouse, water and rubbish removal included as part of the ownership package. Only $180 per month exterior main­tenance fees. Five minute walk or less to the Notre Dame campus, shopping and restaurants. Less than ten minutes to other hot spots and mall by car. $200,000. Only serious offers considered. 562-733­5166.$14.25 BASE-APPT. STU­DENT WORK flexible, no experi­ence needed, customer sales/serv­ice, conditions apply. ages 18+, 574-273-3835, www.workforstu­dents.com 
WANTED 
$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT WORK flexible, no experience needed. customer sales/service, conditions apply, ages 18+. 574-273-3835, www. workforstudents.com 
FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com 

HOUSES FOR RENT 
FOR 08-09 

CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
RANGING FROM 
2 BRTO 6 BR. 
CALL 

574-234-2436 
OR 

KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
PERSONAL 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our website at: http:f/osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml lam madly 
in love with 
Michael Bryan 
-Ellyn 
Classy Belek, 
cougar, 
on the prowl 
for men half her age 
CALL 
918-519-4549 
Hey Thompson! 

Don't screw up in Bengal Bouts! 
Love, 
Hi no 
Hahahaha Cassie! 

You have been thwarted by the 
superior intellect of sports and, by 
extension, men. STEVEN RULES! 
The yo-yo 
originated in the 

Philippines, where it was used 
as a weapon in hunting. 
The ashes 
of the average 
cremated person 
weigh nine pounds. 
You can make 
a glass of apple 

cider with three apples. 
"We had a deal Kyle .... we had a 
deallllll." In memoriam of Robert H. Griffin. 
Nearly 50% of all bank 
robberies take place on Friday. 
WATCH OUT! 
Dear Lauren, I Love 
You! Love, Ken 
The national average ACT score is 17. The bubbles in Guiness Beer sink to the bottom rather than float to the top like all other beers. 
No one knows why. Thanks to everyone on the 2006-2007 Observer ed board! 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, February 22, 2008 CoMPILED rRnl\tt THE 0BSERVER:s WIRE SERVICEs page 15 
NCAA Men's Hockey USCHO.com/CSTV Division I 
Poll  
record  previous  
1  Michigan  25·3·4  1  
2  North Dakota  19·8·2  3  
3  New Hampshire  19-7-2  4  
4  Colorado College  21-8·1  5  
5  Miami  25-6·1  2  
6  Michigan State  20-8·5  8  
7  Boston College  16-7·7  7  
8  Denver  19-10-1  6  
9  NOTRE DAME  21-10·3  9  
10  Wisconsin  14-12-6  10  
11  Minnesota State  16·11-4  13  
12  Clarkson  17-10·3  11  
13  UMD  12-10·6  12  
14  Northeastern  14-11-3  15  
15  Providence  13-11-4  14  
16  St. Cloud State  14-13·3  19  
17  Princeton  15-10-0  17  
18  UMASS Lowell  13-11-4  18  
19  Ounnipiac  17-9-4  16  
20  Niagra  16·8-4  20  

CCHA Conference Standings 
team conference overall 

1 Michigan 18-2-4 25-3-4 2 Miami 17-6-1 25-6-1 3 Michigan State 16-5-3 20-8-5 4 NOTRE DAME 14-7-3 21-10·3 5 Nebraska-Omaha 11-11-4 14-14·4 6 Bowling Green 12-12-0 15-15·0 7 Ferris State 10-10-4 13-12-5 8 Northern Michigan 10-12-2 13-16·3 9 Alaska 8-14-4 8·17-5 10 Ohio State 6-16-2 10-21-3 11 Lake Superior 4-15-5 6·18-6 12 Western Michigan 3-19·2 7-22·3 
NCAA Men's Baseball Preseason USA Today /ESPN Top20 
record previous 

1 Arizona Slate 0-0 5 2 North Carolina 0·0 2 3 South Carolina 0·0 10 4 Rice 0·0 3 5 Vanderbilt 0·0 25 6 Texas 0·0 9 7 Mississippi 0·0 14 8 San Diego 0·0 16 9 Wichita State 0·0 20 10 Oregon State 0-0 11 11 Florida State 0·0 1 12 Missouri 0·0 15 13 Miami 0·0 24 14 Cal State Fullerton 0·0 NR 15 Clemson 0·0 7 16 UCLA 0·0 13 17 Michigan 0·0 22 18 Long Beach State 0·0 18 19 Virginia 0·0 NR 20 TexasA&M 0·0 17 
around the dial 
NBA BASKETBALL Denver at Chicago 8 p.m., ESPN 
NBA BASKETBALL Boston at Phoenix 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 


Associated Press 

CLEVELAND -LeBron James finally got some help to win an NBA title. 
In an 11-player trade involving Cleveland, Chicago and Seattle, the Cavaliers acquired center Ben Wallace from the Bulls and forward Wally Szczerbiak from the SuperSonics, two players to possibly get James and the Cavs through the Eastern Conference and back to the finals. 
Cleveland general man­ager Danny Ferry, unable to finalize major deals in the past, pulled off a colos­sal one as the clock ticked down in the final hours before Thursday's 3 p.m. 
deadline. 

The Cavaliers sent guard Larry Hughes, forwards Drew Gooden and Cedric Simmons, and guard Shannon Brown to Chicago for Wallace, one of the game's top inside enforcers, and forward Joe Smith. 
Cleveland acquired the sharpshooting Szczerbiak and guard Delonte West from Seattle for forwards Ira Newble and Donyell Marshall. 
The Cavaliers will also get Chicago's second-round pick in 2009. The SuperSonics will receive guard Adrian Griffin from the Bulls. 
The deal caps a busy month of trades around the NBA as several stars, including Shaquille O'Neal, Jason Kidd, Shawn Marion and Pau Gasol, all were dealt to new teams. The Gasol swap triggered an arms race of sorts among the Western Conference's top squads, while this one could have a big impact at the top of the East. 
Plagued by injuries this season, the Cavaliers are nine games behind Detroit in the Central Division and are fourth overall behind Boston, the Pistons and Orlando in the conference standings. 
James, who is having an MVP-caliber season, had hoped Ferry could pull the trigger on a deal as the deadline neared. But Cleveland's superstar prob­ably couldn't have imag­ined such an overhaul. 
Ferry traded 60 percent of the starting lineup Cavs coach Mike Brown sent out on the floor for Wednesday night's game in Indiana. 
In the 33-year-old Wallace, the Cavaliers are getting a defensive intim­idator. But Big Ben will give them little or nothing on offense. He was a disap­pointment for the under­achieving Bulls, who enter Friday's game 17 _ games out of first in the Central. 
Chicago signed Wallace to a four-year, $60 million contract in 2006. He has two years remaining on that deal worth roughly $30 million. 
IN BRIEF 

Candace Parker to forgoe
seinor season at Tennessee 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Candace Parker, the Tennessee All-America forward who made dunking in women's basketball almost common­place, ended all the speculation. 
Parker, the first woman to win a national slam dunk contest, will skip her final season at Tennessee for the chance to play professionally. 
"This was the most difficult deci­sion I've ever had to make, but my family and I think this is the best choice for me," Parker said Wednesday. 
"I've been blessed with great coaches and teammates, an out­standing education and the best women's basketball crowd support in the country. I will miss Tennessee, but I am eager to take this next step in my career." 
The redshirt junior will graduate at the end of this season and plans to participate in the summer Olympics. 
Memphis faces Tennessee in 
battle of powerhouses 
Tenn -Tigers vs. Volunteers used to mean bragging rights within. Tennessee. Come Saturday night, this usually inconsequential state rivalry, struts across the national stage. 
No. 1 Memphis hosts No. 2 Tennessee -the 38th game between teams ranked Nos. 1 and 2 but only the fifth time the teams are from the same state. 
"These 1-2 matchups are usually reserved for Tobacco Road or some place in Indiana or Ohio," Tennessee coach Bruce Pearl said Thursday. 
"And the fact that it's in Tennessee is something that I think all high school basketball players and high school coaches and different folks that love basketball in the state of Tennessee are certainly proud of." 
Cincinnati and Ohio State played each other twice in the 1960s as No. 1 vs. No. 2, and Duke and North Carolina met twice in the 1990s. 
Slugger Howard wins arbi­
tration case 
CLEARWATER, Fla. -Everywhere Ryan Howard turned, pe ople wanted to dig into his pockets. 
Howard's bank account just skyrock­eted like one of those home runs he deposits into the upper deck. Baseball's best bargain fmally will be getting big bucks. 
Howard won his salary arbitration case against the Philadelphia Phillies on Thursday when he was awarded $10 million, the highest figure given a victo­rious player. 
Now teammates expect him to pay for their meals and pick up the tab on their nights out. 
"My reaction is mostly relief," Howard said. "It was an interesting process. Anyway you look at it, it's a win-win because it's a substantial raise." 
Howard made $900,000 last year and $355,000 during his MVP season in 2006. lion, but Howard became the first player to win in six arbitration cases 
Friday, February 22, 2008

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TRACK 
Notre Dame tries to defend Big East title 

has already qualified for the NCAA meet in the shot put. 
A reigning All-Big East pBr­former, Mary Saxer looks to improve on her second-plaee finish last year. 
Meanwhile, Alyissa Hasan has a strong chance to win the Pentathlon; she has already qualified for the NCAA meet. 
The Notre Dame runners ­led by Joanna Schultz, Cora Dayon, Natalie .Johnson and Kelly Langhans -hope to find more success in the run­ning events than the Irish had 
last year. Connelly's outlook for the team this weekend is simple. 
"Hight now the goal is to go in there and have each of the 24 women who will compete try to compete as well as they ean and come away feeling that they did all they could to help the team," Connelly said. "In this sport you can't control what the other person or team does, all you can control is your own effort." 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 

By EUGENIA ALFONZO 
SportsWriter 
Tlw Irish will bn tostml this wnPknrHI as thny travol to New York to dnfnnd thoir Big East eoni"PnmcP titll' for the third yoar in a row. 
Ev1m though thn team has bonn qualifying mmnbors for tim Cham pionsh i p si nee the Bhw and Gold Invito from the bPginning. 
"We worked quito hard last week." Irish roach 
"There's four teams that

.Jon l'iane should be said, "We could win it, and we're real good to worked quito watch along
certainly one of the four." 

hard last with the wonk. so throws," wn 'v1~ b1H~n Joe Piane Piane said. tapering Irish coach "Heally every 
tagn  as  tlwy !wad into  tough  
e o m pn t i t i o n  a t  tiH~  Now  
Balanen  Track  and  Field  
Contor this weekend.  

"Each event has some rnal quality in it and we've got to score points in a lot of them," Piano said. "Tho 60-meter raco is going to be an irnpor­tant event bncause Georgetown is ranked first and second." 
The 60-mcter isn't the only event in which the Irish will face a challenge. 
"The mile 

down to let tho kids who have boen banged up recover". 
Tlw Irish havo achieved over 45 qualifications for the championships sinee 
lh~emnlwr. 
".John Cavanaugh is ranked first for the 800-m race," Piano said. "Also, Justin Sehnoidnr is ranked first for tho heptathlon while the dis­tltnl:e nrndloy, 4 x 400-meter relay, and 4 x 800-meter relay arn nxecllnnt as well." 
The Irish hope that the well balaneod strueture of their team will givo them an advan­
event will be 
good to 
watch." 
The Irish 
arc prepared to face off against Connecticut, Louisville, and Georgetown, forming four of the biggest contenders for this year's championship. 
"There's four teams that could win it, and we're cer­tainly one of the four," Piane said. 
The first day of the meet starts at 8:00 a.m. this Saturday. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu 

HARANGODY SMASH 
-

ND WOMEN'S TRACK 

24 to compete in conference tourney 
Failure to capture individual titles in 2007 led to second place finish 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
In the book of numbers, Notre Dame has the edge. 
Last year in the elosely con­tested Big East Indoor cham­pionships, Notre Dame fin­ished a close second to Georgetown. 
That time, the Irish had 22 athletes who qualified to par­ticipate. This year, they have 
24. 
Notre Dame will try to con­vert this advantage into better results in the form of team and individual championships. 
But Irish coach Tim Connelly is not as concerned about improving the team's overall finish as much as he is rooting for better individual results from his athletes. Notre Dame's failure to cap­ture individual titles in 2007 doomed the team's chances. 
"We're really not sure what to expect team place-wise, as there are a number of really strong teams that should be in the hunt to place high," Connelly said. "To be honest we really focus more on each athlete doing her best and contributing all that they can to the team effort." 
The Irish have a slew of ath­letes who are favorites to place well in their respective events. 
First among them is Anna Weber, who will look to con­tinue her dominance in the weight throw and the shot put. Weber has set school records in both events and 
'11

..... .tf..-n 7Dwn.l
......... 

•...• •···• f() fake avocation, give your home a ate your debt, or anything you wont. 
IMEquity Advantage 
•2··so'
·.·· /0 

Friday, February 22, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Duke overcomes doubles loss, downs squad 
By DAN MASTERTON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame could not hand undefeated Duke its first loss of the season, as the No. 8 Blue Devils beat the Irish 4-3 in Durham, N.C. Thursday. 
Colleen Hielley and Cosmina Cioban u started the match strong with an 8-5 doubles win, and Kali Krisik and Kristen Hafael clinched the doubles point for No. 15 Notre Dame (6-5) with an 8-6 victo­ry. 
Even with the doubles point in hand, Brook Buck and Kolcy Tefft, the No. 3 pair in the nation, made a strong showing, completing a sweep of the doubles matches with an 8-6 win. 
Duke stole the momentum back, however -Ciobanu and Katie Potts dropped the first two singles matches, each by the seore of 6-3, 6-1. 
Krisik responded for the Irish by winning a hard-fought match over Duke's Amanda Granson, 6-1, 7-6 (7-3). Granson pushed Krisik to a tiebreaker in the second set, but Krisik overcame Granson's rally to tie the match at two. 
The Blue Devils answered back when Tara Ayer defeated Buck 6-3, 6-4. Ayer's victory put the pressure back on 
Notre Dame, and it was up to Rielley and Tefft to win both the remaining matches. 
Hielley pushed Duke's Heka Zsilinszka to three sots, but the No. 13 singles player in the country won the third set convincingly. Zsilinszka's 6-2, 3-6, 6-1 victory won the match for Duke. 
The Irish finished strong as No. 59 Tefft fought her way to an upset victory over No. 16 Ellah Nze. Tefft rallied after losing the first set to improve to 10-1 in singles play on the dual season. Her 5-7, 8-6, 10­7 win made the final score 4-3 in favor of Duke. 
The Irish will have to put this loss behind them quickly -two more elite opponents loom on this weekend's three­game road trip. The tough stretch continues today as the Irish travel to Winston-Salem, N.C., to battle No. 19 Wake Forest (2-1). 
The Demon Deacons have not played in 19 days, but they will try to shake off the rust and avenge a 7-0 loss to Notre Dame last year. The all-time series is tied 9-9, but the Irish have won three straight. They will look to make it four in a row at the WFU Indoor Tennis Center at 3 p.m. today. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 


North Dining "all will b~ (LOS£0 Saturday, ~~bruary 23rd, 2008 for Notr~ Dam~'s Scholarship ~~llowship B~n~factor Dinn~r. 
w~ apologiz~ forth~ inconv~ni~nc~. 
Nf&RTH 
FOOD COURT NOTRE 
DAME FOOD SERVICES 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish a tten1 pt to boil Purdue 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will look to rebound after falling short at the ITA National Indoor championship this past weekend when they play Purdue at home Sunday. Notre Dame l8-3) fell 4-0 and 5-0 to No. 8 UCLA and No. 12 North Carolina, respectively at the Indoor Championship but managed to defeat No. 16 Penn State 4-2. 
"I was disappointed in the loss to UClA," coach Bobby Bayliss said. "We gave it a good shot though. The score could have easily been 4-3." 
The Irish were up at No. 1 and No. 2 singles when the Bruins clinched the 4-0 win to end the match. 
On Saturday, the Irish faced the Nittany lions. When Notre Dame and the Irish last faced off in January, the Irish defeated the Nittany lions 5-2. On Sunday, the Irish fell 5-0 to North Carolina in the final round 'or the consolation bracket. 
"I was pretty disappointed with the loss on Sunday," Bayliss said. "We underestimated them. They played an inspired match against us and Butler on Saturday. They are one of the top eight in the nation. I didn't feel all of the guys played their'/\ games." 
While the Irish struggled as a team, junior Brett Helgeson pro­vided a bright spot in Seattle. 
"Brett won the one match that he finished," Bayliss said. "He had the match point against UClA, and could have had three wins if they hadn't ended the match." 
Another standout on the week­end was freshman Daniel Stahl. Bayliss said that Stahl has contin­ued to surprise the coaching staff, and that his strength lays in his ability to put pressure on people from the back of the court. 
Bayliss also noted that Purdue and the Irish have similar lineup styles. 
"We both have good top of the lineup players," Bayliss said. "They are an improved team. They have a very talented No. 1 singles player in sophomore Branko Kuzmanovic." 
Kuzmanovic, a native of Serbia, is a force at the top of the Boilermakers singles and doubles lineup. 
"He has pushed a lot of the top players," Bayliss said. "They also have a new second singles player in sophomore Slavko Bijelica." 
Bayliss also praised Purdue's coach Tim Madden and noted that the Boilermakers will be feisty and competitive. 
The Irish will try to pick up the five match win streak they were on before heading to Seattle last weekend. The match is set to start at noon at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 22, 2008 
Irish travel to Ohio State to take on rivals 
ND SOFTBALL 
ND to play 2 in Gainesville 
there, give them a good game,By SAM WERNER and beat them." 

Sports Writcr 
The Irish hope to improve on their 2-2 showing in Following days in the Arizona last weekend. The dosert, the Irish seek water. Irish beat Utah and California 
A week after splitting four but came up short against games in the Kajikawa Classie Western Kentucky and No. 3 in Tempe, Ariz., Notrn Dame Texas A&M. will find a little hydration at "I expect to play better than the Aquafina Invitational tour­we did last weekend," Gumpf nament in Cainesville, Fla. said. "That's my No. 1 expec­
Notre Dame will play a dou­tation." bleheader today, facing Over the week, Gumpf said Card nor-Webb the team at 11 a.m. and worked on North Florida at situational
"We do the best when 

1:15 p.m. Irish plays, in
we're at home, but when

coach Doanna order to 
Gumpf's squad will then go up against unde­fnated No. 7 Florida on Saturday 
"Florida has a great tnam," Gumpf said. 
we hit the road it's improve defensively
softball time." 
and in pres­sure hitting Deanna Gumpf situations. 
Irish coach Gumpf said she tried to give the team as 

"They have a great pitching stafl' and they're hitting the tar out of the ball." 
At 14-0, the (;ators arn off to their best start in school history. 
"The goal with [Florida! is to win a big game," Gumpf said. "We've got to go in 
many situational, game-like reps as possible." 
The Big East honored two Irish players this week, nam­ing second baseman Katie Laing conference player of the week and adding pitcher Brittney Bargar to the confer­ence honor roll. 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles try for rebound at Olivet 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Wrircr 
Aller a nine-point loss to the No. l !lope on Saturday, Saint Mary's is baek on the road tonight as it takes on Olivet in Olivet, Mieh., at 7:30. 
"Olivet is anothnr strong team in the MIAA," Belles coach Jenn llenloy said. "They have a new coach and a lot of fwsh faces." 
Olivet is 7-9 
second smallest winning mar­gin this season. 
"I thought our team played very well all last week, despite two losses," Henley said. "If we can keep that same type of focus and intensity throughout the rest of the season, we will have a strong finish." 
Hegardless of the loss, Saint Mary's managed to put up some impressive numbers. Senior guard Allison Kessler, the lead­
ing scorer for 

overall and 5-3 her team and
"Our goals continue 

in MlM play. the MIAA, Saint Mary's scored a team­
to be to improve our U:PJ, 4-5 MIAA) defense and keep high 21 points. held its own The Belles shot
points out ofthe

against Ilop!l 40.3 percent
paint."

(17-0, 9-0 from the floor, MIAA), leading going 81.8 per­33-30 at the cent from the
Jen Henley

half. Loading line with four
Belles coach 

llope scorer .lordyn Boles's 18 points in the first 1 0 minutes of thn second period, however, gave her team a lead Saint Mary's couldn't overcome. The Belles lost 82-73, tying with conference foe Alma for I lope's players in dou­ble digits . 
The bench has been produc­tive as well. Juniors Erin Newsom and Katie Hashid score 
10.7 and 9.4 points per game, respectively. Sophomore Anna Kammrath holds her own in 

THIS WEEK IN 
, 
EARLY ARRIVInG FAnS WILL RECEIVE IRISH Hcx:KEY S'IRI·rl' Srcns on FRIDAY Ann lRISI 1 HocKEY IcE ScRAPERS on SA'IURDAY 
.... 
~ setiii~Di~) 
''QQIJ$,/ 
SPORTS BAR 
AND GRILL 

Laing led the Irish in batting 
average in Tempe, hitting .429 
over the four games. Laing 
also notched a game-winning, 
walk-off double against Cal. 
Bargar pitched three games, winning two and losing only to the third-ranked Aggies, ·despite holding them to four 
hits. 
"I think they deserved those 
honors," Gumpf said. "Katie, 
offensively, was on fire for us 
and came through big in situ­
ational hitting. Bargar did a 
great job off the mound for 
us." 
Ileading to Florida is just 
another trip for Notre Dame, 
who this week had to travel 
from Tempe back to campus, 
then down to Gainesville -a 
total trip of more than 2,500 
miles. Gumpf said she would­
n't let the team be affected by 
the travel. 
"It's in our mental state," 
Gumpf said. "It's going to 
affect us if we let it affect us 
and it won't affect us if we 
don't let it affect us. 
"We do the best when we're 
at home, but when we hit the 
road it's softball time." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
this group of upperclassmen with 9.9 per game this season. 
Saint Mary's out-rebounded Hope this past weekend with a total 38 rebounds, an area which Henley said her team has shown improvement throughout this season. 
"I feel our rebounding has improved all season and we need to continue those efforts," Henley said. 
The Belles average 41.4 rebounds per game. 
Saint Mary's has showed con­sistent improvement on the court as its season continues, but it is always striving for per­fection. 
"Our goals continue to be to improve our defense and keep points out of the paint," Henley said. 
Olivet's new head coach, Heather Bateman, served as assistant coach for the Comets for the past six seasons, making her no stranger to MIAA com­petition. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Writer 
Last weekend marked two important events for Notre Dame. The Irish notched 22 goals in their 2 2-1 0 win over Canisius -a tie for the school record for most points scored in a home game. More importantly, Sunday's 16-4 win over Duquesne marked the 1OOth victory in the history of said. 
The team will take its first road trip of the year this week­end, traveling to Columbus to faee Ohio State on Saturday. While the Buekeyes own a 6-5 lead all-time in the series, Notre Dame has won the last two meetings, ineluding a 16-9 win last s1mson. 
"It is a rivalry," said Coyne. "I low can you not be excited to 
go play Ohio 
State?" 
The game 
should be an 

the program, all "How can you not be aggressive one. of which have excited to go play Coyne expects to been under the see a lot of pres­
Ohio State?"
direction of sure from the coach Tracy Buckeye defense, Coyne. Tracy Coyne particularly 
"Because Irish coach against Notre 
have been here since the begin­ning, I have a lot of fond memories of many games," Coyne said. "I have a lot of people that I have shared these great wins with." 
Helping the program reach its milestone was the play of junior JUlian Byers. Byers was picked as a unanimous pre-season All­Big East player, and has received other accolades as well early this season. In the two games last weekend, Byers seored 11 goals, while also tallying 2 assists. Her play has been one of the reasons for the team's suecess thus far. 
"She is an awesome finisher," Coyne said. "Jill understands how to work her defender and get herself open and the team has been great at been finding her so she can finish." 
Indeed, Coyne is quick to credit the teamwork that the Irish have displayed so far this season, beyond Byers scoring prowess. 
"We had some really beautiful combination goals. It has defi­nitely been a team effort," Coyne 
Dame scoring 
threats like Byers. 
The Irish will need players to step up and put points on the board against Ohio State, who represents a eonsiderable step up in eompetition from the first two games. 
"We have to be ready to handle those types of situations," said Coyne. 
The Irish take on Ohio State in Columbus at 2:30p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesdax through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
*STUDENT DISCOUNT 

Atria Salon 2 
Specializing in color 574.271.8804 
HAIRCUT, HIGHLIGHT& STYLE $79.00 
EXPIRES MARCH I OTH, 2008 Must present ad to receptionist before services are performed. 2039 south bend ave south bend in 46637 t.271.8804 Certain restrictions apply. www.AtriaSalon2.com 
Friday, February 22, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
BASEBALL 
Irish open season this weekend with four games 
By FRAN TOLAN Sporrs Writer 
It might be hard to believe con­sidnring thn gloomy Notre Dame weather, but the Irish open their season with four games this weekend. 
Thr, squad will leave behind the frigid Indiana winter to compete in the Clearwater Invitational at Jack Hussell Stadium in Clearwater, Fla. The Irish are slated take on tournament host Liberty today before playing a double-header Saturday and fin­ishing up against Albany Sunday. 
Irish coach Dave Schrage said the event is a good opportunity to gauge his team's progress since the beginning of spring practice. 
"The nice part about coming down here and playing early is, at the end of the three days, you have things to work on and you find out what are some of the things we need more work on," Schrage said. "It'll be a good measuring stick to see how far along we are compared to last year." 
Last year was Schrage's first with the Irish and, despite posting a 28-28 record, he said the sea­son was a learning experience for many of the players. 
"I think that having a year under our belt -some of our vet­eran players have a little more experience, they know our system a little better so it's been a little bit smoother spring," Schrage said. 
When the Irish take the field in Clearwater, they'll have their first outdoor action of the season. The team will attempt to readjust to external factors that are not an issue at the team's indoor practice facilities. 
"You work on picking up 11y balls in the sun and communica­tion between infielders and out­fielders and things like that, things you don't normally work on," Schrage said. 
Despite the difficulties encoun­tered with playing oul'iide again, Schrage said he expects a good showing from his team this week­end. 
"Its always an adjustment, I think, just the depth perception and the background with being outside," he said. "But I think we're a lot farther along this year than we were last season." 
In the team's season opener, the Irish will take on Liberty today at 1 p.m. Schrage said Liberty should be the most formidable team of the three the Irish face .in the tournament. 

"They're ahead of everybody a little bit because they've just been outside," Schrage said. "And they're usually one of the best three teams in the Big South ]con­ference] anyway ... They'll be a good squad." 
The Irish will look to shut Liberty down behind right-hand­ed ace David Phelps, who posted a 1.88 ERA last season. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame will play a day-night doubleheader, with a game against Iowa during the afternoon then a nightcap against Albany. The Irish will face Albany again on Sunday. 
Schrage said he is not necessar­ily concerned with the team's record this weekend, saying instead he hopes the Irish treat the trip as an opportunity to improve. 
"We don't go into it saying, 'I want to win four' or 'I want three,"' Shrage said. "Our biggest thing is just play good and get better every day down here. And get the younger kids, get them some experience, test the nerves out and see where we're at." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Undefeated team to host Nittany Lions 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI 
Sports Writer 
Even though Notre Dame is 1-0 heading into Sunday's game against Penn State, Irish coach Kevin Corrigan isn't worried about his team's record. 
"Obviously there's only two possible situations at the start of the season," Corrigan said Thursday. "You're either 1-0 or 0-1 and 1-0 beats the hell out of 0-1. The ranking and all that stuff [are] mean­ingless at this point. It's February, for goodness sakes. We're just worried about how we'rr, playing and what we're doing." 
Notre Dame opened the season with a 7-6 win against No. 17 Loyola, Md., Saturday and is ranked as high as No. 5 in some nation­al polls. 
The Irish showed some bal­ance in the win over Loyola -a different player scored each of the seven goals. Senior attack Alex Wharton, junior attack Duncan Swezey, sophomore attacks Colin Igoe and Matt Ciambella, and jun­ior midfielder Dan Gibson each had an assist in the win. 
"We need to do a little bit of everything well." Corrigan said. "Penn State is a very good team. They're very ath­letic and very experienced. I think a lot of things are going to be a factor in this game. We need to clear the ball well and counteract their athleti­cism. There are a lot of chal­lenges in a game like this. 
"These are two teams that like to play like to get up and down the field," he added. "It should be a fun game to watch and fun game to play." 
The game begins at 1 p.m., in the Loftus Center. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Squad ready for DePaul ren1atch 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
When Notre Dame first played DePaul on Jan. 22, Irish coach Muffet McGraw called her squad "the worst defensive team in the Big East." How things have changed. 
Over No. 14 Notre Dame's last six games -a five-game win streak ended by a 57-51 loss to No. 5 Rutgers on Tuesday -it has only allowed 60.2 points per game. McGraw credited the improvement to a change from a mostly man-to-man defense to an exclusive zone scheme. 
"I was really pleased with the defense [against Rutgers], and I have not been most of this sea­son. I am really happy with the zone," she said. 
The defensive improvement is even more impressive consider­ing the amount of injuries the team has suffered in the last few weeks. The Irish lost forward Devereaux Peters for the season against Pittsburgh on Feb. 10 with a torn anterior crucial liga­ment. 
But McGraw said the team has been fine without Peters so far this season. 
"We are controlling things, we can control and a lot of players have been able to step up with­out [Peters]," she said. 
This week, guard Tulyah Gaines injured her shoulder against Syracuse and forward Becca Bruszewski broke her hand against Rutgers. 
The Irish will get a chance to show the Blue Demons their new and improved defense Sunday afternoon in Chicago. DePaul ­like last season -is Notre Dame's only repeat game this year. 
The last time DePaul hit the court Wednesday, it beat Georgetown 82-78 in the McDonough Arena in Washington, D.C. -the same court on which the Irish beat the Hoyas 104-86 on Jan. 19. 
McGraw said she thinks DePaul has improved since the teams' first matchup, in large part because of senior guard Allie Quigley. Quigley had 36 points on 15-of-21 shooting against the Hoyas on Wednesday. 
"Allie Quigley took over the game last night [against Georgetown]. She seems to be playing like a senior who is refus­ing to let her team lose. She is carrying the team," McGraw said." 
The Irish have their own senior who has taken over the team this season. Charel Allen leads Notre • Dame in scoring for the second straight year, with 14.3 points per game. The senior guard also has 63 assists and 53 steals. 
"Charel Allen is a unanimous first team Big East player this year," McGraw said. "She has been our go-to player for almost four years." 
Sophomore Ashley Barlow has given Allen help offensively, but McGraw said that she is more of a behind-the-scenes player than Allen. 
"She does a lot of dirty work and a lot of little things," McGraw said. "She will shoot some late threes, but Charel still gets the first look." 
Tipoff is at 2 p.m. on ESPNU. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 


.------------------------------------­
page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT Friday, February 22, 2008 
know no boundaries 

WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 

-
Upcoming World View Events The Kite Runner March 14 Blood Diamond April 3 Cosponsored with Center for Social Concerns 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
, 'Ji>'~ D E B A R T 0 l 0 
WNOTREDAME ,(~~,ill' PERFORMING ARTS CENTER om,., of the President 
TICKETS: $3 FOR STUDENTS AND $5 FOR FACULTY/STAFF • TICKET OFFICE: 631.2800 • PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
Friday, February 22, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
court." Brey said he was pleased

Jackson 
that McAlarney never stopped continued from page 24 hunting for shots. 
"The one bomb he took to "I tried to cross over and I lost kind of break their backs, that the ball because the ball was wasn't a great shot but I loved so grippy and my hands are so that he took it because of the small -I ain't got no big man belief," Brey said. hands," Jackson McAlarney said. '"I ended up scored 13 of getting it back -I his 15 points 
thought I lost it-"J told {Ayers] to be in the sec­
and I spun more aggressive ond half. because the On the
offensively."

[defender] tried to Pittsburgh cut me off. I just possession ended up spinning Mike Brey a f t e r and I saw a wide Irish coach McAlarney's open basket." game-tying 
Jackson's buck-3-pointer, et began a 22-6 Irish for­run that turned the tide of the ward Luke Harangody stole a game and gave the Irish a 75-pass by Panthers forward 64 lead with 1:50 remaining Tyrell Biggs at the top of the in the contest. The spurt was key. Harangody, who finished capped off with two free with 23 points and 12 throws by junior forward rebounds, cruised to the other Hyan Ayers, who had drilled a end of the floor for a two­3-pointer two minutes earlier. handed dunk that gave Notre 
"I told [Ayers] to be more Dame its first lead of the sec-aggressive offen-ond half. sively," Brey said. "I saw his "That was a huge eyes and I 13-pointerl up top." "It was the loudest I just made a 
With 6:54 left to ever heard it get in gamble and 
play, Irish junior went for it
there tonight." 

guard Kyle and luckily McAlarney drilled a got it," 3-pointer to cut Luke Harangody Harangody 
Irish forward 

Notre Dame's s a i d deficit to one point. "Throwing Less than a minute that one later, McAlarney down felt real hit another trey to tie the good." score at 61-61. Before drain­There were 11 lead changes ing those two deep shots, in the first half but Pittsburgh McAlarney had made just 1-made a run at the end of the for-6 from beyond the arc. period to go into the locker 
"When I got my first good room with the 35-30 lead. look of the second half, I just Notre Dame led 28-27 with put it up and it went in," said 3:39 remaining in the half but McAlarney. ''I'm kind of a Pittsburgh guard Gilbert streak shooter. If I hit one I Brown hit a jumper to give the know that kinda gets me going Panthers a lead they would a little bit and makes me feel not relinquish until good, helps me get into a Harangody's slam. Pittsburgh rhythm on both ends of the guard Keith Benjamin knocked down a 3-pointer with 12 seconds left to give the Panthers the 5-point advantage. 
After the break, Pittsburgh built on its lead and was up by 10 with 17:42 to play in the contest. 
But the Panthers could not close out Notre Dame as most of the Joyce Center fans stood and cheered throughout the second half. The Irish notched their 35th straight home win in front of the boisterous crowd. 
"It was the loudest I ever heard it get in there tonight," Harangody said. "That's a great thing to have. It definite­ly helps a lot." 
Brey agreed with Harangody, saying that the home fans gave the Irish the boost they needed to overtake the Panthers. 
"It's a state of mind that you believe you're gonna find a way here," Brey said. "When you play here in this crowd, you can play through fatigue better thiw the road team. And we did that tonight." 
Irish senior captain Rob Kurz scored 14 points as the Irish improved to 20-5 overall and 10-3 in the Big East. 
Note: 
+Notre Dame honored Irish all-time leading scorer Austin Carr with a video tribute at halftime. Carr scored 40 points or more 23 times dur­ing his three-year varsity career and was named a con­sensus All America and the AP!UPI Player of the Year in 1970-71. In an emotional speech, Carr said the greatest experience of his life was playing for Notre Dame. After the ceremony, he walked off the court to chants of "We love Austin." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


Tenuta 
continued from page 24 
to learn the players and what they can do first and foremost and adapt to that aspect." 
Tenuta made no secret of the fact that he relished the opportu­nity to coach at Notre Dame. The University, he said, had a great allure to it. 
"This is Notre Dame. You get so many opportunities to coach in your career," he said. "There's a lot of good jobs, but this is a great job. So Notre Dame is Notre Dame." 
The personal touch of coach Weis, he said, cemented in his mind the need to come to Notre Dame. Tenuta said he had otTers from other schools, but when Notre Dame came calling, it did­n't use its athletic department bureaucracy to contact him like other schools did. Weis picked up the phone himself. 
"To me, that was big," Tenuta said. "That put even more iii it for me." 
Tenuta's connection to Notre Dame started early, when he was a child growing up in Ohio. 
"Growing up in Ohio you had Ohio State, you had Michigan, you had Notre Dame," he said. 'That's just the way it was. 
"Every Sunday morning whether I can remember back when John Huarte was a quar­terback with [Terry] Hanratty and [Jim] Seymour and [Joe] Theismann to [Tom] Gatewood ... I mean, that's Notre Dame." 
Now that he's here, Tenuta has to help fix an Irish defense that allowed 195.4 rushing yards per game last season. He will work closely with Brown, whose philosophies, he said, are similar to his. 
"It's based on the people he's been around and some of the people we've been around, I've been around, so all of it comes into play," he said. 
Losing his play-calling abilities did not bother Tenuta in the least. He said his past jobs allowed him the versatility to accept whatever role he played. 
''I've been a coordinator most of my career and also not been a coordinator," he said. "So that part is no big deal." 
Tenuta said adapting to Brown's 3-4 defense would not pose problems because in his 4­3 scheme, he would often drop a defensive end into coverage, essentially creating a 3-4 defense. 
The Yellow Jackets made bowls in each of Tenuta's six seasons. Last season, Georgia Tech's defense led the nation in sacks with 3.69 per game. The defense ranked No. 20 in the nation in both yards allowed and rushing yards allowed. 
Tenuta was previously a defen­sive coordinator for Marshall, Kansas State, Southern Methodist, Ohio State and North Carolina. 
Known for his heavy blitz packages, Tenuta said he and Brown would continue to send extra men. 
''I'm an aggressive attacking guy, so obviously, I hope and Corwin is, too," he said. "So we're going to attack and get downhill and make things hap­pen." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

----------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------­
Houston beats Miami for tenth straight win 
Associated Press 
IIOUSTON -The Houston Hoekets' 10th straight win was somewhat bittersweet. 
Tracy McGrady scored 23 points and Yao Ming added 21 in a 112-100 victory over Miami on Thursday night that sent thp, Jlp,at to their 1Oth straight loss. 
Earlier in the day, the Hoekets learned Mike James and Bonzi Wells were traded to New Orleans for Bobby Jackson and Adam llaluska and that Kirk Snyder was sent to Minnesota in exehange for Gerald Green. 
"Everything happens for a reason and we've got to understand that this is a business," Carl Landry said. "We've got to be positive about the situation and try to go on and continue the win­ning strHak." 
Houston has won 14 of its last 15 games and the win­ning streak is its longest since the championship sea­
son of 1993-94 when the team opened with 15 straight. It is the fourth time in team history that the Hockets have had a double­digit winning streak. 
They won't have to wait long to see two of their old friends as they meet West­leading New Orleans on Friday night. 
"We lost a couple of guys that were well-liked around here, well liked in the locker room," Hafer Alston said. "That's the business side of basketball. but you've got to go out there and play." 
Miami, the NBA's worst team playing-in its first game since the All-Star break, has just nine wins and has lost 25 of its last 26 games. 
The Heat got 33 points from Dwyane Wade, and Shawn Marion added 18 points and 10 rebounds in his fourth game with Miami since being traded from Phoenix in the Shaquille O'Neal deal. 

The Hockets led comfort­ably most of the way and were ahead by 11 before Carl Landry wowed the crowd by putting his arms out as if he were f1ying on his way down from a dunk that made it 98­85 midway through the fourth quarter. Landry had 19 points. 
The Heat wouldn't threaten again after that play. 
"We dug a hole that was too deep and it is hard to come back," Marion said. "We had to exert so much energy in the comeback and we ran out of gas." 
McGrady, who had 10 assists, got back on track after struggling with poor shooting in his last five games to post his first 20­point game since Feb. 4. 
The Heat went on a 10-4 J.'Un, capped by a 3-pointer by Marion, to open the third quarter and cut it to 66-58. The Rockets reeled off five straight points to push their lead to 13 at 71-58 with 
about 7 minutes left in the 
quarter. 
Miami cut the lead to eight 
points two more times in the 
third, but each time the 
Rockets answered with a 
small run to get the advan­
tage back into double digits. 
The Heat's ineptitude was 
on display in the second 
quarter when after a steal, 
Luther Head found a wide­
open McGrady for the alley­
oop dunk that pushed 
Houston's lead to 48-29 
about eight minutes before 
halftime. 
Wade crashed into Shane 
Battier in the lane on a layup 
attempt with about three 
minutes left in the second 
quarter and came up from 
the collision limping on his 
surgically repaired left knee. 
Battier was called with the 
foul. 
He appeared OK after a ·time-out and made both free throws. The scare had to have been a bit of deja vu for Wade as it 
was the one-year anniver­sary of a collision in llouston with Battier that separated his left shoulder. Wade was taken off the court in a wheelchair in tears in that one and missed the rest of the season and the early part of this one. It was his first return to Houston since the injury. 
''I'm just thankful that I am not going to have to see him again this year," Wade said. "So hopefully I can stay healthy." 
Houston led by as many as 20 in the second quarter and were up 62-48 at halftime. 
The Hockets led 41-26 after the first quarter thanks to 14 points by McGrady, who was 6-of-8 with five assists. Alston added 11 points and six assists in the first quarter as the Hockets shot 81 per­cent to open the game and help Houston to a season­high for points in a quarter. 
Alston finished with 16 points and 11 assists. 

Festival Schedule 
Hear the CoOl sounds of Wednesday, February 20 Saturday, February 23 
8-1 0:00 CJF Coffeehouse 
10-11:00 am Lafortune Ballroom 
Judges' Jazz Clinic Featuring ND Jazz Band II 
Ricci Band Building Open to the public 

Thursday, February 21
"' 
1-IOpm Afternoon/Evening concerts 8-1 1:00 CJF Swing Night Located in Washington Hall
LaFortune Ballroom 8-9:00 Free swing lessons with For an extended schedule, visitND Swing Club 
9-11:00 Open swing dancing with wwwl.nd.edu/-sub/cjf/ live music Featuring M.O.B.B. and the AAJC/HBCU All-star Big Band 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Guilder said. "We've played tenders," said Jackson, who these guys for three years, was pleased with his team's
osu 
so we know what they're ability to get to the net continued from page 24 about. It's just not taking throughout the Alaska 
them lightly." series. "But, we're also not appearance at the Joyce Notre Dame is 15-2-1 when clicking as well as we'd like Center two weeks ago, when scoring first this season and to be right now. If we were, the Irish were outplayed by w i II try to j u m p o u t t.o a we'd be scoring six goals a Ferris State in a 5-3 loss and quick start against a young, game." 2-2 tie. Before that series, up-tempo Ohio State squad. Buckeyes goalie Joe the Irish held an 8-1 home Though the Irish struggled Palmer, a sophomore record and hadn't lost in the in their first game home Jackson calls "one of the Joyce Center since its second from Alaska last season (a 5-best young goalies in the home gamn -a 3-1 loss to 2 loss to Ferris State Feb. country", presents another thnn-No. 5 Denver on Oct.19. 23, 2007), Jackson believes stiff backstop hoping to 
"This league is a lot better his team has made the right thwart the Notre Dame than people give it credit preparations to avoid a attack. for," coach JefT Jackson said. repeat performance. "The biggest thing against "Just because Ohio State "I thought giving them an all goalies is just trying to isn't in the top eight of our extra day off after coming move it across the crease on standings doesn't mean back might help, but we'll them," junior left wing they're not a good team. You find out because last year we Garrett Regan said. "[It's really can't take anybody came home from Alaska and just] bringing it to the net as lightly in this league -that's we were 11at," said Jackson, much as possible, as well as just way it is, especially this who didn't hold a mandatory keeping screens and tips in time of season when every­practice until Wednesday. "I front -if he can't see the body's jockeying for playoff think they feel good with the puck, he's not going to be position. If you're just a little extra time off and hopefully able to stop it." bit off, you're going to get be able to come out sharp on With just one regular sea­beat." Friday, because that's my son home contest remaining 
Despite the Buckeyes' (1 0-motivation in giving them after this weekend, the sense 21-3,6-16-2 CCHAI poor the day off." of urgency has been elevat­record, they have shown The Irish are hoping they ed, especially by the Irish their dangerous potential left their scoring woes in veterans who know what it with CCIIA wins over No. 1 Fairbanks, where they man­will take to repeat as CCHA Michigan and quality clubs aged just three goals in two tournament champions. like Bowling Green and games despite firing 71 shots "We just need to continue Alaska. at Nanooks goalie Wylie to focus on what we need to 
"It's a team with a lot of Hogers, who made 40 saves do, work hard, and stick to talent that's obviously in Saturday night's 1-1 tie. our system," Condra said. underachieved, so the scary "I can't put it in the net for "It's time to ramp it up for thing is that if they start them, and I know that they playoff-style hockey." playing the way they ean, want to put it in the net, but they can be really good," it's a matter right now of us Contact Matt Gamber at senior captain Mark Van running into good goal-mgamber@nd.edu 
NBA 
Friday, February 22, 2008 
an unassisted short-handed goal. Antell took the puck from

Zah01 
behind his own net, sliced continued from page 24 through virtually the entire 
Dillon defense, then fired a wris­tried to put it in off the ter near the blue-line that beat rebound," Rowland said. "We Kearns to the top corner. had two shots at it, and I finally "I was just trying to full throt­put the third one in." tle the whole way -Charlie's 
Zahm nearly answered after Angels 2 style," Antell said. "I the Rowland goal. but Kearns just like to snipe and dangle, stuffed another two-on-one and that's what I tried to do as attempt, keeping much as possible the momentum there -a Ia on the Dillon side Bobby Orr." 
until a pair of Big "It's pretty much like With just over 
Red penalties two minutes
the Stanley Cup. It's 
gave the remaining, Hall 
Zahmbies a as good as it gets. " stuffed Dillon's man-up advan­last real scoring tage for four chance, and the
Greg Antell 
straight minutes Big Red were
Zahm sophomore 
midway through forced to pull the half. their goalie with 
With just a few a minute left and seconds remain-yet another play­ing on the extended power play, er in the penalty box. Antell took senior Conor McNamara, a advantage of the empty net and Carroll resident, received a text­iced the game with 11.9 seconds book pass from sophomore Tim remaining, clinching the title for Thayer, who was stationed the undefeated Zahmbies-who behind the net. McNamara blew were a little more lighthearted the shot right by Kearns from during the victory celebration. eight feet, knotting the score at "''d just like to thank the sup­one and frustrating the Big Bed port system here for every­bench. thing," Antell said. "I have to 
"They just kept up the intensi­thank God, my mom, my grand­ty and didn't commit stupid father, everyone. It's pretty penalties," Rowland said. "We much like the Stanley Cup. It's took too many cheap shots, and as good as it gets. it cost us." "Did I give a good sound byte 
Three minutes later, sopho­there?" more Greg Antell ~ another Carroll resident-gave the Contact Matt Gamber at Zahmbies the lead for good with mgamber@nd.edu 
Friday, February 22 
7-1 Opm Evening concert block Located in Washington Hall 


Friday, February 22, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

DIDIER LEWIS 
Hey u ..... • t y<:I'Q in 

\ 
llllY--~1' Y-.hl Tha.t ~is 
___• 

A recurring afl'air. 

LINAPAEK

THE SINGLE LIFE 

WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Mike Nothnagel 

25 Nut cracker, 34 Winter coat? 46 Toiletry brand perhaps introduced in 
35 Moon unit?
27 Negative sign 1977 28 Requirement 40 Minds 
4 7 Nail-biter's cry 29 They make 41 Drive nuts connections 48 Loud outburst 42 Some sisters 
30 Fed 

50 Long 43 cat31 Sunburn 52 Moon unit
preventer 45 Practices 32 Really take off zymurgy 53 Bribe 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

CROSSWORD 
Across 

Kind of year 6 Fed up with 13 It can be scary 
to go under this 14 Key 16 How some 
ashes are scattered 17 GQ figure 18 Detente 
19 Dried out 
20 Sound of contempt 
21 Indication of feigned fright 
22 They act on impulses 
24 Like smooth-running engines 
26 Black birds 
27 Airport uniform abbr. 
30 Mathematician famous for his incompleteness theorems 
31 Pasta choice 32 One guarded in a soccer game 33 What you take when you do the right thing 36 Co-worker of Dilbert 
37 Start of the Boy Scout Oath 38 Innovative chair 
designer 39 Innovative 40 Natural fluid 
containers 41 Backyard Jul. 4 
event 
42 Decision time 
44 Fill-in 
46"Bummer'' 
49 Shortened word on a yellow street sign 50 It follows Shevat 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

51 "Win some, lose some" 
53 Historic capital of Scotland 
54 Concerning 
55 "Outta sight!" 
56 "Outta sight!" 
57_ Landing (Philadelphia area) 
Down 1 Pass superficially 
(over) 2 Free. 3 Ditsy waitress 
player on "Mad About You" 4 Rough estimate 
5 "Guilty," in a Latin legal phrase 
6 Exchange of thoughts? 7 Bum up 8 Name of 11 ancient kings 9 Some collars 1o"White Flag" singer, 2003 11 Recovered from 12 Believed 14 Sign 
15 Transition to a heliocentric model of the universe, e.g. 
19 Late rocker Barrett 22 Auction 23Draft 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, February 22, 2008 
page 24 
Zahlll upends Dillon
Irish return home for OSU 
BASKETBALL 
A double shot ofT-Jack 
Jackson's double-double leads team to victory 
By FRAN TOLAN Sporrs Writer 
Tory Jackson is a llHHP 5­foot-1 I . 
But lw playml as if hn was a l'oot taller than that Thursday as Notrn Dame carne from behind to beat Pittsburgh S2­70 at thn Joyce Center. 
In a matehup bntwnnn the two best rebounding teams in the Big East, thn Irish point guard grabbnd 13 rebounds to go with his 16 points and five assists. 
"lin's got great athletic abili­ty and stn~ngth and he's got such a will about him and !wart." Irish coach Mike Brey said. "lie's a winner. lin rnally 
__, is a winner." Notre Dame trailed 5S-53 with just over night minutes to play whnn Jackson took the ball eoast-to-coast for a layup. The sophomorn appearnd to lose control ol' thn ball but managed to knnp his dribble and spin through two Pittsburgh defenders before converting the basket. 
see JACKSON/page 21 

HocKEY 

VANESSA GEMPISfThe Observer 
Irish sophomore guard Tory jackson goes for a layup during Notre Dame's 82-70 win over Pittsburgh Thursday. Jackson had 16 points and 13 rebounds. 
INTERHALL HOCKEY 
leers take on Buckeyes in two games at JACC 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
The Irish return homn this weekend for a two-game set with 1~onfernncn fon Ohio Stall~ -and after last week­end's trek to Fairbanks. Alaska. the .Joyce Center has never seemed so appealing. 
"We're pretty excited to get back home and get our crowd back on our side," said junior right wing Erik Condra. who leads Notre Dame with 33 points this snason. "Wn nPed to get lour fansl exeited about eoming here and get ourselves excit­ed about coming back home and dominating here." 
With a win in either tonight's 7:35 opnner or tomorrow's 7:05 p. rn. finale, the Irish (21-10-3, 14-7-3 

to claim challlpionship 

-WU YUEfThe Observer 
Irish right wing Ryan Thang shoots during Notre Dame's 2-1 win over the U.S. Under-18 National Team on Feb. 1. 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
Before the puck was even dropped for Wednesday night's lnterhall hockey title game ­before Dillon even stepped onto the ice for warm-ups -Zahm had set the tone. 
With its serious (well, as seri­ous as lnterhall gets) approach, which included professional­style jerseys, an organized pre­game routine, and a rowdy fan­base, the Zahmbies were able to outlast the defending champions 3-1 by scoring three unan­swered second-half goals. 
"We've been a second-half CCIIAJ can clinch fourth To do that, though, Notre 
team all year," said Zahm junior place in the CCHA, which Dame must re-establish the 
goalie Chris Hall, who made 1 7 comos with a bye and a home-ice advantage it 
saves to lock down the win. "I guaranteed home series in squandered in its last 
think our depth was really a key, the conference tournament 
and we were able to bounce that begins March 7. see OSU/page 22 
back and keep throwing new 
FOOTBALL 
Ne-w coach says blitzes fit withNO 
By BILL BRINK Sporrs Wrirer 
Despite facing questions about his defnnsivc style meshing with defensive coordinator Corwin Brown's 3-4 scheme and his affinity for the blitz, the only doctrinal tidbit John Tenuta revealed in his introductory press conference Thursday was his strategy for sneaking into the football stadium at Ohio State. 
"I never got caught." Tenuta said with a proud smile. "For six years they couldn't catch me." 
Tenuta, who joined the Irish as the new assistant head coach/defense on Jan. 31 after serving as the defensive coordi­nator at Georgia Tech for six years. will coach the linebackers next season. lie arrived in South Bend Monday and has been working with the linebackers, but said he's not sure exactly what he has to work with. 
''I've watched lots or lilm," he said. "But. I mean, that's a tough question after four days. I've got 
see TENUTA/page 21 
guys out there. They had two rotating lines ... eventually, you're going to get tired." 
The teams played a fast-paced but scoreless first half, during which Zahm fired 19 shots, including five straight on one power play, at Dillon freshman netminder Sean Kearns, who made an array of spectacular saves with his stick, glove and body. 
Despite all the Zahmbies' chances, it was the Big Hed that broke into the scoring column first. Though many of its early attempts came in transition fol­lowing Zahm misses, it wasn't until Dillon senior Jamie Rowland put home a rebound from junior Will Cushing 30 sec­onds into the second half that the Big Bed made the score 1-0. 
"I just crashed the net and 
see ZAHM/page 22 







