--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ELECTION 2008 

Obama's victory carries major implications 
Historic results improve Professors examine future racial equality in America challenges for new president 
By JOSEPH McMAHON By JOHN TIERNEY Assistant News Editor News Writer 
President-elect Barack Obama shat­The challenge for President Elect tered the race barrier Tuesday, and Barack Obama will not end with in doing so has given hope to millions Tuesday's election, but will continue of black people who once thought until and beyond his inauguration on they would never live to see a black January 20, 2009, according to Notre president. Dame professors of American Studies 
"It is a very significant rewriting of • Robert Schmuhl and Matt Storin. the history of African-Americans," Assembling a White House staff and a director of Multicultural Student Cabinet is Obama's next step on his Programs and Services Iris Outlaw road to the presidency. said. "This election will not eradicate "Given the problems that exist the racial barriers, which exist. It domestically and internationally, he will help to provide hope for young will need to move quickly to assert people who felt hopeless until now." himself as president," Schmuhl said. 
President of the black men's group "This will mean appointing his cabinet Wabruda Matthew Tipton agreed with and staffing his administration quickly 
see RACE/page 4 see OBAMA/page 6 


By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Student body president Bob Reish lauded the accomplish­ments of his administration while saying that a lot of work still needs to be done, specifical­ly in the area of student safety off campus, in his state of the student union address at the Student Senate meeting Wednesday. 
Reish said his administration has worked on "bridging the gap between students and stu­dent government" by focusing 

SENATE 

Reish presents state of student union 
Student body president discusses future of community relations, achievements in address 
on becoming more approach­able as well as more visible around campus. 
Heish focused much of his speech on the issue of student safety off campus, which has beeome the hot-button topic this year. He said he had been work­ing with the ad hoc committee on Stadium security, which was recently created by University president Fr. John Jenkins, and assured the Senate that "tangi­ble progress is being made, although you may not yet see it." 
However, Reish said student 
see SENATE/page 4 

.ND Votes holds final electior1 forum 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
ND Votes '08 hosted its final Pizza, Pop and Politics event in the Coleman-Morse Lounge Wednesday, which featured two professors who explained the Tuesday's results, along with the election's future implications. 
Political science professor David Nickerson spoke about the accuracy of polling and the abili­ty to predict results from these polls. 
"If I were to take my computer and just predict what the out­come would be, I would have predicted this outcome in almost every state," he said. "It's just a bad year to be a Republican." 
He said Republican candidate John McCain did not have the support he needed to win, while President-elect Barack Obama was able to organize a powerful political force. 
"John McCain didn't even have a tiny fraction of the kind of sup­port [that Bush had in 2004]," Nickerson said. "Barack Obama did an excellent job of getting people involved." 
Nickerson boiled the results of the election down to two major factors. 
"You had a really unpopular 
see ND VOTES/page 6 


Libertarian provides alternative 
Bob Barr takes votes a'way from McCain 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
While much of the election coverage focused on the can­didates of the two major par­ties, Libertarian nominee Bob Barr -the only candidate to visit Notre Dame -provided a refreshing alternative to both Barack Obama and John McCain, president of the College Libertarians Ben Linskey said. 
"Bob Barr did a tremendous service over the past few months by opening up the political debate in our country and giving Americans a real alternative to the two-party system," Linskey said. 
Barr, who visited campus earlier this year, garnered 28,982 votes, which is about 
1.1 percent of the popular vote in the state of Indiana. His showing helped contribute to McCain's loss of the tradi­tionally red state. 
"The Libertarian Party is dedicated to the principles of limited government and indi­vidual freedom upon which our country was founded. We 
. stand for free-market eco­nomic policies, low taxes, per­sonal freedom, the preserva­
see BARR/ page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, November 6, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 


The good 'ole days 
Wlwn I say the "good 'ole days", I'm not 
talking Knute, Ara or even Lou -I was­
n't alive liJr tlw reih1fl of the first two and 

WIL'i too young to appredate all that is 
Lou lloltz. 

No, when I a'>k if you remember the good 'ole days, I'm talking about the most mcent peak of Irish lbotball, the la'it glimpse of what big games in Notre Dame Stadium should bl1 like. And, in a sad sign of thn current-but not permanent, I Matt Gamber might add-state of Notre I>mne li.>ot­
Associate

ball, tlmt "peak" 
Sports Editor 

came in a loss. 
I'm talking about 

USC 2005 -you 
know, that gmne with that Hush-league 
push. 
Standing on the sidelines of Saturday's 

fiJUr-ovnrtime loss to Pitt (I won't describe 
it <L'> gut-wnmching, or heart-breaking, or 
mind-boggling, or inexplicabln, or inex­
cusabln, bn<~ause it wa'i all of those 
things), lmuldn't help but wonder what I 
would have bmm thinking had I benn 
back in. yns, tlw good 'oln days, when a 
t.hrnn-point loss to tlw hatnd Trojans 
would lw more disappointing than shock­
ing (<L'> in, shocking that tim game wa'> 
that dose). 
A'> I ran from tl1e North end of the finld 

to the South fi1ur timns with dozens of 
rnportnrs li11lowing the overtime action, 
sure. I wa'i inwsted in the gamP-it's my 
school. alter all. But thn fact rnmains that 
this team, despite iL'i talent, just isn't yet 
to the point whnrn this loss should merit 
the kind of cell phone-breaking, note­
book-throwing. tantrum-starting kind of 
rnadion that tim '05 loss to USC induend. 
Wlwn the Florida Gators-my dad's alma rnatPr and the only team I'd consid­er rooting fi 1r against the Irish -lost a :~ 1-]0 home game to Mississippi 11arlinr this year, I stompnd. sulked and sworn all allPrnoon, even a'> I sat in the Notre Dame Stadium press box fbr the first timn and watdwd Jimmy {]austm and the gang rout Purdue. 
Wily? Th11 Gators, with a national title two years ago and a recent tradition of wirming big gmnes, have earned the high expectations placed upon them. When they fall short, it hits hard. 
But tlw lrL'ih, God love them, just hav1m't earnnd the high expectations we, <L'> din-hard (mad: delusional) Notre I>am11 fiJilowors, insist on placing upon thnm. 
Put thin1-,rs in pnrspective. This L'i a young tmun that won just three gmnes a ypar ago, so thn faet that they're likely heading to a halfway-decent bowl gcune this ynar is an aecomplL'ihment-don't overlook it, appreciatP it. 
()('course tl1e loss to Pitt hurL'i. Jt W<L'i a game tl111 Irish and their fans expectnd to win and truly should have won. The Irish didn't gnt it done, but there's still a lot lett to accomplish fi1r this team, even if it falls short of' somnwhat-Wlrealistic expeeta­tions. 
Thn Irish will soon have a return to the true "good 'ole days", when Notre Dcune's on-field meord will mateh its storied tra­dition m1d top-caliber talent. But until then, I can only remember, both with Pnvy and di<;gust, USC '05 a'i the closest thing to them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to an editing error, some S!ories did not end in the Nov. 5 edition of The Observer. Please see The Observer's Web sire at www.ndsmcobserver.com for the full rcxt. The Observer regrets rhis error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR PROJECTION FOR THE NEXT FOUR YEARS IN THIS COUNTRY? 






Tim Ryan David Wilbur Kevin Kimberly Sean Lindbloom Sean Sail 

senior senior freshman freshman freshman off-campus O'Neill Dillon Keenan Keenan 
''The rest ofthe "Not what "We'll get 'Tma "Obama is world will have either through this Republican, so going to be the a more candidate together. , it's going to be best president favorable view said." rough, but since FDR. " towards us. , {Obama] was 
elected so we have to get through it." 


Irish cheerleaders build a pyramid during a timeout at the Notre Dame women's basketball game Wednesday against Gannon College. 
OFFBEAT 
Jogger runs a mile with rabid fox attached to arm 
PHESCOTT, Ariz. Authorities in Arizona say a jogger attacked by a rabid fox ran a mile with the ani­mal's jaws clamped on her arm and then drove herself to a hospital. The Yavapai County sheriff's office said the woman told deputies she was on a trail near Prescott on Monday when the fox attacked and bit her foot. 
She said she grabbed the fox by the neck when it went for her leg but it bit her arm. 
The woman wanted the animal tested for rabies so 
she ran a mile to her car with the fox still biting her arm, then pried it off and tossed it in her trunk and drove to the Prescott hospi­tal. 
FBI: Airline passenger restrained with duct tape HALEIGII, N.C. -An airline crew used duct tape to keep a passenger in her seat because they say she became unruly, fighting flight attendants and grab­bing other passengers, forc­ing the flight to land in North Carolina. 
Maria Esther Castillo of Oswego, N.Y., is due in court Thursday, charged with resisting arrest and interfer­ing with the operations of a flight crew aboard United Airlines Flight 645, from Puerto Rico to Chicago. 

Castillo, 45, struck a flight attendant on the buttocks with the baek of her hand during Saturday's flight, FBI Special Agent Peter Carricato said in a criminal complaint filed in U.S. District Court in Charlotte. She also stood and fell onto the head of a blind passen­ger and later started pulling the person's hair, the com­plaint stated. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY a:: 
LLI 
::r:::: 
~ 
LLI 
~ 


0.
e
..... 

,~1, ,I, ,1,
ct 
0 
*** *
* * * * 
0 

HIGH 70 HIGH 54 HIGH 54 HIGH 43
...I LOW 55 LOW 47 LOW 36 LOW 32 
The play "Loyal Daughters and Sons" sponsored by the Gender Studies Program will take place tonight, Friday and 
in Washington Hall. Tiekets will be sold at the LaFortune box office and are $3 for students and $5 for the public. The play 
of approaches to sexuality and bringing awareness to sexual violence It is written, dirnctnd, produced and pnrformnd by stu­
The Children's Defense Fund event to advocatn for children's rights eall11d "One Night Stand." It will take place the There panel discussion, music, food and videos on chil­
Olympic athlete John Carlos will be at Jordan Hall room 101 tonight at 9 p.m. to speak about the important role of Black ath­letes in the Civil Hights and Black Power Movements. Find our how this simple demonstra­tion has become a significant symbol for human rights from the man who had the courage to stand up against eivil disorder. 
St. Edward's IIall is hosting "ND's Got Talent!" Nov. 11 at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Auditions are Saturday, Nov. 8 at 2 p.m. in the St. Ed's Chapel (2nd floor). All talents are wnl­come. There are going to be first, second, and third place prizes and it's to support lloly Cross schools in Uganda. Any questions can contact Michael Eardley a tmeardley@nd.edu 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mailed detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
0.
**** **
* * 

HIGH 40 HIGH 43 LOW 30 LOW 34 

Atlanta 59 I 33 Boston 49 I 37 Chicago 54 I 28 Denver 75 I 40 Houston 74 I 43 Los Angeles 85 I 60 Minneapolis 59 128 New York 48 I 37 Philadelphia 50 I 38 Phoenix 93 I 65 Seattle 59 I 46 St. Louis 61 I 35 Tampa 67 I 42 Washington 531 37 




Thursday, November 6, 2008 The Observer CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Friday, November 7, 2008 
10:30 am , 210 DeBartolo Hall Public Welcome 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Student group asks for sponsorship 
Club hopes to make trip to ASHA convention in Chicago later this month 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Communicative Disorders Club asked Board of Governance (BOG) to help fund their trip to the American Speech-Language­Hearing Association (ASHA) convention during the Board's meeting Wednesday night. The convention is being held in Chicago from Nov. 20-22. 
The club represents Saint Mary's newest major on campus, Communicative Disorders, which began last year, Amanda Blackwell, president of the club, said. 
"The reason we are asking for sponsorship is so that we can be a prominent voice on campus for people who have communicative disorders," 
Blackwell said. 
The conven­tion consists of seminars and learning sessions for the students, a graduate school fair and other networking opportunities, Blackwell said. 
"It's where 12.000 speech lan­guage pathol­ogists and audiologists from all over 
come together and share the changes they would like to most current research and see made. 
"The reason we are asking for the sponsorship is so that we can be a prominent voice on campus for people who have communicative disorders. ,, 
Amanda Blackwell Communicative Disorders club president 
the world the opportunity to voice the talk about the most perti­One of the changes she nent issues pertaining to our said she would like to look 
f i e I d , " Blackwell said. 
The group would like to share the information they receive at the convention with their fel­low class­mates, Frannie Shelburn, vice president of the club, said. They hope to give an infor­mation session to students as well, she said. 
After voting on the co­sponsorship, student body vice president Sarah Falvey 
Constitution Oversight Committee met for the first time Monday and began dis­cussing possi­ble amend­ments to the Constitution. 
"We are going to try and hold a Constitution Forum in the next two weeks," Falvey said. She wants to give students 
"/ would like to have the Constitution revised so that students can vote on it at the same time they vote on the president and vice president, and I don •t think we can have it done by the second week ofschool.,, 
Sarah Falvey student body vice president 
said the 
of the second semester, and then turnover occurs on April 1, Falvey said. The committee would like to decrease the amount of time between the elections and when the new elected offi­cials actually take office. 
Pushing back the elections would also give the Board the opportunity to finish the Constitution in time for stu­dents to vote. 
"I would like to have the Constitution revised so that students can vote on it at the same time they vote on the president and vice presi­dent, and I don't think we can have it done by the sec­ond week of school," Falvey said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnOl@saintmarys.edu 
into was the time frame for student gov­ernment elec­tions, although Election Commissioner Francesca J o h n s o n would have to 
propose  any  
changes.  
T  h  e  

Constitution currently states the elections should be held during Heritage, which is tradi­tionally the second week 

j~broad students itake in '08 election 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
Students abroad noticed two interesting trends: Foreigners took a strong interest in the election, and they overwhelmingly support­ed Barack Obama. 
Junior Becky Kant, who is studying in China, watched the coverage in a hotel. The event was hosted by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 
"We were surrounded by mem­bers of the Chinese press who began snapping picture after pic­ture of our reactions to the results," she said. "With all those 
"We were surrounded

cameras flashing one of my Irish a~round us, we felt by members ofthe professors said like celebrities half-seriously he
Chinese press who 

although all we feels that he
began snapping 

were doing was should have the showing support picture after picture right to vote in for our country." our elections."
ofour reactions to the 

She also noticed Junior Michael
results.,,

some things about Dean said his the American gov­host family in ernment's pres­Becky Kant Puebla. Mexico elllce in China. treated his
junior

"There were tables set up explaining the American method of democracy in an attempt to spread these ideas to the Chinese," Kant said. "I feel that is was a large form of propaganda for the American system of gov­ernment." 
Junior Tiffany Oller went to a bar in Angers, France to see who would be her next president. She was surprised about the level of interest around her. 
"I was astonished to learn that even the nine-year-old grand­daughter of our host parents knew who Obama was and want­ed him to be successful," she said. "The surprising part of the French opinions towards our elections 
was the strong, unified support of else care so much about our elec­Obama over McCain." tion because we barely watch 
Junior Michelle Nguyen, now in theirs. I asked my friend how their the London Program, had some elections were and he said not as festive discussions with fellow stu­exciting as this," she said. "I feel dents before heading out for the that the foreign perspective is night. highly biased towards Obama." 
"Before heading to the pub, From Kampala, Uganda, junior many of the flats in our building Eleanor Huntington experienced hosted 'political parties' where the excitement Obama has elicited drinks, snacks and hotly debated from the African continent. issues and party positions were "Ugandans -and Africans in shared," she said. "With an almost general -are obsessed with even distribution of Republicans Obama, so there is wild excite­versus Democrats present, ment throughout the city," she debates became friendly shouting said. matches of economic policies and free trade agreements." 
Junior Keriann Hopkins 
watched the results come in while studying in Dublin, Ireland. 
"No one here is surprised at the outcome. Obama is so heavily favored in Dublin that some of the Irish students I've talked to cannot even fathom that people exist in America that would vote for McCain," she said. "Or for that matter, that anyone in America is conservative." 
Hopkins said the close economic ties between Ireland and the United States sparked interest in the election. 
"There's a saying here: 'When America sneezes, Ireland gets pneumonia,"' she said. "Our economies are so closely tied that 
absentee ballot 
as tl1ough "it was the most important document they had ever seen." 
Junior Kelley Kanavy, who is studying at Oxford for the year, noticed a major contrast with the American political environment. 
"One perspective that I have enjoyed is the freedom from the combination of religion and poli­tics," she said. "They don't put religion and politics together at all and the concept of the 'religious right' is very foreign to them." 
Like the other students who shared their experiences, Kanavy observed keen interest in the elec­tion and a strong preference for Obama. 
"It was weird to see someone 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 6, 2008 
Race 
continued from page 1 
Outlaw's assessment, saying Obama has provided an inspi­ration to all black people, but there is still work to be done. 
"President Obama has knocked open a huge door for African-Americans to do any­thing we wish to achieve and he has given us the strength to know that sky is limit," he said. "However it is still our responsibility to walk in that door." 
Outlaw said the focus on the economy and the wars over­s e a s helped 
numb the "Of course we are going to Darren Davis 
issue of have those few people who said. race in "Usually,
still think we are living in 
the cam­presidents are
the Civil War era and still
paign. If given a honey­the coun­cannot fathom how on moon period try were when they are
earth a black man was 
not in first elected,"
elected."
such dire he said. "I think straits, that people are the so­Matthew Tipton going to be c a I I e d more critical of
Wabruda president
Bradley Effect, where voters have trouble pulling the lever for a black candidate. But she added that could have played a larger role. 
"If the economy and mood of the country had been dif­ferent, we may not have seen him win. He had an excellent strategist, who knew how to galvanize people overwriting generational and racial dif­ferences," she said. 
Tipton echoed Outlaw's sen­timents, arguing race took a backseat to the important 
issues in the campaigns. 
"People who normally would not have the strength to pull the lever for the best­qualified black eandidate did so because Ameriea is in dire need of change," he said. "I think in the end, as race stood down and the issues stood up, people confided in President Obama and simply pulled the trigger, thus mak­ing the Bradley Effeet non­effective in this election." 
0 nee he takes office in January, however, Obama will not enjoy the luxury of a grace period to adjust himself to the presidency, and instead will face intense scrutiny, political science professor 
Barack 
Obama." 
Davis said race is still rele­vant to society and still pres­ents a major challenge. 
"If we elect an African­American to the most power­ful position in the world, peo­ple would tend to say that raee is no longer relevant," he said. "That is the down­side to Barack Obama's suc­cess." 
Outlaw said she hopes there is no racist backlash after this historic event, and Tipton added Obama's wide appeal will probably help prevent 
any widespread violence. 
"Of course we are going to have those few people who still think we are living in the Civil War era and still cannot fathom how on earth a black man was elected," Tipton said. "However I think that a majority of America is behind President Obama, and this backlash will be minimal. To quote Sen. MeCain, 'The American people spoke, and they spoke clearly."' 
Outlaw said the diversity she saw at the Obama rallies across the eountry bodes well for future race relations and collaboration within the Obama presideney. 
"What is promising was the diversity that was seen in Grant Park, Times Square and Harlem, which was a true picture of what we as American people who work collectively can accomplish," she said. 
Outlaw, who still has vivid memories of the Civil Rights Era and the atrocities com­mitted by men such as George Wallace and Bull Connor, con­cluded by saying Obama's election is just one more step on the long road to full equal­ity. 
"Racism unfortunately, is alive and well, this is a step to begin to eradicate it, but more is needed, which includes a change in mindset and acceptance of all humankind," she said. "We still have to address disparity in housing, education, employment and other areas, where institutional racism is deeply embedded." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
government has decided to ere­ate its own committee to address student safety. Various members of student govern­ment, including many from the Council of Hepresentatives (COH), had been holding closed meetings to plan the committee. 
Heish said off-campus presi­dent Billy Lyman had recently "stepped up" to chair the com­mittee, whose goals will include creating an ofl'-campus listserv, designing an off-campus Web site which will "provide more legal information for students" and finding new ways for stu­dents to get involved off earn pus. 
"We're trying to interact with the South Bend community," Reish said. 
Student safety had also been the major topic of diseussion when Reish and student body vice president Grant Schmidt met with the Board of Trustees. Reish said the meeting was very successful. 
"We've already seen changes from the University and also from student government." 
Reish stressed the importance of student involvement in on­campus activities as well, and cited Sorin's pep rally protests as evidenee of how student action can lead to real change. 
"We've already seen modifica­tions based on their actions," he said. 
Reish also cited the tangible accomplishments of his adminis­tration, pointing especially to the new DVD rental program. Heish said 110 students had signed up, which "means 110 new faces visiting student government." 
Heish also said more than 3,500 students had eompleted the recent student government survey, which was many morn than he expnetnd. lie dted this as evidence that "student gov­ernment is more approaehable and student government has become more meaningful." 
In dosing, Heish charged the Senators with the task of mak­ing student government more visible and a bigger part of the lives of Notre Dame students. 
"As members of student gov­ernment, I extend this challenge to you [the Senators]," he said. 
In other Senate news: 
+ The Student Senate also held a brief discussion address­ing the coneern that there is not enough study space on campus. Academic Affairs Committee chair Hyan Brellenthin said good study space is defined as an area that has "good furniture, good lighting, good wireless con­nectivity and good tempera­ture." 
Schmidt said one concern wa<> finding a place for groups to study. 
"We've been trying to find a central spot for students to meet," he said. 
Cavanaugh Senator Hobin link eited discrepancies in study space between dorms, noting neighbor Zahm Hall has much more study space than Cavanaugh. 
However, Morrissey Senator Austin Holler said there is plenty of study space on campus. 
"I feel like there's plenty," he said. "The only time I feel there is an issue is during Finals week." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

The Notre Dame Center For-Ethics and Culture Announces its Ninth Annua I Fa II Confer-ence 

November 6-8, 2008 McKenna Ha II University of Notre Dame 
Featuring: 

The Josef Pieper Keynote Lecture 
SJX>nsored by the jacques Maritain Center, University ofNotre Dame 
On Retranslating Hun1anae Vitae 
--John Finn is Biolchini Family Professor of Law 
University of Notre Dan1e and Oxford University 
Thursday, Noven1ber 6 at 7:30 PM McKenna Auditoriun1 


For registration information and a complete program for the conference, please visit http://ethicscenter.nd.eclu 


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 6, 2008 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraqi officials expect no hasty pull-out 
BAGHDAD -Iraqi officials said Wednesday they don't expect Barack Obama to with­draw U.S. troops hastily from Iraq because he told them last summer that he wouldn't make a decision without consulting them and U.S. commanders on the ground. 
With violence down and the economy No. 1 on American voters' minds, the Iraqis said they believe the new president will take his time before fulfilling his promise to end the war in Iraq. which costs U.S. taxpayers $12 billion a month at a time of financial crisis back home. · 
Exit polls Tuesday showed that only one in 10 American voters considered Iraq their main concern in choosing a president, sug­gesting that Obama will focus more on the economy when he takes office Jan. 20. 
"Obama has to deal with Iraq's issues in a positive way and have a sense of responsibil­ity to correct the situation in Iraq, as well the situation inside America," said Salim Abdullah, spokesman of the largest Sunni bloc in parliament. 
New king brings many to capital 
THIMPIIU. Bhutan-Nomadic yak herders trekked for days from icy Himalayan peaks to join thousands of people in the capital as Bhutan prepared to celebrate the coronation of the fifth king of the Land of the Thunder Dragon. 
Many hope Thursday's ceremony will usher in a new leader who will follow in the ways of his gentle-spoken, much-loved father. 
"This ceremony, it's not just about crowning a prince," said Tinle Tenzin, 39, who owns a shoe shop in the capital, Thimphu. "It is about a new king who we hope will bring much good for the country and the people." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Voters against gay-rights in CA 
LOS ANGELES -Voters put a stop to same­sex marriage in California, dealing a crushing defeat to gay-rights activists in a state they hoped would be a vanguard and putting in doubt as many as 18.000 same-sex marriages conducted since a court ruling made them legal this year. 
The gay-rights movement had a rough elec­tion elsewhere as well Tuesday. Amendments to ban gay marriage were approved in Arizona and Florida. and Arkansas voters approved a measure banning unmarried couples from serving as adoptive or foster parents. Supporters made clear that gays and lesbians were their main targflt. 
Emanuel chosen as chief of staff 
WASHINGTON -President-elect Banick Obama pivoted quickly to begin filling out his new administration on Wednesday, selecting hard-charging Illinois Rep. Rahm Emanuel as White I louse chief of stall' while aides stepped up the pace of transition work that had been cloaked in pre-election secrecy. 
Several Democrats confirmed that Emanuel had been offernd the job. While it was not clear he had accepted, a rejection would amount to an unlikely public snub of the new president-elect within hours of an electoral college landslide. With hundred-; of jobs to fill and only 10 weeks until Inauguration Day, Obama and his transi­tion team confronted a formidable task compli­cated by his anti-lobbyist campaign rhetoric. 
LOCAL NEWS 
i-Zoom rates lowered in Indiana 
GRANGER. Ind. -The Indiana Toll Road Concession Co. lowered the initial cost of pur­chasing an electronic i-Zoom lor passenger vehi­cles and motorcycles from $50 to $10 Wednnsday, hoping to encourage less frequent drivnrs on thn northnrn Indiana interstate to use them. 
"We focusnd in on these infrequent customers and learnnd that they were seeking easier access to electronic tolling -a more affordable way to drive electronic and to pay their tolls in the easi­flst way," said Fernando Hedondo, chief execu­tive ollicer of thfl rmcc. 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IELEC'TION 2008 

Minnesota recoulnts votes for Senate 
Race between Franken, Coleman may remain undecided until December 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL -A slugfest for nearly two years, Minnesota's 
U.S. Senate race headed into a new round Wednesday as the campaigns girded for an auto­matic statewide recount to determine whether Republican Sen. Norm Coleman's bare lead' over Democratic chal­lenger AI Franken would stand. 
Coleman declared himself the winner of Tuesday's elec­tion, but Franken said he would let the recount play out, hoping it would erase the incumbent's 475-vote lead out of nearly 2.9 million ballots. State officials said the recount wouldn't start until mid­November and would probably take weeks. 
If he hangs on, Coleman would be among the Republicans who survived Democratic gains in Senate races nationwide. Democrats ousted two Republican incum­bents and picked up three seats held by retiring GOP incumbents. Three other Hepublicans besides Coleman were trying to hang on in races too close to call. 
"Yesterday the voters spoke. We prevailed," Coleman said Wednesday at a news confer­ence. He noted Franken could opt to waive the recount. 

"It's up to him whether such a step is worth the tax dollars it will take to conduct," Coleman said, telling reporters he would "step back" if he ed by a half-percentage point Coleman said he had hoped on accuracy," Ritchie said. were in Franken's position. or less. that "the healing process -Hitchie's office ran a speedy Secretary of State Mark Ritchie "We won't know for a little would begin today" but indi­recount in September of a said the recount would cost 3 while who won the race, but at cated he would nonetheless close primary race for a cents per ballot, or almost the end of the day we will begin preparations for a sec­Supreme Court seat. That took $90,000. know the voice of the elec­ond term. just three days, but Ritchie 
As counties and Ritchie's torate is clearly heard," "My focus from here on out said the Senate race is differ­office reconciled their unoffi­Franken said Wednesday. is giving Minnesotans the lead­ent. cial vote totals Wednesday, "This has been a long cam­ership they deserve in these "Having a ton oflawyers and Coleman's margin fluctuated paign, but it is going to be a lit­challenging times," Coleman other partisans injected into hut was at 475 votes tle longer before we have a said. the process, that will change Wednesday afternoon: winner." Ritchie, a Democrat, said a the dynamics of it," Ritchie Coleman had 1,211 ,642 votes, Franken said his campaign recount wouldn't begin until said. or 41.99 percent of the total was looking into reports of Nov. 19 and could stretch into Each ballot will be inspected votes cast, while Franken had irregularities in Minneapolis, December. It would involve manually. Ballots with improp­1,211,167 votes, or 41.98 per­where some voters had trouble hand counts by local election er or stray marks could be cent. registering. though he didn't officials from around the state, analyzed to determine voter 
Dean Barkley of the elaborate. and lawyers from both cam­intent, but partisan observers Independence Party was third "We'll all have to be vigilant paigns would be allowed to can challenge those they deem vvith 15.16 percent. and work together to complete observe. questionable. The five-member 
State law provides for auto­this recount successfully," his "No matter how fast people state canvassing board votes matic recounts in races decid-attorney, David Lillehaug, said. would like it, the emphasis is later on the challenged ballots. 

ISRAEL 

Hostility in Israel claims six lives 
Associated Press quiet," Israeli Defense Minister Ehud The army said it was targeting a rocket Barak said on a tour of areas bordering launcher, whom the Islamic Jihad group Gaza. "But in any place where we need identified as its own. The group had fired
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -Israel and 

to thwart an action against Israeli sol­two rockets at the lsrap,li border town of
Gaza's Barnas rulers scrambled 

diers and civilians, we will act." Sderot and one of its leaders, KhaderWednesday to contain fallout from the Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum Habib, declarp,d the truce over.
worst fighting since a truce was declared said the group fired deep into Israel to Hamas, which agreed to the Egyptian­live months ago, but a flare-up later in 

demonstrate the price of continued mediated truce, said Israel was breach­the day threatened to unravel it anew. 
aggression. At the same time, he said, ing it. 
Gaza militants pounded southern Israel llamas had contacted Egyptian media­Before the Egyptian-mediated truce inearly Wednesday with dozens of rockets 

tors to find ways of keeping the truce June. near daily rocket barrages playedto avenge raids a day earlier that killed intact. havoc with southern border towns andsix militants. but the guns quickly fell But late Wednesday night. Israel Israel has not found a military solution tosilent with neither side appearing to have launched annother airstrike. killing a stop them. Retaliatory Israeli airstrikesmuch to gain from renewed hostilities. 
Pa!Astinian militant in northflrn Gaza. killed scores of Palestinians in Gaza. 
"We have no intention of violating the 
Thursday, November 6, 2008

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
tisanship. "It's going to bn very faet that many of the newly­president," Sturin said. "lie has fornign affai1·s. according to difficult for him to fundamen­elected members of Congress to change the paradigm over Storin.
Obruna 

tally change how things arn are indebted to him for their there, including with regard to "lin's an intnrnationalist. hn's continued from page I done," he said. "But the tone elections. Schmuhl and Storin Afghanistan. lie realizes that a nngotiator, hn's a collabora­
will be somewhat better. To the said. the idea that you can achievn a tor," hn said. "There's going to and what will b1~ intnrnsting to extent that he ean reign in the "Obama's word should be military victory with regard to be enormous ehange in how we watch hnrn is whether he partisan impulses of his own stronger than anybody else's," Afghanistan is even more do businnss intnrnationally." nmphasizns bipartisanship in party, there could definitely be Storin said. remote than Obama has some skills that the selection process." a change in tone." In terms of in Iraq." should prove to be particularly
"Left to their own
Storin predicts Obama will These partisan impulses will specific policy Storin said helpful in foreign affairs, ehoosn to have a bipartisan most likely come from the initiatives, Storin devices, Congress. health care Storin said. "lin's a good listen­starr. Democratic Congressional said Obama will particularly the House, will be a pri­er, he's strong willed when he 
"I definitely think you will leadership, including Speaker focus first on ority for the makes up his mind, and he's
would want to roll back 
sne somn symbolic moves of the House Nancy Pelosi and Iraq and health­administra­surrounded by smart people,"
the last eight years in
including appointing two or Senate Majority Leader Harry care reform. but tion, but com­he said. "Look for him to travel thrnn high profile Hepublicans Heid, Storin said. could be dis­eight weeks. " prehensive a lot and to talk to all sorts of in the senior levels of his "Left to their own devices, tracted by the reform may people -frinnds and foes." administration," he said. Congress, particularly the economic crisis. not be suc­At the nnd of the day,
Matt Storin
Obarna's bipartisanship will House, would want to roll back "I suspect that cessful. Obama's promises of change extend into his dealings with the last eight years in eight he will keep his American studies professor "There are will not come up empty, Congress, according to Storin. weeks," Storin said. promise to some going to bn so according to Schmuhl. 
"lin will make efforts to But Storin said Obama would extent with regard to Iraq," many other problems and dis­"Barack Obama is very dif­rnaeh out to Hepublicans to to stand up to his own party. Storin said. "But Obama will tractions, including problems fnrent from the person who socialize with them some­"Judging by the way he ran not be willing to do something facing Social Security and the now oecupies the White House, what," hn said. "I wouldn't rule his campaign and with his own that leads to chaos. So I would­economy that a lot of othnr and in both policy and pereep­out his working with Senator sense of self-confidence, n't take a specific timeframe to things that he has talked about tion. wn will see ehangn," he McCain in that regard." Obarna is smarter than that," the bank." are going to take a back snat said. 
Storin said Obama's major he said. "lie's smart enough to Still, Obama's promise to end for a whill!," Sturin said. accomplishments of changn know it's a bad idea." the war "is kind of a non-nego­Obama should mostly be able Contact John Tierney at will be tlw result of this bipar-Obama will be helped by the tiable part of what made him to pursue his own agnnda in jtiernel@nd.edu 
ND Votes 
continued from page 1 
prnsidnnt. Tlw nconomy. it ain't doing so hot," hn said. "This isn't r()(~knt sdPncn." 
NirkPrson said many pnople WIH'P intnrnstPd to S!Hl if thn Bradlny Em~ct, or whether many pnople would havn troubln vot­ing for a black candidate dnspite telling pollstPrs thny would do so, would take place. Ultimately, it did not occur and polls WHre consistent with the rnsults. 
Professor Jack Colwell, who teadws in the Journalism, Ethies and l>nmocracy departnwnt, spokn about tlw impact of the nwdia on the rc~sults of the elec­tion. 
lin citnd orw of his students. who ronws from a traditionally consnrvativP statn and family. who participatPd in mtrly voting over fall bn1ak. 
"Siw went in to votn a straight Hnpubliran ticket. She got into tlw voting booth and sudcifmly, sonwthing just kind Of Strurk lwr. Slw thought of Tina F1~y." ColwPII said. "Hight in the polling booth slw thought, 'I can't do this,' and shn votnd for Obama." 
Colwell said people are increasingly getting their per­ception of the candidates from shows like "Saturday Night Live." the "Daily Show" or "The Latn Show with David Lntterman." 
"Morn so than thn nnwspa­pnrs," he said. "I gunss it's good if they'rn getting their informa­tion from somnwhern. But it is a littln bit scary if Tina Fny is hav­ing more effnct on the election than something that appears in the New York Times." 
Colwnll said Obama's televi­sion ad campaign helped him win Indiana. 
"Obama saturatnd Indiana with TV spots and elnarly won the air war." Colwnll said. 
While tlw air war was advnr­tising for telnvision spots, thn ground war was physical cam­paigning. which he said Obama also won in Indiana. visiting the state 49 times, eomparnd to McCain's thrnn visits. 
ColwPII said thn air war playnd a big roln in thn elnction of gov­nrnor in Indiana, which was won by Hepubliean Mitch l>aninls. Daninls dominatnd thn airwaves. 
"The ability to get on television can determine whnther you have any chance at all or whether you will wind up with little chance to win," Colwell said. 
Senior Alicia Conley found the connections Colwell made bntween television and the sue­cess of the candidate particular­ly interesting because "he wasn't talking about party or policy." 
·"People are so excited about Barack Obama, you don't really think about that if he wasn't the candidatn, the Democratic Party probably would have won," Conley said. 
Graduate student Jessica Heringer had hoped to hear more "political analysis of the currnnt situation. I was thinking they would talk about where we go from here as a country." 
But shn addnd that she per­sonally benefited from the PITorts of the University to edu­eate students about voting, speeilkally the e-mail reminders snnt out. 
"I really do thiryk that it's great that the University does this," lllll'inger said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Barr 
continued from page 1 
tion of our civil liberties and a foreign pol iey focused on defending Amnriea," Linskey said. 
Thn Libertarian Party tends to attract somn of the more eonservativn Hopublicans. MeCai n, who earned the moniker "maverick" for his moderate viewpoints, may have lost some of his would-be supportnrs to Barr. Barr, how­nver. was adamant he was not running to takn away votes from any other candidate. 
"Barr was a very attractive candidate to many Hepublieans. The GOP. once home to a number of Libertarian-minded voters and politicians, has redefined itself as the party of big govern­mont. economic intervention, and misguided foreign adven­turism," Linskey said. "With 
so littln real diiTnrenee lwtwenn John McCain and Baraek Obarna. Bob Barr gave a rna! choien to disalTeeted Hepublicans who bnlievn in small gov1~rnment." 
Barr's platform ineluded morn dramatie governmental rnl"orms than either of the two mainstream candidates." 
Barr's campaign focused on thn Libertarian principles of limited government and free market eeonomies. 
"Bob Barr's campaign was focused on reducing the size and scope of the federal gov­ernment in our lives," Linskey said. "Unlike Obama and McCain, [Barrl voeifnrously opposed the massive wa·ll Street bailout passed by Congress last month. lie called for tax cuts for all Amerieans along with major reductions in spending." 
Unlikn Hoss Perot and Ralph Nader, who ran multiple times, Linskey doubts Barr will run again in the 2012 elnetion. 
"I don't expect Barr to run again. However. he will undoubtndly continue to work to expand the Libertarian Party and advoeate for American's freedom,'' he said. 
Nationally, Barr received 487,101 votes or 0.4 percent of popular vote. 
Linskey said while Barr may no longer be a challenger in presidential elections, the Libertarian Party has firmly cemented its place in American Politics. 
"As Americans will soon learn, Barack Obama's prom­ise of 'change' is just more of the same repackaged and rebranded. The next time we go to the polls, the Libertarian Party will once again be on the ballot, offering a real choice to Americans who are fed up with our government's failed policies." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Thursday, November 6, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,139.27 -486.01 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
690 60 2,765 1,231,914,170 
AMEX 1;452~54 U}5.20 NASDAQ 1,681.64 -98.48 NYSE 6~012.17 -246;80 S&P 500 952.77 -52.98 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,984.99 -536.25 FTSE 100 (London) 4,530.73 -108.77 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY)  -4.200  -4.22  96.19  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -5.21  -1.76  31.99  
!SHARES MSCI E.M.I.F. (EEM)  -12.73  -3.50  24.00  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -9.15  -1.51  14.99  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -1.89  -0.071  3.694  
13-WEEK BILL  -18.28  -0.090  0.380  
30-YEAR BOND  -1.61  -0.068  4.1540  
5-YEAR NOTE  -2.03  -0.052  2.5120  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -5.23  65.30  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -14.90  742.40  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.38  65.63  
Exchange Rates  

YEN 98.1150 EURO 0.7714 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.1699 BRffiSH POUND 0.6285 
IN BRIEF 
Fallen stocks cause Wall Street woes 
NEW YOHK -A case of postelection nerves sent Wall Street plunging Wednesday as investors, looking past Barack Obama's presi­dential victory, retur.ned to their fears of a deep and protracted recession. Volatility swept over the market again, with the Dow Jones industrials falling nearly 500 points and all the major indexes tumbling more than 5 percent. 
The market was widely expected to give back some gains after a runup that lifted the Standard & Poor's 500 index more than 18 percent and that gave the Dow its best weekly advance in 34 years; moreover, many analysts had warned that Wall Street faced more tur­bulence after two months of devastating loss­
PS. 
Bush to borrow $550 billion for bailout 
WASHINGTON-One day after Barack Obama was elncted the next U.S. president, the outgoing Bush administration detailed its plans to borrow a record $550 billion through the end of' the year to back the financial bailout. 
The Federal Heserve, meanwhile, said it will boost interest payments to banks as authorities battle the worst financial crisis in decades. 
The Treasury Department said Wednesday it will sell $55 billion in bonds next week, part of a massive borrowing e(Tort to cover the $700 billion bailout and a budget deficit that's expected to hit a record of nearly $1 trillion next year. 
The government's surging financing needs are a stark reminder of the challenges await­ing Obama oven as the current administration moves to implement its rescue program and the Fed fine-tunes its approach to the crisis. 
The financial turmoil flared anew Wednesday with the Dow Jones industrial average plunging 486.01 points, or more than 5 percent, as investors absorbed more bad eco­nomic news. 
Thc central bank said it will slightly boost the intcwst rates it pays banks on their required reserves and the excess reserves they choose to deposit with the Fed. The rescue bill author­ized the central bank to start paying interest rates to commercial banks on the reserves. Policymakers hope the move will further bol­stnr thn banks' reserves. 
Chrysler to cut 18}'500 jobs as plant closes 
Financial crisis causes businesses to layoff workers, close factories 
Associated Press 
Steven Hidenhour knows how to build a car. But after the Chrysler plant where he worked for 15 years in suburban St. Louis shut down last week, Hidenhour has little else to show on his resume. 
With four kids, a wife and a mortgage, Hidenhour, 39, is scram­bling to replace his $28­an-hour pay. He isn't opti­mistic. He knows thou­sands of others are being thrown out of work every month, making his job hunt a worsening struggle. 
"I don't have any proof I have skills in any other area," he said. "So I'm competing with a Jot or other people, and there aren't a lot of jobs around." 
Workers across the country are stuck in simi­lar straits. Even before the financial crisis hit the economy hard in late sum­mer, companies had shed tens of thousands of jobs every month this year. Then the credit crisis aggravated the misery. 
Many job seekers and employers had been await­ing the presidential elec­tion, hoping it would lend some certainty to the economy. But few expect Barack Obama's victory to produce any immediate gains. 

On Friday, the govern­"Firms are more aware in layoffs is just starting, "It's like you're down ment will report the unem­of how sales are going and with some saying the and getting ·a kick in the ployment rate for October, cutting employees right unemployment rate could pants," said Lawrence and economists surveyed away," he said. reach 8 percent or higher, Mishel, president of the by Thomson!IFH on aver­In October, PepsiCo. Inc. which would be the high­Economic Policy Institute age expect a drop of cut 3,300 jobs, Goldman est since it hit 10.8 per­think tank in Washington. 200,000 jobs. Sachs Group Inc. 3,260, cent in December 1982. Job losses were already 
The current wave of lay­Xerox Corp. 3,000 and The collapse of the hous­dragging down family offs is unusual because it Time Inc. 600. ing and credit markets has incomes and spending, seems to be coming fairly Chrysler LLC announced led thousands of compa­Mishel said. The latest early in the downturn, it would cut 18,500 jobs nies to rein in spending cuts could delay any noted David Card, an eco­and American Express and lay off workers. The recovery by at least a year, nomics professor at the 7,000, or about 10 percent cuts have dealt a spiraling he said. University of California­of its worldwide work blow that threatens to pro­Mishel expects the job­Berkeley. No one is quite force. And this week, duce more job losses: As less rate to rise from the sure why, Card said. One Circuit City said it '\Nill cut families have lost income, current 6.1 percent to 8 factor could be that com­about 17 percent of its they've cut back on spend­percent or more. Before panies now are more domestic work force, or ing and hurt companies the credit meltdown, he adept at monitoring inven­about 7,300 people. that depend on their con­thought the rate would tory and projecting sales Economists say the surge sumption. peak at about 7 percent. 

Crude oil prices continue to slide 
Associated Press 
SINGAPORE -Oil prices slid below $69 a barrel Wednesday in Asia, retreat­ing after a U.S. Election Day rally, as expectations a slowing global economy will cut crude demand reemerged as the market's dominant driver. 
Light, sweet crude for Decembnr deliv­ery was down $1.98 to $68.55 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange by midday in Singapore, ignoring the cue from A<;ian stock markets. which rallied as Democrat Barack Obama claimed an his­toric victory in U.S. presidential elec­tions. 
The contract overnight rose $6.62 to settle at $70.53 as the two-year U.S. presidential election campaign wrapped up. 
"This is partly just a correction from a very large gain yesterday," said David Moore, commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. "In the near term, worries about the international economic outlook will be really hard to overcome. The data flow is going to contain a lot of negatives that create pressure on the oil price." 

Economic indicators out of the U.S. this week suggest the world's largest econo­my may be heading for its worst reces­sion in decades. A Commerce Department report Tuesday said factory orders fell 2.5 percent in September from August, much worse than analysts had predicted. 
On Monday, U.S. manufacturers reported lethargic numbers for October, showing the worst reading in more than a quarter century, according to the Institute for Supply Management. 
The slowdown, which was sparked by a credit crisis that began in the U.S. last year, shows signs of spreading across the world. Credit Suisse on Monday cut its forecast for growth in China's oil demand next year to nearly zero from 4 percent on the back of lower economic growth forecasts. 
"There are two forces working on the oil price," Moore said. "One is fear of weaker consumption and the other is OPEC cutting output to wind back sur­pluses in the market." 
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said last month it would cut output quotas by 1.5 million barrels a day in addition to a 520,000 barrel cut announced earlier. Venezuelan Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez has said OPEC, which controls about 40 percent of world crude oil production, may slash production by at least 1 million barrels daily when it meets next in December. 


page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 6, 2008 
t cJllumoAe etwork1oe expos1t1on 
_@ ~Aint tl'!)Ar!1 1 S Colle9e 
Weds., Nov. 5 Thurs., Nov. 6 

5:30p.m.  11:45 a.m.  4:00-6:00 p.m.  
Vander Vennet Theatre  Dining Hall  Student Center Lounge  
Q&APanel with SMC Alums  Lunch with SMC Alums  Networking Exposition with SMC Alums  
Business Casual Attire  

Festival hosts authors during Nov. 
SUB holds Student Lit Night to allow students to present work 
By MOLLY MADDEN Nl'wsWritl'r 

Th1~ Student Union Board host­ed author Bm1 Nugent as a part of tlw 42nd annual Notrn Dame Literary Festival at tho LaFortune Student CnntPr Tuesday, which will fnatun~ tlm•e morn authors in addition to a variety of othnr ovnnts throughout tlw month. 
"Thn purposP of th1~ fi~slival is to bring authors to Notw Damn," fi~slival programnwr Alex Bonner said. "Tho Student Union Board wants to give students <L<~!~nss to rnal-lifi• authors. Thny also got to so!~ insighl'> into what the litnrary profnssion is all about." 
Tlw li~stivallasl<; throughout thn entire month of Novnmbnr and fnatures authors from across tho country as well as Notre Dame studnnt writers. Tho festival began on Oct. 2H with Studnnt Ut Night, which givns students a ehanen to showcase their own writing. 
"Student Lit Night givns stu­dents a chance to prnsent their work to otlwr students," Benner said. "This year we had about sevnn or night students and we fimturnd short stories and poems. We'ro opnn to any typo ofgonrn." 
The romainder of tho fostival featurns four authors whose appearances are spread out over three wonks. Every author has one day in which they participate in a question and answer snssion in the afternoon fiJllowed by a talk and rnading later that night. After thn wading, there is a reeeption where the attendees are able to meet the author and have their books signed. 
"We try and get a variety of authors," Benner said. "Novelists, journalists and short story writers havo all been a part of the festival in the past. " 
Benner says that the most important thing when selecting authors is to try and bring ones that will be appealing to the 
Notrn Dame com­"We try to get a be speaking at munity. LaFortune. Silver
variety of authors.
"The StudPnt is the author of Union Board is Novelists, journalists the short story looking to bring in and short story collection Babe authors that the in Paradise as
writers have all been 
students will lind well as the nov­
a part of the festival 
interesting. We els "No Direction hope that the fes­in the past. " Home" and "The tival generates God of War." intnrest in litera­The final
Alex Brenner
ture, reading and author is the 
festival programmer
writing." journalist and 
This year's selection of authors has something for every Notrn Dame student. 
The first author that spoke at the Montgomery Auditorium in thP LaFortune Center Tuesday night was Nugent, who is a jour­nalist and an essayist whose work has appeared in Time and The New York Times Magazine. 
Nugent's most recent work is entitled "American Nerd: The Story of My People." 
"It's a eombo of memoir, history and eultural criticism," Nugent said. "It has stories of my nerdy childhood and also a history of nerdy people." 
The second author is Rivka Galchen, who will be at the University tomorrow. Galchen is a novelist and the author of "Atmospheric Disturbances," a novel about doctor whose wife disappears but then meets a woman who not only looks and behaves like his missing wife, but also claims to be her. 
On Nov. 12. novelist and short 
story writer 
Marisa Silver will 
novelist Aleksandar Hernon, who will speak on Nov. 
17. His latest novel, "The Lazarus Projeet," is a finalist for the National Book Award. 
Overall, the Student Union Board hopes students who attend the festival will feel the desire to piek up a book. 
"I hope that. by attending some­thing like this will spur someone to read," Benner said. "I hope that that the festival encourages them to read for pleasure or even write themselves." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 
AME to hold 34th annual conference 
'Faith, Democracy and Values' will feature 100 presenters from around the world 
Special to The Observer 
The Association for Moral Education (AMEJ will hold its 34th annual conference, titled "Faith, Democracy and Values: The Challenge of Moral Formation in Families, Schools and Societies," at the University of Notre Dame from Nov. 13 to 15 (Thursday to Saturday). 
Featuring more than 100 presenters from around the world, the conference aims to examine moral edueation and the ways it informs and, in turn is informed by, faith and political perspec­tives in a diverse and com­plex global community. Principal speakers for the event will be James Youniss, Wylma H. and James H. Curtin Professor of Psychology at Catholic University and Fellow of the Life Cycle Institute, and Carolyn Nordstrom, profes­sor of anthropology at Notre Dame. 
The AME is the leading professional society for social scientists studying moral psychology and edu­cation. 
In conjunction with the 
eonferonce, Notre Dame's Center for Ethical Edueation (CEE) will hold its second annual Notre Damn Symposium on Moral Personality on Nov. 13. This event will explore the rela­tionship between pPrsonali­ty theories and moral char­aeter with the aim of pro­viding a psyehologieal foun­dation for moral education. Speakers for the symposium are John Doris of Washington University in St. Louis, Owen Flanagan and David Wong of Duke University, Jorge Moll of the National Institutes of Health. and Linda Stitka of the University of Illinois at Chicago. 
The CEE (soon to be renamed the Collaborative on Ethical Education) builds ethieal community and charaeter and envisions a world in which media, sports and schooling embrace opportunities for ethical leadership and intentionally promote ethi­cal growth. The center accomplishes its goals by fostering scholarship and developing resources for education, sports and media. 

Network with Saint Mary's Alums •:• Explore Career Options •!• Learn About Career and Internship Opportunities 
Co-Sponsored by the SMC 



Thursday, November 6, 2008 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

SMC alumnae panel offers career advice 
Mernbers stressed importance of internships, writing skills in students' job searches 
By TARA SCANNELL 
NewsWrirer 
A panel of Saint Mary's College alumnae answered students' questions about their future careers and gave valuable advice on their own experiences last night in Vander Vennet Theater. 
Many of the panel members stressed the importance of internships in college so stu­dents gain experience before graduation. Gaining an in­depth knowledge of a certain field through internships sets an applicant apart from oth­ers and makes them more likely to get hired. 
"I actually studied journal­ism in college but the one rea­son I didn't really pursue it out of college was because I never interned and didn't have that experience," Sara Whitfield, a 2005 graduate who currently works as an assistant manager for Enterprise Hent-A-Car, said. 
Even if a student does not plan on applying for a job right after graduation, the panel stressed internships are resume builders which help when applying to law or grad­uate school. 
The alumnae panel also explained the impact that Saint Mary's had on how they approached their job searches prior to graduation. 
"I think a lot of our profes­sors tried to instill in us that you can do anything and there is no guy out there that can do anything better than you," Jennifer Urgonski, a 2004 graduate who now works as an investment advisor for the John Hancock Financial Network, said. 
Other alumnae spoke of how beneficial the emphasis the College places on writing skills impacted them. 
"The writing skills that I learned here were essential. Being abln to write well is 
Sustainable Film Contest 
We're looking for y on the topic ofsu 
game! 
beneficial in any job setting, and that's something that Saint Mary's teaches their stu­dents well," Debbie Higgins, a 1992 alumna, said. 
One regret several of the panelist shared about their interviewing experience is they felt they simply did not go on enough interviews. 
"I should have just gone to more, if only for the interview experience," Urgonski said. Emphasizing interviewing is a skill that needs to be prac­ticed just like any other, Urgonski said she wished she had not been so critical about the interviews she chose. 
Many of the students pres­ent at the discussion were anxious to hear the panel's opinion on the affect the econ­omy would have on graduat­ing students'·job searches. The general consensus was that it depends on the stu­dent's area of interest. 
"Hospitals are always in need, so nursing students def­initely have an advantage," Ellie Ryan, who received her nursing degree from Saint Mary's College in 1986, said. 
Panelists also advised stu­dents to set themselves apart from the group in intervieWs. Sending a thank you note after an interview can often be the deciding factor between two closely qualified applicants. 
When students asked pan­elists how well Saint Mary's College was actually known on a national level, many turned to each other and laughed. 
"There's no question that Saint Mary's is known on a national level. There's a cer­tain amount of prestige that comes with graduating from here," Whitfield said. "Just wear your ring and people will know where you're from. They recognize the ring and know we're well-educated women." 
Contact Tara Scannell at @saintmarys.edu 

Entries are due Nov 17th Details at green.nd.edu 
GO IRISH! BEAT SYRACUSE! 



www.theteambus..com 

57 -2 6-956 1-877-Z-TOUR BUS
I 

At hk•t it./:\c:ulemti." ( lrour>s Fr~:lternily,lSororit )' (inmps (i roup/t~umpany ()utin~~ Chaders/lhurs Tht•;sh::r/C•met~rts/SJH>rting Events Clmn:hes/Schuot { lrUUJlS
,.'.

Convenie t. afe. Reliable_._ 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page I 0 Thursday, November 6, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Palin'll be back 
P.O. Box 779. Notro Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Oeirdre Krasula 
Nt-:ws EmTOR: Jmn Mctz 
VIEWI'OIN"l EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Hrink 
S<:ENF. EmTOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
PllOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'lllCS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
AUVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
All DF.~IGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAIOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 6ji-747I FAX (574) 63I-6917 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63!-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 63I-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63I-4541 obsme(i.!1nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6ji-4j24 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 63I-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 63I-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543sporrs.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 63I-4540 scene.I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 63I-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 63I-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper publislwd in print and online by rhe srudenrs of rhc University of Norrc Damt• du L1c and Saint Mary's Colle~c. Editorial content, induding adverrisemenrs, is nor govcrnt•d by policies ofthe ndminisrrarion ofeither insritlllion. The Observer resen-cs the right to refuse adverri>cments based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and dcparrmenr editors. Commcntarit'S, letters and columns presenr rhe views of rht· authors and nor necessarily those ofThe ()bsen-er. 
Viewpoint space is availablt· to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. !.etters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions rrgarding Obsavtrpolicies should be dirwed to F:ditor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
I1n~<liJ~~Crvcr (USIJS 1?'J z..-.ooo) .. published Munrl•y rhrough Friday n:c;:cJlt during exam ami v.~~:.u1u11 pcrit~tl,, A \UiliCtipliun lu 'J1u; Uh'lot"rvc-r If $11,)0 JOr QJ\C audcmk ytar~ So;5 rur {)llt:liCntellrc:r. 
The Ohscrvt!r i• published .u. I'OSTMASTER 
024 St)tuh Dini~ Hall S.:nd addrt:~s c:orrectinn~ ro: 
Nnttt D.unc, IN oiMS6-0779 TheOburm 
Pcriodfc;l} ,,.,~r.a~ p.1.id .u Nocre D.unc r.o. llox 779 .md .uldiuon.al nulling dffica. 014 South Dining Hall 
None Dame, IN 46')')6-0779 
The Obkrvcr •~ 11 mcmhcr of rhc A.U(I\:I.&tcd Pn:u. All tt!ptuduct!OII rights ate 
h"!>CtVed. 
Well, our long, national nightmare is finally over. 
No more Joe Six Pack. No more hawkey mawms. No more candidates­as-terrorists. 
The election is over. and Sarah Palin is on a plane back to Alaska, ready to donate her wardrobe and become a grand­mother. 
For now. 
In the next days, and weeks, and years, we'll doubt­less !war a few dif­ferent ways to intnrpmt this loss. 
We will see the devnlopment of' one of two storylines: either you will see Republicans try to return to Hcaganism (claim that McCain was not similar enough to Heagan) or you will see them shift left (McCain was too Heagan-y). Do we intorprei this election as a rejec­tion of Heagan Hepublicanism/Palin Hepublicanism of the last three decades (and more)? Or do we inter­pret it as a rejeetion of McCain? 
To some -especially Demoerats ­this is a sign of the failure of Hepublican ideas. It is a rejcetion of "the failed economic policies of George 
W. Bush," as a certain President-elect might put it. It rejects trickle-down jus­titied tax cuts and the PATHIOT Act and torture. 
This is a refrain we've heard before, though W.'s "mandate" in 2004 was supposed to be a rejection of Democratic ideas. But, of eourse, the outcome of this year's election and the state of the eeonomy should make us question that wisdom. 2004 was not a rejection of Democratic politics and an embraee of Reaganomics. 
It was a rejection of John Kerry and, at the time, an embrace of George W. 


Bush (How strange is that to see in print?). 
Now, 2008 is not 2004 and the col­lapsing economy made this election more about ideas than people than the 2004 election was. 
But, appropriately, to a certain breed of' Republican this is a sign that John McCain simply was not a compelling candidate. McCain couldn't decide if he was a Hepubliean or an Independent. lie wanted to have one foot in each, and ended up in neither. 
What's that mean? It means that this isn't the last we'll see of Sarah Palin. 
Last week, a McCain campaign advi­sor told CNN: "She is a diva. She takes no advice from anyone. She does not have any relationships of trust with any of' us, her family or anyone else. Also, she is playing for her own future and sees herself as the next leader of the party. Hemember: Divas trust only unto themselves, as they see themselves as the beginning and end of all wisdom." 
Saturday Night Live last weekend played on the same view of Palin: Tina Fey mock-advertised "Palin 2012" T­shirts which weren't to be worn until after Tuesday. 
In her rhetoric and appeal, Sarah Palin represents some of the worst American polities has to offer. 
Republieans -and Demoerats ­have long offered a false populism fused with "have a beer with" likability as a winning strategy. They've been appealing because they seem to be like you-they don't seem caught up in the pretentious self-righteousness of aca­demia and Washington. 
But Palin relies exclusively on her ability to have a beer with you. While others-Reagan, Bush Sr., and, yes, even W. -combined their relate-ability with the underlying knowledge that they are not actually just your average Joe Six Pack from down the bloek, Palin's consistent poliey stumbles make no such guarantee. 
Voters want people who seem similar to them, not people who are them. But by 2012 or, more likely, 2016, Palin will have a chance to improve. She'll be able to position herself'-maybe as a Senator-as your average Joe Six Pack who can speak competently on Meet the Press. 
And that will allow her to run the 
sort of campaign that she seems to run 
best. 
Way back when in 2000, then-Gov. Bush claims that he would "change tho tone" in Washington. Ito was a "unitor, not a divider." Palin doesn't oven pre­tond. 
ller rhetoric isn't that of the appeal­ing bipartisanship that Bush the candi­date embraced. It is that of' the rod stato/blue state dichotomy that Bush tho President embraend. She is a cul­ture warrior through and through. There is a pro-America America (Kansas, Dick Chonny, Hank Williams Jr.) and an anti-Ameriea America (Massachusetts, Barack Obama. Hosie O'Donnell). You're eithnr with her or against her. 
The story of' Sarah Palin will likely be one with which many of' her supporters are particularly familiar: 
Sure, her chances at the vice presi­dency died Tuesday night. But give it four years, maybe eight. 
She will rise again, and I can only hope she won't be the savior. 
Andrew Nesi is a senior American Studies major from Fairfield, Connecticut. In first grade, he returned from a family vacation in February to find an elaborate construction paper Valentine in his reading folder. It was signed "Your Secret Admirer" but was obviously from his friend Tracy. lie never acknowledged it to her. lie can be reached at anesi@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TooAv's STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports 

Joseph McMahon Fran Tolan Becky I logan Sam Werner Alicia Smith Mike Gotimer 
Viewpoint Scene How far will the ND men's 
"The place where optimism most

Kara King Mark Witte basketball team go this season? flourishes is the lunatic asylum. " 
Graphics Madeline Nies Havelock Ellis British psychologist 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 6, 2008 page 11 
Retaining the center ... of ourselves 
A regular reaction typically follows in the wake of an election like the one just completed. Aware of the divisiveness of the past months, many instinctively want to reforge the unity -however tenuous or illusory 
Fr. Paul

-that the cam­paign season has Kollman shredded. 
Neither the polar­Faithpoint ization nor the reaction afterwards is surprising. Political battles encourage the drawing of clear difl'erences, as competing candi­dates present themselves in as good a light as possible, usually by simultane­ously diminishing the competition. With electoral pressure eased after the votes are counted, however, a long-receded tide of fellow feeling returns to cover the stark contrasts that the logic of election­eering catalyzed or uncovered. We can be one again, the post-election balm suggests, and embrace common purpos­es together. 
Yet it is worthwhile -before simply moving on -to consider the costs of the polarization typical of elections. Political electioneering certainly encourages dis­tortion in the portrayal of one's oppo­nents -sometimes even outright men­dacity. Yet polarization shapes self-pres­entation, too, in misleading ways, as those engaged in contested environ­ments imagine themselves in terms of the ever-present contest in which they have been engaged. Marginal differ­ences with opponents loom large in self­presentation, while core values recede in the performative act of presenting the self. Thus polarization, at times neces­sary and desirable, can subtly distort self-pflrception. 
Appreciating how polarized environ­ments shape us represents a political maturity associated with responsible cit­izenship. But polarization increasingly shapes not only elections but our entire lives, both inside and outside the formal political arena. As someone committed to the church and the faith of believers, I care in particular about how ubiquitous polarization in church matters predis­poses us to view religious beliefs and practices in ways that exaggerate the peripheral or marginal while submerg­ing foundational aspects of our religious identity. It is all too easy, I believe, to think of our faith lives in terms of the features that distinguish us from others -not only from non-believers but even from fellow believers less like us. This is very dangerous. 
I believe Jesus' frustrations with the Pharisees, as depicted in the Gospels, reflect his (and, perhaps more decisive­ly, the early church's) instinct about the dangers of polarization in distorting our religious sensibilities. Christ not only rejected the Pharisees' supposed hypocrisy, but also warned about how their very zeal led them to emphasize those aspects of their faith-based behav­ior that differentiated themselves from other Jews, at the expense of what they shared with them. Anxious to display their special status, the Pharisees (in the gospels' portrayal, at least) paraded their works, emphasized their adher­ence to Sabbath regulations that bur­dened ordinary people, and delighted in showing how they exceeded required legal observances. In so doing, they risked de-emphasizing the central fea­tures of their faillh. The logic of differen­tiation by which they determined their religious status distorted their self­understanding. 

The Pharisees were neither the first nor last ambitious religious practitioners led astray by their very zeal. I observe these days that life in the church all too often generates the felt need to perform one's religious identity in order to differ­entiate from rather than unite with. Zeal for holiness is to be applauded, of course. But when used for the purposes of self-congratulatory comparisons it is dangerous indeed, and not only for how it depicts others. We distort ourselves. 
We need to remember that unity is work, requiring constant vigilance. It is more than a discovered result in the backwash of an event like an election, even if we can breathe a sigh of relief after the commercials have left the air­waves. Moreover, unity in faith is a reli­gious duty. Unity among Catholics, between Catholics and other Christians, among believers in the one God, among those who embrace religious faith, among people of good will -at each stage and in various ways unity at each of these levels of human interaction does not come naturally. It requires the kind of self-awareness that sees how the instincts to differentiate that typically accompany polarization can seduce us. Such instincts not only foreclose avenues to deeper unity, they lead us away from the important features of our lives of faith. Phariseeism in the service of reli­gious distinctiveness is an ever-present spiritual danger. 
This week's column is written by Fr. Paul Kollman, CSC, Assistant Professor in Notre Dame's Theology Department. He can be reached at pkollman@nd.edu · 
The views expressed in this Faithpoint are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Politicians are people~ too 

Barack Obama is an evil man. Joe Biden is retarded. John McCain is a doddering old fool. Sarah Palin is an idiot. 
These typp,s of comments dotted political conversations in the weeks leading up to the election, and unfortu­natp,Jy continue to plague conversations today. I have heard condescending statements of Democratic domi­nance and last-jab attempts at that dominance by reluctant Republicans. Today, on Nov. 5, I am voting for a dose of eompassion. 
It's easy to forget that we are talking about actual people. Particularly with this campaign, it's easy for Presidential candidates to look like products to be bought and sold. We quickly pass judgment on them, failing to realize that they are a lot like us. I'm not trying to vouch for their moral character or defend them as people, but I am asking that we remember their humanity. Remember that we are human, too. 
The dimensions of this kind of talk have deeper implications than we realiZe. It affects not only our political outlook, but also the way we respond to everyone. If I am in the habit of bad-mouthing Presidential candidates, it becomes easier for me to extend those comments to people I actually know. I have gotten mad at Presidential candidates several times, and that tension carries over into my entire day. I'm more likely to get angry at other people if I let petty anger at Presidential candidates constantly boil beneath my surface. 
I'm not asking for total unity (although that would be great), or for an end to heated debates, or for apathy. I'm asking, if for no other reason than my sake, that we realize Democrats and Republicans aren't all that dif­ferent. In fact, we are a lot more alike than we realize, and everyone deserves to respect others and themselves enough to think before we talk. It's fme to not like Obama or McCain, but please, make sure what you're saying is true and think about how it's going to sound to those around you before you let it come out. We'll all be better for it. 
Nicholas Bloom 
junior, 
Zahm House Nov. 5 
Drunken revelry inappropriate 

I believe that many of the celebrations that occurred after the elections were inappropriate and uncalled for. Several groups of students ran amuck and shouted banter while the rest of us tried to stay focused on our stud­ies. 
On my short walk to LaFortune, I noticed several instances of rioting. In one particular instance, I came across a group of girls shouting and screaming at the top of their lungs, disrespecting the students working on fmal projects within Bond Hall. One girl had even taken off her shirt in what seemed to be a drunken frenzy and ran around at the top of the Bond Hall stairs. She had taken with her a students bike, attempting to block the doors to Bond Hall. I also noticed a few other bicycles waving in the trees. 
I bnlievc that we are all entitled to celebrate the result<> of this years election, but we should do so with restraint and be aware that others on campus are trying to study for important teste;; and are working on impor­tant projects. We should show the same respect towards our fellow student as McCain showed towards Obama. We should not result to rioting on eampus and drunken revelry. If you want to go crazy, please take it to the bar. 
James Miller senior off campc.s Nov. 5 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Thursday, November 6, 2008 

By SHANE STEINBERG Scene Writer 
Ever since 2003's "Mystic Hiver," Clint Eastwood has had the Midas touch. lie reads a script, picks it and turns it into Oscar gold. It's as simple as that. 
So it comes as no surprise that when it was announced that Eastwood's latest film, "Changeling," was slated for release this year, Oscar hopefuls throughout Hollywood began quivering in their shoes. Too bad Eastwood's streak of brilliance ends here. 
Sure it's an OK movie, perhaps even a good one by some measures, but for a film bnaring Eastwood's stamp, "Changeling" doesn't quite make the 
grade. Its plot is suspect, the actors give forced performances (minus Angelina Jolie's perfectly-cast turn), and to make matters worse, in keep­ing with a mostly-faithful transition from historical record to script, writer 
J. Michael Straczynski ends up writ­ing an open-ended conclusion that is far from satisfying. The journey, how­ever, isn't strong enough to justify the disappointing destination here. 
Set in Los Angeles during the late 1920s, this arresting, true story chronicles Christine Collins (Jolie), a mother forced to confront the Los Angeles Police Department. Following her son Walter's abduction, Christine launches an unsuccessful search to find him. Just when it seems like all hope is lost, a nine-year-old boy claiming to be her son (Gattlin 

challenge the corrupt forces behind ing melodrama into a dull and the cover-up of her son's abduction, increasingly contrived mess. What she finds a lone source of hope in starts as a mystery turns into an open local activist Reverend Briegleb (John book, and what is initially a tastefully Malkovich) and together they try to shot vintage-feeling film becomes its expose the corruption. own convoluted head-trip, filled to the Although it's Eastwood's film, Jolie brim with confusing dialogue and 
steals  the  show.  shots  that  can  
Perfectly cast as Collins, the script gives her the  As "Changeling" half-consciously tip-toes its way  only be found in horror films. The script does­ 
chance to shine, especially in the latter half of the film when she gets  towards its disappointing ending, Eastwood piles climax upon climax and in doing so he  n't know when not be slavish to the historical record, and Eastwood's  
thrown in a psych ward, bringing back memories of her Oscar-winning  turns the film from a mildly interesting melodrama into a dull and increasingly contrived  directing, I'm shocked to say, is clumsy and allows the intended  
turn  in  "Girl  mess.  themes of the film  
Interrupted." She  to  be  lost  and  

Changeling 
Directed by: Clint Eastwood Starring: Angelina Jolie, John Malkovich, Gattlin Griffith and Jeffrey Donovan 


Browning Cine 
-

Griffith) emerges seemingly out of nowhere. After taking in the child, she begins to realize that he is in fact not her son, and challenges the LAPD about the issue. However, the Prohibition-era department alienates Collins, making her out to be a bad moth­er. Torn down and cast aside by society because she dared to hones her emo­tions exceptionally well, often erupt­ing like a storm cloud one second, only to wind down and give a heart­felt, low-key performance the next. However, Jolie has one downfall: she is ensemble-proof. While the lights shine on her throughout the film's two-and-a-half hour runtime, the rest of the cast is hung out to dry by her domineering on-screen presence. 


As "Changeling" half-consciously tip-toes its way towards its disap­pointing ending, Eastwood piles cli­max upon climax and in doing so he turns the film from a mildly interest-
buried  six  feet  
under  the  ground.  In  the  end,  
"Changeling" will probably be  more  

heavily criticized than it deserves to be, but that's only because Eastwood has set the bar so high for himself that anything less than perfeetion is a disappointment. 
In llollywood, you're only as good as you're last film. With that in mind, it may be right to say that Clint Eastwood no longer has the Midas touch. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu. 

fied as Ventura, a 75 year-old Cape By ANALISE LIPARI Verdean immigrant who has known Scene Editor Costa since the filming of "Bones." 
The film also features Yanda Duarte, 

In the Fontainhas district of Lisbon, whose struggles with heroin were the Portugal, one man has met with local focus of Costa's 2000 film. In "Colossal men and women to create a new kind Youth," Ventura wanders between the of cinematic art. Tonight, the former Fontainhas district, which has DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will been razed by the city government in host direetor Pedro Costa and show favor of new developments on the out-his latest film, skirts of Lisbon. "Colossal Youth," In the film, the third in his Ventura visits
"For me, the primary function 

series depicting Yanda and others
ofcinema is to make us feel

the lives of mar-of his "children," ginalized Cape that something isn't right. who call him Verdean immi-"papa." His wife
There is no difference between 

grants in Lisbon. has left him, and 
"Colossal Youth," documentary and fiction here." he lives a mean­or "Juventude em dering life Mareha" in its Pedro Costa between settle­original direetor ments. Ventura's Portuguese, fol­wife has left him, lows 1997s leaving him with "BonHs" and 2000s "No Quarto da little but the time to make rounds Yanda" (In Yanda's Hoom) in portray­from child to child. The film depicts ing thn pnople of Fontainhas. The film what the DeBartolo Performing Arts reunites Costa with a man only identi-Center Web site calls a "material and emotional wasteland," while also fea­here," Costa said in a series of lec­turing Costa's filmmaking style, one of tures he gave in Japan in 2004. With aesthetic austerity and naturalistic meandering dialogue, episodic dialogue. The blend moments and a of reenactment and largely nonprofes­improvisation, of The blend ofreenactment sional cast, "Colossal film and documen­Youth" is attempting
and improvisation, offilm

tary, is an exercise in not to be commercial experimental film­and documentary, is an film art, but to making that should exercise in experimental examine a group of not be missed. lives in a situation
filmmaking that should not 

Costa is a where "something
be missed. 

Portuguese film isn't right." director best known Students will have for "In Yanda's the opportunity to Room," which won the France Culture hear Costa speak at this evening's Award for Foreign Cineaste of the screening of "Colossal Youth," as the Year at the 2002 Cannes International director is scheduled to attend. The Film Festival. "Colossal Youth" was screening, to be held in the Browning selected for the Cannes Film Festival Cinema. has been sponsored by the in 2006, and earned the Kellogg Institute for International Independen1JExperimental prize from Studies, and is a free but ticketed the Los Angeles Film Critics event. Visit performingarts.nd.edu or Association earlier this year. call (574) 631-2800 for further infor­
"For me, the primary function of mation. cinema is to make us feel that some­thing isn't right. There is no differ­ence between documentary and fiction Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu. 
r------------­
THE ()BSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, November 6, 2008 
page 13 

Craving something politically incorrect. con­troversial, debaucherous, and just downright good, side-splitting fun? Then the summer blockbuster "Tropic Thllllder" is the film for you. Washed up action star, Tugg Speedman (Ben , fresh off a failed foray into the mentally handicaJ>ped world of "Simple Jack," teams up the award-winning Kirk Lazarus (Robert Downey, Jr.), the coke-addicted, fart-movie star Jeff Portnoy (Jack Black) and bawdy rapper Chino (Brandon T. Jackson) to make the expensive war film every made. When the quickly falls behind schedule, director ~"''""'"'" Cockburn (Steve Coogan) decides to drastic measures, rigging the jllllgle with _..,,,..,,r.," and dropping his actors off to film, and themselves. Things heat up when a discovers the misfits and don't it's all an act. This one is not to be Admission is $3. (There are also show-on Friday 8 p.m. and Saturday at 8 p.m. 
10:30 p.m.) 
Aziz Ansari at Legends, midnight 
Angeles based award-winning comedian -corning star Aziz Ansari will be ng his stand-up routine to Legends "t"r'h"' night. The NYU graduate starred on MlV sketch comedy series "Human Giant" has appeared on the hit HBO show "Flight the Conchords" as well as Comedy Central's 
"Premium Blend." 
According to Ansari's website, he currently a part in Judd Apatow's new movie "Funny " which will star Adam Sandler and Seth Ansari is traveling with the star of the 
"Cavemen," Nick Kroll. If you're looking some laughs after the game, stop by Legends this free show {\vith a student ID). 

You've tllldoubtedlly heard Howie Day's music. It's been featured on such shows as "Scrubs," "Grey's Anatomy," "ER," "Bones," "Cold Case," "One Tree Hill" and "Lost." The singer-song­writer's music has been compared to the likes Dave Matthews and John Mayer and his hit sin­gle "Collide," off the album "Stop All the World Now," broke into the Top 10 of the US Adult Top 40 charts in 2004. Humor has it that the Maine native has a third all>um in production and a sin­gle "Everyone Loves To Love a Lie" was released on Day's Myspace page in February. 
Day brings his solo act to Legends Friday along with Internet sensation Nick Zuber. The show is free with a student ID. 
Sun: Third Day at the Morris Perfonning Arts Center, 7:30 p.m. 
Since they formed in the early 1990s, the Christian Rock and Worship group Third Day has sold more than six million alliums. Their 2000 record "Offerings: A Worship Allium" went platinum and six other records have gone gold. The Grammy-award winning band dropped their 11th studio album "Revelations" over the summer with the help of new producer Howard Benson (Daughtry, Hoobastank) and it has become one of the highest selling Christian Alternative albums on the market. 
If you're looking for an added kick to your Stlllday worship, check out Third Day. Tickets for the show range from $23.50 -$33.50 and can be purchased at the Morris Box Office or by calling 235-9190. 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Editor 
t Grilled cheese ... who doesn't " love it? A childhood memory7and one of the first meals a lot , of people learn how to make, it t holds a special place in a lot of i our hearts. · The dining hall gives us the ~ great classic version -gooey, 
buttery, cheddar cheese and ~ white bread -most every day. ·. This column gives you a selec­t tion of ways to put a twist on an old classic. Made using the Panini press, they loose the ·. butter but keep all the good insides, making them healthier options (Want that golden brown goodness back? Butter them up and stick 'ern in a pan at horne.) I think grilled cheese sandwiches are best served 
with tomato soup, an option the dining hall has most days, but they are good with a hand­ful of chips and a pickle or a salad too. Don't forget the glass of milk to really take you back! 
This week's recipes: 
IBacon, Tomato and Apple Grilled Cheese 
The savory bacon and ched­dar balance out the sweet tomatoes and apples in this sandwich, filling it with tons of flavor. 
1. 
Pick up apple slices (or slice an apple yourself). 

2. 
Pick up two slices of wheat bread. 

3. 
Layer on two slices of cheddar cheese, tomatoes, the apples and bacon (two slices, ripped in half so that there is a full layer should be enough). 



4. Grill in the Panini press until the cheese melts and the bread browns. 
Swiss and Spinach Grilled Cheese 
Most people think cheddar when they think grilled cheese, but don't forget the other options! This sandwich takes advantage of Swiss cheese, tosses in some piickles to give it a zing and uses dense dark bread and vegetables like spinach and bell peppers to make it really hearty. 
1. 
Pick up two slices of dark bread. 

2. 
Spread one side with Dijon mustard. 

3. 
Layer with two slices of Swiss cheese, spinach, bell peppers and pickles. 

4. 
Grill in the Panini press until the cheese melts and the 


bread browns. 
Want an even easier option? Try ham and cheddar (some­times the dining hall does this one for you) or mozzarella or provolone and tomato. If you're really having a lazy day, you can take one of the dining hall's pre-made grilled cheese sandwiches, pull it apart, and toss in tomatoes or lettuce. 
Quick Tip 
Make a quick fruit salad. Slice up pieces of whole fruit and toss it in with whatever other fruit is available in the dining hall. Use yogurt or honey and lemon as a dress­ing. 
Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to fea­ture it! E-mail mfordice@nd. edu. 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 6, 2008 
MLB 

National League names Gold Glove winners 
Other first-time honorees said. "But I think it goes to innings out of the bullpen and I'm glqd all that work 
Associated Press 

for defensive excellence were show you how much pride he during the playoffs and the paid off with this award. The 
NEW YOHK -Age is no St. Louis catcher Yadier takes in winning." Dodgers were eliminated by Pirates have a long list of past issue for Greg Maddux when Molina, San Diego first base­Last year with the Padres, Philadelphia in the NL cham­winners like Hoberto it eomes to fielding his posi­man Adrian Gonzalez, Maddux snapped a tie with pionship series. He filed for Clemente, Bill Mazeroski, tion. Cincinnati second baseman third baseman Brooks free agency after the World Tony Pena and Andy Van 
The 42-year-old pitcher won Brandon Phillips and Robinson and pitcher Jim Series. Slyke. I'm especially honored his record 18th Gold (;love on Pittsburgh outfielder Nate Kaat for the most Gold Gloves. Victorino moved from right to be ineluded on that list." Wednesday while outfielder McLouth. Maddux spent most of this field to center this season to All three NL outfield Gold Shane Victorino of the World The llouston Astros, who season in San Diego before an replace Aaron Rowand, a Gloves went to center fielders. Series champion Philadelphia committed 16 fewer errors Aug. 19 trade to the Los 2007 Gold Glove winner for "I take a lot of pride in Phillies was among five first­than any other major league Angeles Dodgers. He strug­Philadelphia before signing being a complete player," time winners in the National team, did not have a winner. gled in seven starts down the with the San Francisco Beltran said. "Even on the League. Hawlings has presented stretch for the NL West cham­Giants. days when I don't get a hit, I 
Slick shortstop Jimmy Gold Gloves annually since pions, going 2-4 with a 5.09 McLouth's award capped a feel I can make a difference in Hollins joined Victorino from 1957. Managers and coaches ERA to finish the year 8-13 breakout season for the 25th­the field." the Phillies, winning for the vote on players in their own with a 4.22 mark overall. round draft pick in his first Phillips lost out to Arizona's second consecutive season. leagues before the regular The four-time Cy Young year as a full-time starter. A Orlando Hudson last season The New York Mets also had season ends, but they may not Award winner may have lost a bright spot for the last-place despite leading the NL in two winners: outfielder Carlos select members of their own yard on that pinpoint, tailing Pirates, he showed off his fielding percentage, which he Beltran and third baseman teams. fastball, but his reflexes are strong arm in the July All­did again this year. David Wright, both of whom American League winners still quick as a eat's on the Star game at Yankee Stadium "I think this thing here is repeated. will be announced Thursday. mound. At 6 feet, 170 pounds, by throwing out a runner at the best thing that ever hap­
"Winning a Gold Glove is a Pondering retirement after his simple windup has always the plate to keep the score pened to me," Phillips said. tremendous honor for me in 355 wins, Maddux has been left him in perfect fielding tied in the 11th inning. Winning the Gold Glove what was already an amazing the NL recipient for pitchers position after each pitch. "I am thrilled," said raises Phillips' salary next season," Victorino said. "I every year since 1990 with "I've seen some balls hit McLouth, the first Pirates season by $250,000 to $5 mil­take a lot of pride in playing the exception of 2003, when pretty hard right back at player to win a Gold Glove lion. The award earns Beltran defense and to get the recog­Mike Hampton interrupted the him," Wright said. "Those since shortstop Jay Bell in a $100,000 bonus, while nition of the managers and streak. kind of reactions at 42, you 1993. "I worked especially Gonzalez, Maddux, Molina, coaches around the league is "I ean't imagine winning just don't see that." hard on my defense from the Rollins and Wright get a great compliment." two, much less 18," Wright Maddux worked four beginning of spring training $50,000 bonuses. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Kansas State coach Prince will not return for 2009 season 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY. Mo. -Kansas State coaeh Ron Prince was unable to rPbuild the Wildeats into the Big 12 contender they were under his predecessor. 
Now after 2 seasons in Manhattan, Prince is on his way out and K-State is in the market for another coach who can do what Bill Snyder did in the Little Apple. 
Kansas State athletic director Bill Krause firnd Prince, nfl'nctive at the end of the season, on Wednesday. just three months after signing the eoach to a live­year contract. 
Prinee took over for Snyder in 2006, his first head coaching job after 14 years at six different schools. lie never lived up to the standard Snyder set, going 16-18, including 4-5 this year. 
"It's a decision that we arrived at in the best interest in the insti­tution and the program," Krause said during a eonference eall. "All along I've looked at understand­ing we're in a performance-based profession and in the final analy­sis we're at a point that while our goal remains the same. A change is necessary." 
Snyder was a consistent winner in 17 years as Kansas State's eoach, turning a team that won one game from 1987-89 into one that racked up at least 10 victo­ries seven times. and reached bowl games 12 straight seasons from 1992-2003. 
lie retired after a 5-6 season in 2006, handing the program over to Prince, Virginia's relatively unknown offensive coordinator the previous three years. 
Prince never got the Wildcats going in the right direction. 
Kansas State was 7-6 and went to a bowl game in his first season, but the program has regressed since, going 5-7 last season and losing four of five Big 12 games this year. 
The Wildeats have lost three straight headed into Saturday's game against Missouri, including a 56-21 setback to Kansas last wnekend that dropped Prince to 0-3 against Kansas State's in­state rival. 
"The reality is that all coaehes want to compete and win cham­pionships," Prince said. "That's why we came here and that's why we do what we do, and ulti­mately educate these kids along the way. We're disappointed, but we're in a position to accept the decision that's been made." 
In August, Kansas State signed Prince to a contract that runs through 2012, paying him a base salary of $143,00 with a total guaranteed package of $1.1 mil­lion. The deal included a larger buyout, meaning Prince will receive $1.2 million, along with a prorated longevity bonus of about $150,000. 
The midweek announcement, during preparation for a game, was unusual, but not the midsea­son move. Clemson, Washington, Tennessee and Toledo have already started looking for new leaders after announcing coach­ing moves earlier this season. Earlier this week, the Volunteers announced Phillip Fulmer won't be back next season. 
"There's a plan in place and there's some consultation I want to have with some individuals," Krause said. "It's coming down to the point where you have a list of folks you think have the ability to take the program and aecomplish the things we want to accom­plish." 
Prince's teams never had trou­ble generating offense, with a wide-open attack and strong­armed quarterback Josh Freeman piling up yards and points. 
Defense has been a problem, though. 
Kansas State had one of the nation's worst last season, allow­ing 30.8 points and 400.6 yards per game, and the Wildcats have been even worse this year. They rank 107th in scoring defense at 
33.7 points per game and 108th in total defense at 444.67 yards Kansas State in December of per game. 2005 was to establish a program 


Kansas State allowed 110 that was built to last, a team that points in its past two games, would consistently compete for more than 50 three times this championships," Prince said. season. "Today, we ran out of time to 
"Our objective in coming to accomplish that." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE FoR RENT 
HOUSE FOR SALE 1/2 MILE FROM NO. 3 BEDROOMS 2 FULL BATHS. CRESSY EVERETT PAM DECOLA 574-532-0204 
947 RIVERSIDE DR.. 4 BDRMS, 
2.5 BATHS. HISTORICAL HOME CLOSE TO NO. 
CRESSY EVERETT. PAM DECO­LA, 574·532-0204. 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 
SCHOOL YEAR. 
2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPER· TIES 574·234·2436 OR KRAMER· HOUSES.COM 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243·2818 or (574)276·6118. 
','•:, 11,; 1111<· ·;·.i!IJIII, :,llJt.ll' ,---,lll 11·· 
.~·Hn:,·lo ••I•~IJO'l 1; 1,f11:: hhil 
3/4 bedroom, 3 full bath deluxe homes, close to NO, fireplace, cathedral ceilings, skylights, 2-car garage. 10x20 deck. Much more. 
Call574·232·4527 or 269·683· 5038. 
From $1,700/mo. 
Historic gem, beautifully furnished, 

5 min. to NO. 2·3 bedrooms. $850 per month, students welcome. 
269·782·9921 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/csap/ 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you ·love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631· 7819 or Ann Firth at574-631·2685. For more information, visit our web· site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart· ments/pregnant.shtml 
Two teachers ready to adopt new­born and provide a wonderful life for him/her. Confidential. Expenses paid. Stephenandliz@aol.corn or call us toll free 1·888·760-BABY 

:iii fl"lqO-lll•< :;• ~~ 
Early morning. she wakes up Knock, knock, knock on the door It's time for makeup, perfect smile It's you they're all waiting for They go ... Isn't she lovely, this hollywood girl 
And they say ... She's so Lucky She's a star But she cry cry cries in her lonely heart Thinking, if there's nothing missing in my life Then why do these tears come at night? 


OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's wtRE SERVICEs
Thursday, November 6, 2008 page 15 
NFL 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 
15 
16 
17 
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
1 2 3 4 5 
6 7 8 9 10 
Men's Basketball AP Top 25 
team point previous 
North Carolina 1,800 1 Connecticut 1,661 16 louisville 1,638 13 UCLA 1,487 3 Pittsburgh 1,319 17 Michigan Slate 1,311 18 Texas 1,259 7 Duke 1,250 9 NOTRE DAME 1,243 15 Gonzaga 1,162 24 Purdue 1,099 20 Oklahoma 987 NR Memphis 977 2 Tennessee 920 5 Arizona State 645 NR Marquette 592 25 Miami (Fl) 570 NR usc 414 NR Florida 403 NA Davidson 347 23 Wake Forest 312 NR Georgetown 311 8 Villanova 256 NR Kansas 233 4 Wisconsin 196 6 
Women's Basketball AP Top 25 
team points previous 
Connecticut 1,124 1 
Stanford 1,018 4 
Maryland 1,005 5 
Oklahoma 946 14 
Rutgers 914 7 
North Carolina 892 2 
Tennessee 857 3 
Duke 815 9 
Calilornia 769 10 
Louisville 726 19 
Texas A&M 624 8 
Vanderbilt 546 21 
Texas 501 NR 
Oklahoma Stale 442 13 
Virginia 437 24 
NOTRE DAME 374 15 
Arizona State 364 NR 
Ohio State 359 25 
Baylor 353 12 
Auburn 239 NR 
Florida State 204 NR 
Xavier 170 NR 
Purdue 148 NR 
LSU 133 6 
Old Dominion 124 11 
NCAA Cross Country USTFCCCA Rankings 
Men Women 
Oregon Washington Oklahoma State Oregon Stanford Florida State Portland Princeton Alabama Villanova Wisconsin West Virginia Northern Arizona Minnesota lona Wisconsin Michigan Texas Tech Geogetown Michigan State 


Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -Tony Romo was back under center at practice Wednesday, once again zipping passes to Terrell Owens. 
Expect him to be doing so the next time the Dallas Cowboys play, too. 
Romo's return from a broken pinkie on his throwing hand is coming along as expected. The clunky cast he wore the last three weeks has been replaced by a small splint covering only the pinkie. It's as much for support as protection, and he wasn't even wearing it between a walkthrough and a practice Wednesday afternoon. 

"It's still not all the way healed, but it's getting there," Romo said. "·I can definitely grip the ball much better." 
Romo was hurt during a loss to Arizona on Oct. 12. He practiced a little that week and tried to pllay in the following game, but realized during warmups that his bulky bandage prevented him from prop­erly controlling the ball and sat out ever since. 
Dallas went 1-2 without Homo, scoring no more than 14 points with Brad Johnson and Brooks Bollinger running: the offense. The Cowboys scored at least 24 all six games that Romo played. 
Romo also has the NFL's third-best passer rating. and averages the third­most yards passing per game. His 14 touchdown passes are sixth best, even after missing three games. 
However, the Cowboys were only 1-2 in his last three starts. So the notion his return will cure all that ails them might not be accurate. 
"I don't think it's a mat­ter of him coming in and trying to be Superman and really saving this team," Owens said. "We have more than enough capable guys in the locker room to make plays for him" 
Still, Homo's return is a source of optimism for a team that's gone from preseason Super Bowl favorites to last place in the NFC East. Even team owner Jerry Jones has said Dallas (5-4) needs to aim for just making the playoffs. 
Romo also thinks he's figured out some things during his time off. 
''I'm not going to tell you what they are, but I think this team is going to have its best football in front of it," he said. 
The Cowboys will prac­tice again Thursday, then have a three-day week­end. They'll return to the field Monday, then get back to their regular rou­tine Wednesday. 
IN BRIEF Raiders cut ties with Hall 
after just eight games 
ALAMEDA, Calif. -DeAngelo Hall's disappointing stint with the Oakland Raiders came to an early finish. 
The Raiders waived Hall on Wednesday, less than eight months after they traded for the former Pro Bowl cornerback and gave him a $70 million contract. 
The acquisition of Hall from Atlanta in March was a big part of Oakland's plans to rebuild its defense. But the move has back­fired. The Raiders gave up a sec­ond-round pick to acquire Hall and also gave him a seven-year con­tract. 
But Hall never played up to that leveL He struggled with nagging injuries throughout training camp and was picked on constantly by rookie receiver Eddie Royal and quarterback Jay Cutler in a 41-14 season-opening loss to Denver. 

G~ nets 3-year contract 
extension at san Diego State 
SAN DIEGO -Hall of Farner Tony Gwynn signed a three-year contract to remain the baseball coach at San Diego State, his alma mater. 
The former San Diego Padres star is 173-190 in six seasons at SDSU. 
"Now tha,t the contract has been signed, we can move forward and concentrate on our aim of making Aztec baseball a perennial con­tender botlil in the Mountain West Conference as well as nationally," Gwynn saidl in a statement released by the school Wednesday. 
"I remain fully committed to my job here at San Diego State and look forward to working with my staff and players toward these goals." 
Gwynn has taken two of his teams to the title game of the MWC tour­nament, a][ld was the conference coach of the year in 2004 after leading the Aztecs to a first-place fmish. 
Giants place Super Bowl hero 
Tyree on injured reserve 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­Super Bowl star David Tyree was told by the New York Giants that there will be no catches this year. 
Tyree, who made "The Catch" in New York's Super Bowl victory over the Patriots in February, was placed on injured reserve by the Giants on Wednesday. The move was made after Tyree ran out of time trying to get back on the field following offseason knee surgery and then a hamstring injury. 
The 28-year-old Tyree spent the entire training camp on the physi­cally unable to perform list because of knee surgery. Being on PUP pre­vented him from playing until after the sixth week of the season. He had a three-week window to earn a roster spot after he started practic­ing on Oct. 15. However, a ham­string injury allowed him on the field only a couple of times. 

around the dial 
NCAA fOOTBALL Maryland at Virginia Tech 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 

r •
•
• 
•
' 
' 
ALL EVENTS TAKE PLACE IN MCKENNA HALL 
Thursday, November 6 
7:30p.m.  Welcoming Remarks  
7:40p.m.  The josef Pieper Keynote Lecture  
On Retranslllting Humanae Vitae  
--John Finnis, University of Notre Dame and Oxford University  
9:00 p.m.  Reception  

Friday, November 7 
9:00 a.m.-1 0: 15 a.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1: Legal and Ethical Issues Related to Same-Sex Marriage Session 2: The Family, Health Care, and Human Ecology Session 3: The Fragility of the Family and Its Reasons for Hope Session 4: Panel: The Philosophical Problem of the Family Session 5: Divine and Human Intimacy Session 6: Parenting: Its Rights and Virtues Session 7: Panel: Embryo Adoption and Catholic Moral Tradition: Enlarging the Debate Session 8: Literary Arguments for the Family Session 9: Panel: The Family and Vocation: Celibacy and Complementarity Session 10: The Family and the Parish 
10:15 a.m.-10:45 a.m. Break, Refreshments 
10:45 a.m.-12:00 p.m. Invited Speakers Session l: Finding Fairest Love in the Church of the Home --Fred and Lisa Everett, qffice ofFamily Life, Diocese ofFori Wayne-South Bend 
Session 2: Beyond the Rights of Children: The Family Critically Re-Examined --H. Tristram Engelhardt, Jr., Rice University Session 3: An Aristotelian Feminism? --Sarah Borden, Wheaton College 
12: 15 p.m.-1: 15 p.m. Lunch 
I:30 p.m.-2:45 p.m. Invited Speakers Session I: Fundamentals of Human Infant Biology and Its Relationship to Parental Caregiving: Western Constraints on Creating a "Fairest Love"? --James McKenna, University(~! Notre Dame Session 2: Families, Neighborhoods and the Built Environment: A New Paradigm for Notre Dame --Philip Bess, University ofNotre Dame 
Ses~ion 3: Lessons from the Locker-Room on Courtly Love --David Lyle Jeffrey, /Jay/or University Session 4: Conscious Parenthood --Janet Smith, St. Paul Seminary 
2:45 p.m.-3:15p.m. Break, Refreshments 
3:15 p.m.-4:30p.m. Colloquium Sessions Session I: Panel: Contmception ;.md Assisted Reproductive Technology: The Church's Pro-Woman Response Session 2: Panel: Dostoevsky on the Family Session 3: After Humanae Vitae Session 4: The Family as Domestic Church Session 5: Economics and the Family Session 6: Fatherhood Session 7: The Social and Political Context for the Family Session 8: The Spiritual Renewal of the Family Session 9: Vulnerabilities at the Edge of Life 
5: 15 p.m. Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
6:00 p.m. Dinner 
Thursday, November 6, 2008 

page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
THE NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND CULTURE ANNOUNCES ITS NINTH ANNUAL FALL CONFERENCE 
• 

e 
amt 

SEARCHING FOR FAIREST LOVE 


NOVEMBER 6--8, 2008 


LECTURES ARE FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. 
7:30p.m.  The jack Schuster Memorial Lecture  
Does Sarah+ John= 3? The History and Future of  
Complementarity in Catholic Feminism  
--Elizabeth R. Schiltz, University oJSt. Thomas School o.flnw  
9:00p.m.  Reception  

Saturday, November 8 
9:00 a.m.-10:.15 a.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1: The Devotional Life of the Family Session 2: Lessons for the Family from Other Cultures Session 3: Panel: The Legacy of Elizabeth Anscom be Session 4: Panel: Justice, Friendship and the Family in Political Philosophy Session 5: The Family and the Modern State Session 6: The Family as School of Vittue Session 7: On the Nature and Extension of "Family" Session 8: Biotechnology and the Abolition of Man Session 9: Litemry and Cinematic Perspecti\'es on the Family 
10:15 a.m.-10:45 a.m. Break, Refreshments 
10:45 a.m.-12:00 p.m. Invited Speakers Session I: The State of the Marital Union: International Human Rights Law, the Family, and the U.S. Supreme Court --William Saunders, Senior Fellow and Director of the Cenler for Human Life and Bioethics, Family Research Council 
Session 2: The Family: The Crisis and the Romantic Temptation --Thomas S. Hibbs, Baylor University Session 3: The Pastoral Method of Pope john Paul II --Michael Waldstein, Ave Maria University Session 4: The Bishop as sponsus ecclesiae particularis: Family Structures and Ecclesiological Developments in the First Millennium --Monsignor. Charles Brown, Congregation for the Doctrine (~/the Faith 
12:15 p.m.-1:15 p.m. . Lunch 
1:30 p.m.-2:45p.m. Invited Speakers Session I: A Catholic Perspective on the American Family Law Governing Intimate Partnerships: Gift Exchange or Balance Sheet Accounting? --Helen AIYan~, George Mason University School ofl-aw Session 2: Medicalizing Childhood --Gilbert Meilaender, Valparaiso University Session 3: Philosophers, Fetuses, and the Family: Autonomous A.ppetites Bound by Choice --Fmncis Beckwith, Baylor University 
2:45 p.m.-3: 15 p.m. Break, Refreshments 
3:15 p.m.-4:30 p.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1: The Fair Love of Human Sexuality Session 2: Panel: Fathers and Sons... and Daughters: Aristotle and Austen on Paternal Friendship Session 3: Abortion: The Persistent Evil Session 4: Panel: The Moral Challenges to the Family in the 21st Century: Experiences of a Catholic Family Session 5: Embodiments of Faith, Hope & Charity Session 6: Family Dysfunction and Virtue in Literature Session 7: Cultural Aspects of Courtship and Marriage Session 8: The Theology of the Body Session 9: Authority and Complementarity in Marriage Session 10: Issues in Contemporary Education 
5:00 p.m. Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 7:00p.m. Closing Banquet 
Thursday, November 6, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Steelers unsure if Big Ben will play 
eal h .a1re for the orI "s 
ores 
Is Voluntary (Private) Health lnsurar1ce An Option? 


Jacques va.n der 
~aag ts a Distinguished Visiting f.J!>-llow in the-Global 
November 6, 2008, 
Eco.nonwand Devetopment Program at the Drooktngs 
Institute, Wa:!Ohfngton DC His
at 5:00p.m* 
res.e.aJ"c.h inte-rests. include the eco110mics of health, ~w::ation e-conomics, poverty,
and social policies. He has published widely in refereed journals and books, and served QO the sditot"ial board of the Journal of Hun-.an Re-sources, the Journal of Health E:conomic:s, the World 
Bank Eo.li\OTnk. Revie-w, andThe-Lanr:.et. He is c:::o­founder and co-ditector of the Amsterdam Institute
Sponsored by the Department of 
for International Oeveloprrw:nt, and :!'.enior ecotto•ni~;;· adviso1· of the Health Insurance Fund. He currently 
Economics and Policy Studies and the 
Poverty Studies Interdisciplinary Minor holds. the position uf Ois.linguist~d Visiting f-ellow of the Brookings Institution In Washington, where he studie>'S international he>alth care finandng as WE'll as the economic consequences ot AIDS. 
~'*±:~UNIVERSITY OF
W" NOTRE DAME 


Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH Ben Roethlisberger rested his sore right shoulder on Wednesday, although his latest tests showed no additional damage, The Pittsburgh Steelers might not know until late in the week if he can play Sunday against Indianapolis. 
Byron Leftwich, who came off the bench to lead two key second­half touchdown drives against the Redskins on Monday night, prac­ticed with the regulars and said he's ready to play ifneeded. 
"It really depends on where he (Roethlisberger) is at the end of the week and if he is capable of being Ben," coach Mike Tomlin said. "If he's not, we will go with Byron." 
Roethlisberger's MRI exam on Tuesday "is very similar (to his previous one), but it is not the same as it has been," Tomlin said. 
Roethlisberger's throwing shoulder was slightly separated while he was sacked by Houston's Mario Williams during the Sept. 7 opener. l-Ie aggravated the injury on a 1-yard touchdown run late in the first half of the Steelers' 23-6 win Monday night and did not play again. 
"I think what happened was it was getting better, then it went back to square one," said Roethlisberger, although he is optimistic about playing. "I played through it before and we'll do it again." 
Resting a week might not nec­essarily benefit Roethlisberger, Tomlin said, even if sitting out would temporarily alleviate the stress placed on the shoulder in games. Tomlin suggested the shoulder might not be 100 per­cent until after the season ends. 
"I don't think he is any more susceptible to injury than if he was given a clean bill of health," Tomlin said. "I think it is one of those injuries that is going to be better in the offseason, like a lot of (the injuries) those guys have down in the locker room." 
Despite the nagging injury, Roethlisberger has thrown 10 touchdown passes while guiding the division-leading Steelers to a 6-2 record. 
Leftwich, if he is needed to play, knows the Colts well. He was Jacksonville's quarterback from 2003-06, going 2-4 against Indianapolis while completing 100 of 155 passes for 1,134 yards, six touchdowns and three interceptions. 
"It's two different teams, two different organizations, but we did play each other twice a year," Leftwich said. "You knew each other pretty well. But I don't think that, because I've had some success in the past, it will auto­matically carry over." 
One problem for Leftwich is getting comfortable with a Steelers offense he only began learning two weeks into training camp. He didn't sign with them until Charlie Batch broke his col­larbone Aug. 8. 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 6, 2008 
NFL 
Recently unretired Culpepper may start for Lions Sunday 
Orlovsky, who started the previ­Despite being a second-round Marinelli said Culpepper looked fiJr Oakland and Miami. lie was a 
Associated Press 
ous limr games, said he had "no pick last year, Stanton might not be "solid." three-time Pro Bowl quarterback 
ALLEN 1'/\HK. Mich. -The idea" whether he could be ready to get a ehanee to play for the Lions, "It's got to play out as the week in Minnesota bnfore a knee injury Dotroit Lions trind to bo eoy about play this week. whose ofl'ensive coordinator said goes," Marinelli said. stunted his career in 2005. how much l>auntn Culpepper Stanton hopes to get a chance to last week he didn't want to embar­The 31-year-old Culpepper had· "Believe it or not, I was contact­practiend Wndnnsday and whether play in an NFL game for the first rass Stanton by putting him in a 10 lackluster starts and 11 appear­ed a lot since I had retired," tlwir nnw quartnrback will play time. game because he wasn't ready. ances in the previous two seasons Culpeppnr said. just days altnr sif.,rning. 
In tho locker room, though, it seemed obvious Culpepper is expeetnd to makn his Lions debut against tho .la<:ksonvilln Jaguars. 
"We'rn throwing him in tho lirn right away," eaptain Cory Hndding said. "I lhel like it's something ho can handle bocausn he's boon in this le<tf.,'lln long nnough. It's like riding a bike." 
Coach Hod Marinelli and Culpepper dodined to rnvnal how the first-string snaps were shamd betwmm tho lilrmer star and sec­ond-year pro Dmw Stanton. 
But wide receiver Shaun Mdlonald providPd at loast a hint. 
"It was pretty evon." McDonald said wlwn asked how the rnpnti­tions wore divided. "Daunte might'vo had a little bit morn." 
Culpnppnr arrivod in the Dntroit arna on Monday, was given a play­book whon ho signed a two-year dnal Ttwsday and then praetiend tlw next day li>r the first time this year. 
''I'm liko a sponge right now, try­ing to absorb it all," he said. 
Culpeppnr may make his Detroit debut in haste because Dan Orlovsky's injured right hand is severe enough to b(~ eovon~d by a soft cast and examinod by a spe­cialist and the team docs not seem to be confident in Stanton. 

A Special Information Session for Arts and Letters Students 
(Others arE~ welcome to attend) 

.
0 


May 13th to Jone 14th 2009 
>-All returning ND & St. Mary's undergraduates eligible 
>-Four and one-half week study in London 

>-Mid session study/travel to Paris, Normandy, Belfast, Spain, or Amsterdam 
>-Earn 6 credit hours 

>-Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 
Information Session ~or 2009 & 2010 Programmes THURSDAY 6TH November 2008 5:00pm to 6:00 126 DeBartolo Hall 
Applications are available at 305 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.edul---sumlon 

'
'.' ' 
'
•
' 
Thursday, November 6, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 page 20 


Lapira 
continued from page 24 
dairm~d himself just about flu­ent at listening to Norwegian but still unable to speak the lan­guage. 
"It sounds like they're singing when they talk," Lapira said. 
The former Irish striker has also had to adapt to a new set of coaehes. After four years spent building strong relationships with head eoaeh Clark and assistant coaches Jamie Clark and Chad Hiley, Lapira has had his ups and downs gelling with his coaehing staff at Nybergsund. 
"It has hnlped me in terms of realizing how biased profession­al sports ean be," Lapira said. "My <~oach isn't my favorite per­son in tho world, to say the least. It kind of helps you to know that tlw best player isn't always going to play because you're not the one who makes all thn decisions." 
But profnssional soceer in Norway dons have its perks. The afornrnentionnd log cabin on tho ski mountain -paid for by the club -has put outdoor activities like hiking, fly fishing and skiing at Lapira's doorstep. 
In between all those outdoor activities, Lapira has still found time to do plenty of what he does best -scoring goals. Despite playing outside midfield instead of his natural striker position, Lapira has scored eight goals in 32 games, good fi1r third on the club. That type of performance should lead to inernased interest in Lapira 
when his contract ends this 
month, although the former 
Notre Dame striker said he isn't 
concerned with that at the 
moment. 
"I have an agent, and I think some stun· has come up, but I've told him that I don't want to worry about that until the time is eloser," Lapira said. "I like to worry about what's going on right now like getting my fitness up." 
But such words don't mean Lapira isn't interested in explor­ing new opportunities once the time is right. With the professed ultimate goal of playing in the English Premier League, Lapira recognizes that a few interme­diate stops may still lie ahead. Lapira said that signing with a first-division Scandanavian team or non-EPL team in Great Britain are more realistic imme­diate goals. 
But Lapira is confident, or more accurately, he said he knows he needs to bn confident he will fulf'ill his goals if he wants to eventually compete against the likes of Liverpool, C:helsmt and Manchester United. 
"Fitness, patience, and confi­dence," Lapira said when asked what the defining characteris­tics of a first-class footballer are. "Confidence is the most important of the three. Confidence can turn a bad play­er into a good player and a good player into a great player. If I can get my confidence under control as well as my fitness, I think I'll be well on my way to achieving my goals." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 6, 2008 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay~esbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 
Gannon 
continued from page 24 
ew>e her way into tlw game befiJm tip-on·. but she fi)f(~ed a turnover just Pight seeonds into her college earner. 
The entir<> Irish ddim.l>e playod in 
rnidse<L<>on li1nn. holding Gannon to 
only ll-filr-41J shooting 122.4 per­
cent), while fbrdng 46 turnovers ­
21J oil" of steals. In llut, only forward 
I~rica Solomon fi.Liled to ~-,rrab a steal. 
Instead, thn (J-IiJot-2 freshman had 
fimr blocks. 
Solomon's most impressive stretch came in th11 sncond half. wlwn Lady Knights guard Abby Bunstine launched a seemingly wide-open 3-pointer from the right corner, only to have Solomon run from the post to swat it out of hounds. 
"She was really altering shots. The one she didn't block, I think she dmngnd," McGraw said. "For h<~r to run out there -and that wasn't evnn her job, she wa<>n't supposed to go out thorn -that wa<> just a !wads-up play. She saw that she W<L'> wide open and went out to help out and did a J..,>"ffmtjob." 
Solomon W<L'> filling in the middle filr liJrward Devereaux Poters, who had to sit out Wednesday's game bneatt'ie slw mi<;.o;ed a tutoring ses­sion. 
The one low point for the Irish against Gannon W<L'i their seoring. Even though Notre Damn did drop 96 on the I .ady Knight<>, the team shot only 46.8 pemmt (37 -fiJr-79) from tlw lloor and 58.8 percent (20­for-34) from tho free-throw line during thn game. The frm1-lhrow shooting was particularly unnerv­ing, Me<;raw said, especially bncauso last year's Notre Dame team shot 75.8 percent from the duu·ity strip«'. 
Mc<;raw said executing the oflims<~ will lx~ a point of empha<>i<> during upcoming practices this week. 
"I thought we did a good job run­ning tlw floor, but we didn't mally run a lot of"[plays]," McGraw said. 
On1~ reason the Irish could not 
run their set ollcnse was because 
they worn almost constantly in a 
fast-paced ofl"ense. Notre Dame 
numaged 56 poinl<> oil' turnovers ­
including 18 in thn last break. 
The fitst break was mainly suc­
cessful bm~ause of Notre Dame's 
depth. Freslunan guard Fraderica 
Miller played the least amount of 
time but still notched 13 minutes of 
game time and added five points 
and throe steals to the Irish effort. 
"I think it pul'> pressure on the 
defense when you can keep run­
ning fresh bodies in and out of the 
ganm," MeGraw said. "I thought the 
pace of thn game was very fast 
beeauso I thought we were pretty 
well-msted most of the time." 
Starting point guard Melissa Lnehlitner could not run the Irish oflimse early in the contest after committing two fouls in the first limr minutes, landing her on the bench fi1r tho rnst of the first half. 
"Nothing you c<m really do about ]the fi1ul<>l. The mfs make the calls and you just gotta take them and head to the bnnch," Lechlitner said. 
But tlw junior fi1und her minutes in the second half, and scored 13 point<> and had three a<>sists without a turnover. 
McGraw said she was pleased with Lechlitner's performance in the second half. 
"I thought the second half is what you're going to see from Lech all ynar long," McGraw said. "I thought she just played great. She made good dedsions, shn took great shot<;, she perfi1rmed well, she defended well, she ran the team. She did absolutely ev1~rything she need<; to do fbr us to be suecnssful this year." 
Notes: 
+Skylar Diggins, a five-star recruit from Washington High School in Sout11 Bend, attended the Gmmon gmnP. Diggins took her ofli­dal visit to Notre Dame last week­end. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

Clover Ridge Apartments 
In Support of..... The Food Bank of South Bend, IN 

Clover Ridge Apartments is conducting a Food Bank Drive from Nov. 3rd to Nov. 15th, to help out the less fortunate in our community. 
We will be accepting canned goods and dry products at The Office. A container will be placed outside The Office door for you to put your food donations in. 
Please join us and help those in need for the Thanksgiving Holiday. 
Any questions regarding the Food Bank Drive feel free to call our office at (574) 272-1441. 
Thank you to ALL who participate!!!! 
rver. 



r------------------------------­
Thursday, November 6, 2008 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Helgeson 
continued from page 24 
slots. The best thing about this appearanee is the opportunity to play some of the country's best players, thus securing a strong national ranking, increasing his NCAA status." 
llelgeson is eoming ofT a run to the quarterfinals in the ITA Midwest Hegional event that was held in Columbus, Ohio on Oet. 17-19. HelgHson lost to a German player from Wisconsin named Marek Michalika. 
Helgeson was ranked No. 25 in the national preseason rank­ings. 
"I think Brett had a very strong showing at regionals," Bayliss said. "lie reached the quartHrs against a very strong l'ield, losing to a red-hot GHrman player from Wiseonsin. lie demonstrated poise beyond what he had shown a year ago and is finding more ways to get to the net and put pressure on his opponents." 
Among the teams that will be at the William and Mary Invitational are Maryland, William and Mary and the College of Charleston. 
The Irish again will turn to a team of young talent to lead them and prove that they are a squad to be reckoned with. 
"We are making progress this fall," Bayliss said. "Our youth is pretty scary, but at times we look like we will be pretty good. There is a chanee that all of our starters except Brett will be freshmen and sophomores." 
Bayliss also said that with the team's youth comes enthusiasm and the willingness to exert maximum effort in every prac­tice. 
Notre Dame will rely heavily on young leadership from sophomores Tyler Davis and Dan Stahl with some help from David Anderson, Bayliss said. 
Stephen Havens, last season's No. 4 singles player, will be relind upon to get some upper lineup wins this season. 
Sophomore Matt Johnson will also be a force in both singles and doubles, Bayliss said. Sean Tan will also travel with the team to Williamsburg this weekend. 
"Our freshmen have been quite good, if somewhat incon­sistent," Bayliss said. "Sometimes the best thing about freshman is they become sophomores, but this group can be really good if they buy in. Casey Watt is a real shot­maker who needs only to improve his volleys and bneomn more consistent. Niall Fitzgerald needs to believe in himself more at crunch time and firm up his backhand. Sam Keeton has been practicing without being able to use his bnst shot-a two-handed back hand -because his right wrist has been broken." 
All of those players will be important if the Irish are to have suecess this season, and in the spring. After the William and Mary Invitational, tho team will take a break until they face Pepperdine on Jan. 16. 
"We have a new coach this the season and we have races," Sylvester said. "We year and our entire team is already seen some personal arc a really competitive class
Sophs 

just overall thrilled with the best times." and team overall." decision to have him coach With a year of experience Although the season is
continued from page 24 

here," Sylvester said. "The under their belts, the Irish young, the team has high Amywren Miller, backstroker program is a sophomores feel aspirations. For starfers, Lauren Parisi, butterflier lot different comfortable and Notre Dame looks to extend Katie Casey and diver Heidi than it has confident about the its 12-year Big East title Grossman took two individual been in the "We are a really upcoming season. streak. In addition, they will events each. past, and competitive class Furthermore, the try to increase the number of 
Coming into the season, the the practices Irish sophomores qualifiers they send to the
and team overall.,,
sophomores had increased are a lot share a strong NCAA Championship. It is expectations in a program in more chal­bond with each clear that, like their counter­transition. Of the three swim­lenging than Lauren Sylvester other that helps parts who line up on mers that Notre Dame sent to they were Irish sophomore them to succeed Saturdays in Notre Dame the NCAA championship, two last ynar. along with their Stadium, any success that the of them -Maxwell and Miller Everyone other teammates. Irish women have this season -came from the sophomore has really "I know I can will greatly depend on contri­class. stepped up to the challenge speak for the whole team, and butions from their talented 
Sylvester said her class' suc­and just accepted that it's I can definitely say it for the sophomore class. cess can be partly attributed going to be hard, even out of sophomore class, but we do to practices under first-year the pool. Practices seem to be not like to lose whether it be Contact Mike Gotimer at coach Brian Barnes. going really well this early in as a team or in our individual mgotimer@nd.edu 


LET THEM> that TIME. 
Whether it's a camera phone to capture those unforgettable moments or a smartphone to e-mail them to the world, with all the newest phones, the one you want is here. 

;~ 
~¥'·,,~ 
. 
·:~·;~; {" 
~·,·.·... 1:·.··: 
getusc.com 
'1 

Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

'f< US.Cellular. 

©2008 U.S. Cellular. believe in something better­

Thursday, November 6, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJIJJJM&rbJE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
PLYAP 
rJ I I
1 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
FECEN 
j
I [l I I 
TESACK 'N'Hf:N HE: WENT FOR
I [J [) 
A WALK ON A COl-D, 
www.Jumble.com 
WINDY r:r...v, rr W/6­

I LAVOAWj 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I [ I I I
L.-.....J'----L~.LL:.......u.._...J....__J suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: ITJ"[IIIIJ" (Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: GRIPE CROAK BESIDE TROUGH Answer: When the farmer bought the huge spread, he was -"DIRT' RICH 

CROSSWORD  
Across  28 It ends in the  61 Declare  
___  Bartle!,  fall: Abbr.  62 Cliff hangers?  
president on  29 Shade of green  63 Some like it hot  
"The West Wing"  31 Helpful  64 Word with  
4 John of "Full  32 Symbol of love  telephoto or  
House"  36 ··sometimes you  zoom  
1 0 Voodoo charm  feellike  "  65 San Fernando  
14 Org. that  37 ... that a rube  Valley district  
publishes health  might fall off  66 Doofus  
studies  39 AI Jazeera  
15 Butt in  viewer. typically  Down  
16 One who may  41 He danced in  Poked  
be caught off  "Silk Stockings"  2 Communicates  
base? 17 Food transportation ... that Harry Belafonte sang about 19 Place for a footballer's pad 20 Indiana and Ohio are in it 21 Play ice hockey 23 Charles Lamb, pseudonymously 24 ... that's an  42 Put on the payroll 44 Stimpy's cartoon pal 45 Org. for drivers? 48 ... that may be upset 52 Place to load and unload 53 R &B singer MaryJ._ 54 Sen. Feinstein 56 Pork chop? 59 ... that's a  with online 3 "Phooey!" 4 Trig function 5 Tax cheat chaser, informally 6 Alert for a fleeing prisoner, in brief 7 Bullwinkle, e.g. 8 Japanese city whose name means "large hill"  
ambulance. in slang  source of easy money  9 Go after 10 Stick out one's  
tongue, rnaybe 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
11 Hold title to 12 Coffee, slangily 13 Corrida cheer 18 One time 22 Afternoon hour 24 Home run hero 
of '61 25 Icky stuff 26 Home of the 
Cowboys: Abbr. 27 New Jersey eager 
rl-'.:+-:+.:-t-:'-1 29 Part of r.p.m. 30 Novelist Ferber 32 Mingle (with) 33 Make a choice 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Randall J. Hartman 
34 Crank up 43 Actor Benicia 54 Turned blue, Toro maybe
35 Keystone State port 55"_ deal!"
45 Party animal? 46 Wish offerers
37 Rain delay roll-56 Kilmer who once 
47 Soccer venues
out played Batman 49 Prop for 
38 Caterer's coffee 57 She raised Cain
Groucho Marx
holder 
50 See eye to eye 58 Bridge capacity 39 "So it's you!" unit
51 Plays parent to 40 Boot Hill letters 52 72, at Augusta 60 Compete 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytirnes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
--------------------------------------...-­
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Tatum O'Neal, 45: Bryan Adams. -19: Peter Noone, 61; An Garfunkel, 67 
Happy Birthday: You will have many choices this year but most will be difficult and emotional. There will be no turning back once you've decided. Question anyone trying to give you an ultimatum. Consider long-term result< and the nature of the people you are dealing \\~tiL Your numbers are I. 3, 17, 25, 32, 40,46 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Yon may want to lend a helping hand but chances are very good you'll be taken ad,·antage of. Someone will offer friendship or a partnership only to see what your answer might be. Love is in the stars. 4 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Work hard and don't let your personal life or relation­ships hinder the progress or quality. You can't trust someone who is trying to get some­thing from you. Don't give in to pushiness or demands. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can use your charm and emotional tactics to get your way but at some point a colleague. friend or peer will question what you are doing. Be truthful and keep your promises and you \\-ill surprise some of your les:-:-adm.iring on­lookers. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): Keep your money in your pocket. Your witty conversa­tion coupled with affection will be enough to win the admiration and love of the right person. Keep )'our business and your personal lives separate-. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be careful how you handle the people closest to you. Love is looking pretty hot but a change ofheart may occur if you don't come through with a promise you made in the heat of the moment. Avoid personal issues and concentrate on a professional opportunity. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A challenge will prove how sU-ong a contender you can be. Don't let a misunderstanding lead to irreversible changes. An opportunity will de­velop if you join a group that offers training to improve your skills. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Stop procrastinating and make the calls that will lead to a better position suited to your skills. An emotional matter can be solved. Children will speak the truth regarding your appearance and your current situation. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Make some quick moves should a problem arise at home or with someone you have been dependent on. Security is the key to your future. 
An unusual source of information will help you realign your next mo\'e. :Z stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be called upon to do something that isn't your cup of tea but, in doing so, you will strengthen your position. A partnership \l:ill be under pressure and demands are likely to be enforced if you don't make a move. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You won't be thinking straight when it comes to vo­cational decisions. Take a wait-and-see position. A chance to make a financial move that will stabilize your position must be put into play. Tmst your own judgment. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You've got things right in your own mind so don't let someone confuse you. Focus on the things that make you happy rather than trying to please someone who is continually picking on you. Emotional confusion will only cause you to spin your wheels. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't lose sight of your financial goals or give into a fast-talking friend who wants to borrow or get you involved in a scheme. Love may be on the line if you aren't willing to compromise. A secret that will change the circum­stances you face must be revealed. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are serious, inventive and a little ahead of your time. You are sen­sitive and loving --a thinker and a strategist. 
Eugenia's Web sites: euge11ia/ast.com for confidential coasultatian.s. mvspace .com!eugellialast for Eugenia's blog, astroadvice .com for fim 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 



THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, November 6, 2008 page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Tipping off 
Irish secure win in first exhibition game 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Managing Editor 

If freshman guard Natalie Novosel and the rest of the Irish had any opening gmne jilters, they sure had a funny way of showing it. 
Every Notre Dame player who played rngistered atlnast five poinl<> during thn tmun's 96-30 exhibition win ovnr Div. II Gmmon Wednesday night. 
"It is a n~ally !,'Teat opporiunity, mostly fiw thn frcshmnn, just to get in fhmt of a <Towel witl1 ilie uni!i>rm on," McGraw said. "I like these games because we get iliat jitters out. That's probably ilie bPst part of it." 
Novosnl was one of four fresh­men who mad1~ tlmir debut<> during the win. 
"I was really anxiotL'i just to get out there and ilien on\.e I gnt out thorn not to go in tlwre and try to do nveryiliing at once," she said. 

Novosel might have wanted to CASEY CARNEYffhe Observer Irish junior forward Ashley Barlow dribbles upcourt during Notre Dame's 96-30 win over Gannon in the team's exhibition opener at the Joyce Center see CANNON/page 20 Wednesday night. Every Irish player notched at least five points in the victory. 
MEN'S SOCCER 
ND grad Lapira adjusts to playing in Norway 
Norway over the fertile plains of pond by last January -of the transfer window for the A few weeks later, LapiraBy GREG ARBOGAST America and Major League although Norway wasn't the British leagues. Consequently, if signed a one-year contract with 
Sports Wri tcr 
Soccer (MLS). Tagged as a top original destination. Initially, Lapira had signed a contract Nybergsund of the Norwegian 
prospect for the MLS Lapira received trials from sev­with a team in Great Britain, he second division. Setting foot in 
Settled in a log cabin on the Superdraft, Lapira was put off eral squalls in Great Britain would have been unable to play Scandinavia for the first time, top of a ski mountain surround­by the MLS requirement that all including Southhampton and until the following season. Lapira began his journey of ed by woods, rivers and bears, players must sign at least a Nottingham Forest of the "My first few trials I wasn't in European football and all that one might say that Louisiana four-year contract. English Championship League. the best shape, and that might comes with it -eulturally and native .Joseph Lapira is a long "If you ask any player in the Lapira also got a look from have cost me a few opportuni­from a footballing perspective. way from home. States if they want to play in Scotland's Aberdeen, who cur­ties," Lapira said. "[After the Surrounded by new team­
About 4,000 miles to be more MLS or Europe, they'd say rent Irish coach Bobby Clark Great Britain transfer window mates and coaches who all spedlie. Europe because that's the cen­played for from 1965-1982 closed], the Scandanavian speak an unfamiliar language, 
After three n~eord-setting sea­ter of football," Lapira said. "1 while winning the 1980 Premier transfer window was still open, Lapira has made great efforts to sons at Notre Dame that inelud­didn't want to wait four years League Championship. and that was ideal for me improve his Norwegian. Hard at ed winning the program's first­for a chance to come overseas." Lapira failed to receive a con­because I didn't want to be work since March, Lapira pro­evnr IIermann Trophy in 2006, With that reasoning, Lapira tract offer before the end of without game experience for l.apira opted for the (jords of was off to the other side of the January, which marked the end several months." see LAPIRA/page 20 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Talented sophomores pace squad in n1eets 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Wri tcr 
Most Notre Dame students would probably agree that Notre Dame football's sopho­more elass. featuring such playrnakBrs as Jimmy Clausen and Golden Tate, is integral to the team's sueeess on the grid­iron. 
For Notre Dame's women's swimming and diving team, the story is no difTernnt. The soph­omore elass has had a pro­found impaet on Notre Dame's early-season success. 
The No. 24 Irish head into this weekend's meet against 
Purdue with an undefeated home record and they have not lost any of their 28 races at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Of the 14 individual events the team won against Pittsburgh last week­end, all but one of them were won by a Notre Dame's sopho­more. 
The 13 wins for the Irish sophomores against Pittsburgh were split amongst six differ­ent swimmers. Breaststroker and individual medley swim­mer Samantha Maxwell won three individual events while distance freestyler Lauren Sylvester, sprint freestyler 
see SOPHS/page 22 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Team heads to William and Mary 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Senior Brett Helgeson will travel to Charlottesville, Va., to compete in the ITA National Indoors this week­end, while the rest of the team will compete in the Willian1 and Mary Invitational in Williamsburg. 
"We are involved in two events this weekend," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Brett Helgeson was able to get into the ITA National Indoors in Charlottesville. This is an elite event limited to the top 32 players in the country and Brett secured one of only six at-large 
see HELGESON/page 22 
LA!The 

Irish sophomore Stephen Havens attempts a forehand during the Tom Fallon Invitational on Oct. 11. 








