
THE 
Parents arrive at University for JPW 
By ELLYN MICHALAK 
News Writer 

This weekend, for the 56th consecutive year, the parents of Notre Dame juniors will visit eampus to get a glimpse of what their child's life is like while they are away from home dur­ing the annual .Junior Parents' Weekend (JPWI. 
JPW began in 1952 when University president emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh decided parents should become more involved in their students' lives at Notre Dame before the following year's graduation cer­emony. 
Every year, attendance for the event has grown and this year's JPW committee expects approx­imately 1, 7 50 parents to visit the campus this weekend. 

"Though the scale has changed, the core purpose of JPW has remain unchanged ­that is, giving parents an oppor­tunity to share the social, aca­demic, spiritual and residential life of University with their stu­dents," JPW co-chair Brian Fremeau said. 
He and fellow co-chair Leah Miller have been working hard to plan the event since April of last year. After months of prepa­ration, Miller said she is looking forward to the event with feel-
see JPWI page9 
Lecture fights Muslim stereotypes 
Professor, international student talk about religious aspect ofhijab, burqa 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 

Dr. Fozia S. Qazi, a Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL) Fellow and professor of mathematics, spoke along with Razia Stanikzai, a Saint Mary's senior international student from Afghanistan, about the western world's thoughts on Muslim women Thursday in the Student Center. 
The lecture, entitled "The 'Other' Veil: Muslim Women in the Western Mind," was a part of the Diverse Students' Leadership Conference (DSLC) hosted by the Student Diversity Board which has taken place at the College this week. 
The lecture's main focus addressed the way Muslim women are portrayed to the Western world. Qazi began by showing pic­tures of Muslim women who break the stereotypes. 
"The prevalent stereotype of Muslim women is homogeneity, but there is a great deal of diversi­ty," Qazi said. 
The Muslim practice of veiling is often associated with the oppres­sion of women in the Western mindset, Qazi said. She first showed how veiling is a fairly com­mon practice and is not as.o;;ociated with oppression in other settings. 
Most religions have some sort of veiling, Qazi said. Jewish women are often depicted wearing veils, as is the VIrgin Mary in Christian art. 
Veiling goes back to the days of colonization in the Middle East. Before the Europeans could colo­nize they had to see the natives as inferior and uncivilized as a ration­alization of their taking over, Qazi said. 
Stanikzai spoke about hijab, which is the Afghani practice of wearing a veil. Hijab literally tra.n.o;;lates "to hide from view," but it also means separation from something negative between you and your spiritual goal. 
A part of hijab is the burqa, which is traditionally associated with Afghan women. Many women in Afghanistan were forced to wear a burqa by the Taliban regime, which is part of 
see LECTURE/page 4 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 



Reish, Grant to lead student body 
Junior, sophomore presidential ticket win runoffelection with over 65 percent ofThursday vote 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Assistant News Editor  
Bob Reish Schmidt defeBraun and  and Grant ated Maris George  

Chamberlain to win student body president and vice pres­ident in Thursday's runoff election. 
Junior class president Reish and sophomore class presi­dent Schmidt received over 
2.000 votes, 65.06 percent of the total 3,569 votes cast. 
"We're glad to see that the student body's support was behind us, and we're excited to take over office and exe­cute some of our ideas that we've been working on for a 
SMC to host ovvn version of 'Monologues' 
Students, professor, alumnae will perform in annual event to stop violence against women 

By KATIE KOHLER 
Saint Mary's Editor 

Coming on the heels of "V­Day" -the global move­ment to stop violence against women sparked by Eve Ensler's Vagina Monologues -the Saint Mary's community will gather for the fourth con­secutive year to perform the SMC Monologues tomorrow at 7 p.m. and Sunday at 2 
p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. 
The Monologues were written by students, faculty, staff, Sisters and alumnae, producer Becki Faunce said. 
while," Reish said. 

Current student body vice president Braun and Sorin senator Chamberlain received 28.94 percent of the total. Their ticket forced a runoff election after Monday's primary when Reish and Schmidt won 48.43 percent of the total. 
"To speak frankly, we gave it our all and did everything that we thought we could do," Braun said. "We had a lot of faith in our platform and a lot of faith in our expe­rience and our leadership styles. I don't know if we would have done anything differently because we really 
see REISH/page 4 
Observer 

Bob Reish, left, and Grant Schmidt speak at the runoff debate Wednesday. The pair won the student body runoff elections Thursday. 
"All writers are anony­mous to protect their identi­ties around potentially sen­sitive subject areas and to promote the fact that these could be anyone's stories," she said. 
This year, there are eight students, one faculty mem­ber and one alumnae per­forming the Monologues. 
While they were inspired by En~iler's Vagina Monologues, they are dis­tinctly different, Faunce said. 
"They are similar in that women discuss their experi­ences of sexuality, relation-
see SMC/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND upset 
byNIU 
shooting 
Students ask question, "Could it happen here?" 
ByJOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students expressed sadness and shock Thursday night at yesterday's shooting at Northern Illinois. The tragedy, in which at least six people, including the gun­man, were killed and 17 were injured, occurred in a lecture hall less than three hours away from Notre Dame's campus. 
Although this generation of Notre Dame students has grown up with school shoot­ings ranging from Columbine in 1999 to Virginia Tech last year, stu­dents haven't become immune to the tragedy of school massacres. 
"It was very tragic and scary. You have to wonder what's going on with those kids. It makes you wonder if something like that could happen at Notre Dame," sophomore Tim Nelson said. 
Many students had not heard of the shooting by Thursday evening, including a group of seniors who stood speechless after being informed of the news. 
Student body president Liz Brown noted that school shootings are becoming 
see STUDENTS/page 8 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

ASt. Patrick's suggestion 
Valnntine's Day-the day of same­side sitters in the dining hall, girls rnceiving chocolates and flowers and happy couples strolling hand in hand as they eircle the lakes at 
Liz Harter
Notre Dame 
or (TOSS the 
Assistant News
bridge on 
Editor
Lake Marion 
at Saint 
Mary's-is 
over. 
Thankfully. 
Now we have all the time in the 
world to focus on the next religious 
and commercial holiday that will be 
celebrated on campus. And celebrate 
we will. 
Bring on St. Patrick's Day. 
This year marks the first year that the holiday does not fall during the time allotted by the University for spring break since 2005. Originally, this year's spring break was not scheduled for March 1-9, but the University changed the dates because they were in conflict with Holy Week and the Easter holiday. 
Therefore, students will be able to celebrate the traditionally Irish holi­day with their fellow Irish-faithful at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Now, this inside column is not going to turn into the places and ways you can cnlebrate that one day, but rather, I am here to let you know of the incredible idea that our Irish brethren have adopted for this year, and this year only, of celebrating for TWO days. 
The Irish Bishops announced in July of 2007 -see how late I am in letting you all know about this opportunity! -that because March 17 is the sec­ond day of Holy Week, the most holy week in the Catholic calendar, they are shifting religious celebrations for St. Patrick's Day to March 15. 
If you can do quick math in your head I know that you are already smiling. If you can't and had to check your cell phone calendar like I did, let me save you the trouble. 
The Irish Bishops have moved St. Patrick's Day to March 15­Saturday, March 15. 
The Council of Bishops in the United States have not made a similar decla­ration of shifting the feast day to the previous Saturday, and I'm not sure if they are planning on doing so. Therefore I don't think that we should exclusively celebrate St. Patrick's Day on March 15. 
Instead, I propose that we students spend two days celebrating the patron saint of Ireland who intro­duced the concept of the Trinity to the Irish people using the three leaves of a clover in whatever way you deem tilting. 
Whether you plan to wear a bit of green, speak with an Irish brogue, attend a St. Patrick's Day parade or partake in some green beverages, I hope that you enjoy yourselves on the upcoming holiday. 
Aftnrall, who is more entitled to cel­ebrate St. Patrick's Day than those who call themselves the Fighting Irish. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a production error, srudem body vice presidem Maris Braun's name appeared as Maris Brown in a photo cucline in the Thursday, Feb. 14 edition ofThe Observer. The Observer regrets this error. 
Friday, February 15, 2008

The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU GOING TO THE SPICE GIRLS' CONCERT IN CHICAGO TOMORROW NIGHT? 

Brittan Mawby Christina Karam Teddy Schaefer Claire Kleman Lauren Kopsky 
freshman sophomore freshman freshman junior Walsh McGlinn Fisher Lyons Farley 
"They asked me "I think it would "Hell yes! I "I would. but "Do you to go. but I befun to 'wannabe' my mini-skirt have an already have rock out to their lover. '' and platform extra ticket?" plans. .. some fourth shoes are at grade classics. " the cleaners." 





QUENTIN STENGER!The Observer Sophomore Matt Hopke leaves Irish Gardens with a bouquet of flowers for his girl­friend on Valentine's Day. Irish Gardens is the florist's shop located In the basement of LaFortune. Shockingly, it was busy throughout the day there. 
OFFBEAT 
a White Castle in the restaurant chain's home city. 
The morning ceremony at the burger joint, which features the slogan "What You Crave," involved a flower girl who threw salt and pepper packets instead of rice, and employee name tags on the grooms' lapels. 
The cake resembled a White Castle tray holding three "slyder" burgers, fries and a drink -all made of cake and frosting. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

Pregnant woman accused of assault 
ROCHESTER, Pa. -A woman who is seven months pregnant is accused of smashing a beer bottle against a bar­tender's head after she was refused another drink. Police said Keisharra Abercrombie, 30, assaulted the female bartender on Saturday after being told she shouldn't be drinking alcohol. 
Police say Abercrombie also smashed a glass over the bartender's ear and head. 
Authorities said the bar­tender's ear was partially detached. A surgeon in Pittsburgh used two staples and 28 stitches to reattach the top of the ear. 

Abercrombie was arraigned Wednesday on charges of aggravated assault, simple assault, harassment and reckless endangerment. She was in the Beaver County Jail on $25,000 bail. 
Ohio couples have White (Castle) wedding 
COLUMBUS -Three couples got the Valentine's Day wedding they craved on Thursday, marrying at 

IN BRIEF 
Ken Hackett, president of Catholic Relief Services, will lead a roundtable discussion about the accomplishments of the Millenium Challenge Corporation and it<> plans for the future, especially in Afriea, today at 10:30 a.m. in C-1 03 in the Hesburgh Center. 
Thme will be Stations of the Cross tonight at 7:15 in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 
The Notre Dame women's laerosse team will play Canisius tonight at 5 in the Loftus Center. Admission is free. 
The Blaek Cultural Arts Council is hosting its annual Black Coll"eehouse tonight at 7 in the LaFortune Ballroom. Tickets cost $6. 
The Pasquerilla East Music Company (PEMCo) will perform "Kiss Me, Kate" tonight and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. Student ticket<> are $6. 
Pasquerilla West is showing the movie 'A Time to Kill' (1996) Monday at 9 p.m. in the dorm party lounge in honor of Black History Month. Admission is free and snacks will be provided. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band, Symphonic Winds and Symphonic Band will play a con­cert for Junior Parents Weekend Saturday at 2 p.m. in Leighton Concert Hall. Tickets are $10 for general admission, $8 for facul­ty/staff, $5 for seniors, and $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


HIGH 17 HIGH 22 LOW 7 LOW 13 
TODAY  TONIGHT  SATURDAY  SUNDAY  
D::  
1.&.1  
::1: !;;: 1.&.1 3: ...... c(  0 

(,) 
...... 0 HIGH 32 HIGH 22 HIGH 22 HIGH 30 LOW 5 LOW -5 LOW 20 LOW 10 
Atlanta 61 I 36 Boston 44 I 26 Chicago 22 I 22 Denver 41 I 14 Houston 68 I 59 Los Angeles 69 /45 Minneapolis 4 I -9 New York 49/30 Philadelphia 52/30 Phoenix 62/44 Seattle 51 /36 St. Louis 34/14 Tampa 77/50 Washington 54/28 
Friday, February 15, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC parents con1e to can1pus 
Sophomore student board holds events for parents' weekend 
By SARAH MAYER News Writer 
While most Saint Mary's students had the all-school formal and Diverse Students' Leadership Conference to break the monotony of winter, the sophomore class has an 
additional activity to keep things interesting 
Sophomore Parents' Weekend, which starts today and l a s t s through Sunday. 
The soph­
o m o r e board has planned the weekend for about two months 
and some of the events have been booked for a year, sophomore class president Camille Gebert said. 
"It has been a lot of hard work, but it will definitely be a fun weekend," Gebert said. 
About 200 parents will come to campus this week­end, Gebert said. 
There will be a few scheduled events, Gebert said, but she didn't want parents and students to run from place to place. 
"It's important to have a parent~ weekend because it's nice to be able to show your parent's what your life is like at school," she said. "It's nice to share a week­end of events 
w i t h 
y o u r
"Jt,s important to have a 

parents
parent,s weekend because a n d it's nice to be able to show show off 
y o u r
your parent,s what your 

school
life is like at school. ,, 

to them. T h e y get to
Camille Gebert 

s e e

sophomore class president 

where 
y o u r n e w home 
is." 

T h e first planned event is a meet and greet with pro­fessors taking place this afternoon. Parents will be able to purchase t-shirts and visit the bookstore, while they meet professors and listen to a performance from Saint Mary's a Cappel­la group, Bellacappella. 
For Saint Mary's women whose mothers also attend­ed Saint Mary's, there are two legacy receptions Friday and Saturday. The weekend's signature event, mass at the Church of Loretto, and a formal din­ner at the Century Center will take place on Saturday night. 
"This is by far the week­end's biggest event," Gebert said 
The dinner will include a silent auction and a raffle for baskets made by the sophomore board, parents and friends of the College. 
The weekend is about strengthening the relation­ships of Saint Mary's soph­omores and their parents, Gebert said. 
"I hope that this weekend brings a sense of unity and bonding between the daughters and their par­ents," Gebert said. "As we are growing up fast, and maturing into women, it's important that our parents be witnesses to this growth." 
Sophomore Kate Ortigara is excited for her parents to see the campus. 
"I hope my parents get a better sense of my lifestyle here and see the Saint Mary's atmosphere," Ortigara said. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
BCAC readies to host 'Black Coffee House' 
By EMMA DRISCOLL News Writer 
Students will gather to appreciate the power of words at tonight's Black Coffee House, hosted by the Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC) in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
"It's a talent show of "Its a talent show of said. sorts, more focused on The $500 schol­
sorts, more focused 
spoken words, poetry, arship is awarded 
on spoken words, 
song and dance," said to two freshmen Tristan VanVoorhis, poetry, song and students who are president of the BCAC. dance.,, active in the Notre 
The show's theme Dame community this year is "Freedom and usually goes to of Espresso." It will Tristan VanVoorhis students from a "celebrate the power of BCAC president financially-disad­performers had to audition after Christmas break. 
Event proceeds help the BCAC reach out to the Notre Dame com­munity. 
"We do it every year near Junior Parents weekend as an annual fundraiser for our Thurgood Marshall Scholarship," he 
words," according to the BCAC website and will take place at 7 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom and will run for two hours, Van Voorhis said. 
Attendees can expect a show simi­lar to those in the past. 
"Traditionally, [it will be the] same sort of show, same type of acts," VanVoorhis said. 
Individual students as well as stu­dent groups, including Voices of Faith Gospel Choir, will perform at the event, VanVoorhis said. He also said dance acts are more oriented to interpretive dance style. 
About 40 to 50 students will per­form in 13 different acts, VanVoorhis said. 
In order to be part of the show, 
vantaged back­
ground, he said. 

VanVoorhis expects around 200 people to view the event. He said the Coffee House is a unique way for students to express themselves. 
"[The Black Coffee House] recog­nizes different students and their talents here on campus," VanVoorhis said. "[Students] may not have another outlet to share [their tal­ents] with the community. We have the Coffee House as a venue for them to perform." 
Tickets cost $6 for general admis­sion, and beverages and light refreshments will be served. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 15, 2008 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
the mason why it is seen as oppres­sive to women, but many womnn wore thn burqa anyway. 
Wlu~n they remove the burqa it is a sign of new political order, not women's liberation. The real oppression was the womon's strug­gle for educational and economic opportunities, which were also banned by the Taliban, Stanikzai said. 
"We belinve that liberation comns from within. It is not passively received," Staniki:t.ai said. 
There has bnen a recent rnsur­gnnen of hijab in the Mu<>lim world. Women are making the inli1rmed chok~~ to veil. They see it <L'> a sign of piety and also it gives thmn liber­aticm from a preoccupation with bnauty, Stanik:t.<Li said. 
The burqa is also an important tool fill' Muslim women because it gives tlwrn anonymity and saliJty, she said. 
Tlw J>SLC will continue today with workshops in the moming and will conclude with the keynote speech by Dr. Johnnetta Cole, tl1e first limutle president of Spnlman College), at 12:30 p.m. in the Jjttle Thcatnr. 
Contact Nikki Taylor ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Reish 
continued from page 1 
put it all out on the table and let the chips fall where they may." 
Heish and Schmidt launched their campaign in September and have spent much of the year campaign­ing. 
"I think this is something that we've been planning for and that we were ready for to happen," Schmidt said. "We both didn't know what the results would be and we are looking forward to April 1 !when we take olTice)." 
According to Reish and Schmidt, they were able t'o attract voters with a plat­form filled with well­researched ideas and a com­prehensive campaign that included the Web site, bobandgrant.com. 
"Part of the campaign was connecting to the students and trying to make sure that wn're not any better than anyone else," Schmidt said. "The bobandgrant.com thing, a lot of people laughed at it, but it was something different -an informal way of presenting our ideas that was appealing." 
Once they take office, Reish and Schmidt say they will immediately begin to implement their platform, as well as accept student feed­back. 
"Day one we want to start connecting more to the stu­dent body," Reish said. "Gather our team and staff together and day one start with our initiatives and also connect to our student body to see what initiatives they want to see done." 
One of those initiatives they hope to accomplish soon is making DVD rentals in the Huddle free. But the pair also hopes that, over their year in office, they can significantly improve the overall life of the student body. 
"All of our ideas are researched and most of them can be implemented pretty quick. I think the free DVDs is going to happen quickly," Schmidt said. "Now that it's all said and done. I hope stu­dents realize that we truly 
do  want to  make  a  differ­ 
ence."  
After  learning  of  their  

defeat, Braun and Chamberlain gave a lot of credit to their opponents for the strong campaign they ran. 
"[Reish and Schmidt) defi­nitely ran a great cam­paign," Chamberlain said. "We just focused on running our campaign throughout the process. The student body made their choice, and looking back on it, even before we knew the final result, I think the student body is going to be in pretty good shape." 
After Monday's election, the pair realized that they needed to change their strat­egy. "What we did is took a look at our platform and looked at areas of weakness and prepared for the debate on Wednesday," Braun said. "By no means did we resign ourselves to the fact that it was over but we did realize that there were better ways to handle it. Hopefully we demonstrated that." 
Reish and Schmidt's victory also marked a change in a trend in student government dating back through the past four administrations in which either the student body vice president or the executive assistant to the president had won the top office the following year. 
When asked how he felt about being the person to finally break this trend, Reish responded he thinks 
the student body needed a fresh perspective and hopes to be part of the team that will accomplish that. 
Braun said she knew her current position as student body vice president did not guarantee her victory in this year's election. 
"We came in here approaching the campaign with the sense that nothing is guaranteed," she said. "The fact that it didn't work out for us proves that legacy is not the end-all-be-ali. That's probably the way it should be. In this ease I'm a firm believer in the idea that things have a way of work­ing themselves out, and it's for the best of the student body." 
Both Braun and Chamberlain said they do not know what they plan to do next, although Chamberlain said that right now he is just focused on getting through Junior Parents' Weekend. 
"I think that when God closes one door he opens a new window, and what that is, I don't know yet, but I'm excited to l'ind out," Braun said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


JusT ONE BLOCK FRoM NoTRE DAME. 
~~~ 
Come see what so many Notre Dame grads have found so appealing. Irish Crossings luxury townhomes brings the latest in multi-family living to the Notre Dame area. 
Visit us at 54680 Burdette Street, just one block east of the Notre Dame athletic fields. Irish Crossings features two ftoorplan styles: The Brennan and The Delaney. The larger Delaney plan includes: 
Maintenance-free exteriors and grounds Up to four bedrooms, each with its own full bath Two-car attached garages An additional two parking spaces per unit Entertainment and bar area in walk-out lower level Large decks, screened porches or sunrooms Stainless steel appliances Granite kitchen island countertop Raised panel kitchen and bath cabinetry Ceramic tile in foyer, baths and laundry High-efficiency gas furnace Brick and stone exterior materials Landscaping and .irrigation systems Additional options and upgrades available 
Whether you're looking for a vacation ~me, investment opportunity or new residence, Irish Crossings might be the perfect fit for you. And we're still selling at 2007 pricing. 
OPEN HOUSE: Friday, Saturday & Sunday, 10-6. Visit our fully-decorated. model while you're in town this weekend. Or call :~,R6fMil( us at 574.273.2000 for a personal appointment. If you can't see us this weekend, visit us on the web at www.irishcrossings.com. 
Tlrish• 
Write 





ORLD & NATION 
Friday, February 15, 2008 COM PI LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israel, U.S. prepare for possible attacks 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Israel ordered its 
embassies on high alert and the FBI put U.S. 
terror squads on guard to protect Jewish insti­
tutions after Hezbollah's leader vowed Thursday 
to retaliate anywhere in the world for the assas­
sination of one of its top commanders. 
"Zionists, if you want this kind of open war, let 
the whole world listen: Let this war be open," 
Hassan Nasrallah told a throng of fist-waving 
mourners who attended the funeral of Imad 
Mugniyeh. the mastermind of terror spectacu­
lars that claimed hundreds of American lives. 
Thousands of black-clad mourners raised 
their fists in the air, chanting, "At your orders, 
Nasrallah" in response to Nasrallah, who 
appearod via video. He has been in hiding since 
the 2006 Israel-Hezbollah war in Lebanon. 
Iran bans 5 websites before elections 
TEHRAN, Iran -Iranian authorities banned 
five Web sites that comment on current events 
for "poisoning" public opinion ahead of the cru­
cial mid-March parliamentary elections, the 
state radio reported on Thursday. 
The move is the latest in an election period 
which has seen the Interior Ministry, run by 
hard-linflfs close to President Mahmoud 
Ahmadinejad, disqualify more than 2,000 
prospedive candidates-most of them reform­. ers. 
About 280 of those candidates were reinstated 
Tuesday by the Guardian Council, Iran's hard­
line constitutional watchdog. But reformists 
have eomplained the reversal was insufficient 
to ensure a fair election. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Romney endorses McCain in GOP race 
BOSTON -Republican campaign dropout Mitt Romney endorsed John McCain for the party's presidential nomination and asked his national eonvention delegates to swing behind the likely nominee. 
"Even when the contest was close and our disagreements were debated, the caliber of the man was apparent," the former Massachusetts governor said, standing along­side his one-time rival at his now-defunct campaign's headquarters. "This is a man eapable of leading our country at a dangerous hour." 
"Primaries are tough," said McCain, refer­ring to their earlier rancor. "We know it was a hard campaign and now we move forward, we move forward together for the good of our party and the nation." 
The two met privately before appearing together at a news conference. McCain had campaigned in Vermont and Rhode Island but added a flight to Boston to accept the endorse­ment. 
Bush orders Navy to down satellite 
WASHINGTON -President Bush has ordered the Pentagon to use a Navy missile to attempt to destroy a broken U.S. spy satellite -and thereby minimize the risk to humans from its toxic fuel -by intercepting it just before it re-enters the atmosphere, officials said Thursday. 
The effort -the first of its kind -will be undertaken because of the potential that peo­ple in the area where the satellite would oth­erwise crash could be harmed, the officials said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Water deal could face renegotiation 
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. -Legislative lead­ers in Ohio and Wiseonsin proposed changes Thursday in a Great Lakes water compact that could force renegotiation of the deal, which has benn ratified by two states and is moving toward approval in four others. 
The compact, signed by the governors of' the eight Groat Lakes states in 2005, would prohibit most diversions of water from the region's drainage basin and require each state to regulate water usP. 
It needs approval from the states' legislatures and Congress to take efl'eet. Minnesota and Illinois have ratified the compact, which supporters describe as essential to prevent Great Lakes water from someday being sent to thirsty Sun Belt states. 
Clinton's black supporters waver 
"You've got to represent the wishes ofyour constituency," says defecting superdelegate 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -In a fresh sign of trouble for Hillary Rodham Clinton, one of the former first lady's congressional black supporters intends to vote for Barack Obama at the Democratic National Convention, and a second, more prominent lawmaker is openly discussing a pos­sible switch. 
Rep. David Scott's defec­tion and Rep. John Lewis' remarks highlight one of the challenges confronting Clinton in a campaign that pits a black man against a woman for a nomination that historically has been the exclusive property of white men. 
"You've got to represent the wishes of your con­stituency," Scott said in an interview Wednesday in the Capitol. "My proper posi­tion would be to vote the wishes of my constituents." The third-term lawmaker represents a district that gave more than 80 percent of its vote to Obama in the Feb. 5 Georgia primary. 
Lewis, whose Atlanta­area district voted 3-to-1 for Obama, said he is not ready to abandon his back­ing for the former first lady. But several associates said the nationally known will attend the convention. and Lewis reflect pressure "There's nothing going on civil rights figure has The former first lady still on Clinton's black support­right now that would cause become increasingly torn holds a sizable lead among ers, particularly elected me to" change, he said. about his early endorse­the roughly 800 so-called officials, not to stand in the He said any suggestion ment of Clinton. They superdelegates, who are way of what is plainly the that elected leaders should spoke on condition of chosen outside the primary best chance in history to follow their voters "raises anonymity, citing private and caucus system. have an African-American the age old political ques­conversations. But Christine Samuels, president. tion. Are we elected to 
In an interview, Lewis until this week a Clinton "Nobody could see this" monitor where our con­likened Obama to Robert F. superdelegate from New in advance, Rep. Jim stituents are ... or are we Kennedy in his ability to Jersey, said during the day Clyburn of South Carolina, to use our best judgment to generate campaign excite­she is now supporting the highest-ranking black do what's in the best inter­ment, and left open the Obama. in Congress, said of ests of our constituents." possibility he might swing Two other superdele­Obama's emergence. He is In an interview, Cleaver behind the Illinois senator. gates, Sophie Masloff of officially neutral in the offered a glimpse of private "It could (happen). There's Pennsylvania and Nancy race, but expressed his conversations. no question about it. It Larson of Minnesota, are irritation earlier in the He said Rep. Jesse could happen with a lot of uncommitted, having year with remarks that Jackson Jr. of Illinois had people ... we can count and dropped their earlier Clinton and her husband recently asked him "if it we see the clock," he said. endorsements of Clinton. the former president had comes down to the last day 
Clinton's recent string of On Wednesday, David made about civil rights his­and you're the only eight primary and caucus Wilhelm, a longtime ally of tory. superdelegate.... Do you defeats coincides with an the Clintons who had been One black supporter of want to go down in history evident shift in momentum neutral in the presidential Clinton, Rep. Emanuel as the one to prevent a in the contest for support race, endorsed Obama. Cleaver of Missouri, said he black from winning the from party officials who The comments by Scott remains committed to her. White House?" 

UNITED KINGDOM 
Nevv study suggests cancer, obesity link 
"To make the link between cause researchers tracking their body mass
Associated Press 
and effect, we need to tick several index, or BMI -a caleulation based 
LONDON -Being obese or even boxes," said Dr. Andrew Renehan, the on weight and height -and correlat­overweight may increase a person's study's lead author and senior lectur­ing it with incidents of eancer. risk of developing up to a dozen dif­er at the School of Cancer Studies at In men, an average weight gain of ferent types of cancer, European the University of Manchester. "This 33 pounds increased the risk of researchers report in a new study. study begins to tiek the first two or esophageal cancer by 52 percent, thy­
Doctors have long suspected a link three boxes, but more research is roid cancer by 33 percent, and colon between weight gain and certain can­needed to confirm it." and kidney cancers each by 24 per­cers, including colon and breast can­The researchers compiled data from eent, the researeh found.in cers. But the new study, published 141 studies and considered more Washington "if it will help them com­Friday in the journal Lancet, suggests types of cancers and more diverse plete their work on this critical bill." it could also increase chances for can­populations than had been done pre­On Capitol Hill, House Republicans cer of the esophagus, thyroid, kidney, viously. The research covered more stormed out of the I louse chamber to uterus and gall bladder, among oth­than 280,000 cases from North boycott a vote to hold two presidential ers. America, Europe, Australia and Asia. confidants in contempt for failing to 
While the study suggests a link, The subjects, both overweight and cooperate with an inquiry into there is no definitive proof that being normal weight, were followed for whether federal prosecutors were fat in itself eauses cancer. about nine to 15 years, with ousted for political reasons. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, February 15, 2008 
but always empowering. years, attracting more than voices to be heard," she said. a topic that is ol"tnn taboo." "Tiw most important differ­300 people last year, Faunce "The difference here is that While thn subject matter is
SMC 
continued from page 1 
nnces of sexuality, relation­ships, among many other nln­nwnts that shaped thnir lives," 
shn  said.  "The  SMC  
MonologuBs provide  a  safe  
place for  wonu~n  to  give  a  

voice to tlwsn nxpnrinnces ­both positive and nngativn ­

enee is that the SMC said. Monologues has a very local Associate professor of psy­focus -these an1 the stories chology Catherine Pittman, of Saint Mary's-the voices of and faculty advisor to the Saint Mary's. The Vagina Monologues, recognizes that Monologues is a great play, what sets the SMC hownver we feel that the SMC Monologues apart from the Monologues are a better lit for Vagina Monologues is its local Saint Mary's as they rel"lect focus. the stories of our women." "The Monologues follow the 
The Monologues have been same tradition !of Ensler'sl, sucenssful over the past few allowing a variety of women's 
40th Anniversary 
COMMUNITY of SANT'EGIDIO 


FRIDAY FEBRUARY 15 at 4 pm ROOM 330 COLEMAN MORSE 
Paolo t.otancinelli from Rome, Italy, will speak about the history and work of the Community 
A COMMUNITY OF SANT'EGIDIO PRAYER FOR AFRICA WILL FOLLOW AT 5:30P.M. IN THE COLEMAN MORSE CHAPEL 
The Comrnunity of Sant.'Egidio, begun in Rome in 196G, is a C<·.:t.holic Lay A~sociation, <:l movement of lay people 
d..:d:cated to pr·ayer, charity, and living the Gospel rnessage. 
Today ttlcre are over 60,000 members in more than 70 
countries, In 2001 the Cornrnunity of Sant'Egidio received the Notre Dame International Award h:>r its work in 
irli.ernational peace negotiations and service to the poor 
;,round the world. 

rHl.. NCJTRfc DAME COf'.11'vlUNl'TY PRAYS ON WEDNE5DAYS AT 6;30 P,f'-'1. AT THf'' ;,;,nRF DAME l(X:, CH.APEL AND ON THURSDAYS AT' S·JO P.!V!. AT SJ". AII<~USTJNE'S CHURCH OUR SERVICE TO THE ELDERLY IS AT CARDINAL NU:6lNC HOJI.o1F lN SOUTH BEND ON THUI<SOAYS AT 7:00P.M. 
For more information c:ontac:t 

Ric:hard Lasalvia@sbc:global.net or Mic:hael Driessen at 
mdrlesse@nd.edu 

all of the stories, all of the "taboo," Pittman has not experiences, are those of sensed any opposition from members of the Saint Mary's college administrators about Community. The stories have performing them on campus happened in a place that we and dons not expect any in the are familiar with and in the future. lives of those people who we "Our administration would may know. These are our sto­not prnvent students from ries, reflecting our experi­performing the Vagina ences." Monologuos, 
S a i n t and if we want­Mary's lirst ed to do them,
"Women's voices should 
pioneered wo arn surP the idea of not and cannot be that we could," writing she said. "We
silenced. We need to use 
their own do thn SMC
each change to recognize
m o n o -Monologues logues four and celebrate our becauso we fen) years ago that they arn
experiences as women. 
to charac­more relevant terize the and meaningful
Becki Faunce 
unheard to our commu­voices of SMC Monologues producer nity, and even 
the com­munity, Pittman said. 
"This rel"leets the comfort and eompeteney with writing that characterizes our cam­pus." 
This year, !USB is following Saint Mary's model as it debuts thn first-annual Miehiana Monologues. 
"We are excited to sen this idea catch on," Pittman said. 
Pittman recognizes tho importance of the Monologues to create a venue for discus­sion and a place to further the College's mission. 
"As a college that is very concerned with promoting women's leadership, Saint Mary's continually encourages our women to l"ind their voic­es, and to speak out, even when the topie is controver­sial. Women's sexuality is a sensitive topic, but it is also a critically important one that should not be neglected," she said. "These monologues facil­itate greater openness about women's sexuality. and encourage students to think critically about their attitudes toward their bodies, their sex­uality, and their relationships. The SMC Monologues is an attempt to provoke more thought and discussion about 
though it takes m oro e ITort to write, review, 
and  select  
monologues,  we  feel  it  is  
worth tho el'f'ort."  
Faunco echoed  her senti­ 
ments,  noting  that  the  
Monologues  are  a  critical  

opportunity to both unite the College and voice the unheard. 
"Women's voices should not and cannot be silenced. We need to use each change to recognize and cnlebrate our experiences as womnn," slw said. "If our experiences are played down and neglectnd, wo cannot move forward." The datns of the pnrformance coincide with V-I>ay, Feb. 14. to furtlwr cement tlw mossagP of' ~~mpowering women and hearing their stories, Pittman said. 
"We are following the tradi­tion of' V-I>ay, choosing a simi­lar time," she said. "Also, in the same tradition. Wll will bB giving all the proceeds to a rape crisis center in South Bend." 
There is a $3 suggested donation to S.O.S .. which is the only sexual assault crisis helpline in St. JosBph County. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Friday, February 15, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,376.98 -175.26
.Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 751 67 2,590 3,654,373,246 

AMEX NASDAQ 2,332.54 :41.39 NYSE ·""'·· '7~dtw •.... S,9£)8.4l·;;:1~\i-.~Q~[07 S&P 500 1,348.86 -18.35 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13,452.4!i''~i 74.00 FTSE 100 (London) 5,879.30 -0.80 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  -0.88  -1.20  135.17  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -1.81  -0.81  43.97  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -2.73  -0.74  26.41  
!SHARE RUS 2000 (IWM)  -2.32  -1.67  70.18  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +3.36 +0.124 3.818 13-WEEK BILL +0.45 +0.010 2.220 30-YEAR BOND +3.12 +0.141 4.653 5-YEAR NOTE +2.90 +0.078 2.770 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.19 95.46 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.80 911.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.38 92.00 
Exchange Rates YEN 107.8600 EURO 0.6832 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9996 BRffiSH POUND 0.5080 
IN BRIEF Bernanke calls economy "sluggish" 
NEW YOHK -Wall Street retreated Thursday after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke predicted a "sluggish" economy until later in the yoar and more mortgagn­relatnd losses at banks. The Dow Jones indus­trial average fell 175 points. 
Though the Fed chairman's comments sug­gested the central bank is still open to further interest rate reductions, the tone was, as expocted, sombor. Bernanke said the housing and credit crises have weighed on the econo­my and curbed hiring. If the job market deteri­orates, consumer spending, which is crucial for economic growth, will keep dwindling. 
The Labor Department said Thursday the number of workers filing unemployment claims fell 9,000 to 348,000 last week. But after the January jobs report that showed the first net jobs loss in more than four years, Wall Street remains worried that businesses are becoming cautious about hiring and that unemployment will compound the debt prob­lems that have been slamming the markets and the greater economy. . 
After three strong days on Wall Street, investors found scant encouragement in Bernanke's testimony and cashed in their gains. 
Swiss develop underwater convertible 
GENEVA -OK. so the Swiss have invented a car that runs on land and underwater. But did they HEALLY have to make it a convertible? 
It's called the "sQuba," and conjures up mem­ories of James Bond's amphibious Lotus Esprit from "The Spy Who Loved Me." That fictional vehide travelod on land and. when chased by bad guys in a helicopter, plunged into the water and became an airtight submarine -complete with "torpedoos" and "depth charges." 
But "Q" isn't responsible for this one. 
The concept car -which unlike Bond's is not armed -was developed by Swiss designer Rinspend Inc. and is set to make a splash at the Gennva Auto Show next month. 
Company CEO Frank Rinderknecht, a self-pro­fessed Bond fan, said he has been waiting 30 years to recreate the car he saw Roger Moore use to drive off of a dock. 
FEMA trailers fail safety tests 
Agency to rush Katrina victims out of 35,000 units and into temporary housing 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS-After downplaying the risks for months, the Federal Emergency Management Agency said Thursday it will rush to move Gulf Coast hurricane victims out of roughly 35,000 govern-ment-issued trailers· because tests found dan­gerous levels of formalde­hyde fumes. 
FEMA Administrator R. David Paulison said the agency hopes to get every­one out and into hotels, motels, apartments and other temporary housing by the summer, when the heat and stuffy air could worsen the problem inside the trailers. 
"The real issue is not what it will cost but how fast we can move people out," he said. 

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said fumes from 519 tested trailers and mobile homes in Louisiana and Mississippi were, on aver­age, about five times what people are exposed to in most modern homes. Formaldehyde, a preserva­tive commonly used in con­struction materials, can lead to breathing problems and is also believed to causn cancer. has suffered headaches victims of disasters. Mobile in children, the elderly or 
The findings stirred and sinus problems, in homes are generally people who already have worry and anger across the addition to the asthma she roomier than trailers and respiratory trouble, CDC Gulf Coast, where FEMA is had before. considered less susceptible Director Dr. Julie already a dirty word and The CDC findings could to buildups of fumes. Gerberding said. About 5 housing has been scarce· also have disturbing impli­FEMA will press ahead percent had levels high since Hurricanes Katrina cations for the safety of with plans to supply left­enough to cause breathing and Rita struck in 2005. other trailers and mobile over, never-used mobile problems even in people 
"Am I angry at FEMA? Of homes across the country, homes from the twin disas­who do not ordinarily have course I am. They should Homeland Security ters to victims of last respiratory trouble, she have started moving people Secretary Michael Chertoff week's tornadoes in the said. out of these trailers once said on Capitol Hill on South, Paulison said. But Gerberding said the tests they first started finding Thursday. But the CDC the mobile homes will be could not draw a direct problems," said Lynette study did not look beyond opened up, aired out and link between formaldehyde Hooks, 48. She said that the FEMA housing. tested first, he said. levels and the wide range since she began living in Paulison vowed that the The formaldehyde levels of ailments reported by her trailer outside her agency will never again in some trailers were trailer occupants. But the damaged New Orleans use the flimsy, cramped found to be high enough to CDC urged people to move home in October 2006, she travel trailers to shelter cause breathing problems out as quickly as possible. 

Export growth shrinks trade deficit 
year. expected to be a major issue in the
Associated Press 

Analysts said the decline in the dol­upcoming presidential campaign, with 
WASHINGTON -Despite a soaring lar over the past two years has helped Democrats arguing that the huge foreign oil bill and another record spur strong increases in U.S. exports, deficits have contributed to the loss of deficit with China, the overall U.S. with American goods now cheaper and more than 3 million manufacturing trade deficit declined in 2007 after set­thus more competitive in many over­jobs since 2000 as U.S. companies ting records for five consecutive years. seas markets. moved production to low-wage coun­
The Commerce Department reported Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. econo­tries such as China. Thursday that the deficit dropped to mist at Iligh Frequency Economies, "These numbers provide further evi­$711.6 billion last year, a decline of 6.2 said that the smaller December trade dence of China's consistent and delib­percent. The trade deficit with China deficit will help to boost overall eco­erate efforts to violate our trade laws continued to rise, jumping by 10.2 per­nomic growth from the final three by doing everything from placing tar­cent to $256.3 billion. That was the months of last year from the initial iffs on our auto parts to misaligning largest gap ever recorded with a single estimate of a mere 0.6 percent expan­their currency," said Sen. Debbie country, as Chinese imports surged sion. He predicted trade and a better Stabenow, D-Mich. "There is no doubt, despite a string of high-profile recalls reading on inventory stockpiles would this unfair trade hurts American busi­of tainted products. boost growth in the gross domestic nesses and hurts middle-class fami­
The Bush administration credited its product to 1.1 percent when the figure lies." free trade policies for spurring strong gets revised later this month. Lawmakers have introduced a vari­growth in exports while critics eon­In other economic news, the Labor ety of bills to impose economic sanc­tended that even with the lower over­Department reported that the number tions on China for what they contend all deficit, the imbalance is still nearly of newly laid off workers filing claims are unfair practices such as manipu­double what it was in 2001, the year for unemployment benefits fell by lating its currency to keeps its value Bush took office. 9,000 to 348,000 last week. That was low against the dollar, which makes 
For December, the deficit fell by 6.9 larger than the 6,000 decline that ana­Chinese goods cheaper in U.S. markets percent to $58.8 billion, a bigger-than­lysts had been expecting. and American products more expen­expected improvement to close out the The country's trade performance is sive overseas. 
page 8 
Students 
continued from page 1 
more common. "Unfortunately, this is kind of becoming an occurrence on college campuses across the nation. Hopefully, this trend will stop," she said. 
Brown also expressed a sense of grief at the NIU tragedy. · 
"This is a hard thing to react to," she said. "This sort of thing has become all too common at sehools in the 

United States." "This sort of thing happen at Senior has become all too Notre Dame, 
Meghan Jebb, the University
common at schools

who was study­has precau­
in the United 

ing in Dublin at tions in place the time of the States., designed to Virginia Tech manage a tragedy, ques­tragedy.
Meghan Jebb 

tioned the uni­"Certainly
Senior

versality of we hope it 
"lie probably picked Valentine's Day for a rea­son," junior Hyan Simmons said. 
Sophomore Kyle Hagelskamp agreed. 
"It's too bad that people don't feel the love and sup­port of the world and resort to doing something like this," he said. "We need to work on providing a loving and supportive environment to try to prevent this sort of tragedy." 
Brown stressed that while she obviously hopes that no 
similar situa­
tion would 

The Observer + NEWS Friday, February 15, 2008 


Lafayette Square Townhomes 
424 N. Frances Street 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

sehool shoot­ings. 
"I don't know if this kind of thing happens in other countries. After the Va. Teeh shootings, the kids in Ireland were like, 'why do they have guns?'" she asked. 
Colleen Fleshman, who is from Illinois, said that her first reaction after hearing the news was to call her friends who attend NIU to make sure of their safety. She said she was relieved to find that a II her friends were alright. 
Although the shooter's motivations are not yet known, some students have wondered about the timing or his attack. 
would never 
happen at 

Notre Dame," she said. "We think our campus is very safe. But if it were to ever happen, I'm thankful that we do have the correct measures in place to adequately inform the stu­dent body and react quick­ly." 
These measures include the Emergency Networking System that will alert stu­dents to any emergency situ­ations through text mes­sages, phone calls and emails. These emergency situations include shootings. 
Contact John Tierney at tierney.l6@nd.edu 
THE PERFECT NOTRE DAME.GIFTS FOR JPW, GRADUATION, AND BIRTHDAYS CELEBRATING NOTRE DAME >hotography by Matt Cashore Text by Kerry Temple kNuWN 99 NAJvtb Written by James B. King, C.S.C Exclusivelv at: HAMME NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE IN THE ECK CENTER phone:·(574) 631-6316 • www.ndcotalog.com  

.--~---~··---~­
Friday, February 15, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
5 killed, 16 injured in university shooting 
Gunman dressed in black opened fire in Northern Illinois lecture hall with shotgun, handguns; four died on scene 

Associated Press 
DEKALB -A former student dressed in black opened fire with a shotgun and two handguns from the stage of a lecture hall at Northern Illinois University on Thursday, killing five students and injuring 16 others before commit­ting suicide, authorities said. 
The gunman fatally shot four women and a man in a "brief, rapid-fire assault" that sent terri­fied students running for cover, uni­versity President John Peters said. Four died at the scene, including the gunman, and the other two died at a hospital, he said. Two vic­tims were in critical condition. 
Investigators did not know what led the gunman, a former NIU graduate student in sociology, to spray bullets at the geology class instructor and dozens of students in the large hall around 3 p.m. 
"I kept thinking, "Oh God, he's going to shoot me. Oh God. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead,"' said Desiree Smith, a senior journalism major who dropped to the floor near the back of the auditorium. 
"People were crawling on each other, trampling each other," she said. "As I got near the door, I got up and I started running." 
Officials said 162 students were registered for the class but it was unknown how many were there Thursday. 
Lauren Carr said she was sitting in the third row when she saw the shooter walk through a door on the right-hand side of the stage, point­ing a gun straight ahead. 
"I personally Army-crawled halfuray up the aisle," said Carr, a 20-year-old sophomore. "I said I could get up and run or I could die here." 
She said a student in front of her was bleeding, "but he just kept run­ning." 
"I heard this girl scream, 'Run, he's reloading the gun."' 
Student Jerry Santoni was in a back row when he saw the gun­man enter a service door to the stage. 
"I saw him shoot one round at the teacher," he said. "After that, I proceeded to get down as fast as I could." 
Santoni dived down, hitting his head the seat in front of him, leav­ing a knot about half the size of a pingpong ball on hi'> forehead. 
The teacher, a graduate student, was wounded but was expected to recover, the school president said. He did not give details of the i11iuries. 
Peters said the gunman was not currently enrolled at the 25,000­student campus about 65 miles west of Chicago. . 
"It appears he may have been a student somewhere else," University Police Chief Donald Grady said. 
Seventeen victims were brought to nearby Kishwaukee Community Hospital, where one died, accord­ing to spokeswoman Theresa Komitas. School officials said four people, including the gunman, died at the lecture hall and two later died at hospitals. 
Michael Gentile was meeting with two of his students directly beneath the lecture hall when the shootings happened. He could hear the chaos a few feet above his head. 
"The shotgun blast must have been so loud," said Gentile, a 27­year-old media studies instructor. "It sounded like something was dropping down the stairs ... We had no idea what this was." 
Then, shorter, sharper noises he recognized as handgun shots. 
"There was a pretty quick suc­cession ... just pow, pow, pow," said Gentile, who didn't leave hi'> office for about 90 minutes. He used a surveillance camera just outside his office to confirm that the people knocking on his door were police. 
George Gaynor, a senior geogra­phy student, who was in Cole Hall when the shooting happened, told the student newspaper the Northern Star that the shooter was "a skinny white guy with a stocking cap on." 

JPW 
continued from page 1 
ings similar to those in her class. 
"I am really excited about having my parents come to experience what my life is like here," Miller said. 'They will be able to see where my friends come from by examining their parents and be able to under­stand what makes Notre Dame so special." 
The weekend's events will commence tonight with an opening gala in the Joyce Center for all juniors and their parents. The ceremony is the most for­mal event of the weekend and is a chance for the students and their families to become 
acquainted with one another over appetizers, dessert and dancing. 
Saturday morning's events are designed to be more specific to each individual student. Juniors will begin the morning partici­pating in a college specific "col­legiate workshop" in order to offer their parents insight into their academic life at Notre Dame. For lunch, the families will return to the student's resi­dence hall to socialize with friends and families of the other residents. 
Following Saturday's luncheon is the JPW mass, beginning at 5:30, University president Father John Jenkins, will pre­side. Saturday's events will con­clude with the President's Dinner where Father Jenkins and junior class president Bob Reish will speak in addition to live entertainment. 
The weekend will conclude with a Sunday brunch in the Joyce Center. 
Many students study abroad during the spring semester of their junior year and, therefore, cannot participate in JPW. The committee has created a way for the parents of these students to experience the Notre Dame community by opening the event to seniors who studied abroad in the spring of 2007. Approximately 50 seniors and their parents will participate in the weekend this year. 
Fremeau offers an explana­tion for the reasoning behind the timing of the event. 
"Along with first-year orienta­tion and Commencement, JPW is the only other major event focused on parents as official guests of the University," he said. "The study-abroad pro­grams have grown in popularity at Notre Dame, especially over the last fifteen years or so, impacting JPW somewhat, but the weekend still draws a major percentage of the class each year." 
Senior architecture majors, who are all abroad during their junior year, host their own par­ents' weekend every spring. The program, called Expo Roma, showcases all of the senior's work from their previous year in Rome. The students decorate the lobby of Bond Hall to look like Rome, fly in a professor from Rome as a guest speaker and present a slide show of their time abroad to their parents. 
"I really liked [Expo Roma] last year because it was a really personalized Junior Parents' Weekend for us archies," Caitlin Shannon, a fifth-year architec­ture major said. "It's a weekend organized by us, and it's all about our experiences in Rome our junior year. It's a very per­sonal way to show our experi­ence at Notre Dame to our par­ents." 
The University's juniors are looking forward to this weekend with anticipation. For Miller, she sees it as a chance for her par­ents to be able to understand her life at Notre Dame. 
"With my parents coming here, a lot of stories will be shared between my family and my friends and their families," Miller said. "Having those mem­ories will serve and a reminder to why we love this place so much." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichela@nd.edu 

Attention First-Year MBA's 
Would you like to earn an $18,000 fellowship for your second year? 
The William G. McGowan Charitable Fund has just awarded the MBA Program a grant that covers $18,000 for the second year for an MBA student! 
Applicants must comply with the following criteria: 
-Must currently be enrolled full-time in the first year of the MBA Program -Must currently have at least a 3.0 GPA -Must submit a 500-1000 word essay on the contributions of William G. McGowan, founder and Chairman of MCI, to today's business world in general or to the telecommunications field in particular -Must submit one letter of recommendation from a faculty member -Must exhibit attributes such as scholarship, talent, leadership qualities, character and community involvement 
All First-Year MBA's are eligible, excluding those that are already receiving a full tuition scholarship. 
Deadline: Applications are due to Rachel Gerkey in the MBA Office by Thursday, March 20, 2008. 
The winner will be announced in early May Contact information: Gerkey.2@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, February 15, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box n9. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken fowler Kyle West 
A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily AssT. MANA<;ING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris !line SCENt: EDITOR: "f:te Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
AnVE!lTISIN<; MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
An DF.~JGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEM~ ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
('i74) 631-7471 
FAx 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 6J 1-6900 ohservad@nd.t·du 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('i74) 6JI-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ol"me@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) (>31-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-S313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 ohsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.t·du 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
• OTHE
BSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry of Nmre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colk'ge. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by polic·ies of rhe administration ofeither insrirurion. The Observer reserves the right to rcfi1se advcrtisemt·nt~ based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rht· majoril)' of the Editor in Chiet; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and dcpartmt•nr editors. Comnll'ntarit-s, lerters and columns present the views of the ;tuthors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vit'Wpoinr space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lcners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiow regarding Obsrrver policirs should be direcud to Editor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tlu; Uh~rv(•r (U.SI'S ~')') 2·4UOH) i1 puhl!.lu:d Mmutry rlnnugh f..'riday r:lll:c:pt durin~ rx~m .t1111 Vi'~<lfiiUI l~f!lld•. A UJit1Cfl(liUU1 tn nw tll1!1Crvt:r is $1011 for tlllt' ;u,:.rdrmi, 
Vc:.tr: $15 ror 1111¢ lefm:!IICI 
lhc Ohtcrvc:r •~ puhhlhrd ;~r I'OSTMASTER 11.!4 "i..>tnh Dmmg 1-iall Send .ltidi'C:lo3 curtcctlom cu Nurre D.mrc. IN 1f,'\"i(J-On9 '11rc0h~em:r Prru~~.licalJKI'IJ¥-C: pard •t Nortc D.tmc P.O. Boxn9 .md Jtldiuon.:.lm.tiling oAk". 02-1 Somh Dinin~ t { J.ll 
Nuuc: l>;mr~. IN 46'5'56-Un'J 
'I he Ohlc-rvC'r i' ~ mc:mhct ut du· A.~ro~ted Pre"''· All rcproduetiun nMhl~ .uc rcatr~d. 

Bishop conference relocation a bad idea 
The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) relocated its It should be noted that allowing for a presentation of the show 
two-day "The Eloquence of Teaching" seminar because it didn't on campus entails no involuntary participation on behalf of any 
want to be associated with an anticipated March performance of student or faculty. The performance is part of no curriculum and 
"The Va!-,tina Monologues" on campus. no student is required to watch the performance. Those who do 
Given that the conference was not open to the public, theology participate as both actors and audience do so out of their own 
department chair and seminar organizer John Cavadini said the free will. 
USCCB did not intend to make a public statement by moving the If nothing else, "The Vagina Monologues" continues to incite 
seminar off campus, but that's exactly what they did. deliberation and debate. Every year around this time our 
While neither Cavadini nor the Conference may Viewpoint section is flooded with Letters to the 
have intended the relocation as a public state­Editor flashing back and forth, espousing diflerent 
OTHE
ment, it nonetheless delivers an implicit message opinions on the matter. To our minds, that discoursn
BSERVER
that Notre Dame's campus has somehow become alone is a good thing in and of itsdf'. tainted or rendered unfit for the conference A<> both a premier academic university and a pre­
Editorial
because it allows students to perform "The mier Catholic university, Notre Damn has always 
Vagina Monologues" on campus. had the complex dynamic of trying to maintain the 
To equate the USCCB's holding a confi.m~nce on University's Catholic eharaeter while still allowing 
Notre Dame's campus with endorsing the "Monologues" seems fill' academic freedom. The two f(m~Ps exist in cn~ative tension 
as far-fetched and irrational as suggnsting that the University is and nowhere is this more evident than in the annual controversy 
endorsing the show by simply allowing its performance. We see surrounding "The Vagina Monologues." However complicated 
an important distinction between the two. this dynamic may be, we see no reason to view the Catholic 
Hegardless of one's opinion of the "Monologues" themselves, character-academic freedom debate as a znro sum game, when' 
there ran be no denying that the show represenL<> one end of the gains on one side entail loss on thn other. There can and should 
delibnrative speetrum on faith and sexuality, however strong. be some give and take bntwnen the two. 
I low can the University and its students even bngin to discuss Notre Dame ean bn Catholic and still host "The Vagina ·issues of sexuality and Catholicism at Notre Dame if we don't Monologues." If the USCCB could appredate that, relocation 
allow all voices to be heard in the conversation'! might not have bmm an issue. 
lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Batman's superiority evident 
The Batman vs. Superman debate is the hottest thing to hit The Observer since the Vagina Monologues, and I commend The Scene for their bravery in printing Berrios' and Fitzpatrick's articles ("Superman more than mere mortal," "Batman's humanity is key," Feb. 12)­needless to say this is this year's version of "SMC Girls are Parasites" and a pre­cursor to next year's "Watlles vs. Pancakes," but I digress. 
Bruce Wayne is often discredited as a superhero because people argue that the large sum of money he inherited has enabled him to become the Batman. Money, these heathens argue, is his only superpower. However, Bruce Wayne is not merely a billionaire playboy, as he might come across in Batman Begins. We cannot forget that although there ar11 many billionaires in the world, it is not every day that Bill Gates hits the streets to fight crime. It takes bravery, courage, dedication, strong moral fiber and a life­long commitment to physical training to become a self-made superhero, and money cannot buy these things. 
Moreover, where does Batman shop for Batman gear? I must once again beg readers to forget what they have seen in Batman Begins and remember that Batman's secret identity is a closely guarded secret. lie cannot simply hire a scientist to create his gadgets, or a mechanic to build a Batmobile, lest he rouse their suspicions. Furthermore, last time I checked there are no local super­hero gear shops ... anywhere -as if Bruce Wayne or Batman could simply waltz into one and make a purchase any­way. No, it is Bruce Wayne's brilliance, (something else that money cannot buy), which not only helps him solve mysteries and talk his way out of sticky situations, but invent and build the many gadgets that make Batman the hero he is. 
Another important facet of the argu­ment that Berrios and Fitzpatrick Jell out of their own artieles is which superhero would win in a fight. The answer, of' course, is Batman. In the comics, Superman recognized his potential to bB a threat to humanity and entrusted Batman with a kryptonite ring to use against him should the need arise. Although this ring was destroyed (proba­bly to Batman's benefit, because kryp­tonite proved to be a careinogen) he did continue to keep kryptonite in his belt (presumably in a pouch lined with lead) and in the Batcave. 
Some would argue that Superman could easily vaporize Batman from space with heat vision, to which I respond, try it. Preparedness is Bruen Wayne's motto, and I am certain that in addition to his hip flask of kryptonite, he has outfitted his home, his vehicles and his suit to withstand at least preliminary blows from Superman's most outrageous abilities. Constant readiness proves that should a light between the two occur, Batman would be the surviving superhero. 
In closing, I would like to loosely quote a dassic 1995 film, Angus. Angus is a film about an overweight high school kid struggling to lit in. This movie best explains why Batman is undoubtedly superior to Superman in every way. Superman may stand fi1r "truth, justice and the Anwrican way" but that does not make him brave or courageous. A<> Angus' grandfather explains to him. "Superman is indestructible, and you can't be brave if you're indestructible." Instead, it's people like Batman, poople who "arc dill'erent, and can be crushed and know it. Yet they keep on going out there every lime" that are admirable. Don't be a Superman, he warns his grandson. Be brave, bn a Batman. 
J.J. Cappa 
senior Keenan Hall Feb. 12 

E 

TODAY'S STAFF 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports 
Liz Harter Bill Brink Madeline Buckley Michael Bryan Brian McKenzie Chris Doyen 

"If you hate a person, you hate 
Graphics Scene 

something in him that is part of 
Mary Jesse Mark Witte 

yourself. What isn't part of 
ourselves doesn't disturb us. " Kara King 
Viewpoint 
Hermann Hesse German author 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, February 15, 2008 page 11 
A tribute to our tainted water supply 
Before I begin, I would like to thank my parents for reading during this JPW week­end. Thanks. Mom and Dad. 
A couple of weeks ago (before I con­tracted the black plague and was quaran­tined to my side Bob Kessler 
room) I was over at The Hock doing some if 
lifting when I real-House 0 Stix ized that I had forgot­ten to bring bottled water with me. My 
choice: Risk my life drinking from the pos­sibly contaminated drinking fountains out­side the second floor gymnasium, or sim­ply go without water. While my mouth was desperate for some liquidy goodness, I attempted to persevere. I could not go without a swig, however, and I was forced to drink from the ancient spouts on floor two. Even though I can't assume that the sickness I got soon after can't be traced back to my unsafe workout hydration practices, I think my subjugation could have been prevented ifwe would simply follow the example of one Easter Heathman. 
Late last month, Easter Heathman passed away. In the weeks that followed his death, I read several obituaries describing how he was one of the first people to arrive at the scene of Knute Rockne's plane crash. In the years since this fateful event, Mr. Heathman main­tained the site, and led people on unoffi­cial tours of it. He even organized for a memorial to be built in our former coach's honor. 
Here on campus, while we refer to the football stadium as the House that Rockne Built, the building that was actually built to honor the coach is the Rockne Memorial, or, The Rock. For those of you who don't know, (the approximately seven fat people on campus) The Rock is where many students go to work out. While I sometimes swim or lift weights {the small­er ones), other people play basketball, racquetball, or run on treadmills. The facility is also used for freshman physical education classes, as well as fitness and dance classes throughout the year. Since countless students have come through the building to meet for Coach O'Sullivan's golf class, and so many have used The Rock over the years, it is almost shameful to our great coach that we honor him with such a downtrodden facility. 
Knute Rockne was a coach who undoubtedly cared a lot about fitness. I'm certain his teams were a hard-working, intelligent, nasty groups of men that were feared by teams across the country {a far cry from our current situation). These ath­letes undoubtedly went through tough practices under the summer sun, and probably took many water breaks drink­ing from the best sources that north-cen­tral Indiana has to offer. 
Are we really honoring him with this workout facility where students are afraid of contracting diseases from the water? I don't know if my recent plight with a flu­like virus is a direct cause of drinking Rockne-water, but it certainly would not shock me ifthe water in the facility is brought through lead pipes to get to the students who are counting on it. I could be wrong, but I even think one of the campus presidential tickets ran on a clean water campaign. I sure hope they won because we all know the student body president has enough power to get this done. 
Anyways, what we really ought to do to raise awareness about our water situation is bring in a celebrity who has experience cleaning up water. I'm thinking we bring in Erin Brockovich herself. She sure knows enough about cleaning tainted water, and I would think Notre Dame stu­dents are just the group of people that a justice seeking woman like Ms. Brokovich would be willing to help out. 
Actually, on second thought, nobody really knows who she is. It might be better ifwe just get her cinematic counterpart Julia Roberts to come to campus and speak on our behalf. I'm sure that could be fun. We could have her screen some mediocre romantic comedies like Notting Hill and My Best Friend's Wedding, and she could talk about that scene in Ocean's 12 where she acted as a woman pretend­ing to be Julia Roberts. 
Seeing as that probably wouldn't help, we should probably just fix the pipes. If we can spend the money to upgrade the house that Rockne built, we should at least be able to find some really rich alumnus to throw a couple million at us and fix up The Hock. I'm sure Fr. Jenkins would love to have another fence built across campus and spread the construc­tion to South Quad. It's the least we can do not only to stop the fear that is spreading across campus about the drinking water in the Rock, but also to honor the memory of our greatest football coach. 
If Easter Heathman can single handedly honor Coach Rockne at the place of his death, our administration should certainly be able to fmd a way to rightfully honor him at the place where he made a name for himself, and it would not take too much effort to fix the Rock into a healthy facility. 
Or, we could just get water bottles. 
Bob Kessler is a junior majoring in political science and economics. He is a supporter offree speech and the fair tax, and you can read more ofhis work at saltystix.com. He can be contacted at rkessler@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Unity crucial in big games 
During the past two weeks, we have had the privilege of seeing three outstanding basketball games against Providence, DePaul and Marquette. We've solidified our place in the Big East, and Mike Brey has distinguished himself as one of the game's best (and one of the classiest head coaches I have ever seen). Best of all, the excellence of our team and our coach has been provided to the national audi­ence through ESPN. There's been only one downside. 
The Leprechaun Legion has also had many opportunities to display its spirit. However, I've noticed that the cameras love to watch us dur­ing the Celtic Chant (read: Uppercut Song). Now. many dedicated Zahmbies have had excellent, front-row seats during these games. We're all familiar with the Zahm House tradi­tion of forming an X with their forearms during the Chant. This gesture is totally inappropriate during a nationally televised basketball game. When the game is Zahm versus Dillon or Cavanaugh versus Howard, dorm loyalty is encouraged. But when it's Notre Dame versus Marquette, the most important loyalty is to the Irish. 
The national audience has no concept of PE or O'Neill; when they see some students not following the rest, it's a sign of division and dis­unity. By making the X, Zahmbies are sending the message that they are more loyal to some­thing besides Notre Dame. They are saying they're more loyal to Zahm House than Our Lady's University. So Zahmbies, please, don't do that when the nation is watching. At pep rallies or interhall games or whatever, go ahead. Be proud of your dorm. But when we come together as a university, be loyal to your university. Be Zahmbies when you should be Zahmbies, and be Loyal Sons when you should be Loyal Sons. Then you can go back to your cheeky (when's the Bun Hun?) shenanigans that the rest of us find so annoyingly charming. 
Just remember: it's not God, Country, Stanford Hall, Notre Dame; it's God, Country, Notre Dame. We are NO; let's act like it. 
Kyle Tennant freshman Stanford Hall Feb. 10 

'Monologues' ineffective 
Dear Notre Dame students, 

As an alumnus from Our Lady's esteemed University, I have a suggestion to you: Don't limit yourself. You are some of the absolute best and brightest students that America has to offer. I have spent countless hours analyz­ing Notre Dame's academic freedom debates throughout the years, especially with regard to the Vagina Monologues. 
I have to admit that I was pretty ignorant regarding the Monologues back in 2002, so in 2005 I started to read them. Then, with the wonderful invention of "YouTube," I have been able to watch almost every skit. Not only is this play inappropriate for Notre Dame, its performances are not suitable for any university, even the secular. 
Religion really has nothing to do with it. The play is vul­gar, tasteless and destroys the spirit of womanhood. My question to so many universities is, "why do so many believe the Monologues are the answer to end violence against women?" I do not see it as an answer but as an additional problem! 
We will not end violence against women until we appre­ciate women physically, emotionally, mentally and spiritu­ally. I am trying to be as open-minded as possible, but I cannot see how the Vagina Monologues could ever achieve this task. Wake up Notre Dame and use the gifts God has given you. Stand up for women and women's rights. There are countless ways to cooperatively work together as a university to end violence against women. 
The Vagina Monologues, which are unarguably antithet­ical to Catholic teaching, do not allow the University to work together to fight this battle. The Vagina Monologues turns off a majority of students and alumni due to its graphic nature and inappropriate language and actions. Let's work together. Let's really make a difference to end violence of all kinds, as a university united in Christ. You are all intelligent enough to fmd solutions to the world's problems in which all members of the Notre Dame com­munity can take part. There are better ways to fight these battles, ways that are in line with the teaching of the Catholic Church. Your job is to think of these ways. Don't ever sell yourself short! 
Dump the Monologues and begin fresh, and by the way, kudos to those students who have worked so hard over the years to develop the "Edith Stein Project." What a hero and role model to help shape the world's view of feminism. 
Greg Bergman alumnus Class of 1997 Feb. 13 
PERSPECTIVE: 2001 
The following extracts are from Letters to the Editor that appeared in The Observer in 2001 in response to Saint Mary's cancelling a production of 'The Vagina Monologues." 
Surprised by censorship 
Censorship is an ugly word. Vagina, apparently, is an even uglier one. Saint Mary's has decided to ban this year's performances of "The Vagina Mono­logues." Such a clear act of censorship should by no means be surprising, but it should also not go unquestioned. 
The decision to ban by itself would not be wholly shocking. After all, we are talking about a Catholic campus. The problem here lies in the fact that the play was performed last year on the same campus. 
... Last year's presentation generated an immense amount of discussion about sex on both campuses. Notre Dame's campus has been labeled rape-prone" by more than one lecturer, and one of the main fac­tors in that label is the repression of any open talk about sexuality. 
00. 

I hope some sort of agreement can be reached by discussing this and I hope people participate in this discussion. Nothing sends a more powerful message about us than apathy, after all. 
Jeff Eyerman O'Neill Hall Jan. 24, 2001 

Women's empowerment not expressed in 'Monologues' 
The last time I checked, rape and child molesta­tion were not women's empowerment issues. They were considered violence against women issues. 
00. 

One of the central messages of the show is that "great sex is possible between people who have absolutely no emotional commitment to each other." 
00. 

The show's final result is that it has condoned and glorified rape, child molestation, pornography and prostitution. 
In a world where feminists and all those who fight for women's justice have worked so hard over the years to gain respect and admiration for the way we manage our lives, I find it hard to see how this show could further that cause at all, other than giv­ing someone untold opportunities to say the word "vagina." 
000 

This play, in its language and its subject mat­ter, is not women's empowerment, it is a cheap way of getting attention and an excuse to act immature. Thank you, Saint Mary's, for not giving in! 
Katherine Hoppe 
sophomore 
Lyons Hall 
Jan. 31, 2001 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, February 15, 2008 
page 12 

Grams dravvs inspiration from Noh and Kabuki theater 
where the narrative goes back and forth some to work with and truly generous with 1300s. llalf of Grams' source material, By TAE ANDREWS between one world and the other until the their time in helping to bring this show "The Twilight Crane" was originally written Scene Ediwr final scene, where the story ares overlap together," Grams said. "There's no way I in this style. 
and draw together. could ever repay them, but I think their "I think what I Jove about .Japanese 
For his FTT Honors Thesis project, senior By his estimation, Grams said he took work speaks for itself." Theatre in general is the specificity, how Nate Grams dndded to try something nnw about sixty percent of the lines in "The "The Flight" has a strong Japanese influ­one tiny movement, executed prndsely, can and mix things up-literally. Flight" from the two ence, which Grams communicate so much," he said. "I love 
In writing and directing "The Flight," he texts, with the says dates back to that kind of power and subtlety." crossed the text<; of llenrik Ibsen's "A Doll remainder coming his years in high Grams began working on this project in I louse" and Kinoshita Junji's "The Twilight from his own hand. In writing the play, Grams said school, where he the spring of last ynar. His proposal for the Crane." cn~ating an original work that is an In addition to writ­he cut the plays in what he calls studied Japanese Honors Project was due in April 2007 and amalgamation of both plays. ing and directing and traveled to he began his n~search at that time. "Since
"dialogic manner,,, where the 
The two plays make for an interesting the show, Grams Japan, which in turn then it's been a long process of reading, marriagn, which is fitting considering that also designed the narrative goes back and forth introduced him to taking classes on Suzuki, writing, editing "The Flight" follows two couples and deals choreography, between one world and the other Noh and Kabuki and now rehearsing," he said. with the issuA of the sacrifice womAn often­music, set and cos­Theater. He also He said "The Flight" represents the cul­
until the final scene, where the 
times make f(Jr the sake of their marriages. tumes -doing said that his expo­mination of the skills he's learned during 
"My inspiration for creating this project everything, in other story arcs overlap and draw sure to Suzuki his four years at Notre Dame. was the opportunity to do something com­words, short of tak­together. Method came from "At some point or another, I've found pletely original," he said. "I started with ing the stage him­one of his professors myself applying what l've learned from research: research into plays, into Suzuki self. here at Notre Dame every dass and every show l've ever done Method, into the Japanese Theatre styles, ''I've gotten my Jay Skelton. here," he said. "I couldn't have even begun scholarship on the works, everything. And chance to try a little bit of everything this Suzuki Method is a movement technique to imagine doing this without what the from all this. I've created a synthesL<; that I show," he said. "Just about the only thing I and acting which combines traditional major has given me." can actually call my own, and that feels haven't done for this show L<; act, which is forms of Japanese theater including Noh, A<; far a<; his future goes, Grams said he rnally cool." fortunate because [ have a fantastic cast, Kabuki and Kyogen. has already auditioned with several gradu­
SomA might say taking on such an ambi­and I don't know if I could do what they "Suzuki is based on the principle of ate schools for acting and is currently wait­tious enterprise is for the birds, and Grams do." forms, kind of like ballet," he said. 'The ing to hear back from them. Regardless of might a1-.rree, but for a different reason -"The Flight" features Jennifer Betancourt biggest obstacle to this is the fact that much the outcome, Grams said he remains com­he titled his play "The Flight" because it as Nora, Luke Cieslewicz as Torvald, Huyen of Suzuki is very physically strenuous, but mitted to his craft and he is prepared to go employs the image of women as birds. Nguyen as Tsu, Devin Preston as Yohyo, you must always fight to appear calm and the "starving artist" route. 
"Birds are these beautiful creatures with Tashi Thomas as the Narrator and Kenneth relaxed at all times, ready to do anything, "If [he's not accepted], then I think I plan the pownr of flight, but the act of keeping Hamilton as the Drummer. His crew at any speed, in a moment's notice. [ ... ] I on moving to Chicago next year and just one represents a tremendous loss of free­includes Shay Thorton as Stage Manager think it instantly creates this incredible trying to act and direct professionally," he dom," he said. and James Miller-Marquez as light design­dynamic tension on stage." said. "And be poor. Professionally." 
In writing the play, Grams said he cut the er. Noh is a traditional, ancient form of plays in what he calls "dialogic manner," "Everyone in this show ha<; been so awe-Japanese theatre which dates back to the Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
O'Shea utilizes Ophelia archetype in one-woman shovv 
By TAE ANDREWS  "Granted, not all women share these circumstances," she said, "but most of us  book she read entitled Ophelia" by Mary Pipher.  "Reviving  "However, the performances are just as exciting as they are in a typical multi­ 
Scene Editor  understand what it is like to feel helpless  "Pipher is a psyehiatrist, and in the  person show. One thing that I lind tricky,  
or objectified at times. Some fill the role  book, she tells about the many experi­ though, is remembnring what line comes  
When senior Erin O'Shea takes the  of victims, while some refuse to be vic­ ences she has had with patients," O'Shea  next. When it's just you up there, there's  
Philbin Studio Theatre stage tonight, all nyes will be on her and only her, which  tims and fin~. the strength to persevere.  said. "Essentially, she tries to explain that all girls  no one to give you a cue." "Watch Me" is but the latest perform­ 
fits eonsidnring that "Watch Me" is a one­woman show. In prnparation for her FTT Honors Thesis l'rojeet, O'Shea spent the last year  "Watch Me" represents O'Shea's inaugural effort at writing for the stage. "It's definitely been an  "Watch Me, is but the latest performance on a resume which  share the same, or at least similar, issues ­we're all modern-day Ophelias in our own ways."  ance on a resume which paints a picture of an actress unwilling to stay away from the stage. Prior to "Watch Me," O'Shea performed in the I'EMCo Musieal Hevue  
and half' eondurting research into the d1araetnr of' Ophelia f'rom Shakespeare's "llamlnt." To this extnnt, shn examined paintings, read scholarly artides and lis­ll'lled to musie inspirnd by the story of Oplwlia, and rnad plays and poetry  interesting experience," she said. "One thing I found repnatedly was that just beeause something looks good in print does not ensure it will sound  paints a picture ofan actress unwilling to stay away from the stage.  "Reviving Ophelia," combined with O'Shea's discovery of a Marlene Dietrich picture, led her to think of a woman in ther­apy, which led to the ther­ during her sophomore and junior years, in addition to taking roles in "Oregon Trail," "Family Entertainment" and "Hage for the Stage" with the St. Edward's Hall Players. Last f'all, O'Shea performed "A Bright Hoom Called Day"  
which parallel the Ophelia story. Over the  equally good when read  apy angle in her show.  and has a role in the upcoming produc­ 
eoursn of Shaknspnarn's play, Ophelia  aloud. I can't tell you how many times  O'Shea chose the  name Samantha - tion of "Dr. Faustus" at the !>PAC. She  
gons mad and is latPr found dnad.  l've gone back and edited to make things  Sammy for short - because one of the  also  participated  in  Summer  
Tlw plot of' "Watch Me" traces a young  more 'actable."'  meanings of the name is "listener," and  Shakespeare at Notrn Dame during this  
woman named Sammy Union who tries  Although her "all things Ophelia"  in "Watch Me," the character receives  past summer.  
to deal wilh a stalknr through tlwrapy. For tho purposns of' "Wateh Me," O'Shea  approach gave her inspiration into the character, O'Shea said she still suffered  phone ealls from her stalker daily. "I chose the last name of Union because I  Like her friend and fellow snnior Nate Grams, whose show "The Flight" fills out  
said slw triPd to adapt the Ophelia arche­ from writer's block, a common malady of  felt that it would be another way to sym­ the other half of tonight's twin bill,  
typn onto a modern woman in her char­ freshman playwrights.  bolically show the union between my  O'Shea intends on pursuing a career in  
a<~ter Sammy Union.  "I found a lot of quality material, but I  modern character and Ophelia. Since a  theater and has applied and auditioned  
"They are not tho same person, but  had no real story," O'Shea said. "I just  stalker is primarily known for stalking,  for graduate schools, although she will  
thny may share many similar nmotions,"  had bloeks of' material."  or watching, I felt that 'Watch Me' was a  not know if she has been admitted until  
she said. "The Ophelia arehetype, in my  A discussion with a professor led her to  fitting title."  mid-March.  
opinion, is one of' a vietim. In 'Hamlet,'  ask herself, "Who's telling the story and  O'Shea also said she enjoyed the chal­ "Whatevnr happens will definitely b1~  
she is more of a pretty object than an  wh ?"y.  lenge of acting solo on stage, although  interesting," she said, "but I trust that  
aetual pnrson. Thn male charactnrs dis­ "From there, things really started to  she did lind rehearsals "a bit lonely."  everything will work out for the best."  
play great amounts eontrol over her.  progress quickly," she said.  "It is a totally different experience  
Ultimately, thn various pressures and  She also said that one of her most  doing a one-person show than being in a  
anxintins boeomn too mueh.  inspirational source  materials was a  cast  with  other  actors,"  she  said.  Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl @nd.edu  

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, February 15, 2008 
page 13 

By MARK WITTE Assistant Scene Editor 
There is a show running on the third floor in the back of Washington Hall that you might not know about. 
It's a play about stories: dark, violent stories. It's a play about truth, lies, torture, little green pigs, slow-motion smack-downs and vehicular behead­ings. Most importantly, it's a play that you don't want to miss. 
The St. Ed's Players have undergone a courageous endeavor with "The Pillow Man," which opened yesterday in 
"The

Washington llall's Lab Theater. The Pillowman" play is a work by the Washington young and famous 
Hall Lab 

Irish playwright, Martin McDonagh. Theatre When it first opened 
Thurs.-Sat.

in London at the Royal National 7:30pm Theatre in November 
Tickets: $5 

2003, it was to wide acclaim, eventually winning the prestigious Olivier Award for "Best New Play" in 2004. 
It's in these giant footsteps that the St. Ed's Players are treading. 
Director Megan O'Donoghue described the production of the play as having been a "really ambitious chal­lenge," partly due to the show's venue. 
Unlike a regular theater, where the audience directly faces the perform­ers, the Lab Theater is a "Theater in the Round." This type of venue places the actors in the center of a stage which is surrounded by the viewing audience. It's tough for performers because they must constantly shift their position, so as not to have their back facing any side of the audience for too long. 
However, the Lab Theater suits this production well. 
"Given the scale of this space, the show becomes a lot more intimate," assistant director Eddie Velazquez said. "It sets the mood for the style of the show." 
The style is stunning, hilarious and horrifying, but also one that psycho­logically challenges the audience from start to finish. 
The story is set in a totalitarian dic­tatorship, a place similar to East Germany before the fall of the Wall, only more painfully humorous. It fol­lows a few hours in the life of Katurian 
K. Katurian (Stephen Iwanski). Katurian writes hundreds of disturbing short stories but has only managed publish one in his career. 
His parents are dead and his only remaining family member is his men­tally-handicapped sister Michala (Katie Manfred), with whom he shares all the gruesome tales he writes. Katurian has a deep affinity with his stories, one that he'll sacrifice any­thing to protect. 
The play picks up with Katurian being interrogated by two police offi­cers for a pair of child-murders that bear strange resemblance to matching death sequences in Katurian's stories. One of the officers, Tupolski (Joe Edmunds). is a fast-talking detective whose chief interrogation method is to "disconcert and destabilize the prison­er with asinine nonsense." 
It's a method that works well, and he starts out by convincing Katurian that the totalitarian dictatorship is not about restrictions, but rather, about guidelines. He also claims he's tbe good cop. 
The bad cop, Ariel (Joe Vittoria), had a rough childhood -a fact that will get you beaten to a pulp if you bring it up -and he operates on a very short fuse, dealing Katurian beat-downs on a whim. While Tupolski tries to befud­dle a confession out of Katurian, Ariel just complains, "Why don't we just start torturing him and cut out all this s***?" 
The play takes a disturbing twist when Katurian finds out that his sto­ries have influenced someone in a pro­found way. That is, a profoundly sadis­tic way. But I won't spoil it for you. 
O'Donoghue and Velazquez have done an incredible job with the play's direction and the actors all spit off 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 
their lines with impeccable timing. The interactions between the two cops and Katurian are an absolute riot and con­stantly tread between the hilarious and the shocking. 
Iwanski does an excellent job evok­ing our sympathy for his character's imprisonment and feelings for his sis­ter, while at the same time bringing out laughs with the occasional hot­headed outburst. Manfred convincingly pulls off Katurian's mentally-damaged sister. 
The show ironically opened on Valentine's Day. You won't find much in the form of materialistic, cutsie­tootsie love, but there's no lack of beauty. 
O'Donoghue said one of the reasons she felt so attracted to the script of "The Pillow Man" was because, "It's a grotesque story, it's horrific, but it's beautiful in the end." 
When you see Katurian recite the full story of the Pillowman to Michala, you'll know why: 
Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 

Ariel, played by Joe Vittoria, winds up to beat a confession Katurian (Iwanski) deflects questions from Ariel (Vittoria) out of Katurian, played by Stephen Iwanski. and Tupolski (Edmunds) during an interrogation scene. 
MARY JESSE Observer Graphic 

By CHRIS McGRADY Assistant Scene Editor 
Warning: Do not operate heavy machinery while listening to this album. 
Jack Johnson's latest, "Sleep Through the Static," is more of what we have come to expect from the island pop-rocker. It's filled with the same syrupy sweet, slow, smooth rhythms that drip from his guitar, and lull us into a gentle and tranquil state. 
This album features the same signa­ture sound that permeates the bulk of Johnson's work. Full of bar chords that wax Caribbean and the silky-voice that is clearly meant for the beach, "Sleep Through the Static" will appeal to the average fan of the Hawaiian native. 
This album sounds remarkably like his previous efforts (don't they all?). The CD appears to be the kind you pop in for some good background music, something that doesn't require your full attention. Maybe this is a good thing -but maybe it's not? 
The album lacks a signature song. There is no "Better Together" or "Banana Pancakes," or even a "Flake" or "Bubble Toes." These songs are the type of songs that seemed to make up the "filler" in Johnson's other efforts. 
Before all you island hoppers get your coconuts in a jumble, this isn't to say the album is bad. Actually, it's far from it. It's a decent album for what it is -a soothing mix of love songs and island tunes. 
Just don't expect for any of these songs to be catchy in the way that "Banana Pancakes" was. It's just not going to happen. Altogether the album is just plain forgettable. Not bad, not ­great-just there. 
There are a few songs that assert themselves, albeit not impressively. If there is a "hit" on this album, it is "If I Had Eyes." This is the sixth track on the album and has a borderline catchy piano-influenced sound. Like many songs on the album, Johnson swaps his acoustic guitar for an electric model. For this song, at least, it works. 
The title song, "Sleep Through the Static" is probably the second-best effort on the album but just doesn't have much going on. The song takes a political tone saying, "Who needs sleep when we've got love? Who needs keys when we've got clubs? Who needs please when we've got guns?" The song, however, is just not powerful enough to carry the anti-militarism message. 
The song "Angel" is just in time for the season of love surrounding Valentine's Day and is a nice little acoustic ditty. This song will likely find its way onto "Love Mixes" around the country, and rightfully so -Johnson seems to do his best work when writ­ing lyrics about love. 
Overall, the album is decent, but underwhelming. If only it had a few signature tracks, it would probably be a big seller. It's good -just not good for Jack Johnson. But if background music is what you are after, this album is for you. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl @nd.edu 
-------------~------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 15, 2008 
NHL 

Islanders edge Maple Leafs, stay in playoff race 
Hurricanes' three power-play goals key win over Penguins, Martin St. Louis tallies three points as Lightning defeat Flyers 
room," Comrie said. "Ted goal at 7:51 of the second peri­
Associated Press 

(Nolan) and the coaching staff od. Stajan's pass toward the slot 
TOHONTO -Arter a seven­have us focused on the game at defleeted off both Tueker and game winless slide damaged hand. We're not looking too far Isles defenseman Aaron their playoff hopes, the New ahead." Johnson and skidded between York Islandnrs are once again Alex Ponikarovsky. Matt DiPietro's legs. counting on a late-season run to Stajan, Mats Sundin and Darcy Sundin later slid in a rebound get back to the postseason. Tucker scored for the Leafs, to give Toronto its only lead of 
"We saw the improbable last who dropped to 29th overall in the game. year when wn were left for the 30-team NHL after Tampa But then the Isles' power play dead," goalie Hick DiPietro said Bay beat Philadelphia on went to work as the Leafs took after the Islanders slipped past Thursday night. three consecutive penalties, tho Toronto Maple Leafs 5-4 on The Leafs are eight points out Fedotenko tied it 2-2 at 14:36 Thursday night. "There's still a of a playofT spot in the Eastern when he banged in a puck that lot of hockey left." Conference with 23 games to was sitting on the goal line after 
The Isles won their last four play in the regular season and Josef Vasicek hit the post. games of the season last year to have five games left before the Comrie, with his 17th of the sneak into the playofl"s and are Feb. 26 trade deadline. season, put the Isles baek in hoping to do the same with 24 "Basically, that's what's going front 3-2 with a power-play goal games loft in thfl rp,gular sea­on right now," Ponikarovsky at 17:25 when he took Satan's son. said. "But we can't feel sorry nifty pass across the slot and 
Huslan Fedotenko scored two for ourselves. We still have to slid it an inch past the goal line of his team's four power-play play. You can't just give up and under Toskala. goals and the Islanders pulled do nothing." within four points of the eighth Hick DiPietro made 27 saves Hurricanes 4, Penguins 2 and final playoff spot in the for the Islanders while Vesa The Carolina Hurricanes were Eastern Conference. Toskala stopped 24 of 28 shots. missing three key defensemen for Carolina, which held an we lose a couple we're going to 
"This is a big win for us," "We should've won that hock­against a Pittsburgh offense overwhelming 46-22 shots be finding ourselves in the back Fedotenko said. "Everyone is ey game, but we didn't play that ranks among the NHL's advantage in winning its second seat here. With so few games to fighting for a playoff spot and well," Stajan said. "We can't best. Then they discovered an straight and moving back into go it's no secret. We have to win we need these points." come in here and say we played effective way to slow the the division lead ahead of idle games." 
Mike Comrie and Bryan as well as we could, because we Penguins' goal-scorers: Turn up Atlanta and Washington. Tampa Bay, which got out of Berard also had power-play didn't." the pressure at the other end of Evgeni Malkin scored for the last place in the Eastern goals while Freddy Meyer Berard opened the scoring on the ice. fifth straight game, defenseman Conference, has won four of five addnd an empty-netter for the a power play with 3:48 to go in Ray Whitney had a goal and Brooks Orpik added his first overall. The Lightning also won Islanders, who have won two the first period, busting into the two assists and quick-shooting goal of the season and Sabourin their eighth straight game in games in a row following a slot and redireeting a Miroslav Carolina scored three power­made 42 saves for Atlantic Philadelphia going back to the seven-gamn winless streak. Satan pass past Toskala. play goals in its win against Division-leading Pittsburgh, 2002-03 season and have not 
"There's still belief in this Tucker got credit for the tying Pittsburgh on Thursday night, which dropped its second in a lost a road game in regulation vaulting the Hurricanes back row and fell to 6-4-2 in their 12 since Jan. 3. into first place in the Southeast games since star eenter Sidney "We play hard against these Division. Crosby sprained his ankle. guys," said Boyle, who scored a 
Erik Cole and Eric Staal "We're missing a lot of play­goal. "They seem to get the best snapped long scoring droughts ers and you know on the road it of us so we get excited to play with goals and Ryan Bayda is eventually going to cateh up here." added his first goal for the with you," Pittsburgh coach Vaclav Prospal scored his depleted Hurrieanes, who also Michel Therrien said. "I think 26th goal, and Jan Hlavac and lost captain and leading scorer the last two games have been Jason Ward also scored for the Rod Brind'Amour in the game's tough. We just have to Lightning, who had to look good opening moments with a torn regroup." to their new management. ligament in his left knee. Johan Holmqvist made 27 
"We can't afford to sit back Lightning 5, Flyers 3 saves. and say, 'Oh well, elose was With each road victory, the The Lightning, owned by good enough tonight, with the Tampa Bay Lightning are des­Michigan-based Palace Sports & personnel we had,"' Whitney perately trying to make a late Entertainment since 1999, said. "We had to go out and try run at a playoff berth. announced Wednesday that it to get a win." Onee division leaders, the has been sold to OK Hockey 
Whitney, who entered with no Philadelphia Flyers can only LLC, a group controlled by Los goals in his previous 10 games, hope their postseason spot isn't Angeles TV and movie producer
-broke a 2-all tie with 16:15 left slipping sway. Oren Koules. The NIIL still has when he took a feed from Staal Martin St. Louis had a goal to approve the deal, which is while slipping into the slot and and two assists to lead the expected to be completed in 3? beat Dany Sabourin with a low Lightning to a victory over months. wrist shot to his glove side. Philadelphia on Thursday night, Steve Downie, Joffrey Lupul 
"They kept it simple with traf­the Flyers' fifth straight loss. and Jeff Carter each scored for AP fie in front," Sabourin said. "I "I think we're realizing that the Flyers, who are on their had a tough time against them." we've got to win some games," longest losing streak since a six­
Cam Ward stopped 20 shots defenseman Dan Boyle said. "If game skid in late December. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Blue & Gold Homes Fabulous Oakhill condo, If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit WANTED Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offer-FoR SALE Walking distance to ND, PERSONAL 
ing "flex" leases open concept, http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. $14.25 BASE·APPT. Oakhill Condo for Sale. Students will PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-shtml STUDENT WORK bluegoldrentals.com love living here and parents will love Completely remodeled, granite ONE WHO IS? 
knowing their child is looked after and countertops,bamboo hardwoods, You do not have to be alone. It is estimated that at any one time, flexible. no experience needed, 5 bedroom house just off safe! Secure, upstairs, two-level fur· We want to help. 0.7% of the world's customer sales/service, Angela & 31. nished two-bedroom, two-bath condo All new stainless steel appliances, Call our 24 hour confidential holline population is drunk. conditions apply, unit with loft area. One thousand Wi-Fi, security system, at 1-800-No Abort ages 18+, Available now & for next year. 2 twenty-two square feet of beautifully or visit our web site at The human heart creates enough 574·273-3835, baths & laundry. 232·6964. redecorated living space · includes 2 bedrooms, 2 baths, www.lifecall.org pressure to squirt blood 
42" HD flat screen TV and parking 1,350 Sq. Ft. 30 feet 
ww.workforstudents.com 3-4·5 bdrm, spaces in front of condo. Garages are UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 3 bath homes close to campus, available at an additional cost. One garage available at additional Do not go it alone. Dueling is legal in Paraguay as long safe. cathedral ceilings, fireplace, Parking lot surveillance cameras, cost. If you or someone you love needs as both parties are registered blood 
FOR RENT 2·car garage, 1 pool, clubhouse, water and rubbish confidential support or assistance, donors. Ox20 deck, removal included as part of the own-Clubhouse, pool, 24/7 surveillance please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at Houses for rent 08·09 close to cam-deluxe appl. ership package. Only $180 per month cameras part of ownership pack· 1-7819. Henry Ford produced the Model T pus. Ranging from 2 BR to 6 BR. Call exterior maintenance fees. Five age. For more information, visit our web· only in black because 574·234-2436 or Avail. for Aug. 2008·09; also Aug. minute walk or less to the Notre Dame site at: the black paint available kramerhouses.com 2009·10. campus, shopping and restaurants. Quiet, pro. managed, $177,900. at the time was the fastest to Less than ten minutes to other hot ttp:l/osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-dry. Furnished 4-bdrm house. walk ND, Call 574-232·4527 or spots and mall by car. $200,000. Only Kristi Ryan, Re/Max 100, nant.shtml ADT, air, washer/dryer, dishwasher, 269-683-5038 or serious offers considered. or see our bi-weekly ad in The The king of hearts is the only king basement for storage. 574·287·4961. 574-340·1844. 562·733-5166. 574·532-2071. Observer. without a moustache. 




OUND THE NATION 
Friday, February 15, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA Men's Hockey USCHO.com/CSTV Division I 
Poll  
team  record last poll  
1  Michigan  23·3·4  2  
2  Miami  25-4·1  1  
3  North Dakota  11·8·2  3  
4  New Hampshire  1a.7·1  5  
5  Colorado College  21-8·1  4  
6  Denver  19-8·1  7  
7  Boston College  14·6-7  9  
8  Michigan State  18·8-5  6  
9  NOTRE DAME  20·11H  8  
10  Wisconsin  13·11-6  11  
11  Clarkson  16·9-3  13  
12  Minnesota-Duluth  11·9·6  10  
13  Minnesota State  15·10-4  15  
14  Providence  13·1 0-3  12  
15  Northeastern  13-9-3  14  
16  Ouinnipiac  17-7-4  16  
17  Princeton  14·9-0  19  
18  Mass.-lowell  12-10·4  17  
19  St. Cloud State  12·13-3  NR  
20  Niagara  16·8-3  NR  

NHL 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Pittsburgh 32-20-5 69 5-3-2 
New Jersey 32-21·4 68 5-4-1 
Philadelphia 30-21-5 65 4-6-0 
NY Rangers 28-24·7 63 6-3-1 
NY Islanders 25·25·7 57 2-6-2 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record pts. last 10 Ottawa 34-19-5 73 4·5-1 Montreal 30·19·9 69 5-4-1 Buffalo 28-21-8 64 8-0·2 Boston 29·23·5 63 5·5·0 Toronto 23·26·9 55 4·5·1 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. last 10 Washington 27-25-6 60 5·4·1 Carolina 28-27-4 60 6-4·0 Atlanta 28-27-4 60 5·4·1 Florida 26-27-6 58 5·3·2 Tampa Bay 24-27-6 54 6·3·1 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. last 10 Detroit 41-13-5 87 6-3·1 Nashville 30-22-6 66 6-2-2 Columbus 26-24-9 61 3-4·3 St. Louis 25-22-8 58 3·5·2 Chicago 25-25-6 56 4-4-2 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. last 1 0 
Minnesota 32·21·4 68 6-3-1 Calgary 29-20-8 66 7·3·0 Colorado 30·22·5 65 5·4·1 Vancouver 28-22·7 63 3·5·2 Edmonton 26-27-5 57 5-5·0 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Dallas 35-20-5 75 8-2-0 
Anaheim 32-22-7 71 5-4-1 
San Jose 31-11·8 70 6-3-1 
Phoenix 28-25-4 60 4-4-2 
los Angeles 24·32-3 51 5-4-1 

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Pittsburgh at Marquette 9 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
One of Brian McNamee's lawyers predicted Roger Clemens will be pardoned by President Bush, saying some Republicans treated his client harshly because of the pitcher's friendship with the Bush family. 
Richard Emery made the claims Thursday, a day after a congressional hear­ing broke down along party lines. Many Democrats were skeptical of Clemens' denials he used perform­ance-enhancing drugs and Hepublicans questioned the character of McNamee, the personal trainer who made the accusations against the seven-time Cy Young Award winner. 
IN BRIEF 

Oualifviru! races set ~e for 
Hendrick-Gibbs showdown 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla.-They showed up as favorites, endured their share of failures and found a way to stay at the front of the Daytona 500. 
There's a reason Hendrick Motorsports and Joe Gibbs Hacing are the ones to beat in NASCAR. Now, they'll try to beat each other in a super showdown in the biggest race of the year. 
"It's going to be the epic battle, and it should be the battle of a lifetime and the century," Gibbs driver Tony Stewart quipped. "There may not be another battle of this proportion for the rest,of my life, my career, for the century. 
Stewart was of course overplaying the magnitude of Sunday's season­opener. But when Hendrick driver Dale Earnhardt Jr. and Gibbs driver Denny Hamlin each won a qualifying race Thursday, it set the stage for a fabulous battle. 
"It would be the easiest thing in the world for George W. Bush, given the corrupt proclivities of his administration, to say Roger Clemens is an American hero, Roger Clemens helped children," Emery said in a telephone interview. "It's my belief they have some rea­son to believe they can get a pardon." 
During Wednesday's ses­sion before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Clemens repeated his denials under oath, which could lead to criminal charges if federal prosecu­tors conclude he made false statements or obstructed Congress. 
''I'm not aware of Mr. 
Clemens having been charged with anything," White House deputy press secretary Tony Fratto said after being told of Emery's remarks. 
Emery cited Bush's deci­sion last year to commute the 2-year prison sentence of I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby, his vice president's former top aide. Libby was convict­ed in the case of the leaked identity of a CIA operative. 
In addition, Emery said he thinks Bush would pardon Clemens even before an indictment or conviction, as President Ford did with President Nixon. 
During the hearing, Clemens cited his friendship with Bush's father, President George H.W. 
Bush, a baseball fan who regularly attends Houston Astros' games. Clemens said he was on a recent hunting trip when the elder Bush called with words of support. 
"When all this happened, the former president of the United States found me in a deer blind in south Texas and expressed his concerns that this was unbelievable, and stay strong and hold your head up high," Clemens testified. 
Emery said as he thought about the testimony overnight, Clemens' refer­ence to the call from the elder Bush convinced him the questioning by Republicans was a concert­ed effort. 

Dolphins release veteran line­
backer 
MIAMI -If Zach Thomas decides to play a 13th NFL season, it will almost certainly not be with the Miami Dolphins. 
Thomas, a seven-time Pro Bowl linebacker and one of the most pop­ular and productive players ever to wear a Dolphins uniform, was released Thursday, the biggest move yet in Miami's massive rebuilding project. 
"I have a tremendous appreciation and admiration not only for the Dolphins organization, but for the fans as well, for all of the support that they have given me," Thomas said in a statement, in which he thanked owner Wayne Huizenga, new football operations head Bill Parcells and general manager Jeff Ireland. 
The 34-year-old linebacker said he plans to play with another team next season. There's always a chance he could re-sign with Miami, although that seems, at best, doubtful. 
"I am healthy and look forward to playing in 2008, but will always consider myself a Miami Dolphin," Thomas said. 
Bryant chooses rest over 
surgery for injured finger 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -Kobe Bryant was diagnosed with a torn ligament in his right pinkie finger Thursday and the Lakers All-Star has decided not to undergo surgery that could sideline him for six weeks. 
The damage occurred when Bryant dislocated the finger at New Jersey on Feb. 5, and was aggravat­ed in Wednesday night's game at Minnesota. 
The team said Thursday that the damage was more extensive than first believed. There is a com­plete tear of the radial collateral ligament and avulsion fracture, in which a small bone fragment had been pulled off by a tendon. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 15, 2008 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish face tough field in first spring tourney 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
After a three-month break in competitive play, No. 20 Notre Dame tees off the sec­ond half of its season at the Central District Invitational tournament in Parrish, Fla., on Monday. 
lleld at the Hiver Wilderness Golf Club and hosted by Michigan State, the tourna­ment should prove to be the toughest contest yet for the Irish, who start­ed the season strong last fall with three first­
place finishes in "We'll be right on our 
five tourna­
heels a lot ofthe time 
ments. 
Notre Dame on this one." will eornpetn against stiff 
Susan Holt 
competition this 
Irish coach
weekend, induding No. 7 Arkansas, No. 21 Miehigan State and No. 25 Texas A&M. Head coach Susan Holt said tho young Irish golfers, lnd by freshman So-Hyun Park, will be tested. 
"We'll be right on our heels a lot of tlw time on this one," Holt said. "This is tough corn pe­tition. Those are shots and playing holes and managing our game," Holt said. "We're able to work on our short game indoors at our new practice facility and work on our driving outdoors. I want to look to get us back into our mode, that thought process that comes with man­aging the game." 

As a result, the focus for the Irish this weekend is to ease themselves back into competi­tive play. 
"I'd like them to get eom­fortable again out on the 
course," Holt said. "If they can really hone in on managing the game and managing the course, we can save some strokes. l don't expect them to be spot on, l just want them to focus on managing the course and 

themselves." 
The River Wilderness Golf Club is a par 72, 6,100-yard course, featuring winding water hazards and tricky approach shots. It has hosted the Central District 
Invitational 
since 2002. 
"It's a 

tough teams. "Golf is basically playable, We'll be at a lit­scorable
hitting shots and

tle bit of a dis­[course]," Holt advantage playing holes and said. "[It's] a 
because of thn managing our game" good course to reeent weather get baek into lin South it. The greens
Susan Holt

Bend!." are large and Although the Irish coach undulating and 
team has been able to practice at its indoor facilities, Notre Dame has not played in a competitive tour­namnnt since October's Ann Hhodes Intercollegiate in Tuscaloosa, Ala. Holt said it is difficult to prepare mentally for tournanwnt play after the extended break. 
"Golf is basically hitting can be fast depending on the weather. 

That's the real trick to scoring well, to play the greens well." 
After a practice round on Sunday, the tournament rounds will be played on Monday and Tuesday. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
SITWWW. NOTRE DAME CONDOS. C ~< ···i»:l:if . :·:=·'"'?~ ;.-.::':}· ·~ j ;L .. .:,.: I '-'":~I~:.::: • a m savailable f~r 2008~2009~'; Available for • 2-bedroom, 2-bath with 1,100 SF appointments • Washer/dryer and dishwasherduring· • Central air conditioningJunior Parents • Large balcony &cathedral ceilingsWeekend! • WalKing distance to campus  

~fnndOnfInn CriJwdl 
At Notre Dome Federal Credit Union, we not only offer 
ovariety of options to assist you with the financing 
of your educational goals, but we provide personal service every step of the woy. 
We'll answer your questions about our many student loon options, help you decide which one is right for you, plus we'll tell you about the various discounts we offer. 
It's not just your education, it's your future. 
HEY HOW ABOUT HAVING A PARTY! 
WE HAVE THE PLACE FOR YOU 
YOU DO NOT HAVE TO BE A MEMBER TO RENT OUR HALL 
AMERICAN LEGION POST 303 2503 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN. 46615 


1-574-287-0057 (CHRISTY) 

SEATS 175. IF YOU'D LIKE FOOD YOU NEED YOUR OWN CATERER BUT IF YOU NEED A BAR WE PROVIDE IT TO 21 YR. OLDS AND OLDER. KEEP US IN MIND FOR YOUR NEXT EVENT. PLEASE CALL 287-0057. 
Friday, February 15, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NO SOFTBALL 
Irish open season at ASU tourney 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles optimistic about MIAA meet 
put ten seconds between them and 
By PETE REISENAUR our previous school record at our 
Sports Writer conference championship meet, 
something that is almost unheard 
A season of preparation has led ofin swimming," Dombkowski said up to this weekend for the Belles, Junior captain Melissa Gerbeth who travel to Michigan to compete will attempt to defend her title in in the MIAA championship meet the 1,650 meter this weekend; over the week-Gerbeth won the end. event last season. 
'This combination 
The meet start­The Belles' ed Thursday at could look to put ten major competition the Holland seconds between includes Hope, Aquatic Center in who will host the
them and our
Holland, Mich., meet and is unde­
previous school 
and continues feated in confer­until Sunday. record.... ,, ence meets this Although the season, and Calvin, Belles have whose only loss
Ryan Dombkowski
dropped four came against Hope 
Belles coach 
meets in a row, earlier in the sea-the season's per-son. formances caused the Belles to Dombkowski said having a cou­have high hopes for the weekend. ple weeks of rest was crucial to 
Saint Mary's coach Ryan helping his team succeed this Dombkowski said he's excited to weekend. He said the team was see how the all-freshman 400 injured at the end of the season medley team of Maggie Williams, and the rest provided by the two Casey Niezer, Caroline Arness and weeks off would allow his team to Lauren Hartman perform after heal and get ready for its biggest they crushed the school record match of the year. time by over tlrree seconds in their last meet. Contact Pete Reisenaur at 
"This combination could look to preisena@nd.edu 
we are at as a team," GumpfBy JARED )EDICK said. "We have to believe that 
Sports Writer 
we are good enough to beat anyone." 
The Irish will escape for the The Irish return only five weekend from the South Bend starters, two of which are sen­cold to compete in Arizona iors. Despite being a young State's season-opening team, Notre Dame will look to Kajikawa Classic in Tempe, play a balanced game this Ariz., this weekend. weekend and in the upcoming 
The team will run a gauntlet season. The experienced trio of of five games in the course of senior second-baseman Katie 
the  three-day  Laing, junior  
weekend.  The  pitcher  
tournament starts Friday and will include two  "We are going into a hot bed of  Brittney Barger, and junior infielder  
of the top teams  competition right off  Linda  Kohan  
in the nation  - the bat.,,  will  lead  the  
No.  1  Arizona  new Irish play­ 
and No. 3 Texas  ers.  
A&M.  Deanna Gumpf  "Katie  
"We are going  Irish coach  [Laing] will be  

into a hot-bed of competition right off the bat," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "These are five very good teams we are going to play." 
Notre Dame is coming off a 32-24 finish in the 2007 season and its ninth consecutive NCAA Tournament appearance. The Irish hope that their tough early schedule will help them prepare for the remainder of their spring schedule. 
"These first couple of games will give us an idea of where very important 
for us this year, especially since she is only one of two seniors," Gumpf said. 
Freshman pitcher Jody Valdivia is expected to make an immediate impact. It will be up to Valdivia and her fellow freshmen to step up and fill in the gaps in the Irish lineup. 
"I would have to say youth is our only real concern right now," Gumpf said. "But I like a lot of what our young players bring to the table." 
The Irish will kick off a tough Friday morning with a game against Utah (5-0). The Utes are off to their best start since 1985 and are a tough opening match for the Irish. 
Friday afternoon won't be any easier for the Irish as they are set to take on two-time defending NCAA champion Arizona. The Wildcats went 50­14-1 last year and will return six position starters along with All-America pitcher Taryne Mowatt. The Wildcats enter the tournament ranked No. 1 in almost every preseason poll. 
"I think that if we don't get the jitters, we will be able to play very well," Gumpf said. 
The Irish face Western Kentucky and No. 3 Texas A&M on Saturday. The second game will likely prove more trying for Notre Dame as Texas A&M is 5­1 on the season. But Gumpf said the Aggies are only one team of many in the competi­tive pool. 
"There are no easy teams in the field," Gumpf said. "Cal is the only team below .500, and they won't be for very long." 
The Irish wrap things up Sunday morning against California (2-4) before return­ing-home. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Firing Sampson could be costly for Indiana 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Getting rid of coach Kelvin Sampson might not be the solution to Indiana's prob­lems. It's a move that might just create a bigger mess. 
When Sampson was accused Wednesday of five major NCAA infractions, it immediately set off a widespread debate over what the university should do next and whether Sampson should contin­ue coaching at Indiana, which hasn't had a major NCAA rules violation in nearly half a century. 
"The thing I'm disappointed with is that the allegations have come out, and I feel we have to react in some way that's in the best interests of the team and the best interests of the university," trustee Philip Eskew Jr. said. "I think there are options." 
There's no guarantee the NCAA would reduce Indiana's potential penalties, and the university, which has spent the past decade paying millions of dollars to frred coaches and athletic directors, could wind up in another costly split-up. 

According to the contract signed in April 2006, Indiana pays Sampson an annual base salary of $500,000. With five years left on the deal, the cost could reach at least $2.5 million. 
Sampson's deal includes termi­nation clauses for violations of · university or NCAA rules that eliminate the payments. Attorneys, however, have differing views on whether the accusations, which include providing false or 
GIVE BLOOD!! 
misleading information to investi­gators, would allow Indiana to fire Sampson with cause and get ofl' the financial hook. 
Athletic director Rick Greenspan acknowledged Wednesday these are only allega­tions since the NCAA has not yet made a ruling, and the distinction could be important. 
"It [the contract] talks about sig­nificant, intentional or repetitive violations, so the question becomes when does it become a violation?" said Indianapolis 

DATE: Monday, February 181h Time: 9:00AM-3:00PM location: Notre Darrte, ROTC Bui!ding/Pasqueri!la Center Make an appointment by going to: 
L1llli:!k_lt:#..\f!.Y.f.9!Y9Jif@.,_Q[fl{jJI_Q.f,Xccfm'l8ponsor::J.ri.$.0 All blood donors will receive a 10 song, music download card!!! Presented by: Notre Dame Army ROTC 
attorney Stephen Backer, a for­mer trustee at Indiana who works in contractual law. "That's the issue. I'm sure that's what they're meeting about today." 
The university has until May 8 to respond to the NCAA's report. Sampson and university officials are scheduled to appear before the infractions committee June 14, with a final ruling expected within a month. 
University spokesman Larry Macintyre confirmed Thursday that president Michael McRobbie was still consulting with the school's lawyers, trustees and administrators. Macintyre would not provide details on those dis­cussions but acknowledged both sides have to abide by the rules set forth in the contract. 
Macln tyre said Dorothy Frapwell, the university's counsel, declined to discuss Sampson's contract. 
Milton Thompson, also an Indianapolis attorney, believes there's another caveat, too. 
While he contends Indiana's report and Sampson's acceptance of the school's penalties in October amount to an admission of significant and repetitive viola­tions, the coach may still have legal protection because he was­n't fired four months ago. 
"There can always be a liability issue," Thompson said. "If they accepted the sanctions and didn't fire him then, that may be an area he could pursue." 
Other potential clauses that could absolve the university of a hefty payout include those for moral turpitude and conduct seri­ously prejudicial to the university. 
Both attorneys believe they are broad enough provisions that the university could use either one to make its case for firing Sampson with cause. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 15, 2008 
MEN'S GOLF 

ND begins spring with Florida invite 
By PETE REISENAUR 
Sports Writer 
Notn~ Dame starts its see­ond season this we1)kend when tlwy travel to Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., to compete in the John llayt Collegiato Invitational. 
North Florida will host the invitational at the Sawgrass Country Club, where national powers No. 2 Alabama and No. 5 UCLA loom. 
The Irish fan~d well during the fall despitP not winning any tournanwnts. They have finislwd no worse than ninth and as high as seeond on a numlwr of occasions. 
This season continues the team's n~surgPrwe under head coach Jim Kubinski. Until tlw start of this yoar. Notre Damn's play against national-

ly-ranked opponents has helped its rebirth. Sinee Kubinski arrived, the Irish have defeated 13 top-25 teams and posted 12 top-five tournament finishes. 
The underclassmen have performed well for the Irish this season. Four of the top five scorers for the Irish are underclassmen. and the two lowest scores have eome from freshmen or sophomores. Sophomore Doug Fortner leads the team with a 73.72 stroke average, followed by freshman Tyler Ilock, who has a 73.20 average. 
Freshman Jeff Chen (73.33). senior Greg Hodgers (73.62) and junior Josli Sandman 
(74.00) round out the top five loading seornrs. 
Contact Pete Reisenaur at preisena@nd.edu 


MEN'S TRACK 

Irish use week off to prepare for Big East 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO 
Sports Writer 
Just because tim Irish have the wenkend ofT doesn't mean they won't be working. 
"We don't have a meet this woekend so we're going to be training very hard." head coach Jon Piane said. "Especially on Saturday. we'll be working hard and then see what happens a week from then." 
The Irish nabbed over 45 Big East qualifications during the indoor season. but are now fixus­ing on tho Big East eonfnrnncn championships, which take place at the Armory in New York, N.Y., on Feb. 2] and 24. 
Notm Dame had some setbacks to their perfiwmann\ Piarw said. 
"Actually a lot of pnople have lwnn siek with tlw flu. but tlwy havn gottrm bnttPr and an~ nxpnct­ing to do wPII." hn said. 
It's not going to just lm thn flu that tlw Irish will bn battling in a wnnk. Tlw Irish f<u:e many top teams at t.lw Big I~ast Invitational. 
"University of Conrwctieut, G1mrgntown and Louisvilln Iand Notm l>anw I round out the top lilur tnams," l'iarw said. "In fact. Cnorgetown might be the most improved team of the Big East. while Louisvilln won the outdoor Big East mnPt last yt~ar." 
The strong showing at till' Meyo Invitational last weekend hnlpnd give the Irish momentum beforn hnading to New York next week. 

"It was a great meet overall." Pi<me said. 'There were over thirty teams here and times were terrific, jumps ;md throws wnre very good as well." 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu 

---~ ft_._-_-~_-._.irr
,ll -,r,',
: t ·.. -..-..../ 
'·""' ·, ,./ '¢
~'/:-~~t-'¢~~.,.;~11~ 1'~"'""1-',<1 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles face last-place Kalan1azoo 
Squad looks for second win of season over Hornets after Albion loss 
aged 67.2 points per game
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
under the guidance or lead­
Sports Writer 
ing scorers Kessler and Erin Newsom, averaging 19.8 and Saint Mary's will look to 11 points per game, respec­bounce back after a 78-70 tively. Kessler leads with 415 loss to second-plaee Albion points this season, 61 from last weekend. The seventh­the school's record and 34 
plaee  Belles  points  from  
head  back  to  the record for  
the  court  "We have to find a  most  career  
Saturday to take on last­P I a e e Kalamazoo at  way to play forty minutes of team defense in order to be  points. Newsom leads Saint Mary's in  
home.  successful down the  rebounds  
Whon Mary's  Saint (5-8  stretch."  with a total of 179 this sna- 
MIAA,  9-1 21  son.  
and Kalamazoo  Jenn Henley  Going  into  
(1-12 MIAA. 4­ Belles coach  thnir  last  
17) last faced  th ren  regular  
off in January,  season  

Alison Kessler scored a layup games, Henley's expectations and two fren throws in the for her team hasn't ehangPd. last minute of the gamB to "We are at a point in the give the Belles the 72-69 win 
season when we should be playing our best basketball," Henley said. "We don't have many opportunities left in the regular season. The post­season is just around the cor­
ner and  we  look forward  to  
it."  
Saint  Mary's  takes  on  

Kalamazoo on Saturday at 3 
p.m. at thn Angela Athletie Cnnter. 
Note: 
+This week is Women's Basketball Coaehes Association "Think Pink" week to raise breast cancer awarennss and honor its sur­vivors. The Saint Mary's ath­lntie department nncourages all of its fans to wear pink this Saturday in support. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiOI @saintmarys.edu 

The Staff of the Sandpiper Beacon Beach Resort would love to come up ROCK STAR SPRING BREAK 
PANAMA CITY BEACH 
TOUR BUS ... February 14-16, 7:30 P.M.
8\.Jf I'f'S JUS'f 
February 16, 2:30 P.M.

100 1*%# COLD UP 1H 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Admission: Adult-$12 Senior Citizen-$10 
See Y& in Sunny Florid& ..... Love Y& 
800-488-8828 
SMC/ND/HCC Staff-$8 
Student-$5 MoreauCenter.com
www.sandpiperbeacon.com 

-bringing her game total to a sehool record 41 points. 
"J think our game on Saturday against Kalamazoo will be a big challenge for us," head eoach Jenn Henley said. 
The Hornets kept the game dose the entire 40 minutes of their last meeting, leading at the half and up until the last minute of thB game. 
Since that game, the Belles have gone 2-5, defeating Tri­State and Adrian 74-71 and 61-51. respectively. llowever. the Belles have continued to post impressive numbers, offensively and d11fensively. In addition, Kessler set a new Saint Mary's career three­point record in last week's loss to Albion. The senior has madfl 133 shots from outside the are in her career. 
But there is always room for improvement -espeeial­ly on the defensive end. 
"Our focus continues to be on the defensive side of the ball," llenley said. "We have to rind a way to play forty minutes of team defense in order to be successful down the stretch." 
The Belles have shown improvements on defense as of late, but were outrebound­ed 35-28 against Albion. 
Despite defensive struggles, the Belles' offense has been a consistent strong point this season. The team has aver­


Friday, February 15, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 15, 2008 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Laxers begin season with Canisius, Duquesne 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
Coming oil' an 11-6 year (3-2 Big East), No. 12 Notre Dame will host Canisius at 5 p.m. tonight before taking on Duquesne at noon Sunday. Both games will be played in the Loftus Sports Center. 
Despite losing five starters from last year's squad, including a pair of' all-Big East perform­~~rs, the Irish will enter tonight's season opener with both experi­ence and eonlidence, thanks in part to senior captains Caitlin McKinney and Becky Hanck. 
"We did lose some starters, but we've traditionally had a good bench and I think tliat's the case again this ynar," said MeKinnny, a two-timn All­American rnidf'inlder who scored 44 goals and recorded 21 assists a year ago. "With those 
Write Sports. Call Chris Khorey. 631­


positions opening up, you do kind of hold your breath, but the people who have been in there have been doing awesome. It's nice to see new faces and fresh people in there." 
A highly-touted freshman class joins the returning cast of McKinney, Ranck, junior attack­er .lillian Byers -a two-time All-American who scored 58 goals last season -and junior midfielder Erin Stoeckert (21 goals, 15 assists) to provide the Irish with a balance of youth and experience. 
Coach Tracy Coyne said the ups and downs the senior class has undergone -from three wins as freshmen to a Final Four appearance as sopho­mores to missing the NCAA tournament last year -are a positive heading into another campaign. 
"Now, here this group is as seniors with a good perspective and a good vision," said Coyne, who is entering her 12th year at the helm of the Notre Dame pro­gram. "The younger players on this team have definitely felt the unity of the senior· class, and the seniors have done a great job outlining what we want to accomplish this season and then demonstrating that in practice." 
Between Ranck's ability to lead the defense by example and McKinney's light-hearted, more vocal leadership style on offense, the Irish seem to have just the right recipe for success. 
"The older girls on tho team have really been able to wel­come the freshmen and teach them how we do things," Coyne said. "Because of that, the bur­den really isn't on the younger players to have to do things other than follow the things the older players do." 
Coyne also said the athleticism of' freshman midfielders Kaitlin Keena and Shaylyn Blaney will have them starting soon. 
Though Notre Dame seems to have the leadership aspect of the game down, much is yet to be determined as far as playing strategy goes. The Irish have yet to even scrimmage heading into tonight's opening contest, a first in Coyne's tenure here. 
"I guess we'll find out !tonight] what our style's going to be," Coyne said. "Generally. we like to be an up-tempo, aggressive­on-defense type of team. 
"There are a lot of unknowns, but we know what we do well. We'll go out with a game plan, but we'll be ready in-game to make any adjustments that are necessary." 
While the Irish are still unsure of how their returners and new­comers will mesh during live games, one thing they aren't lacking is confidence. 
"It's not just about winning the Big East or making the NCAA Tournament -it's about winning every game and doing everything right, not having any regrets," Hanck said. "I don't think having the national cham­pionship as a goal is outlandish at all because we have so much potential." 
Quick to catch themselves before looking too far ahead, Hanck and McKinney both said the Irish will "take one game at a time", but dearly, the long­term bar has been set-high. 
That being said, the long road begins tonight. 
"The most important thing is that we have a lot of respect for Canisius and Duquesne," Coyne said. "So we're going to go out and bring what we need to get it done -which is win. Bottom line: 2-0 al'ter the weekend." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

DuringJunior Parent Weekend Experience elegant dining on the Nocre Da.1ne Campus The perfect setting forJunior Parent Weeke11d is Sorin,s. Our thoughfullypreparedmeals, servedbya professionally trained staff, ensure the ultin1ate Notre Dame experience. Reservations recommended 574 631-2020 W'Wlv.Sorinsnd.com  

Plug in to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
Campus Ministry  
Free iTunes subscription for reflective listeuing 011 your iPod.  
Jl•>l)))))))  Type "ndprayercast" 011  the iTtmes searc/1 e11gine,  -or -log o11to www.ndprayercast.org  
M www.ndprayercast.org  Hear it here this week: Rev. Ralph Haag, c.s.c. Songs of the NO Folk Choir • psalms • homilies • prayers • meditative music  


Friday, February 15, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish take dovvn OSU to even their record 
By LORENZO REYES 
Sports Writer 
After participating in three matches in as many days at the ITA National Team Indoors, No. 14 Notre Dame has a lot on its plate this weekend as the pace of this season begins to pick up. 
The Irish started their three­game weekend home stand with a 5-2 victory over No. 47 Ohio State on Thursday bringing their record up to an even 4-4 this season. 
Irish coach Jay Louderback commented on the overall fatigue of his squad heading into the match. 
"Maybe they were a little tired," Louderback said. "This is the part of the season when we start to play a lot of matches grouped together. We have three this week and three the next. After the ITA [National Team Indoors], we went a little shorter in practice on Tuesday and Wednesday. One thing we really wanted to focus on was our dou­bles play over practice." 
The extra work paid off. Notre Dame secured the first two dou­bles matches against the Buckeyes to take the 1-0 lead. 
The national No. 3 tandem of senior Brook Buck and junior Kelcy Tefft took the first match 8-2 over Buckeyes junior Angela DiPastina and sophomore Christina Keesey. 
Sophomore duo Cm~mina Ciobanu and Colleen Rielley ensured the Irish would start the match 1-0 with their 8-3 ousting of freshman Paloma Escobedo and senior Caitlin O'Keefe. Sophomore Kali Krisik and freshman Kristen Rafael com­pleted the doubles sweep with an 8-6 win over Julie Blackmore and Cami Hubbs. 
"It was exciting to see our doubles play well," Louderback said. "We won all three and it signaled a great start to the weekend." 
The Irish carried the momen­tum lrom their doubles win into singles play. 
"It definitely set the tempo for the rest of the afternoon," he said. "We've started our last thwe or four down 1-0. and our players got tired of it. It's always tougher to play from behind, and I'm really excited we won all tlm~e." 
Keeping the momentum rolling, the Irish won the first 
t(!) 

three singles matches, claiming the victory in convincing fashion. 
Krisik took O'Keefe in two quick sets 6-1, 6-3 followed by junior Katie Potts' 6-1, 6-1 victo­ry from the No. 5 spot over Hubbs. 
Tefft played from the No. 1 spot for the first time all season and didn't cave under the pres­sure. Tefft's 6-4, 6-2 win over DiPastina clinched the win over the Buckeyes with the 4-0 lead. The junior improved her dual action record this season to an unbeaten mark of 8-0. 
Ohio State gained its first point once Buck came to face Escobedo. However, it was not the senior's play that gave the point away, but a rolled ankle instead. Buck was in position to take the match until she was forced to retire because of the injury. 
Notre Dame went on to pick up one more point as Ciobanu took care of Keesey in three sets for the 6-0, 3-6, 6-2 win. · 
The Irish won't have time to rest as Wisconsin comes to town for a 3 p.m. match at the Eck Tennis Pavilion today. The squad will get one day's rest before they continue their home stand against South Florida at 10 a.m. on Sunday. 
Knowing that his squad would face several tiring stretches throughout the season, Louderback focused on condi­tioning in the fall. 
"We worked real hard on con­ditioning last fall," he said. "Now we'll see how we did and it pays off." 
With the injured ankle, Buck will sit today's action, but may be back for South Florida, depending on her progress. Louderback had already been prepared to sit one of his players because of an NCAA violation that will force Buck, Ciobanu and Tefft each to sit one team dual match. 
"The players are scheduled to play in 25 matches in a season," Louderback said. "So we'll schedule 25 total matches in the season to cover those. Sometimes though, when our players qualify for the ITA Championships, they'll go over the 25 mark. With Brook [Buck] hurt now we can let her rest her ankle and get one of those sus­pensions out of the way." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

FEBRUARY VALENTINE SPECIAL!! 

TAKE YOUR VALENTINE ON A FITNESS DATE! 

Grab your tav0ritc person and sign up foc Group Pemmal Training. 
10% OFF 

GIVE A GIFT TI-IAT IS NOT JUST FROM THE HEART, 
BUT FOR THE 


Registration packets can be picked uiJ at Rolfs Spom Recreation C!!nter Froot Des!< OR 00\Mlload it from the web @ re&'$porfs.ruf.edu 
starters, including the core of
Depth 
the defense that allowed a 
record-low 6.66 goals per continued from page 24 game. Returning in net for the Loyola's depth and style will Irish defense is Kemp, a pre­
challenge Notre Dame. season All-American selection "They're a very good defen­and the 2007 GWLL player of sive team, and the year. A they like to con-four-year trol the tempo of starter for the game," "We have to prepare Notre Dame, Corrigan said. Kemp has a
knowing we can't 
"They're very 26-11 record
relax and have to
disciplined on and 7.43 goals­
offense and have start right away. " against aver­a lot of sus­age for his tained posses­career.
Kevin Corrigan
sions." Senior Sean
Irish coach 
Senior captain Dougherty, Shane Koppens another pre­will likely lead season All­the Greyhounds offense after American, anchors the Irish leading the team in goals (20) defense. and points (46) last season. The high-powered Irish 
The Irish begin the new sea­offense, which averaged 11.65 son looking to build on a goals per game last season, strong 2007 campaign that will attempt to replace the featured an NCAA production of sophomore Will Tournament appearance and Yeatman, who was suspended the team's lOth Great Western indefinitely from the team. Lacrosse League title. The The South Bend Tribune team returns eight of 11 reported Yeatman, who led 
Parbhu 
continued from page 24 
"[Senior] Sheeva Parbhu was a big key to our two wins last weekend," coach Bobby Bayliss said. "When you have a senior who has been there you feel more confident. He won a match like he did on Saturday as a freshman over Florida State." 
Bayliss said the doubles teams played well last weekend after struggling in the previous match­es. 
"Both of our opponent's coach­es were impressed by the dou­bles play last weekend," Bayliss said. "Whenever you lose there is a greater sense of urgency to play well. We came out with more energy and were able to keep the momentum going against Wisconsin and SMU." 
In the win over Wisconsin, 
Parbhu pulled out a four-hour match that clinched the win for the Irish. Junior Brett Helgeson also won in three sets. 
The team's six freshmen have stepped up this season, Bayliss said. 
"The freshman are living up to or better than our expectations for them," Bayliss said. "They have each taken turns being in the spotlight. Tyler Davis is a very poised doubles player." 
The team is mostly healthy heading into Seattle. Bayliss said his squad has a few bumps and bruises, but no major issues. Bayliss also said strength and conditioning intern Eric Overland has emphasized stretching and cool downs after each practice. 
Although Bayliss wants to per­form well, he said he won't be disappointed with a subpar per­formance because the Irish have not played some of the teams in the Irish in points as a fresh­man and was named the LaxPower rookie of the year, was pulled over for OWl on Holy Cross Drive. 
Corrigan was confident the offense would still be effective despite the loss of Yeatman. "We practiced and played without Will this fall and last fall as well during football season," Corrigan said. "We have guys who have been playing together and used to running the offense in place." 
The contest with Loyola is just the first step in a tough opening stretch for Notre Dame. Four of the first five Irish opponents are ranked in the preseason top 25. 
"We look forward to playing a high level of competition," Corrigan said. "We have to prepare knowing we can't relax and have to start right away." 
The Irish and Greyhounds will face off at 1 p.m. at Diane Geppi-Akens Field. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
the competition. 
"We want to continue our good play," Bayliss said. "It is a wide open event, but we want to play well. I will be happy with any result since we haven't seen some of these teams before." 
Another freshman who impressed Bayliss this spring season was David Anderson. 
"Anderson has come through against Duke," Bayliss said. "The doubles teams are really gelling and that will be key for our suc­cess in the close matches." 
Bayliss said junior Santiago Montoya, Davis' doubles partner, has also played well, but still has work to do. 
"Montoya has really improved his serve but it is an ongoing process," Bayliss said. "He is very coachable, and has worked weii with Davis." 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 15, 2008 
"There's something to build on !after Wednesday's loss!
Big East 

but not a whole lot to change from our game plan," he said. 
continued from page 24 

Even though the loss to guished in the cellar of the Connecticut knocked the Irish eonferenee for most of the from the second-place slot in season. The Scarlet Knights the Big East standings that are 2-1 I against Big East foes they had occupied for several last in the eonference. weeks, junior forward Ryan 
But despite the teams' dis­Ayers said the team is more similar for-concerned tunes, Brey said with simply Hutgers will not "We have to be as playing well be an easy test every game. 
ready to play

for the Irish. "That [drop
Rutgers as we were

"He a I I y, in the stand­records in the Connecticut, or we'll ings! is not league don't really a big
be in trouble. " 

mean anything issue," Ayers right now," s a i d Mike Brey
Brey said. "We "Connecticut's have to be as Irish coach a really good ready to play team. We lost Hutgers as we to a really were Connecticut, or we'll be good team so we shouldn't in trouble." even worry about that." 
Irish junior forward Zach Irish sophomore Luke llillesland said Notre Dame Harangody's 32 points and 16 will not make any drastic rebounds against Connecticut adjustments for the eontest raised his overall averages in with Hutgers. those categories to 20.8 and 
Orange 
continued from page 24 
guards Fantasia Goodwin and Nicole Michael at 13.0 
eaeh  and  guard  Erica  
Morrow at 12.4.  
McGraw  said  that what  

makes the Orange scoring threats twen more dangerous is that their offense is so ver­satile. 
"ThBy're just all really good at driving the ball and shoot­ing the ball." she said. "It's a nightmare matchup for us." 
McGraw said Syracuse prestmts lwr team with a lot of tough matchups Bspeeially because senior guard Tulyah (;aines -who has been the tnam's bnst defender all sea­
son -can only guard one playnr at a time. 
"Obviously there's a lot of mismatch­es. We're going to work t o d a y !Thursday! on containing tho ball, just sno if we can guard thorn," McCraw said. 
Notrn Damn wi II also look to eontinue improving its rebounding Saturday. Thn Orange have thrne playnrs ((;oodwin at 

Guard Lindsay Schrader "And it's a great feeling leads the team with 5.8 when your team feels that boards per contest. way because everyone plays 
"They're more athletic, a little bit harder defensively, they're better," McGraw said. everyone is thinking 'How "Again we're working on can I contribute to the boxing out and team?'" containing the McGraw ball.... We've said she 
got to get in "They're all really thinks Gaines and get a body and sopho­
good at driving the 
on them, more guard 
because we ball. It's a nightmare Melissa aren't going to match up for us." Lechlitner be out-jumping have both had people." a great strBtch
Muffet McGraw

Gaines has of games over played excep­the last week.
Irish coach 

tionally well on both ends of the eourt of late, scoring in double fig­ures four times in a row ­the longest streak of her four 
"They're more athletic, they're better. Again we're working on boxing out and containing the ball.... We've got to get in and get a body on them, because we aren't going to be out-jumping people." 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
years at Notre Dame. 
"ShB's play­ing like a sen­ior," McGraw said. "She's just trying to do everything she can to put us in a good position." 
Wednesday's 99-76 win over Marquette was a good sign for the Irish that they could win without fresh­man forward Devereaux Peters, who tore her left ACL Sunday against Pittsburgh. 

1J.!i. Miduwl at 7.9 and Jones "I really fen! like the injury at 7 .8) who all avnrage morn to Dnvnreaux has given the rPI>ounds per ganw than any­motivation or inspiration to orw on Notrn Danw's roster. do morn," MeGraw said. 
1 0.4, respectively. In confer­ence play, Harangody's 24.3 points and 12.1 rebounds per contest lead the Big East. 
Rutgers, meanwhile, lacks a superstar but has a very bal­anced offensive attack. The Scarlet Knights feature three players -J.R. Inman, Corey Chandler and Anthony Farmer -who have double­figure scoring averages for the season. In addition, Rutgers freshman guard Mike Coburn averages 10.9 points per game during Big East play. 
Hillesland said the Irish are happy they do not have a long layoff and are hungry to get back on the right track. 
"We really thought we could have won that [Connecticut] game and it kind of leaves a bad taste in your mouth," Hillesland said. "So we're def­initely eager to get back on the road and try it out against Rutgers." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Peters  sat  
on  the  Irish  
bench during  
the game  and kept the shot  
chart.  

The Marquette win also showcased Notre Dame's two best offensive facets, McGraw said: free throws and layups. 
Notre Dame hit 26-of-28 from the line against the Golden Eagles and had 54 points in the paint. Over its last five games, Notre Dame has shot 117-of-137 at the charity stripe for an 85.4 percentage. 
The Irish were also able to rack up 99 points with only one made 3-point shot. 
"That's amazing to me that we ean score 99 points with only one 3," McGraw said. "I think it's because we're driv­ing to the lane better. We had quite a few three-point plays last night. I thought that was good to see that we're finish­ing with contact and wH're running well." 
The · game will start Saturday night at 7. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
Nanooks 
continued from page 24 

practices [this wBekJ. both high energy and intense, so I think we're ready to get things going." 
The Irish will attempt to overcome potential symptoms of jet lag following a journey that began with the team's bus ride to Chicago on Wednesday, continued with Thursday's flight from Chicago to Seattle, and ended with the drive to Fairbanks from Anchorage, where the Irish landed via a flight from Seattle. 
"The travel is more of a frame of mind. It's really not an 
The wider ice surface will change up the passing and shooting lanes, and it gives an advantage to the quicker skaters. Defenders will be less conservative, and there will be less hitting because if the man with the puck gets loose, there may be no catching him. Between the long travel and the changes in rink size, this weekend might not look like the most ideal for the Irish to snap out of their winter dol­drums. Notre Dame won all six of its meetings with Alaska a year ago, but after a slow start under first-year coach Doc DelCastillo, the Nanooks have won three of four and beat Ferris State earlier in the season -a team that beat the Irish S-3 last Friday before 

issue unless you  "For my parents and  the  tBams  
make one out of it," Notre Dame coach Jeff  a lot of the extended family making the  played to a tie Saturday.  2-2 on  
Jackson  said.  trip up there, it'll be a  "They've had  
"As long as we follow the prop­ neat experience."  some big wins in the second  
er procedures as  half here, and  
far  as rest and  Jordan Pearce  they'll  play  
hydration,  we  Irish goalie  very  tena­ 

should be OK." 
While most of the Irish spent the early part of this week preparing for a trek into unfamiliar territory, Pearce, an ABchorage native, was focused on a return to his childhood roots. 
"[Fairbanks] is about a six­hour drive from Anchorage, but Alaska's Alaska. It's all where I grew up and played a lot of my youth hockey," Pearce said. "For my parents and a Jot of the extended fam­ily all planning on making the trip up there, it'll be a neat experience." 
Alaska's Olympic rink, which is 15 feet wider than an NI II. or NCAA rink, will force the Irish to be wary of straying too far outside, Jackson said. 
"When you play in the Olympie sheet, you really have to make sure you don't get caught playing outside the dots offensively or defensive­ly," Jackson said. "If you do on the offensive side of the puck, you're not going to generate much offense and you'll be stuck playing perimetBr hock­ey. If you're drawn outside the dots defensively, that's when they may find opportunities we shouldn't normally give up because of the additional ice." 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books· bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesda}' through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
cious," Jackson 
said. "They'll be aggressive in and around the net ... I'm sure they'll be quick to the puck and try to use the additional ice of the Olympic sheet." · 
With only four conference games after this weekend, the Irish, who currently hold a four-point advantage over Nebraska-Omaha for fourth place in the CCHA, are looking to regain the early-season form that helped them win 10 of their first 12 conference match-ups. 
"We need to let last week­end !against Ferris State! go, let the last couple games get out of our minds, and not be stressed or worried about the NCAA [tournament! or being on the bubble," Pearce said. "It's definitely just about being focused on the game at hand ... and not letting the past or future dictate how you play in the present." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Villa For Sale Maintenance Free Living that includes private Clubhouse with fitness room, heated pooI & screening room. Located off of Park Place, south of Edison Lakes Pkwy in Mishawaka Call 574-247-0770 




BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
---~~~-........ 

Friday, February 15, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
JUMBLE 
1 
rx II 
@2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
CHARN j rJ r I I 
www.jumble.com 
I GLIMYR j
I ri I I 
Answer: A 

" rI I I I ]" ( I I J 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  DADDY  AWOKE  (Answers tomorrow) TONGUE ACCORD  
Answer:  What the lawyer did for the house buyers  - 
A GOOD "DEED''  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT ROI..E 010 11-lE c.HU...O ACTRESS Pl-AY IN 11-lE MOVI~ 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
Across 30 Makes a fraidy-2 Horse of the 
1 Like the reading cat (out of) Year that won the 1949
on a 32 Cause 
thermometer Preakness and
33 Put two and two 
Belmont
7 Molly who wrote together "Bushwhacked" 3 "---······· said many

34 Modern 12 Facility times ... " 
marketing aid 15 Camp sight 4 Soprano
40 Deborah who 
Albanese16 Relations of 

starred in "Tea 5 Put in to start

Homer? and Sympathy" 18 river 6 Plant on after a
41 Decorate 19 Service for wildfire, say
42 Give praise
filrngoers 7 Post-O.R. post44 Observatory

20 "I almost forgot 8 Producing somedoings
...!" 

clouds 21 Unwavering 
45 Strength of a 
9 Fit 
chemical22 Candlemas 1 0 Ones without asolutiondessert 

chance in the 46 Parts of

23 Private world mountaineering
25 "In a hurry, are 11 "Now listen!"
trips

we?" 13 London locale of 47 Grippers
28 Puts down, in a Prada, Dior, way 48 Having the most Gucci and 
social anxiety Giorgio Armani 29 Forensic 14 Wits indicators of the 

presence of Down 17 Gets ready tor 
blood 1 Could be dinner 

------------22 de fraise
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
24 Olivia de Havilland film of 1949 
25 Pilferers from ships and port warehouses 
"""'t-'-+-'-+-=-i..,.iiiol 26 Alabaman who wrote the Best Novel of the 
Century. according to a 1999 Library 
Journal poll 
-::+=-+-=:::~ 27 Foreign title meaning "commander" 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address ____________________________________~ City--------~ State---~ Zip_____~ 
FRIDAYS WITH FRAN 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Listen to Pharell and ask "Far real?" TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Double stamp it but beware of the all-powerful triple stamp. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't color out­side the lines or you won't get a gold star. CANCER (May 21-June 20): We have figured out the input on the DVD player. Go home and praise Fred Claus. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Call (845)729-1 043 and say, "Hi Mom!!!!!" VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You are Marshall. LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Remember the golden age when pencil meant weiner and eraser meant butt? SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): I'll sharpen your pencil with my eraser. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): JPW equals 'Johncandy Punching Willywonka.' CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Overdose -­on Tylenol this weekend. But be careful not to overoverdose. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Did you ever wonder how they build suspension bridges? My theory is that glaciers did it during the Ice Age. Nature sure is amazing, huh? PISCES: (Feb. 19-March 20): II up the inbox of Poohgas Woman at kkarlix@ nd.edu. It doesn't even matter what you say. Just make sure to address it to Poohgas Woman. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
28 Part of Act IV where Marc Antony resolves to kill Cleopatra 
30 "The first network for men" sloganeer. once 
31 Overplayed? 

35 Claudia_, 1984 Olympic gold medalist in shot put 
36 Tigres del _, Dominican team that has won the Caribbean World Series nine times 
37 "What have ?" 
38 Fall times: Abbr. 
39 Meet away from prying eyes 
43 _-80 (classic computer) 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, February 15, 2008 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Road redemption? 
Squad travels east to face Scarlet Knights 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Aftllr an 84-78 loss to Connnctieut on Wednesday night, Notre Dame will again !wad east to play Hutgers on Sunday. And dnspitc the tough loss to the Huskies. the Irish had an upbeat attitude before practice Thursday. 
"I think our eonfidenec is still sky high," senior captain Hob Kurz said. "We've been playing great and one loss is not gonna derail our confi­dence in any way." 
Tlw defeat at Connecticut dropped Notre Dame's Big East road record to 2-3, but coach Mikn Brey said his team is excited to play away from the Joyce Center. 
"I lovn that we have another road game in an on-campus facility," Brey said. "That fan base is on us always -it's a tough place to play." 
While the Irish fell to 8-3 and a tie for third place in the Big East with the loss to Connectieut, Hutgers has Ian-
see BIG EAST/page 22 


HOCKEY 
Nanooks avvait, S,CXXJ :miles avvay 
By MATT GAMBER 
SportS Wrirer 
Believe it or not, the No. 9 Irish have traveled 4,R80 miles to arrive at this week­end's series -just to play a conference game. 
Notre Dame begins a two­game set with Alaska (8-16-4, R-B-3 CCIIA) tonight at 11. South Bend time in Fairbanks, Alaska, and the teams will meet at the same time tomor­row night. 
While Alaska will attempt to exact revenge on the Irish for ending its season in the first round of the CCIIA playoffs a year ago, Notre Dame (20-10­2, 13-7-2) must focus yet again on escaping a 4-6-2 skid that dates back to a Dec. 29 loss to Massachusetts. 
"We all know we've got to get back on track," junior goalie Jordan Pearce said. "I wouldn't say we're worried or desperate, but everyone's put­ting in the extra effort in practice. We've had two great 
see NANOOKS/page 22 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Team's 3-game road stretch starts with Syracuse 
Orange finished 15th in the ty to take care of its home 33,000, the Orange only aver­shootPr myself, hard to shoot
By JAY FITZPATRICK 

16-team Big East last season court. The Orange have fallen age 1 ,463 fans in their 11 at places like that." 
Associate Sports Editor 

at 3-13 and were 9-20 overall. only once in the Carrier Dome home contests. Syracuse is also able to get But this year, they have been -a 65-59 loss to then-No. 1 "They're just getting going, help offensively from a wide Notre Dame bPgins a three­one of the biggest surprises of Connecticut. so it's a good start for them," variety of players this season, game eonfnrenco road trip -the season at 19-4 and 7-3 in The Carrier Dome presents McGraw said. including four who average the only one this season for the conference. a unique problem for the McGraw said she wants to double-digit scoring. Guard any team in the Big East-on "I think he's up for coach of Irish. So far this season, the make sure her team gets plen­Chandrea Jones, who trans­Saturday against Syracuse in the year," said Irish coach Irish have played in front of ty of time in its shootaround ferred from Odessa College (a the Carrier Dome. Muffet McGraw of Hillsman. an average of 5,367 fans per to prepare for playing in that junior college) after last sea­
Syracusn coach Quinten "He's done a great job. lie has game, including three games kind of environment. son, leads the team with 15.9 Hillsman has turned his pro­a really good group." of over 10,000 people. But at "It's just a vast, empty back­points per game, followed by gram completely around after One reason for Syracuse's Syracuse, where the maxi­drop," McGraw said. "And it's last season's debaele. The success this season is its abili-mum capacity for basketball is just apparently, not being a see ORANGE/page 22 
MEN's LAcRossE 

Record-setting defense 
back for season opener 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
Two teams with postseason 
1~xpectations will face their 
first tnsts Saturday as Notre 
Dame travels to Maryland to 
play ranked Loyola-Maryland 
to open tlw season. 
The Irish. ranknd No. 10 in tlw Inside Lacrosse pn~season poll. will travel to Baltimore to face the No. 17 Greyhounds Th11 sanw two tnams met in last year's season opnner. a .eJose match in South Bend. 

The Irish trailed late but ral­lied for a 9-7 win thanks in large part to goalkeeper Joey Kemp, who held Loyola score­1!1ss over the last 22 minutes. 
Despite the win in last sea­son's opener, the Irish are 3­13 all-time against Loyola. The Greyhounds are 1:~-1 in home openers in the pro­gram's history. 
Even though Loyola lost sev­eral starters from last year's NCAA Tournament team, Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said 
see DEPTH/page 21 
MEN'S TENNIS 
ND carries streak to Seattle 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame carries a five­match winning streak to Seattle this weekend for the National Team Indoor com­petition, which begins today. The Irish have not lost since falling 5-2 to No. 1 Virginia on Jan. 27 and will face No. 8 UCLA in the first round of the tournament. 
The No. 9 Irish (7-1) won two matches last weekend over Southwestern Midwest University and Wisconsin. 
see PARBHU/page 21 







