
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 4 FRIDAY. AUGUST 29.2008 

The Show returns to campus today 
Annual concert will feature hip-hop duo The Cool Kids, pop-punk band Good Charlotte 
ByJENNMETZ News Editor 
The Joyce Center Arena will be filled students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross tonight to see multi-plat­inum rock band Good Charlotte and the lesser-known rap duo The Cool Kids at The Show 2008. 
Junior Matt Barloh, the chair­man for The Show 2008, told the Observer via e-mail that: "The Show 2008 is special because, in Good Charlotte, it has a headliner with greater name recognition than any other performer in the history of The Show." 
The Cool Kids, a hip-hop duo with a 1980s style, are "the next great" hip-hop artists, Barloh said. According to The Show press release, they have collaborated with chart-topping rapper Lil' Wayne and were labeled one of Rolling Stone's Top 10 Artists to Watch in 2008. 
The Show has a history of bringing up-and-coming artists to campus in recent years. Last year's lineup featured OK Go and rapper Lupe Fiasco. 
The Cool Kids are "more of an obscure band," freshman Mary McAllister said. "I've never heard their music, but I've heard good things about them." 
see SHOW/page 6 



Cell companies respond to complaints 
Verizon, AT&T invest in new antennas in attempt to boost service for students on campus 
and high-speed data services," Chris Bauer of AT&T Indiana said. This consisted of an ini­tial 16 antennas across cam­pus, with an additional 17th antenna installed later to increase reception in the area from McGlinn Hall to Alumni Hall. 
According to Bauer, AT&T has invested $65 million in the state of Indiana, and plans to launch a new high speed data network known as "3G" in South Bend in the coming months. 
Verizon Wireless has also 
see PHONES/page 4 

NDSMCOB ERVER.COM 
Univ~~rsity 
extenlds holid.ay 
Council adds day to Thanksgiving break 
By KAITLYNN RIEL¥ Associate News Editor 
Talk of turkeys is still far off in the distanc;~, but at Notre Dame, Thanksgiving will come early this year. 
The University's Academic Council, which consists of many University officials, including University president Fr. John Jenkins, voted to add the Wednesday before Thanksgiving to the Thanksgiving recess, extend­ing Notre Dame's typical Thanksgiving holiday by one day. 
"One of the driving factors is that we are a national University, and you would expect that students would want to be with family at the Thanksgiving holidays ... and we were going all the way through Wednesday before Thanksgiving, so it's hard to get out of South Bend," University Registrar Harold Pace said. 
During Freshman Orientation Weekend, Anthony Travel, the travel company with an office located in the basement of laFortune, pro­moted its services while informing parents of incoming students about the new recess days, said Mary Kowalski, the vice president of travel servic­
see HOLIDAY/page 4 

SMC puts recycHng bins in donns 
Move part of new effort to increase environmental awareness 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
With the every-growing emphasis on environmental awareness, Saint Mary's is working to improve the recy­cling on campus by placing blue bins in every student's dorm room. 
Saint Mary's administra­tors hope the move will encourage more students to recycle. 
"In the past, the students were somewhat lax in put­ting the recycling where it should be. We often found trash in the recycling bins," director of Building Services Marilyn Rajski said. 
see BINS/page 6 



Clubs recruit new members at fair 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Hoping to woo new fresh­men, 98 campus clubs and outside organizations intro­duced themselves to Saint Mary's students at the College's annual club fair Thursday night in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
The Board of Governance (BOG) campus clubs commis­sioner Becky Whitaker began planning the event last spring, and said she was pleased with the turnout. 
"I walked around to a lot of tables and everyone had a good turnout. I love this night," she said. "I love that everybody wants to get involved." 

Student body president Mickey Gruscinski agreed that the turnout was excel­lent this year. 
"We had t-shirts at our [student government] table," Gruscinski said. "We had a lot of people stop and pick one up." 
The student government table also had sign-up sheets for first year students inter­ested in running for class president. That election will take place on Thursday, Sept. 11, elections commissioner Francesca. Johnson announced at Wednesday's 
see FAIR/page 4 


By JOHN PAUL WITT News Writer 
In response to numerous complaints from cell phone users on campus, telecommu­nication giants Verizon and AT&T have been placing numerous antennas on various buildings in order to help boost reception on campus. 
Notre Dame has been the beneficiary of AT&T's installa­tion of "a distributed antenna system on campus that will allow for better in-building wireless coverage and increased capacity for voice 
~----~-­

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, August 29, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Popping the bubble 
One year ago last week I became 
what those in the Saint Mary's and 
Notre Dame bubble call "townies." 
With the exception of three weeks 
spanning the last few weeks of July 
and first few of August and regularly 
scheduled academic breaks (Fall, 
Christmas and Spring) I have resided in 
this fair city of 107,789 people (accord­
ing to the 2000 census). 
While my induction into townie life was unintentional -I never expected to spend 47 of the past 56 weeks here Liz Harter -it was unavoid­able as I spent 10 
Saint Mary's 

weeks of my sum­
Editor

mer as a features 
intern with the 
South Bend Tribune. I lived on the first 
floor of a house located on the edge of 
one of the many ghettos South Bend 
has to oiler otl' of Lincoln Way West. 
Spending so much time in South Bnnd -especially over the summer when them aren't football games and student nights at Club Fever, The Backer and Rum Runners to distract me -I learn11d how to successfully and quickly navigate the one-way streets of downtown and discovered many new things about the eity and surrounding area which I'm going to share with you to potentially pop the lovely bubble in which we live. Pick a place and check it out sometime. 
+Thistlnberry Farm: Located just outside South Bend at 61391 Mayllownr Hoad this farm is a great place to go on non-football weekends in the fall. It dm~sn't eost much money to wind your way through the exten­sive corn mazes cut into the fields here. The main mazn this year is called Lost in Spact) and it takes, on average, an hour and 45 minutes to go through it. If you're directionally challenged, however. like my friends and I are you muld potentially visit this maze for an entin) afternoon and not lind your way out. 
+Battell Park: I'll admit I would never have found this one on my own. I had to cover a story at the band shell at this park for the Tribune this sum­mer and my roommate and I ended up spending an entire evening revisiting our childhood at this Mishawaka park located at 301 North Mishawaka Ave. It has a beautiful rock garden and a play­ground with an excellent old-school merry-go-round that can make your stomach feel like it's in your throat. Mishawaka also has a three-mile walk­ing trail by the river if you're looking liJr someplacn to walk oll'-campus. 
+Potawatomi Zoo: While this zoo is no Lineoln Park it's pretty good for a smallnr city. They have animals that I've never smm bnfore like the Golden Lion Tamarin and thn Golden Mantella. They also have a collection of tortoises that were racing nach other when I vis­ited on the Fourth of July. They move a lot faster than I thought they would ... 
+Erskine Village: This collection of stores on the south side of the city (Ireland Hoad) provides a welcome shopping alternative during busy weekends on Grape Road and Main Street. Even though the Target here is smaller than the one on Main Street it's worth the 10 minute drive to avoid crowds. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Liz llarter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives !(>r the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE SHOW THIS YEAR? 


Caitlin Hildebrand Jordan Delpalacio 
senior senior off-campus offcampus 
"Matt Storey "It's alright." 
bought a ticket, so everyone should go. " 
Overly honest ad attracts new nanny 
NEW YORK -It was an unusually honest ad for a live-in nanny, a 1,000­word tome beginning, "My kids are a pain." But it worked, attracting a brave soul who's never been a nanny before. 
"If you cannot multi­task, or communicate without being passive aggressive, don't even bother replying," Rebecca Land Soodak, a mother of four on Manhattan's Upper East Side, wrote Aug. 19 in her advertise­ment on Craigslist. 
"I can be a tad difficult 
TODAY 



Annie Scully 
sophomore 
PW 
"All I can say is. I remember rocking out to Good Charlotte in grade school." 

apartment window, offi­cials said Thursday. 
Caua Felipe Massaneiro survived a 30-foot (10­meter) fall because his diaper snagged on a secu­rity spike embedded in the concrete wall around his apartment building in the northeastern Brazilian city of Recife. 
The boy dangled from the spike for a moment, then "the diaper opened and the baby fell to the ground, but at a much slower speed," a police officer said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
to work for. I'm loud, pushy and while I used to think we paid well, I am no longer sure." 
This being the age of instant communications, the ad took on a life of its own, making the rounds of parenting blogs and e­mail inboxes and inspir­ing an article in Thursday's New York Times. 
Falling baby saved by disposable diaper 
SAO PAULO, Brazil -A disposable diaper has saved the life of an 18­month-old boy, breaking his fall from a third-floor 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
....I 
<
(.) 



0 
HIGH 85 HIGH HIGH 68
...I 
LOW 62 LOW LOW 40 
65 57 

Matt Storey 
senior off-campus 
"Guaranteed to be both cool and good." 

IN BRIEF 
The welcome back picnic for graduate students will be today from 5:30-7:30 p.m. in the Fischer O'Hara-Grace (FOG) Graduate Hesidence Parking Lot. There will be free food, music, games and prizes. 
Jordana Mendhelson. Associate professor in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese at New York University, will give a lecture today on documentary and visual culture in Spain during and after the Spanish Civil War at 1:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center of International Studies. 
The Show featuring multi­platinum rock band Good Charlotte and Chicago hip­hop duo The Cool Kids at 7 
p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse today. 
The Student Activities Office is hosting illusionist Mike Super, the winner of NBC's Phenomenon, Saturday at 9 p.m. in Washington Hall for an interactive magic experience. Super will make an audience member levitate four and a half feet off the ground with absolutely no connections of any kind. He will also make is snow from his bare hands. 
Activities Night will be held Tuesday, September 2, at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. The event, which showcases Notre Dame's undergraduate clubs, is sponsored by the Student Activities Office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


68 40 

Atlanta 90 I 69 Boston 73 I 60 Chicago 79 I 67 Denver 85 I 55 Houston 95 I 75 Los Angeles 87 I 67 Minneapolis 80 I 55 New York 76 I 62 Philadelphia 80 I 65 Phoenix 106 I 84 Seattle 71 I 55 St. Louis 84 I 70 Tampa 92 I 77 Washington 79 I 66 
Friday, August 29, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
ND History Dept. No. 1 in ACLS Fellowships 
Special to The Observer 
If recent history repeats itself, University of Notre Dame histori­ans will enjoy looking to the future. 
Over the last three years, Notre Dame's Department of History has won more research fellow­ships from the American Council of Learned Societies (ACLS) than any other university in the coun­try and, in fact, has accumulated 20 external fellowships over that time period, more than a dozen of which are from agencies used by the National Research Council (NRC) to assess the strength of humanities departments. 
A federation of 70 national scholarly organizations, the ACLS is the preeminent representative of American scholarship in the humanities and related social sci­ences. 
Ahead of all other Top 25 research universities, Notre Dame's history department has earned six ACLS fellowships since 2005, compared with four for Brown University; three each for Harvard, Yale and Vanderbilt Universities; two each for Stanford, Princeton and Northwestern Universities; and one for Columbia University. 
"I think my colleagues have been so successful because they bring an unusual combination of erudition, originality and ambi­tion to their work," said Thomas Noble, professor and chair of his­tory and a past recipient of National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) and Fulbright fellowships. 
This year's ACLS honorees are planning academic leaves to immerse themselves in their research. 
John Van Engen, Notre Dame's Andrew V. Tackes Professor of History, is working on a major reinterpretation of the intellectu­al and cultural life of 12th centu­ry Europe. He also is the recipi­ent of a 2008 NEH research fel­lowship. 



The Asian Indian Classical Music Society 52318 N Tally Ho Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
Concert Announcement 
Pandits Rajan and Sajan Mishra (Vocal) 
August 31, 2008, Sunday, 7.30PM 
with Subhen Chatteijee (Tabla) and Sanatan Goswami (Harmonium) 
The Mishra Brothers are among the foremost Hindusthani (North Indian) classical vocalists in India today. They follow the Benares tradition. and sing in the jugalbandi (or duet) style. Blending powerful and expressive voices, their performances provide a methodical treatment of ragas with exquisite ornamentation and intricate and dazzling melodic patterns. They have performed all over the world. We are very lucky to have them here yet again. 
At: the Hesburgh Center for International and Peace Studies Auditorium, University ofNotre Dame 
Tickets available at gate. General Admission: $10_. AICMS Members and ND/SMC faculty: $5, Students: FREE 
Please note the date of our next concert: 
Esha Bandopadhyay (vocal) & Partha B.ose (sitar), Sunday, November 9, 7.30 PM 
General Announcement 
The AICMS had its annual general-body meeting on May 6, 2008. The new members of the Executive Committee were elected at the meeting. They are: Samir Bose (President), Vidula Agte (Vice President), Amitava Dull (Secretary), Ganesh Vaidyanathan (Treasurer) and Umesh Garg (Member-at-Large and Program Coordinator). · Subsequently, Prasant Kamat and Runa Mozumder were added as co-opted members of the Committee 
For further mtOrmation. contact: Arnilava Dutt (2730928) or Umesh Garg (2722957), web page: http://www.nd.edu/-adun/Links/AICMS.hun 


Alullllli Assn. to present aw-ards 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Alumni Association will present four awards during ceremonies on campus this fall. 
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Award honoring distin­guished public service will be presented Sept. 4 to Percy A. Pierre, a 1961 Notre Dame grad­uate, University Trustee and for­mer Michigan State University vice president. 
Pierre, who earned his mas­ter's degree from Notre Dame and doctorate from Johns Hopkins University, is recognized as the first African-American to earn a doctoral degree in electri­cal engineering. 
In 1969, Pierre began a series of administrative posts in gov­ernment and higher education. He was the principal architect of the national minority engineer­ing effort after he co-chaired the 1973 National Academy of Engineering (NAE) Symposium. He also served as the program officer at the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation for minority engi­neering for which he developed and funded many organizations, including the National Consortium for Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering and Science Inc. (GEM program), which was housed for 30 years at Notre Dame. 
Pierre left academia in 1977 to become an assistant secretary for research, development and acquisition in the U.S. Department of the Army. He managed some $10 billion annu­ally for the research, develop­ment and production of weapons systems for the Gulf War. He returned to academic service in 1983 as president of Prairie View A&M University and served as vice president of research and graduate studies at Michigan State from 1990 to 1995. 
Currently a consultant and board member in the areas of management and education, Pierre also is director of CMS Energy Inc., the White House Fellows Foundation and Association, and TracLabs Inc. 
Carolyn Manning, a 1987 Notre Dame graduate and founder of the Welcome to America project in Phoenix, will receive the Family Exemplar Award recognizing distinguished community service Sept. 4. 

The Welcome to America proj­ect is a response of solidarity fol­lowing the Sept. 11, 2001, ter­rorist attacks, which claimed the life of Manning's brother-in-law. Acknowledging the connection the U.S. felt with those suffering throughout the world, she start­ed the project as a way to reach out through a bridge of under­standing between newly arriving refugees and her volunteer corps. Since 2001, Welcome to America has delivered furniture and household items totaling some $500,000 to 500 refugee families. 
Manning earned a master's degree in public administration from Seattle University ip. 1992 and, since 1987, has served her community as a crisis worker, case manager and manager. Her strong belief in the goodness of humanity has aided her deter­mination to make every individ­ual feel welcome in society. 
Bryant Young, a 1994 Notre Dame graduate and former Irish and professional football player, will receive the Harvey G. Foster Award during a halftime cere­mony at the Notre Dame-San Diego State game Sept. 6. The Foster Award is given annually to a Notre Dame graduate distin­guished for athletic endeavors and community service. 
An All-American defensive tackle for the Irish, Young played for 13 years with the San Francisco 49ers before retiring last year with 89 career sacks. His NFL accolades include Defensive Rookie of the Year, four Pro-Bowl and All-Pro hon­ors, selection to the 1990s All Decade Team and Comeback Player of the Year after suffering a potentially career-ending leg injury in 1999. Last year, Young's teammates voted him the winner of the Len Eshmont Award, the team's most presti­gious honor for inspirational and courageous play, for a record eighth time. No other player in 49ers history has won the award more than twice. · 
Young and his wife, Kristin (also a 1994 Notre Dame gradu­ate), established the Young Dreams Foundation, which ben­efits youth organizations in San Francisco and Chicago. The support~: summer youth football camps and college tuition for San Francisco Bay-area stu­dents. In a.ddition, the Youngs have established several scholar­ships at Notre Dame for San Francisco and Chicago students. 
For his philanthropic efforts, Young was named USA Today's Most Caring Athlete in 2000 and was nominated as one of the 10 Most Influential African­Americans in the Bay area. 
The Rev. William Corby, C.S.C., Award honoring distinguished military service will be presented to Air Force Lt. Gen. Henry A. "Trey" Obering, a 1973 gradu­ate, during a halftime ceremony at the NotJre Dame-Stanford game Oct. 4. 
Director of the Missile Defense Agency IMDA) in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Obering serves as the acquisition execu­tive for all ballistic missile defense systems and programs. He joined the Air Force in 1973 after gJ~aduating from Notre Dame's HOTC program. 
During more than three decades of service, Obering has established himself as an effec­tive leader in engineering opera­tions. He worked extensively with the Space Shuttle program, participating in 15 launches as a NASA orbiter project engineer and was responsible for integrat­ing firing room launch opera­tions. 
Prior to his position in the MDA, Obering served as the mis­sion an:a director for informa­tion dominance where he planned and programmed 68 joint Air Force and international programs. He also has served in Top Gun, Air-to-Air and the F­4E Replacement Training Unit. 
Obering, who plans to retire from the Air Force in January, earned his master's degree in astronallltical engineering from Stanford! University. His military education includes the Squadron Officer School, Air Command and Staff College and the Industrial College of the Armed Forces. Hi.s personal decora­tions include the Defense SuperioJr Service Medal, Legion of Merit, 1chree Meritorious Service Medals, Air Force Commendation Medal, and Air Force Aehievement Medal. 


Fordbrings European carstoP.illlerica 
Associated Press 
MICHIGAN -It seems like an easy solution: Americans are look­ing for more fuel-efficient vehicles, so Ford Motor Co. is bringing over some of the small, gas-sipping cars it's been selling to Europeans for years. 
But introducing the cars to the 
U.S. market isn't as simple as changing the speedometer from kilometers to miles. Ford has to reconcile American and European safety regulations -everything from the color of rear turn signals to the positioning of crash test dummies -that will keep the cars from hitting U.S. highways anytime soon. 
Competing interests among automakers, governments and the insurance industry are hampering efforts to standardize safety requirements worldwide. That means extra engineering to make different versions of vehicles for different markets. 
"Each party negotiating this has their own views about their own standards being better," said Ronald Medford, senior associate administrator of vehicle safety at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which sets 

U.S. standards. "But as long as we can show we're not lowering safe­ty and we're lowering cost, we're all interested in that." 
Some differences are significant, like the U.S. rule that requires protection for passengers not wearing seat belts, which has no European equivalent. Others are small, like the U.S. requirement that vehicles have side lights, which are optional in Europe. 
Ford isn't the only automaker facing this issue. The ultra-com­pact Smart car was sold overseas for nine years, but before Daimler AG could bring it to the U.S., it had to make the car longer to meet 
U.S. crash standards, spokesman Ken Kettenbeil said. 
But Ford's promise to bring six small, fuel-efficient vehicles from Europe and start building them in North America in 2010 puts a new focus onthe challenge of sat­isfying governments' varying requirements. 
These global models are the cornerstone of Ford's plan to 
return to profitability after losing $8.7 billion last quarter. The Dearborn-based automaker says its small European vehicles sell well and are superior to those in the U.S. Ford also plans to save billions from designing products for global sales, boosting profits on small cars, which don't gener­ate the revenue of trucks and SUVs. 
Automakers know how to retro­fit their vehicles but question the time and expense involved when the changes may not make those vehicles safer, said Jim Vondale, director of Ford's safety office. 
"It may involve changes to the structure, it may involve changes to material, but they result in not so many diflferences in the safety levels of the vehicles," he said. 
Ford recently studied 43 regula­tions in Europe and the U.S. and found that just 11 were equiva­lent, Vondale said. Fourteen had major differences that would require significant changes. Asian countries' regulations, which are closer to European requirements than their LS. counterparts, add even more complexities. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 29, 2008 
Fair 
continued from page I 
BOG meeting. 
"We've had about 30 peo­ple sign-up for that lso far I." Gruscinski said with about an 
ineluding the Center for the llomeless, the Women's Care Center. Logan Center and Saint Margaret's llousn. 
Whiln the event was att1~nded by many first year studnnts, upperclassmen attended to sec what kind of activities wcw offered on ~~amp us. 

Phones 
continued from page I 
installed six antennas to incrnase rnception for their customers and the company, Chief Technology Oniee Dewitt Latimer said. The antennas won't be noticed around cam­pus, as they are hidden or camouflaged by existing art on the exterior of buildings, Latinwr said. 
Another beneficiary of the increased cell phone eoveragc has been the ND Alert notifi­cation system. which was dnsigrwd to notify the Notre Damn community of severe wnathnr or othnr danger that may all'ed campus. 
"Because of' tlwse infra­strurtun~ irnprovPm1mts. we ~~an snnd the 16.000 emnr­gPrH~Y tl~xt nwssages gnnerat­nd by tlw All'rt system in about thrnP minutPs," Latimer said. 
Aside from AT&T and Vnrizon, carrinrs such as Sprinl. T-Mobil1• and U.S. Cellular have bnen approadwd by tlw University, but havl' dderrPd upgrading thnir covnragn duP to the larg11 initial invnstrncnt requirnd, Latimnr said. 
"I went because, as a sen­ior, I have a little more time to do extracurricular activi­ties," Lindsey Appelquist said. "I wanted to see if there were any new clubs on campus that I didn't know about and would want to join. There were a 

hour left in 
"/ went because, as a

the fair. 
There were senior, I have a little many service more time to do 
organizations 
extracurricular

from the South Bend 
activities. " community that took part 
Lindsey Appelqulst 

in the fair, 

SMC senior 
lot of clubs (there) that I didn't even know we had." 
Appelquist also said she liked the fact that some Notre Dame clubs, like the Tae Kwon Do club and the 
Irish Club. came to Saint Mary's to promote their clubs as well. 
"I appreciated the effort that Notre Dame's clubs put in to bring their clubs to our campus," she said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
"Since Notre Dame draws students from around the nation, it makes sense that most of our students use AT&T and Verizon, as they comprise over 85 percent of tiH1 market nationally," Latimer said. 
Despite these upgrades, cer­tain areas of the university remain with poor reception. Latimer said he is aware of the reception problems in newly created Duncan llall, noting that the West Quad area has historically had poor reception. "Both Verizon and AT&T are working on upgrad­ing coverage on West Quad and inside Duncan Hall in particular, but it's going to take some time," he said. 
Bncause of the improve­ments in coverage, students oftnn change their plans to AT&T or Vnrizon because they "go with what's best", Latirm1r said. 
"We'rn seeing that students often eorm1 in uncler a family plan and then by junior year start to sign up for their own plans, and they of course are attracted to carriers that have better service on campus," Latimer said. 
Contact John Paul Witt at jwitt1@nd.edu 
again changed to reduce the break to Thursday through
Holiday 
Sunday. This recess schedule continued from page I remained in place up through the fall of 2007. Starting this fall, classes will es at Anthony Travel. only be held Monday and 
The Thanksgiving weekend is Tuesday during the typically the busiest travel Thanksgiving week. This year, weekend of the year, Kowalski Thanksgiving break starts said, but giving students the Wednesday, Nov. 26 and lasts option to leave Tuesday or until Sunday, Nov. 30. Wednesday morning could Every year, Pace said, he and make traveling easier for many others at the University would students. hear complaints from students 
To reach family for and faculty about the short Thanksgiving, the general pop­Thanksgiving break. Research ulation usually travels late on showed that students were Wednesday, due to work, leaving Wednesday or earlier, Kowalski said, and in the past, even though the official start of Notre Dame stu-the holiday dents had to recess was
"We would walk 
join the masses. Thursday. Providing through DeBartolo In an August Wednesday 2007 letter to
and see very few
morning and Burish, Pace
classes."
T u e s d a y cited research evening as an conducted by extra day to Harold Pace D a v i d travel could Prentkowski, the


University registrar 
make it easier for students to find flights, she said. 
People tend to fly, rather than drive, home for Thanksgiving, said Kayleen Carr, leisure manager for Anthony Travel, since the break is only a few days long. 
The Thanksgiving recess has been changed four times in Notre Dame's history, Pace said. From 1898 through to the 1950s, classes were only can­celled on Thanksgiving Day itself. It is unclear from past academic calendars whether classes were dismissed for Thanksgiving prior to 1898, he said. 
The calendar was changed in 1959, with classes dismissed at 
12:30 p.m. on Wednesday, to resume the following Monday. In 1987. the holiday was declared to run from Wednesday through Sunday, but in 1990, the recess was director of Notre 
Dame Food Services, that showed approxi­mately 11,400 dining hall meals are served on a regular Wednesday, compared with 4, 700 meals on the Wednesday prior to Thanksgiving. Prentkowski's research showed the data was consistent over the previous three years. 
Students weren't just skip­ping classes, Pace said, but professors were also cancelling them the Wednesday before Thanksgiving so students could get home. 
"We could walk through DeBartolo Jlall and see very few classes," he said. "We had some evidence that classes were not meeting very regular­ly [that day)." 
The student body was noti­fied last semester of the Thanksgiving schedule change, and reminded again in an e­mail this week from Pace. 

Since the Perpetual Academic Calendar Buies of the University stipulate that each semester should include at least 70 class days, the Academic Council also decided to eliminate one reading, or study, day in December in order to meet the 70-day mini­mum rule. 
The spring semester will include the standard four read­ing days, Pace said, with class­es ending on a Wednesday and exams starting the following Monday. 
In the course of its delibera­tions, Pace said, the Academic Council was worried that stu­dents might take the entire Thanksgiving week off now that classes are only scheduled for Monday and Tw~sday. 
The University consulted with Saint Mary's, which pro­vides Wednesday as part of the Thanksgiving holiday, and asked the registrar to survey faculty about whether their classes had full attendance on the Monday and Tuesday before Thanksgiving. The majority of the responses reported no attendance prob­lems on these two days. 
Last January, Burish sent a letter to the faculty clarifying the University's absentee poli­cy. 
"Contrary to common student lore, there is no University pol­icy permitting students 'three free cuts, i.e. three unexcused absences from class without consequences," the letter said. "Deans, dP.partment chairs and directors should take the nec­essary steps to ensure tlw enforcement of University poli­eies and procedures." 
Pace said he hoped the clari­fication of this rule would ensure that students did not skip class on the Monday and Tuesday before Thanksgiving. 
Contact Kaitlynn Reily at kriely@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATIOt~ 
Friday, August 29, 2008 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Darfur rebels hijack plane in the air 
LIBYA -Two Sudanese men, armed with handguns and the threat of explosives, stormed the cockpit of the Boeing 737, tak­ing control just minutes into the flight. Passengers said the hijackers remained calm but they still spent a night in fear. 
Once on the ground at a remote Libyan air­field, the hijackers demanded maps and enough fuel to reach France. But after 22 hours. the standoff ended Wednesday with the 95 passengers and crew let go and the gunmen surrendering in a run-down VIP lounge with a plea for asylum. 
Thai prime minister's office overrun 
BANGKOK-Thai anti-government protesters occupying the grounds of the prime minister's office forced several hundred policemen off the compound early Friday and promised more action in their bid to oust the leader. 
Police exercised restraint when the demon­strators -some armed with golf clubs, batons and bamboo sticks -pushed up to 400 officers out of the Government House grounds at about 1 a.m. 
Protesters celebrated by dancing to rock music, a sharp contrast to the tensions Wednesday before when they feared a raid and threw up makeshift barricades. 
"We can relax now, but please be cautious, they might return soon," protest organizer Samran Hodpetch announced from a stage. 
Thousands of supporters of the conservative People's Alliance for Democracy spent a third night encamped at Government House in sup­port of their campaign to force Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej from office. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Hurricane to hit the Gulf Coast 
NEW ORLEANS -With Gustav approach­ing hurricane strength and showing no signs of veering off a track to slam into the Gulf Coast, authorities across the region began laying the groundwork Thursday to get the sick, elderly and poor away from the shore­line. 
The first batch of 700 buses that could ferry residents inland were being sent to a staging area near New Orleans, and officials in Mississippi were trying to decide when to move Katrina-battered residents along the coast who were still living in temporary homes, including trailers vulnerable to high wind. 
3 story scaffold collapse injures 16 
SAN DIEGO-A block-long covered walk­way next to a construction scaffold collapsed on Thursday, trapping and injuring 16 pedestrians, three critically. 
About 25 people were on the walkway when its wooden walls and roof fell in, authorities said. Some scaffolding along the 3-story building also fell. 
"The walls started moving, then the bang. Everything started coming down. Everyone started screaming," said Abigail Reckermann, 50, who went to the hospital with a swollen ankle. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indy doctor accused of malpractice 
INDIANAPOLIS -Adoctor accused of improperly writing drug prescriptions and having sex with his patient<> was stripped of his medical license Thursday. 
The Indiana Medic,al Licensing Board voted 6-0 to revoke Dr. Elmer Manalo's license following a two­day hearing. He would not be able to apply for rein­statement for seven years. 
Manalo's license was suspended last September after Drug Enforcement Agency agents and police officers searched the cardiologist's offices in Greensburg and Cumberland, a town in eastern Marion County. 
CoMP[Lf:D FROM THr: OBsERVER'S WJRr: srRVJCES page 5 
ELECTION 2008 

Obama addresses conve:n.tion 
Democratic presedential candidate pledges to fix the broken politics in Washington 
Associated Press DENVER Barack Obama, launching his his­toric fall campaign for the White House with an out­door Democratic National Convention extravaganza, pledged Thursday to "fix the broken politics in Washington" after he defeats Republican John McCain in the fall. "We are better than these last eight years. We are a better country than this," Obama said in excerpts of his acceptance speech released in advance of his speech. Seeking to weld his Republican rival to the out­going Bush presidency, Obama declared that McCain as a senator had voted with Bush 90 percent of the time. "I don't know about you, but I'm not ready to take a 10 percent chance on change," he said. "We meet at one of those defining moments -a moment when our nation is at war, our economy is in turmoil and the American promise has been threat­ened once more," Obama said in the excerpts. He said it's time to change leadership in Washington after two terms of the Bush adminis­tration. "On Nov. 4," he said, "we must stand up in ten years. the legacy that generations delivering the most impor­and say: 'Eight is enough." Playing on Bush's asser­of Americans -Democrats tant speech of his improba­Obama said that more tion in his 2007 State of the and Republicans -have ble candidacy, a prime­Americans now are out of Union address that the built, and we are to restore time address to an estimat­work or working harder for qation was "addicted" to that legacy," he said. ed 75,000 inside Denver's less, more have lost homes foreign oil, Obama said, "As commander in chief, NFL stadium and uncount­or are watching home val­"Now is the time to end this I will never hesitate to ed mi[llions watching at ues plummet, have cars addiction." defend this nation, but I home on television. they can't afford, credit Obama also sought to will only send our troops Aides pledged a direct card bills they can't pay ease any concerns into harm's way with a conversation with voters and tuition that is beyond Americans might have that clear mission and a sacred about the choice between reach. he was not prepared to be commitment to give them Obama, a 4 7 -year-old "These challenges are commander in chief or that the equipment they need in Illinois senator, and his not all of government's Democrats were not as battle and the care and Republican rival, Sen. making. But the failure to trustworthy as Republicans benefits they deserve when McCain of Arizona, who is respond is a direct result of on national security. they come home," he said. turning n this week. a broken politics in "We are the party of Obama 's convention In <W audacious move, Washington and the failed Roosevelt. We are the party finale blended old-fash­McCain worked to steal at presidency of George W. of Kennedy. So don't tell ioned speechmaking, least a portion of the politi­Bush," he said. me that Democrats won't Hollywood-quality stage­cal spotlight by stoking Obama said he was set­defend this country. Don't craft and innovative, speculation that his selec­ting a goal "for the sake of tell me that Democrats Internet age politics. tion of a vice presidential our economy, our security won't keep us safe," One day after becoming running mate was immi­and the future of our plan­Obama said. the first black man to win a nent. An aide said McCain et," of ending dependence "The Bush-McCain for­major party presidential had made his decision, and on oil from the Middle East eign policy has squandered nomination, Obama was one man on the short list, 

Western leaders vvarn Russia to chan~;e~ course 
Meanwhile, Georgia slashed its sent a missile cruiser and two other
Associated Press 

embassy staff in Moscow to protest ships to a port farther north in a show 
GEORGIA -Western leaders Russia's recognition of the two sepa­of force. warned the Kremlin on Wednesday to ratist enclaves that were the flashpoint The maneuverin:~ came a day after "change course," hoping to keep the for the five-day war between the two Russian President Dmitry Medvedev conflict from growing into a new Cold nations earlier this month. had said his nation was "not afraid of War after tensions broadened to The tensions have spread to the anything, including the prospect of a imperil a key nuclear pact and threat­Black Sea, which Russia shares unhap­Cold War." For the two superpowers of en U.S. meat and poultry trade with pily with three nations that belong to the first Cold War, the United States Russia. NATO and two others that desperately and Russia, repercussions from this 
Moscow said it was NATO expansion want to, Ukraine and Georgia. Some new conflict could he widespread. and Western support for Georgia that Ukrainians fear Moscow might set its Russia's agriculture minister said was causing the new East-West divi­sights on their nation next. Moscow could cut poultry and pork sions, and Prime Minister Vladimir In moves evocative of Cold War cat­import quotas by hundreds of thou­Putin lashed out at the United States and-mouse games, a U.S. military ship sands of tons, hit1ing American pro­for using military ships to deliver carrying humanitarian aid docked at a ducers hard and thereby raising prices humanitarian aid to Georgia. southern Georgian port, and Russia for American shoppers. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 29, 2008 
-

Show 
continued from page 1 
Frnshman Anne Whitty said she was aware of The Show's rt~putation as the biggest con­enrt of the year. 
McAllister and Whitty said all of their frinnds are planning on going to The Show. whieh is a big draw. 
"If tlu1y'rn going, I'm going," Whitty said. 
Tho Show 200H committee, which has been planning the concert for the past five months, believes the acts will appeal to tho student body as a whole, Barloh said. 
"Obviously, you can't please everyone," he said. "There will always be a vocal minority that abhors the headliner you choose ... Rut the positive reac­tions we've received heavily outweigh the negative reactions both in number and in enthusi­asm." 
On Thursday, the exact num­ber of tickets sold so far was not calculated; however, Rarloh expects a big turnout. 
The committee should predict a sell-out, he said, "otherwise they're not booking the right kinds of bands." 
Tickets cost $1 0, a figure that is possible thanks to donations, Barloh said. 
"The generous donations that Father Mark Poorman and the Office of Student Affairs make every year allow us to book top­tier talent and still oiTer tickets to tho student body at the most­affordable price possible," he said. 
Tho Show 200H is going green this year, putting a greater emphasis on electronic market­ing, reducing the amount of paper advertisements like posters and fliers, Barloh said. He does not expect this to nega­tively affect turnout. 

"We believe the enthusiasm for Good Charlotte and The Cool Kids will allow us to organize a very popular, very successful concert even without as many posters and fliers," he said. 
Other changes to make the concert more environmentally friendly include serving organic and locally grown food to the performers, production crew and The Show 2008's many vol­unteers. 
The T-shirts for The Show 2008 were made from organic eotton and printed with soy ink, and tickets and posters were printed on recycled paper. 
The most extravagant change made to the concert this year is the use of a state-of-the-art LED lighting system, which will con­sume 60 percent less energy than conventional lighting rigs, according to the press release. 
All of these changes equals a much more costly concert, Barloh said. 
"It was more expensive to produce a 'green' concert," he said. "However, it is important for The Show to become some­thing more than just a great concert. In the years ahead, it must serve to enrich Notre Dame's already-storied history of bettering our world." 
Doors open at the Joyce Center tonight at 7 p.m. 
Tickets will be available at the Box Office in LaFortune. A valid Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross ID is required for purchase. Tickets will also be available at the door. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
Bins 
continued from page 1 

The new recycling bins are part of Saint Mary's effort to increase environmental awareness and to make recy­cling easier for students. In years past, paper was the only material that was recycled on campus. Now, aluminum, glass and paper are being including in a single stream system, according to compli­ance officer Dan Woods. 
Woods hopes that the new initiative will encourage Saint Mary's students to recycle properly. 
"One prob­

lem that the recyclers were telling us was that trash items, includ­ "Putting [the bins] in rooms helps students know that recycling is available on  Saint Mary's push to raise environmental awareness. "We're just  
ing  pizza  campus.  excited  that  
boxes  and  we've come this  
Styrofoam were making their way into  Mary Beth Glzlnskl Holy Cross RA  far. We are also asking the fac­ulty to become  
the recycling  actively  
containers.  involved.  We  

We need to do a better job of are very proud of our endeav­putting trash items into the ors and we arc hoping to have trash and not in the recy­a successful year," Rajski said. 
cling," Woods said in a cam­pus-wide e-mail. Contact Ashley Charnley at Holy Cross Hall, one of the acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 

four residence halls on cam­pus, issued the bins through their Resident Advisors (Hi\). 
"Putting them in the rooms helps students to know that recycling is available on cam­pus," Holy Cross Hi\ Mary Beth Gizinski said. 
Terrie Paul, the new Holy Cross hall director, is combin­ing the hall's core value of Justice with the new pull for recycling on campus. 
"The initiative in and of itself is wonderful and I am glad that Saint Mary's is rec­ognizing the importance of sustainability, and treating the environment well," Paul said. 
Rajski said the bins were 
just the f'irst 
step this year in 


Tickets on sole now at the Morris Box Office. charge by phone 574/235-9190. or online www.morriscenter.org. filso at all Ticketmoster locations. Charge by phone 574/272-7979 or www.ticketmoster.com. $25.00 odvonce/$30.00 day of show 
tto ICIW'n choirs or coolers -bring o blanket. This is o no smoki 
Friday, August 29, 2008 


MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 11,715.18 +212.67
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,674 84 703 3,896,218,289 

AMEX NASDAQ 2 411.64 +29.18 NYSE •':~;;;··.·~~=-~~~~~tll!lllliiiJ~II1!!fll~lil~:llli!. S&P 500 1,300.68 +19.02 NIKKEI (TokyO)· !iJ!IIIlliJJI~III:~IIi:::lli!!llllllll:lr FTSE 100 (London} 5.601.20 +73.10 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +1.21 +1.56 130.19 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +4.04 +0.83 21.39 FREDDIE MAC (FRE) +11.16 +0.53 5.28 FANNIE MAE (FNM) +22.69 +1.47 7.95 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.61 +0.023 3.795 13-WEEK BILL +3.66 +0.06 1.70 30-YEAR BOND +0.14 +0.006 4.389 5-YEAR NOTE +1.45 +0.044 3.07 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.56 115.59 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +3.20 837.20 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.85 90.20 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 109.5200 EURO 0.6798 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0513 BRmSH POUND 0.5466 
IN BRIEF Contractor accused of human trafficking 
LOS ANGELES-The families of 12 Nepali men killed by Iraqi insurgents have filed a federal lawsuit accusing defense Gontractor KBR Inc. and a Jordanian subcontractor of human trafficking, saying the men were sent to work in Iraq against their will after being promised jobs in a posh hotel in Jordan. 
The lawsuit filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court alleges the workers were being taken to work at a U.S. air base in Iraq in 2004 when insurgents intercepted their caravan and killed them days later. A Nepali worker whose car survived the attack is also a plaintiff; Buddi Prasad Gurung, now back in Nepal, claims he was forced to work at AI Asad Air Base as a warehouse loader for 15 months. 
The 13 Nepali men were recruited by Daoud & Partners and other subcontractors with promises of work at an Amman hotel before their passports were taken and they were sent to Iraq, according to the lawsuit. 
Heather Browne, a spokeswoman for Houston-based KBR, declined to comment, saying the company has not yet seen the lawsuit. A contact number for Daoud & Partners could not immediately be located. 
Wheaties hires Olympic gold medalists 
MINNEAPOUS -First the gold, then the Wheaties. At the Olympics in Beijing this month, Nastia Liukin followed in the footsteps of Mary Lou Hetton and Carly Patterson, the two other American gynmasts who have won Olympic gold in the all-around competition. Now she and American decathlete Bryan Clay follow them onto the Wheaties cereal box. 
Liukin and Clay will get their own special edition Wheaties boxes, General Mills Inc. announced Thursday. 
Liukin, who is from Parker, Texas, won five medals in the Beijing Olympics, including helping the U.S. win silver in the team compe­tition. 
Clay, a native of Honolulu who lives in Los Angeles, was the first American to win the decathlon since Dan O'Brien brought home the gold in 1996. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Wall Street jump reassures investors 
Dow Janes rises more than 200 points, gross domestic product reading be'ier than expected 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Wall Street barreled higher Thursday after a better-than-expected reading on the gross domes­tic product and a drop in jobless claims gave investors some reassurance that the economy is holding up. The Dow Jones industria·! aver­age jumped more than 200 points. 
A decline in oil prices also appeared to add force to the rally in stocks. But trading volume was again light heading toward the Labor Day weekend, a condition that can skew price moves. 
The Commerce Department's report that gross domestic product rose at an annual rate of 3.3 per­cent for the April-June peri­od followed several econom­ic readings this week that have left guarded investors somewhat optimistic. The weaker dollar helped boost 
U.S. exports, which pushed GDP growth beyond the gov­ernment's initial estimate of 
1.9 percent as well as econo­mists' forecast of 2. 7 per­cent. 
It marked the economy's best performance since the third quarter of last year, when GDP rose at a 4.8 per­cent pace. 

Investors are watching GDP, considered the best barometer of the economy's cut jobs every month this cent late Wednesday. The prices as Tropical Storm well-being, to look for signs year as they grapple with dollar rose against most Gustav churns toward the that growth is picking up high energy costs and tighter major currencies. Gold also Gulf of Mexico on a course after being pounded by credit. advanced. that could collide with oil housing woes and a debili­The Dow rose 212.67, or "This is an environment in and gas platforms. Oil rose tating credit crisis. The econ­1.85 percent, to 11,715.18, which we're likely to get a in the early going on con­omy grew at a weak rate of bringing its three-day lot of head-fakes both on the cerns about the storm but a 
0.9 percent in the first quar­advance to nearly 330 upside and the downside," strengthening dollar upend­ter after shrinking in the last points. Still, for the week, the said Bill Urban, principal ed oil's climb. three months of 2007. Dow is up only slightly after with San Francisco-based Light. sweet crude fell 
Also Thursday, the Labor a big decline Monday on Bingham, Osborn & $2.56 to settle at $115.59 on Department said the number credit worries. Scarborough, referring to the New York Mercantile of newly laid off people seek­Broader stock indicators economic data. He noted Exchange. ing jobless benefits fell for also rose Thursday. The that the initial reading on The decline in oil made the third straight week. Standard & Poor's 500 index the fourth quarter last year energy stocks one of the ses­Claims dropped to a season­advanced 19.02, or 1.48 per­had been positive before sion's few areas of weak­ally adjusted 425,000, down cent, to 1,300.68, and the revisions revealed the econo­ness. 10,000 from the previous Nasdaq composite index my contracted. Devon Energy Corp. fell week. That was slightly bet­rose 29.18, or 1.22 percent, "This is just sort of data $3.62, or 3.4 percent, to ter than the 427,000 expect­to 2,411.64. that trickles out that can be $103.16, while Hess Corp. ed by analysts surveyed by Bonds fell as investors very positive one day and fell $1.61, or 1.5 percent, to Thomson!IFR. moved into stocks. The yield negative the next. We don't $10:>.53. 
But some economists con­on the benchmark 10-year yet think it signals a trend," Finaneial shares advanced sider claims above 400,000 Treasury note, which moves he said. after MBIA Inc. agreed to an indicator of a slowing opposite its price,· rose to Beyond economic reports, reinsure nearly $200 billion economy. Companies have 3.79 percent from 3.77 per-investors are watching oil of municipal bonds backed 

Underground vvater plant drains tc:O<payers 
price tag, which early estimates put tion. Officials say they are making
Associated Press 

at $660 million, is now $2.8 billion. good progress despite a late start, 
NEW YORK -It requires enough Costs, delays, seven-figure fines and the cos.t increases are an concrete to build a sidewalk from and a brush with a high-profile unavoidable reflection of an indus­New York to Miami and enough Mafia case have sharpened criti­trywide trend. pipe to reach the top of the Empire cism of the city's handling of a proj­"The need w complete important State Building 140 times over. ect that three city watchdog agen­projects like the (water) plant has Workers carved out enough dirt cies and a group of community not diminished," Deputy Mayor for from the ground to fill more than leaders are monitoring. Operations Edward Skyler said. 100,000 dump trucks. "The bottom line is that to build "We can't sit back and let others 
The colossal effort is a water fil­this water plant, the taxpayers are worry about the future." tration plant being built 10 stories getting soaked," state The federal government has beneath a Bronx driving range, a Assemblyman Jeffrey Dinowitz ordered the dty to build what will one-of-a-kind project intended to said. "It's like government at its be its first drinking water filtration become a nearly invisible part of worst." facility, and the project is believed the city's infrastructure. Despite the problems, officials to be the firs.t subterranean water 
But the plant has been anything say they will not be deterred from plant in the nation. Its magnitude is but hidden so far. building what they see as the latest hard to overlook: The pit at Van The plant's completion date has far-reaching project in a city full of Cortlandt Park is so deep that large been pushed back six years, and its grand monuments to civic imagina-cranes merely peek above the rim. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

page 8 Friday, August 29, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box n9. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDrmR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler A~sT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEws EDITOR: Jenn Mctt 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHoTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGF.R: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROllER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews. I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 63 I -5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 

My very first drink 
Our lives have a lot of firsts: The first time I ever rode a bicycle without train­ing wheels (my dad had my back and showed me the way), the first time I skied down a hill (my mom brought me up the chair 
lift), and the  Bob Kessler  
first time I ever  
drove a car (my dad was giving  /louse ofStix  
me instructions  

from the passenger seat). But the first 
time I ever drank alcohol was three 
years ago today in a room full of com­
plete strangers. 
The lirst time I ever drank alcohol was three years ago at my Disorientation, or Dis-0. Thrown into a room where I didn't know anybody, I chose to drink what I could because I wanted to lit in and because it seemed like it would be fun. Although I couldn't drink much at all, it was a Jot of fun and I have been actively partaking in the alcohol-fueled college culture ever since. 
Last month, a group of college and university presidents sought to curb this binge drinking culture across the coun­try by forming the Amethyst Initiative. The Initiative is a project of Choose Hesponsibility and has the stated goal of rethinking the legal drinking age. However, these presidents are not seek­ing a higher legal drinking age, but rather a lower one that would give stu­dents an actual choice when it comes to their legal drinking options. While some have called this crazy, I believe that it is the only correct way to build a more responsible society. 
Under our current laws, students are immediately granted full rights to alco­hol purchase, transport and consump­tion when the clock strikes midnight at their 21st birthday. In theory, these peo­ple have no prior experience with alco­hol and would have no way to actually know how to responsibly consume it. 
Combine this with the college setting at 
which many Americans turn 21, and 
you have a lethal disaster for binge 
drinking and irresponsibility. 
While my bicycle had training wheels, skiing had the bunny hill and driving had a learner's permit, the laws on drinking leave no room for education. These laws simply drop us right into the responsibility of alcohol without bother­ing to take the time to teach us how to actually drink responsibly. 
Furthermore, while parents and teachers are greatly involved with edu­cating us about how to safely drive a ear, the only drinking education we receive is informally given to us by friends and older siblings. 
In fact, the only formal education I ever received in school about alcohol was that it was bad. My high school preached alcohol abstinence much to the degree that the priests discuss sexu­al abstinence. I was never really taught about different types of alcohol and their practical effects on the body until! started drinking myself. And where did this leave me? 
It left me in that room at Dis-0 sur­rounded by complete strangers wonder­ing if a bottle of Malt Liquor was hard alcohol or not. It left my alcohol educa­tion not to parents and teachers, but to certain members of the Notre Dame Class of 2008 who took me and my peers under their wing and showed us the way. It left me to learn how to binge drink at parties and tailgates, but not how to drink at dinners and events. It was like attempting a double black dia­mond on your first time skiing. 
We need a system that allows us to progressively learn from our elders how to responsibly enjoy alcohol. Much like the year that we have a learner's per­mit, I believe that we need to have a year's worth of alcohol education. This would essentially involve granting young adults who are 18 the right to legally drink, but not the right to legally purchase aleohol and not the right to legally enter bars. During this time, 18­year-olds would be forced to drink with people who are older, and wiser, and would inevitably gain from it. 

Instead we have a system in place where young adults learn about alcohol not from their parents and relatives but from their friends and siblings. Earlier this week I had to spend several hours trying to convince an acquaintance not to drive home after drinking, even though "all of his friends from home do it." While I was lucky enough to learn from a smart group of guys whose poor decisions only went as far as they could walk, our laws can not assume that every young adult will be given this informal education. Our responsibility only goes so far as our education, and the current system is failing to educate young adults about how to drink prop­erly. 
Because of these problems, I not only strongly support a lower legal drinking age, but I urge Fr. Jenkins, our University officials, and all University officials across the country to show sup­port for this Initiative. If you don't · believe in its merits, just walk around campus this afternoon, drive down Washington Street this evening and wander through Turtle Creek late tonight. It will be in these places, as opposed to DeBartolo Hall, where the real education of our freshmen will begin, and the failure of our country's system will be all too evident. 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. You can contact him at rkessler@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed hy policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adwniscmt·nts based on content. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of dw majority ofthe Editor in Chid: Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Connm·nraries. letters and columns present the views of tht• authors and not necessarily those ofThe ( )bs<Twr. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. !.etters In the Editor must be signed and rnusr include contact intOrn1ation. 
Questions reKarding Obs"ver policies should be dirrcted to Editor in ChiefChris Ifine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

l"hc Uh'l'rY''r (lJ\P'i '\'l'l l-4llllll)t, ~·uhh•hccl Mnnd,y 1hmu~h fridJy l'X..:cp! durmg l'l,Ull .md V,Ll.Uiuu J~'flll<l,. A 'U"'o( 11ptuolllu Th.· UO<tervt'r I\ $1 nn lnr um· .ll.ll.lcmic 
\'..:.U; $"i'i fur III!CIII:IJIC\I!,'I  
rhc ( lh\I.'Pi('t il puhJJ,Ju:tl .11  I'OST'MASTER  
1114 Smuh ll1111u~ ll.dl  !M:nd Jdd~ correCtion~ m:  
Nnm~ llmu:, IN '1(,..,<;(,.071?  The Observer  
l'cnndrlJI pu•t~l" p.ud .u Nnut DJmc  PO Buxn9  
,mJ .ulthllntl.ll nurlm~o: "tfi'c'  Ol-1 ~mth Dining ll.aJI  

Notre Dame, IN 46';%-on':J 

I II{" ()lo<Ktvrr 1111. merniK:I ,,fthc A..o:,uJtc<f f'1• . All rcprnduuiun n~lm .uc 
rc\£fVl"li 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

Friday, August 29, 2008 page 9 
U-WIRE 
Facebook's 100 million members shows it's out of control 
Facebook is out of control. 
This isn't a piece to ramble on and on about how it's taking over peo­ple's lives; it's to identify the dan­gers of the social networking site. 
YesterdayFacebook Staff Editorial announced a record member­
The Daily

ship of 100 mil­
Athenaeum

lion members. 
That's 99,999,999 other people who can find you on the Internet. 
That's almost 100 million people who can know your business: who you're dating, who your friends are and what you're interested in. 
Facebook and MySpace would be better off being called "StalkerBook" or "StalkerSpace." 
At least people will know what they are getting into. 
Day after day you hear horror sto­ries about cyber bullying and online predators. These social networking sites are no different than finding a naive somebody in a chat room. 
According to ABC News, 42 per­cent of children have experienced online bullying. 
The site has also decreased and nearly eliminated personal interac­tion among peers and generations. 
Instead of calling someone over the phone or visiting them in per­son, Facebook has become the quick-and-easy way to find out what's going on in friends' lives and what's going on over the weekend. 
Facebook allows its users to post pictures and their interests. 
It has been reported that some individuals looking for a job don't get hired because of incriminating· details on their Facebook or MySpace accounts. 
According to an MSNBC article, Van Allen runs a company that recruits candidates to fill positions in health clinics and hospitals all over the country. He was happy to find a qualified candidate, but the woman didn't receive the job when he found pictures of her taking her shirt off at parties on Facebook. 
While this is a smart move by employers to make sure they hire quality individuals, it's not a smart move by Facebook users to exploit themselves -and sometimes others -on these sites. 
With society becoming more and more technology-dependent and savvy, it's important for users of all ages to be cognizant of the reper­cussions of joining such a site. 
If joining the Facebook and/or MySpace community is a must, it's important to remember to responsi­bly use the accounts. 


Many are using the site today merely for networking. Others just want to keep in touch with old friends. 
It isn't a forum to see John Doe's crazy weekend, nor is it the place for account users to make their per­sonal vendettas known by "venting" it on their statuses. 
It is a site that shouldn't be abused and overused. 
It is important for individuals to know to be safe and only "friend" people they know. 
People need to remember the best type of communication is face to face -·not Facebook. 
They need to know not to embar­rass themselves. Sometimes there can be consequences to posting that picture from that crazy, drunken weekend two years ago. 
This editorial first appeared in the Aug. 27 edition of The Daily Athenaeum, the daily paper at West Virginia University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

D17Boaes 


~--------~------~ 
. . . T() I:SCAPE
THE OLYMPIC 
GAMES GIVES US 

FROM T~IE WORLD'S 
ALL ACHANCE 
PROI~LI:MS. 


I. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 10 
Friday, August 29, 2008 
=================================================================================== 
Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystan Skull 
Photo courtesy goatsmilk.wordpress.com 
If not the perfection fans had hoped for, the fourth film in the Indiana Jones series, "Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull," is a rollicking ride. The plot 
. erosses the fine line the series has always walked between mythology and the super­natural a little too far in parts, but who can complain when the man in the hat is finally back? Suspend your disbelief and immerse yourself in the adventure. Harrison Ford reprises his iconic role with relative ease and recaptures Indiana while gracefully age­ing the character. The return of Marion Ravenwood (played by Karen Allen) is a treat, even if her eharacter has been softened from the barkeep that could drink anyone under the table. Shia LeBeouf and Cate Blanchette both take up the hard task of intro­ducing new characters with relative success. LeBeours character, Mutt Williams, plays up the new 1950s setting and is a fun sidekick and Blanchette captures the cold, Soviet Col. Dr. Irina Spalko well. But at its eore the movie was still about an archaeologist, his revolver, his whip and his mileage, and that's more than enough. 
Photo courtesy misgeeky.com 
Newsweek called it the "funniest movie of the summer," The New Yorker wrote it off as "flailing and unfocused," and yet Roger Ebert gave it 3 and 1/2 stars. The truth of the matter is this: "Tropic Thunder" is dastardly obscene, politically incorreet and the funni­est movie you may see in years. It's a story following the filming of a blundering Vietnam War epic which falls behind schedule, vaults into insanity with a Reality TV twist and 
, lands well behind enemy lines. It's a story about men on their way out: a peaked action star (Bon Stiller) struggling for acknowledgement as a serious actor, a coked up fart-joke movie star (Jack Black) losing touch with reality, a five-time Oscar winning, self­indulged Australian aetor (Robert Downey Jr.) whose contrqversial "blackening" proce­dure leaves him with an identity crisis and a rap-icon (Brandon T. Jackson) on his way out of the closet. Tropic Thunder is a film egregiously loaded with insults and caustie wit surely to offend and provoke laughs at the same time. But the film's best treat, hidden bnhind Stiller. Black and Downey's leading roles, its most profane and entertaining per­formance, comes from an aetor whose name I won't reveal, because not knowing the actor's identity makes the discovery all the more amusing. 

WALL-E 

Wall-E will take the Oscar for best ani1 may even be the first film since Disne receive a best picture nomination. It eel" most famous for his work on Star War design is astounding. The first forty-fiv1 but you couldn't even notiee as the rob! ties. Beautiful and skilled animation briJ ters. Wall-E is lovable and more 
real despite being both a robot and to all ages, a classie adventure love stor timely relevanee to world issues. Pixar h funny, and a work of art. 
"The Dark Knight" was, there is no the effeets were epic, and so was the ru role as Bruce Wayne, the billionaire pi cape and saving Gotham from all levels the crime has been cleaned up, leavin seeks to fill. Cue Heath Ledger, in the Oscar nod, if not the Oscar itself, as character walks onto the scene, the forgets he is gone. Ledger will never n't overshadow the lilm at all. It comes mull about as the credits roll. Instead, seems there could be nothing more clim, all again. Go ahead and see it again, if' stub collection. · · 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Friday, August 29, 2008 
page 11 


I • 
Photo courtesy myokyawhtun.com 

film. There are whisperings that it Beauty and the Beast" in 1991 to deserves one. Ben Burtt, probably scores again in this film. The sound minutes of the film have no dialogue, heroes conversed in beeps and whis­a fluid and vibrant life to the charac­the protagonists found in many films, The storyline of "Wall-E" is appealing filled with humor, while maintaining a succeeded again. Wall-E is charming, 
e a 

Shot on location in over 28 countries around the world, Tarsem Singh's "The Fall" is a spectacular epic that has not been seen in a long while. A story within a story, "The Fall" begins in a 1920's Los Angeles hospital. Severely injured stuntman Roy Walker (Lee Pace) tells a story to another young patient, Alexandria (Catinca Untaru), about five mythical heroes and their quest to rid the world of the evil Odious. But Walker's story begins to blend with reality as the characters learn more about themselves and each other and soon it is Alexandria who must save the story, and her new friend, from his own destructive tailspin. In her first film, Catinca Untaru is a captivating young actress that expresses the imagination, curiosity, and innocence of her character. Like his previous work, Singh's film is so aesthetically stunning that it could be watched for just that, but it is bolstered by a moving story and endearing characters. 
_... 
Photo courtesy reelmovienews.com 

,er word for it, epic. The story was epic, ming time. Christian Bale reprieves his who spends his free time donning a crime. When we meet him, most of a void that one man, well, creature, that will most certainly earn him an Joker. Once his twisted, mesmerizing is so enthralling that one easily grace the screen, but that fact does­almost an afterthought, something to film builds and builds and just as it at all, it turns around and does it haven't already started your ticket 
Photo courtesy blogs.gaurdian.co.uk.com 
What do you do when all your writers go on strike, the TV show you are develop­ing stops production, and your creative mind is still boiling as it always does? You make a straight-to-internet series of musical video shorts, of course! At least, that is what Joss Whedon does. The man behind "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and "Firefly" roped together a filming crew and a few actor buddies to create "Dr. Horrible's Sing Along Blog,'' a tale of one misfit criminal mastermind, Dr. Horrible (Neil Patrick Harris), as he attempts to join the Evil League of Evil. His master plans are overrun by Captain Hammer (Nathan Fillion, reprieving his role as a cap­tain, though this time without the spaceship and duster). The quest gets compli­cated when the girl of his dreams, Penny from the laundramat, starts going out with Captain Hammer. Melodies reminiscent of the musical Buffy episode abound, as does classic Whedonesque humor. Though he plays straight into his niche audi­ence, the Joss Boss manages to create a 45-minute story that is sweet and laugh­out-loud funny. It can be seen on Hulu and downloaded on iTunes . 
.. up:, 
. .:.·~ 
·"". 
.,., 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, August 29, 2008 
MLB 
Giambi's heroics keep Yankees' slim hopes alive 
Backe pitches 6 2/3 strong innings, Wigginton hits two homers as Astros beat Reds for lOth time in 12 games 
third-inning homer into the 

Associated Press 
right-field bleachers. 

NEW YORK -What started Still, chances are there won't with the Bambino ended with be any more October glory in the the Giambino. 85-year-old ballpark, no more of 
Boston's Tracy Stallard on those glorious afternoons when Oct. 1, 1961, and Boston's Bill the angled autumn sun created a Lee separated his shoulder shadow that crept slowly from during a brawl on May 20, the first-base stands and extend­1976. ed into the outfield. 
Until Jason Giambi crushed a New York is six games back of home run in the seventh inning Boston in the AL wild-card race Thursday, it appeared all that with 29 to play, and these was left for Yankee Stadium Yankees have shown no sign of was its funeral. spurting to success. 
Now, after New York's 3-2 "It's certainly brutal baseball victory over the Hed Sox in right now," general manager Boston's final trip to the ball­Brian Cashman said before the park, the Yankees cling to game. hope, perhaps deluding them­So much has gone wrong. Co­selves from the inevitable con­chairman Hank Steinbrenner elusion that seemingly lies summed it up after Wednesday's ahead. loss when he said, "The bottom 
"The last time we play the line is, they s--," using a word Hed Sox in this Yankee Stadium, more forceful than stink. and the battles we've been He, his family and advisers through, this should end like must put out a winner, especially this," Giambi said. heading into the $1.3 billion 
llis two-run homer was palace the team moves into Huthian, clanging oil' the front of across the street next year, one the black batter's eye in center with $2,500 front-row seats, field and tying the score. The martini bars and a cash flow alternately maligned and that has the other 29 dubs filled the fans is that if today's game Humberto Quintero added a before Backe was relieved by embraced slugger followed with with envy. isn't a win, surely the one after solo shot to help the Astros beat Doug Brocail, who got the final a winning single in the ninth, "It's very hard to accept," will be. the Reds for the 10th time in 12 out of the inning. preventing Boston from sweep­Cashman said. "No one likes to Opponents shook in their meetings this season. Backe threw only 89 pitches ing the three-game series and deal with the losing, and we're spikes for much of the past 85 Backe (9-12) had one of his and was disappointed that he dropping New York so far back losing right now, and we feel years at the mere mention of the best outings of an inconsistent eouldn't keep the bullpen rested. that a recovery would appear we're better than this. But at mighty Yankees. Not this year, August, allowing six hits and "As efficient as I was today, I'm impossible, even to the most some point you are what your when months of monotonous striking out six in 6 2/3 innings. looking at eight innings or possi­devoted of the pinstriped faithful. record is until you prove other­mediocrity scared only the frus­He was 2-2 in his previous four bly a complete game," Backe 
New York players sprinted wise." trated fans, not the curious decisions, allowing 11 runs in said. ''I'm obviously frustrated from their dugout, a bit more Cashman doesn't blame man­tourists in the third-base dugout each of the losses and a total of that I didn't last longer." slowly than Usain Bolt's dashes ager Joe Girardi, in his first year craning their necks for one last four runs in the two wins. LaTroy Hawkins pitched a at the Olympics last week, and as Joe Torre's successor. Girardi look at the old cathedral. Backe said he felt as good on scoreless eighth and Jose mobbed (;iarnbi. Perhaps there has been perennially optimistic, A crowd of 55,092 turned out Thursday as he did in his last Valverde struck out the side in was a similar scmw on April 18, sounding a bit like Charlie as New York finished 484-285-4 start, when he gave up three the ninth for his 35th save. 1923, when Babe Huth opened Brown lecturing Linus and Lucy: in the regular season at Yankee runs on five hits in an 8-3 win llarang (4-14) matched a sea­the stadium with a three-run, I lis daily message to players and Stadium against the Red Sox. (In over the New York Mets. son high with nine strikeouts, 
addition, New York has beaten "Things are falling in line, I but lost for the fifth time in six Boston in six of 10 postseason guess," Backe said. "Obviously, decisions. His 29 homers allowed games in the Bronx.} The fans the last two games I've thrown are the most by a Beds' pitcher got a few more chances to boo the ball pretty good. I've this season. Alex Rodriguez, who struck out changed the pace of the ball, "The two to Wigginton I three times and fouled out with thrown it over the plate, kept thought wern my only mistakes," runners at the corners in the them off-balance." llarang said. "I pretty much put sixth. lie saved his best shots l'or llouston manager Cecil Cooper tlw ball right whern I wanted the bat rack, whacking it about said he and pitching coach to." 10 times with his Louisville Dewey Hobinson have told Backe Backe is 4-0 in his last six Slugger following the popout. repeatedly to trust his fastball starts against the Heds. lie's 
"We haven't performed. The and throw more strikes. Cooper struggled in the first inning all bottom line is we're not getting hopes Backe is finally executing season, but breezed through what we need to from everybody, the plan. this one in seven pitehns. that we expected," Cashman ''I'm hoping that's the real In the bottom half. Wigginton said. "A lot of people deserve Brandon Backe," Cooper said. lined llarang's fifth pitch into bettnr, fans included." "Today, he did the same thing he the left-field snats, his sncond 
did the last time out, he attacked homer in two at-bats. Astros 3, Reds 2 the strike zone with his fastball, Wigginton hit a two-run shot in 
Brandon Backe thinks he's fig­he went to his off-spcPd stuff the seventh inning of Tuesday's ured out why he's pitched so when he needed to. He was real­4-1 win. badly at times this month. ly good and that's the kind of guy Quintero, llouston's eatcher, 
Backe was sharp into the sev­I like to sec out there." hit a solo homer ofT the left-field enth, Ty Wigginton homered Backe didn't allow a run until foul pole in the Astros' fifth. It twice off Aaron Harang and the Jay Bruce hit an RBI triple with was only Quintero's second Houston Astros beat the two outs in the seventh. Corey homer since he was called up Cincinnati Reds 3-2 on Thursday. Patterson added an RBI single from the minors on June 6. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classificds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES Needed for 2008 Fall Season -The Stanley 
Clark School. a south side elemen­tary/middle school is located north 
of Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. Soccer referees are needed for 5-6th grade and 7-8th grade girls and boys soccer matches. Pay is $35 per game to licensed referees. If interested. please contact Caryn MacKenzie. Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at 574-291­4200. 
TUTOR for Prob & Slats. Fee nego­tiable. Call 574-276-8299. 
FoR SALE 
Computer desk 48 x 60 $70. Girls bike 3 spd wlbsket $50. 299-9747 
FoR RENT 
1-bdrm apt. All utilities except elec­tric. Close to NO. $550/mo. Call Joe 574-514-0900. 
3-4 bdrm, 2 full bath house. New construction. 1 mile to NO. Laundry, CIA. and more. $1 ,000/mo. Call Joe 574-514-0900. 
Roommate wanted. New home. $450/mo. includes utilities. Close to NO. Call Joe 574-514-0900. 
Rooms 4 blocks from campus. $400 per month including utilities. 6 bed­room home also available. Call 574­532-1408. 
Football Weekend B&B safe close to ND (574)243-9279 
TICKETS 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell NO football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 574-232­0964. 
A BUSINESSMAN NEEDS FOOT­BALL SEASON TICKETS. ANY HELP APPRECIATED. 574-277­1659. 
BUYING SAN DIEGO STATE. MICHIGAN & PURDUE TIX. 574­654-0169 (LOCAL CALL). 

Wanted: NO football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NDs Pregnancy Resources website at: http :1/osa. nd. edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslcsap/ 
Paid internship available immediate­ly. We need you to take photos of local events, including tailgating, nightlife and campus activities. You play we pay. Contact Jenny Sibert at sibert@uhaps.com or 513-344­3569 
That's only in da' morn in'. You sup­posed to be up cookin breakfast for somebody. So ... it's like an alarm clock. WOO WOOOOOOO!I!! 
Leo pimps ... 


OUND THE NATION 
CoMrtuo rRn\-t THE OBSERVER'S WIRE sERVIcEs 

Friday, August, 29, 2008 
page 13 


Women's NSCAA Soccer Rankings 
team points previous 

1 usc 794 1 
2 North Carolina 738 3 3 UCLA 726 2 4 NOTRE OAME 688 5 5 Florida State 671 4 6 Portland 642 6 7 Virginia 597 6 
not get reinstated. I just been beating myself up, Goodell, however, was
Associated Press have to keep myself out of but my mom has been still wa,iting to decide
8 Texas 562 8 
9 Penn Stale 554 9 
IRVING, Texas -Now bad situations like I have through this roller-coaster whether to let Jones play
10 Stanford 539 10 
that Adam "Pacman" been doing the last six .or with me." in the regula,r season. That
11 West Virginia 437 12 
Jones is really back in the seven months." Jones, acquired by Dallas news came hours before
12 Connecllcul 422 11 
NFL, he insists he will try Since being cleared from Tennessee, has been Dallas' final preseason
13 Texas A&M 379 15 
to do everything he can to almost three months ago arrested six times and game.
14 Tennessee 356 13 
15 Boston College 342 14 stay there. by commissioner Roger involved in a dozen inci­"Adam ha:> worked hard 16 Ouke The cornerback-kick Goodell to practice with dents requiring police to get to this point, but he
335 16 

17 California 303 17 returner was fully reinstat­the Cowboys, Jones had intervention since the also knows that there is 18 Illinois 236 19 ed Thursday from his 17-repeatedly expressed con­Titans drafted him in the still a lot of work ahead of 19 Georgia 208 18 month NFL suspension, fidence that he would be first round in 2005. That him," Cowboys owner 20 Wake Forest 191 21 which followed an accu­reinstated for the season includes his connection to Jerry Jones said. "lie is 21 Santa Clara 175 22 mulation of arrests and and said he was doing a shooting at a Las Vegas fully aware of the opportu­22 Florida 151 20 legal problems, and is everything expected of strip club. His last NFL nity that he has been 23 Oklahoma Slate 147 23 clear to play for the Dallas him. game was Dec. 31, 2006. given, and he knows that 24 San Diego 69 25 Cowboys during the regu­Still, there was a sense of Jones was suspended in this is an ongoing25 Purdue 26 24 lar season. relief when he finally April 2007 and missed all process." 
"I am fully a Dallas received the official news last season with the Titans. NFL spokesman Greg 
Cowboy," Jones proclaimed -in a phone call while He was traded to Dallas in Aiello wrote in an e-mail 
before the last preseason walking in a parking lot. April, then allowed in June that Goodell wouldn't have 
AVCA College Volleyball game. "I don't have it lin­"I did scream," Jones by Goodell to join the team a comment Thursday 
gering over my head, will said. "Immediately I called in training camp and pre­regarding the reinstate­
Coaches' Poll he get reinstated, will he my mom, because I've season games. ment. 
Men's 

team 1 Penn State 2 Pepperdine 3 Long Beach 
4 BYU 5 Cal Slate Northridge 6 UCLA 
7 Ohio State 8 UC Irvine 9 Stanford 10 Ball State 
Women's  
IN BRIEF  
team  
Penn State Stanford Texas usc Cal UCLA Nebraska Florida Washington Cal Poly  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10  No. I lvanovic bounced in three sets at U.S. Open NEW YORK -Top-seeded Ana Ivanovic lost in one of the biggest upsets in tennis history Thursday, stunned by 188th-ranked Julie Coin 6-3, 4-6, 6-3 in the second round of the U.S. Open. Coin screamed when Ivanovic's last shot sailed out, then hopped  Beckett to have shoulder examined, out of line-up NEW YORK-Josh Beckett was scratched again from a scheduled start, and the Boston Red Sox ace plans to have his ailing right elbow examined by Dr. James Andrews. Beckett is to see Dr. Andrews in Alabama on Friday, Red Sox manag­er Terry Francona said after  MLB instant reP.lay getsbaptism at VVrigley CHICAGO ­A gray, rectangular box on the wall of the umpires dressing room at Wrigley Field containing a phone and a high definition TV mcnitor signaled a new era Thursday as instant replay arrived in major league baseball. An umpiring crew chief can pick up the phone and ask a replay center in  
for joy and hit an extra ball high  Thursday's 3-2 loss to the New York  New York to send him a~ available feeds  
into the stands. Ivanovic quickly  Yankees.  so he can review boundary calls -was a  
gathered her gear and left the  A serious injury to Beckett would  ball fair or foul, was it over the fence or  

court, her hopes of another Grand be a major blow to Boston, trying to not, did a fan interfere with a potential Slam championship dashed. repeat as World Series champions. homerun?
around the dial 
"If you would ask if I'm playing The Red Sox lead the AL wild-card "Purists are not going to like this and like a No. 1, no," Ivanovic said. race after completing a 6-3 road trip. not everyone is going to ike it," umpiring "Obviously, it was very hard." A 20-game winner and postseason supervisor Larry Young; said Thursday, 
MLB 

Even after Ivanovic struggled in star for Boston last season, Beckett before the Cubs played the Phillies. Phillies at Cubs the first round while coming back hasn't pitched since Aug. 17, when "We are going to do our best to do it 2:20p.m., CSN from an injured thumb, there was he reported numbness and tingling quickly and accurately." no way to see this coming. in his right arm. Determining where home runs land ­College Football Coin spent much of the year He missed a turn in the rotation, or if they are homers at all -can often playing in minor league events and but had been slated to start Friday be the most difficult calll'or an umpire. SMU at Rice recently thought she might give up night against the Chicago White Sox There have been 18 such plays so 
8:00 p.m., ESPN the sport. at Fenway Park. far this season, Young said. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, August 29, 2008 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Seat stays hot for Bowden 
Associated Press 
CLEMSON, S.C. -Clnmson 
star tailback C . .J. Spiller 
laughs at the question: llow 
ol'tnn did people tell you not 
to join th<~ Tigers becaus<~ 
roach Tommy Bowden would 
gnt fin~d'! 
"Oh ynah, I !ward that a 
lot," said Spiller, a junior. 
Well, only days away from Bowdpn's 1Oth spason, thn coach sonw Clemson fans lovn to grousn at, isn't going any­wlwrn. lie's walked the sidn­linns at Dnath Vallny longer than anyone but modern pro­gram patriarch Frank lloward and national champi­onship icon Danny Ford. lin's got a dna! that ties him to thn school through 2014, the bar.king of his bosses and some of thn slickest talent in college football. 
Thn one thing Bowden does­n't own is a championship. and that. perhaps. is what has kPpt his coaching seat hot no matter how many blue­chippnrs lw attracts. 
"This is a tough prol'nssion to stay for I 0 yPars," Bowden says. 
lie would certainly know. lie watclwd his father, Florida State coach Bobby, hung in effigy by i m pa tiP n t WPst Virginia fans in the I 970s. lie saw his brothPr Terry get chewed up by some Auburn supportnrs two decades later. lie's seen another brother, Jeff, leave as the Seminoles offensivP coordinator when wins didn't come as quickly as people wanted. 
"Underline and put in the parenthAses, a lot," when it comes to quick-trigger coach­ing casualties these days, Tommy Bowden says. 
And this might be his most pressure-packed season of them all. 
The Tigers are preseason favorites to win the Atlantic Coast Conference champi­onship. Quarterback Cullen Harper, and runners James Davis and Spiller finished 1­2-3 for the league's preseason player of the year. They stand ninth in the national rank­ings, their highest starting spot since 1991, also the year of the school's last ACC crown. 
The Tigers open Saturday night against No. 24 Alabama in the (;eorgia Dome. While Clemson might get thn ana­lysts' ndgn on several posi­tions, almost evnry break­down would give the eoaehing elHH:k mark to the Crimson Tide's Nick Saban. 
"Thn objeetive in this pro­fession is to win, win champi­onships and win national championships and I've done nnitlwr," Tommy Bowden said. "You'II face thn q unstion or, 'lin's a nice guy who eornns in second.' You'll always face that until you dJange tlw faets." 
Saban. who won a national crown at l.SU. admires Bowden and donsn't put much stock in past sueenssos or fail­ures. 
"This game is what it is right now, and tht~y'vn donn a rt~ally good job in recruiting," Saban said. "I know they haven't won a title ynt hut they've knocked on tlw door a eoupk of tinws." 
HSPN analyst Len Corso 

likes how Bowden's built his 
team, and the athletic depart­
ment's support. 
"The guys a competitor. lie did an outstanding job at Tulane and now he's done a nice job at Clemson," Corso said. "If (Bowden's) senior leadership plays up to their potontial, he could win it all over in the ACC." 
Clemson fans have waited on that since Bowden came to Clemson in 1998 after leading Tulane to an undefeated sea­son. 
The Tigers were 8-0 and No. 5 in the country in 2000. However, they lost three of their final four games and started a stretch of mediocrity (20-18) that lasted until the middle of the 2003 season. 
Bowden seemed as good as gone that year when Clemson fell 45-17 at Wake Forest, the former ACC doormat Tiger fans had reveled in pounding each season. 
But Bowden's patience bore fruit. A week later, he topped No. 3 Florida State for his first Bowden Bowl victory over father Bobby, who said pointedly in postgame com­ments if Clemson didn't want his son as coach, there'd be plenty of schools who would. 
Clemson finished with four straight wins and Tommy gained a long-term contract. 
Bowden's position looked shaky two years ago after the Tigers started 7-1, reaching No. 10 in the country, and then lost four of their final five to miss out on the ACC title game. 
ThPre was another second­place finish last fall, again reviving talk if Bowden was the right coach to take the Tigers to the top. 
Clemson leaders thought he was, awarding Bowden a new contract that locks him in through 2014. It would cost Clemson $4 million should it wish to part ways after this year. 

Still, talking with reporters earlier this month, Clemson athletic director Terry Don Phillips was asked what the school would do if Bowden didn't win. 
"Tommy Bowden is our football coach," Phillips answered, "and we're going to go on down the highway." 
ESPN analyst Todd Blackledge says Clemson's leaders share Bowden's vision and that's kept them from knee-jerk changes. 
"It's not something you see all the time these days in col­lege football," he said. "The pressure to win makes that difficult." 
Bowden's just as frustrated as Tiger fans are with Clemson's stumbles and close calls. He compared his goals to any profession that gives out a top award. 
"You'd all like to have that award, and if you said you didn't, you'd probably be lying," Bowden says. "Well, I wouldn't be any different. In this profession, you eventual­ly want to be the champion, you're disappointed when you're not and you keep working hard until you get it." 
South Bend Silver Hawks Baseball Flnal4 Games of Regular Season 
Student Discount ($3 Reserved Tlck•t with Coli••• ID) 
~~~~-. ·.··'·~·: .. S.turday Aqust30th f,:3(11W~.~~ 8:.3'6:·PM,..._IMnsl~:(.u~nut. 

..._..,.Au&ustJ.tlft...,....· ,~.r--~.bw.iat .1:3ffPMva.t.n-'~~· ~.Hf·-.t.,..,..,.l.i!WtJut. 
t1anlnes at the Cove cU;/,~~~~Y-.sponS9ro4",liiY 
(Dogs get In free!) 8100 I!Jt'fttN;W ($:f_ #~ ~. APr· Oo,gi,_ Pepst·Products IH'Iti 'r_YJ!>J1J9";if.J.j;J'~W1J. f<es•Mtd Seat rld<ot.) 
~ 2001i ...,....,...... ~ ~ 
Wed~.$eptefl"'tl«: ~111 8:3~ PM liS: West Ml$lgnn Wh/loc.-· 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
~5 Categories of Books 

• 
~s,ooo Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Meyer changes tune, praises running backs 
Associated Press 

GAINESVILLE, Fla. -Coach 
Urban Meyer called his run­
ning backs pathetic, trash and 
inadequate during his first 
three seasons at Florida. 

He threatened to play with­
out a tailback two years ago 
and turned most ol' the running 
game over to quarterback Tim 
Tebow and receiver Percy 
Ilarvin last season. 

I le expects things to be very 
different this fall. 

Meyer has praised the backs at every turn during two-a­days, calling Kestahn Moorn, Emmanuel Moody, Chris Hainey and Jell' Demps the best group he's had on campus in four years. He'll finally get to see them in action when the fifth-ranked Gat01·s open the season against Ilawaii on Saturday. 
"We have some dynamic backs," Meyer said. "''m kind of like a fan in that I can't wait to see these guys play." 
The backs might be relied on like never bel'ore, too, bocause Meyer is hoping to limit 
.Tebow's carries this season 
and Harvin is still reeovering 
from a nagging heel injury. 

"I hope we have enough balls to go around," running backs coaeh Kenny Carter said. "You can put any combination of guy out there and a lot of special things can happen. You give them the ball and they can go to the house from any place on the field. That's a great thing to have." 
It starts with Moore, the lone senior in the group. His first three years were plagued by inconsistency and fumble prob­lems, but he was the best of the bunch in spring drills and summer workouts. Meyer already has named him the starter and plans to use him at fullback some just to keep him on the field as much as possi­ble. 
Moore welcomed the added load, especially after watching Tebow and Harvin get the ball so often in the most critical sit­uations the last two years. 
"It hurts you," Moore said. "You being a running back and you have other people coming in and taking thn earrins. It helped the tnam, so I can't complain too much." 
Many thought Moody, a for­mer Parade Ali-Amerkan who transferred from Southern California, would step in and take over the starting role. 
But he took longer than expected to learn thn off'ens1~. And even when lw showed progress, hn followed with a step in the wrong direction. lie ran for 111 yards and a touch­down in the spring game, but also fumblnd at the 1-yard line and drew strong criticism !'rom Meyer. 
"Coach Meyer, he's always getting in your grill to get things right," Moody said. "He's a perl'ectionist. It really made me jump on the horse, study the playbook more and think about football even more than I was." 
The extra time Moody spent getting the offense down paid off this fall. lin looks more comfortable with the ball and has moved up the depth chart. 
"It took a while," Moody said. ''I'm starting to play like how I play and not really thinking about what the sehemes are and what steps I have to take. It comes natural to me know." 
Moody left USC in hopes of becoming a featured back. But that's not likely to happen, especially with Hainey and Demps in the mix. 
Hainey has been compared to Harvin since he stepped foot on campus last year, but the 5­foot-9, 185-pound speedster hasn't had quite the same suc­cess. Harvin helped the Gators win a national championship as a freshman in 2006, but Hainey committed three errors in two games last season, then injured his shoulder and missed the rest of the season. 
He rebounded this spring and was the star of the team's annual Orange & Blue game. He ran for 75 yards and a touchdown and had a 65-yard scoring reception. 

meet me on the island (is... ) 
LIVE MUSIC 
featuring Darryl Bucahanan 
OUTDOORS in downtown South Bend  friday Aug.29  
across from the Marriott Hotel  
ARTWORK  
on exhibit by Scott Hatt  

Friday, August 29, 2008, 5:00-9:30 PM Rain or shine southbendart.org I574.235.9102 Admission is $5, all ages I Food, beverages, and cash bar Located behind Century Center on the St. Joseph River 
see ... belong..

SBM 
make.

South Bend Museum of Art 
--------------------....., 
Friday, August 29, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Saints remember Katrina as Gustav approatches 
Third anniversary of devastating hurricane evokes emotions as New Orleans players hope to avoid a repeat 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS-If the third anniversary of Hurricane Katrina wasn't enough to remind Saints offensive lineman Jammal Brown what he went through when New Orleans flooded, the latest storm to threaten the Gulf Coast certain­ly did. 
A'l much as any Saints player, Brown could relate to the anxi­ety Tropical Storm Gustav was causing in south Louisiana. A first-round draft choice in 2005, Brown bought his first house in an upscale golf course develop­ment in eastern New Orleans only months before Katrina hit. 
"Last time, (team officials) called me up and said, 'We're going out to Oakland for a week. Pack up a week's worth of clothes,"' Brown recalled. "So I pack up some clothes and get out to Oakland and look on TV and every thing I own is under water." 
Katrina stuck Aug. 29, 2005, smashing levees and flooding 80 percent of New Orleans. 
Third-year coach Sean Payton said his team, has a plan for moving to a safe location should Gustav strike the New Orleans area. The Saints were to play the Miami Dolphins in their final preseason game Thursday night at the Louisiana Superdome. 
Payton said the plan encom­passed the process of moving the team, but not where to go, because that wouldn't be decid­ed until the storm's track had narrowed enough· to know whether it was best to go east, west or north. 
"We've all had time to put together a clear plan as to how it affects the organization, the team, the families of the team," Payton said. "I don't want to go into detail as to what we do, somewhere else. It won't be a because what we do is really distraction; we won't allow it to predicated on be." when it's sup-The Saints have posed to played two full 
arrive." The Saints are scheduled to  "It won't be a distrac­tion. We won't allow  seasons before sellout crowds in New Orleans  
open the regu­ it to be."  since ignoring the  
lar  season  in  naysayers  who  
the Superdome against Tampa  Sean Payton  predicted pro football had no  
Bay on Sept. 7.  Saints coach  future in the Big  
The  storm  is  Easy  after  
expected  to  Katrina.  Even  
strike the Gulf  faced  with  the  

Coast -anywhere from Texas potential of another hurricane­to the Florida panhandle -related disruption, players said around Tuesday morning. they cherished the opportunity 
"We will be focused and ready to play in a place that really to play the Buccaneers," Payton needed them, both in terms of said. "We're planning on that the morale boost they provided game being at the Superdome, and the community service but the powers that be will have projects they undertook. a clear plan in place if that Cornerback Jason Craft, should change any or if our who's been with the Saints since preparation should have to be 2004, said a lot of players ini­tially did not wa.nt to return to New Orleans after their dis­placement to San Antonio because they didn't really understand what life in post­Katrina New Orlleans would be like. As they began to appreci­ate the extent to which they could inspire hope, they embraced the move and were rewarded with a once-in-a­career experience during a 2006 home-opening victory over Atlanta in an emotional Monday night game. 


"That first game, that right there, I'll never forget that," Craft said. "Even though we didn't make it to the Super Bowl that year, that was my Supe1· Bowl. I never seen anything like that and I was just happy to see people out in the streets, just ha.ppy to see the Saints play that day. Tha.t's probably one thing I'll always remember about New Orleans iH tha.t day." 
Drew Brees was the first major free agent to come to New Orleans after the storm and bought an old home in a historic neighborhood only six blocks from areas that flooded during Katrina. 
Brees, whose foundation has raised nearly $2 million for proj­ects aimed at helping children around the dty by rebuilding schools, playgrounds, athletic fields and the like.. said witnessing the city's reco-very has been both inspiring and disappointing, often depending on the neighborhood in question. 
"There are :>ome areas where it looks like it happened yesterday," Brees said. "Those are houses peo­ple used to live in and they're not (living there) any more, so where are they?" 
Brown's first house is one of the empty ones. He's rebuilt it, but is trying to sell it and has moved to a largely undamaged suburb west of the city. 
At the same time, Brees has been pleased to Sf'e new construc­tion, or flooded buildings being restored, throughout town. He's also met young business owners who saw the rebuilding city as "a land of opportunity." Brees can relate, having come to New Orleans after his s1:int in San Diego ended with a career-threatening shoulder injury. 
"I felt like we were all kind of in this thing together," Brees said. ''I'm trying to rebuild my career coming off the injury and changing teams, kind of a fresh start for me, a fresh start lor the organization and a fresh start for the city." 
Their home stadium was a prime examph During Katrina, it became a symbol of suffering while being used as a refuge of last resort. After being rebuilt with new and better amenities, it became a symbol of rebirth, and the Saints' first season there was a memorable one, as they went to the NFC championship game for the first time. 
In 2007, the NBA's Hornets returned full time to the arena next door and are 1hriving as well. 
"The more you talk to people and the more you drive around, I think you just J'eel like life is back," Brees said. "\'Vhen the storm hap­pened, your mind-set had to be: we're going to make things better than they were before. We're going to try to turn this into a positive somehow, some way. I see that happening in a lot of areas.... So just to kind of be there and just feel like yoJ're kind of a part of the rebuilding process is rewarding." 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, August 29, 2008 
PGA 
Lefty fails to capitalize on Tiger's knee injury 

Associated p...,ss 
NOHTON, Mass. Phil Mickelson's star presence at the DeutschH Bank Championship was evident Thursday by the company hn kept at the TPC Boston. 
lie played the pro-am with tournament host Seth Waugh, the CEO of Deutsche Bank Americas; New York mayor Michael Bloomberg and New England Patriots owner Bob Kraft. Such is the VIP treatment typically afforded the highest­ranked player in the field. 
FP.dl\x Cup playoff standings aside, that honor still falls to Mickelson. 
lin is No. 2 in the world rank­ing, although it's easy to forget that. Because while Tiger Woods has been out of sight for two months after his season-ending knee surgery, Mickelson at times has been MIA. 
Some thought hP. would take advantage of Woods' absence by piling up victories, perhaps another major or two, and giv­ing himself a ehanep, to win the mmwy title or PCA Tour playp,r of the year for the first timp, in his earner. 
But it hasn't worked out that way. 
Miekelson has played four times with only one serious r:hanee at winning, whnn he had a one-shot lead until bogeys on three of the last four holes at Firestone to tie for fourth. lie had to rally to make the week­end at the British Open. was· stnady but not spectacular in his tie for seventh at the PGA Championship and opened the PCA Tour Playofl's for the FedEx Cup last week with a tie for 19th. 
Waldru01 
continued from page 20 
happier with the result this time around. 
"We've started off very well, I'm very pleased," Waldrum said. "That was much better than the 0-0 tie." 
In last season's tournament, the Irish lost in overtime to Oklahoma State to surrender the tournament title to Washington State. In another reminder of last season's rocky early performance, Notre Dame will face a Santa Clara team that beat the visiting Irish 7-1 a week before the 2007 Inn at Saint Mary's Classic. But Waldrum said this weekend the Irish will look to erase the memory of that blowout. 
"Every time we play [Santa Clara! it's a battle with both teams leaving everything on the lield," Waldrum said. "I don't think we're going to have to say too much about last year to get our team motivated." 
But before the Irish fully set their sights on the Broncos, they must contend with an unfamiliar and highly experi­enced Loyola Marymount team, who Notre Dame will face for the first time. 
"It should be a tough game because they return nine of 11 starters from last year," Waldrum said. "I don't think we can intimidate them much just because it's our home field." 
"I've played the same way I've played throughout the year," Mickelson said. "I just haven't been scoring the way I would like. Even though I feel like I'm playing better, the little shots around the greens have cost me. But I'm starting to get that turned around, and I expect to have a much better week." 
By most standards, Mickelson has had a good year. IIe won at Riviera and Colonial, and he is third on the money list, a little more than $1 million behind Woods. With three more $7 mil­lion events, a money title is not out of reach. 
This would be a good place to turn it around, even if the cast of characters has changed. 
A year ago, Mickelson surged into FodEx Cup contention with Pflrhaps the most exciting play­ofT event at the Deutsche Bank Championship. lie played the first two rounds with Woods and Vijay Singh, then hooked up with Woods in the final round and closed with a 66 and beat Woods and two others by two shots. 
Asked how he remembered last yerrr, Mickelson broke up the room by saying only, "Very fondly." 
"It was a fun tournament last year, and I loved the opportunity to have won the tournament," he said. "But I also love the way it happened, with the opportuni­ty to play three rounds with Tiger." 
Woods hasn't played since winning the U.S. Open in a play­oil', and the tour has had a taste of life without the world's most famous athletes. Attendance has benn noticeably down in recent events, and television ratings have plunged, as to be expected. 
West Virginia is the fourth team in the tournament field and although Notre Dame will not face the Mountaineers, Waldrum said they will help make this year's event more competitive than last year's. 
"Obviously it's great to have a Big East rival like West Virginia here for this," Waldrum said. "With all these great teams, it's really going to be a big event." 
Several Notre Dame players received individual honors this week as Carrie Dew was named the Big East defensive player of the week and senior forward Kerri Hanks earned a spot on the conference's weekly honor roll. In addition, Hanks and senior co-captain Brittany Bock were among the 22 players named preseason All­Americans by Soccer America. 
But Waldrum sounded more concerned about getting a good all-around performance out of his team to kick-start the sea­son than about individual acco­lades. 
"It's going to be a great week­end, especially for all the fans," Waldrum said. "We're just going to try to go out there and do everything we can to win it." 
The tournament kicks off tonight at 5 p.m. when West Virginia faces off against Santa Clara. Notre Dame begins play against Loyola Marymount after the conclusion of that con­test. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
LPGA 

Ladies tour no habla espa:fiol 
Golfweek reports players must speak English or face suspension 
Associated P...,ss 
NORTON, Mass. -Imagine what could have happened to Angel Cabrera if he belonged to a tour that required its players to speak English. 
A powerful Argentine who rose from an impoverished childhood, he won the U.S. Open last year at Oakmont by holding off Tiger Woods and Jim Furyk. In the hours after the trophy presentation, Cabrera made his way through a maze of media interviews in Spanish with an interpreter at his side. 
Under a new LPGA Tour poli­cy effective next year, Cabrera might have been suspended. Or, he might not have played at all if an official on that tour deemed he was ineffective in English. 
"You don't have to speak English to play golf." Cabrera said Thursday in Spanish, join­ing a chorus of male players perplexed by the LPGA Tour's decision to be punish women golfers for not speaking English in pro-ams, trophy presenta­tions and media interviews. 
K.J. Choi of South Korea recalled his rookie season on the PGA Tour in 2000, when his English was so limited that he often got lost going to the golf course because he couldn't read street signs. lie wasn't comfortable enough to speak English for five years, despite constant study. 
Asked about the LPGA Tour's policy, he shook his head. "It is a difficult situation," Choi said in English. "It is good 

for them to help players learn English. When I learned English, I became a better play­er. But to suspend them? I don't think so." 
And if the PGA Tour had a policy like that in 2000? "I would have had to go home," Choi said. 
Golfweek magazine first reported the LPGA Tour's new English-only policy Monday, leaving the tour scrambling to explain and defend itself over the past several days as the issue has stayed on the fore­front of public discussion. 
The LPGA Tour didn't get this much attention when Annika Sorenstam said she was retir­ing. 
"We have been puzzled, if not surprised, by some of the reac­tions," said deputy commission­er Libba Galloway, who previ­ously was the LPGA's top attor­ney. "We see this as a pro-inter­national move." 
Galloway said title sponsors o!Ter individual endorsement deals to players -Sorenstam has a longtime deal with Kraft -and players who can't inter­act in pro-ams or with sponsors because of limited English are hurting themselves financially. 
The LPGA Tour is still work­ing on the policy, which will bn delivered to players at the end of the year. She said its profes­sional development group is eonsulting with outside experts, and the LPGA will administer the evaluation itself. 
Players won't have to be flu­ent, rather what Galloway described as "effective." 
"You have to interact effec­
NO's Google E-mail for All Students Starts Wednesday, September 3 
The Switch Is On 
Beginning at 6:00a.m. on September 3. all Notre Dame 

Google·upperclassmen wrll begin usrng Notre Dame Gmailrnstead of Notre Dame's regular e-mail service Note that First Year students are already signed up for and have been using ND Gmail as part of the admissions process. 
Here's what you need to do to make the swrtch to Gmail: 
Step 1 

Change your password as soon as possible before September 3 on the 
Notre Dame Change Password page at password.nd.edu. This will synchronize your ND password with Google's authentication framework. 
Step 2 

On or after September 3, decide whether you want to brrng your old marl over to Notre Dame Grnail, and then do so by following the instructions at olt.nd.edu/google You will have until January 3, 2009 to move your legacy mailbox or abandon it for eventual removal. 
Step 3 (optional) 

If you previously configured your Notre Dame e-mail to forward messages to a third-party e-mail address-name@yahoo.com, for example-and you wish to continue to do so after September 3rd, you will need to reestablish mail forwarding within ND Gmai/ If you previously forwarded and now wish to use NO Gmail. no action Is needed. Instructions on how to perform this task can be found at olt.nd.edu/google. 
You'll find a variety of information, rncluding Notre Dame Gmail how-tos. frequently asked questions, and other rnformation at olt.nd.edu/google 
Beg1nnrng September 3, go to gmall.nd.edu and log in using your NetiD and password, and you've successfully made the switch. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Office of Information Technologies 
tively with your pro-am part­ners. You need to be able to do media interviews. And you need to give a winner's accept­ance speech in English," she said. "They must speak at a level that effectively accom­plishes those three things." 
Strangely absent during this debate is LPGA Tour commis­sioner Carolyn Bivens. According to Golfweek, Bivens held a meeting with only the South Koreans last week in Portland, which led some to believe they were being singled out. 
Galloway said Bivens was returning from the West Coast on Monday and Tuesday, and "I drew the long straw" to handle media inquiries. 
The LPGA Tour for the last three years has offnred lan­guage training through a Hosetta Stone online program and has ofl'ered a cross-cultural program for its international players. 
But there has never bnen a mandatn until now. 
"It's not a sign that it's not working," Galloway said. "What we're seeing is that a handful of players don't speak to the level they need to be." 
But if only a few players struggle with English, why develop a policy equipped with a penalty? 
"We're not just looking at the LPGA as it is now," Galloway said. "We're looking at the future of the LPGA. A<> you wHII know, we have a large interna­tional membership. All indiea­tions are it's not going to get smaller." 

Friday, August 29, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Lapira 
continued from page 20 
Herrmann Trophy winner. 
"You can ask me in December [if we replaced his production]." Clark said. "It's always a diffi­cult one-goal-scoring. If we're going to be a good team, we need to get 40-plus goals out of 25 games. You've got to get some goals, but where they come from doesn't really mat­ter." 
As a junior, Lapira scored 22 goals to lead the nation and capture the Herrmann Trophy. Notre Dame's top returning scorer, fifth-year senior mid­fielder Alex Yoshinage, scored three goals last year. 
"Joe was a predator -he scored goals," Clark said. "You've just got to hope that someone's going to step up now and get it going. There's quite a 
Captains 
continued from page 20 
good natural leaders for sure," Brown said. "[Croal] has the ability to keep things in perspec­tive, she knows when to get on 
her teammates, and she knows when they need a pat on the back." 
Brown says Nicholas earned her captaincy dur­ing summer work­outs. 
"[Nicholas] is a terrific leader by example," she said. "She's not going to be out­worked by any­body." 
The Irish begin their campaign 
few potential scorers." 
On the other side of the pitch, the Irish will look to a pair of new goalkeepers with the departure of three-year starter Chris Cahill. Senior Andrew Quinn and junior Philip Tuttle continue to compete for net time for the Irish. 
"They were both very solid over the spring," Clark said. "We haven't made the decision yet, and you could go either way." 
This weekend marks the ninth time the Irish have played in the event, including Notre Dame's sixth straight trip. The Irish return home to host Dartmouth and South Florida next Friday and Sunday, respectively, in the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament before opening Big East play Sept. 11 with a home contest against Marquette. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
tively strong teams last year." 
Notre Dame starts off against IPFW Friday night at 7 p.m., a team Brown has never faced during her tenure with the Irish. As a result, she said her team will be making a lot of changes as the game progresses. 
Brown said her team would be slightly more prepared for 
"''m just looking forward to having a real match situation and having the referees here, hearing the whistle blow, seeing the team compete.,, 
Debbie Brown Irish coach 
Nevada on Saturday night and Valparaiso on Sunday afternoon because they would be able to watch their opponents play before those matchups. 
Overall, though, Brown said she is ready for the season to start. 
''I'm just 

against three squads who, while not major volleyball powers, return a fair amount of talent from last season. 
"The only thing we know about them is how they finished last year," Brown said. "But we do know that they were all rela­looking forward to having a real match situation and having the referees here, hearing the whis­tle blow, and seeing the team compete," she said. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Chotrles f, McCoy, C.S.C •<\.uon 1. Michk.l, C.S.C. 
vocation.nd.edu 
join us as our brothers in Holy Cross celebrate their profession of perpetual vows and consecrate their lives to Christ forever. 
Saturday, August 30, 2008 2:00p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

LUTHERAN SERVICES J~LCA 
Gloria Dei Lutheran Church 
225 E. Haney St., South Bend, ll\T 46613 Parking: Broadway at C2.rrol (1/2 block off Michigan) 
Sunday Schedule: 9:oo a.m. Youth/Adult Sunday School 1o:oo a.m. Holy Eucharist 
Need a ride? Call Church office 288-5266 
-


page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, August 29, 2008 
Swarbrick 
continued from page 20 
championships won. 
Critics of the Notre Dame athlntic department say the University president and the Board of Trustees have the real power over the depart­ment. Swarbrick said he dis­cussed the issue with University president Fr. John .Jenkins and Dick Notebaert, the Chairman of the Board of Trustees, and feels he has all the power he needs to do his job. 
"I wouldn't be here if I was concerned," he said. 
No athletic director in the nation, he said. makes a major decision without consulting the university president. What he said he wanted -and felt he got -was the authority to lead the investigation and make a recommendation on the decision. 
"I would not have hired him if I did not have confidence in him to do the work of the ath­letic department," Jenkins said during Swarbrick's introducto­ry press conference on July 16. 
While a partner at Baker & Daniels law firm in Indianapolis after graduating from Stanford law school, Swarbrick, who also served as the chairman of the Indiana Sports Corporation from 1992 to 2001, helped bring the NCAA offices and the 2012 Super Bowl to the city. The skills he used in those proj­ects, he said. will help him handle his job as Notre Dame's representative to the Bowl Championship Series (BCS) with whom Notre Dame has an individual contract. 
"That's very consistent with my background, that's a lot of th.e work that I've done," he said. ''I've gotten to know a lot of those pnople, spent time with tlwm over the years, and I consider many of them friends. I'm eager to listen, to learn. and to take part in the discussion." 
The University has a new softball stadium, a new soccer l'ield, and renovations to the .JACC, but Swarbrick said there are still facilities that need to be updated. 
"Clearly we want to address hockey quickly," he said. The Irish hockey team lost to Boston Col11~ge in the national championship game last sea­son. 
The department would addmss other needs, he said, 

-
on a sport-by-sport basis. A non-faeility aspect of the department he would like to work on, he said, was to get his senior staffers in position to lead the changes in the world of college sports. He cited women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw as a coach who thought about the future of the game. 
One change he said he does­n't think will happen soon, however, is the addition of a college football playoff. There are too few university presi­dents interested in changing the system, he said, so the dia­logue should focus on some­thing else. 
Another status quo he would like Notre Dame to uphold is the avoidance of one-and-done basketball players, students who play their freshman year before leaving for the NBA. 
"Generally speaking, I don't think programs benefit from having people who come here with an interest in leaving," he said. "Your basketball pro­gram has a real culture, and you have that culture because seniors teach freshmen, and the next class teaches the next class, and you start to have a really important culture." 
Swarbrick said, however, that there are athletes for whom it makes sense, and· also that no one makes a fuss when a great young tennis player ­or Michael Phelps -turns pro. 
Although the football team commands most of his atten­tion, the 25 other varsity sports will not fall by the way­side, he said. Athlete-coach relationships are strong, he said, and a football player's experience is as important to him as an athlete's in any other sport. 
"I believe that the course of study that is varsity athletics is one of the most effective edu­cational models in American academia," he said. "It's an intensive four-year program." 
That being said, the football team plays a special role at the University, and Swarbrick said he will naturally have to devote more time to it. 
"It's essential to who we are, both from the external percep­tion and to the way we cele­brate it," he said. "I under­stand that, the other coaches understand that, and we're going to do everything we can to make sure the football pro­gram meets the expectations of everyone engaged in it." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

NO ATHLETICS COMMENTARY 

From one AD to another 
Being a sports editor at a major college publication such as The Observer is a highly respected post. That is why I was far 
from shocked when I was approached this sum­mer to take over for Kevin White as Notre 

Dame's Dan Murphy Director of 
Sports Editor 
Athletics. 
Fr. Jenkins and the board made a gener­ous offer and I buckled right down to work. Unfortunately, it was quickly revealed that I studied at the George O'Leary School for Resume Writing and my work as the Appalachian State schedule guru was brought under heavy scrutiny. Jenkins also questioned my role in bring­ing Kevin Garnett to Boston last year, which admittedly might have been a stretch. 
Needless to say, I gracefully stepped down and the athletic department moved on to another smart choice in 1976 graduate Jack Swarbrick. Swarbrick declined my help, but in case he is reading here are a few things that I had pegged as things to do while I was at the top. 
Priority No. 1 is turning the hockey program into a major revenue sport. The team has been a force to be reckoned with in college hockey since the arrival of head coach Jeff Jackson three years ago. A new arena is already in the works, but there is plenty more to be done to insure that Jackson has all the tools he deserves. The Irish are already pulling in some of the top recruits in the country, but if they are going to contin­ue to bring in young talent they will need to be able to back up the promise of better facilities to come. ­

Establishing the Irish as a household name on the ice would open the doors to upgrade the women's club team to a varsity program. The new arena would have more than enough room to accommodate a women's team, and the excitement sur­rounding it's opening would keep the turnstiles spinning for both teams. 
A women's hockey team would also allow the universi­ty to resurrect the varsity wrestling program. Notre Dame did away with wrestling in 1992 because of Title IX legislation. 
But of course, the legacy of any Notre Dame AD is not going to be determined by women's ice hockey or wrestling. 
An athletic director can't play quarterback, and all the support in the world can't buy you a few extra wins in a sea­son. However, I did find a way to cement my name in Irish football history -before they ripped it out of my hands, of course. 
Because of our independent status, Notre Dame is in a very unique position in college football. The Irish Athletic Director is the only AD in the country that is guaranteed a spot on the BCS Committee. That seat means that Notre Dame has a small voice in the ridiculous process of the col­lege bowl system. That voice provides a way to campaign for a playoff system, or at the very least an improvement over the current BCS format. 
Swarbrick said he was look­ing forward to being on the committee but too few univer­sity presidents were interest­ed in a playoff system to put it on his immediate agenda. It is a long, hard road ahead but this one-time AD feels that it can't hurt to try. 
I must say that I am a little disappointed in the University's decision to allow me to step down, but I have decided to be the bigger man. It seems Mr. Swarbrick is pretty well qualified, so the best of luck to you Jack. If you ever need a second opinion, you know where to lind me. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at 
dmurphy6@nd. edu 



Master something a little easier, like your personal finances. 
Wells Fargo knows that college can be a challenging time. That's why we have a wide range of tools to help you along the way, from checking and savings to a College Combo• specifically designed to help you be financially successful. And best ofall, you'll getsomeone to answer your questions and help you make sense of it all. Why wait for someday?5M Stop by Wells Fargo, visit wellsfargo.com/student or call 1-800-WFB-OPEN (1-800-932-6736) today. 
4!>2008 Wells Fargo Bank N.A. All rights reserved. Member FDIC. (117926_10322) 


Friday, August 29, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 
I WANIVA SE-E You AU­rou>lDf.J~ IT our THERE I rou... b IT t...oN6-ANI> PouW!> IT Hlo.lll> I 'CAIJSE. WilEN ntE G-ot.r&-&-EOTS HAI2D, THE HARD &€-T 
PtiVNl>/1.16-! 


1-IENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argi ·ion and Jeff Knurek
JJtlJOOJIDl1rR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
-
to form four ordinary words. 
YAASS 
j 
1 
ri I I 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
GUSET ± 
tLADDEY j
IJ r I I 
www.jumble.corr. 
I RACCIT ± 

A: "r r I J-rI xI I IIJ" 
(Answ.~rs tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: SIXTY LOONY THEORY SHAKEN Answer: What the boxer did when his girlfriend's little brother appeared -TOOK IT ON THE SHIN 

WHE:N THE: RAIN RUINE:D HE:R HAIRDO, SHE: WAS --­
Now arrange tl1e ci,-cled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 41 Theme of this 74 Example of 41­puzzle Across
Example of 41­Down
Across 45 Example of 41­Across 
Rock bands? 

7 Example of 41­2 Keynote
Across 46 90° pipe joint speaker, e.g. 
15 Like "Survivor" 47 Result of getting 3 Less firm 
groups worked up 
4 Instrument with 16 "That's fine" a conical bore
48 Call the whole thing off 
5 Sha follower 50 On the wagon 6 French ice 

17 __ Quimby of 
children's books cream
54 Eton students,

18 Most finicky e.g. 
7 Bush league?: 19 Not fighting Abbr.56 Symbol of 
21 Squeezed (out) 8 Merle Haggard, 
sturdiness self-descriptively22 Ballerina's digit 58 City map abbr. 

9 Sail a zigzag23 Suffix with racke't 

59 Tacks on course or rocket 
10 Little one 25 Weakens, as and Wilde 11 Put up with support 
63 Works of Swift 12 Bread for a

66 They're over the 29 Line up hill Reuben 13 Speakers' no­
32 Push (for) 70 Dancing locale 
nos 36 Needle part 71 "Be delighted" 
14 Amount left after 37 Mauna 72 Low tie all is said and done
39 Example of 41-73 Example of 41-41 Not work out 51 Black Russians 61 Like Radio City 20 Unagi, at a sushi
Across Across may go on it Music Hall, 
42 Kirlian 
restaurant informally
photography 52 Brothers24 Actress Dawson

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 62 Hitch 
image
of "Rent" 53 Fix, as a shoe 64 Pint-size 
26 Polar denizen 43 Four-footed TV star 55 Buffalo hockey 65"Mm-hmm"
27 Polar explorer player 66 Chart topper 
28 Salty septet 44 Jar part 57 Barbecue 67 "Do do"
30 Therapeutic 49 Thank-yous offering 68 It may be tidy 
plant along the 31 "_got mail" Thames 60 Bug juice? 69_-Cat 33 Humanities degs. 
For answers. call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 34 Memory unit credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 35 Cries from the Annual subscriptions are available for the best of SundaSf woods crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 38 "I love him like Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 40 Defendant's Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young plea, informally solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kate Moss, 34; Sade, 49; John Carpen­ter, 60; Dr. Laura Schlessinger, 61 
Happy Birthday: Think matters through before you take action. You may not have all the information you need to make a good decision. He willing to research every aspect of what you want to see happen before you make your move. This is the year to be fully prepared so that you can make the most of the opportunities around you. Your numbers are 7, 13, 20, 25, 32, 46 
ARIES (March 21-AprU 19): Don't let someone else's emotional trauma bring you down. You have plenty going your way and, if you stop to meddle in other people's problems, you will miss something special. You'll h;lve a passionate ap­proach to whatever you do. 3 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't expect to get help from others when you should be doing the work yourself. Someone from your past may propose some­thing that interests you. A new project can tum into a long-t<•rm, profitable ven­ture. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): Not everything will be out in the open or made readily available for you to see. Scrutinize what others are doing. A cheerful ap­proach will help you to decipher what everyone around you is up to. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-Joly 22): You may not like change but ;ron are overdue. A little effort will result in comfortable surroundings. A good tolk with someone you love will lead to a better understanding of one another. 4· stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may feel more like having some fun hut you should be focusing on what you can do to get ahead professionally, ·~ducationally or fi­nancially. The time you spend organizing, planning and manipulating your futore will pay off. 2 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Deal with emotional issues qukkly and yon will spare yourself ongoing problems. Be precise about how you feel and what you expect and you will gain the respect of the people you ure dealing with. A new challenge will inspire you. 5 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put more effort into f'tx.ing up your place or looking for a new investment that will help you save. Getting o1at with friends or family and trying something new will inspire you to do more of the things that you find motivating. A love interest will develop. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your emotions will be t.:sted today. Not everyone will be forthright regarding intentions and expectations. Inst.oad ofletting things get to you, make decisions that will set you apart and help yon counteract any form of manipulation. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get serious about your :future. Travel, educa­tion and picking up information that can transform you·r life should be consid­ered. An older or more experienced individual will be •.hle to shed some light on an interesting topic. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Spend time on yourself. Ii you look good, yon will feel good. A property deal or investment can: be put into play with the expec­tation of making a clear profit. A move from one location to another will revital­ize you. 5 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Help others and yon will help yourself. Taking action will prove that you are capable of being a leader and give yon the respect of people who can influence your future. Your charm, electric personality and vision will be all that's required. 2 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't put too much trust: into what others say they will do. Uuless you have something in writing, it isn't I ikely to manifest into any­thing. Offer your time and expertise but don't give cash to a .:ause you know little about. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are aggressive, forthright and in commond. You are capable of getting others to do things for you and can: always come up with solutions when needed. You are a leader. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenia/(lst.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ Address ____________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip____ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Friday, August 29, 2008 page 20 

MEN'S SOCCER 
A new season unzipped 

Notre Dame opens regular season on the road against Akron after a 1-0-1 preseason record 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 
After posting a 1-0-1 record in exhibition play, No. 3 Notre Dame opens its season tonight in Bloomington, Ind., with a 5 
p.m. match against No. 12 Akron. 
The Irish will take on Duke at 2 p.m. tomorrow as part of the 26th annual Adidas/IU Credit Union Classic, a four-team event on the campus of Indiana University. 
"It's certainly going to be two good games, without question," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "We play a very good schedule without many gimmes, and I think the team's exeitnd for this weekend." 
The Irish boast a strong cast of returners, including seven starters from a team that fell to eventual national champion Wake Forest 1-0 in the NCAA quarterfinals. 
Senior defender Matt Besler, a two-time captain and preseason All-American this season, is one of three all-Big East honorees back for the Irish. He is joined on the back line by fellow senior and all-Big East player Jack Traynor. 
Sophomore midfielder Matt Armstrong, an all-Big East hon­orable mention a year ago, also returns. 
After combining to play in just two games a year ago, senior Bright Dike and junior Tamba Samba return to bolster an attacking unit that also includes sophomores Jeb Brovsky and Steven Perry. The major ques­tion, however, is whether the Irish can replace the production of Joseph Lapira, a two-time All-American and the 2006 
see LAPIRA/page 17 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Proffitt to transfer schools 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Editor 
Sophomore guard Ty Proffitt has left the Notre Dame basket­ball team and will transfer schools, coach Mike Brey said in a statement Thursday. 
Proffitt played in eight games last season, averaging 1.0 points and 0.4 rebounds per game. 
"We fully support Ty's decision to transfer to another school," Brey said in the statement. 
Note: 
+ESPN College Gameday will visit campus for the Notre Dame-Connecticut game on Jan. 24 at 7 p.m. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

ND ATHLETICS 
Swarbrick ready to face challenges, lead change 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor  ing. But it's representative of the shift into a new era. Swarbrick, a '76 graduate of  welcoming." He comes into a job laden with challenges, from football  time following the 7-4-1 sched­ule White established (seven home games, four away and  good program last week," Swarbrick said. "He essentially said this is the one place  
the University, former  scheduling to Notre  one at a neutral site).  where  he  would  do  that  
On the morning of Aug. 21 in the JACC, a receptionist spoke  Irish lacrosse player and a lawyer in  See Also  Dame's interaction with the BCS to a  "It's a real Rubik's Cube, because if you're pursuing a 7­ because he wants his kids to experience it once. Not gonna  
on  the phone, updating maga­ Indianapolis,  "From one AD to  half-finished renova­ 4-1 model you've got to find  do it twice."  
zine  subscriptions.  She  replaced Kevin White,  another"  tion of athletic facili­ three teams, arguably four,  Swarbrick said on-field per­ 
changed the addresses, then  who took the  same  ties. He's started to  that aren't interested in  a  formance is not the only factor  
made another switch.  job  at  Duke  page 18  learn the complex  home-and-home and are will­ he  uses to determine  a  pro­ 
''I'd like to change the name  University, in July. So  puzzle that is foot­ ing to just be  a  visitor," he  gram's success. He looks at the  
on  these  as well," she said.  far,  he  said,  the  ball scheduling, he  said.  experience of the students,  
"Can you change it to Jack  reception has been positive.  said, because the schedules go  Schools will agree to play  how the program represents  
Swarbriek'?"  "Part of that is my Notre  far into the future. The chal­ Notre Dame at home without  the university, the competitive  
In the grand scheme of the  Dame  background,  having  lenges, he said, come from try­ requiring the Irish to  travel  results and the number of  
Notre Dame athletic depart­ gone to school here," he said.  ing to preserve the traditional  there, he said, but not many.  
ment, that means almost noth­ "It's just been exceptionally  rivalries while at the  same  "I talked to a coach at a very  see SWARBRICK/page 18  

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Loyola, Santa Oaravisit ND 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Judging from the 7-0 beating Notre Dame handed Michigan in its season opener last friday, the No. 4 Irish appear deter­mined to avoid the poor start they endured last season. 
But the tnam will face SHveral big early-season tests this wenknnd as the host of the 16th annual Inn at Saint Mary's Classie held at Alumni Field 
Thn Irish will take on Loyola Marymount tonight at 7:30 
p.m. 
and wrap up the weekend with a eontnst against No. 21 Santa Clara on Sunday at 1:30 

p.m. 
Last season, the Irish also OJWned against Miehigan but only managed a scoreless draw. Notre Dame coach Handy Waldrum said he was much 


see WALDRUM/page 16 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

After rough season, a fresh start for the Irish 
By SAM WERNER Sports Wri rer 

Irish coach Debbie Brown has never faced IPFW while at Notre Dame, but she isn't fazed. In fact, she said, it could spice things up a bit because she'll make changes mid-match. 
"Sometimes that's actually pretty fun to do that," she said. "But you're also used to having a little bit more knowledge than we do." 
The game against IPFW is the first of the Shamrock Invitational; Notre Dame will also facH Nevada and Valparaiso this weekend in the tournament. 
Notre Dame will look to get off to a fast start to help them rebound from a disappointing 2007 season. 
"I don't feel like if we don't if we don't get off to a good start it'll be a disastrous season," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "But obviously you always want to start off strong, and I think we have the opportunity to do that." 
Brown also said this year's squad will use last year's frus­tration as motivation to improve in 2008. 
"I think there's just a real strong determination to make it better for sure and there's no doubt in my mind that we will," she said. "We have reasons to be really optimistic about [this year]." 
Captains Jamel Nicholas and Mallory Croal, who returns as a eo-captain from last year, will lead this year's team. 
"I think they're both really 
see CAPTAINS/page 17 
A FALL 2008 SPECIAL OBSERVER INSERT 




INSIDE~ 

Local Service Opportunities 
The Center for Social Concerns has partnerships with over fifty local social service and advocacy organizations. Numerous opporutnities exist to contribute your time and talents. 

Student Service and Social Action Groups 
Over forty student groups on campus have a service and social action focus. They offer numerous opportunties for advocacy, education, and local community involvement. 


Communi~,-Based Learning ~lpp,,rtunities 
The Center works with departments at Notre Dame to offer courses and research opportunities in the local community. Many of these are facilitated by Community-Based Learning Coordinators (CBLCs). 



Taking education be onll the walls of he classroom 

Tutoring an inmate at the South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility 
The Center for Social Concerns invites you to push the bound­
aries of your classroom into the neighborhoods of South Bend 
and beyond. Come and enter the lives of those who live and study and work there. Indeed, consider the ways that you might begin to be a part of the world's transformation. 
Through the years, thousands of students have taken part in the numerous opportunities offered through the Cen­ter for Social Concerns and our many partners. Each student has made an important difference. 
Often this service involvement, and the learning that comes through it, transforms you. In turn, this transformation allows each of you to be impressive agents of transformation in others' lives. This is seen during and long after your time at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross College. 
Jesus called love the greatest of all commandments­to love the Lord God with all our hearts and to love our neighbor as ourselves (Mark 12: 28-31). It is not easy but it remains no less our challenge and call. It is the foundation on which we will build the justice we seek and the peace we long for. 
Be a part of the transformation to which we are called. Give yourself away. One or more of the opportunities on these pages could quite possibly change you forever. 
God Bless, 
;1t.-. ?fiLl 
Fr. Bill Lies, C.S.C. 
Executive Director 
Index 
ADDICTIONS 
Life Treatment Centers 
ADULT LITERACY 
Literacy Council of St. Joseph County Literacy Awareness ND (LAND) South Bend Community School 
Corporation Adult Education 
ADULT-OLDER 
Milton Adult Day Services Real Services/Area 2 Agency on Aging Sisters of the Holy Cross 
CHILDREN & YOUTH 
Ark Angels, Inc. Bandlink Big Brothers & Big Sisters 
of St. Joseph County Boy Scouts of America, LaSalle Council Boys & Girls Club of St. Joseph County Camp Kesem Campus Girl Scouts CASA Program for St. Joseph County Children's Defense Fund Circle K College Mentors for Kids Domers Mentoring Kids El Campito, Inc. Freedom 22 Foundation Ms Wizard Day Neighborhood Study Help Program (NSHP) Operation Smile Robinson Community Learning Center Slice of Life ND South Bend Community School 
Corporation Partner Up/Read to a Child South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility Take Ten Teamwork for Tomorrow Youth Services Bureau of 
St. Joseph County 
CRIMINAL JUSTICE 
Dismas of Michiana (Dismas House) Human Rights ND (HRND) Indiana Legal Services, Inc. (ILS) United Religious Community 
of St. Joseph County 
CULTURAL ISSUES 
Broadway Christian Parish UMC Community Alliance Serving 
Hispanics (CASH) La Casa de Amistad South Bend Community School 
Corporation Bilingual Services 
DISABILITY SERVICES 
Best Buddies 
Chiara Home, Inc. 
Children's Dispensary 
Corvilla, Inc. 
LOGAN Community Resources, Inc. 
Reins of Life, Inc. 
Special Friends 
SuperSibs 

ENVIRONMENT 
ND for Animals Students for Environmental Action (SEA) 
HOUSING/HOMELESSNESS 
Catholic Worker House Center for the fiomeless Habitat for Humanity Hope Ministries The Salvation Army St. Margaret's House St. Vincent de Paul Society 
of St. Joseph County, Inc. YWCA of St. Joseph County 
HUNGER CONCERNS 
Catholic Charities Foodbank of Northern Indiana Foodshare World Hunger Coalition 
MEDICAL 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist American Cancer Society American Red Cross The Center for Hospice and 
Palliative Care, Inc. First Aid Services Team (FAST) Healthwin Specialized Care Helpful Undergraduate Students (HUGS) Harbor Light Hospice Irish Fighting for Saint Jude's Kids Memorial Hospital Volunteer Services Ronald McDonald Family Room 
at Memorial Hospital Social Justice in American 
Medicine (SJAM) St. Joseph Regional Medical Center SJRMC Outreach (Chapin Street Clinic) 
MULTI-SERVICE GROUPS 
Arnold Air Society Experiential Learning Council Knights of Columbus Near Northwest Neighborhood, Inc. Sustained Dialogue Trident Naval Society 
PEACE AND JUSTICE ISSUES 
Africa Faith and Justice Network (AFJN) ND-8: Millennium Development Student Group Notre Dame Peace Fellowship 
WOMEN'S CONCERNS 
Family Justice Center of 
St. Joseph County Feminist Voice Hannah's House Notre Dame Right to Life S-0-S of Madison Center YWCA St. Joseph County 
KEY

Local Senice ................ II Federal Work Study site Iii 1 1 'rJ On Bus Route
5 :
Opportunities Preferred method contact is bold. 
..................................................................................... 
AIDS MINISTRIES/AIDS ASSIST IJ ~ 
Focus: Care coordination for persons living with HIV and community-based HIV testing. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteers provide a range of supportive services to both clients and staff. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(SJ: Any REQUIREMENTs: Car, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coNTAcT: Debra M. Stanley 
(574) 288-2887 wuzuwuzu@aol.com www.aidsministries.org 

AMERICAN RED CROSS (ST. JOSEPH COUNlY CHAPTER) IJ ~ 
Focus: To provide relief to victims of disaster and helps people prevent, prepare for, and respond to emergencies. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteer positions include giving disaster preparedness pre­sentations in schools and the community, working with refugee clients, instructing CPR/First Aid classes, and working on vari­ous projects throughout the chapter. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(SJ: Any REQUIREMENTS: Background check, training PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 CONTACT: Mark Druyos 
(574) 234-0191 druyos@stjoe-redcross.org www.sljoe-redcross.org 

ARK ANGELS, INC. 
Focus: Youth intervention and positive discovery SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Positive PeerTeam creation, developmental strategies through teaching and mentoring of all ages with primary target being youth with little to no home support structure. DAYS: Any TIME(SJ: Any (M-F), Evening (SA, SU) REQUIREMENTs: Background check PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Ron King 
(574) 904-1707 kingronnie@sbcglobal.net 

BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS OF ST. JOSEPH COUNlY IJ 
Focus: Provide youth development pro­grams for school-aged youth in an after­school environment. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Serve as mentors, group leaders, and coaches to the kids. Specialized service projects available in development office. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, background check PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTAcT: Deborah Burrow 
(574) 232-9958 bbbsstjoe@sbcglobal.net www.bbbs-sjc.org 
BOYS & GIRLS CLUBS OF ST. JOSEPH COUNlY IJ ~ 
Focus: Provide youth development pro­grams for school-aged youth in an after­school environment. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Serve as mentors, group leaders, and coaches to the kids. Specialized service projects available in development office. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(SJ: Late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: 18+, background Check PLACEMENTS: 30+ CONTACT: Jim Cramer 
(574) 232-2048 ext. 2103 jcramer@bgcsjc.org www.bgcsjc.org 
BROADWAY CHRISTIAN PARISH UMC ~ 
Focus: AChristian community commit­ted to serving our neighbors regardless of economic and or social status. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Food pantry, diS­tribute toiletries, computer lab, hospitality drop-in center, Sunday community dinner. DAYS: Any TIME(SJ: Daytime, Late afternoon (M-F) Afternoon (SA, SU) REQUIREMENTS: Spanish speaking PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Rev. Nancy Nichols 
(574) 289-0333 broadwayum@sbcglobal.net www.broadwayumcsb.org 
CASA PROGRAM OF ST. JOSEPH COUNlY ~ 
Focus: To recruit, screen, train, supervise, and support volunteers who advocate for abused and neglected children. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteers are screened and trained by the CASA program, they are appointed by the court to advo­cate for children who come into the court system primarily as a result of alleged physical, sexual, emotional abuse and/ or neglect. Volunteers must meet with the child regularly, interview all parties to the case, complete court reports under speci­fied time limits, work professionally with the Department of Child Services, CASA Program and others involved in the case. DAYS: Any TIME(SJ: Any REQUIREMENTs: 21+,Background check, drug screening, training PLACEMENTS: 30+ coNTACT: Brenda Matuszkiewicz 
(574) 235-5375 bmat@jjconline.org www.sjccasa.org 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES ~ 
FOCUS: Families SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Assist in food pantry, help with filing,and other office duties as they are needed. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(SJ: Any REQUIREMENTS: Car, Spanish speaking, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS: 1-5 CONTACT: Jo Fisher 
(574) 234-3111 jflsher@ccfwsb.org www.ccfwsb.or 
CATHOLIC WORKER HOUSE ~ 
Focus: To offer hospitality to people in need. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Help prepare evening meal, talk with guests, collect food from farmer's market, manual labor at drop-in center downtown, pick up furniture donations. DAYS: Any TIME(SJ: Late afternoon, evening (M-F), Any (SA, SU) REQUIREMENTS: None PLACEMENTS: Up tO 30 CONTACT: Margaret Pfeil 
(574) 631-9378 mpfeil1@nd.edu 
CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS IJ ~ 
Focus: To provide education, training, rehabilitation, housing placement, and job placement programs and services to in-residence guests. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Tutor adults seeking GED, improved literacy and maths, assist in job retention programs, help at front desk and exercise room, read to, play with, and mentor children. DAYS: Any TIMIE(SJ: Any REQUIREMENTS: Background check, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS: 30+ CONTACT: Dr. Peter Lombardo, Ph.D 
(574) 282-8700 ext. 344 plombardo@cfh.net www.cfh.net 
CHIARA HOME, INC. ~ 
Focus: To provide out-of-home respite care for individuals with special needs. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Help With meals, play games, and go for walks with residents. Redesign and update web page. DAYS: Any TIME(SJ: Daytime, late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: One semester commitment PLACEMENTS: 1-5 coNTACT: Sister Gretchen Clark, SSJ-TOSF 
(574) 287-5435 chiarahome@att.net www.chiarahomerespite.org 
CHILDREN'S DISPENSARY "A PLACE TO BE ME" 
Focus: To enhance the learning of people with special needs. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Mentor children with social and cognitive impairments, assist the children in various social and recreation activities. DAYS: Any nME(SJ: Any (M-F), Daytime, late afternoon (SA,SU) REQUIREMENTS: Background check PLACEMENTS: 30+ CONTACT: April KwiatkOWSki 
(574) 234-1169 cdaplacetobeme@sbcglobal.net www.childrensdispensary.org 

CORVILLA, INC. 
Focus: To provide homes and care for people with developmental disabilities. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: HElp With SOCial outings, bingo parties, bowling outings, zoo trips, Thanksgiving dinner and Christmas parties. Help organize several unique fund raising activities that students might like to help with as a volunteer. Snowball Softball, Dodgeball Tournament, Glow in the Dark Volleyball and Notre Dame football parking. DAYS: Weekends TIME(SJ: Afternoon, evening REQUIREMENTS: None PLACEMENTS: 1-5 coNTACT: Diane M. Dolcle 
(574) 289·9n9 
ddolde@corvlll a.of!' www.corvilla.o rg 
DISMAS HOUSE OF SOUTH BEND IJ ~ 
Focus: Faith-based re-entry program that provides housing and services to adults returning from incarceration so they can successfully adjust to society. The former offenders share the house with local col­lege students and together, they create a positive living environment. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Studen·: residency, prepare evening meal and dine with the residents, mentoring and GED tutor­ing, help with house repairs, assist with special events. Update website and donor database. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: 18+ PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 CONTACT: Maria Kaczmarek 
(574) 233-85~~2 michianadism~'s@siiJcglobal.net 
www.dismas.org 
EL CAMPITO, INC. ~ 
Focus: To promote the educational, social, and economic success 0'' culturally diverse children and their families, by providing quality programs and service~. to those most in need. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Provide ~omework as­SiStance for the after-school program; provide Spanish translation for written r~aterials, child care assistance for evening meetings, and assistance for fund raising activities. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(SJ: Any REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18··, background check, TB test, drug screening PLACEMENTS: 1-5 coNTACT: Rosa Rickman 
(574) 232-0220 elcampito@sbcglobal.net 
~~~lCIAL 
~COI~CERNS 
•F•o•rm•o•r•e•in.fo.rm•a•tio•n•v•is.it:•s•o•c•ia~i•c•o•n•c•e•rn•s•.•n~d~.e·d~u........................................................................... 
FAMILY JUSTICE CENTER OF ST. JOSEPH COUNlY ~ 
Focus: To offer options to victims of do­mestic and sexual violence to help them and their children break free from the cycle of violence. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Offer resources for ViC­tims of domestic violence. play with children, answer phones, and/or welcome guests. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Daytime, late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: 18+, background Check, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS: 1-5 coNTACT: Pete Morgan 
(574) 234-6900 pmorgan@fjcsjc.org www. fjcsjc.org 
FOOD BANK OF NORTHERN INDIANA ~ 
Focus: To feed hungry people and advocate on their behalf. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Offer resources for ViC­timS of domestic violence, play with children, answer phones. and/or welcome guests. DAYs: Weekdays TIME(S): Daytime, late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, background check PLACEMENTS: Up to 15 CONTACT: Lisa Jaworski 
(574) 232-9986 ljaworski@secondharvest.org www.feedindiana.org 
FREEDOM 22 FOUNDATION 
Focus: To support families, connect vol­unteers, and build community in Michiana. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Coach middle SChOOl students in language arts competition. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Daytime REQUIREMENTS: None PLACEMENTS: 6-15 coNTACT: Barbara Asher 
(574) 532-6657 barb@freedom22.org 
HANNAH'S HOUSE 
Focus: To provide shelter, programming and staff support for the physical, emo­tional and spiritual well being of pregnant young women. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Light administrative work, cleaning, yard work, light cooking, childcare. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: None PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Karen DeLucenay 
(574) 254-5309 karal@haelllhshousemlchlacom www.hannahshousemichiana.com 
HARBOR LIGHT HOSPICE 
Focus: To promote dignity and emphasize quality of life for those during the final stages of terminal illness. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: One-to-one ViSitS to patients in nursing homes, provide respite visits for patients living at home. office work. and help with marketing programs. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: 18+, US Citizen, background check, TB test. one year commitment PLACEMENTS: 30+ CONTACT: Judy Comeno 
1 (800) 662-8889 judy@hlhln.com www.harborlighthospice.com 

BE THE CHANGE 
HEALTHWIN SPECIALIZED CARE ~ 
Focus: Healthcare for the geriatric, head in­jured, dementia, and Alzheimer populations. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Entertain and Share life experiences; play cards, board games and computer games with residents; help residents with scrap booking; keep bulletin boards updated; help with special events; decorate for holidays; help with special events; entertain residents with music; help with ND Tailgate parties. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: Background check, TB test PLACEMENTS: 30+ CONTACT: Karen Martindale 
(574) 272-0100 ext. 288 kmartlndale@healthwln.org 
HOPE MINISTRIES ~ 
Focus: A faith-based homeless shelter for men, women, and families. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Adult education tutor, early childhood education assistant, Front desk receptionist, case manager assistant, development/PR assistant, assistance with the annual Street Count of sheltered and unsheltered homeless men, women and children in the community. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: 18+ PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: Up tO 30 coNTACT: Meg Place 
(574) 235-4150 mplace@hopesb.org www.hopesb.org 
INDIANA LEGAL SERVICES, INC. (ILS) ~ 
Focus: Indiana Legal Services is a pov­erty law clinic funded to help low-income people in certain civil cases. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Conduct initial interviews with potential clients and sum­marize the case into written narratives for attorney review. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Daytime REQUIREMENTS: 18+, Confidentiality agreement, No advice to clients PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: Up to 15 CONTACT: Heather Mezosi 
(574) 234-8121 ext. 3228 Heather.Mezosi@llsl.net www.indianajustice.org 
LA CASA DE AMISTAD, INC. H 
Focus: La Casa is a youth and commu­nity center serving the Latino population. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: After-school pro­gram, food pantry, tutoring ESL students, preparing newsletter, website updates, data entry. DAYs: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Daytime, late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: Car, fluent in Spanish PLACEMENTS: Up to 30 coNTACT: Rebecca Ruvalcaba 
(574) 233-2120 beccaruval@yahoo.com 
LASALLE COUNCIL, BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA 
Focus: Ayouth development agency com­mitted to strengthening the lives of kids. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Work on a weekly Or bi­weekly schedule with the Scouts from vari­ous groups around the South Bend area. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Afternoon REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, background check, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Arne Landsverk 
(574) 289-0337 ext. 315 alandsverk@lasallecouncllbsa.org www.lasallecouncilbsa.org 
LIFE TREATMENT CENTERS IJ ~ 
Focus: To provide professional treatment services to adults addicted to alcohol and drugs. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Front desk COOrdina­tor answer phones. detoxification monitor clients, landscaping taking care of the lawn, special projects coordinator work with development office. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, background check, US Citizen PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: Up tO 15 CONTACT: Julia Shapiro 
(574) 233-5433 ext. 235 jullas@lifetreatmentcenters.org www.lifetreatmentcenters.org 
UTERACY COUNCIL OF ST. JOSEPH COUNlY~ 
Focus: To elevate the quality of life in our community by promoting and improving functional literacy. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: One-to-one tutoring of adults, success by six early childhood instruction for adults, and Spanish literacy DAYS: Any TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: 18+, Car, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: Up to 30 coNTACT: Kaye Warren 
(574) 235-6113 tutorlng@stjoereads.org www.stjoereads.org 
LOGAN COMMUNnY RESOURCES, INC. IJ ~ 
Focus: To to support people with disabili­ties in achieving their desired quality of life. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Assist With SOCial skills classes, tutoring, and a teen social group at the Autism center; offer classes in art, nature, music, drama, or fitness with Adult Day services. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Late afternoon, evening REQUIREMENTS: Car PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: 30+ coNTACT: Nichole Maguire 
(574) 289-4831 ext.1043 nmagulre@hotmail.com www.logancenter.org 
MEMORIAL HOSPITAL OF SOUTH BEND ~ 
Focus: Full service hospital SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Pushing patients in wheelchairs, staffing information desks, and a~isting on floors. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Daytime, late afternoon REQUIREMENTs: 18+, background check, TB test, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: Up tO 30 CONTACT: Jeanne Blad 
(574) 647-6496 volunteerservlces@memorlalsb.org www.qualityoflife.org 
MILTON ADULT DAY SERVICES ~ 
Focus: A therapeutic activities-based pro­gram that serves adults who need supervi­sion during the day. Many participants have Alzheimer's disease or dementia. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Assist With activitieS and work one-on-one with clients or small groups of clients for mental or physical exercises. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Daytime, late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: 18+, TB test. one semes­ter commitment PLACEMENTS: Up to 15 coNTACT: Norma Napoli 
(574) 232-2666 norma_napoll@sbcglobal.net www.MiltonADS.org 

NEAR NORTHWEST NEIGHBORHOOD, INC. ~ 
Focus: An organization of citizens dedi­cated to the preservation and revitaliza­tion of the neighborhood. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Assist in research and development of programming, including creating policy and guidelines. Development of marketing materials to revitalize the neigh­borhood by promoting home ownership. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Daytime (M-F), Morning (SA, SU) PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: 1-5 coNTACT: Karen Ainsley 
(574) 232-9182 nnndirector@kconline.com www.nearnorthwest.org 
REAL SERVICES, INC. 
Focus: Working with the elderly and disabled. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Assist clients With lawn care, grocery shopping, light housekeeping and friendly visiting, deliver meals at noon to homebound, advocacy for Guardianship and Ombudsman program. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTs: Car, 18+, background check, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Carlene Maxwell/Dee Pasternak 
(574) 284-2691 Cmaxwell@realservlceslnc.com www.realservices.org 
REINS OF LIFE, INC. 
Focus: Therapeutic horseback riding for children and adults with disabilities. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Assist riders With grooming, tacking and executing skills dur­ing therapeutic riding lessons; perform as horse leaders side walkers, safety moni­tors, instructors' aides and cheerleaders; assist with fund raising events and special projects; feed horses. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Any (M-F), Daytime, late afternoon (SA, SU) REQUIREMENTS: Car, two hours aweek PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: 30+ coNTACT: Christine Flowers 
(574) 232-0853 ourvolsrock@yahoo.com www. rei nsoflife.org 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER (RCLC) H ~ 
Focus: To welcome community and Notre Dame partners that strengthen the Northeast Neighborhood of South Bend through relationship-building and educa­tional opportunities. sERVICE ACTIVITIES: Tutoring, GED preparation, computer classes, art classes, exercise .classes, and more. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTs: Car, 18+, background check PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: 30+ CONTACT: Jay Caponigro 
(574) 631-9423 caponlgro.2@nd.edu 
RONALD MCDONALD FAMILY ROOM AT MEMORIAL HOSPITAL~ 
Focus: To provide respite for families of hospitalized children. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Work Shifts Of three hours, one day a month, to help with mail­ings and special events. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTs: Car, 18+, background check, TB test, one semester commitment. Spanish speaking PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: Up tO 30 coNTACT: Shelley Lesniewicz 
(574) 647-3020 rmfrdlrector@memorlalsb.org 
For more information visit: soclalconcerns.nd.edu 
................................................................................. 
SAINT JOSEPH REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER~ 
Focus: Full line acute care hospital SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Volunteer adVOCate in· emergency department (pre-med only); Read to children in waiting room of Family Clinic as part of Reach Out and Read program, other opportunities in outpatient pediatric therapy and in the pharmacy. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: 18+, background check, TB test, one semester commitment, proof of Hepatitis Bimmunization PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: 30+ coNTACT: Denise Kapsa 
(574) 237-7242 kapsad@sjrmc.com 

SISTERS OF THE HOLY CROSS 
Focus: To provide a strong netwoFk of vol­unteer visitation working one-on-one with sisters assisting with reading, computer e-mail, letter writing, trivia and other social programs. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Table game players, readers, musicians (especially piano players), activity cart, garden walks, group workshop leaders, decorating and helping with special events and many other fun activities too .numerous to list. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Daytime, late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: 18+, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: 30+ coNTACT: Lee Ann Moore 
((574) 284-5678 lmoore@cscsisters.org 

SJRMC OUTREACH SERVICES II ~ Focus: To provide health care to the underserved population in South Bend and Mishawaka. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Supplement Staff by accessing patients, preparing charts, as­sisting and following physicians, filing, etc. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: Car,18+, background check, TB test, Spanish speaking, two hours per week, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: Up to 15 coNTACT: Michelle Peters (574) 239-5299 petermic@sjrmc.com www.sjmed.com 
SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOL CORPORATION ADULT EDUCATION ~~ 
Focus: Help student sixteen years of age and older strengthen academic, job, and life skills. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Tutor adults WhO need to improve basic skills; prepare adults for the GED Exam, and/or learn English as a second language; help teach basic computer skills. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTs: 18+, Car, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: 1-5 coNTACT: Gayle Silver 
(574) 283-7563 gsilver@sbcsc.k12.in.us www.sbcsc.k12.in.us/ 
SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOL CORPORATION BILINGUAL SERVICES ~ 
Focus: To promote and develop English proficiency, intellectual growth, self-concept and cultural sensitivity in Limited English Proficient, and Language Minority students. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Tutoring services and after school programs to elementary and middle school students. Spanish speaking is not necessary. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, background check, one semester required PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: Up to 15 coNTACT: Bill Barna 
(574) 283-8150 wbarna@sbcsc.k12.in.us www.sbcsc.k12.in.us 
SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOL CORPORA­TION PARTNER UP/READTO A CHILD~ 
Focus: Reading program Service activities: To read for thirty min­utes a week to a child from Kindergarten to grade four. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(S): Daytime REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, background check, one-year commitment PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: 30+ coNTACT: Connie Moore 
(574) 283-8182 cmoore4@sbcsc.k12.1n.us www.sbcsc.k12.in.us 
SOUTH BEND JUVENILE CORRECTIONAL FACILITY II 
Focus: A medium to very-high security juvenile correctional facility for males between the ages of twelve and eighteen. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Tutor and mentor boys, Offer religious services and programs. DAYS: Any day TIME(S): Any time REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, background check, TB test. orientation PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: 30+ coNTACT: Beverly Williams 
(574) 232-8808 ext. 350 bewilliams@doc.in.gov www.in.gov 
S-0-S OF MADISON CENTER 
Focus: Rape crisis intervention and counseling for survivors of sexual assault and domestic violence, as well as their significant others. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Provide SUpport and crisis intervention to victims at hospitals and on the phone crisis line. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, background check, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: 30+ coNTACT: Annie Envall 
(574)283-1308 anniee@madison.org www.madison.org 
ST. MARGARET'S HOUSE ~ 
Focus: A day-center for women and their children who live in poverty. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Help With meal preparation, front desk duties, resume preparation, clerical help, and more. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Daytime REQUIREMENTS: Female, 18+, one se­mester commitment PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: 1-5 coNTACT: Patricia Marvel 
(574) 234-7795 patsmh@sbcglobal.net www.stmargaretshouse.org 
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL SOCIETY OF ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INC. ~ 
Focus: To provide food, clothing, furniture, and other basic necessities to families in need. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Work in thrift Store, office, or pantry. Visit the poor in their homes. DAYs: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Daytime, late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: Car PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: Up to 15 coNTACT: Charlie Thompson 
(574) 251-4903 confdirector@salntvincent-in.org www.saintvincent-in.org 
TAKE TEN 
Focus: A conflict resolution education curriculum that teaches youth to respond to conflict non-violently. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Student VOlunteers are trained to work in teams to go to local schools once per week and implement our curriculum. Students plan and teach the lessons to all grades of children. DAYS: Weekdays (M-F) TIME(S): Daytime, late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: 18+, background Check, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: 30+ coNTACT: Ellen Kyes 
(574) 631-9424 kyes.1@nd.edu www.taketen.org 
THE CENTER FOR HOSPICE AND PALLIATIVE CARE, INC. 
Focus: To improve the quality of living for patients facing the end of their lives. Service ac:tivities: Provide respite and companionship to patients and families on a weekly basis, or assist with light house­keeping, errands and some personal care. DAYS: Any TIME(S): 8:00a.m.-9:00 p.m. REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, background check, US Citizen, TB test, Physician health statement, driver's license and auto insur­ance, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: Up tO 15 CONTACT: Jackie Boynton 
(574) 243-3100 
boyntonj@centerforhospice.org 
www.centerforhospice.org 
THE SALVATION ARMY ~ 
Focus: To meet human need in Jesus Christ's name without discrimination. Service activities: Take applications, pre­pare food boxes, clerical work, distribute toys. DAYS: Weekdays during Christmas season TIME(S): Morning REQUIREMENTS: Background check PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: Up tO 15 CONTACT: Liz Fallon 
(574) 233-9471 liz_fallon@usc.salvationarmy.org www.usc.salvationarmy.org/sjc 

UNITED RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY OF ST. JOSEPH COUNTY ~ 
Focus: To encourage religious coo~era­tion and understanding, effect Gons·:ructive changes in society, and advoca:e for those seeking help to meet life's basiG needs. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Work to help those with basic needs issues, provide aclminis­trative assistance. DAYS: Weekdays TIME(SI: Daytime, late afternoon REQUIREMENTS: 18+, background Check, · Spanish speaking PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: 1-5 coNTACT: Rev. William J. Wassner 
(574) 282-2397 urc@urcsjc.orgg www.urcsjc.org 
YOUTH SERVICE BUREAU OF ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INC. 
Focus: To provide a strong safety net for marginalized youth,aiding thern along with their families to move from surviving to thriving. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Provide tL toling and recreation assistance at the runaway :>helter; grant research and fund raising tasks. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Any (M-F), Afternoon, evening (SA,SU) REQUIREMENTS: 18+, background Check, one semester commitment PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: Up to 15 Contact: Bonnie Strycker 
(574) 235-9231 bstryker@sbcglobal.rlet www.ysbsjc.com 
YWCA OF ST. JOSEPH COUNTY ~~ 
Focus: To provide programming ar d se1vices for women and their children who seek programming for domestic violeno~. chemi­oal dependency issues, sexual assault and transitional and permanent housir g. SERVICE ACTIVITIES: Monitor the Prctec­tive Order Court hearings through the Court Watch Program; gather data or attend court hearings for domestic violence, child abuse and sexual assault; assist with child care for the children residing in the shelte ·; assist with client crisis calls, intakes and attending to the women's needs. DAYS: Any TIME(S): Any REQUIREMENTS: Car, 18+, backgrou1d check, one semester commitment, Span­ish speaking a plus PLACEMENTS AVAILABLE: Up tO 15 coNTACT: Laura Kobek 
(574) 233-9491 ext. :303 lkrobek@ywcasjc.org www. ywcasjc.org 
For the most current listing of community service and volunteer opportunities be sure to visit socialconcems.nd.edu. 

TUTORING AT LA CASA DE AMISTAD, INC. 

~&@lCIAL
~CONCERNS 
•F•o•r•m•or•e•in•ro•rm•a•t•io•n•vi.sit•:•s•o•c'la~l•c•o•n•c•e•rn•s•.•n~d~.e·d'u..............................................................................4 
Student Senice and Social Action Groups 
AFRICA FAITH AND JUSTICE NETWORK 
We are the Notre Dame Chapter of AFJN, a Washington, DC based lobby group focused on action, advocacy, and education concerning issues pertaining to justice and peace cross-nationally on the continent of Africa. We collaborate with African student groups on campus, as well as individuals working in academia, peace building, and general awareness to form a unified voice for change in world perception and inaction towards the people of Africa. coNTACT: Sean Gaffney 
sgaffney@nd.edu 
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY 
Relay for Life (main event) Daffodil Days (secondary event) coNTACT: Jonathan Alfano 
jalfano@nd.edu 
ARNOLD AIR SOCIETY 
Arnold Air Society works towards a national project each year. This year we will focus on combating poverty and homelessness. Membership is affiliated with Air Force ROTC. However, others may be involved with our civilian counterpart, Silver Wings. coNTACT: Gary Kuhls 
gkuhls@nd.edu 
BANDUNK 
We provide a band program for students from the Christian Homeschool Association, Christ the King, and Holy Cross schools. We offer the students individual lessons and then a full band program after school. CONTACT: Erin Haines 
ehaine01@saintmarys.edu 
BEST BUDDIES 
Best Buddies is an organization dedicated to enhancing the lives of people with de­velopmental disabilities in the community by providing opportunities for one-to-one friendships with students. We hold 1-2 activities per month for buddy pairs to hang out together. Students are expected to contact their buddy weekly and enjoy their presence twice a month. coNTACT: Ed Suski 
esuski@nd.edu 
BIG BROTHERS/ BIG SISTERS 
This club consists of all ND/SMC students who are Big Brothers or Big Sisters. We work closely with the Big Brothers and Big Sisters of St. Joseph County. Our club funds events for bigs and Iitties to attend together (for example: Halloween party, skating party, bowling party, picnics). coNTACT: Charlie Cummings 
ccummin2@nd.edu 
BE THE 
CHANGE 
CAMP KESEM 
Camp Kesem is a weeklong camp for children (ages 5-13) whose parents have or have had cancer. Camp is provided free for the children, and relies solely on fund raisers and donations for its exis­tence. CK is a student-run organization whose mission is twofold: to provide these children with a fun summer camp experi­ence that gives them a chance to be kids, and to empower college students to chan­nel their passion for making a difference, while developing critical leadership skills for long-term social impact. coNTACT: Brianna Klco 
bklco@nd.edu 
CAMPUS GIRL SCOUTS 
Campus Girl Scouts works in the com­munity with local Girl Scout troops and holds Badge Workshops. We also have monthly service projects like making sack lunches for local charities or making cards for rectors. coNTACT: Angela Comana 
acomana@nd.edu 
CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND 
The Children's Defense Fund, in associa­
tion with the National Children's Defense 
Fund, is an organization that addresses 
issues regarding children through service and advocacy. We sponsor "Campus Com­
munity Conversations" and invite represen­tatives from relevant professions, campus organizations, parents in the community, and victimized children to participate. Our aim is to raise awareness in students, professors, and community members and to provide them with the tools to act. We also sponsor a weekly volunteering pro­gram called Friday Night Activities at the Center for the Homeless every Friday from 5:00-7:00 p.m. Transportation provided. coNTACT: Melissa Janisch 
mjanisch@nd.edu 
CIRCLE K 
Circle K is a Kiwanis-affiliated service club that provides free transportation to weekly service projects in and around the South Bend community. Every day of the week, we send members to about twenty different service projects. In addition, we offer larger-scale weekend projects. We also provide approximately fifty different leadership positions and of­fer a forum in which to meet many other service-minded individuals. coNTACT: Andrew Parnell 
aparnell@nd.edu 
COLLEGE MENTORS FOR KIDS 
College Mentors for Kids is a state-wide organization that pairs youth in the com­munity with college student mentors to show the children the benefits of college and introduce them to resources on col­lege campuses. coNTACT: Katie Pierret 
kpierret@nd.edu 
COMMUNITY ALLIANCE TO SERVE HISPANICS (CASH) 
Students participate in various service activities in South Bend and Mishawaka. Throughout the year, the club raises money for Hispanic parishes in the area and for organizations that work at the Mexico-United States border. CONTACT: Kerry McGuire 
kmcguir1@nd.edu 
DOMERS MENTORING KIDS 
Student club that groups the volunteers of three distinct programs: "Our Lady's Helpers" and "SAINTS" place students as tutors in underserved Catholic grade schools. "BANDLINK" places band mem­bers in local schools to teach music. coNTACT: Tessa Plaschke 
tplaschk@nd.edu 
EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING COUNCIL 
The Experiential Learning Council develops and enhances experiential and service 
learning opportunities for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, particularly through the student-facilitated experiential learning Seminars offered by the Center for Social Concerns. The organization brings together student leaders of each of the seminars to create a forum for ideas, to coordinate planning, and to share resources. coNTACT: Megan Savage 
msavage 1@nd.edu 
FEMINIST VOICE 
Raise awareness of, educate the campus on, and advocate for women's issues at Notre Dame, in the United States and abroad. coNTACT: Mandy Lewis 
alewis4@nd.edu 
FIRST AID SERVICES TEAM (FAST) 
Our club works to provide professional emergency medical services to students, visitors, and fans of the University of Notre Dame. We work during varsity games, dorm events, and any other University events that require medical coverage. All members work strictly on a volunteer basis. We train all of our members in American Red Cross First Aid, CPR, and AED/Oxygen use. coNTACT: Bristol Schmitz 
bschmitz@nd.edu 
FOODS HARE 
Foodshare takes leftover food from NDH to the Hope Ministries five nights a week and helps to serve meals at the Center for the Homeless and the Broadway Christian Parish about once per semester. CONTACT: John Miller 
jmille35@nd.edu 
HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 
We completely fund and build a home as a club for a deserving family in South Bend each year. We also partner with local high schools to help the high school students fund and build their own home for another family in South Bend. CONTACT: Jaime Amrhein 
jamrhein@nd.edu 

HELPFUL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS (HUGS) 
We engage in activities with the patients in the Pediatric ward of Memorial Hospital of South Bend. Ranging from playing in the playroom to bringing board games or stories to the kids, our activities with them are meant to help take their minds off of their medical stay while having fun. CONTACT: Jennifer Hunt 
Jhunt4@nd.edu 
HUMAN RIGHTS ND (HRND) 
Human Rights-ND seeks to correct human rights abuses both domestically and abroad. We utilize letter writing campaigns along with several action days a semester with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as our guiding document. CONTACT: Catherine McKinney 
cmckinn 1@nd.edu 
IRISH FIGHTING FOR ST. JUDE KIDS 
To fundraise for St. Jude Children Re­search Hospital in Memphis, Tennessee 
in order to provide care for those children whose families are unable to pay for the critical medical care they need. coNTACT: Sara Hawley 
hawley@nd.edu 
LITERACY AWARENESS NOTRE DAME (LAND) 
The purpose of LAND is to raise literacy awareness on campus and in the com­munity and to promote education at all levels, adult and child. LAND works toward its goals by: forming partnerships, programming, and promoting. We will raise literacy awareness through fundrais­ing, book drives, literacy festivals, literacy awareness week, etc. coNTACT: Kim Churbock 
kchurboc@nd.edu 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS, COUNCIL 1447 
As a fraternal service organization, the Knights of Columbus are dedicated to fos­tering a sense of unity and brotherhood within its members through service work and fun fraternal events in our building on campus. CONTACT: Jim Redden 
jredden@nd.edu 
MS. WIZARD DAY PROGRAM TEAM 
Ms. Wizard Day seeks to foster an inter­est in the sciences in nine to eleven year old local middle school girls. Our club members help in the planning and 
implementation of a day-long science event as student group leaders or experi­
ment guides. All that occurs at our event related to science, math, engineering, or technology. Through this event, we foster an interest in these careers among young girls. Our end goal is to fill the absence of women in scientific and technological fields that exists today. coNTACT: Allison Hickey 
ahickey@nd.edu 
For more information visit: soclalconcerns.nd.edu 
ND FOR ANIMALS 
We advocate increasing awareness of the plight of animals in factory farms. Our goal is to spread knowledge of the benefits of vegetarianism and how to be better stewards of the earth. We also volunteer our time to animal shelters and animal activism. CONTACT: Ashley Farrington 
afarrin 1@nd.edu 
ND-8 
Our mission is to raise awareness of the 8 Millennium Development Goals and provide opportunities for the campus community to take action towards meeting those goals. We do this through films, panel discussions, and fund raising activities in collaboration with other groups on campus. CONTACT: Mike Ellerhorst 
mellerho@nd.edu 
NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM (NSHP) 
We provide tutoring for 3rd and 4th grad­ers at Lincoln Elementary School. Provide tutoring to students of all ages at the Charles Black Youth Center. Federal Work­Study students are allowed and transpor­tation is provided. Contact: Levi Checketts 
lchecket@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME PEACE FELLOWSHIP 
ND Peace Fellowship is a prayer, study, and action group. Our weekly meetings consist of those three elements. We also plan events like speakers, discussions, and performances in collaboration with other groups on campus. coNTACT: Kristi Haas 
khaas3@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME RIGHT TO LIFE 
Notre Dame Right to Life seeks to promote and uphold the sanctity of all human life from conception until natural death through prayer, service, and educa­tion. and to help women in crisis pregnan­cies find alternatives to abortion through service and support, in the spirit of the Catholic Church. coNTACT: Mary Kate Daly 
mdaly4@nd.edu 
OPERATION SMILE 
The goal of this club is to fundraise to fund operations of children with cleft lips living in poverty. coNTACT: James Petrocelli 
jpetroce@nd.edu 
SAINT JOSEPH/CHAPIN STREET VOLUNTEERS 
We volunteer at the medical clinics around South Bend associated with the Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center. CONTACT: Mallory Jacobs 
mjacobs4@nd.edu 
SLICE OF LIFE ND 
Slice of Life meets three times a week to tutor and mentor children in downtown South Bend. Slice of Life ND is a tutoring and literacy program that works with South Bend students (mostly K-8) on their schoolwork and reading skills. coNTACT: Sarah Lane 
slane2@nd.edu 
SOCIAL JUSTICE IN AMERICAN MEDICINE (SJAM) 
The goal of Social Justice in American Medicine is to raise awareness about health disparities in the Unite States through service, guest speakers, and 
awareness initiatives. 
coNTACT: Christiana Sensabaugh 
csensaba@nd.edu 
SPECIAL FRIENDS 
Notre Dame Special Friends is a club designed to promote unique friendships be­tween children with autism and Notre Dame students. Notre Dame students are paired with children with autism with the goal of getting to know the child and their family by spending time with them on a weekly basis. Homework help, Applied Behavior Analysis therapy, fun outings or field trips, and just playing with the child on a one-on-one basis are just some of the ways that Special Friends can interact with the child. coNTACT: Lauren Schmitt 
lschmitl@nd.edu 
STUDENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION (SEA) 
SEA is a social action group made up of environmentally conscious students, those who love being outside and care about their place in the natural world. SEA organizes community outreach projects­annual projects include tree planting and river clean up-as well as activities in the local area. like canoeing and trips to out­door festivals. SEA also coordinates Earth Week on campus, which features speakers, film festivals, and expositions on the quad. coNTACT: Tracy Jennings 
Jennings.35@nd.edu 
SUPER SIBS 
Super Sibs is an organization for ND-SMC students who have siblings with disabili­ties to be matched with children in the local community who also have siblings with disabilities. We have "Sib Chats" once a month and also attend fun events 
(i.e. Pep Rallies, Hockey Games, Bowling, Halloween Party, etc.) monthly. Super Sibs provides College Sibs with a great opportunity to mentor kids in the South Bend area who are struggling to grow up with a sibling who has special needs. coNTACT: Christy Carr 
ccarr2@nd.edu 
SUSTAINED DIALOGUE 
In Sustained Dialogue we gather in small groups to discuss various social issues within the Notre Dame community and to think about how they can be addressed. coNTACT: Lauren Demeter 
ldemeter@nd.edu 
TEAMWORK FOR TOMORROW 
Teamwork is a mentoring organization that 
pairs at-risk youth from South Bend with a 
mentor/tutor from ND/SMC. The benefit of Teamwork·is that it allows kids and tutors to form bonds that can become rather strong. Teamwork meets twice aweek at two off­campus sites from 4:00 to 6:00 p.m., either 
Monday/Wednesday orTuesday/Thursday. coNTACT: Emily Balthasar 
ebalthas@nd.edu 
TRIDENT NAVAL SOCIID 
Trident Naval Society is primarily a fund­
raising club benefitting the St. Joe County Special Olympics and Wounded Warrior Project. We also get the members of NROTC together to perform service activi­ties in a fun way on a regular basis. coNTACT: William Towne 
wtowne@nd.edu 
WORLD HUNGER COALITION 
World Hunger Coalition is dedicated to relieving hunger of those who are starving both here in South Bend and throughout the world. WHC recruits students for the weekly dining hall Wednesday Lunch Fast to raise funds and organize hunger relief activities such as holiday food baskets and the Annual Canned Food Drive. coNTACT: Alison Laycock 
alaycock@nd.edu 

•F•o•r•m•or•e•in•fu•rm•a•ti.on•v•is.it:•s•o•c•ia•i~c•o•n•c•e•rn•s•.•n~d•.e•d•u 
Take a Course in tillt Local Community 
The Community-Based Learning Coordinators (CBLCs) who work with the Center for Social Concerns are a valuable :re­source to students and faculty. The CBLCs are available to help students find placements in their agencies that meet both the needs of the community-based organization and the student. They are aware of the importance of finding ways to connect the students' lived experiences with their academic work. In addition, they are committed to making reflection and analysis a part of the students' experience in their organizations. 
For a complete list of community-based course opportunities, in all colleges and schools, visitsocialconcerns.nd.edu. 

AIDS MINISTRIES/AIDS ASSIST 
Debra Stanley P.O. Box 11582 South Bend, IN 46634 (574) 288-2887 WuZuWuZu@aol.com www.aidsministries.org 
CENTER FDR THE HOMELESS 
Adam Kronk 813 South Michigan Street South Bend, IN 46601 (574) 282-8700 ext. 346 akronk@cfh.net www.cfh.net 
lA CASA DE AMISTAD 
Rebecca Ruvalcaba 746 South Meade Street South Bend, IN 46619 (574) 233-2120 beccaruval@yahoo.com www.lacasadeamistad.org 
LOGAN CENTER 

Nichole Maguire 2502 East Jefferson Boulevard South Bend, IN 46615 (574) 289 4831 ext. 1043 nmaguire@hotmail.com www.logancenter.org 
MENDOZA COLLEGE OF BUSINESS 
Susan M. Soisson 326 Mendoza College of Business Notre Dame, IN 46556 (574) 631-7349 ssoisson@nd.edu mcobservice.nd.edu 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER 
Marguerite Taylor 921 North Eddy Street South Bend, IN 46617 (574) 631-9425 mtaylor43@juno.com www.nd.edu.j-rclc 
SJRMC OUTREACH 
Michelle Peters 234 South Chapin Street South Bend, IN 46601 (574) 239-5299 petermic@sjrmc.com www.sjmed.com 

iSkiAL 
~CONC:E:RNS 
............................................................................ 

The Center for Social Concerns was born from a sense of grassroots activism and urgency-born from the understanding that there is no time to wait for future generations to address the most pressing social concerns. 
,. 
We are called to respond now, in this moment. 
What will your contribution be? Be the change. 
. 
• ~ .' 
' 
BE THE CHANGE ~~CIAL 
----------------------------------------------~CONCERNS 






