
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 89 MONDAY. FEBRUARY 18,2008 
Two students die in unrelated cases 
University releases little information; rectors inform halls during Sunday Masses 
By KAREN LANGLEY and 
MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writers 
Two Notre Dame students died this weekend in separate and unrelated incidents, University officials said Sunday evening. 
One of the students, Connor McGrath, was a sophomore who moved to Siegfried Hall in January. He died Sunday morning or early afternoon, Siegfried rector Father John Conley told students gathered at the dorm's Mass Sunday night. 
McGrath's death did not take place in Siegfried, Conley said. His address was the first offi­cial notice to Siegfried resi­dents of McGrath's death. 
Local news outlets reported that a student died in Dillon Hall Sunday. This was uncon­firmed Sunday night by University officials, who also had not released McGrath's name. 
A call reporting an unre­sponsive male at Dillon was placed to the South Bend Fire Department at 1:39 p.m. Sunday, a fire department spokeswoman said. The ambu­lance arrived at Dillon at 1:53 p.m. and did not make a trans­port, she said. 
No name has been released in the second death, but a number of dorm rectors said the student was not an under­graduate. 
University President Father John Jenkins expressed condo­lences to the families of the two students through a state­ment Sunday night. 
"On behalf of the entire University, my deepest condo­lences go out to the families and friends of these two mem­bers of the Notre Dame fami­ly," Jenkins said. "Our prayers are with them during this diffi­cult time." 

The University will release further information once the immediate families of the two students have contacted other family members, University spokesman Dennis Brown said. 
Local news outlets reported that Notre Dame Security/Police responded to the scene Sunday, but The Observer was unable to reach the NDSP spokesman Sunday night. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu and Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Policybans profs from teaching relatives 
Provost hopes to avoid 'perception of bias' in the classroom; new rule to be enacted this fall 
By DAVIS RHORER, JR. 
News Writer 
Besides major and class restrictions, students register­ing for classes this fall will also have to consider blood ties to the instructor, as a new policy prohibits students and profes­sors who are related from being in the same classroom. 
In a letter to University fac­ulty and staff members, the Office of the Provost announced last month a policy that will go into effect begin­ning with the 2008-09 aca­demic year prohibiting profes­sors from teaching relatives. 
"We think its better not to put faculty in that position," Vice President and Associate Provost Donald Pope-Davis said last week. 
Pope-Davis referred to the "perception of bias" that might come up among students in a classroom if they knew their professor was teaching a direct relative. 
The new policy is part of the complete re-evaluation of aca­demic policies the University's Academic Council conducts every 10 years. Pope-Davis referred to the review as a chance to "update with the times." 
While he said no particular incident triggered the new pol­icy, Pope-Davis referred to the change as "proactive," com­mon among other universities and the product of a council of Notre Dame faculty members. 
The new policy will affect several students. In one case in the fall 2007 semester, entrepreneurship professor Gerald Frieling had his grand­son, senior Grant Frieling, as a student in one of his classes. 
"It was obviously different than a normal class," Grant Frieling said. 
As an entrepreneurship major, Frieling was required to take his grandfather's course to get the degree. He said that before the semester began, he and his grandfather decided to keep a strictly professor-stu­dent rapport in class. 
"I was more attentive," Grant Frieling said. "I didn't want to go through the motions." 
Professor Martine DeRidder, who teaches an introductory public policy course, had to handle her relationship with her daughter, who is currently taking her class. 

On the first day of school, DeRidder introduced her daughter to the rest of the class to avoid any misunder­standings. 
"I thought that was impor­tant. I didn't want people to think I was playing favorites," DeRidder said. 
She said that when she start­ed working at Notre Dame, she asked about the University's policy regarding professors teaching their own children ­a policy she said is good to have to avoid problems. 
But it is also important schools remain flexible in cer­tain cases, she said. 
make a decision about how to see RELATIVES/page 4 
Parents flock to bars, restaurants 
JPW results in increased sales for local businesses 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Married people over the age of 45 were the ones crowding the dance floor at The Backer this weekend, as Junior Parents Weekend brought waves of par­ents to campus -and to the bars, too. 
"There were a lot more older people here this weekend," said Hoxanne Szczechowski, a bar­tender at the Linebacker Lounge. "At least half our cus­tomers were parents. Usually we have none." 
But most South Bend bars and restaurants were unfazed by the exceptionally large number of 
see JPW/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Diversityin class roo InS encouraged 
Cole delivers closing keynote speech at DSLC 
By KATLYN SMITH News Writer 
The only woman that has served as president of both of America's historically black colleges for women urged Saint Mary's and all schools to 
take steps to improve both diver­sity and the sense of inclu­siveness on campus during the 


c I o s i n g Cole keynote address of the Diverse Students' Leadership Conference (DSLC) Friday. 
Johnnetta Cole -who has led Spelman and Bennett College focused her address on issues of diversity and inclusion in higher edu­cation. 
"It is not our differences. It is our silences about our dif­ferences that harm us," Cole said. 
The first woman ever elect­ed to the Board of Coca-Cola Enterprises, Cole said she decided to adopt a hands-on approach to deal with this problem, or what she calls the "Noah Principle." 
"No more credit for pre­
see DIVERSITY/page 4 

ND Inoves forward with green projects 
Sustainability office looks into energy efficiency 
By EMMA DRISCOLL News Writer 
Notre Dame is giving its affinity for the color green a new meaning with plans for various sustainability and conservation efforts across campus. 
The University recently. established the Office of Sustainability and a $2 mil­lion green loan fund, and "is evaluating plans for numer­ous projects and initiatives" for these new developments, Amy Coughlin, project man­agement director, said in an e-mail. 
Paul Kempf, director of utilities for the University 
and part of the Energy and Environmental Issues com­mittee, said some of these projects will focus on waste disposal, recycling; environ­mentally friendly landscap­ing and buildings and water and energy conservation. 
He said about 25 buildings -or 40 percent of the gross square footage of campus ­are currently being audited to identify potential conser­vation projects for the future, Kempf said. Some buildings being evaluated are the library tower, Flanner Hall, Notre Dame Stadium, the Snite Museum and the Hesburgh Center for 
see GREEN/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, February 18, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 



What's ina natne? 

"When dealing with people, let us remember we are not dealing with creatures of' Iogie," writes Dale Carnegi11 in one of' the first best-sell­ing self help books, "llow 
Joey King 
to Win 
Friends and 
lnlluenee Viewpoint Editor 
People." 
"We are 
dealing with 

creatures of emotion, creatures bris­
tling with prejudices and motivated 
by pride and vanity." 

The book explores various conse­
quences of that principle, one of 
which is the importance of calling 
people by their first names. Only 
Carnegie puts it in grander terms, 

writing, "Hemember that a person's 
name is to that person the sweetest 
and most important sound in any 
language." 

He gives plenty of examples. Most 
notably he chronicles how another 
Carnegie-Andrew, Steel King­
applied the principal. When he 
wanted to sell rails to the 
Pnnnsylvania railroad, he built a 

steel mill in Pittsburgh called "Edgar 
Thompson Stnel Works." The presi­
dnnt of' the Pennsylvania Railroad at 
the time was J. Edgar Thompson. 
Let's just say that when J. Edgar 
Thompson needed to buy rails, he 
didn't go to Bob's llousP.-0-Steel. 
Dale Carnegie lived out his les­

sons, having changed the spelling of 
his name from "Carnegey" at a time 
when unrelated Andrew Carnegie 

was a widely revered and recognized 
name. 

One doesn't have to look far to see 
the principle in action today. 

DeBartolo, Jordan, Guglielmino, and 
others are recognized f'or linaneial 
donations. But Notre Dame also rec­
ognizes non-financial contributions. 
Examples inelude The Bockne 
Memorial Gymnasium, The 
llesburgh Library, and even the 
name of' the University itself. 

I want to highlight this whole nam­
ing business because, elsewhere, the 
linaneial contribution is beginning to 
bfl a driver. I'm referring specifically 
to the James Webb Space Telescope 
(JWSTI. scheduled for launch no 
flarlier than June 2013. 
It's not that I have anything 

against James E. Webb, NASA's sec­
ond administrator. It's just that, pre­
viously, such projects were named 

for scientists-like its predecessor, 
the Hubble Telescope (named for 

astronomer Edwin Hubble). But now 
funding the sciences in general is 

becoming less and less of a priority 
in America (we're not competing 

with Iraq the way we competed with 
the USSHI. Extra steps need to be 

taken. And naming an expensive tel­
escope after an administrator makes 
it much easier for current adminis­
trators to sign the necessary checks. 
The JWST is one of the most 

sophisticated machines our society 
has produced that wasn't designed 

to kill people, and this sort of nam­
ing nicety shouldn't have been nec­
essary. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joey King at jkingl@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer n.-gards irselfas a professional publicuion and strives fOr rhe highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize mar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comacr tJS at 631-4541 so we em correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE THING ABOUT JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND? 







Meghan Corley  Nate Forte  Stephanie Nienaber  leAnne Parson  Katie Rollins  
junior offcampus  junior O'Neill  junior Walsh  junior Walsh  junior Walsh  
"When my dad thanked me for teaching him the fine art of 'pong beer.'"  "The gala."  "Making my parents endure the South Bend February weather."  "Sister Janet's invocation at the Saturday night dinner."  "The gala."  


IN BRIEF 

As part of the Margaret Hill endowed lecture series, Emmy Award-winning actress and author Camryn Manheim will speak tonight in the Little Theater at Saint Mary's at 7:30. Manheim is most known for her work on "The Practice." Recently, her book, "Wake Up, I'm Fat," was named to the New York Times bestsellers list. Student tickets am $5. 
As part of the fireside chat series "Telling HERstory," theolo­gy professor Catherine Hilkert will speak Wednesday at noon in the Coleman-Morse Center lounge. 
The men's basketball team will play against No. 22 Pittsburgh Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
As part of the Ten Years Hence lecture series, professor Karen Hunt Ahmed from the depart­ment of finance at DePaul University will speak at 10:40 
a.m. Friday in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
OFFBEAT 
There will be Stations of the 301 pennies auctioned looked frightened. pies renewed their vows 
Cross Friday at 7:15 p.m. in the off for $10.7 million That coin and a 1794 near Columbus. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart. LONG BEACH, Calif. -cent with tiny stars added Sheila Smith's husband, 
Stations will be held each Friday A penny saved is not nec­to prevent counterfeiters Bob, had to go away on 
during Lent. essarily just a penny each raised hundreds of business and couldn't earned: One man's collec­thousands of dollars, make the Valentine's Day 
The 50th Annual Collegiate tion of rare American according to the Dallas­recommitment service at 
Jazz Festival will begin Friday at cents has turned into a based auction house Grove City United 
7 p.m. with a concert featuring at $10.7 million auction Heritage Auction Methodist Church. So 
least four different bands. The windfall. Galleries, which held the friends brought a life-size 
festival will conclude Saturday The collection of 301 sale in Long Beach on inflatable doll to serve as 
with an afternoon concert at 1 cents featured some of Friday night. a stand-in. 
p.m. 
and an evening concert at 7 the rarest and earliest They dressed Blow-up 

p.m. 
All events will be in examples of the Blow-up doll stands in Bob in dress pahts, a 


Washington Hall. American penny, includ­for groom shirt and tie, and taped ing a cent that was mint­GROVE CITY, Ohio -If on a head-shot photo of 
To submit information to be 

ed for two weeks in 1793 one bride felt lighter than the real Bob Smith. 
included in this section of The 
but was abandoned air in her wedding gown, 
Observer, e-mail detailed because Congress her groom certainly felt Information compiled 
information about an event to thought Lady Liberty like air itself as 19 cou-by the Associated Press. 
obsnews@nd.edu 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
:::c 
~v?Jb 

.~~IY?f~
!ci: 
LLI 
.~ ~ 
~)

~ 
y

....I 
~Q
v... 
0

~~ 
c::C 
(,) 
0 
HIGH 29 HIGH 22 HIGH 15 HIGH 19
...I 
LOW 9 LOW 4 LOW 12 LOW 11 

Atlanta 61 I 36 Boston 54 I 32 Chicago 26 I 7 Denver 41 I 14 Houston 68 I 59 Los Angeles 67 146 Minneapolis 7 1 -4 New York 56 I 33 Philadelphia 58 I 33 Phoenix 73 I 49 Seattle 56 I 37 St. Louis 31 I 16 Tampa 77 I 50 Washington 54128 
Monday, February 18, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NOAA appeals to seniors 
Class of2008 can start establishing connections to alumni clubs online 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
As graduation nears, sen­iors can begin to take advantage of opportunities offered by the Notre Dame Alumni Association (NOAA), smoothing their transition into life after college. 
Seniors can use the Alumni Association's online network. Irish Online, to begin establishing connec­tions to Notre Dame alumni around the world. 
"We would really like to encourage the Class of 2008 to register and login to Irish Online before they gradu­ate," said Meeghan Mousaw, assistant director of Early Alumni Services. "It only takes a few minutes to reg­ister and after logging in they will be able to see all the things available." 
Through Irish Online, sen­iors can look for an alumni m1mtor, search for a job, find a former classmate or alumnus, update their con­tact information and create a personal Web page. 
Irish Online also allows snniors to sign up for e-mail forwarding. 
"After you leave Notre 
Dame, your nd.edu address will only be good until early July," Mousaw said. "E-mail forwarding is a free service available to all Notre Dame alumni that only requires users to obtain an e-mail address in the form, your­name@alumni.nd.edu." 
Any e-mails sent to the student e-mail will automat­ically be forwarded to the user's new address. Mousaw said this is an important -and easy ­way of staying connected to the University and other graduates. 
Mousaw also said the Alumni Association will be giving out free gifts to all seniors who register with Irish Online and select their future alumni club. Students who do not know where they will be living next fall can select up to four clubs, in case they at least have a few possible locations in mind. 
But no matter where stu­dents go after graduation, the Alumni Association is hoping to welcome them there -especially in larger cities -as clubs host "Young Alum Orientations" in August and September, Mousaw said. 
The Notre Dame Club of 
Chicago, for example, will be hosting an event called "Chicag-O" -spun off from "Frosh-0" -"so that the newest alums can be wel­comed to their new city," Mousaw said. 
Seniors who wish to par­ticipate in these events across the country must provide Irish Online with their personal information, Mousaw said, so they can be contacted by their respec­tive alumni club, she said. 
Seniors will receive in March a copy of "Onward to Victory," a newsletter that details each of these oppor­tunities. 
Also in March, voting will conclude for the 2008 Alumni Board of Directors elections, she said. Each member on the board serves a three-year term and rep­resents all graduates on alumni issues. Seniors have until March 12 to cast their ballots. 
The Alumni Association will be holding a Senior Open House on April 3 at the Eck Center where stu­dents can learn more about these opportunities. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 

ND astrono111er helps discover new planets 
Special to The Observer 
The simultaneous discovery of two exoplanets slightly smaller than Jupiter and Saturn by an international team of astronomers that includes David Bennett from Notre Dame gives astrophysicists an important clue that solar systems like ours might be quite common. 
The report, to be published in the Feb. 15 issue of the journal Science, describes the series of observations that began March 28, 2006, when a collaboration known as Optical Gravitational Microlensing Equipment (OGLE) detected a signal, possibly due to a planet in microlensing event OGLE-2006-BLG-109, that the researchers had discovered and announced two days earlier. 
After the OGLE group announced this possible detection of a planetary system via e-mail, other astronomers from the Microlensing Follow-Up Network (MicroFUN). Microlensing Observations in Astrophysics (MOA) and Probing Lensing Anomalies NETwork (PLANET) collaborations also began inten­sive, round-the-clock observa­tions of this event. The combined data from these four groups revealed a series of brightness variations over the ensuing 11 days that indicated that two plan­ets orbit a star half the mass of the sun located 5,000 light years from Earth. This star, called OGLE-2006-BLG-1 09L, and its planets were discovered using a technique known as gravitational micro lensing. 
Early calculations by the report's lead author, Scott Gaudi of Ohio State University, and the MicroFUN group indicated that most of the telltale brightness variations were due to a planet with a mass similar to that of Saturn, but that there was a brief additional brightening observed from Israel and Chile that could only be explained by an addition­al planet with nearly the mass of Jupiter. However, Gaudi's calcula­tions did not provide a perfect fit to the data and involved several approximations. 
Subsequently, Bennett per­formed more sophisticated calcu­lations in his office at Notre Dame using his own advanced computer program that included an important additional feature: the orbital motion of the Saturn­mass planet. 
"Even though we observed the micolensing eiTect of the Saturn for less than 0.3 percent of its orbit, the observations simply could not be explained without accounting for the orbit," said Bennett, a research associate professor of astrophysics. 


Looking for solid business and accounting experience to put on your resume? 
The Observer is accepting applications for a 2008-09 Business Manager and Controller. Responsibilities include preparing a yearly budget and handling payroll for a 200-person staff. 
Since the Controller will take over as the 2009-10 Business Manager, Controller applicants should be sophomores, or juniors staying for a fifth year. 
Both positions are salaried, about.six to 10 hours a week. Please contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna1@nd.edu or Kyle West at kwest1@nd.edu if interested. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 18, 2008 

Green 
continued from page I 
International Studies. 
"Typically, these are older buildings that have constant volume air handling systems that could benefit from more efTieient variable air volume handling systems. These buildings also have the poten­ti<tl for lighting upgrades and enhanced lighting controls," he said. 
Befon~ variable air volu nw handling systnm technology was availabln, ventilation sys­tems used to be based on maximum occupancy, Kempf 
said. For exam­ple, if a building was meant to hold 200 people, air controls would be adjust­(~d to aeco m m o­date 200 people -whether or not 200 people. are actually in tho building at a given time. 
Adjustments to lighting can be made by replac­ing fixtures, re­ballasting and re­lamping existing fixtures, or in some eases just 


Diversity 
continued from page I 
dieting rain. It is time to build an ark," Cole said. "It is time for me to ofTer at least a few planks." 
She said minority enroll­ment at colleges is up -but that despitn this significant gain, "students of color" still lag behind. 

"There is absolutely no contradiction between excel­lence and diversity," Cole said. "But more black men are entangled in the criminal justice system than in the dormitories of our class­rooms." 
Even with decades of af'fir­mative action programs in place, colleges across the country remain predominant­ly white. And monumental changes in minority faculty representation arn necessary to eorr·ect that, she said. 

"(Minority faculty mem­bers( fear bringing their wholn self to their profes­sion," Col(~ said. "W1~ cannot sit around and wait for pro­fessors of color to teach experiences of color." 
But the pownr to f'ix prob­lems of underperformanc1~ among minority students also lies with the students. Students have to choose schools that are right for them to make sure they will be able to succeed then~. slw said. 
"If she is a woman and wise, slw can choose a small women's college," Cole said. 
compact fluorescent light bulbs. 
"Compact fluorescent light bulbs, for example, have almost one-fifth energy input as incandescent light bulbs," Kempf said. 
Students are taking their own steps to make lighting changes on campus. As part of the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies busi­nnss plan competitions, sen­iors Erin Mulholland and Elijah Pearce developed a business model that is cur­rently bning used to find con­servation potential on cam­pus. 
Their business model sug­gests the creation of a Web 
site called 
"Green 
Counts" that
"/think what's exciting 
will have
and interesting is that 
both a calcu­we'll start to not look lator to determine
at things purely on a 
the energy
financial basis . ... We 
savings for now have the benefit of switching to 
trying to factor in the compact fluo­
rescent light
benefits ofother things: 
bulbs and the emission reductions, opportunity 
energy savings. to purchase 
the bulbs directly from
Paul Kempf 
the site. director of utilities "Hight now, you have a lot of sites that 
Spelman College has a stu­dent body of about 3,000, while Bennett serves fewer than 650 undergraduates. 
Cole drew parallels between businesses that ben­ef'it by promoting diversity and roaching out to diverse customers, and colleges embracing students and pro­fessors from other races and backgrounds to improve the quality of education. 
Without a diverse student body and fac.ulty and an inclusive atmosphere, educa­tion will fall short, Cole said. 
To improve that feeling of rounded inclusiveness at Saint Mary's, Cole said, the Office of Multicultural Affairs needs more support. In addi­tion, she proposed visiting professorships and mini-resi­dencies at the College. 
Cole also spoke of the financial discrepancies at premier institutions that hin­der diversity and inclusive­ness. 
She talked about the schools' moral obligation to address issues of racism and socioeconomic barriers. 
"Doing for others is the rent you pay for living on this Earth," she said. "Living a good life means learning to 1~mbraee those who are ·dif­fen~nt from you." 
Cole serves as the chair of the board of the Johnnetta B. Cole Global Diversity and Inclusion Institute at Bennett. She has received morn than 50 honorary degrees. 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
taskforces. Mulholland, along with several other students, is heading one of these task forces in Lewis Ilall, where a test case is currently under­way to determine "how much of a financial savings (Lewis) would have by switching to these bulbs," she said. 
Mulholland worked with other students to inventory all the light bulbs in Lewis, and is in the process of preparing a report for the dorm. 
Mulholland and Pearce are in the semifinals of the com­petition, along with 14 other teams, and submitted a full business plan on Friday, she said. Six teams will move on to the final round in April. 
Kempf said he is interested in seeing the report of the Lewis test ease and in helping make lighting changes to other buildings on campus if the report shows that compact fluorescent lighting can make an impact in the dorm. 
"Bather than make the hall take care of it, we'd find a way to take care of it for them," Kempf said. 
If Lewis does decide to use compact fluorescent lights, it may be a model of conserva­tion for other buildings on campus. 
"The test case in Lewis Hall provides an excellent means for illustrating how a change as simple as that of a light bulb can result in energy sav­ings and contribute to our campus conservation efforts," Coughlin said. 
Inefficient lighting is not 
only  a  concern  for  Notre  
Dame,  but  has  become  a  
national  issue  as  well.  

Congress' Clean Energy Act of 
2007 includes an item to "to 
.prohibit the sale of certain ineff'icient light bulbs, and require the development of a plan for increasing the use of more efficient light bulbs by consumers and businesses." 
Compact fluorescent light 
h ----~1-• ~ ., . 

bulbs can last up to 10,000 hours, while the average incandescent bulb lasts about 750 hours, according to Kempf. The extended lifespan of compact fluorescent light bulbs cuts down on how many times the bulbs must be replaced, and thus on labor costs for replacing bulbs. 
"I think what's exciting and interesting is that we'II start to not look at things purely on a financial basis.... We now have the benefit of trying to factor in the benefits of other things: emission reductions, energy savings," Kern pf said. 
Kempf said he expects these energy conservation projects to move forward rnore once the director of the Office of Sustainability is selected. 
Trustees recently approved different positions for the Office of Sustainability, he said. The director "will build institutional learning capaci­ties to support continuous improvement in building design and operations, land­scaping, procurement, energy and water conservation, waste disposal and recycling and service provision," according to the summary report pre­pared for the Alumni Association. 
The report also explains that the purpose of the green loan fund is "to provide capi­tal for environmental improvements in both campus buildings and operations, illustrating a long-term com­mitment to sustainability efforts." 
Kempf said any environmen­tally friendly projects can apply to rec.eive money from the loan fund, and benefits and funds earned by those projects can be put back into the fund to make sure future initiatives can also be financed. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
mki,' :1:<"::",+\i ':(;. 


Relatives 
continued from page 1 
"The policy shouldn't be you can't (teach relatives!." she said. "You should do it only if there is no other way." 
While Pope-Davis empha­sized thn practice of rotating professors in and out of cours­es -in such a way that it wouldn't be difficult to maneu­ver around a relative-he said that under "extraordinary cir­cumstances" a student could apply for an exception to the rule. 
"The student must have a compelling set of reasons. lie can't wait until senior year," Popn-Davis said, meaning that students should appropriately plan their schedules with enough time to avoid such con­flicts. 
But Grant Frieling said that rather than a conflict of inter­ests, his experience in his grandfather's elass was enjoy­able. 
"If you can learn a lot, I don't think it matters that it's a fami­ly member Iteac.hing the course(," he said. "We're here to be educated and to learn so if we can get something out of a class, we should." 
The new policy will apply to professors and teaching assis­tants alike. · 
Contact Davis Rhorer, Jr. at drhorer@nd.edu 


_Observer. 
...... 
by re-lamping an existing fix­ture, according to Kempf. 
The Facilities Building is already being used as a proto­type for energy eflidency ini­tiatives, he said. 
To conduct the audits, Kempf said the University is working with the building automation firm Havel, who is also partnering with General Electric and its distributor (;reybar Electric. 
Another way to make tho buildings more !~nergy efTi­eient would be to transition from incandescent bulbs to 

can calculate energy savings with those light bulbs, and other sites (where( you can buy them. We're trying to link the two," Mulholland said. 
The business plan reaches out to non-profits, community centers and schools, offering discounted bulbs to these organizations, Mulholland said. 
"Our impact is helping com­munity groups, the environ­ment and also the educational eompommt," Mulholland said. 
The model also includes the establishment of Green Counts 
::;,,.Ih,~, ~r"ograf'l"' ___gf Liberal Studies 
':: ~ -. ~-' ..... «'' ~ «' ,., '.:.'' -< 

Why a Great Books Education? 

PLS Alums & St:uden.t:s Speak Out: Tuesday,Feb. 19t:h 
7:00-9:00 PM Co-Mo Lounge 
Feat:uring: 
Kevin Becker (Duff Capital Advisors, Partner & Chief' Investment Strategist) 
TJ & Emmeline (Schoen) D'Agostino (Institute Cor Educational Initiatives, Programs Coordinator; ACE Leadership Program, Assistant Director) 
Jay Dunlap (Author, Raising Kids in ~he .Media Age; Sacred Heart Apostolic School, Teacher) Erin Flynn (ND W"eb Group, Content Strategist) 
Sean O'Brien (Notre Dame Lavv School, Assistant ProCessor; Center Cor Civil and Human Rights, Assistant Director) 
Margaret Culhane {PLS I Biology) 
Anna Curtis {PLS I ALPP) 
Julia Vogelheim {PLS Senior) 
R.ef"reshmen.t:s & Con.versat:ion. 





ORLD & NATION 
Monday, February 18, 2008 Cotv\P!Lf:D FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRf: SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
China concerned about spy satellite 
BEIJING -China said Sunday it was con­cerned about U.S. military plans to shoot down a damaged spy satellite that is hurtling toward Earth with 1 ,000 pounds of toxic fuel. 
The U.S. military has said it hopes to smash the satellite as soon as next week -just before it enters Earth's atmosphere -with a single missile tin')d from a Navy cruiser in the northern Pacific Ocean. 
The official Xinhua News Agency quoted Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu .lianchao as saying the Chinese government was monitoring the situation and has urged the U.S. to avoid causing damages to security in outer space and in other countries. 
"Relevant departments of China are closely watching the situation and working .out preven­tive measures;" Liu said. Xinhua did not elabo­rate. 
U.N. employee falls from 19th floor 
UNITED NATIONS -A woman who worked for the UnitPd Nations died Sunday after falling from the 19th floor of the U.N.'s Secretariat Building, authorities said. 
Police and U.N. security officers at the scene, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk to the media, said the woman in her 40s had jumped from a window after showing up to work early in the morning. 
"A U.N. agency staff member died after falling from the 19th 11oor of the U.N. Secretariat Building," U.N. deputy spokeswoman Marie Okabe said. "At this time there is no suspicion of foul play." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Georgia refinery explosion kills 9 
SAVANNAH -Dust that collected in a piece of safety equipment caused a small explosion at a sugar refinery weeks before the deadly blast that killed nine workers, a federal inves­tigator said Sunday. 
Stephen Selk, investigations manager for the 
U.S. Chemical Safety Board, had few details about the previous explosion at the Imperial Sugar refinery in Port Wentworth. He could not say whether the earlier blast contributed to the massive explosion Feb. 7. 
"It is far too early to reach conclusions about the relationship between that event and this one," Selk said. 
No one was injured in the earlier explosion, Selk said. He did not know the exact date, but said it happened "weeks ago." 
The Chemical Safety Board investigates industrial accidents for the federal govern­ment and makes safety recommendations to industry and trade groups as well as federal regulators. 
AFA to close hospital services 
AIR FORCE ACADEMY -The military is shut­ting down the Air Force Academy's emergency room and it.<; hospital's inpatient services. 
Two nearby civilian hospitals have the capacity to take over its more than 100,000 patients, authorities said. 
The academy will phase out the services start­ing April 1, The Gazette of Colorado Springs reported. Outpatient services will still be offered. 
By the end of June the academy hospital will no longer admit patients, except for a few cadets, said Col. Alan Berg, commander of the 1Oth Medical Group. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Clergy adds marriage prerequisites 
FORT WAYNE -Getting married just got more complicated for couples in the Fort Wayne area. 
Clergy from 37 churches in the region signed an agreement Friday to require cou­ples to undergo counseling and take other steps aimed at increasing the chances of life­long marriages and stable families. The pact was developed by llealthy Marriages of Allen County. 
I Iealthy Marriages of Allen County is part of the Indianapolis-based Indiana Healthy Marriage and Family Coalition Inc., which last year obtained a five-year, $540,000 demon­stration project grant from President Bush's faith-based marriage promotion initiative. 

Thousands mourn NIU victims 
Suburban Chicago churches hold religious services; residents wear Huskies' red, black 
Associated Press 

CICERO, Ill. -The mid­dle-class Chicago suburbs that send their sons and daughters to Northern Illinois University struggled Sunday with the closeness of the country's latest mas­sacre -this time the gun­man grew up among them, in a community some con­sider "Mayberry." 
Thousands mourned in church services across the region, including some in DeKalb, the university town where residents have taken to wearing the red and black of the NIU Huskies since five people were mur­dered in the middle of a science lecture Thursday. 
Parishioners at Our Lady of the Mount Catholic Church in blue-collar Cicero, on Chicago's south­ern fringe, prepared for the funeral of Catalina Garcia, the youngest of four chil­dren of parents originally from Guadalajara, Mexico. They're longtime parish­ioners at Our Lady of the Mount, a tight-knit group of low and middle-income families, many of them young, with some older Czech and other immi­grants. 
"Their parents are mak­ing all sorts of sacrifices to better their lives," he said. had stopped taking some lived in Elk Grove Village make sure the kids get into They worried more about kind of medication in the for 39 years. "It's just a colleges. They're selling their children getting days or weeks before the friendly town. I guess there things, they're taking out caught in gang crossfire at shooting. are sick people every­second mortgages on their home than away at college His family has moved where." homes," the Rev. Lawrence "in the cornfields" of away, but the shooting still Kazmierczak attended Collins said at the church. DeKalb. echoed in the Elk Grove NIU, studying sociology. 
Garcia, 20, followed a "It's like the all-American Village, near O'Hare Three semesters back, he brother, Jaime, to NIU, dream cut short," he said. International Airport. transferred across state to choice of many working­Investigators still haven't Resident Pat Egan, a heat­the more prestigious class Chicago-area fami­determined what set off 27-ing and cooling repair man University of Illinois in lies. She was studying to be year-old shooter Steven whose son goes to NIU, Champaign. Most students a teacher, and had talked Kazmierczak, who killed described the suburb as and professors on both about coming back to five students and injured "Mayberry." campuses remembered him Cicero to teach first grade. more than a dozen other People there seemed to as a promising student. 
"It hits really close to people with a shotgun and feel a sense of disbelief and Yet he'd begun assem­home," Collins said. pistols and took his own confusion over the attack bling an arsenal in August, 
The Garcias were the life, that thrust their communi­buying a shotgun and three "typical Mexican-American Kazmierczak grew up to ty into the news, said the menacing handguns from a family," working low-wage the west, in Elk Grove Rev. Hwa Young Chong at small Champaign gun shop. jobs to help put their chil­Village, and played saxo­the Prince of Peace United He added oversized ammu­dren through school, Jaime phone in the school band. Methodist Church. nition clips in an Internet Garcia said Sunday on the He spent time in a mental "I couldn't believe coming purchase from the same porch of the family's two­health facility in his late from a pla'ce like Elk Grove dealer that sold the story red brick home. teens, and police have said he could do that," said Virginia Tech gunman a 
"My parents came here to without elaboration that he Judy Glomski, who has weapon. 

Kosovo 

Country declares independence frotn Serbia 
Serbia called the declaration illegal tumes and played trumpets and
Associated Press and its ally Russia denounced it, say­drums, and an ethnic Albanian couple PRISTINA -Revelers fired guns, ing it threatened to touch off a new named their newborn daughter waved red-and-black Albanian flags conflict in the Balkans. Russia called Pavarsie -Albanian for "independ­and set off fireworks over Kosovo for an emergency session of the U.N. ence." Sunday after parliament proclaimed Security Council, which met later "This is the happiest day in my life," independence in defiance of Serbia Sunday. said Mehdi Shehu, 68. "Now we're and Russia, which condemned the In the capital, Pristina, the mood free and we can celebrate without declaration of the world's newest was jubilant. Thousands of ethnic fear." nation. Albanians braved subfreezing tem­By contrast, police in the Serbian A decade after a bloody separatist peratures to ride on the roofs of their capital Belgrade fired tear gas and war with Serbian forces that claimed cars, singing patriotic songs and rubber bullets in skirmishes with pro­10,000 lives, lawmakers pronounced chanting: "KLA! KLA!" the acronym testers who opposed the declaration. the territory the Republic of Kosovo for the now-disbanded rebel Kosovo Groups of masked thugs ran through and pledged to make it a "democratic, Liberation Army. They waved downtown Belgrade smashing win­multiethnic state." Its leaders looked American flags alongside the red dows and ransacking tobacco stands. for swift recognition from the U.S. and Albanian banner imprinted with a At least 30 people were injured, about key European powers -but also black, double-headed eagle. half of them police officers. hospital braced for a bitter showdown. Many dressed in traditional cos-officials said. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, February 18, 2008 
JPW 
continued from page 1 
eustomers. 
"We plan for Junior Parents Weekend," said Shawn Diekens of Tippeeanoe Plaee. "We expeet more people." 
But that doesn't mean the popular restaurant -and others like it -was able to serve everybody in town this weekend. 
"My mom called Bonefish Grill at least a week in advance to make dinner reservations," junior Catherine Twetten said. "They laughed and said they'd been booked for weeks, and that every restaurant in town was probably 
t. o t a I I y booked for 

.I u n i o r "A lot ofparents were f u n . " Parents acting like college kids, Szczechowski 
Weekend." said.
just drinking and
Twetten That also led to and her par­havingfun." bigger profits for ents ended bars and restau­up at T. G. I. rants.
Roxanne Szczechowski 
Friday's "The parents
bartender
instead. are definitely
Linebacker Lounge 
But even bigger spenders, 
ents impressed by how their ehildren had adjusted to col­lege life. 
"You could definitely tell how proud everyone was of their kid making it this far," she said. 
Many students took their parents to parties with their friends and the friends' par­ents. 
"The parents really liked being able to re-visit their col­lege experienee," Lang said. "For a lot of juniors, this was our first time being able to go out and drink with our par­ents. You really get to see how cool your parents can be.'' 
And many parents enjoyed the opportunity to eut loose with their kids. 
"A lot of parents were act­
ing like college 
kids, just drink­
ing and having 
though it was hard to get a table anywhere, junior Allison Lang said the weekend left her and her parents with wonderful memories. 
"It was too short," Lang said. "What's really cool about .Junior Parents Weekend is taking your parents to some of your favorite plaees on eampus. It's not like Frosh-0 where they bring you to cam­pus and say 'Well, this is Notre Dame.' Now, two and a half years later, you're show­ing them, 'This is the Notre Dame I know, this is why Notre Dame is like my second home."' 
S~e said she saw many par-
especially when 
it eomes to alco­

hol, beeause most students aren't over 21," Dickens said. "We had a gross profit of about $10,000 each night on Friday and Saturday." 
Diekens said. that Tippecanoe had "about seven times our usual number of eustomers. It added up to about 700 more customers over the weekend than usual." 
The Bonefish Grill also said it saw its number of cus­tomers skyrocket during the weekend. 
Contact Theresa Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

D A orders frozen beef recall 
California slaughterhouse subject of animal abuse investigation 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -The U.S. 
Department of Agriculture on 
Sunday ordered the recall of 
143 million pounds of frozen 
beef from a California slaugh­
terhouse, the subject of an 
animal-abuse investigation, 
that provided meat to school 
lunch programs. 
Officials said it was the largest beef reeall in the United States, surpassing a 1999 ban of 35 million pounds of ready-to-eat meats. No illnesses have been linked to the newly recalled meat, and officials said the health threat was likely small. 
The recall will affect beef products dating to Feb. 1, 2006, that came from Chino­based Westland/Hallmark Meat Co., the federal agency said. 
Secretary of Agriculture Ed Schafer said his department has evidence that Westland did not routinely contact its veterinarian when cattle became non-ambulatory after passing inspection, violating health regulations. 
"Because the cattle did not receive complete and proper inspection, Food Safety and Inspection Service has deter­mined them to be unfit for human food and the company is conducting a recall," Schafer said in a statement. 
A phone message left for Westland president Steve Mendell was not immediately returned. 
Federal officials suspended operations at Westland/Hallmark after an undercover video from the 
Humane Society of the United States surfaced showing crip­pled and sick animals being shoved with forklifts. 
Two former employees were charged Friday. Five felony counts of animal cruelty and three misdemeanors were filed against a pen manager. Three misdemeanor counts ­illegal movement of a non­ambulatory animal -were filed against an employee who worked under that man­ager. Both were fired. 

Authorities said the video showed workers kicking, shocking and otherwise abus­ing "downer" animals that . were apparently too sick or injured to walk into the slaughterhouse. Some ani­mals had water forced down their throats, San Bernardino County prosecutor Michael Ramos said. 
No charges have been filed against Westland, but an investigation by federal authorities continues. 
Officials estimate that about 37 million pounds of the recalled beef went to school programs, but they believe most of the meat probably has already been eaten. 
"We don't know how much product is out there right now. We don't think there is a health hazard, but we do have to take this action," said 

Dr.  Dick  Raymond,  USDA  
Undersecretary  for  Food  
Safety.  

Most of the beef was sent to distribution centers in bulk packages. The USDA said it will work with distributors to determine how much meat remains. 

Federal regulations call for keeping downed cattle out of the food supply because they may pose a higher risk of contamination from E. eoli, salmonella or mad cow dis­ease because they typically wallow in feces and their immune systems are often weak. 
About 150 school districts around the nation have stopped using ground beef from Hallmark Meat Packing Co., which is associated with Westland. Two fast-food chains, Jack-In-the-Box and In-N-Out, said they would not 
use  beef  from  
Westland/H allmark.  
Jack  in  the  Box,  a San  

Diego-based company with restaurants in 18 states, told its meat suppliers not to use Hallmark until further notice, but it was unclear whether it had used any Hallmark meat. In-N -Out, an Irvine-based chain, also halted use of the Westland/Hallmark beef. Other chains such as McDonald's and Burger King said they do not buy beef from Westland. 
Raymond eountered a claim leveled by Humane Society President and CEO Wayne Pacelle, who said a USDA inspector was at the Westland plant for about two hours each day. USDA inspectors are there at slaughterhouses "continuously," Raymond said. 
Federal lawmakers on Thursday had called for the Government Accountability Office to investigate the safety of meat in the National School Lunch Program. 

Wildfire victims still a-waiting FEMA homes 
Associated Press 
HAMONA, Calif. -Patty Hoedy is still waiting for some­one at the Federal Emergency Management Agency to send her the mobile home she was promised before Christmas. 
In December, agency inspec­tors said she wouldn't get a government house to replaee the one she lost during last year's wildf"ires beeause it would be too difficult to haul the 60-foot, three-bedroom pre­fabrieated home up a winding road to her remote mountain­top property. 

Heedy isn't alone. FEMA brought dozens of mobile homes to Southern California after the fires, only to find their own guidelines prevented them from putting them on many properties in rough terrain. San Diego County officials say dozens of applicants were denied homes because their properties were inaccessible to trucks, didn't have conneetions into the eleetrieal grid or were on hillsides deemed at mudslide risk. 
"They don't have any famil­iarity with these areas so they can't eonceive of the needs being dil"l"erent," said Deena Haver, a contractor who was hired by San Diego County to help lirn victims. "You're talk­ing about one area with sewage and water and other places that are very rural." 
The mobile home delay is another blemish on a belea­guered agency. 
When the fires broke out in live Southern California coun­ties, forcing half a million peo­ple to flee, many thought FEMA -still bruised from its per­formance after Hurrieane Katrina -had a golden oppor­tunity to repair its image. 
But the fires blaekened about 800 square miles and destroyed nearly 2,200 homes, a fraetion of the 90,000 square miles and roughly 500,000 homes rav­aged by the hurricane, and left roads, power lines and sewage systems largely intact. 
"FEMA wasn't really tested here," said Paul Light, a profes­sor of public service at New York University. "It really was­n't a dry run for sustained response and reeovery." 
FEMA spokesman James Melntyre said the agency applied lessons it learned in Katrina to streamline its opera­tions in Southern California ­like the need to respond quick­ly. Two days before President Bush declared a federal disas­ter, FEMA crews were moving into lire-stricken zones and set­ting up at San Diego's Qualeomm Stadium. 

A Catho~ic-Protestant 
Exchang-e 

H'lwt is the current stme ofthe ecumenical movemellt between Pratexttmts & Catholics, 
MondaFt February 18 7:00-8:30 pm Coleman-Morse Student 
Feat 

Dr .. Larry 

Dr. 

Dr. 
Associate & Director, 
' 

the 
tudy f·Arnepi:l..can .tholic:isrn ·.' ;~ 
Sponsored by: llaptist Collegiate 

Campus Minist:ry 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Monday, February 18, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 12,348.21 -28.77
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 751 67 2,590 3,654,373,246 

'NXKf~l(IQfw'Q~ ~rii :, ,~i,iiijli:, ~~~~~~B 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.02 -0.03 135.14 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +1.59 +0.42 26.83 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.34 -0.15 43.82 LEVEL 3 COMM INC (LVLT) -6.42 -0.17 2.48 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -1.00 -0.038 3.780 13-WEEK BILL -4.05 -0.090 2.130 30-YEAR BOND -1.25 -0.058 4.595 5-YEAR NOTE -0.22 -0.006 2.764 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.04 95.50 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -4.70 906.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.18 92.00 

Exchange Rates 
YEN 107.8450 EURO 0.6809 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0070 
IN BRIEF Oprah offers free e-book download 
NEW YORK -The Oprah touch doesn't just work for traditional books. 
More than 1 million copies of Suze Orman's "Women & Money" were downloaded after the announcement last week on Winfrey's televi­sion show that the e-book edition would be available for free on her Web site, www.oprah.com, for a period of 33 hours. 
"I believe 'Women & Money' is the most important book I've ever written," Orman said in a statement released Saturday by Winfrey. "So this was not about getting people to buy the book, but getting them to read it, and that was the intention behind this offer." 
The download offer "has built excitement for Suze's book across all formats," Julie Grau, the book's publisher, said in a statement. 
According to Saturday's statement from Winfrey, more than 1.1 million copies of Orman's financial advice book were down­loaded in English, and another 19,000 in Spanish. The demand compares to such free online sensations as "The 9-11 Commission Report," which the federal government made available for downloads, and Stephen King's e­novella, "Riding the Bullet." 
EPA refuses to reduce mercury 
WASHINGTON -While arguing in court that states are free to enact tougher mercury con­trols from power plants, the Bush administra­tion pressured dozens of states to accept a scheme that would let some plants evade clean­ing up their pollution, government documents show. 
A week ago, a federal appeals court struck down that industry-friendly approach for mer­cury reduction. It allowed plants with excessive smokestack emissions to buy pollution rights from other plants that foul the air less. 
Internal Environmental Protection Agency documents and e-mails, obtained by the advoca­cy group Environmental Defense, show attempts over the past two years to blunt state efforts to make their plants drastically reduce mercury pollution instead of trading for credits that would let them continue it. 
An EPA official said the agency's job "is not to pressure states." 
Economic confidence declines 
Fears of recession, high prices of gas weigh over American consumers 
FTSE 100 (London) 5:787.60 -91.70 

Associated Press  
Even when experts were  
declaring the economy  
healthy, many Americans  
voiced a vague, but persist­ 
ent dissatisfaction.  
True, jobs were relatively  
plentiful over the last few  
years. It was easy to borrow  
and very cheap. The sharp  
rise in the value of homes  
and plentiful credit cards  
encouraged a nation of con­ 
sumers to get out and buy.  
But to many people, some­ 
thing didn't feel right, even if  
they couldn't quite explain  
why.  
Now the economic tide is  
receding, and the undertow  
that was there all along is  
getting stronger.  
Take away the easy credit  
and consumers are left with  
paychecks that, for most,  
haven't nearly kept pace  
with their need and propen­ 
sity to spend.  
The frustration of $3 gas  
and $4 milk, the worries  
about health care costs that  
have risen four times the'  
rate of pay, become much  
more real. The retirement  
security that is only as good  
as the increasingly volatile  
stock market seems much  
less certain.  
Americans' declining confi­ 
Programmer Rennie Sawade takes the bus home to Woodinville, Wash., fromdence in their economy is  
his job in Seattle Wednesday in order to save money.triggered by a storm of very  
recent pressures, including  to go away even when the  tion with assurance, and they  means or what a boom  
plunging home prices, tight­ economy improves."  appraise it with a sense that  means," says Apodaca, a  
ening credit, and heavy debt.  Much of that anxiety is the  they are less in control of the  counselor for Colorado  
But it is compounded by anx­ uncomfortable, but expected  outcome.  Housing Enterprises.  
iety that was there all along,  jolt of the economic roller  In Westminster, Colo., a  "They're worried about buy­ 
the result of a long, slow drip  coaster. During a downturn,  Denver suburb, George  ing the groceries, buying the  
of worries and vulnerabili­ people become less confident  Apodaca hears that uncer­ gas."  
ties.  about keeping their jobs or  tainty from the maintenance  A year ago -months  
"The economy is currently  being able to find new ones,  workers, drivers and others  before economic alarms  
in recession or arguably  meeting household expenses  enrolled in the home budget­ went off ­nearly two of  
close to recession and that's  and about the prospects for  ing class he teaches. Most  three Americans polled by  
certainly weighing on the  the future.  have steady jobs, but are just  The Rockefeller Foundation  
collective psyche," says Mark  But there may be more to  getting by. They talk about  said that they felt somewhat  
Zandi, chief economist of  it than just cyclical ups and  challenges like the rising cost  or a lot less economically  
forecaster Moody's  downs.  of getting to work or medical  secure then they did a  
Economy. com. "But ... I do  What does the economic  bills, not as new problems  decade ago. Half said they  
think there is an increasing  future hold? Many  but as a continuing struggle.  expected their children to  
level of angst that is more  Americans feel increasingly  "People in my class, they  face an economy even more  
fundamental and is not going  unable to answer that ques­ don't know what a recession  shaky.  




Homeless live in foreclosed properties 
Associated Press ing fires from using candles and con­prised that homeless might be taking 
frontations with drug dealers, prosti­advantage of vacant homes in resi­
CLEVELAND -The nation's fore­tutes, copper thieves or police. dential neighborhoods beyond the closure crisis has led to a painful "Many homeless people see the reach of his downtown agency. irony for homeless people: On any foreclosure crisis as an opportunity to "There are some campgrounds and given night they are outnumbered in find low-cost housing (FREE!) with creek beds and such where people some cities by vacant houses. Some some privacy," Brian Davis, director of would be tempted to walk across the street people are taking advantage of the Northeast Ohio Coalition for the street or climb out of the creek bed the opportunity by becoming squat­Homeless, said in the summary of the and sneak into a vacant house," he ters. latest census of homeless sleeping said. 
Foreclosed homes often have an outside in downtown Cleveland. Bertan, who doesn't like shelters advantage over boarded-up and dilap­The census had dropped from 40 to because of the rules, said he has been idated houses abandoned because of 17 people. Davis, a board member of homeless or in prison for drugs and rundown conditions: Sometimes the the National Coalition for the other charges for the past nine years. heat, lights and water are still work­Homeless, cited factors including the He has noticed the increased avail­ing. availability of shelter in foreclosed ability of boarded-up homes amid the 
"That's what you call convenient," homes, aggressive sidewalk and street foreclosure crisis. said James Bertan, 41, an ex-convict cleaning and the relocation of a home­He said a "fresh building" -recent­and self-described "bando," or some­less feeding site. He said there are an ly foreclosed -offered the best one who lives in abandoned houses. average 4,000 homeless in Cleveland prospects to squatters. 
While no one keeps numbers of on any given night. There are an esti­"You can be pretty comfortable for a below-the-radar homeless finding mated 15,000 single-family homes little bit until it gets burned out," he shelter in properties left vacant by vacant due to foreclosure in Cleveland said as he made the rounds of the foreclosure, homeless advocates agree and suburban Cuyahoga County. annual "stand down" where homeless the locations -even with utilities cut In Texas, Larry James, president in Cleveland were offered medical off-would be inviting to some. and chief executive officer of Central checkups, haircuts, a hot meal and There are risks for squatters, includ-Dallas Ministries, said he wasn't sur-self-help information. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, February 18, 2008 
'Monologues' discussion important
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Nmr< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
Nt:ws EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey 
Chris Hine ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD 0F$1GN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6<)27 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obst·rvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF ('574) 6.'\ 1-4542 MANAGING EOITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme~l>nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 651-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vit·wpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 
631-4543 sportS. I @nd.edu SCENE DESK 

(574) 
631-4540 scene. I@nd.edu 


SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du L1c and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Manal\ing Editors and departmenr editors. Commt·ntarics, letters and columns presenr the views of the aurhors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.t•tters 10 the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q11estions rrgarding Obsm'"policies sho11/d be dirrcted to Editor in ChiefMaddie Han1111. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tho; Obt.crvcr (~/Si•S ~~9l-411tltl) 11 i'uhhllho;c\ Muml.1y th!Uu~h hido~y cxu:pt dunn~ l·um ;~ml v,u,:;u11111 periods. A 'IUI1114np•i•H• 10 '11•~ tJt)..crvcr 11 $!nO for one :u...dcmk 
yl';&r:S55fllronckrue'lr'-'t.  
Th~ (>bkrver u ~lUhli1ht:d .u  I'OS'rMASTt~R  
1124 South lJinmg Ho1ll  Send Jddrt"5\ c.:urrct:dcuu m:  
Nmrt ()amc, IN <itWi6-0n9  11le nhservcr  
Pc:tiudi,al pum~c: ~id a1 Nmk UJmc  P.O. Bo~t 779  
1md ;~dJituulJ! nuiliuK ulllccli.  024 Suurh Dining Hall  

N••~re n~mc,>, IN 46S'S6-nn9 

The Ol»crvcr lb ;& nu:mbcr nf 1hc t\i~Mk:J:It«l Pn::n, Al11eprudw..tiun u~hrs 11.rc re~rvcd. 
First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the courage that Rob O'Brien ('"Monologues' promote non­violence," Feb. 12) and Christina I Iolmstrom ("Monologues encourage mistreatment of women," Feb. 11) Jordy Brooks showed in writing 
Guest

articles on the 
Columnist

"Vagina Monologues" and sharing their experiences. This is clearly an issue that fosters differing opinions on our campus, and this creation of discussion is the purpose of it being on campus this year in an academic setting. I am certain that the majority, if not all of the people at Notre Dame, believe that violence against women is wrong, but pnrhaps disagree about the methods that can be used to stop it. My personal experience with the "Vagina Monologues" has been a very important one in the shaping of my college years, and the person who I have become. 
My freshman year, I was raped. For a number of months, I denied that it had happened and placed it out of my mind. A few months later, I joined the cast of the "Vagina Monologues," something that would come to have a monumental impact on my life. It was only then that I began down the long road of recovery and healing. I cannot stress enough how important my friends, my family and other support systems were at that time. But the "Vagina Monologues" was a dill'erent and very powerful kind of support. As a cast member, I was sur­rounded every day by these issues, and was forced to face my own healing. It was comforting to know that I was not alone, that many women all over the world had experienced violence and were living through it. It was important for me to be a part of something that gave such support to those women and to have a support system myself in the women of the 2005 cast and crew. They taught me that when I was ready, I could share my story, but that it was mine and my healing was a process that could go at my own pace. They gave me back the power and dignity that the rape had taken away. Those women, and that experience, turned my life around and brought an entirely new perspective to my then broken spirit. I can say with all certainty, that without that experience, without that support. I would not still be at this uni­versity. 
This is my experience with healing, and it's not over. Of course. for every person, this healing process is differ­ent. For many people, the "Vagina Monologues" does aid in the healing process after sexual trauma. For some people it doesn't. And for those people, I sincerely hope that they lind their own partieular path to healing. But for those pnople that it does help to heal, I hope it always finds a home here. In my experience, it was what ultimately got me through. To be in a community of women, who were working to end vio­lence against women, and who were supportive of me, whether or not they had experienced similar violence, was incredibly empowering and healing. 
The most important aspect of.all this is the discussion. This is the very rea­son the organizers wanted to. bring the play back to campus. We believe that everyone is entitled to their position on the issue of the "Vagina Monologues." 
To quote Evelyn BBatrice I I all, para­
phrasing the attitudes of Voltaire, "I 
may disagree with what you say, but I 
will defend to the death your right to 
say it." Promoting this discussion in an 
academic setting and in the context of 
the University's Catholic character, and 
studying the play in social, anthropo­
logical and psychological contexts is 
extremely important. It gnts to the core 
of what being a university is about. 
Each pnrson 's expnrience and opinion 
is different, but all should be welcomed 
in the discussion of the signilieanee or 
the Vagina Monologuns and thn issues 
surrounding it. 
This is simply my experience with healing and my opinion on the issues. My hop1~ is that in sening thn "Vagina Monologuns," if you choose to do so, you will listen. form your own opinions and share them. This diseussion only further raisns awarnnnss about vio­lencn against womnn and tnaehes us all invaluable lnssons about rnspncting other people's opinions and discussing works of art or litm·ature in an aea­demie setting. 
So thank you for your discussion and debate; this is the very rnason why this play is so important. And thank you to all thosn bravo women and men who are survivors and supporters; to those who are struggling or have struggled. You have given mn courage and a voice. 
Jordy Brooks is a senior and co­organizer of ''The Vagina Monologues. " She can be contacted at jbrooks@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Yatarola should check fascism facts 
Most of the time, I am more than happy to be taking on the loans that are paying for my Notre Dame tuition. Sometimes, though, I wish I had settled for "two-fifty in late fees" at the local library. Reading Greg Yatarola's Feb. 12 column ("Are you fascist?") provoked such a response in me. 
To be clear, I am not writing to defend liberal values or criticize conservative ones, but rather to decry the fact that a 30-year-old man and graduate of Notre Dame could pen a piece so stunningly devoid of critical thinking. Yatarola's col­umn was tlawed from the start. One of the keys to good argument is credible sources and his choice of Jonah Goldberg and George Will -two hyper-conservative parti­sans-to asperse modern liberalism leaves much to be desired. This bias clearly affects the editorial when, like a child mimicking the arguments he heard his parents make, Yatarola unquestioningly accepts Will's "ferocity gap" claim that liberals are "meaner" than conservatives. Yet aren't lib­erals the ones branded as "hating our troops" and "baby­killers"? And was it not Ann Coulter who labeled a Democratic Presidential candidate a "faggot"? Liberals are not much, if any, better, but to claim there is some sort of large discrepancy between the groups is ignorance, whether willed or inadvertent. (Neither would surprise me.) 
Also, in making his argument, Yatarola does not examine modern conservatism very closely and dismisses any con­nection to fascism out of hand -showing his lack of under­standing of the "conservatives as fascist" argument. He argues that since conservatism was based on small govern­ment ideals, it cannot be akin to fascism. Yet, liberals do not make the fascism claim when talking about Barry Goldwater and Ron Paul, but rather the current president and somB of his congressional supporters who clearly do not base their philosophy on small government. Right or wrong, these con­servatives want to determine who people can marry and what they can put in their bodies. They want a government' so limited, in fact, that they wanted to pass legislation to tell a man he could not take his wife ofT a ventilator. Further, the PATRIOT act and its propagandist naming has caused even Republican Presidential candidate Bon Paul to use the label "totalitarianism" and draw similarities to Orwell's "1984." 
Lastly, Yatarola also forgets two tenets of fascism -a strong nationalism and a thirst for military glory. Yet, liber­als often derided for "hating" America are labeled as "peaceniks" for their opposition to war while conservatives tend to display a gung-ho version of patriotism and display a glorified "bring it on" (as President Bush saidl approach to military encounters. I have touched on a lot of issues. but my argument is not that conservatives are wrong or liberals are right on any of these subjects. I simply wished to point out that Yatarola's column. which amusingly laments "gross misunderstanding," displays an ignorance of faet and, more importantly, a lack of' comprehension of fascism and how liberals apply it to conservatives (ironically, the very thing against which he is purportedly arguing). 
Kevin Jakopchek sophomore Carroll Hall Feb. 15 

TODAY'S STAFF News Sports OBSERVER POLL Marcella Berrios Jay Fitzpatrick 
Joe McMahon Sam Werner What is your favorite local pizzeria Claire Heising Meaghan Vesclik at Notre Dame? Emma Driscoll Scene Bruno's Graphics Tac Andrews Rocco's Matt Hudson 
Polito's 
Viewpoint 

Barnaby's
Lianna 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at
Brauweiler www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Question with boldness even the existence ofa God; because, ifthere be one, he must more approve ofthe homage ofreason, than that of 
·blind-folded fear." · 
Thomas Jefferson American president 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---·· ­
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Monday, February 18, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Since when is exercise bad? 
Respect bishops' wishes, move 'Monologues' 
In the Feb. 14 Inside Column, Mary Kate Malone ("Be your valentine") encour­aged everyone to love their bodies by not working out. It's obviously important to love who you are whether we're talking about body image or who you are as a per­son. but that doesn't mean its impossible to love yourself and still strive to be better. I hope that no one who wanted to go for a run but then read Malone's article decid­ed that it would be wrong for them to workout. Working out is great for you as long as it's done for the right reasons. 
Everyone knows that exercise gives you endorphins and endorphins make you happy. If someone wants to lose a couple of pounds because it will make them feel better about themselves or because they get winded playing Wii Tennis, then there is nothing wrong with going for a jog or not having frozen yogurt after every meal. Along those same lines, if someone who loves their desserts is happy with their body image, then they shouldn't feel pressured into working out just because of what others think. 
My main message here is that everyone, including most of us at Notre Dame, needs to stop worrying so much about what others think. Whether you spend all 
Something is wrong here. The University is plan­ning on hosting the "Vagina Monologues" on cam­pus at the expense of a visit from our esteemed Catholic bishops. Last year our own Bishop John D'Arcy said no to the "Monologues" and the recent actions of the U.S. Catholic Conference of Bishops (USCCB) to move their theological seminar off cam­pus reiterate what our Church has been telling us all along. The "Monologues," despite its good inten­tions, "violates the truth about women, the truth about sexuality, the truth about male and female and the truth about the human body" (D' Arcy, 2005). 
We hear a lot about "discussion," but do we even stop to consider the statements of our own bishop or the actions of the USCCB? By avoiding the mis­conceptions and vulgarities contained in the "Monologues," our bishops are not trying to censor 

Yatarola oversimplifies complex political ideas 
In his column "Are you a fascist?" (Feb 12), Greg Yatarola claims that liberals are more similar to fascists than con­servatives are. Not only is this a gross oversimplification of a complex set of ideas into a single, number-line-style con­cept, but it also represents a fundamental misunderstand­ing of what that spectrum represents. 
Yatarola clearly takes offense at the fact that conser­vatism is placed closer to the fascist end of the scale of ide­ologies. This scale, however, is not meant to condemm con­servatism as fascism; there is nothing wrong with conser­vatism being "two steps away from fascism" so long as it does not cross the line. Likewise, there is no problem with liberalism sitting close to socialism on the scale. The two extreemes are both bad. Positions with some of their attrib­utes are not. Yatarola uses only one issue -gun control ­as an example of "liberal fascism." He fails to realize that, on many issues, both parties advocate regulating and not regulating things. For example, liberals tend to desire regu­lation of guns, various industries and actions that involve environmental harm, while conservatives tend to desire more regulation on issues such as flag burning, abortion and marrige. The regulation of things such as these may be seen as important, unimportant, stupid or brilliant to dif­ferent people, but none of these regulations make one group inherently "fascist." If they did, then this country would certainly be run by a fascist government no matter which party was in charge. 
Before trying to turn generally accepted political concepts upside down, Yatarola should carefully check his facts and make sure that he truly understands the issue he is trying to deal with. 
Jackson Bangs freshman Stanford Hall Feb. 13 
but lead us into an authentic search for truth. Sam Cahill said it best in his Feb. 13 Letter to the Editor ("'Monologues' promote discussion"): "We are at Notre Dame to find the truth: Let's seek it with courage and charity, trusting that God will not mis­lead us." I, for one, wholeheartedly trust that God will not mislead us. Therefore, we must put our search for truth on the shoulders of God's Word, not Eve Ensler's "Monologues." As such, we must find a uniquely Catholic way to end violence against women and empower men and women to live in the fullness of their sexuality. For example, the Edith Stein Project is one way that the Notre Dame com­munity already discusses issues of human sexuality in a respectful and fruitful way. Saying no to the "Monologues" does not imply that we are saying no to women's issues. Instead, we respect the dignity of women so much that we must deny any material 

Climate change a 'very real' problem 
I was disappointed -but not surprised -­to read Matt Gore's Letter to the Editor ("Stop the climate change propaganda," Feb. 7). Like many in the dwindling group of people who continue to resist mounting evidence of the negative global impacts of climate change, he has chosen to downplay the severity of a very real problem. 
As any discerning reader should, Gore ques­tions the validity of the claim that climate change could cause mass extinction. He men­tions a study by Chris D. Thomas that found that only the Costa Rican Golden Toad has gone extinct due to "global climatic shifts." Being the climate change believer that I am, I double­checked this citation. To my surprise, however, in the first line of Thomas's report "Extinction Risk from Climate Change" (Nature, 2004, Vol. 427, p. 145), the author concedes that indeed, climate change has caused the extinction of only one species over the last three decades. But alas! All is not well for Gore, for later on the same page of the same report, Thomas states that even in the minimum expected cli­mate change scenarios (read: inevitable), between nine and 31 percent of species are predicted to go extinct, depending on their dis­persal abilities. While I grant that nine to 31 percent of species is not most or all of the glob­al species community, the climate change­induced extinction of such a significant portion of global biodiversity would be a large blood stain on the hands of humanity. 
Gore also argues against the claim that cli­mate change will threaten the existence of life on Earth. He is right to point out that species have persisted through more intense climate changes than are expected in the next few cen­turies. I agree -just look at cockroaches. The larger point at hand, however, is not how life in general will fare, but individuals. Although the majority of species, including Homo sapiens, could likely persist through expected climate change scenarios, individuals of those species night in the library because of some quiz that is only worth five percent of your grade, you climb the StairMaster for four straight hours at Rolfs trying to look like a model so that other people will think you're hot or if you get super upset because you get called out on the fact that your liberal views are borderline fascist, every­one needs to stop taking every little detail so seriously. Ronald Reagan didn't save America from communism for everyone to live their lives in fear of being judged for being themselves. Reagan fought to sustain a nation where people are free to be unique and to only care about how they look if they want to care about how they look. I think Peter La Fleur summed it up pretty well when he said: "You're perfect just the way you are. But if you feel like losing a few pounds, getting healthier and making some good friends in the process, then Joe's is the place for you." 
Tom Martin 
senior 
offcampus Feb. 14 

that attempts to empower women through sin. 
This is a wake up call, Notre Dame. If our own Church officials refuse to even step foot on our campus, something has got to be wrong. Our bish­ops sincerely said no to the "Monologues" because they see something that no one else apparently sees: encouraging promiscuity is not the way to end violence against women. The "Monologues" should be moved back off campus so there is no confusion on where we stand. Let's come to our senses, listen to our bishops and help end violence against women through embracing our Catholicity. not shunning it. 
Craig Borchard senior Morrissey Manor Feb. 14 

may not emerge unscathed. As Professor Darcia Narvaez hinted in her Feb. 5 letter ("A call to conserve"), there is widespread accept­ance among the scientific community that cli­mate change will severely and adversely affect many human communities. 
Admittedly, most reports acknowledge that certain areas of the world could benefit: Some economies may boom as agriculture yields increase with warmer weather and reduced precipitation in some areas may limit transmis­sion of diseases like malaria. The cost for other communities, however, will be profound. As we all have heard from various media sources, people around the world are at risk for reduced water supply in already water-stressed areas, loss of arable land due to increased tempera­tures, and massive flooding due to sea-level rise. (For a detailed summary, read the execu­tive summaries of reports by the United Nation's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.) The potential consequences of climate change, even if only potential, are not to be taken lightly. While I appreciate Gore's ultimate agreement that we should take steps to con­serve energy, I worry that his resistance to the potential consequences of climate change is indicative of a mindset that denies sans reason the gravity of our situation. By labeling people who voice concern as "fear mongerers" and by exaggerating their claims, naysayers in the dis­cussion prevent others from working to curb human-induced climate change. If we are going to make a positive difference, however, we all must work together. It is true that no one knows the future and the exact impacts of cli­mate change, or how severe they will be. Personally, however, I choose to err on the side of caution. 
Erin Burns alumna Class of 2008 Feb. 8 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 
Monday, February I 8, 2008 
CONCERT BRINGS CHILDHOOD NOSTALGIA BACK TO FANS 
On Friday night my fifth grade dreams came true at the Spice Girl<; concert in Chicago. When I found out that my favorite girl group of the 90s was reuniting for a world tour, I was desperate to get tickets. I missed the boat tl1n first time around and I wasn't 
Cassie Belek

going to let it happen 
again. 
Scene & Heard

Judging from the sold-out concort, I was­n't the only one who refused to let this opportunity pass by. I have an odd l~)eling that this is the last and only Spiee Girls rew1ion tour we're going to see. For some reason I can't picture Scary, Sporty, Ginger, Posh and Baby wailing "Wannabe" and rocking about "girl power" at ages 45 or 50. 
The crowd was overwhelmingly lacking children and boys. Ten years ago, the United Center would have been packed with junior high girls wearing plattbrm shoes and glitter. All those tweens were now grown up and buying beer at the concession stands. (Interesting side note: A 20-year-old offered me $20 to buy her an $8 beer before the con­eert began. I refused not only because I didn't feel like breaking the law that night, but more importantly, I wanted to teach her a lesson not to buy $8 beers). 
But let's not forget to mention the merchan­dise frenzy. People were dropping $50 for concert T-shirts like it was nobody's business. I ended up with an adorable mug, a program and a poster I was suckered into buying after the coneert was over (it was only $10). I won­der how many of those people buying T-shirts are actually going to wear them in public. As proud as I am to be a Spice Girls fan. I don't think I would ever dare to go that far to show my support. 
The concert started about 30 minutes late, but that's to be expected. The anticipation was almost too much for me: I had been waiting 11 years to see my girls on stage and I was getting a little emotional and was scaring my friend. Judging by my reaction to when the Spiee Girls finally appeared, there's no way that I'll flver be able to go to a Mariah Carey concert and come out completely healthy. 
The girls started with "Spice Up Your life" and fi>llowed that with "Stop." It was comfort­ing being in an arena full of people who knew as many of the words to the songs as I did. We were sitting in the 300 level, which gave us a bird's eye view of the stage and the opportuni­ty to look out pver the entire crowd and see how much fun (woryonn wa'i having. Some 
people wen~ morn into it than oiliers, espe­
cially two guys sitting near us who woro 
home-made Spice Girls '!'-shirts and Union 
Jaek b<mdana'i. 
The show wa'i spnctadf~. There wa<; singing, 
daneing, gliw~r and Hobert CavaUi-dnsigned 
costumes. Thn Spien Girls know how to put on 
a lively perfbnnancn, but thoy abo knew how 
to go slow. During "Mama," they brought tlmir 
childrnn on stage and sang to them and tl1e 
crowd with photos of their mothPrs in a 
slideshow in thn ba(:kf,rround. It wa'i a tendnr 
moment, but I wa'i morn eoneerned with the 
fact that I just saw Eddie Murphy's baby and 
the Beekham boys. 
I appreciated that they never trind to gloss ovrw a pivotal pmi ol' their hi'itory: Ginger's early departurn from the group. At tl1e end of "Viva Forever," Ginger (who evnn dawned her Union Jack sparkling lnotard at one point in ilic evnning), descended through a trap door, leaving Scary, Sporty, Posh and Baby -the four who worked on a third album togetl1er­to perform "Make You.Hollr.r," a single from that album. 
Ginger (Geri Halliwell) wasn't gone for long, though. She emerged solo in the next number to sing her remake of"lt's Haining Men" from her second solo album, which appeared on the "Bridget Jones's Diary" soundtrack. Sporty (Mel C) came out next and perfi>rmed two of her solo hits befhre the Jive Spiee Girl<; reunit­ed on tho stage once again. The Spice Girls were smart. to recognize their solo careers and to not ignore tlmir, at times, tumultuous hi'>tory. 
Of course the song everyone was waiting to hear-"Wannabe"-did not eome until tl1e encore, but once it did come, I wa'> completely taken back to my childhood. I found myself thinking of all the times I had listened to that first CD as a child. I remembered getting the CD fhr my birthday to go wiili my new boom box. I remembered sitting in my room and lis­tening to tl1e songs over and over again so I could learn the lyrics. I remembered taking pati in that Spiec Girl<;-ba<;hing pha<;e, but then I remembernd linally embracing my love and fandom lor them. Admitting that I was a fan finally led me to their concert Friday. 
I proved my girl power, fulfiHed a dream and smtg my heart out like a fifth grader. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Cassie BeZek at cbelek@'>nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Monday, February 18, 2008 
page 11 
RISQUE SHOW 'SPICES' UP UNITED CENTER 
Walking into Chicago's United Center for the Spice Girls concert Friday night was, I can only imagine, very similar to going to a Cher concert. There were almost as many men in teeny-tiny out­f"its and heels as there were women 
Mandi Stirone 

in the same attire. Among the many 
Scene & Heard

drag queens in attendance were four dressed as the Spice Girls, something I expected of the girls in attendance, not the boys. There was also a man dressed up as Wonder Woman, which may or may not have been a tribute to "Spice World" the movie, in which one of the girls dresses up as Wonder Woman for a photo shoot. 
Not every male in attendance was dressed in drag; there were, surprising­ly, several groups of guys scattered throughout the arena dressed perfectly normally. These were definitely the minority, though. 
By the time the five Spice Girls rose to the stage and began the concert with "Spice Up Your Life," I had already seen more sequins, leop­ard print, pigtails, and crimped hair, on girls and guys, than I ever wanted to. 
For their part, the Spice Girls them­selves seemed more than aware that their fan base had grown up. The show featured quite a bit more risque impli­cations than would've been expected of the girls when they were catering to the 12-year-old audience of the 1990s. 
Though not every act featured it, the girls demonstrated the sexual nature of their songs. During "Two Become One," the girls danced on platforms with candy-striped stripper poles while dancers used feathered wings for accompaniment. 
In Scary Spice Melanie Brown's solo act, an unsuspecting man was strapped to her "machine," a giant metallic "A" shaped stand. "He has no idea what I'm going to do," she said while she danced around the stage in her signature leop­ard print with a whip singing "Are You 
tfI 
All in all, the Spice Girls lived up to their name, bringing fans the type ofshow they might've expected during the height of their popularity, with a few twists and turns. 

Gonna Go My Way" by Lenny Kravitz. The song concluded with Brown run­ning up to her prisoner and mimicking oral sex before the lights went down. 
During the song "Holla" which was released after Ginger Spice (Geri Halliwell) left the group, the four Spice Girls got extremely touchy-feely with the dancers. At one point they walked down the "catwalk" portion of the stage with the four male dancers crawling in front of them on leashes. 
Despite being in their 30s, all five sported the same type of skimpy outfits they wore during the 90s. In the open­ing few songs, the girls all wore metal­lic-inspired outfits that mimicked their signature styles. 
For "Lady is a Vamp," the Spice Girls sported 1940s lounge inspired outfits · which included Halliwell wearing what 
appeared to be a man's dress coat. They also sport­ed classic outfits. such as Posh Spice (Victoria Beckham) wearing her usual tight little dresses and Halliwell wearing her well­known Union Jack dress. 
Baby Spice (Emma Bunton) was probably the most mature looking with dresses that reached mid­thigh as opposeci to just above the"butt:The Spice 
Girl who changed the least~Sporty Spice {Melanie Chisholm); stfil seemed content to wear studded track suits or, if she absolutely had to. some form of pants suit. 
Then, they decided to throw a curve ball at fans. During the sqng,fMama" the four Spice Girls who a .moth· ers bnmgl)t their childre ge to demonstrate that they ar ·... . . .. up now. even if their wardrobes don't 
demonstrate as much. .··. 
All in all, the Spice Girlsliyed up to their name, bringing fans the type of show they might've expected during the height of their popularity, with.a few twists ~lld .turns. 
the. ii~ilws expressed i~ . are th(iife ofthe author and/... .. . . necessarily those ofThrlObsrltver. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at.·· · · · · astiroOJ@saintmarys. edu· 
-

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 18, 2008 
NHL 

Red Wings' woes continue in 1-0 loss to Dallas 
Blackhawks win third straight against Colorado; Rangers get back in playoff hunt with crucial victory over Sharks 
third period, notching his career­"A loss is a loss. Howard gave us 
Associated Press 

best 21st of the season and a chance to win but we came up 
DALLAS -Dallas Stars goal­eighth game-winner from a short. It's terrible, what can you tendnr Marty Turco savored a sharp angle to the left of DP.troit's say. We have to find a way to get rare win over the I>ntroit Hed third-string goaltender Jimmy out of this slump." Wings. !toward. 
Turco made 2X saves for his lloward failP.d to the control Blackhawks 2, Avalanche 1 32ml canwr shutout and seeond the rebound of Jere Lehtinen's Blackhawks coaeh Denis victory in 16 tries against Detroit, shot, and llagman lifted the puck Savard just wants his team to and Niklas lla~-,rman seon~d as the over the sprawling Howard, continue playing the way it's Stars handed the BPd Wings their making his first start of the sea­benn playing. season-high sixth straight loss, 1-son. Patrick Lalime stopped 21 0 on Sunday. "Lehtinen drove it toward the shots and defenseman James 
"That team's had my number net and they forgot about me on Wisniewski had two assists in so it was satisfying to beat them," the back door," Hagman said. "I Chicago's win over the Colorado said Turco after registering his got a good bounce and it was Avalanche on Sunday. 201st victory. "Now I'm focused easy for me to put in." Martin Havlat and Dustin on evening things up against lloward stopped 30 shots, play­Byfuglien scored for the them." ing in his seventh career game Blackhawks, who won their third 
Tureo nudged his reeord to 2-and getting his fourth career straight game and are 4-0-1 in 9-5 against the Bed Wings, help­start in place of Detroit No. 1 their last five. ing the Stars improve to 9-1 in goalie Chris Osgood. Chicago, with 60 points, is six their last 1 0 games overall. "We missed by a couple of points behind eighth-place 
"It's not like he's not trying, inches on some of our shots, and Vancouver -and the final play­he's trying his tail off," Dallas Marty played really well," off spot -in the Western coach Dave TippPtt said. "But it I toward said. Conferenee. was good to see him get resull'i. Coach Mike Babcock gave "Hopefully we'll continue to I~~~ had saves at the right time. lloward the assignment after play that way all down the This has to help him get momen­Osgood lost his four previous streteh," Savard said. "We're tum against this team." starts and had been replaced by gelling. Whether we get in Ithe 
Turco preserved his shutout Howard in the previous two playoffs) or not, we're going to against the Hed Wings with 48.X games. Backup Dominik Hasek is pay the price every night." seeonds left, falling on his baek to out with a hip injury. Several injured Chicago play­Rangers center Blair Betts attempts to hit a puck past San Jose make a sliding stop on Detroit's !toward was fighting the puck ers, including rookie forward goalie Evgeni Nabokov during New York's 3-1 over the Sharks Sunday. Brett Lebda. Tureo also denied early, but the Stars were unable Jonathan Toews. have come baek Johan Pranzen with 34.8 seconds to capitalize. to help spark the Blackhawks, Hyan Callahan scored twice night. remaining. "The first couple of shots came who have missed the playoffs in and Chris Drury added a power­"These are two big wins to 
''I'm running out of words to off him like crazy, but that's just a eight of the last nine seasons. play goal and an assist Sunday build on," he said. "We have a describe how Marty is playing," kid being nervous," Babcock Lalime lost a bid for his first for the Hangers, who finally boat long road ahead of us, but we flagman said. "At the start, mid­said. shutout this season when a Western Conference team with can move forward and go from dle and definitely the end they Babcock also switched up his Jaroslav Illinka scored with 2:25 a solid effort against the San Jose here. We have a lot of charaeter had good chances. I don't know lines in an attempt to spark his left in the third. Chicago's top Sharks. in this room from top to bottom. how he managed to get some of struggling team, but the Red goalie, Nikolai Khabibulin, is day That came on the heels of a You have to follow your leaders those saves. We've always had a Wings fell to 0-5-1 in their last to day with a right knee sprain. relatively easy 5-1 rout over and go from there." tough time against Detroit. It was six games. "It's our hard work and dedica­Buffalo at home Saturday. New Lundqvist, who also stopped 29 a huge win." "We had lots of chances," tion," Lalime said. "We're bat­York is back in the mix after Saturday, is 2-0 since signing a 
Hagman seornd at 3:13 of the Detroit's Tomas Holmstrom said. tling right now. A lot of it is buy­dropping to ninth. six-year contract extension with ing into the system; finally we're "It was defmitely a tough game, New York. playing as a team." the second of back-to-backers, Jonathan Cheechoo had the 
Jose Theodore made 25 saves especially playing against a big, lone goal for the Sharks, who for Colorado, which lost its third physical, talented team," forward have the fewest road losses in the straight and failed to eonvert any Brendan Shanahan said. "It was NHL (17-6-3). San Jose is 4-18-3­of il'i six power plays. a real good test for us and we 0 against New York and hasn't 
The Avalanche have 65 points really responded well." beaten the Hangers since Oct. 22, and are in ninth place in the con­Henrik Lundqvist made 29 2001. ference. saves for the Rangers, who beat Evgeni Nabokov stopped 30 
a Western team in their last shol'i in starting for the 57th time Rangers 3, Sharks 1 chance after going 0-7-2 in the in San Jose's 58 games this sea­
A week off did wonders for the first nine. son. The Sharks are 3-3-1 in New York Rangers and their Drury helped set up Callahan's their past seven. playofT hopes. first-period goal to tie it before "When you lose a game you 
During a five-day break from sending the Hangers on their way always want to say it wasn't games between last weekend and to another win with a goal in the enough. I know we're trying this one, the Rangers eould only second. Callahan added an hard, but it wasn't enough," watch as teams pushed them empty-netter with 1.6 seconds Nabokov said. "Defensively I below the postseason cutoff. left. think we played well. They were 
With a pair of home wins, New Callahan has four goals in five forecheeking, and it was surpris­York is right back in the thick of games after going 25 without one ing a little bit how hard they the hunt. following a score on opening played." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 

- WANTED  FOR SALE  FoR RENT  HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  PERSONAL  If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml  
$14.25 BASE-APPT.  Oakhill Condo for Sale. Students  Blue & Gold Homes  RANGING FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR.  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ 
STUDENT WORK  will love living here and parents will love knowing their child is looked after and safe! Secure, upstairs, two-level furnished two-bedroom,  Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offer­ing "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com  CALL 574-234-2436  ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone.  Contenders on the first whistle, Gladiators on the second whistle, got it?  
flexible, no experience needed, customer sales/service, conditions apply, ages 18+, 574-273-3835, www. workforstudents.com  two-bath condo unit with loft area. One thousand twenty-two square feet of beautifully redecorated living space-includes 42" HD flat screen TV and parking spaces in front of condo. Garages are available at an additional cost. Parking lot surveil­lance cameras, pool, clubhouse, water and rubbish removal included as part of the ownership package. Only $180 per month exterior main­tenance fees. Five minute walk or less to the Notre Dame campus, shopping and restaurants. Less than ten minutes to other hot spots and mall by car. $200,000. Only serious offers considered. 562-733­5166.  5 bedroom house just off Angela & 31. Available now & for next year. 2 baths & laundry. 232-6964. 3-4-5 bdrrn, 3 bath homes close to campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2-car garage, 1Ox20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008-09; also Aug. 2009-10. Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 or 574-340-1844.  OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM Furnished 4-bdrm house, walk NO, ADT, air, washer/dryer, dishwasher, basement for storage. 574-287-4961.  We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­7819. For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer.  All the things that I used to say All the words that got in the way All the things that I used to know Have gone out the window All the things that she used to bring All the songs she used to sing All the favorite TV shows Have gone out the window As I walk through the valley of the shadow of death I take a look at my life and realize there's nothing left Cause I've been blastin and laugh­ing so long that Even my mama thinks that my mind is gone  



------------------, 

OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROtv\ THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
Monday, February 18, 2008 page 13 
NBA 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pet. GB lastten 
Boston 41-9 .820 &-2 Toronto 28·23 .549 13.5 64 New Jersey 23·30 .434 19.5 5·5 Philadelphia 23·30 .434 19.5 7-3 New York 15·37 .288 27 1·9 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record pet. GB last ten 
Detroit 39·13 .750 10·0 Cleveland 29-23 .558 10 6-4 Chicago 21-31 .404 18 4·6 Indiana 21-32 .396 18.5 2·8 Milwaukee 19·34 .358 20.5 2·8 

Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pet. GB last ten 
Orlando 33·21 60 6·4 Washington 25·27 59 7 2·8 Atlanta 21-28 58 9.5 3·7 Charlotte 19-34 57 13.5 2·8 Miami 9·42 54 22.5 1-9 

Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pet. GB last ten 
Utah 34·19 87 9-1 Denver 32·20 66 1.5 6·4 Portland 28·24 61 5.5 3·7 Seattle 13·38 58 20 4·6 Minnesota 10·41 54 23 3-7 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pet. GB last. ten 
Phoenix 37-16 .698 7-3 LA Lakers 35·17 .673 1.5 8-2 Golden State 32-20 .615 4.5 7·3 Sacramento 23·28 .451 13 5·5 LA Clippers 17·33 .340 18.5 4-6 
Western Conference, Southwest 
team record pet. GB last ten 
New Orleans 36·15 .706 7-3 San Antonio 34·17 .667 2 6.:..1 Dallas 35·18 .660 2 5·5 Houston 32·20 .615 4.5 9·1 Memphis 14-38 .269 22:5 2·8 
MIAA Women's Basketball Conference Standings 

rank team conference overall 
1 Hope 14·0 22-0 2 Albion 12·3 19·4 3 Calvin 10·5 14-B 4 Adrian 6·8 8<14 5 Alma 6·8 9·12 6 Olivet 6·8 8·14 7 SAINT MARY'S 6·8 10·12 8 Tri-State 3·11 6~16 9 Kalamazoo 1-13 4·18 

around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Syracuse at Louisville 7 p.m., ESPN Texas A&M at Texas 9 p.m., ESPN 
WoMEN's CoLLEGE BASKETBALL Purdue at Ohio State 7 p.m., ESPN2 

NASCAR 

Associated Press 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -Ryan Newman snapped an 81-race winless streak Sunday, using a huge push from teammate Kurt Busch to give car owner Roger Penske his first Daytona 500 victory. 
Penske, the most suc­cessful owner in open­wheel history with 14 wins in the prestigious Indianapolis 500, now has a victory in NASCAR's showcase event. 
It only took him 23 years to get it. 
It came in the historic 50th running of The Great American Race, and it came in thrilling fashion. 
"We did something very special for the Captain tonight," runner-up Kurt Busch said. 
The Penske cars were quiet for 199 of the 200 laps, letting Joe Gibbs Racing stars Tony Stewart and Kyle Busch race each other in a battle of Toyotas. With one lap to go, it appeared Stewart finally would get a Daytona 500 win in his 10th try. 
Running out front in the high line, he held off the two Penske cars as they circled the famed speed­way. With a pair of team· mates closing in on him, Stewart didn't feel safe running out alone with no allies. 
So at the last second, he dropped low on the track to line up in front of Kyle Busch. The JGR teams had talked about using team­work all week, and Stewart thought he'd need Busch to make it to the checkered flag. 
But the decision back­fired when the two Penske cars flew past him on the top, and Newman pulled away for his first win since New Hampshire in September 2005. 
"I just made the wrong decision on the back­stretch," a dejected Stewart said. "My inten· tion was to get in front of Kyle and pull Kyle along with us. It's hard to explain. It's probably one of the most disappointing moments in my racing career." 
And for Joe Gibbs Racing and the entire Toyota camp. 
Toyota seemed destined to win its first points race in NASCAR's top series behind the strength of JGR, which joined the manufacturer this season and gave it instant credi­bility. After a strong month of testing and a Denny Hamlin win in one of. Thursday's qualifying races, the JGR cars seemed poised to battle mighty Hendrick Motorsports for the win. 

IN BRIEF  
Swimmer Hoff sets second American record in 2 days COLUMBIA. Mo. -Katie Hoff set  IU president in SP.Otlightwith Sampson scanital INDIANAPOLIS -College presi·  Tige~' Rogers.starts strongat spnng ttaimng LAKELAND, Fla. -Kenny  
her second American record in as  dents aren't athletic directors, but  Rogers threw a pitch and pivoted to  
many days Sunday when she and  sports can be .a big part of their job ­ get back on the mound to throw  
six-time Olympic gold medalist  as Indiana University President  another one.  -­ 
Michael Phelps each cruised to a  Michael McRobbie is finding out.  Detroit Tigers pitching coach  
pair of victories at the Missouri  McRobbie says the school will con­ Chuck Hernandez stepped between  
Grand Prix.  duct a new investigation into NCAA  Rogers and the bullpen catcher,  
Both easily won their respective  accusations that men's basketball  ending the session on Sunday.  
200-meter freestyle and 400 indi­ coach Kelvin Sampson committed five  "Get out of here!" Hernandez  
vidual medley races on the second  major rules violations. The announce­ shouted.  
day of the meet.  ment Friday came amid mounting  Hogers reluctantly walked away,  
Hoff set an American record in  calls to fire Sampson.  with sweat on his brow and grass  
the 200, finishing in 1 minute,  That puts pressure on McRobbie,  stains on his knees.  
56.08 seconds to defeat five-time  who took office as IU president seven  "I just keep going until Chuck  
Olympic medalist Natalie Coughlin  months ago, but it also creates oppor­ stops me," Hogers said with a  
for the second time in two days.  tunity, said Louisiana Statp University  smile.  
Coughlin set the previous mark.  system President Jolm V. Lombardi.  Hogers has spent three-plus  
On Saturday, Hoff broke the old­ "Everybody is unhappy now - years of his life at spring training  
est American record on the books  boosters, alumni, the athletic depart­ -a fact he said was "scary," - 
in the 400 freestyle.  ment," Lombardi, who has taught a  and still enjoys rolling around on  
In Sunday's medley, Hoff beat  course on the history of college sports,  the infield like a kid during pitch·  
Kirsty Coventry of Zimbabwe, who  told The Indianapolis Star for a  ers' fielding practice.  
a day earlier set a world record in  Sunday story. "This is a moment  In fact, Hogers said that's his  
the 200 backstroke.  where he can go in and take charge."  favorite part.  


page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 18, 2008 
MLB 

Hampton tries comeback 
Veteran pitcher readies for last attempt after missing 2 seasons 
AP 

Atlanta pitcher Mike Hampton pitches during the Braves' spring training workout on Friday. Hampton Is attempting to pitch this year after undergoing Tommy John surgery in 2006. 
Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. -Mike Hampton rubs down the ball, stares toward home plate and dnlivers a pitch that ~weeps across thn out<;ide corner. Mark Kot<;ay nnver gnl<; tlw bat on· his shouldnr. 
The outfinldnr nods approvingly toward thn mound. "That's better," Kol<;ay says. 
Brayan Pena is nven more enthusiastic. "That-a boy!" the ratdmr barks, giving a slight pump of'thn ft<;t. 
For !Iampton, it's anotl1er baby stnp in one of biL<;t'ball's longest­running comebacks. 
"My pitdws arn starting to eome around," he said a few minutes latl~r. standing by hi<; locker in thn Atlanta Braves' dubhousn. "My arm's bnnn feeling pretty sound. I'm happy whnre I'm at right now." 
Hemember Mike Hampton? Lnft-handod pitcher. Former 20­g<une winner. Perhaps best known lhr getting onn of thP richnst con­tract<; in bw;eball hi<;tllry. 
Wdl, hn's still around, though no one could be blamed lbr thinking hn rntin~d or tllok up coaching or soUled fiw a job over&~a<;. llamptlm h<L<;n't madP it through a li.Jll year since 2004. IInck, he ha<;n't pitl:hnd at all over the l<L<;t two sea<;<ms. 
"Put yourself in his shoes," Braves manager Bobby Cox said. "You like t11 play, you like t11 pitl·h, you like the eompntition-then. all of a sudden, it's talwn away from you. It hurL<;." 
But, now, entl~ring tim final year of that infitmous eight-year, $121 million deal he signed with Colorado in 200 I, the 35-ynar-old !Iampton is back on the mound, trying til show in the early days of spring training that he's still got a little something left in that scarred­up pitl:hing arm. 
''I've been preparing for this day 

........_ 
since thn day aftnr the surgnry," llcunptlm said. ''I'm excited.'' 
For tlw rneord. he's rnfiwring til l<L<;t year's operation on his balky Inll elbow, the one that cut short Hampton Comeback, Version 2007. At that time, he W<L<; coming oil' Tommy John surgery, which replaced the ligamPnt in hi<; elbow and cost him thn '06 se<L'i<Jll. When the pain returned, he went back under the knili~ lhr a torn flexor tlmdon. 
Another se<L<;on gone. 
From all outward appearances, Hampton never let two major OI:H~rations dcUllJ:Hm his Pnthusi<L<;m lilr the game or hi<; detl~nnination til get back on the mound. During two full years of rehab, hn often strollnd through thn Turner Field 

clubhouse cracking jokes or rib­
bing teammates. 
"When you feel sorry lor yourself' 
and at the end of the day you're 
still li~eling son-y liw yourself, well, 
your mind is mnssed up and your 
arm still hurts. It doesn't really 
hnlp anything," Hampton said. "I 
dncidnd to keep a positive mind­
set. get it taken cam of and look 
forward to thn day when I eould 
compete again." 
A cynic might lind it hard to muster a whole lot of sympathy for li<unpton. After all, those big pay­chocks kept on coming, and he's duo to make $15 million this sea­son, no matter how much he pitch­es (or doesn't pitch). 
Then again, it wasn't his fault that Colorado doled out such a foolish contract, or that I Iampton's sinker-heavy repertoire just wasn't cut out filr the Mile High City. He can even laugh about his experi­ence with the Rockies. 
"When I was in Colorado, I for­got how to throw everything," llrunpton joked. "I wa<> like, 'What in the hell are you doing?' I was throwing a sinker down here" ­he drops hi<> ann below his waist -"and my four-seamer from up here"-his ann rising above his head. "I went straight brain dead. Now, I'm pretty comfortable." 
That's jlL<>t what the Braves want to hnar. 
Whiln they're not counting on !Iampton as much as they did a year ago, they know he could makn a stronger rotation look downright formidable. The Braves alrnady have John Smoltz, Tim Hudson and Tom Glavine. A healthy !Iampton would give them four top-line starters, the sort of rotation that could help Atlanta ehallengn the free-spending New York Met<; and def(mding champi­on Philadelphia Phillies in the NL Ea<;t. 
"Evnrything we get from him is a bonus," Smaltz said. 'There's no other way to put it." 
llmnpton had hoped to start his comebaek in the Mexican winter lmt!,rue, but that plan la<>ted all of three outs. Yes, he hurt himself again, pulling his right hamstring in the first inning of hi<; very first start. 
lie had to take another month off. and still feeL<> a bit of tightness in the back of his leg when he throws. lie's had torn-examine hi<> workout routine, giving more attention to his legs and making surn he shows up early enough to do plenty of stretching. 
Cox doesn't really care how Hampton throws in spring train­ing, as long as he makes it to open­ing day without getting hurt again. 
''I'm sure he'll be rusty a little bit," Cox said. "But we're not look­ing for that. We're looking for health." 
Actually, the aborted stint in Mexico boosted Hampton's confi­dence. His arm didn't hurt, and when he watched a video of the inning that popped up on YouTube, he was relieved to see that his mechanics looked basically the same as they did before all the injuries. 
"It's like Smoltz told me, 'Dude, you don't forget how to pitch,"' !Iampton said. "It's like a bieyde. You don't forget how. You might need a refresher course, but you don't forget how. When I saw that video, I was like, 'Dude, you look just like you did before.' I'm fine." 

<<<Now Hiring 

aff 


Leam more about great summer employment opportunities by attending an optional information session tomorrow! 
Tuesday, February 19th 
12:00 PM 1 LaFortune 1 Sorin Room 
Of 

Tuesday, February 19th 
5:00 PM LaFortune Sorin Room 
Visit our website to learn more about summer staff positionsl 
summerhousing.nd.edu 
Priority Deadline: March 16 
oflifi
UNIVERSITY OF NOTA£ OAME 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles svvitn to fifth in MIAA Championships 
Calvin takes top spot, Hope earns second 
By PETE REISENAUER 
SportS Writer 

Saint Mary's ended its season with a disappointing fifth-place finish in the MIAA Championships this weekend in Holland, Mich. 
Calvin won the meet with a score of 660. Hope was the only close challenger at 556. Saint Mary's finished with a score of 182. 
Going into the weekend, the Belles had high hopes after posting top times in many events during the season. They felt that they were primed to make a push toward the top of the pack. 
The Belles had finished the year with a four-meet losing streak but believed that the two weeks between their last meet and the championship would provide them vital time to rest and prepare for the event this weekend. They were not able to put in a strong enough effort to capture the crown. 
Despite the loss, Melissa Gerbeth defended her 1,650­yard freestyle crown with a 

OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
305 Main Building I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone: 574.631.5878 I E-Mail: sumrner@nd.edu 
time of 17:47.50, beating her closest competitor by more than 10 seconds. She also reached the final in the 500 freestyln -whore she eventu­ally finished sixth -and the 400 freestyle, whern she fin­ished fourth. 
Maggie Williams also helped her team with a fifth-place fin­ish in the 100 backstroke. She also finished 1Oth in the 200 backstroke. 
Meanwhile, freshman Caroline Arness had her best showing in the 200 backstroke with a time of 2:18.62, and fel­low freshman Casey NiezPr clocked in at 2:13.77 for a sixth place finish. Niezer also fin­ished in 11th in the 100 back­stroke. 
Sophomore Lindsey Nelis put up a strong showing in the 1,650 freestyle with a time of 18:38.40. 
The strongest relay for the Belles was the 400 freestyle team, whieh finished third, only one-tenth of a second behind Kalamazoo for second. 
Contact Pete Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu 

Monday, February 18, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Saint Mary's blasts Kala111azoo 
Kessler scores 22 as Belles ride 34-8 run to blowout victory 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's was actually down four to Kalamazoo at one point in its 71-39 win Saturday. 
Then, five and a half min­utes into the game, the Belles (10-12, 6-8 MIAA) decided it was time to start playing. 
With 14:37 left in the first half and the score tied at 8­8, Saint Mary's senior guard Alison Kessler scored two of her game-high 22 on a layup. It was the last time Kalamazoo (4-18, 1-13 MIAA) sniffed the lead. 
That's because Kessler's layup began a 34-8 Saint Mary's run that sent the Belles into the locker room with a 42-15 lead. 
Sophomore forward Anna 


Kammrath, who pulled down a game-high 12 rebounds to go along with her six points, said the Belles' success in the first half was a result of the team's laid-back style. 
"We were definitely more relaxed [than in previous games]. which is easier to do when everyone was clicking," Kammrath said. 
In the second half, the Belles continued their dom­inance. The Hornets never got within 26 points, and many of Saint Mary's reserves saw the court for the latter portion of the game. 
The blowout victory was a big change for the Belles, who have an average mar­gin of victory of 6.6 points in their MIAA wins this season. 
Belles junior guard Katie 
Rashid finished with 13 points, and classmate Erin Newsom netted 11 to go along with seven rebounds. The Belles also got a solid performance from fresh­man guard Liz Wade, who scored seven points, grabbed seven rebounds and had seven assists off the bench. 
Kammrath said after the game that the win was a big one for the Belles, especially with the end of the MIAA season coming closer. 
"[Getting this win] means we are for sure playing on Tuesday once [the] confer­ence [tournament] starts next week," Kammrath said. "It also helps team morale, a win like this." 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 

ND SOFTBALL 
Irish battle to 2-2 split in Arizona 
Game against No. 1 Wildcats rained out 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
In a rare rainy weekend in Tempe, Ariz., Notre Dame came up even in Arizona State's Kajikawa Classic, defeating Utah and Cal but losing to Western Kentucky and No. 3 Texas A&M to start the 2008 season. 
Officials cancelled Friday's game against top-ranked Arizona because of the rain. 
"I like how the girls came out," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "They really showed a lot of fight, and I think it was a great learning experience." • 
The Irish jumped all over previously undefeated Utah 
Announcittg the Year 2008 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino 
Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2008 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not non11al1y cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of sum.mer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year o( Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; \Vill involve the study of Italian la.nguage, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department ofRomance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy HalL 
Students are invited to submit a Jetter which should include: 
1)  an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study wiU enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statcm.cnt indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals;  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to folknv;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved;  
5)  two letters ofrccomtnendation  
6)  a transcript showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list ofother sources offunding (being sought or confirmed) for the same project  
(i.e. Office oflnten1~tional Studies, Nanovic [nstitute, etc.)  
Application Deadline: Wednesday, February 27~ 2008 ... .... '  
AJber·t Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship  
Prograrn in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University of Notre Dan1e  

(7-1) to snag a 6-2 win in the opener on Friday. 

"It was important to get our feet wet," Gumpf said. "It was a good chance to see where our problems are in a real game situation." 
Junior Brittney Bargar got the win, allowing three hits and two earned runs in seven innings. Bargar fanned six and surrendered two solo homeruns for Utah's only scores of the game. 
The offense slugged 10 hits off the Utes and opened the game with a four-run first inning. Freshman Brianna Jorgensborg ripped a three­run double down the right­field line in the first at-bat of her college career. Fellow freshman Sadie Pitzenberger went 3-for-5 and stole three bases. 
Western Kentucky beat Notre Dame 6-5 and scored the final run after an Irish throwing error in the seventh inning. 
"We lost due to some things that are really controllable," Gumpf said. "We have some growing pains that we need to work on." 
The Irish jumped out to a 3-1 lead off a Pitzenberger double and a sophomore Christine Lux sacrifice fly, but the lead would not stand. 
Western Kentucky's Rebecca Horesky hit a grand slam off of freshman Jody Valdivia to give the Hilltoppers a 5-3 advantage. 
Sophomore Heather Johnson tied the game at 5-5 in the seventh with a two-run homer, but the Hilltoppers responded for the win. 
The Irish lost 4-1 to the fearsome Aggies. 
Bargar kept Texas A&M scoreless through four innings, before allowing three earned runs in the final three frames. Bargar also struck-out nine. 
"Brittney really gave us a chance to win both games," Gumpf said. "It was just three or four pitches that went wrong for her." 

The final game on Sunday against Cal was a chance for the Irish to make up for the previous day's mistakes, and they took full advantage. Senior second baseman Katie Laing went 2-for-4 and had RBis, including a two-run homer in the third inning to propel the Irish to a 4-3 comeback win. 
In the bottom of the sev­enth, Laing showed her poise in the clutch, knocking the first pitch she saw into right­center field to plate freshman Katie Fleury. 
"Katie really led this team all weekend," Gumpf said. "She single-handedly scored three runs for us in the last game and led the team to vic­tory." 

The Irish will spend the week working on the little things before traveling to Gainesville, Fla., next week­end to participate in the Aquafina Invitational. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

.r-----------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February_18, 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Wake Forest upends second-ranked Duke 
Freshman Teague scores 26 for Deacons 

AP Duke's Kyle Singler blocks Wake Forest's James Johnson in the first half of the Deamon Deacons' 86-73 win. 
Associated Press 
WINSTON-SALEM. N.C. 

Frnshrnnn J1]fT Tnagun and 
Jamns Johnson showPd no f1]ar 
of Duke. Instead. they helped 
coach Dino (;audio daim a victo­
ry that sur11ly would have made 
his late bPst friend proud. 
Teague scored 26 points and t.he I>mnon DPacons shocked the No. 2 Blun Dovils Sf>-7:~ on Sunday night. snapping tlw Blue Devils' 12-garne winning st.nmk and giving tlw first-ymtr coach his signature victory a.•; thn hnir of the late Skip Prosser's pro­gram. 
"I watdwd thnm on 'IV (and) I dn~amnd about (North) Carolina and Dukn," Teagun said, adding that he and Johnson "talked about that when we first got hen~. 'Playing Duke. they're going to prnssurn you.' 
"That's why I want to play. I'm not an AII-Amnrican or nothing. hut I want to go out and try to lwat 1me." 
Johnson addnd 24 points and a pnrsonal-best 16 rnbounds for the Demon I>Paeons (16-X, 6-5 Atlantic Coa.'it Conli~rencn), who daimnd their first victory against a top-fiVf~ team sincn Chris Paul's sophomore season in 2004-05. This timn, the tin-dyn-clad "Scrnamin' Demons" studnnt section poun~d onto the eourt to enlnbratn thn pro)...rram's biggnst win sinen thny knocknd ofl' tho thnn-No. 4 Blue Dnvils on Fob. 2, 2005. 
The Dmnon Deacons' third straight victory improved them to 14-1 on thoir homo court and snapped a f'ivn-gamc losing stn~ak in tho series. They did it on the strnngth of a 17-2 run midway through the second half and some smothering defense, fi>rdng Duko into a season-high 22 turnovers. 
"(Teague) did a great job on dnfimse, but I think it was just us not bning <L'i aggressive a'i wn've been all ynar, taking thn right shol'i, and just passing up a lot or shots that wn should have taken, and sncond-guessing oursnlves narly," frnshman Nolan Smith said. "Lackadaiscial turnovnrs, out or bounds. that's what hap­pens." 
Tlw Blun Dnvils (22-2, 10-1) nntnrnd this one only a orw-point overtime loss to Pitl'iburgh away l'rorn a pnrfm:t. rocord. and had won tlwir prPvious 12 gamns by an awragn or 14.3 poinl'i. 
But this time. Llw Dmnon 

Deacons held Mike Krzyzewski's team without a field goal for morn than 7 minuti1s in building the first double-figuro lead of the gamn for either team. with Teague's three-point play with 4:5X left making it 72-62. 
Af't1~r Kyle Singler's layup at the 11:20 mark gave the Blue Devils their largest lead of the half at 60-55. they missed 11 consecutive shol'i beforn Paulus nnded tlw drought with a 3 with just over 4 minutes left. They didn't get doser than six points the rnst of the way. 
'Tonight, we played like we've alnmdy done something, and the team that had to win won," Krzyzewski said. "We have to always play like we have to win. That's the sign of a champion. That's a part of learning. We have some young guys who haven't been champions before, and they're trying to learn how to bn that. Sometimes the best lnssons are ones that aro taught in dnli1at." 
Smith, a freshman, scored a sca'ion-high 21 points, DeMarcus Nelson had 18 poinl'i and Singler finished with 17 for the Blue Devils, who had all five starters foul out in thn dosing momenl'i in losing for the fourth time in five visit'i to Winston-Salem. 
"The foul trouble caught up with us. and they continued t.o play hard and well," Krzyzewski said. "The team that fought harder and had more energy won.... I don't think it meant that wn just laid down and died. Our kids fought. At this time of the year, you have to match or be better than the other team." 
In a way. the Demon Deacons beat th11 Blue Devils at their own game, spreading things out on the offensive end of the court and turning up the pressure on defense. Singler, who entered having made 15-of-28 attempl'i from 3-point range in his previ­ous fi>ur games, wa'i just 2-of-6 from beyond the are. 
"We can go (with) !bur guards, just like thosn guys have, and we have bigs ... that can move out there," point guard Ishmael Smith said. "So what we tried to do is switch on ball screens and contest their shol'i." 
Jamie Sknen added 10 points fi>r Wake Fornst, whieh eame out detPnnined to honor Prosser's memory and give Gaudio a sig­nature win, ror.king the Joel Coliseum like it hadn't been in years. 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish earn two-game sweep 
Wins over Wisconsin, South Florida put ND back on track 
By LORENZO REYES and DAN MASTERTON Sports Writers 
For now. at least, No. 14 Notre Dame is back on track. 
After struggUng to a pair of loss­es last week, the Irish swept Wisconsin and No. 31 South Florida at home .this weekend. With the defeat of its Big East rival, Notre Dame (6-4) is now rid­ing a three-game winning streak. 
Irish head coach Jay Louderback thinks his team is swinging on all cylinders. 
"I feel like we've gotten better every match," he said. "We've become tougher and tougher as the matches go on. We played some soUd competition this week­end and we'rn looking to build on our momentum." 
Notre Dame 7, Wisconsin 0 
Despite playing without senior captain Brook Buck, the Irish cruisnd to victory Friday, sweeping No. 74 Wisconsin, 7-0. 
With Buck injured, the Irish lineup shifted around and ofTered opportunities for the players to contribute in dillimmt slol'i. 
Sophomore Kali Krisik moved up to No. 1 doubles with junior Keley Tefl't, and the pair started the Irish dominance with an 8-3 victory. Sophomore pair Cosmina Ciobanu and Colleen Hielley moved up to No. 2 doubles and secured the doubles point with a swift 8-2 win. 
The Notre Dame singles attack won each match handily. Despite the lineup changes, the Irish won all six matches in straight sets with no Wisconsin player winning more than three games in a set. 

Junior Katie Potts started sin­gles play with a 6-2, 6-0 vietory, and Ciobanu and Rielley followed suit with convincing wins to dinch the match for Nolre Dame. 
Having won the match, there was no pressure as freshman Kristin Hafael, who primarily plays No. 2 or 3 doubles, made her singles debut in the No. 6 slot. Rafael took advantage of the opportunity and easily disposed or her opponent 6-1, 6-2. 
The sncond half of singles play also included wins from Krisik and Tefl't. 
TefTt played No. 1 singles fiJr the second straight day and is now 2­0 from that slot for the dual sea­son and a perfect 9-0 in singles overall. ller 6-3, 6-0 win finished the 7-0 sweep for the Irish. and five loyal fans celebrated the win for Tef'!l and the Irish with tradi­tional student seetion push-ups. 
It was Notre Dame's second straight 7-0 victory over Wisconsin. The Irish improved to 3-0 at home and broke the .500 mark for the first time since a sea­son-opening win over Louisville. 
Notre Dame 6, South Rorida 1 

Looking to complete the week­end sweep, the only thing left for the Irish to take care of wa'i South Florida. 
With a victory against the Bulls, the Irish remained undcfeatnd in Big East play, and improved their overall record to 6-4. 
Louderback said doubles play was key in the victory. 
"We're feeling really good about our doubles play," Louderback said. "We played really well. We won all but one match all week­end. I'm especially impressed with our No. 2 and 3 spots really stepped it up. Brook and Kelcy have been playing well all year, so it wa'i good to sec our other pairs playing well." 
Buck returned to action and paired up with Tefl't to eomprise the No. 3 team in the nation, defeating sophomore pair Allyn Mueller and Jessiea Zok 8-0. 
Krisik and Hafael sealed the doublns point with an 8-2 win over Janette Bnjkova and Natalia Guevara. 
''I'm impressed with the play of our f'rnshman, Kristen Hafael," Louderback said. "She played real well all wnnkend. I think she gained a little confidence winning her singles match against Wisconsin, and that carried over into the rest of the wonk." 
Ciobanu and Hinllny upnnded junior lcri Hai and snnior Liz Cruz X-5 in the final doubles match. 
No. 62 Ciobanu beat Mueller 6­1, 6-2, and No. 64 Buck dropped the lirst two games of tlw lirst set but turned her play around against Zok for a 6-2, 6-0 victory. 
No. X2 Potts secured the third win of the wnekend with lwr 6-3, 6-3 dnfnat of Hai. 
Notre Damn will travnl to Durham, N.C. to face a surging Duke tnam Thursday. The Blue Devils topped No. 6 Florida earlier in the week, and Louderback is not taking them Ughtly. 
"Duke is going to be a tough, tough match up," he said. " ... They're really under ranked. With their talent, they arn definitely a top live team, so we have a tough test ahead of ourselves." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu and Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 


off aH body waxing OC off htghlights 
• , . . , 1·..-e performed
<, off aH retaH Wlth any setv .... . . . 
·' . . . . , . 'l li(''S tt.) SI~IVIteS onh,
·t"' . ·t Hl% studen'l dtv..ount "'' P .. ~. .,DOH
At u-J~illr'k1 · . , •.. r.x .-.1r,;es, Mardl 5 l. •· · 
(01JflC>Il IC(!t;llri_Y. ,, t"" 
Monday, February 18, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish lose tvvice in ITA tourney 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
Facing some of the toughest competition in the country, Notre Dame split its first two matches in the ITA National Team Indoor Championships this weekend in Seattle and earned a spot in the consolation final before falling to No. 12 North Carolina Sunday. 
On Friday, the Irish faced ofT against No. 8 UCLA in the first round and lost a tough one to the Bruins. 4-0. 
The Irish began the match by losing the doubles point despite a strong showing from senior Sheeva Parbhu and junior Brett Helgeson, who beat UCLA sen­ior I !are! Srugo and freshman Niek Meister 8-2. 
Notre Dame senior Andrew Both and freshman Stephen Havens lost a close match to Bruins senior Mathieu Dehaine and freshman Holden Seguso by a score of 8-6. 
The final Irish pair of fresh­man Tyler Davis and junior Santiago Montoya came up short against UCLA junior Mike Look and senior Jeremy Dean by a score of 8-4. 
The Bruins took the momen­tum from their doubles win into the singles and won their first three matches to secure the 4-0 win. 
The Irish loss to UCLA set up a Saturday match in the second round of the consolation brack­et against No. 16 Penn State, whom the Irish defeated on Jan. 
20. The Irish were able to rebound from the tough loss to UCLA on Friday to pick up a 4-2 win. 
The Irish started slowly and lost the doubles point. Parbhu and Helgeson lost to Penn State James in straight sets, 6-1, 6-4, junior Adam Slagter and fresh­which gave the Irish a 3-1 lead. man Eddie Bourchier, 8-5. The Penn State took the next point second Irish doubles pair of as Lynch defeated Roth, 6-2, 6­

Davis and Montoya dropped the 3. second match 8-4 to Nittany Notre Dame earned its fourth lions senior Michael James and point when Parbhu defeated junior Brendan Lynch. Slagter in three sets, 6-1, 4-6, 6­
Despite the slow start in dou­3, to clinch the Irish victory. bles, the Irish came back strong The Irish could not keep their in singles play to surge ahead of momentum from the Penn State the Nittany Lions. The Irish win going against North picked up their first two singles Carolina and were shut out 5-0 wins from Havens and fellow Sunday against the Tar Heels. freshman Dan Stahl. Parbhu and Helgeson won the 
Havens earned the first Irish No. 1 doubles point 8-5 against win after Bourchier withdrew North Carolina's David Stone from the match. Stahl then and Lenny Gullan. But the Tar defeated Penn State freshman Heels dominated the rest of the Jake Toole in straight sets, 6-2, match, taking every other point 6-2. in both doubles and singles. 
The Irish dominance in sin­gles continued with No. 11 Contact Mike Gotimer at Helgeson, defeating No. 51 mgotimer@nd.edu 
"BELOVED" 

LeBron natned MVP in close East victory 
Lenten Dap of Reflection 

February 24, 2008, 2pm-7pm Location: Cree~ House 
Do you ~:?now that you are beloved by the One who made you? 
Do you REALLY bnow? 

The office of Cross Cultural Ministry invites you to tal:?e a few hours this Lent and spend time thinbing about who loves you. Come to the quiet and let that Love soab in. 
For an application or more information, contact Judy Madden in the Cross Cultural Ministry Office -1!02 Coleman-Morse Center. 
Email: Lmadden2@nd.edy_ 

Applications can also be picbed up in Retreats Office in 114 Coleman-Morse Center. 
*There is no cost for this Day of Reflection. *Space is limited to the first 20 people so don't wait. 
CM 
Campus Minisn·y 
Record 
continued from page 20 
goals in her first collegiate game, and senior Heather Ferguson scored twice. 
Notre Dame came out strong and looked to bury the Griffins early, notching the first six goals of the game and racing out to the big advantage. Canisius fought back and tal­lied the next four goals, closing the gap to 6-4. Canisius held close until a Byers goal with three seconds left in the first half gave the Irish a 10-5 lead and momentum heading into the break. 
After Canisius cut the Notre 
Laxers 
continued from page 20 
while picking up the victory. 
"My performance was pretty good," Kemp said. "I give credit to my defense." 
Koppens and junior attack Jake Wilcox led Loyola offensively. Koppens finished the game with one goal and three assists while Wilcox added two scores and one assist. Freshman attack Matt Langan and sophomore attack Cooper MacDonnell each netted one goal to aid the effort. In net, Hagelin finished with 11 stops. 
The Irish play next on Sunday, 
NBA ALL-STAR GAME 
page 17 

Dame lead to 12-9, the Irish needed to regroup. 
With Notre Dame hanging onto its slim lead, the Irish made the necessary adjust­ments. Notre Dame rattled off 10 consecutive goals, pushing the lead to 22-9. The rally included three goals from Byers and two from McKinney. 
Ashley Gray led the Griffins with three goals, and Whitney Card and Chelsea Martinez scored twice each. 
Notre Dame topped the Dukes 16-4 behind six goals from Irish attack Jill Byers. All 100 wins have been under Coyne. 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 
beginning their home slate against Penn State at 1 p.m. in the Loftus Center. 
Notes: 
+Loyola held an advantage on total shots over Notre Dame with a final tally of 34-32. The Irish were slightly better in face-ofl"s, however. They won nine of 17 attempts. 
+Notre Dame has now won six straight season openers, a school record. The Irish have also beaten the Greyhounds in two straight openers. Last year, Notre Dame won in Loftus, 9-7. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -In a proud city still restoring its unique beauty, the Eastern Conference repaired its own image. 
Ray Allen scored 28 points, making three straight 3-point­ers in the final 3:15, and LeBron James added 27 as the East, widely considered the NBA's weaker half, beat the Western Conference 134-128 in Sunday night's All-Star Game. 
Last year, the West humiliat­ed the East in a 153-132 rout in Las Vegas when Kobe Bryant and Co. rewrote the event's record books. However, this time led by Allen's 14 fourth-quarter points and a stunning dunk by James with 55 seconds left, the East sal­vaged some pride and can return to the season's second half with bragging rights. 
James, who added nine assists and eight rebounds, was the MVP for the second time in three years. He also won the honor in 2006. 
"We didn't want to come out here and get beat up on again," James said. 
Amare Stoudemire, Brandon Roy and Carmelo Anthony scored 18 points apiece to lead the West, which trailed by 13 entering the fourth quarter and rallied behind New Orleans' Chris Paul. The guard's seventh assist of the final period set up Roy's layup to give the West a 122-119 lead. 
But Boston's Allen, the final player added to either roster, knocked down his second 3­pointer in 48 seconds to tie it before Paul answered with a 3 
of his own. sending the home­town crowd into a frenzy.  
Allen finally missed and James poked away the ball, and then came up with the night's most stirring moment. Slashing through the lane, Cleveland's megastar rose and  
dunked over several West defenders, much like he did in  
Game 5 of last year's Eastern Conference finals in Detroit when he scored the Cavaliers'  
final 25 points.  
Paul was called for an offen­sive foul on the West's next trip. Dwyane Wade hit a layup  
and Allen scored to make it 131-125. Roy's 3-pointer with  
8. 7 seconds brought the West within three, but Allen made  
three free throws to close it  
out.  
The weekend in New Orleans was about much more than spectacular dunks, a, game  
featuring marginal defense or collecting strings of beads  
while strolling down boozy Bourbon Street. The NBA came to the Big Easy hoping to help this special city continue  
its comeback from Hurricane Katrina, the effects of wnich  
are still being felt 2? years since she blasted through.  
On  Friday,  the  world's  
biggest basketball names as well as hundreds of volunteers  
fanned out to all sides of the city to help refurbish play­ 
grounds, paint houses and  
lend a hand with whatever they could on a day devoted to community service.  
Many of the players were moved by the experience and  
came  away with  a  greater  
sense of what the area has gone through and the monu­mental work that lies ahead in the Gulf Coast Region.  
i _j  

page I 8 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February I 8, 2008 
Rutgers 
continued from page 20 
nnd, but the ball rkodwtnd out of bounds ofT three Scarlet Knights. 
On thn nnsuing Notre Dame possession, junior guard Kyle McAiarney drained two l'ree throws. Scarlet Knight Corny Chandler missed a desp1wation 3, and thn Irish lnft Piscataway with the win . 
.Jackson was a bright spot on an otherwise ugly day for Notre Dame (I 1J-5, 9-3 Big East). The sophomore point guard had 17 points. 10 assists and eight rnbounds -two boards shy or his first triple-double. 
"My opportunities carne and I knocknd down sonw shots." .Jackson said by phonn al'ter the game. 
.ladson's biggest play came with lnss than a minute rnmain­ing and the Irish dinging to a 67­h6 lead. lie nearly lost the ball between a double-team but meoven~d enough to get it to sen­ior forward Hob Kurz, who knocked down a wide-open jumper l'or a thrnn-point lead. 
"I was driving and the guy readwd in and knocked it away," .lackson said. "They thought it was going to be a stmtl. ... It went through my legs and nobody grabbed it, so I tippml it up and boun1:ml passed it to Hob." 
Kurz. who battled the flu last wnek, linishnd the ganw with 1 I points and 14 rnbounds. 
"lin knocknd down some big shots," Jackson said of' Kurz. "That's what he dons on a daily basis." 
Notre Dame started slow but usnd a 12-3 run midway through the first hall' to open up a 10­point lead at :~4-24. The Irish lnd by night. 42-34. at half'timn. 
In the second hall', the Piscataway crowd came alive as their team went on a 14-2 run to take a five-point lead at 55-50 with 11: I l remaining. 
The Scarlet Knights held the advantage f'or live minutes until a tip-in by llarangody and back-to­hack :~-pointers by Kurz and McAlarney put the Irish ahead 65-57 with six minutes to play. 
Alaska 
continued from page 20 

totaled 32 saves in the con­test. The score would remain tied until Thang's winner. 
The Irish kept the momen­tum up Saturday night, rip­ping off a season-high 20 shots in the l'irst period. None of them got past Rogers, though, and the sen­ior linished with 40 saves. 
While Notre Dame was busy shooting, the Nanooks were busy scoring in the first period Saturday. After an apparent Adam Lee goal at 6:22 of the period was wiped off due to interference on Pearce, Alaska made its next chance count. 
On a power play, defense­man Tyler Eckford found freshman Landon Novotney alone in the slot, and Novotney unleashed a back­hand that beat Pearce between the lPgs at 8:24 of the period. 
Hogers' stnllar net-mind­ing ensured that the seore 
IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 
Irish guard Kyle McAiarney defends Friars guard Brian McKenzie dur­ing Notre Dame's 81-74 overtime win over Providence on Jan. 31. 
After Kurz's jumper, two free throws by Hutgers guard Anthony Farmer brought the Notre Dame lead back to one at 69-68. 
Farmer, who scored 16 point<>, and forward .I.H. Inman, who scored 14, led Hutgers (1 0-17, 2­12 Big East). 
Notre Dame will put its 34­game .Joyce Center winning streak on the line Thursday against Pittsburgh. 
Notes: 

+The win moved the Irish into a tin for third place in the Big East with Connecticut. At 9-3, the Irish and IIuskies are a half­game back of conference co­leaders Georgetown and Louisville. 
Like Notre Dame, Connecticut struggled with a Big East bottom­I'Pnder this weekend, def1~ating lowly South Florida 74-73 in overtime Saturday. 
+The Irish wore their blue road uniforms Sunday. Notre Dame is just 2-4 in blue this sea­son-with wins over Monmouth and Hutgers and losses to Marquette, Georgetown, Baylor, and Georgia Tech. 
By contrast, Notre Dame is 2-1 wearing its alternate road black uniforms, with wins over Villanova and Seton Hall and a loss to Connecticut. 
The Irish are 15-0 wearing white this season, with 14 home wins and a victory over Kansas State in Madison Square Garden. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
remained 1-0 until 9:55 into the third period, when sen­ior Mark Van Guilder tied tlw gamn on Notre Dame's seventh power-play ehancP of tlw night. Van Guilder carried the puek down the left boards and !'ired a shot from the left cirele that defleeted ol'f' an Alaska del'enseman and past Hogers. 
Irish eoach Jd'J' Jackson was traveling back from Fairbanks, Alaska. and could not be reached l'or comment. 
The three points give the Irish 31 on the season, only four points behind second­place Miami (Ohiol and Michigan State with four games remaining in the sea­son. Notre Dame only needs two points next weekend in two games against Ohio State to secure a top-four seed and first-round bye in the CCHA playoffs. The Irish take on the Buekeyes at 7:35 on Friday night and 7:05 on Saturday night at the JACC. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Orange 
continued from page 20 
and passed the Orange (19-5, 7-4 l to move into fourth place in the conference. 
Notre Dame has won at least 20 games in 14 of' tho past 15 seasons, and in 18 of' Muffnt McGraw's 21 seasons as head coach. 
"I think it's great l'or this 
group.. that,we got.12<~. wi?sl early, Md,raw sa1d. We ve always· used that as a baromn­tnr for getting into the NCAA Tournanwnt." 
The Irish took 

over in the "f;lllen/ was aggres­DamP hadn't paint on both sive, she was looking had two players 
nnds of tho floor manage double­
for her shot, and she
and had 14 doubles since more robounds look care of the ball. Jan. 26, 2005, 
than tlw Orange She was wire to wire against St. 
-who have .John's.
the best player

avnrag1~d an Junior guard advantage of on the floor. " Lindsay IJ.S hoards per Schrader had 12 game this sea­points, and
Muffet McGraw 

son. They kept freshman guard
Irish coach 
tlwir rebound­ing totals bal­anced as well -they had 20 on oiTnnse and 25 on defense. 
"That was critical." McGraw said. "We really needed that, especially at tlw Pnd after being ti1~d. we had a couple of grnat stops. We did some nicn things on the boards." 

Charel Allen led the Irish with 22 points and 12 rPbounds. It was the lirst time an Irish player had had at least 20 points and 10 rebounds since Allen did it last season, on Feb. 11 against DePaul. 
"This was the best game of hPr Big East season," McGraw said. "She was aggressive, she was looking for her shot. and she took care of the ball. She was wire to wire the best play­er on the floor." 
Sophomore center Erica Williamson hit eight of' her 12 free throws and had 14 points and 11 rebounds. Notre 
Brittany Mallory hit three 3­pointers for nine points. 
"(Mallory's! been shooting the ball well lately at prac­tice," McGraw said. 
Freshman guard Erica Morrow led the Orange, hit­ting all nine of her foul shots and scoring 19 points. 
Sophomore forward Nicole Michael scored 14 points, and senior center Vaida Sipaviciute added 12. 

McGraw said Morrow hurt the Irish early, but switching to the box-and-one style of defense limited Morrow's effectiveness. 
Notre Dame had previously used a box-and-one against Marquette to shut down Golden Eagles guard Krystal Ellis. 
Notre Dame led 58-51 with 
8:50 remaining but committed three turnovers and allowed Syracuse to come back. The Orange went on a 10-3 run and made the score 61-60 with 5:13 lert in the game. 
Mallory's 3-pointer with 2:12 left in the half put the Irish up 28-21, but four free throws and a layup from Michael again elosed the gap to one point. 
Senior guard Tulyah Gaines had eight assists -four more than her season average ­and two steals in the game. 
McGraw said despite reach­ing the 20-win mark, she and 

ase recycle 
her team aren't caught up in records or rankings. "We're playing really good basketball right now," she 

Observer.said. "We're not thinking 
about numbers." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

Monday, February 18, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 
E:ITHER WA-r; IT WAS/J \ l>Dr-\'T !(Now, SilT THAT t>IFF-E~NT F~DM HE SAil> I MAY HA\/E 
H.I.S I'JS"-' JOB. Al.~l>'( ~N TEN 
MI/..L-IDN f:>D/..L.ARS. 
Dl LEWIS
LOLLERSKATES 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJ1JJMrnrLrn. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
You've got 
-... 
to form four ordinary words. 
LAWRC 
1 
rJ 

©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
YAFOM 
j 
EXTORV 
WHAT THE COLLE:GE: 
STUDENT FACED
I I I 
WHEN HE: WENT TO 
v..n,.vw.jumble.com 
THE: DENTIST. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I I J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: AN 

" [II I )" [II I) 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's Jumbles: SWAMP NEWLY CATTLE MATRON 
Answer: When the hairdresser raised her fee, it was -"PERMANENT" 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 36 Graceful 67 Scene at a swimmer natural history 
Peeling knives museum
38 Nuptial agreement 68 Observed 

7 "See ya" 
10 Katie Couric's secretly39 Spotty network 69 Summer hrs. in41 Tidy savings 13 Kansas city D.C. 
where Dwight 43 Miss. neighbor 70 One doing leg. 

Eisenhower 44 of Man work 
grew up 46 Paths from here 71 Derisive looks 

15 Symbol of to there sturdiness 
47 Stretchy fabric Down17 High hit behind 

49 Self-assurance the catcher, say 
Post orTrib 

51 Family 18 Do surgery (on) 2 Residence
52 Vegetable that 19 End of a school rolls 
3 Shred 

4 Aide to Santa 20 Salves 57 Treble's 5 Old auto inits. 22"Mylife_ counterpart 6 Rebuff 
open book" 59 Thorny parts of 7 Prosperous 23 Ward off roses place 26 Safety item for a 61111 +IV 8 Kennel cries 
tightrope walker 62 Miss terribly 
Web address 53 Looks to be 

9 ......... out (barely27 Pep rally shout 64 Theory ·of the 
make)universe, or a28 Refused 10 Extreme effort at hint to the starts

30 Tallied up weight loss
of 17 -Across and 33 Neurologist or 7-. 10-, 35-and 11 Alpha,~, orthopedist 40-Down gamma ... 
12 Glimpsed ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
14 Twisty-horned fetched or
antelope 37 Aviation-related 
S K I N N Y B I T C H 'E'i> I 
54 Dodge 
r--r---'­
sighted

prefix 55 Petty
1 L T R 0 V A T 0 R E ~~ ..!:_ 
16 Musical chord 
40 Baloney 65 Card game with KIL.ATTY WEBART T E A C H E R S .pJ_ _l ~,.!!.. _!:_ 
21 Eye part 56+and-knocking

24 "Como 42 Inside of a paper 
towel roll 57 Ordered 
A N O~~NS C R A P E R 
usted?" 66 Spelling 
45 Sporting sword 58 Carbolic competition L 0 S E S B 0 A T S T 0 A 27 Abductors' 
D D E T S.F
L U 0 R I _Q_!_ 

25 Vientiane native 
AXIIS TEXTS HAUr:y:­demands For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a
K Y L S I R E E F OJN T S 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
29 Eye part E M I R A T E S !Llo~tjtoj•• Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 31 PeripheryT 0 c E L I A H A RIDIC A p 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. ~~~ B j_.£~ E A S E.R E A 
32 Lady and the Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and rnore than 2,000Tramp, e.g. 
past puzzles. nytirnes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).
i!i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~ 
33 Start a card Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforurn. Crosswords for young ..E._~..!:_ SAVESTHIEIDAY 
game solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA lAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Joseph Gordon-Levitt, 27; Paris Hilton, 27; Bryan White, 34; Billie Joe Armstrong, 36 
Happy Birthday: There should be lots of changes this year. Once you accept the in­evitable, you will excel. Look for new beginnings and show your worth and you will find peace in your new direction. This is a year to move on. Your numbers are 12, 17, 28,29,37,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Emotional matters will surface if you aren't careful what you say at home. Take the day lo pamper yourself and play with friends. Work­ing on something that will benefit you professionally will help occupy your mind. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The more receptive you are to what others say and do, the further ahead you will get. A project or hobby that interests you can be taken a step closer to where you see it going. A serious look at a relationship you are in or considering will lead to a decision. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Attend a conference or trade show or engage in con­versation with someone who has great ideas or similar interests_ Don't let an older in­dividual discourage you from pursuing your dreams. Follow your heart. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Change is in the works and, like it or not, you must carry on and follow through. Once you have put things behind you, you will benefit from the alterations made. You will learn something new about yourself and your habits. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A risk; is evident so protect your interests if you want to come out unscathed. Don't be fooled by someone's boasting. Take a wait-and-see atti­tude about putting your own money or reputation on the line. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Set the standard and speak of your findings, ideas and intentions. It won't be long before someone joins your fight to make reforms or to get things done. You will have an open invitation that you should act upon quickly. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let your emotions get the better of you. Stick to your beliefs without making a big deal out of what you want to do. As soon as you are too open or accommodating, others will take advantage of you. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oet. 23-Nov. 21): Follow your heart, your dreams and your desires and refuse to let any negative influences take hold. Now is not the time to give in. You have too much to lose and so much to gain. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be able to fool most people but some­one will be on to what you are doing. Be careful not to stretch the truth or to take ad­vantage of someone who is in a vulnerable position. Act fairly and honestly. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll be pulled in different directions. Your emo­tions will cause you to waffle; give in to someone who wants yonr undivided atten­tion. Think about your relationships with others and which are worth keeping. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): You must take action, set the stage and be the one to make the plans and follow through. You will get what you want and make a lasting impression with your friends, colleagues and loved ones. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Ifyou let your jealousy or temper take over, you will miss ont on something good. Love is in the picture, so take a passionate approach and you will get altogether different results than if you are demanding. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are emotional yet steadfast and true to the people and the be­liefs you care about. You are clever, ingenious and emotional. You are strong and loyaL 
Eugenia•s Web sites: astroadvice.comjor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________~------­Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, February 18, 2008 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Orange crushed 
Allen, Williamson get double-doubles in win 
By BILL BRINK Spons Writer 
It just hadn't been Melissa Lnehlitner's night. 

The sophomore guard was 0-for-5 from the floor, and her only two points came on free throws. But moments after eoming off the bench late in the sP.eond half, two quick jump shots salvaged her game. 
Lnehlitnnr hit a jumper with 

2:52 remaining and another with 2:17 left to spark No. 16 Notre Damn's offense on a 15­3 run en route to a 79-67 win over No. 21 Syracuse Saturday at the Carrier Dome. 
The Irish hit 1 I foul shots in the final 1:20 to widen the gap. 
Notre Dame improved to 20­5 IR-3 Big East) on the season 
see ORANGE/page 18 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish avoid upset in Piscatavvay 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Luke Harangody struggled mightily, but sophomore Tory Jackson's big game and a kny blunder by Hutgers allowed No. 18 Notre Dame to escape Piscataway, N.J., with a 71-68 road win Sunday. 
The sophomore, who was avera1:,>ing more than 20 poinl<; a game, was stymied by the Scarlet Knight defense all day. He finished the game with only 10 poinl<> on 5-for-16 shooting. 
Harangody even had a chance to redeem his day with 15 sec­onds remaining. The Irish led 69-68, and the forward stepped to the free-throw line for a one­and-one and a chance to put the lead at three points. 
Harangody missed on the front 
see RUTGERS/page 18 
HOCKEY 

Team gets three goals from 71 shots in weekend series 
CCHA) unleashed a combined with 5:11 left in the third night, notching his seventh Notre Dame goalie Jordan
By SAM WERNER 

total of 71 shots, including a period Friday night. Thang goal of the season on the Pearce managed to keep the 
Sports Writer 

whopping 41 Saturday night, received a backhand pass in power play at 15:19 of the Nanooks scoreless until 10:19 
in two games against the the slot from defenseman Kyle first period. Forward Evan of the third period, when 
Notre Damn got in its shots Nanooks (8-17-5, 8-14-5 Lawson and launched a one­Rankin fed the puck to Regan, Alaska forward Nathan against Alaska this weekend. CCIIA), but netted only three timer past Alaska goalie Wylie who was positioned at the Lawrence tied the score at 1­Unfortunately, only a few of goals in a 2-1 win and 1-1 tie. Hogers, who made 28 saves bottom of the left circle. 1. Lawrence pushed a them managed to get in the Notre Dame scored late on the night. Regan fired a low shot that rebound past Pearce, who rwt. goals in both games, induding Garrett Regan got the Irish beat Hogers just inside the far 
The Irish (21-10-3, 14-7-3 a Hyan Thang game-winner on the board first Friday post. see ALASKA/page 18 
WOMEN's lACROSSE 
Notre Dame notches lOOth victory 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame got oil' to a fast -and record-setting -start this wm1kend. 
The Irish tied a school rnmrd for goals in a 22-10 win ovnr Canisius on Friday, and then registered the program's IOOth win on Sunday against Duquesne. Both games were played at the Loftus Center. 
Tnn diiTernnt players scored for Notre Dame in its season­opening win over Canisius. 
"(;enerally, wn likn an up­tnm po, aggrnssivn-on-dnf'ense type of team," Irish coaeh Traey Coyne said before the Canisius ganw. "I guess we'll find out tonight what our style's going to be." 
If Friday was any indication, the Irish look like they will be pushing tlw tempo all season. Midf'inlder Caitlin McKinney and Byers led the team with five goals apiece. Freshman Shaylyn Blaney added four 
see RECORD/page 17 


MEN'S lACROSSE 

ND has 7 scorers in win over Loyola 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writer 

Senior attack Alex Wharton sealed a 7-6 victory for the Irish over No. 17 Loyola (Md.) Saturday in Baltimore by scoring with 3:33 remaining in the season-opener for both squads. 
The Irish used a variety of weapons oflensively, finishing with a different player scoring each of the seven goals. 
No. 10 Notre Dame started the ftrst quarter strong, netting three scores before the Greyhounds tal­lied any. Loyola ended its scoring drought with an early second­quarter score courtesy of sopho­more attack Collin Finnerty. Alter trading a few more goals, Notre Dame found itself ahead of Loyola 5-2 at the half. 
The third quarter, however, was all Loyola's. The Greyhound attaek scored three times to tie the game at five with one quarter remain­ing. 
The Irish stopped the bleeding when freshman midfielder Zach Brenneman put one past Loyola freshman goaltender Jake I Iagelin for a 6-5 Notre Dame advantage. Senior attack Shane KoppHns fimd right back and tied the game at six with fewer than seven minutes left in regulation. 
"It was a good win," Irish senior goaltender Joey Kemp said. "[Loyola! is top-20. They will beat a lot of teams (this season(. It's a win, and it's a learning experi­ence." 
Junior midfielder Dan Gibson, sophomore attaek Colin Igoe, jun­ior attack Dunean Swezey and Wharton all recorded one goal and one a<>sist lbr the Irish. Junior attack Hyan Hoff also netted a goal while sophomore attack Neal Hicks added an assist. 
On tlw defensive side. Kemp made 13 stops for Notre Dame 
see LAXERS/page 17 






