
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Darne and Saint Mary's 
ELECTION 2008 

Dome to Dome: ND alums re-elected to Congress 
Five graduates -Donnelly, Visclosky, Souder, King, Lungren -hold onto House seats in Nov. 4 election 
ByJENN METZ News Editor 
Five Notre Dame graduates -two Democrats and three Hepublicans -were re-elected to the United States House of Representatives Tuesday. 
Three of the nine House seats allotted to Indiana belong to Notre Dame graduates ­Democrat Joe Donnelly won his second term representing the 2nd District, which is partly comprised of St. Joseph County and includes the University of Notre Dame, Democrat Peter Visclosky won his 12th term in the 1st District, and Republican Mark Souder won his eighth term in the 3rd District. 
Donnelly soundly defeated his opponent, Republican Luke Puckett, with 67 percent of the vote. He graduated from Notre Dame as an undergraduate in 1977 and from Notre Dame Law School in 1981. 
Donnelly is widely known for his moderate stance within the Democratic Party. He is a pro-life Democrat, and in an inter­view with The Observer after he secured re-election, said one of the Party's biggest tests during the upcoming adminis­tration will be to reconcile positions of the liberal and moderate members of Congressional leadership. 
He told The Observer: "There are a large number of addition­al pro-life Democrats" in Congress. "We're going to pur­sue a very moderate policy moving the country forward." 
A number of students worked on the Donnelly re-election campaign, as reported in the Oct. 31 article titled "Indiana candidates prepare for elec­tion." · 
Senior Cindy Brenner, one of the students who worked for Donnelly's campaign, told The Observer in the article that she was drawn to the Congressman because of his moderate aJPproach. 
"He is a conservative Democrat, so he has the morals of a lot of the conserva­tive areas [of Indiana]," she told The Observer. 
Visclosky, a 1973 Notre Dame Law School graduate, reclaimed his seat in Indiana's District 1 with 71 percent of the vote. He defeated his oppo­nent, Republican Mark Leyva, who received 27 percent of the vote. 
Souder, who earned his MBA from the University in 1974, won Indiana's District 3, which contains the city of Fort Wayne, with 55 percent of the 
see CONGRESS/page 6 


Hunting for a good break 

Three seniors and sophomore use alurnni connections to organize a 'dream hunt' in the western United States 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT 
News Writer 

Most Notre Dame students had the chance to go home, participate in service, or catch up on sleep and studying dur­ing the break, but four stu­dents decided they needed a more "intense" break. 
Seniors Bryce Hummer, Daniel "D.J." McGill, 'Josh Miller and sophomore Jeremy Miller came up with the idea of a "dream hunt" for this fall break, since it would be the seniors' last, Hummer said. 
"We are all hunters. We hunt deer," Hummer said, "Three of us are from Indiana, 
D.J. is from Virginia. So this break we wanted to hunt out west." 
see HUNT/page 6 


Debate team competes to tourney semi-finals 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
Notre Dame's debate team made it to the semi-finals at a tournament recently, the fur­thest a varsity partner team has gone for two decades, Notre Dame senior Natassia Kwan said. 
The team recently competed in the Motor City Classic Debate Tournament at Wayne State University, located in Detroit. 
"The Motor City Classic Debate Tournament ... was very important because it was the Notre Dame Policy Debate Team's first entrance into the debate community for this 2008-2009 academic year," Kwan said. 
Team members include Kwan, junior Melissa Curvino, junior Michael Lucien, and freshman Sean O'Brien. 
The competition was from Oct. 24 until Oct. 27. 
The topic of debate this year is "reducing agrir:ultural subsi­dies," Curvino said. 
The team paired off, with Kwan and Curvino as one duo and Lucien and O'Brien the other. 
"At this last tournament our 
see DEBATE/page 4 
Fans fly to Boston for Eagles game 
Students hope long trek will result in a win for the Fighting Irish 
By HONORA KENNEY News Writer 

This week, as both the football and hockey teams journey to Boston College for what promises to be two exc:iting encounters with the Eagles, many loyal Irish fans accompany them out east. 
Senior Erin Kelly, who is from Lexington, Mass., said she'll be flying out for the games. 
"It'll be worth it," she said. ''I'm unbelievably 
see GAME/ page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, November 7, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Election Apathy? 

Notn~ Damn surprised me this election 
season. 
The stereotype ha.-; long bm~n that 
Notre Dame stud1ml'i are apathetic, 

11nawarn or just too restrained about pol­
ilies. Studenl'i hnre just don't have that 
activist spirit that 
thrives on many col­

Aaron Steiner 
lege campuses-or so thi~y say. The Observer 

News Writer 
examinnd the pnr­
ceived apathy 
among studenl'i in 
2007, citing low lnvel'i of aetivism and 

only one dnmonstration against the war 
in Iraq on campus -sponsored by an 

outside group. ("Campus struggles with 
activism, apathy," Mar. 28, 2007) 

Indeed, political party dubs on campus weren't-unW this year-allowed to use funds to campaign lor any particular eandidatn. Politics, at lea.-;t by my impres­sions, was rarely discussed in the dining ha.ll or dorms. It had been over 15 years -until this fall-that a presidential candidate visited campus, the last being Bill Clinton's visit in 1992. 
By those signs, Notre Dame looks apa­
thetic:. But perhaps a dill'erent bn~ed of 
activism and involvement is present at 
Notre Dame. 

Proli1ssor George Lopez of the Notre Dame Kroc Institute lbr International Peaee Studies told Thn Observer in March. 2007, that Notre Dame studenl'i arn "morn levelheaded" and "more judi­cious" when it comes to aetivism, political or otherwise. 
My own impressions from this fall would seem to prove that point. 

Stud1mts attendnd dozens of lectures and discussions about the nlnetion. on a variety of topics. At the evenl'i I attended, I witnessed intellectual debate that usual­ly moved beyond the rhetoric that's reha.'ilwd liJr hours on end on cable tele­vi-;ion. 
The College Jjbertarians got a presi­dential eandidatn to stop at Notre Dan1e, and while I wouldn't say that the event was heavily attended, Bob Barr's pres­ence on campus at least brought more to the table in terms of di-;cussion. 
My da.<;smates watehed the debates, and discussed their implications in the dining hall-; or before class. Although the discussion usually centered on the tim­nier moments and the catch phra.'ies ("maverick" or "Joe the Plumber," any­one?) that often were part of drinking games, that students could di'icuss the debates is testimony to their attentiveness to the events. 
Student government moved to allow campus political groups to use fund'> to promote specific candidates. 

The list eontinues: over 2,500 students voted in the mock election, many regis­tered to vote with NDVotes '08, and stu­denl'> volunteered with local and national 
eampai~-,rns. 
Notre Dame, perhaps that stereotype about politieal apathy needs re-evalua­tion. 

Sum, I didn't usually hear the loud and raucous discussion and aetivism that might be present on some eollege cam­puses. But instead, I witnessed more "lev­elheaded" and "judicious" discussion and activism that might just indicate a greater level of interest than some perceive. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, make mistakess. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE MOST PRESSING CONCERN FOR BARACK OBAMA? 


Peter Vignall Kevin "Cube" Prawdzlk 
senior senior Keenan Fisher 
"To knock down "His ability to Stanford and Barack n"'1-lhil! •• 



build an auditorium for the Keenan Revue." 

The Duncan lnterhall Football special teams units attempt to block a field goal by Siegfried. The lnterhall Football playoffs start this Sunday. 
OFFBEAT 
Thieves caught in Hungary wtth 12 pigs In car 
BUDAPEST -Two thieves were caught in southern Hungary with 12 pigs stuffed in their small van during a routine traffic check, Hungarian police said on Thursday. 
Police stopped two men in a Renault Kangoo near the town of Szigetvar, about 220 km (I 37 miles) south of Budapest, as they attempted to drive ofT. 
"The pigs weighed about 25-30 kg (55-66 lb) each -­they were really squashed into the car very tightly," a spokesman said. 
Police said the pigs came 
TODAY 

from a nearby farm, where 35 pigs have gone missing in recent days. 
Pooh sketch makes 
$50,000 

LONDON -An original drawing of A.A. Milne's pop­ular children's characters Wiimie-the-Pooh, Tigger and Piglet fetched 31,200 pounds {$50,000) at auction on Tuesday. 
The amount, which includes a 20 percent buyer's premium, comfort­ably beat pre-sale expecta­tions of up to 20,000 pounds, not including the premium. 
The oval pencil sketch by E.H. Shepard, one of chil­dren's literature's most famous illustrators, shows Pooh dipping his paw into a pot of honey while sitting at a table as Piglet and Tigger look on. 
Auctioneer Bonhams said the successful telephone bid­der was from Germany and bought the picture for his wife, a long-time Pooh fan. 
On the same day, Sotheby's announced it was offering what it called the finest single collection of Shepard's original drawings for the Pooh books to be sold at auction. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT GAME DAY SUNDAY 
IN BRIEF 

The Department of Music will be hosting Bach's Lunch: A Noontime Concert at 12:10 
p.m. today at Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Admission is free, but tickets are requirnd. Call the box office for reservations. 
Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will be having a Fall Concert tonight at 8 p.m. in Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets will be $6 gen­eral public and $:l for students. 
Health and Recreation will be holding a Skate Night tonight from 9 to 11 p.m. at the Joyce Center. Admission will be $3. and skate rental is $2. 
The play "Loyal Daughters and Sons" sponsored by the Gender Studies Program will take place tonight and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets will be sold at the LaFortune box office and are $3 for students and $5 for the public. The play addresses the diversity of approaches to sexuality and bringing awareness to sexual violence It is written, directed, produced and performed by students. 
St. Edward's Hall is hosting "ND's Got Talent!" Nov. 11 at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Auditions are Saturday, Nov. 8 at 2 p.m. in the St. Ed's Chapel (2nd floor). All talents are wel­come. There are going to be first, second, and third place prizes and it's to support Holy Cross schools in Uganda. Any questions can contact Michael Eardley a tmeardley@nd.edu 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an euent to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 




..... 


e.~~ e.
c:r: 
(,) 

* * * * * * 
0 

...... HIGH 57 HIGH 47 HIGH 43 HIGH 45 HIGH 50 HIGH 47 LOW 35 LOW 35 LOW 32 LOW 30 LOW 35 LOW 27 
Atlanta 76 I 54 Boston 62 I 52 Chicago 54 I 44 Denver 52 I 19 Houston 79 I 65 Los Angeles 75 I 54 Minneapolis 46 1 41 New York 65 I 52 Philadelphia 70 I 52 Phoenix 78 I 51 Seattle 57 I 49 St. Louis 60 I 45 Tampa 82 I 62 Washington 69 153 
Friday, November 7, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Class Gift Can1paign hosts 'Karaoke Idol' 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Simon Cowell didn't stop by to provide commentary, but Saint Mary's provided its own judges at the Class Gift Campaign host­ed "Karaoke Idol" Thursday. 
The evening began with sen­ior Laura Cronmiller and her dad singing "I Got You, Babe" by Sonny and Cher. Following that performance, sophomore Annie Molloy performed "Hit Me With Your Best Shot," by Pat Ben a tar. 
The Residence Hall Association performed "Respect" by Aretha Franklin. 
"Obviously you ladies have never met Aretha, know Aretha, or are from Aretha's generation," Saint Mary's Director of Women's Health Catherine DeCleene joked. 
Afterwards, senior Mickey Gruscinski and her father per­formed "All Shook Up" by Elvis. Saint Mary's Vice President for Enrollment Management Dan Meyer praised the duo. 
"You have raised the bar to a new standard," he said. "You have talent!" 
The next group to perform was "The Dancing Queens," a group comprised of junior Rebecca Cousino and CronmillM. 
''I'm trying to understand the difference between creative license and creativity," DeCieene said about their per­formance. 
Finally, complete with a swimsuit, towel and a large pair of sunglasses, senior Emily Croft sang "Summertime," by New Kids on the Block. 
"I had to take off points for the lack of tan," Meyer said. "It would have been better if you had been tan." 
The winners of "Karaoke Idol" were officially Gruscinski and her father, but the duo chose to decline the prizes. The prizes were then awarded to Cronmiller and her dad. Molloy came in second place, and Rothschild and her father came in third. 
The night was filled with laughter, and many students enjoyed the show. Junior Sarah Hartman attended the event. 
"It was a lot of fun," she said. 
Karaoke Idol was held to draw awareness to the Class Gift Campaign, a group that takes charge of collecting funds for each class's senior gift. 
"We really want to raise awareness to the fact that peo­ple are making a donation to the class gift campaign," said Heather Frey, the assistant director of the Annual Fund and the advisor for the Class Gift Campaign. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith03@saintmarys.edu 
Seniors ~celebrate fathers 
A.nnual Saint Mary's event brings dads to campus for fun events 
end begins Friday with a 
By MEGAN LONEY 
beer garden and silent auc­
News Writer 
tion at Haggar College Center from 5 p.m. to 7. All of the 
The Saint Mary's senior proceeds from the silent auc­class honors a long-standing tion will go to the class treas­tradition this weekend by ury. hosting Senior Dads' "We decided that a beer Weekend. About 400 daugh­garden would a great way for 
ters and their dads are expected to participate. 
This weekend allows seniors to share their life at Saint Mary's with their dads, senior class council vice president Taryn Pabst said. 
'''I'm really excited for my dad to come visit and hang 
''I'm really excited for my dad to come visit and hang out with my friends and me. It'll befun to show him what we do for entertainment while at school. , 
Dana l<rilich senior 
the dads and daughters to mingle amongst them­selves," Pabst said, "but decided to add in the silent auction, not only to raise money for our class, but to make the Beer Garden a little more fun." 
The class has reserved bowling lanes from 2 to 4 
out with my friends and me," p.m. Saturday. The bowling senior Dana Krilich said. seems to be one of the most "It'll be fun to show him what popular activities with almost we do for entertainment 200 father-daughter pairs while at school." signed up, Pabst said. After The father-daughter week-bowling, a tailgate party and 
The Siemens Competition in Math, Science and Technology is the nation's premiere math and science research competition for high school students. The Siemens Foundation provides more than $7 million annually in support of educational initiatives in the areas of science, technolo9y, engineering and math in the United States. By supporting outstanding students today, and recognizing the teachers and schools that inspire their excellence, the Foundation helps nurture tomorrow's scientists and engineers. 
www.siemens-foundation.org 
game watch at the College Football Hall of Fame is planned. 
''I'm really looking forward to the game watch at the College Football Hall of Fame," Krilich said. "I'v·e never been there and it will be more fun to be in a foot­ball atmosphere with other girls and their dads as well." 
The weekend ends Sunday with a closing mass at the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. 
Molly Dilorio and Molly Lamping are co-chairs of the Senior Dad's Weekend com­mittee, a group formed at the beginning of the year to plan this weekend and choose the activities. 
The seniors are not the only ones who are excited about this weekend. 
"My dad is super excited," Krilich said. "He's been wait­ing for this for three years He loves Saint Mary's and is going to have a blast hanging out with me and my friends." 
Contact Megan Loney at 
mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SIEMENS 

page4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 7, 2008 
Congress 
continued from page 1 

vote. !lis opponent, Democrat Michael Montagano, received 40 percent. 
Two Hepublican Notre Dame alums were re-elected to !louse seats representing New York and California. 
Peter King, representing New York's 3rd District, was re-elected to his lOth term with 64 percent of the vote. He defeated Democrat Graham Long, who received 36 percent of the vote. King earned his law degree from Notre Dame in 1968. 
Dan Lungren claimed his seeond term representing California's 3rd District by defeating Democrat Bill Durston. Lungren reeeived 50 percent of the vote to Durston 's 44 percent. 
Lungren is a 1968 graduate of the University. 
Representative Mike Ferguson, a Republican and Notre Dame graduate from New Jersey's 7th Distriet did not seek re-election in 2008. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

license, they were allowed to of the hunting and all the pic­"We made a lot of friends, hunt birds -specifically the tures, telling stories -it was and got a lot of advice, we

Hunt 

Chukar Partridge. networking but hanging out." were overwhelmed with how continued from page 1 Hummer called his experi­Hummer recommends net­much fun it was," Hummer 
ence "awesome," particularly working while still enrolled at said, "We covered miles of The students decided not to the first day of hunting. the University, since many hiking, sometimes almost go to a travel agency, or book "We spread out 50 yards alumni after graduation rock climbing and hunting a hunting tour. Their plan across the mountain and "want to meet more Notre with the dogs." was to use the Notre Dame walked up. We all got birds Dame people." It was espe-The students, who call family. the first day," cially easy to themselves the "Unofficial ND 
The seniors sent a letter Hummer said, "get a taste of Hunting Club," cooked and during the last winter break "We saw "We spread out so how the Notre ate the birds they shot while to alumni dubs in the west­antelope, Dame network they were hunting, and the
yards across the 
ern United States, explaining deer, burros, works" because surplus meat, which is "like
mountain and walked
their plan to use the seniors' horst~s and the alumni they chicken but much better," is final fall break as a hunting eagles. We up. We all got birds dealt with were being shipped to them at trip, and heard baek from the had steak excited to meet Notre Dame, Hummer said.
the first day. We saw 
Alumni club of Reno and over the fire." current Notre The logistics of the trip
antelope, deer, burros,
Northern Nevada president During the Dame students, were difficult at times, Courtney O'Mara, a 2002 two days of horses and eagles. We Hummer said. Hummer said, especially graduate. camping and "We were wor­because he had a job inter­
had steak over the 
She put them in touch with three of hunt­ried about com­view in Milwaukee at the end
fire.,
Bob LeGoy, JD '76, who "can­ing, the stu­ing off as of break. eelled his plans" to take the dents also mooching, ask­"I had to carry a suit with students hunting, Hummer made time to Bryce Hummer ing for handouts, my shotgun on this trip," said. connect with but we believed Hummer said, "But I had a
senior 
"[LeGoy) promised us a new local Notre that there's gotta great story to tell the people experience -hunting in the Dame alumni. be some alums in Milwaukee." desert mountains," Hummer They visited Apartment 21, a out there that share our Despite the challenges, said, "The first night, we went Reno restaurant owned by interests, and there were," Hummer is glad he and his to the casinos, ended up Mike Malody, '93. Hummer said, "They were as friends made the trip. sleeping for an hour, and then "We met [director of the happy about this as we were; "Praise God we weren't went on a three-day trip with Reno Alumni Club] Courtney we brought them 'camo' ND stuck back in South Bend five vehicles and hunting O'Mara and a bunch of other hats, they liked that." hanging out at Hesburgh dogs, to a raneh north of Notre Dame people, and they The alumni Hummer met Library," Hummer said. Heno." were thanking me that we were impressed with the 
While the students were pulled this off," Hummer said, group's "bold" decision to Contact John-Paul Witt at unable to obtain a big-game "We gave them a slide show make the trip. jwittl@nd.edu 
but it should still be a decent If Boston College defeats the end, freshman Tyler Thiret gold and have an image of the match up Irish in foot­said he was positive the results Boston College eagle. The


Gam.e 

because ball, it will would favor Notre Dame this shirts embody the deep rivalry BC isn't "Last week's loss doesn't be their weekend. that the two schools have
continued from page 1 

that great really effect how I'm looking S i X t h "Last week's loss doesn't always shared because of their excited." this year. straight win really effect how I'm looking at similarities.
at the next game. If anything,
Kelly plans to attend both Almost in this the next game," Thiret said. "If "I think the shirts are really the hockey and football games. everyone I I think that loss is really match-up. anything, I think that loss is funny and very true for a lot of ''I'm really excited about [the know from going to refocus the team, and Both teams really going to refocus the Notre Dame students," fresh­Notre Dame vs. Boston College the Boston have a team, and we will come back man Julia Sutton said. "Both 
we will come back even
hockey game] because it's a area here record of even stronger this week." schools are attractive to the remateh from last year and the are going stronger this week., five wins to But the Irish fans are not demographie of students at way I grew up, hockey was home for three losses, going to abandon their school Notre Dame because both are way bigger than football so it's the game, and both spirit just yet, which is made Catholic and academically
Tyler Thlret 
a different culture," she said. and also are current­evident by the amount of peo­challenging. But overall,

freshman
She's nervous about the foot­t h e i I' ly unranked. ple who have been seen Notre Dame is better." ball match up. friends In spite of around campus this week "I don't know how well we'll who have never been to the football team's overtime wearing the "Back-up College" 
Contact Honora Kenney at 

do in light of our recent play, Boston." loss to Pittsburgh last week-shirts, which are scarlet and 
hkenney@nd.edu 



Debate 
continued from page 1 

varsity team of Lucien-O'Brien eleared into semi-finals, which is the farthest a varsity Notre Dame partner team has gone for about 2 decades," Kwan said. 
They were beaten by Michigan State University, she said. 
Curvino, the president of the Notre Dame Policy Debate Team, said she and Kwan had a record of 2-4. . 
Curvino was also awarded a 5th place speaker award, out of the 16 junior varsity debaters. 
Kwan and Curvino said preparation comes in the form of reading articles and books on the subject. 
"To prepare for debates we have to write 'files' which are basically pieces of evidence compiled from various sources that we arrange into specific arguments to be used in a round," Curvino said. 
They both like the challenge of the team, though. 
"My favorite part of debate is the actual debating," Curvino said. "I like making structured arguments about different top­ics and having the evidence to support my claims right at my fingertips." 
Kwan said she enjoys keeping up with t:urrent events. 
"Debate also keeps you updated on current events and issues and teaches how to artic­ulate arguments and responses to them," Kwan said. 

"We are willing to teach any­one who wants to debate at any time," she said. "We have novice meetings every Wednesday night at 5 p.m. in the Blue Room on the 3rd floor of LaFortune where the coaches teach the fundamentals to peo­ple who are new to the activi­ty." 
The Notre Dame debate team is not a new addition to the campus. 
Kwan said the debate team has been around since the 1880s, undergoing a reawaken­ing in the past few years. 
"The team was on a 30-year hiatus until three years ago when one of our coaches, Anthony Pesce, undertook a huge effort to revive the pro­gram," Curvino said. "Thanks to Anthony and the participa­tion of many talented debaters, Notre Dame is making a come­back and is making great strides to improve the respectability of the program." 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 




Team commemorates famous Lincoln-Douglas debates 
Parliamentary Debate group will mark 150th anniversary of face-off by considering Lincoln 'house divided' quote 
By HONORA KENNEY News Writer 

The presidential debates between Sens. John McCain and Barack Obama are over and done, but this Sunday, the Notre Dame Parliamentary Debate Team will be eommemorating a series of debates that are even farther in the past. 
This year marks the 150th anniversary of the famous Lincoln-Douglas debates, the face-off between Abraham Lincoln, a Republican and incumbent Stephen Douglas, a Democrat, for an Illinois seat in the United States Senate. 
Notre Dame's Parliamentary Debate Team will be considering the famous proposition Lincoln gave during one of the 1858 debates, that "a house divided against itself cannot stand." 
Using this quote and taking into consideration the implica­tions it has for American citi­zens, the team will address sev­eral of the most polarizing topics in contemporary American poli­tics, focusing not only on the divisions present in public opin­ion on several issues, but also the history of these divisions. 
Tim Fiorta is the team's coach and a Third Year Law student at Notre Dame. 
"The team has worked very hard on this event, and I hope that our presentation will serve to spark further discussion on the issues raised," he said. 
The Notre Dame 

Parliamentary Debate Team is composed of students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross and model their debates after the British Parliamentary system. The team's competitions have taken them all over the country, including to locations in Chicago, St. Louis, Phoenix, Denver, Portland, Los Angeles and San Diego. 
"A lot of what we do in debate is very insular, just the same people competing against each other every week," he said. "It's really a treat for the team to have the opportunity to speak in a public forum, as it provides both a fresh audience and the chance to showcase our activity to others who may be interested in giving it a try down the road." 
The event will take place Sunday at 4 p.m. in room 138 DeBartolo at 4pm. All students are welcome to attend. 
Contact Honora Kenney at 
hkenney@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Friday, November 7, 2008 CoMPILED FR01\1 THE OBsERVERs WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
British man charged with terrorism 
British police charged a 43-year-old man Thursday with plotting an act of terrorism and having two improvised explosive devices, chemicals, timers, and a Nazi-themed hand­book. 
Neil Christopher Lewington was first arrested last week after police discovered a suspected explosive device when they searched him at a railway statio'n in Lowestoft. a coastal city in eastern England. 
lie was originally charged with possessing an item to cause criminal damage and was released on bail Saturday. But he was imme­diately re-arrested by Scotland Yard. 
Scotland Yard said in a statement that Lewington carried two improvised explosive devices to Lowestoft from Reading, a city near London where he lives, on Oct. 30. It said Lewington was being charged with mak­ing or. having an explosive substance intend­ed to "to endanger life, or cause serious injury to property in the U.K." 
Pope urges religious freedom 
Christians and Muslims must overcome their misunderstandings. Pope Benedict XVI told Muslim clergy and scholars Thursday as he prnssod for greater freedom of worship for non­Muslims in tho Islamic world. 
I lis meeting in the Apostolic Palace with a del­egation of scholars and other Muslim represen­tatives capped a three-day conference in Rome involving Catholic clergy and professors and Islamic experts. Benedict told participants he had followed the "progrnss" of the talks closely. 
The pope's baptism of a prominent Egyptian­born Muslim last Easter in St. Peter's Basilica upset some in the Muslim world. Benedict also angered Muslims with comments linking Islam to violence in a speech in 2006. 

Northern Plains hit by snow storm 
HAPID CITY, S.D. -A wintry blast of pun­ishing wind and more than 3 feet of snow in places pummeled the Northern Plains on Thursday, knocking out power to thousands and forcing highways to close. 
As much as 40 inches of snow fell in higher olevations of western South Dakota's Black llills as the early season blizzard caused havoc. Drills as deep as 6 feet covered roads in Spearfish. 
"It's a raging blizzard out there," said Jeff Schild. a meteorologist with the National Weather Service office in Hapid City. 
Weather problems halted or disrupted traf­fic on Interstates 80, 90 and 94 in the Dakotas, Nebraska and Wyoming. 
US has record immigration numbers 
The U.S. governmflllt arrested and deport­ed record numbers of illegal immigrants ­nearly 350,000 -in the past year. authorities say. 
It has also naturalized a record number of new Americans during the same time period, more than 1 million. 
Bush administration o11idals consider these to be great accomplishments within a system that President-elect Obama calls "broken and overwhelmed" on his transition Web site. 
"We arn seeing the kinds of results that the country hasn't seen for many years," llomeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said last month. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Fraternity disbanded due to death 
CRAWFOHDSVILLE. Ind. -Wabash College is disbanding a fraternity chapter al'ter an 18­ynar-old freshman died or accidental alcohol poisoning at it<> hous1~. 
The college says it's withdrawing recognition of the Delta Tau Delta chapter and ending its lease. Wabash officials say an investigation found "a culture and practice of ungentlemanly bohavior and irrnsponsible citizenship." 
Delta Tau Delta exneutive. vice president Jim Bussell says the Indianapolis-based l'raternity had hoped to work together with the school to rnsolve the matter. 

ELECTION 2008 
Emanuel accepts chief of staff offer 
Rep. Emanuel to fill cabinet spot, shows sh~ft in tone for Obama's temperament 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO Barack Obama is signaling a shift in tactics and temperament as he moves from candidate to president-elect, picking sharp-elbowed Washington insiders for top posts. 
His choice Thursday for White I louse chief of staff­Hahm Emanuel, a fiery par­tisan who doesn't mind breaking glass and hurting feelings -is a signilicant departure from the soft­spoken, low-key aides that "No-Drama Obama" has surrounded himself with during his campaign. And transition chief John Podesta, like Emanuell, is a former top aide to Bill Clinton and a tough parti­san infighter, though less bombastic than the new chief of staff. 
The selections are telling for Obama, who cam­paigned as a nontraditional, almost "post-partisan" new­comer. People close to him say the selections show that Obama is aware of his weaknesses as well as his strengths and knows what he needs to be successful as he shifts from campaigning to governing. 
"No one I know is better at getting things done than Rahm Emanuel," Obama said in a statement announcing the selection. 
Obama, who survived a long contest with Sen. Hillary Hodham Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination, also has made it clear hi-1 will rely heavily on veterans of her hus­band's eight-year adminis­tration, the only Democratic presidency in the past 28 years.. Podesta was President Clinton's chief of staff, and several other for­mer Clinton aides are on Obama's short lists for key jobs, Democratic officials say. Some of them helped write a large briefing book on how to govern, assem­bled under Podesta's super­vision. 
Obama himself brims with self-confidence, to the point 
ISRAEL 


that some people view him as arrogant. But to a greater degree than many presidents, he appears will­ing to lean on Washington insiders associated with other politicians. 
Still, he is also certain to bring to the White I louse a cadre of longtime aides. 
Emanuel accepted Obama's offer with 11 ges­ture of bipartisanship, addressing part of his state­ment to Republicans. "We often disagree, but I respect their motives," Emanuel said. "Now is a time for unity, and, Mr. President­elect, I will do everything in my power to help you stitch together the frayed fabric of our politics, and help sum­mon Americans of both par­ties to unite in common purpose." 
That would come as news to some Hepublicans. 
Iri contrast to Obama's collegial style and that of his top campaign advisers, Emanuel is known as a foul­mouthed practitioner of brass-knuckled politics who relishes both conflict and publicity. He once mailed a dead fish to a political foe. 
But he also earned a rep­utation for pragmatic effi­ciency, whether the goal was winning House elec­tions for Democrats or working with Republicans to enact Clinton's centrist political agenda. 
"Rahm knows Capitol Hill and has great political skills," said Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C. "He can be a tough partisan but also understands the need to work together." 
House Republican leader John Boehner of Ohio was less kind. He called his appointment an "ironic choice for a president-elect who has promised to change Washington, make politics more civil and gov­ern from the center." 
Democrats say Obama is self-assured enough to acknowledge his limitations by the appointments he makes. 


Israeli peace treaty passed to Obama 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM -The Bush adminis­tration has conceded that an Israeli­Palestinian peace deal is no longer pos­sible by the end of its term and is preparing to hand the fragile, unfin­ished U.S.-backed peace effort to President-elect Obama. 
Obama may not want it, at least as designed by the Hepublican Bush administration, seen as slow to embrace the role of honest Mideast broker. Many of Obama's foreign policy advisers were players in the Clinton administration's extensive Mideast peace efforts and are unenthusiastic about President Bush's hands-off approach. 
After months of publicly insisting that an agreement still could be sealed by the year-end deadline set by the two sides and Bush last November in Annapolis, Md., U.S. officials said Thursday for the first time it would have to wait. 
"We do not think it is likely it will happen before the end of the year," White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said in Washington after Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice acknowledged as much at the start of a Mideast trip. 
Bush has employed Rice as a goad and monitor, but not a central negotia­tor. The administration said that to be viable, any deal should come from the Israelis and Palestinians themselves. Rice's eighth visit to the region since the Annapolis peace conference had been intended as a push for urgent progress on the modest gains from a year of U.S.-sponsored talks between Israel and one part of the fractured Palestinian leadership. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, November 7, 2008 
Former FBI agent convicted of murder 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -When law enforce­ment heat got too close to Boston's notorious Winter IIill Gang, it was FBI agent John Connolly who tipped them off. Arter all, they were his prized underworld informants, the men who made him an FBI star by secretly supplying information about rival Mafia chieftains. 
Mob leaders James "Whitey" Bulg(H and Stephen "The Hif'leman" Flemmi paid Connolly handsomely, some $235,000 until his 1990 retire­ment. They even took vaca­tions together. If a turncoat or "rat" surfaced in the gang and Connolly found out, that per­son might not live mueh longer. 
One sueh murder victim was gambling exeeutive John Callahan, 45, shot dead by a Dade Circuit Judge Stanford Blake's decision to allow jurors to hear evidence of corruption not directly related to the Miami slaying. 

"What happened here is that we tried a federal (racketeer­ing) case in a state court," Casabielle said. "What they tried to do is dirty him up, to bring in as much bad stuff as possible." 
Jurors declined comment after leaving court. They were instructed by the judge that Connolly -who was hundreds of miles away in Boston at the time -did not have to pull the trigger himself or even be present at the crime scene to be convicted in Callahan's killing. 
Connolly is already serving a 10-year federal prison sen­tence in the corruption case. He was indicted in 2005 in 
hit man in 1982, Miami for the
"John Connolly swore

his body stuffed killing of into the trunk of an oath to the FBI Callahan, the 
his Cadillac to and the United States former presi­
be discovered at dent of World
ofAmerica. lie gave
M i a m i Jai-Alai. 

International up that public trust Confessed 
Airport. because he decided mob hit man Morn than two John Martorano
he would rather be a

decades later, a testified that he
gangster than an FBI

Miami jury on shot Callahan ­Thursday con­agent." at one time a victed Connolly good friend ­of second­based on
Michael Von Zamft

degree murder Connolly's

prosecutor

even though he warning that 
was hundrmls of miles away in Boston when the slaying occurn~d. Prosecutors said jurors dearly understood that Connolly's tips to the mobsters often led to a viol<>nt death. 
"lin knew what he was doing earh and twery time lw gave out information," said prosecu­tor Miduwl Von Zamf"t. 
Jurors delilwratnd about 1:~ hours over thn~e days before dtdivering tlw vnrdict following a two-month trial. Tlw jury acquitted Connolly of f"irst­degreP rnurdnr conspinu~y. but he still fa1~es a maximum of life in prison wlwn sPntenced l>ec. 
4. 
Connolly. who showed no emotion when the verdiet was rnad. long denied involvmnent in Callahan's killing. Connolly was convicted in 2002 of raek­etenring bncause of his eorrupt relationship with Bulg(~r and Flmnmi, including a 1995 tip that nnabl1~d Bulger to nscape arrnst and begin a lifn on the run that continues to this day. Bulger is one of the FBI's "Ten Most Wanted" fugitives, with a $2 million bounty for his cap­ture. 
"Unless we catch Whitey Bulger, this marks the end of what is really a sad chapter for federal law enforcmnent." said Fred Wyshak. an assistant U.S. attornny from Boston who helpnd prosecute the Florida case. "It's been a long haul." 
The story that unfolded in a Miami courtroom spanned morn than two decades of Boston's underworld. a tale that has aln~ady spawnnd sev­eral books and was the basis for tlw 2006 Martin ScorseSf1 film "The Departed." Matt Damon played a crooked Connolly-likn law enforcement oflknr and Jack Nicholson was thn Bulgnr-nsque Irish­American mobstnr. 
Connolly attorney Manuel Casabinlln said tlwrn will be an appnal hasnd in part on Miami-

the gangsters 
would probably all go to prison if Callahan talked to the FBI about an Oklahoma businessman's killing a year earlier. 
A cornerstonE' of Connolly's defense was that his job as a top FBI organized crime-buster meant dealing with unsavory characters -"top-echelon informants" in FBI parlance ­who possessed sensitive infor­mation leading to the take­down of top Malia kingpins in Boston. 
But Flmnmi. Martorano and other mob ligures testified that Connolly made sure the gang was shielded from prosecution for numerous crimes, even multiple murders, and supplied information about possible turncoats or "rats" in their own ranks that needed elimi­nation. Prosecutors said at least two other men who were FBI informants died violently boca use of Connolly's leaks. 
"John Connolly swore an oath to the FBI and the United States of America," Von Zamft said. "lie gave up that public trust because he decided he would rather be a gangster than an FBI agent." 
Callahan was killed, accord­ing to testimony, because Connolly told them the FBI was about to apply pressure on Callahan to givP up informa­tion about the 1981 killing of World J<ti-Aiai owner Hoger Whenler in the parking lot of a country club in Tulsa. Okla. Callahan had wanted Wheeler dead so he could retake con­trol of World Jai-Alai for the gang. 
Flemmi is serving a life prison sentence and admitted to 10 murders. Martorano cut a deal with prosecutors by agreeing to testify against Connolly, and spPnt 12 years in prison after admitting to 20 murders, including the killings of Wheeler and Callahan. Martorano is now a free man. 

Clover Ridge Apartments 
In Support of..... The Food Bank of South Bend, IN 

Clover Ridge Apartments is conducting a Food Bank Drive from Nov. 3rd to Nov. 15th, to help out the less fortunate in our community. 
We will be accepting canned goods and dry products at The Office. A container will be placed outside The Office door for you to put your food donations in. 
Please join us and help those in need for the Thanksgiving Holiday. 
Any questions regarding the Food Bank Drive feel free to call our office at (574) 272-1441. 
Thank you to ALL who participate!!!! 

-[HE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Friday, November 7, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 
Jones 8,695.79 -155.43 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
598 50 2,893 1,938,611,986 
AMEX 1,388.85 .;63(6~~~ NASDAQ 1,608.70 -72.94 NYSE 5,667.40 -344.170 S&P 500 904.88 -47.89 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,399.49 -499~65, FTSE 100 (London) 4,272.41 -258.32 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR s&P 500 (SPY)  -5.54  -5.33  90.86  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -4.47  -1.43  30.56  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -6.87  -1.03  13.96  
ISHARES MSCI E.M.I.F. (EEM)  -5.04  -1.21  22.79  
Treasurie,;  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.35  +0.013  3.707  
13-WEEK BILL  -17.11  -0.060  0.310  
30-YEAR BOND  +1.11  +0.046  4.200  
5-YEAR NOTE  -1.00  -0.025  2.487  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -4.53  60.77  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -10.20  732.20  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  0.00  83.80  
Exchange Rates  
YEN 97.0750 EURO 0.7866 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.1986 BRmSH POUND 0.6402 


IN BRIEF 
Outlook grim after bleak October 
NEW YORK -Retailers suffered through the weakest October in at least 39 years, despite frenzied price cutting as they desper­ately try to pull in consumers who are too worried about their finances to shop. 
The sales tallies from major retailers on Thursday -many showing declines of 10 percent or more -suggests that shoppers will remain skittish through the holiday sea­son, buying presents for children but not much else. 
"There was every reason for consumers not to shop," said Walter Loeb, a New York-based retail consultant. "Layoffs are rising, the stock market is tumbling. Consumers are feeling poorer." 
One of the few bright spots was Wal-Mart Stores Inc., whose results show how much frugal consumers are focusing on necessities. The world's largest retailer also said it will cut prices on items from toys to laptops over the next seven weeks. Department store 
J .C. Penney Co. is also offering extended hours and markdowns of up to 60 percent this weekend. 
The stunning and rare drop in sales last month. following an already weak September, showed the toll the financial crisis is taking on all shoppers, from teens to the affluent, and analysts expect no recovery until at least the second half of 2009. 
Productivity slows in third quarter 
WASIIINGTON -The efficiency of U.S. workers slowed sharply in the summer as a huge pull back by American consumers threw the national economy into reverse. 
The Labor Department reported Thursday that productivity -the amount an employee produces for every hour on the job -grew at an annual pace of 1.1 percent in the July-to­September quarter, down from a 3.6 percent growth rate in the second quarter. 
With productivity growth slowing, labor c:osts picked up. Unit labor costs -a measure of how much companies pay workers for every unit of output they produce-increased at a :{.6 percent pace in the third quarter, com­pared with a 0.1 percent rate or decline in the prior period. 

Wall Street plunges for second day 
Prompted by waning consumer demand and weak October sales reports 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK --Wall Street plunged for a sec­ond clay, triggered by com­puter gear maker Cisco Systems warning of slump­ing demand and retailers reporting weak sales for October. Concerns about widespread economic weakness sent the major stock indexes down more than 4 percent Thursday, including the Dow Jones industrial average, which tumbled more than 440 points. 
Major indexes have lost about 10 percent since Barack Obama was elected president-a vote preced­ed by a steep rally -and the losses represent the Dow's worst two-day per­centage decline since the October 1987 crash. 
Paper losses during that time in U.S. stocks came to $1.2 trillion, according to the Dow Jones Wilshire 5000 Composite Index, which represents nearly all stocks traded in America. 
Comments from Cisco that it saw a steep drop in orders in October and reports from retailers that consumers are skipping trips to the mall provided fresh evidence of the econ­omy's struggles. Worries about automakers and the financial sector compound­ed investors' unease. 
A day ahead of Friday's interconnected," said Ed troubles. the weak economic read­key October employment Hyland, global investment Still, the market's two­ings aren't a surprise report, a widely watched specialist at J.P. Morgan's day slide follows an enor­because of the freeze in barometer of the econo­Private Bank. "This is mous run-up since last credit markets that has my's health, the Labor something that we haven't week so some pullback disrupted lending and Department said the num­really seen, this level of was expected, analysts other economic activity ber of people continuing to this rapid and significant said. Through the six ses­since the mid-September draw unemployment bene­pullback both in the mar­sions that ended Tuesday, bankruptcy of Lehman fits jumped to a 25-year ket and the economy." the benchmark Standard & Brothers Holdings Inc. high. The increase by Thursday's rout follows a Poor's 500 index surged Campagna said the light 122,000 to 3.84 million in drop of more than 5 per­18.3 percent. volume and overall fear late October marked the cent in the market Richard Campagna, chief among investors is exacer­highest level since late Wednesday that saw the investment officer at bating the market's volatil­February 1983, when the Dow plunge nearly 500 Provident Investment ity. economy was being buffet­points as investors fretted Counsel in Pasadena, "Some people are push­eel by a protracted reces­that weak readings on Calif., contends the mar­ing this market around sion. employment and downcast ket's pullback isn't surpris­more than they should be 
"The economy is in a profit forecasts and job ing given the size of the out of fear," he said. pretty significant downturn cuts from financial compa­recent run-up, which gave "Many everyday investors and I think that is broad­nies to steelmakers sig­the Dow its best run in 34 are sitting on the side­based because it is all naled broad economic years last week. He said lines." 


Chicago cashes in on Obama's victory 
Service will allow. for title ·of "most famous Chicagoan." 
Associated Press "They want to see the house, and, That's become particularly true for CHICAGO-Chicago's tourism Web hopefuily, they might get a glimpse of international visitors, said Laura site beckons visitors to "experience him," Williams said Thursday. "He's Baginski, features editor for the week­the city the Obamas enjoy." The almost like a rock star." ly entertainment magazine Time Out .Illinois Bureau of Tourism plans to Nearby, a restaurant has sold 3,000 Chicago, which has published a self­launch a three-day getaway promo­T-shirts that read "Obama Eats Here," guided tour that includes the tion featuring Barack Obama sites. and a hand-lettered sign in the win­University of Chicago Law School, And tour guides at the Old State dow of S7th Street Books congratu­where Obama taught, and the Hyde Capitol in Springfield may get new lates "longtime cuslomer" Obama, Park Hair Salon & Barber Shop. scripts to stress two important who has shopped there since 1986. "I don't know if we're quite pre­speeches the president-elect made as "They ask, 'What does the senator pared for the attention we're going to a candidate. like to read?"' Jack Cella, of the coop­get," Baginski said. "I think people are It's all part of Illinois tourism offi­erative that runs the bookstore, said interested in seeing where he eats, cials' rush to capitalize on the Obama of touring customers. "They buy seeing where he gets his hair cut." buzz. copies of his book and say they want­Travel agencies from around the A security perimeter surrounds the ed to buy it in the bookstore he shops globe have been phoning for informa­Obamas' block in Chicago's Hyde Park in." tion, and the Chicago Convention and neighborhood, but tourism office vol­A household name outside Illinois Tourism Bureau is in the thick of an unteer Catherine Williams still tries to for just a few years, Obama appears Obama-focused Internet marketing get visitors on walking tours as close to be quickly edging out Michael campaign, said Mark Theis, agency's to the family home as the Secret Jordan, Oprah Winfrey or Al Capone executive vice president. 
.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----­
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, November 7, 2008 
Gay marriage ban causes IJrotest 
Legal experts believe new law will lead to uncertainty and political 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO llundrnds of protesters took to the strents Thursday over California's new han on gay marriagn, amid dnepening political turmoil and legal eon­fusion ovnr who should have the right to wnd. 
Legal nxperts said it is unelnar wlwtlwr an attempt by gay-rights activists to overturn the prohibition has any ehanee of suecnss, and whether the I H,OOO same-sex marriag11s pnrformed in California over the past four months are in any danger. 
California votnrs Tuesday approvnd a constitutional anwndnwnt disallowing gay marriage. The mmtsure, which won !J2 percent approval, ovnrrides a California Supn~me Court ruling last May that briefly gavn same-sex couples thn right to wed. 
On Thursday, about 1,000 gay-marriagn supporters dnmonstratnd outsidn a Mormon tnmple in the Westwood snetion of Los Angeles. Sign-waving demon­strators spilled onto Santa Monica Boulevard, bringing aftnrnoon traflic to a halt. The 
temple was targeted because the Mormon church strongly supported the ban on gay mar­riage. 
''I'm disappointed in the Californians who voted for this," said F. Damion Barela, 43, a Studio City resident who married his husband nearly live months ago. lie noted that nearly 70 pnrcent of black vot­ers and a slight majority of II ispanic voters voted for the ban. 
"To them I say. 'Shame on you because you should know what this feels like,"' he said. 
Some spectators cheered from apartment balconies; one person threw eggs at the marchers. Two people were arrestnd after a confrontation betwnen the crowd and an occupant of a pickup truck that showed a banner support­ing the amendment. 
On Wednesday night, police in Los Angeles arrested seven people as more than 1,000 prol!~stnrs bloek1HI traffic in West Ilollywood. One man was wrestled to the ground by police after he jumped up and down on the roof of a squad ear. Another man was clubbed by police. Hundreds of protest­ers also gathered on the steps of San Francisco's City Hall, some holding candles and car­rying signs that read, "We all dflserve 1he freedom to marry." 

Gay-marriage proponents filed three court challenges Wednesday against the new ban. The lawsuits raise a rare legal argument: that the ballot measure was actually a dra­matic revision of the California Constitution rather than a sim­ple amendment. A constitu­tional revision must first pass the Legislature before going to the voters. 
"Where do you draw the line between 'revision' and 'an amendment' when those are words in conversation we would use interchangeably?" asked Erwin Chflmerinsky, dean of the University of California, Irvine law school. "It's a highly technical legal question in a highly charged political atmosphere." 
Andrew Pugno, attorney for the coalition of religious and social conservative groups that sponsored the amendment, called the lawsuits "frivolous and regrettable." 
"It is time that the opponents of traditional marriage respect the voters' decision," he said. 
SAUDI ARABIA 



Hunger strike held in hope of reform 
Associated Press 
RIYADH -A group of Saudi activists began a rare public hunger strike Thursday to demand judiciary reform and draw attention to the detention without trial of 11 political reformists. 
The 65 mostly male protest­ers plan to continue the strike they are holding in their homes on Friday. Their action in a country that bans public gath­erings, protests and political parties could land them in jail. 
Mohammad af-Qahtani, one of 13 aetivists who called for the protnst, said the group resorted to the strike after the government failed to respond to letters sent to influential olli­cials asking them to release the reformists, improve prison con­ditions and reform the legal system. 
"We used all legal means to make our voice heard but we were ignored," said al-Qahtani, a college professor. "That's why we don't fear any government retribution." 
The jailed reformists ineludP Matrook al-Faleh, a human rights activist who was detainml in May for adv01:ating constitutional reform, and 10 other activists jailed in Jiddah in 2007. 
The 13 men posted a state­ment on the sodal networking site Facnbook to am11iunce the strikn and urge other Saudis to participate. Fifty-two people have so far signed up to join the 13 activists. They include writers, lawyers and college students. 
Al-Qahtani said the partici­pants chose to stay at homo because "we don't want a con­frontation with seeurity forc1~s." 
"Freedom of expression and the freedom to gather are both ban ned." he said. "We don't want to have problems with security forces that would not lead to any results." 
AI-Qahtani said thenl was no government reaction so far to their calf. Government oflicials could not be reached Thursday, the start of the weekend in Saudi Arabia. 

Employees at Ford, GM concerned over expected cuts 
Automakers announce billions in losses during the worst economic crisis in decades, decrease in product development 
after their CEOs traveled to expects GM's cash balance to fall car and crossover plants on a dramatic reduction of its facto­
Associated Press 

Washington to make the case for to $5 billion next year, "below Friday. ry work force with buyouts and 
DETROIT -With their federal aid for the industry. the company's $14 billion mini­'Tm not going to worry about early retirement offers, had employers poised to announce "I haven't heard nothing spe­mum working cash needs." things I can't control, but defi­about 125,000 U.S. hourly billions morn in losses and fur­cific, but we are worrmd," said Johnson estimated that Ford nitely I'm eoncerned," said Jefl' employees in 2003 and expects ther job cuts on Friday, it's worry James Kendall, president of burned $2.3 billion of cash last Carter, vice president of a UAW that to be 62,500 by the end of time once again at General UAW Local 23, which represents quarter and will end 2008 with local that represents 4,200 this year. Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. workers at GM's parts-stamping $20.1 billion, but unlike GM, it workers at a Ford truck, car and Workers at GM's parts stamp­factories across North America. factory in Indianapolis. will get through 2009 without stamping complex in Wayne, ing factories are particularly 
Both companies are spending "Absolutely, we're worried. Who reaching the minimum required near Detroit. "If the banking concerned. CEO Hick Wagoner billions morn than they're mak­knows what's going to happen?" to run the company. With no industry doesn't loan the eus­said last month that the compa­ing amid the worst economic cri­Kendall's concerns were sales improvement next year, tomers money, there will be ny will have to make more sis in decades. echoed at Ford and GM factories Johnson expects Ford's cash bal­nobody to sell products to no reductions at stamping opera­
Both say that factory produc­elsewhere as workers braced for ance to remain above the $10 matter what you've got to offer." tions. The company earlier this tion needs to reflect declining cuts and waited to learn if the billion minimum, he wrote in a Ford shed 3,000 workers with year announced the closure of sales, whieh means job cuts. government will toss their com­note to investors. another round of buyout and four pickup truck and SUV 
According to Ford's top sales panies a lifeline. GM sales were down 45 per­early retirement offers to factory plants, but has yet to fully make analyst and two pnople brinfed Industry analysts say Ford and cent in Oetober and 20 pereent workers mainly in Ohio and corresponding cuts in engine, on GM's plans, neither automak­GM likely are spending around through the first nine months of Michigan. The ofl'ers expired last transmission and stamping opnr­er is planning to announce facto­$1 billion a month above their the year, according to Autodata week, but more cuts may be ations. 
ry closures, although they are revenue. With credit markets Corp., while Ford sales were ofT needed. likely to cut production by elimi­frozen and their credit ratings 30 percent last month and 19 For.d's top manufacturing nating shifts, banning overtime cut to junk, both have had dilli­percent through October. executive told union officials in or temporarily shutting down eulty borrowing more money, Overall, October U.S. sales were September that Ford has 4,200 plants. The people did not want raising the prospect that they down 32 percent, and October's more blue collar workers than it to be identified because GM's could run short of cash. seasonally adjusted annual sales needs. plans an~ confidential. Bardays Capital analyst Brian rate was the worst in 25 years. With the new cuts, Ford has 
GM also is expected to slow its Johnson on Thursday estimated Automakers blame tight credit shed around 41,000 hourly product development schedule, that GM burned through $4.2 markets and shaken consumer workers since 2006, mainly delaying some models and billion of cash in the third quar­eonfidence. through early retirement and engines at least for a short time. ter and will end 2008 with $15.9 George Pipas, Ford's top sales buyout offers. With the new euts 
Both automakers, though, are billion. analyst, said the company the company will have about expeeted to report huge losses With no sales improvement already has cut a lot of truck and 42,000 hourly workers in the when they n~lease third-quarter expeeted next year and without sport utility vehicle production U.S. results on Friday morning, a day government aid, Johnson and will announce cuts at some GM, which also has undergone 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
Serving Lunch c_., Dinner Come Dine With Our Family And Be Our Friend! 
Tues-Sat 11-2; 4-9 Closed Sun & Mon 
Our Specialties Include Exquisite 

115 Db.ic Way North, South Bend (574) 277-7239 



Atnas.•••2
SP••••..•• ca1er 
574.271.8804 
Starting October 22-November 7, 2008, Atria Salon 2 will be offering the following promotion: Haircut, color or highlights: $79.00reg.125 MUST PRESENT AD: Walking distance from Notre Dame, inside the Martin's shopping plaza off of Ironwood & South Bend Ave. MONDAY -SATURDAY 

Associated Press 
BAGRAM AIR BASE Afghan tribes are needed as crucial battlefield allies against the Taliban and other extrem­ists in the same way local mili­tias rose up to oppose insur­gents in Iraq, the new military overseer of America's two wars said Thursday. 
The tactic has long been endorsed by Gen. David Petraeus-the former top U.S. commander in Iraq whose out­reach to Sunni sheiks helped oust al-Qaida-inspired militants from key areas and sharply decreased attacks. 
But his latest comments -on his first trip to Afghanistan since taking charge of U.S. Central Command last week ­appeared aimed at pressing the Afghan leadership to recognize the need for tribal militia allies at a time when violence in Afghanistan is at its highest levels since 2001. 
It also reflects Washington's expected shift in military focus from Iraq to Afghanistan and the neighboring tribal areas in Pakistan, which President-elect Barack Obama has described as the main showdown against the resurgent al-Qaida, Taliban and other militants. 
"This is a country in which support of the tribes, of the local communities, for the overall effort is essential," Petraeus told The Associated Press at the massive Bagram Air Base north of Kabul. He added that Afghanistan has not had "a tradition of central gov­ernment extending into the far reaches of its provinces and its districts." 
Petraeus declined to discuss details of efforts -spearhead­ed publicly by President Hamid Karzai's government -to bring Afghan militiamen into the battle alongside Afghan forces, U.S.. soldiers and other NATO-led troops. 
Yet Afghanistan poses even more potential complications than the so-called Awakening Council movement in Iraq. 
More than 150 major tribes range across the eastern and southern border lands with Pakistan -where the majority of the extremist attacks occur -and any military alliances with selected groups risk stir­ring rivalries and internal power struggles in regions out­side central government con­trol. 
The tribes in the areas are almost exclusively Pashtun, the majority group in Afghanistan. Perceptions of special favors to already powerful Pashtun tribes -including pay and pos­sible weapons supplies -could bring backlash from other eth­nic groups with their own mili­tiamen and warlords that clashed in brutal civil wars in the 1990s. 
In Iraq, the equation was dif­ferent: the Awakening groups came mostly from the minority Sunnis who lost their privileged status with Saddam Hussein's fall. Now, the Shiite-led Iraqi government is under pressure from Washington to incorpo­rate the militias into the securi­ty forces. 
The Pentagon did not provide weapons directly to Awakening allies in Iraq. But Petraeus left open the possibility that Karzai 



...Now Hiring .... 
2009•2010 


Resident Assistants 
APPLICATIONS ARE A~VA~ILABLE ONLINE AT: 
ORLHeNDeEDU 
APPLY BEFORE fRIDAY, JANUARY 16,2009 


OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE: AND HOUSING 
305 Main Buillding I Notre Dame, llndiana 46556 Phone: 574.631.5878 I E-Mail: orlh@nd.edu 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Friday, November 7, 2008 The Observer +INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
.AFGHANISTAN 
U.S. needs tribes as battlefield allies 


could offer arms in exchange for tribal alliances. 
"We will certainly support what President Karzai decides to adopt," said Petraeus. "We traditionally have not armed tribes ... But again, we have to see how that evolves here and see what kinds of initiatives and structures might be looked at." 
Antonio Giustozzi, an Afghanistan expert at the London School of Economics, said the tribal groups are need­ed to cover the shortage of reg­ular forces for the entire coun­try: 67,000 Afghan soldiers, about 78.000 police and more than 60,000 U.S. and other for­eign troops. 
But he questioned whether the tribal chiefs would have the will to fight the Taliban as it strengthens and rebuilds its network in the border regions. 
"The assumption is that there are many community leaders who are anxious to fight the Taliban, although I suspect that may no longer be the case in most areas," said Giustozzi. "In the end, I believe it will boil down to bribing people into joining militias. How military effective these are going to be remains to be seen." 
Across the border in Pakistan, the government in Islamabad has already started arming tribal militias for roles as front line forces against al­Qaida and Taliban safe havens . 
And -like in Iraq -the pay­back from extremists can be deadly. Dozens of government­allied tribesmen have been killed in recent attacks in Pakistan. 
The message is clear to any Afghan tribal leader weighing offers to join Kabul's fight. A senior foreign diplomat in Kabul, who has long experi­ence in tribal relations, said there is a risk the effort could backfire if tribes are seen as battling on behalf of foreign troops. 
The diplomat spoke on condi­tion of anonymity because he did not want to speak publicly on internal Afghan affairs. 
Gen. David McKiernan, the top U.S. general in Afghanistan, said in a recent interview with the AP that he is "absolutely ready" to reach out to tribes as an auxiliary force. He noted, however, that any deals would have to be in "connection with the Afghan government." 
In Afghanistan, U.S. and other foreign troops use local militiamen for security at some bases. But the efforts so far have concentrated on training the country's fledgling security forces. 
In the interview, Petraeus said the war in Afghanistan is closely intertwined with the fight in Pakistan, and they need to be tackled together. 
But escalating U.S. missile strikes in Pakistan's tribal region -at least 17 since late summer -have strained Islamabad's ties with Washington despite some apparent successes against extremists. 
Petraeus said recent U.S. missiles have killed three of the top 20 extremist leaders in Pakistan's border zone. He did not identify the leaders killed, but described the attacks as "hugely important." 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, November 7, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notr< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notr< Dame, IN 46556 
EmroR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USINF.SS MANAGER Jay Firzparrick John Donovan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler Assi~ MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jcnn MerL 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Bill Brink Dan Murphy ScENE EDITOR: An;1lisc Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz llarrcr 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAJ>JIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVlillTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
An DF.~IGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarty 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 63I-6927 
ADVERTISING 
('574) 63 I -6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('574) 63 I -4'542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63I-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(S74) 63I-5323 obsnews.J@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
('574) 63 I-'5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. I @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.t·du 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 63 I -8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not gowrned by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer rcscrvt-s the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commt•ntarics, letters and columns presenr the vit-ws of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe ()bservt·r. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The frt'C t•xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must inClude contact ini(Jrmation. 
Qumiom "Karding Obsm,er policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'fltc llhwm·r (USPS "t•)lJ 2-ilMIO) '•JttthtiJI~rl Mnml•y rhr~mgh Frido~y CXl.'t'pf durmg n;un ;t(\d ,..........t1UilJ~mKk. A tUhacrtpriou tO The Ol'!«:rV'l"r j, $1 no fur unc acadrtnk year; S'i5 ror UIIC!ICniCll((f. 
lbc Oh~~ervcr u. puhliah«< .11 UH Suuth DuunK ll.tll Se-nd .uldrel$ turrtctimu m: Nntrc 0.1.mr.IN -41\5%--0771} TitcOh~ervc-r l't:r~odk:aJ p<MI.l((C p.1iJ .u Nnrrc 0.1mc: ro 11uxn9 and .utdiu<~nJim.ulmg utlico. 024 South Dinmg Hall 
Nunc Dame, IN 46'5~t-0779 
The Olwrwt i1 a member of rhc: A»ocu.ted Pra,, All rcproducrion rtt\lu~ 111c n:~ervcd. 

Congratulations 
Congratulations, America. Shortly after 11 p.m. on Nov. 4, you decisively elected a new president. 
This man, whose belief that anything is possible for those who are so blessed to live in this nation, took our country by storm, and changed it forever. 
By Plecting Barack Hussein Obama to its highest ol'l1ce, America has proven that a nation founded on the ideals of equal opportunity can, and truly does, exist. 
This is a different America than it was just three days ago. An era of great change is upon us. 
Supporters of both parties understood that need for change -the voter turnout for this election might be the highest in a century. The excitement and anticipation surrounding the end to the Bush administration has electrified America, OTHE 
BSERVER
awakening it from a slumber of political apa­mises, to bridge our difTerenees, and help thy, and transforming it into a nation of restore our prosperity. defend our seeurity in a action. dangerous world, and leave our children and
Editorial 
stronger than the lines that divide us in order for this nation to overcome the immense problems we face. 
Obama called upon Americans Nov. 4 to "join in the work of the remaking of this nation the only way it's been done in America for 221 years-block by block, brick by brick, calloused hand by calloused hand." 
Sen. John McCain's gracious concession speech and Obama's humble victory speech both addressed the fact that though we may disagree on politics, that though we may identify with red or blue, we are a people that must come together to enact the change so desperately needed. 
"I urge all Americans," McCain said. "I urge all Americans who supported me to join me in not just con­
gratulating him, but offering our next president 
our good will and earnest effort to lind ways to 
come tog(~ther, to lind the necessary eompro­
Students of Notre Dame: 
Your dedication to this election, your expression of your beliefs and your involvement shows that as a University, we can be passionate about more things that football. 
The voice of the youth of America was heard loud and clear, regardless of what side of the political spectrum you stand. 
We were on CNN Election Night. Notre Dame. St. Joseph County was one of the most coveted counties to win in Indiana. Together, we debunked the misconceptions that our University sits in a bubble in the middle of the country. We are politically informed. We came out in unprecedented numbers to fulfill our civic duty. We let our next president know the issues that matter to us most. 
Our generation will most strongly feel the effects of the new administration's efforts to pull our nation back togeth­er, to fix our economy and to bring us home from war. 
In this time of a momentous cultural shift for America, we must remember that the ties that unite us must be 
grandchildren a stronger, better country than 
we inherited." 
Both men identified themselves as Americans -not as Democrats, not as Republicans, but as Americans, a title they called the citizens of this nation, who were divided over this historic contest, to embrace. 
The hope for a better America rests on our shoulders. Remember the effect your opinions, your ideas, your action had on this nation this week, remember you can make dif­ference. 
No one can deny the seismic difficulties that still lie ahead. 
As Obama told the hundreds of thousands with him in Chicago, and the millions watching around the world. we face the challenges of "two wars, a planet in peril, the worst financial crisis in a century." 
But, for now, congratulations, America, and congratula­tions Notre Dame. 
You made your voices heard and you have become a part of history. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Lorenzo Reyes Ashley Charnley Alex Barker 
Amanda Gray Scene Viewpoint Stephanie DePrez Kara King Graphics 
Andrea Archer 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
Observer Poll 
How far will the NP men's basketball team go? Voles Percentage 
Sweet Sixteen 302 '27% "Any fool can criticize, condemn and Elite Eigbt 271 ,;{'WII/ complain -and most fools do. " Final Four appel![allce l47 "'t3% 
National Champions 147 
Dale Carnegie Lose on 2nd weekend at NCAAs 128 American self-help guru 77 
'"[HE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Friday, November 7, 2008 
page 11 
Halloween's ove1~, but ... 
That doesn't mean we're safe. 
There is a potentially (un)deadly cri­sis for which, despite our readiness for every other conceivable emergency, we have not yet prepared. 
The crisis of zombies. 
Katherine
Yes, zombies. As in 


Khorey
the flesh-eating undead, not the mis­
Both Sides 
spelled drunk streaking 
Now 
kind. 
We'd all like to think we'll never have to face an uprising. Some of us say we can't even be sure if zombies exist. 
Then again, according to others, we couldn't be sure about unicorns, either. 
So what if? 
Just to be on the safe side, let's run through our campus zombie outbreak survival plan. We'll call this system the Five Be's. 
1. Be Calm. If you've read any reports of local zombie activity before now, then you may already be somewhat prepared to face it yourself. Those of us who always skip to The Observer cross­word, however, may be taken aback when everyone's phone goes off in the middle of philosophy. 
Don't lose your head when you read your text message. Don't lose your head when you discover the nature of the emergency. And don't lose your head when your TA wants to eat your brain. 
Take a breath. Arter the alarm, you'll probably find 

out more details about the hungry undead as you gripe around the DeBartolo lobby with a few equally dis­gruntled friends. You'll look out the window and see someone you may know shuffle menacingly past, sans left arm. And I mean shuffle. 
Again, don't lose your head. These next few days, you're going to need your brain. 
2. Be Brave. Find your courage. 
Breathe deeply. Say a prayer. Kiss that hattie from Econ. Crack a joke, however weak ("Hey, who moved that statue of Torso Guy from outside O'Shag?"), and make someone else try to smile. You'll both feel better. 
Or think of that one thing that really, really terrifies you. Like Furbies. Or quesataters. Or Torso Guy. Ask yourself if, in comparison, zombies are really so bad. My roommate would be quick to tell you that she'd rather tolerate zom­bies than spiders, though you can't kill a zombie with your copy of The Red Queen. Maybe if Matt Ridley had cited enough concrete evidence ... 
Anyway, deal with the outbreak just as you'd deal with your Chemistry midterm. Don't be overwhelmed. Just focus on living through it. 
Because unless you're some breed of copy editor who can live indefinitely off day-old donuts in the South Dining Hall basement, you will have to take steps to defend yourself and Our Lady. 
3. Be Ready. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


The election in perspective 
Obi-Wan: "I have something here for you. Your father wanted you to have this when you were old enough, but Obama wouldn't allow it. He feared you might fol­low the old Maverick on some damn fool idealistic crusade like your father did." 
Luke: "What is it?" 

Obi-Wan: "Your father's income. This is the weapon of a capitalist, not as clumsy or random as welfare; an elegant weapon for a more civilized age. For over a thou­sand generations, the Republican Party was the guardian of peace and justice in the Old Republic. Before the dark times ... before Obama." 
Chris Schiraldi sophomore Alumni Hall Zach Reuvers sophomore Alumni Hall Nov.6 
Novv vvhat? 

So, the greatest and most highly anticipated election in our nation's storied histo­ry is finally over. 
Finally. 

So, now what? Well, with all the post-election celebrating, post-election melt­downs and post-election analyses ranging from CNN to the most uneducated poli-sci major at your friendly local state school, we definitely have our hands fuU until Barack Obama does take his seat on the throne. However, rather than spending our minutes engaging in wild amounts of saturnalia, I suggest an alternative path: liv­ing. 
What were you doing before the election? Probably preparing to watch, discuss, and mull over every detail of it with your friends, family, and anyone who would lis­ten to you babble. (If you did not do this, congratulations, you are in a far better place, I'm sure.) However, for you election die-hards, here's a suggestion ... Go about your daily lives. Celebrate, or if you lost, be disheartened. But here's the thing -Senator Obama, as he must be known until Jan. 20, is most likely not going to change the course of history during his next four years in office. 
But, with all faith and luck, hopefully every student at our hallowed University will make the local community and the world at large a better place in that short time period. Whether you will go to a foreign country and spend months try to improve the lives of persons without daily necessities, or you invent something that revolutionizes a particular industry, or if you recycle and visit a homeless shelter in your local community, anything is better than doing nothing. 
So I implore and encourage you, students of Our Lady, to go out there and be the change that you want to see. Yes, change has come to our politics, and we must all support one leader. But we cannot stop there, for more change is coming, in the form of you and me. This is the day, and you are the future. 
Tony Piskurich 
sen1or 

off-campus Nov. 6 
You won't know how long the out­break will last. Bolting out of O'Shag may not be an immediate option. You may be stuck with a Theology professor who holds it as an article of faith that his class is at least as vital to your sal­vation, and as obligatory, as Mass. 
But you will have to leave at some point: the chicken fries in Waddick's just won't hold out forever. 
Be prepared to fight when you step outside. Arm yourself. You don't have to violate DuLac: to quote Ludo, "anything can be a weapon if you're holding it right." If you don't have access to an appropriate piece of sporting equip­ment (after all, I've never seen a non­plastic cricket bat in tbe United States), then put your Calculus textbook o1· Norton Anthology to good use. Tie the book up in a jacket or pillowcase, and take a few practice swings before going outside. Remember to aim for the head. 
4. Be Smart. Or, better put, be "spe­cial." 
Remember what you're doing at Notre Dame, and do it to the best of your ability. Design and build barri­cades for the stairs (zombies won't know how to use the elevator). Or bet­ter yet, design and build a trebuchet. Ration and distribute food. Sing Vespers. Put together attractive living spaces. Take your Russian or Chinese or Arabic and check up on the other side of the world. Practice whatever skill you've been honing for the past however many years. As for those of us without practical skills ... well, we'll read Paradise Lost aloud to everyone in the evenings after the cable goes out. 
But for this system to work, everyone must participate with the right attitude. 
5. Be Nice. Or, be "human." 
Be generous and helpful to those in need. If you have five unopened jars of peanut butter sitting around, run one up to those Classics enthusiasts camp­ing out on the eleventh floor of Hesburgh or those film majors huddled in the DPAC basement, where the vend­ing machines only take exact change. If you live on the second floor or above, let a refugee from the ground floor crash on your futon (unless she appears unable to use the elevator). Have patience with everyone who's stuck with you. 
In short, keep your Catholic charac­ter, or its functional equivalent, as intact as you can. We can have faith that the outbreak will pass. 
But in the meantime, keep an eye on Torso Guy. 
Katherine Khorey, a junior studying English and Russian abroad in Dublin, submitted this column before the election was resolved. She trusts, however, in both candidates' zombie survival policies. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Lessons from. a beloved sister 
Growing UJP with a younger sister with intellectual disabilities has taught me a lot of things, how to love some­one when the world tells you she's not worth loving and what it means to be a human being, for example. 
But life with Olivia has also exposed me to one of the greatest remaining barriers of ignorance and hatred l~ft in our society: our treatment of people with intellectual disabilities. The dis­crimination and disdain that those with disabilities are met with is as hurtful and hateful as any discrimina­tion. While we intoxicate ourselves with visions of acceptanee and equali­ty this week, we turn a blind eye to the world's most marginalized population: the 156 million with intellectual dis­abilities. Here and abroad, they are held like criminals in institutions, shunned from society and dehuman­ized. In the U.S., they are the victims of a silent genocide; nearly 90 percent of American fetuses with Down syn­drome are aborted. 
Equally startling is our inability to recognize our own hatred, to diagnose our archaic social stigmas. As a Catholic university, we should strive towards the realization and respect for all people's dignity and value. We should be leading the way in this movement for humanity. 
But two events this week set us back. First, the movie Tropic Thunder will be presented by the SUB this weekend. This movie was met with controversy when it was released for its prolific use of the word "retard." Dozens of organizations, including Special Olympics and Best Buddies, picketed the film, calling its depiction of people with intellectual disabilities hateful and backwards. And having witnessed the pain that the word caus­es my sister and those like her, I agree. It is hate speech, on par with any racial epithet. I call all of you to think of my sister and her wisdom before you submit to Hollywood's depiction of those with intellectual dis­abilities as "retards" worth nothing more than a cheap laugh. 
I thought that the hate speech was limited to a poor choice in SUB movies, but yesterday's Observer proved me wrong. I am all for free­dom of the press; I am not for the pub­lishing of hate speech, none of us are. If Barack Obama was described as the n-word in this newspaper or Sarah Palin as the c-word, anarchy would ensue. But the description of Joe Biden as "a retard" was printed with­out a problem. Hate speech is hate speech no matter who its victims are and has no place in our newspaper. 
I encourage all of you to think before· you use the word "retard" in any con­text, jocular or hateful. Think of 
Olivia. you.  Happy Birthday Olivia, I love  
Soeren Palumbo sophomore Sorin College Nov. 6  


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Friday, November 7, 2008 
vein of superstars like Rascal Flats and Carrie Underwood, the album capturesBy MICHELLE FORDICE the new trend in country music that lends 
Assistant Scene Editor 

itself to a more pop oriented sound. Eli 
Young Band is rock with a cowboy hat. 
Upon first listen, Eli Young Band's "Jet There are the usual references to cars, Black and Jnalous" mostly fades away bonfires and the girls that left them, but into the background. A few phrases and these cliches are supported by electric chords will jump out of the solid country­guitars, a little bit grittier sound, and a rock sound, but a true appreciation of Eli less straightforward approach to the Young Band takes paying attention. lyrics. Details are the heart of their music. And The album opens with the band's with those df~tails, you'll bn hooked and strongest song, "When it Rains." Set to a singing along. good swing, coming from its electric gui­
".Jnt Black and Jealous" is the band's tar and vocals, the song delivers its l'irst studio release, preceded only by melancholy message of, "I don't mind tlwir independent release "Level." In the being lonnlyll will cry right along with the "Always the Love Songs" begins playing, really is appealing to home and all the as it opens with the introduction to the people and memories there. rock band's "6th Avenue Heartache." The Too many of the tracks feel like they ballad epitomizes Eli Young Band's mix of sacrifice uniqueness for appeal, resulting 
Jet Black and Jealous 
Eli Young Band Released by: Universal South Recommended Tracks: 'When tt Rains,'"' "Jet Black and Jealous" 

sky," beautifully. 
"When it Hains" may be the standout song of the album; it has the most potential to nil the role of body moving radio song. As an appropriate choice for lead track, it will stick in people's heads and lead them to the rest of "Jet Black and Jealous." 
Any fan of the Wallflowers will feel a sense of deja vu when country and rock. It is a story of a bunch of friends get­ting away from "the city lights" around a bon­fire, listening to an eclectic mix of country, rock and folk with, '"Hamblin' Man,' 'Proud Mary,' and 'American Band."' 
"Throw and Go" roughens up the band's 
in a few songs that hover just above the 

...the album captures the new 
lowest common denom­trend in country music that inator. "Famous" is a little unexciting, and
lends itselfto a more pop ori­
sounds familiar, like

ented sound. Eli Young Band is 
you've it somewhere rock with a cowboy hat. There before and can't put your finger on it.
are the usual references to cars, 
"Guinevere" leaps out

bonfires and the girls that left 
musically and there are them. but these cliches are sup­occasional interesting 
ported by electric guitars, a lit­lyrics, but it needs more 
of an edge. The rest of

tle bit grittier sound, and a less 
the album falls awaystraightforward approach to the similarly -good, but lyrics. not great. 
sound and speed, making it a good song for tapping on the steering wheel to as you drive down the road. "llow Should I Know" plays with restraint, holding back on the song's energy and building up in the refrain. The lyrics to "llome" keep the listener on their toes. The phrase " ... home is where you are," sounds like a generic country appeal to a girl, but the rest of the lyrics reveal that the singer 
as the opening act for Tori Amos and Sting, but lately has been on the flip side of that, like this week­end when he'II come 
tion. 

Day is also known for his in-concert use of samplers and foot-pedals to accompa­ny himself instead of playing against a backing track. His energetic perform­ance style and the continued popularity of songs off "Stop" has kept his venues packed despite the gap between albums. 
News of Day all but disappeared in 2006 and 2007, except for an arrest at Boston's Logan International Airport in December of 2005 for "flight rowdiness," when he allegedly smoked a cigarette in a plane's bathroom and verbally abused flight attendants. Day, who had been "Jet Black and 
Jealous" will be just good enough to prove Eli Young Band commercially and lead them to a second album. It is here we might see something really remarkable, when they arn less constrained. But "Jet Blar,k and Jealous" certainly deserves a spot on your iPod in its own right. 
arrested once before for a separate inci­
dent, received a year of probation and 
had to attend an alco­
hol counseling pro­

2002, Day released the album "Stop All the World Now," which was a slow-burn­By JORDAN GAMBLE ing success in part because of the ubiq­Scene Writer uitous success of "Collide" in late 2004 and 2005, a year where it appeared on llowi11 Day, singer of the hit "Collide," numerous television shows and was fea­comes to Legends tured prominently 
to Legends with gram. Later, in 2007,
After a stop here at Notre
Cleveland-native Nick tabloids said he and
Dame and in Vincennes,
Zuber opening. Zuber, Britney Spears were like Day, has found Ind., Day plans to tour in dating. success largely In February of this
Australia for the next 
through self-promo­year, Day updated his
month with his band 
nightelub this Friday at 10 pm.  Day is known for his aggres­ in trailers for the film adaption of  
The 27-yPar-old Maine native has been playing music sineo he was five.  sive touring since the days when we was self-financing and was performing relent­ "Pride and Prejudice" starring Keira Knightley. Day also gained  
whon his mom got him a piano. After that, he discovered guitar and played in bands in high school before going hnad­ing out on his own, indnpnndnnl of a  lessly in Boston and beyond. /Je 's toured as the opening act for Tori Amos and Sting. but lately has been on the flip side of that, like this weekend when he'll come to Legends  popularity with "She Says," which became a fan favorite while he was touring for "Australia" and was re-released on "Stop."  
major label, to tour  Day is known for  
and  promote  his  his aggressive tour­ 

self-released debut CD, "Australia," ing since the days when we was self­which he relcasnd in 2000. financing and was performing relent­Aftor getting signed by Epie Heeords in lessly in Boston and beyond. He's toured MySpace blog after a 
long absence. 

"I have gone through a lot of the past couple of years, both personally and? professionally, and have taken the last few months to try and sort things out. I can't thank you guys enough for being there for me through everything," he wrote. 
After a stop here at Notre Dame and in Vincennes, Ind .. Day plans to tour in Australia for the next month with his band. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamblend.edu. 


l'HE OBSERVER 


CENE
Friday, November 7, 2008 
page 13 

ScenE~ 1talks with C 
ris;Jhompson, d:ru1111mer for the t~ il:.ud
~.. ' -~ ~ 



Earlier this week, Scene got to talk with Chris Thompson, the drummer of the Eli Young Band. Though in transit.. Chris shared with Scene his thoughts on the band. their sound, and Halloween costumes. 
Where are you? What are you work-· 
ing on? 
Actually the band's about to jump out 
of the van. We're in Chatsworth .. 
Georgia. In about thirty minutes we're 
playing a pep rally for about fifteen hun­
dred kids at a high school. The local 
radio station did contest and the prize is 
us coming and playing their pep rally. 
Yesterday we were at Fort Worth at the 
Texas Motor Speedway doing a NASCAH 
event. Before that we were in Kansas 
City Missouri and before that we did a 
big show on Halloween. We all dressed 
up. 
What were you for Halloween? 
We're a band that takes baby steps 
whon it comes to making decisions. It 
was our first show ever to play on 
Halloween so we knew we all wanted to 
be something similar, like four of some­
thing. We narrowed it down to rock 
stars. I was Ozzy Osborn. Mike, our 
singer, was Buddy Holly. John was John 
Lennon. and James, the guitar player, 
was Slash. It was a lot of fun. I got to 
bite the head off a fake bat and I ended 
up spraying the whole front row. 
Reading your biography, I was sur­
prised to find that all four of you met 
in college and have managed to stick 
together for eight years. What keeps 
you together? 
Well, when we met, music was just 
something we all kind of had in com.. 
mon. It was not like we met to start a 
band. We were friends, we hung out, 
and every now and then we'd jam 
together. You know, just talk about 
music and stuff like that. Actually, while 
that was all happening Mike and James 
got together and started doing acoustic 
shows at this bar in Denton where we 
went to college called the RBar. They did 
that for six months. They did this little 
acoustic set, a bunch of cover songs, and 
that's when they started writing togeth­
er. They'd do two or three original 
songs. John and I, since we were all 
friends, started jamming on some of the 
songs that were their own. The first 
show we played was August of 2000, and 
John and I got up and played four songs 
with the other two, the four original 
songs that they'd written and they · played the rest acoustic. 
It was fun in the beginning, we were 
just a couple guys hanging out, having 
fun. But something happened. We really 
clicked. There were never any musical boundaries for any of us and the four of us come from really different musical backgrounds with our education, our preferences for music, and what we're listening to. It was a great outlet, so all of us just worked. I think that friendship we had before we actually started the band. I think that's really kept us togeth­er over the years. 

So how would you define your sound? 
It's country. Without ever setting out to pick a certain kind of music we found ourselves making country music, or what was considered by our fans and . people that would come to the shows country music. We sort of embraced that, and at the same time country music embraced us. It's stories about the everyday person and struggling through life and making it through. 
We do have a lot of rock influences. Both James and myself listened to a lot of rock in high school, and then John our bass player studied funk and jazz and he brought some of that to the table. We're not afraid to play around with different sounds and experiment with 
different ideas. But always at It was fun in the wanted to call the album. our core we're a country · · Jet Black and Jealous was'
b

egmnmg, we were always one that stayed, and ,
band. just a couple guys the cool thing for us about I 
What music would you say hanging out, having Jet Black and Jealous is has influenced you the most fun. But .something that no on~ knows what ~t f personally, as Christ h r VIIi ll is. We don t know what It Thompson the Drummer'? appenea.. e rea Y is. It's not one thing, but yet My personal favorite drum-clicked. everyone has an idea in 
mer of all time is just Keith Moon, the drummer for The Who. He's awesome. I didn't know who he was until probably ten years ago, or really know much of The Who, but we were watching videos of them play, and he was just so manic and crazy on the drums. When the band first started out I was probably a sub-par drummer, which really didn't matter at the time cause we were just kind of goofing off, but I noticed that if I was making mistakes, if I acted a little crazy around the drums, people were just like, 'Aw, he's a crazy drummer!' I saw a lot of that in Keith Moon, except that he could actually play the drums really well. He's kind of a mentor in that regard. But we find all our inspiration through tons of different bands, from our favorite kinds of music to our favorite songs. That really changes because the four us of are huge fans of music in general. One of the things I think is special about our sound is that we. are always open to what's new and whatever we can find, whether it be country or whether it be techno. 
Okay so it's right after a concert, you're winding down from a show, what music do you put on? 
I'll tell you how it works on the tour bus. I think it's quite a good system we have down. We'll walk off the stage get back on the bus and usually we'll have on a music channel and it'll be playing maybe classic rock or good sort of up-­
their head. Everyone can. picture what it is, but they can't say! what it is. It's a feeling in a lot of people. That's what we wanted to name this album because that's what it symbolizes. There's a lot of emotion on the album, ups and downs, lot of struggles with the subject matter of the songs and Jet Black and Jealous symbolizes that with­out being right in your face saying, "This is what it is." 
If you were stranded on a desert island and could bring the complete . work of one musical artist, who's would or.• you bring? 
The Doors. 
What is your favorite song .to play in front of a crowd? · "Famous," a new song off our album. 
What is the song you are most proud of creating as a musician? 
That would be "Always the Love· Songs." There's a part in that song where I do something I've never done before on the drums. 
If you could give one word of advice to the collegiate student population, what would it be? 
Work. Really, work hard. Anything can be accomplished through hard work. 
• 

Contact Staphanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu. 
beat mood music and then we'll slide into, depending on who's manning the iPod or changing the channel, anything from Paul Simon to 80's rock. By the end of the night we'll wind down to some Amos Lee or some old Van Morrison. That's a typical after-show routine. 
What did you and your bandmates major in at college? 
I majored in philosophy and religious studies because my parents wanted me to be a lavvyer, and the school we went to, University of North Texas, didn't have a law program so that was as close as I ' could get. And I really just fell in love with philosophy. Mike was a business major and James was a general studies, major. John was a psychology major., We've got all our bases covered. And we all graduated. 
"Jet Black and Jealous" is a great, song but how did it get to be the name 1 of the album? 
We thought about that for a while. For I probably a week we were really drawn· back and forth on what we r 
Friday, November 7, 2008 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 

Browns fall to Broncos in Quinn's first start 
Brady Quinn threw for 239 yards and two touchdowns in debut start; late Marshall TD clinches win for Denver 
spent the week exchanging
Associated Press 

barbs with Dolphins line­
CLEVELAND -Jay Cutler backer Joey Porter, was about turned Brady Quinn's big to pull something out of his night into his own prime-time pants when teammate showcas11. Brandon Stokley ran over and 
Cutler passed for a career­stopped him from getting a high 44 7 yards, throwing possible personal foul. three touchdown passes in After the game, Marshall the fourth quarter Thursday said he had a black-and­night -the last an 11-yarder white glove designed to honor to Brandon Marshall with President-elect Barack 
I: 14 remaining -to rally the Obama and former Olympians broken Denver Broncos to a Tommie Smith and John 34-:~o win over the Cleveland Carlos, who made controver-
Browns  that  sial  black  
spoiled  p  o w  e  r  
Quinn's highly hyped debut as an NFL  "It was a big, big win for us. To be down 13 and  salutes at the 1968 Games in Mexico  
starter. The Broncos (5-41 entered the fourth  have an empty backfield and to come back like this. it means a lot"  City. Quinn had one last chance, get­ 
quarter trail­ ting the ball  
ing 23-13, but Cutler, bor­rowing a page  Jay Cutler Broncos quarterback  back with 1:10 remain­ing. The for- 
out  of  John  mer  Notre  
Elway's come- Dame  star,  

back playbook, brought who waited 25 games to take Denver back. lie recorded his over Cleveland's offense, com­l'ifth career fourth-quarter pleted a 9-yard pass to eomeback victory despite los­Winslow on first down before ing two more running backs two incompletions gave him to injuries and only having no margin for error. On his fullback to carry the ball. fourth down, Quinn whipped 
"It was a big, big win for a high pass to Winslow that us," Cutler said. "To be down sailed through the hands of 13 and have an empty back­the Pro Bowl tight end. field and to come back like "I just can't get that last this, it means a lot." play out of my head," 
Cutler threw a 93-yard TO Winslow said. "The great pass to rookie wide receiver ones, the legends make those Eddie Hoyal, a 28-yarder to plays. That's where I want to tight end Daniel Graham and be and I'm going to take it as then finished off the Browns a lesson." like so many Denver teams Denver's bench burst into have done in the past with his celebration while the Browns toss to Marshall in the corner sustained another gut­of the end zone. wrenching loss after blowing 
The Broncos have beaten a 14-point lead in the second Cleveland eight straight times half Sunday against and been the Browns' long­Baltimore. time nemesis, beating them That loss cost Derek three times in AFC title Anderson his starting job. He games. was benched by coach Romeo 
Cutler finished 24-of-42 Crennel in favor of fan with three TDs and one inter­favorite Quinn, who made enption. lie piled up 204 plays and was efficient mov­yards passing in the fourth ing the ball by throwing most­quarter. ly underneath. Quinn com­
Quinn threw two TD passes pleted passes to eight differ­to Kellen Winslow and went ent receivers with Winslow 23-of-35 for 239 yards, but catching 10 passes for 111 thought he could have done yards. more. Quinn had the Browns (3-6) 
"I told everyone, this one is in position to win, but once f'lat on me," Quinn said. "I again Cleveland's defense know l am good enough that I couldn't come up with a stop can make a play at the end as Denver racknd up 564 total and win. I felt comfortable yards. out there, it's my home away "We let them throw the ball from home." over our head, couldn't tackle 
After hauling in Cutler's and let the game get away," final TD pass, Marshall, who Crennel said. "It's disappoint­ing that your defense can't do some simple things and does some other things poorly. A 93-yard touchdown pass should nover happen -ever." 
Royal had six catches for 164 yards and Marshall caught six passes for 89 yards. 
Cutler was playing at a huge disadvantage with Denver's running game going backward because of injuries. It hardly mattered. 
With starter Michael Pittman and backup Andre Hall already out with season­ending injuries, rookie Ryan Torain made his first start with third-year pro Selvin Young as his backup. 
Torain scored on a 1-yard run in the first quarter but sprained his left knee midway through the second when he got bent backward under­neath a pile of players. He was replaced by Young, who gained 2 yards on his first carry but left a few plays later with a groin injury and didn't return. 
Those losses forced the Broncos to use fullback Peyton Hillis as their primary ball carrier, and the rookie from Arkansas came through on Denver's final scoring drive by blasting his way through the line for a crucial first down on 4th-and-1 at the Cleveland 45. 

From there, Cutler complet­ed a 14-yard pass to Graham before catching the Browns off guard with a quarterback draw for 18 yards. After missing Marshall in the end zone on first down, Cutler had his wideout run the same route against cornerback Brandon McDonald for the game-winner. 
Earlier, McDonald was burned by Royal for the 93­yard TD, the fourth-longest in Denver history. 
The Browns played up Quinn's pregame introduc­tion, saving him to be the last player to run from the smoke­filled tunnel. He received a huge ovation from Cleveland fans, who despite having a Pro Bowl QB in Anderson, have spent many Sunday afternoons chanting "Bra-dy, Bra-dy" for most of the past two seasons. 
Quinn didn't disappoint, throwing two TO passes to Winslow in the first half to help the Browns open a 20-10 lead. 
With Broncos defensive end Elvis Dumervil in his face, Quinn hung in the pocket as long as he could before firing his first career TD pass, a 5­yarder to Winslow, to tie it 7­all. Winslow's scoring grab made up for the one he dropped from Quinn last sea­son when the rookie QB made his pro debut in Cleveland's season finale. 
It was a night the 25-year­old Quinn had dreamed of since he was a little kid in Dublin, Ohio. lie grew up in the Columbus suburb cheer­ing for the Browns and he still has a picture of himself wearing a No. 19 Bernie Kosar jersey. 
In the days leading up to his first start, Quinn sought advice from his college coach, Notre Dame's Charlie Weis, a former offensive coordinator with New England. 
"lie gave me some words of wisdom," Quinn said, "as did everyone else -my mom, my dog." 
Quinn's No. 10 jersey dotted every corner of Browns Stadium and a white bed sheet with "Save Us Brady" hung from the second deck. 
But in the end, there was nothing he or anyone else in orange helmets could do to stop Cutler. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED 
Babysitter needed for Notre Dame family. Occasional afternoons from 3-6 p.m. Should have own car. Pay: tell us what works for you. 913-426­3838. 
FoR SALE 
HOUSE FOR SALE 1/2 MILE FROM ND. 3 BEDROOMS 2 FULL BATHS. CRESSY EVERETT PAM DECOLA 574-532-0204 947 RIVERSIDE DR .. 4 BDRMS, 
2.5 BATHS, HISTORICAL HOME CLOSE TO ND. CRESSY EVERETT, PAM DECOLA, 574­532-0204. 


FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. 
CONTACT KRAMER PROPER· TIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMER­HOUSES.COM 

Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for 
Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
3/4 bedroom, 3 full bath deluxe homes, close to ND, fireplace cathedral ceilings, skylights, 2-car garage, 10x20 deck. Much more. Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683· 5038. From $1 ,700/mo. 
Historic gem. beautifully furnished, 5 min. to ND. 2-3 bedrooms. $850 per month, students welcome. 269­782-9921 


PERSONAL 

Two teachers ready to adopt new­born and provide a wonderful life for him/her. Confidential. Expenses paid. Stephenandliz@aol.com or call us toll free 1-888-760-BABY 
ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies), please call Marie and James (301)977-5069 or (866) 202-1424 PIN 5448. 
A BABY TO CHERISH 

Debby is a Physical Therapist in a children s hospital who dreams of becoming a mom for the first time. 
Barry is a loving husband and TV producer who fills our home with laughter and has a natural love for children. 
We admire your strength in choos­ing adoption. We are happy to help! 
Call Debby directly at 1-800-418­0212; debbyandbarry@gmail.com 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574­631-2685. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
Big shout out to this season's coach of the year: Coach Troy Coach. 12-0 fiesta bowl bid with a two-star program, no small feat! 





OUND THE .NATION 
Friday, November 7, 2008 COMP£LED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 15 
IMLB 
NSCAA/ adidas Men's Soccer Rankings 
team  points  record  
1  Wake Forest (23)  575  16·0·1  
2  Creighton  537  11+2  
3  St. John's  526  13·1-3  
4  Akron  508  14-1·3  
5  Maryland  494  14·3·0  
6  Loyola (Md.)  457  16·0·1  
1  Tulsa  403  12·3·2  
8  Northwestern  389  12·2·2  
9  Illinois-Chicago  369  12·2·4  
10  Saint Louis  340  9·2·5  
11  UC Irvine  304  10+6  
12  Michigan  302  11-4·2  
13  NOTRE DAME  280  11-5·2  
14  California  243  7·3·5  
15  UC Davis  239  12·3·3  
16  South Florida  237  11-4-2  
17  Connecticut  224  9·3·6  
18  Michigan State  209  11·5-1  
19  UC Santa Barbara  142  10·5·2  
20  North Carolina  131  11·5-1  
21  Pennsylvania  116  10·2-3  
22  UCLA  82  8·4-6  
23  Indiana  71  9·5·3  
24  Butler  48  13-2·4  
25  Duke  41  10·5·2  
NSCAA/ adidas  

Women's Soccer Rankings 
team points record 
1 NOTRE DAME (31) 799 19·0·0 2 Portland 735 16+0 2 UCLA 735 16·0·2 4 North Carolina 727 16-1-2 5 Florida State 658 14-2·2 6 Stanford 655 17+1 1 Florida 613 16·2·1 8 Oklahoma State 575 16·1-2 9 usc 509 13-4·1 10 Boston College 478 12-4-2 11 Texas A&M 456 15-3·1 12 Virginia 412 12-4·2 13 West Virginia 369 13·2·5 14 San Diego 349 1H·2 15 Texas 343 12·2·4 16 Colorado 341 13-3-3 17 Duke 323 12-4·3 18 Wake Forest 266 12-6·0 19 UW-Milwaukee 241 16-2·2 20 Missouri 211 13-5·0 21 Minnesota 148 18-2-0 22 BYU 99 15·5·0 23 Penn Stale 69 13-7·0 24 Washington State 49 8·5·5 25 Long Beach Stale 45 13-4·3 
MIAA Women's Volleyball Final Standings 
Team Record 
league overall 
1 Hope 15·1 26·6 2 Calvin 14-2 26-4 3 Alma 11-5 21·9 4 SAINT MARY'S 9-7 18-11 5 Adrian 8·8 15-15 6 Albion 5·11 12·16 7 Kalamazoo 4·12 8·22 8 Trine 4·12 9·20 9 Olivet 2·14 6·21 

around the dial 
NBA 
Suns at Bulls 
8:30 p.m., CSN 


Associated Press 

DANA POINT, Calif. Jake Peavy probably will be traded by the San Diego Padres before the winter meetings next month. 
After spending four days at the annual general man­agers' meetings, Padres GM Kevin Towers said it is unlikely the 2007 NL Cy Young Award winner will remain with San Diego, which signed him out of high school in 1999. 
"The train's kind of left the station," Towers said Thursday. 
Guaranteed $63 million under a contract that runs through 2012, Peavy is rela­tively inexpensive when com­pared with what CC Sabathia is likely to get on the free­agent market. The right-han­der also has a no-trade clause, so he can determine where he winds up. 
"We're not in comtrol of the speed or the train," Peavy's agent, Barry Axelrod, said in a telephone interview. "The only thing we've got is a brake." 
Peavy's initial list of teams San Diego should concen­trate on included Atlanta, the Chicago Cubs, RoUlston, the Los Angeles Dodgers and St. Louis. The Braves, Cubs and Dodgers appear to be the most likely candidates for a trade. 
Towers, cutting payroll fol­lowing a last-plaee finish, anticipates a trade before the winter meetings open in Las Vegas on Dec. 8. Given the paucity of pitching, the 27­year-old is highly prized. He was 10-11 with a 2.85 ERA in 27 starts last season. 
"We're not to the point where we've agreed on who the players are coming back. We just have an idea of who's available to us and who's not," Towers said. "Now it's just a matter of looking at three priority teams that are involved and trying to figure out what our optimum deal is. Some of them involve third teams and potentially fourth teams, so it becomes a little more com­plicated." 
At last year's GM meetings, Philadelphia acquired closer Brad lidge and infielder Erie Bruntlett from Houston for outfielder Michael Bourn, pitcher Geoff Geary and minor league third baseman Mike Costanzo, a deal that helped the Phillies win the World Series for the first time since 1980. Floriaa held trade talks on third baseman Miguel Cabrera, who was dealt to Detroit along with Dontrelle Willis at the winter meetings. 
There were no trades at this year's gathering, with talks more cautious. That's because this year's free­agent class includes stars such as Sabathia, Manny Ramirez, Mark Teixeira and Francisco Rodriguez. 

IN BRIEF MLB likely to eliminate 
coin flips for playoff sites 
DANA POINT, Calif. -No more flip decisions. Rather than heads or tails, baseball general managers plan to recommend that sites for division and wild-card tiebreakers be decided by wins and losses. 
"The team that performed better against the other team I think is the one that deserves to have home-field advantage, not an arbitrary coin flip," San Diego Padres general manager Kevin Towers said Thursday as the annual GMs meeting ended. 
MLB staff is drafting a proposal for the GMs to consider next month when they gather at the winter meetings in Las Vegas, according to Jimmie Lee Solomon, executive vice president of baseball operations in the commis­sioner's offiee. Head-to-head record between the tiedl clubs appears likely to be the first tiebreaker. 
"I think it's better to decide it on the field," Texas Rangers GM Jon Daniels said. 
Jags' lineback1er Peterson 
to be li>enched for attitude 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -Jacksonville linebacker Mike Peterson was sent home a!~ain Thursday and probably will be benched or suspended for this weekend's game at Detroit. 
Coach Jack Del Rio was still deciding how to punish the Jaguars' captain, who was asked to leave Wednesday after a confrontation with the coach during a team meeting Wednesday. 
According to teammates, Del Rio called out Peterson for his muscle­flexing eelebration following a shoe­string sack at Cincinnati on Sunday. Del Rio was upset that Peterson was reveling a play in a game the Jaguars trailed 21-3. 
Peterson defended himself in the meeting, saying he was trying to give the team a spark in the game, but Del Rio didn't want to hear any excuses. The coach had even told players before he singled a few out that he didn't want to hear a word from any­one. 
Former top draft P.ick Leaf 
under inveStigation for drugs 
DALLAS, Texas -Police in the 
Texas Panhandle are investigating a 
minor drug allegation made against 
former NFL quarterback Ryan Leaf, 
who this week was placed on leave 
from his job as an assistant football 
coach at West Texas A&M. 
Canyon police Chief Bobby Griffin 
says the investigation is in its prelimi­. nary stages, but confirmed the allega­tion was that Leaf obtained a con­trolled substance by fraudulent means. 
"We are trying to determine whether 
anything like that happened," Griffin 
said. 'There is not enough information 
or facts to say we have a crime being 
committed or not." 
Leaf did not immediately respond to 
a message left by The Associated Press 
and Griffin said the police have not 
interviewed him. 
"Some allegations have been made 
and some rumors are flying around. 
We've been asked ...to look into it," said 
Griffin. 
Friday, November 7, 2008

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS 
MLB 

Rays' Pena wins franchise's first gold glove 
Ichiro picks up eighth straight gold glove; Young, Pedroia, and Mauer join Pena as first time winners 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Carlos Pena grabbed attention for all those balls he hit. Now the Tampa Bay first baseman and his toamrnatns are getting noticed for the ones he caught. 
Pena raisnd the Hays' profile Thursday when he beeame the lirst player in franchise histo­ry to win the (;old Glove for lielding exct~llenee. 
"I think this is the first of many for the Tampa Bay Hays," lw said on a conforonce call. 
"I feel like wo all won the Gold Glove as a team," he added. "I think we all make mu~h other bettnr." 
Thn Hays rPaehnd tlw play­oiTs for thn first time since starting play in 199S. They went to the World Serios, los­ing in five games to Philadelphia. 
Toxas shortstop Michael Young bm~ame the lirst inlield­er to win a Gold Glove from a team with the worst fielding percentage in the majors. l'ena, Young, Boston second basnman Dustin Pedroia and Minnesota eatcher Joe Mauer were lirst-time winnors. 
The outfield was a repeat from last season: Los Angeles' Torii Hunter and Seattlo's Ichiro Suzuki each won for tho eighth straight year and 

Cleveland's Grady Sizemore Parned his second award. 
New York Yankees pitcher Mike Mussina, coming off his first 20-win season, added to his aeeolades with his seventh Gold Glove. Seattle third base­man Adrian Beltre won for tho second straight year. 
Pena bounced around the majors for several seasons before joining Tampa Bay in 2007, and quickly got a regu­lar spot by hitting 46 home runs. 
Pena starred with the bat this year, too, with 31 homers and 102 RBis despite missing 3 1/2 weeks because of a bro­ken l'inger. He sparkled with the glove, making only two errors. 
"I can't deny that I like hit­ting home runs," Pena said, but "this is an award I always thought of." 
"You have no idea how excit­ed I was when I received the news," he said. "Go steal a hit, go help your pitcher out. I've always taken so much pride in 1ny defense." 
The 30-year-o\d Pena has shown improvement in the field, eutting down from 13 errors with Detroit in 2003. lie made eight last year with the Hays. 
Pena said it had been his goal "to actually play like a Gold Glover and eventually get recognized." 
"Carlos works very hard on his defense and he has turned himself into a premier defen­sive player." Hays executive vice president for basoball operations Andrew Friedman said. 
Hawlings has presented Gold Gloves since 1957. Managers and eoaehes pick players in their own leagues near the end of the regular season, and can't vote for someone on their team. 
Hunter has not made an error sinee Aug. 31, 2007. The AL outfield record for Gold Gloves is 10, shared by Ken Griffey Jr. and AI Kaline. 
Pedroia. the AL Rookie of the Year last season, joined Kevin Youkilis (2007) and Jason Varitek {2005) as the only Hed Sox players to win a Gold Glove in the last 17 seasons. 
Young led AL shortstops in fielding percentage. This was his fifth season at the spot since switching over from sec­ond base. 
Mussina won for the first time sincn 2003. At 39, he was the oldest AL winner this year; pitcher Greg Maddux won an NL Gold Glove this week at 42. 
The Gold Gloves often raise the ire of many baseball fans. Critics claim the best fielders are overlooked in favor of more popular players, and fur-ther insist that better hitters get a break in the voting. 

Hunter and Sizemore earned $100,000 bonuses in their contracts for winning Gold Gloves. Beltre and Suzuki got $50,000 each and Pena, Mauer and Young won $25,000 apiece. Mussina and Pedroia did not have Gold Glove clauses. 
The NL Gold Gloves were announced Wednesday. Along with Maddux, winners were catcher Yadier Molina, first baseman Adrian Gonzalez, second baseman Brandon Phillips, shortstop Jimmy Rollins, third baseman David Wright and outfielders Nate McLouth, Carlos Beltran and Shane Victorino. 

The Notre Dame Center For Ethics and Culture Announces its Ninth Annua I Fa II Conference 

November 6-8, 2008 McKenna Hall University of Notre Dame 
Featuring: 

The Inaugural Jack Schuster Memorial Lecture 
Does Sarah +john = 3? The History and Future of Complementarity in Catholic Feminism 
--Elizabeth R. Schiltz University ofSt. Thomas School of Law 
Friday, November 7 at 7:30 PM McKenna Auditorium 


For registration information and a complete program for the conference, please visit http://ethicscenter.nd.edu 
Friday, November 7, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Fenway undergoes final stage of renovations 
Upgrades to seating will keep one of baseball's 1nost historic ballparks open for at least another 30-50 years 
the ballpark -will remain 

Associated Press 
39,928, the net result of the 

BOSTON -The Boston Red changes will be the addition of Sox arn wrapping up almost a about 350 more seats and a decado or renovations to sellout crowd of about 37,750 Fenway Park that should keep for night games. their venerable ballpark open "There's no reason they for another 30-couldn't play 50 years. here for genera­
"We are com­tions to come," mitted to "There's no reason project leader Fenway Park Janet Marie
they couldn't play 

-short-term, Smith said.
here for generations 

middle-term, "There's no rea­long-term," to come.'' son it should team president become physical­Larry Lucchino ly obsolete. It
Janet Marie Smith 

said Thursday survived the 
Fenway project leader

as the Hed Sox domes and it sur­unveiled their vived the multi-winter renova-purpose arenas. tion plans. "We're going to be It's back again." here. No thought has been, or Next year's plans include is being given to a new ball­waterproofing the rest of the park." lower deck, a section that was 
Past years' renovations have added onto the structure in included the Monster Seats 1934. Other, smaller projects above Fenway's famous left­that come up will be tackled field wall, new and improved when they arise. luxury suites and expanded "We are in the eighth inning concourses that have given Red of a nine-inning game," Sox fans room to roam. This Lucchino said. ''I'm certainly year's more modest goals are glad that we are in the closing to waterproof the concrete innings of this gigantie under­game, Lucchino said. But it's eussing what's happening with new ballparks can be support­under the lower deck sections, taking." not clear how long the Red Sox other ballparks," Lucchino ed if the economy continues to replace and repair the seats The majors' oldest and small­can stay in a ballpark lacking said. We'll be watching with sour. from first to third and add est ballpark, Fenway opened in some of the revenue sources interest how that new ballpark "We have not had the kind of upper deck seats down the 1912 and is being shored up to built into new facilities, like the affects their revenue and their economic downturn the nation first-base line. last through its 1OOth anniver­$1.3 billion Yankee Stadium financial wherewithal." is confronting right now," 
While the legal capacity -sary, when the Red Sox are scheduled to open next spring. The Red Sox will also be Lucchino said. "I think we'll all including those who work at hoping to host the All-Star "(We) spend a lot of time dis-watching to see whether the learn a lot." 

The Notre Dame JParlia1mentary DE~bate Team Presents: 
"A house di\'ided algainst itself cannot stand." Join us this Sunday, November 9, at 4:00p.m. as we comrrtemorate the 150th anlniversary of the 
historical Li11coln-Douglas Debates with a discussion of the above proposition and its rrteaning in contemporary America. 
De:Bartolo Hall, Roo~m 138 Questions? ICmail tfiort~a@nd.edu 
Friday, November 7, 2008 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA FooTBALL 

OSU's Small to sit out one game 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio-Ohio State eoaeh Jim Tressel said Thursday that recoivor and punt rnturnPr Hay Small was suspnndnd for one game "to start with" and that he had handled thn situation eorrect­ly, despite eomplaints from Small's father. 
Tressel eonfirmod that Small will not play when No. 12 Ohio State plays at 

lie abruptly ended the inter­view after 5 minutes on Thursday. 
"OK, guys. Thanks. I appre­ciate it. I thought we were 
going  to  talk  about  
Northwestern.  Thanks.  
Thanks." he said.  

As he walked down a corri­dor lined with trophies from the team's past, he shook his head in disgust. 
Before that, reporters asked him if the sus­pension was 
Northwnstern just for one
"They're intentionally 

on Saturday. game. Tressel's 
Tnam spokes­trying to blow his brief reply: "To woman Shelly career. " start with." lie Poe said tho also said that suspension was the length of
Ken Small

dun to a the suspension
Ray Small's father 

"repeated viola­would be deter­
tion of team 
rules." 
But Small's l'athor. Ken Small. said he is mystified why his son is being suspend­ed. 
"They're intentionally trying to blow his earner." Ken Small told The Associated Press by telephone from his honw in suburban Columbus. 
It has been no seeret that Hay Small has continually been in and out of Tressel's doghouse for the past two seasons. llis father said that the latest suspnnsion stemmed from missing or being late for some 1:lasses and meetings. lin also said part of his problems was parking tickets. 
Ken Small cited several other reeent legal transgres­sions by Ohio State players and eomparnd them to the minor problems his son has had. One playnr a year ago was arrnsted for proposition­ing a female polieo officer posing as a prostitute. At lnast two players have been arrested for driving under the inlluenee of alcohol. 
Ken Small said it was clear his son is being treated unfairly by Tressel. 
"lie had a eouple of inci­dents, but he never got eaugh t smoking marijuana before the national ehampi­onship ganw. Or he never got a DUI. or picked up a prosti­tute. lie was just late," Ken Small said. "And the punish­ment is you can't even go into the (praetice) !'aGility'! They aet like he's dangerous. These other kids ... didn't get banned from the facility. All they got was being sat down for the first few plays of a game." 
Tressel hinted that Small, a 5-foot-11, 180-pounder from Cleveland, was being pun­ished for ongoing problems. 
"II' a guy makes repetitive mistakes in football, he's probably going to lose oppor­tunities to play," Tressel said. "The same would be with any­thing oiT the field, if a guy's rnpetitive, it's going to impact (his playing time)." 
Tressel, speaking at the Woody Hayes Athletie Center. grew increasingly upset as n~porters asked him questions about Small's susponsion. Tressel meets with reporters every Thursday for 15 or 20 minutes al'ter he f'inishes his radio show. 

mined by what Small does "from this point on." 
lie also said that Small and his family had never dis­eussed transferring out of the football program -which Ken Small said was not true. 
"No, that's fals£1. That's an outright lie," he said. lie said he and several family mem­bers. along with Ohio State defensive lineman Hob Rose, all met with Tressel last spring and they discussed Small transferring. But Ken Small said he talked his son out of it. 
Hay Small got off to a great start this season, but his play­ing time has been drastically eut. lie had 14 catches in the first three games to lead the team, then was benched for the third game and didn't eateh a pass in the game after that. After making two recep­tions against Wisconsin, he didn't cateh a pass during the next two games. 
In Ohio State's most recent game, a 13-6 home loss to No. 3 Penn State on Oct. 25, he had two catches for 37 yards. 
lie currently is second on the team in receptions with 18 for 149 yards. 
The speedy Small is also the Buckeyes' top punt returner, with 18 for an average of 13.2 yards, tops in the Big Ten and 14th in the nation. 
This spring, due to unspeci­fied team infractions, Tressel took away Small's preferred uniform No. 4 and gave him the No. 82. 
Tressel said he was sure that he had both critics and supporters when it came to disciplinary moves. 
''I'm sure there's both ends of the spectrum out there in opinions. like there are about what we're doing with foot­ball," said Tressel, who has also eaught heat because of his team's erratic play this season. "There's one end that feels this way and one end that feels that way. Most things lie somewhere in the middle. But I don't feel bad about how we've tried to help any of our guys." 
Ken Small said Tressel has it in for his son and has no intention to play him in games. 
"Yes, that's what it sounds like to me," he said. "lie's saying, 'We're not going to kick him off the team, but he won't play."' 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Now Leasing for 2009-2010 
424 N. Frances Street 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

withpurchase of
THINK It~ 
alarge drink 
Offlr 1xplm 12/04/01. Offll' good Clllly II

OUTSIDE 'd Q pridpatlng TACO IRL® locatlou il tile 
grHIII' So.th lend, IN area. Off1r 1xchlcles
TACO 
(]deb., Stlllk and Supr1m1 Ylrslons. Please present this coupon when ordering. limit: One mupon

THE BUN® BELU 
___ Jl8l peoon Jl8l visit. Not good with any other offer. •--0 Void if copied, trunslerrea, reproduced or when! BELL prOOD!ed. Cash redemption wlua 1/20tb cent.
L ___ ~~ s~ol!.!_305!_ __ ...... 

Friday, November 7, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SWIMMING 

Squads to takE~ on Purdue 
Boilermakers. Purdue, ranked In the women's matchup, the
By MICHAEL BLASCO 

No. 16 nationally, is the first teams enter with the roles near­
Spores Writer 

ranked team ly reversed to travel to compared to After a week off since its pre­the Rolfs their male vious meet against Pittsburgh, Aquatic "We're very enthusiastic counterparts. both the men's and women's Center this and optimistic headed Notre Dame, squads are gearing up to face season. ranked No. 24
into the meet." 
off against in-state rival Purdue. One of the nationally, looks 
"We're very excited to swim intriguing to remain against Purdue," Men's coach matchups in Tim Welsh unbeaten in its Tim Welsh said. "They're a won­the meet home pool. The
Irish coach 
derful program, a great in-state comes on the 
rival with two South Bend boys diving board, 
on their team. We're glad to as both teams 
have them" bring in tremendously talented Welsh's Men's team comes off divers. Purdue first diver, fresh­a thrilling victory against man and Indiana native David 
Pittsburgh that went down to the final event of the meet. 
"We swam well at Pitt and raced tough, and it gave us the confidence that we can be tough when we need to be," Welsh said. "We're very 
enthusiastic and 
Boudia, compet­ed in the "We swam well at Pitt Olympics this 
summer in
and raced tough, and it 
Beijing, and 
gave us the confidence Purdue's second 
that we can be tough diver, sopho­more David
when we need to be." 
Colturi, was an 
NCAA Finalist. Tim Welsh Meanwhile, Irish coach Notre Dame 
senior Michael Bulfin was an optimistic All-American at the NCAA 
headed into the meet." Championships last year. 
However, the Irish face one of Welsh thinks it may be Notre their toughest challenges of the Dame's most exciting diving season against the competition of the year. 
Irish have won 
all 28 events in 

which they have competed at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Notre Dame hopes that its sophomores can maintain their fast start. Of the 14 individual events that the Irish won against Purdue, sophomores won 13 of them. 
While the Irish are well rested after a weeklong layoff, Purdue will travel to Notre Dame on Friday night after taking on Northwestern in Evanston. The Boilermakers' travel schedule could have an impact on the meet. 
The meet is scheduled to begin at 2 p.m. on Saturday at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
MEN's SoccER 

Irish 111eet Cardinals in qu;arterfinals 
By MATT GAMBER 
Associate Sports Editor 
For No. 11 Notre Dame to avoid bowing out in the quar­terl"inals of the Big East tour­nament, the Irish (11-5-2, 7­2-2 Big Eastl will have to avenge one of their two con­ference losses with a home win against Louisville tomor­row night. 
The Cardinals (11-6-2, 5-5­1 Big East) edged the Irish 2­1 in overtime on Sept. 28 and beat West Virginia 2-0 Wednesday to earn the right to face Notre Dame on Saturday at 6 p.m. 
"They're a well-organized team, a good team with some. very good players," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "There's no way our guys will look past them, that's for sure. We were maybe a little bit unlucky in the way things fell for us [at Louisville). but it's.. a game we'll be ready for. 
Senior forward Bright Dike notched the lone Irish goal in the loss to the Cardinals, who scored unanswered goals ­in the 89th and 95th min­utes, respectively. 
Notre Dame will be without senior goalkeeper Andrew Quinn, who injured his shoul­der during Notre Dame's 2-1 win over Georgetown on Oct. 29 and is likely out for the season. Junior Philip Tuttle will make his second straight start in his place after recording his first career shutout in Notre Dame's last game, a 1-0 victory at West Virginia on Nov. 1. 
"It's business as usual," Clark said. "He's a very good goalkeeper ... we're very sorry for Andrew, but at the same time, I think we're in pretty good shape." 
But the Irish will be chal­lenged, both by the Cardinals tomorrow and, should they advance, by match-ups with ranked teams like No. 3 St. John's, No. 16 South Florida and No. 17 Connecticut. 
"The top eight teams are in the quarterfinals, so it pretty well tells you that anyone could win it," Clark said. "That's the interesting thing about our league -it's a very difficult league, so you couldn't begin to forecast it." 

After winning the Big East Blue division's regular sea­son crown, the Irish are looking to position them­selves for NCAA play by advancing in the conference tournament. 
"This is huge as far as get­ting seeded." Clark said. "Outr record will ensure we make the NCAA's, but the key is now if' we could win [the Big East tournament]. we'd be in a terrific situation to be a top-four seed in the coun­try." 
The top four national seeds would be guaranteed home games until the semifinals, an advantage the Irish would gladly take. 
"That would be a terrific situation for our team," Clark said. "That's the main impor­tance." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles face Alllla in MIAA cotnpetition 
Saint Mary's looks to grabfirst conference win 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will look to win its first. conference meet Saturday as they take on Alma in Alma, Mich. The Be lies come into the competition after splitting their last meet, defeating the Illinois Institute of Technology, but losing to the host University of Chicago. 
The Belles are led by sophomore Maggie Williams, who so far this season has recorded four first-place finishes, which include victories in the 100 and 200 yard back­stroke, the 200 yard freestyle relay, and the 200 yard medley relay. 
Also performing well so far for the Belles is fresh­man Audrey Dalrymple, who has achieved first­place finishes in the 100 yard breaststroke, the 200 yard individual medley and the 200 yard medley relay. 
The Scots, who are also 0-1 in the conference, are led by sophomore diver Brianna Harfman, who won both the 1m and 3m diving competitions in their last meet, and by sophomore Jordan Bryde, who won the 100 yard backstroke in Alma's first competition of the year. The meet will take place Saturday at 1:00PM. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Utah downs TCU, remains unbeaten 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY -Brian Johnson threw a 9-yard touch­down pass to Freddie Brown with 4 7 seconds left to cap an 80-yard drive that kept No. 10 Utah's BCS hopes alive with a 13-10 victory over No. 11 TCU on Thursday night. 
The Utes, who improved to 10-0 for the second time in school history, were swarmed at midfield by the fans who made Hice-Eccles Stadium shake when Johnson rallied Utah to its first touchdown and saved the Utes' postseason hopes. 
Johnson threw for 230 yards for the Utes (10-0, 6-0 Mountain West), who recovered on defense after allowing TCU to gain 202 yards in the first quar­ter. 
The Horned Frogs (9-2, 6-1) missed two field goal attempts in the fourth quarter either of which would have put TCU up by seven. 
Ross Evans bounced one kick off the left upright, then with 
2:48 left he was wide right on a 35-yard attempt. Utah got the ball back on the 20 and Johnson led the Utes' come­back. 
TCU nearly had the drive stopped, but on fourth-and-5 Johnson completed an 11-yard pass to Brown to the Frogs' 15. Two plays later. Johnson found Brown on a slant for the win­ning score. 
Robert Johnson sealed it with an interception in the fmal sec­onds and Utah won despite get­ting outgained 416-275. 
Aaron Brown ran for 106 yards on 15 carries and Andy Dalton passed for 251 yards, but the Frogs hurt themselves with penalties and untimely breakdowns. TCU was called for 11 penalties and allowed two sacks on third downs that took the Frogs out of field goal range twice. 
TCU was stunned to lose a game that had started like a blowout. 
Utah fans wore black to match the uniforms the Utes broke out for the showcase game. The fans were loud and rowdy and didn't faze the Frogs one bit in the first quarter as TCU had 202 yards of offense and took a 10-3 lead. 



page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 7, 2008 

-
Friday, November 7, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Interhall 
continued from page 24 
back Marcus Young, Siegfried also fields a suffocating defense, which allowed an astoundingly low zero touchdowns on the year. 
But the games are played for a reason, and on any given Sunday, even the most invulner­able teams could potentially stumble. Led by quarterback Pat Rushford, the Alumni Dawgs will look to control the clock, wear­ing down the Ramblers' defense while keeping their vaunted offense off the field. 
"We expect Alumni to come out intense since we've played them before. Even though we won 14-3, it was a hard-fought game until the end," captain Kevin Kelly said. 
The Dawgs played Siegfried closer than any other team this season, being the only team to put up any points against the well-disciplined Rambler defen­sive unit. This experience, cou­pled with a desire to play the role of spoiler might give Alumni just enough impetus to topple the colossus that has been Siegfried football this season. 
"We are just try to keep things going the way they have been and make sure to stay focused and crisp on execution," Kelly said. 
Kickoff is Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Dillon vs. Stanford 
A regular season rematch is in store Sunday when third-seeded Dillon takes on sixth-seeded Stanford. 
The Big Red won Oct. 5 match up 7-6, and captain Chris Cugliari said that the most important thing his team took away from that game went beyond Xs and Os. 
"We hadn't had a lot of luck against Stanford, so it was big to get that monkey off our back," he said. "The biggest thing we took away from that game is that we know we can beat them." 
Dillon's defense was the story of that game, with a key inter­ception by cornerback Brian Shafer shifting the momentum. 
"I would say our biggest strength is defmitely our defense creating turnovers," Cugliari said. 
Cugliari said that his team has been focused on the psychologi­cal aspects of the game this week. 
"We've been working on men­tally going over responsibilities and we're making sure that we're not going to have any mental mistakes," he said. "Ever since we've been back from fall break, we kicked it up a notch." 
Cugliari also said that even though Stanford made it to the championship last year, he's con­fident his team had what it takes to make it to the Stadium. 
"I think we definittely have what it takes," he said. "It's going to be a matter of all 23 guys showing up and being ready to give their best efforts Sunday. I think we definitely have the talent to make it there." 
Morrissey vs. Sorin 
The quest for the Stadium begins this Sunday as undefeat­ed Sorin takes on perennial pow­erhouse Morrissey for a spot in the semifinals. 
Morrissey returns to the grid­iron after a 21-6 rout of Knott last week that guaninteed the Manor the No. 5 seed in the playoffs. Morrissey will try to duplicate that effort against a Sorin defense that has been merciless all season. 
Senior quarterback Joe McBrayer, who led Morrissey to an interhall championship two years ago, is confident his team's experience will give them the edge this week. 
"We have a lot of players who have been in this situation before," McBrayer said. "We know what we have to do to win in the postseason." 
the year, and Kellie Sciacca, who has 223 kills on the sea­son, good for a .328 hitting per­centage. Junior outside hitter Serenity Phillips, recently returned from injury, has post­ed 201 kills, and posted 25 kills, 10 digs, and nine blocks against the Golden Eagles on Sunday. 
Brown said 
not like we're panicking now
"It's not where we'd 
because the time 
like to be. But we is less. I think we've been going
know that's still 
at a pretty good
within our control. 
pace .and we're We're doing continuing at a pretty good place 
everything we can to 
as well."
make sure we're in a 
Against the great position for Scarlet Knights, Brown said she
each of those matches 
wanted the team to continue hav­ing a consistent Deble Brown attack. Rutgers is led by sophomore 
Irish coach 
outside hitter Caitlin Saxton, 
that after the upset loss to Marquette, she didn't change much in her practice routine, and continued to focus on what she had all season. 
"Going into that match, we knew of our weakness in terms of the serving, blocking, and defensive side of the game," Brown said. "We haven't been able to hold our opponents to a lower hitting percentage. That has been the concentration even prior to last weekend, and it certainly has continued to be one of our primary focuses this who has 188 kills on the season. 
"I think we've played best when we've had a balanced offense, so certainly that's important for us," Brown said. "Again, we're working hard at trying to bring the opponent's hitting percentage down. We've worked hard on our block, changing up the defenses a little bit, and in particular stopping the opponent's middle attack." 
This match marks the first time in three weeks Notre Dame will have to prepare for only one opponent. In previous weeks, 

McBrayer will try to ignite the offense with help from senior wide receiver Kyle Anderson, who poses a deep threat on the perimeter. 
But strong team defense has been Morrissey's strong point all season. 
Junior linebacker Phil Yuhas leads an aggressive defense that has overpowered teams with its speed and intensity. Senior line­man Mike Kaiser, known to his teammates as "The Black Hole," will be doing the dirty work in the trenches. 
Sorin, who clinched the No. 4 seed in the playoffs last week after a scoreless tie against St. Edward's, is making its first playoff appearance in years. The Otters have not won an interhall football championship since 1888. 
Led by cornerback Jordan Gonzalez and defensive lineman Matt Gamber, Sorin's defense has carried the team through the regular season. Yielding only six points all season, the Otters have posted three consecutive shutouts. 
Junior captain Robert Gallic is confident that the offense will find a way to score points if the defense maintains its high level of play. 
"We always do just enough to get the job done," Gallic said. "Our real concern is trying to come up with better team touch­dovm celebrations." 
While the Otters have been focusing on their touchdown dances, Morrissey has been all business in practice. 
"We've been using our intense practices to springboard into teams," McBrayer said. "We're looking to light up the score­board this week." 
The two contenders face off this Sunday at 1:00 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Contact Alex West at aw•~st@hcc.nd.edu, Tim Lang at dangI @nd.edu, Sam Werner at swc!mer@nd.edu and Chris Massoud at cmassoud@nd.edu 
the Irish have had matches on consecutive days. 
"It's always easier when you only have to prepare for one, for sure," Brown said. "I think when we play those weekends baek-to-back, the turnaround time from one match to another is short." 
Brown said that she planned to use the extra practice time to focus on her team's own prob­lems, as opposed to preparing for an extra opponent. 
"Definitely that has helped and I think especially with the weaknesses that we've had," she said. "We've been able to concentrate on our side of the net and the things we can do better." 
The match against Rutgers will be Notre Dame's last before a crucial two-game home series against conference leader St. John's and fourth-place Connecticut. Brown said, though, that it was important that her team didn't look past Rmgers. 
"Every match in the confer­enee is critical just because there's going to be a big group of teams that have anywhere between three and five losses," she said. "So who you've beaten and your record is going to be very important in terms of advancing to the Big East Tournament and getting the best possible seed." 
The Irish will face off against Rutgers Sunday at 2:00 p.m. in Piscataway, N.J. 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 
Knight 
continued from page 24 
In Notre Dame's first exhibi­tion, the Irish defeated Briar Cliff 103-64 last Friday, but despite the large margin of victory, McAlarney said the Irish could've played better. 
"We have to flush that out of our heads," McAlarney said after the game. "We need to go out and play ­that's our strength. We did­n't do that but it was the first game. We definitely weren't at our best but it's a process and we'll look bet­ter." 
But one thing the Irish did do right against Briar Cliff was shoot free throws. The Irish shot 18-for-21 from the charity stripe. 
Ryan Ayers led the way with 21 points and five rebounds, while Tory Jackson had 18 points, seven rebounds, seven assists and five steals. McAlarney added 11, while. Harangody netted 16 and grabbed 11 rebounds and Luke Zeller had 12 points and six rebounds. 
Tipoff is at 2 p.m. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Evans breaks school rushing record in vvin 

Rutgers 
continued from page 24 
to make sure we're in a great position for each of those matehes." 
The Irish are led by junior outside hitter Christina Kaelin, who has racked up 286 kills on week." 
Notre Dame only has three matches remaining in its Big East schedule, but Brown said that she wasn't trying to crank up the intensity of her team just because their schedule was coming to a close. 
"I think the pace of what we've been doing in practice has been good," she said. "But it's 

Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va.-Darren Evans and Virginia Tech spent 12 days hearing about an offense that fans blamed for the team's struggles in a wide-open ACC. 
They spent Thursday night suggesting the problems are solved and much brighter days are ahead. 
Evans ran for a school­record 253 yards and a touch­down and the Hokies played stout defense to continue their Thursday night mastery with a 23-13 victory over No. 23 Maryland. 
"We're tired of hearing about our offense not being good," Evans said after his 32­carry, breakout performance. "We just had to show up tonight and that's what we did." 
And no one showed up more than Evans, a redshirt fresh­man who had shown flashes of his potential over the first eight games, but nothing to suggest what he did against the Terps. 
"I've never seen him run like that. He was running like a man possessed," said Sean Glennon, who started at quar­terback in place of Tyrod Taylor, who has a left ankle sprain. "He was running over people, he was breaking tack­les. I think he grew up tonight. He went from being a rookie to a veteran and made my job easy." 
And he did it on a stage the Hokies have come to own. 
Virginia Tech (6-3, 3-2) improved to 15-3 on Thursday night and ended a two-game losing streak while remaining one of five teams in the ACC's Coastal Division with two con­ference losses. The Hokies, Virginia and Miami are a half­game behind Georgia Tech ( 4­2). 
Evans credited his much maligned offensive line with making his job easy by open­ing holes that he said were "the biggest they've been all year." His runs included bursts of 50 and 45 yards, and several others into the second­ary. 
After beginning to doubt whether he had a future with the Hokies, "This game has really put my head above the water," he said. "It really showed me that I belong out here." 
Evans broke the record of 243 yards set by Mike lmoh in 2004. 
He had no bigger fan Thursday than coach Frank Beamer. 
"He kind of got in there and got hot and when he got hot, we just kept giving it to him," Beamer said. "There were some holes there and when he got in there, he ran strong." 
Maryland (6-3, 3-2) came into the game as the only ACC team with one league loss, but dropped into a tie for the Atlantic Division lead with Florida State and Wake Forest. ~ 
' 
. '' 
' 
( 
' 
~ 
•( ( 
j 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 7, 2008 
Hosts 
continued from page 24 
"Home-field advantage doesn't help you if don't have a lot of fans there," Waldrum said. "llopefully. the weather coop­erates, and we're expecting a great erowd even though it's an earlier game." 
The eontest will be televised live on CBS College Sports and tickets are free for students. 
Marquette is the only team that has led against the Irish this year and Waldrum said he expects this game to be as competitive as Notre Dame's 3-1 win over the Golden Eagles on Oct. 5. 
"They're always a very diffi­cult team to play," Waldrum said. "Their head coach; Markus Roeders, always does a good job putting a competi­tive team on the field." 
Hoeders has led Marquette to six NCAA Tournament appearances but has just a 1-4 career record against Notre Dame. 
Still, Waldrum said this sea­son's Golden Eagles squad is dangerous because of its good balance, especially on the back line. 
"They're very athletic and competitive and fast," he said. "And the thing I'd say is they have really good goalkeeping 
Rentatch 
continued from page 24 
hockey history. Notre Dame surprised the No.1 ranked Eagles with a 7-1 blowout vic­
tory in 2006. The win put Notre Dame on the nation­al map and tho Irish went on to hold the No. 1 ranking for nine weeks that season. 
"We were highly moti­vatod to prove that we were a program on the rise, Jackson said. "I don't think 
"We were highly motivated to prove that we were a program on the rise. I don't think that BC respected us that year. it'll be quite a bit different going into Friday night." 
Jeff Jackson Irish coach 
that BC respected us that year, us." 
and a good, strong defense." 

Waldrum said that even against Marquette's solid defense, he hopes the Irish can produce enough offense that he can rest senior forward Kerri Hanks. Hanks, Notre Dame's top scorer, injured her knee in a 5-0 win over Cincinnati last Sunday. 
"''d say it's a game-day deci­sion with [Hanksl." he said. "She had a good week of prac­tice and she's doing a lot bet­ter but I think I'm inclined to be a little conSE\rvative with her. We're gonna try to rest her if we can but if we have to use her, we will." 
If Notre Dame gets past Marquette, they might have a chance at revenge against West Virginia, who took down the Irish in penalty kicks in last year's Big East final. The Mountaineers will play Connecticut in the other semi­final at Alumni Field today at 
2:30 p.m. But Waldrum said his team cannot afford to over­look the Golden Eagles. 
"We've gotta be focused with a team like Marquette coming in," he said. "We can't even afford to guess about the other game. We just need to go out and beat Marquette then worry about the rest of the weekend when we get there." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

of a mini-slump to start the season with a pair of wins over Northern Michigan on the road last weekend. Pearce picked up his fifth career shutout on Friday night. 
The Irish have started off with a very strong schedule 
with all three of their losses coming to top ten so far this season. 
"This is another one of those state­ment games for us." Jackson s a i d "Unfortunately our two big statement games have been on the road, but this is a good test for 
it'll bo quite a bit different Notre Dame also started the going into Friday night." season by playing No. 6 
Boston College is undefnated Denver in Colorado. on thnir home ice so far this One bright spot for the team year with a perfect 4-0 record, thus far has been the quick the team is 5-l start for fresh­ovorall. man Billy 
Like many Maday. Maday .lorry York has scored three
"This is another one

coaehed teams, goals including the Eagles are ofthose statement one on the first getting it done games for us.,, shot of his with offense so career against far this soason. Denver. He also 
Jeff Jackson 

The very quick has notched olTenso is aver­Irish coach three assists 
aging four goals a game in a tough llockey l·:ast confernnce. 
Senior eaptain Broek Bradford their attaek, with six goals through six games. lie had two including an overtime game-winner against Merrimack last Friday. 
Bradford along with rest of the BC offense will test Irish goalie Jordan Pearce early and oftnn. 
"I Pearce I is generally good in games where he sees a lot of shots. I expect him to be motivated, he's played pretty for us so far this year but he's only as good as the team in front of him." 
Notre Dame (4-3) broke out alrnady. 

Maday played 
junior hoekey with Irish sophomore Calle Hidderwall. The two have reunited along with linemate Knvin Deeth and quickly estab­lished a good chemistry. 
"lie's started ofT about as we expected him to do. It's been good to see him reconnect with Calle," Jackson said. 
Notre Dame is also slated to play Providence Saturday night to round out the east eoast trip. The Friars (2-4) are not quite as intimidating as Boston College. but should be another good test for the Irish. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurph6@nd.edu 


"The 0\s~u\e 
b...., ~\ette t)e ~o.~\~o.\,)~ 
"'\1'Q.~~G\~~~'t <::j,~~(:)~\_~'b'\~'"' 

Oecio Mainstage Theatre. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Faculty/ Staff /Senior Citizens $12 Studtw~ts $10 
For tickets, call the Ticket Office at 631-2800 or vh>it performingarts.nd.edu 
liJ~&r:~sbA~E 





J u s T Get your journalism master's degree in 1year 

at Indiana University 

Enhance your liberal arts degree. Research shows that students with a master's degree 
in journalism typically obtain better, higher­
paying jobs than students with only a 
bachelor's degree. 
Our master's degree program offers both a 
professional and research track. Students 
work with internationally renowned journalists 
and mass communication scholars. 

Friday, November 7, 2008 

The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

DAVID CAVADINI 
THE DOME PIECE 

Camr•us. Si~,tn:s. That '\~li,nter h:t!i .<\,rrhted lilt Notre Dame.,.,. 
BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
CROSSWORD 
Across *Stone in Hollywood 7 *Home for Will Rogers and Garth Brooks 15 1950s All-Star outfielder Minnie 16 *What some unscrupulous e­businesses do? .17 Arthurian paradise 18 Bejeweled pendant 
19 *Torn 
20 Regatta crew leaders 21 Govt. code­breaking group 22 Wish to take 
back 23 Song syllable 25 U.S. mil. medal 27 Whence the line 
"A soft answer turneth away wrath" 
31 *Extremely narrow winning margin 
35 *Kind of club 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
37 Mother of Queen Elizabeth I 38 Lingerie shade 41 *A Peron 42 Mercury model 43 TV Dr. of note 
44 *Student of Dr. Pang loss 
46 *Lover of Radames 47 Like some nursery care 50 Cape Town's 
country: Abbr. 53 Oz. and kg. 54 Washington 
ballplayer. briefly 
56 Study 59 Class 
62 *Renown 63 Nullify 65Air_ 67 *Site of much 
horsing around? 68 Architectural decoration 69 *Perform ostentatiously 
70 *Destiny 
Down Astrologer Sydney 
2 Meet, as expectations. with "to" 
3 Goofier 4 Battery unit 5 That, in Tijuana 6 Friend of Harry 
and Hermione 7 Capital near the 60th parallel 
8 2001 film set in a mental institution 9 Washed 
10 Collect 
11 Anthropomorphic 
cinema computer 12 Lena of "Chocolat" 
13 Place to which Bart Simpson makes prank calls 
14 Gillette brand 
20 Dodge on the road . 
23 New Deal program, for short 
24 Renaissance instrument 
26 Home in the Alps 
28 Eyepiece 
29 Curer of feta cheese 
30 Lay 
32 Even one 
33 Wayfarer's stop 
34 Kino's title 

~~ 
WILLSHORTZ 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City ______ State _____ Zip______ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJW/M®)1Jl
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
CREYM 

rJ I I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, inc.
r;rjl () 
7
I LOVEUMj 
WHERE THE PAPER BOY WENT WHEN HE

rJ r I I 
RESCUED THE CAT.
www.jumbfe.com 

CAFRIB 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as
rJ b

I suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: rI I ] ON A rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: APPLY FENCE CASKET AVOWAL Answer: When he went for a walk on a cold, windy day, it was -NO "SWEAT" 
FRIDAYS WITH FRAN
HOROSCOPE 

ARIES (March 21-April 19)Try to doze off real quick lest Bovice pays you a visit. TAURUS (April 20-May 20) Shouldn't shucking corn mean something funnier? GEMINI (May 21-June 20) Your butt smells like your mouth. That's a compliment, trust me. CANCEH (June 21-July 22) What do you call a turtle that flies? A shellicopter, of course. LEO (July 23-Aug.22) What would you call it if you could fly? I'd call it a jerkicopter. VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) The flappers were pruder than you. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22) Let's be honest: Obama over McCain wasn't exactly a stJ,ocker. Ha, it says shocker in the newspaper. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21) Pick up the doggone trash, dagnabbit. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.21) Lisa Turtle takes off her girdle. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) Jenna Jameson or Ron Jeremy? This one's too easy. Get crazy with it. Text your vote to (617)797-7132. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb 18) If you shake more than twice .. .it's kind of nice. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20) You people are sick. How could you like sucking worms better than licking slugs? Slugs have much better texture. 

Pu;!zle by Lee Glickstein and Craig Kasper 
36 Sully  ~i1  Cancel  60 Old music halls  
38 Clean Air Act  ~i2_Viejo  61 Result of a  
org. 39 The Bears, on scoreboards 40 Completely free 45 Some "Law & Order" figs.  (California city near Laguna Beach) !:·5 Creed element !:·6 Medics f;,7 Cole Porter's "Well, Did You  whipping 62 End-of-wk. tirnes 64 Big fight 65 1991 film directed by 1·· Across  
48 Ancient garland  ?"  66 "Either he goHS  
49 Kind of class  5·8 "Quo Vadis" role  _go!"  
- - 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
cmdit card, 1-800-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 ayear). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young soivers: nvtimes.com/li~arnina/xwords. 


-------------------------·------------------------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, November 7, 2008 
WoMEN's SoccER 

Hosts of the party 
Golden Eagles come into town with hopes ofupsetting No. 1 Irish 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 
No. 1 Notre Dame will host a Big East semifinal match against No. 25 Marquette tonight at 5 p.m. The confer­enee final will also be held at Alumni Field, on Sunday against the winner of Friday's West Virginia-Connecticut winner. 
The Irish have a perfect reeord and will have home­field advantage as long as they keep winning. But Irish coaeh Handy Waldrum knows host­ing the Big East tournament does not guarantee victories. lie said the team hopes to see a paeked crowd Friday to give it an extra boost. 
see HOSTS/page 22 


INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
page 24 
HOCKEY 
leers travel to BC for re111atch 
By DAN MURPHY 
Sports Ediror 
Hivalry weekend in Boston starts tonight when No. 12 Notre Dame hits th1~ ice to take on No. 2 Boston College in a rematch of last year's national championship game. 
The Eagles got the best of Notre Dame when they met in Denver last April, but Irish coaeh Jeff Jackson said the team has moved on from the loss. 
"I mentioned it to the team today. It's really not about that, that's in the past and we have to focus on the present," he said. 
The last time the two teams met in Boston was also a memorable game in Irish 
see REMATCH/page 22 

Squads gear up for playoffs as chase for the Stadiun1 begins 
By ALEX WEST, TIM LANG, SAM WERNER and CHRIS MASSOUD Sports Writers 

! ~ 
• 
St. Edward's vs. Keenan 
Seeond-seedcd St. Edward's hopes to avoid an upset Sunday

' 
I 
' against seventh-sendnd Kmman, whose play has steadily improvnd throughout the season. Arter tying with Stanford 6-6 
last week, Keenan is excited to bn in Uw seven sned in the play­
! 
offs. 

"We've started playing a lot stronger since the beginning of the year." Knight captain Bart Dear said. 
Dear also thinks his team has momentum going into the play­niTs after playing tough with Stanford. 
Last week, St. Edward's explo­sive offense was locked up by Sorin's defense in a 0-0 tie. The Gentlemen think the reason for last week's offensive troubles, in which they gained less than 50 yards of total offense, may have been due to fall break. 
"Fall break puts you out of sync a little bit, we're just work­ing on timing, adding a couple of nuances," St. Ed's coach Cameron Hogue said. 
Hogue al'io said that St. Ed's has been trying to develop, "an aetual running game." 
The Knights hope to keep the Gentlemen's offensive struggling by applying pressure to quarter­back Matt Abeling and prevent­ing the big play. 
t 
r ' 
VOLLEYBALL 

• 
' Team looks to bounce back
' 
• 
r ' ~ A victory at Rutgers
~ 
could erase tough loss 

t
• 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 

~ 
~ 
:
• 
One week after a disappoint­

' 
' ing five-set loss to Marquette, the Notre Dame will be back on the court looking to regain some Big East momentum. A win Sunday against Hutgers (2-1 R, 1-CJ Big East) would be crudal in positioning the Irish higher in the Big East stand­ings. Notre Dame (12-12, 7-4 Big East) eurrently sits at sixth in the conference, a position that isn't good enough for Irish eoaeh Debbie Brown. "It's not where we'd like to be," she said. "But we know that's still within our control. We're doing everything we can 
see RUTGERS/page 21 


The upset-minded Knights think they can win Sunday with strong play on the offensive and defensive lines. They will also be looking to use their balanced defense to shut down the big plays of the Gentlemen. Hogue said he was expecting "tough defense" from Keenan Sunday. 
The game will be played on Riehle Field at 2:00 Sunday. 
Siegfried vs. Alumni 
On paper, there is no conceiv­able way the eighth-seeded Alumni should be able to con­tend with the top-seeded Siegfried. 
In four games this season, the 
. Dawgs have a point dill'erential of minus 24, while the Hamblers have racked up an impressive 65 points on ofl'ense to give them a differential of plus 62. Bnsides a high-octane offense, spearhead­ed by the three-headed monster of quartPrbaek Max Young, l'ull­baek Dex Cure, and running 
see INTERHALLI page 21 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Brey picks up fourth commit in class of '09 
By CHRIS HINE Editor-in-Chief 

As this year's Notre Dame squad will continue its quest for a national title this week­end, coach Mike Brey and his staff received some help Thursday in reloading for the future in the form of a verbal commitment. 
Tom Knight, a 6-foot-9 for­ward from Dixfield, Maine, gave Brey his commitment late Wednesday night, according to Scout.com. 
Knight is the fourth verbal commitment for Notre ·Dame in the class of 2009. He joins guard Joey Brooks and for­wards Jack Cooley and Mike Broghammer. All four will sign their letters-of-intent on Nov. 12. 
Knight, Cooley and Broghammer will join the like of forward Luke Harangody, sophomores Tyrone Nash, Carleton Scott and transfer Scott Martin in the front court next year. 
Brooks will provide depth in Notre Dame's backcourt, along with transfer Ben Hansbrough, following the graduation of guard Kyle MeAlarney this year and Tory Jackson and Jonathan Peoples in 2010. 
But before the recruits can sign, this year's team will play its second exhibition of the season against Stonehill College Sunday at the Joyce Center. Stonehill is located near Boston and is a member of the Northeast-1 0 confer­ence. 
see KNIGHT/page 21 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 7, 2008 
COMMENTARY 

2008 Irish opponentsDon't blame the Last week This week 
L, 35-10, Wyoming at BYU 
coaches for losses 
Every time Notre Dame loses l'ootball game, Irish fans love ' engage in another kind of 
,arne that lasts until the fol­towing Saturday-the blame ).{ame. 
And tlwrn's nobody fans like to blame morn than the coach. That's not just true of Notre l>amn, where fans and pundits have cri­tiqued Charlie Weis all week­that's pretty much standard procedure for any sports team at any level. 
Team's not doing well? Blame the coach. 
Blaming the coach can feel good-it's cathartic because it's an easy way to vent frustra­tion and assign responsibility for something that went wrong. 
Blaming the coach can be 

Chris Hlne 
Editor-in­Chief 
"Usually that's the 
pretty easy -instinct. They anyone can sit area where the shouldn't have and say the to develop it 
camaraderie comes 
team sh ould've now that
out, when they're all 
done this or that they're in col­after a tough pumping iron and lege. loss. running.,, There's only But blaming so much that the coach, at Weis can do. 
Charlie Weis 
least in Notre Once the ball is Dame's ease, Irish coach snapped, the Notre Dame has a comfortable lead. Weis shouldn't have to 
remind them. 
This week, Weis decided to shake things up a little bit so his players got that message. On Monday, the team had 6 
a.m. workouts, and I'm sure they received some words of encouragement from Weis. 
"The first thing they're going to do is go in and lift and run. Usually that's the area where the camaraderie comes out the best, when they're all pumping iron and running," Weis said Sunday. "It kind of gets things out of their system and gets them moving forward." 
And how did that session go? 
"It might not have been very pleasant," Weis said Tuesday. "I think that [Monday] morning probably didn't start off too well for the fellas. OK? But by [Monday] afternoon I think things were on track. It wasn't a good start of the day." 
But Weis should not have had to do this in the first place. 
His players should already have that killer, competitive 
isn't entirely correct. 
J.ast time I cheeked, Charlie Weis isn't out there blocking on the oll'ensive line. 
lin isn't throwing or carrying tho ball and he isn't out there trying to tackle somebody. 
Tlw rnsponsibility for Notre Dame's loss to Pittsburgh does not rest solely with Weis. The players share the brunt of the blame. 
Notre Dame was up 17 -:{ going into the second half and Irish wide receiver Golden Tate suggested that the offense became complacent in the sec­ond half. Sure enough, the Panthers clawed their way back into the game. 
Who taught the Irish that a 14-point lead was safe'? I doubt Weis did. The players should know bntter than to take their foot on· the gas pedal until late in the fourth quarter when 
game is out of his hands and it's all up to the players. 
Yes·, the players have to be well-coached to know what to do what the ball is snapped, but that motivation for the defense to tackle the guy in front of them, for the offensive line to out-muscle their man, for the wide receivers to beat their coverage, the running backs to lind their holes, and Clausen to hit the open man, that motivation has to come from within. And it needs to start this week. 
If that doesn't happen, it won't be long before the play­ers are playing the blame game with each other. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris /line at chine@nd. edu. 


L, 48-42, Purdue at Minnesota 
W, 25-24, Wisconsin  vs. Purdue  
W, 48-42, Michigan  at Mich. St.  
W, 58-0, Wash. St.  at Oregon  

Idle vs. Georgia Tech L, 56-0, USC vs. Arizona St. W, 36-33, ND vs. Louisville 
L, 27-21, Clemson vs. Notre Dame W, 33-27, Temple Idle W, 28-21, Louisville at Rutgers W, 56-0, UW vs. California 

"May not be combined with any other offer. Valid In-store and IN THE ECK CENTER on selected Items only. While supplies last. 
phone: (574) 631 ·631 6 • www.ndcatolog.com 0700KB091 908A 
Friday, November 7, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Heart of Gold 
Maurice Crum Jr. has given all he can over the past five years, on and off the field 
dren living at the orphanage No. 1 spot with 521 careerBy DAN MURPHY 
how to use the computers. tackles. 
Sports Ediror 

They also had some time for "Leaving my mark on this 
fun. place is something special and 
It takes a pretty good excuse "I got to play a soccer game something that at least I'll be for Irish coach Charlie Weis to with the kids. They were in the books for something," allow a player to miss prac­younger .kids, but they killed he said. tice. This summer fifth-year us," he said. "\Jext time I go senior Maurice Crum Jr. came back, I think I' II bring a foot­Iron man up with one that was good ball." Crum already holds an enough to miss a whole week The program intends to visit impressive spot in the books of workouts. and donate to a different with the longest games played 
Crum spent a week in Accra, orphanage in Africa each year. and games started streaks in Ghana bringing much-needed Crum said he plans to attend the program's rich history. computers and books to a local and do as much as he can to Crum was red-shirted lh.is orphanage. help out. freshman season, since then 
Crum along with several oth­Playing soccer with the kids he has played in every single ers from Students Bridging the inspired Crum to want to start game for the past four years. Information Gap (SBIG) his own charity called Cleats "I feel like my greatest arrived in Africa on June 10 to for Kids to distribute cleats attribute is my toughness," spend a week at the orphan­throughout the continent. He Crum said. "If I can help the age and deliv-is currently in team and be effective, I'm er 15 new a graduate going to play." · computers and dass that Crum has also started 44 of over 2,000 teaches the ins those 45 including 43 in a row
"Having a chance to

donated books .and outs of get­to start his career. Crum 's one to the children see someone else,s ting help from miss was two weeks ago there. The lifestyle and being the United against the Huskies in group also \J ations. Crum Washington. Crum sat out the
welcomed into their 

raised enough said that he first play because of the for­money to con­culture really put my plans on doing mation Washington opened the struct a brand life in perspective. ,, work to set it game with. 
new, air-condi­up once the And he has never missed a tioned comput­football season game due to injury.
Maurice Crum Jr.

er lab to house slows down. "It has a lot to do with will the new Irish linebacker In the mean­power. You're going to get beat machines. time, Crum has up, but for me the greatest 
"The trip a few things to cure for pain is for the next was really spe­keep him busy play to oecur," he said. "As cial," Crum on the field. long as you are out on that said. "Having a chance to see This Saturday against Boston field and the adrenaline is someone else's lifestyle and College, Crum has a chance to pumping, nothing else really being welcomed into their cul­crack the Irish record books. matters." ture really put my life in per­He is currently five tackles Crum needed all the adrena­spective." away from joining the top 10 line he could muster during 
SBIG was founded by Crum's tacklers in Notre Dame histo­his sophomore season when he former teammate Abdel Banda ry. Crum is third on the team played the majority of the sea­who started the organization this season with 49 tackles son with a back injury. Crum after suffering a career-ending through eight games, bringing said that he frequently had injury in his sophomore year. his career total to 290. back spasms throughout the Banda included Crum in the "That is stuff you dream season, but didn't want to get project from the start. about. I've been in the right the necessary surgery until the 
"I got a pretty big heart as place a bunch of times to season had ended. far as giving back, so naturally make a bunch of tackles," "Needless to say, it hurt, but when he first started talking Crum said. my will power and my desire about it, one of the first people He is also only 10 tackles to help the team kept me on that he was talking to about it away from passing former the field," he said. was me," Crum said. safety Tom Zbikowski for The back hasn't been a 
While in Africa, Crum helped eighth place all-time. Bob problem since his surgery, but set up the new library and Crable, who pLayed in the late there are plenty of other taught some of the 300 chil-1970s, has a safe hold on the bumps and bruises that a mid-

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer Irish fifth-year senior middle linebacker Maurice Crum Jr. prepar1es for a play during Notre Dame's 28-21 win over Stanford on Oct. 4. Crum had four tackles in the game. 

die linebacker picks up during player pretty quickly with such games. a young team. He did get the 
"Bruised legs, turf toe, you chance to watch players like know, just the regular kind of Brandon Hoyte and Corey football stuff." Mays, which helped him learn 
Crum said that a big part of how to work well together. his will to play through "They all had a role, one was injuries comes because he the hammer one provided the wants to set a good example energy. I had a different group for whomever may be watch­of guys to study and take their ing. skills and apply them to my 
"I don't know who's watch­own play," he said. ing me or who wants to be like Crum couldn't define a spe­me and I don't want them to cific role for himself because get the wrong idea. There's a he has had to wear about difference every hat there between being is iH the past hurt and being four years for injured." "I feel like my his team. 
All of his hard

greatest attribute is 
Leading the work has cer­
way toughness. IfI can tainly paid off. 
Crum is very help the team and The entire conscious of his nation is start­
be effective, I'm 
role as a leader ing to recognize of the Irish going to play. " Crum's work on team. He is one and off the field. of only 17 play­He is currently
Maurice Crum Jr. 
ers to be named a finalist for the
Irish linebacker 
captain twice. Lowe's Senior He was the only CLASS Award, captain who which is given was not a fifth-year senior and to a senior from each sport this year he was a shoe-in for every year for their leadership the spot along with offensive on the field, in the classroom captain David Grimes and spe­and in the community. cial teams captain David Crum graduated from Notre Bruton. Dame last May with a degree 
"Being a leader of a team in Sociology and enrolled in means that you have to be graduate school after the whatever your teams needs University approved him for a you to be," Crum said. fifth year on the field. 
Crum said that in a season Crum attributes the praise of full of many highs and lows, that award to his family. his job has changed on a "The way that raised me and weekly, or even daily basis. As teaching me values, teaching middle linebacker and the old­me to be that well-rounded est player in a young defense, guy. !The award I is just a Crum has had to be a rock for result of my upbringing," his team on and off the field Crum said. this season. The winner of the award is 
Crum attributes most of his based on nation wide fan vot­leadership skills to his father, ing and will be decided on Maurice Crum, Sr. who was a Dec. 10. linebacker at the University of Between a degree from Miami. Notre Dame, a place in the 
"My dad has always been a Irish record books and annual very important factor in my trips to African orphanages life. Him being around and Crum certainly has the resume knowing the game, it helps," to win. Crum said. 
Crum said that he was Contact Dan Murphy at forced into being a veteran dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Friday, November 7, 2008

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Record: 5-3 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Charlie Weis Fourth season at Notre Dame career record: 
27-18 
against 
CharlleWels 
Boston College: head coach 
0-1 


HEADT( 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Notre Dame 2008 Schedule 
Sept. 6 Sept. 13 Sept. 20 Sept. 27 Oct. 4 Oct. 11 Oct. 25 Nov.1 Nov. 8 Nov. 15 Nov. 22 Nov. 29 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS 
Clausen continues to staff have taken a lot of 
Charlie Weis and his 
be a major threat to
1.&.1 
opposing defenses. He

heat in the past week
:E 
threw more than 40

for play-calling choices
<C 

passes against Pitt out a big game. Weis 
and the inability to pull
Q 
without an interception.
1.&.1 
He is still far from per­

changed the team's
0::: 
.... 
fect, but he provides his

practice schedule this
0 

week; it will be inter­team with a chance to
z 

score every time he respond. 
esting to see how they touehes the field. 
1.&.1 

Jeff Jagodzinski set 
Chris Crane had bigan ACC record last year

1.&.1 
" 
shoes to fill when Matty
..... 

by winning 12 games in
..... 
Ice left town forhis debut season. Jags

0 
Atlanta. He has held hishas the Eagles defense

0 
own in a run -oriented

playing as good as they
z 
offense, but eight touch­have in a long time. He

0 
downs and 12 intercep­
.... 

still needs some time to
(/) 
tion thus far leave some 

prove himself as a
0 
doubts.
recruiter.
Dl 
Ther
(/) 
deferi 
(/) 
.Jagod'': 
~ 
handle
<C 
the hom
z 
side. h~
<C 
Eagles phi'y g full potential. 


Notre Dame doesn't have the confidence right now to beat a good opponent on the road. Between Stewart's absence and BC's tough run defense, The Irish run game won't move the
Bill Brink 

ball. The !Eagles' two­Sports Editor back tandem averages 
4.2 yards per carry and Notre Dame has trouble stoping the run. Boston College has won five straight against the lrL'ih, and this team isn't the one to break the streak. 
FINAL SCORE: Boston College 34 
SDSU -W MICH -W at MSU-L PURDUE-W STANFORD-W atUNC-L atWASH-W PIIT-L atBC NAVY SYRACUSE at USC 
IRISH RUSHING 
The three-headed backfield has estab­lished a little more con­sistency as each back settles into his own role. They still aren't the dominant force on the ground that was prom­ised in August. 
Boston College ranks in the top 25 in rush defense allowing only 106 yards per game to opponents. The only back to rush for more than 65 yards against the Eagles is Georgia Tech's Jonathan Dwyer-he had 109. 




defense and a much-improved special teams, and this is a big win for Notre Dame. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 48 
IRISH PASSING 
Floyd and Tate are good for a few highlight reel plays every Saturday. On the road. the Irish will try to set the pace by throwing the home-run pass early and if Clausen can find time to throw he should have some success. 
The Eagles front line picks up almost three sacks a game and will definitely come after Clausen. The pressure has kept teams from racking up passing yards in Boston, they are also ranked in the top 25 in pass defense. 


Notre Dame has a lot to play for thi'i week. A bowl game, a rivalry and most importantly, respect. The Irish have blown hafltime lflads in two losses this season, and Weis will not let thai happen again. The offense jumps on BC Pmiy and does not let up throughout the game. Throw in a swarming 
No. Name I l.k•hm Walkt.•r 3 Mkh.u~l Fluyd 
Gary Gray 
ArnMndo Alh>t1 

h Ray I il>rring 7 Jimmy Clausm H R<u.•shtm McNt·il 9 Eth.tn Johnson 9 Kylt• l<udolph 10 Daym•Crist II Dt~vid Grimt·s 12 Nick Lt•zynski 12 Robt•rt Bl.mtun 13 Evan Sharpley 14 Bmndon Walker 15 Rri.m Castl'llo 15 Dan Mt"Carthy In Nah.• Montan.t IH Duv.tl Kamar,t 19 (;t.•nrgl' West Jr. 20 Tt.•rro1ill.ctmbt.·rl 21 11.1rry Callup Jr. 22 I Iarrison Smith 23 Goldt•n Tah._• 24 l,L'tmard Gordtln 24 Brian Coughlin 25 Jun.tsGray 26 femoris Slaughter 27 David Bruton 28 Kyle McCarthy 29 }r1sh.t.1d Gainl>s 29 Michat•l Garci.t 30 Steve Paskorz 31 Sergio Brown 32 l.ukt• Schmidt 33 Robt•rt Hught·~ 34 J,lm<'S Aldrid~c 35 Kt•vin Smith 35 Kevin Brook~ Jn Joe Bizjak 36 David Posluszny 37 Mikt•Ancllo 37 Eras Noel 3M Chris Bathon 3H Chrish,pher Curries 39 Ryiln Burkhart 40 Maurice Crum Jr. 41 Scott Smith 41 Nikolas Rodriguez 42 Kt•vin Washington 42 Dan Franco 43 John Ll'onis 43 Eric M.wst 44 As.1ph Schwapp 45 Darius Plelllin~ 45 Kris P.1ttcrson 4n StC'vt.• Filer 47 Jtw Vittoria 
. 47 Mikl' Nr\rvaez 48 Stevt• Quinn 49 Tory.m Smith 51 Dan Wenger 52 Bmxston Cavt• 53 Mt,rrkt• Richardstm 54 Anthony McDun<1ld 55 EricOlst•n 56 Kerry Nt•al 57 Mikt• Colic Jr. 58 Brian Smith 59 Chris Stl'wart nl Martin Quintana 62 Bill Havin 63 Jeff n.ak 64 Tom Burke 65 Mikt• Ht•mandez 67 Tom Bt.•menderfer 69 Carl Bwphy 70 Matt Romin<' 71 Dt•nnis Mahmll'y 72 Paul Duncan 74 Sam Young 75 lhylor Dever 75 l.ancCidland 76 Andrew Nuss 77 Mikt• Turkovich 78 Tn•vor Robinson 79 liafis Williams 81 John ( :oodman H2 Robby Parris H4 Will Ycalman 85 Sam Vos Bh Paul Kuppich 87 Joseph Fauria H9 Kapron Lewis-Mt>on• 90 John Ryan 91 Emeka Nwankwo 93 Paddy Mullen 94 Justin Brown 95 Ian Williams 
91> Pat Kuntz 97 Kallen Wade 98 Scan Cwynar 
Roster 
Pos. HI WI. YR WR 6-2 II!!! FR WR b-3 215 FR DB 5·11 IHB so RB 5-10 195 so ()II 5-10 19H SR QB b-3 217 so DB b-0 l'lO JR DE b-4 275 FR TE 6-6 252 FR QB b-4 233 FR WR 5-10 177 SR QB 5-8 157 so DIJ b-1 lHO FR Qll 6-2 215 SR K b-3 202 so QB b-2 191 so Dll 6-2 21M I FR QB b-4 200 FR WR b-5 219 so WR 5-10 196 JR DB 5-11 195 SR RIJ 5-11 2!Xl JR DB b-2 206 so WR 5-11 195 so DB 5-11 1H7 JR WR b-0 172 JR Rll 5-10 230 FR DB b-0 182 FR DB b-2 212 SR DB 6-1 203 SR DB b-0 202 JR WR 6-1 178 so FB 6-2 235 so DB 6-2 205 JR TE 6-3 246 JR RB 5-11 237 so RU b-0 22~ JR LB 5-8 21Xl SR TE 6-2 241 JR K b-2 165 JR LB b-0 220 I'R DB 5-10 170 SR RB 5-8 190 so DB 5-10 192 JR WR 5-10 181 so K 5-11 190 JR LB b-0 235 SR LB 6-3 235 SR RB 5-11 205 SR LB b-1 250 SR WR 5-10 11!!! JR DB 5-9 169 SR I' 6-2 177 JR I'B 6-0 2~7 SR Lll 6-1 236 FR WR 5-11 185 SR LB b-3 2362 FR LB 5-11 44 JR FB 5-11 211 JR LB 6-2 225 SR LB 6-1 244 JR c 6-4 302 JR c b-3 315 FR DE 6-2 255 JR LB b-3 22<; FR ex:; b-5 303 JR LB 6-2 246 so c b-3 2HO FR LB 6-3 245 so OG b-5 337 JR LB 6-1 242 JR c b-3 252 so OT b-3 306 SR LB 5-10 242 JR OL b-2 275 FR c 6-5 J(XJ SR OL 6-4 27H FR OT 6-5 292 so OL b-6 290 FR OT 6-7 308 SR CJT 6-H 33() JR OT 6-5 3(}8 so OT b-5 2Hl FR DE 6-5 304 so CJG b-6 305 SR OG 6-5 3(11 FR DE 6-2 302 FR WR 6-3 197 FR WR b-4 210 JR TE b-6 265 so WR 5-10 199 JR TE 6-3 232 SR TE 6-7 245 FR DE 6-4 2<;7 FR LB 6-5 264 JR DE 6-4 295 so NT b-3 300 JR DE 6-3 277 SR NT 6-2 310 so 
DE 6-3 2!!.1 SR LB 6-5 2~5 JR DE 6-4 283 FR 
Irish experts 

Notre Dame 21 Boston College 21 

Friday, November 7, 2008 
The Observer ·• IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Boston College 
Eagles
)HEAD 
Record: 5-3 
EAGLES RUSHING 
Notre Dame has shown that they are vulnerable to big game backs. McCoy rushed for 181 last week, but that was on 40-plus carries. To run the ball effectively against the Irish, it takes a dedicated attack. 
Boston College uses Harris and Haden pretty evenly and their big, beefY line gives them plenty of room. Crane is also a thrnat to run the ball from under center and has picked up 230 yards on the ground this year. 
NotrelJame has b worn dtJWI?, by big in the 'jt~tl;(\ St!) :~ . of a few;-different run­ners should' Boston ~~lt~.,ge t~ an edge onlhe'gtound. 
Boston College Eagles 


ANAL SCORE: Notre Dane 27 Boston Colege 24 
EAGLES PASSING 
Raeshon McNeil and David Bruton both had interceptions last week. The secondary continues to be the strong point of the Irish defense by mak­ing big plays and allow­ing very few of them. 
Crane has a couple of very tall targets to throw to on the outside that could cause problems much like Pitt's Baldwin did last week. But Crane is averag­ing 1.5 interceptions per game through the team's first eight games. 
Notre Dame learned a lot about itself last week against Pittsburgh and it will help them this Saturday. Boston College will keep this one close, but the Irish should pull it out in the end. They won't let another one slip 

SPECIAL 'TEAMS 
Prior to the fourth OT, Walker hit seven straight field goals in three games. Whatever was holding him back before is gone. The coverage teams con­tinue to be among the nation's best, but the Irish still haven't made a big play in the return game. 
Speedy Jeff Smith leads the Eagles with almost 500 returns yards so far this season. Former walk­on placekicker Steve Aponivicius is '7 -for-12 in field goal attempts. 

make for a close game. This one will be close, but Boston College will pull away late iill the game with a few big plays in the fourth quar­ter. ANAl-SCORE: Boston Colege 34 
Boston (~ollege 2008 Sclhedule 
Sept. 6  GA. TECH-L  
Sept. 20  UCF-W  
Sept. 27  URI-W  
Oct. 4  at:SCST.-W  
Oct. 18  VA.,TECH-W  
Oct. 25  atUNC-L  
Nov.1  UEMSON--L  
Nov. 8  NOTRE DAME  
Nov. 15  at FLORIDA ST.  
Nov. 22  atWF  
Nov. 29  l\1ARYLAND  

INTANGIBLES 
The whole world knows Notre Dame needs to vall­date its season with a big game, as if the last sched­uled game with rival Boston College isn't enough motiva­tion. Irish fans will travel well to Boston, but don't expect too many to be in the stadium. 
With a win on Saturday the Eagles will move the all-time series to 9-9 between the two teams. The Eagles are coming off of two tough losses of their own and needl to prove themselves on their home turf. 
As much as it kills me to say it, it doesn't look good for the Jirish in Boston this week­end. The Eagles are coming off two close losses, as if playing Notre Dame wasn't enough motivation. The stats once again paint a pretty even pic­ture which should 
:z 
0 
-t 
:a 
IT1 
c 
l> 
:s: 
m 
ttl 
0 
(/) -t 
0 
z (') 
0 
r­
r­
m 
C) 
m 
l> 
z 
l> 
!:( 
(/) 
(/) 
.....

AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Jeff Jagodzinski Second season at Boston College career record: 
17-6 

against Notre Dame: 

Jeff Jagodzinski 
1-0 
head coach 

Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht  Wt.  YR  
1  josh Haden  RB  5-8  182  FR  
2  Brandon Robinson  WR  5-10  198  SR  
3  lfeanyi Momah  WR  6-6  225  so  
4  Donnie Fletcher  CB  6-1  186  FR  
5  Ryan Lindsey  WR  5-8  165  so  
6  jeffSmith  RB  5-9  198  )R  
7  justin Tuggle  QB  6-3  208  FR  
7  Kevin Akins  LB  6-2  224  SR  
8  Marcellus Bowman  FS  6-2  217  )R  
9  DeLeon Gause  CB  5-f!  174  so  
10  Chris Crane  QB  6-4  239  SR  
11  Clarence Megwa  WR  6-1  216  JR  
13  Cadi Boek  QB  6-3  221  so  
14  Alexander Atiyeh  QB  6-5  225  FR  
14  Billy Flutie  WR  6-2  186  so  
15  Dominique Davis  QB  6-4  198  FR  
16  Brian Toal  LB  6-0  238  SR  
17  Chris johnson  QB  6-2  215  FR  
18  Rich Gunnell  WR  5-11  1%  JR  
19  Nick Loury  QB  6-o  220  FR  
19  Paul Anderson  ss  6-1  211  SR  
20  Roderick Rollins  CB  6-o  188  JR  
21  John Lowell  QB  6-4  195  so  
21  Razzie Smith  CB  5-10  177  )R  
23  Hampton Hughes  DB  6-3  200  FR  
23  Billy Bennett  PK  6-!  204  so  
24  Dan Mulrooney  RB  6-!  201  so  
25  John Hovsepian  WR  6-3  192  SR  
25  Chris Fox  ss  5-11  201  so  
26  Kurtis Magee  DB  5-10  182  GS  
27  Okechukwu Okoroha  DB  6-1  192  FR  
28  UgoOkpara  CB  6-1  163  FR  
29  Dominick LeGrande  ss  6-2  200  FR  
30  Donie Elliott  s  6-0  178  FR  
32  Chris Hayden-Martin  CB  6-1  190  FR  
33  Dan Williams  LB  6-2  239  FR  
34  Mike McLaughlin  LB  6-0  252  JR  
35  Robert Francois  LB  6-2  253  SR  
36  Kevin Distaso  LB  6-1  222  )R  
36  james McCluskey  FB  6-2  246  so  
37  jarick Walker  LB  6-0  213  so  
38  Mark Maglio  CB  5-9  176  )R  
39  Darius Bagan  LB  6-2  223  so  
40  jerry Kelly  RB  6-0  238  FR  
41  Mantel Harris  RB  5-10  192  FR  
42  Isaac Johnson  CB  6-0  179  FR  
43  Michael Dell'Aquila  DB  5-11  188  so  
43  Gerald Levano  P/K  6-2  185  FR  
44  Alexander DiSanzo  LB  6-3  222  FR  
45  Wes Davis  FS  6-1  215  so  
46  Ryan Quigley  p  6-3  180  FR  
47  Brad Newman  DE  6-2  250  so  
48  Stephen Atkinson  DB  6-!  186  FR  
49  Gavin Lamb  TE  6-5  240  FR  
49  Garrett Seeger  LB  6-0  213  SR  
50  Will Thompson  LB  6-1  235  FR  
51  Corey Phelps  LB  6-3  234  JR  
51  jack Geiser  LS  6-2  250  )R  
52  Austin Giles  DE  6-3  283  JR  
53  Greg Abilheira  PK  5-10  165  so  
53  Mike Morrissey  LB  6-2  210  so  
54  Nick Clancy  LB  6-3  217  FR  
55  Damik Scale  DT  6-3  293  so  
56  Max Holloway  DE  6-2  241  FR  
57  Sean Flaherty  LS  6-2  220  FR  
58  Bill Ferguson  DE'  6-2  215  )R  
58  Jason Stewart  LS  6-0  189  SR  
59  Joho Chisholm  LB  6-2  207  so  
60  Ron Brace  DT  6-3  324  SR  
62  Bryan Murphy  c  6-3  285  SR  
64  Nick Rossi  OG  6-6  290  JR  
65  Matt Tennant  c  6-4  294  JR  
66  Rich Lapham  OT  6-8  322  so  
69  Mark Spinney  c  6-4  287  FR  
70  joho Elliott  OG  6-4  283  FR  
71  Nick Halloran  OG  6-6  265  FR  
72  Mike Goodman, Jr.  OL  6-6  328  FR  
73  ClifRamsey  OG  6-6  311  SR  
74  Anthony Castonzo  OT  6-7  287  so  
75  Nathan Richman  OT  6-6  284  FR  
76  Patrick Sheil  OT  6-6  273  )R  
77  Emmett Cleary  OT  6-7  267  FR  
78  Thomas Clai~me  OG  6-3  323  so  
80  Ryan Purvis  TE  6-4  260  SR  
81  Chris Pantale  TE  6-5  238  FR  
82  justin Jarvis  WR  6-5  196  JR  
83  Steve Aponavicius  PK  5-10  198  SR  
84  Michael Stone  TE  6-6  242  FR  
85  Clyde Lee  WR  6-0  178  FR  
86  jim Ramella  DE  6-4  243  )R  
87  Lars Anderson  TE  6-3  248  FR  
88  Jordon McMichael  TE  6-5  262  so  
89  Colin Larmond, Jr.  WR  6-3  196  FR  
90  B.j.Raji  DT  6-1  323  SR  
91  Christian Klein  DE  6-3  240  FR  
92  Allan Smith  DE  6"2  232  )R  
93  Bryan Murray  DT  6-2  292  FR  
94  Mark Herzlich  LB  6-4  238  JR  
95  Brendan Deska  DE  6-5  241  )R  
96  Kaleb Ramsey  DT  6-3  256  FR  
98  Alex Albright  DE  6-5  245  JR  
99  Jerry Willette  DT  6-5  281  SR  

Irish 
experts 
Notre Dane 22 


page 6 

Crunching the numbers 
2008 SEASON AVERAGES PER GAME 
BC points scored 
NO points scored 
BC points allowed 
NO points allowed 


BC rush yards PITT NO rush yards \H 
BC rushing allowed NO rushing allowed 
PITT pass yards NO pass yards 


BC passing allowed NO passing allowed 



162.7 
1.!~.7 


SEATING FOR OVER 500 • PRIVATE DINING OUTDOOR
• 

.t"l~;:n>l;et;;t ·ov Jack N(;)l~ ~ R~ggie Brooks each Monday at 7:00pm \\i :th.rough Nove:tnber 24 -WSBT 960 AM. 
Friday, November 7, 2008 The Obst·rver + IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Neal adapts to hybrid defensive position 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
Kerry Neal wants to be the best defensive end-linebacker hybrid player there is. 
What exactly does that mean? 
"Having offensive linemen fear me." he said. 
Neal, a sophomore linebacker, plays an interesting role in Notre Dame's 3-4 defense. He usually lines up with his hand on the ground as a lineman, although occasionally he'll drop baek into pass coverage. 
"You're a linebacker but you're working out with the linemen in practice," he said. "It's back and fourth. You're down there with the line-
Neal has steadily grown since high school, when he once played safety as a 170-pound freshman. Now, he said he's up around 250. 
Neal has five tackles this sea­son, three of them for a loss. He also has an interception and a sack. He said he's still learning the game, but that he feels much more comfortable. Freshman year, he said, he sometimes didn't know his role on the field. The additional playing time, he said, helped him learn his position. 
"I think the game is really coming to me," he said. "I have to just keep working hard. It helped a lot. I'm not nervous anymore out there. I feel like 
I'm supposed to 
be out there." 


men pretty mueh." But back to  "/ think the game is really coming to me. I  To continue to improve. he said, he pays great  
being feared. Neal wants to intimidate  have to just keep working hard. "  attention to his coaches and watches a good  
opposing  deal of tape.  
offenses.  Kerry Neal  "Staying  con­ 
"Just being a  Irish linebacker  stantly in the film  
dominant play­ room," he said.  
er, the most dis­ "Learning  the  
ruptive player,"  game.  learning  

he said. "Having linemen jump the calls, learning the defense. offsides because of my speed "Instead of just being out and stufl'like that." there on third-and-long, that 
lie's got the athleticism to do type of situation, now I can go it. out there and stop the run." 
''lie's very athletic and he has Limiting Boston College's two­not played a lot," Irish defensive back ground game will chal­coordinator Corwin Brown said. lenge the Irish defense. At his "This is his second year playing, position, Neal said, the best way so you would like to think he to limit the run is to follow his has a lot of room to grow still procedures based on the defen­because of his athleticism." sive play called. 

"If I got a gap I need to be in, be in that gap," he said. "If I have a play coming my way, make that play." 
Brown said successful defen­sive players have that ability to make plays, whether or not the odds are in their favor. 
"I would just like for all of our players on defense, when you have a chance to make plays, you make them," Brown said. "And if you're in an area to make a special play or a 'big' play, then you make 'them. Sometimes that's unrealistic bec~use the other guys will win too. 
Neal and the rest of the defense have an additional ehallenge ahead of them in Chestnut Hill, Mass. Eagles quarterback Chris Crane can mn the ball if need· be, which 1;he defense will have to take iinto account. 
"You just got to be aware. If we have good cover&ge on him, he's going to take off," Neal said. 
Neal's learning process is nowhere near complete. He can't estimate himself how far he can go, but Brown said his future looks bright. 
"He's still learning the college game," Brown said. "He'll get bet~er. He'll definitely get bet­ter. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Mobile quarterback and full backfield will challenge Irish 


ByJAY FITZPATRICK Managing Editor 
When Notre Dame played Boston College last season, the Eagles were the No. 4 team in the country, They would move to \lo. 2 the following week behind Heisman Trophy candi­date Matt Ryan at quarterback. 
On the other sideline, the Irish were winless and replaced then-true freshman Jimmy Clausen with Evan Sharpley during the game. 
But the important part about this Saturday's rematch is that neither team is the same as last year's versions. 
For Notre Dame, all the young players who suffered through tough losses last sea­son have gained experience, but Boston College has lost a good deal of senior leadership, having graduated 19 fifth-yeah seniors_. 
The most obvious change is at quarterback. Matt Ryan was drafted third overall by the Atlanta Falcons after throwing for 3,953 yards, 28 touchdowns and 16 interceptions last sea­son. 
His replacement this season is senior Chris Crane, who was Ryan's backup on the Eagles two-deep last season. 
So far this season, Crane has struggled at times, throwing for only 178.4 yards per game with eight touchdowns and 12 interceptions. 
Notre Dame defensive coordi­nator Corwin Brown said Cr.:me is an important part of the system Boston College runs. 
"They have a quarterback wlio makes good decisions, 
throws the ball around pretty duress." well," Brown said. "He makes The other major offensive mistakes just like everybody loss for the Eagles from last else. He gets tackled, he gets season is starting tailback pressure. He throws intercep­Andre Callender, who also tions, just like other quarter­graduated last season. backs when you pressure Callender led the team with them." 907 yards on the ground and 
While Crane is not as effec­nine touchdowns and also led tive a passer as Ryan was last the team with 59 catches for season, the 6-foot-4 senior is 613 yards. This season, the more of a dual-threat quarter­Eagles have spread the wealth 
back than his predecessor. Crane has rushed for 147 net yards and seven touch­downs so far this season. Last year, Ryan had only one rushing touchdown had a net of minus­nine yards on the ground. 
Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said that while the Eagles coaching staff has some run­ning plays drawn up specifically for 
in the running 
game, splitting 
carries between

'They have a 
freshmen tail-

quarterback who 
backs Josh makes good decisions, Haden and Monte! Harris. 
throws the ball around 
Harris leads

pretty well. He gets 
the team with 

tackled, he gets 411 yards on 73 carries, good for 
pressure. He throws 
58 yards per

interceptions,just like 
game, while other quarterbacks Haden has 276 
when you pressure yards on 63 car­
ries for 39 yards

them. " 
a game. Weis predicted that Corwin Brown Haden will start 
Irish defensive for the Eagles 
on Saturday.

coordinator 
Crane, a lot of his rushing yards come from scrambling. 
"He's actually a guy who likes to run the ball a little bit more, not afraid to run it. They actu­ally do run some read options with him actually carrying the ball," Weis said. "The other thing, if he doesn't see some­thing in the passing game open, he's not afraid to pull it down and go with it. He does a nice job feeling pressure and avoiding the rush and getting out of the pocket and throwing the ball away when he's under "He's not a big 
guy, but he runs hard. He's very quick and he's also a good receiver out of the backfield," Weis said. 
Weis also said that he has game-planned for Harris, but that the two backs are very similar. 
"[Harris is] not that much dif­ferent than Haden. He's not that much different. They're not real big guys but both backs that run real hard," he said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 7, 20082 
"Catholics and Evolution: Old Tensions and New Directions" 
~~.;
~­

Phillip R. Sloan Professor, Program of Liberal Studies and Graduate Program in History and Philosophy of Science 
• 
11:00 a.m. Saturday, November 1, 2008 
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art 

Are Catholics committed to supporting "Intelligent Design" against evolutionary theory~ Sloan will examine the history of the response of Church officials to Darwin's theory and summarize the most recent reflections in Catholic circles and in the official statements of 
the Vatican. 


Fall 2008 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues of our times. 
~ 09/06-San Diego State "Faith Taking Shape: Early Christianity and the Arts" Thomas F. Noble, Professor and Chairperson, History 
~ 09/13-Michigan 
"Peter Pan as Cultural Icon" Susan C. Ohmer, William T. Carey and Helen Kuhn Carey Associate Professor of Modern Communication, Film, Television, and Theatre 
~ 09/27-Purdue 
"Election 2008: Race, Gender, and Faith" David E. Campbell, John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., Associate Professor, Political Science 
Darren W. Davis, Professor, Political Science Christina K. Wolbrecht, Associate Professor, Political Science 
~ 1 0/04-Stanford "1he Sub-Prime Mortgage Mess and Federal Reserve Policy'' Christopher J. Waller, Gilbert F. Schaefer Professor of Economics 
~ 11/01-Pittsburgh "Catholics and Evolution: Old Tensions and New Directions" Phillip R. Sloan, Professor, Program of Liberal Studies 
~ 11/22-Syracuse 
"Before and Beyond Modernism: Icons as Art" Charles E. Barber, Professor and Chairperson, Art, Art History, and Design 
3-1/2 hours before kickoff in the Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted). For more information, visit http:/ Isaturdayscholar.nd.edu 
P'!"""'!!!!""""''UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 







