
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
University addresses community relations 
Community Campus Advisory Coalition discusses concerns about off-campus parties 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Issues between students living off campus, their neighbors and police were discussed Thursday at a Community Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC) meeting at the South Bend Common Council. 
Student leaders, local col­lege officials and community leaders on the Coalition gath­ered for the first time this academic year. The Coalition was formed just over a year ago to address concerns about college students living ofT campus in the South Bend area. 
Concerns about off campus 
parties on football weekends was the primary issue dis­cussed, although South Bend Common Council members and residents said this sea­son has been relatively "good." 
Coalition chair Al "Buddy" Kirsits, a South Bend Common Council member, said other than a few specific incidents -including the 37 people arrested Sept. 21 at a party on the 700-block of E. Colfax Ave. -on the whole, "things have been good." 
Marguerite Taylor, who lives in the northwest neigh­borhood, agreed, despite concerns going into the school year. 
see CCAC/page 10 



Respect Life Week comes to a close 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Although Respect Life Week is coming to a close, its organizers are still eager to spread its mes­sage. "Our hope is that every Notre Dame student -every Catholic -attempts to view the issue of abortion in an intellec­tually honest fashion," John Gerardi, the coordinator of Hespect Life Week and member of Notre Dame's Right to Life club, said. 
With the Presidential election only a month away, Notre Dame's Hight to Life Club spon­sored the week to not only inform students about abortion, but also to address the respon­sibility of Catholic voters. 
"This year in particular we are attempting to inform our students of the guidelines pre­sented to us by the Church for how Catholics ought to influ­ence the culture through poli­tics, and to understand the importance of voting to protect life in the ballet box," Gerardi 
see LIFE/page 8 ByJENN METZ 

News Editor 
After moving into their off­campus house in August, Notre Dame seniors Taylor Montgomery, Joey Brown, James DuBray and Lorenzo Reyes, a sports writer for The Observer, threw a party. 
Neighbors, concerned with the noise and crowds gathering outside the residence at number 815 E. Wayne St., called the South Bend Police Department (SBPD) twice during the night of the party on Aug. 28. 
DuBray and his roommates showed The Observer the police records from that night from 
9:47 p.m. and 11:18 p.m., stat­ing neighbors' complaints: "Loud music coming from resi­dent, caller would like it turned down" and "large ND party, throwing trash around, throw­ing bottles at houses," respec­tively. 
Police officers who went to the house that night advised the seniors to stop the loud music and to take the party inside after the first complaint, and upon the second complaint, warned that a citation would be issued if the police had to return a third time. 
DuBray said the police did not come back that night, and that no citations or tickets were issued. 
"That's why we were kind of shocked to get a letter from ResLife," he said, referring to the Office of Residence Life and 
see PARTY/page 9 

Block parties held to introduce residents, boost communication 
By JOSEPH MCMAHON Assistant News Editor 
With tensions between students and South Bend residents reach­ing a boiling point in recent weeks, local landlord Mark Kramer and Student Government leaders have united to attempt to repair the strained relations by hosting block parties. 
"Hopefully [the block parties are] going to repair the relations. We're just trying to build a rap­port between the students in the community and their neighbors so that the tensions are not as high," Kramer said. 
The block parties, which fea­ture free food, a live band and safety presentations from local police departments, provide a casual formn where students and residents can interact and get to know each other. 
"We really want them to be able to talk on the same level because we're all residents of South Bend here, and we just thought the block party would be the perfect environment for that to happen," off-campus president Billy Lyman said. 
Kramer said he has actually been holding block parties for the last eight years; however, in the wake of the ordinance last year, the focus of the events switched from safety to improving commu­nity relations. 
"The whole purpose when I started eight years ago was to present crime prevention to the students and to get them accli­mated to the neighborhood," he said. "Last year, we had a major focus on Notre Dame Ave. when we created Corby Row and some of the neighbors were a little con­cerned about students moving 
see BLOCK/ page 9 

Students protest labor practices 
Present letter to Jenkins' office callingfor divestment from HEI Hotels 
By JOSEPH MCMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Socially conscious students gathered on the steps of the Main Building Thursday afternoon to deliver a per­sonal letter to University President Fr. John Jenkins demanding that the University divest its funds from HEI Hotels and Hesorts -a company which the stu­dents said has unfair labor practices. 
"We believe that our University is invested in a company that completely 
disregards the principles that our University seeks to cultivate," said the letter, which was authored by the Coalition for Economic Justice. "HEI Hotels and Resorts has repeatedly undermined the dignity of their employees and denied their fundamental right to organize in an environment free from fear and intimida­tion." 
Although Jenkins was not in his office, the group hand­ed the letter to his secretary. 
In addition to the Coalition for Economic Justice, which is composed of three stu­dents, nine other campus groups signed the letter -Mecha ND, Notre Dame Peace Fellowship, Notre Dame Vietnamese Student Association, Filipino-American Student Organization, Campus Labor Action Project, Feminist Voice, Human Bights Notre Dame, ND-8 and the Progressive Student Alliance. 
Coalition member Thanh Le said he first heard about the company's unfair prac­tices while working as an intern with Unite Here over 
see LETTER/page 10 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Balls 

everyvvhere! 
When one of my roommate's broth­ers came to visit recently, we decided we needed to do something a little bit diffnrent. Wn needed something new, something fresh, something unique. 
It all started Thursday night. It was your typical night: "The Office," Rock Band, a beer ball, someone getting kicked on· Notre Dame's campus for life and then arrested (his name is Dan and he has hazel eyes. If you have any infor­mation about it, 
Jay Fitzpatrick

please let me know. We don't know what hap-Managing Editor 
pened). 
And after such a normal, almost banal, night, we decided to spice things up on Friday. After play­ing some beer pong, something magi­cal -something Hall of Fame worthy -happened. 
The visiting brother (lnt's just call him Mike) told us about this great new game he had just come up with. And thus, Balls Everywhere! was born. 
The game seems simple, but let's be honest. This ain't your father's drink­ing game. 
As many people that fit in the room play split into two teams and start with their hands under the table on oppositn ends. A large amount of ping pong balls arn required (at least 30) in a container. We recommend buying the multi-pack from Wal-Mart. 
Turn the container upside down in the middle of the table, and have one person lift and yell the game's name. Chaos ensues. 
Teams try their hardest to shoot balls into a cup on the opposing team's side. As many pnople can shoot at one time as long as someone on your team is chugging. The game continues until six shots have been made in one cup. It is best to use an enclosed area (a room with four full walls or a make­shift screen over any doorways is the best). 
Beyond these simple regulations, there is only one more rule: There are no rules. 
Players can dive on the ground, swat balls to their side, and do whatever it takes to get the W. In fact, competitors may go as far as to strike an opponent right in the nose if need be. 
"Play to win, win to play" is the sim­ple mantra of Balls Everywhere! 
Perhaps the greatest part of this drinking game is that it should instead be called a drinking sport. This is not the sort of thing you can leisurely do one evening as a precursor to a night on the town -steam showers are a required part of any post-game plans. 
If nothing else, Balls Everywhere! goes to show the wonder of the American educational system. A brain trust of college seniors and recent col­lege graduates put their heads togeth­er and ereated something so beautiful that it brought a tear to my eye. 
If you want to know more about the next great college activity, just go I• ahead and visit the game's official Web site, ballseverywhere.com. 
~ 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at ffitzp5@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however. recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please con­tact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, October I 0, 2008 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST HIDDEN TREASURE ON CAMPUS? 





Ann Mazur  Justin Sabllch  Megan Smith  
Fischer Grad  sophomore Keenan  sophomore Pasquerilla West  
"Saint Mary's  "Room435.  'The pass around  
Deep Trails. "  Keenan Hall."  the lakes because  
it's quiet."  


Mark Easley competes as Mr. Keenan in the talent portion of the Mr. ND pageant held on Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 

Robber In Mich. ends up $30 In the hole 
WARREN, Mich.-Police said a strong-arm robber got locked in a chokehold by his intended victim and ended up $30 in the hole. Police in the Detroit suburb of Warren said the robber approached a 36-year-old man and demanded money on Tuesday night. 
When the robber tried to flee with $50, police said he was tackled by his vic­tim. The Macomb Daily of Mount Clemens and The Detroit News reported the man got the robber in a chokehold and demanded his cash back. 
Detective Lt. Michael Torey said the victim got his money back and that the robber was so scared he gave the man $80. 
The intended victim injured his wrist during the scuffie. 
Police were looking for the robber, who fled on foot. 
Judge sentences rap 
music  fan  to  Bach,  
Beethoven  
URBANA,  Ohio  - A  

defendant had a hard time facing the music. Andrew Vactor was facing a $150 fine for playing rap music too loudly on his car stereo in July. But a judge offered to reduce that to $35 if Vactor spent 20 hours lis­tening to classical music by the likes of Bach, Beethoven and Chopin. 
Vactor, 24, lasted only about 15 minutes, a proba­tion officer said. 
It wasn't the music, Vactor said, he just needed to be at practice with the rest of the Urbana University basketball team. 
"I didn't have the time to deal with that," he said. "I just..decided to pay the fme. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT GAME DAY SUNDAY 
D:: 
1.1.1 
:::z:: 
~ 
1.1.1 
3: 
....I 
1:1
c:c 




80 62 
Tom Pesch 
freshman 
Morrissey 
"Booty! Some nice pirate booty!" 

IN BRIEF 
"Bach's Lunch: A Noontime Concert," a short classical con­cert featuring advanced students from the Department of Music will take plaee today at 12:10 
p.m. 
in Penote Performer's Hall in DebBartolo Performing Arts Center. The audience is welcome to bring their lunch to thi'i event. 

St. Edward's Hall Players are performing "Romance" Friday and Saturday from 7:30 -9:30 

p.m. 
at Washington Hall. Tickets are $5 for students and $7 for the general publie. 


The lnstitutn for Latino Studies will host the "Celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month: Fiesta del Sol" today at 7 p.m. There will be music, dancing and food available at Feildhouse Mall for all student'>. 
The Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies will host a lecture called "The Formation of the Irish Historical Conciousness" today at 3 p.m. in DeBartolo 118. 
L.A. Theater Works. a radio theater company, is presenting "War of the Worlds" and "The Lost World" in Debartolo Performing Arts Center at 2 p.m. on Saturday. Tickets are $45 for the general public, $36 for facul­ty/staff, and $15 for students. 
There will be a walk of solidari­tycalled the "Gulu Walk" Sunday from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. to raise awareness for child soldiers in Uganda. transportaion will be provided at Main Circle starting at 12:30. Donations arc encour­aged. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


0,,,,,,,
,,,,,,, 
e
(,) 0 

HIGH 75 HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH 75 HIGH 67
..... 

LOW 55 LOW LOW LOW LOW 55 LOW 42 
Atlanta 77 162 Boston 70 I 54 Chicago 73 I 45 Denver 72 I 44 Houston 87 I 60 Los Angeles 73 I 59 Minneapolis 69 I 43 New York 74 I 57 Philadelphia 76 I 56 Phoenix 92 I 71 Seattle 54 I 41 St. Louis 79 I 52 Tampa 87 I 73 Washington 76 I 61 
-----,----------------------------. 
Friday, October 10, 2008 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Undergraduate students present sununer research projects 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Writer  "I have always been impressed at the cutting-edge level of research students are  help [students] be better in whatever they decide in terms of a career," he said.  ence was a valuable one. Junior Will Culligan said he learned about how science  cells, he said. When these com­pounds are found in nature, the research group tried to repro­ 
doing," he said.  Skills like project manage­ takes place on a day-to-day  duce them synthetically in the  
Notre Dame undergraduates  The students participated in  ment, time management, work­ basis through his research at  lab, Gruffi said.  
in the College of Science demonstrated how they trans­ research from all disciplines of the College of Science, includ­ ing with a team and gathering and synthesizing information  the University of Connecticut Health Center.  "I learned a lot of independ­ence in terms of trying to work  
formed classroom learning into real world application with the  ing math, physics, chemistry, biology, Chaloner said.  are all formed through under­graduate research and these  He said he aided research in finding an anti- things out myself," he said. Gruffi said the  
presentation of their summer research projects in Jordan Hall Thursday.  Students utilized the career center and the College of Science faculty to find research  skills can help a student in any academic endeavor, Chaloner said.  malarial drug. The group looked for com­ "My mantra is that the best way to learn  research was different than research done in  
The students showcased their projects for the College of Science Fall Symposium for Undergraduate Research. The symposium gives stu­ opportunities, he said. Chaloner said the University strongly encourages under­graduate students to do research.  While 40 percent of students doing research is high, Chaloner said the other 60 per­cent should be also doing research, or at least seriously  pounds that stopped the enzyme that aids the repro­duction of the  is to do, so the best way to learn about science is to do science.  the classroom labs. "There is an actual goal to it," he said. "You  
dents the chance to talk about  "We are  trying to create a  considering it.  Malaria virus.  can  have  an  
the research they have done while at the same time giving other stu­ "/ have always been impressed at the  profile of research among undergradu­ates," he said.  "I think all of them can be doing research and should be doing research," he said. Students learn the science  "We found three com­pounds that did a good job of  Dr. Dominic Chaloner undergraduate research coordinator  actual affect on people's lives." Junior Dan Reid participated  
dents an occasion to hear about the research oppor­tunities available  cutting-edge level of research students are doing.,,  "This is not something that just graduate students are  they are studying in a class­room more effectively when they put it into action, Chaloner said.  stopping the College of Science in research in enzyme func­the "middle of qon," Culligan nowhere" in said. "We are hoping that in the Wisconsin through a Notre  
at Notre Dame,  doing."  "My mantra is that the best  future, the compounds can be  Dame summer research pro­ 
the College of Science's Undergraduate research coordi­nator Dr. Dominic  Dr. Dominic Chaloner undergraduate research coordinator College of Science  While under­graduate research is par­ticularly stressed for stu­ way to learn is to do, so the best way to learn about science is to do science," he said. "So I think that a student that really wants to further their science  used as anti-malarial drugs." Senior Thomas Gruffi started researching anti-cancer com­pounds with his organic chem­istry professor.  gram. Reid said he studied tur­tle behavior in the afternoons while taking classes in the mornings. "It was a lot of fun," he said.  
Chaloner said.  dents hoping to  education should have some  "I had an interest in what he  "I got some credits out of it and  
Chaloner esti­ attend medical  level of scientific research in  was researching, so I asked to  I got to do my own experi­ 
mated that about 40 percent of  school, Chaloner said research  their curriculum."  join his lab," Gruffi said.  ment."  
undergraduates in the College  will help students gain skills for  The undergraduate students  The group looked for natural  
of  Science  participate  in  any career path.  who presented projects at the  compounds that have the bio­ Contact Madeline Buckley at  
research.  "Doing research is going to  fair said the research experi­ logical activity to kill cancer  mbuckley@nd.edu  



Friday, October I 0, 2008 

page 4 The Observer+ NEWS 
Organization explores radio history 
Amateur Radio Club cavers everythingfrom Morse Code to antenna design 
By ALYSSA MORONES News Writer 

In 1899 Notre Dame profes­sor of Telegraphy Jerome Green ·sent the first "long dis­tance" wireless signal in America with a self-built transmittBr from atop a Notre Dame f'lagpole (which later would sit atop the Basilica of the Sacred Heart) to a receiver perched on Saint Mary's clock tower a mile away. 
Today, Notre Dame students continue the wireless radio tradition with the Amateur Hadio Club -an organization that encompasses many dif­ferent facets of radio, from Morse code to antenna design. 
The Amateur Hadio Club, which uses a system known as Ham radio, is one of Notre Dame's oldest clubs. The University's archives are rid­dled with newspaper clip­pings and photographs detailing Notre Dame"s histo­ry in radio. In 1933 in Washington Hall, University President Emeritus, Fr. John 
F. O'Hara, presented an hon­orary degree to Guglielmo Marconi, the first man to suc­cessfully transmit messages without the aid of wire. 
Today, Ham radio continues to allow participants to con­tact each other using various types of radio communica­tions equipment. The system is also useful in emergency or disaster situations. After Hurricane Katrina, when all corporate owned radio sys­tems were down, Ham radio helped to organize volunteer services. 
Notre Dame's current chap­
ter of the Amateur Radio 
Club was started four years 
ago. The club "allows people 
with similar interests to 
explore various radio com­
Ill unication systems," club 
president Patrick Kane. 
In contrast to what the title implies, Amateur Hadio does not denote a lack of skill. The club's faculty advisor, Finance Professor Barry Keating, said "the reason operators are called ama­teurs is because they don't do it for money. In fact, these students are quite skilled." 
"Amateur Hadio Club encourages worldwide com­munication," Kane said. "The bond between the club mem­bers is good and we have a really supportive faculty." 
The club receives particu­lar support from Notre Dame's Engineering depart­ment as some members of the department are active radio operators. Interest in the club, though, is not confined to students and professors. One of the members of Notre Dame's maintenance staff is a skilled Morse code operator. 
Club members' interest in radio stems from various places. "I've always been fas­cinated with radio," Kane said. "A high school teacher got me into it. I've always wanted to make my own · radio-controlled car." 
Club member and junior Electrical Engineering major Marcin Morys said he joined the Amateur Radio Club because of his interest in researching wireless commu­nication. 
Professor Keating's interest can be traced back to his 
childhood, when one of his 
neighbors invited him to talk 
to someone halfway around 
the world using a radio he 
had set up in his garage. 
As one of Notre Dame's only technically oriented clubs, the Amateur Hadio Club gives students the opportunity to explore their technical incli­nations. "It's not uncommon for students to actually wind up taking jobs similar to the extracurricular ac_tivities they participated in while in college," Keating said. 
"What's great about Ham radio is that the possibilities are endless -you're not confined to one aspect," Kane said. 
The club participates in a wide range of activities. In the past, Notre Dame stu­dents might have spotted the Amateur Radio Club's mem­bers wandering in the quad with what looked like large TV antennae, trying to bounce signals off satellites. Also, last year the club bought a transceiver kit for each club member that they built together and allowed them to communicate with people around the world. 
Later in the year, the club plans to hold their Amateur Hadio licensing class, which gives students the opportuni­ty to get their Amateur Hadio license in a single day. The class consists of a cram ses­sion followed by an FCC administered test, which no longer includes Morse code. Notre Dame's club has never had a student fail this test, Keating said. 
Contact Alyssa Morones at amorones@nd.edu 
Catholic Charities USA® 


Fr. Larry Snyder, President ofCatholic Charities USA will discuss: 
• 
The mission ofCatholic Charities 

• 
Getting involved in Catholic Charities 

• 
Professional and entry-level positions 


onday, October 13, 2008 5:45-6:45 p.m. fitilUNIVERSITYOF WNOTREDAME
Pizza Provided 
Mendoza College of Business 
·ovanini Commons, Lower Level endoza College ofBusiness 
For information contact (574) 631-3277 • shwang2@nd.edu 
~--~ ........__..---.... -.....~~~~t-~.'lo:...llr.L~..-·-....~~.-'="~~,-_..._.._& --.....-..~~--~;ii. 
Mentoring club seeks new recruits 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is looking for new recruits to be mentors to local area chil­dren, club president and Notre Dame senior Charlie Cummings said. 
As one of the oldest clubs on campus, "it's been active since the 1970s," said Cummings. 
Big Brothers Big Sisters was started in Cincinnati by a man named Irvin Westheimer, according to the organization's Web site. 
"BBBS is active all over the country," Cummings said. 
Some concern has been developing over the amount of students and faculty from Notre Dame that participate in the program. 
"[Big Brothers Big Sisters] of Notre Dame's enrollment is much lower than it has been historically," Cummings said. "There is a waiting list of over 40 Littles in South Bend that need to be matched up." 
Cummings' Little, Jay Robinson, is a ten year old South Bend native. His mother, Tanya Robinson, thinks very highly of the Big Brothers Big Sisters pro­gram. 
"I feel that it gives him something positive to look forward to," Tanya Robinson said on Wednesday. "It helps keep kids off of the streets." 
Jay Robinson's favorite activity with Cummings is "video games," according to 
his mother. 
Mentors meet with the chil­
dren "·once a week for a cou­
ple of hours, whenever the 
Big and Little can arrange to 
get together," said 
Cummings. "It is each indi­
vidual Big's responsibility to 
pick up their Little each week 
and stay in touch with them." 
Activities range from play­ing games, to going to sport­ing events and out to eat. 
Jay Robinson has been a part of the program for four years, according to his moth­er. 
In Big Brothers Big Sisters, males are matched with males and females are matched with females. Currently, there is a need for more male Bigs because there are more male Littles on the list than females. 
Cummings said to call Debra Walker at 574-232­9958 for information about joining BBBS, or go to www.bbbs-sjc.org 
"Fill out an application, participate in a short inter­view, and you're in," he said. 
According to Cummings, a short personality assessment is given during the interview to match a potential Big up with the best possible match of a Little. 
"My Little is a great match for me, he's relatively intro­verted, but extremely well­mannered and funny," said Cummings. "He has a great outlook on life and has a heart of gold." 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray@nd.edu 

Palin pre-empts state ethicsreport,clearsnarn~ 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE -Trying to head off a potentially embar­rassing state ethics report on GOP vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin, campaign officials released their own report Thursday that clears her of any wrongdoing. 
Sen. John McCain's running mate is the subject of a legisla­
. tive investigation into whether she abused her power as gov­ernor by firing her public safety commissioner. The commis­sioner, Walter Monegan, says he was dismissed in July for resisting pressure from Palin's husband, Todd Palin, and numerous top aides to fire state trooper Mike Wooten, Palin's former brother-in-law. 
Lawmakers are expected to release their own findings Friday. Campaign officials have yet to see that report -the result of an investigation that began before she was tapped as McCain's running mate ­but said the investigation has falsely portrayed a legitimate policy dispute between a gover­nor and her commissioner as something inappropriate. 
"The following document will prove Walt Monegan's dis­missal was a result of his insubordination and budgetary clashes with Governor Palin and her administration," cam­paign officials wrote. "Trooper Wooten is a separate issue." 

Monegan said Thursday that he doesn't know what to expect from the legislative panel's own report. 
"I just hope that the truth is figured out," Monegan told The Associated Press on Thursday. "That the governor did want me to fire him, and I chose to not. You just can't walk up to someone and say, 'I fire you.' He didn't do anything under my watch to result in termination." 
Palin's critics say that shows she used her office to settle family affairs. 
"When you're the governor, you leave your household hat at home and you become gover­nor," said state Senate President Lyda Green, a Hepublican who has frequently clashed with Palin. 
McCain spokesman Taylor Griffin, who distributed the campaign's report, said it was based on public filings and Todd Palin's aflidavit. 
The report blames former campaign opponent, Andrew Hakro, who has a blog, of con­spiring with Wooten to pin Monegan's dismissal on the family's dispute with Wooten. Three days after Monegan was fired, they say, Wooten told his ex-wife, Palin's sist1~r. that: "You guys are going down. (;et rt'\ady for the show." 
------------------------------------------------------------------------, 

ORLD & NATION 
Friday, October 10, 2008 CoMPILED FRObA TriE OssERVHts WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Dalai lama admitted to hospital 
NEW DELHI -The Dalai Lama was hospital­ized in New Delhi, his spokesman said early Friday, just days after a medical checkup cleared the Tibetan spiritual leader to resume foreign travel. 
Tenzin Taklha told The Associated Press that the Dalai Lama was admitted to a New Delhi hospital for "further consultations with doctors." 
Taklha declined to say when he was hospital­ized or provide any details on his condition. He said he expected more information to be released later in the day. 
The Press Trust of India news agency reported that the spiritual leader was admitted to the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in the Indian cap_ital. The hospital's duty oflicer Dr. Priyank Tyagi would not comment on the the report. 
In August, the 73-year-old Dalai Lama was admitted to a Mumbai hospital and underwent tesl<; for abdominal discomfort. Doctors advised him to cancel a planned trip to Europe and rest, saying he was suffering from exhaustiqn. 
Zimbabwe facing food scarcity 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa-Some rural Zimbabweans facing one of the hun­griest years they could remember have been forced to live on a meal a day and in some cases only on wild fruits, the U.N. food aid agency said Thursday. 
The World Food Program appealed for donations to help fight hunger in Zimbabwe, straining as an economic col­lapse, years of food scarcity, AIDS and poor weather have combined to put it in a cate­gory all its own in a region where most nations are poor. 
"Zimbabwe is the only one that is facing a national crisis," agency spokesman Richard Lee said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Arkansas drops foster ban 
LITTLE HOCK, Ark. -Arkansas plans to reverse course and allow unmarried or same­sex couples to take on foster children on a case­by-case basis, even as voters prepare to decide the issue in November, the state Department of Human Services said Thursday. 
The agency said it would end its plan to for­malize the prohibition, which has been in place since an executive directive was signed in 2005. The department said it will instead propose allowing state workers to place foster children case by casfl. 
"Recognizing that this is a sensitive societal issue, it's important to expand our recruitment base so that we can to find a family that best meel<; the needs of every child," agency director John Selig said. 
Voters to rule on animal treatment 
ATWATER, Calif. -At the J.S. West and Cos. poultry farm, half a million chickens are squeezed six at a time into wire cages where they must share 2 square feet of space. 
Beneath them, conveyor belts whisk away excrement while 1.2 million eggs travel from hen to carton each day without touching a human hand. 
California voters will decide next month whether this kind of operation is an example of factory farming at its most efficient -or the cruel farming practices of producers concerned only about the bottom line. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Murderer takes own life 
INDIANAPOLIS -An illegal immigrant serving five life terms for the strangling deaths of his wife, three young daughters and a neighborhood girl apparently took his own life Thursday by hanging himself, authorities said. 
Simon Rios, 36, was found in his cell at the Pendleton Correctional Facility about 25 miles northeast of Indianapolis at 12:29 a.m. Thursday, prison spokesman David Barr said. Rios was pronounced dead about 40 minutes later after guards and medical per­sonnel couldn't revive him. 
ELECTION 2008 

McCain criticizes Obama's past 
Attacks on Obama's relationship with former Vietnam-era war protester 
Associated Press  
WAUKESHA, Wis.  
Republican presidential can­ 
didate John McCain said  
Thursday that questions  
about Democratic rival  
Barack Obama's association  
with a former war protester  
linked to Vietnam-era bomb­ 
ings are part of a broader  
issue ofhonesty.  
In his strongest personal  
criticism since his faltering  
campaign began casting  
Obama as an unknown and  
unacceptable candidate,  
McCain told supporters that  
Obama had not been truthful  
in describing his relationship  
with former radical William  
Ayers. The Arizona senator  
aL<;o said Obama himself has  
"a clear radical, far-left pro­ 
abortion record."  
Loud cheers from 4,000  
people gathered at a sports  
complex near Milwaukee  
greeted McCain's attacks  
over Ayers, who helped  
found the Weather  
Underground, a Vietnam  
protest group that bombed  
government buildings 40  
years ago. Obama has point­ 
ed out that he was a child at  
the time and first met Ayers  
and his wife, ex-radical  
Bernadine Dohrn, a quarter­ 
century later.  
"Look, we don't care about  
an old, washed-up terrorist AP  
and his wife," McCain said. Republican Presidential nominee Sen. John McCain, accompanied by his running  
"That's not the point here." mate, Alaskan Gov. Sarah Palin, speaks at a rally in Waukesha, Wis. on Wednesday. 
"He's a terrorist!" a man in  
the audience screamed with­ worked together on two non­ Obama's past associations.  scheme that guarantees tax­ 
out making clear to whom he  profit organizations from the  Obama's history with Ayers  payers will lose money."  
was· referring.  mid-1990s to 2002. In addi­ was explored during the pri­ One person at the rally  
"We need to know the full  tion, Ayers hosted a small  maries in news reports and  here suggested McCain get  
extent of the relationship,"  meet-the-candidate event for  in a campaign debate. It has  tougher in his final debate  
McCain replied. Later,  Obama in 1995 as he first  been resurrected by the GOP  with Obama next week: "I  
McCain told ABC News: "It's  ran for the state Senate.  campaign as the economic  am begging you, sir."  
a factor about Sen. Obama's  David Axelrod, a senior  crisis deepened in recent  "Yes, I'll do that," McCain  
candor and truthfulness with  campaign adviser, says that  days.  said.  
the American people."  Obama, who was a child liv­ Responding to McCain's  To press its argument, the  
Obama has denounced  ing in Indonesia and Hawaii  criticism, Obama campaign  McCain campaign also  
Ayers and his violent ac;tions  in the late 1960s and early  spokesman Tommy Vietor  released a 90-second Web ad  
and views. He dismisses  1970s, was not aware of  said, "Its now clear that John  about Obama and Ayers.  
McCain's criticism as an  Ayers' radical past at the  McCain would rather launch  "Barack Obama and  
effort to "score cheap politi­ time of that campaign event.  angry, personal attacks than  domestic terrorist Bill Ayers.  
cal points."  Some McCain supporters  talk about the economy or  Friends. They've worked  
The AP and other news  have expressed skepticism  defend his risky bailout  together for years," the ad  
organizations have reported  about that.  scheme that hands over bil­ says. The ad also claimed  
that Obama and Ayers, now a  Some of those at the rally  lions in taxpayer dollars to  that one of the nonprofits on  
college professor who lives in  questioned why McCain was  the same irresponsible Wall  which Obama and Ayers  
Obama's neighborhood, are  trailing Obama and why no  Street banks and lenders that  worked was a radical educa­ 
not close but that they  one was talking about  got us into this mess a  tion foundation.  
IRAQ  

Shiite leader killed by roadside bomb 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -A roadside bomb killed a prominent member of Muqtada al­Sadr's political movement Thursday, raising fears of new internal Shiite bloodshed ahead of regional elections expected in January. 
The victims' allies blamed U.S. and Iraqi forces for the blast. Suspicion also fell on Shiite splinter· groups ­some with suspected links to Iran, which has sheltered al-Sadr for nearly 18 months. ' Saleh al-Auqaeili, considered a mod­erate within al-Sadr's movement, was traveling in a convoy with other Shiite lawmakers when the bombing occurred about 200 yards from an Iraqi army checkpoint in mostly Shiite eastern Baghdad, a colleague said. 
Al-Auqaeili died at a hospital, Sadrist spokesman Ahmed al-Massoudi said. One commuter on a motorcycle was also killed in the blast, police said. 
Al-Sadr's followers have long opposed the U.S. military presence in Iraq, and some of them were quick to blame the Americans and their Iraqi allies, citing the movement's opposition to a U.S.-Iraqi security agreement that has been under negotiation for months. 
"The occupation forces sent us a message by staging this attack because of our stance against the agreement," 
said al-Massoudi, the Sadrist spokesman. 
Later, however, the Sadrist political department called the killing a "terror­ist act of criminal gangs," a phrase often used to describe renegade Shiite militants that the U.S. believes are trained and armed by Iran. Tehran denies links to Iraqi Shiite militants. 
Maj. Mark Cheadle, a spokesman for the U.S. military's Baghdad command, said the attack appeared to have been carried out by "unaligned" Shiite groups. 
The two top American officials in Iraq condemned the "heinous crime" as "an attack against Iraq's democratic institutions." 

Friday, October I 0, 2008 

page 6 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS 

It's 8:30 pm on Tuesday,_ and 
I need help with m ~omputer 

Author discusses 'quest for· God' 
Johnson talks about new book saying search for divine spirit continues 
By MEGAN LONEY News Wrirer 
The religious quest for the divine dates back to the earli­est human beings, but has not ended with the formation of dnfinnd religions. This search for the divine spirit continues today author Elizabeth Johnson said in her lecture on her nnw book "Tho Quest for the Living God." 
Johnson's lecture was the socond part of The Quest Project's fall lee­

lure series. The C)uest Project, managed by Saint Mary's College  "ffowever committed we are to our own faith, we do not have  nor female," s a i d Johnson, "but in the  
Center for Spirituality. in eooperation with  a monopoly on either truth or value. "  divine image and likeness of both."  
the  John  Lizzy Pugh,  
Templeton  Elizabeth Johnson  a  junior  at  

Foundation and thn Saint Mary's College Annual Endowed Lecture Series Fund, hosted the lecture at the Little Theater in thn Moreau Center for the Arts at 7:30 Thursday evening. 
Johnson's book "The Quest for the Living God" covers eight theologies: transcenden­tal. political, liberation, femi­nist. black, Hispanic, inter­rnligious and ecological said Johnson. 
"I wrote it [the book[ for a broad audience to enlighten and provide food for thought, said Johnson. "There is such a hunger for a mature faith today, which is not always fed by the institutional church." 
During her lecture, Johnson focused on highlighting three of the eight theologies pre­sented in her book: feminist, inter-religious and ecological. 

She first spoke on the femi­nist theology. Johnson explained this theology as "God acting womanish." She said that in civil societies and in religion women have been considered the second sex. Most religions give God a male persona with terms such as "king," "lord," and "father," Johnson said. This poses a problem for women because it robs women of spiritual power, said Johnson. 
"Mystery of the living God is 
neither male 
Saint Mary's
author 

College, 
enjoyed the feminist theology section of the lecture the most. 
"I just loved the feminism theology," said Pugh. ''I've heard my mom talk about the mother side of God, but for me to hear it somewhere else it was very enriching." 
Johnson continued her lec­ture with a look at religious pluralism, or inter-religious theology. She described inter­religious theology as "glimps­ing another religion out of the corner of our eye while prac­ticing our own." 
The multitude of God is so overflowing that it allows for a variety of different religions each offering their own view and worship of God, Johnson said. She emphasized that the differences in religion do 
not mean that the religions are of lesser or higher value or are truer than another. 
"However committed we are to our own faith, we do not have a monopoly on either truth or value," said Johnson. 
Johnson closed her lecture with an overview of ecological theology. This theology incor­porates finding God in every­thing, humans and nature. The Church has fo.cused so much on the human world that the natural world remains a backdrop said Johnson. 
In this theology, God "cre­ates the world from within. He makes the world by empowering the world to make itself," Johnson said. She compared God to a chore­ographer who takes input from the dancers when creat­ing the routine. 
Students packed the audito­rium for the lecture. Saint Mary's senior Sarah King, a religious studies major, is modeling her senior composi­tion on Johnson's work. Kin said she has been familiar with Johnson for over a year. 
"I have been deeply inter­ested in Johnson's work since last year," King said. "It real­ly strikes me because.I really believe that ther"e are ele­ments of God that we try to restrict, but there are so many aspects that we can't imagine." 
Johnson said, the quest for the divine is vital for religions to evolve: "The search must be undertaken if religious tra­ditions are to remain vibrant and alive." 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Black alumnae to return to college 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 

Saint Mary's College will be hosting the first ever African American Homecoming October 10 and 11. Saint Mary's Director of Alumnae Relations, Kara O'Leary told the Observer that the event invited past students to return to the College "to create dia­logue, solicit input, and create a sustainable process or forum to better understand the black student experience on campus and their alumnae engagement post graduation." 
According to a schedule provided by O'Leary, the event will hold its official wel­come at Saint Mary's Stapleton Lounge at 5:15 p.m., Friday. O'Leary told The Observer, "Over ten percent of our identified African American alumnae are regis­tered." 
Saint Mary's President Carol Ann Mooney will begin the weekend with a formal greet­ing. The welcome ceremony will also include keynote speaker Juanita Boozer Bay. Bay graduated from the College in 1952, and, accord­ing to O'Leary, was consid­ered to be Saint Mary's first African American alumnae graduate. 
Bay will be speaking about her experience at Saint Mary's and its impact on her life. She will also discuss what Saint Mary's can do to provide students with better experi­ence to help them make a dif­ference in the world. 
"I am always thrilled when alumnae are invited back to campus to participate in events where their voice can be heard and their opinion and experience are valued. This event will be no differ­ent," said O'Leary. 
Following the greeting, a reception will be held for the alumnae at 7 p.m. in the Great Hall. 
The weekend will also include many panel discus­sions, roundtable discussions, a campus tour, and an ecu­menical worship service. The discussions will allow alum­nae to give their input to the College. Alumnae will discuss changes they would like to see at Saint Mary's, as well as what the College can do to keep the alumnae actively involved. 
"We are pleased to have such a response for our inau­gural African American Alumnae Homecoming," said O'Leary. 
According to a press release from the College, the event will be held in an attempt to learn how to attract more stu­dents from ethnic minorities. According to Saint Mary's Strategic Plan, presented last fall, the College aspires to expand the enrollment of stu­dents of underrepresented minorities. Saint Mary's hopes to achieve an increase of at least 15 percent within the next five years. The plan stat­ed that, "We hope to increase the racial and ethnic diversity of the student body as wp,\1 as its economic diversity." 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO I @saintmarys.edu 

Call the OIT Help Desk at 
574 631-8111 
In addition to our regular hours, we offer computer help over the phone from 5:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday.* 
You can even call us on Sundays between 3:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. 
l~:end~~ ~ip Desk hou~> are <n effect during the normal 
a~<lemlt:~r When sch<>olls in ~sSlon. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Friday, October 10, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  8,579.19  -678.91  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
300  38  3,217  4,086,659,863  
AMEX  1;970,82 · ''f1Jl~Q~$  

NASDAQ 1(645.12 -lJ5.21 NYSE 5,809. 98 -496;37 S&P 500 909.92 -75.02 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 9,157.49 00.00 FTSE 100 (London) 4:313.80 (52.89) 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -6.98 -6.81 90.70 FIN SEL SPDR (XLF) -10.41 ·1.59 13.69 AMER INTL GROUP INC (AIG) -25.08 -0.80 2.39 BK OF AMER CP (BAC) ·11.18 -2.47 19.63 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +3.20 +0.119 3.834 13-WEEK BILL -9.38 -0.060 0.580 30-YEAR BOND +1.40 +0.057 4.120 5-YEAR NOTE +4.32 +0.117 2.823 
Commodities LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.36 86.59 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -20.00 886.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -3.00 88.25 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 97.9550 EURO 0.7364 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.1556 BRITISH POUND 0.5871 
IN BRIEF 
Banks borrow record amounts 
WASIIINGTON -Banks borrowed in record amounts from the Federal Reserve's emer­gency lending facility over the past week, while investmPnt firms drew slightly less. 
The Fed's report released Thursday said commnrcial banks averaged a record $75 bil­lion in daily borrowing over the past week. That compared with a daily average of $44.5 billion in the previous week, the old record. 
For the week ending Wednesday, investment firms drew $134 billion. That was down from a record $147.7 billion in the previous week. This category was broadened last week to include any loans that were made to the U.S. and London-based broker-dealer subsidiaries of Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch. 
States slash budgets due to economy 
With the economy in a slide and the credit markets seized up. states are slashing budgets, eliminating jobs, putting major construction projects on hold and nervously waiting to see whether their shriveled pension funds recover. 
They are also weighing lawsuits against Wall Street firms. And at least one state -California -may ask Washington to come to the rescue. 
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger warned he may have to beg the fildcral government for a short­term loan to cover opPrating costs for schools, nursing homes and police if the nation's most populous state is unable to borrow a short-term $7 billion on the credit market. 
Dozp,ns of states arc expecting big drop-offs in revenue and dispiriting pension-fund losses, and are making another round of emergency spend­ing cuts on top of deep cutbacks earlier in the year. when the economy began softening and the mortgage crisis started to unfold. 
"! think everybody agrees: The iceberg is in sight." said Murray Levy, a Maryland state law­maknr. 
Nnw York, the capital of the nation's financial industry, is grappling with the highest unem­ploym(mt rate since the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks and a $1.2 billion deficit that could bal­loon to $2 billion by the end of the fiscal year March 31. 
"We're going to have to take drastic action," Gov. David Paterson said. 
US running out of economic options 
Stocks still plunging, even after $700 billion bailout and interest rate cuts 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -What's 
left in Uncle Sam's eco­
nomic tool kit? 

The commitment of $700 
billion didn't impress mar­
kets here and around the 
world. Neither did fresh 
interest rate cuts. Stocks 
plunged yet again on 
Thursday. 

The government still has 
some unused options ­
like buying up foreclosed 
properties and making 
direct loans to homeown­
ers -that might ease the 
credit and housing crises 
and brighten the economic 
outlook. 

But the options are 
dwindling and generally 
involve parily taking over 
private companies, an idea 
that's anathema to eco­
nomic conservatives and 
others in America. 

Even as policymakers 
counsel patience in wait­
ing for the medicine 
already prescribed to fully 
kick in, they are searching 
hard for other approaches. 
"So long as financial 
conditions warrant, we 
will continue to look for 
ways to reduce funding 
pressures in key markets," 
says Federal Reserve 
Chairman Ben Bernanke. 
The Fed's primary tools 
are lowering interest rates 
and flooding the system 
with money. It's already 
done plenty of both. 
It could further lower of the housing bubble, Congress last week enact­it is also an investor. 
interest rates -and prob­making it too easy for peo­ed a bailout package Many economists say 
ably will if the downturn ple to take out loans they backed by up to $700 bil­that actions taken so far 
continues. But after this couldn't afford. lion in taxpayer money, on do little to address what is 
week's half-percentage­And besides, in Japan top of a $300 billion hous­at the heart of the spread­
point cut, coordinated with holding rates near zero for ing package passed in the ing financial contagion: 
other nations' central years did little to help a summer. Treasury falling housing prices and 
banks, there isn't a whole deeply troubled economy. Secretary Henry Paulson rising foreclosures. 
lot lower for the U.S. to go. The Fed could inject says it will be weeks Former White House 
Since September 2007, more money. But it has before the government economist Glenn Hubbard 
the Federal Reserve has already flooded the finan­actually starts using the proposes that the govern­
pushed its benchmark cial system with hundreds bailout money to buy up ment refinance every U.S. 
short-term rate down to of billions of dollars. soured mortgage-based mortgage held by Fannie 
1.5 percent from 5.25 per­And bold action by the securities. Mae and Freddie Mac into cent. central bank can have The Treasury is now 30-year loans fixed at 5.25 
The Fed presided over unintended consequences, considering using some of percent. He also suggests by Alan Greenspan kept signaling to investors that the money to take part that putting in place a interest rates at 1 percent things may be worse than ownership in certain U.S. cleanup agency modeled for a full year earlier in they thought, contributing banks. But that could put on the Resolution Trust the decade -and many to the downward spiral in the government in the Corporation of the late economists suggest that markets. uncomfortable position of 1980s and early 1990s was one of the root causes Apart from the Fed, regulating banks in which could help. 

Stocks hit lowest level in five years 
Associated Press ended in December 1974 when the · GM's and GMAC's ratings in the next 
Dow lost 45 percent. The S&P 500, three months. GM has been struggling 
NEW YOHK -Stocks plunged meanwhile, is off 655 points, or 41.9 with weak car sales in North America. Thursday, sending the Dow Jones percent, since recording its high of S&P also put Ford Motor Co. on industrial average down 679 points­1,565.15. credit watch negative. The ratings more than 7 percent -to its lowest U.S. stock market paper losses agency said that GM and Ford have level in five years. Stocks took a nose­totaled $872 billion Thursday and the adequate liquidity now, but that could dive after a major credit-rating value of shares over all has tumbled a change in 2009. agency said it might cut its rating on stunning $8.33 trillion since last GM, one of the 30 stocks that make General Motors and Ford, further rat­year's high. That's based on figures up the Dow industrials, fell $2.15, or tling investors already fretting over measured by the Dow Jones Wilshire 31 percent, to $4.76, while Ford fell the impact of tight credit on the econ­5000 Composite Index, which tracks 58 cents, or 22 percent, to $2.08. omy. 5,000 U.S.-based companies' stocks "The story is getting to be like that 
The Standard & Poor's 500 index and represents almost all stocks trad­movie 'Groundhog Day,"' said Arthur also fell more than 7 percent. ed in America. Hogan, chief market analyst at 
The declines came on the one-year Thursday's sell-off came as Jefferies & Co. He pointed to the still­anniversary of the closing highs of the Standard & Poor's Ratings Services frozen credit markets, and Libor, the Dow and the S&P. The Dow has lost put General Motors Corp. and its bank-to-bank lending rate that 5,585 points, or 39.4 percent, since finance affiliate GMAC LLC under remains stubbornly high despite inter­closing at 14,164.53 on Oct. 9, 2007. review to see if its rating should be est rate cuts this week by the Federal It's the worst run for the Dow since cut. The action means there is a 50 Reserve and other major central the nearly two-year bear market that percent chance that S&P will lower banks. 
nAr•r· n r I • ' 

page 8 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October I 0, 2008 
dealt with Catholic participation hers, and faculty packed the saying, "It is striking that wc'm of the week will take place on in political life, with the latter McKenna llall Auditorium on here in 2008, thirty-Sunday when
Life 
focusing specifically on the topics  Wednesday evening to watch a  five years after Roe  members of the  
continued from page 1 said. Tho week kieknd ofT on Monday evening with a round tabln discussion in the Colman­MorsP Center about the Homan Catholie Church's stance on vot­ing issues. Politieal Science Professor Mary Koys facilitated  of abortion and euthanasia. The next event coordinated for the week was the nail­ing of 600 crosses and flags into South Quad. The crosses, which rep­resent the number  "This year in particular we are attempting to inform our students ofthe guidelines presented to us by  debate sponsored by The Center for Ethics and Culture. Notre Dame Law Professor Gerard Bradley of the Catholics for Sen. John McCain National Steering  v. Wade, and this issue is still with us. The two profes­sors then proceeded to offer testimony supporting their viewpoints for about a half and hour, which was then followed by a  "If abortion is wrong, ifit is the ending of an innocent human life, then one cannot logically give moral equivalence between it and other issues. "  Hight to Life Club will be handing out pro-life prayer cards at all of the Basilica Masses. The planning for Notre Dame's Hespect  
tho discussion, which lasted for approximately an hour.  of abortions that take place during a  the Church. "  Committee and Vincent Hougeau,  question and answer session by  John Gerardi  Life Week began in back  
She prefaced the discussion by posing the question, "Why  three and a half hour football  John Gerardi  Notre Dame Associate  members audience.  of  the  Respect Life Week coordinator  in June, with the group's  
should we, as Catholics, partiei­ game,  were  up  Respect Life Week  Professor of Law  Keys spoke again  efl'ort to coordi­ 
pate in public life?"  from early Tuesday  coordinator  and member of  Thursday evening  nate speakers,  
The attendees' answers varied,  morning  until  the steering com- in the Gold Room of  gain approval  
but all reflected the need for  Wednesday after­ mittee  for  Sen.  LaFortune, this time focusing  from the Student Activities Office  
poople to elect leaders who are  noon.  Barack Obama's  specifically on issues pertaining  and send out hundreds of e­ 
honest  and  who  emphasize  Members of the Knights of  Catholic  National  Advisory  to this presidential election.  mails  to  gather  volunteers.  
morality.  Columbus guarded the tlags in  Council took opposing viewpoints  There will be a talk today by  Respect Life Week is nationally  
These responses segued into  order to protect them from being  on the issue of political responsi­ Professor Adrian Reimers on  recognized  by  the  Catholie  
the topic of discussion, two docu­ vandalized. The Hight to Life  bility of Catholic voters.  Pope  Paul  VI's  encyclical  Church to promote the defense of  
ments  written  by  Cardinal  Club also held two rosaries at the  Moderator John McGreevy,  Humanae Vitae in the Notre  innocent human life.  
Joseph Hatzinger before  he  makeshift cemetery.  Dean of the College of Arts and  Dame Room of LaFortune from  Overall, Gerardi said that the  
became Pope Bencdiet XVI. Each  Students, community mem- Letters began the evening by  6:30 to 8:00p.m. The fmal event  week was a success, but hopes  
that voters remember the week's  


mission as they enter the voter's booth. 
"Right to Life is not asking you to become a fanatical, single­issue voter this November. We're not saying that other politieal issues -the war, the economy, the environment -are not important ones. What we an~ saying is that there is a hierar­chy of issues. If abortion is wrong, if it is the ending of an innocent human life, then one cannot logically give moral equivalenee between it and otlwr issues." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonne1 @nd.edu 

Please 
recycle 

The Observer. 
Friday, October 10, 2008 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
That letter, dated from Sept. Shoup did not respond to fur­other neighbors for that partic­"Why can't South Bend han­
I 
Party 
22, states the residents of num­ther Observer questions regard­ular house." dle South Bend and Notre Dame ber 815 "have been friendly and ing disciplinary procedures "The situation is under con­handle Notre Dame?" he said. continued from page 1 communicate with us effective­involving students living off­trol, largely due to the students' "In my mind, what they're wor­ly. They have been good neigh­campus, the evidence required willingness to understand their ried about right now is just Housing (ORLH). bors." for a case to be brought to the neighbors' position and making another image problem. The residents of the E. Wayne Brown described their party Office's attention, or whether or an effort to apologize and make They're worried about the St. house received letters from in more detail for The Observer, not the Office has the authority contact with them," he said. image being portrayed about OHLH on Sept. 9, after a letter stating at its peak, "probably 75 to evict students from their off­Richard Leach, a resident of their students -even if the written by the concerned neigh­people were there." campus residences. number 824 E. Wayne St., told South Bend police said you did bors circulated through the Brown said the letter "painted "If the police would have said The Observer he was one of the everything right, and even if the offices of the Mayor of South a portrait," and that it con­'these people are uncoopera­concerned neighbors, but that majority of your neighbors Bend and were received by the tained details from earlier in tive' and then we would under­he did not personally author the agree with you, they're still University. the night, set­stand, 'OK, we letter. "There going to try and control every 
Earlier that ting up for the are doing some-were four or so aspect of your life." week on Sept. 4, party, and thing that is vio-neighbors who Montgomery agreed. the seniors "Why can't South when then lating the law, were getting a "To us, its shocking that we received a notice Bend handle South band started and then the "There are people little per-were in any trouble at all," to abate from the school might have turbed," he Montgomery said. "Obviously
Bend and Notre Dame pl~jing. think
City of South reason to punish who want to imply said. we're going to take what [the Bend's Department handle Notre Dame?" there have us,"' DuBray said. that there is a "We were University] says very seriously of Law, citing them been students "We felt like the very upset with -we're students here, we
malicious intent, but I 
in violation of the living in this police reports what was going respect their opinion. But the
James DuBray

Disorderly llouse house before, indicate that we just thnk most people on," he said. fact of the matter is, we feel Ordinance, South senior and the have didn't break any would agree that is "There were unjustly treated." Bend Municipal been pretty laws. We com­so far from the truth. ,, parties lasting The letter also stated the resi­Code Section 13-irresponsible," plied with police to 3, 4 in the dents were required to pay a 75.5, and deeming the house a he said. officers in every morning, with $1,000 fine no later than Oct. "publie nuisance." The seniors said the letter way possible." James DuBray 40 or more kids 27 to the University. 
A Sept. 11 South Bend from their concerned neighbors The seniors told senior at the party, On Oct. 6, DuBray received an Tribune article titled "Police was the only evidence against The Observer that loud noise, and e-mail from the Office of cracking down on student par­them presented in their meeting everyone at the cabs coming Residence Life, stating the sen­ties" refers specifically to this with ORLH. Aug. 29 party was every four or iors could work off the fine party. Ervin Baker, a resident of Jeff Shoup, Director of the of age. five minutes." doing community service at the the 800-block of E. Wayne St. is Office of Residence and Life and South Bend landlord Mark Leach said he has never per­rate of $10 an hour. The dead­quoted in the article saying bot­Housing, said in an e-mail that Kramer, who owns the 815 E. sonally spoken to the students, line has been moved back to tles were broken on neighbors' the Office is unable to respond Wayne St. property, said he did but that "the situation has been Dec. 1. porches and that "the only way to questions regarding specific not have any discussion with taken care of." "The question is," Brown said, to get it taken care of was to get cases. ORLH in regards to the students "They've sent a letter of apol­"what did we do wrong? That it on record with a complaint, He referred The Observer to being evicted. ogy, and so far, they've been ambiguity there -there defi­so several people in the neigh­page 103 of in the 2008-09 edi­He said he did not believe the well behaved," he said. nitely needs to be a change. If borhood called." tion of duLac, a Guide to Office had the authority to The students said they never there is something in there that 
The Tribune article did not Student Life, where the intro­threaten eviction if they do not saw a copy of the letter; The says, 'we can't do that,' fine, we quote the students in reference duction to the section titled own the home. Observer was not able to obtain were wrong, but there is no to the complaints received "Student Life Policies" states ''I'm pretty sure the University a copy. explicit section." against them. "The University's student life does not have jurisdiction over The students received a letter "We want to have a balanced 
"We thought we were being policies and disciplinary proce­a property that I own," he said. datedSept. 30 with the results college experience," DuBray very careful and looked up the dures are under "To my of their disciplinary conference said. "We're all very involved noise ordinances," DuBray said. the jurisdiction of knowledge, only with Residence [in) extracurric­He told The Observer the ordi­the Office of I can evict my Life, a copy of ular [activities]
"We felt like the 
nance states that noise regula­Student Affairs. tenants," he which they gave ... you can have
"Yes we should be 
tions are to be observed after All alleged viola­police reports said. "And I did to The Observer. a decent time 11 p.m., and that the party was tions are at the not threaten The letter stat­good neighbors ... on weekends
indicate that we 
moved inside before that time. disposition of that them with evic­ed: "the And to our knowl-and be a pro­
didn't break any
lie said he felt that press cov­office through the tion." University ductive student,
edge, we were being
erage of parties indicate that Office of laws. We complied Kramer told expects that all and a produc­
good neighbors,, 
students are acting maliciously, Residence Life with police officers in The Observer its students will tive member of but that "there is a big line and Housing. he had a meet­act responsibly in the University." 
every way possible. , 
between being neglectful and Unless otherwise ing of his own their off-campus Montgomery being malicious." noted, these poli­with the stu­social copduct so told The
Joey Brown

"I understand there are a lot cies and proce­James DuBray dents. as to reflect Observer the
senior

of town relations problems, and dures apply to all "I talked to favorably upon entire situation
senior I
that part of it is that some stu­students; under­them about themselves and has been a _I dents are neglectful," DuBray graduate, gradu-their behavior the University community. learning experience. said. "There are people who ate, and professional, whether and how they should act as Conduct which is disruptive to "Regardless of all this, it was want to imply that there is a the behavior occurs on or off members of a neighborhood the neighborhood is clearly a lesson on how to be a good malieious intent, but I just think campus." and how they should respect below the standards of behavior neighbor,'' he said. most people would agree that is Brown and his roommates their neighbors," he said. the University expects of its stu­"I think the bigger theme so far from the truth." told The Observer that the The students sent letters of dents." here," Montgomery said, "is 
"The people who were most meeting was "threatening." apology to the neighbors affect­Brown said he was not aware that we go to one of the premier affected [by the noise I are our Brown said he asked the rep­ed by their August party. of any "written expectations of universities in the country. If biggest advocates," Brown said. resentatives of the Office of "We may have screwed up, what it is to be a student living you want to raise adults, if you "We help them with the lawn, Residence Life and Housing at but we took a lot of precaution­off-campus." want raise leaders, you better we help them with the leaves, the meeting "what the worse ary measures, and since that "Yes we should be good start treating the students who we play with their kids some­possible scenario was, and they day, we've completely changed neighbors," he said. "And to our go to your school like adults. times." said 'we can evict, we've done it our way of life," Brown said. knowledge, we were being good "We are not being treated like , The seniors asked Jennifer in the past."' "Since that point," Kramer neighbors." adults in this situation." and Joshua Martin, the neigh­"They said, 'if I were you, I said, "we've not had any more DuBray said he felt the bors described above, to write a would start calling apartment complaints from the neighbors University was extending its Contact Jenn Metz at letter on their behalf. complexes,"' he said. that initially complained, or any reach. jmetz@nd.edu 
waiting for the negative to hap­he said. "The students have been couple of days because we really "Eventually our goal within the pen, like at 702 getting a bad rap want to try to get as many neigh­coming year is to do our own
Block 
CoU"ax Ave. a eou­in South Bend bors as we can out there because block parties and not just continued from page 1 ple weeks ago," "Hopefully these next and they obvious­we want to show them that the Kramer's," Gari said. "That'll be a Kramer said, ref­ly want to change student body really cares about collaboration between the next
two will get more ofa 
eloser to them. So we set up a erencing the that." their fellow residents of South Community Relations Committee
response because the 
block party last year to introduce .arrests of 37 Both Kramer Bend," Lyman said. and the Off-Campus Council." 
the students to the neighbors." Notre Dame stu­whole idea is to build a and Lyman said Kramer has also been aggres­However, Kramer said his main The first block party of the dents for drink­rapport with the they will be sively advertising. Student body goal was to build mutual under­semester was held last Sunday at ing-related aggressively president Bob Reish said Kramer standing between the students
neighbors and take a
the intnrseetion of Washington St. offences. advertising the had been canvassing the neigh­and their neighbors. and St. Peter St. Kramer said Lyman said the proactive approach as next two events, borhood, and was even raffiing off "We want to let the neighbors while about 150 students came enthusiastic opposed to waiting for which they said a month of free rent to one lueky get to know the students for whom out. thP rnsponse from the eom­response by the would help student at each block party. they really are and that is good
the negative to

munity was lackluster. However, students was a improve commu­"Mark Kramer is actually deliv­people that are bright and the several members of the South result or them happen." nity relations in ering postage notes throughout future leaders of our country," he Bend Common Couneil have wanting to those areas. the mailboxes of various commu­said. "On the other hand I think pledged to attend the next two, demonstrate that, Lyman said the nity members," Reish said. "It is a the students need to recognize
Mark Kramer 

whieh will be held Friday at contrary to the bloek parties pro­step in the right direction." that the neighbors are good peo­
landlord

Lafayett11 Apartment<> and Sunday belief of many vide a forum Chair of the Senate Committee ple too and they just want to have at Colfax How llouses. South Bend resi-where students on Community Relation Gus Gari a peaceful environment and they 
"llopefully these next two will dent<>, they are good neighbors. can show eommunity leaders that said he was grateful to Kramer for also want to get along with the get more of a response because "From the students that came their reputation as wild partiers is his help, but added he hoped stu­students." the whole idea is to build a rap­last Sunday, they mally thought it unwarranted. dent government would eventually port with the neighbors and take a was a great idea. The students "We're going to be canvassing begin throwing their own block Contact Joseph McMahon at proaetivn approa1:h as opposed to really wanted to be a part of this," the neighborhood over the next parties. jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
page 10 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October I 0, 2008 
tion, he and student body 
vice president Grant Schmidt
CCAC 

have addressed specific stu­continued from page 1 dents involved in ineidents. "We've personally made 
"We were holding our efforts to speak with the stu­breath," Taylor said, given dents involved in these spe­the prospects for the football cific incidents," Reish said. season in comparison to last South Bend Police Chief year's season. Darryl Boykins said the par­
"They didn't have anything ties his department has to party about responded to [last yearl." including Taylor said. incidents
"We're always aware, 
But she said where multiple
with Notre Dame, that
so far things arrests were have been good they're going to have made -were this season. in response to
parties."

Ann Puzzello, a repeated com­Common plaints from 
Darryl Boykins 
Council member neighbors. who lives in the South Bend Police Chief " W e ' r e area around always aware, Notre Dame's with Notre campus, said a few particular Dame, that they're going to incidents have garnered have parties," Boykins said, much attention. "and a lot of times we don't 
"This fall, we've had a cou­have the time to go by the ple of very large parties, and house, unless we get calls." most of you know about a few Boykins said after multiple of them," she said. These complaints he decided to take widely publicized incidents specific action to deal with have sparked students con­off campus student parties. cerns, she said, citing an "I decided at that time, we Observer Viewpoint letter to were going to do a task force, the Editor by a student con­and going to ride around on cerned and Friday and upset about the Saturday perceived tar­nights,"
"They came in with 
geting of stu­Boykins said, dents living off the fact that they specifically campus. addressing off
were going to target
Notre Dame campus par­
underage drinking, 
student body ties. president Bob which is helpful for "Our main Heish told reason was to
us, because we don't 
Coalition mem­enforce the
have the manpower 
bers that he laws," he said, agreed that a to do that ton our saying that he few partieular own]." made the de~i­incidents have sion to arrest been publicized, those in viola­
Darryl Boykins 
but on the tion of the law. whole, incidents South Bend Police Chief Boykins also involving stu­said that the dent parties off Indiana State eampus have gone down from Excise Police independently previous years. addressed student parties 
Heish said Student around the same time. Government continues to "They came in with· the fact make efforts at improving that they were going to target community relations, men­underage drinking, which is tioning the ongoing neighbor­helpful for us, because we hood block parties. In addi-don't have the manpower to 

do that [on our own]." 
Boykins said. 

Boykins said that students living off campus should be aware that if there are com­plaints, police will respond to the party and take action. 
"If there are problems, we will enforce them. We will not turn our backs on the cit­izens that live here [year round]." he said. 
Reish also mentioned that while students have been made aware of the well-pub­licized incidents -including the Sept. 21 E. Colfax Ave. incident -they are also aware that the crime rate in many of these areas has increased. 
Reish said students have brought forward concerns that their safety off campus is being ignored while stu­dent parties are being target­
QUENTIN STENGER/The Observer 

ed. South Bend Pollee Chief Darryl Boykins speaks at the Several Coalition members Community Campus Advisory Coalition Thursday. 
were quick to mention that alcohol consumption and being proactive -by locking In addition, representatives crime are often related. doors and keeping valuables from each of the colleges 
"There's no mention of the out of sight -and reactive -present discussed what their contributing factor of alcohol by notifying police immedi­schools are doing to improve ... and how that contributes ately of suspicious behavior. student safety and decrease to danger," University incidents. Matt Costello, a Associate Vice Reish mentioned the Off resident living President of Campus Living Guide created on Notre Dame "We've personally Residence Life by Student Government and Avenue, said. made efforts to speak Bill Kirk said the ongoing neighborhood 
Coalition that Notre block parties.
with the students 
members Dame Security Maura Clougherty, agreed that involved in these spe­Police (NDSP) Residence Hall Association students are in cific incidents." recently creat­president at Saint Mary's part responsi­ed a crime pre­College, said that the College ble for their vention officer offers self-defense courses
Bob Reish 
own safety. position, and and that students are now 
"You cannot student body president that officer has 
required to live on campus walk down the been working for their first three years at street at 2:30 to educate stu­the school. in the morning, sloppy drunk, dents about what they can do Kirsits commended the stu­singing, and expect to be to prevent crime. dents and universities for the safe," Taylor said. Puzzello also mentioned the work they've done, and also 
Boykins said students who possibility of creating neigh­said they were important to are intoxicated are "easy vic­borhood watch groups to the community as institu­tims -people that they address concerns, and Brian tions. [criminals] can take advan­Coughlin, University assistant "I would like to commend tage of, people they can vice president for Student everything the University of bully," and that criminals are Affairs, reminded Coalition Notre Dame, and Saint looking specifically for stu­members they had previously Mary's and Holy Cross bring dents. discussed creating an off to the community," Kirsits 
In addition, crimes like campus crime alert system said. theft can often be avoided by notifying students living off greater action on the part of campus via e-mail of crime Contact Aaron Steiner at students, Boykins said, both occurring in their area. asteiner@nd.edu 


Estrada said HE! Hotels and in pharmaceutical companies "As a senior here at Notre Hesorts is actually primarily that market contraceptives. Dame, it's kind of amazing funded by University endow­"As a Catholic how some of continued from page 1 ments. University, [Notre us still don't "We're specifically con­Dame] is basical-know which the summer in Los Angeles. cerned with this company ly founded on companies "As a sumnwr intern in Los because [Thanh Le and Il Catholic Social 'This company has the endow­Angeles, I was able to see the were summer interns with Teaching, and ment consists 
Letter 

touted Notre Dame as
direct effeets Unite Here, a based on that of and that 
one ofthe main 
that this com-labor union, Catholic Social Notre Dame pany has on its and through Teaching, out­universities that doesn't 
employees," he "We can't be invested that internship lined ·by the release that,"
invests in it." 
said. "The in companies that we found out United States she said. "I Hilton in Long about this com­Conference of think we have
don't respect 
Michael Angulo 
Beaeh wi II pany and that Catholic Bishops, a right to
workers' rights, and
bring in union their primarily we have our own Coalition member know, if we're busns and pay workers' rights is funded by uni­social responsi­paying so thesn people versity endow­bility investment much money
something that has 
millions of dol­ments," she policy," she said. to go here
been affirmed by 
lars to come in said. President of Mecha NO, a every year, where some of and tell the everyone from the Angulo said group that focuses on Latino that money is going." employees not the company social issues, Jamie Luna said Angulo said he hoped the
United Nations to 
to form a union actually touts he chose to sign the letter University responded by
the Vatican. " 
and that unions Notre Dame as because many of the exploit­October 30, or else they are ultimately one of its pri­ed workers are Latinos. would return to the presi­bad for the Michael Angulo mary investors. "It is not necessarily target­dent's office to seek a employees "This compa­ed towards [Latinos] but they response.
Coalition member 
thmnselves." ny has touted are suffering as the conse­"The secretaries are very 
Coalition Notre Dame as quence of the acts of several nice and we're sure they'll member one of the main corporations, so we thought it forward the message on. Michael Angulo said these universities that invests in was important for us to be What we're looking for is if practices directly contracted it," he said. with this group," he said. the University actually takes the University's mission state­Estrada said she was sur­Senior Clarissa Negrete, a dear stance," he said. "We ment. prised Notre Dame would who attended the ceremony, will be asking that the 
"We can't be invested in invest in the company consid­said she was angry Notre Administration respond to companies that don't respect ering the University actually Dame doesn't publicize the our letter, clarifying their workers' rights, and workers' has a policy that it won't companies it invests in. The stance on the issue, by the rights is something that has invest in companies whose only reason the group found Thursday following our Fall been affirmed by everyone practices contradict the out about HE! Hotels was Break -Oct. 30." from the United Nations to school's mission statement. because the company touted the Vatican," Angulo said. For example, Estrada said Notre Dame as one of its Contact Joseph McMahon at 
Coalition member Tatiana the University does not invest chief investors. jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, October 10, 2008 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 

The real focus of pep rallies 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Dwindling student attendance. Little interaction between rently enrolled students to think that only they would find a EDITOR IN CHIEF players and students. A dorm boycott, complete with its pep rally exciting. Our alumni network is one of the Chris Hine own manifesto. strongest in this country, and alums are more than eager to MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER The Friday night pep rallies are meant to be an hour or return to campus and take part in the football weekend fes­Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan so of cheering, excitement and school spirit. Between the tivities. Even outside of the alumni, fans of Notre Dame are 
band, the players and the students, the whole crowd ought widespread and numerous, often filling the Joyce Center. AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler to get excited. Moreover, the pep rallies should focus on But when the pep rallies start to feel disconnected from AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula encouraging the team, playing the game and taking down the students -and the game -and more like the 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink that week's opponent. But in the end, they University is putting on a display for alumni, should focus on the football. families and visitors, something's not right. Low
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
But the focus of Notre Dame pep rallies OTHE attendance levels are only the most visible indi-
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hine 

BSERVER
now feels displaced. The students' biggest cation of how widespread that feeling is among role is in weekly competitions between host the student body. Something needs to be done. 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

Editorial
dorms, organized by a committee of the Hall A separate question is why pep rallies are 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
Presidents Council. While watching your fel­exclusive to football at Notre Dame? PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee low Vermin or Knights dance in ridiculous True, football is the highest profile sport at the GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse costumes may be fun, it takes away from the real focus of University. But our football players are hardly the only ath­the rally -the game. Why pit students against each other letes of merit on campus.
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
at a time when the student body should band together? Men's basketball has the support of the LeprechaunAD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
Campus dance groups, like the Irish step dancers or similar Legion, but why not hold a pep rally in the Stepan Center CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill clubs, are worthwhile and entertaining, but they don't before a big game? Say, on the Friday before a big SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarty belong at a pep rally. The pep rallies feel less like a cheer Saturday home game. (This year's Connecticut game, with session devoted to the team, and more like a production for ESPN College Gameday coming to campus would be a
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 

(574) 631-7471 the larger community and fans. prime opportunity). Women's soccer is consistently stellar, 
FAX If student attendance is any indication, the show can't go yet the JACG has yet to be filled with futbol fans cheering (574) 631-6927 
on. them on. 
ADVERTISING 

Some might argue that student apathy is to blame for the Bring the excitement and school spirit. Scream, yell, and
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

recent rally debate. If more students came to pep rallies, maybe even raise the roof for our other, equally deserving
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 detractors often claim, the energy level would skyrocket. athletes. But regardless of the sport, the pep rallies need 
MANAGING EDITOR It would also be _shortsighted and self-centered for cur-some revision if they are going to serve their purpose. (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 

Wake up the Echoes and the students should be standing on asitic. The place was like a sauna and you 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

Wake up the echoes cheering her name. the floor, with spillover of "late arriving" could hardly move. I can still remember 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 

SPORTS DESK Ifyou would have ever experienced a students and alumni into the balance of the band marching in playing the fight 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu Notre Dame pep rally in the old field­the seating area. song, and I am getting chills as I write this. 
SCENE DESK bouse, or even Stepan Center, you would I suspect this format will also allow It was loud, crazy, exhilarating and truly (574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
realize what a sham the current pep ral­more people to attend the pep rallies, what a pep rally should be. I refuse to go
SAINT MARY's DESK 

lies are. Let the old fogies watch their which has also been a problem in the past. to the "Broadway Productions" they now
smc.1@nd.edu 

videos and sit in their cushioned seats in call pep rallies and wish they were at
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu the JACC. Rally sons (and daughters) of Jim Blase Stepan Center again. The University has SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS Notre Dame for true pep rallies in Stepan alum changed a great deal since I graduated, 
(574) 631-8839 Center. Class of 1981 which happens, and I have great memo­Oct. 9 ries of my time there including a National
THE Tim Roddy Championship. One thing they need to 
OBSERVER ONLINE 

www. ndsmcobserver. com alum The past always seems better change back to is the "Stinky Pep Rallies" Class of 1969 Ijust read a funny line about how many at Stepan Center. 
POLICIES 

Oct. 9 old domers it takes to change a lightbulb. The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper Three: One to screw it in and two to dis­George Hayduk published in print and online by the students ofthe 
Unwillingness to change cuss how much better the old one was. almn 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
I agree with all of the comments of Mike I lived in the Zoo from 1969 to 1973. My Oct.9
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
Schafer, Class of 1982, regarding the JACC first pep rally was in the old field house. 
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
pep rallies. I am the class of 1981. The Pat 0 Brien (the actor not the clown now Pep rallies are for the team and the stu­
institution. The Observer reserves the right to r~fuse advertisements based on conrenr. JACC pep rallies are just horrible now. on tv) and Rocky Blier Gust back from dents The news is reported as accurately and objectively as They were much better during the Holtz Vietnam) They brought the house down. Let me add my voice to the sentiments 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of era, and the Stepan pep ralies during the Dirt floor human pymarids and ambu­raised recently by Mike Shafer, Class of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Devine era were even better. (I watched lances waiting outide. Freshman in tears. '82, regarding the pep rallies. I attended Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
the Stanford pep rally on the web, and The following day it was raining at kickoff. one last year with my daughter who was 
Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views 
was actually embarrassed by what I saw.) Crowd starts chanting Ara stop the rain. on campus to attend an admissions semi­
ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Do EVERYTHING Mike Schafer, as well as Look it up, the sun came out? It cannot get nar. We, too, were startled by the rude 
Observer. 
the gentleman from Sorin last week, have better than that but you should try and a ushers who wouldn't let anyone down to 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
suggested! start would be a move to Stepan. When the lower seats until the students arrived. 
expression ofall opinions through lerters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include The thing I hate the most about the way we moved to Stepan we were disappointed Of course, when only 125 students showed contact information. Notre Dame handles certain events is its because it could not replace the old field up, the ushers stepped aside and let us all unwillingness to change. And the students house! move down. Unfortunately, we sooned Questiom regarding Observer policies should be seem to be given very little power to Go Irish! learned why no students were at the rally. directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. change things, e.g., the format and timing It was boring, pre-programmed and ster­of Junior Parent Weekend. The students Jerome Koch ile. Stupid skits, a dance club demonstra­
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

are crying out for a change in the pep rally alum tion and Chuck Lennon? Where was the 
The ONcrvt:r (USPS W'l l-400fl) i.\ pub!~! Monday thmugh Fl'lday cxupt during format to the ways of yesteryear. And we class of 1973 fire? Where was the passion? We both e:urn ~nil VKcation pcriudt•. AsubJKription to The Ohscrvcr b $!{)()for one academic 
r~r; $55 fnr one S('ffi~tet. 50+ year old alumni agree, so don't use Oct. 8 wanted to leave before it was over. I am 
The Oh!!C'rvcr is publi.~hcd at: POSTMASTER that as an excuse for not changing. Use happy to see that some students have 024 South Dining Hall Send addreM correctioits: w; 
the JACC or the Stadium, if you must (i.e., Supporting Sorin Boycott decided not to take it anymore. Pep rallies 
Nom: Dame. IN 465S6-0779 ThcOb.~~t;.rver l'triPillul po~;agc p;~i,J ~~ Notre D:unc P.O. Box779 so senior alumni have a place to sit and so I read with great interest the Sorin are for the team and the students. 
.md .~ddiuon;al m;~iling offil:d. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nutrt: Dame. IN 4fl556-0779 you can fit in more people), but that is all I Boycott article regarding the pep rallies would retain regarding the current pep that are part of the game weekends at Tom Riley rally format. The team should occupy the Notre Dame. I was a football player in the alum 
The Ob:\Ctvcr i' .1 member ofthe A'i:!lflciattd. Pres:;. All reproduction rights art seats at one end of the court (e.g., the stu­early 1970's and took part in the great Class of 1984 
res~rv~d. 
dent section area for basketball games), Stepan Center pep rallies. They were fant-Oct. 9 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Jenn Metz Bill Brink Ashley Charnley Jerrid Jedick Amanda Gray Mike Gotimer 
Viewpoint Scene Patricia Stephanie DePrez Fernandez Graphics Andrea Archer 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Observer Poll 
Who would you rather have lunch with·? 
Vo~<:s Percemage ~'Never judge a man by his umbrella. Sarah Palin 690 58% It may not be his. " 
Michelle Obama 340 29% 
Anonymous Cindy McCain 102 9% Mrs. Biden 59 5% 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, October I 0, 2008 
Where's your stipend? 
Earli1~r this wenk. this esteemed news­paper n~ported that a group of Saint Mary's studm1ts met with College offi­eials regarding a stipniHl that the Student Governnwnt has placed in the budgd to give it's J.:xecutive Board. Tlw leaders of tlw Saint Mary's stu­dent body appar­ently f1~el that it is ~~thical and appro­priate to grant themselves $20,000 as a slush 

Bob Kessler 
fund to do what they want with. This 
/louse ofStix 
Executive Board apparently indudns eight young women, who ran unopposed for their positions last spring. Doing the quick math, I believe this means that mu:h mmnber of the board will spend approximately $2,500 of the tuition pay­ers money on themselves. 

What might they be spending this money on you ask'? Aceording to the same article, "Last year's Executive Board allotted themselves $40,000 mon­etary stipend. and Executives serving SGA prior to that would often take a trip to Chicago where they would 'stay at five star hotels, eat at nice restaurants, see shows and go shopping."' If the Notre Dame student government practiced in this kind of outrageous behavior, I would be livid. 
I'm sure that bning the student body president is a thankless job that undoubtedly involves hours upon hours of meetings and discussions. but do they seriously d11serve a stipend? Most people who run for these positions only do it as a shameless form of resume building. I can not think of a single tangible devel­opment that has come from Notre Dame's student government in my 3.2 years at this school, and I have to think that the Saint Mary's student leaders have a similar impact. 
With this in mind, I have some sugges­tions for how the Saint Mary's Executive Board can utilize their excess funds this year. While all are not conventional uses of students' tuition dollars, none are less ethical than the direction the money is currently going. 
1) Donate the money to Bob Barr's Presidential Campaign: Sure he has no chance at winning and most students probably have no clue who he is, but he did grace this area with his presence last week, and he is opposed to big govern­ment (which the Board Stipend most cer­tainly qualifies as). 
2) Construct a Ball Pit: Judging by the 
dimensions of St. Mary's rooms, and some very helpful internet blogs, I think you could turn quite a few doubles· into full fledged ball pit rooms with a depth of three feet. Think of the possibilities with a room full of balls. Parietals are starting? No worries, I'll just hide in the ball pit. If I knew that there were ball pit rooms over at Saint Mary's, I think I might make it into a dorm room thPre lor the first time since ... Well ever. The college might even attract a wider vari­ety of students if they advertised it: Saint Mary's College, live in a ball pit. 
3) Install Bidets: If you could buy one bidet for $500 [which you can I. then with $20,000 you could buy 40 bidets. I can only assume that would put at least one bidet in every bathroom of every floor in every dorm at Saint Mary's. A bidet is something that I have always felt would be a great addition to the dorms at Notre Dame, and I believe the women of Saint Mary's deserve to move up to the No.1 ranking for cleanest co-ed under­sides in US News and World Heport. 
4) Buy Each Student Sweatpants: The day has come when every girl in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community knows that they must oblige to custom and wear sweatpants to class. Because this is probably going to happen every day until April (when Skirt Day comes along), I'm sure every woman would love to add an extra pai"r of these most glori­ously comfortable leg covnrings to add to thnir wardrob11. lnote: hoodies not ineludedl 
5) Drink lots of Keystone Light: Assuming Meijer has enough in stock, you could spend the Board Stipend to buy 46,000 cans of Keystone Light. This might be a little dillicult with the 'two casn rule' at Meijer, so instead, I suggest buying 285 kegs of the chosen boer. Even if you don't want to drink it all. you could still build a pretty awesome fort with it. 
I've only begun to venture into the frontier of possibilities for how Saint Mary's Student Government can more efi'ectively use these funds, but I think it should be pretty obvious at this point that just about anything would be better than the current allocation. I can only hope that our friends at Saint Mar{s understand this and criticize their lead­ers right out of ofTiee. 
Go Belles. 
/Job Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. You can contact him at rkessler@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsemer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Budget concerns Involving stipends 
'l'o tho Student Government Association 

Executive Board: A'i a member of senior 
class board, I would like to take the time to 
explain how I feel about the current budget 
eoncerns involving stipends. 
First off. the fact that members of the 

Executive Board are a.'iking for stipends is 
appalling. I low L'i it fair to the students of 
Saint Mary's Collnge? The stipend is coming 
out of' the student body's pocket<; with what 
we pay fi>r tuition. So you, the Executive 
Board say you reprnsent the student body, 
but what does receiving stipends do for the 
student<;? What do we, as student<>, benetit 
from this? In addition, how is it fair to the 
rnst of the class board members if only the 
Executive Board receive monetary allot­
ment<>? 
While I do understand and recognize that the Executive Board does a lot fi>r the Saint Mary's Colleg1~ community, people working under them sueh a.<; clubs/organizations of Saint Mary's College, members of class board, and elass president<; work just as hard and put tremendous time and effort, if not more, into working with the Saint · Mary's College community. Why is it rea­sonable that the Executive Board receive stipends but the other dass board members do not? I don't {eel that the responsibilities and tasks of the Exeeutive Board are equal­ly distributed nor do I feel that all members put in a.'i much time and efl'ort as some of our class board members have done. 
Thirdly, <mother L'isue that comes up is the fact that other schools have the policy of providing stipends to Exeeutive Boards has been used a<; a rea<;on to support Saint Mary's College Executive Board's reasons li>r wanting stipends. Just because other schools do it does not mean we have to. I do not think that Saint Mary's College can be eompan~d to other larger universities bneause of the warm atmosphere the school provides and the close-knit friend­ships that are made on campus. Let me ask you this: if' someone jumped off a bridge and told you to do the same thing, would you'? 
I.a'itly. I would like to notn one la'it thing. What conws to mind when somnone runs fi1r sncrntary. student body presidnnt, or ci<L'iS prnsidnnt'? Tho reason I decided to join snnior board is bncausn I want to moet pnopln. havn fun. and most importantly, work with otlwrs in tho Saint Mary's Collngn community. If tlw docision to pro­vidn monotary allotment<; to the Executiv1~ Board is yns. tlwn tlw joy amllaughtnr associated with SGA is reduced to one 
thing: money. A person involved in SGA 
should want to be involved with the stu­
dents, not because they receive money for 
their services. 
The fact that this seems to be happening saddens and disappoints me. This is not what being a part of SGA should be about. Members of SGA should be thinking about one thing: how can we help and reach out to the students of Saint Mary's College? 
Thank you for taking the time to hear what I have to say. 
Grace Fey senior St. Mary's College Oct. 8 

Thank you! Thank you! Thank you! 
I am sure many of you have seen the "Irish Hate SCUM" shirts floating around campus and are aware that these shirts are student creations. What you may not be aware of is what happens to some of the profits made from these shirt sales. Recently, the guys responsible for the SCUM shirts donated $1,045 to Camp Kesem, a student-run camp for children whose par­ents have died from, are currently suffering with, or are in remission from cancer. Camp is provided free of charge for these children, and this is possible because Camp Kesem relies solely on fundraisers and donations for its continued existence. So thank you, guys who created the SCUM shirl'i; your contribution is greatly appreci­ated and affects way more people than you may realize. If you are interested in donat­ing to Camp or learning more about our program, please visit our website,whichis www.campkesem.orgtnotredame. Thanks again, guys, for your kindness and generos­ity. CK loves you! 
Mike Gray grad srudem off campus Ocr. 8 

Don't throw food away, donate it! 
A large bag of 50 hot dogs, two large bags of nearly 70 hamburgers, seven pack­ages of around 20 bratwurst each, and a whole Iotta buns. This is the colossal amount of lbod that wa'i leftover from our Teamwork fi>r Tomorrow concession stand this past Saturday for the Purdue game. ITeam work is a Notre Dame student-run mentoringtliteraey program serving chi!­
dren from low-income homes in South 
Bend.) 

As President of Teamwork, I'll admit that I was the one who placed the overzealous order with Catering by Design, but to be fair it was only after consulting with anum­ber of people as to how much was a rea­sonable amount. Whether it was just a. slow day, we didn't get as much foot traffic as some other stands (the faet that the official location of our stand is named "Radiation Lab" doesn't exactly gets mouths watering), or simply that none of us knew how the heck to estimate a meat order is beside the point. 
What struck me is that when we called South Dining Hall (which facilitates the early morning game-day meat pick-up) to see what we should do with it, they told us to just throw all of this perfectly good meat away. 
As per SAO and Risk Management's guidelines, our unused meat was kept cov­ered, on ice, and at least six inches above the ground throughout the morning/after­noon. There was nothing to indicate that this meat, which would have been safe by SAO and Risk Management standards to cook and serve, was now unsafe to donate. 
It seems a bit odd to me that a concession stand system regulated and run by a Catholic University, which just days before held an academic forum on sustainability, wouldn't even suggest using the meat for another purpose, most especially donating the meat to a shelter or another place it could be enjoyed. 
On the Forum's website, one of the sug­gestions it gives on redueing individual energy consumption is "reuse materials that would otherwise be thrown away." I don't think it takes a great amount of men­tal strain to see that you are helping to save energy whether you're re-using a plastic Martin's bag or seeing that pounds of meat don't go to waste. 
With the extra Teamwork meat still on ice, I called the first shelter that came to mind, the South Bend Center for the I lome less, who told me that they are open 24 hours a day and would be happy to accept the meat (and any type of' food dona­tion) at any time. With the help of my par­ents (thanks, mom and dad) I was able to get the meat and buns downtown to the Center. 
For those of who will be involved in plan­ning/running/working at a concession stand in the immediate or distant future (cspeeial­ly this weekend for Stanford): please eon-sider donating leftover meat and buns so 
that others can enjoy them and so that they 
will not go to waste. 
Just think of the good we eould do with the extra meat from the 21 eoncession stands that operate every football Saturday. Good for the environment beeause we're making use of what we've already spent energy producing and transporting, good for community agencies who contribute so much to South Bend, and good for those people who will be able to enjoy a tasty brat or burger. 
Better yet, let's get SAO on board and get organized pick-up for meat and buns (maybe the great people who work with FoodShare can help get us on the right track), so we can more easily get this food to the Center for the Homeless or another shelter that will make good use of it. 
Just as the Notre Dame's commitment to promoting and supporting community involvement speaks to the heart of the University's mission, so too does the effort to maximize sustainability and reduce ener­gy consumption (most easily accomplished by reducing energy wa'ite). Let's combine these two worthy goals with another great NO tradition, student run football Saturday com~ession stands, and donate any extra meat/buns to somewhere that will put them to good use 
Emily Balthasar 
semor 
off campus Oct. l 

Local Political Violence 
Last week I put a sign in my yard that reads "Pray to End Abortion." The sign is part of an effort called 40 Days for Life which has a simple aim: to get people to pray to end abortion. Within days of putting the sign up someone dumped a full can of trash on it. This week I have had eggs thrown at my house and my car window sma'ihed out with items stolen. It is fright­ening to think that this is how the pro-abor­tion movement responds to non-violent protest in our local community! I f.,'lless it is not surprising that a movnment that thinks it is a "right" to do violence against unborn babies will resort to violence against morn pnaeeful political exprnssion. 
Mike Gray grad sruJenr otT campus Oct. 8 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Friday, October 10, 2008 
page 13 
TheE-Conning-Me 
Like Banquo's Ghost, Washington keeps reappearing with new ways of spending our money, the latest being the bailout plan. Unlike Macbeth, we all see this spec­tre. Who would believe it? A rush to spend a trillion dol-Peter Kelly Iars, out of our future earnings. Guest 
The troubled 
Columnist 

Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). There are obvious problems with this plan and there were alternatives! What exactly is going on? Mortgages to borrowers who could not afford them. Everyone betting that the housing bubble would continue bubbling heavenward. 
Unfortunately, starting around 2007 the housing bubble burst. Suddenly people were attached to mortgages that exceeded the value of their homes. Here comes jin­gle mail; people were just walking away from homes and mailing the keys to the bank. 
How did this disrupt the markets? 
An example: JP Morgan Chase issues 100 dollars in mortgages. They realize that these mortgages are too risky and pool all their mortgages together and sell them in the form of a security to Lehman Brothers. Lehman Brothers purchases these securities by borrowing funds from Merrill Lynch, who receive money market deposits from investors, and by using their own equity. Let us suppose that Lehman Brothers purchased these securities with four dollars of equity and 96 dollars of commercial paper from Merrill Lynch. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
How to cure the economy 
We are writing in response to Christie Pesavento's Viewpoint article ("Who's to Blame?") on Oct. 7. 
In the article, Pesavento cited move­ments by the U.S. government since 1977 that led to the credit crisis and the subse­quent recent failures of several large fmancial institutions. Pesavento wrote that while members of Congress are busy placing blame on each other, it is really the unintended consequences of Congress-enacted policies that are to blame. 
While we agree that government inter­ference with the free market caused the current economic crashes, we believe that the ultimate blame is on us, the vot­ers. We are responsible for hiring and firing our government leaders. In Tuesday's Mock election 93.7 percent of the votes implied that there was a differ­ence between Senators Obama and McCain. The most recent debate painted a different picture. 
The first question in the debate addressed the topic in Pesavento's arti­cle, mainly how would the candidates help Americans stay in their homes. Senator Obama's response was that the Bush administration stripped away regu­lations and allowed the market to run wild. This is a nonsensical statement considering that the two major troubled fmancial institutions are government sponsored enterprises, the Community Reinvestment Act remained in place dur­ing the Bush administration, and the Federal Reserve managed the interest rates during the housing bubble. It's hardly valid to say that the market was free to run wild since the housing bubble was inflated and managed by the federal government. 
Senator McCain's response wasn't any more defensible. Instead of defending the band-aid solution bailout that he and Senator Obama supported, he pretended that foreign oil is the problem. The leader of the "conservative" party contin­ued by saying that he'd order the treas­ury department to buy up bad loans. In other words, the same socialization of mortgages that senator Obama supports Now, let us suppose that these securities lose five percent of their value. Suddenly, Lehman has negative equity. They must declare bankruptcy. Additionally, Merrill Lynch only receives 95 dollars of the 96 dollars they lent back. People don't realize how much Merrill Lynch actually lost, they only see their ties to Lehman Brothers, and these questionable mortgage backed securities, and they immediately go on a bank run at Merill Lynch for their money market accounts. Merrill Lynch has trou­ble covering this bank run, and, suddenly, the commercial paper market isn't func­tioning the way it should. (It is important to note that even though Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers together function as a commercial bank, neither is, and, thus, neither was subject to governmental restrictions (like backing six percent of their assets) 
One should note that questions remain as to are those "95 dollars" of mortgage backed securities really worth 95 dollars (are they securities representing mort­gages in volatile Florida or relatively sta­ble Manhattan)? What is the true value? Banks are having trouble trusting each other, due to the ambiguous value of these assets and are refusing to lend money to one another because they fear that the lender will suddenly declare bankruptcy. 
What the bailout plan supposedly will do is take these troubled assets out of the market tn order to restore confidence and re-establish the IIUtrket. But TARP is poor­ly written and places a crown on Secretary Paulson who would be account-
is the same course of action that the sup­posed fiscal conservative supports. 
The views of the candidates are nearly indistinguishable. Neither are offering economic freedom. Neither will say that home ownership failures are a result of mortgage fraud committed by individu­als, "main-street" appraisers, and local mortgage companies or by government interference, a poor monetary policy and loose lending practices. Instead, these candidates are reprimanding bad busi­ness practices with their right hand while handing them a $700 billion check with the left. Government accountability and individual responsibility be damned; these candidates will maintain the fat;ade that their party is infallible and that no citizen is responsible for his or her failures. 
As George Bernard Shaw said, "Liberty means responsibility. That is why most men dread it." This is the travesty and irresponsibility of the American voter. Those students that composed 93.7 per­cent of the votes (52.6 percent for Obama, 41.1 percent for McCain) are voting men into office that will continue shifting blame to other parties, to other organizations. 
The oft-used excuse of voting for the lesser of two evils does not apply here. Candidates who do not offer economic freedom, a humble foreign policy or a sound monetary policy are not lesser evils. If we do not want to continue to pay for failed government legislation, we must abandon our current voting ten­dencies. The one party system that this country has adopted has failed. 
Please join us in trying to enact true change by voting for candidates who support liberty and the free market. America cannot fully enjoy the freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, or a robust economy, if our individual liberty continues to be eroded. 
Eric Smith Rachel Getman Jeremiah White grad students off-campus Ocr. 9 
able only after the fact when all of our money is out the barn door. Some of the obvious questions are: How will these negotiations take place? How will we min­imize the costs to the taxpayer? Surely, the corporate banker in the negotiations will be more personally invested in the price paid by the government than the government agent? Face it. this burden will be inflicted upon the American tax­payer, and not the Wall Street speculator, who engaged in these risky ventures. Is this fair? Essentially, the government, hav­ing bailed out Wall Street, has morphed risky ventures into arbitrage opportuni­ties. 
As Luigi Zingales, a finance professor at the University of Chicago, said, "It is time to save capitalism from the capitalists." He recommended that the government fail to provide financial assistance of any kind. He proposed that the government impose compulsory credit for equity (many of these banks still have thriving sectors) swaps, which essentially amounts to par­tial debt forgiveness. Nothing new here. The United States currency used to be indexed to gold. Franklin Roosevelt deemed this invalid, and, as our national debt plummeted, he enacted partial debt forgiveness. Following this decision, stock prices and bond prices rose (the debtor and the lender both benefitted from this partial forgiveness). It worked then and would work now. But, Congress decided to spend our money. 
Another alternative, in 1982, Chile was suffering a fmancial crisis. In response, 
Notre Dame rnust protect the right to unionize 
As concerned Notre Darne students, we write on an issue that we believe warrants immediate and prudent attention from Fr. John Jenkins and his administration. We are inspired by the words of our University's Mission state­ment, which asserts: "the University seeks to cultivate in its students not only an appreciation for the great achievements of human beings but also a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many". 
We have recently found that our University is invested in a company who continuously disregards the prin­ciples that our University seeks to culti­vate. HEI Hotels and Resorts has repeatedly undermined the dignity of their employees and denied their fun­damental right to organize in an envi­ronment free from fear and intimida­tion. These practices directly contradict Catholic Social Teaching, as articulated by the United States Council of Catholic Bishops. As they have stated in their writing on the Dignity of Work and Rights of Worker: "If the dignity of work is to be protected, then the basic rights of workers must be respected ­the right to productive work, to decent and fair wages, to the organization and joining of unions, to private property, and to economic initiative". 
Motivated by the spirit of our University, our Board of Trustees has already established a clear and articu­late policy on how our University would conduct its financial dealing. On May 6, 1988 they approved the Social Responsibility Investment Policy. In the document, the Board of Trustees wrote: "The University of Notre Dame com­mits itself to an investment policy which reflects both its identity as a Catholic University as well as its inten­tion to promote the basic moral values of fairness, respect for human life, defense of human rights and social jus­tice". The Board then committed itself to "(1) excluding from the portfolios securities of firms whose polices are the government issued subsidized loans to banks in the country in order to increase their capital. These loans were backed by the banks' assets in order to minimize tax­payer risk. Additionally, the banks were not able to enjoy profits until the loans were paid off. This enabled banks to issue loans, which is essential to an economy, but it also laid the burden of restoring eco­nomic prosperity upon the financial world. After severalyears, the Chilean financial system recovered. Thus, government issued asset-backed loans to the financial institution is another potential solution worth investigating. Congress said no. 
Some argue that we needed to act quickly to restore confidence in the mar­ket. But, at 8579 and falling, that didn't work and raises a bigger question. What happens if we lose confidence in the gov­ernment? There should have been due consideration for a trillion tax dollars. Unfortunately, taxpayers spend more time buying a computer. Congress's precipitous actions will haunt our generation for years to come. And the bankers skip merrily away. Oh, Congress. Another year, another plan, and again, we are not being greeted as liberators. 
Peter Kelly is a senior majoring in eco­nomics and mathematics. His true name is shannon and his third wish is for a planet full ofunicorns. He can be reached at pkelly6@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
inimical to the values the University espouses; (2) investing in firms that demonstrate a high level of social con­cern; (3) influencing the social behavior of invested firms through the exercise of ownership rights". 
Based on the misconduct of HEI Hotels and Resorts, which transgresses the very principles of our Mission Statement, the guidelines set out by the United States Council of Catholic Bishops, as well as our own Social Responsibility Investment Policy, we call on the University of Notre Dame to divest its financial assets from HEI. This divestment will demonstrate that the University of Notre Dame is a leader in socially conscious investing founded on the principles of Catholic Social Teaching. 
If we are to "create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good" as our Mission statement reads, we must protect the rights of workers to organize, form, and join unions free from intimidation or threats from their employers. For both our own campus workers and for the workers at compa­nies with which we do business, it must be clear that Notre Dame respects and supports the fundamental right to unionize. 
Michael Angulo Thanh Le Tatiana Estrada seniors off campus Oct. 8 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Friday, October I 0, 2008 

"Romance" Worth It for the Laughs 
By JOSEF KUHN Scene Wrirer 
Do not be deceived by the title. The play "Romance" is anything but one. 
This Friday and Saturday night, at 7:30 in Washington Hall, the St. Edward's Hall Players will be performing the play "Romance" by David Mamet. The title of the play must be one of those intentionally ironic misnomers, like nick­naming a 300-pound linebacker "Tiny." The play is a blis­tering and brash eomedic farce, but underneath the humor it raises serious questions about justice, prejudice and the dilliculty of human relations. 
The plot centers around a court trial that seems pretty typical at first, but as the play goes on the trial sinks fur­ther and further into disorder and madness. The colorful cast of eharaeters includes a sneaky Jewish chiropractor, a drugged-up judge, a WASP-ish defense attorney, a gay prosecuting attorney and his emotionally unstable boyfriend. The eclectic mix makes for plentiful hilarious clashes and confrontations. Don't laugh too long, though, or you'll miss the next punch line; the play lays them on fast and thiek. 
Warning: Do not take your grandma to this play. Also, do not see this play if you are easily offended by crude lan­guage or racial slurs. Don't worry about being singled out, though; Mamet is an equal opportunity slanderer, in the fashion of Carlos Mencia (but much funnier.) 
While the play can be enjoyed for its shock value alone, "Romance" explores deeper thematic issues as well. It ehallenges the viewer's conception of justice, asking if there is anyone who is really innocent or fit to condemn others. It also looks at the nature of prejudice and tries to figure out if there is any way around strife and discord in human relations, on both the personal and the national level. Nothing is foreed or heavy-handed about the play, though; without thinking a little bit, a viewer eould easily get caught up in the faree and eompletely miss the deeper meaning. 
The St. Edward's Hall Players do a great job of getting into their parts. They really eouldn't have been cast more perfectly. Under the direction of Saint Mary's College sen­ior Lauren Mangiaforte, the play runs like a professional performanee. And at only about an hour long, you'll still have plenty of time to go out afterwards. So whether you'n~ thH philosophical type or you just want to grab a few laughs, eome out and see Homanee this weekend. 
Contact Josef Kuhn at jkuhn1 @nd.edu 
Cast & Crew Sound-Off on Experience 
By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Scene Writer 
The St. Ed's Players bring their first full­length show of the year, "Romance," by Tony and Oscar nominee David Mamet, to Washington Hall this week. Members of the cast and crew sounded off in email interviews about the difficulties and rewards of putting on the show. 
Why did you choose "Romance" for the St. Ed's Players fall show? 
Lauren Mangiaforte, senior at Saint Mary's, director: At Saint Mary's College, all senior the­atre majors must produce a play in their second semester, and I had been reading a lot of Mamet this summer in attempts to find a play of his for my senior comprehensive. Matt Goodrich and Meghan Hartmann, the St. Ed's producers, both suggested I read "Romance." 
I loved the script. I loved the characters. In Mamet's plays, the dialogue can be unforgiving­ly harsh, and I like that. At the same time, his plays are full of contrasting places of beautiful earnestness, and I like that just as much. I was hooked. 
What is "Romance" about? 
Matt Goodrich, senior at Notre Dame, pro­ducer/cast: Romance is a courtroom farce that lampoons 4 smattering of social groups in an equally vicious, hyperliterate manner. Evoryone 's guilty, everybody lies, and each hates the other. It's David Mamet at his best. 
Lauren Lassus, senior at Saint Mary's, stage manager: Mamet points out that if we can't get along in our day-to-day lives and be at peace with the people we see every day, how can we bring peace to the world? 
Mangiforte: Despite its provocative, profane language, "Romance" centers around the idea that peace on Earth starts with peace between individual people. I think we are meant to sym­pathize with the characters and realize that we are capable of the same harm to our fellow humans as they are. 
What about putting together the show has been challenging for you personally and as a team of cast and crew? 
Jon McCallie, senior at Notre Dame, techni­cal director: I've always considered myself the resident lighting guy for the Sted's shows, and in the past I have focused my energies on that. This show, however, features myself in a more fluid role in the production. I've had to learn on the fly, but it's been a rewarding experience. 
I couldn't shoulder that weight on my own, and I don't think the director wanted me to. Honestly, it has been a completely collaborative effort from the cast and crew in making each of the decisions about the show, from lighting, to costumes, to scenery, to preshow music, to props, to advertising and all points in between. We all worked together to tackle our obstacles in preparing this wonderful show. 
Joseph Kwaczala, senior at Notre Dame, cast member: Last semester, I was on leave to study full-time with The Second City in Chicago as part of their new Comedy Studies program. I'm used to working improvisationally and writing my own stuff, putting it up on its feet, changing things around, and things like that. So this whole "normal theater" -if that's even a say­ing-is quite different for me. 
Goodrich: I tell you what, I myself am not really sure what being a producer entails ­kind of winging it, figuring it out as I go along. So far I've had to take care of logistical things, running interference, taking care of all the paperwork, financial things with SAO, and just making sure everything comes together. 
Playing a role doesn't help either. For me, performing requires too much focus to do jus­tice to each task. Personally, I'm spending about 35 hours a week in rehearsal, as I'm currently rehearsing for three shows. 
Mangiaforte: The plain fact of the matter is, the play deals in various degrees of seriousness with some pretty inarguably controversial mate­rial: the centuries-old struggle between Jews and Christians, between Isreal and Palestine, child molestation, and the representation of gay couples in our society, just to name a few. 
However, as we rehearsed, the play's central theme of peace revealed itself more and more. I think the cast did an outstanding job of finding places of sincerity in the play that highlight the potential for loving the neighbor we all have 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 

Playwright, sernenwriter, author and director, David Mamet is a force to behold in American art. The St. Ed's Player's arc currently taking on "Romance," Mamet's 2005 comedy faren in a eourtroom, but "Homance" is only one of Mamet's forays onto stage, page or screen. For the unfamiliar, here are some brief highlights of Mamet's storied career. 
"Ameriean Buffalo" (1976) A team of men plot to stage a eoin collection heist in Mamet's groundbreak­ing 1976 play. Don, the owner of a junk shop, acciden­tally sells a valuable niekel for less than its worth. Healizing his mistake, Don and Bob, an aequaintance, and latnr Teach, a cynieal friend of Don's, plan to take revenge by stealing from the man who bought the fated niekel. A revival of "American Bufl"alo" starring Haley Joel Osment, John Leguizamo and Cedric the Entertainnr will debut on Broadway at the end of the month. 
"Glengarry Glen Ross" (1982) This play originally debuted in London after Mamet sent the manuscript to famous British playwright Harold Pinter. Pinter liked the play so much that he recommended it to be staged at the Cottesloe Theatreal. The play has been hall­marked for its rich, loaded dialogue (often punctured with eolorful language), powerful characters, and deft skill in portraying struggles of gender and masculinity in contemporary men. A 2005 Broadway revival starred Alan Aida ("M*A *S*H") and Jeffrey Tambor ("Arrested Development"). 
"Speed-The-Plow" (1988) Visiting a theme he would return to in writing films like "Wag the Dog" (1997) and "State and Main" {2000), Mamet examines the American movie business, with all its blood, sweat and neuroses. Mid-level producers Bobby Gould and Charlie Fox verbally spar over the issue of artistic merit versus finaneial gain. Gould is caught between producing a low-quality action film and the adaptation of an apocalyptic, spiritual novel. The play was recent­ly revived in Londonand a Broadway revival begins this month. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, October 10, 2008 
page 15 
Asst. Scene Editor 
"Appaloosa" tries to recapture.the classic western for a modern audience. Cloaking some of today's stars -il)oluding Ed Harris, Viggo Mortensen, Jeremy Irons, and Renee Zellweger -in Stetsons, bustles, and some serious statement mustaches, the film returns to the genre that has fascinated American audiences for so long, explor­ing its depths without sacrificing its fun. 
Beginning in 1882, "Appaloosa" is western opera at its best. Gunmen and peace­makers Virgil Cole (Harris) and Everett Hitch (Mortensen) are hired by the New Mexican town of Appaloosa to reign in an ambitious entrepreneur, Randall Bragg (Irons), who, backed by his less than cleanly ranch hands, is terrorizing the town's citizens and even went so far as to murder the marshal and his deputies because they got in his way. Cole and Hitch begin to make progress by establishing that their word 
Appaloosa 

Starring: Ed Harris, Viggo Mortensen, Jeremy Irons, Renee Zellweger Directed by: Ed Harris 

is law and their will the executioner, but matters are complicated when Allison French, a likeable young widower with a pen­chant for knowing which man is on the rise and a need to attach herself to him, arrives on the scene. "Appaloosa" addresses many themes, most promi­nently the distinctions between law and justice and the tension between ourselves and the roles we filL 
This film is carried by its characters, and hence its actors. Harris portrays Cole as a complete stoicism over a burning nte Mortensen is a strong mixture of patience and backbone hidden a wide brimmed hat, gun, and domineering mustache. Both actors portray powerful emo­tions with such subtlety that it is astounding. Despite legendary qualities, their char­acters come across as real men. Zelweger's character, Allison, is a breath of fresh air in the western drama. Unlike the majority of the women found in these movies, she has depth and dynamism, even if she may not always be appealing. She embodies what it means to be a woman in a world where the men are expected to be tough and enterprising, while the women have little they can do to support themselves. Of course, the film focuses on the male bond between Virgil and Everett, leaving her hanging in many ways. Bragg, played by Irons, is deliciously arrogant and menacing, all while maintaining a sort of charming appeal that makes you understand how he can not only function in the world, but at times be liked by it. The realism and depth the characters have turn what could have been merely a dramatic period piece with a touch of action into a film that moves the audience to think about issues that surpass the film's setting. 
Of course, "Appaloosa" is not all about deep thought. Not only are there those won­derful western action scenes, including several gunfights, but there is also consider­able humor. The film is willing to laugh at itself, and the characters are willing to laugh at each other. Some of the buddy moments between Cole and Hitch and the pal­pable awkwardness Cole expresses in relation to his feelings for Allison create great moments. It is also a striking f:tlm pictorially, capturing the dramatic beauty of New Mexico. 
The film is deliberately paced and considerate of what it wants to say. In some ways it is safe, and in the role of director, Harris did not try to reinvent what the western. Yet it does not hesitate to explore the material that is there. The film balances the realism and legend of its characters, portraying a world in which real men can be real heroes, hearkening back to the Westerns that came before it, but not giving in to the temptation to make its heroes flat. 
"Appaloosa" leaves you with the feeling that this is only a glimpse into the lives of the characters and the story of the West. In the end you desire more. You aren't satis­fied with a ride off into the sunset, you want to follow them on, further into the west. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 

By JESS SHAFFER 
Asst. Scene Editor 
The movie industry has come out with the newest indie, young adult romantic comedy. Following in the steps of "Juno," "Knocked Up," and "Garden State," "Nick and Nora's Infinite Playlist" follows two star-crossed lovers, who are strug­gling with their respective angsty heartbreaks. Nick is on the mend after a nasty break up with Tris, a vapid, self centered, quintessential popular girl. Nora is a wallflower used to being neglected from living in the shadow of her famous music producer dad. Nora is no stranger to Tris's shenanigans. Tris's favorite extracur­ricular activity seems to be putting Nick down behind his back, tossing his gifts publicly, and detailing her cheating ways. Nora, always having to play audience to Tris's self centered monologues, adores Nick's music tastes from afar. 
These two indie caricatures converge in New York City, where Nick is perform­ing with his band and Nora is out for a night on the town. Both Nick and Nora come with their respective entourages. Nick is a member of the gay-punk group, .-----------------------, The Jerk Offs. The only het­
Nick and Nora's Infinite Playlist Starring: Michael Cera, Kat Dennings, Alexis Dziena, Ari Graynor Directed by: Peter Sollett 

erosexual member of this rock band, Nick is sur­rounded by a sweet and comical ensemble of gay best friends, who desper­ately want him to get over Tris. 
Nora's entourage is not quite as supportive. First, Nora is victimized by her constantly catty frenemy, Tris. And then there's Caroline, Nora's best friend. Nora constantly plays the role of babysitter to Caroline's party girl supreme. 
tional) band, Where's Fluffy? In an epic search for Where's Fluffy?'s mysterious, surprise, concert, New York becomes these teens' personal playground. Complete with jealousy, emo heart-to-hearts, betrayal, budding romance, and a runaway drunk, Nick and Nora follow each other on a roller coaster pursuit of Fluffy, self­esteem, and love. 
Overall, this pseudo-epic journey of these lovable losers is cute. 
While it's enjoyable to watch and its characters are delightfully hate-able (i.e. Tris) or lovable (i.e. Nick and Nora). Nora, while perhaps a tad too bitter, is very relatable. Nick, though maybe slightly pathetic, seems to embody every pitiful teenage break-up. Caroline is the prototypical drunk girl that anyone who's attended a dorm party can identify effortlessly. Tris is stereotypical, and generally boring in her type cast role. The most original characters are Nick's band mates, who embody a fun combination of flaky stoners, hip gay guys, and indie-punk musicians. They are perhaps the most delightful to watch, though their scenes are few and far between. 
Unfortunately, "Nick and Nora's Infinite Playlist" overly relies on cliches. It is entirely predictable, though still endearing. By telling a story of cliches, the film loses much of its substance. Though it has huge potential, the film just didn't seem to be looking for quality. For the most part, characters and plot points that could have been better developed were neglected. Perhaps some of the TLC given to small indie projects was lost in this, a more mainstream version of an indie concept. Unlike "Juno" or "Garden State," "Infinite Playlist" lacks depth and heart. It's over processed, mainstream vibe doesn't help. Perhaps this is why the film's latent potential just didn't get fulfilled. 
Additionally, the soundtrack was good, though surprisingly deemphasized con­sidering the title of the movie. In fact, music didn't play a crucial part in setting the mood for the film. It was relatively absent, outside the characters' shared love of music. 
Overall, while lovable, "Nick and Nora's Infinite Playlist" is weak and shallow. Most of the film's better scenes are featured in the preview. Though cute, the film is underdeveloped and lacking in substance. Go see it for a fun, light, teen movie. But don't go expecting much. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel @nd.edu 
OBSERVER GRAPHIC I Andrea Archer 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, October 10, 2008 
MLB 

Phillies top Dodgers in first game of NLCS 
Burrell and Utley hit home runs in sixth inning to give Philadelphia 3-2 advantage; Lidge stays perfect in saves 
clinching win over the 
Associated Press 

Brewers. 
PJIILADELPIIIA Pat Hamels settled down after Burrell, Chase Utley and the the first and wound up Philadelphia Phillies had allowing two runs and six more than enough power to hits, striking out eight. offset Manny Hamirez in the "I think the guy just NL ehampionship series geared it up a notch," opener. Burrell said. 
Utley and Burrell homered Ryan Madson pitched a off tiring Derek Lowe in the scoreless eighth, and Brad sixth inning to back a strong Lidge finished with a perfect performance by Cole ninth for his third save of llamels, and the Phillies the postseason. Lidge is 44­were a winner in their for-44 in save chances this return to the NLCS, beating year. the Los Angeles Dodgers 3-2 Lowe cruised through the Thursday night. first five innings, allowing 
"It feels great but you just four singles. But the can't get too caught up in right-hander with the hard this," Burrell said. "We've sinker couldn't make it out got a lot of work to do." of the sixth. 
Hamirez put the Dodgers The speedy Shane ahead with a long HBI dou­Victorino reached second ble in the first, just missing base leading off on shortstop a two-run homer. But the Rafael Furcal's throwing Phillies' big bats answered error. Utley ripped the next in the sixth, when Burrell pitch into the seats in right­hit a go-ahead solo homer center for his first postsea­after Utley's two-run shot son homer in 29 at-bats, tied it. tying it at 2. 
Game 2 is Friday in One out later, Burrell lined Philadelphia, with Phillies a 3-1 pitch into the left-field right-hander Brett Myers stands for a 3-2 lead, send­facing Dodgers righty Chad ing the sellout crowd into Billingsley. frenzy. While Burrell circled 
A lower back injury nearly the bases, Lowe looked up at sidelined Burrell in the first the fireworks going off round against Milwaukee, beyond the swinging replica who waited 15 years to see his third double-play in 786 first NLCS game since and he almost got benched Liberty Bell that hangs the Phillies return to the plate appearances since clinching the pennant in after going 0-for-8 in the beyond the outfield stands NLCS. joining the Phillies last year. Game 6 against Atlanta at first three games. But man­and waited for manager Joe "Utley is a pretty good hit­Lowe was 6-1 with a 1.27 old Veterans Stadium on Oct. ager Charlie Manuel kept Torre to walk to the mound. ter," Dodgers manager Joe ERA in his last 10 regular­13, 1993. They're seeking Burrell in the lineup, and Burrell high-fived team­Torre said. "I don't think the season starts, including an their second World Series Burrell responded with two mates and got a curtain call error had anything to do 0.59 ERA in September. He title (first was in 1980) in homers and four RBis in the from long-suffering fans, with what happened after beat Chicago in the opener the franchise's 126-year his­
that." of the division series as the tory. 
Los Angeles took a 1-0 Dodgers swept the heavily Both teams entered the lead in the first off Hamels, favored Cubs to reach the series streaking. The who tossed eight shutout NLCS for the first time since Dodgers finished 19-8 to innings against Milwaukee winning the World Series in capture the NL West crown in Game 1 of the division 1988. and won three in a row over series. Right from the start, fans the Cubs. The Phillies went 
Andre Ethier hit a one-out waved their white-and-red 13-3 down the stretch to win double. With first base open, "Fightin' Phils" towels and their second straight NL manager Charlie Manuel screamed "Beat LA," a chant East title and needed four chose to let Hamels pitch to first made popular by Boston games to get past wild-card Ramirez. The slugger made fans as the Philadelphia Milwaukee. them pay, hitting an RBI 76ers were finishing off the The teams split eight regu­double high off the 19-foot Celtics to advance to the lar-season meetings, each wall just left of straightaway 1983 NBA Finals against the sweeping a four-game series center. Los Angeles Lakers. The at home in August. 
Blake DeWitt's sacrifice fly 76ers went on to beat the It's the fourth time in 31 in the fourth made it 2-0. Lakers. It's the last champi­years that the Dodgers and Matt Kemp led off the inning onship this title-starved city Phillies meet in the NLCS. with a looping ground-rule has celebrated. The Dodgers beat the double down the right-field Since then, the Phillies Phillies in 1977 and 1978, line. Kemp advanced to third have lost twice in the World winning both best-of-five on Casey Blake's grounder to Series (1983 and '93), and series in four games. In '83, shortstop and scored on the city's other three major the Phillies beat the Dodgers DeWitt's fly to center. pro teams are 0-5 in the in four games after losing 11 
Lowe's sinker was so sharp finals of their respective of 12 to Los Angeles and get­Los Angeles' Manny Ramirez looks on from the dugout In the early on that he even got sports. ting shut out five times dur­ninth Inning of the Dodgers' loss. Jayson Werth to ground into The Phillies played their ing the regular season. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classified. for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
DC area students · ND,SMC & HCC: ND Club of DC has contract­ed for bus transportation to &from the DC area for all breaks this year. Safe &affordable! Contact Ann Rimkus, arimkus1 @verizon.net 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Gold and black necklace charm lost Saturday night at Legends. Not expensive but irreplaceable to owner. If found, please call716­816-5669. 
WANTED 

STUDENT WORK, 
$14.25 base-appt.. flexible sched­ules, no experience needed, cus­tomer sales/service, conditions apply, ages 1 8+, 574-273-3835. www.workforstu· dents.com 
FoR SALE 
CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO ND. PLEASE CONTACT TED @ 574-233-6191 MSL#231736 
FoR RENT 
Gorgeous Completely Rehabbed House, 
4 bedrooms, 3 full baths, washer dryer, dishwasher, new stainless steel appliances, 3 car garage, cen­tral air, beautiful light fixtures, deck and front porch. Marble entryway. 
All new. 2 miles to ND. Available immediately, fourth month free or flat screen TV installed. 
$1180 per month. 
Call Harold 574-315-7781. 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09·10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2·10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574·234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
TICKETS 

Wanted: ND football tix for family. 574-251­1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS 
Buy-Sell ND football tickets. 
www. victorytickets.com. 
574-232-0964. 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap/ 
Spring Break 2009. Sell Trips, Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed! Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. 
Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
GO IRISH! 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, 
please call 
Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or 
Ann Firth at 574-631-2685. 
For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg· nant.shtml 
BEAT TAR HEELS! 

OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wrRE SERVICEs
Friday, October I 0, 2008 page 17 


NFL Men's Soccer 
NSCAA/adidas 
team point previous 
1 Wake Forest 575 1 2 Northwestern 537 3 3 Creighton 521 5 4 Akron 495 6 5 St. John's 478 2 6 Calitornia 455 10 7 Illinois-Chicago 425 9 8 Louisville 410 14 9 Saint Louis 385 11 10 Maryland 371 4 11 South Florida 306 11 12 Loyola (Md.) 301 16 13 Connecticut 299 7 14 UC Davis 269 17 15 NOTRE DAME 259 8 16 North Carolina 254 12 17 Ohio Stale 195 21 18 UCSB 147 22 19 Pennsylvania 102 NR 20 Tulsa 101 23 21 Charlotte 89 NR 21 Virgina 89 NR 23 UC Irvine 83 18 24 Michigan 79 NR 25 SMU 68 15 
Women's Soccer NSCAA/ adidas 
team points previous 
1 NOTRE DAME 824 1 
2 North Carolina 780 
3 3 Portland 743 2 4 UCLA 73t 4 5 usc 689 
5 
6 Stanford 679 
6 7 TexasA&M 631 
8 

in that we're having to ing the matter. He said he Jones and his bodyguard 
8 Virginia 594 Associated Press g 7 deal with this," Jerry Jones didn't speak with Adam said everything was OK,
Florida State 548 9 

IRVING, Texas said. Jones individually during a and both were driven from 
10 Texas 464 
10 

Troubled cornerback Phillips said he talked to previously scheduled meet­the hotel by an acquain­
11 Duke 462 12 

Adam "Pacman" Jones is the team about the inci­ing with the entire tance, police said. The
12 Florida 448 

13 Oklahoma State 444 'i'~: still in the lineup for the dent Thursday morning. Cowboys team Wednesday bodyguard told police he 14 Boston College 414-Dallas Cowboys after his "What I'm trying to do is night. didn't want to press
19 

15 Wake Forest 306 16 latest incident involving get this team to focus on ''I'm disappointed that charges. 16 Illinois 297 police. this game and the team we're even discussing this Drafted in the first round 
18 

17 Georgetown 296 22 Cowboys coach Wade that we are playing," at this point in time," by Tennessee in 2005, 18 West Virginia 228 24 Phillips said Thursday that Phillips said. "We're mov­Goodell said on ESPN Jones was among the 19 California 190 NR Jones will play Sunday ing on in that direction." Radio. "But we'll have to Titans' best defensive play­20 San Otego 177 10 against the Arizona Adam Jones was sus­wait for the facts." ers for two years until 21 Rutgers 168 25 Cardinals, and owner Jerry pended for 17 months by Dallas police said officers Goodell suspended him 22 Colorado 164 NR Jones said the team didn't NFL commissioner Roger responded to a disturbance before the 2007 season. 23 Penn State 114 14 plan any discipline after Goodell for numerous off­late Tuesday night at an The Titans distanced them­24 WI-Milwaukee 53 17 the player got into a scuffie field problems. He was upscale downtown hotel. selves from Jones and 
25 Washington St. 42 NR 

with his bodyguard arrested six times and Officers said the incident eventually traded him to Tuesday night in the bath­involved in 12 incidents was over by the time they Dallas for draft picks. room of an upscale Dallas requiring police interven­arrived and that some The highest-profile inci­hotel. Police were called, tion. hotel employees reported dent involving Jones was a but there were no arrests Goodell said in a radio overhearing a scuffle in the shooting at a Las Vegas
MIAA Soccer 

or charges filed. interview Thursday that men's restroom in the strip club that left one club Standings "I am very disappointed the league was investigat-lobby. employee paralyzed. Jones 

Team  
1  Calvin  
2  Adrian  
3  Alma  
4  Hope  
5  Albion  
6  Olivet  
7  Kalamazoo  
8  SAINT MARY'S  
9  Trine  

around 
Record 

IN BRIEF 8·2-1 
Federer to play Madrid where Nadal won the &!Jld medal. Mets' Burgos jailed for
8·3-1 

7·4-0 Masters after layoff Witnesses say Edwards, 3 months ahead of trial MADRID, Spain -Roger Federer Harvick fight in garage NAGUA, Dominican Republic ­
9"4-0 

4-6-0 will play at the Madrid Masters CONCORD, N.C. -Greg Biffle New York Mets pitcher Ambiorix 5·&-:1 next week, ending a three-week isn't angry with teammate Carl Burgos will be jailed for three 5·7-0 layoff and setting up a possible Edwards for starting a 12-car crash months while awaiting trial for a 1-84 meeting with top-ranked Rafael at Talladega Superspeedway. hit-and-run accident that killed 3-10-0 Nadal. two women.
Neither is Matt Kenseth. The second-ranked Federer won Kevin Harvick? Not quite over it. The 24-year-old reliever told the tournament in 2006 and was Witnesses said Edwards and The Associated Press that a 
runner-up last year. The Swiss star Harvick scuffled Thursday in the Dominican judge ordered him to skipped this week's Stockholm Nationwide Series garage at Lowe's remain behind bars Wednesday Open saying he needed rest as he Motor Speedway after Edwards night out of concerns for his safe­
continues to rebound from a bout walked into Harvick's garage stall ty. of mononucleosis at the start of the and the two engaged in a heated "I am going to come out of this
the 
year. argument. fine because my conscience is If the world's top players meet in Harvick appeared to try to walk clear, and I'm not worried this 
the tournament, which starts away but, witnesses said, Edwards will affect my career because I
MLB 

Monday, it would be the first time_ reached for his shoulder to turn haven't done anything," he said in since Nadal ended Federer's bid for him back around. Harvick then the jailhouse interview. 
LA Dodgers at Phillies a sixth straight Wimbledon crown shoved Edwards, who stumbled Burgos is accused of abandon­
4:00 p.m., Fox in June. The Spaniard then onto the hood of Harvick's car, and ing the victims of the Snpt. 30 assumed the No. 1 ranking, which the two had to be separated. accident and fleeing, charges that the Swiss had held for a record 237 Witnesses claimed a member of can carry six months to two years
Red Sox at Rays 

weeks. Harvick's crew had Edwards in a in prison. He disappeared after
8:30 p.m., TBS Federer was knocked out of the headlock as numerous people tried the accident but turned himself in Olympic tournament in Beijing to separate the two. Tuesday. 

page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 10, 2008 


8090252 DATE: FRIDAY 10/10/08 SIZE: 11.625 X 21. BLK/W~J; MARKET: INDIANA UNIV, UNIV OF NOTRE DAME. FULL PG. TEAM 6 
INSPIRING OOHS. AHHS AND WOWS FOR YEARS
• 
new 

Superdefense SPF 25 Age Defense Moisturizer 
Ihe most complete defense against the signs of agrng in adaily rnorsturizer. AmiS skin to fight the visible signs of emotional stress. Helps neutralize sun exposure with updated technology that provides advanced UV sun protection. Allergy Tested 100% Fragrance Free. 1.7-oz., 42.50. 

I• free Clinique 7-pc. aift, only at Macy's 

yours with any 21.50 or more clinique purchase, a $50 value 
£,Q912~~dl~ ~L 2~ ~I ish bags to complement 
your cosmetics bag. Your gift also includes the best of Clinique's colour and care: Clarifying Lotion 2, Dramatically Different Morstunzing Lotion, a Different Lipstick in A Different Grape, Hrgh lrnpar.l Mascara rn Black and a CoiOJ Palette with an Eye Shadow Duo, Bronzer and Blush. Come to the Clinique counter today lor the wow factor! Merchandrse and selectron vary by store. One gift per customer, please. While supplres last. CALl 1.800.456.2297 and have your cosmetrcs delivered forjust 4.95 
WNrODE I clarifying · lotion2· 

the magic of 
* 

......._,___ ·---··· ..•...•...•.• ····--···..---·-····--··..·• ·-·-··-··-··-····-·--···-····---fi8090252 
N8000252 oct10 k1J l.l1d 01!1.1 lndd 1 10f.W8 5 01 35 PM 
Friday, October 10, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 


CHICAGO MARATHON 
Participants hope for cooler te111peratures 
Heat caused death of one runner in 2007 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Joan Marie Kaye and 45,000 runners gearing up for the Chicago Marathon know that muscle­aching, mind-numbing, hurts­so-bad-you-want-to-die kind of pain almost surely awaits them. 
What she and other runners fear Sunday is a repeat of last year's run, during which ambulance sirens screamed everywhere as hundreds of participants collapsed or vom­ited in scorching, near-90 degree heat, and a man with a heart disorder died. 
As one of at least 50 people hospitalized last year, Kaye knows the perils better than most. 
"There's some fear in the back of my mind, sure," Kaye, who is in her 50s, said from her home in Madison, Miss. "I think about what the tempera­ture will be all the time." 
The scenes of chaos at one of the world's largest marathons, as well as accusations that organizers made matters worse by supplying too little water to runners, became a focus of scrutiny by marathon­ers and race organizers every­where. 
"Chicago's even become a verb. Organizers say, 'We're not going to be Chicagoed,"' said Mark Simpson, Kaye's marathon trainer and an organizer of distance races in the south. 
The 2007 race was canceled after about four hours as fears mounted of a possible health catastrophe. Chad Schieber, a 35-year-old Michigan police officer and father of three, died during the race. An autopsy blamed his death on a heart condition called mitral valve prolapse, and coroners said tests showed no evidence he was dehydrated. 
Officials with the Chicago Marathon say they've taken steps to prevent a repeat of the 2007 run, during which at least 250 runners were also treated along the route. 
The new measures include increasing water distribution points to 20 from 15 last year; also, there will be 23 medical stations, up from 18. A multi­colored flag system will also be in place along the route to address poor communication last year between race officials and runners. Green flags mean it is safe-black that the event's been canceled. 
"We're better prepared for extreme conditions," said race director Carey Pinkowski. "If you look at the legacy of the event, we've always learned from the previous year. Last year was historic heat ... con­ditions we'd never seen." 
Officials from other major 

marathons, including in New 
York and Boston, have fol­
lowed closely how Chicago 
reacted to last year's crisis, 
even altering their own proce­
dures as a consequence. 
"What happened wasn't 

swept under the rug by any­
body," said New City Marathon 
spokesman Richard Finn, in 
Chicago to observe this year's 
race. "The feeling's that 
Chicago has taken prudent 
steps to address what hap­pened here last year." 
One thing that is not yet clear is whether Mother Nature will cooperate. 
Temperatures in the 90s seem unlikely, but forecasters say they could reach the upper 70s-still considered hot for a marathon. Marathoners prefer 50-or 60-degree weather, when their bodies are less likely to get too hot or too cold. 
"It looks like (Chicago organ­izers) may not get the running weather they hoped and prayed for," Finn said. 
Conditions were especially severe last year because of high humidity and scant wind. Bright sunshine on concrete and asphalt roads also created radiant heat. 
But if registrations for this year's race are an indication, last year's spectacle scared few off. 
Organizers delayed accept­ing applications until February as they reassessed racing pro­cedures, including by inter­viewing hundreds of runners. Within three months, registra­tion closed after the maximum 45,000 people signed up. 
Simpson leads a group of 280 Mississippians to run in Chicago, including Kaye; 80 ran last year and are "more determined than ever to get Chicago in bag," he said. Out of his group of 135 last year, only about a dozen finished the race. 
During a typical Chicago Marathon, more than 95 per­cent of runners who start com­plete the course. Last year, only about 70 percent of the runners-or just less than 25,000-finished, many walk­ing the last several miles. 
Like many runners, Kaye has carefully followed Chicago's weather. 
"I've printed out the weather forecasts from the Internet every day this week," she said. 
Simpson, who also ran last year, is among those who think a lack of available water was largely to blame for last year's disarray, saying, "we were prepared for Chicago, but Chicago wasn't prepared for us." 
Some of his trainees trust the organizers have their act together this year, and some do not. 
"Most of our first-timers are going to trust organizers, but those returning after last year are saying they don't trust them," said Simpson. "They're packing their own water." 
He, for one, thinks Chicago Marathon officials have learned their lesson. 
"From every indication, they've gone over and beyond what they need to do this year," Simpson said. "Last year's fiasco will make the sport even better and safer." 
Kaye, who completed several 

marathons before 2007, said 
most of her friends think she's 
crazy for wanting to run in 
Chicago again. But she said 
running is in her blood. 
Although she already has a 

plan B if it looks like this 
year's marathon is too hot. 
"If I don't feel good I'll go 

shopping instead," she said. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October I 0, 2008 
NCAA 
Skinner leads No. 21 Wake Forest in vvin over Cletnson 
Associated Press 
WINSTON-SALEM. N.C.­Hilny Skinner and Wakn Forest havn played two ACC games and managed just one touchdown. It camn just in time to hnlp the Demon Deaeons beat another Bowden. 
Skinner threw a 7-yard scoring pass to ILl. Boldin with 5:28 left to lead No. 21 Wake Forest past Clemson 12­7 on Thursday night. 
IIn completed 22 of 34 pass­es for 186 yards, added 74 more yards rushing and led the decisive 15-play, 78-yard drive in the fourth quarter for the Demon Deacons (4-1, 2-0). 
The only Atlantic Division team with a perfect confer­ence record won its first two league games for the first time since 1987, but had to go through the ACC's first family to do it. After topping Bobby Bowden's Florida State team on four field goals, they took out son Tommy's Tigers with a dominant defense and some opportunistic play from the quarterback coming off a five­turnover performance against Navy. 
"It's just a testament to our defense. The thing is, though, once you look at our yards­we're moving the ball," Skinner said. "It's not like we can't move the ball at all. We're just driving and shoot­ing ourselves in the foot when it gets inside the red zone.... It's not like our plays are bad. We're just not capitalizing." 
Shane Popham-starting in 


place of injured kicker Sam 
Swank-had field goals of 22 
and 32 yards for Wake Forest, 
and a dominant defense held 
the Tigers' vaunted ground 
game to 21 yards rushing on 
23 carries. The Demon 
Deacons outgained Clemson 
342-198 to snap a two-game 
losing streak in the series. 
"This is a game that, me personally, I've wanted for a long time," Skinner said. 
Cullen Harper was 15-of-35 for 177 yards with an inter­ception for Clemson (3-3, 1-2). The league's preseason favorites lost their second straight and are one of three ACC teams with multiple con­ference losses. 
"Our backs are against the wall right now big time," Harper said. "There's either two things we can do-we can either quit and lay down, or we can come out swinging (next week) against Georgia Tech." 
Harper's 10-yard touchdown pass to Jacoby Ford with 7 seconds left in the third quar­ter put Clemson up 7-3. 
Alphonso Smith's school­record-tying 17th career interception gave Wake Forest the ball inside the Clemson 20 and set up Popham's second field goal, which pulled Wake Forest to 7-6 with just under 13 minutes to play. 
Then, after forcing a punt, it was time for Skinner to rally the Demon Deacons. 
Taking over with about 10 1/2 minutes left, he systemati­cally marched Wake Forest downfield by completing seven of nine passes for 69 yards and converting three third downs-including a 28-yard pass to Boldin on third-and­24. 
"We got our Riley Skinner back tonight," coach Jim Grobe said. 
He then found Boldin in the right f1at, and the receiver cut back through two defenders and into the end zone for his first career touchdown. Skinner's 2-point conversion pass for Ben Wooster was bat­ted away. 
On its last possession, Clemson got no farther than 
its own 39, and linebacker 
Stanley Arnoux broke up 
Harper's fourth-and-20 pass 
with about 3 1/2 minutes left 
to seal Grobe's third win over 
the Tigers in eight tries. 
"They just generated that 
one drive," Bowden said. "We 
kept hoping we could generate 
one drive to win the game. 
Wake Forest did it. We didn't." 
Instead, the Tigers' offense sputtered once again. They had minus-6 yards rushing at halftime, were stuck in nega­tive total yardage until their fifth drive of the game and were just 2-of-14 on third downs. 
Star James Davis finished 
with 25 yards, 50 below his 
av(~rage, while backlield mate 
C.J. Spiller had just 10 yards on two carries before injuring his left leg in the second quar­ter. Those two struggled in the Tigers' other losses, combin­ing for 20 yards in the open­ing loss to Alabama and gain­ing a total 31 yards in the sec­ond half of the Maryland defeat. 
"That's like holding the Patriots," Smith said. 
With the ground game strug­gling, Clemson's offense couldn't generate any big plays until thn final moments of the third quarter, with Harper taking advantage of a pass-interference penalty on Chip Vaughn to convert his first third down. 
Then, he temporarily put the Tigers ahead by finding Ford over the middle. The track star juggled the ball before pulling it in as he crosslld the goal line for their only score. 
This one probably should have been even more lopsided for Wake Forest. 
The Demon Deacons had plenty of early chances to take a comfortable. lead, driving inside the Clemson 5 on its first two possessions and then moving to the 22 on its final full series of the second quar­ter, but couldn't punch it in. Ryan McManus had trouble with the hold on Popham's 25­yard field goal, and Popham was badly wide right on a 39­yard attempt 1:48 before the half. 
2nd annual oledu~ed:r.~·ve~~l
for local cancer research and aid .__.....,_ 
SUNDAY 2PM
To make adonation call 514.631.9910 
vs

*FREE pink Crocs and NO tote bags @the ate counesv ol JaRoss and CW25 OCT.12 PITT 
Friday, October 10, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Gholston yet to learn Jets' defense 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. ­Vernon Gholston used some of the down time during the New York Jets' bye week to catch up on some heavy reading. 
The telephone directory-sized defensive playbook has been a constant companion for the rookie outside linebacker, who's still trying to learn the Jets' complex system. 
"I just looked over the plays that I've had and kind of evalu­ate myself a little bit, see the things I need to do better and try to get a better grasp of the concepts on defense," Gholston said Thursday. "We put in a lot of new stufl' over the bye week, so I was just trying to get a han­dle on that kind of stuff." 
Gholston has been trying to do that ever since he was draft­ed No. 6 overall by the Jets in April. A dominant pass-rushing force at Ohio State, Gholston has shown little of that explo­siveness through New York's first four games. 
"I expected it to take a little time, of course, like anything," he said. "I've made a lot of strides since the first day I put on the pads, but I've still got a long way to go." 
Gholston was a defensive end with the Buckeyes and set the school's single-season record with 14 sacks last year. The Jets are transforming Gholston into a 3-4 outside linebacker, and the transition has taken lots of getting used to. 
"Once I get a full understand­ing of that and how it should be played and watching tape of other guys and really under­standing where I need to be, I can play faster and play with a little more confidence out there," Gholston said. "I think that's the biggest thing." 
His introduction to the new position was delayed when he missed minicamp because of an NCAA rule that wouldn't allow him to practice until Ohio State's spring semester was completed. He then missed a day of training camp because of a brief contract holdout. 
"He's a rookie, man," said linebacker Calvin Pace, a for­mer first-round pick of Arizona. "A lot of people put too much pressure on rookies. This is a guy that just came from college. I'm not making excuses for him. ... You're playing against a lot of different people and some­times your head spins. Sometimes you go home and you're like, 'What happened today?' You just really kind of black out." 
Gholston has one tackle on defense, but had four special­teams tackles in the Jets' 56-35 victory over Arizona in Week 4. The effort earned Gholston the Jets' special teams player of the week award. 
"Those aren't gimmes," coach Eric Mangini said. "You've got to earn that, and he did. I was proud of that fact, especially in an area he's not familiar with. Now, defensively, we need to see that continued growth as well." 

Gholston hadn't played on special teams since his first sea­son at Ohio State. 
"I think playing special teams has helped him from the stand­point of having him get out there and run around," Pace said. "Use that to go out there and just hit somebody." 
Gholston has leaned on Pace and Bryan Thomas, both former first-round picks who struggled with expectations and position changes in their careers. 
"It's hard to ask a 21-, 22­year-old guy to go out there and have a Pro Bowl season," Pace said. "You've got different hours, there's no class-you're not that guy anymore. Somebody else has that lime­light. It's one of those situations where you need to go play your role and go lean on everybody else." 
Thomas said Gholston's strug­gles aren't unique, but rather a common hurdle for rookies. 
"That's how it is when you're learning any new defense," Thomas said. "You come in as a rookie and totally learning a new system he's never played before, at times, it can be diffi­cult. It's just about being able to adjust to it." 
Gholston has even spoken to New England linebacker Mike Vrabel, who previously held Ohio State's sacks record. 
OCTOBER "1 2, 2008 
· '1 :00 p~m~ 
Indiana University South Bend 
..W<~t~>'ia:.. "¢:llae S®U>"¢:!1!m Beamd <~t><a>>rn:a.<tlltlliUlll'lll'i~ 
i1m a ::lie At1111ille _.-atlc. iiln soliilclarity 
~iil11::h 11::he cbiilllod!ren c1t Northern Uganda~ 
Presen"tati.olt'i'$: "t:o Wollo~ 
at !PI!.JS:lal"s: '''""'"""lP'"'""'~ 
Sponso.-ec::l by Africa Faith and Justice Netvvor*. For ITIOI""'B irwt="ormation. contact gdupuioa@ndLedu. 
WhereWill")•'CHJWalk 



The Sari Soldiers • Nepali language with English subtitles • Friday, November 14 • Join director Julie Bridgham
Fall Semester Events 
know no· boundaries 

World VIew is an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive ~UNIVERSITY OF 
ADEBARTOLO 
dialogue about issues of race, class, ethnicity, religion, and gender through the arts. WNOTREDAME ~ PEI!FORM NG AR1S CENTER Office ofthe President 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, October I 0, 2008 
SMC SOCCER 

Struggling squad to host conference foe 
By ALEX BARKER Sporrs Writer 
After suffering its third con­secutive one-goal loss Wednesday against Adrian, Saint Mary's will return home to f'a en eon I'crt~ n c e Ie ad nr Calvin Saturday. 
"We have n~ally struggled to rind consistency over the last few wt~eks," Bt~lles coach Hyan Crabbe said. "The number of close results proves we an~ a team in search of our identi­ty." 
The Belles are currently on a livo-gamo losing streak dating hack to the North Central Tournanwn t, where they took both of' llwir matdws, one in penalty kicks, and the tourna­mont titln. 
Saint Mary's is currently 1­H-1 overall with an 0-3 MIAA conf'en\nce rPeord. 
"Our record does not rcl'lcct it, but we an~ a much bettor team than it shows," Crabbe said. "I have full eonfidnnce that these players want to sue­coed and I know they ean com­pete with any team that steps on the field against them." 

If the Belles are to finish comfortably in the conference standings at the end of the season, they must hit their stride now as they have just five games remaining on the schedule. 
Crabbe said he hasn't lost an ounce of faith in his team and still believes they have a good shot of finishing the season strong. 
"I really feel like this team has increased focus and eon­tinuns to stay motivated," he said. 
Calvin is unbeaten in confer­ence play this season. 
This match will be the first in a thron-game hom11 stand for Saint Mary's, who has not won at home in two tries this season. Kiek-oiT is scheduled for 12 p.m. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles to play mini-tourney 
By MICHAEL BLASCO Spons Writer 

After dropping consecutive conferences matches for the second time this season, Saint Mary's has a chance for redemption at this weekend's MIAA mini-tournament. The Hellos (12-7, 5-5 MIAA) open competition Saturday morning against Alma (15-6, 7-2 MIMI befon1 taking on league doormat Olivet (4-16, 0-9 MIAAl in the afternoon mateh. 
Belles coach Julie Sehroeder­Biek has acknowledged her squad's struggles, but said she still believes it has the ability to make a run in the MIM. 
"We have been struggling through a few things offensively, primarily with just learning eaeh other -new setters learn­ing the tendencies and strengths of thBir attackers and attackers learning the same things about the setters," Sehroeder-Biek said. "JButJ players are well aware of what it will takn to get to whern we want this program to be. We want to be playing for a championship." 
Last Friday, the Belles dropped a match against the Scol'i, who cruised to victory in four sets (25-15, 25-21, 18-25, 25-15). Alma's stingy defense held Saint Mary's to an anemic .124 attacking percentage while tallying 91 digs and 7 blocks; the blocks, in particular, killed sev­eral rally attempts from the Belles, swinging momentum toward the Scots. 
Saint Mary's offense, which has been at times inconsistent this season, didn't give itself any help, as the Bolles committed 18 errors, induding 11 from junior hitter Lorna Slupezynski. Slupc:zysnki, Saint Mary's lead­ing scorer, has been the catalyst for the ofl"ense all season. Alma sonior hitter Kim Gillhespy dom­inated oll"cnsiw~ly, finishing with match-highs in kills (15), attack­ing percentage (.324), and serv­ke aces (three). 
Olivet, on the other hand, has dropped six of its last seven and rnmains winless in the MIA/\ so far. The Comets have postod a .1 03 attacking percentage this season while posting only 1(,. 7 digs per game. As a result, Olivet has been outscored 1693­1363 overall this season. 
Senior hitter Mackenzie llcator "leads" the Comets ollimse with 136 kills on the sea­son, tallying a .176 attacking percentage, while sophomore setter has accumulating 399 assists. Senior hittor Lindsay Talent paces the squad defen­sively with 275 digs, while also totaling 135 kills. Despite Olivet's struggles and the Belles issuing a 3-0 drubbing last month, Sehroedcr-Biek is not overlooking tho Comets. 
"Olivet has been known to rnally play with a lot of nmotion against us which makes for a eompotitive match," Sehroedc~r­Biek. "Their program has con­tinued to improve over tho last fow years." 
Saint Mary's begins play at 
11:00 a.m. against Alma. before taking on Olivet at :3:00 p.m. Olivet is hosting the tournamont at its Cutler Event Center in Olivet, Mieh. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Farley limits usually strong Pangborn offense in win 
Lewis utilizes strong rushing game to defeat Breen-Phillips; undefeated Welsh Family shuts down Badin 
Jers to scramble in to the end made great decisions together in the second half." before trying to make a play
By DOUGLAS FARMER, 

zone. The Finest finished off tonight, particularly on her Shoemaker also empha­after the catch."
CHRIS WYNKOOP, and TIM 

their scoring with a three­runs. Most sized the impor­After turning tho ball over
LANG 

yard touehdown pass to of th.em tance of the on downs, Badin marched
Sports Writers 

sophomore receiver Molly weren't Chicks' attitude in down the field before half, Casanova the next drive. designed, "We finally put all earning their first only to be piekod orr by Farloy's defensive effort "We were able to put last so she the pieces together win of the season. Welsh Family's opportunistic shut down the high-powered game Ia 15-7 loss to unde­m a d e "We've been put­secondary, which had three
tonight.,,
Pangborn offense to give the feated Welsh Family] behind things hap­ting in a lot of interceptions in the game. Finost an 18-6 vietory us," Murphy said. pen her­effort," With a 7-0 lead going into Thursday night. "It f'elt really good to final­self." Perry Shoemaker Shoemaker said. halftime, and spurred by a 
In its past three games, ly move the ball well and Breen­Chicks Coach "We weren't just fiery halftime speech from Pangborn (3-3) had aver­finish our chances," said Philips (0-going to roll over. Kaiser, Welsh Family mor­aged nearly 25 points a Holfs, who was in her second 3-2) jumped We had the choice phed into an entirely differ­game, but the game back out to an to either give up ent team in the second half. Phoxes could-after a rib early 7-0 lead, but Lewis (1-or keep fighting. We decided Led by Jenni Gargula, who n't seore until injury. 4-0) responded right away, to keep fighting, and tonight threw great passes all game,
"We know our

only three Pangborn using the run to drive down it paid off." the Whirlwinds wasted no minutes defense is really only managed the field and set up a short time getting into the end remained in to seore after touchdown pass. Tho Chicks Welsh Family 20, Badin 0 zone, scoring on a play
strong, and it did an
the game. Farley had and the Babes traded the Coming off a huge win over where Gargula maneuvered
amazing job tonight." 
Pangborn's built the 18-0 next few possessions, and a undefeated Farley last week, deftly in the pocket and f'irst posses­lead. At that late touchdown by Breen­Welsh Family was deter­found an open Steph sion was a Jenny Rolfs point, Tate led Philips gave the Babes a 13-mined not to come out flat Bendinelli streaking across three-and-out a long drive 7 lead going into halftime. against a fired up Badin the middle.
Finest Captain 

that failed  to  down  the field  The second half belonged  squad coming off its first  On the next drive, Gargula  
gain yardage.  and threw five­ entirely to  the Chicks. After  win of the season.  hit  senior  wide  receiver  
Sophomore  yard  touch- a  good  defensive  stand,  Despite  Meghan  
dual-threat quarterbaek Gabby Tate did not complete a pass until a minute and a half remained in the l"irst half. Two plays after Tate's first eomplt~tion, Farley freshmen cornerbaek Katie  down pass. The highlight of the Phoxes' defensive perform­ance was their three sacks. This type of game is not how Pangborn hoped to go into the playoffs, but at least  Guirineri came on the field and threw a 15-yard touch­down pass and converted the extra point to give Lewis a 14-13 lead. On the following posses­sion, Breen-Philips drove all  playing a close first half, Welsh Family (5-0) utilized a combination of offense and  "With the weather getting colder and colder, it's going to be imperative for us to look the ball all the  Mulhern on a corner route to make the score 20-0. "I was happy we hung in there with them  
Smith intercepted Tate, Smith's first of two intercep­tions on the night. "We know our defense is  the Phoxes will get a chance to right this sub-par per­formance after fall break.  the way down the field to within a few yards of the goal line. The Chicks defense held stout, however,  defense to beat Badin. Although the defense  way in before trying to make a play after the catch. ,,  early," Badin coach Jon Heintz said. "Unfortunately, I  
really strong," Farley senior  Lewis 21, Breen-Philips 13  foreing a turnover on downs.  played  well  think tho excite­ 
eaptain .lonny "And it did an today."  Rolfs said. amazing job  Lewis hit the ground run­ning from the start of the game and relied on a solid  The offense then proceeded to drive methodically down the field, and Guarineri ran  early, Welsh Family had trouble put­ Mike Kaiser Whirlwinds Coach  ment from last week's win, and having practice  
The Finest offense capital­ offense during a victory over  the ball into the end zone on  ting the  ball  rained  out  on  
ized  on  nearly every oppor­ Breen-Philips.  a  quarterback option with  in  the  end  Tuesday  came  
tunity the defense present­ Senior  quarterback  10 seconds left to  seal the  zone against the stout Badin  back to hurt us."  
ed.  Following Pangborn's  Catherine  Guarineri  win.  {1-3-1) defense due to  a  few  Welsh Family will look  to  
opening  throe-and-out,  accounted for  most of the  After  the  game,  Chicks  untimely drops  from  the  dose out the perfect season  
Farley (3-1-1) flew down the  Chicks' rushing yards, mak­ head  coach  Perry  Whirlwind wide receivers.  on  Sunday against Breen  
field  in  three plays. On the  ing plays with her legs when  Shoemaker  said  he  was  "We  had  some  trouble  Phillips  as  Badin will hope  
fourth, sophomore quarter­ there  was  no  one  open  thrilled  with  his  team's  hanging on to the ball in the  to  exact  revenge  against  
bad Emily Murphy threw  a  downl'ield.  Chieks captain  efforts.  first  half."  Welsh  Family  Walsh.  
15-yard touchdown pass to  Katie Sushinsky had nothing  "We  finally  put  all  the  coach  Mike  Kaiser  said.  
Bolfs.  but praise for  her quarter­ pieces together tonight,  "  "With the weather getting  Contact Douglas Farmer at  
On  Farley's l"irst drive of  back's efforts.  Shoemaker said. "We  had  colder and colder, it's going  dfarmerI @nd.edu, Chris  
the  second  half',  Murphy  "Catherine  had  a  great  great consistency on offense,  to  be imperative for  us  to  Wynkoop at cwynkoop@nd.edu,  
evaded three Pangborn taek­ game," Sushinsky said. "She  and  our  defense really held  look the ball all the way in  and Tim Lang at tlangl@nd.edu  

Friday, October I 0, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Squad to face Big East challengers 
Irish look for more 
West Virginia, Pitt to visit in Irish's first conference matches at home· 
success at home 
By SAM WERNER Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame hopes to con­tinue its hot start in con­ference play this weekend when the Irish take on con­ference foes West Virginia and Pittsburgh. 
Currently, Notre Dame is tied with three teams for first place in the Big East with a 3-1 conference record. One of those teams is Pittsburgh, and Irish coach Debbie Brown said a win against the Panthers would be big for Notre Dame's conference title hopes. 
"I think it's just really important to win to give us a legitimate shot to win the regular season," Brown said "We just want to make sure we're putting our­selves in the best possible position." 
Saturday, the Irish play the Mountaineers at the JACC. West Virginia is cur­rently 0-4 in the Big East this year, but Brown said her team should still take them seriously. 
"West Virginia's had a lit­tle bit of a shaky start," she said. "But I think they have some players that are very capable of playing a high level." 
Sunday, against the Panthers, Notre Dame will face a tougher challenge. So far, the Panthers have conference wins over Villanova, South Florida and Seton Hall. Senior out­
side hitter Kelly Campbell a Big East game on its leads Pittsburgh with 3.26 home floor. Brown said kills per set and 2 3 5 total that, despite positive 
By MATT GAMBER 
kills on the season. results on the road, it 
Sports Writer 
"We think Pittsburgh is would feel good to finally 
pretty bal­anced," Brown said. "They have good middles, good outsides, a pretty experi, enced setter." 
Brown said the only thing that could affect her team's prepa­ration with Pittsburgh was the fact that coach Toby Rens is in his first season with the Panthers. 
"/ think it's just really important to win to give us a legitimate shot to win the regular season. We just want to make sure we're putting ourselves in the best possible position. " 
Debbie Brown Irish Coach 
play a con­ference game 

Mter snapping their first los­at the JACC. 
ing streak in seven years with a "It was 
3-0 win over Michigan State tough being 
Wednesday, the No. 14 Irish on the road 
turn their attention to hosting for the first 
an overachieving Pittsburgh four match­
team Saturday at 7 p.m. es," she said. 
Notre Dame (7-3-1, 3-1-1 Big "But overall I 
East) will host the Panthers (6­think it went 
4-2, 2-3-1 Big East), who are in very well." 
fifth-place in the eight-team Big Brown said 
East Blue division, which the _the team 
Irish lead with 10 points. A win sleeping in 
would bring the Panthers, who their own 
now have seven points, into a beds and eat­
first-place tie with the Irish. ing their reg­
Pittsburgh has a winning ular food 
record going into their matchup would help, 
with the Irish for the first time and that an 
in recent memory, Irish coach 
"You kind of feel like you know a team pretty well, but when a new coach comes sometime they change the systems up a little bit,1,. Brown said. 
Brown added that in practice, her team has been focusing primarily on its serving, mostly because the Irish tallied a season­high 17 service errors last weekend against Cincinnati. 
"We've been working on a lot of things," she said. "Serving, blocking, and defense have been the main things because we think that's the area of weakness that we have right now." 
This weekend marks the first time the Irish will play extra day of practice would benefit the players. 
Junior outside hitter Serenity Phillips had missed two weeks because of an ankle injury, but played last weekend against Louisville and Cincinnati. Brown said while Phillips was not yet at full strength, she would be able to contribute against the Mountaineers and Panthers. 
"Serenity played last weekend and she's getting better and better every­day," Brown said. "She's a huge part of our offense and our defense as well." 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 
"I never felt we struggled even in the games we lost," Clark said. "It's not our divine right to win games, but that's what we try to do, and that's a challenge. Don't get me wrong, we weren't happy with losing two games, but you just take each game as it comes." 
Senior forward Bright Dike has been a force for the Irish lately. Notre Dame's leader with eight goals, he has now scored in five straight games. 
Dike's emergence as a go-to scorer has answered the biggest question mark Notre Dame had coming into the year after losing All-American Joe Lapira. 
"That's his job; he's the fur­thest-up striker," Clark said. "Having said that, he's done very well. There's still more to come with him, and that's the exciting thing. There's still a lot of room for improvement, and we're excited about the possi­bilities." 
Though this will be Notre Dame's first Big East game since Sept. 26, Clark said there won't be any rust thanks to the high-intensity of even the Irish's non-conference sched­ule. 
"Every game is a big game for us, and that's the great thing about having schedule we play," Clark said. "There are no games that don't count. Every game is going to be important for us getting into the NCAA Tournament." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Bobby Clark said. 
"This is the best year they've had for quite a lot of years, without question," Clark said. "They'll be feeling very confi­dent, and we've got to handle that. But we've got to worry about our own game, about how we play." 
The Panthers are riding high after forcing a 1-1 tie at West Virginia Wednesday. At 2-1-3 in Big East play, the Mountaineers are in second in the Blue divi­sion with nine points. 
The Irish have been dominant at home, going 6-0-1 and outscoring opponents 17-2 in those games. Wednesday's win was crucial, as Notre Dame dropped two straight road games before returning home to thrash the Spartans. 
NFL 
Winslow misses tvvo practices vvith illness 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio The Cleveland Browns sent tight end Kellen Winslow to the doctor for tests after he missed his second straight day of practice with an unspecified "illness." 
Browns coach Romeo Crennel said Winslow, who has been plagued by injuries throughout his NFL career, has been sick for two days. Crennel would not say if Winslow would play in 
Monday night's game against the New York Giants. 
"He's a valuable piece to the puzzle we have," Crennel said Thursday. "I know that he'll want to play, so he'll do everything he can to be able to play." 
Crennel would not elabo­rate on Winslow's condition or disclose any medical problems. 
"Not until after doctors take look at him and see if they can know what it is," he said. 

Serving Lum·h f.., Dinner Come Dine Witlt Our Family And Be Our Friend! 
Tues-Sat 11-2; 4-9 Closed Sun & Mon 
Our Specialties Include Exquisite Meat Entrees & Healthy Vegetmian Dishes 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts Dine In • Take Out • Catering Reservations Accepted 
115 DLxie Way Nm1h, South Bend 
C574Y277-7239 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 10, 2008 
Alter losing last week to Pangborn The Welsh Family team remains playoflS. In clinching a playoff berth, The Ducks' gameplan, though, 25-12, the Ollcks' new mission is to determined to perfect every aspect the Pasquerilla West offense suc­remains simple. 
Badin 
continued from page 28 
said. 
Walsh will rely on il'i 1-,rritty delim­sive line, highlighted by Brenner and junior linebacker Molly McCartney. Offensivnly, sophomores quarterback Amy Langnecker and rneeivnr 11ndsay Schanzer run the passing game, while running back Meghan I Iadley gel'i the touches on tim ground. 
"This year the team's notorious upperdassmen have been instru­mental in leading more l'rnshmen than the tmtm has had in years," coach .I.J. Hens said. "The team is coming oil' a huge last-second win over BP, and thn girl'i I<KJk lhrward to showing Badin their best fool­ball." 
Lewis vs. Farley 
Farley will try to bounce back fhnn a loss to Wel'ih Family against winless Lewis Sunday. 
Farley (2·1-1) would like to finish tlmir sea.<;on tim same way it startnd -2-0. Witl1 only two games left in the season, captain .ltmny Holls is eonlident that back-to-back wins will land her team a spot in the playolls. Holls said Farley's strong dolimsivn play was the key to the gmne. 
"We have bmm playing amazing defense, we have moved a eouple freshman into the rotation and they arn doing an excellent job," Holfs said. 
In order to be sucensslul though, she al'io said tl10 olfense need'i to be more eonsistent in linishing their oflimsivo drives, despite the depend­able play of quarterback Emily Murphy, who, Holls said. "always does a j..,'l"natjob". 
Lewi'i is still playing with as much intensity as they have all season. 
ruin someone's season. Lewis has shown steady offensive improve­ment throughout the year, and with the great play of captain Kristie Shushinsky, Lewis could very well play the role ofspoiler in either ofits last two games. 
Farley's Finest and the Chicks will lace oil' this Sunday at 5 p.m. on the l.a.Bar Practice Field. 
Welsh Family vs. Breen-Phillips 
Two teams eouldn't look more dil~ fnrnntly right now than undelilatnd Welsh Family and winless Breen­Phillips, who play Sunday at 6 p.m. at l.a.Bar Field'i. 
The Babes (0-2-2) come into Sunday's match up oil' of a tough loss to Walsh last week. The Breen­Philips ofltmse finally began to oper­ate on all cylinders and held the l1~ad fi1r most of the game. With 21 second<; left, the Babes led 21 -19 when Walsh took over on offense. 
Noeding a touchdown for the win, Walsh quarterback Amy Langnecknr launched a bomb to receiver Lindsay Shanzer who caught the ball searnlessly and ran it in fi1r the touchdown that handed a stunned Breen-Phillips team its second straight loss. 
Welsh Family (4-0) comes to the matehup following a win over Farley thi'i past Sunday. In tim battlo of the unbeatens, Welsh Family emerged victorious, coming from behind to beat a strong Farley team and remain undefeated lbr the sea­son. 
Despite this strong perfi>rmance, Whirlwinds captain Jenni Gargula said she is never sati'ified and this attitude i'i what aceounl'i lhr much of thnir sucmss. 
"I still don't think we have come dose to playing up to our potential," Wel'ih Family captain Jenni Gargula said. 
oftheir game. 
"We have been working on the goal line play of our offense," Gargula said. 'We've had some mis­takes on extra points the past few games, which should never hap­pen." 
Oftentimes, the threat to a team so aecustomed to winning is com­placency. This seems far from the truth, however, with Welsh Family. The team continues to run intensive practices and continues to expect only the best from the players. 
"We are just looking for turnovers !rom our defense and scoring drives from our offense," Gargula said. "Every person on our team con­tributes and is capable of making big plays." 
Pasquerilla East vs. Pasquerilla West 
On Sunday, another chapter will be added to the Pasquerilla rivalry. 
Pasquerilla East (0-4-1) will face olf against the Pasquerilla West (2­1-2) at Labar Field at 1 pm. 
"It's a big rivalry," Pyros eaptain Tara Pillai said. "We just want to 
win." 
Mired in a di'iappointing season, the Pyros are coming oil' of a tie last week against Cavanaugh. 
"We had some good drives on offense last week," Pillai said. "We just couldn't score." 
The Pyros offense last week effec­tively used the shovel pass, which Cavanaugh had ditliculty defending. They were also happy with their stingy defense against what they said wa'i a good Cavanaugh team. Pillai wants her team to put it all together on oll'ense and defense Sunday. 
After last week's victory in the rain against Lyons, the Purple Wea'iels are looking to avoid an end of the season slip-up before the eessfully utilized its short passing game as well as a strong running attack behind quarterback Cara Davies. Its defense also played well, intercepting three passes and keep­ing the lions out ofthe end zone. 
Although their season will end on Sunday, the Pryos are looking to win their first game against their rivals. 
"We're fired up and absolutely ready to go." Pillai said. "We can ruin P-Dub's season." 
Howard vs. Cavanaugh 
Howard will face the Cavanaugh for the second time this season Sunday, and after losing to the Chaos 7-6 two weeks ago, the Chaos hope to use this game as an opportunity lor revenge. 
"We are finally getting into the groove of things, the offense is get­ting the ball rolling, and the defense is making some great stops," Cavanaugh captain Katie Dunn said. 
Cavanaugh's key players indude freshman safety Caroline Walsh, senior wide receiver Laura Geizeman and wide receiver Krysten Jeffries. 
"Jeffries is coming on· a really good game, look for her to be mak­ing some great catches out there," Dunn said. 
The Dueks will also be relying on their offensive talent to solidify the win. 
"The receivers had a fantastic game on Tuesday, they ran sharp routs, they made the plays, they are the best I have seen in my four years of play," Howard captain Kayla BL'ihop said. 
Bi'ihop is the starting quarterback for the Dueks, but may be forced to sit out due to an ankle injury. 
"I have a great backup, Caitlin Booth, who might get some reps lbr the first time Sunday," Bishop said. 
"We are just going to do our best and hope it works," Bishop said. 
The game should be an equal offensive matchup, putting pressure on each defensive squad to make the stops. 
Kickoff is Sunday, 2 p.m. on LaBar Field. 
Lyons vs. McGlinn 
Lyons takes on McGlinn Sunday in a matchup of two teams trying to make a statement at the end of the sea<;on. 
The Lions have used a team approach that empha'iizes commu­nication to lead them to victory three times thi'i sea<;on. 
"It's been a successful season," captain Claire Connell said. "We're happy with how we've played." 
On offense, the lions are working on improving their play exeeution, while they are working on the fun­damentals of the game on defense. However, Lyons still hopes to improve the mental aspect of their game. 
"We just need to keep our focus," Connell said. "If things go wrong in a ga~~ don't get down on your­selves. 
At thL'i point in the season, Lyons hold'i a winning record and is hop­ing to continue their sea<;on into the playollk 
"We've set high goals for ·our­selves," Connell said. "But we're going to take it one step at a time. We're confident that we can make the playofl.i> and from thPre we'll see 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at 
nlee5@nd.edu, Bobby Graham 
at rgraham@nd.edu, Christina 
McDonnell at 
cmcdonne@nd.edu, Alex West at 
awest@hcc-nd.edu, Liza Navarro 
at lnavarro@nd.edu and Kellen 
Mathers at kmathers@nd.edu 

[plJ?m£ dl®dl 
f>Dj>"' Jo~J-\ 1 s f>lzzA~ H's A Jlt\O br"Al~r". 
100o/o R.f.A( (/...t..f.S.f.. I~ {-.d1 if'• o~ of t/...f. (ow.f.ff {..f w/..o(.f. ""i.(1. (/..us.f.s ..v-.i.(.J.(.f.. p.,..f.l~ 'oocl (OMi.cl«I'V., i.f' s , "'"-· -JOWl' (,(/.. ~( fOcJ-..1 . 
Friday, October I0, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
St. Edward's vs. Zahm previously undefeated back Brian Koepsel and the Sunday's game between St. Stanford last week, the Big defensive line lead the
Griffins 
Edward's and Zahm pits two Red (2-1-0) hope to carry defense as it will try to force continued from page 28 teams with very different that momentum and intensity their second shutout of the 
goals, as St. Ed's hopes to against Keough (0-1-1). season. 3victory, which would bolster clinch a playoff spot while The Dillon defense played a With Keough's season on the winning team's playoff Zahm just hopes to get its key role in the Big Red's suc­the line, the Roos have addi­hopes. first win. cess against Stanford, as it tional motivation to defeat 
"The season isn't over yet Zahm won the last two was responsible for Dillon's Dillon. for anybody in our division meetings between the teams, only touchdown. Anchored by "A win on Sunday raises and I'm sure all of the play­but St. Ed's strong season defensive end Jordan Smith· the stakes for our rivalry ers know that," Bono said. this year makes the matchup and linebackers Ryan game against O'Neill," 
interesting. Shestak and Brent Berceau, Laughlin said. "We would Alumni vs. Knott "They're a much different the defense will need another like nothing more than to 
On Sunday, two one-win team now, and I know they're strong performance against a beat O'Neill to get into the teams hope to stay in the out for a little revenge," sen­balanced Keough offense. playoffs." playoff hunt. ior running back Theo Ossei­The Big Red will try to get The Roos and the Big Red 
Alumni (1-2) lost its previ­Anto said. "This their offense face off at 3 p.m. at Riehle ous game to Siegfried 14-3, is going to be a clicking against Fields. leaving it with only an out­fight, and I a Keough
"Our offense needs to
side chance to reach the think both defense that Siegfried vs. Morrissey post-season. Its stagnant teams will be be more efficient and surrendered 20 Morrissey and Siegfried offense, producing only a ready." points to have handled their opponents
sustain drives 
field goal, made it very diffi­Last week, Stanford in its with ease thus far and both
longer.,,

cult to compete with the Zahm (0-1-1) last game. themselves undefeated head­powerful Siegfried. tied Carroll. "Our offense ing into Sunday's 2 p.m. "Our defense played well The Rabid Bats Chris Cugliari needs to be game at Riehle Fields. but they were on the field too scored an early more efficient Up for grabs is not only the
Dillon captain 
long be.cause the offense touchdown, but and sustain chance to stay undefeated, couldn't string anything blew the lead in drives longer," but also the chance to clinch together," captain Luke a late play yielding a Vermin Dillon captain Chris Cugliari a playoff spot with a win. Betterman said. touchdown for the 6-6 tie. said. "We have to convert The Manorites (2-0) will try 
A struggling offense and a Their game against Sorin the points in the red zone." to continue the success of stingy defense, especially week before had similar con­Led by Joe Garigliano at their explosive offense against the run, has been a sequences, but resulted in a quarterback, the Big Red against Siegfried's (2-0) prevailing theme throughout loss instead of a tie. passing game will pose a proven balanced defense. the Dawgs' season. Always St. Ed's (2-0-0) approaches threat to a Keough secondary Quarterback and captain Joe hoping to improve, they will Sunday with a different bat­that has been plagued by McBrayer helm the Manor continue to work on moving tle to face. They beat Fisher injuries. Pat Jackson and offense, which will need the ball in prac-last weekend Ryan Winiarski will provide freshman running back Dave tice this week, with the help the protection in the trench­Ulery to step up after sitting Betterman said. of an offense es. out because of a knee injury 
On the other "Execution has been based on short Faced with a must-win sce­last week. sideline, Knott poor at times because passes. A win nario, the Roos of Keough "He had a great first game (1-1) comes off for St. Ed's are undaunted by the task but we felt that it was best
the guys try to 

a bye and still would secure ahead of them. for us to take a has a very real­overthink the plays. a place in the "We've had preventative
"It's just a matter of
istic chance of The guys try to playoffs, get­two weeks to and not play reaching the ting it one step prepare for this refining our offense, him in our last
overthink on offense

playoffs. closer to the game," sopho­becoming more g a m e , " According to and defense instead championship more captain McBrayer said.
efficient and then
Juggerknott ofreacting game. Kevin Laughlin "We're looking coach Aidan "I thought said. "It's just a executing it. ,, forward to get­
to the play.,, 

Fitzgerald, the we played matter of refin-ting him back team relies-ori ---witli ·a lot oT . fng out·offense, on the field."
Kevin Laughlin 
"scrappiness" Aldan Fitzgerald heart," junior becoming more Siegfried's
Keough captain 
and intensity no Knott captain linebacker efficient, and defense is well matter the Andy Nester then executing aware that it score, and it said. "We def­it." will have its hands full with hopes to use this characteris­initely did not play our best Junior quarterback Matt Morrissey's high-powered tic to capture a win against game on either side of the Bruggeman and the simpli­offense. Alumni. ball, but we did what we had fied Keough offense will have "They have tremendous big 
In practice, the to did to get the win. to find a rhythm against the play potential," captain Kevin Juggerknotts have focused The game will be at 2:00 stingy Dillon defense, some­Kelly said. "They are very on their own team, particu­p.m. at Riehle Field. thing it has yet to accomplish good at scoring through the larly their execution. this season. Power running air so we'll have to stay 
"Execution has been poor Dillon vs. Keough back Nazur Ahmed will try to attentive on defense and at times because guys try to Well on their way to a play­keep the Big Red honest on either drop back on coverage overthink the plays," off appearance, Dillon will the ground. or play tight based on what Fitzgerald said. "The guys have the chance to knock The Roo defense will also they show us." try to overthink on offense winless Keough out of the have to step up against the Having suffered two disap­and defense instead of react­playoff picture with a win. dynamic running game of pointing playoff losses in a ing to the play." After a 7-6 victory over the Dillon. Sophomore defensive row, Siegfried appears to have one thing and one thing alone on its mind: clinch a playoff spot. 
"It's our sole motivation. We have to win not only to make the playoffs but to give ourselves the chance to avenge last year's playoff loss," Kelly said. "We have a senior-laden team and we are definitely putting pres­sure on ourselves to do that." 
Having dominated its oppo­nents thus far, Morrissey appears more calm and cool about its situation as an undefeated team one win away from the playoffs. 
"We're not going to play up the fact that it's the play­offs," McBrayer said. "We're going to play the same way we have in our last two games and the game will take its course." 
Sunday's game between these two teams should be a well-played clash of two of the league's top playoff hope­fuls. 
Sorin vs. Carroll 
With both teams coming off match-ups with Zahm, Sorin and Carroll both hope to make a playoff push when they face off Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Sorin (2-0) can lock up a playoff slot with a victory over the Vermin. 
Carroll (1-1-1) scored its lone touchdown last week in the final minute of the game. This late score kept the Vermin in the playoff hunt, and they are directly behind Sorin in the standings. 
A 64-yard halfback option pass into the red zone set up the touchdown. 
This offensive uncertainty could meet its match in the Sorin defense. The Otters have only given up six points on the season. That degree of a performance requires respect, Carroll captain and quarterback Nick Ruof. 
"We respect the 2-0 record of Sorin," he said. "But we are looking to have a winning record." 
Contact Ryan O'Connell at roconne3@nd.edu, Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu, Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu, Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu, Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu and DouJd,as Farmer at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu 
Alberta 
continued from page 28 
Denver made it to the Round of 16 before losing 6-2 to Wisconsin. 
Denver returns its top scor­er in sophomore Tyler Bozak along with junior playmakers Rhett Rakhshani and Tyler Ruegsegger. It did graduate starting goaltender Peter Mannino and is inexperi­enced between the pipes. Against Alberta the Pioneers started sophomore Mark Cheverie, who had 14 saves in the game. 
''I'm sure he's earned his spot there, but we'll try to 
get on him early and see if he has all the rust off," Condra said. 
Before the puck drops Saturday night the team will spend Friday at the induction dinner for the 2008 USA Hockey Hall of Fame class. This year's inductees are Brett Hull, Brian Leetch, Mike Richter and Cammi Granato. 
Jackson coached Hull, Leetch and Richter in the 1998 Olympic Games in Nagano, Japan, when he was an assistant for the U.S. Team. 
"I know Richter best of all of them because I worked with the goalies on that team, so it will be good to talk to those guys," Jackson said. 
Jackson said he was also looking forward to experi­menting with some new line pairings and system changes that will create a more up­tempo team than in the past. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphY'6@nd.edu 

page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, October I 0, 2008 
WaldruiD 
continued from page 28 
certainly going to be very well­rested and very anxious and eager to play a game since they've been orr that long... 
Hegardless, the conference game is likely to be a battle. No. 1 Notre Dame (12-0-0l and No. 17 <;eurgetown (8-0-2) sit as the only two undefeated teams in the Big East. both playing similar systems that are likPiy to go head to head. 
Georgetown coach Dave Nolan is in his fifth season and finally has an experienced team leadership on the pitch has never been doubted, has strug­gled to put the ball in the net. But with the winning goal against Marquette, Bock's frus­tration is likely to pass. 

"[Bock is] key for us," Waldrum said. ''I'd like to see her continue in scoring goa,ls, she's been playing very well for us but she's been getting a little frustrated that the goals weren't coming her way and those two goals that were so important at Marquette, I think now she's kind of got that mon­key orr her back... 
But even with the rust off Bock's boots, the Hoyas likely 
know how to 
challenge 

to work with. With "We'll go out and every Irish eight upperclass­asset. The
match our players 
men, the team is teams last maturn tmough to with theirs and ifwe faced off in the test Notre Dame's can, kind ofimpose Big East semi­experitmctl. finals last
our way on them. " 
"I think they're November, just getting a little a n d bit more experi­Randy Waldrum Georgetown ence ... What you Irish coach returns many 
see is just some growing and maturity and their confidence playing against better competi­tion, so you see the team start­ing to mature ... The program is on the rise," Waldrum said. 
Georgetown's last match, a 1­0 win over Hutgers, was last month. The Irish defeattld Marquette 3-1 Sunday. but not without a little elbow grease. The Golden Eagles buried a go­ahead goal to take the 1-0 lead, something that had yet to hap­pen to the Irish in the 2008 season. But they fired back for the win, with senior captain Brittany Bock netting two of the three goals. 
Bock, whose presence and of the same 

players. Waldrum knows the Iloya mid­fielders are fast and clever and will likely look to shake up the Irish defense, but he hopes Notre Dame's experience will be able to swing things in its favor. 
"We'll go out and match up our players with theirs and if we can, kind of impose our way on them," Waldrum said. "I think that's what's gonna be the key is which team can kind of impose themselves on the other when you have two teams that play the same system." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
Deficit 
continued from page 28 

When Notre Dame fell behind by one goal against Marquette last Sunday, the Irish were visi­bly frustrated and one standout player jokingly admitted to being puzzled. 
"Some of us were like, 'Okay, what's going on?"' senior for­ward Kerri Hanks said. 
The Irish deficit to Marquette did not hold up for long, though. Notre Dame roared back with two goals in less time than it takes for a Deadhead to leave a DMX concert. Within four minutes, the Irish took complete control of the game and built a 2-1 lead. 
Marquette, one of the stronger teams in the Big East with a 3-1-1 conference record, could not even come close to matching up to Notre Dame tal-· ent-wise. And Golden Eagles coach Markus Roeders admit­ted as much after the Irish wrapped up their 3-1 win. 
"We cannot honestly say that we have the talent they have," Roeders said. "Here, they are one of the teams that gets the real best players." 
Roeders said he thinks the Irish rank among the top four teams in the country, along with UCLA, Portland and North Carolina. 
Guess who North Carolina's only loss in 13 games came against? That's right, Notre Dame. And that match was played in Chapel Hill. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum said he would place his top­ranked team among the top five squads in the country. 
"The rankings are very arbi­trary so you don't really know 
who's the best until the top 
teams start facing each other," 
Waldrum said. "So I'd have to 
agree with [Roeders] and be 
more realistic and just say 
we're definitely in that top 
group." 

But while he was reluctant to label his team as the one to beat, Waldrum said this year's Notre Dame team is one of the most impressive squads he has coached. Waldrum, who has managed top-flight Irish teams for the past 10 years, also said that the 2008 version has the deepest talent base. 
"This team is clearly up there with the best ones we've had here," he said. "And I'd have to say it's the deepest, in terms of talent, that we've had." 
That depth allows the Irish to stay fresh and may prove to be the difference when they finally face orr against the few teams that can conceivably match up with them. 
"If you look back at the past couple of Final Fours, we've been worn out at the end," Waldrum said. "So this year we've been cautious, trying to keep playing time to where we can win but to where we don't wear our [top players] out." 

And the undefeated Irish may just now be starting to hit their stride. 
Senior co-captain Brittany Bock came into the Marquette game with just one goal but notched a pair-including the go-ahead tally -against the Golden Eagles. Bock carried the Irish for the second half of the season last year and looks poised to do so again. She did not play in Notre Dame's first three games because of an ankle injury but now appears to be playing at full strength. 
"She's personally been a little 
frustrated because she hasn't 
scored the goals that she thinks 
she should but I told her if you 
be patient your time will come," 
Waldrum said. "Last year when 
she made such a good run with 
her goal-scoring it came in the 
second half of the season. I told 
her last weekend, I said we're 
right about at that point again." 
In addition to the re-emer­
gence of Bock as a scoring 
threat, the Irish back line looks 
like it can shut down any 
offense in the country. Senior 
defender Carrie Dew is fully 
healthy after playing at less 
than full strength for the past 
two seasons. Waldrum said 
having her at full strength 
could allow the Irish to bring 
home their first national cham­
pionship since 2004. 
"We have all great players [on defense] but the glue that holds all four of them together is Carrie Dew," Waldrum said. "The past couple of years, I've said that the difference between us not winning it all might have been not having her healthy." 
The depth the Irish have on both ends of the field puts them in great position to win all of their remaining regular season games and secure home-field advantage for most of the NCAA Tournament. Then again, that won't be nearly as impressive if they keep falling behind like they did last Sunday. 
The views in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Fran Tolan at jtolan@nd. edu 


Welcome to 21st century student apartments. 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Brand new, contemporary, furnished apartments now leasing for Fall 2009. 
• 
Two bedrooms 


• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
Furnished 


• 
Includes 42" flat panel HDTV 

• 
Laundry room witt1 wasl1er &dryer 

• 
FREE Internet &200+ TV stations 

• 
Walk to campus 



lrishRowApartments.com 574.277.6666 
Just east nf Burdette on Vaness. Just north of Between ttle Hun~ Restaurant. 
luxury apartments
IIIrish 
ROW 

NOW LEASING FOR FALL 2009 
... 

Friday, October 10, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

DAVID CAVADINI 

THE DOME PIECE 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
~M®)1l!
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
DRIAP 
± 
DIALIN j 

rJ rJ I I 10 Er~~TE~~~o 
www.fumbte.com WHEN SHE 0 ANCED 
PLOUCE j IN HER NEW SHOES. 
V I Now arrange the circled lettersl to form the surprise answer, as 

I I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: ( 

I I I Jr'HTE "rI I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: UNITY BASSO CELERY TIMELY Answer: The mailman received an advanced degree because he was a -MAN OF "LETTERS" 
CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Give a keynote 1 Steering wheel 35 Eco-friendly option 36 Author Fleming 5 Superior to 
37 Hose woes 1 0 Pacific island 
38 Nymph of Greek 

nation 
myth 14 Gas leak 
39 breve 

evidence 
40 Upper-left key 

15 20 Mule Team 
41 Prison-related 

compound 
42 Prefix with task

16 Canadian dollar 
43 Scan

bird 
45 Start a new

17 Nativity trio 
hand

18 Ain't 
46 Part of H.R.H. 

grammatical? 
47 Tubular pasta 

19 Wilson of "Zealander" 
48 Place to dock 20 Expresses scorn 51 Human hand 22 Means' partner 
characteristic 23 Swiss artist Paul 
57 In good shape 24 Early TV comic 58 Rhone feeder Louis 59 Back muscles, 26 Blowhard's 
for short speech 60 Loafing 29 1966 Rolling 61 Word before Stones hit tube or self 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

62 Neutral shade 63 Face, slangily 64 They may be the 
pits 65 Percolate 

Down 1 Barnum midget 2 Actress Lupine 
and others 3 Business card 
graphic 4 Tchotchkes 5 Brought down 
6 Held up 7 Creme-filled snack 8 U-Haul rentals 9 Like some 
warranties 1 0 Lapel insert 11 Corn Belt state 12 "Friends" spinoff 
13 Roadside stops 21 Gen. Robert 25 Nikkei average currency 26 It may stick out 27 Pie part 28 Dressing choice 29 Dickens's Heep 30 Boortz of talk radio 31 _ Lacs, Minn. 32 Big Three meeting place 33 Kind of sketch 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Jayne and Alex Boisvert 
35 What a  42 Prefix with  50 Has a fever, say  
prisoner's tattoo may signify 38 Anxiety may be  physics 44 Rappers' skill 45 Stair parts  52 Plexiglas unit 53 Corn bread  
a symptom of it  47 Stopped  54 Queen Anne's  
39 Quarterbacks'  listening, with  
play changes  "out"  55 To be, in France  
41 Rue Morgue's  48 Swab name  56 Encouraging  
creator  49 Pakistani tongue  sign  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
FRIDAYS WITH FRAN
HOROSCOPE 

Aries (March 21-April 19): Show me the 
·"" 

shekels, show me the shekels. Taurus (April 20-May 20): Why are there 
waffle cones but not pancake cones? That's 
discrimination. Gemini (May 21-June 20): Bad news if you 
got a flu shot from Notre Dame in the past
few d(!.ys: That batch of needles was carry­> 
ing HIV. Sorry about that. CancerJJune 21-July 22) O_nen up the win­
dow an let some fresh H20 Into your 
room. Leo (JulY. 23-Aug. 22): Pursue the scare­
crow or it II pursue you. Vtrgo (Aug. 23-SeP,t. 22): MonoP.oly's back 
at M'ci;)onald's. Ana strip poker's back at 
Dennys. Libra (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Ride spinnahs. Scol])io (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Rabies or her­
pes? Text your vote to (708)935-0841. Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): The dingo
will eat your baby. Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Do you find 
something funny about the word "trombon­
er?" Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The votes 
from last week are in: Stalin was a much 
better leader than Hitler. In my opinion,
Stalin was a much nicer guy, too. Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20): The best 
res-gonse from last week's P.Oll: "DEFINITE­
LY STALIN!!!!!!" That's six exclamation 
points. Somebody was excited. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City __________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, October 10, 2008 
page 28 
HOCKEY 

Irish head vvest to open season vvith Hall of Fan1e gan1e 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
No. 4 Notre Dame kicks off' the eollegc hockey season tomorrow night against No. 6 
Denver in  the USA  Hockey  
Hall of Fame Game.  
The  Irish take  to  the ice  

against one of the top young teams in the country after only six days of practice. 
"It's in their building and they'll have last change, so it's going to be a challenge," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
The last time Notre Dame traveled to Denver was almost exactly six months ago when it lost 4-1 to 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Team travels to rested, but ill, Georgetown 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Assistant Managing Editor 
The lloyas have 12 days of rest on Notre Dame. but it was­n't wekomed. The norovirus­a stomach virus -infected morfl than 170 Georgetown students and virtually shut down the campus, athletics included. Whether or not 12 days ofT means well rested legs or rusty skills remains to be seen. 
"That can sometimes be a good thing and that can some­times be a bad thing, and we won't know that till we get out on the field," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. "But they're 
see WALDRUM/ page 26 

Boston College in the nation­al championship at the Pepsi Center. This time around the game is only two miles down the road at University of Denver's Magness Arena. 
''I'm definitely excited. I've been waiting six months to get back on the ice," Irish captain Erik Condra said. 
Condra has led Notre Dame in scoring for the past three seasons, but missed most of the postseason because of a knee injury. Condra said he is back at full health and looking forward to finally getting back on the ice. 
Notre Dame, however, will miss two more key players who arc slightly banged up 
after a I o ng preseason. Sophomore defenseman Teddy Huth and center Ben Hyan will both miss the start of the season with various injuries. 
"We're not going to be as deep as we will be when everybody's healthy, but we're just going to have to play at a very high level," Jackson said. 
The Pioneers have one exhibition game under their belts so far this season, where they squeezed out a 5­4 win over the University of Alberta in the final seconds of the game. Last year 
see ALBERTA/page 25 

Above the rest 
l 
..... 

JESS LEEfThe Observer Left, Irish forward Brittany Bock traps a ball during Notre Dame's 3-1 win over Marquette on Oct. 5. Right, Irish forward Kerr! Hanks controls the ball during the Marquette game. 
Don't expect too many more deficits this year 
Bad news, Irish fans. Notre Dame's quest to avoid falling behind in a game this season ended last weekend. 
But the sight of the top-ranked 
Irish on the  
short end of'  
the seore­ 
board will  
not be a  
common  
one  
throughout  
the remain­ 
der of the  
Fran Tolan  season. How  
Associate  uneommon?  
Sports Editor  It should  

happen about as often as Hosie O'Donnell opts for low-fat brownies. 
see DEFICIT/page 26 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Bullfrogs battle Wild Women for playoff spot 
By NATHANIEL LEE, BOBBY 
GRAHAM, CHRISTINA 
MCDONNELL, ALEX WEST, 
LIZA NAVARRO and KELLEN 
MATHERS 
Sports Writers 
Badin and Wal'ih clash thi<; week­end as both teams light fi>r a ticket to the post<;eason at 3 p.m. at LaBar fields. 
Both teams have gained experi­ence over the season and hope to be firing on all cylinders during thi'i match-up. 
The Bullfrogs havo relied on a blend of veteran experienee and new young talent to make strides this season. Heeent wins gave Badin momentum hnading into the nnd of thn smtson. 
"This season, we have shown gmat improvement on both sides of tlm ball." senior captain Katie Host~ Hackney said. "We are not a team to be overlooked." 

On the other side of the ball, the Wild Women have turned a rebuild­ing year into a possible playoff run. At 3-2, a win Sunday would almost guarantee a spot in the post-season. 
"We came into this season know­ing that we were going to have to develop a lot of new players," senior captain Cindy Brenner said. "But if we win on Sunday I am pretty sure that we will be able to make the playoffs" 
Badin relies on a strong receiving core to drive its team. Senior Courtney Hains, along with fresh­men Hyan Cooney and Carli Fernandez dominate the Bullfrog offimse. 
"We have a lot of talent and we're hoping to utilize all of our offensive and defensive threats," Hackney 
see BADIN/page 24 
MEN'S INTERHALL 

Playoffs on line for Mob 
By RYAN O'CONNELL, 

CHRIS MICHALSKI, MOLLY 
SAMMON, CHRIS MASOUD, 
SHANE STEINBURG and 
DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writers 

This Sunday, Stanford and O'Neill will face off in a game that may have playoff' implications down the line. 
"Stanford is in the same position that we are and we both realize how important this game is," O'Neill eap­tain Matt Bono said. 
Both teams suffered tough losses last week, failing to capitalize on opportunities that could have given them wins. Specifically, Stanford (1-1) had problems with their kicking game and pick­ing up the confusing blitzing schemes employed by Dillon. 
"We've been working on solidifying our kieking game 
and offensive line protection after last week," Stanford captain John Burke said, "Also, we want to improve our coaching for this game, but the biggest thing is to be consistent and st<,1y mentally focused". 
O'Neill has a set of' their own problems to work on as well. 
"Our team stalled a few times when we were in seor­ing position, but I take full responsibility for not having implemented the appropri­ate offense in those situa­tions," Bono said. "We did a poor job in keeping Bobby Powers off his back last week and we've worked to fix that". 
Also hindering the Griffins and Mob are key injuries to their players. ineluding O'Neill's running back. 
"We lost running back Dave Zimmer last week. But 
rather than feel sorry for ourselves we are looking to move on," Bono said, "We've got a lot of respect for Stanford, but at the same time, no team in our divi­sion is invincible and a win against Stanford would go a long way in helping us rebound from last week". 
The Griffins certainly 
don't  lack  confidence  in  
their abilities .  
"We  have  the  talent  to  

beat O'Neill, but they're a good team and should give us a good game," Burke said. "Last week we felt we should've won the game, and we're hoping to use this game to come out and prove we're a great team". 
With both teams coming off losses, both of these very talented teams should come into the game hungry for a 
see GRIFFINS/page 25 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 10, 2008 
COMMENTARY 
Clausen's learning process nearly done 
One of the biggnst reasons for 

Notrn Damn's turnaround so far 
this s1mson is their new quarter­
back, Jimmy Clausen. 
Obviously, it's the same person, but I think we can all agn~e that this year's sig­nal caller is sort of a .I i m m y Clausen, ver­sion 2.0. lie's got most the bugs and kinks out of tho systom. 
Irish eoach 

Charlie Weis 
said the new 
vnrsion of 
.I i m my 
Clausen debuted alter sitting out 
the Boston College and USC 
games last year. when he said the 
"light came on" filr the freshman. 
Now tho light is on and burning bright. 
Let's look at the facl'i. 

First of all. the new-and­improved Clausen doesn't go run­ning scared every time there is a blitz. f'm sure all of you have your own personal favorite Jimmy­inexplicably-runs-out-of-bounds­holding-the-ball moment from last season. There were enough for each of us. 
But this s1mson, he has a new­found mobility that has been a huge help to the offense. This s1mson, ClausPn has lost 55 yards on the ground -all or which are accountod for in the sack yards given up. Last season? lie and Evan Sharpley (with whom he split time ((Jr most of the season) ran for -447 yards, only 415 of which were from sacks. 
While Claus1m is by no means the next dual-threat quarterback, lw is still making better deeisions evading dofenders. 
"lie's shown an ability to shufile in the pocket and get out of trou­ble and not throw the ball and throw the ball away when he's supposed to throw the ball away," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. 
These changes are what make Clausen a quarterback and not just a thrower. lie is now making split-second dPeisions during the game-with grnat rnsull'i. 
Clausen 2008 also gets to run the show oflcnsivnly. Last season, as part of Weis' plan for weaning his freshman quarterback into the eollngp game, fifth-year sen­ior center John Sullivan helped run the play-to-play aspeets of the ofl'ense, such as finding the 

Jay Fitzpatrick 
Managing 
Editor 

Mike (or middle) linebacker on a 
blitz. 

But Weis said that, starting 
after last season ended, Clausen 
started to develop this necessary 
skill. 

"He just knows that that's 
something he should be doing. 
That's what the really good quar­
terbacks do. They control the 
front as well as the coverage," 
Weis said. 

But the result of this change is 
the real reason that we are 
graced with a new Clausen this 
season: increased responsibility 
and increased confidence. 
Last season, Clausen failed to 
play well in part because the 
team failed to play well. The line 
couldn't protect him, the running 
backs strained to gain yardage, 
and the freshman receivers 
struggled to adapt to the college 
game. 

Weis said he had to put less into 
the oflimse for his young players, 
which in part led to the team's 
woes. 

"And what's happened is as 
we've gotten better across the 
board, it isn't just at the quarter­
back position, it's allowed us to do 
more and more with everybody. 
So he's grown leaps and bounds, 
but he's gotten a lot of help," Weis 
said. 

But part of this growing process 
was the serious development that 
Clausen and the other young 
players had to go through last 
season before they could be ready 
to excel this season. 
"There's not a chance in the 
world that we'd be 4-1 if he 
wouldn't have played last year," 
Weis said. "There was a whole 
bunch of other guys that you 
would have liked to not play, but 
I'm glad they did because those 
guys right now are helping us." 
Clausen's freshman experi­ences -and struggles -are the best thing that could have hap­pened for his and the team's development. 
"Now he's not just the California freshman at quarter­back. Now he's a leader on the o!l'ense," Weis said of his quarter­back's development. 
Last season, Clausen learned how to lose. And now he can !inally win. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd. edu 
Check out The Observer sports blog, The Casual Observer, at 
Observersportsblog.21cr.info. 
2008 Irish opponents 
Last week L, 41-7, TCU L, 45-20, Illinois W, 16-13, Iowa L, 20-6, Penn St. L, 28-21, ND W,38-12, UConn L, 48-14, Arizona W, 26-21, USF W, 38-31, N.C. St. W, 33-27, Air Force L, 34-24, Pitt W, 44-10, Oregon 
This week vs. Air Force vs. Toledo at Northwestern at Ohio State vs. Arizona vs. Notre Dame Idle at Navy Idle Idle atWestVa. vs. Arizona St. 

$1°0 0FF 

Any Combo 
Offer expires II /06/08. Offer good only at participating TACO BELL® locations In the greater South Bend, IN area. Please TACO present this coupon when ordering. Limit: One coupon per person per visit. Not good with any other offer. Void ifcopied, transferred, reproduced or BELL: where prohibited. Cash redemption value l/20th cent. ©2008 TACO BELL CORP. 7321-8 
Friday, October 10, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Fatherly advice 
When Chris Stewart questioned his time at Notre Dame, his dad showed him the light 

sities in the country -for free the team. -and that should be his first "Maybe it was a little differ­priority. If he got to play foot­ent for him, I'm guessing, ball as well, that was a bonus. going from the pros where you 
"He did say that the biggest have grown men, and coming thing for him was that if I did back to college where you have leave somewhere like Notre guys transitioning into grown Dame, to recognize that there men," Stewart said. "One of are very few institutions that the things that's changed for have the same clout as Notre the better here is that the level Dame and then of comfort has have the same changed a lit­kind of football tle bit more. I that Notre Dame "Some ofmyfriends don't want to had," Stewart say it was like
joked that I took a
said. "He basi­you couldn't
week's vacation when 
cally wanted me talk to any­to be happy and they didn't', but that body around go somewhere here, but now
was probably the most 
that I was going -we still go
trying week ofstress I 
to be content to work-but and look back · ever had in my life ... I it's just fun and say, 'I made football."
would never want to 
a great deci­Stewart has
repeat it -ever. " 
sion.' He was played a very up front prominent about it and he Chris Stewart role in the thought that resurgence on
Irish guard 
place was here. Notre Dame's He had his opin-offensive line ion, but he said this season 'Hey, you're a grown man, you and last week against left the house. It's your deci­Stanford, Stewart was out sion."' there pumping up the crowd, 
That decision, however hard enjoying the atmosphere and it was for Stewart to make, every minute of Notre Dame's was to get back on a plane and 28-21 win over Stanford. fly back to South Bend -for "[Going to Notre Dame] puts good. more of a spotlight on you, so 
if you go out and have a bad Turning a corner performance, people are going 
Time helped heal Stewart's to see that just as much as problems and now he said life they see you have a stellar, doesn't seem so bad. game-winning performance," 
"Life's not a piece of cake, it Stewart said. "It's definitely never is, but it's way less com­more pressure, but it's what plicated -way, way less com­you come here for. You come plicated," Stewart said. " ... here for the ups and downs, You can say some things, like the goods and the bads and I not doing so well on a test or think we've left the bad and not doing so well in practice, are in a state of transition to they're not inconsequential, the good." but they're such small things As a team, Notre Dame may compared to how things could be in a transition, but Chris be." Stewart has already left the 
He also said Weis' commit­bad behind him. ment in the spring to becoming 
By CHRIS HINE Editor-in-Chief 
It was a step Chris Stewart knew he had to take, but that didn't mean it was going to be easy. 
That step was getting off the plane in South Bend following Stewart's leave of absence in the middle of Notre Dame's 2007 season. Stewart had taken a week off to travel home to Spring, Texas, to deal with a variety of issues, some too personal for Stewart talk about now, but one of them was leaving Notre Dame, as some of his other teammates -quarterbacks Zach Frazer and Demetrius Jones -had done and oth­ers would later plane was a really hard thing." 
Fatherly advice 
Stewart came to Notre Dame and didn't see the field at all as a freshman. That spring, the coaching staff attempted to move Stewart to the defensive line, and then in the fall, he moved back to the offensive side, but still wasn't seeing the field as much as he would have liked. 
Then, Stewart said, a num­ber of personal issue arose in his life that were constantly on his mind and at this point last year, Stewart was going through the most difficult part of his life. 
"It was a process for me switching to learning how to 
handle a lot of 
difficulties in 

do that season. But Stewart, now a starter at right guard, ultimately decided to come back to  "It was a process for me switching to learning how to handle a lot of difficulties in life. I  life," Stewart said. "I was still a teenager, 19 at the time, but growing up to understand and see the world  
Notre  Dame  was still a teenager,  more  as  an  
and that step off the plane was also a symbolic step  I 9 at the time, but growing up to understand and see  adult. You're going to have bad times, things not going  
-a sign that it was time to grow up.  the world more as an adult. "  on well at home and whatnot. "One of the  
"I came back  things  with  
optimistic,"  Chris Stewart  being  so  far  
Stewart said. "I had this period  Irish guard  away from home is you never  
of teeter-totter  really go home  

... I guess I was saying, 'Try to and I'm really big on my fami­make the best of it.' But I don't ly. It was just all kinds of want to say I was dreading things mixed into one, coming coming back, but I knew I was at me at one point and I had to coming back to a difficult situ­step away for a while, learn ation and I just have to take how to go back to a situation those punches for as long as it and see it through. I think it'll lasts and enjoy it when the leave a big time mark on the fight's over. But getting off that rest of my life." 
To deal with his situation, Stewart asked Irish coach Charlie Weis for some time off, something Stewart said was hard to muster the courage to do. 
"The whole situation, going home and being with family, the problems there, it was no cakewalk," Stewart said. "Some of my friends joked that I took a week's vacation when they didn't, but that was prob­ably the most trying week of stress I ever had in my life ... I would never want to repeat it -ever." 
Personal problems are usual­ly hard enough for someone to deal with, but Stewart had all of his obligations as a student and football player piled on top. 
"When you're in season and even out of it, I don't think people realize how very little time you have for yourself," he said. "You have class, practice, watching film, working out, I mean, if you really think about, you have maybe an hour, two hours tops to yourself. 
When he got away from foot­ball and went home, Stewart's father, George, tried to empathize with his son's situa­tion. 
"One of the good things about my dad is he'll say stuff 
like,  'You  have  to  realize  
where  you're  at,'  and  he  
admitted  that  he  doesn't  

understand the kind of pres­sure that I'm under because he's never been in this kind of situation," Chris Stewart said. 
But while Stewart was pre­pared to leave Notre Dame has father had another idea. George helped his son put his life in perspective. He told Chris that he was going to one of the most prestigious univer-

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 

Irish guard Chris Stewart lines up against San Diego State during Notre Dame's 21-13 win over a more approachable figure Contact Chris Hine at the Aztecs on Sept. 6. Stewart, who almost left school last year, now starts at right guard. has helped him and the rest of chine@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 10, 2008 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 

HEADT~
Record: 4-1 
AP: NR Coaches: NR 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 

CharlieWels head coach 
Charlie Weis Fourth season at Notre Dame career record: 
26-16 
against North Carolina: 
1-0 

No. Name Deiun Wcllkt.•r Mich.wl Floyd GaryGt.ly Annando Allt.•n Re1y H...rrin~ Jimmy Clausen 
Roster 
Pos. Ht Wt. YR WR 6-2 li!H FR WR 6-3 215 FR DB 5-11 188 so RB 5·10 195 so DB 5·11l 198 SR QIJ 6-3 217 so 

Notre Dame 2008 Schedule 
Sept. 6 Sept. 13 Sept. 20 Sept. 27 Oct. 4 Oct. 11 Oct. 25 Nov.1 Nov. 8 Nov. 15 Nov. 22 Nov. 29 

SDSU -W MICH-W at MSU-L PURDUE.-W STANFORD-W atUNC at WASH. PITT atBC NAVY SYRACUSE at USC 


Rat.•sht.lll McNl'il  DB  6-0  190  JR  
9  Ethan John~on  DE  h·4  275  FR  
9  Kyle Rudolph  TE  6-6  252  FR  
10  DayneCrist  QB  0·4  233  FR  
II  David Grim~  WR  5-10  177  SR  
12  Nick Lezynski  QB  5-!l  !57  so  
12  Robert Bl.mton  Dll  6-1  180  FR  
1:1  Evan Sharpley  Q!l  6·2  215  SR  
14  Brandon Wc1lkc..•r  K  6·3  202  so  
15  Brian ( ·astclln  Qll  6·2  191  so  
15  Dan Md . .:,uthy  DB  h·2  2!HJ  FR  
16  Natl' Mont~ma  QIJ  6·4  200  FR  
Ill  Duval Kamdra  WR  6-5  219  so  
19  Gt'UQ~t.·Wt.-stjr.  WR  5·11l  196  JR  
20  T<..•rrail l..1mbc..•rt  DU  5-11  195  SR  
21  !larry (;aJJup Jr.  RB  5-11  200  JR  
22  Harrist.m Smith  DB  6-2  206  so  
2.1  Coldt.•n Tatt.•  WR  5-11  195  so  
24  Lt'llnMd Gordon  DB  5-11  187  JR  
24  Brian Coughlin  WR  6-0  172  JR  
25  Jonas Gray  RB  5-10  230  FR  
26  jamoris Slaughter  DB  6-0  182  FR  
27  David Bruton  DB  6-2  212  SR  
28  Kyl<• McCarthy  DB  6-1  203  SR  
29  Jashaad Gctint.•s  D!l  6-0  202  JR  
29  Mich.lt'! Garcia  WR  6-1  178  so  
30  Steve Paskorz  FB  6-2  235  so  
31  Sergio Brown  DB  6-2  205  JR  
32  Luke Schmidt  TE  6-3  246  JR  
33  Robert Hughl"S  RB  5-11  237  so  
34  Jam<"' Aldridge  RB  6-0  225  JR  
35  Kevin Smith  LB  5-8  2!Hl  SR  
35  Kevin Brook.'<  TE  6-2  241  JR  
36  joe Bizjak  K  6-2  165  JR  
30  Davlc..l Po::tluszny  LB  6-0  220  FR  
37  Mike Anello  DB  5-10  170  SR  
37  Eras Noel  RB  5-8  190  so  
38  Chril. Bathon  DB  5-10  192  JR  
38  Christopher Gurrit>s  WR  5-10  !Ill  so  
39  Ryan Burkhart  K  5-11  190  JR  
40  Maurin• Crum Jr.  LB  6-0  235  SR  
41  Scott Smith  LB  6-3  235  SR  
41  Nikol,ls R,Kfriguez  RB  5-11  205  SR  
42  Kevin Wclshington  LB  6-l  250  SR  
42  Dan Franco  WR  5-10  188  JR  
43  Juhn Ll·nni:,  DB  5-9  169  SR  
43  Eric Maust  P  6-2  177  JR  
44  Asaph Schwapp  FB  6-0  257  SR  
45  Darius Flt•ming  LB  6-1  236  FR  
45  Kris Pa ttl•rson  WR  5-11  185  SR  
46  Stevl.' Filt•r  LB  6-3  2362  FR  
47  Joe Vittoricl  LB  5-11  44  JR  
47  Mike Narvaez  FB  5-11  231  JR  
48  Stevt• Quinn  LB  6-2  225  SR  
49  Toryan Smith  LB  6-1  244  JR  
51  Dan Wt•ngt•r  c  6-4  302  JR  
52  Braxston Cave  c  6-3  315  FR  
53  Morrin• Richardson  DE  6-2  255  )R  
.<;4  Anthony McDonald  LB  6-3  225  FR  
55  Eric OISt.·n  OG  n-5  303  JR  
56  Kerry Neal  LB  6-2  246  so  
57  Mike Golic Jr.  c  6-3  280  FR  
58  Brian Smith  LB  6-3  245  so  
59  Chri.'< Stt•wart  OG  6-5  337  JR  
61  Martin Quintancl  LB  6-1  242  JR  
h2  Bill Flavin  c  6-3  252  so  
63  )dflis.lk  OT  6-3  306  SR  
M  Tom Burkl•  LB  5-10  242  JR  
~5  Mike Jft•mandt•z  OL  6-2  275  FR  
67  Tom Bcnu•ndl•rtt•r  c  6-5  300  SR  
h9  Carl Brophy  OL  6-4  278  FR  
70  Matt Rumim•  OT  6-5  292  so  
71  Dl.•nnis Mahoney  OL  6-6  290  FR  
72  Paul Dum·an  OT  6-7  308  SR  
74  Sam Young  OT  6-8  330  JR  
75  Taylor Dt•vt•r  OT  6-5  308  so  
75  Lane Cit•Iland  OT  6-5  281  FR  
76  Andn•w Nus~  DE  6-5  304  so  
77  Mike Turkovich  OG  6-6  305  SR  
78  Trevor Robinson  OG  6-5  301  FR  
79  Hafis Williams  DE  6-2  302  FR  
HI  John Goodman  WR  6-3  197  FR  
82  Robby Parris  WR  6-4  210  )R  
ll4  WillYt•atman  TE  6-6  265  so  
85  Sam Vos  WR  5-10  199  JR  
86  Paul Kuppich  TE  6-3  2.12  SR  
87  Joseph Fauricl  TE  6-7  245  FR  
89  Kapnm L..t.•wis-Moon.•  DE  6-4  257  FR  
90  John Rycm  LB  6-5  264  JR  
91  Emck,l Nwankwo  DE  6-4  295  so  
93  Paddy Mullen  NT  6-3  300  JR  
94  Justin Brown  DE  6-3  277  SR  
95  Ian Williams  NT  6-2  310  so  
96  Pat Kuntz  DE  6-3  283  SR  
97  Kallt.•n Wi\dl'  LB  6-5  255  JR  
98  Scan Cwynar  DE  6-4  2&1  FR  

1.&.1 
:!E 
<
Q 
1.&.1 0:: 
...... 
0 
z 
<
z 
::::i 
0 
0:: 
< 
(.) 
:::1: 
...... 
0:: 0 
z 


COACHING 
Charlie Weis has let his sophomore quarter­back air it out the last two weeks but needs to prove his team can take its no-huddle show on the road. 
Former Miami and Cleveland Browns head coach Butch Davis has quickly turned around a perennial loser after going 4-8 in his first year. He has the Tar Heels ranked and rolling heading into a big home contest. 
Win or lose, Weis and his team have separated themselves from last ye~'s,~ebaele. But Davis 
~~~~~np f!~ii<;~fif~ 
hiEJt'oryY:w e irijecthig it with young talent. When it eomes to a pair of guys with NFL pedigrees, it's push. 

QUARTERBACKS 
Jimmy Clausen posted career numbers for the second week in a row, torching the Cardinal for 347 yards passing and three touchdowns. Perhaps the most important number ­no turnovers for the second straight week. 
Cameron Sexton man­aged his team to a victo­ry in his first start since 2006 in place of injured starter T.J. Yates. He did throw for just 117 yards and an interception, though. 
experts 

nation in interception<>. and in their lru,i game, they blocked three punts. It's not that Notre Dame will lose the game; North Carolina is ~imply a better team playing at home. 
FINAL SCORE: North Carolina 31 Notre Dame 28 
IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
After Armando Allen's monster day against Purdue, it seemed the ground game had turned the corner. But the unit took a step back against the Cardinal, sputtering to 83 yards with a 3.1 per carry team average. 
Connecticut kept feeding running back Donald Brown in a losing efTort, and he eventually piled up 161 yards on 33 carries. The Tar Heels roo defense is average, ranked 67th nationally for giving up 
144.40 yards per game. 
Michael Floyd and Kyle Rudolph may be freshmen, but Clausen hasn't shown any qualms about getting the kids the ball. Golden Tate was kept quiet last week, but with several yooog weapons at hi<> dis­posal, Clausen has shown a knack for finding the open one. 
North Carolina inter­cepted Connecticut's Zach l'razer, who trans­ferred from Notre Dame, three times, including once for a touchdown. The Heels' pass defense will give up yardage (201 per game, 58th nationally), but they lead the country in picks. 
UNC is fired up after beating No. 24 UConn, and hasn't missed a beat despite losing its starting quarterback to a broken ankle. The Tar Heels have a dan­gerous receiving corps, a kick returner who poses a threat and a solid running back. Their defense lnads the 


Notre Dame's sec­ond road trip will go much more smooth­ly than its first. The new no-huddle offense better suits Clausen's strengths than the "pound it" approach did. The team enters a much tamer atmosphere than Spartan Stadium, and 
Clausen can smoothly run the offense, 
putting up another big day en route to 
an Irish win. 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28 North Carolina 17 
Irish 

Friday, October 10, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

North Carolina 
Tar Heels
HEAD 
Record: 4-1 
North Carolina Tar Heels 

TAR HEELS RUSHING 
When the Cardinal were successful last week, it was when bruising back Toby Gerhart ran straight into -and right over ­the defense. Stanford averaged 4.4 yards per carry but, luckily for the Irish, had to abandon the ground game after falling behind early. 
The Tar Heels' run game has struggled almost as much as Notre Dame's at times, ranking 89th nationally with just over 120 yards per game. But Shawn Draugh racked up 109 yards in last week's blowout. Their leading rusher, Greg Little, is a converted wide receiver. 


TAR HEELS PASSING 
Both David Bruton and Kyle McCarthy had inter­ceptions, and Pat Kuntz wrecked havoc with a pair of sacks and a pick of his own. The blitzes worked last week to the tune of five sacks, and consistent pressure would certainly help the secondary in coverage. 
Sexton only threw for 117 yards last week, but he didn't need to beat Connecticut -the Huskies beat themselves with turnovers. He strug­gled to fmd big-play man Brandon Tate (23.5 yards per catch), a gamebreak­er the Irish would prefer to keep quiet. 
All season lrng, the lri<ih have talkoo alxlutearning their respect Well, they certainly haven't earnoo the repect ofJXJ!Eters with their 4-1 stmt ThE W£k is a dJance to dJange 1hat -on the road against an opJXlnent rankoo No. 22 the AP poll and just missed making the Coadlffi' JXllL NotreDame already has the experi­

North Carolina 2008 Schedule 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
Sept.11  atRutgers-W  
Sept. 20  Va. Tech-L  
Sept. 27  atMiami-W  
Oct. 4  UConn-W  
Oct. 11  Notre Dame  
Oct. 18  atVIrginia  
Oct. 25  Boston College  
Nov. 8  Georgia Tech  
Nov.15  atMaryland  
Nov. 22  NCState  
Nov. 29  at Duke  

INTANGIBLES 
z 
0 
..... 
::c 
m 
c 
>
s: 
m 
z 
0 
::c 
.....
:::c 
(') 
>
::c 
0 
!:: 
:z 
> 




Notre Dame has looked impressive at home in the past few weeks, but a trip to Tobacco road won't be that easy. Clausen and the offense will contin­ue to impress, but a talented Tar Heel team will be able to play a complete game on Saturday -some­
AP: 22 
Coache!s: NR 
Butch Davis 2nd season at North Carolina career record: 8-9 against Notre Dame: 0-0 

Butch Davis head coach 

Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht  Wt.  YR  
Brooks Foster  WR  6-3  205  SR  
Cooter Arnold  WR  5-10  190  SR  
Kenton Thorton  WR  6-5  230  JR  
Peter Mangum  DB  5-10  173  FR  
Bobby Rome  FB  5-11  245  )R  
Jamal Wamble  RB  5-10  220  FR  
Anthony Elzy  RB  5-10  205  so  
Mike Paulus  QB  6-5  215  FR  
Josh Stewart  s  6-1  180  so  
Greg Little  RB  6-3  220  so  
9  Marvin Austin  DT  6-3  300  so  
10  Melvin Williams  DB  6-0  195  JR  
11  Cameron Sexton  QB  6-1  190  JR  
11  Casey Barth  PK  5-11  170  FR  
12  Charles Brown  CB  5-10  200  so  
12  Kyle Holland  QB  6-2  215  FR  
13  T.J. Yates  QB  6-3  215  so  
14  Braden Hanson  QB  6-6  195  FR  
15  Anthony Parker-Boyd  WR  6-0  205  so  
16  Kendrick Burney  CB  5-9  185  so  
17  Zack Pianalto  TE  6-4  250  so  
18  Jay Wooten  PK  6-3  195  FR  
19  Terrence Brown  p  6-3  190  SR  
20  Trey Fulcher  WR  6-4  211  FR  
21  Shaun Draughn  RB  6-0  205  so  
21  Da'Norris Searcy  s  6-0  200  so  
23  Josh Washburn  WR  6-0  180  )R  
23  Jordan Hemby  CB  5-10  185  JR  
24  Steven Hatley  RB  5-10  215  FR  
25  TavorrisJolly  CB  5-11  180  so  
25  MattMerletti  s  5-11  200  so  
26  Lee Browne  WR  5-10  175  FR  
27  Richie Rich  CB  5-9  190  JR  
28  Deunta Williams  s  6-2  205  so  
29  Jonathan Smith  s  6-2  200  OS  
29  Brian Gupton  CB  6-3  195  FR  
30  Reid Phillips  PK  5-10  175  so  
30  Trase Jones  PK  6-0  185  so  
31  Quentin Plair  WR  6-1  180  so  
32  Trimane Goddard  s  5-11  200  SR  
32  Ryan Houston  RB  6-2  250  so  
33  Tyler Caldwell  s  5-10  185  )R  
33  Christian Wilson  RB  6-3  235  FR  
34  Hayden Hunter  LB  6-0  225  so  
34  johnny White  CB  5-10  205  so  
35  Brett Long  WR  5-9  175  SR  
35  Herman Davidson  DB  6-2  210  FR  
36  Carter Brown  RB  5-7  220  so  
36  Kennedy Tinsley  LB  6-0  190  JR  
37  Kenan Gay  WR  6-3  190  )R  
37  LaCount Fantroy  CB  5-11  230  FR  
38  Curtis Byrd  FB  6-1  230  so  
39  Brian White  DL  6-3  225  JR  
40  Grant Shallock  p  6-7  225  so  
41  Darius Powell  DE  6-3  230  so  
42  Mark Paschal  LB  6-0  260  SR  
43  Robert Quinn  DL  6-5  215  FR  
44  Jabir Jones  s  6-1  230  SR  
45  Chase Rice  LB  6-3  240  SR  
45  Devon Ramsay  RB  6-2  190  FR  
47  Josh Bridges  LB  6-2  220  FR  
49  Zach Brown  LB  6-2  240  FR  
51  Ryan Taylor  LB  6-3  250  )R  
51  Trevor Stuart  DS  6-3  225  so  
52  Brandon Roberts  LB  6-0  235  FR  
53  Quan Sturdivant  LB  6-2  215  so  
54  Kenneth Harris  LB  6-4  230  FR  
55  Bruce Carter  LB  6-3  230  so  
55  Linwan EuweU  LB  6-2  334  FR  
56  Trey Strickland  OL  6-6  200  FR  
56  Alex Crisp  LB  6-0  283  so  
57  Peyton Jenest  OL  6-5  225  FR  
58  DionGuy  LB  6-4  220  FR  
60  Ebele Okakpu  LB  6-2  300  FR  
61  Zach Handerson  OT  6-7  215  so  
61  Mark House  DS  6-1  300  so  
62  T. Moore Evins  OL  6-2  272  FR  
64  Scott Mincey  OL  6-2  295  FR  
65  Jonathan Cooper  OL  6-3  300  FR  
66  Cam Holland  c  6-2  300  FR  
67  Mike Ingersoll  OT  6-5  285  so  
67  Morgan Randall  OG  6-6  215  so  
68  Nolan Fry  DS  5-11  300  FR  
69  Mike Dykes  OG  6-4  290  FR  
70  Lowell Dyer  c  6-4  325  )R  
71  AlanPelc  OG  6-6  295  so  
72  Carl Gaskins  OT  6-5  300  FR  
73  Kyle jolly  OT  6-6  290  JR  
74  Aaron Stahl  c  6-2  285  )R  
75  Sam Ellis  OG  6-5  310  so  
76  Garrett Reynolds  OT  6-7  310  SR  
77  Bryan Bishop  OG  6-4  340  SR  
78  Kevin Bryant  OG  6-7  280  FR  
79  Jordan Nix  DL  6-4  310  so  
80  Calvin Darity  OG  6-3  265  SR  
80  Ed Barham  TE  6-3  243  so  
81  Kenny Owens  DL  6-0  260  FR  
82  B.). Phillips  TE  6-5  190  so  
83  Todd Harrelson  WR  6-2  220  FR  
84  Dwight Jones  WR  6-4  235  FR  
85  Vince Jacobs  DE  6-7  240  so  
86  Rashad Mason  WR  6-5  238  FR  
86  Randy White  TE  6-5  195  FR  
87  Adam Curry  DL  6-4  210  FR  
88  Brandon Tate  WR  6-1  260  SR  
89  Hakeem Nicks  TE  6-1  245  JR  
90  Richard Quinn  DE  6-4  300  SR  
91  Quinton Copies  DT  6-6  255  FR  
91  Tydreke Powell  TE  6-3  280  FR  
92  AI Williams  DE  6-3  330  FR  
93  E.J. Wilson  DT  6-3  245  )R  
94  Cam Thomas  DL  6-3  290  JR  
95  Michael McAdoo  DE  6-7  295  FR  
96  Greg Elleby  DT  6-5  300  so  
97  Tavares Brown  DT  6-0  300  )R  
98  AlericMullins  DE  6-3  275  )R  

Irish 

ence c{ ooe bad road game under its belt, but 1his thing Weis' troops have yet to do. This team 9iffilS like it learns quickly fiDm its mistakes. one may come down to a field goal, and NotreDame hang:;on for a win. we all know how that ends. 
experts

ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28 FINAL SCORE: North Carolina 24 
North Carolina 27 Notre Dame 21 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 1 0, 2008 
Crunching the numbers 
2008 SEASON AVERAGES PER GAME 
ND points scored 
UNC points scored 
ND points allowed 
UNC points allowed 
ND rush yards UNC rush yards 
ND rushing allowed UNC rushing allowed 
ND pass yards UNC pass yards 
ND passing allowed UNC passing allowed 



What's your. vorite spot on campus? 
I'd have to say Walsh Hall. I've had some great naps there. 
Why did you choose No. 20? 
Growing up, I was a tailback and a big Barry Sanders fan. Initially that's why I wore it. When I switched to defense, it kind of just suited me. 
Who's the loudest player on the team? 
Definitely Robert Blanton. He just doesn't stop. Whatever comes out of his mouth is some heavy stuff to him. You just feel the conviction behind his words. And a lot of times, you'll be like what is he talking about, when is he ever going to stop? I've just accepted the fact that he's just going to keep talking. 
Who's the quietest player on the team? 
Mo Crum. Especially when we were freshmen. He talks more now, but when we got here when we were freshmen, a lot of people thought he was mute. 
Do you have any pregame rituals? 
The night before every game I wear my lucky pajamas. These pajamas that my 
great-grandmother sent me. She was afraid I would get too cold out here. 
What's your favorite post-game meal? 
My mom's lasagna. She takes turkey ground meat and Italian sausage and double-layers it. She makes a Cobb salad on the side with tomatoes, which is awe­some. Then to finish it off is peach cob­bler fresh out of the oven with two scoops of vanilla bean on top. It's f1aw­less. 
Do you have any pregame rituals? 
The night before every game I wear my lucky pajamas. These pajamas that my great-grandmother sent me. She was afraid I would get too cold out here. 
How would your teammates describe you in jive words or less? 
Calm, laid back, funny, cooler than the other side of the pillow. 
What's your biggest pel peeve? 
People do not lift up the toilet seat when they pee. I hate tinkles on the toi­let seat. I've socked linemen in the chest over that. It's just inconsiderate. It's one arm movement that takes half a second. 

Friday, October I 0, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
McNeil excited about playing near home 
By BILL BRINK Sporrs Editor 
Haeshon McNeil has looked forward to the North Carolina game since he saw it on the schedule. Little did he know it would force him into a mad scramble to find tickets for his friends and family. 
"It's started a long time ago," the junior cornerback said. "We've been swapping and trying to do everything since the summertime trying to get more tickets. We're up to about 20 
"Blanton actually got a pretty good deal," McNeil said. "He got most of the freshmen class. He swooped them up real quick. I'm wait­ing on the scout team player of the week to see who gets picked up so I can get those tickets." 
Many people from McNeil's graduating class attend UNC, McNeil said, but the in-state school wasn't for him. His mother and grandmother wanted him to go out of state so he could experience more than what his small town had 
to offer. 

now. I need as many as I can  ''This is really my  "I didn't really do too much  
get." McNeil grew up in Cooleemee,  first year getting extreme exposure to the game. I feel like  traveling due to financial rea­sons," McNeil said. "My moth­ 
N.C., about two hours from Chapel llill.  I'm making strides as it goes along. "  er and even my grandmother, who I stayed  
When  the  with  a  lot dur­ 
Fighting Irish  Raeshon McNeil  ing high school,  
face  No.  22  Irish cornerback  wanted  me  to  
North Carolina  get out and go  
in Chapel Hill  see some other  

tomorrow, McNeil's family things because I come from a and friends will get a chance small town." to see him play in person, McNeil's high school coach, something many haven't done Doug Illing, will attend the since Notre Dame played the game and watch McNeil play. Tar Ileels in South Bend in Illing watches McNeil's games 2006. and calls him afterward to 
"This will be a great oppor­discuss his play. tunity," he said. "I've got a lot "He stays on top of me ... of family and coaches there, lets me know he's proud of so it will be great." me," McNeil said. 
McNeil had to compete with Safeties David Bruton and fellow North Carolinians Kyle McCarthy received most Hobert Blanton and Kerry of the attention on Notre Neal for tickets. Dame's secondary so far, but 
defensive coordinator Corwin Brown said the secondary is still in the learning process. 
"You always want guys to play better, no matter what level you're at," Brown said. "They've made a lot of plays for us this year. We ask our guys to do a variety of things. They play man, they play zone, they play combo cover­age, they blitz, we ask our guys to tackle." 
Brown said he wants to see his cornerbacks become more consistent on a play-to-play basis and make every play, as unreachable a goal as that may seem. 
"Those other guys are going to win too," Brown said. "You say that might be unrealistic, but that's what you want as a coach and as a player." 
MeN eil said fellow corner­back Terrail Lambert has progressed more quickly than he has because of his experi­ence, but McNeil has pro­gressed with more playing time. 
"This is really my first year getting extreme exposure to the game," he said. "I feel like I'm making strides as it goes along." 
Brown said he needled McNeil about going home, but hasn't discussed it with him. McNeil said he's been jacked up this week, and it's been rubbing off on his teammates, no matter what position. 
"All throughout practice I've been telling my guys, this is Carolina week," he said. "Emotions are definitely 

going to be high. It's definite­ game.  
ly something I'm going to  "He told  me  he  was gonna  
have to control throughout the game."  wear a Notre Dame shirt and Carolina shorts," McNeil said.  •  
The most interesting thing  "He was talking about paint­ 
to watch will be how McNeil's  ing his face half blue and half  
friends portray their dual  green with  a  question mark  
affection for the Tar Heels  on both sides."  
and  Irish.  McNeil  said  a  
friend of his has  a  plan to  Contact Bill Brink at  
split his allegiances at the  wbrink@nd.edu  

Ranked Tar Heels riding a hot streak and full of confidence 

Yates went down because of an 
By DAN MURPHY 
injury during the team's only loss Sports Editor 
to Virginia Tech. 
In their past two games the 
Notre Dame is 16-1 all time Tar Heels have knocked off the against North Carolina. The Miami Hurricanes and trounced team's .941 winning percentage No. 24 Connecticut 38-12. With against the Tar Heels is the high­Yates out of the picture, Davis' est against any opponent the team has been getting the job Irish have faced at least 12 done on defense and special times. teams. 
Traditionally North Carolina Sophomore linebacker Bruce has been a cakewalk for the Carter blocked three punts Irish. This time around it's a against the Huskies, one of much different story. which led 
The 4-1 Tar directly to a Heels were Tar Heel ranked in the AP touchdown.
"We know confidence­
Top 25 -No. 22 -"Honestly, I
wise that we were a
this week for the have only first time in seven good football team, watched it one years. time when we
sometimes I think we 
"It is a big con­watched film
don't realize how good 
fidence booster," yesterday. I am Tar Heels tail­we can be as a team." still surprised back Shaun today, so I will Draughn said. probably go
Shaun Draughn
"We know confi­back and
UNC tailback
dence-wise that we were a good football team, sometimes I think we don't real­ize how good we can be as a team." 
Second-year head coach Butch Davis has already matched his win total from his first year at Chapel Hill when the Tar Heels went 4-8. In fact, North Carolina has not won more than four games in a season since 2005, when it went 5-7. 
"We are enjoying it, no doubt," junior quarterback Cameron Sexton said. "Football is a lot of hard work and to have some success now -we are enjoying it." 
Sexton has stepped in and led his team to two impressive wins after starting quarterback T.J. 
watch it again 
sometime," 
Carter said. 

Along with the three blocked kicks, North Carolina also helped its field position with three inter­ceptions off of former Irish quar­terback Zach Frazer. Frazer was making his first start for Connecticut after leaving Notre Dame last year. 
The three picks gave North Carolina's defense 12 total inter­ceptions on the year -more than any other team in the country. Safety Trimane Goddard leads the way with four on his own, but eight different players have intercepted a pass so far this season. 
"What North Carolina likes to do is rush their front four and drop seven," Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen said. 'They get a lot of pressure up front. It makes it hard on the quarterback with the front four getting a lot of pressure and seven guys drop into coverage." 
Clausen said the speedy, ath­letic UNC secondary is probably the toughest he has faced in his collegiate career. 
"They're pretty good, pretty fast, physical as well. So it will be a good challenge for us," he said. 
Clausen has gone 109 passing attempts since his last intercep­tion, which was during the sec­ond quarter of Notre Dame's 23­7 loss to Michigan State on Sept. 
20. His streak will definitely be put to the test tomorrow. 
According to Clausen, the key to breaking down the tough zone defense is to be patient and allow his receivers to sit down in the small holes downfield. 
"There are tight windows, small windows, and you have to take what they give you," he said. 
Against Connecticut, the turnovers and field position allowed North Carolina to put up 38 points despite being held to 263 total yards of offense. The Huskies picked up 10 more first downs and threw for almost 100 more yards than their oppo­nents, but could not overcome their own mistakes. 
The Tar Heels started five of their drives in Husky territory, and three more on the 40-yard line or better. 
In two short years, Davis has turned around the North Carolina program and has his teams winning games in any way that they can. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 10, 2008 

PRIME STEAKS AND SEAFOOD • SPORTS THEATRE ROOM WITH 15' SCREEN SEATING FOR OVER 500 I:;ARG..EST MA~TINI BAR IN THE AREA 
-

PRIVATE DINING OUTDOOR SEAT;ING BANQUETS -CATERING
• 
" CW<"· ..
0 11'2w:::r;:v:1 :,-~. 
" 
other, 

-
· c.tal· Notre D~ ~oatball Radio Show. fiii$;ie Br<)ok;r;; each Monday at 7:00 prt'l
oughNd'Vember24-WSBT 960 AM. 

Additional 2008 

The Sari Soldiers • Nepali language with English subtitles • Friday, November 14 • Join director Julie Bridgham
Fall Semester Events 
know no boundaries 

World View 1s an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive ~UNIVERSITY OF 
·~'ill~ DEBARTOLO dialogue about issues of race, class, ethnicity, religion, and gender through the arts. ~NOTRE DAME \~,iii' PERFORM NG ARTS CENTER 
Office of the !'resident 






