
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 106 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28,2008 t_., /, ,, 
University announces tech park 
Midwest Academy for Nanoelectronics and Architecture will bring technology, jobs to area 
nanotechnology consortium "Notre Dame has a [longl vice president for research 
By KATIE PERALTA 
on Notre Dame's campus. history in work with nan­Robert Bernhard, and 
News Writer 
The research center, otechnology," Dennis Brown, University President Fr. 
called the Midwest Academy assistant vice president for John Jenkins. 
Notre Dame is taking big for Nanoelectronics and news and information, said. The research consortium steps in the development of Architecture (MANA). is a Brown was joined at the at Notre Dame will work in small things -very small. part of a nationwide effort conference by Indiana gov­partnership with Purdue 
Local, national and to develop nanotechnology ernor Mitch Daniels, University in West University officials as well that aims to optimize per­Indiana speaker of the Lafayette, Ind., according to as executives from IBM and formance capabilities of House Pat Bauer, Daniels. Roughly a third of the Semiconductor Research computer devices. Congressman Joe Donnelly, the research will take place Corporation met Tuesday Officials chose Notre Dame D-South Bend, South Bend at Purdue. · afternoon on the 14th floor for MANA because it is a mayor Steve Lueke, Purdue The entire budget for the of the Hesburgh Library to prime Midwest capital for University interim provost announce the opening of a research initiatives. Vic Lechtenberg, University see TECH/page 8 
Student 


VISitors protest Monologues discusses 
Catholic action group believes play conflicts with Church's morals 
By TESS CIVANTOS 

violence 
News Writer 

College senior shares 
A group of 11 protested the presenee of the Vagina

experience of abuse 
Monologues being performed this 
week on Notre Dame's eampus at 
the intersection of Notre Dame 

By SARAH MAYER 
Avenue and Angela Boulevard 

News Writer 
Tuesday Mareh 25. The protesters came from thP. Saint Mary's senior social 
Tradition, Family and Property work major Connie Adams 
(TFP) student aetion group, and explained the cycle of violence 
were led by the group's direetor, and the way women think in 
John Ritchie. None of the protest­abusive relationships during a 
ers were from Notre Dame, Saint leeture in Vander Vennet 
Mary's or Holy Cross College. Theatnr Tuesday. 
"We are volunteers," said Adams drew on her intern­
Hitchie, explaining the group ship at thn YWCA center for 
drove from Pennsylvania to domestie violenee victims to 
protest. lie said the protesters try to portray the realities of 
are on spring break from Our violence in relationships to 
Lady Seat of Wisdom Institute. those in attendance. 
"What really motivates us to In a brief overview Adams 
protest is our Catholic faith," flxplained that two to four 
Ritehie said. "Being faithful to the women arc physically abused 
moral teaehings of the Church is and between the ages of 18­
so important to us that anytime 64 one in four women will 
we see something opposing it, we WU VUE/The Observer have been abused. 
Members of the Tradition, Family and Property student action 
see PROTEST/page 8 group protest the Vagina Monologues' production Tuesday. forms, she said. It can be physieal (shoving, bloeking exits rape), verbal (yelling, 
Abuse can be done in many 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 



S.B. police chase n1an to can1pus 
Man in possession of cocaineflees from road 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Police continued search­ing for a man who fled from his vehicle on the Toll Road and eluded 
police  during  a  chase  
through  Notre  Dame's  
eampus  early  Sunday  
morning.  
A  traffie  seanner  

described the man as a black male wearing a white shirt and he was said to be in possession of about three grams of cocaine. 
According to the South Bend Tribune, the Indiana State Police conducted a comprehensive search of the area, including using a K-9 unit, to traek the sus­pect. The man was last seen near the Morris Inn. 
Phil Johnson, director of Notre Dame Security Police (NDSPI said NDSP assisted in the search, but refused to eomment fur­ther. 
"We were asked to assist another police agency and offered that assistance in looking for someone who had fled from them," he said. "That person was not located. [Any more infor­mation] would have to be gotten from the Indiana State Police." 
The Indiana State Police said they were not pre­pared to comment when The Observer eontaeted 
see TOLL ROAD/page 4 

sareasm, insults), emotional (stalking, ignoring, mind 

SMC students attend conference in Dubai
games), sexual and finaneial. Adams also addressed the issue of gender in abusive 
as Global Leaders
relationships. 
By LIZ HARTER 
Conferenee whieh ran
"I am going to be referring 
Saint Mary's Editor 
March 10-12.
to the abuser as 'he' and the 
The group spent nine
victim as 'she' beeause in 90 
While many students days in the country withpercent of the cases the 
were basking on a beach or their advisor Joy Evans, the
womP.n are the victim," visiting family members assistant direetor for schol­
Adams said. 
over spring break, five arship and research at theIn most abusive relation­Saint Mary's students were Center for Women'sships the beginning is very 
preparing to attend a lead­InterCultural Leadership
normal, she said, due to feel­ership eonference at Zayed (CWIL) visiting mosques,ings of new, exeiting attrac­University in Dubai, one of historical sites, and thetion. But. Adams said things 
the seven United Arab Sheikh Mohammed Centre
change when the abuser 
Emirates. for Cultural Understandingstarts asking questions. such 
Seniors Sarita Fritzler along with attending the 
as who the vietim is going to and Chelsea Iverson, jun­eonferenee.
be with. where she ·is going, 
iors Becki Faunce and Rodriguez said she and
what she is doing, what she is 
Sarah Barnes, and sopho­the others who attendedwearing, that may not sP.em 
more Adriana Rodriguez the eonference are all
abusive at first but ultimately joined over 2000 delegates involved in different waysare possessive. 
from universities through­see ABUSE/page 6 
out the world at the Women see D UBAII page 3 

-------------------~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 26, 2008 
QUESTION OF Tl-IE DAY: IF THE HUDDLE COULD SELL ANYrHING, WHAT WOULD YOU WANT IT TO SELL AND WHY? 
Trouble on God Quad 
Sorin is not a residence of war (or a 

residenee for Ares, either -if' you 
know your Greek mythology). 
We are not mercenaries seeking a 

fight at every available avenue, nor 
are we expansionist territory-mongers 
(but don't touch 
our Bond back­John Tierney 
yard). 
We are peacf~­News Production 

loving Otters, Editor 
seeking naught 
but life, liberty, 
and happiness Everyone knows this; 
Sorin's disposition is sunnier than 
Honolulu on Tuesdays in July between 
the hours of four and seven in the 
afternoon. 
But our good nature has its limits. There are those on this campus who would take advantage of our kindly disposition to usurp our property and sully our reputation. They attack our very way of life and openly disdain those virtues we hold dear. They have committed egregious offenses directed at Sorin College for generations, with no signs of stopping and without action on our behalf. 
There comes a time in 1wery Ottnr's life whern he must stand up and fight for that in which he believes, though lw might not understand it. That time is now (actually two days ago, but this is the earliest we could get it in The Observer). 
No longer will we be held prisoner to the whims of a dictatorial regime sim­ply out of our own chivalry and love of lazing around tlw house. While they have tho advantage of numbers, we are superior to them in experience, wisdom, and swimming abilities. 
There will be casualties: dignities will bn crushed, fnelings tweaked. and maybe evnn a few contusions. But can wn go on living as we live now'? Going through our daily routines as if noth­ing is wrong, while knowing all the while of the wholesale oppression of our people being perpetrated by a group of smelly girls? 
They must see the consequences. They must see what they get. They rn ust see what they get when they mess with the otters. And though they might be wild women, we are scream­ing otters. And otters never give up. 
Our resolve will be put to the test, but we shall prevail over the tyranny we face. 
And then we shall dance. 

With this document, therefore. we men of Sorin College hereby declare war on Walsh Hall. 
Premier Soriano will be given all chances to yield sovereignty, but this cession need be timely (and for our own purposes, only digital clocks will be used). At 0900 hours tomorrow (that means sometime around noon, if you can't read army time), vanguard forces will mobilize, and the annexa­tion of' Walsh Hall will be inevitable, unstoppable, irreversible, unceasing, and kind of sexy... in an otter kind of way. 
In closing, please understand that we are really. really serious and if you don't believe us, you should ask some­body from Sorin. 
Signed, The Otters 

The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofTiw Obsemer. 
Contact John Tierney at tiemP!f 16@nd.edu 







Tom Banasiak  Aaron Martinuzzi  Leah Miller  JenniFong  Luke Fitzgerald  
freshman Knott  senior off-campus  junior Lewis  senior Pangborn  junior Keough  
"Bouncy balls, because they keep on giving. "  "Alcohol, tobacco and firearms, so the ATF will stop sending me  "Wool socks -for the days when weather. com is wrong.  "Stamps so they stop asking for them here at the info desk. "  "Beer, so we can use Domer Dollars and Flex points instead ofour  

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
0:: UJ ::1: 

!;;: 
UJ 
3: 
...... 
c( 
(.) 0 




HIGH 46 HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH 51
...I LOW 31 LOW LOW LOW LOW LOW 36 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives f(>r the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contacr us at 631-4)41 so we can correct our error. 

Atlanta 69 I 39 Boston 55 I 36 Chicago 46 I 30 Denver 67 I 33 Houston 77 I 60 Los Angeles 69 I 54 Minneapolis 43 126 New York 58 I 37 Philadelphia 61 I 40 Phoenix 86 I 59 Seattle 45 I 37 St. Louis 56 142 Tampa 77 I 50 Washington 65 1 39 
letters about international transactions. " 

,, 
own money. 
IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame's College Democrats will host a ques­tion and answer session with presidential candidate Hillary Clinton's daughter Chelsea Clinton and actor Sean Astin today at 10:30 a.m. in Legends restaurant. 
Christian Quendler will dis­cuss "Theory in Motion: Media Blends in Vachel Lindsay's The Art of the Moving Picture (1915/22)", a lecture examining the pio­neering American lilm theorist Vachel Lindsay's foundational role in the development of a theoretical framework for the study of film at the beginning of the twentieth century today at 4::Hl p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
There will be information sessions regarding the Irish Guard tonight and tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Band Building. All students are wel­come. 
A group of advanced stu­dents from the Department of Music will give a short classi­cal concert in Penote Performers Hall in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Thursday at 12:10 p.m. Admission is free, but tickets are required. 
Breen-Phillips Hall is host­ing the fifth annual Princess for a Night event Saturday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Donated prom dresses will be given to local girls who attend the event at the College Football Hall of Fame. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
OFFBEAT 

Man declared dead feels 'pretty good' 
OKlAHOMA CITY -Four months after he was declared brain dead and doc­tors were about to remove his organs for transplant, Zach Dunlap says he feels "pretty good." 
Dunlap was pronounced dead Nov. 19 at United Regional Healthcare System in Wichita Falls, Texas, after he was injured in an all-ter­rain vehicle accident. His family approved having his organs harvested. 
As family members were paying their last respects, he moved his foot and hand. He reacted to a pocketknife scraped across his foot and to pressure applied under a fingernail. After 48 days in the hospital, he was allowed to return home, where he continues to work on his recovery. 
On Monday, he and his family were in New York, appearing on NBC's "Today." 
"I feel pretty good. but it's just hard ... just ain't got the patience," Dunlap told NBC. 
Man drives two cars into post office 
RAVENDEN SPRINGS, Ark. -Not only the postman rings twice. A Jackson 
County man remained in jail Monday after he drove two cars into the post office in Ravenden Springs. 
Handolph County Sheriff Gary Tribble said Glenn Irvin Sparling, 65, drove one vehi­cle into the post office on Sunday, and fled the scene. The sheriff told Jonesboro television station KAIT that the car stopped running. So Sparling went home and got another vehicle, a red antiqUe sports car, and start­ed driving back to the post office. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 




Wednesday, March 26, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Spanish, Sociology clubs ask for trip funds 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Two co-sponsorships were presented at the Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting Tuesday ~vening as representatives from the Sociology Department and Spanish Club attended the meeting to ask BOG to help fund some of their upcoming events 
Nicole Loughridge, a senior in the sociology department, asked for money to help fund attendance for her and four students at the North Central Sociology Association (NCSA) Conference, March 27-29 in Cincinnati, Ohio, with three other seniors. Three of the stu­dents are going to present their senior comprehensives, two of which have already won prizes. 
"That is exciting for Saint Mary's as a whole," Loughridge said. 
The seniors will be showing their comprehensives to sociol­ogy professionals and students from colleges from seven differ­ent states in the Midwest. 
Since 2004, Saint Mary's has been awarded the first, second or third place prize, Loughridge said. The women attending want to gain recognition for Saint Mary's 
Junior Spanish Club treasurer Becca Mason was also at Tuesday's meeting in search of funds for a symposium the club is setting up for gender bias. The symposium will take place on Oct. 2-3. 
The club will be showing a film on the first day along with several guest speakers on both days. Professors from Rutgers University and Ohio State, as well as professors from Saint Mary's, will speak. Topics will range from the effect the Iraq war has on women, the dis­placement of women in Africa and the trafficking of women in Eastern Europe, Mason said. 
In other BOG news: 
+Mickey Gruscinski, the stu­dent body president-elect, and Sarah Falvey, the student body vice president-elect attended the meeting in preparation for the turnover at next Tuesday's meeting. 
+Cassie Quaglia, president of the Residence Hall Association, said Le Mans Hall will be selling sweatshirts in the Student Center Atrium during lunch and dinner. 
+Student body president Kim Hodges said there will be birth­day cake in the Student Center Atrium Wednesday at 11 a.m. through lunch for Feb. and March birthdays. Everyone is welcome to help themselves. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Dubai 
continued from page 1 
on campus through different student government groups and they all plan on incorpo­rating the things they learned through those organizations and in their classes. 
Barnes agreed with her and said that she has already begun to share her experiences with her Critical Issues in Mass Communications course. 
"We all definitely plan on implementing what we learned at Saint Mary's," Barnes said. ''I'm talking to my class about what I observed about the media in Dubai." 
Each of the women who attended the conference are applicants for the new CWIL Certificate for Intercultural Learning which debuted this year. 
"For the last couple years we've really been developing the structure and process [of the certificate]," said Evans, who is also one of the key leaders of the program. The leaders did work on the cer­tificate for about two years until they were ready to run what she called a "pilot year." 
Participants of the pro­gram are required to attend a kick-off retreat, peer-men­toring meetings, advising meetings, the capstone retreat, and mentoring meetings with an interna­tional leader and a local commu·nity leader. There is also a study abroad require­ment, 50 hours of communi­ty-based service required, and a catalyst trip, also according to the certificate's Web site. 
All this must then be included in an inclusive leadership project and final­ly in the e-portfolio, accord­ing to the Web site. The portfolio highlights students' experiences studying abroad, reflection papers, power points, video clips, and digital essays, Evans said. 
"It's the idea that they're practicing their leadership and they're practicing the through several documents that the group read. 
Barnes said the group also talked to the mother of another Saint Mary's student who is from Morocco. 
"[The mother] talked to us about the culture and taught us basic Arabic phrases, which was so helpful," she said. "When we were in Dubai, we knew what to expect a lot of the time because of all the advice she gave us." 
Barnes said she learned a lot at the conference but the most important thing she learned was to try to be 
values of the "It's the idea that less ethnocen­
certificate tric.
they're practicing their 
program, as "[The con­
well," she leadership and they're ference] 
said. practicing the values taught me to Evans said understand a
ofthe certificate 
that while culture before 
studying program as well. "· trying to abroad is a 'help' them," requirement Barnes said.
Joy Evans 
of receiving "People are
Program advisor 
the certificate attending a conference of this magnitude is not. 
"This group of students got together and decided that they wanted to go to the conference," Evans said. "It was not paid for by the [cer­tificate] program at all." 
The group received most of its funding from CWIL, but also wrote grant proposals to the Board of Governance and Student Diversity Board. 
Rodriguez said it took a couple of months to prepare for the trip because they had to get the grants in order and then study the culture and language of Dubai 
often too eth­

nocentric and quick to impose their values on other cultures. A mutual understanding has to be reached before you can make any progress." 
Rodriguez said the trip was very informative and she is going to try to focus on people's similarities rather than differences in the future. 
"No matter what your cul­ture, religion, ethnicity or background we all have so many things in common with one another," she said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharter@saintmarys.edu 
Center for Asian Studies, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, East Asian Languages & Cultures, and the Provost Office's Asia Initiatives Present: 
love at First Sight: Romance and Relationships in Asian and Asian American Cinema 
MARCH 27-29, 2008 BROWNING CINEMA 
DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER University of Notre Dame 
Featured Films: 

Train Man Densha otoko (2005) The Trouble with Romance My Sassy Girl Omkara (2006) Japanese language (2007) Yeopgijeogin geunyeo (2001) Hindi and Assamese languages with English subtitles Friday, 3/28 at 7:00p.m. Korean language with English subtitles 
Thursday, 3127 at 7:00p.m. with English subtitles Saturday, 3129 at 10:00 p.m.
Introduction and O&A Saturday, 3129 at 7:00p.m.
Followed by Keynote Address: following the film by Emily Liu, Dr. Steven Ridgely (University of Notre Dame alumna and the Wisconsin, Madison), "Internet and film's producer and actress 
Video in Japanese Film and Anime" 

llckets on sale at the DPAC ticket office. Please call (574) 631-2800 for ticket information. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 26, 2008 
"They followed me to my 
room and asked me to come


Toll Road 
out of my room. The pro­continued from page 1 ceeded to question me for five or ten minutes." 
thom Tuosday. Thomas said officers Froshman Khai Thomas, asked to see his student ID who l'it tho and if he was 
doseriplion outside recently.
"From what they said

of tho sus­"From what poet, said they were looking for they said they 
NDSP asked a black male wearing were .looking for 
him several a black male
jeans and a white

questions in wearing jeans 
eonnoetion shirt, possibly and a white with the a do-rag." shirt, possibly a ease at 3 do-rag," he said. 
a.m. on "That's all they
Khai Thomas 

S u n d a y gave me." morning. Freshman After realizing 
"I was that Thomas coming from was a University the basnment of Alumni student, NDSP allowed him Hall with a couple frinnds to return to his room. of mine when I saw a cou­p lc poI ice offienrs walking Contact Joseph McMahon at through the hall," he said. jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
NOW HIRING: CAMPUS TOUR GUIDES 
Are Tou:In need of cash! Lookin~ iorarelaxed and iriendlyontCampus work environment! Excellentatwalkin~ backwardsand talkin~ loudly atthesame time! 
The Notre Dame Visitors'Center Is now hirin~ studenttour ~uides and desk workers for this summerand thecomingacademic year, We o~er flexible hours and competitive pay plus tips. Pleaseemail Andrew Hayes ateckvisit@nd.eduby Friday, March ustior more information. Don't pass on this opportunityearn cash atthe best workpbceon campus! 





To Be Eligible You Must Be: 
Returning to Notre Dame for Fall 2008 A minimum of 6' 2" in height In good standing academically 
INTERESTED? 
Attend either Information Session 
Wednesday, JHarch 26, 7:00p.m. or Thursday, krarch 27, 7:00p.m. 
Questions? Cal/631-7136 
Meetings to be held in the Band Buildin2: Middle Rehearsal Roon1. 











ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 26, 2008 ColvtPIUD FROM THE OBSERVER'S wmr SERV!CES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
At least 9 killed in drug shootout 
GUATEMALA CITY --Police say at least nine people have been killed and seven wounded in a shootout in eastern Guatemala that is likely tied to drug traffickers. 
Interior Ministry spokesman Ricardo Gatica Trejo says the nine people killed were apparent­ly ambushed Tuesday in the town ofTeculutan. 
Trejo says police have arrested three Mexicans and three Guatemalans who were carrying an arsenal of automatic rifles and grenades near the shootout. Investigators are still trying to determine if those arrested are linked to the attack. 
Saudi king calls for religious dialogue 
RIYADH --The Saudi king has made an impassioned plea for dialogue among Muslims, Christians and Jews --the first such proposal from a nation with no diplomatic ties to Israel and a ban on non-Muslim religious services and symbols. 
The message from King Abdullah, which was welcomed by Jewish, Christian and Muslim leaders, comes at a time of stalled peace initia­tives and escalating tensions in the region. 
Muslims have been angered by cartoons pub­lished in European papers seen as insulting the Prophet Muhammad and by the pope's baptiz­ing on Easter of a Muslim journalist who had conv1~rtcd to Catholicism. 
The arrests ended an ordeal that began Monday morning with a botched bank robbery in this town southeast of Caracas. The hostage standoff at the Banco Provincial branch was the longest in at least a decade in Venezuela.had stopped active work on a nuelear weapons program in 2003. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Crews rid water of sabnonella bacteria 
ALAMOSA, Colo. --Crews started pump­ing chlorine through this southern Colorado city's water system Tuesday to rid it of salmonella bacteria that has sickened nearly 250 people. 
Residents will not be able to drink the water until the last of the disinfecting chemical washes out of the water system, possibly a couple of weeks, officials said. Bathing with it may be allowed within a couple of days. 

Dozens seriously injured in train crash 
CANTON, Mass. --A train car loaded with lumber hit a stationary commuter train during the Tuesday afternoon rush hour, injuring dozens of people, authorities said. 
About 50 people reported mostly minor injuries, and 10 passengers and crew mem­bers were taken to hospitals, said Scott Farmelant, a spokesman for Massachusetts Bay Commuter Rail. He said he did not know the extent of those injuries. 
The commuter train's locomotive was not moving when it was hit by a CSX freight car that had rolled from a branch onto a main track south of Boston, said Joe Pesaturo, spokesman for the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority. The com­muter train's engineer was among those injured, he said. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Man charged with murder to go on trial 
INDIANAPOLIS --An Indianapolis man charged with killing two women and their chil­drCfl during an attempted drug robbery was scheduled Tuesday to go to trial next year. 
Thirty-year-old Ronald L. Davis was sched­uled to go on trial on Oct. 5, 2009, for murder and other charges connected to the Jan. 14 shooting deaths of Andrea Yarrell and Gina Hunt, both 24, and their children, 4-month-old Charlii Yarrell and 23-month-old Jordan Hunt. 
Marion Superior Court Judge Mark D. Stoner also scheduled a June 23 trial date for Tommy Warren, 24, who was charged with conspiracy to commit robbery in connection with the killings. 
Three other men facing charges in the slay­ings were negotiating possible plea agreements with prosecutors, said David Wyser, the chief trial deputy for the Marion County prosecutor's office. 
Accident kills 2 workers, injures 5 
Crane plummets 30 floors on a construction site, smashing nearby home 
Associated Press 
MIAMI --A 20-foot­long chunk of construc­tion crane plummeted 30 floors at the site of a high-rise condominium Tuesday, killing two workers and smashing into a home that the con­tractor used for storage, police said. 
Five other workers were injured, one criti­cally, at the site of the 40-plus-story luxury condo tower on Biscayne Bay. 
The part that fell was a section workers had been raising to extend the equipment's reach, Miami fire spokesman Ignatius Carroll said. The crane's main vertical section was intact. 
The section smashed through the Spanish-tiled roof of the two-story home, which Moss said had been used in the 1998 comedy film "There's Something About Mary." 
Emergency workers and dogs found no evidence of trapped victims, but fire officials said rescue efforts were hampered because the crane section remained unstable. An injured worker lies on the ground after a crane fell from a Miami Rescue workers were try­struction site Tuesday. ing to secure a severely damaged wall before re­construction, said the Administration had two late tower cranes or entering the house to accident occurred when a investigators at the site. crane operators, but bills check for anyone inside. subcontractor tried to Darlene Fossum, an moving through both 
David Martinez, 31, a raise the crane section area director for the houses of the Legislature pipe fitter, was on the and it came loose. agency, said Bovis Lend would change that. fourth floor of the condo The company is cooper­Lease had partnered with In 2006, a fatal crane tower eating lunch when ating with investigators, OSHA in the past and was accident in Miami-Dade the crash occurred. she said. considered a company County prompted local 
"It was like a small "Our hearts are heavy that went "above and officials to work with earthquake," he said. at this moment for the beyond" in terms of safe­industry leaders on an "We looked outside, and two deceased individuals, ty and health. ordinance that would we couldn't even see." It including one of our own Fossum added that beef up inspections and took several minutes for employees and the addi­OSHA issued five viola­safety measures for lift­the dust to clear, tional injured workers," tions against Morrow in a ing cranes. The law is to Martinez said. she said in a statement. December 1999 incident go into effect Friday. 
One of those killed died The subcontractor, in Florida, but those Tuesday's accident in the house, and the Morrow Equipment Co., mostly involved problems came 10 days after a 20­other died at a hospital, and the tower developer, with digging and not story crane toppled at a police spokesman Delrish Royal Palms cranes. The Salem, Ore.­New York construction Moss said. Communities, did not based company has faced site, killing seven people. 
Mary Costello, a senior return phone messages 15 inspections nation­The crane demolished a vice president for Bovis seeking comment. wide. four-story town house Lend Lease Holdings Inc., The U.S. Office of Safety The state of Florida and damaged several which was managing the and Health does not license or regu-other buildings. 
IRAQ 


Troops fight Shiite lllilitia for control of oil 
Associated Press era! Baghdad neighborhoods. in the south was "very complicated" 
U.S. and Iraqi troops backed by hel­and "the potential for miscalculation 
BAGHDAD --Iraq's leaders faced icopters fought Shiite militiamen in is high." their gravest challenge in months Baghdad's Sadr City district after the The burgeoning crisis --part of an Tuesday as Shiite militiamen loyal to local office of Prime Minister Nouri intense power struggle among Shiite anti-American cleric Muqtada al­al-Maliki's Dawa Party came under political factions --has major impli­Sadr battled government forces for attack, the U.S. said. Residents of the cations for the United States. An control of the southern oil capital, area reported intermittent explosions escalation could unravel the cease­fought U.S. and Iraqi troops in and gunfire in the area late Tuesday. fire which al-Sadr proclaimed last Baghdad and unleashed rockets on An American soldier was killed in August. A resumption of fighting by the Green Zone. fighting Tuesday afternoon in his militia could kill more U.S. sol­
Armed Mahdi Army militiamen Baghdad, the U.S. military said. No diers and threaten --at least in the appeared on some Baghdad streets further details were released, and it short run --the security gains for the first time in more than six was unclear whether Shiite militia­Washington has hailed as a sign that months, as al-Sadr's followers men were responsible. Iraq is on the road to recovery. announced a nationwide campaign of Although all sides appeared reluc­The confrontation will also test the strikes and demonstrations to protest tant to trigger a conflagration, Brig. skill and resolve of Iraq's Shiite-led a government crackdown on their Gen. Ed Cardon, assistant command­government in dealing with Shiite movement. Merchants shuttered their er of the U.S. task force operating militias, with whom the national shops in commercial districts in sev-south of Baghdad, said the situation leadership had maintained close ties. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 26, 2008 
abuse." The final stagn is thn "explo­

Abuse 

"Women always look
lw rarmot lw all anotlH~r room had," shP said. at how the looking for 
Adams rPlat­tlwm. hll would
ref a tionship started 
nd PVPrything t hn n put tlw
and think he's a
shn said to llw keys back and thrPP-Stl'p human being, he act like they "ryciP of' vio­were tlwre thP
cannot be all bad." 
lnricP." whole time. TIH·· l"irst slPJl In retrospect 
Connie Adams 
is thP "honPV­tlw abusPr rnoon"' phas~·. SMC senior knows what lw 
continued from page 1 
"MaybP shP has .a big midtnrnr to study for· and slw newels to IPaVP and hn blocks lwr PXit or pulls lwr hark on tlw futon -it's tlw littiP acts." Adams said. 
ThP abusP may just start with a slap across tlw f'ac~e llwn an immPdiate apology. The women LPnd to look past thai though. 
"Wonwn always look at how thn n>lationship started and t h i n k lw 's a human !wing. 

sion" phase, an extreme increase in physical. verbal or sexual abuse with threats to kill or harm. Adams said. 
Ol'tlm times tho honnymoon phase is shortnrwd and the explosion phase is longer as tlw abuse eontinues. 
Adams said that abuse is about power and control. 
"Men play mind games," said Adams, giving thn example of' a woman leaving their keys in a dish rwxt to the door. the man taking thn keys and tlwn acting like lw has no idea where they are. When the woman is in 
siH· said. ThP ahusPr apolo­gizes for thP vio!Pru~n. he promisPs to go to r.ounsnling and somPtimPs JHII"chases gifts for llw woman. 
Following that stagP is tlw "tPnsion building" stage. slw said. Tlw ahusnr uses jealousy as a weapon and bnlittlns tlw pnrson and altarks tlwir snll'­nstPPm. 
"Many wonwn want to spend up thn tnnsion building phasn lwrausn that is worse than tlw actual abusP", al"rording to Adams. "Wonwn are nurturing and want to tarnn the lion so tlwy n1ight insl.igal.n thn 
is doing, shn 
said. 

"lin is always damaging her stuff bnc~ause lw knows it will hurt lwr more," Adams said. 
Slw also said that anyone can bP an abuser bneause there is not a ('.orreet stereotype or what nwn will abuse a woman. 
"It dons not mattnr what size, elass or color," she said. "Abusers can be charismatic, intpffigent. and rdigious but thny can also bn nHtniJ)ulative and justified in that what they do is always ok." 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

r.J 

~*:RUN TO RICO'S 
FILLING STATION For MARCH MADNESS 
$100 Free Food Give-Away 
Bring This Ad Into Rico's For Details & Your Chance To Win. Entry Deadline is April 5, 2008 
FO{)D & DRINK SPECIALS! Fresh, Flavorful & Fun Food 
Come Watch The Games On Rico's 50" Large Screen Plasma TV 
Thursday Specials $1.00 Off All Burritos Plus Drink Specials 

Friday Specials Save A Dollar; Share A Huge Nacho w/ the Meat of Your Choice with Your Friends 
$4.49 
with the Purchase of Any Two Beverages 
Saturday Specials Double Quesadilla Platter 

$6.99 
Save $2.00 For Drink Specials go to www. ricosfillingstation.com 
Sunday Specials Breakfast Burritos 

Burro $4.99 Grande $3.99 
Giant Pulled Pork Sandwiches 
.-hailahk ·nltlrsday­
Sunday Try our Famous 
slow-smoked pork shoulder 
sandwi~hes! 
Baslil't $6.99 Includes Sauce. 
Riw"s 
Seasoned Potatoes & Smart Drink 
Sandwil"h S5.99 

Rico's Filling Station-Meso Americana Grille is located in the Campus Shoppes at 1841 South Bend Ave across the parking lot from Studebagels-Formerly Orbit Music Ph: (574) 247-1400 
www.ricosfillingstation.com 
Wednesday, March 26, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 


Dow 12,532.60 -16.04
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,213 84 1,137 4,184,996,41• 

AMEX 2,233.41 3.78 NASDAQ 2,341.05 14.30 NYSE 8,936.23 -76.0.2 S&P 500 1,352.99 3.11 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,745.22 0~00 FTSE 100 (London) 5,689.10 193.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.10 +0.13 134.85 SIRIUS SATELLITE (SIR!) -1.90 -0.06 3.09 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF -0.30 -0.08 26.58 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.25 +0.25 44.83 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.85 -0.030 3.492 13-WEEK BILL +23.65 +0.240 1.255 30-YEAR BOND -0.30 -0.013 4.299 5-YEAR NOTE -0.27 -0.007 2..593 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.36 101.22 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +16.30 935.00 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.30 76.40 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 101.1100 EURO 0.6390 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0186 BRITISH POUND 0.4984 
IN BRIEF 
Fed auctions $50 billion to ease crisis 
WASHINGTON -Fighting to ease a dan­gerous credit crisis, the Federal Reserve has provided a total of $260 billion in short­term loans to squeezed banks since December to help them overcome credit problems. 
The central bank on Tuesday announced the results of its most recent auction -the eighth since the program started in December -where commercial banks bid to get a slice of $50 billion in short-term loans. 
It's part of an ongoing effort by the central bank to provide relief to a spreading credit crunch that has unnerved financial markets. The situation threatens to push the country into a deep recession. Counting the latest auction results announced Tuesday, the Fed has provided a total of $260 billion in short­term loans to banks since December. 
In the most recent auction -which marked the eighth -commercial banks paid an interest rate of 2.615 percent, the lowest rate for any of the auctions of this kind conducted so far. 
Housing price drop continues trend 
NEW YORK -llome prices plunged by record levels in January from a year ago, with almost no major cities immune from the spiraling market. Analysts worried that even the usually reliable spring selling sea­son would fall 11at. 
The closely watched Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller index of home prices in 20 cities fell nearly 11 percent in January from a year earlier, the biggest drop in its two-decade history. 
Prices were down about 20 percent in Las Vegas and Miami, both paying the price for especially rampant speculation and too much new construction during the housing boom. Fourteen other cities posted record deelines in the Tuesday report. 
The only bright spot was a 1.8 porcent increase in Charlotte, N.C., when~ real estate agents say prices rose more modest­ly during the boom years and the regional economy is relatively strong. 

THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 

Argentina fanners prolong strike 
President vows to not give into concessions on 45 percent export tax hike 
Associated Press 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina President Cristina Fernandez refused to ease tax hikes on agricul­tural exports Tuesday, fac­ing down angry farmers embroiled a nationwide strike that has all but halted production in one of the world's biggest beef-export­ing nations. 
At least 9,000 cattle nor­mally enter this capital's sprawling stockyard each day for slaughter, yet not a single animal arrived this week due to the farm and ranch strike, the largest in decades. 
South America's second­largest economy -a lead­ing exporter of soybeans, beef and wheat -is in full farmbelt rebellion over a new sliding-scale increase in export taxes. Soybean taxes are being hiked from 35 percent to 45 percent, with smaller increases on corn and other farm products. 
Scattered shops began emptying of beef. milk, chicken and cooking oil Tuesday as farmworkers mounted the most serious challenge yet to Fernandez's fledgling government. 

"Bad policies by the gov­A farmer blocks the road in Tandil, Argentina, Tuesday. As a part of the farmbelt 
ernment are leaving people strike farmers and ranchers are blockading highways and dumping crops. without food, without beef," complained Mario Uambias, and it is only fair to tax cash influx powered an eco­global economy have all one of the farm protest them more to redistribute nomic rebound, with growth helped pushed grain prices organizers who announced wealth to poorer parts of rates topping eight percent to new highs in recent Tuesday a 13-day old strike society. "This seems like ... annually. months. would now continue "indefi­comedy," she said. Argentina's economy is But the agriculture indus­nitely." Rural workers beat pots back on track -and agri­try is howling at having to 
But Fernandez appeared and pans in rural communi­culture remains one of its pay more. undeterred as she delivered ties on the farming pampas most profitable sectors. It's "The countryside says a televised address later in to protest the president's only fair that farmers and 'Enough!'" declared one the evening. Vowing not to speech. Others lit tires on ranchers be taxed on more strike leader, Eduardo "give in to extortion," the fire after nightfall on block­of that wealth, according to Buzzi. new president declared that aded roads and vowed to Economy Minister Martin The farmers are demand­her government will not stiffen their protests. Lousteau, who announced ing to sit down and negoti­grant any concessions to the After a searing 2002 eco­the controversial tax over­ate a rollback on the new striking farm and ranch nomic meltdown, the gov­haul on March 11. taxes, which Buzzi calls workers. ernment replenished its cof­Growing demand for food­"extortion" against farmers. 
Fernandez said farm pro­fers through taxes on surg­stuffs in China and other The government says it ducers have profited from a ing grain exports and soar­teeming nations, high oil won't start talks until the boom in commodity prices ing commodity prices. The prices and other shifts in the protests stop. 


Rising food prices bring hunger, riots 
"It's not likely that prices will go Estime, 31, has lost so many cus­
Associated Press 

back to as low as we're used to," said tomers like Thermilon that she had to 
MEXICO CITY -If you're seeing Abdolreza Abbassian, economist and pull her daughter, Fyva, out of kinder­your grocery bill go up, you're not secretary of the Intergovernmental garten because she can't afford the alone. Group for Grains for the U.N. Food $20 monthly tuition. 
From subsistence farmers eating and Agriculture Organization. Fyva was just beginning to read. rice in Ecuador to gourmets feasting "Currently if you're in Haiti, unless the In the long term, prices are expected on escargot in France, consumers government is subsidizing consumers, to stabilize. Farmers will grow more worldwide face rising food prices in consumers have no choice but to cut grain for both fuel and food and even­what analysts call a perfect storm of consumption. It's a very brutal sce­tually bring prices down. Already this conditions. Freak weather is a factor. nario, but that's what it is." is happening with wheat, with more But so are dramatic changes in the No one knows that better than crops to be planted in the U.S., Canada global economy, including higher oil Eugene Thermilon, 30, a Haitian day and Europe in the coming year. prices, lower food reserves and grow­laborer who can no longer afford However, consumers still face at ing consumer demand in China and pasta to feed his wife and four chil­least 10 years of more expensive food, India. dren since the price nearly doubled to according to preliminary FAO projec­
The world's poorest nations still har­$0.57 a bag. Their only meal on a tions. bor the greatest hunger risk. Clashes recent day was two cans of corn grits. Among the driving forces are petro­over bread in Egypt killed at least two "Their stomachs were not even full," leum prices, which increase the cost of people last week, and similar food Thermilon said, walking toward his everything from fertilizers to transport riots broke out in Burkina Faso and pink concrete house on the precipice to food processing. Rising demand for Cameroon this month. of a garbage-filled ravine. By noon the meat and dairy in rapidly developing 
But food protests now crop up even next day, he still had nothing to feed countries such as China and India is in Italy. And while the price of them for dinner. sending up the cost of grain, used for spaghetti has doubled in llaiti, the cost Their hunger has had a ripple efTect. cattle feed, as is the demand for raw of miso is packing a hit in Japan. Haitian food vendor Fabiola Duran materials to make biofuels. 
----------, 
page 8 The Observer +NEWS Wednesday, March 26, 2008 
Tech 
continued from page 1 
project is approximately $61 million, but funding will eome from a variety of sources. The University plans to invest $40 million, Indiana $15 million, IBM and the Nanoelectrics Hesearch Initiative $5 mil­lion each, and South Bend about $1 million according to the University press release. 
According to Lucke, South Bend also plans to invest money in coming years for a facility for nanoelectric com­mercialization in the city where the old Studebaker car manufaeturing buildings once stood. 
"This is a great opportuni­ty for new companies to come set up shop in South Bend," Lucke said. lie added the initiative could add jobs in the South Bend area. 
Brown said South Bend had long pondered the future of the site of what was once South Bend's most lucrative industry. 
"The big question has been, 'What can we do with these old buildings?"' Brown said. 
Bernhard described nan­oteehnology as an up and coming field necessary for the updating of computer systems. 
"Inside a computer, a lot of things are being stored in memory," Bernhard said. "Calculations are being done with bits and they use lots of devices called transistors." 
Bernhard said six million transistors would fit onto the head of a pin 
Nanotechnology, Bernhard said, is necessary in the revision of outdated comput­er systems. 
"We need a new way to make [computers] smaller, faster and cooler," said 
Bernhard, referring to  the  
need  for  fans  to  cool  off  
computer engines.  

The nanotechnology eon­sortium at the University joins other major universi­ties such as the University of Texas, UCLA and the University of Albany, accord­ing to a news release from the Indiana Economic Development Corporation. 
Brown also said that since Notre Dame has a long his­tory with nanotechnology, the establishment of MANA will further the University in its trajeetory as a major rcseareh University. 
Bnrnhard said that MANA will bring a lot of interna­tional focus to both Notre Dame and South Bend. 
"There will be a lot of international publicity about the initiative," he said. "The sponsors Inn the project] are very significant." 
The announcement in the area of scientific research comes as construction con­tinues of Notre Dame's new engineering building, Stinson-Hemick, located at the site of the former University Club along Notre Dame Avenue is expeeted to bn completed in late 2009 or early 20 I 0. 
According to a University Nnws and Information release, construction of' Stinson-Hornick will foster morn nanotechnology research opportunities like MANA. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperaJta@nd.edu 

Protest 
continued from page 1 
we see something opposing it, we have to speak out." 
"Notre Dame is an icon of Catholic education in America," said Ritchie, explaining the group's motivation in targeting Notre Dame for protest. 
"We're protesting the play at every Catholic campus where it's being held," Ritchie added. 
The Vagina Monologues used to be performed at 36 Catholic campuses and is now only per­formed at 19, Ritchie said, citing protests as a factor that caused several universities to cancel the play. 


Families unsure of Virginia Tech settlement 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND -Those close to the victims of the Virginia Tech mass shootings offered mixed reactions Tuesday to a pro­posed multimillion-dollar state settlement and whether it will properly honor their loved ones. 
Families of the victims have until Monday to say whether they'll accept the settlement, which would give $100,000 to representatives of each of the 32 killed and ensures that families will have the chance to talk to the governor and university officials about the shootings. 
Under the proposal, a copy of which was obtained by. The Associated Press, $800,000 would be available to injured victims. They and the families of those killed could seek addi­tional money from a $1.75 mil­lion hardship fund. 
Roger O'Dell, whose son Derek was among two dozen wounded April 16, said while he considers the proposal a very reasonable offer, he is concerned about how the money would be split among the survivors. The proposal only states that the money would be distributed "based on a matrix acceptable to the commonwealth, with a maxi­mum payment of $100,000 to any individual." 
''I'm inclined to believe this will not be settled by April 

The protesters held signs with slogans such as, "Honk ifyou are against the V-Monologues at NO." Over a dozen passing cars honked over the course of fifteen minutes. One woman leaned out her window and called 'Thank you" to the protesters. A younger man shouted "Freedom of speech" as he drove past. 
This protest was in no way affiliated with any campus groups or anyone from Notre Dame. 
"I didn't know anything about this protest," said Mary Kate Da1y, a Notre Dame student who is involved in organizing students opposed to the presence of the Vagina Monologues on campus. 
'"I agree with their reasons for not supporting the Monologues 


15th," O'Dell said. "I think there are too many question marks in the proposed offer." 
Seung-Hui Cho, a mentally disturbed student, killed two people in a dormitory just after 7 a.m. University oflicials did not send an e-mail alert until more than two hours later -just before Cho killed 30 others in a classroom build­ing across campus and then committed suicide. 
Twenty-two families have filed notice with the state that they may sue. They have until April 16 to file. Families of all deceased victims and the sur­vivors would be eligible for a payout under the settlement. 
By accepting the proposal, family members would give up the right to sue the state gov­ernment; Virginia Tech; the town of Blacksburg, where Virginia Tech is located; Montgomery County; and the New River Valley Community Services Board, which pro­vides mental-health services in the area. 
Cho had been ruled a danger to himself during a court com­mitment hearing in 2005 and was ordered to receive outpa­tient mental health care. He never received the treatment. 
Diane Strollo, whose daugh­ter Hilary was shot three times but is back at Virginia Tech, said she believed the negotia­tions were ongoing. 
"The families want account­ability, justice and change," on campus," she said of the protest. But Daly said student protests will be different. 
"Today's protest is more con­frontational, much more vocal," she said. "Ours is more of a 'silent witness' to a particular standpoint. We hope to give a message to the administration about our disappointment that they are allowing the Monologues to be on campus for seven out of the past eight years." 
Daly said that she also wants students to start to think about the play beeause of the protests. 
"We also hope to get students to think about this play," said Daly. "Mainly, though, we are sending a message to the University that it's not a particu­lar group, but rather a student contingent that is opposed to the Monologues on campus." 

Daly said that students' rea­sons for protesting are similar to those that motivated the TFP. 
"It is a disgusting, vile play that does nothing to promote the dig­nity of women. It's also degrading to men since it eneourages disre­spect of' women," said Daly citing the Theology of the Body and John Paul ll's apostolic letter as "better ways to approach the topic" whieh the Monologues address. 
"This play only inspires more anger, more hurt. It really doesn't accomplish what it intends," she said. 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
she said. "We have yet to see it." 
O'Dell said there is no con­sensus among the families regarding the offer, though many feel it's "good in a num­ber of respects." 
"It's totally across the board as to how people feel. Some people feel that there is no wrongdoing and therefore there's no obligation by the state or the university to be paying anybody anything," O'Dell said. "At the other end, there's some who feel that this agreement -proposed settle­ment agreement -doesn't go nearly far enough and there needs to be much more money put into it." 
The total cost of the pro­posed settlement, including attorneys' fees and a $1.75 million fund for charities, comes to about $8.5 million, plus the cost of reimbursing and paying for medical and psychological treatment for victims' families and survivors. 
In October, the families and surviving victims received pay­ments ranging from $11,500 to $208,000 from the Hokie Spirit Memorial Fund, set up in the days after the shootings to handle donations that poured into the school. 
In contrast to the Virginia Tech shootings, attorneys say there is little to indicate law­suits might be pending against Northern Illinois University over its response to a Feb. 14 attack on campus. In that case, former student Steven Kazmierczak, 27, opened fire in a lecture hall, killing five people before killing himself. 

Chicago attorney Kathleen Zellner, who has won several high-prol1le lawsuits, said the sehool might avoid being sued because there's no indication of glaring shortcomings in its security response. 
Police entered the NIU lec­ture hall just minutes after the shooting began, and the school launched its emergency alert system -sending out e-mails and posting messages on Web sites to notify students a possi­ble gunman was on campus ­before authorities could con­firm the gunman acted alone and was dead. 
Attorney Michael Helfand, who monitors Chicago's legal scene for an online lawyers referral service, said attorneys would have been hotly pursing NIU lawsuits weeks ago if they thought they could win one. 
There doesn't appear to be talk about a settlement in NIU's case similar to the one being offered in the Virginia Tech case. 
"We have not had any such discussions," NIU spokes­woman Melanie Magara said Tuesday. 
She referred other questions to the school's legal depart­ment. Messages left at the offiee were not returned Tuesday afternoon. 

Best Value 1n ToJ.vn Come See Why.' 
,.. Indoor/ OuI:door Tennis a..n J Basket:ball 
,.. Free Tanning 
,.. Heal:etl Ptwl 
,.. Hela.zing Jacuzzi 
,.. Gal:etl Ctt.m.m unil:y 
,.. Ctt.m.m unil:y Business Cenl:er 
,.. N~ App}ical:io.n Fees for Sl:utlenl:s 
,.. Close 1:~ ereryl:hing_ __ far frtt.m ~rtlinary! 




Castle'Point
1.801.1. C.l.eveL.an:d Rd_ South Bend, IN 46637 
~one: l574) 272-81.1.0 Fax: (574) 272-81.1.4 IIIIIT _ cppj -C._'lrffl' 


Wednesday, March 26, 2008 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
PAKISTAN 
NeW" pri111e 111inister takes office 
Yousaf Raza Gilani calls for a change in Musharraf's military policy 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD -A key figure in Pakistan's new government told two top U.S. envoys on Tuesday there needs to be a change in President Pervez Musharrafs policy of using the power of the army against Islamic militants. 
The call came as a new prime minister, Yousaf Raza GHani, took office, closing the book on eight years of military rule. 
President Bush phoned Gilani after his swearing-in and invited him to Washington at his convenience. Gilani's office quoted the new premier as saying Pakistan would "con­tinue to fight terrorism." 
But it was clear Pakistan's civilian rulers are rethinking counterterrorism strategy, amid concern that use of mili­tary force against al-Qaida and Taliban has provoked a bloody militant backlash. 
Partners in the incoming coalition government have said they would negotiate with some militant groups -an approach that has drawn criti­cism from Washington, the source of about $10 billion in aid to Pakistan since it joined the war on terror in 2001. 
Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte and Assistant Secretary of State for South Asia Richard Boucher held a flurry of meetings with Pakistani leaders Tuesday. 
Their first talks were with former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, who was ousted in Musharrafs 1999 coup and is now demanding the president's resignation. 
Sharif said he told the American envoys there was "no longer a one-man show in Pakistan" and that the new parliament -elected in February polls that dealt a crushing defeat to Musharrafs allies -would decide after exhaustive debate how Pakistan should approach Islamic extremism. 
He lashed out at Musharrafs U.S.-backed policies, saying they had led to a wave of sui­cide bombings that killed for­mer Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and many others, and argued the security of Pakistan must not be sacrificed to pro­tect other countries. 
"It is unacceptable that while giving peace to the world we make our own country a killing field," he told reporters. 
"If America wants to see itself clean of terrorism, we also want our villages and towns not to be bombed," he said, alluding to recent airstrikes near the Afghan bor­der apparently carried out by 
U.S. and allied forces. 
The U.S. envoys also met with Musharraf, army chief Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani and Asif Ali Zardari, Bhutto's widower and now chief of her party. Neither Negroponte nor Boucher made public com­ments on the meetings. 
Zaffar Abbas, an editor with Dawn newspaper, said the visit of such a high-profile U.S. dele­gation was badly timed, coin­ciding as it did with the inau­guration of Gilani as Pakistan's 22nd prime minister. 
That would signal to both Islamic extremists and moder­ates that "here are the Americans, right here in Islamabad, meeting with sen­ior politicians in the new gov­ernment, trying to dictate terms," Abbas said. 
"The problem with the Americans is they don't under­stand the domestic pressure on the new government," he said. "People are expecting this gov­ernment to explore other pos­sibilities for a solution to what's happening in the tribal areas." 
The U.S. Embassy said the visit was part of a regular dia­logue and had been planned for some time. But an official at Pakistan's Foreign Office said the trip was arranged sudden­ly. The official requested anonymity because of diplo­matic protocol. 
The visit could add to grow­ing mistrust of Washington here, even among liberals and the Western-educated elite. 


ARGENTINA 
President refuses to lower farm taxes 
Associated Press 
BUENOS AIRES -President 
Cristina Fernandez refused to · ease tax hikes on agricultural exports Tuesday, facing down angry farmers embroiled a nationwide strike that has all but halted production in one of the world's biggest beef-eating and 
beef-exporting nations. 
At least 9,000 cattle normally 
enter this capital's sprawling 
stockyard each day for slaughter, 
yet not a single animal arrived 
this week due to the biggest farm 
and ranch strike in decades. 
Scattered shops began empty­
ing of beef, milk, chicken and 
cooking oil Tuesday as farm­
workers mounted the most seri­
ous challenge yet to Fernandez's 
fledgling government. 
South America's second-largest 
economy -a leading exporter of 
soybeans, beef and wheat -is in 
full farmbelt rebellion over a new 
sliding-scale increase in export 
taxes. Soybean taxes are being 
hiked from 35 percent to 45 per­
cent, with smaller increases on 
corn and other farm products. 
"Bad policies by the govern­
ment are leaving people without 
food, without beef," complained 
Mario Llambias, one of the farm 
protest organizers who 
announced Tuesday a 13-day old 
strike would now continue 
"indefinitely." 
But in a tough speech later in the day, Fernandez announced her government will not grant any concessions to striking farm­workers nationwide, vowing not to "give in to extortion." 
The speech drew angry protests from farmworkers, who lit new tire fires on blockaded roads and vow to continue demonstrating indefmitely. 
After a searing 2002 economic meltdown, the government replenished its coffers through taxes on surging grain exports and soaring commodity prices. The cash influx powered an eco­nomic rebound, with growth rates topping 8 percent annually. 
Argentina's economy is back on track -and agriculture remains one of its most profitable sectors. It's only fair that farmers and ranchers be taxed on more of that wealth, according to Economy Minister Martin Lousteau, who announced the controversial tax overhaul on March 11. 
Growing demand for foodstuffs in China and other teeming nations, high oil prices and other shifts in the global economy have all helped pushed grain prices to new highs in recent months. 
But the agriculture industry is howling at having to pay more. 
"The countryside says 'Enough!'" declared one strike leader, Eduardo Buzzi. 


The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The 2008 Natural Law Lecture 
The (S-uper?) Hu.man 
Roots of Lavv and  Ju.stice:  
Lessons from the  Book of  
Genesis  

Leon Kass Addie Clark Harding ProCessor 
1.n t:he Com:~:nitt:ee on Social Thought: U:oiversit:y o£ Chicago 
Hert:og Pellf')vv, American Ent:erprise Ins1:i1:u1:e 
~ 2008 
4p.m. 

Notre l)arrte ] .a'\V School c:ourtr001Tl 



page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox 779, No<r< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Nom Dam<, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN ClliH 
Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 

ASS'!: MANAGING EI>ITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasubt 
NEWS EDITOR: BiJJ Brink 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: l.iz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary jesse 
AI>VEIO'ISING MANAGER: jessica Cortez 
AD DI~~IGN MANAGER: KeJly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-(,<)27 ADVERTISING ('i74) 6.} 1-6900 observadl!llnd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ('i74) 631-4'i42 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsrne@lnd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK ('i74) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vit'Wpoint.l ((llnd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l @nd.cdu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) G.H-8767 obsphow@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Obsem·r is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudmts of the University of Notre Dame du L1c and Saint Mary's ( :oJlege. Edirorial conrenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves tht right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials repres<:nt the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid: Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. ( :ommcntaries, letters and columns present the views of th<· authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vit'Wpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. I .t'tters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom "t,arding Obsn-vapolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11u; Oh~oervcr (liSPS 599 .!-4UIIO) i& puhlh.hcd Mond.JV thruut¢h flddo~y cx~;epr during cx"m .1111l voK:Itiun ~JI.·tind~. 1\ ~ull6Cnptit•n w Tht Oh.~~:rvcr iK $1 ()(} t(n tlllt: academic yc;u:$'i'i furunc"<=tnl!.'lrcr 
·nu~ Ohlcrvcr i~> publiJhcJ .n· POSTMASTER 
024 .Snurh Dining,l-1.111 Send .1ddl'l:ss cotrcc:rions to: 
Notre P.1me, IN ~6S56-0n9 Thc:Ohscrvcr 
PcrilKii<:ld pu,\tJ~c p.tid .u Nmtt Do~nl<' I~O.BuxnCJ 
.md additimt.~l rn~ilmg ~•fficn. 0.2:4 Snuth Dining Ihall 
Nmrc Dame, IN 46'iS6..0779 

11u~ Oh!trw-r 11 a member ol the Asl.o.lCJJ!ed f'Ct'U. All repruducnun nf.lu~ arc rc.servcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Liz Harter Matt Gamber Madeline Buckley Sam Werner Graphics Meaghan Veselik Mary Cecilia Scene Mitsch Stephanie Viewpoint DePerez John Dailey 
----~----------------------------------------------------. 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 26, 2008 

Adoration is the answer 
Els11where, this is Easter Week. At NotrP Dame it appears to be The Week of the Vagina Monologues. To the read­er's reliel', this column will defer discus­sion of' that production. Instnad, we sug­gest a bnttor way to 
Charles Rice
spond your time 
those next few days 
and boyond. 
Right or
One impact of the 
Wrong?
papacies of John 
Paul II and Benedict XVI is a dramatic 
rise in the practice of Eucharistic 
Adoration in parishes and other venues 
throughout the world, including Notre 
DamP. What is it? And why is it such a 
big dP.al? 
The Eucharist was institutl~d by Christ at the Last Supper, fulfilling the promise he made as recorded in the sixth chap­tPr of John's Gospel. "In the ... Eucharist. the body and blood, ... soul and divinity, of our Lord .Jesus Christ and, theref'orn, the whole Christ is truly, rPally and substantially containnd. This presonce is called 'real,'... not ... to exdude the other types of presence ... but becausn it is presence in the fullest sense ... it is a substantial presence by which Christ, God and man, makes him­self wholly and entirely present" (Catechism, no. 1374} This is called transubstantiation because the sub­stance of the bread and wine changes whiln the appearances remain the same. The distinction between substance and appearance is familiar. When the angel appnared to the women at the tomb on Easter, his appearance was that of a man but his substance was that of an angel. Mark 16:1-8. 
Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament is possible whenever the consecrated hosts are reserved in the tabernacle, as indi­catnd by the lighted lamp near the tab­ernacle. The term, Eucharistic Adoration, however, commonly refers to adoration when the Sacrament is exposed to view on the altar. Such expo­sition is available at Notre Dame, in the Basilica on Friday from noon to 5 p.m., with Benediction at 4:45p.m., in the Coleman-Morse chapel Monday through Thursday from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m., with Benediction daily at 8:45p.m. and at 

various times in some residence halls. 
In his apostolic exhortation, Sacramentum Caritatis (Sacrament of Love) (2007), Benedict XVI stresses "the inherent rolationship between Mass and adoration of the Blessed Sacrament .... The act of adoration outside Mass pro­longs and intensifies all that takes place during tho liturgical celebration itself. Indeed, 'only in adoration can a pro­found and genuine reception maturP. And it is precisely this personal encounter with the Lord that then strengthens the social mission containnd in the Eucharist, which seeks to broak down not only the walls that separate the Lord and ourselves, but also and especially the walls that separate us from one another'." No. 66." 
Adoration of the Eucharist, thewfore, is not some kind of sterile, self-centered devotion. Hather, it has a soda! impact. "[Tlhe sacrifice of Christ is for all," Benedict said, "and ... the Eucharist thus compels all who believe in him to become 'bread that is broken' for otlwrs, and to work for the building of a morn just and fraternal world ... The union with Christ brought about by the Eucharist also brings a newness to our social relations [and] is soeial in eharae­ter." 
Notre Dame emphasizes the impor­tance of sorvice to others. Benedict notns the role of Christ in the Eucharist as a motivator of such service and concern: "We cannot remain passive before cer­tain processes of globalization which ... increase the gap between the rich and the poor worldwide. We must denounce those who squander the earth's riches, provoking inequalities that cry out to heaven (ef. Jas. 5:4) ... The Lord Jesus, the bread of eternal life, spurs us to be mindful ol' the situations of extreme poverty in which a great part or humani­ty still lives: these are situations for which human beings bear a dear and disquieting responsibility." SC, Nos. 88­90. 
Mother Teresa of Calcutta spoke often of Eucharistic Adoration as a source of' power. "When the Sisters are exhausted, up to their eyes in work. when all seems to go awry," she said, "they spend an hour in prayer beforn the Blessed Sacrament. This praetice has novnr failed to bear fruit: they expnrienee peace and strength." Mother Ternsa was asked, "What will convert America and save the world?" She roplied, "My answer is prayer. What we nend is for every parish to come bnfore Jesus in the Blessnd Sacramnnt in holy hours of prayer." 
When he was ordained a priest. Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen promisnd that he would sp1md an hour in adora­tion before the Blessed Sacrament nvnry day. I le kept that promise and described the "holy hour" as not merely a devotion but "a sharing in the work of rndnmp­tion. He [Jesus] asked for an hour of reparation to eombat the hour ol' Pvil; an hour of victim a] union with the cross to overcome the anti-love of sin." 
So adoration of the Eucharist is a very big deal. But no one can cram it down your throat. We are free to accept it or reject it. If you arn not convinced that is it true, it might still be worth a visit to check it out. Th1m~ is no set formula. You don't have to eontact anybody. Just show up. Stay for as long or as short a time as you wish. You can pray, read or just think. II' you f'all asleep, don't worry about it. Archbishop Sheen roeounts the time in a church in Paris when he knelt down. promptly fell asleep and "woke up exactly at the nnd of one hour." lie won­dered if he had made his promised I lour until he realized "thaCs the way the Apostles made their first Holy I lour in the Garden." 
If you want to do something real for Notre Dame and for yoursell', don't wastn your timn on anything like the Vagina Monologues. Go instead to sp1md some time with the person who himself really is Truth. And Love. 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. lie may be reached at 633-4415 or at rice.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those r!f The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
Are you in favor of the "Vagina Monologues" 
Yes No 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Those who matter don't mind, and 
those who mind don't matter." 
Bernard Baruch financier 

....--------------------­

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 26, 2008 page 11 
Royal flush 

The Chinese government is certainly a busy agency. It undoubtedly has trouble finding time to rest in between squash­ing Tibetan dissenters (led by the sav­age, incendiary Dalai Lama), blocking YouTube from all Internet traffic, and suing Guns N' Roses for their use of "Chinese Democracy" as the band's 13-years-in­the-making album title. But when the government does have a few spare moments, it turns its attention to the upcoming Olympic games scheduled for this August in Beijing. 
Olympic officials recently faced a chal­lenge when they realized that many of the half-million expected foreign visitors will not be accustomed to China's squat toilets, little loos built into the ground that require no skin-to-porcelain con­tact. The organizers therefore decided to switch many of their squat commodes to Western-style sit-down toilets. This will relieve American visitors accus­tomed to relaxing on their porcelain thrones, but the switch to sitters also sacrifices some potential water use effi­ciency. 
We here in the West are not lacking in efficient toilet options -we just fail to explore the full range oflavatory alter­natives. For example, I attended John Cabot University in Rome last spring and I was much impressed by their dual-flush toilets in the bathrooms there. These rising stars in the toilet industry have two flush options: a low­flow flush for liquid waste and a high­flow option for solid waste disposal. (Apologies to those of you reading this in the dining hall.) Giving the user the option of two flushes offers huge poten­tial for water conservation. 

The American industry standard for toilet water consumption is 1.6 gallons per flush on all toilets since 1992. Older toilets gulp 3.5 or even 4.5 gallons of water every flush. The dual-flush toilet, in contrast to these water hogs, uses between .8 and 1.1 gallons for low-flow flushes and from 1.3 to 1.6 gallons for high-flow flushes, yielding an average of about 1.2 gallons per flush. That gives a 25 percent savings each and every time you plop down to read the newspaper. 
The prospective water conservation on campus that a move to dual-flush toi­lets would bring is staggering. If the University wants to appear serious in its environmental efforts, it should -after chopping off the power plant smoke­stack-make a commitment to dual­flush toilets. (It could be the "No. 2" pri­ority. Pardon the pun.) Allow me to ­forgive me -dump some figures on you. 
The Notre Dame Facilities Operations Web site tells us there are over 2,000 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Boycott Beijing 

Last week's events in Tibet reminded the world what China really is. Behind the mask of new economic prosperity and porous borders lies a nightmare of human rights violations, zero freedom of the press, and frequent hostile military action in the face of peaceful protest. 
In an effort to extend economic interest and "open" a closed world, the interna­tional community ignored a patterned history of irresponsible and egregious behavior and awarded China the 2008 Winter Olympic Games. The Olympics holds to a mantra of respecting universal fundamental ethical principles and pre­serving human dignity. From 1989 Tiananmen Square to last week in Tibet, China has repeatedly ignored human rights, and crushed human dignity within their country. China is in complete discord with the Olympic Movement. 
Contrary to President Bush's statement, the Olympics is much more than sport. Awarding the 2008 Winter Games to China was a deep oversight. China's lack of responsibility spreads beyond their borders. The country's economic interest in Africa coupled with its permanent spot on the U.N. Security Council has helped to extend the conflict in Darfur (leading to the popular label "Genocide Olympics"). 
In addition, the country's complete disregard for the environment threatens the entire world. The hopes that the Olympic Games would lead to a new order in China has been exposed as farce. China's human rights record stands as a mock­ery to the Olympic Games. I ask Olympic athletes and viewers alike to "Boycott Beijing!"; boycott the Genocide Olympics. 
Jeffrey Koch junior Morrissey Hall March 24 


campus toilets cleaned by Building Services every day. Now, I realize that some of those toilets are male-use uri­nals. In my section's bathrooms in Siegfried Hall, we have two urinals and five toilets, or two urinals for every seven working toilets. Assuming that campus toilet facilities are evenly split between genders, we have 1,000 toilets for use by males. Applying the urinal:toilet ratio of 2:7 to this number, we find that roughly 300 (or 286 for you fraction sticklers) of the male toilets are urinals. That does not even take into account the urinal troughs of the Stadium, quite active during football weekends. Subtracting this from the overall 2,000 potties gives us a working figure of roughly 1, 700 sitter toilets with the potential for a dual-flush overhaul. 
The average person flushes about six times per day. Returning to my case study of Siegfried: The residence hall has about 50 toilets (five toilets and two urinals for six sections, plus AR, rector, and first-floor bathrooms). If the dorm's 240 residents each flush six times daily, the collective 1,440 flushes spread out over 50 toilets yields 28.8 flushes per toilet per day. Taking into account high­traffic latrines in classroom buildings, we can allow for a conservative esti­mate of 30 uses of a toilet throughout the day. Multiplying the 30 by the 1, 700 campus sitters gives us 51,000 flushes of the john every single day. 
Using conventional water closets, we go through roughly 81,600 gallons of water to dispose of our waste every day (51,000 flushes times 1.6 gallons per flush.) Now if we return to our earlier figure of a twenty-five percent savings gained from dual-flush toilets, we find we can potentially save over 20,000 gal­lons of water per day. That means over seven million gallons of water saved annually. 
I realize, of course, that not all waste­water is irretrievably lost. Sewage treat­ment facilities can reclaim a great deal of the water we bid adieu, but the figure of seven million gallons nevertheless demands attention. Many bodies of water contain less. I would guess, based on no scientific calculations whatsoever, that you could empty one of the campus lakes and fill it up again with the 7 mil­lion gallons we can save every year. 
Here at Notre Dame, we don't have to worry about Olympic preparations or Tibetan protesters or YouTube censor­ship, and Guns N' Roses only occasion­ally wreaks havoc. With all the time we have, we ought to explore installing a sophisticated network of dual-flush toi­lets, saving the precious natural resource of water. The Dalai Lama would approve. 
James Dechant is a senior English and Theology major. Toilet humor or correc­tions to his math can be sent to him at jdechant@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Support the troops, not the war 
My name is Chris, I am the student who was directly referred to in the letter to the editor ("protesters Out of Line," Mar. 20). During the Iraq War protest last Wednesday at the Fieldhouse Mall, I asked Meghan, the author of the letter, and her ROTC boyfriend to join the protest last Wednesday. Meghan, upon seeing you and your boyfriend, him in his mili­tary gear, my first impulse was to thank him for his service. l thanked him and offered, not yelled, for him to join us in opposition to the war, as I had every person that walked by the protest. 
I understand you thought I was an ungrateful college student spitting on the soldiers on a mindless quest to peace. I want you to know that is not who I am and that is not what I rep­resented on campus last Wednesday. Your anger seems justified since you believed we were holding signs, "complaining of Iraqi deaths brought about by American soldiers." The sign read "655,000 Iraqis killed." This number is of civilians, not oppo­sition insurgents. We were by no means condemning the soldiers for their actions; we were calling atten­tion to the collateral damage of war. 
We do not blame the soldiers for that, we know they are doing the best job they can to protect the inno­cent in Iraq. Meghan, I have sent e­mails to soldiers thanking them, prior to yesterday, and will continue to do so (anysoldier.com). I am thrilled that you called this campus to action to do something to give back to the soldiers! But I will not allow you to condemn me for protest­ing this war. 
Are you claiming that the war sup­porters on campus who crumpled up my flyers, or those in town that gave me the finger are somehow better than those of us protesting the war? I would be interested to see how many pro-war people on this campus have sent care packages or emails when it would take just a minute of their time amidst hours of Facebook, ESPN, and partying on the weekends. 
Supporting the troops is not always supporting a war. It is about making sure this administration backs up its patriotism by offering health care and benefits to those affected by the war. It is about realizing that one in three homeless in this country are veterans. It is about understanding the political implications of our involvement in Iraq, and the long his­tory of violence there that makes "victory" a very ambiguous term. 
There are extremist protesters that make other protesters look bad, but there are also thousands of people protesting the war because a family member was killed overseas, because they are veterans of past wars, or because they believe in getting our troops out of a civil war. 
It is time we stopped profiling all anti-war protesters, liberals, or any­one else who believes in some sort of withdrawal of troops, as country-hat­ing, troop-hating extremists. These are people who care about their country, the reputation of their coun­try around the world, and most of all the lives of their men and women in the military. "Support the Troops, Not the War 
Chris Rhodenbaugh freshman St. Edward's Hall March 24 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, March 26, 2008 

desert with his memory wiped. It "Southland Tales" is a for monitoring internet and televi­also stars Seann William Scott, in a movie that might be too sion activity. This didn't sit well with double role as Officer Roland a semi-terrorist group called the
vast for its own good.

Taverner and another character Neo-Marxists and they are bent on who we are suspiciously led to Like "Donnie Darko, , it bringing down Senator Frost and, ..· believe is his brother; Sarah tries to explore realms of his wife, who heads US-IDENT. The! ·• Michelle Gellar as porn star; Krysta Neo-Marxists capture Officer?
the fourth dimension. 
By MARK WITTE 
Assistant Scene Ediwr 
Writer-Direetor Richard Kelly had to wait until his first film "Donnie Darko" came out on DVD before it rose to popularity and gained iconic cult status. 
However, for such to happen with his second fllm, "Southland Tales," he may have to wait a little longer. 
"Southland Tales" released on DVD March 18, after a dismal run in the late November 2007 box office, where it grossed less than $400,000. The fllm stars a broad ensemble, beginning with Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson, who plays Boxer Santaros, a movie star who suddenly disap­pears and then turns up in the 
Now who takes in amnesia-plagued Santaros; Justin Timberlake as Pilot Abilene, an Iraq War veteran with a wicked sear across his face; Mandy Moore as Madeline Frost, Santaro's wife and daughter of the prominent Senator Bobby Frost (Holmes Osborne); and a number of people who you might recognize from "Saturday Night Live." 
The story begins in 2005 and alters history a bit, beginning with a nuclear explosion in Abilene, Tex. The attack starts World War III and the U.S. goes to war in the Middle East and North Korea. Homeland security and the price of oil go through the roof. This inflation leads to the discovery of a new energy 
Southland Tales 
Detination/Sony Pictures Director: Richard Kelly Written by: Richard Kelly Starring: Dwayne Johnson, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Seann William Scott, Mandy Moore 

source, Fluid Karma, which somehow draws energy out of the ocean's waves and wirelessly channels it out in an electrical field. We're told that the invention was used on U.S. soldiers, including in Abilene, as an enhancing drug, but with sketchy results. 
The film then cuts to 2008 in which an election between the Democratic and Republican Party has come down to the state of California where the Republican ticket of Elliot/Frost is scrambling to locate the vanished Santaros, fearing his disappearance to have been an attack on the Republican Party. And it is. 
There are quite a few other bits of altered history. 
After the nuclear attack, the 
Republican Party helped start this 
program called US-IDENT, a means 
Taverner and his identical brother,l planning to use them in an elabo-1 rate scheme to make the govern-t 
ment look bad. But things don't go as planned and the! story shoots ofT in an array of different directions. 
The rest of the story is made up of a blur of confus-1 ing plot twists involving a screenplay Santaros suppos-t edly wrote which keeps predicting the future in at countdown to the apocalypse, the truth behind thet dual nature of Officer Taverner and his brother, and ~ drugged-up musical interlude by Abilene. 
A longer version of the film debuted at Cannes inl 2006 and received very little love. To eombat wha~ many critics called "a disastrous mess," Kelly short­
ened "Southland Tales" and added a running narra­tion by Timberlake's character, made up of recita­tions from the Book of Revelations. Whether or not1 the additions and subtractions provide any mor~ cohesion to the story is debatable. It's still ridiculous-· ly hard to follow and leaves many of its questions unanswered. 
"Southland Tales" is movie that might be too vast for its own good. Like "Donnie Darko," it tries to explore realms of the fourth dimension and possibili­ties of time travel, while questioning human pur­pose. Unfortunately it waits until the final 15 min­utes of the two and half hour film to let us know what's really going on, and that might be a bit too long for an audience to wait. 
Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, March 26, 2008 
page 13 
By MYCHAL STANLEY Scene Writer 
You might know Zooey Deschanel from movies like "Elf" and "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy," but did you know she can sing? She can sing quite well, and together with indie folkster M. Ward, she just put out a very solid record under the name She & Him. 
In this collaboration, Deschanel takes care of the lyrics and vocals, while Ward supplies pretty much everything else. He plays all the necessary instruments and pro­

As you can probably tell from the last two tracks mentioned, the pair's music is essentially trying to recapture the pop and country sounds from the SO's and 60's. 
Instead of trying to innovate and add anything new, they work to emulate the sound produced by the female country singers and the Brill Building work of Carole King and Gerry Goffin from that time period. 
Fortunately, they do it to perfection, and pop tracks like "I Was Made For You" mix fantastically 
with woeful country tunes like 
"Take It Back." The record pres­
duces. Through his fantastic pro­They work to emulate the ents a very vintage feel while still duction, he makes the work of just sounding fresh. 
sound produced by the 

two people sound like a full band. Deschanel also provides the 
Usually, a two-person band female country singers lyrics to all the original songs on makes pretty simple arrange­and the Brill Building the record. In the style of the gen­ments, but Ward's production res the duo emulates, most of the 
work ofCarole King and

allows for some impressive layer­songs are about being swept away ing. In songs like "Sentimental Gerry Goffin from that by love or being hurt by it. In Heart," Ward uses multiple tracks time period. "Sentimental Heart," she sings of 
of Deschanel's voice to create har­monies and fill out the empty spaces, and transforms the song into something that could be recorded by a five-piece girl group from the 60s. 
Using multiple tracks might seem like a way to account for Deschanel's lack of range or vocal prowess, but one listen to the 50s country throw back track "Change Is Hard" is all one needs to rec­ognize that the girl can sing. She may not have the greatest voice in the world, or the best range, but her full-bodied and impressively expressive vocals 
Volume One 
She & Him 
Label: Merge Records Recommended Tracks: "Sentimental Heart'' "I Was Made For You:" "I Should Have Known Better" 

"crying all night until there was 
nothing left." In Black Hole, she's "alone, on a bicycle for two." But then in "I Was Made For You," she sings about "waitin' for a long, long time for a boy like you." The innocence and charm of these simple lyrics are very disarming and fit the music so well. 
There are also two covers on the album. The first is Smokey Robinson's "You Really Got a Hold on Me." Unfortunately, it's probably the weakest song on the album. It adds nothing to the original, and is 
played straight the entire song through. The sec­ond is a cover of The Beatles' "I Should Have Known Better" which is a standout on the album. Deschanel and Ward slow it down, and allow the tune and melody a little more space to breathe. It's a fantastic interpretation of a classic early Beatles song. 
"Volume One" is a refreshing window into the simpler, more innocent songs of the past. While She & Him branched out into a few more styles and themes (a bonus track rendition of "Swing Low, Sweet Chariots" show the promise of Deschanel's voice in gospel music), there's always time for that in "Volume Two." And at just 35 min­utes, the album does not overstay its welcome, but provides a brief respite for lovely escapism into the past. 
Contact Mychal Stanley at wstanley@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 26, 2008 
CLUB SPORTS 
Men's frisbee reaches semis 
Women's water polo earns No. 1 ranking; rugby falls to IU 
Special to The Observer 
Both the men's and women's teams made the trip to Statesboro, Ga., to participate in the College Southerns tour­nament over the weekend. The men fell in the semifinals while thfl women finished in 
.. firth plaee. The men entnred Saturday's pool play with the No. 3 seed, drawing Oberlin in its opener. .Junior Daniel Heimer proved to be a dangerous deep threat in both a 13-9 win over Oberlin and a 13-8 vietory over Florida State -games that were both a little tighter than initially anticipated. Notre Dame finally got things clicking in its third game, a 13-4 win over Charleston, thanks to the steady handling of junior Thomas Rivas. In Saturday's fourth and final game, a matchup that would deter­mine the pool winner and Sunday's bracket seeding, Notre Dame demolished Marquette 13-1 thanks to a fast start and the stifling defense of grad student Steve Kurtz. The Irish opmwd Sunday's round of 16 against Chicago, and senior Eric Morin sparked the elub en route to a 15-8 victory, setting up a matchup against a tough Iowa squad. After winning a close battle in the round of 16, the llawkeyes maintained their momentum and intensity to establish an early advantage against Notre Dame. The Irish eliminated the mistakes that allowed Iowa to gain an edge in the first half. Once it rf1gained the lead, Notre Dame rolled to a 13-9 victory, thanks to sophomore Bill Carson's cutting. The Irish were finally stopped in their semifinal tus­sle with Tufts. which sprinted out of the gate to grab a 6-0 lead -a hole Notre Dame was never able to dig out of. .Junior Panny Collom led the Irish charge to get back into the game, but their efforts fell short in a 13-10 loss. Senior captains Nick Chambers and Mike J-llorack were a steady presence all weekend. On the women's side, the Irish won their first two games easily, beating Columbia 13-1 and Ohio 12-5 
as sophomore Allie Keuthen 
and freshman Megan Franke 
led the offensive attack with 
great cuts and puts. 
With a pair of losses, 13-4 
to Emory and 13-6 to Tufts, 
Notre Dame finished the day 
at 2-2, good for third in its 
pool despite the tough defense 
of freshman Colleen Harris. 
Notre Dame started strong Sunday morning, defeating Williams 10-8. Sophomore Erin Maxwell and senior Shields Duss, who had stepped up all weekend in the absence of several of the Irish's normal handlers, made the difference on the offense for the Irish. The squad then fell to Iowa State, 14-7, before rebounding to defeat Wellesley 11-4 and Virginia 13-8. 
Women's Water Polo 
Despite being off this week­end, the team made news by earning the club's first ever No. 1 national ranking. The team is 18-0 against club competition and 7-4 against varsity opponents, many of which were ranked, for an overall record of 25-4. 
Rugby 
Notre Dame dropped a pair of contests at Indiana this weekend as the A-side lost 48-14, while the B-side fell 29-22. Don Greiwe and Bob lluguelet each scored a try for the top squad, with Greiwe successful on both conver­sions. It was the first venture into Div. I competition for the Irish. 
Chris Liedl, David Bray, Tom Hiley and Andy O'Conner each scored a try for the B-side. O'Conner managed the only conversion. 
Men's Water Polo 
No. 21 Notre Dame ven­tured west for the weekend, where it played in the peren­nially competitive Las Vegas Open. 
The Irish received a tough draw in pool play, falling to UC-Davis, the tournament's eventual runner-up, 25-17, 23-25, 15-9. Notre Dame was able to establish an early lead, but a mid-game lapse cost the Irish dearly in the 11rst game. Thanks to outside hitter Dan Zibton's perform­ance, the Irish took the sec­ond game but couldn't main­
tain that momentum in the 
third. 
No. 6 Utah Valley State then disposed of the Irish, taking the match in two games despite the superb passing of senior John Tibbie. 
Notre Dame closed out pool play against Cal State San Marcos in one of the tourna­ment's most interesting story­lines. San Marcos, despite its mismatched jerseys, beat the Irish in two games, handing them a last-place 11nish in the pool. But following the match, Notre Dame's fortunes turned when the tournament director announced that San Marcos had professional beach play­ers on the team that did not attend the school. San Marcos was disqualified, and Notre Dame was awarded the victo­ry. 
With a respectable finish still within reach, Notre Dame refocused for the second day. The Irish opened the double­elimination bracket against No. 22 Michigan State. Despite a bout with food poi­soning, sophomore Mike Nejedly excelled at the net, capitalizing with a kill on nearly every set he received in Notre Dame's 25-19 first­game win. After falling in the second game, the Irish stormed out to a 9-4 lead in the rubber game and never looked back. 
In the second round, the Irish faced No. 17 Texas A&M. The Aggies were no match for the Irish, as Notre Dame blew by the Aggies in straight sets, 25-15 and 25-21. 
For the right to go to the bracket championship, the Irish then faced the varsity squad from Holy Names University. Strong right side attacking by senior Tim Goldsmith controlled the tempo of the match, allowing the Irish to build comfortable leads throughout. The Hawks were able to steal the second game, but the Irish won the third and advanced. 
In the bracket's champi­onship, the Irish found them­selves against No. 11 Central Florida. Notre Dame created large leads in both games behind Mark landolo. Strong serving by the Knights broke down the Irish offense, how­ever, allowing UCF to crawl back into both games and eventually take both games. 
ND SOFTBALL 

Bargar, Irish look to stay hot against IUPUI 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame has won eight of their last nine games and will try to carry that momentum through their home opener against IUPUI this evening. 
Junior pitcher Brittany Bargar has been instrumental in the recent run. She was recently named Big East pitcher of the Week for the second week in a row. Bargar had a three-appear­ance stretch at the Charleston Southern University Lowcountry Softball Invitational in which she registered a 0.41 ERA, earned three victories, allowed only 13 hits in 17.1 innings, struck out 12 batters, and allowed only one earned run. Following that feat, she stepped into the circle against Western Michigan last Thursday to lead the Irish to their most recent victory. 
In that outing, Bargar pitched the full seven innings, gave up only two hits, and struck out nine Broncos en route to a shutout that moved her record on the season to 12-5 and the team's record to 15-9. 
Western Michigan's Kyla Sullivan walked in one run and gave up a solo home run to sen­ior Katie Laing, and those two runs wound up being more than enough for Bargar. 
In her 18 appearances this season, Bargar has held the opposition without an earned run an astounding twelve times, including the win over the Broncos. 
In tonight's home opener, the Irish will face an IUPUI squad with a record of 1-8 to start the season. The Jaguars are coming off a split with Dayton in which they were able to notch their frrst win of the season. 
Senior Meaghan Haynes pitched a complete game and allowed only four hits in getting the 11rst win of her career. She helped her own cause by going 2-2 at the plate and scored one of the Jaguars' three runs. 
Notre Dame has already played 24 games this season, but this will be the first time the Irish will get to play in front of a home crowd. For a team with plenty of contributing freshmen, it could give a fresh feel to a season that began over a month ago. 
The first pitch is set to leave the circle at 6:00 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 

Sandman's top-10 finish leads Irish 
greens," coach Jim Kubinski said. 
By PAT STYNES "When his putting gains consisten­
Sports Writer 
cy, the sky is the limit." Sophomore Doug Fortner was 

Junior Josh Sandman has led also solid, finishing 34th on the the Irish all year, heels of an impres­and was at it again sive third round in
"[Josh/ is a strong
at the National which he shot even­Invitational ball striker" par. Fellow sopho­Tournament in more Carl Santos­Greensboro, N.C., Ocampo finished
Jim Kubinski
this week. 48th with a 224 
Irish coach 
The junior fin­overall score. ished in the top-10 The next event for for the third straight tournament, the Irish is the Notre Dame Spring and_ his two-under 214 helped the Invitational on April 5 at Notre team tie for lOth with a score of Dame eampus: 883, 19-over par. 
"[Josh] is a strong ball-striker Contact Pat Stynes at and has great skills around the pstynes@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT 
WORK flexible, no experience 
needed. customer sales/service. conditions apply, ages 18+, 574­273-3835, 
www.workforstudents.com 
Notre Dame Staff member seeks house sitting/furnished rental through July 31 while home is being built. Call 574-360-6919. 
Child Care: Occasional evenings and weekends for our twin daugh­ters, age 7. Looking for someone who is responsible, energetic and enjoys kids. Good pay. Contact Paul at weithman.1 @nd.edu or Maura at ryan.61 @nd.edu 
FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Hornes Showing for 08/09,09/10 
Now offering "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING 
FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. CALL 574­234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2-car garage, 1Ox20 deck. deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. 
Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 or 574-340-1844. 
For rent: 
Two story house ready for immedi­ate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four indi­vidually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage, new furnace and central air, new kitchen including appli­ances, large living room, free trash removal. Garage available for car­extra. 
Call 289-4071. 
Newly remodeled 3 bed 1 bth home for rent walking distance to college. 
Call 847-507-7444. 

Large house available for 2009­
2010. 

Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 
4.000+ square feet, 5 bathrooms. 
MacSwain@ gmail.com 
PERSONAL 

PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? 
You do not have to be alone. We want to help. 
Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 

If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­7819. 
For more information, visit our web­site at: 
http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml Summer In Maine: Males and 
females. 
Meet new friends! 
Travel! 
Teach your favorite activity. 'Tennis'Canoe'Water Ski'Swim'Saii'Kayak'Theatre'Vide o'Ropes'Office'Pottery'English Riding'Landsports and more. 
June to August. Residential. Enjoy our website. Apply on-line. TRIPP LAKE CAMP for Girls: 1­
800-997-4347. www.tripplake­camp.com 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, March 26, 2008 CoMPH.ED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJ RE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA Men's Baseball USA Today /ESPN Top 25 

rank  team  record  points  
1  Arizona State Florida  22·1  773  
2  State  19·2  705  
3  Miami (FL)  17-2  680  
4  North Carolina  18·4  659  
5  Long Beach State  16·3  626  
6  Missouri  18·2  607  
7  UC Irvine  16·2  561  
8  Arizona  13·5  541  
9  South Carolina  15·5  499  
10  Texas  16·6  419  
11  Wichita State  14·3  372  
12  Rice  11·6  370  
13  Vanderbilt  14·6  321  
14  Kentucky  20·2  308  
15  Virginia  19·4  281  
16  Ole Miss  15·8  268  
17  Nebraska  17-3·1  247  
18  Florida  17·4  225  
19  California  15·4·1  217  
20  Coastal Carolina  18·4  188  
21  Stanford  9·5  171  
22  Texas A&M  17·6  145  
23  San Diego  16-7  117  
24  UCLA  10·8  108  
25  CS Full~rton  12·8  106  

NCAA Softball ESPN.com/USA Softball Top 25 
rank team record points 
1 UCLA 26-3 481 2 Arizona State 34·2 479 3 Alabama 27-3 463 4 Florida 35·2 444 5 Stanford 31·2 422 6 Michigan 25·3 398 7 TexasA&M 31·6 370 8 LSU 27·4 352 9 Tennessee 28·5 326 10 Arizona 21·8 301 11 Houston 28·4 299 12 Fresno State 30·5 287 13 Oklahoma 27·8 278 14 Long Beach State 24·9 193 15 UL Lafayette 20·8 191 16 Northwestern 13·9 178 17 Hawaii 24·10 134 18 Georgia 30-8 128 19 Baylor 18·8 125 20 North Carolina 27·6-1 115 21 Mississippi Stale 26-9 100 22 San Diego State 27-10 97 23 Calilornia 29·10 85 24 DePaul 19-9 83 25 Washington 2H·1 66 
MIAA Women's Softball Conference Standings 

team league overall 
Adrian 
0-0 3·8 

Albion 
0-0 8·2 Alma 0-0 6·5 Calvin 
0-0 4-7 Hope 0-0 
9·4 

Kalamazoo 
0-0 1-3 

Olivet 
0-0 4·10 

SAINT MARY'S 
0·0 8·2 

Tri-State 
0-0 9·1 

around the dial 
NIT MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT Mississippi at Virginia Tech 7 p.m., ESPN2 
Dayton at Ohio State 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
Suns at Celtics 7 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The top Republican on the con­gressional committee that investigated whether Roger Clemens used per­formance-enhancing drugs released a report Tuesday questioning the Democratic majority's con­clusion that the seven-time Cy Young Award winner might have lied in his tes­timony before the panel last month. 
The 109-page report, obtained by The Associated Press, contains details Rep. Tom Davis believes could challenge the credibility of Brian McNamee, the personal trainer who testified under oath he injected Clemens with steroids and human growth hormone from 1998-01. 

Republican staff from the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform will pass along additional information to the Justice Department. The FBJ is investigating whether Clemens lied to Congress. 
"Did Roger Clemens lie to us?" Davis said in a release accompanying the report. 
"Some of the evidence seems to say he did; other information suggests he told the truth," the Virginia Republican said. 
"It's a far more complicat­ed picture than some may want to believe. Memories fade and recollections dif­fer. That's human nature, not criminal conduct. My concern is the integrity of sworn statements made to Congress. At this point, the Justice Department is best equipped to investigate that central question and reach a fair conclusion." 
The report includes por­tions of previously undis­closed interviews with new witnesses and addresses issues such as whether Clemens attended a party at then-teammate Jose Canseco's house in 1998; information about injec­tions of vitamin B-12; and whether Clemens devel­oped an abscess on his buttocks. 
The report -"Weighing the Committee Record: A Balanced Review of the Evidence Regarding Performance Enhancing Drugs in Baseball" ­stands as a counterpoint to the 18-page memo released Feb. 27 by chair­man Henry Waxman. 
That was the day Waxman and Davis asked Attorney General Michael Mukasey to open an inves­tigation into whether Clemens committed per­jury. The following day, the Justice Department told the FBI to take up the mat­ter. 
IN BRIEF Red Sox fans wake early,
watch season opener on 1V 
BOSTON -Red Sox fans ate their sausages with eggs and hash browns instead of peppers and onions, and bars were opened so early they could­n't legally serve beer. 
And that was just the start of a unique opening day for Boston, where fans rose before the sun to watch the Red Sox defeat the Oakland Athletics in the land of the rising sun. 
Bars around Fenway Park and else­where catered to big breakfast crowds as the season officially started in Japan at about 6:05 a.m. Eastern time on Tuesday. 
Terry Boccelli of Stoneham said she would have made the trip to Boston to watch the defending World Series champions, no matter what time of day or night. 
"I could not wait for the Red Sox," said Boccelli, who was at the Cask'n Flagon. "I have withdrawal all winter long." 

Pacers' Walsh not clear about 
future plans 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Pacers insist Donnie Walsh has not agreed to oversee basketball oper­ations for the New York Knicks after the season. 
"Donnie said this morning there's nothing clear about his future," Pacers spokesman David Benner said Tuesday. "When there is he'll make a statement. He has­n't agreed to anything with any­body." 
Walsh, the Pacers' chief execu­tive and president since 1988. said Monday he would step aside after this season, but-he would not com­ment on his future. The Pacers have turned over operation of the troubled franchise to Hall of Farner Larry Bird. 
The Associated Press left a mes­sage with Walsh's office, but his secretary said he would not respond to the inquiries. ­
IU opens spring practice, 
star quarterback suspended 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Indiana's offense just got a whole lot faster, even with caretaker quarterback Ben Chappell calling the signals. 
The Hoosiers, who last season real­ized their goal of playing in a postsea­son bowl game, opened spring foot­ball practice Tuesday with Chappell directing a new no-huddle offense while star quarterback Kellen Lewis serves a suspension for an undis­closed violation of team rules. Lewis is not expected back before the start of training camp this summer. 
"It was better than could be expect­ed, really, putting in the new offense," said Chappell, a sophomore who appeared in just three games as a backup last season and completed one of two passes. "No huddle, man, we're going fast, we're on the line, ready to go. We're playing fast but under control. So that's the goal for this spring." 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Day, Date, 2005 

Xue Ying Wang Godparent: Sandra Chavez At the Easter Vigil this past Saturday night, these eight 1nembers ofthe Notre Dame cotnmunity were fuiiy initiated into the Catholic Church. At this liturgy they received the sacran1ents of Baptism, Confirmation, and Eucharist. Please join us in congratulating them and welcotning thetn into our faith community. 
CM 

Wednesday, March 26, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Sweet 16 
continued from page 24 
me." 
Sooners center Courtney Paris had 24 points, 16 rebounds and five blocks, and guard Jenna Plumley hit 6-of-10 3-point attempts en route to 18 points. Forward Amanda Thompson had 19 points, eight rebounds and eight assists. 
Irish guard Ashley Barlow had 16 points, and guard Tulyah Gaines had seven assists on the night. 
Allen almost destroyed the night she had so beautifully craft­ed. After Irish guard Lindsay Schrader rebounded Barlow's missed 3-point attempt, Gaines and Allen played keep-away until, with 44 seconds left, Allen lost control of the ball. It bounced out of bounds and gave Oklahoma possession. 
The Sooners took immediate advantage of the miscue. A tight Notre Dame defense kept them from getting a good outside look, but they found Courtney Paris in the paint for an easy bank shot to tie the score at 65 with 9.9 sec­onds left, forcing overtime. Plumley hit her sixth 3-pointer of the game and forward Amanda Thompson hit1a jumper to put Notre Dame down five to start overtime. But Allen hit a 3-point­er and helped force a steal, which Barlow converted into a layup, to tie the score at 70 with three minutes left. 
"Basketball is a game of runs, they had a 5-0 run," Allen said. "We had to come out and match that, and we did. We won." 
With under a minute left in overtime and the shot clock expiring, Gaines raced after a loose ball and threw it towards the rim to avoid a shot clock vio­lation. Robinson fouled her on the play, and Gaines hit one of two free throws. 
"I was thinking, the shot clocks about to go out, so throw it up," Gaines said. "Thank God they called the foul." 
With 38 seconds left, Barlow stole a pass near mid-court. Forward Nyeshia Stevenson fouled her to prevent the easy basket, but Barlow made both shots. Thompson's 3-point attempt missed, but she got another chance and sank it. Schrader threw the inbounds pass to Barlow across mid-court, where Barlow was fouled and made both free throws to seal the game. 
"We handled their run when they went up five," Barlow said. "They're a good team. We just handled their run, got out and made our free throws at the end of the game." 
The Irish hit 57 percent of their shots in the first half, but only 30 percent in the second. It was their free-throw shooting, howev­er, that won them the game. They made 22-of-24 free throws, or 
91.7 percent. 
"I give credit to Notre Dame, they were terrific from the free throw line," Sooners coach Sherri Coale said. 
When Oklahoma had a 56-49 lead with 7:26 remaining, Allen had enough. She made straight four foul shots during a three­minute span when she scored 10 points. 
After a steal in the offensive end, center Erica Williamson hit two free throws. Allen helped force a steal in the full-court press and made an awkward baseline and hit two more foul shots to make the score 61-58 with 3:57 remaining. 
The press, along with the Notre Dame fan contingent, increased its energy and hassled the Sooner offense more than previously. The Irish had struggled to fmd quality shots in the second half, but by getting the double bonus they battled back from the foul line. 
Notre Dame led by as many as nine in the first half, but the Sooners fought to keep close and finished the frrst half down four. 
Notre Dame 75, SMU 62 
With Erica Williamson in foul trouble, freshman forward Becca Bruszewski scored a career-high 16 points off the bench during No. 5-seed Notre Dame's win over No. 12-seed Southern Methodist in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. 
"I thought Becca Bruszewski was phenomenal off the bench," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "You don't expect a freshman to show up in the NCAA Tournament and get a career­high, and that's just what she did today." 
Ashley Barlow had 20 points and 12 rebounds, and Charel Allen had 14 points. 
The Irish jumped out to a 25-8 lead in the first half, but the Mustangs pulled to within four by halftime. 
In the second half, Southern Methodist tied the game at 57 when Allen a fade-away jump shot to give the Irish the lead. They went on a 12-0 run full of layups and free throws and never allowed the Mustangs back in the game. 
Notre Dame out rebounded Southern Methodist 49-26 and had 24 offensive rebounds. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish brave w-eather, com_e away with fifth 
By MIKE BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
On a day when the wind was blowing everyone away, Notre Dame was just glad to hold on. 
In wet and blustery condi­tions, No. 25 Notre Dame eked out a fifth-place finish with a 36-hole total of 642, 51 over­par, at the Betsy Rawls Longhorn Invitational in Austin, Tex. Irish freshman So-Hyun Park carded her seventh top-1 0 finish in eight contests with a 12 over-par 156, ending up seventh overall. 
The inclement weather wreaked havoc in Austin, short­ening the tournament by forcing the University of Texas Golf Club to cancel the second round of competition and driving scores up across the board. 
"The conditions made it very tough," Irish coach Susan Holt said. "You knew the scores were going to be high today, but I was shocked with how high they were." 
The tournament featured some nation's best, as the field of18 featured five top-25 teams. No. 22 New Mexico led through­out the tournament, clinching a first-place fmish with a 32 over­par 623. No. 5 Florida finished one shot back while Texas (630) and No. 6 Arkansas (632) fin­ished third and fourth, respec­tively. Notre Dame and No. 24 TCU tied for fifth, rounding out the top five. 

Coach Holt accepted her team's finish, especially consid­ering the competition and weather. 
"There were some good teams here and [the weather] affected everyone," Coach Holt said. "I just told our team to keep g:r:inding. I feel like we made the best of the situation by tying for fifth. It could have been worse but we grinded it out." 
Behind Park, fellow freshman Katie Conway shot her third top-1 0 finish of the season for Notre Dame, finishing play with a 13-over 157 in a three-way tie for lOth. Co-captain Lisa Maunu carded a 21 over-par 165 to fin­ish tied for 51st overall. 
Notre Dame returns to com­petition April 6-8 at the Canes & Cards Classic in Miami, Fla. The tournament will be the Irish's last contest before the Big East tournament. 
"We should play well [in Miami] and hopefully that'll give us some momentum heading into the Big East tournament," Holt said. "You just kind of have to toss this tournament aside and move on and that's what we'll do when we go to Miami." 
Contact Mike Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


GOURMET BURRITO. 
(NOT AN OXYMORON) 

~ --~~~ --­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 26, 2008 
BASEBALL 
Weather cooperates, Irish vvin ho111e opener 
By FRAN TOLAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
It was worth tlw wait. 
Af't.nr having its first two home· games postponed dun to rain last week. Notre Damfl scored at least a run in each 
inning from tl111 third through the sixth as tlw Irish defeated Ball Statn 6-4 Tunsday. Evan Sharplny and Billy Boockl'ord both wnnt dtwp in thn t!1am's first full eontest at Frank Eck Stadium. 
"That was a good ballgame," Irish eoach Dave Schrage said. "We've been playing well; we've won five out of six and continued today." 
Ball State got 
... 
wn didn't give up any horne runs ... just a great job by him." 
Tlw Irish ofl'ensc had a big fourth inning to take the lead for good. Senior Tyler Pritchard replacnd Cardinals starter· Brenden Stines to begin the frame and Irish sec­ond baseman Jeremy Bames greeted him by scorching a singln to left field. Irish left f'ieldnr Hoss Brezovsky and catcher Sean Caston then reached on consecutive walks. Barnes scored when Boockl'ord dribbled a grounder down the third base line for thn first out of the inning. The next hitter, Greg Sherry, hit a long sacrifice fly to center field to push 

on the scorn­"That's the strength a c r o s s board first but Brezovsky and
(~lour team right 

the Irish offense give Notre 
now. just playing

maintained the Dame a 3-2 momentum it good '!J'. We tell advantage. accumulated Sharpley, the
our pitchers if we

while scoring 3S reigning Big
just let/other

runs in thrne East player of games against teams/ hit it, we'll the week, hit a <i eo r get own solo home run
make the plays." 

over tlw Wtlek­with two outs in end. the firth inning.
Dave Schrage 

Irish starting lin smacked his pitcher Brian Irish coach sixth homnr of' 
Du pra, who worked six innings and gave up just two runs, allowed Ball State to plate the Jirst run of the game in the top of the third. 
But Notre Dame responded in its half of the inning. With one out, shortstop Brett Lilley drew a walk and stole second base. It looked like Lilley would be stranded after David Mills lined out to center, but Irish sophomore A.J. Pollock singled up the middle to drive home Lilley and tie the game at 1-1. 
"That's a big lift," Dupra said. "You're working your hardest to pretty much keep a lead and keep zeroes on the board, so when the team picks you up like that, it's a big lift." 
Ball State scratched out another run in the next frame when Cardinals left fielder Nate Fields hit a sacrifice fly to drive in first baseman Matt Stoeklen for a 2-1 edge. 
But Dupra kept the Cardinals at bay for the remainder of his outing to pick up the l'irst win of his Irish career. · "I give IDupra] a lot of credit for battling through it today," Schrage said. "[Ball State has] a great hitting team and the wind [was[ blowing out, and 
the season as 
his drive just 
cleared Fields' outstretched glove and flew over the left field fence. 
Boockford clobbered a solo shot of his own to lead off the sixth inning and give the Irish another insurance run. The right fielder hit a mammoth blast off the screen in left-cen­terfield for a 5-2 lead. 
Boockford 's run and the one scored by Irish third baseman Mick Doyle later in the inning proved crucial as Irish right­hander Kyle Weiland ran into trouble in the ninth inning. 
Weiland surrendered a pair of runs on three hits before closing out the Cardinals. 
Schrage said he is happy with the play of his team's defense, which did not commit an error. 
"That's the strength of our team right now, just playing good 'D,"' Schrage said. "We tell our pitchers if we just let [other teams] hit it, we'll make the plays." 
Barnes had two diving stops that prevented Ball State hits. 
"There were a couple of great plays," Dupra said. "Jeremy Barnes had some highlight-reel type things." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
CHORALE & 
CH BER ORCHESTRA 2008 SPRING CONCERT BEETHOVEN, STRAVINSKY, MOZART'S SOLEMN VESPERS, K.339 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 

Invites Nominations for the 
Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, Aprill4, 2008 

Wednesday, March 26, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Cougars 
continued from page 24 
and it marked the final game for Kurz, who finished with eight points and three rPbounds. 
"I have a lot of great memo­ries with these guys," Kurz said. "It's been a wonderful year. We had so many great wins and grPat SUCCeSSPS, but obviously this one really hurts." 
Kurz helped instill a tireless work ethic into his teammates, and many of them said throughout the season Notre Dame wouldn't havP made it this far without him. 
"I wish we could have 
miserable day shooting. The Cougars employed on-and-off double teams to surprise Ilarangody and contested each shot he took. 
"I think maybe [the double­teams] frustrated them a little bit," Washington State for­ward Robbie Cowgill said. "The guards did a great job of rotating. I think also the refs let us play. They let us be physical in there. Sometimes he tries to (Teate contact and get some of those. That didn't happen [Saturday]." 
Washington State wouldn't just double-team Ilarangody, however. When the Irish drove to the basket, at least two Cougars defenders greeted them and made shooting or 

extended his "/ will always be sPason." Brey 
indebted to {Kurz's)

said. "I will 
leadership, how he 

always be indebted to his set the tone as an leadership. how 
example ofa worker 

he set the tone 
in our program, a guy

as an example of a worker in our who made himself program, a guy 
better." 

who made him­self better." 
Mike Brey

But no amount of hard work Irish coach could have saved Notre 
passing out of the trap diffi­cult. Coming off screens, the Cougars hedged or beat Notrp, Dame around them and made it hard for the Irish to use the screens well. 
Brey said even though Washington State's double­teams affected the Irish early 
small comeback. Junior for­ward Zach Hillesland and Harangody each hit a pair of free throws and Notre Dame managed to string together a few defensive stops. Junior guard Kyle McAlarney, who led Notre Dame with 12 points on 5-for-13 shooting, then hit a three after a Ilarangody offensive rebound to cut the Cougars lead to seven with 
13:49 to play. After a jumper by Cougars guard Derrick Low brought the lead back up to nine, McAlarney had a chance to cut the lead to six, but his three-pointer went in-and-out. 
After trading baskets the next few possessions, Washington State went on a 12-2 run to put the game out of reach. Cowgill started it off by hitting two consecutive perimeter jumpers. After guard Tory Jackson turned it over on Notre Dame's end, Washington State guard Kyle Weaver had Kyle McAlarney beat by a step on a fast-break to the basket. But McAlarney didn't let Weaver have the easy bucket, and reached out to grab Weaver as he went up for the shot. 
Only, the .referees whistled McAlarncy for an intentional foul. Weaver hit both free throws and then hit one-of­two after the Cougars got the ball back and he got fouled again. On the Cougars next possession, guard Derrick Low hit a three to put the his team up 52-35 with 8:34 left and end any hope of an Irish comeback. Notre Dame never got closer than 17 the rest of the game. 
The Cougars hardly put on an offensive clinic of their own, managing to shoot a 

middling 24-for-54 from the floor and just 4-for-17 from beyond the arc, but Low and Weaver proved a handful for Notre Dame to guard. Low fin­ished with a game-high 18 points and the 6-foot-6 Weaver were a tough matchup Notre Dame, finishing with 15 points and nine rebounds while Cougars guard Taylor Hochestie finished with seven assists. Low and Weaver each had thrne steals as well. 
"[Low and Weaver! are very good wings. They're threats. They can either go to the hoop, or they can shoot the three or a jump shot. So you have to be aware of that. They were coming ofT all those screens. The big guys were setting good screens for them and the were curling or fad­ing. They're very versatile and multi-threats." 
Things began promising enough for Notre Dame, Tory Jackson began his second straight game with a three­pointer and McAlarney added one of his patented runners in the lane to put the Irish up 5-0 with 18:24 left to play in the first half. 
But things quickly went downhill from there. Notre Dame managed just two points over the next 8:42 and Washington State jumped out to a 17-9 lead with 9:42 left. During that stretch, Low scored six points and Weaver poured in four. Notre Dame would pull within six after a pair of free throws from Kurz, but Washington State then went on an 11-2 run, capped off by a three from Low. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Fresh111an wins twice inNDloss 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
No. 27 Notre Dame (10-7) dropped its third straight on Tuesday at No. 50 Kentucky, falling 4-2. 
The Irish lost two of the three doubles matches, as freshmen Stephen Havens and Tyler Davis earned an 8-4 vietory to improve to 10-3 on the year. Notre Dame's top pair, junior Brett Helgeson and SPnior Sheeva Parbhu, lost its second straight. 
The Irish got on the scoreboard when I Iavens won his match, 7-6, 6-3. Havens was the only Irish player who recorded two wins on the day, and he improved his sin­gles record to 17-14 on the year. 
llelgeson fell at the No. 1 sin­gles spot, allowing Kentucky to open up a 3-1 lead. After jumping out to a 4-3 lead in the second set, he lost the next three games and lost the third 2-6, 6-4, 6-1. 
Parbhu kept the Irish in the match with a straight set win at No. 2 singles, improving his record to 21-9. 
With the loss, the Irish dropped to 10-7 on the season. Notre Dame plays host to No. 2 Ohio State on Friday. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Dame from the offensive woes it had Saturday. Washington state held the Irish to just 13­for-53 shooting for the game, including 3-for-17 from 3­point land, and held Big East player of the year Luke llarangody to just 10 points on 3-for-17 shooting. llarangody did pull down a career-high 22 rebounds, but it wasn't enough to counter his team's in the game his team was able to get some open looks -they just didn't fall. 
"Why didn't we shoot the ball well'? No. 1, they play defense," Brey said. "No. 2, you're a little tired because you play defense against them for 25 seconds." 
After falling behind 38-24 with 15:52 left to play in the game, the Irish mounted a 


Media's Role in Islamophobia -The New Anti-Semitism 
Wednesday, March 26th Main Library Auditorium-6:30pm Refreshments Served 
York Timt·s CRS ::ox 
,,,~.~· 

A.ngdt~s 'lLmes CBS Los Angeh:s Tirnes }d3S Los Angeles ago TrH:nme ;\BS ('hkago fdhm~e ent thf'fs Chicago Entxrhrinruen! :\lSi ar:ner BnHh!TS F()X N?ws NPR \V:a HH'S CBS FO>~ t\N The Nt.'tN 1/ork Tirm~s FOX News Times CBS .HC CNN 'Ha~ New "\'orli 'rimes FOX \ ,\nge!t•s T'imes t i\,1SNBf' CNN The New Yodi '.fimes ne A.HS Los i\ngdes 
ne ABS (,~NN The ;\lew York Thnes F(tX Na~ws .dbune itHS Los Ang!~!t•s ( \:'{ 
Dr. Hussein lbish, Executive Director of the Foundation for Arab-American Leadership, is a frequent contributor to the Los Angeles Times, the Washington Post and the Chicago Tribune, and was Washington Correspondent for the Daily Star (Beirut). He has made 
numerous appearances on mainstream radio and television programs including: · The Colbert Report · 0 'Reilly Factor ·Crossfire 
.\'PON,\'ORED BY: Muslim Student Association, CS'C, Kellogg Institutefor International Studies, Political Science, Campus Ministry, Classics, /S'SA 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 26, 2008 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Notre Dan1e continues 
Irish notch win over Drexel 
in 21 seconds when Wharton

By ELLYN MICHALAK 
assisted Grant Krebs for the 

Spons Writer 
first Irish goal. Three minutes later, Podgajny assisted junior 

No. 7 Notre Dame (6-1) attack Hyan Hoff to give the added another win to its Irish a 2-1 lead. record with a 13-6 victory over The Irish dominated play in No. II I>rexnl Tuesday night. the Drexel half of the field dur­
Tho Dragons entered the ing the second quarter, scoring match on a seven-game win­four more goals to conclude ning streak with their only loss the half with a lead of 6-2. coming from their first match Junior midfielders Dan Gibson of the season against No. 3 Peter Christman, each scored Virginia. Their streak was eas­while Swezey contributed two 
ily broken  by  more goals for  
the el'fective Irish offense, led by junior  "We did a lot of things well today and  the Irish in the second quarter. "The defense  
attac~k Duncan Swezey, who roeorded five points on the  I feel pretty good about how the offense played"  gave up one goal early on o!T a rebound," Corrigan said.  
match  with  "I Drexel I had a  
three goals and two assists.  Kevin Corrigan Irish coach  really tough time generating  

Senior attaek /\lox Wharton notched three goals and one assist on tlw twening, and sen­ior midfielder Michael Podgajny added one goal and four assists to the team efTort. 
"I felt liko today might have bnen our lwst game all around." Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "We did a lot of things well today and I feel pretty good about the way the om~nse played." 
The game began with a Drexol goal three and a half minutes into play. The Irish offense quickly rntaliated with-
any offense for most of the rest of the game." 
The Irish returned from the half and continued their goal run during the third period. A goal by Krebs and two by Wharton pushed the Irish lead out to 9-2. Drexel freshman attack Scott Perri scored a goal and sophomore midfield­er/attack Greg Casey scored two goals before the Irish con­cluded the period with a final goal by Podgajny. 
The Irish headed into the limtl period of play with a 10-5 edge. Another goal by 

winning ways in Texas
Wharton at the 8:56 mark pre­
ceded the final Drexel goal of the game. The Irish finished out the game with strong offense and three consecutive goals by Swezey and Hoff to finally defeat the Dragons 16­5. 
"I was very happy with our guys today with how efficiently they played at both ends of the field and in terms of executing what we wanted to do," Corrigan said. "It was another step forward f'or us we're of'f to a great start and ready to begin conference play." 
While the Irish were pre­pared to open its Great Western Lacrosse League con­ference schedule in Colorado Springs versus Air Force on Saturday March 22, the game was postponed due to inclement weather in Chicago that prevented the team from flying. A make-up date f'or the game is yet to be determined. 
The Irish instead will open conferenee play this Saturday when they travel to Louisville, Ky., to compete against Bellarmine. Bellarmine cur­rently sits behind the Irish in the No. 3 spot in the confer­ence with a record of 6-2. The Irish defeatod Bellarmine 11-3 at home during the 2007 sea­son. The game will begin at 1 p.m. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
Brand new, furnished townhomes 
for this Fall Semester, 2008 
2 blocks east of the Notre Dame athletic fields, off Willis Street 
A limited number of new Irish Crossings three and four-bedroom townhomes, specifically geared for today's college student, are now available for lease for this fall semester. 
No more old school housing. 
Larger than an apartment, these townhomes also include a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser, closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & Cable 

• 
Separate laundry room with washer &dryer included 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
Large deck 

• 
Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 


Strict covenants enforced. 
lease today and move into your brand new townhome for fall semester 2008. Call Diane at 574.261-3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossings.com. 
now leasing. 
so it all eame down to Buck. 
With the pressure of' the match riding on her shoulders, Buck endured through a hard-fought, three-set 2-6, 6-2, 6-3 win elineh­ing the match for Notre Dame. After dropping the lirst set, Buck took the final two sets, marking her fourth-consecutive singles win at the No. 2 spot. 
Against SMU, for the lirst time since becoming the nation's top­ranked doubles duo, Buck and Tefft lost tl10ir match at the hands ofjunior Natalia Bubien and soph­omore Pavi Francis, 8-7, 7-4. The hard-fought tiebreak match also ended their ten-game win streak as a team. 
Tefft's four-game win streak at No. 1 singles ended at the hands of Bubien; 7-5, 6-3, tying the scorn at 1-1, and marking the only point the Mustangs would get all match. 
The Irish benefited from a short-handed SMU squad that could not liold any players in the No. 4-6 doubles, giving Notrn Dame three points, dinching the match at 5-1. 
Buck and Francis wen~ engag11d in a closo match, but a.<; the dual match had almady bmm decided, both teams chose to leave the match unlinishnd. 
Notre Dame returns home Sunday to faco Indiana at noon. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
No. 24 Notre Dame extended its winning streak to five games over the Easter weekend, ousting two solid opponents from the Lone Star State. The Irish beat No. 27 Texas A&M and SMU on the two­game road.swing. 
In a tight contest, the Irish had to rely on some singles pPrform­ances to pull out the win over tl10 Aggies. Sticking to its strength, Notre Dame used impressive dou­bles play to start the match off with the important doubles point, sweeping all three matehes. 
The No. 1 tandem of senior Brook Buck and Kclcy Tofft con­tinued their dominating play, win­ning their tenth match in a row ­a streak dating back to Valentine's Day. 
With Notre Dame nursing a 1-0 lead, singles play would prove to be more challenging. No. 38 Tell't looked in top shape, handling sophomore Elze Potgieter, 6-3, 6­0, improving tho junior's record to 15-3 in dual match play. More importantly, however, the Irish took a 2-0 load in the contest. 
Af'tor the Irish droppod the first point, Hielley quickly put Notre Dame up 3-1 with her 6-1, 6-3 victory. 
The Aggies took the next two matches to even thf1 score at 3-3, 



'.' 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------··---------------­
Wednesday, March 26, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

season long, the Irish relied on Obviously, what made Notre them over good opponents. a 3-pointer to put Notre Dame on 
ofl'ensive explosions to win games. Dame so high-powered and fun to Otherwise, on nights when they the scoreboard for the second 
That is not necessarily a bad watch was its run-and-gun style. shoot well under their average straight game, I thought it was a 
continued from page 24 thing, but the team runs into seri­But sometimes (especially during percentage, they will leave with good omen. In retrospect, it was­
ous trouble when those runs don't the grind that defines March their mouths tasting like stale n't. simply ran into a wall and that come. Madness), a team is forced to slow whiskey and vodka. Jackson had just four points wall came in the form of a superi­On Saturday, Notre Dame was it down. The Irish would be well­and two assist<> the rest of the or, more experienced opponent. forced to constantly play from advised to learn from the Some Other Thoughts way. 
The Cougars suffocated the behind so the team was unable to Cougars' patience on both ends of +Regardless of all the points I +The Irish are going to miss Irish ofl'ense like no other team lind any kind of rhythm. the floor. just made, the Irish had little Rob Kurz. came dose to doing this season. The Irish did make one of their And they will learn. The team chanee of winning anyway Kurz was everything you could And their guard-play showed Tory patented runs midway through has made gigantic strides in each because of one statistic. That ask for in a captain, someone who Jackson and Kyle McAlarney the second half. Luke Harangody of the past two seasons. They would be Luke 1-Iarangody's 3-for-deflected credit for wins after what another year of playing absolutely out-willed everyone improved from an NIT team to an 17 finish from the floor. doing much of the dirty work together can do lor them. else on the court to come up with NCAA Tournament bid recipient 1-Iarangody did pull down 22 those victories entailed. Even in Washington State seniors Kyle a loose ball before finding Kyle last year. And this season, they rebounds but many of those can the locker room after the loss Weaver and Derrick Low picked MeAlarney for an open 3-pointer. advanced one round further than be attributed to Notre Dame's Saturday, the team's lone senior apart the Irish man-to-man The play eapped a 9-0 Notre they did last year. They will return atroeious shooting. Seven of his directed the conversation toward defense. Weaver, a perimeter-ori­Dame run and eut Washington every player with the exception of boards eame on the offensive next season. He said he hoped his entl1d forward, worked the base­State's lead to 38-31. But the Irish Rob Kurz (see bottom of column) glass. younger teammates would learn line like a good artist works the were spent. and there is no reason to suspect If your superstar has a game from this year and use that expe­canvas, routinely shaking his man The sequence illustrated the they will not markedly improve where he struggles offensively, rience to advance further in the and linding his way to the hoop. danger ofliving and dying by ran­once again. you're not beating anyone in Tournament next year. 
Low also proved to be much dom offensive spurts. The Irish But the Irish need to learn sev­Mareh. The empty spot vacated by No. more than the Irish could handle. had a poor shooting night and eral lessons from this season's After the game, Harangody said 31 will not be easily filled next He controlled the pace of the that led to many of their prob­Tournament exit. They must he felt like he let his teammates year. game and orchestrated an ofl'ense lems. But they also came up improve in the half-eourt game to down. Expect his season-ending that committed just seven against a solid team that prevent­compete with plodders like performance to make him even The views ofthis column are turnovers. ed them from ever really catching Washington State. And they must more driven this off-season. Look those ofthe author and not neces­
Washington State illustrated the fire. After eutting the deficit to play consistent basketball for for him to play like a man pos­sarily those ofThe Observer. need to play 40 solid minutes to seven. Notre Dame was exhaust­entire games, shaking their habit sessed next year. Contact Fran Tolan at do serious damage in March. All ed from merely trying to catch up. of counting on mega-runs to lift +When Jackson knocked down ftolan@nd. edu. 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles look to bounce back in home opener 
row," sophomore captain Camille since the Belles came back from hopefully three. If we start off "Each player has stepped it upBy MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Gebert said. "Calvin will be a team spring break. The duos of sopho­strong, our singles will finish the when need be, ineluding the play­Sports Writer 
very much like us --young and of more Lisa Rubino and freshman win off." ers not currently in the lineup. similar talent level -so it will be Betsy Reed and freshmen Jessica No. 1 and No. 2 singles players Tomorrow will be a good test for 
Saint Mary's (4-5, 0-1 MIAA) a good ehance to see how well we Kosinski and Jessica Camp have Gebert and Hurley currently sit at our team. If we can pull the win continues conference play can perform." all progressed recently. 4-5 and 7-1, respectively, on the our, which I have faith that we Wednesday when it hosts Calvin in Gebert and freshmen Jillian "I am excited that our doubles season. Reed and Kosinski have will, we will be in good shape for its home opener at Notre Dame's Hurley, the Belles No. 1 doubles are doing better," Gebert said. "In also been strong in singles for the the rest of the conference season." Eck Tenni<> Center at 5 p.m. team that beat Albion in their last order to win tomorrow we are Belles. 
"I am really excited to see what action, aren't the only Saint Mary's going to need to win at least two "Our entire team has really Contact Meaghan Veselik at we can do against Calvin tomor-doubles who have been improving or the three doubles matches, been doing well," Gebert said. mveselO1@saintmacys.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 26, 2008 
CCHA 
continued from page 24 
Tournanwnt. 
"It was a gn~at rm~ling," junior loft wing (;arrPtt lkgan said. "It's what you work for all year, and that was dpf1nitoJy Onl' of our objoctivos to makn the NCAA Tournamnnt. Wo made it thoro, and now wo havP a chance to win a dHLmpionship, so we'vo got to mako tho host out ol' our opportu­nity." 
Notn~ Danw, tho No. 4-soed. will faco Nnw llampshirn, tho top snnd in the Wost rogional, on Friday afternoon in Colorado 
... 
Springs, Colo., with tlw opportuni­ty to take on tlw winnor or Friday's Colorado College­Michigan Statn match-up. 
Though the Irish will certainly bn tim undnrdog, tlwy bdiovn thny can make up for thoir poor sec­ond-half showing by pulling ofT tlw upsPt Friday. 
"Wn'vn got to nmlizn how lucky we are I to still bP playingI. Only I (J teams get this opportunity pvery year, so you can't pass up orw chanen," smrior captain Mark Van Cuildnr said. "Thn thing is, it doesn't n~ally mattPr what wn did last wnekend, it doesn't matter what wn did in the first half or second half-it's onn gam11. It's orw and donn or onn and move on.... Wn havn to put all our nggs in one basket and just go for it, because anything can happen horn." 
RedHawks 2, Irish 1 (OT) 
In a loss coach .Jeff .Jackson could only describe as "devastat­ing", the Irish held a high-pow­nrnd Miami att.ark scornless until Mitch Ganzak boat Notre Dame goalie .Jordan Pearce -who was otherwise sensational with 28 saves -stiek-sidn through traflie with 3.4 seconds remaining in 
n~gulation. 
'The positives are that wn exe­cutnd exactly what we wanted to," Van Guilder said. "We weath­ered the storm in thn first pnriod, and Pearce was awesome. We frustrated them, and that was our goal going into the game, and thnn just waiting !'or our chances. Unfortunately, we got a couple tough breaks thern. and the nega­tive is that we weren't able to dosn it out with a one-goal lead in the third period." 
Senior forward Evan Hankin put Notre Dame on the board with just 4:30 to play in the game with a bac~khander from the slot. That goal came just two minutes after Van Guilder's power-play goal was called on· when the olli­eials ruled that it never crossed the goal line. 
Miami defenseman Alec Martinez won it for the Hedllawks when he fired a shot by Pearce from the left point, deflating Notre Dame's hopps of returning to Saturday's title game. 
"We showed that we can play with anybody," Jackson said. "We were on our heels a little bit early in the game ... but as the game went on, we got better and better. In the third period, we eontrolled the tempo of the game, and I think Miami's as good a team as then~ is in the country, so we should have a lot of confidence because we're getting eloser to finishing it off. Hopefully this makes us stronger in the long run." 
Wildcats 2, Irish 1 
For the first time all year, the Irish lost a game in whieh they led aftm· two periods. 
"I think we had a tough time getting over Friday still, and there wasn't a lot of emotion -you could see it wasn't as intense as Friday," Van Guilder said. "That was our fault, we had a little trou­ble getting up for the game, but we didn't know the INCAA Tournament! situation. We were just trying to win." 
Christian Hanson scored the lone Notre Dame goal midway through the second period, but Northern Michigan's Tim Hartung and Matt Siddall each scored goals in the first four minutes of 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

··· ··· .advantages. At Notre Oome Federal Credit Union, ,, we ar~,,,now checking I.O.'s, and you'll be glad we ore. 
·: :::·::::::=~=t:::~~:~·~:;=%m:~:!~iit=, · · =·l:J;:::=:.::: 
time, IR4."~tonds for Increase Rote by Age. Stop in today, and 
::.·<t@: 

orote increase (based on your age) on IRA Certificates. 
For instance, if you ore 51 years old, we'll increase your APY by 0.51 %. 
us your age, and toke advantage of this fantastic offer. 
.nrn1mr·4~a we won't tell asoul how much "'rat~.,!ncrease you've recej,~ld. 
.~:. 
• 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
NO WoMEN's LAcRossE 
Irish sneak by Hofstra, 
424 N. Frances Street 

vvin second straight 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI Sports Writer 
Things are finally starting to break right f(Jr the Irish. 
Coming off of a weekend that saw the Irish knock ofl' Loyola, 13­10, No. 13 Notre Dame (7-3) eon­tinued iL'i roll on the road in New York, defeating Hofstra 14-13. Tough defense, coach Tracy Coyne 
said, provnd to be tho ditfenmce. 
"We had a huge defensive stop at the end of the game by Hache! Guerrera," Coyne said. 
The stop was crucial to the Irish victory, as it turnnd away the notching 14 goals
"/ think we need to 
for the eighth time come out with more in ten games this 
Security System 
intensity. But I think season. Junior 
Jillian Byers led
we played a very 
the offensive 

These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
good game." comeback, scoring all four of her goals in the sec­
Tracy Coyne 

(574) 234-2436 
ond half.
Irish coach 

Pride attaek as time was winding down. Notre Dame had lost in sueh a scenario earlier in tlu~ sea­son. losing to Oregon on a pair of last-minutn goals. This outcome, however, shows that the tide may be turning filr tho Irish this year. 
"That was the turning point of tho whole game. It was the Pontiac Game-Changing Perfilrmance," said Coyne with a laugh, referring to the popular highlight segment from football season. 
The stop was also crucial to ofl':. set a slow start for the Irish, something Coyne hopes to avoid in the fi.rture. 
"I think we need to come out with more intensity," she said. "But I think we played a very good game." 
Once again, the Notre Dame 
offense clicked, 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air 
Freshman Shaylyn Blaney scored two 

To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 
goals, including the game winner with four minutes to play. 
The Irish will play their next game on Saturday in Storrs, Conn., against the Connecticut I Iuskins, with the hopes of extend­ing their two game winning streak. 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at 
aziccare@nd.edu 


Wednesday, March 26, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLACK DoG 
I MISSPoKE WHE.>J I SAID I 
{<..UN ACRoSS A TARMAC TO DoDG-E. SNIPE.~ FIR..E WHAT I MEANT ro SAY WAS. THAT THERE WAS THE 
T oF SrJIPER-FIRE.­

LOLLERSKATES 
'T I'.EME-MBCR A,'-l"( SNII'£RS SCARI~ST I"ART OF 11-11:0. TRIP FaR 
ME. I.JAS Wor-JDE-!t.IN G-WHERE THE NEXT MEAL WOULI> U>ME FROM­



THE SINGLE LIFE 

CROSSWORD 
Across 38 From 1-to 67­*Salad partner 
Across 

5 Velvety bloomer 41 Some A.L. sluggers
1 0 Dreaded prom night sight 42 Jong who wrote 14 River of Tuscany 
"Sappho's Leap" 

43 Woodcutter's and screen 
15 Graff of stage 
tool 16 •Takeover 44 Many a turban wearer
17 Gat's gripper 18 Violin, viola and 
46 Toll rd. cello 47 Sleek runway 20 Hitchcock thriller model? 21 •pen 48 *Sleep lab 
purchases quantities 50 Lawn care tool 23 Mail at contest 54 Sinuous dances central 
22 Half-and-half 
56 *Salon styles 25 *Cote calls 
58 Drink to excess 26 Sound from a 
59 Aida and Norma,

frying pan 
notably 27 Monastery title 
61 Chicago's Dan 29 Place brushed 
_ Expresswayby a barber 
62 Kind of ladder 

32 Sprites in exemplified by 
bottles? 
the answers to 35 Bad marks 
the seven 37 Knickers wearer starred clues 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
63 Backspace over text 
64 Astronomy's _ cloud 
65 Finishes, as cartoon artwork, with "in" 
66 Blows off steam 
67 *Fanatics 
Down 
Paris's Coeur Basilica 2 Sock material 3 Not suitable 4 Buzzer on "This Old House" 5 Last sign 6 Some saxophones 
7 Charles Laughton's role in "The Sign of the Cross" 
8 Sassy one 9 It's issued by the 
Nippon Ginko 
10 Director's order 
11 Summer side dish 12 When the stars come out in Paris 13 Long narrative 
poem 19 Mail ctr. 24 Joe Jackson's 
____ Really Going Out With Him?" 
25 Like J.F.K.: Abbr. 
27 Dandruff bit 
28 Monte_, highest point in the Pen nine Alps 30Twinge 31 Beat (out) 


34 Hotel front person 
35 It might be on one's radar 
36 Storm drain, e.g. 
39 Scraps for Spike 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
Now THAT I TI-l AI3DUT n; THE SCARJt::>T f.'\I<.T oF THE. Ti>.IP WA:S. '>HARIN6--A STA<>-E. WITH SI>JBAD. 

DIDIER LEWIS 
LINAPAEK 
WILLSHORTZ 
47 James and 54 "Oh, _________ Love Jackson 
Jesus" (hymn) 49 Airport org. 55 Apprised of 50 Event in 1940s-56 Curriculum part '50s headlines 57 Bator 
51 Conclusion of 60 Increase, with "Happy Birthday" "up" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
JmJWJIDJ1r! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CEDDI 
[J I ( J 
<1'.i2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
t'i~rb 
GIVING JUNIOR A. HE:A.P OF E:DUC.A.­
I I 
TIONAI-TOYS MADE: 
www.jumble.com 

HIM A.--­tTIGBLE t 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J I I IJ 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
A= 

"[II IIxJ" rIIIIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: ICILY BRAND BUTANE MUFFLE Answer: What it takes to ship a package cross country -A "BUNDLE" 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LIST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: beryl Swoopes, 37; Sarah Jessica Parker, 43; Elton John, 61; Aretha Franklin, 66 
Happy Birthday: Happy Birthday: Money matters will couot this year and you can find financial gains if you invest in something you believe in. Anxiety will prevail regardless of what you do. so stay busy and focus on what counts. Taking care of legal, medical and financial issues will be key. Your numbers are 16, 19, 23, 27, 35, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Money will come to you from an unexpected source. Put a little time, effort and cash into your residence. Work with what you have and spend as little as possible and the end result will be greater gains. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Present, promote and persuade others to join your crusade today. Love is in the stars and you will position yourself for a positive move in your personal life. A serious look at your future will show others you mean business. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep professional and personal dealings separate. As soon as you mix the two, you will not think straight, causing you to make mistakes on both counts. Make decisions based on what you know is fact, not your assumptions. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Trust your own judgment Don't shy away from asking for what you want Personally, professionally and emotionally you will win in the end by showing your true colors, your likes and disli)<es and your future intentions. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's time to remember the past in order to move forward with confidence. The experience you have will be worth far more than you realize. You have everything to gain and nothing to lose by securing your position. Take action. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't give up on someone you care about If you really want to be with someone or do something, fight for it. You will win and gain popularity for your honesty, your approach and your compassion for others. 4 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Focus on work and steer clear of anything that could lead to 
misinterpretation. The last thing you need is to give the wrong impression. Keep your personal life separate and avoid possible problems. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel should be on your mind or part of your agenda today. Love is taking a positive turn. An unusual approach to a project will bring results that you can be proud of. Money can be made. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Speaking out of turn or exaggerating will lead to trouble. Get your facts straight and avoid rumors or gossip. You will be questioned by someone who has an interest in what you are talking about Be careful not to burn bridges. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You've got everyone's interest so lay your cards on the table and watch your popularity grow along with your bank account You have the right idea and everyone is going to want a part of it Don't put your own money on the line. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't put yourself in an uncompromising position. Avoid conversations with people who are out to prove you wrong. You are likely to end up in an emotional situation that will cost you if you are forced to hold back the truth. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take a look at an idea you have that appeared to be far-fetched in the past, and you will gather some interest. Fixing up your home, real estate deals or other investments are looking very good. Quick action on your part will seal a deal. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have a strong will power and a relentless determination. You are not willing to give in or back away from adversity. You are a problem solver-inventive, imaginative and interested in everything. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, March 26, 2008 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
How Sweet it is 
Allen scores 35 points as Notre Dame beats Oklahoma, advances to Regional semifinals 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
WEST LAFAYETTE. Ind. -Chand Allen said before the NCM Tournament started that the team goal was to reach the Sweet 1 6. Tw~sday night, shH saw to it herself that they got tlwre. 
Allen smrnd 35 points during No. 5-s!wd Notrn Damn's 79-75 ovnrtinw win over No. 4-seed Oklahoma in tlw second round of the Tournament. 
The Irish. who donned their green uniforms against the Sooners. advan<:ed to thn Sweet I(,, where they face No. 1 seed Temwssne Sunday. The Volunteers beat Notrn Dame 87­63 on Jan. 5 at the .Joyce Center. 
"The whole team absolutely rdusnd to go home without a vie­tory," Irish coach Mufl'et McGraw said. "Even when we got down five in th(~ overtime we just kept battling ba<:k." 
Allen was 10-for-21 from the field, :~-for-3 from 3-point range and 12-for-12 from the free throw linn. Still. slw said the Tournanwnt meant morn. 
"It wasn't bad," she said of her night. "Wn got to the Sweet 16. Thn 'W' is all that counts for 
see SWEET 16/page 17 


HOCKEY 
ND earns NCAA bid after losses 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sporrs Editor 
Rarely is a team that has just lost consecutive one-goal gamns in its conference tournament as reliew~d the morning after as the No. 11 Irish (24-15-4) were on Sunday. 
After losing an overtime heart­breaker to No. 3 Miami (Ohio) 2-1 on Friday and giving up a pair of third-period goals in a 2-1 loss to Northern Michigan in an emo­tion-less third-place game the next night, Notre Dame's NCM Tournament hopes were very much in doubt, especially after the team enten1d the weekend in Detroit with the expectation that it had to win at least once to guarantee il'ielf a berth. 
And yet. when the pairings were announced Sunday morn­ing, there the Irish were ­yelling, cheering, but most of' all, breathing a gigantic, collective sigh of' relief that its dismal record in the season's second half had not ultimately cost them a chance to get back to the 
see CCHA/page 22 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish fall to Washington St. in second round 
Squad manages only 41 points in blowout 
By CHRIS HINE 
SponsWritl'l 
1>1\NVI·:B -Irish coach Miko Brny said his oiTonsn would lw comfortable playing with its usua I, run-and-gun tnm po or battling Washington State in half-court ol'l'ensn. Unfortunately for thn Irish, Washington State dnfnnded both styll~s fairly well. 
Thanks to a sagging and suf­fo(:ating man-to-man dnfense that madn the country f'orgnt Notre Damn averaged 80.2 points coming into thn NCAA Tournament. Washington State snnt Notrn Damn home· for the snason and ended senior cap­tain Hob Kurz's carnnr with a (, 1-41 thumping at the Pepsi Centor. 
"I think you certainly take your hat of'f' to Washington State," Brey said. "They imposed tlwir will on us." 
In thn process. the Irish set or tind a f'nw rncords for offen­sivn futility under Hrey ­fowost points scored in a gamn, tied tho lowest points for a half (I 'J in thn lirst halll and lowost liold goal pt>rcent­ago for a game (24.5 pnrcont). 
Tlw loss was only lhn sm:ond l.imn in school history tho Irish have lost by 20 or morn points in tho NCAA Tournamont ­
see COUGARS/page 19 


Season-ending defeat will leave bitter taste 
DENVEH-Tho Irish had a good season but, boy, dons that type of loss leave a bad taste in their mouths. Like the dry. putrid taste you have in your mouth af'IN a long night of partying. No amount of' toothpaste can f'ully eradicatn that taste. 

But filJ' Notre Dame, there are some positives to be taken from ib sea­son-ending loss to Washin!,rton State. The Irish saw what it takes to advance beyond the first weekend of' thn NCM Tournament. 
Before the Tourney, I said that anything short of a Swent 16 berth would be a disappointnwnt for the Irish. I still bdieve that. but aftnr seeing Washington Stat(~ dismantle Notre Dame, I now also more fully rnalize why the Hound of 16 is labelod "Swnet." You have to play really, rnally well to get thorn. Obviously, llw Irish didn't. 
But I think Saturday's loss had more to do with Washington Statu's oxecution than with Notre Dame's poor showing. The Irish 

Fran Tolan 
Associate !·iports Editor 
see TASTE/page 21 




