
-----------------------~----------------------------------------......... 
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 117 THURSDAY, APRIL 10,2008 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Obamafuels debate, gives speech to well-wishers 
Denwcratic nominee Jwlds political rally at Washington High School 
By BILL BRINK News Ediror 
Illinois Senator and Democratic presi­dential nominee Barack Obama told sup­porters Wednesday at Washington High School in South Bend that changing par­ties in the White House will not suffice, outlined his plan for drastic alterations and gained an endorsement along the way. 
South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke, pre­ceding Obama, endorsed the Senator to raucous approval from Obama support­ers. 
"Let's not hold the surprise," he said. 

Obama, who entered the packed gym­nasium with U2 playing in the back­ground, received a huge response when he asked how many Notre Dame students 
see 0 BAMA/ pageS 

Panel, students discuss race relations, campaign issues atforum 
By EMMA DRISCOLL News Writer 
Prompted by Senator Barack Obama's speech on race delivered on March 18 in Philadelphia, members of both the Notre Dame and South Bend communities gathered to discuss race issues at "Evaluating Barack Obama's Speech on Race: A Town Hall Meeting on Race Relations in America" in the McKenna Hall Auditorium Wednesday. 
Moderator and Chair of the Department of Mricana Studies Richard Pierce, Ph.D., said that the meeting would be to "discuss race openly and in public." 
Instead of directly analyzing the text of Obama's speech, Pierce and panel members sought to address greater issues of race and its implications in American society. 
"We must resist the temptation to deconstruct Obama's speech as ifit was a document in class," 
see FORUM/page 4 

NDSP makes arrest for reported·burglaries 
Two 1nen questioned about stolen cell phone, laptop; incidents not necessarily related to recent thefts in residence halls 
By BILL BRINK News Ediror 
Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP} arrested one man and questioned another in rela­tion to reports of burglary and suspicious activity on campus Tuesday, a statement released by NDSP reported. 
NDSP assistant director Dave Chapman said in a phone interview that it is not known whether the incidents are related to the recent bur­
glaries in Lyons and Howard Halls. 
Around 10:50 a.m. Tuesday, the statement said, a call to NDSP reported that a man may have stolen a cell phone from an office in Stepan Chemistry center. The caller lost sight of the suspect, the statement said, and did not know if he left the building. NDSP officers searched the area and eventually stopped the suspect as he left the building. He had a laptop computer under his shirt that belonged to a professor, the statement said, and the pro­fessor later identified the lap­top. The suspect was arrested for burglary and taken to the NDSP building, and later to the St. Joseph's County Jail. 
Two other cell phones and another laptop were still missing, the statement said. Chapman said it was still unknown who took them. 
South Bend police were contacted because of the sus­pect's believed involvement in off-campus thefts, the state-
STUDENT SENATE 
Leaders hold informal meeting 
Officers set agenda for Stand Against Hate week 
By CLAIRE REISING 
News Writer 
Committee chairs and officers announced Student Senate goals and upcoming events during an informal meeting Wednesday. Initially, the meeting could not be called to order because Senate did not have enough members present for quorum due to a conflict with sophomore class reg­istration meetings. 
Carroll Senator Nick Ruof of the Social Concerns Committee said that Stand Against Hate Week, which speaks out against discrimination directed at gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender or questioning studentc.;, 
see SENATE/page 3 


ment said. 
The stolen laptop belonged to Chris Kolda, a physics pro­fessor. He said he left his office for five minutes and left the door open. NDSP con­tacted him, he said, to see if his computer was missing. When he returned to his office, his laptop was gone. 
Police told Kolda, who never saw the thief, that they caught the suspect, he said. 
"I was very happy with Notre Dame security," Kolda said. "Nothing like getting 
your computer back before you know it was stolen." 
Police picked out the sus­pect because he was wearing rosary beads, which looked out of place, Kolda said. He also said NDSP said the bur­glar matched previous descriptions and that they had been searching for him for three weeks. 
NDSP found Kolda's com­puter on the suspect's per­son, he said, and the suspect 
see ARRESTS/page 6 

SAB to host events for annual SMC-Tostal 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's Student Activities Board (SAB) will host its annual SMC-Tostal today. The ev~nt will be marked by an afternoon of activities in the student cen­ter, culminating in a concert by new and upcoming female recording artist, Colbie Caillat. 
The name SMC-Tostal was modeled after an Irish spring festival from the 1960s An­Tostal -short for Annual Tostal -according to senior Cassie Calion, SAB Coord ina tor. 
"The Student Activites Board has been putting on this event all four years that I have been here," Calion said. 
"As far as I can find in the yearbooks, SMC-Tostal has been celebrated since the 1970s here at [Saint Mary's] and has just been 'one of those traditional events that never lost steam." 
Special events for the day include a performanec by "Katius," an alternative rock band from Dayton, Ohio, in the Student Center Lounge. There will also be a carica­ture artist and balloon ani­mals available from 12 to 3 p.m., Calion said. 
There will also be a special dessert bar in the Noble Family Dining Hall for dinner. 
The headlining event of the day is a free concert at 7 p.m. in ()'Laughlin Auditorium fea­turing Colbie Caillat, accom­
see TOSTAL/page 3 

Thursday, April 10, 2008 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
page 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS YOUR MAN/GIRL CRUSH?
INSIDE COLUMN 


Chocolate box men 
I would not be who I am without what happened. I would not be stronger, I would not be wiser, I would not be prepared. We cannot learn without being taught, and we cannot know 
what flavor of Ashley Charnley love we like without tasting News Production them all. Editor Just because you were sur­prised by the coconut center you ate, doesn't mean the creamy caramel won't be the one you pick next. However, even if you get four hun­dred bad flavors in a row, you have to know, that eventually you will find your favorite. You will find the guy who is milk chocolate all the way to his center. That, my dear friends, is why you continue to take a bite. In the meantime, all of these wast­ed calories begin to add up. We begin to regret every bite. Worse yet. we dread the next. We actually look at our next romantic venture as though we are lambs out to slaughter. So, why does a single girl continue with the box of chocolates'? Well, simply, because she has to. There is no way to sugar coat it· ladies, pun intended. However, instead of cursing the less appetizing flavors and spitting them out without a second thought, learn from them. Try to remember what you noticed about them when you first laid eyes on them. Prospective men are all the same. They make us smile, they make us laugh, and they give us those little tinges of excite­ment about being with someone again. You remove the lid. The aroma of beautiful, rich chocolate fills your nostrils. They are molded into beauti­ful shapes, and it is taking every ouHce of restraint you can muster to prevent yourself from plunging in. Without even tasting it, without one little bite, you already think you know just how perfect it will be. Then, the rueful moment when you realize that the inside does not match the outside. One of the advantages of a guy is that you can ask him his fla­vor. Beware of the marketers though, ladies. Some will try to tell you they are filled with things they aren't, oth­ers will tell you that you should deny your taste buds and dive in. Eventually though, with practice, these self-advertisers will be much easier to spot. I guarantee to you, the one who will satisfy you most, will have to sell himself the least. Don't get me wrong, here. I love chocolate in all shapes and sizes. There is a flavor for everyone. So guys, just because one girl doesn't like coconut doesn't mean the next one won't. This is a two way street. Russell-Stover wouldn't make a fla­vor that no one likes, and in the same way there is a girl for every guy. Life is like a box of chocolates, and ladies, it is time for you decide what you get. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 






Carolina Surla 
senior off-campus 

"Kimya Dawson because she'll be at Legends this Saturday 
at 9· ,, 
Nick Zarazua 
senior off-campus 

"Barack Obama. ·· 
Erin James 
senwr off-campus 
"Julia Roberts. ,, 
Paul Holt 
senwr o-f campus 
"Serpico.,, 


CASEY CARNEY/The Observer Students and moderator and chair of the department of Africana Studies Richard Pierce discuss race relations at a town hall style forum in McKenna Hall on Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 
Man complains about assessment made in office 
GARDEN CITY, NY ­Harvey Levinson might be the last person his neigh­bors would expect to com­plain about the assess­ment on his condominium. After all, he's the county assessor. 
But Levinson has asked the Nassau County Assessment Review Commission to knock more than $200,000 off the $502,080 value his own office set for his two-bed­room condo in an upscale Long Island development. If approved, the change would shave an estimated $1,700 off his $13,000 property tax bill for 2009­2010. 
Levinson said he was simply trying to point up a clerical error that caused a 75-percent spike in his assessment. 
Oregon woman enters station, receives DUI 
NEWPORT The Oregon State Police arrest drunken drivers on the road every day. But it's not often when the drivers show up drunk at a state police office 
Troopers charged Ruby 
Ann Pederson, 42, of Newport with driving under the influence of intoxicants after she came to work to clean the state police office. 
A trooper said she showed signs of being intoxicated after driving to the office with her 12­year-old son. A blood-alco­hol test showed her level was 0.19 percent -more than twice the legal limit. 
· She was also charged with recklessly endanger­ing another person. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

Jackie Collins Gabriel Ymalay 
senior JUnwr Pasquerilla East Keenan 
"Hillary "David 
Beckham.,,

Clinton. I dig the manly pant-suits., 
IN BRIEF 

Donna Smith, from Michael Moore's movie 'Sicko,' will speak about her experience in the documentary and the cur­rent state of healthcare tonight at 6 in DeBartolo room 126. 
Colbie Caillat will be perform­ing at Saint Mary's tonight at 6 in the Angela Athletic Facility as part of SMC Tostal. 
A Frozen Four Gamewatch will be set up in the Joyce Center for students to watch the Notre Dame Hockey Team play against Michigan tonight at 9, doors open at 8. There will be free food and giveaways. 
The play "The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus", a Christopher Marlow play about a professor who sells his soul to the devil, will be performed April 10-13, 17 and 18 at 7:30 
p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theater at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Vietnamese Student 
Association of ND is hosting the · 6th annual "Vietnamese Interacting As One" confer­ence April11-13. The theme this year is "Golden Dreams­Redefining Success for our Generation." Visit www.vial.org for conference 
information. 

Anne Thompson, Chief 
Environmental Correspondent 
at NBC News, will give a lecture 
called "Green is the 'new 
black,' but will it stay in 
style?'' Friday at 10:40 a.m. in ·Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obseruer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
LLI 
l: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
..J C( 
(..) 

FRIDAY 
SATURDAY 
~vr;v-l 
c;. )~ 
> ~ ' 
~Q~~


, -y
V<A 

SUNDAY 
l\?J~ 

").~\'\--. $ 
lp _/ ~ 
~U2 t:··~ · 
""f ( 
.· I.A...; 
MONDAY 
\" f_ • 
~ \\'\.]. . 
'" '.f.}~· ·i ' 
'S;;,, )--'-'---/
··'$7 "·/:
... l ' . '>-.,;:1 )""""" 

~Ill~~~,
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a protessional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

....0 HIGH 58 HIGH 52 HIGH 55 HIGH 43 HIGH 42 HIGH 50 LOW 50 LOW 49 LOW 37 LOW 28 LOW 25 LOW 30 
Atlanta 76 I 57 Boston 66 I 42 Chicago 51 I 37 Denver 38 I 31 Houston 83/ 72 Los Angeles 72 I 50 Minneapolis 45 I 33 New York 68 I 48 Philadelphia 72 I 50 Phoenix 80 I 55 Seattle 55 I 40 St. Louis 67 I 52 Tampa 84 I 67 Washington 72 151 

Thursday, April 10, 2008 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Russert to deliver Red Smith lecture 
Special to The Observer 
Tim Russert, Washington bureau chief of NBC News, will deliver the 25th anniver­sary Red Smith Lecture in Journalism at Notre Dame on Monday. 
Russert 's lecture, "When Politicians Meet the Press," will begin at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are required for the talk, and they are available without charge at the LaFortune Student Center ticket office. 
Moderator of "Meet the Press" since 1991 and the network's chief political ana­lyst, Russert also serves as senior vice president of NBC News and as anchor of "The Tim Russert Show," a weekly program on MSNBC. He joined NBC in 1984. 
Russert received an hon­orary doctorate from Notre Dame in 2002, when he also delivered the commencement address. He's the author of two best-selling books: "Big Russ and Me" (2004) and "Wisdom of Our Fathers" (2006). 
Named the most influential Washington journalist in magazine rankings, Russert is the recipient of numerous awards, including an Emmy, and he's a member of the Broadcasting & Cable Hall of Fame. He holds 43 honorary doctorates from American 
colleges and universities. 
The Red Smith Lecture in Journalism was established in 1983 to honor the sports­writer and 1927 Notre Dame graduate Walter W. "Red" Smith, winner of the Pulitzer Prize for distinguished com­mentary in 1976. At the time of his death in 1982, Smith was a columnist for The New York Times. 
The Smith Lectureship seeks to foster good writing and to recognize high jour­nalistic standards. It is administered by the John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy at Notre Dame. Previous Red Smith Lecturers include James Reston, James J. Kilpatrick, Art Buchwald, Charles Kuralt, Judy Woodruff, Ted Koppel, Jim Lehrer and Frank McCourt. 
The series is made possible by a gift from John and Susan McMeel and Universal Press Syndicate. A South Bend native and 1957 Notre Dame graduate, John McMeel is chairman of Andrews McMeel Universal, the parent company of Universal Press Syndicate. He's a member of both the advisory council for Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters and the advisory committee of the Gallivan Program. 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
will be held next week. 
Events include an ally pledge campaign at the dining halls and LaFortune, a screening of the film. "Boys Don't Cry" and T-shirt distribution. The week will cul­minate with a Holocaust Memorial on South Quad next Friday, with a prayer vigil for hate crimes at the Grotto that evening. 
According to former Social Concerns Chair Karen Koski, stu­dent government was involved in adding an academic panel on "History, Catholicism and Homosexuality," which will fea­ture history professor Gail Bederman and theology profes­sor Mary D'Angelo. 
"The speakers were what we were looking for in shedding an academic and historical perspec­tive on relationships and issues [on] how people view homosexu­ality," Koski said. 
Gender Issues Committee co­chair Patrick Tighe announced that campus will hold Take Back the Night on later in April to spread awareness about rape and sexual assault. 
"It's going to involve a rally and march around campus where men and women will actually speak out ahout how they've been sexually assaulted. It will end at the Grotto with a prayer service," he said. 
In the University Affairs Committee, student body vice president Grant Schmidt said they are continuing to plan elec­tion initiatives to raise student awareness on 2008 campaign issues. He suggested polling stu­dent.'> to gauge what issues stu­dents are interested in or to set up posters contrasting the candi­dates' issue positions. Schmidt also said that the committee will discuss how to bring popular speakers to campus. 
"It's a formality that [Father Jenkins] did invite Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and John McCain to campus, and Hillary took up that offer by sending Chelsea," he said. 
In addition to University Affairs, Schmidt said he is work­ing with Community Relations chair Gus Gari to discuss a Domer Dollars campus proposal. Schmidt plans to discuss the pro­
"We had our eye on a group of performers," Calion said.

Tostal 
"Once we started calling around to agencies to see
continued from page 1 
which performer best fit with panied by singer/songwriter our Tostal date, Colbie [Caillat] Jason Reeves. seemed like a perfect match. 
Caillat, 22, is most recog­We are very excited to have nized for her recent hit song, such an up-and-coming female "Bubbly." artist visit our campus." 
While Caillat was not exactly The concert has been much the performer that SAB origi­anticipated around Saint nally set out to find, they were Mary's campus, and SAB 's quite happy with the match. hard work to put on this event posal next week. 
After enough senators arrived, Schmidt officially convened the meeting, and the Senate unani­mously passed two resolutions that proposed adding amend­ments to the Student Body Constitution, which would require the president and vice president to take oaths of office. 
In other Senate news: 
+Joy Hwang, Residence Life Committee Chair, said her com­mittee set their top seven priori­ties for the term, including free DVD rentals in the Huddle. 
+Howard Hall is hosting a bone marrow registry in the Dooley Room from 12-8 p.m. today. This allows participants to become potential bone marrow donors if their DNA matches can­cer patients in need of trans­plants. 
+Keenan Hall will hold its annual Muddy Sunday mud vol­leyball tournament April 20. Teams can register on Keenan's website, and proceeds from the event will be donated to Habitat for Humanity. 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 
year after year is appreciated by students. 
''I'm very excited to experi­ence my first SMC Tostal," freshman SAB member Rachael Chesley said. " I've witnessed all the hard work that gets put into it and I can't wait for Saint Mary's students to kick back and have a great night," she said. 
Contact NikkiTaylor at ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

This past Sunday, these sixteen Candidates for Full Comtnunion, with the help oftheir sponsors, completed their initiation into the Catholic Church by receiving the Sacraments of Confirmation and Eucharist at the 11 :45 a.m. Mass in the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart. Please keep them in your prayers and help us to welcotne thetn into our Catholic Community. 

Pictured (fr01n L toR~ Candidates in Bold): Allison Muscolino, Jessica Martinez, Katie Dugan, Brian Bodnar, Bethany Fischer, Ryan Fischer, John Kyler, William Hayman, Jitn Lee, Joe McNamara, Kelly Levis, Emma 
Nr<r~~Ai©lMt Brizius, Kathryn Zelhveger, Katlyn Spingstead, Erin Locke, Jessica Morris, Laura Bradley, Kathleen Sullivan, .. Santiago Rosado, Matt Swift, Christina McCool, Blake Jones, Brian Barrett, David Ray, Richard Kim, Stacey ·..... ,,.....,,...., Moon, Brad Mattan, Sade Murphy (Not pictured: Ben Safranski, William Zech, 11aria Jourdan, Brook Buck) 

Thursday, April 10, 2008 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
context is unique, it's special," Panelists also addressed the role conflict in America exists between what -white people have gripes. political science professor, Darren ofhistory in Obama's speech. blacks and whites. One thing I took away from the

Forum 


continued from page 1 
Pierce said, and added that the speech should instead be used as a "springboard" for discussion. 
The question of what defmes the black community, posed by Pierce, sparked discussion between the audience and panel. 
"Definitions are changing as racial definitions are changing, but when it comes to much of the community, much of our commu­nity that we call America, there is a very distinct attitude toward persons of color and that would define, especially if they come from African descent, the black community," Rev. Timothy Rouse from the First AME Zion Church in South Bend said. 
Denise Challenger, doctoral can­didate in the department of History at York University, Toronto, felt that "there are mul­tiple voices [in the black commu­nity] but we share a common his­torical past which has.changed over the centuries." 
She added that the term 'black community' "is a very political term at times" and can become problematic when an individual speaks on behalf of the entire black community. 
Audience members and pan­elists discussed the definitions of 'black' and 'black community' particularly in America. 
"You're talking about a context in which the society has not lived up to its principles and values, that as African Americans, we have to contend with and I think that creates a unique experience that you don't find in the world today. The African American experience within the American Davis said. 

Audience members discussed ways of defining the black com­munity. Some felt that the black community is one with a shared history of oppression, and some that the black community resull'i when it'i members are labeled as black. 
Political implications -such as problems receiving medical care and housing -were discussed as common problems that members of the black community in America face. 
Pierce asked the audience to raise their hands if they thought that a black child, adopted and raised by two white parents in a largely white community, would be considered part of the black community. The majority of audi­ence members raised their hands to say that the child in question would be considered part of the black community. 
Challenger saw this situation ­as well as Obama's speech -as getting to the question of what it means to be black. 
"I think we really need to get to this understanding of 'the child needs to know what it means to be black,"' Challenger said. "If we look at Barack Obama himself, he is still struggling ... he wasn't 'black enough.' He says it in his speech. We need to decide what does make a person black ... if [Obama] wasn't multiracial or black defin&d as multiracial, how would he have responded to Reverend [Jeremiah] Wright and how would his remarks have been taken?" 
Pierce gathered from the audi­ence and the panelists that the definition of the black community was made by members outside of the community. 
"The words that came to me as l was thinking about the speech were 'truth' and 'reconciliation'," Monica Maria Tetzlaff, associate professor of history at Indiana University South Bend, said. 
Tetzlaff said that Obama made "very accurate historical refer­ences that the American public can learn from." 
Panelist Jennifer Mason McAward, associate professor in the Notre Dame Law School, emphasized the importance of remembering history. "One of the points I took from Senator Obama's speech is that we have to always be aware of that history ­the devastating history of racial injustice, and this idea of equality that was written into our constitu­tions," she said. 
The meeting also addressed inclusion and who should partici­pate in conversations about race relations in the United States. 
Rouse said the central racial 
April 10-12, 7:30 p.m. April 13, 2:30 p.m. 
Tickets: $10-$5 Little Theatre 
574-284-4626 
Morea uCenter.com 
"The heart ofracism in America has to do with the oppression of the negro by the white slave own­ers... We have to address the issues honestly and then we can move on to some of the more aggregate issues," he said. 
Challenger disagreed and said that dialogue across various groups of people would enhance the discussion. 
"Multiple voices can participate in the discussion," she said. "I think it would be incorrect to say that only blacks have suffered through racism... multiple voices don't necessarily dilute the dia­logue." 
Davis felt that Obama's speech addressed the complaints and issues ofvarious groups. 
"Because we are a nation of migrant<;, immigrants, the thing I took away from Barack Obama's speech is that we all have gripes. African Americans have gripes, Latinos have gripes, and guess speech is that not only is there this black anger that has to be dealt with in a certain way, there's also this white resentment that has to be dealt with as well," Davis said. 
In consideration of Reverend Wright's controversial comments about America, Davis said that "part of the difficulty, I think, is understanding how whites react­ed to something that we all here all of the time-even in church­that that is a critical version of patriotism .. .it's critical, construc­tive patriotism," he said. "It's so surprising to me that certain things will stick to Barack Obama as if he is his pastor's keeper," he said. 
Davis and Tetzlafi brought up truth and reconciliation as meth­ods to healing and moving racial relations in a more positive direc­tion. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 



Drop-In Tahitian Dance 
-Rockne Memorial, Room 820 -8:00pm 
"My American Girls" 
Carribean Diasporas Film Series Guest Speaker: Karen Richman, Professor -126 DeBartolo Hall -7:00pm-9:00pm 


"Mrs. Ratcliffe's Revolution" 
Nanovic Institute Film Series Producer Leslie Udwin wiII be present~ -Browning Cinema -7:00pm and 10:00pm 


Thursday, April 10, 2008 Cotv1PILED FR01\l THE ()ssERVER's WlRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Panel grants photographer amnesty 
BAGHDAD -An Iraqi judicial committee has dismissed terrorism-related allegations against Associated Press photographer Bilal Hussein and ordered him released nearly two years after he was detained by the U.S. mili­tary. 
Hussein, 36, remained in custody Wednesday at Camp Cropper, a U.S. detention facility near Baghdad's airport. 
A decision by a four-judge panel said Hussein's case falls under a new amnesty law. It ordered Iraqi courts to "cease legal pro­ceedings" and ruled that Hussein should be "immediately" released unless other accusa­tions are pending. 
Robbers escape with $1 million 
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -Robbers shot and wounded six people at Malaysia's main international airport before fleeing with $1 million, police and news reports said. 
The robbers fired at security guards accompanying two currency exchange work­ers who were carrying a bag of cash at Kuala Lumpur International Airport Wednesday, the Bernama news agency said. 
District police chief Zahedi Ayub said two bystanders were also wounded in the rob­bery. The victims all have been hospitalized with gunshot wounds to the legs, the reports said. 
The guards said they opened fire at the get­away car, and police found about 40 car­tridges on the ground. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Lawyers defend polygamists' privacy 
SAN ANGELO. Texas-Lawyers for a polyg­
amist sect that is the subject of a massive 
child-abuse invest'igation argued in court 
Wednesday that although its members' multi­
ple marriages and cloistered ways may be 
unusual, they have a right to their faith and 
privacy. 
Gerry Goldstein, a San Antonio lawyer rep­resenting the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, also told a judge that the search of the temple in the sect's West Texas compound is analagous to a law enforcement search of the Vatican or other holy places. 
Goldstein asked the judge to throw out at least some of the search warrants as unconsti­tutional, but failing that urged authorities to handle any documents seized with respect. 
Governor signs mental health bill 
RICHMOND, Va. -The governor signed into law Wednesday a package of legislation aimed at tightening the state's mental health system and improving campus security in response to last year's deadly Virginia Tech shootings. 
The new laws, which go into effect in July, are intended to improve oversight and accountabili­ty of a mental health system harshly criticized after a mentally disturbed student killed 32 peo-. ple and himself at Virginia Tech on April 16. 
"It has been a difficult year, but it has been a year where people haven't shrinked from trying to learn and improye," Gov. Timothy M. Kaine said at the bill-signing ceremony as lawmakers and the parent of a student wounded in the shootings looked on. 
LOCAL NEWS 

State senators hopeful for tax break 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Sen. Evan Bayh and U.S. Rep. Baron Hill are optimistic that Congress will create a new property tax deduc­tion this year for homeowners who don't item­ize on their federal returns. 
The deductions being pushed by the two Indiana Democrats are in separate bills aimed at helping homeowners and businesses weath­er the housing crisis. The Senate was expected to approve its version of the legislation Wednesday. 
That includes a provision Bayh proposed that would create a deduction for homeowners who don't itemize of up to $500 ($1,000 for joint fil­ers) in this year's state and local property taxes. 
Petraeus: Don't expect troop buildup 
Top commander in Iraq said he's aware of military strain during questioning by legislators 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Amer­ica's war commander in Iraq told Congress Wednesday he is unlikely to endorse any fresh buildup of troops even if security in the country deteriorates, signaling that the limits of the U.S. military have been reached for now. 
Gen. David Petraeus, closely questioned by law­makers for a second day, described Iraq as a frail state still struggling to pro­vide its own security. That volatile situation figured in his recommendation to President Bush that a grad­ual pullout of U.S. troops be halted this summer -a recommendation Bush is expected to embrace in a speech Thursday. 
But Petraeus also spoke of the burden on U.S. ground forces, and Bush will address that, too. In his speech at 11:30 a.m. EDT, Bush will announce plans to cut the combat tours of active-duty soldiers from 15 months to 12 months. The reduced deployments will not apply -at least initially -to any soldiers currently serving in Iraq, unless conditions improve to the point that command­ers believe some could go Meanwhile, the chairman supported last year's troop od of assessment before he home early. of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, increase and believes con­would recommend any fur­
Petrae us said, "I am Adm. Mike Mullen, says ditions on the ground ther pullouts. keenly aware of the strain" current troop commitments should dictate force levels. The plan leaves open the on the military, noting his in Iraq make it impossible Still, Krepinevich said, it's possibility that roughly own deployment since to send extra forces into easy to imagine that Army 140,000 U.S. troops will be 2001. "And I can tell you Afghanistan. officials agreed to the 2007 in Iraq when voters head to that there is nothing that a Andrew Krepinevich, buildup on the assumption the polls this November commander feels more president of the independ­that Petraeus would give and Bush leaves office next than, in fact, the losses that ent Center for Strategic and troops a "breather" at some year. we have sustained over Budgetary Assessments in point. Every commander "We think it makes sense there." Washington, noted that "rotates them out of the to have some time, to let 
His resistance to the idea Petraeus' promise to the line every once in a while to the dust settle, perhaps to of any renewed increase of House Armed Services get rested and refitted. do some adjustment of troops for Iraq reflects -at Committee was a limited Otherwise, you really do forces, re-evaluation," least in part -the reality one. The four-star general burn up the force," he said. Petraeus told House mem­that the rotation pool of is expected to resign his Petraeus wants the U.S. bers on Wednesday. some 1.3 million soldiers command position at the to complete, by the end of When asked by Rep. and Marines has been end of the year. July, the withdrawal of the Silvestre Reyes, D-Texas, exhausted. Army soldiers in While Democratic con­20,000 troops that were whether he would call for particular have faced tenders Barack Obama and sen~ to Iraq last year to another influx of U.S. repeated tours in Iraq and Hillary Rod ham Clinton deal with the violence troops if security conditions Afghanistan, and senior have promised voters they there. Beyond that, the deteriorated during that officers warn that the ser­would start withdrawing general proposed a 45-day 45-day window, Petraeus vice's "strategic reserve" is troops if elected, . evaluation period, to be fol­said that would be a last at an all-time low. Republican John McCain lowed by an indefinite peri-resort. 

CHINA 
Tibetan monks call for retun1 of Dalai Lama 
Associated Press Dalai Lama back, we want to preserve Tibetan communities. 
our religion and culture," said one Abroad, the Olympic torch relay ­
UQU, China -Tibetan monks in monk, who switched from Tibetan to which Beijing hoped would showcase western China called for the return of Chinese when asked by an ABC its rising economic and politkal power their exiled spiritual leader reporter. -has been beset by protests over Wednesday, as a top official warned Footage shot by Hong Kong broad­Tibet and China's human rights poli­that any disruption of the Olympic caster ATV showed seven or eight cies. torch in Tibet would be severely pun­monks dressed in red robes emerging Tibet's governor told reporters in ished. on a large square, raising the snow Beijing on Wednesday that he was pre­
It was the second time in as many lion pennant of independent Tibet, pared for Tibet activists to cause trou­months that Tibetan monks have inter­labeled a "reactionary flag" by China's ble when the torch passes through the rupted media tours led by Chinese communist regime. Their numbers Himalayan region next month en route authorities. grew to about two dozen during the to Mount Everest. 
The emotional outburs~ at the 1 0-minute incident. Champa Phuntsok, the Chinese­Labrang monastery in Xiahe, a town in Since anti-government protests appointed head of the Tibetan Gansu province, began when a few turned violent in Tibet's capital of Autonomous Region, said he believes monks started yelling slogans as jour­Lhasa on March 14, authorities have supporters of the Dalai Lama, blamed nalists on a government-organized trip tightly restricted access to Tibet and by Beijing for instigating unrest in entered the nearby main prayer hall. parts of western China where addition­Tibet and western China, will use the 
"We want human rights, we want the al unrest has broken out among relay to publicize their cause. 
page 6 Thursday, April 10, 2008 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 







Arrests 
continued from page 1 
had stolen laptops and cell phones before. 
At around 4:30 p.m. Tuesday, NDSP received another phone call reporting suspicious behavior by a man between Badin and Howard Halls. When NDSP respond­ed, they found the suspect walking towards the Rockne Building and stopped him for questioning. The man matched the "general description" of the suspect seen in residence halls at the time of recent burglaries. He was not, however, seen in any dorm on Tuesday, and "could not be detained," the statement said. NDSP gave him a No Trespass Notice. 
NDSP is looking for  a  link  
between  the  arrest  and  
detainmel)t  Tuesday  and  

recent burglaries in resi­dence halls, Chapman said. 
"Right now, we haven't found [a link], but that does­n't mean that there's not 
THURSDAY 
10PM---­
Student Comedy 
& Humor Artists 
12AM---­
Karaoke Night 

[one]," he said. 
Residents of Lyons and Howard hall reported laptops and wallets stolen between the hours of 11 a.m. and 3 
p.m. last week. The burgla­ries in Howard took place on April 1, and the burglaries in Lyons happened on March 26. 
The suspect in both cases has been described by "sev­eral people" as a black male, between 5-foot-8 and 5-foot­11, with a thin build, "frizzy long black hair" in a pony tail or braid, possibly bad or missing teeth and possibly sporting facial hair stubble, NDSP director Phil Johnson said last Monday. 
NDSP learned that Valparaiso University has experienced similar burgla­ries with a suspect whose description matched that of the suspect in Notre Dame's recent campus robberies, Johnson said last week. 
Claire Reising contributed reporting to this story. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

The Development: 
Phone Cent:er ~ould like t:o recognize t:he £'oilowing ••Businesses o£' t:he 
IVlont:h"" £'or t:heir St.Ipport: iii Ot.Ir semi-aiiiit.Ial incent:ive auct:ion: 
The Linebacker Lounge 1Vlaury Pat"' s Pub Outback Steakhouse Panera Bread Co. Papa John"'s Pizza Patricia Ann Florist Perkin" s Restaurant & Bakery Polito"' s Pizzeria Quality Dining Rocco" s Restaurant Rum Runners Shedd Aquarium South Bend Regional ~useum of Art South Bend Silverhawks Tippecanoe Place Restaurant Uptown Kitchen Wal-lVlart Wendy"s Ziker Cleaners 
VVe "'-'"Ould like t:o t:hank t:hem £'or making t:he Pho••e Cent:er t:he best: job on campus and our auct:ion a cont:inued St.Iccess. 
FRIDAY 




COUNTRY 
10PM---­
Shilo 

NIGHT 
12AM---­
Country Night 

SATURDAY 
9PM---­
Kimyo Dawson 
12AM.---­Reggaeton 
Nightclub 
No Cover. ND, SMC, HCC ID Req'd. legends.nd.edu 



Thursday, April 10, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,576.44 -35.99

Jones 
Up~ Same~ Down~ Composite Volume: 1,376 109 1,940 3,606,649,934 
AMEX  :?*·. <  ··w,,·.···· 2,272.69  +1.65  
NASDAQ  2,348.76  -16.07  
NYSE  9,150.63  --34.09  
S&P 500  1,365.54  -7.00  
NIKKEI (Tokyo)  13,250.43  0.00  
FTSE 100 (London) 5,990.20 -24.60 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE WASHINGTON MUTUAL (WM}.19-0.69 -1.34 11.81 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.10 -0.14 136.82 FORD MOTOR CO (F) +2.67 -+0.18 6.91 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.76 -0.35 45.41 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.06 +0.002 3.558 13-WEEK BILL -0.74 -0.010 1.350 30-YEAR BOND +0.32 +0.014 4.383 5-YEAR NOTE -0.91 --0.025 2.718 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.59 108.50 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -8.80 918.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.93 73.98 
Exchange Rates YEN 102.7650 EURO 0.6371 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0148 
IN BRIEF 
Janey attacks Census Bureau 
WASHINGTON -The company hired to help modernize the 2010 census blamed govern­ment officials Wednesday for technology prob­lems that will force census-takers to continue using paper and pencil. 
The Census Bureau announced last week that 
it will abandon plans to use handheld comput­
ers to count the millions of residents who do not 
return census forms mailed out by the govern­
ment. · 
Cheryl L. Janey of Florida-based Harris Corp., the company supplying the computers, told a llouse committee that census officials failed to adequately spell out the specifications for the computers. 
"It was just this past January, two years after the contract was first issued, that we received more than 400 new and altered contract modi­fications," Janey told the House OversigM Committee. 
Fed approves nationwide alert system 
WASHINGTON -Federal regulators Wednesday approved a plan to create a nationwide emergency alert system using text messages delivered to cell phones. 
Text messages have exploded in popularity in recent years, particularly among young people. The wireless industry's trade associa­tion, CTIA, estimates more than 48 billion text messages are sent each month. 
The plan stems from the Warning Alert and Hesponse Network Act, a 2006 federal law that requires upgrades to the nation's emer­gency alert system. The act tasked the Federal Communications Commission with coming up with new ways to alert the public about emergencies. 
"The ability to deliver accurate and timely warnings and alerts through cell phones and other mobile services is an important next step in our efforts to help ensure that the American public has the information they need to take action to protect themselves and their families prior to, and during, disasters and other emergencies," FCC Chairman Kevin Martin said following approval of the plan. 



Airline cancels over 1,000 flights 
American works to fix faulty zviring after increased scrutinyfrom federal regulators 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Business 
trips and vacations were 
disrupted for tens of thou­
sands of travelers 
Wednesday as American 
Airlines canceled more 
than 1,000 flights -near­
ly half its schedule -to 
fix faulty wiring that 
could cause a short-cir­
cuit or even a fin~ and 
explosion. 
It was the latest -and 
largest -in a wave of 
cancellations at major 
U.S. airlines that have caused long lines at ticket counters and made flying even more stressful than usual. 
Executives at American said safety was never compromised, and they suggested the nation's biggest airline was the victim of suddenly stepped-up scrutiny by federal regulators. 
American estimated that more than 100,000 travel­ers were booked on the canceled flights. Many had to scramble to book new flights and were stranded at hotels far from home. 

The airline had already scrubbed 460 flights on Tuesday after federal inspectors found problems with wiring work done said. LaGuardia Airport on New Yorker Michelle two weeks ago, during the American officials Wednesday, hundreds of Soss had hoped to steal a first set of shutdowns. thought they had fixed the passengers stood in few days in Albuquerque, 
The issue stems from an problem last month. But check-in lines or milled N.M. order that the Federal this week, FAA inspectors about, using cell phones "I covered my kids' Aviation Administration found problems with the to get updates on their schedules, I covered my gave airlines in work done on more than a flights. The airline offered work schedule to get September 2006 -and dozen planes. American free doughnuts, coffee away for a few days," she gave airlines until last said it had no choice but and orange juice, but said. "I don't know if I'm month to meet -about to ground all 300 of its· there were few takers. getting anywhere." the bundling of wires in MD-80s to deal with the "They should be able to American's canceII a­the auxiliary hydraulic wiring bundles. predict these kinds of tions came after similar systems of MD-80 aircraft. American operates things," said Laura delays at Southwest, Delta The fear is that improper­about 2,200 daily flights, Goodman, whose flight and United. Last week, ly bundled wires could more than one-third with home to Dallas was can­hundreds of travelers rub, leading to an electri­MD-80s. Nearly half the celed. She said would were marooned when cal short or even fire. cancellations were con­miss an important meet­Aloha Airlines and ATA However, no serious inci­centrated at two airports, ing because the airline Airlines shut down and dents have been blamed in Dallas and Chicago. couldn't rebook her until filed for bankruptcy pro­on the bundles, the FAA At New York's Thursday. tection. 

Bush outlines foreclosureprevention plan 
Associated Press willing to take a substantial loss on "Anyone who thinks we should do 
the mortgages. nothing," he said, "will have to deal 
WASHINGTON-The Hush admin­The administration's idea, howev­with me and the Bush administra­istration announced new steps er, would reach far fewer borrowers tion." Wednesday to help more homeown­than the Democrats' proposal -Bush's plan would expand the pro­ers head off foreclosure, clashing roughly 100,000 rather than gram created last year, known as with lawmakers in both parties who between 1 milJion and 2 million -FHASecure, designed to help home­want the government to step in with without requiring lenders to take owners who have some equity in a broader housing rescue. large losses. their homes and have kept up with 
Scrambling to counter Democratic Rep. Barney Frank, 0-Mass., the their mortgage payments but are calls for a large federal housing aid Financial Services Committee chair­facing a hefty rate hike to refinance package, the administration said it man, opened a hearing on his broad­into a government-insured fixed-rate would use an existing Federal er plan by noting sarcastically that loan. Housing Administration program to the timing of the administration's Democrats say the initiative has enable more low-and moderate­proposal was a "remarkable coinci­done too little for struggling home­income homeowners to refinance dence." He later said that in light of owners and doesn't reach the vast into government-insured mortgages repeated warnings by Federal majority of hard-pressed borrowers. with monthly payments they can Reserve economists about the conse­Under the expansion, homeowners afford. quences of inaction, President Bush would be eligible for refinanced FHA 
It is a more modest version of a appeared to have realized that loans even if they had made a couple concept Democrats have recently stonewalling would not work. of late payments. been pushing to respond to the hous­Frank told regulators that the plan "Our common ground is to help ing crisis, which would have the FHA was a recognition that some govern­FHA become a safe harbor for many back from $300 billion to $400 bil­ment action was needed, and that it Americans," FilA Commissioner lion in restructured loans for dis­should start with lenders taking loss­Brian Montgomery said at the hear­tressed borrowers if lenders were es on distressed loans. ing. 
...---­
,, 
Thursday, April 10, 2008 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
To keep jobs in America, Obama said he would end
Obama 
continued from page 1 
were present. He explained his reasoning for running for president while he was still young, citing Martin Luther King's "Fierce urgency of now." He said the ongoing war, the recession and the mortgage crisis necessitated change that could not wait. 
"We can be too late, and the hour is upon us," he said. 
Obama placed emphasis on improving education, but said it started in homes with 
good parenting.  
"Every child is  our  child,"  
he  said.  "Every  child  
deserves  support,  every  

child deserves the American dream, and we need to start investing in those children." 
To foster edu-· cational improvements, tax cuts to companies that shipped jobs overseas. He also pledged to roll back President George Bush's tax cuts for the wealthy and 
give  them  to  people  who  
needed them.  
Obama's health care  plan,  

he said, is intended to accommodate both those with health care and those without. For families with health care, he said he would lower premiums by $2,500. If families had no plan, he would make avail­able plans similar to the government plan he receives as a member of the Senate. The plan would have no conditions, and if a family could not afford it, the gov­ernment would subsidize it on a "sliding scale," he said. He ended with a discussion 
Obama said, he "Every child is our wants to 
child. Every child 

reward teach­
deserves support, 

ers by paying 
them higher every child deserves salaries. the American dream. 
Standardized 
and we need to start

tests alone 
should not investing in determine edu­those children. " cational improvement, 
Barack Obama 

he said. 
Illinois Senator 

Instead, stu­
dents should receive a well-rounded educa­
tion  that  
includes  art,  music  and  
civics.  

To continue his education­al goals, Obama said he will offer $4,000 per semester in tuition credits to college students with the stipulation that students serve their community in some way. He offered the Peace Corps as an example of the service required. 
"We invest in you, you invest in America," he said. 
of the war in Iraq, which he said he opposed from the start. He pledged to pull the sol­diers out of Iraq, which he said dis­tracted the country from the war in Afghanistan 
"that  we  
needed  to  
win."  

Notre Dame sophomore Angela Anido, whose father is a teacher, said she 
appreciated the proposal to 
. increase teachers' salaries. "It was really moving," she said. Fellow sophomore Alena Christiansen was also impressed by the speech. "It was relatable to every race, every gender, every person," she said. "He's an awesome speaker." 
Contact Brill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

Brand new, furnished townhomes for lease for Fall Semester '08 
Hurry. You won't want to miss one of the limited number of Irish Crossings Townhomes available for lease this fall. Just two blocks east ofthe ND athletic fields. offWillis Street. these three and four-bedroom townhomes come furnished, including a 42• flat panel HDTv. 
Geared for today's college student. and larger than an apartment, these townhomes include a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
.. 42• flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 
• 
Furnished bedroans with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser, closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & cable 

• 
Separate laundry room with washer &dryer 

• 
large deck 

• 
Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 


Strict covenants enforced. 
Lease today and move into yow brand new townhome for Fall Semester 2008. call Diane at 574.261.3338 or email us atdiane@irishcrossings.com. 



()n ~ale ~f)W% 
South Bend 
Symphony 
~~Russian Saga" 
Saturday, April 12 
The Temptations & The Four Tops 
Motown Legends! 
Thursday, April17 
Mannheim Comedian Steamroller Katt Williams 
' 1FreshAire Concert' "Jfs Pimpin' Pimpin'" 
Friday, April18 . Sunday, April27 


UPC:()minat ~hf)W§ 
Sa~rdaY,Aprll 26 ·· · Great Lakes Chorus ·Association & The~­f~J· Michiana Mafe Chorus _.·-·.:~A World_gf So!Jg" 

· South BendSymphonY": .7~ Gala Anniv~rsary. ;~ Violinist HHal)i HaQn :<:-J 
f)aturday -~Sunday-Movin' Out· .· ~ay .10 • 11 • :·-Broadway Mu~ical :?i~:~ 
Frankie Va!fl · & The Four Seasons 

Thursday, April 10, 2008 page 9
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Tl11.1rs•1ay . .i:\J)ril 1()ttl 
7 . ()() :plll LrtFc)rtllile Brtllrocn11 
.This JJ.JOJ:Jib .tez:H·uJ·ing· . ..:l.fexit.:\~111 ;u_J.(i Tl1~:1i .fiHxi s.:.llllj)l!IIgB.' 
Exposing the NI) eoln.tl1l.I.ni(y to tlH? 
t... ~st · t·L-·.' • ~ ~ ~ -tl.. -Sic ·t·l-T.) ·· -·:I
Lie .... e ·.I..l.DlC Cl.l.l•. lne -11e •.. .xu...l .L)e.Ih. :;:t.rea l-u:ls to ofler~ 
B:rou~t 1o You byM•~lticultura.l S tudent Progra.:m> ani Se:J:Vices ''Expandi:ng the Crosnoa.ds ofI.e a.mU\g Tl!t-ough hmovation and Discov•ny'' 




Apply Today Li111ited Space Available!!! 
*Offering 6, 9 & 12 month leases! *Gated Community vv·ith NightVVatchrnen! *Free Application Fee for Students! *Close to carnpus! *Indoor/Outdoor Tennis & Basketball Coutts! *Free Tanning/Fitness Center! 
* Cornmunity Business Center/Free Internet! *Heated Pool! *Now leasing for 2008-2009! *Close to everything...far from ordinary! 




aste 

1.801.1. C.leve.la:nd Rd South Bend,. IN 466 3 '1
_  
Phone:  l5'14)  2'12-8~~0  F~:  (5'14)  272-8~~4  
'fnlfT _ cppj _com- 

PAKISTAN 
7 killed in street fighting 
Associated Press 
KARACHI -A street fight between political rivals spi­raled into rioting in Pakistan's biggest city Wednesday, with armed men smashing cars and setting fires. Five people burned to death in one building and two were shot and killed. 
It was the worst political violence Pakistan's new gov­ernment has faced since tak­ing office last month, vowing to curtail the powers of U.S.­allied President Pervez Musharraf and cement democracy after eight years of military rule. 
The trouble broke out when pro-and anti-government attorne.ys punched and beat each other with sticks near the main courts complex in Karachi. Soon after, armed men in began shooting and torching cars in several dis­tricts, witnesses said. 
A nearby building was set ablaze, and five charred bod­ies were found on the sixth floor, said police officer Syed Sulaiman. Two other people died of gunshot wounds, ineluding a paramedie whose ambulance came under fire while trying to the injured. 
Salman Naguri, a 22-year­old shopkeeper, said he saw two men on a motorbike shoot at passing ambulance, which crashed into an elec­tricity pylon. 
"For 15 or 20 minutes an injured man was crying for help from inside the ambu­lance but nobody helped him," Nag uri said. When another ambulance crew arrived, the man was dead, he said. 
It was the second episode to tarnish a powerful lawyers' movement that led months of protests against Musharraf, galvanizing his 
The Cent:er £or Philosophy o£ Religion 
presents 

The A.lv-i:u Plan.t:in.ga Fello""" Lect:u.re 


~~.Religio~.Ls Beliefs al7d Lhe Li17ZiLs ~f Sciel7ce,, 
opponents and contributing to the defeat of his allies in February parliamentary elec­tions. 
Attorneys from the move­ment were involved in an assault Tuesday on former Cabinet minister Sher Afgan Niazi, who was beaten as he emerged from his office. Police hurried him into an ambulance, which was stoned and had its ignition key stolen, forcing security forces to push it away from the scene. 
A group of lawyers allied with the pro-Musharraf Mutahida Quami Movement, or MQM, had been protesting the assault on Niazi when the

L>r. l~cn.c van Woudcnbcrg Professor or f>hilosophy Vrijc l.Jn i vcrsit..cit~ An-. st:er~lan-. 
Friday., .A.pril 11., 2008 a-t 3 pm 
Audi-torium Hesburgh Cen.t:er Cor In-terna-tional St:t.Idies 
L>iscussion and Reception to f<:>llovv 

violence erupted in Karachi. 
S•orageaetween Notre Dame &
·I! Airportat the corn~r of 
Mayflower & Ed1sonspace Ca/1574.247. 7806 
Lighted &Paved Free Lock with Every Unit 
lor 
Notre uarne 1MDiamm 5x10...$169 +DEP 1Ox1 0...$21 9+DEP 


p 
THE OBSERVER 
page 10 
Thursday, April 10, 2008 

THE OBSERVER 

Wisdom comes in sheep's clothing 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EmroR IN CHIEF 
Chris t-line 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS Emma: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDilORS: Chris Hine 
ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAlOR: Christian Sagardia 
0FF1CE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(57 4) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574} 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONUN£ www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Obsmter policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 
1nc Obscr.t·r {USPS 599 2-4000) U. publi.,hcd Monday rhmugh Friday cxe<pl during cx.am .and va~·:uion period... A _,.uhscripri(ln ro ~Observer~ $tOO for one ac~cmlc year; $55 for Ulll.' s.cmcsrt:r. 
The Obstrvcr i' published ar: POSTMASTER 
024 Somh Dining Hall Send addrn~; corr<:<tions. to: 
Nom: Dame. IN 4655(,~779 The Ohstrver 
Paiodic.al p(~r<Jgc: paid cr None Dctmc P.O. Box T79 
.tnd .1ddi1i{lnJl mailif'1g ,,HJc.u. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nuuc D•mc. IN 4i>5S6-o779 
The Obsl:rver is a m~mher of lhe Assud.:ued Prn.-... All rcproducdon righ1s .u~ r<3Crved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

Do you have many people in your life who know you-who really, real­ly know you? Sure, we all have lots of friends, pals, buddies, acquaintances, section-mates; people we love to sit 
next to and chat  
with in this class or  Kate Barrett  
that; people we eat  
lunch with because  
we always see them  Faithpoint  
in the dining hall on  

Monday-Wednesday-Friday. But with whom do you really have intimate, life-giving relationships, the ones that have built up layers of strength and knowledge, forgiveness and grace over time? Who do you trust enough to let in on your embarrassing flaws, your deepest fears, your most far­reaching dreams, and who has let you in on theirs? 
One of the most famous images in all the gospels has given its name to the Fourth Sunday of Easter: Good Shepherd Sunday. This weekend, as we do each year on the Fourth Sunday of the Easter season, we will read from one of the gospel passages in which Jesus describes himself as a shepherd who knows his sheep so intimately that they will follow the sound of only his voice and no one else's. 
I have always wondered about this phenomenon -I mean, I get my own children's voices mixed up some­times, when I can't see which one of them I'm talking to. And yet these sheep -perhaps hundreds of them, who by all accounts are dumb as dirt -know the guy who leads them in and out to eat each day just by listen­ing for him, and don't get it wrong, ever. 
Jesus describes for the Pharisees a 
shepherd who knows the name of each of his sheep, and who leads them out of the sheepfold by means of an intimate relationship which has obviously been built up over time: "The sheep hear his voice, as the shepherd calls his own sheep by name and leads them out ... He walks ahead of them, and the sheep follow him, because they recognize his voice." 
Of course, Jesus used this analogy, which anyone listening in that sheep­laden time and culture would have understood, to explain why he came as God's son -to know each and every one of us by name and to call us safely to everything we need. Those sheep needed only a ·patch of good grass to chew on and maybe somebody who would keep an eye out for wolves or poachers; we have a much more serious need for that shepherd who knows our name. The one who tells us, as we will hear on Sunday, that he came for us so we "might have life and have it more abul_ldantly." 
Wouldn't it be great if it were just that easy? If we could just recognize the voice of Jesus whenever we need­ed to figure out where to go, what choices to make, what direction to turn? If we have a significant decision to make, we just listen for the voice of Jesus, recognize it above all the com­peting din, and boom-we're good. Just as the sheep, by listening to the shepherd, knew where to go for lunch, we could hear the voice of life and know exactly what to say, or do, or choose in our search for the life Jesus promises. 
Here's where we could learn from the sheep. They know the shepherd's 
voice because they have made a habit out of listening for it, many times a day. Deep in their little brains, they know their very lives depend on that shepherd and that they'd better be paying attention. We will certainly recognize the voice of Jesus more easily if we make a point to pray each day, to listen intently to how our shepherd speaks to our hearts. 
And here's where we're much lucki­er than the sheep. Our God, who knows each of us by name and knows the sound of each of our voices, speaks to us first of all through the sacraments and through our prayer, but also through the voices of those most significant and life-giving rela­tionships in our lives. If we hear and recognize the voice of Jesus when we listen to or read the Scriptures, when we receive the Eucharist or the sacrament of Reconciliation, we will be able to discern his voice in the sounds of the people in our lives whom we love most deeply and who truly love us. We will recognize the "thieves and robbers" of the gospel for who or what they are-people, material things, ambitions, insecuri­ties, false desires, that come to "steal and destroy" -and who will only dis­tract and deter us from the abundant life God promises us through Jesus Christ. 
Let's learn a lesson from the sheep: listen, and listen good. 
Kate Barrett is the director of Resources and Special Projects for Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News  Sports  OBSERVER POLL  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Mandi Stirone Madeline Buckley  Ellyn Michalak Jared Jedick  How far will Notre Dame Hockey  
Katlyn Smith  Meghan McMahon  go in the Frozen Four?  
Graphics · Blair Chemidlin Viewpoint  Scene Stephanie DePrez  Lose in the semis Lose in the fmals Win it all  ''Luck is a dividend of sweat. The more you sweat, the luckier you get.  
John Dailey  I didn't know they made the Frozen Four  Ray Kroc American entreprcnuer  
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at  
www.ndsmcobserver.com  



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alcohol: Enemy of academic and moral development 
No kegs. No hard liquor. No "games" (although drinking is never a game). These were the first baby steps toward alcohol eradication taken years ago, and it seems that a next step must be taken. Alcohol is a deterrent toward the academic and moral development of students here at Notre Dame, due to its damaging effects on the spirit and body, which were raised in Daniel Cerrone's article ("Rethinking alcohol consumption," Apr. 4.) 
Some disturbing facts about the effects of alco­hol were presented to me in the form of a PIL­LARS poster by my roommate freshman year. "Did you know ... consuming five or more alco­holic beverages in one night can affect brain and body activity up to three days?!" 
Moreover, "two consecutive nights of drinking five or more alcoholic beverages can affect brain and body activity for up to five days!" The poster is blatantly saying that alcohol will adversely affect the students' learning even after the deed has been done. It is unbelievable to me that the administration can be aware of these facts and still turn a blind eye to the rampant consumption of alcohol on campus. Do they want students to fail? 
This is absurd. Alcohol consumption also leads to poor decision-making; stupid things can be done (I have heard of kids running through hall­ways with alcohol paraphernalia, right past the rooms of Assistant Rectors, and of others who lose personal items such as clothing and musical instruments) but many possibly life altering deci­sions can be made as well (for example, I know a student who habitually rides his bike around cam­pus and South Bend while drunk, putting his life in perilous danger). 
Alcohol is a main vector of sexually promiscu­ous activity here on campus, and many locales off. It is a depressant not only of our mental activity but also of our moral development. As a Catholic University whose goals are to educate the mind and develop the soul, Notre Dame should serious­ly reconsider its stance on on-campus permissibil­ity of alcohol. 
Alcohol use runs counter to the goals and mis­sion of this great university. The prohibition of alcohol would cause an increase in academic and moral development here at Notre Dame. Mr. Cerrone, I tip my hat to you. for trying to bring change for the better. 
Ryan Slaney sophomore Carroll Hall AprilS 
Top 10 reasons to love 
. -. '·'.' .· 

·,::;The Backer·· .... 
We would like to respond to Didier Lewis's derogatory Lollerskates comic strip printed on April 
7. We are proud proponents of the Linebacker Lounge as South Bend's superior drinking estab­lishment and would like to elucidate the reasons why: 
1. 
Longevity-This institution has served the Notre Dame community for over 45 years! 

2. 
The Music-At what other bar can you hear "Ghostbusters" played on a Saturday night? Or Toto and N'SYNC mixed in with "Get Low," "Apologize," and Soulja Boy? 

3. 
Potent Long Islands -You only remember the good times. 

4. 
Location-Within walking distance from cam­pus and TC, saving you money on cab fare. 

5. 
Freebies -Drink iicket with $5 cover and freshly popped popcorn. 


6. The Backer Pole -I dare you to lick it. 

7. Merchandise -Because everyone wants a T­shirt exclaiming "I Rode the Linebacker Pole." 
8. Website Bios of Your Favorite Bartenders-www.backernd.com. 
9. 
Special Events-Have you ever been to a wed­ding reception or bachelorette party at the Backer? I have, though not for anyone I knew ... yet! 

10. 
Old Alumni-"These boys don't need Viagra ... " (Yes, this was a real pick-up line used at the Linebacker Lounge.) 


If the Backer truly sucked as LP-wi~'s comic claims, why is it packed every Friday and Saturday night of the year? In 50 years would you come back for a football game and go to "The Feve?" Of course not! Yes, the Backer Sludge is disgusting, but the experience is unlike any other. Call it sketch if you must, but as Greg "The Curfew God" says, "If you don't have fun at The Backer, it's your own damn fault!" 
Christine Scacco and Rachel Murphy seniors Farley and Breen-Phillips Halls AprilS 
Drinking not purely a personal choice 
For some reason, a lot of college students seem to believe that drinking is a compulsory aspect of college life, a precept as fundamen­tal as any listed in the Bill of Rights. Certainly, the 2,000 students who stormed the Main Building 24 years ago in protest of Notre Dame's then-new alcohol policy would agree. 
Being in college doesn't entitle us to do as we please and we must remain sensitive to the effects of our choices-whether they involve alcohol or not -on other people. 
Although I do not drink alcohol, I've always believed that the decision to drink in college is a matter of personal choice as long as those who drink respect those who don't. However, my patience runs thin when one person's choice becomes another person's problem. I can't imagine that my dorm's clPaning people 
are amused as they scrub the vomit of drunk­en students from toilet seats after a weekend of "responsible" drinking. 
Certainly, excessive drinking by Notre Dame students has rankled local residents and undermined relations between Notre Dame and nearby communities. 
There's nothing intrinsically wrong about drinking, but a heavily inebriated person sim­ply cannot appreciate how offensive his or her actions can be to others. It's pretty dis­gusting when a person is so intoxicated that he confuses a sink with a Orinal. 
Colin Littlefield freshman St. Edward's Hall Apr. S 
Stir-fry changes a good thing 
Sorry, Cornelius ("Unnecesary change in stir-fry," Apr. 8), but I believe you may have fudged your argument concerning the new change in stir-fry process at North Dining. I, too, was rather annoyed at the loss of tong privileges, but a 30-second conversation with the stir-fry guy cleared everything up. 
Any leftover food served by a non-food services employee 
(i.e. students) must be disposed of at the end of the day. So at then end of every day, all the food self-served by students must be thrown out according to health regulations. If the food is only handled by food services staff, however, that food can be saved for the following day instead of being wasted. Over the course of a school year, this adds up to a heck of a lot of food being saved. 
The decision to fix this problem reflects Notre Dame's mis­sion to make a positive impact on our environment through the elimination of wastefulness. So when it comes down to it, I will gladly wait a few extra minutes in the stir-fry line and eat a few extra pieces of pasta and pepperoni in order to contribute to this mission. 
Mark Weber junior Keenan Hall AprilS 


The consequences of drinking
-, 
Drinking is an-important part of life at Notre Dame, as it is on virtually every college campus. In fact, it is so integral to the culture here that it is difficult to imagine what it would be like if no one drank. Beer and college life seem to be a match made in heaven. 
What then is the problem? College students love to have a great time and alcohol just makes things even better. To this I say, "Party on!" But where should we draw the line'? Should we even draw a line? College is a time of great freedom, of trial and error, of finding oneself. It's also a time when we can do lots of things that we won't be able to do in 10 years. While it may seem alright to get drunk 2-3 nights a week in college, once someone has a family to take care of, doing this may war­rant the label "alcoholic." 
The issue is not whether one should drink or not, for this is simply a matter of personal preference. The issue is rather how a person should drink. Put simply, we must decide whether getting so drunk that one vomits, has blurry vision, and cannot remember what happened is worth the temporary pleasure it gives. One finds in life that many things give lots of pleasure, but in the end, if taken to an extreme do more harm than good. Eating lots of chocolatP. ice cream and watching TV all day will make you fat and lazy. Regularly visiting a prosti­tute would give lots of pleasure at the time too, but leave one feeling empty and perhaps with a STD. 
While these may seem like extreme examples, the analogy holds true for regularly getting very drunk. It's a hell of a lot of fun in the moment, but is it really worth the consequences? 
Richard Ybarra seruor Morrissey Hall AprilS 

, 

THE OBSERVER 

,. 
E
page 12 Thursday, April 10, 2008 

received well by the larger theatrical By MARK WITTE and literary community." Assistant Scene Editor As well, the play's deeper matters 
were hard to pass up. 
"Stop Kiss," directed by Katie "The play spoke loudly to me in its Sullivan, opens tonight and runs plea for non-violence in our world," through Sunday at the Little Theater Sullivan said. "Both in the larger at Saint Mary's College. Starring global picture and in the small indi­SMC senior theater majors Caroline vidual choices we make every day." Walker, as the confident Callie, and "Stop Loss" was written by the Ayslinn McGovern as the Midwestern black playwright Diana Son and first Sara, the play chronicles a friend­performed in 1998 at The Public ship that devel-Theater in New ops between York . City. the two charac­Although it's
"Stop Kiss,, 
ters and a kiss been a decade they share Little Theatre, Saint Mary's since then, the 
which forever Tonight, Friday, Saturday, 7:30p.m. play's theme 
changes their has grown
Sunday, 2:30p.m. 
lives. It is a stronger and story about Tickets: Adult $1o, Seniors $8, more pertinent 
relationships, Faculty/Staff $7, Students $5 in Sullivan's 
the power of opinion. love and the "Nearly ten devastating effects of intolerance, years later, I find the specter of vio­hate and violence. lence in this play even more heart­
The play appealed to Sullivan both rending than Son's message of love in credentials and in theme. and eventual self-sacrifice," she 
"I am always looking for a play said. which features great roles for "Stop Kiss" is a tragic comedy, women," she said. "I am interested whose characters Sullivan trusts will in supporting women playwrights, make its audience laugh, think and and I am particularly interested in possibly cry. contemporary plays which have been "I am hoping to touch viewers with 
JULIE GRISANTI I Observer Graphic 

their story and help them see that, at with the lead actresses has been a the basic level, people everywhere delight. are so much more alike than differ'" "I feel so fortunate to have them in ent," she said. these roles," she said. "They are 
Operating in 2 3 short scenes, the both hard-working, serious actors 
play makes  use  of  who  are  very recep­ 
a "converging timeline," a the­atrical technique  ..The play spoke loudly to me in its plea for non­ tive to notes, enjoy the process of rehearsing, and yet  
which allows the play to jump back and forth between  violence in our world,,, Sullivan said. "Both in the  are low-maintenance and easy-going with a director."  
"pre-kiss"  and  larger global picture and in  Moreover, Sullivan  
" post -k'1ss" scenes.  the small individual  felt that their dedic.a­ 
The unusual structure is some­thing that will  choices we make every day.''  tion paid off and that both Walker an_d McGovern grew  
challenge  audi­ immensely  as  actors  
ences  to  really  during  their  two  

pay attention to what's going on, and months of rehearsal. as Sullivan hopes, lend sophistica­"I especially applaud them because tion to the play. in addition to having to go back and 
The structure of the play actually forth in time (and emotional states) benefited the director and her actors constantly, they now have to be able who had difficulties with scheduling. to handle the practical matters like 
"Until last week, we only had our extremely fast costume and set seven actors available together on changes," she said. the same night one time," Sullivan However, Sullivan has faith that said. "However, the scene-by-scene both her actresses as well as her structure of the show really made entire thirteen man crew, including a this much less of an issue than it feline, are up to the task. All she would have been in a more conven­needs now is an audience. tionally written play." 
Sullivan also said that working Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 
Joseph Arthur's 'Let's Just Be' pales in comparison 
By JAMES COSTA 
Scene Writer 
Joseph Arthur has been spoiling us for the last eight years. With such albums as 2000's "Come to Where I'm From," 2002's "Redemption's Son" and 
. 2004's "Our Shadows Will Remain," Arthur listeners have been treated to superb solo albums. A significant ele­ment of the "OC" and "American Pie" period of American 
stride. 
The problem with this record isn't even that its particularly bad music, because it's not. It's fine. Some of it is even good, and a few of the songs bor­der on excellence. The problem is that Arthur himself has been so good in the past that anything, which doesn't quite measure up, seems bad. 
Perhaps the most prevalent feeling expressed on the record is one of emptiness. Where earlier records 
were filled with ten­


soft drums and a melancholy singing voice, Arthur sings of the moments after love has been lost when two old lovers face each other with a sad ten­derness found only in the meeting of soft hearts and aching desires: "I can see the sun I I think the evening's done I Take me home I You look good on your own I Sometimes it's good to say goodbye I Before you make it to the end of time." It's a brilliant, sad song, perfect for those moments when you want the music to make you think, rather than lament. It's a song of memories and one that anyone who's learnt to say goodbye will understand and appreciate. 
The next track, "Chicago" turns up the tempo a good bit in the wake of "Take Me Home." Heminiscent of earli­er Arthur tunes like "In the Sun" and "Can't Exist," the song is a call to a significant another to trust and to 
believe in Arthur's words and promis­. es. He sings: "Your mirror is destroyed I I see you now trying to avoid I The truth of who you really are I The heat will stay with the flame I So your beau­ty never will change I To me you will always be a star." It's clear that Arthur is trying to convince someone to stay around and to hold onto a feeling that has become fractured and distant. With its rousing chorus, the song is catchy and a joy to listen to on repeat. 
Basically, the record is OK. It's defi­nitely more rocking than the earlier Arthur stuff, though it doesn't quite equal the majestic power and beauty of the prior releases. If you're willing to accept a new sound and perspec­tive, then album is worth a look. If not, download "Take Me Home" and "Chicago" and you'll be set. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal @nd.edu 
teen culture, Arthur's der, emotive, yet sub­song "Honey and the Perhaps the most tly powerful imagery, Moon" was featured on prevalent feeling this new set of songs both the popular Fox seems mostly vacant
expressed on the record 
show and in of any real emotional ''American Wedding." is one ofemptiness. expression. 
Unfortunately, the level of achievement in Arthur's 2007 release, "Let's .Just Be," is sadly mediocre. The album contains a few wonderful moments, but unfor­tunately, the majority of the album sways between crashing and clunky where Arthur never seems to find his 

Maybe that's what 
Arthur was going for. 

After singing from the core for eight years, it is entirely likely that he need­ed a fresh perspective on the music. If so, then he's achieved it. Unfortunately, by achieving a new per­spective, he's also lost (for the 
moment) his distinct and 
lovely way of expressing thoughts and feelings 
through  distinctly  
.unique  and  original  
song.  

The album is at its best with the tracks "Take Me Home" and "Chicago." On "Take Me Home," Arthur returns for a wonderful four minute~ to the feelings and styles that made his earlier album releases so poignant and memo­rable. Helying on a sim­ple chord structure, with 


Thursday, Aprii 10, 2008 page 13 

-· . 



By MARK WITTE Assisram Scene Editor 
The 2nd Annual Midwest Undergraduate Film Conference kicks off this Friday at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, and runs through Saturday evening. Admission is free and all speakers wil! present in Browning Cinema. Assistant Professors of Film, Television and Theater, Christine Becker and Christopher Sieving co-organized the conference and have worked to collect undergraduate authors of 30 of the best papers on film and media from all over the Midwest. 
All students in Notre Dame's FTT Honors Program were encouraged to submit propos­als,~? the conference, but pro-, 1posals from non-Honors stu­dents were accepted as well. 
The Conference, which began last year under the direction of Associate Professor of Film, Television and Theater, Pam Wojcik, is once again a landmark event. 
"[T]his is the sole undergrad-only media studies conference in the coun­try," Becker said. 
Six Notre Dame seniors were among those chosen by Becker and Sieving to present this weekend along with undergraduates from other schools such, as Indiana, Northwestern, the University of Chicago and Loyola University Chicago. 
Becker sees the conference as an instrumental learning experience for all the students involved. 
"It's a great way for these students to learn more about media studies, it helps students develop relationships with their peers from other area 
books.  We're  
presenting on  a  
lot  cool  shows 
his is the sole and  movies, 
'1Tlundergrad-only media said  Senior  
Honors studentstudies conference in  
Jenni Fong, who 
ountry," Becker will be giving her  
said. paper entitled,  
"Because  We  
Believe: Cult TV  
the cFandom  and  The  X-Files"  on  
Saturday.  

schools, and it he and the students will find
"They're doing work 

also gives them . the experience and the shar­professional that is ofpublishable ing of knowledge really grati­presentation fying and productive."
quality," said Becker,

experience," Jessica Burgers, a senior
'"This conference will 
Becker said. Honors student will close out "Many of the help to give them the the conference Saturday with presenters are recognition they an examination of the chil­interested in dren's subgcnre of horror in
deserve for those

going on to grad­her paper, "Children's Horror uate study, so the efforts." in the 1970s and 1980s.'' conference offers "My interest in the topic is 
JULIE GRISANTI I Observer Graphic 

students, encouraging students of every major to attend the event. 
"I think non-fTT majors would be surprised by how intere~ting it is," she said. I'm talking about heroism and 'Independence Day.· Another paper is on 'The X-Files.' It's not just films you haven't heard of." 
And there are other reasons for attending too. 
"[Students] should come because they get to hear these great new ideas that their peers are writing instead of dry, academic drivel in their text 
The conference is also a way to reward students for their outstanding work. 
"They're doing work that is of pub­lishable quality," said Becker, "This conference will help to give them the recognition they deserve for those efforts." 
The conference will function in three person panels with each pan­elist presenting a 20 minute paper, followed by 15 minute question and answer session run by a moderator. Becker pointed out that she was very pleased with how many of the moder­ators and panelists lined up. "For instance, FTT's Donald Crafton will be moderating the panel on silent film exhibition," she said. "And he's one of the leading experts on silent cinema, so I know that both 
a great place for them to get a taste of that kind of advanced academic experience." 
The topies for the weekend's papers are wide-ranging and diverse. Topics include "Female Revenge Films," "Forgotten Film Stars," Canadian and Iranian cinema, classic directors such as Alfred Hitchcock and Robert Bresson, as well as discussions of more recent films like "Atonement," "Stranger Than Fiction" and "Se7en." 
But the conference isn't just for FTT majors. 
Senior Honors student Brittany Lash, who will be presenting her paper entitled "The Modern Popular Hero in Cinema" on Friday evening, stressed that the conference is for all 
based on my own experiences with and enjoyment of children's hor­ror when I was younger, such as R.L. Stine's Goosebumps series, the televi­sion show 'Are You Afraid of the Dark?' and the film 'Hocus Pocus,"' Burgers said. 
Other Notre Dame students who will be presenting at this weekend's con­ference include, senior Maria Iuppa, presenting her paper. "A Hint of Perversion: Domesticity in Hitchcock's Shadow of a Doubt," and Breana Leader presenting on "Disney and Counterculture." On Saturday. senior Cassie Belek will present her paper 'Pos-Mens': Product Integration in "30 Rock." 
Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 
Midwest Undergraduate Film Conference Schedule Browning Cinema, April I 1-12 
Friday 
I0-1 I: IS a.m. National Cinema, National ldenity 
Daniel Platt, Loyola University Emily Zuckert Church, Notre Dame Martha E. Polk, Carleton College I I :30-1 2:45 p.m. Dangerous Women Matt Fagerholm, Columbia College Marla luppa, Notre Dame Abby Lee, University of Tennessee, Knoxville 
2-3: IS p.m. Adaptation and Reformulation Kelly Welch, Illinois State University Hayley M. Pogue, University of Tennessee, Knoxville Breana leader, Notre Dame 3:30-4:4S p.m. Representations of Christianity Joseph Brandon Colvin, Western Kentucky University Scott Elbin, University of Toledo Justin Sherwood, University of Illinois at Chicago 
S-6: IS p.m. Heroes and Anti-Heroes Brittany lash, Notre Dame 
A. Kay Terrell, Indiana University Matthew Ownby, University of Tennessee, Knoxville 

Saturday 
9-1 0: 15 a.m. Unconventional Auteurs Julia Reeves, University of Chicago Mallory Richard, Wilfrid Laurier University Samuel B. Prime, Northwestern University 
I 0:30-1 I :4S a.m. Silent Film Exhibition Sawyer J. Lahr, Columbia College Alison White Jarzyna, Carleton College A~dy Lauer, Carleton College 
1-2: IS p.m. New Research in Television Studies Jennl Fong, Notre Dame Carla Barton, Northwestern University Cassie Belek, Notre Dame 
4-5: IS p.m. Transgressive and Hybrid Genres Justin Rice, Indiana University Mike Lippert, Wilfrid Laurier University Jessica Burgers, Notre Dame 
For a complete schedule with paper topics go to http://ftt.nd_edulmufc.shtml 
JULIE GRISANTI I Observer Graphic 

Thursday, April 10, 2008 
page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Western Conference turns up the heat in second half 
No. 8 Anthony Travel looks dominant in route to tourney finals 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI and 
GRIFFIN DASSATI 
Sporrs Writers 
With an 11-7 lead at half time, Western Conference was able to hold Team 318 to one basket and pull away with the 21-8 win. 
Freshman Graysen Petersen­Pitts credited the inspirational halftime speech of senior 
William David William as the reason for the spark. 
"It's really their last chance to make a run," Petersen-Fitts said of Western Conference's win. 
The first half 
was evenly 
matched, with 

........ 
neither team being able to take control of 

Before the game, Anthony captain sophomore Mike Henry admitted that he wasn't ready to rely entirely on his team's No. 8 seed to create an easy win against Last Team. 
"We don't look past anyone," Henry said. "We're focused on the here-and-now. We're focused on this game and only this game." 
Sophomore Pete Dolan, another Anthony team member, 
..Sometimes I feel like it's not really fair when rm on the court. I had at least I 5 rebounds. I kind of 
lost count. ,, 

Graysen Petersen-Fitts Freshman 
the court. But the second half was a different story as Western Conference's defense allowed for the win. Western Conference's defense was able to keep 318 "on lockdown" allowing its offense to pull away. Petersen-Fitts attributes the team's success to his own abilities. 
"Sometimes I feel like it's really not fair when I'm on the court," he said. "I had to have had at least 15 rebounds. I kind of lost count." 
For those unsure of the name, the Western Conference is the NBA's dominant league, home to the best players and teams in the league. By placing them­selves on the same level, it is clear this Bookstore team does not lack confidence. 
For a team with a couple of varsity athletes, such talent and athleticism is expected. However, in the future, do not expect Western Conference to need a halftime speech to fire them up. 
"The second half is indicative of what this team is capable of," Petersen-Fitts said. 
Western Conference will take the court again on Sunday, looking to advance into the round of 64. 
No. 8 Anthony Travel def. Last Team In 21-6 
Despite an early run, Anthony Travel sent Last Team In pack­ing 21-6 in the third round of Bookstore Basketball. 
added his own thoughts about the upcoming contest. 
"The score­board says 0-0 right now, and we won't quit until it says 21 on our side. That said, we think our better is bet­
ter  than  their  
better."  
Despite  his  

captain's mod­esty, Dolan's pre­

diction did come to fruition fair­ly quickly. Anthony started out on a 6-0 run, with effectively executed offense by Henry, 
Dolan, and fellow sophomores 
A  n  d  r  e  w  
Cavanagh,  Nate  
Sonoskey  and  

Chad Breeden. But Last Team wasn't ready to quit yet, as they closed the gap to 6-3 with an offen­sive run of their own. Retaliating, Anthony went on a 5-0 run before entering halftime. 
After a short break, Anthony continued their 
..The scoreboard says 
o-o right now, and we won •t quit until it says 2 I on our side. That said, we think our better is better than their better.,, 
Pete Dolan Sophomore 

run-and-gun style, accelerating the pace on the fast break and pushing their lead to 1 7-4. Despite two quick baskets by Last Team, Anthony closed the game out on a lay-up by Henry. 
"Even though they had the height, we had the hustle and we thought that would win out in the end," sophomore Aaron Pierre said. "We came off our two-game winning streak with a lot of confidence, we underes­timated our opponents and they played really well." 
Team Two-Liner def. The Buttercutting Bailers 21-6 
Despite an inspired late run by the Buttercutting Bailers, Team Two-Liner's effective first 
half ultimately earned a 21-6 victory and advanced to the next round. 
Two-Liner began the game on a 17-0 run and looked poised to go wire-to-wire in a shut-out victory, but just then the under­dog Bailers got the inspiration they needed from a very unex­pected source; an ankle injury to their captain, senior Melinda Welch. 
After the injury, the Ballers were forced to take on Team Two-Liner five-on-four, but they went on a small run of their own, drawing the score to 17-6. After the game, Welch expressed her emotions about her team's effort. 
"I felt like I was letting my team down," she said, "but they came back and scored six just for me." 
But Welch's teammate, junior Matt Townsend, revealed that the injury might just have been a part of the Bailers' strategy. 
"We created a good diversion with [Welch's] injury, Townsend said. "And it almost worked. We almost came back." 
But after giving up six points, 
Two-Liner turned the defense up and finished the game strong, coasting to a 21-6 win. After the game, Two-Liner cap­tain sopho­more John Maier applaud­ed the Bailers' 
attempt  at  a  
comeback.  
"It  was  a  

valiant effort," Maier said. "Stuff just fell 
for them, and it really speaks clearly as to how powerful [they[ can be." 
After complimenting his opponents, Maier conveyed the pride he feels for his team after their first two wins. 
"I think our team really starts hard in the back and finishes quick in the front," he said. "We've had two pretty weak teams [so farl and we think they should probably take up another sport...Iike knitting. Other than that I think we'll be tested coming up against our next opponent." 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu.edu and Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles get drubbing from Flying Dutch 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's fell to Hope 8-1 Wednesday afternoon, dropping its overall record to 5-9. 1-3 MIAA. 
The Flying Dutch swept the doubles matches, and won five of the six singles in their victory over the Belles. 
"Today was a tough match against Hope," sophomore co­captain Camille Gebert said. "They are a very strong team, with a lot ofexperience." 
In the doubles matches, Saint Mary's could not carry over its momentum from last week's 3-0 domination at Olivet. Hope's sophomore Lucy Himes and jun­ior Sammi Stille defeated Saint Mary's No. 1 doubles pair Gebert and freshman Jillian Hurley 8-2. resulting in their eighth loss as a pair this spring, Saint Mary's No. 2 doubles duo of sophomore co­captain Lisa Hubino and fresh­man Betsy Reed lost g-6 to sen­ior Christine Garcia an:d sopho­more Danielle Werley, bringing them to an overall record of 5-7 as a pair. Hope's Katherine Garcia and Nicole Spanguolo defeated Saint Mary's No. 3 dou­bles pair Freshmen Jessica Kosinski and Franca Peluso 8-5. 
"Our doubles did not pull 
through, which put us at a dis­advantage early on," Gebert said. "We had a couple of close matches which could have gone either way. I think that we could have improved in our dou­bles." 
The Flying Dutch continued to show their team's strength in the singles matches, winning all but one. For the fourth time this sea­son, Hurley was the only Belle to win in singles play. Hurley defeated Hope's C. Garcia 6-0, 6­0 at the No.2 spot for her twelfth victory of the season. No. 1 sin­gles player Gebert lost to Hope's Stille 6-2, 6-1 while No. 3 Reed was defeated 7-5, 6-4 by Werley; Marissa Kooyers beat No. 4 Kosinski 6-1, 6-1; No. 5 Rubino lost 6-2, 6-4 to Himes, and No.6 Peluso was beaten 6-2, 6-1 by Hope's K. Garcia. 
"I hope that we can use all of this experience for the confer­ence tournament," Gebert said. "We will be seeing all the teams there for a second time. It will give us a chance to redeem our­selves.. It's just a matter of get­ting over the hump." 
Saint Mary's next faces confer­ence rival Tri-State at home. The Belles and the Thunder will play this Saturday at 1:00. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO1 @saintmarys.edu 

SMC GOLF•. 
Saint Mary's earns second place start 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's started off the MIAA qualifiers strong after shooting a 33 7 and placing themselves in second place behind Olivet with only two qualifier events remaining. 
"I thought we played well today," Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. "Unfortunately, Olivet played as well as they possibly could have." 
Heading into the second of three MIAA qualifiers, the Belles are 18 strokes behind Olivet who shot a 319 on the first day. 
Freshman Rosie O'Connor led the Belles with a round of 80 and classmate Emily Gore was not far behind 
rounds will be held April 25­
26. Before then, the Belles will look to improve at the Vasser Invitational in New York this weekend and at the Illinois Wesleyan Spring Fling the following weekend. 
Looking ahead to the last two days of qualifying in a few a weeks, Hamilton believes that the first place spot is still within the Belles' reach. 
"Hopefully we can even it up in the next round and head into the final day with a good chance to win," Hamilton said. 
The team who sits in first place at the end of the three qualifying days will clinch a spot in the Div. III National championship tournament in May. 
notching a solid g4, Contact Alex Barker at The next two qualifying abarker 1 @nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 




CLASSIFIEDS 

Large house available for 2009·  Attractive 3-bdrm house plus fin- UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  Wanted:  
WANTED  FoR RENT  2010. Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+  ished basement available for sum­mer. Rent mid-May to mid-August.  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  A team capable of beating the Mons tars.  
square feet. 5 bathrooms.  Walking distance to ND. $1000  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  Qualifications:  
$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT  Blue & Gold Homes Showing for  MacSwain@ gmail.com  including utilities. Call 233-2618 or  Dunn, OP, at 1·7819. For more  should be tall and  
WORK flexible, no experience  08/09,09/10 Now offering 'flex'  631-8213.  information, visit our website at:  able to  
needed, customer sales/service,  leases bluegoldrentals.com  For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to N.D.,  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­ shoot a basketball.  
conditions apply,  student neighborhood. central air,  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  Defense optional  
ages 18+,  DUBLIN VILLAGE unit for lease 2008­ new appliances. very nice. 289-4071.  in The Observer.  since it will be ineffectual.  
574-273-3835, www.workforstu­ 2009. 4BR, 3.5 bath. Largest & most  
 PERSONAL  If interested contact  
dents.com  private. Call Diane 574-261-3338.  Quiet and Private, Furnished or  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOMEONE  "The Stinkbox"  
Unfurnished apts for rent. 1 & 2 br  If you or someone you care about  WHO IS? You do not have to be alone.  Bring  
New student needs  HOUSEMATE SOUGHT. PRIVATE  available. Cable & wifi included.  has been sexually assaulted, visit  We want to help. Call our 24 hour con- Your  
good laptop.  ROOM. CALL631-7897. $400  One mile from campus. Call 773­ http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslrape.  fidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or  Game  
574-993-8733.  MONTHLY  339·0299 for rates & availability.  shtml  visit our web site at www.lifecall.org  Face  








OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Thursday, April I 0, 2008 Cotv1PILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA Men's Lacrosse Inside Lacrosse Top 20 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS-LSU intends to hire Stanford's Trent Johnson, who led the Cardinal to the round of 16 in this year's NCAA tourna­ment, as its new coach. 
Several people at LSU familiar with the selection process said a formal announcement was expect­ed by Thursday. The people asked to remain anony­mous because the hiring was not yet official. 
Stanford athletic director Bob Bowlsby said in an e­mail to The Associated Press on Wednesday after­noon that Johnson was given permission to talk to LSU but had not yet resigned. 
"LSU notified me that they wanted to talk with him this morning as I was leaving Tampa" following the women's Final Four, Bowlsby said. "The position probably pays twice what ours does so I expect he feels he has to listen. Trent has not informed me that he has accepted another position." 
Johnson has been at Stanford for four seasons, compiling an 80-48 record. 
He had said recently he hoped to remain at Stanford, and had been slated to meet with Bowlsby on Thursday to discuss a new contract. 
Stanford hired Johnson 
in 2004 to replace Mike Montgomery, who left for the NBA's Golden State Warriors for two seasons and last week was hired by Bay Area rival California. 
Johnson was an assistant at Stanford before going to Nevada and then returning to the Cardinal. 
Stanford lost to Texas in the regional semifinals of the NCAA tournament. 
Stanford's twin 7 -footers, Brook and Robin Lopez, announced last week they would hire agents and enter the NBA draft, forgo­ing their final two seasons of eligibility. 
LSU went to the Final Four only three seasons ago, but failed to make the NCAA. tournament in each of the last two years. The Tigers went 13-18 this sea­son, and former coach John Brady was fired dur· ing the year. 
Assistant Butch Pierre took over on Feb. 8 and led LSU to victories in five of its last nine contests, but the Tigers lost in the opening round of the Southeastern Conference tournament. 
LSU considered a range of candidates, including Travis Ford at Massachusetts, Anthony Grant at Virginia Commonwealth and Oliver Purnell at Clemson. Ford and Purnell both with­drew from consideration Tuesday. 
IN BRIEF Guillen's 154M' suspension UCLA's Love and Collison Favre not rulinf! out 
delayed until Tuesday undecided about NBA comeback with Pac.Kers 
NEW YORK-Jose Guillen's 15-day LOS ANGELES -UClA All-American GULFPOHT, Miss. -If the Green suspension was put on hold through Kevin Love and teammate Darren Bay Packers are ravaged by injuries Tuesday by Major League Baseball Collison have not yet decided whether this season, Brett Favre might con­and the players' association, an indi­they will make themselves available f(Jr sider returning should the team cation they are nearing an agreement the NBA draft, coach Ben I lowland said reach out to him. that would eliminate the penalty and Wednesday. Favre understands the kind of toughen the sport's drug ruins. He dismissed a report on the Los challP-nge he would face should he 
Guillen and Jay Gibbons were sus­Angeles Times' Web site that said the opt to go back to the NFL after end­pended Dec. 6 by commissioner Bud players had decided to leave and were ing his record-setting 17-year Selig following media reports linking expected to hire agents, which would career. And he made it clear he is them to performance-enhancing prevent them from returning to the not changing his mind at this time. drugs. Major l.eah'lle Baseball and the Bruin"i next sea"iin. "But to think that if they called players' union announced March 28 "It's an erroneous report," Howland, me in October and told me, 'Hey, we they were putting the suspensions of adding that Love and Collison were very need you this week.' That would be Guillen and Jay Gibbons on hold for upset about the report because they had hard," Favre said in a story that 10 days, giving lawyers more time to yet to discuss their future with their fami­appeared on the paper's Web site reach an agreement that would lies. on Tuesday. toughen the drug policy. College players have until April 27 to There has been a steady flow of 
Lawyers have said for sev1~ral weeks declare for the June draft. speculation that Favre would have a that the sides are close to a deal, and Love, a frcslunan center, led the Bruins change of heart in the wake of the two said Wednesday that the sides in scoring (17.5 points) and rebounds March 4 announcement the league's have narrowed their differences to the (10.6). Collic;on, a junior point guard, was only three-time MVP was retiring. point where they are confident an a third-tP.am All-Amcriean who averaged Favre added he would not return agremmmt will be reached. 15.2 pointe; and 3.9 ac;sic;tc;. unless he was in shape. 
rank 
1 
2 
2 4 5 6 7 8 
9 '10 11 
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 
20 
team 
Duke Syracuse Virginia Georgetown 
Cornell 
Navy Maryland North Carolina 
NOTRE DAME 
Bucknell 
UMBC 
Drexel Army Brown Johns Hopkins Ohio State Princeton Denver Loyola Maryland Hofstra 
record 
11-1 8-1 10-1 
7-2 8-1 9-2 7-3 7-3 7-2 
8-2 
7-3 9-2 7-3 7·2 
3-5 
7-3 4-4 7-4 5-4 4-4 
points 
350 347 322 294 290 269 259 224 182 164 159 
155 
122 117 108 108 73 
61 
66 
32 


NCAA Women's Lacrosse Bounce/Inside Lacrosse Top 20 
rank team ··record poillts 
1 Northwestern 11-8 220 2 Princeton 9-0 206 2 Maryland 11·1 199 
4 Virginia 10-2 185 5 Syracu~ 10.;2 177 6 Pennsylvania 9-1 ·· '162 7· · .G.eorgetuwn 8-3 139 
:!8 NOTRE DAME 9..3 131 it," g·· tl~tt,~~arJJiina 10-3 .·. ,.;., 127 
·~::;._._;_•.'.·.•.·.·.·.··11\·o,.,.,. ... ...·····a'~~-·n?I_··.'ut _·..·.·.•.... ..··.·-·'.··'···-•··'····_..·_l_•·•1·-•.;1_0:.•~---·· " ; 12~ .. ...··n···•,·,e·.···rs"-'u_._····_> .. ·~.-···.··.··.·.'.··.·.··.......,_,_·.··
};,:·; v.w .., . . ., ?#?*"'''''' 12f t 12 George Mason 8·2 98 13 Yale 8~ . · 89 '<' 14 NewHampshire 10,.2 83 
i. . 15 Vanderbilt 8..2 68 
~;JJ~·1J•· J::ztpkins :! · . : 
v 18 William &Mary 6-6 25 

r 19 Oregon 7..s 24 · 
~i··;( 20 Stanford · 7-6 23 

GWLL Men-'s ·Lacrosse· :?':::-:'):/·:·.·.-_-: __ 
. 
................,. '· 
Conference _Standings i r · \ team conference overall 
Ohio State 
3·0 7-3 
Denver 
1•0 7-4 
NOTRE DAME 
1·1 7-2 
Qulnnipiac 
0·1 6-2 
Bellarmine 
0·2 6·4 
Air Force 
0·1 2-S 
Big East Women's Lacrosse Conference Standings 
team  conference  ooerall  
Syracuse  3·0  10·2  
NOTRE DAME  2·1  9·3  
Georgetown  2·1  8-3  
Rutgers  2·1  1·6  
Loyola Maryland  1·3  6-7  
Connecticut  0·4  1·12  


around the dial 
GOLF 2008 Masters -First Round 4:00p.m., ESPN 
NCAA MEN'S HOCKEY FROZEN FOUR Boston College vs. North Dakota 5:00 p.m., ESPN2 
NOTRE DAME vs. Michigan 8:30 p.m., ESPN2B 
----~~-­

.. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April 10, 2008 
MLB 
Diamondbacks stretch winning streak to six 
Napoli hits first career grand slam for Angels 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX-. Arizona can still win the close ones, too. 
The Diamondbacks stretched their winning streak to six games on Wednesday with a 4-3 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Eric Byrnes hit a go-ahead, two-run single in the seventh­inning off Hiroki Kuroda and Micah Owings (2-0) allowed three runs and seven hits in seven innings as the Diamondbacks fin­ished a three-game sweep of the Dodgers. 
"We've been scoring soine runs and getting some early leads," Arizona manager Bob Melvin said. "Today, a little bit different. They got the lead early on and had some momentum, then we got the big hit." 
All six victories in the streak have come against NL West foes. Arizona swept three at Colorado before their home-opening series against Los Angeles. 
The Diamondbacks used power hitting to beat the Dodgers 9-3 and 10-5 in the series' first two
• 
games. This time, Arizona looked like the team that went 32-20 in one-run games a year ago. 
"Jt's a scrappy team that hap­pnns to be able to hit some home runs, too,'" Byrnes said. "I know we hit a lot of home runs in those first two games. but I think the greatest thing about this team is we can win games in different fashions." 
Brandon Lyon, who had blown his prior two save chances, retired the side in order in the ninth for his second save, although he got a scare when Blake Dewitt flied out to the left field wall. 
Byrnes, who went 3-for-5, ended Kuroda's afternoon with a two-out, bases-loaded single that brought in the tying and go-ahead runs in the sixth. Byrnes' hit came on Kuroda's first pitch. 
"Amazing stuff," Byrnes said of the Japanese pitcher. "But the one thing we tried to take advantage of was how many strikes that he was throwing. I know in my approach I wasn't going to wait around." 
Kuroda called the pitch to Byrnes his biggest mistake of the day. 
"Although I allowed too many hits today, there weren't many hits I thought that really got the sweet spot of the bat," Kuroda said through an interpreter. 
In his first start of the season, Arizona's Augie Ojeda matched his career best with three hits, one a double. 
Kuroda (1-1), in his second start since coming to the Dodgers from Japan, gave up four runs -two earned -and nine hits in 5 2-3 innings. 
James Loney helped make up for his earlier error at first base with his first home run of the sea­son, a solo shot that barely cleared the fence in right field, evading Justin Upton's glove, to give the Dodgers a 3-2 lead in the sixth. Loney extended his hitting streak to a career-best nine games. 
With his relief corps a bit worn down, Melvin said the team need­ed the seven solid innings from Owings, who started the streak "1th a win in Colorado. 
"I thought he was pretty sharp," Melvin said. "There were times when he might not have the com­mand that he did in Colorado, but boy, to give seven innings there when our bullpen was not full up down there, those guys know it." 
Los Angeles manager Joe Torre said that it's important that his struggling young hitters not lose confidence. 
"Whether it's a child you have in your house or someone that you hire to do your lawn, there's something about youngsters that they lack a little patience," Torre said. "They get a little anxious to where they overdo sometimes. I'd rather have them overdo than not care." 
The Dodgers took their first lead of the series in the second when Juan Pierre doubled to right with a runner on first and Upton threw to second base rather than hitting the cutoff man. 
Arizona took advantage of Loney's throwing error on a potential double-play grounder in the fourth, taking a 2-1 lead on a run-scoring grounder by Heynolds -his major league-leading 13th HBI -and Upton's run-scoring single. Andre Ethier's sacrifice fly tied the score in the fifth. 
Angels 9, Indians 5 
ANAHEIM -The Los Angeles Angels usually don't rely on home run clusters like the one they had against Cleveland on Wednesday. But the Indians are giving them up at an alarming rate, and one thing led to another. 
Mike Napoli hit his first career grand slam, Garret Anderson and Casey Kotchman also went deep against Paul Byrd, and Vladimir Guerrero added a three-run shot against Jensen Lewis in a victory. 
"We're hitting home runs right now, which is good for us, but we're a situational team," Napoli said. "We know what we've got to do. Moving guys over, going from first to third, being aggressive on the bases-that's who we are. 
"But anytime you get home runs up and down the lineup, it's pretty good." 
Dustin Moseley (1-1) allowed four runs on nine hits and struck out five over six innings after get­ting staked to a 6-0 lead. The Indians rallied with four runs in the sixth as Jhonny Peralta home­red, Casey Blake hit an RBI dou­ble and Kelly Shoppach added a two-run shot. 
But Guerrero greeted Lewis with a drive to left-center in the seventh for a 9-4 lead after Chone Figgins led off the inning with a broken-bat single and Gary Matthews Jr. reached on a field­ing error by Blake at third base. 
Byrd (0-2) allowed six runs and five hits in three innings, raising his ERA to 11.05. The 37-year-old right-hander, whose name was included in the Mitchell Heport on performance-enhancing drugs, had his $7.5 million option for this season picked up by the Indians after capping off a 15-8 campaign with victories in both of his post­season starts. 
"It's been a distraction at times when I'm not on the mound, but it hasn't really caused me to lose concentration," Byrd said of the Mitchell controversy. "My head's pretty clear. I just haven't had my command at all and I haven't had very good stuff. To pitch up here, you have to have one of the two, and I have neither right now." 


Large Pizza 
Cheese & 2 Toppings 
Free Delivery On Campus 
Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas & charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 
Visit us on the Web at www.marcos.com 02007 Marco's Franchising, LLC 5724N0-1007 


SOUTH BEND 
52750 IN 933 (N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
(Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 
574-243-1122 
ed 
cy? 

love needs help cni£~ase call. 
Confidential support and assistance available at Notre Dame: 
• Sr. Jean Lenz, OSF, Student Affairs, 1-7407 
,."'-""''~-rDunn, OP, Student Affairs, 1-7819 Campus Ministry, 1-716 3 
nn~~"unity l?.esources: 
'n-n•....,'s Care Center: 234-0363 
t:U.Oll·c Charities: 234-3111 
.,,._ -~~~ webgite at: ~~.......~ ........... departments/pre~nant.shtml 

Thursday, April 10, 2008 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
OLYMPICS
U.S. Pre111iere at Notre Datne! The Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
p.fe£enir 
HUMOR IN EUROPEAN FILM 




Tightened security in San Francisco 

AP Olympic torch bearers walk surrounded by security on Van Ness Avenue in San Francisco Wednesday. Security was tightened due to protests. 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Security was tightened on the Golden Gate Bridge and elsewhere around the city Tuesday as officials prepared for massive protests of China's crackdown in Tibet during the Olympic torch's only North American stop on its journey to Beijing. 
The Olympic flame was whisked to a secret location shortly after il<> pre-dawn arrival Tuesday follow­ing widespread and chaotic demonstrations during the torch relay in London and Paris. Activists are protesting China's human rights record, its grip on Tibet and support for Sudan despite years of bloodshed in Darfur. 
The flame is scheduled to be paraded through the city Wednesday on a six-mile route that hugs San francisco Bay. Already, one runner who planned to carry the flame dropped out because of safety concerns, offi­cials said. 
It began its 85,000-mile journey from Ancient Olympia in Greece to Beijing on March 24, and was the focus of protests from the very start. 
!lours after it arrived in San Francisco, protesters marched to the Chinese Consulate, calling on China to cease its heavy-handed rule ofTibet. 
Meanwhile, a few miles away in Chinatown, leaders of China's expatriate community held a news conference calling for a peaceful relay, and said they were proud China was selected to host the summer games. 
In Beijing, International Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge said the body's executive board would discuss Friday whether to end the international leg of the torch relay because of the demonstrations. He said he was "deeply saddened" by the previous protests and was con­cerned dbout the relay in San Francisco. 
"\Ve recognize the right for peo­ple to protest and express their views, but it should be nonviolent. \ve are very sad for· all the ath­letes and the people who expected so much from the run and have bePn spoiled of their joy," Hogge said. 
Hundreds of' activists carrying Tibetan 11ags and wearing tradi­
tiona] clothes gathered in United 
Nations Plaza, a pedestrian area 
near San Francisco's City Hall, to 
denounce China's policy tow<W"d 
Tibet and the recent crackdown 
on protesters there. They then 
marched to the Chinese Consulate 
as part of a daylong Tibetan Torch 
Relay. 
"This is not about us battling the 

torchbearers," Lhadom Tethong, 
executive director of Students for 
a Free Tibet, told the crowd out­
side the consulate. "This is about 
the Chinese government using the 
torch for political purposes. And 
we're going to use it right back." 
San Francisco was chosen to 

host the relay in part because of 
its large Asian population. 
David Lee, executive direetor of the Chinese American Voters Education Committee and a pro­fessor of political science at San Francisco State University, said while many Chinese agree with critics of China, on the whole, Chinese-Americans feel a tremen­dous sense of pride that the Beijing Olympics chose San Francisco as the only relay site in North America. 
At a news conference Tuesday, businessowners a.<>ked fc:>r calm. 
"We are begging for five hours of peace," said Sam Ng, pn~sident of the Chinese Six Companies, a prominent benevolent a.'isociation. 
Some residents also expressed dismay at the protesl<>. 
Ling Li, 29, who immigrated from China's Guangdong Province eight years ago, said she wa.<> dis­appointed that this pivotal moment in her country's history wa.<> being marred by demonstra­tions. She believes that Tibet is a rightful part of China and its quest for independence should not be part ofthe Olympics. 
"If I support the Olympics, of course I don't support the protests. This is the first time China has had the Olympics. We should be proud of this," she said. 
Pro-Tibet activists and other human rights groups said they'd encouraged their supporters to protest peacefully and not pisrupt the relay or the torch runners. 
"We can be effective without (disruption)," said Allyn Brooks­LaSure, a spokesman for Save Darfur. "Disrupting tomorrow's ceremonies couldn't possibly embarrass Beijing any more than their disastrous Darfur policy already ha..'i." 
. '; -. . ' . . . . . .. . . . 
----~-­
page 18 Thursday, AprillO, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 
Thomas to conclude LOS season with Knicks 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -lsiah Thomas 
will finish the season as the Knicks' coach, but needs a good explanation for why .things went so horribly wrong for any chance to last beyond 
that. 
New president Donnie Walsh 
said Wednesday he plans to 
meet soon with Thomas, and he 
wants to know why a team he 
thought could be good instead 
will finish as perhaps the worst 
in franchise history. 
Walsh insists he hasn't decid­
ed on Thomas' future with the 
team, but the Knicks' 22-56 
record entering their game 
against Charlotte clearly works 
against the coach. 
"You can say I have-an open 
mind as far as any conversation 
I'm going to have," Walsh said. 
"I still don't think we've played 
well, there's a lot of things I 
want to talk about. So it's not 
totally open. It's not like I'm 
going in saying, 'Well, this has 
all been great, so what do you 
want to talk about?'" 
Walsh said he expects their 
conversation to happen before 
the regular season ends next 
week. But no matter what he 
decides, he expects Thomas to 
be on the bench for the remain­
ing games. 
"Yeah, I would say that we're 
going to go through the season 
because there's only four 
games left," Walsh said, "and 
I'm going to use this period to 
try to take a look at the whole 
situation so I'm in a position to 
make whatever decision is 
going to be made -if there are 
any." 
Walsh was hired last 
Wednesday to replace ·Thomas 
as team president, and put off 
any decision about Thomas' 
remaining job until after they 
could meet in person. The 
Knicks were on a road trip ~t 
the time and didn't return until 
the weekend. 
Walsh had left town by then 
to clean out his desk in Indiana, 
where he recently announced 
he was leaving the Pacers after 
24 years in their front office. 
Walsh didn't return to New 
York until Tuesday, and said he still hasn't even seen Thomas. 
That will change soon. Walsh attended the game against the Bobcats, and the Knicks also are home for games Friday and Monday before closing the sea­son at Indiana on April 16. 
Walsh wants details about specific things that happened this season, such as the Thomas-Stephon Marbury feud that sent the season spiraling out of control after only five games. Marbury left the team in Phoenix after Thomas threatened to remove him from the starting lineup, and the Knicks lost their next six games. 
Thomas also had disagree­ments on the bench during games with Quentin Richardson and Zach Randolph, and he'll need to decide how honest he wants to be with Walsh about whether he was at fault. He also yanked center Eddy Curry from the starting lineup, and Curry lost his confidence and took a major step back with his play this season. 
"I would say that, again, this has been an extremely chal­lenging year and it's been a unique year that's presented unique and different problems, and you know our record is not good," Thomas said. "It's not good. We've had a poor per­formance out on the floor. That's not a permanent situa­tion. The situation we're in now is not permanent." 
Speaking before Walsh, Thomas continued to act as if he is part of the future -as he always does -and again talked about winning champi­onships in New York. He worked three years under Walsh in Indiana as the Pacers' coach and both say they have a good relationship, so perhaps he has reason to believe he has a chance to stick. 
Thomas assembled this entire team that will miss the playoffs for the fourth straight year. While he stresses that the Knicks were "pretty far down" when he arrived as president in 2003 but are "positioned pretty properly" now, Walsh needs to know why that hasn't shown on the court. 
Department of Irish Language & Literature 
,. 
IRLL 30107 IRLL 30108 IRLL 30307 IRLL40304 IRLL 60203 IRLL 60305 
lRLL 10101:01 JRLL l0l0Ul2 JRLL 1010103 lRLL 1010104 JRLL 10102:01 lRLL 10102:02 IRLL 2010301 lRLL 20103:01 IRLL 20203:01 1RLL 60101:01 JRLL 60101:02 IRLL 60102:01 IRLL 60102:02 JRLL 60103:01 IRLL 60103:02 IRLL 60203:0l 
Fall 2008 Course Offerings 
Litt-rature Courst'S 
T/u> Hidden Ireland 
211'' Century lri.~h Literature 
Tlte lri.fih Tradition 1 
Poetry ami Plllitics in freltmd 
Sc·ottish (iaelic 
Cfa.mici na (ie~ei/ge 
Language Courses 
Hexmning Irish I 
Beginning Irish I 
Beginning Irish I 
Beginning Irish I 
Beginning Irish II 
Beginning Irish II 
Intermediace Irish 
lmermediatc lnsh 
Advanced Readings in !ri.l'h Culture Beginning Irish I Beginning Irish l Begmning Irish l.anguage If Beginning Irish Langtwg(! IT Intermediate Irish 
lnl!'rm(!diare Irish 
Advanced Readings in Irish Culrur~t 
Prof Peter McQuillan (TR 12 30-1:45) Prof Sarah McKibben (MW 11:45-100) Prof Hugh Fogany (TR 3:30-445) Prof Breandan 6 Buachalla (TR 2:00-3:15) Prof Peter McQuillan (TR 2:00-3: 15) Prof Breandru1 6 Buachalla (W 6:00-9:00) 
Staff/TBA Prof Tara MacLcud StafrnBA Prof Muir~ann Ni Bheagluoich Prof C iurn Conneely Prof. Tara MacLeod .Prof. Brian () Conchuhhair Prof Suruh MucK!hlx'D Prof Bria11 () Conchul:lhair Sl!itTrrBA Prof. Tara MacLeod Prof Cinna Conneely Prof. Tara MacLt:ud Pror Brian 6 Conchuhhair Prof Sarah MacK ibt>cn Prof Briant) Conchuhhair 


South Bend Plymouth 
52803 U.S. 33 North S' 2021 North Michigan :g 4852 Western Avenue 2037 U.S. 31 S' 2171 South Bend Avenue 
La Porte

:g 121 W. LaSalle Avenue 
1434 East Lincoln Way

S' 1113 Ireland Road 
1012 State Rd. #2 West

S' 3403 Portage Avenue Southwest Michigan Mishawaka ~ 2035 S. M-139, Benton Harbor ~ 1945 Pipestone Road, Benton Harbor
S' 5809 Grape Road l! 530 W. McKinley Ave. 903 Spruce Street, Dowagiac 1250 South 11th Street, Niles
S' 2801 Lincoln Way East 2701 South 11th Street, Niles Goshen 752 LaGrange, South Haven ~ 1709 Elkhart Road 4626 Red Arrow Hwy., Stevensville S' 1911 Lincoln Way East ~ 2051 Washington Ave., St. Joseph 4014 Elkhart Road 3733 North M-140, Watervliet 
Elkhart 1440 Nappanee Street 2715 Cassopolis Road 834 E. Beardsley Street 3413 South Main Street 

Other Area Locations 1436 West Plymouth Street, Bremen 12757 State Road #23, Granger 
~ 806 South Heaton St., Knox 

S' 3956 S. Franklin, Michigan City 1205 East Market Street, Nappanee 608 West Talmer Ave., North Judson 5202 East 1200 North, Syracuse 10013 West U.S. Hwy. 30, Wanatah 
~ 2920 Frontage Road, Warsaw 

~ DRIVE·THRU OPEH 24 HOURS AT THESE LOCATIONS 
~ Participaton may vary. "" & © 2008 
reserved. 

. ~~:. '-: / ......... , ·'.. '~';::: •. w .(-,.' ......./•....;.~ ....~·-= :« ' ,~ 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN



STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Baustista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd .edu/ 

Thursday, April 10, 2008 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
National Alcohol Screening Day 

is TODAY! 
Got 5 minutes? Want a $50 gift certificate to TARGET? Complete the National 
Alcohol Screening Day Survey on April lOth to enter to win! 
W'NW.mentalhealthscreening.org/ screening/loginpage.asp 
Username: UNIVOFNOTREDAME 



PLS ?
• Properly Learned Scholars? 

Our students say: ''We read to know that we are not alone" [quote from C.S. Lewis]. 
THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
Small Classes. Great Books. Curious? Stop by the Office 215 O'Shaughnessy Hall Visit the website http://pls.nd.edu 
• 


NHL 

Defending champion Ducks open playoffs 
Dallas holds head-to-head advantage 5 to 3 

Associated Press 
ANAHEIM -Forget about 

the Ducks' being defending 
Stanley Cup champions. 
Anaheim coach Randy Carlyle 
has -or at least that's his 
story as Anaheim prepares to 
open its Cup defense. 
"I can't remember last 

year," Carlyle said 
Wednesday. "Every year your 
team is different. The refer­
ence to last year is old news. 
We're trying to create an 
identity for ourselves now. 
"We've got a playoff series against a very difficult oppo­nent, an opponent that has given us a lot of trouble over the course of the season." 
The Ducks, trying to become the first team to repeat as NHL champions since Detroit in 1997-98, begin the playoffs against the Dallas Stars on Thursday night in Anaheim. 
The Stars won five of eight against Anaheim during the regular season and got a shootout point in one of the losses. They outscored the Ducks 24-15. 
"They've got a good offense and they can score some big goals," Anaheim goalie Jean­Sebastien Giguere said. "They're going to be danger­ous on the power play, so we've got to not take too many penalties and not give them too many chances on the power play." 
After a slow start this sea­son, the Ducks took on the look of a champion again after Scott Niedermayer and Teemu Selanne decided not to retire and rejoined the team. Anaheim went 32-12-4 after Niedermayer came back in December, and were 20-5-1 following Selanne's return on Feb. 5 . 
Two of the wins came in their final two games against Dallas. 
"They're a different team with Niedermayer and Selanne back," said the Stars' Brenden Morrow, asked about Dallas taking the regular-sea­son series. "But if that helps guys feel more relaxed, sure." 
Dallas goalie Marty Turco, noting that the Stars are very 
familiar with Anaheim, said their confidence is high. 
"We know the type of team they are and how they're going to play. We've seem them when we've played against them and seen them numerous times on TV against other teams," Turco said. "There won't be any surprises." 
While the Ducks were surg­ing down the stretch of the regular season, the Stars were struggling. Dallas went 4-8-2 in the last 14 games to finish fifth in the Western Conference, five points back of the fourth-place Ducks. 
"We need to keep our spe­cial teams rolling, stay disci­plined, play to our strengths and not crack in the third period, something we strug­gled with late in the season," said Morrow, who had a career-best 32 goals and 74 points this season. 
Giguere, who won the Conn 
· Smythe Trophy as the 2003 postseason MVP and was out­standing in the playoffs again last year, said the series against Dallas could be a close one. 
"We know it's going to be a good matchup, there are going to be some tight games, some heavy checking and possibly some fights and stuff like that," he said. "It should be an entertaining series for the fans -and for us." 
The Stars likely will be without one of their key play­ers, at least for the start of the playoffs. Defenseman Sergei Zubov, who had sur­gery for a sports hernia injury, has been outstanding for Dallas on the breakout. 
The Ducks also will be miss­ing one of their top players, Corey Perry, although he's expected to be available later --­in the series. Perry, the team's second-leading scorer, has been sidelined by a lacer­ated leg tendon. 
Carlyle smiled and made a couple of predictions, saying, "You know there's going to be things that are going to hap­pen in a playoff series. You know there's going to be new intensity, and there's going to be panic; there always is." 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 10, 2008 

Charel 
continued from page 24 
This past season, she guid­ed Notre Dame to a No. 15/13 ranking and a Sweet 16 berth before falling to Tennessee 74-64. 
The Monessen, Penn., native had the biggest night of her career in her penulti­mate game, when she scored a career-high 35 points in Notre Dame's 79-75 overtime win over Oklahoma in the second round of this year's NCAA Tournament. 
Allen was the first Irish 

-
player to notch over 1,500 points, 500 rebounds, 200 assists and 200 steals. She finished her Notre Dame career in the top 10 of 10 dif­ferent categories, including eighth in scoring with 1 ,566. 
The Los Angeles Sparks ful­filled most people's expecta­tions by taking two-time national player of the year Candace Parker, a forward from Tennessee, with the first overall pick. Parker led the Lady Vols to back-to-hack national championships and was the Most Outstanding Player both years. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzapa5@nd.edu 
NBA 


LeBron dominates Nets 
win." Szczcrbiak added a 3-pointer
Associated Press 

Teammate Wally to go ahead, 85-77. CLEVELAND -So much for Szczerbiak, who scored 14 By the time James returned LeBron James' aching back. points, was succinct in his with 6:24 to play, the 
After missing two days of analysis of James. Cavaliers were up, 87-77. practice because of back "He's unbelievable," New Jersey went scoreless on spasms. James scored 33 Szczerbiak said. 10 straight possessions and points as the Cleveland The win came at an oppor­didn't score again until Vince Cavaliers overcame a 14-tune time for the Cavaliers, Carter's two free throws with point deficit to defeat the who had lost six of eight 4:36 left. The Cavaliers took New Jersey Nets, 104-83, coming in -including two a 90-79 lead on James' Wednesday night. straight at home. Cleveland three-point play with 4:23 to 
James' back problems have maintained it two-game lead play. The Nets were 1-of-20 been headline news all over over Washington for the from the field and scored town this week. He didn't fourth seed in the Eastern nine points in the fourth. practice Monday and Tuesday Conference. "Defensively, I know it to rest the back and a deci­"We needed this win," made Coach Brown happy," sion whether he James said. James said. "It makes us would play For much of happy. The offense is easy against the Nets the game it when you can defend like wasn't made looked like that."
·Tm going to do what
until Wednesday Cleveland's The turn of events didn't morning. I have to do to help troubles make Nets coach Lawrence 
While the us wzn. . ,, would contin­Frank very happy. NBA's leading ue. The Nets "We couldn't buy a field scorer moved led 67-53 goal and we couldn't get a
LeBron James 
stiffly at times midway stop," he said. "That was a 
Cavaliers forward 
during his 3 5 through the 35-point swing." minutes on the third period "It's tough when you're not floor, the results before the hitting shots, not making were vintage Cavaliers layups and calls we felt we James. He was 11-of-21 from went on a 23-7 run, which should have gotten, we the field, made 1 0-of-13 from saw James score eight points. weren't getting," said Carter. the line, grabbed seven Cleveland led 76-74 lead "It was a triple-threat nega­rebounds and had eight going into the fourth quarter. tive." assists. Bostjan Nachbar's 3-pointer Zydrunas Ilgauskas 13 for 
In James' mind, there was to begin the period gave New the Cavaliers. Daniel Gibson no doubt he was going to Jersey a a one-point lead, but and Delonte West scored 12 play and play well. that would be New Jersey's apiece. 
"I'm going to do what I last field goal of the game. Carter scored 19 points and have to do to help us win," he With James getting a rest. Richard Jefferson added 15 said. "I didn't feel 100 per­the CavaJiers scored the next to lead New Jersey, which cent, but I felt I could do nine points. Sasha Pavlovic won the first three meetings everything in my arsenal that had a jumper, Joe Smith this season against needs to be done for us to scored two baskets, and Cleveland. 
You may not care about the answers to these questions ... 
. . . unless you're an Office 2003 user who tries to open an 
Office 2007 document and receives a file compatibility error. 
Then these differences in file extensions can drive you and 
your Windows computer nuts. 
Office 2007 file extensions end in the letter X; Office 2003 
file.s don't. You can open and save an Office 2003 file using 
Office 2007, but you can't open and save an Office 2007 file 
using Office 2003. 
Office 2003 users can get around this problem, though. 
Go to oit.nd.edu/office, select Office 2007 Windows, and click on the link to the Compatibility Pack. From there you can download the latest version of a patch that enables users of Office 2003 to open and save Office 2007 documents. 
Find out more information about Office 2007 for Windows on the OIT's website at oit.nd.edu/office/, as well as infor­mation on the recently-released Microsoft Office 2008 for Macintosh. The new version of Office for Mac has similar file compatibility issues that Mac users will want to learn how to resolve. 
Please feel free to contact your departmental computer support representative or call the OIT Help Desk at 631-8111 il you have further questions. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Office of Information Technologies 

Thursday, April 10, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Would you like to be the voice of Fighting Irish Football? WVFI broadcasts all football games. If any student is interested in becoming aWVFI Sports Announcer, please email Rok Kopp at rkopp@nd.edu by April17,2008. WVFI, Voice of the Fighting Irish 
WoMEN's LAcRossE 

Wilde a ts defeat Irish to end winning streak 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Wrirer 
The No. 8 Irish (9-4, 2-1 Big East) found out the hard way why the top-ranked Northwestern Wildcats are three-time defending National Champions and are now rid­ing a 33-gamc winning streak. 
The host Wildcats (12-0) scored the game's first 15 goals in a dominant 16-2 effort to end Notre Dame's winning streak at four games. Senior attack Heather Ferguson and freshman mid­fielder Jackie Doherty scored the only two Irish goals, as Northwestern successfully shut down Notre Dame's high­powered offensive attack. 
Junior Jillian Byers, who broke the Irish all-time scor­ing record in her last outing, and senior Caitlin McKinney, who owned a program-best 51-game point streak, were both victims of a high-pres­
3person teams compete in the Superbowl of Pop Culture to win fabulous prizes: ipod shuffles, Best of Notre Dame Football DVD boxset, $25 gift certificate to itunes, bragging rights. 
f 
·.::.,.·
Preliminary written test, Monday, 14 April at 7pm. Sign up at wvfi.nd.edu and receive more information. Top teams compete in final round, Friday, 18 April at 9pm in the Carey Auditorium in the Library. Free food and door prizes to the audience. 
WVFI, Voice of the Fighting Irish wvfi.nd.edu 
sure Northwestern defense that the Irish prepared for but couldn't answer. 
The Irish were able to keep the game scoreless for the first seven minutes, but with­in a span of two minutes, the Wildcats scored three times to take a 3-0 lead. Ten minutes later, Northwestern went on another run, scoring five goals in two minutes to blow it open at 8-0. 
The Wildcats entered the half up 11-0 and added four more goals before Ferguson finally put one home with under 18 minutes to play. Northwestern scored once more before Doherty's goal with just over two minutes left to finish the scoring at 16­2. 
The Irish will look to rebound when they close out their five-game road swing at Big East rival No. 7 Georgetown. 
Contact Matt Gamber _at 
mgamber@nd.edu 
W··.

\t:U 

ND SOFTBALL 
Lux shines in Irish victory 
By SAM WERNER Sports Wrirer 

Notre Dame dominated 
Eastern Michigan in a double­
header, winning 10-1 and 5-1 
yesterday and earning their 
seventh and eighth consecu­
tive wins. 

Sophomore first baseman Christine Lux led the Irish to victory in the first game, set­ting a school record for RBis in a single game with seven. Lux started her big day off early, capping off an Irish rally a double in the first inning that drove in two runs and gave Notre Dame a 4-0 lead. 
In the bottom of the second, Lux ripped a two-out single to plate two more runs and extend the lead to 7-0. Finally, Lux ended her big day with a three-run homer to right cen­ter to put the Irish up 10-1. 
Notre Dame junior Brittany Bargar pitched four innings of three-hit ball, giving up only one run and striking out six. With the win, Bargar improved her record to 18-6 on the year. Junior Christine Farrell pitched the fifth inning for the Irish. 
Notre Dame relied on solid pitching in the second game. Freshman J ody Valdivia pitched seven innings, gave up only one run, and struck out a season-high 14 batters. 
Eastern Michigan made the 

r·e·· 
with Angelo Spencer & L'Orchidee D'Hawai 
Saturday, Apri I 1 2th Legends Doors Open at 8:30 Show at 9 Free Admission with Valid ND, SMC, or HCC ID 
Game of skill for Juno DVDs and WVFI merchandise 
Irish work for the win this time, though. The Eagles got on the board first in the sec­ond inning when freshman Stacie Skodinski knocked a double to left-ceoter that scored junior Heather Han and put EMU up 1-0. 
Lux once again came up big offensively for the Irish, smok­ing an RBI single in the third inning to tie the game at one. 
Notre Dame waited until the fifth inning to take the lead, and when they did, it was Lux in the middle of the action. After seniors Sarah Smith and Katie Laing had already drove in runs with two outs to put the Irish up 3~1. Lux came up with Laing standing on first base. On the fourth pitch from Eastern Michigan pitcher Jaclyn Caro, Lux ripped a triple to left-center causing Laing to score. On the day, Lux finished 5-6 with a home run and nine RBis. 

The Irish are set to host Rutgers on April 12 in the newly constructed Melissa Cook Stadium. The game begins at noon. 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 


... 

VANESSA GEM PIS/ The Observer Sophomore first baseman Christine Lux swings at a pitch during Notre Dame's 2-1 win over Toledo on April 2. 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 10, 2008 
well." After Manchester cut into

Record 
the deficit, Notre Dame added a run in both the sixth and
continued from page 24 
eighth innings on run-scoring people are like, 'Oh my God, sacrifice flies by junior first it's the hit-by-pitch record.' baseman Casey Martin. Well, I'll take it." Sharpley got the win for the 
Lilley said he did not even Irish and senior righty Justin know he was Gingerich approaching closed out the the record until victory in his a teammate ..Our starters went out Notre Dame told him about d e b u t .
there and took care of
it late last sea­Gingerich gave
business . .,
son. After that, up just one hit though, Lilley and struck out said he was on two in one
Dave Schrage 
a mission to inning of work.
Irish coach 
reach unchart­"Justin ed territory. Gingerich 
"I said, 'Okay, threw really here we go. We'll shoot for well in the last inning," it,"' Lilley said. "I've never Schrage said. "He executed practiced getting hit ... But his pitches really well. He's when we're playing, there are been working really hard and a lot of times I intentionally do he got rewarded today." get hit by a pitch." 
And the senior said all the Contact Fran Tolan at bruises he has accumulated ftolan@nd.edu have not persuaded him to back off the plate any time soon. 
''I'm shooting for 100," he said. 
Lilley cracked the record books amidst a two-out rally that broke the game open for the Irish. He reached base to put men on first and second for Ryne Intlekofer. The soph­omore second baseman then laced a triple down the right field line to score two. Sophomore centerfielder A.J. Pollock followed with a triple of his own to stake the Irish to a 5-1 lead. 
Irish freshman starting pitcher Hyan Sharpley surren­dered a run the first inning to give Manchester a 1-0 edge. But Sharpley and freshman righty Evan Danieli held the Spartans scoreless for the next four innings as the Notre Dame offense built an 11-1 lead by the end of the fifth stanza. 
"Our starters went out there and took care of business," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. 
Pollock went 3-for-3 with a single, double and triple before being pulled in the fifth inning for sophomore Bill Warrender. Lilley went 2-for-2 with a single and triple but was also taken out in the fifth. 
Manchester chipped into the Irish lead with seven total runs in the sixth, seventh and eighth innings but enough damage had already been done to bury the Spartans. 
''I'll give Manchester credit," Schrage said. "They had 10 hits ... so I'II give Manc_hestcr credit for hitting the ball 

Brey 
continued from page 24 
even hold a banquet. 
"The great thing about this award is that there was no dinner or banquet or media blitz. because that's who Skip was -he was low-key," Brey 
said. "We thought we should 
FREEBIES 1sues ' ewes oNLY) then smothered with onions. mayo.
just get lunch or go to an Irish 
Fresh sliced turkey breast. bacon, lenuce. tomato.
Onion. lettuce. alfalfa sprouts. tomato. mayo. sliced lettuce. tomato, & our homemade
bar." 
& mayo. ( JJ's original turkey & bacon club)cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar, and oregano. Italian dressing.
Brey said that, going for­ward, he will be involved with the giving of the award. lie said he hopes that all future 
I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK tr
winners along with Prosser's son, Mark -will be 
1290 L IRRIND 138 S. MICHIGAN 54570 N.IRONWOOO DR. 5343 N. MAIN ST. similarly involved. 
574.291.1900 574.246.1020 574.277.8500 574.968.4&00 
"Mark and the previous 
SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA
award winners could honor the new recipient together," he said. 
''VOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOliN'S!'' © 
Contact Chris Khorey at 
®1115. ZIIZ. Zlll. ZIU. 2111 .liMMY .IIHN"S FIINCHISE. LLC ILL IICHTS IESEIUD. We lesene ne liiU To Make hyMen C~ures. ckhorey@nd.edu 
-

Irish as the top-ranked team the first set, Tefft rallied in in the country began firing the second, but ultimately


Wildcats 
on all cylinders. Mosolova came out on top, No. 42 Lui evened the winning the match 6-1, 7-5.
continued from page 24 
match at two with a win Buck was amidst her battle the polls. over Rielley 6-2, 7-5. The with No. 5 Rose when the 
The sophomore pair of loss ended Rielley's personal match was clinched for Cosmina Ciobanu and three-match winning streak. Northwestern. Buck won Colleen Rielley delivered Junior Katie Potts put up a the first set 6-2 but lost the under pressure with the valiant effort from the No.6 second, 4-6. In an abbrevi­doubles point on the line. spot but could not grind out ated third set, Buck pre­Their 8-5 win over junior the win. Sophomore Suzie vailed 1-0 (10-7). N azlie Ghazal and freshman Matzenauer fought off Potts' No. 5 Rose is the highest Maria Mosolova brought the second set tiebreak win to ranked player Buck has ever sophomores to 17-1 for the shutout Potts in the third. beaten. The senior captain dual season. The 6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 6-0 win has now defeated eight of 
Ghazal bounced back from by Matzenauer left the her last nine opponents. a doubles loss to put Wildcats needing to win just Despite winning the dou­Northwestern on the board one of the two remaining bles point for the eleventh by beating Krisik in two matches to earn the overall match in a row, the Irish matches 6-3, 6-3. victory. came up just short the win. 
No. 122 Ciobanu earned Notre Dame had a chance Notre Dame will look to another point for the Irish. to comeback and win with start a new winning streak Playing in the No. 3 slot, the match in the hands of its this Friday at 3 PM, when Ciobanu ousted No. 25 No. 1 and No. 2 singles play­the No. 61 DePaul Blue Murray 6-3, 6-2. Ciobanu's ers -Buck and Tefft. Demons come to the record stands at 9-5 playing No. 41 Tefft faced her Courtney Tennis Center. in the No. 3 spot toughest opponent of the Ciobanu's victory was the year in Northwestern's No. 3 Contact Dan Masterton at last of the evening for the Mosolova. After dropping dmastert@nd.eduu 
one o our homema e Frenc uns 

Thursday, April 10, 2008 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLAcK DoG 
MAN! I HATE. 1'1'( PAA.TNER.. ON THIS PR.oJELTI HE'S: SVLti A 
PAIN IN THE-NEC.K.. 
LOLLERSKATES 

Fun with 
rap 


+ 

it. 

(x 2) 
ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC SARAH MUSCARELLA & LIZ MURPHY 

YEAH ' HE.'.s To INTERESTED' HE HIS OWIJ­

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
SD~Y. WHAT 7 I LOST INTEREST TWo A'** JoKes 
AG-O­
DIDIER LEWIS 

CROSSWORD 
Across 37 Discussion spots Sari, e.g. 38 Words of praise 5 Gloomy or words of condemnation
9 Place for an emoticon 42 TV's Kojak 
14 Life of Riley 43 Respectful refusal
15 Asian princess 44 Pen's partner 
t6 Dodger All-Star pitcher Eric 45 Approve or 17 Some penalize 18 Deuce follower 48 Willie Mays and teammates
19 Begin operating or stop operating 50 Deborah nominated for 
20 Confirmation or six Academy 
uncertainty 
Awards
23 Fathomed 51 Accord
24 Stadium sound 52 It's definite 
25 Some Grammy winners 55 Easy to see or impossible to
27 B~lief in a life of harmony with see nature 60 Entangle or disentangle
30 Unchanged or novel 62 Minimal tide 34 Kobold 63 E.R. part: Abbr. 
35 Repeated setting 64 Comedic title for Georges role for Renee Seurat paintings Zellweger, 2000 
ttNSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
65 Univ. 66 California's 
Valley 67 Chaotic 68 Olaf's girlfriend 
in Lemony Snicket books 69 Sporty car roof option 
Down Last under use or erode under use 2 "Hurlyburly" 
playwright David 3 "No returns" 4 "Great" czar 5 Grounds for 
legal action 6 Gary Burghoff role of TV and 
film 7 L., B. or J. 8 Revealing 
garment 9 It might be 
spiked 10 Jiang's husband 11 Like kids at a 
circus, maybe 12 Dope 13 Remaining or 
gone 21 Martini's partner Z2 Paris accord 26 Sort through 27 Fair housing? 28 Welcome to 
paradise? 
29 Commonly 30_ ring 31 Away from the 
office 32 Don't exist 33 Shenanigans 


WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Matt Ginsberg  
36 "No nation is permitted to live in with impunity": Jefferson  46 Twinings competitor 47 Non-std. 49 Sitting  54 12/24 and 12/31 56 Converts to a cause, briefly 57 Broadcast  
39 Equine ankle 40 Gotham 41 Dr. Hahn of "Grey's Anatomy"  51 "0, sing to the Lord a new song'n for one 52 Add to or remove from 53 Fabled slacker  58 Fictional submariner 59 Move gracefully or move clumsil) 61 Nav. rank  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reservea. 
DYPET 
j



rJ r
tUNRICH 

VVHAT ~ SUf<GeON
IIJ 

www.jumble.com TUI<NE:O INTO AT THE ANNUAL-PARrY. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's IJumbles: DUNCE OZONE FRIEZE BLUISH Answer: When the cats performed for the animal trainer, he was -"LIONIZED" 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LIST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIUS DAY: Keshia Knight Pulliam, 29; Austin Peck, 37; Cynthia Nixon, 42; Dennis Quaid, 54 
Happy Birthday: It will be the well~planned ideas that make the most difference in your life this year. Instead, throw yourself into something that will help you ad­vance physically, personally, professionally and financially and feel the satisfac~ tion of accomplishment. Your numbers are S, 12, 23, 26, 36, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Separate your emotions from work or school proj­
ects or you may fall short of your goals. A little creative accounting will help you 
financially when you need a little extra cash. 4 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Drum up whatever help you can get. You can offer 
your idea to someone who can give you hands-on assistance but don't give away 
too much in return. This is not the time to exaggerate. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will hook up with interesting people who will 
influence your life. Love is looking positive and the action you take today could 
very well lead to a better relationship with someone important to you. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Too much talk will lead to trouble. Someone will 
try to trick you into divulging information that may hurt you later on. Listen and 
gather all the information you can to keep the upper hand. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can dance your way to victory today with your charm, fun-loving attitude and entertaining way of dealing with others. Learn from past mistakes and you will succeed. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't be too trusting with your possessions. Some­one is likely to take advantage of you, playing on your sensitivity to a situation that you are trying to resolve. If someone is asking for a handout, refuse. 2 stars 
LIBRA (SepL 23-0et. 22): Mix fun with a little serious discussion about your future plans and you will grab the attention of someone who can help you. Love is a big draw today, so remember to work on your relationship. S stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Make whatever adjustments are required at home in order to get more accomplished. A home office will help you make extra cash or get into something that will help you enhance your skills. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Give yourself a chance to catch up at home. Today is the perfect time to finish personal business. You have to make the altera­tions necessary to save money and your emotional well-being. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Things won't run smoothly today so you may as well kick back and take a break. You owe it to yourself to enjoy the company of friends or to take a mini vacation. Love issues may arise. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Put time and effort into your surroundings. Adding comfort or a luxury item to your home will bring rewards in the way you are treated by friends and family. Love is looking good. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Be careful not to show your emotions if you want to come out on top. Accepting someone's offer to help will end up costing you dearly in the future. You won't get something for nothing. 2 stars 

~~--1 
Name_______________..,....;,­
Address____________________~~--­City______S,tate__Zip_____ 
THE OBSERVER

:\ ~ ' 
~ ~ ~ ~ . 
~\\ 
p

~~ Thursday, April 10, 2008 

page 24

I'!\ 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
~ : 
r ~ 
~ ' 
Coach Brey receives first annual Skip Prosser award 
~~ . 
'\. 
~t sion," Brey said. "He was one had a lot in common. there that Prosser met Xavier Brey said that the award is
[ \ By CHRIS KHOREY 
of the good guys and a true "We both got our start as coach Pete Gillen, who hired an important way of remem­
~ 
Senior StaffWriter 
,\ teacher. He's the kind of gen­high school coaches," Brey him as an assistant. bering Prosser. 
,, 
tleman you'd want your son to said. "That's why were kind of Prosser was planning on vis­"More young guys in our pro­' 
Notre Dame coach Mike Brey play for." joined at the hip. iting Brey for the Notre Dame­fession should use Skip Prosser has won a lot of awards-but Prosser, who coached at "That was an experience we Georgia Tech football last fall, as an example, a guy that was only one that commemorates Wake Forest, died on July 26, had in our past that really a missed opportunity that the in coaching and teaching for 
f* one of his best friends. 2007 soon after returning from helped us and we used to talk Notre Dame coach said made the right reasons," Brey said.
~" ~\~ Brey received the first annual Operation Hardwood in about that often." him emotional. "He was very grounded."
l~ 
~ \. Skip Prosser Man of the Year Kuwait, a program in which So grounded, in fact, that the
k~· Prosser also had connections "He had never been out to a Award at the Final Four this Brey also participated. to Notre Dame. He got his Notre Dame football game," award named after him didn'tr weekend in San Antonio. But the two knew each other break in coaching at a camp Brey said. "It was sad when I "It's flattering given what well before their trip to the hosted by former Irish coach thought about that after the see BREY/page 22 
i! 
Skip stood for in our profes-Middle East. Brey said they Digger Phelps in 1985. It was fact." 
~-­
!! 
~~ 
't ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
')
,\ 
f 
;·; > ~ 






Sacramento bound
f 
s 
:~  
~~ ~ ,,  ...  By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer  West Virginia. Allen said she was nervous as the draft wore on but  
\ > \  Notre Dame guard Charel Allen was taken 43rd overall  relieved when she finally heard her name called. She attended the draft  
<  in Wednesday's 2008 WNBA  workout in Tampa during the  
~;:  Draft  by  the  Sacramento  Final Four earlier this week  
Monarchs.  to show off her skills.  
Allen  said  she  was  still  The Monarchs used their  
~ '  unsure of whether she would be drafted going into the  first round pick on Maryland center Laura Harper (10th  
'" .-.. B  event. "My coaches gave me confi­ overall) and took both Texas A&M guard A'Quonesia  
dence that I would [get draft­ Franklin {38th overall) and  
ed], but I was  still nervous  UTEP  center  Izabela  
watching it," she said in  a  Piekarska (40th overall) in  
·:;.  phone interview Wednesday.  the third round.  
The 5-fuot-11  guard is the  Allen  was  a  first team All­ 
seventh Irish player drafted  Big East player in both her  
in the last eight years, the  junior and senior seasons.  
most recent of which  was in  This season, Allen lead the  
2006  when  guard  Megan  Irish  in  points  per  game  
Duffy went to  Minnesota in  (15.1).  minutes  per  game  
the third round.  (30.2) and 3-point shooting  
Allen  was  taken with the  percentage with  a  minimum  
last overall pick in the draft  of 30 shots (38.1 percent).  
that  was  a  compensatory  She also grabbed 5.6 boards  
selection  for  Sacramento  per game and had 84 assists  
-­ after their third round selec­ compared  to  only  68  
tion last season was  voided  turnovers.  
for selecting an  ineligible  
player  -Meg Bulger from  see CHARELI page 20  

BASEBALL 
Irish topple Manchester 
Lilley sets Division I record for number of times being hit by a pitch 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame defeated Division 3 Manchester College 13-8 at Frank Eck Stadium Wednesday. The Irish plated runs in six of the eight innings in which they batted as soph­omore centerfielder A.J. Pollock fell just a home run short of hitting for the cycle. 
But the biggest story of the game was a hit batsman. In the second inning, Irish -'-· shortstop Brett Lilley was 
.,.
' 
·'' plunked for the 93rd time in his career, a new NCAA Division 1 record. 
~~ 
"It feels pretty good. It is a record," Lilley said. "A Iotta 
see RECORD/page 22 
[_,--~-----------­


IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Senior guard Charel Allen drives to the basket during Notre Dame's 70-55 win over Seton Hall on March 1. Allen was taken 43rd overall in the draft. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Squad falls narrowly to top-ranked Wildcats 
now back in action after 
By DAN MASTERTON 

missing time due to a Sports Writer 
sprained ankle. 

Northwestern sophomore 
No. 20 Notre Dame was not Samantha Murray took the able to continue its nine­court alongside sophomore game winning streak as it fell Lauren Lui at No. 1 doubles narrowly to No. 1 in place of Rose, who normal­Northwestern 4-3 ly competes in the top spot. Wednesday. Lui and Rose are ranked No. 
The Irish (16-8) continued 14 in the country when play­their doubles dominance, ing together, but Murray and winning two of the three dou­Lui maintain an even higher bles matches to earn the 1-0 rank, earning the No. 13 spot lead. in the country. 
Northwestern (20-1) took However. the Irish boast the first match as junior the No. 1 duo in the nation of Georgia Rose and senior senior Brook Buck and junior Alexis Conill reeled off a Kelcy Tefft. The dynamic pair quick 8-1 victory over Notre defeated Murray and Lui 8-2 Dame's No. 2 pair, sopho­to improve their record to 9­more Kali Krisik and fresh­1 since taking the top spot in man Kristen Rafael. Hafael is 
see WILDCATS/page 22 

·'J'bundilJ 1lurli JUJUOH: · 
-·  .;;rt-,-.·~­ _,___ ,..;­ .fli"  
f··  
J.;c-'­ 
"'  
' -""""" .... ,  • ~ -:·•·· ....-­;· t. -f.  

J_:..rJr:J~ J··-;: t{.l( -~· .r lJ': j·· J. :J~' rJ -~ 'r ft J'.: _:J
"'-" . ·. ~ ...,.., _,--::J ~ . . . ...,_, _.., ..,.,. ::.; -. . ~ 
Jrl:J.b Jntr; 21 1JJJ J=-}JJfJ.b 
Fr.ozB.:rJ FD~Jr ~}J.t>~Y.!JO~YJJ ~Ylt}J 
t


"NJ1thJ~:J!J.~ · 
' 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Thursday, April 10, 2008 
Notre Dame hockey has come a long way in 40 years 

Notre Dame captain Mark Van for Notre Dame to make the Holy had made a huge impact not just 2005. hockey. Former players from the Guilder joked during Sunday's Grail of college hockey -the on campus, but in the communi­Mark Eaton, now a defenseman 70s, 80s and 90s have flooded the awards show that his freshman Frozen Four. ty, where the program had devel­for the Pittsburgh Penguins, hockey office in recent days with year banquet was held in Parisi's The nearly four decades oped youth and high school played under Poulin from 1997-e-mails encouraging the team. restaurant between Lefty's first squad of leagues, 98 and chose Notre Dame for the At the front of that pack has in front of three scholarship players and "You get to know the [players], education because he didn't have been last year's senior class, six or seven today's national semifinalists it's a big deal if they pat you on aspirations of a pro career. He eight players who took the Irish non-team were a giant wave of successes the back, they might call you by played so well under Poulin's to a No. 1 ranking and a league members. and failures. But through the your name," McNeill said. coaching that he made the championship last season. 
Van peaks and valleys, Irish hockey "There's a lot of things that go "extremely tough" decision to "Even before we got on the Guilder has done what it did best this through the years, but (Irish chase that now-real professional plane in Colorado Springs, I think wasn't season -persevere. hockey players I are all good guys. path after only a year at Notre most of the seniors from last year exaggerat­Mike McNeill is now Notre They take the time to work with Dame. had called," Van Guilder said. ing, but the Dame's volunteer assistant coach the young kids." "They ransuch a good pro­"They're all fired up." crowd and has been for the past two But in the 1983 season, Notre gram with Dave Poulin being a Senior defenseman Dan laughed. seasons. McNeill was raised in Dame dropped out of the CCJIA former NHL guy," Eaton said. VeNard joked about a one-liner They South Bend around the hockey and reduced its hockey team to "Looking back with the practices from defenseman Noah Babin, laughed program through his father, Tim club status. McNeill, fresh out of he ran, they were very much how who graduated last year. because McNeill, who was Lefty Smith's St. Joseph's High, joined the team NHL practices were run. If you're "I think Babin had the best line: looking at longtime assistant coach. in 1984 when it was promoted to looking to take the next step to 'Look what we can do once we this year's "I grew up your typical rink rat, varsity status again -but to a the pro level, how Notre Dame get rid of the deadweight from elaborate, two-hour ceremony in the son of a guy who spends all Division I independent. goes about it, it prepares you well last year'," VeNard said. ''They're a large auditorium, it was his time at the rink," Mike "We would go from a trip to for the next level." just as instrumental to this year's strange to ever think that no one McNeill said. "It was like a pack like Alaska over fall break and Eaton said Notre Dame players success as the guys playing here cared about Irish hockey. of young kids that would always play both Alaska teams," McNeill have a reputation in the NHL for right now. Without their support 
Notre Dame has played hockey be going to the games." said. "We would go out and play something more than their hock­and what they've done in past for almost 40 years now in the McNeill remembered the Air Force Academy, but then ey skills. years, we wouldn't be here right modern era, going back to 1968 packed bleachers of the Joyce right after that weekend we "Teammates know you went to now." when Father Theodore Hesburgh Center in the 1970s, when the might have Dayton or Dearborn Notre Dame so if there's a feud On that April weekend at charged a high school hockey Irish played in the \VCHA against (Michigan), Lake Forest. We went that needs to be settled ... they Parisi's three years ago, it was coach, Lefty Smith, with running traditional powers like Minnesota to a Christmas tournament and it know he's usually good for the impossible for Van Guilder and the new team and making sure and Wisconsin. was a big deal for us -we got to right answer." the other four seniors to imagine the Joyce Center rink generated a "Wisconsin would come in play Yale." Since Jeff Jackson arrived in going to a Frozen Four. profit. buses upon buses and make a Notre Dame didn't rejoin the South Bend in the spring of 2005, But without the 40 years of 
Lefty ·brought the Irish to the sea of red," he said. ''Then as a · CCHA until 1992, and by that that reputation of a strong mix of trial and error and the hard work top five in the country within six group ofkids, ifyou were ten time it was being coached by Ric athletics and academics at Notre of the program's founders and years and packed the rink. But years old or something, you had Shafer after Smith retired in Dame has attracted top recruits. those after, the Frozen Four when the powers-that-be at your rat pack and you'd try to get 1987. The Irish meandered along Players, like this year's senior could still have been an ice Notre Dame decided to deempha­in there and incite the Wisconsin until 1995 when former Irish All­class who were recruited by dream for Notre Dame hockey. size hockey, it resulted in a year fans a little bit." American Dave Poulin took over Poulin, have bought into of club status in 1983 followed by McNeill and his rink rats, along on the bench. Jackson's philosophy also and The views expressed in this col­years of Div. I independent status. with many other South Bend Poulin reinvigorated the pro­forged a team chemistry that umn are those ofthe author and 
It took until this year, until an kids, worshipped the Irish play­gram and eventually brought wins games. not necessarily those ofThe Irish team backed into the NCAA ers of the 1970s like Bill Nyrop Notre Dame to its first NCAA And there's also the shared Observer. Tournament and then made a and Brian Walsh. Notre Dame Tournament appearance in 2004, connection that hundreds of Contact Kyle Cassily at surprise run through a Regional, hockey, in only its first decade, but retired from coaching in alumni have through Notre Dame kcassily@nd. edu 
No. 5 Notre Datne Fighting Irish  
ROAD TO DENVER BY THE NUMBERS Won West Regional, beating New Goals per game: 2.89 ... Hampshire 7-3 and Michigan State 3~1 Goals-against per game: 2.02 Powe~J?l~y percentage: .154 ToP ScoRERS Penalty~kill percentage: ~~96 F Erik Condra'(OUT; 15 goals, 23 assists) One-goal games record: 9~ F Ryan Than~_(J7 goals, 13 assists). . .· Overtime record: 0-l-4 C Mark Van Guil~{l2 g.o~l7 assists) ··• ··.· }~en scoring first; 1~·5-1 C Ben Ryan (10 ~;16,,ass~J >,WJten leadfu.i.after 2nd period: 23-1-0 D Kyle Lawson (5 goals, 20 assists) · C Kevin Deeth (9 goals, l$ assists) BEST WIN Nov. 9; 2-.\". at then-N<>!ll Mifmi BETWEEN THE PoSTS G Jordan Pearce ff.95~alS'-against, .917 JEFF JACKSON SAYS••• save pet., 22-~4-4 record, 2 shutouts) l'fThe way we played last weekend, we showed that we're a very strong transi­TOURNAMENT HISTORY tional team ­transition to defense and Appearances: 3' transition to offense.I'hat helped make Frozen Four Trips: 1 the difference for us in scoring some key National Championships: 0 Igoa s."  

No.2 North Dakota Fighting Sioux 
OAD TO ENVER UMBERS 
Won Midwest Regional, beating 3.05 5-1 and Wisconsin 3-2 (OT) · per game: 1.76 
·· ·.. percentage: .191 Top SCORERS "'-ftlll'ltv-lh. 'percentage: .874 F T.J. Oshie (18 goals, 2 . .· ga.ll\es record: 7-4 F Ryan Duncan (17 . · +2 asslsts) · $!cord: 3-1-4 F Chris VandeVelde 15 goal§) 17 . . When scodng first: 21-4-1 D Chay Genoway (8 goals, 2lassists) , ·• ,..,~*When lea4jng ~er 2ndperiod: 22-3-1 
gJ:b[e~~~:{i~~ ~~=;srs) .:'(t!1~'~then-No. 2 Cdorndo O>Uege BETWEEN THE PosTs / ..·.·· J........,_ 
·J··· ..... 

G J.P. Lamoureux (1.62 ~als,.agai~;{935\ EFt; .•.~CKSON' SAYS••• save pet., 26-10-4 record,, 6. shutouts) . · \ ·~;they're alittle bit more ofa pro-style
tfan1, s.intilar to Michigan. A north-south TOURNAMENT H.ISTORY-t¢~ With J.f'eat transition but even more a Appearances: 23 physical sfle team. They're well-coached, Frozen Four Trips: 18 they hav~tgreat goaltending, and they're National Championships: 7 
tough defensively, too." 
No.1 Michigan Wolverines  
ROAD TO DENVER BY THE NUMBERS Goals P~225-.... . , Goals-apmt per game: 1.96: Powe~ percentage: .205 0 PenjkY-kiU percentage: .869 · O~oal games recoro: 94 i ~·rnm..• e....re.. c.o._rd_: .2..~; ...,...J..ij'·L.·.;.·· ~'§'eming'ffii§t!t.:~ ~~j ~n leading after ·2nd periOd: 26-lt2 Boston College "'~!>~·'~·'u..t .,SjYS••• tnCI~"'N•o. 1 team_.jn the country for · a the. most-9ypamic team TOURNAI&ENT HISTORY · co~try and the)lre ~endously);.; offensively. And the t:llipg that goes unsaid about their team ~-t Billy Sauer has real~bm'@''1t •gtm"'gdilftender.  


No. 3 Boston College Eagles 
ROAD TO DENVER .i.i'"'x--..-~%1!·'-!!!W.,..t.MC~-·N UMBERS 
Won Northeast Regional, u ... .,,~9,,~ 3.57 Minnesota 5-2 and Miami game: 2.27 
ToP SCORERS L.......-.-f1~=~~i~::~"~tafog~~e~::: ·-~~ 
F Nathan Gerbe (30 ,;ua~"'•••v -~~~~ -rd: 96-6 F Joe Whitney (10 goals, -8 F Ben Smith (23 goals, 17-4-3 F Benn Ferriero ( 17 · od: 18-0-3 F Dan Bertram (9 F Brian Gibbons ( 
BETWEEN 
save pet., 23-11-8 record, 3 
TOURNAMENT HISTO 
Appearances: 28 Frozen Four Trips: 21 National Championships: 


Notre Dame vs. Michigan wil~ be telecast at 9 p.m. Eastern Time on ESPN2 
Thursday, April 10, 2008 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
====================================~ 
Been there, done that 
Jeff Jackson's 1992 Lake Superior team had similar path to championship as 2008 Irish 
more pronounced -the Irish
By SAM WERNER 
went 6-8-4 over their last 18
Sports Writer 
games. The Irish turned it on for the CCHA tournament, tough, and This may be Notre Dame's frrst came within 3.4 seconds of beat­trip to the Frozen Four in the pro­ing Miami (Ohio) and advancing to gram's history, but forgive the the CCIIA championship against team if it acts like it's been there Michigan. So far in the NCAA before. Irish head coach Jeff Tournament, the Irish showed a Jackson knows a thing or two similar late-season scoring about winning on college hockey's prowess to the 1992 LSSU team, biggest stage. as Notre Dame has averaged five 
Jackson already has three goals per game in its two national championship rings from Tournament wins over New his time at"Lake Superior State Hampshire and Michigan State. University, two as head coach in "I don't know if we had the 1992 and 1994. The 1993 Laker same kind of struggles [as this squad came within one game of year], but we had a tough spell in giving Jackson a three-peat, January," Jackson said of his 1992 falling to Maine in the title game. team. In total, the Michigan State alum Dave Gilbert, who played on the has a 41-10 overall postseason 1992 Laker team and is now record. Notre Dame's equipment manag­
er, said that going into the 1992 A familiar feeling Frozen Four in Albany, N.Y. Lake 
While he said every team he's Superior had the same "David vs. coached is different, Jackson saw Goliath" attitude that Notre Dame similarity between this year's has this year. Notre Dame team and his 1992 "It's a very, very similar situa­championship tion," Gilbert team at LSSU. said. "The He said the Frozen Four biggest parallel ..[In I992,] we just really that year was between the Wisconsin,
banded togther and got
two squads is Michigan, 
the fact that scoring from a lot of Michigan State, both teams different guys,. and Lake were expected Superior. to win a cham­You've got
Dave Gilbert
pionship the 2,800 students year before. Former Lake Superior player at Lake In 1991, and Irish equipment manager Superior and Jackson's you're looking Lakers went 28 at three of the games without biggest, not a loss, and won 26 over that only hockey schools, but biggest stretch, before falling to Clarkston schools in the country. in the first round of the NCAA "It's Notre Dame versus North Tournament. Last year, Notre Dakota, Boston College, and Dame went 32-7-3, by far the best Michigan; teams that have won season in school history, and was multiple national championships ranked No. 1 in the country head­and been to the Frozen Four a ing into the NCAAs. However, the gazillion times, and here's us, Irish fell in the second round of making our first appearance." the Tournament to eventual­champion Michigan State. The road to South Bend After graduating eight seniors After Jackson resigned from from the 1991 team, and losing Lake Superior in 1996 to coach future NHL All-Star Doug Weight the U.S. National Junior team, he early to the draft, Jackson's 1992 took his recipe for tournament Lake Superior team finished the success with him. In 1997, the season with a mediocre 5-5-2 Michigan native led the U.S. team stretch in its last 12 games. But it to the silver medal at the World got hot at the right time, won the Junior Championships -its best CCHA tournament, and steam­finish ever at the time. But, being rolled through the NCAA tourna­Jackson, he only viewed the suc­ment, scoring an average of six cess as a chance for him to goals per game during the cham­become a better coach. pionship run. "It was an opportunity that I just Notre Dame's second-half strug­couldn't pass up from a learning gles this season have been a bit perspective, to coach the highest-

level players in the highest-level 
evenlo; internationally, and to try to 
help American hockey. There was 
a little bit of patriotism involved in 
that, too," Jackson said. 
After stinl'> as head coach of the · Guelph Storm from the OHL and 
as an assistant with the New York 
Islanders in the NHL, Jackson 
arrived at Notre Dame, ready to 
turn around a program that had 
won five games the previous sea­
son. He never thought that they'd 
get here this quickly, though. 
"Realistically, I expect~d it to 
take us five years," Jackson said. 
"But that was accelerated by a 
great group of kids." 
Upon taking the job behind the 
Irish bench, Jackson sought to 
recreate the championship atmos­
phere he created at Lake Superior. 
That meant bringing some famil­
iar faces back with him. Soon after 
he was hired, Jackson contacted 
former LSSU assistant coach Paul 
Pooley and, in June, 2005, Pooley 
was named Notre Dame's associ­
ate head coach. The former 
Providence head coach worked 
with Jackson at Lake Superior 
from 1992-1994 and was a key to 
success on both championship 
teams. Pooley said the Jackson 
coaching at Notre Dame is no dif­
ferent than the one that led a 
small, northern school to glory in 
the early '90s. 
"Of course every coach contin­
ues to evolve," Pooley said. "But I 
think his philosophy is the same 
and from what I've seen, being 
away from him for such a long 
time and coming back together, it's 
very similar." 
Doing the little things right 
That philosophy, of course, 
means playoff success. Pooley 
attributed Jackson's spectacular 
postseason resume to his ability to 
get players to band together come 
Tournament time. 
"The main thing is his ability to 
get the guys to play together as a 
group anJ focus on the team 
aspect and the commitments nec­
essary to be successful in the 
NCAA Tournament," Pooley said. 
Jackson's focus on the team is 
evident in this year's squad, as 
Notre Dame's 10 tournament 
goals have come from eight differ­
ent players. Gilbert said that 
diverse scoring distribution was 
another similarity this team has 
with his 1992 Lakers. 
"When it came down to the· 
Tournament time, we just really 
banded together and got scoring 
from a lot of different guys," he 
WU YUE!The Observer 

said. "Kind of similar to what captain Mark Van Guilder said. "I we're getting from this team." mean a lot of people say we're an 
Oddly enough, one of the main inexperienced team, it's our first factors both Gilbert and Pooley time or whatever. I think having pointed to when asked why coach Jackson, who's been there Jackson's teams have a habit of before, I think that'll definitely turning it up a notch in the NCAA help. maybe calm us down a little 
Tournament was the fact that bit." Jackson doesn't change anything Jackson has already talked to for the postseason. his players about the ofT-ice dis­
"How he approaches things is tractions they will face upon arriv­the same from week to week, ing in Denver. He told the team to 
which  is  good  get things such  
because if you  as  tickets  and  
don't, you get out of whack ­you get too high, you get too low - ..How he approaches things is the same fronl week to week, which is  hotel rooms out of the way before they leave. "The bandwag­ 
but he's been very consistent," Pooley said." Gilbert  good, because ifyou don •t, you get out of whack.,,  on has been jumped onto," Jackson said. "They have to be  
remembers that  prepared for the  
steady style from 1992, and says that, while  Paul Pooley Irish associate head coach  hoopla that's going to happen in Denver. It's  
Jackson  didn't  going  to  be  
make any alter- chaotic around  

ations, he was able to get the play­here, so staying focused, in this ers to step up their focus and tune environment is probably the most into him more. important thing, not allowing the 
"I think it was more change in distractions to impact how you the guys, to be honest with you," perform in practice. Your mind Gilbert said. "I think his message has to be on the game." stayed pretty true throughout the Pooley said all his NCAA year, and I can kind of see that Tournament history has taught now." Jackson how to best get his play­
The main idea Jackson tries to ers to focus on the game at hand. communicate to his players is that "One thing that coach always if you concentrate on doing the lit­does is make sure everything's tle things right, greater success under control and there's not too will follow. The head coach said many distractions," Pooley said. this message is even more impor­"Some things we can't control, but tant in the NCAA Tournament. the things we can control, we'll 
"You have to have guys that are make sure that we control them." focused and disciplined and all the Jackson said that success this things that we preach all the weekend would be a huge boost to time," Jackson said. "They get the growing Notre Dame hockey magnified in the playoffs. If they program. elevate those things in the play­"There's no question, getting to offs, then we stand a better the Frozen Four will help us. That chahce ofdoing well." day we win a national champi­
So far, Jackson hao; led the Irish onship, whether it be tltis year or to their first CCHA Championship, future years, it's going to help us their first back-to-hack NCAA continue to grow this program." Tournament appearances and With his fantastic NCAA their first Frozen Four. All that's Tournament pedigree, Jackson left is to win Notre Dame's first seems to be the right man to over­National Championship. The play­see that growth, and, possibly this ers will look to Jackson to help weekend, an NCAA title. them achieve that goal this w~ek­
Irish coach Jeff Jackson hugs senior Brock Sheahan at the Notre Dame hockey awards banquet Sunday end. Contact Sam Werner at night. Sheahan is one of five seniors that will leave the team after this year. "I think it will !lwI p)." senior swerner@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Thursday, April 10, 2008 




Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 26-15-4 USCHO/CSTV: 12 USA Today: 5 

Jeff Jackson Third season at Notre Dame career record: 
253-93-36 
at Notre Dame: 
71-41-11 
Jeff Jackson against head coach Michigan: 15-18-1 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  Jordan Pearce  G  6-1  205  JR  
2  Kyle Lawson  D  5-11  207  so  
3  Brett Blatchford  D  5-11  202  so  
4  Dan VeNard  .D  6-0  198  SR  
5  Teddy Ruth  D  6-0  201  FR  
9  Ryan Thang  RW  6-0  200  so  
10  Jutin White  c  6-0  195  JR  
11  Erik Condra  RW  6-0  202  JR  
12  Stewart Carlin  D  5-11  203  so  
14  Brock Sheahan  D  6-0  191  SR  
15  Christiaan Minella  RW  6-1  216  so  
16  Dan Kissel  c  5-9  178  so  
18  Evan Rankin  RW  6-1  205  SR  
19  Ben Ryan  F  5-11  190  FR  
20  Luke Lucyk  D  6-0  203  JR  
21  KPven DePth  c  5-7  172  so  
22  Calle Ridderwall  F  5-11  172  FR  
23  Mark Van Guilder  c  6-2  207  SR  
24  Brian D'Arcy  D  6-2  201  SR  
25  Christian Hanson  c  6-4  225  JR  
27  Ryan Guentzel  F  6-0  176  FR  
30  BradPhillips  G  6-2  171  FR  
31  Tom O'Brien  G  5-11  187  so  
33  Garrett Regan  LW  5-11  198  JR  


Boston College 
Eagles Record: 26-15-4 USCHO/CSTV: 7 USA Today: 3 

Jerry York 14th season at Boston College career record: 
801-515-84 
at Boston College: 
334-180-50 
Jerry York NCAA Tournament: head coach 23-8 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 1 John Muse G 5-11 175 FR 2 Anthony Aiello D 6-1 195 JR 4 Mike Brennan D 6-0 20':1 SR 5 lim Filangieri D 6-l 210 JR 6 lim Kunes D 6-0 185 JR 7 Carl Snecp D 6-3 205 so 9 Nathan Gerbe F 5-5 1b5 JR 11 JOP Adams F 5-10 177 SR 12 Ben Smith F 5-11 200 so 13 Pat Gannon F 5-6 165 SR 14 Matt Greene F 5-8 180 SR 15 Joe Whitney F 5-{i 165 FR 17 Brian Gibbons F 5-8 160 FR 18 Kyle Kucharski F 6-3 200 JR 19 Brock Bradford F 5-9 175 JR 21 Benn Ferriera F 5-11 192 JR 22 Dan Bertram F 5-11 190 SR 24 Mtt Lombardi F 5-11 188 so 25 Matt Price F 5-9 180 so 26 Nick Petn.>eki D 6-3 215 FR 27 Andrew Orpik F 6-3 215 JR 29 Alex Kremer G 6-0 175 so 30 Andrew Margolin G 5-10 165 FR 



Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
LEFT WING CENTER RIGHT WING DEFENSE 
FA~

m 
-. 
. 

\. 16 Kissel 21 Deeth 18 Rankin 
2 Lawson 





e 
33 Regan 
14 Sheahan 5 Ruth 



22 Ridderwall 10 White 27Guentzel 3 Blatchford 4 VeNard GOAUE 

··{~~":-:;-;;:-•·­





-·:c-~_::;~~-,t:~-;-_
9 Thang 
23 Van Guilder 
30 Phillips 31 O'Brien
19 Ryan 

COACHING GOALTENDING IRISH OFFENSE IRISH DEFENSE 
LLI 
:E 
<C 
c 
LLI 
a:: 
1­
0 
z 
z 
<C 
CJ
-
::z::: 
(.)
-
:E 
Jeff Jackson knows how to win in the NCAA Tournament. His teams are always firing on all cylinders when the cal­ender turns to March and that has brought him national champi­onships. It's a pedigree that's hard to beat.  Jordan Pearce spent the second half of the season keeping the Irish in games when their offense couldn't get the job done. He not only filled the void left by Dave Brown, he excelled in it, posting a superb 1.95 goals­against average.  In the second half of the season, Notre Dame flat out couldn't score. But last weekend, the Irish figured out how to score again ­and they did it a lot. The offensive creativity they found on the big ice last weekend will need to make another appearance this weekend.  The Irish defense was decimated last season with the departure of three top­flight blue liners. That has­n't mattered as a mix of young talent (Lawson, Cole and Huth) combined with strong senior leadership (Sh~han and VeNard) allowed only 2.04 goals per game.  
Hed Berenson is no stranger to a national title either. The Michigan coach won one in 1998 and his teams are a con­stant presence in the NCAA Tournament. His team will be more than prepared for the Irish on both ends of the ice.  Billy Sauer shook off critics this year who said he underper­formed in his first two seasons, backstopping Michigan to a CCHA championship. The jun­ior is tough to beat and has yet to lose in the postseason this year.  The Wolverines defense has been overshadowed all year by their explosive offense, but don't be deceived. Michigan can play defense too, allow­ing 2.0 goals per game. Mark Mitera will be a physical presence in front of the crease, frustrating the Irish.  There is no doubt that the Wolverines can score a lot of goals. They are led by Hobey Baker finalist Kevin Porter, who netted 33 goals and added 29 assists, making him the nation's most dangerous offensive threat. Containing the Wolverines is the ultimate challenge.  
J a<;l\~on ~Qil two nationals championships in six seasons at· Lake Superior State. That's a title every three years, which puts:him on pace for one again in his third  Pearce and Sauer played similar schedules and posted identical numbers, but achie.Ved different results. Sauer got wins, and Pean-e saw his share of losses that  If the Irish offense from last weekend ,and the first half ofthe sea­son shows up, this matchup swings toward the Irish. If not, iLrould be a long game. Look  It's fair to say that Michigan's offense is greater than Notre Dame's defense, but that doesn't mean that the Irish can't defend. Against any other  
season on the Irish bench. Unfortunately it's not that simp!~¥' but he can do it.  weren't the' result of-his play. On goaltending merits alone, these two are almost a draw.  for more dangling moves a Ia Oan Kissel againstNew Hampshire to rulrrthP game':'  team, and the Irish win thi's matchup. Just not against Porter and the Wolverines.  




Michigan's offense can put you down three 
On pape1
goals faster than you can say Rich Rodriguez. But 
Irish are li
that doesn't matter. The Irish have refound their 
are settled
scoring touch and at least one forward is chan­
they will I

Irish 
Matt Gamber

neling his inner-Crosby (*cough* Dan Kissel). 
opponents
Notre Dame will score on a flustered Billy Sauer, Associate who will look like his old, porous self. The Irish Sports Editor break, but defense will hold back the Wolverines just enough look back.'
predictions 
to play-and upset-BC for the title. in the til Lamoureu" 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 4, Michigan 3 RNALSCO Notre Dame 3, Boston College 2 (OT} 
Kyle Casslly 
Sports Writer 

Thursday, April 10, 2008 
The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 5 


Michigan Wolverines 
L£Ff WING C£NIER RIGKT~G DEFENSE 

IRISH POWER PLAY IRISH PENALTY KILL INTANGIBLES OVERALL 
Once the second half of the season started, Notre Dame's power play became impotent, going 39 straight man-advan­tage chances without scoring. The problem, however; became a non­issue after February, and the unit has performed well, if not spectacularly.  Like last year. the Irish penalty kill is one of the premier units in the nation. They successfully killed 89.6 percent of their man-disadvantages, allow­ing 21 goals in 202 situa­tions. Their box defense is tough to penetrate and Jordan Pearce allows few shotc; in from the point.  Notre Dame has had one hell of a season. They spent the first half of the year steamrolling compe­tition, then they ·wal­lowed in mediocrity for the second half. Right now, they arc surging after two upset vktories on college hockey's biggest stage.  The Irish probably never should have been here. But they are. There is no one outstanding part of their game; their suc­cess stems from their abil­ity to buy into Jeff Jackson's team-centric, no-individuals philosophy. He knows how to win, and now Notre Dame does too.  
Michigan's penalty kill gets the job done, not allowing a goal 86.9 percent of the time. They were one of the units that stonewalled the Irish during their January power-play goal drought and have the ability to do it again.  Michigan's power play was productive this sea­son, scoring on 20.5 per­cent of their chances. Just like during five-on­five play, if Porter is on the ice. anything can happen and often does. The Wolverines are cre­ative offensively but can sufl'er from selfish play.  The Wolverines spent a majority of the year as the No. 1 team in the country. then they proved they were by taking the CCIIA tourna­ment. They don't lose often and have a long tradition of success in the NCAA Tournament behind them.  Michigan has been arguably the best team in the country all season. They beat the Irish twice in the regular season, even though Notre Dame played strong in the games. They didn't struggle in winning the CCIIA tourney and walked through their regional two weeks ago.  
The Irish power-play unit against the Wolverine penalty kill will . one of the most crucial 0~1.if!•fI sh (.a g g a or -m~~-ttl'*"''fl a adv -g , will swing the game. These units, however, are a dead draw.  Notre Dame must shut dowrt the Wolverines-power play. Michigan is deadly enough with {even strength that if the'lrish surrender a power play goal or fV\i<J', they will find themselves' in seri­ous trouble.  Michigan hasl} 't_ had to deal with very much adversity this season. The Irish have handled it in truckloads, t'rorn defeals to injuries. Condra's· injury could hav& broken the Jrish, bui'fuey responded by marching to their first Frozen Four. Advai1tage, Irish.  As well as the Irish are plaxi_q.g, the Wolyerines are 'more talented. By .all rights, Michigan should win this game and move fon; so thP-overall matchup goes to them. This is a hockey game though, and as ND proved in the regional against UNH, it's anyone's game.  


Michigan 

Wolverines Record: 33-5-4 USCHO/CSTV: 1 USA Today: 1 

Red Berenson 24th season at Michigan career record: 
644-297-68 
at Michigan: 
644-297-68 
against Notre 

Red Berenson Dame: 43-9-3 
head coach 


Roster 

No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 3 Scooter Vaughan D Ml 195 FR 4 Chris Summers D 6-2 185 so 5 Steve Kampfer D 5-11 197 so 7 Chad Langlais D 5-8 170 FR 8 Aaron Palushaj F Ml 185 FR 9 Tra.vis Turnbull F 6-0 193 JR 10 Chris Fragner F 6-1 183 SR 11 Kevin Porter F 5-11 195 SR 12 Carl Hagelin F 5-11 180 FR 14 Brian Lebler r 6-2 210 so 15 Anthony Ciraulo F 5-6 175 so 16 Ben Winnett F 6-1 192 FR 17 Mark Mitera D 6-3 213 JR 18 Tim Miller F 6-1 200 JR 19 Matt Rust F 5-10 180 FR 20 Eric Ernblad D 6-4 201 so 22 Brandon Naurato F Ml 193 JR 24 Chad Kolarik F 5-11 180 SR 26 Danny Fardig F 5-11 200 JR 29 Louie Caporusso F 5-10 185 FR 31 Shawn Hunwick G 5-7 163 FR 34 Tristin Llewellyn D 6-1 189 FR 35 Bryan Hogan G Ml 190 FR 36 Billy Sauer G 6-2 180 JR 39 Max Pacion>tty F 6-2 203 FR 


North Dakota 
z 
0 
-f 
:c 
ITI 
c 
l> 3: 
ITI 
-
n 
:I:
-
G) 
l> 
z 



Fighting Sioux Record: 27-1 0-4 USCHO/CSTV: 3 USA Today: 2 

Dave Hakstol Fourth season at North Dakota career record: 
105-55-15 
at North Dakota: 
105-55-15 
NCAA Tournament: 
9-3 

Roster 

No.  Name  Pos.  
1  J.P. Lamoureux  G  
2  Joe Finley  D  
3  Derrick LaPoint  D  
4  Taylor Chorney  D  
5  Chay Genoway  D  
6  Zach jont'9  D  


Ht. Wt. YR 5-8 152 SR 6-7 245 JR 6-3 180 FR 6-0 196 JR 5-8 165 so 5-11 192 JR 

7  TJ. Oshie  F  6-0  192  JR  
8  Rvan Martens  F  6-0  200  JR  
10  Andn>w Kozt•k  F  5-11  195  JR  
11  Darcy ZaJac  F  6-1  193  so  
14  Brad Miller  F  5-10  170  JR  
15  Brent Davidson  F  6-4  224  FR  
16  Ryan Duncan  F  5-6  159  JR  
17  Rylan Kaip  c  6-1  188  SR  
18  Michael Forney  F  6-2  188  so  
19  Evan Trupp  F  5-8  154  FR  
20  Matt Watkins  F  5-10  182  JR  
21  Matt Frattin  F  5-11  193  FR  
22  Brad Malone  F  6-1  197  FR  
25  Jake Marto  D  5-11  162  FR  
26  Kyle Radke  F/D  6-0  212  SR  
28  Robbie Bina  D  5-8  165  SR  
29  Chris VandeVelde  F  6-2  204  so  
30  Aaron Walski  G  5-11  179  JR  
31  Landon Snider  G  6-0  170  FR  


...heck, I won't even bother. The So much has been made of Michigan's ·ing proof that tournament games explosive offense, and they will come out fir­m the ice and on the ice only, and ing. Jordan Pearce keeps the Irish in the ontinue to show higher-rankf'd game, though, and the Irish (finally) get a 





Irish

:he exit signs. They might need a lucky bounce. Jeff Jackson claims his third hey come out energized and never National Championship as Notre Dame com­'he run ends against North Dakota pletes a three-game sweep of Michigan State, le game, as UND goalie J.P. Michigan, and BC in a complete exorcism of 


predictions
is just too tough. football season. 
RE: Notre Dame 3, Michigan 2 ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 3, Michigan 2 North Dakota 3, Notre Dame 1 Notre Dame 2, BC 0 
Sam Werner 
Sports Writer 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Thursday, April 10, 2008 



Irish forget regional, get to work against Michigan 

By KYLE CASSILY Senior Sports Writer 
At the end of one practice early last week, Irish coach Jeff Jackson ordered his play­ers to skate to the goal line, shattering any euphoria still left over from that weekend's West Regional championship. 
Jackson, who wanted to con­dition his players to handle the high altitude and low oxy­gen of the Frozen Four in 
The No. 5 Irish have a lot of work left to do when they play No. 1 Michigan tonight at 9 
p.m. in Denver in the national semifinal. Notre Dame (26-15­
4) lost twice to the Wolverines (33-5-4) during the regular season, stymied by a winning goal with 20 seconds left and then by a poor defensive per­formance in a 5-1 loss. 
The two losses to Michigan came in January at the start of a two-and-a-half month 
stretch of futility during which 

Denver, skated the Irish went 9­
..Once you give 
them across the 11-4 prior to the length of the [Michigan] time and upset 7-3 victo­rink until some space like that, that·s ry over New 
looked ready to Hampshire in
when they can be
taste lunch the NCAA quar­
again. dangerous. ,, terfinals. 
Freshman Ben "[Michigan1 is Ryan barely on a mission,
Mark Van Guilder
made it across but I would like
Irish captain
the line on his ..j to believe our last back-and-team is too," forth, pushed to Jackson said. keep going by his teammates' "The confidence that we yells. gained last weekend helped us 
"It's been good to let us a lot. The game against UNH come back to earth a little helped us against Michigan bit," Irish captain Mark Van State. The guys understand Guilder said about the two­that, with all the turmoil and week layover between the all the problems we had in the NCAA Tournament regional second half, I think they found and the Frozen Four. "We out if they pay the price, they were feeling pretty good about can beat anybody." ourselves after that weekend. The Wolverines' offense was But you kind of realize after a the most dynamic and deadly few days that, hey, we still in college hockey this season, have work to do. That and led by senior Kevin Porter -a some real tough practices Hobey Baker top-three finalist early last week got that out of who led the nation in points the system." with 62 (33 goals, 29 assists). 
Porter scored four goals in the NCAA quarterfinals two weeks ago against Niagara and is joined on his line by th~ nation's No. 3 scorer, Chad Kolarik (28 goals, 26 assists). 
"It takes five guys [to stop M i c h i g an 's offe n s e I. " Van Guilder said. "It takes three forwards coming back as hard as they can ... basically it's all about keeping a good third man in the offensive zone so we don't give up odd-man rushes. Once you give them time and space like that, that's when they can be dangerous." 
Before last weekend's regional, the Irish offense was as impotent as the Wolverines' was dangerous. In the 21 games before the NCAA Tournament, Notre Dame scored only 43 goals. 
But a seven-goal barrage against New Hampshire fol­lowed by three goals in the win over Michigan State against one of the nation's top goalies in Jeff Lerg, has given confidence back to Notre Dame's snipers. 
"We were saying in Colorado Springs how nice it would have been if our forwards would have been scoring seven goals a game," Irish defense­man Dan VeNard said. "It wouldn't have been so nerve­racking on the back end." 
Michigan goalie Billy Sauer, although not a Hobey Baker finalist like Regan and Lerg, has posted a 1.89 goals­against average, fourth best in the nation. Sauer, a junior, started in net his first two sea­sons and received criticism at the start for his inability to replicate the success of former Wolverines netminder AI Montoya. 
"You don't really look at it from how good the goalie is or isn't," Van Guilder said. "You just look at trying to get peo­ple in front of him because any goalie, including him, is going to stop it if he can see it, so· you want to get traffic in front of him like we did to the other guys. Make him go post to post, side to side, all of that." 
Irish goalie Jordan Pearce will start in net as he has done nearly all year, posting a 1.9 5 goals-against average while keeping Notre Dame in close games when the offense could­n't score. 
This is only the fourth time in Notre Dame history that a men's team has advanced to an NCAA final four or champi­onship tournament: The first three were men's basketball in 1978, men's lacrosse in 2001 and baseball in 2002. 
The puck will drop 9 p.m. Eastern Time at the Pepsi Center in Denver and will be televised on ESPN 2. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

Blue-line pairings master roles, discover offensive side 
as they have and keep guys as the "quarterback," coach Hampshire to open the "We pride ourselves on
By MATT GAMBER 
from getting free and keeping Jeff Jackson said, and Cole NCAAs. being strong physically and 
Associate Sports Editor 
shots out on the perimeter. I the sharpshooter. "I've just been finding the doing a good job against the might have to make a big "[Kyle] makes good deci­seams and guys have been other teams' top lines," 
With a 1.95 goals-against save or two a game, but other sions with the puck ... and giving me good passes," Cole Sheahan said. "There's cer­average that ranks sixth than that, they make my job he's as good defensively as said. "I've gotten some open tain guys you have chemistry nationally, junior goalie pretty routine." anybody," Jackson said. "It's shots and I've just been hit­with on the ice, and he's one Jordan Pearce has earned The Irish have three pairs just a matter of putting [Ian] ting them." of them." elite status among college of defensemen that log plenty in the position to use his big Lawson has transitioned VeNard (five goals, seven hockey netminders. He's also of ice time -sophomore Kyle shot effectively. That's why well into his role as the dis­assists) and Blatchford (12 been credited with much of Lawson and freshman Ian we've put him in that role, to tributor. assists) are a mix of the two, Notre Dame's success this Cole, senior Brock Sheahan be much more active shooting "AJI I'm looking for is to as Jackson has seen major year, especially considering and freshman Teddy Ruth, on the power play recently." feed him the puck," Lawson improvements in VeNard's its troubles scoring goals and senior Dan Venard and And it's paid off of late, as said. "He's got that abominal defensive intensity and during the season's second sophomore Brett Blatchford. four of Cole's eight goals have shot, and I'd rather pass than Blatchford's ability to distrib­half. Each pairing has its own come in the CCHA and NCAA shoot anyway. I've got no ute the puck. 
But within the locker room, defined style and strategy, tournaments. He scored twice problem sliding it over to "I try to get into the rush as the team knows the Irish go making all three units valu­in a 6-3 win over Ferris State Ian." much as I can and kind of be as the defensemen go. able to the Irish. in game two of the CCHA At the opposite end of the the second wave of attack," 
"We try to play solid defen­Lawson (five goals, 20 quarterfinals, before netting spectrum are Sheahan (one said VeNard, who had scored sively and our offense kind of assists) and Cole (eight goals, one goal in a 2-1 win over the goal, 11 assists) and Ruth just two career goals in three stems from that," Pearce 10 assists) combine to form Bulldogs in game three and (two goals, 3 assists), the two injury-plagued seasons com­said. "It helps out when our the most offensively prolific adding another on the power hard-hitting enforcers who ing into his senior campaign. guys cover their areas as well tandem, with Lawson serving play in the 7-3 win over New are almost always charged "Brett's a guy who makes a 
with stopping an opponent's good first pass. We just to try top lines -which they will to hold our heads above the try to do tonight against an water and try to stop the explosive Michigan offense, third and fourth lines when led by forwards Kevin Porter we're out there." (33 goals) and Chad Kolarik Regardless of who's (28 goals). patrolling the defensive (and, 
"Brock's leadership back depending on who it is, the there ... every night, he's a offensive) zone for the Irish, man. He plays against the top Jackson has confidence in his lines and the top players as blue-liners. tough as anybody," Jackson "I think that they have said. "Teddy's strong, he's developed into one of the best physical, he skates well, and corps of defensemen in the he makes good decisions with country," Jackson said. the puck ... I Jove the guy's "We've got a nice balance of grittiness, I like his charac­guys that are solid defensive­ter, and I think he's got a ton ly, and we've got guys with of upside [offensively]." offensive instincts, but they 
While Ruth scored a big all know how to play defense. insurance goal late in the With the development of the West Regional final against young guys ... and the leader­Michigan State and Sheahan ship of the two seniors, we're tallied an assist in the win definitely solid." over UNII, the offensive pro­
Irish defenseman Ian Cole takes a shot during Notre Dame's 2-1 CCHA playoff win over Ferris State. 
duction they do provide is Contact Matt Gamber at 
Cole has registered four goals so far in the postseason. 
just icing on the cake. mgamber@nd.edu 

Thursday, April 10, 2008 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 


Irish get goals from new places without Condra 
hopefully thought I'd be able toBy MATT GAMBER come back and play the game,
Associate Sports Editor 
but obviously that didn't hap­pen. The docs took a look at it 
After Irish junior right wing and knew it was pretty bad." Erik Condra was helped off the With the Irish fighting for a ice by teammates after being spot in the CCIIA semifinals, injured in a March 16 playoff they couldn't afford to let win over Ferris State, one Condra's injury keep them question surged through the from putting away Ferris State minds of nearly every onlooker -and a newfound sense of -how will the Irish deal with urgency was immediately evi­the loss of their leading scor­dent, senior captain Mark Van er? Guilder said. 
That inquiry was answered "It was pretty clear that we resoundingly in Colorado needed a lot of guys to step up Springs, where the Irish pulled to pick up for his absence," he off two upsets to advance to said. ••There was nothing said this tonight's Frozen Four. during the game, but you could 
But the less-pondered ques­see things really change tion remains -how is Condra among the guys over the next himself coping couple shifts ­with the pain of guys realizing 
not only a knee "There was nothing the scoring's 
injury, but also going to have to -,
said [when Condra 
the pain of watch come from 
was hurt]. but you 
his teammates somewhere, so -WU YUE!The Observer vie for a national could see things we better pick Irish right wing Erik Condra, center, gets tangled up with teammate Mark Van Guilder during the play title without him it up." that injured Condra's knee on March 16 against Ferris State, knocking him out for the season. 
really change among 
on the ice? But accordingthe guys over the to coach Jeff with then-No. 3 Miami (Ohio), Kevin Deeth (Condra's former Irish team who don't dress-a The Injury next couple ofshifts Jackson, it the RedHawks pulled their linemates) and defensemen routine he does "for my own The game wasn't just the goalie to create a six-on-five Kyle Lawson, Ian Cole and sake," he said.
-guys realizing the 
against the scoring that advantage and attempt to Teddy Huth. ••It's almost harder to be a
scoring's going to 
Bulldogs was a would need a score the game-tying goal -Junior center Christian fan than a player because physical one, have to come from boost. and they did just that. Hanson was perhaps the most you're sitting there and you with both teams "Anytime a Miami won a crucial face-off impressive in Colorado can't do anything about it,"
somewhere. so we
fighting for a player goes in the Notre Dame defensive Springs, scoring three goals Condra said. "I was probably
better pick it up. ,
chance to extend down, I'm obvi­zone, and RedHawks forward and adding an assist in the two one of the most excited guys ­their seasons by ously con­Mitch Ganzak sent the game to games to earn all-regional out there when we won, and I advancing to the Mark Van Guilder cerned about overtime by beating Irish honors. think I'm just as CCHA semifinals the welfare of goalie Jordan Pearce with 3.4 "Erik's the best big a part of it
Irish captain 
in Detroit the the player first seconds to play in regulation. player on our ..It's almost harder to now as I was next weekend. and foremost," .. The funny thing is that's team, so when be a fan than a when I was on Midway through the first Jackson said. "Then you start actually the position that Erik he went down, the ice -and
player because you're 
period, Condra was checked gaining some perspective Condra would have been in we knew that all they have hard at center ice, where he about all the areas where [taking the face-off]," Jackson the guys around sitting there and you helped me with appeared to get tangled with a you're going to miss him -and said after the loss. ··we prac­him were going can't do anything that." teammate before crashing it's not just from an offensive tice that situation, five-on-six, to have to pick it That has been
about it."
hard to the sheet. He lay on perspective. He's one of our with Erik, but since Erik got up," Hanson a focus of the the ice for several seconds top guys on the power play, hurt last Sunday, we didn't said...I've just team and its before play was stopped, at and we rely on him a lot in practice it last week with a been trying to do Erik Condra coaching staff, which time he was helped off penalty-killing and with [the new player. It's hindsight, but my part, get in Irish right wing Jackson said. the ice and into the locker other team's) goalie pulled." it's one of the areas that you [near the netl a .. The thing room. And it wouldn't take long for just lose track of the fact that little more and that's tough for 
"I always thought positively," one of those "other" areas to he's the guy that would have take a few more chances offen­me is to watch him see what's Condra said. ··1 knew it was come into play. been on the ice in that situa­sively." happening right now," he said. hurt, so I tried to get off the With the Irish desperately tion. Everybody talks about his The efforts of the perhaps ··I don't think anybody's more ice. Once I got in the locker clinging to a 1-0 lead late in losses from other areas, but once-less-heralded Irish play­passionate about playing the room, I still wasn't sure -I their CCHA semifinal match-up that's one that even we as ers have certainly not gone game than Erik, and I know 
coaches didn't anticipate the unnoticed. that inside it's just killing him importance of." "They have definitely picked not being [on the ice]. it up for me," Condra said. "It's ••1 want to make sure he Picking it up good to see them battling and stays involved. He's a huge 
Obviously the Irish have lived doing all the little things at the component of our team and he to see another day. earning an right time. We're paying atten­still is, from a leadership and NCAA tournament berth tion to details, and we're tak­an emotional perspective. I despite losing both their games ing that intensity to the next want to make sure he gets the in Detroit. But level, where it chance to enjoy this, even Miami's late goal needs to be at though he won't be able to was a play that Tournament fully enjoy it because he's not 
..You can't replace 
could have cost time. [on the ice)." . them their sea­[Condra]. but you "I've seen Though Jackson knows the son -and yet guys take it to team will miss its star tonight
help out and pick it 
the Irish have that next level, against Michigan, and that fought on, with­up a little bit." which we Condra himself is certainly ­out their fallen haven't really unhappy with being injured, star. Mark Van Guilder seen this year. the Irish coach knows the 
..When you lose They're step-experience could help Condra
Irish captain 
a guy like that, ping it up, and in the long run. especially being now that we've "He hasn't missed a game a senior, it's your seen it, we're until now, and this is an oppor­duty to step up," senior captain going to hold them to that tunity for him to see things Mark Van Guilder said. "You great level of play." from the coaches' perspective can't replace him, but you help and from his teammates' per­out and pick it up a little bit." The new biggest fan spective," he said. ··vou never 
And Van Guilder has come For Condra, watching the want to see that happen, but through, notching three assists tPam he led just a few weeks hopefully it'll allow him to heal in the 7-3 thrashing of New ago advance to the first Frozen up and have a senior year Hampshire and scoring the Four in school history is bitter­beyond anything that he's done game-winner in the regional sweet. thus far." championship win over "It's tough not being there And Condra hopes foi', and Michigan State. He was named just because I've battled with expects, the same thing. the West Regional's most out­these guys all year, they have "Ill be training hard this off­standing player. gone so far and it's the oppor­season because I've seen 
But the Irish captain is just tunity of a lifetime," Condra where this program can be," one of several players who has said. ··sut I love seeing these said Condra, who plans to be 



elevated his game in the place guys succeed -they're like my back for Notre Dame's first of the injured Condra. Notre brothers. I want them to do game next fall. "I want to Dame received a tremendous well, and that's all I hope for." make sure I get a chance to be unassisted goal from sopho­Condra has made it a habit out there on that ice with 
more left wing Dan Kissel, and to sit in the locker rooms with them." 
WU YUE!The Observer the Irish have also had key his teammates before games 
Junior right wing Erik Condra handles the puck during Notre goals from the likns of left before retreating to the stands Contact Matt Gamber at Dame's 3-11oss to Ohio State on Feb. 22. wing Hyan Thang and center with the other members of the mgamber@nd.edu 
page 8 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Thursday, April 10, 2008 


e long road to Denver 

It hasn't bRen easy, but the Irish have made it to the Frozen Four 
anyway. After a fast start that saw Notre Dame climb into the top 
eight of the national rankings, the Irish went cold -really cold. But Notre Dame couldn't have come together at a more perfect time, coming to life in Colorado Springs by pulling consecutive upsets over North Hampshire and CCHA-rival Michigan State. If the Irish hope to advance to Saturday's national championship game, they'll have to overcome the CCHA (and perhaps the country's) best team in No. 1 Michigan. The Irish gave up a late goal to lose the teams' 


WU ALLISON Observer 
Top left, Irish wing Erik Condra drills a slap shot. Top right, Irish defenseman lan Cole handles the puck along the boards. Center, Irish center Kevin Deeth crashes the net and scores a goal. Bottom right, Irish wing Garrett Regan plays some tough defense. Bottom left, Irish goalie Jordan Pearce handles the puck. 






