
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 18 THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 18.2008 
STUDENT SENATE 

ND political groups receive funding 
College Republicans, Democrats and Libertarians eligible for University allocations 
n't political enough," student body vice president Grant Schmidt said. "We wanted there to be access to the candidates themselves." 
Schmidt. said he and Senate Oversight committee chair Ian Secviar spent a great deal of time meeting with University officials to develop the amendment. 
"A lot of my work has been work­ing on this amendment ... This is something for the 2008 election, and we wanted to get the ball rolling because it is already Sept. 17" Schmidt said. "I think this is a great step in the right direction for students to_ eng~ge in this dialogue and not be stifled. 
The amendment also allows the three groups to use their funds to transport students to political rallies. 
see SENATE/page 6 


By JOSEPH McMAHON Assisstant News Editor 
The Student Senate unanimously passed a resolution Wednesday allowing the College Republicans, Democrats and Libertarians to use University-allocated funds to support the nominated candidates of their respective parties. 
While the groups cannot directly donate to any candidate and any appearance by a political speaker must follow the guidelines which apply to all speakers, the new resolu­tion allows the elubs to hand out pro­motional materials such as T-shirts and bumper stickers, as well as post signs around campus. 
"When [student body president] Bob Reish and I were campaigning, a lot of students said the campus was-

Staff concerns addressed 
Jenkins, Affleck-Graves discuss future plans 
ByJENNMETZ News Editor 
Two of the University's top leaders shared their views on Notre Dame's progress toward achieving its central goals at a standing room-only town hall-style meeting for staff members Wednesday. 
Robert McQuade, associate vice president for Human Resources, introduced University President Father John Jenkins and Executive Vice President John Affleck­Graves to the audience in the packed Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
McQuade said the University hopes to host smaller sessions in the future so more people can have the opportunity to listen and ask their questions about the University. 
Affleck-Graves emphasized the importance of the town­hall meeting sessions. 
"This is where we think the University is going," he said, "And we want to hear from you." 
He said the academic and the administrative/business sides of the University cannot 
see TOWN HALL/ page 4 

New dorm gets a name: Ryan Hall 

Female residence will house 246 students, feature 'super quads,' classroom capabilities 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
The new women's resi­dence hall under construc­tion between Welsh Family Hall and the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore will be named Ryan Hall, University President Father John Jenkins said in his annual address to the faculty Tuesday. 
Jenkins revealed the name of the new dorm as he described the University's continued commitment to excellence 
-in undergraduate educa­tion. 
"Both Duncan Hall, the men's dorm that opened this fall, and Ryan Hall, the women's dorm cur­rently under construction, are the first dormitories at Notre Dame to include classrooms, which will help deepen this integra­tion of academic and resi­dential life," Jenkins said, according to his prepared remarks. 
Assistant Vice President for News and Information Dennis Brown said Wednesday that, to his knowledge, the benefac­tors have asked the 
see RYAN/page 6 


Students gather to weigh faith, politics 
Conscience," and during the talk Bradley explained two of the major Catholic perspec­tives on the abortion issue. 
Bradley said many Catholics think the right to life is the underlying factor to consider when voting because it is the precursor to all other human rights, an "indispensable core to a decent society". 
Another position on the sub­ject, Bradley said, proposes that although human life does begin at conception, this belief is private and should not be imposed on others. Democratic vice presidential 
see THEOLOGY/page 4 


By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Some people consider abor­tion to be the only issue of importance in the upcoming presidential election, Notre Dame Law School professor Gerard Bradley said Wednesday during a politics­centered Theology on Tap at Legends. 
The Catholic vote is impor­tant in the nation's swing states, said Bradley, who spe­cializes in the study of law and religion. The night's topic was "Faith and Election: Voting with your Catholic 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Sexual assault reported 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Police are investigating an 
incident of sexual assault 
reported by a student, Notre 
Dame Security Police (NDSP) 
said in an e-mail received by 
students Tuesday. 
The reported sexual assault 
was committed by an 
acquaintance of the student 
in a residence hall on campus 
Sunday, the e-mail said. 
Police were notified of the 
reported assault late on 
Monday, NDSP Assistant 
• Director David Chapman said 
see ASSAULTIpage 4 

r-----------------------~----~------------~--~----~­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Paradise 

found 
llave you ever wanted something you couldn't have? Something that just toased you from afar, seeming within your grasp but in nmlity remains just out of reach? Something that you des­perately want 

but feel you will  Jay Fitzpatrick  
never get?  
I  had  that  
feeling  once.  Managing Editor  
But,  by  the  
grace of God, I  

fulfilled my primal craving. I ended a four year urge. 
I ate at White Castle. 
Ever since the epic, groundbreaking film "Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle" premiered in 2004 I have wanted a small, square, greasy, oniony burger. This yearning intensified with each viewing until it finally faded into despair. I submitted that I was never getting that sweet nectar of New .Jersey, the slider. 
And then it happened. 
For a job interview I recently had to travel to Merrillville. Ind.. a small-ish city south of Gary. On my return, I notict~d. out of the corner of my eye, a vaguely familiar fast-food sign. A sec­ond glance and I knew that my pursuit was almost complete: I had found a real-life, actual-factual White Castle. 
When I walked into the restaurant, I knew immediately what I needed to order. Nothing fancy, no A-1 sauce or jalapeno chePse. .Just the good-old­fashioned No. I: Four Sliders, one medium order of fries and one diet Coke. 
I got the order "for hnre," because I knew I could not foeus on driving whiln undnrgoing sueh a rapturous experiencn as this. And it truly was. 
Most of the timf\ things can't live up to the hype. "The Phantom Menace" could never eompetn with the original "Star Wars" trilogy in originality or ereativity. Throw in 15 years of build­up and it novnr stood a chance. But White Castle transcends such earthly problems, maintaining its perfect meat-onion-grease-patty ration on evnry burger. · 
I loved it as much as Brett Favre loves football, and as Hyan McFarlane of Sorin College can attest, no one loves anything as much as Brett Favre loves football. 
I sat with my order, untainted by condiments, so I could fully appreciate how delicious the natural flavorings of the food was, and came to a fuller appreciation of the film that started my yen for this sweet ambrosia. 
Harold and Kumar did not embark on their sacred quest simply because they were stoned. Nor was the restau­rant a mere jumping off point to begin their picaresque misadventure. 
No, those tiny, greasy hamburgers change you, and only for the better. 
Think of the movie: What immedi­ately follows their feast? Kumar grows up and llarold grows a pair. 
And so, too, I now feel changed. I'm not sun\ how yet in any tangible sense; perhaps it is the extra cholesterol in my arteries from those four burgers. 
But nevertheless, White Castle has taught me a very important lesson: don't give up on your dreams, because you never know when they might eome true. Mine certainly did. 

The· views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at ffitzpaS@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reponing error, Gov. Sarah Palin was misidenti­fied ,.~ acongrcs...woman in me Sept. 17 edition of The Observer. "[be Observer regre!S this error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thurssday, September 18, 2008 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE DO YOU WISH NOTRE DAME HAD A STUDY ABROAD PROGRAM AND WHY? 







Mary Mahon  Laura Wilczek  Maria Antoniak  Andy Renner  Thomas Rivas  
freshman Welsh Family  senior Howard  sophomore Howard  senior Stanford  senior off-campus  
"Fiji, because it sounds exotic."  "Seoul, South Korea. Because ,I'm from there.  "Hogwarts. It's self-explanatory.,,  "Green Bay, so I could go to the Packers' games.  "Antarctica, because it's colder than South Bend. "  

OFFBEAT 
Janitor receives plunger award 
SAUGATUCK, Mich. ­Steve Oswald isn't getting back the $156.94 h'e charged the city for clean­ing a public bathroom. However, he did get the attention of city officials who promised to take bet­ter care of the bathroom -and honored his efforts Tuesday with the Golden Plunger Award. 
Oswald, 451 said he did­n't expect to be reim­bursed after billing the west Michigan tourist town for the work he did last month. But he did say he appreciated the award, shorts revealed. 


Hart's public defender, Carol Bickerstaff. urged a judge Monday to strike down the sagging pants law, telling him: "Your honor, we now have the fashion police." 
Circuit .Judge Paul Moyle ruled that the law was unconstitutional based on "the limited facts" of the case. Technically, however, the charge hasn't been dropped yet: a new arraignment awaits Hart on Oct. 5. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

a toilet plunger spray­painted gold and set on an oak stand. 
Judge rules baggy pants law unconstitutional 
RIVIERA BEACH, Fla. ~ A judge has decided a law banning sagging pants in this town is unconstitutional after a teenager spent a night in jail on accusations he exposed too much under­wear. 
.Julius Hart, 17, was charged last week after an officer said he spotted the teenager riding his bicycle with 4 to 5 inches of blue-and-black boxer 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY 
0:: IJ.I :::z::: 
~ 
IJ.I 
3: 
..... 
<[ 
(.) 



..... 0 HIGH 73 HIGH HIGH HIGH 77 LOW 57 LOW LOW LOW 55 



Atlanta 80 I 63 Boston 65 I 58 Chicago 71 I 49 Denver 81 I 46 Houston 79 162 Los Angeles 82 165 Minneapolis 821 58 New York 70 I 62 Philadelphia 73 I 62 Phoenix 96 I 80 Seattle 80 I 56 St. Louis 73 I 56 Tampa 90 I 76 Washington 76 I 68 
IN BRIEF 

There will be a lecture enti­tled "How We Can End the Genocide in Sudan" given by John Prendergast in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium, today from 12:30 to 2 p.m. Lunch will be avail­able prior to the lecture. It is sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, and the Center for Social Concerns This event is free and opp,n to the public. 
In "The Wonderbread Years," Pat Hazell finds humor in the experience of' growing up in Ameriea. This event is today, Fri., and Sat. at 7 p.m. in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, on the Deeio Mainstage Theatre. Tickets are $40, $32 faeulty/staff. $30 for seniors, and $15 for stu­dents and can be purchased at the Ticket Offiee: 
The annual Forum Film Festival will be held Friday at 7 p.m. ·in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Films on sustainability will be shown. The event is open to the public. Tickets are free and must be reserved in advance at the Ticket Office. 
The 25th annual Domer Run will take place Saturday at 9 
a.m. The race will start on the west side of the Stadium. Runners must check in no later than 8:45 AM at the registra­tion tables.. Race day check-in will be held at Legends begin­ning at 8 a.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 80 HlGH LOW 57 LOW 
77 53 

--~-------------~-~---------,
.-----------~
~~­

Thursday, September 18, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 



Club will fast for feast of Ramadan 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
One of Saint Mary's newest groups, the Middle Eastern North African Culture Club, will hold a dinner in honor of Ramadan on Sept. 30 at 7 p.m., club president Mariam Eskander said during the Board of Governance {BOG) meeting Wednesday. 
"Usually for Ramadan, it is one community," Eskander said. "They don't eat after sunrise or before sunset. So we are going to break the fast together." 
The group is also bringing a professor from Notre Dame who has written articles about Islam, Eskander said. 
"I didn't even know a lot about it until I attended an event simi­lar to this one last year, and it went really well," she said. 
There will be Christian Culture Lecture in Little Theater at 7:30 p.m., student body president Mickey Gruscinski said.­
The Student Activities Board will be sponsoring "Sundaes on Sunday," SAB president Danielle Franklin said. They will be held in Vander Vennet Theater in the basement of the Student Center on Sunday evening. Students are invited to go to eat ice cream and watch the season premiere of Desperate Housewives. 
Residence Hall elections will take place Sept. 25, Residence Hall Association president Maura Clougherty said. Saint Mary's stu­dents are encouraged to go on PRISM, an online student account system, and place their votes. Students can vote for every hall regardless of where they live. 
Saint Mary's will be having a "Date for the Cure," an NCAA event for breast cancer, Saint Mary's Director of Student Development Patrick Daniel said. During the soccer game at 4 p.m., there will be a picnic by the soccer fields. Then dm:ing the volleyball game at 7 p.m., there will be pink desserts such as cot­ton candy and pink lemonade. 
The run-off for the first year board elections was held Tuesday, Elections Commissioner Francesca Johnson said. The winners will be announced today. 
"Love Your Body Week" will have activities Monday, Tuesday and Thursday next week, Women's Issues Commissioner Becki Faunce said. 
Saint Mary's Communications Studies professor Teri Russ, will have a national book release of her work "Bi***ing Bodies" Thursday, and she will give a speech on body image. A recep­tion to follow. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ence that much of the bril­
By SARAH MAYER 

liance of the Constitution came 
News Writer 

from English philosopher John Locke and French political 
For 2001 Notre Dame grad­thinker Charles de Secondat, uate Peter Gehred, his job as a baron de Montesquieu. field representative for Rep. "One of the geniuses of Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.) means America is that we steal from 
the United S t a t e s Constitution plays a daily role in his life. 
"We live in a republic," Gehred said. "The authority is by the peo­ple. That is why I have a job; that is why my boss has a job." 
G e h r e d 
s p o k e 
Wednesday on 

everyone else·," Gehred joked. But that bor­"We live in a republic. rowing, he said, 
has produced

The authority is by 
"the best gov­

the people. That is ernment we 
why I have ajob; that could possibly have."
is why my boss has a 
Michael

job." Kramer, a pro­fessor in Saint Mary's
Peter Gehred 
Communication

field representative 
Studies, Dance

Rep. Joe Donnelly 
and Theatre department emceed the 

a panel in Haggar Parlor at panel session. He reminded Saint Mary's College to cele­the audience that Constitution brate the 221st anniversary of Day is a time for Americans to the signing of the Constitution. remember to continue the 
He stressed the importance legacy of the Founding of having a democracy instead Fathers and develop habits of of divine right. citizenship in a new genera­
"We live in a land of tion of Americans. unimaginable wealth, but our Former St. Joseph County power flows from the bottom deputy prosecutor and current up," he said. criminal defense attorney 
Gehred reminded the audi-Brooks Grainger described the 
importance  of  the  
Constitution's  Fifth  
Amendment.  

"If you think person X com­mitted a crime, you have to prove it," Grainger said. 
But one of the problems with the United States government, he said, is that there are too many laws and regulations. 
"We have over 10,000 laws but there are so many regula­tions under those laws that there is no way to tell how many crimes actually exist," he said. 
Saint Mary's political science professor Amy Cavender spoke about the primacy of the freedom of religion in the Constitution. 
"Religion is listed first in line. The national government cannot restrict religion," she said. 
Cavender described court cases where the Supreme Court interpreted what the Constitutional framers meant by freedom of religion. 
"The government can have some influence on religion·, but it has to be in a non-discrimi­natory way," she said. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO1@saintmarys.edu 


Panel observes Constitution Day 
Speakers discuss role of country's leaders, protections under law 
Welcome to 21st century student apartments. 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Brand new, contemporary, furnished apartments now leasing for Fall2009. 
• 
Two bedrooms 

• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 


.. 
Furnished • Includes 42" flat panel HDTV • Laundry room with washer & dryer • FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations • Walk to campus 




IIIrish 
ROW 

luxury apartments 
NOW LEASING FOR FALL 2009 
.....------------------------~-­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 18, 2008 


Town hall 
continued from page I 
exist without each other. 
Using Duncan Hall as an example, Affleck-Graves emphasiznd thn teamwork and mutual responsibilities that the staff contributes to the University's visions and goals. 
lie mentioned custodial services, landscape services, the OITice of Hesidence Life and Housing and academic departments, since Duncan is the l'irst residence hall with a classroom, as well as University architects, to name a few of the depart­ments involved in tho proj­ect. 
The u~amwork that goes into every part of University life was eontinually empha­sized in A ffl e e k-G raves' presentation, using services for undPrgraduate students and thn current construction of Stinson-Hemick llall as examples of' th!1 ways differ­ent departments work together. · 
A hallmark of Notre Dame is its Catholic character, Al'f1eck-Graves said, and that can be seen in many forms, citing specifically mainte­nance services that worked on the rnnovations to the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, human resources that help familiarize employees with Notre Dame, Campus Ministry and the new Ofl'ice of Sustainability with its many initiatives. 
lie said he encouraged all who ~:omprise the campus community to "act responsi­bly" in advancing the University's sustainability by recycling and turning of'f' lights. 
"There are 15, 16 thou­sand people on this campus; together we can all make an impact," he said. 
Notrn Dame is working to "provide a comprehensive nmploy(le experience," Af'f'l ec k-G raves said, with compntitive wages within the market, wellness pro­grams, benefits like health and lire insurance and employne development and training. A main r!ICUS or 

pensated within the market "better teachers," he said. range and three percent are The University is also aim­below the market range. ing to expand its undergrad­
The University is continu­uate research opportunities, ally working to expand its which provide students with employee development and a different sort of education training programs, including than the kind that occurs in its learning at work pro­the classroom. · gram, which offers employ­"We learn best by under­ees the opportunity to take taking our own inquiries," broad education courses, as Jenkins said. "[Research] is well as career management really where true learning courses, Affleck-Graves said. goes on." 
The NO Voice 2008 survey He said the Office of will be administered Oct. 6-Undergraduate Research 27 by an outside consulting was established to help stu­organization called Towers dents as much as possible in Perrin-ISR. The University pursuing those inquiries. "only gets data amalgamat­This year marks the 25th ed by at least 10 people," anniversary of the Center for Affleck-Graves said, so Social Concerns, which has employee responses are kept encouraged the incorpora­confidential. tion of service in education 
Afl'leck-Graves concluded during its history at the his presentation by briefly University, Jenkins said. discussing a major "Students are able to use University initiative: the their talents and abilities to 
Eddy St. Commons, which "will make a big 

difference to "We learn best by 
the South undertaking our own Side of cam­
inquiries.
pus," he said. Companies 

that have Father John Jenkins already University president signed lease agreements for lots in the Commons 
serve," he said. "At Notre Dame, we edu­cate· not only the mind, but the heart." 
In working to become a pre­mier research University, Notre Dame is working to expand oppor­tunities for research fund­
thn University "There are rs, r6 thou­offer an Transitions is creating a sand people on this unsurpassed Using a PowerPoint, sare work undergradu­Jenkins introduced some of
campus; together we
environment, ate educa-the newer faces in the 
can all make an
lw said. tion, to University's central adminis­
As an impact." become a trative group,. including: employer, the pre-eminent Janet Botz, the new vice University is research president for Public Affairs
John Affleck-Graves 
very passion­university and Communications;
Executive vice president
atn in its need and to Marriane Corr, vice presi­
include Follett, White ing and fellowships. It cur­Lodging Marriot, Kildare's rently participates in Irish Pub, Doc Magrogan's research partnerships with and Hot Box Pizza. other universities and 
Other possible tenants may organizations, like the include restaurant chains, Midwest Institution for especially a sandwich or cof­Nanoelectronics Discovery fee shop, a cellular phone (MIND) and the National provider, clothing retailers, Ecological Observatory a bank and a salon or day Network (NEON). spa. The plann-ed Innovation 
Park, an addition south of 'Great progress' campus, will "help make 
Jenkins thanked those in more discoveries" and has attendance for their hard the potential to create a bet­work, dedication and service ter local economic situation, to the University. he said. 
The feeling of welcoming The Catholic mission of that the staff gives to people Notre Dame should be seen at the University is "what as "a guide, something that makes Notre Dame special," makes the University dis­he said. "When someone vis­tinctive," Jenkins said. iting campus meets one of An articulation of Catholic you, they meet Notre Dame." values to all employees is 
lie addressed three of the important, Jenkins said. University's central goals in "We should all embrace 
his portion the dignity of individual 
of the pres­service to the world," he 
entation, said. 
namely: to 

to offer bene­f'its to its nmployees, Af'fleck-Graves said. 
Thn University addressed several or the issues raised by tho ND Voicn survey administnred to employees in 2006. 

OnH such issue regarded pay rates at tin~ University, and how they eompare to other positions with similar work. After analyzing data from a eom pensation service or 51 organizations in the Michiana area inc.luding, f'or example, the City or South Bend. Indiana University South Bend (!USB) and Western Michigan University, AITI eck -Graves said 40 percent of' Notre Dame employees are com­pensated at rates signifi­cantly above the market range, 57 pereent are com-
ensure that dent and general counsel; t h e Greg Crawford, dean of the University's College o.f Science; Erin Catholic Hoffman Harding, associate cha-racter informs all its vice president for strategic endeavors. planning; Peter Kilpatrick, His presentation was "a dean of the College of summary of things we hav~ Engineering; John McGreevy, been doing to move us for­dean of the College of Arts ward," Jenkins said. "We and Letters; Gregory have farther to go, but we've Sterling, dean of the made some great progress." Graduate School; and Jack 
Undergraduate education, Swarbrick, director of Jenkins said, is "the core of Athletics. Notre Dame." "This is a time of growing 
lie presented three strides opportunities with new ener­the University is making gy and fresh perspectives," toward pursuing that goal: Jenkins said. providing students with the A short question and best teachers possible, new answer session followed the opportunities for undergrad­presentation. The town hall uate research and continued meeting was followed by opportunities for service. refreshments on the new 
The recent changes to the Irish Green at the DeBartolo course/instructor feedback Performing Arts Center. system will allow for "effi­cient, effective and informa­Contact Jenn Metz at tive feedback," resulting in jmetz@nd.edu 

Assault 
continued from page I 
Wednesday. 

Chapman said he could not give more detail than provid­ed in the e-mail to protect the victim and the victim's rights. 
NDSP is currently investi­gating the reported assault, he said. 
The crime alert page on NDSP's Web site shows the last reported sexual assault on campus occurred on July 6, when a student reported that an assault, committed by an acquaintance, occurred on campus in a residence hall. 
More information about sex­ual assault prevention, as well as resources for sur­
. vivors of sexual assault, can be found at ndsp.nd.edu or at the Office of Student Affairs Web site osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/assault/, the e-mai-l said. 
To report crimes, suspicious activity, fire or a medical 
emergency, dial 911  or  dial  
574-631-5555 from  a  cell  
phone, the e-mail said.  

Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

process, and voters should choose the candidate that will

Theology 

promote the common good the most. Voters need to look at
continued from page 1 

the big picture; he said. candidate Sen. Joe Biden has "Is it OK to accept the status this view, Bradley said. quo on abortion in order to 
The pluralistic outlook on bring about the other changes abortion leads to two dirferent that a candidate promises'!" 
attitudes regarding vot­

ing for a pro­"Is it okay to accept choice candi­the status quo on 
date, Bradley 

abortion in order to
said. 

The first view bring about the other 
will lead a voter changes a candidate to the conclu­
promises?"
sion that he or she cannot take 

Church teach­Gerard Bradley ings to heart law professor and still vote for a presidential 
Bradley asked the audience. 
After a brief pause for refreshments, the audience was given the opportunity to ask Bradley questions regarding faith and politics. Among the top­ics discussed were ways to 
candidate with a pro-choice lessen the need for abortions, ideology. The second view con­the candidates' views on the tends that Catholic voters war in Iraq, and whether 
should not deny a pro-choice Catholics have a moral obliga­candidate their vote simply tion to vote in the election. because that candidate is pro­The topic of the next choice, and that supporting a Campus Ministry-hosted 
. pro-choice candidate is possi­Theology on Tap discussion ble if there is a proportionate will be announced at a later reason to do so. date. Bradley argued that many Church teachings should be Contact Irena Zajickova at studied during the voting izajicko@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 18, 2008 CoMPrtr::o FROM THE ()asr:Rvnrs WIRE sr:Rvlcrs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Somchai tries to mend political rifts 
BANGKOK -Thailand's new prime minister showed his determination to mend political rifts by quickly shaking hands with the opposition leader Wednesday. But the gesture didn't appease anti-government protesters, who called him unfit for the job because of ties to a dis­graced former leader. 
Many analysts said the negative reaction to Somchai Wongsawat's election by Parliament presaged further turmoil from activists who seized the prime minister's office compound three weeks ago. Others, however, said the soft­spoken Somchai might help open the door to dialogue. 
China faces life after the Olympics 
BEIJING -The Olympic flame is out, the smog is back, and traffic again clogs the roads. 
Welcome to what commentators are calling China's "post-Olympic era," in which euphoria over the Beijing Games is slowly giving way to economic worries, new safety crises and a future both brim­ming with confidence and tinged with uncertainty._ 
So far, it's off to a rocky start. China received widespread praise for organizing the games, which formally ended Wednesday with the Paralympics' closing ceremony. 
Even before then, however, reality reasserted itself with the collapse earlier this month at an illegal mine waste dump that killed at least 259 people and forced the resignation of a provincial governor. Since then, a product safety scandal has roiled the nation, with contaminated milk powder causing the death of three infants and sickening more than 6,200 others. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Traffic halts return to Galveston 
GALVESTON, Texas -Residents of this hurricane-wrecked island city launched an ill-advised attempt to return to their crip­pled hometown Wednesday, but instead fumed in hours of gridlocked traffic only to be turned away at the bridge. 
Traffic backed up for 20 miles along Interstate 45, the one route onto Galveston Island, jockeying for position with utility workers, repair crews and police trying to begin repairs to the city wrecked by Hurricane Ike five days ago. 
The city announced Tuesday that people could briefly return under a new "look and leave" plan, causing evacuees all over the state to pack up and head for the coast. Hours later, it abruptly halted the policy out of fear of just the sort of roadway chaos occurring on Wednesday. 

Colonoscopy alternative effective 
ATLANTA -A long-awaited federal study of an X-ray alternative to the dreaded colonoscopy confirms its effectiveness at spotting most cancers, although it was far from perfect. 
Medicare is already considering paying for this cheaper, less intrusive option that could persuade more people to get screened for colon cancer. And some experts believe the new method may boost the 50 percent screening rate for a cancer that is the coun­try's second biggest killer. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Projects to speed up Indiana travel 
LAKEVILLE, Ind. -Construction is under way on two projects to speed the trip between South Bend and Indianapolis. 
Groundbreaking ceremonies were held Wednesday in Lakeville and Kokomo for projects to reroute U.S. 31. 
One project will create a new roadway between South Bend and Plymouth in northern Indiana. The more than $418 million project is expected to take more than six years to complete. 
Officials also broke ground on a U.S. 31 bypass around Kokomo, one of the most congested parts of the highway. 
ELECTION 2008 


Candidates address economic anxiety 
McCain, Obama talk about ways that they will help financially struggling voters 
Associated Press 
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. ­With economic anxiety rising, Republican John McCain and Democrat Barack Obama scrambled Wednesday to adjust their messages to con­nect more directly with finan­cially struggling voters. 
Obama talks directly into the camera in a new, two-minute television ad on how he'll fix an economy in which "paychecks are flat and home values are falling." McCain and running mate Sarah Palin softened opposition to government bailouts, accepting the U.S. takeover of the nation's largest insurer as unfortunate but nec­essary to protect ordinary Americans. · 
"The shot that has been called by the Feds-it's under­standable but very, very disap­pointing that taxpayers are called upon for another one," Palin told reporters during a visit to delicatessen in Cleveland. 
Both McCain and Obama advocated cracking down on freewheeling Wall Street prac­tices and for tough new regula­tions on financial institutions. 
Obama ridiculed McCain's calls for more regulation as an eleventh-hour conversion for one who has long championed deregulation. 
Too many in Washington and on Wall Street "weren't mind­ing the store. They sat on their hands until it was too late," Obama told a rally in Elko, Nev. He challenged McCain's vow to take on the "old boy's net­work...He hasn't taken them on for the last 26 years." 
The increased emphasis on the faltering economy came on a day when stocks resumed their downward plunge follow­ing Tuesday night's govern­ment takeover of American International Group Inc. with an $85 billion two-year loan from the Federal Reserve in return for a majority stake in the company. 
"The focus of any such action should be to protect the mil­lions of Americans who hold insurance policies, retirement plans and other accounts with AIG," McCain said in a state­ment. "We must not bail out the management and specula­tors who created this mess." 

The turnabout came a day after McCain strongly opposed additional government relief and praised the government's decision not to rescue Lehman Brothers after it had inter­vened to help investment bank Bear Stearns and mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
His Democratic rival addressed the AIG takeover in Elko, saying the government acted "to prevent an even larg­er crisis." Arguing that the U.S. housing market was "in a shambles," Obama said it was important now for the Federal Reserve to ensure that families with AIG insurance are pro­tected. "It must not bail out the shareholders or the manage­ment of AIG that were making big profits when times were good." 
Obama, in his own change of tactics, speaks directly to voters in a new commercial to air Wednesday on national cable and in some battleground states. 
"In the past few weeks, Wall Street's been rocked as banks closed and markets tumbled. But for many of you-the peo­ple I've met in town halls, backyards and diners across America -our troubled econ­omy isn't news," Obama says in the ad, taped Tuesday in a liv­ing room-like setting. 
"Paychecks are flat and home values are falling. It's hard to pay for gas and gro­ceries and if you put it on a credit card, they've probably raised your rates," he adds. 
Obama also laments rising health insurance costs. He details major elements of his economic plan, including its proposal for a $1,000 tax cut for working couples, steps to reduce reliance on imported oil, bringing a "responsible end" to the war in Iraq and ending an anything goes cul­ture on Wall Street." 
"Doing these things won't be easy. But we're Americans," Obamasays. 
Obama also discussed the AIG takeover 
McCain campaigned in Michigan, one of the states hardest hit by eight straight months of rising unemploy­ment. 
YEMEN 


Car bomb hits gate of U.S. embassy 
Associated Press 

SAN'A, Yemen -A car bomb targeting the U.S. Embassy hit the front gate of the compound in Yemen's capital Wednesday, a U.S. spokesman said. A senior Yemeni security official said six Yemeni guards and four civilians were killed. 
The Yemeni guards were assigned to sentry duty outside the embassy by the Interior Ministry. The civilians were three Yemenis and one Indian national, the Yemeni security official said. 
The official spoke on condition of­anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the media. 
Ryan Gliha, the embassy spokesman, told The Associated Press by telephone that there was a second explosion that fol­lowed the initial one, but did not know what caused it. 
Another Yemeni security official said the embassy was hit by two car bombs and that heavy gunfire lasting around 10 min­utes followed the blasts. 
Several nearby homes were badly dam­aged by the blasts, he said, but had no information on whether the heavily guard­ed embassy sustained damage too. 
A medical orficial, meanwhile, said at least seven Yemeni nationals were wound­ed and taken to the city's Republican hos­pital. They are residents of a housing com­pound near the embassy and included chil­dren, he said. 
Both the security and medical officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to release the information to the media. 
Explosions and heavy gunfire were heard near the embassy in the eastern sec­tion of San'a and police swiftly cordoned off the area, according to a government security official and an AP reporter at the scene. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 18, 2008 
Senate 
continued from page I 
This anwndmnnt comes soon 
af'ter mnmbers of the College 
Hnpublicans were forced to use 
their own money to attend a John 
McCain-Sarah Palin rally in 
Stnrling I Ieight-;, Mich. 
"I really agree with this," Alumni llall snnator Zach HeuvPrs said. "A lot of members of College Hnpublicans approached me after the Student Aetivities Otliee (SAO) didn't allow them to go to the rally !using University funds. II think it's just common sense." 
The amendment stipulates that only the throe dubs diredly asso­dated with political parties may support a speeilic candidate, and other groups which may have political interests, including the campus's Hight to Ufe and NMCP dubs, cannot endorse anyone running liw ollice. 
Senate Soeial Concerns commit­tee chair Gus Gari said it made sense for only the thrne political dubs to have the right to endorse a candidate. 
"Hight to Life is not exdusively affiliated with the Hepublican Party," <;ari said. "We kind of had this laid out because their groups are based on the parties. Personally, I'm happy we're going to have a more politically-aware campus." 
Schmidt said student govern­ment must hrive all thrne dubs the samn funding, which is $2,606.04. 
"All thrnn groups must have the samn resources," Schmidt said. 
Snnatn Campus Technology committee chair Devin Fee, who previously worked on the alloca­tion of funding for dubs with the Club Coordination Council (CCC), said this new stipulation will affect how much money CCC chooses to alloeate to the dubs in the future. 
Not every senator was pleased with the idea that tuition money 


Ryan 
continued from page 1 
University to disclose no fur­ther dntails beyond the name of the dorm. 
"At this time, there is noth­ing to announcn," he said. 
Construction on Hyan llall hogan last spring and is on sehndule to bn completed in timn for studnnts to movn into t lw h a II rw x t i\ ugust, 0 ITicn of ll nsi dn n ce Li l'e and Housing Din~ctor .lefT Shoup said Wndnesday. 
Crows arn currnntly con­structing thn third floor, Shoup said. with tlw goal of gntting thn roof on the build­ing before bad winter weath­nr hits South Bnnd. 
The nnw hall will house 246 students and will be 74,600 square feet. 
Hyan Hall will be similar in layout and look to Duncan Hall, Shoup said, with a few key differences. Hyan will have similar size rooms to Duncan, including "super quads"-two doubles con­neeted by a common area, complete with bay windows, a bathroom and a shower. But there will be more sin­gles in Hyan and fewer triples. 
"When we talked with stu­dents when we first looked at this building a number of years ago, the thing we heard loud and elear was that women didn't like being in t.riplns," Shoup said. 
Duncan's chapnl is on its s (1(: 0 n d fl 0 0 r. a featured sharnd by only one other NotrP Dame n~sidnnce, St. 

for campus organizations was going to be used to support candi­dates in Indiana. Carroll Hall sen­ator Nick Huof said he thought the idea was great for the presidential eleetion, but that he didn't like the idea of tuition money being used to support local candidates. 
"I feel like the student body is not all from Indiana and our money could be used for some­thing greater on campus," Huof said. 
After passing the resolution, Schmidt briefly mentioned that the student government-spon­sored Mock Election is tentatively scheduled for Oct. 8. But he said it may be pushed back until after Fall Break. Schmidt said student government needs to decide whether students would east their votes online or at designated booths. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Heish said he is working with Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) director Phil Johnson and has planned a meeting with South Bend Police Department (SBPD) spokesman Capt. Phil Trent to dis­cuss student safety during tail­gates and while ofl' campus. Reish said he wanted to make sure peo­ple understood policies regarding alcohol at tailgates. 
"We're hoping to become more transparent regarding regulations concerning tailgates," he said. 
+ Fee said in the past few weeks he has met with represen­tatives from the Office of Information Technology (OIT) sev­eral times to discuss campus cell phone service. He said they were encouraging companies such as Sprint and T-Mobile, who have not yet upgraded their service on campus, to do so. The OIT is also preparing a student survey to fmd out where service is weakest on campus, Fee said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Edward's Hall. Ryan's chapel will be on its first floor, down a long corridor from the lobby, Shoup said. 
Hyan Hall, like Duncan, will have an exercise room in the basement and a study and social lounge on each wing. 
The process of filling Ryan Hall with female students will be very similar to the lottery system male students could enter last year for Duncan Hall. 
In January, students can apply online to live in Hyan llall, Shoup said. The lottnry systnm for Duncan was sup­posed to be binding last year, but the University relaxed that rule, recognizing that people might want to back out if their friends were not admitted to the dorm. The lottery for Hyan will not be binding, Shoup said, so if people decline the offer to live in Hyan, the University will hold a second lottery. 
Shoup said he expects the number of applicants to live in Hyan to be akin to the number that applied to live in Duncan -350 students. But now that many have seen Duncan Hall, more female students might apply to Hyan. 
"[Duncan! will be a little bit of an advertisement in itself," Shoup said. 
Notre Dame has long-term plans to build one more men's and one more women's hall. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
~~.r~aoR~ 
Dame: 
Sue Dunn, OP, SrudentAffairs, 631-7819 A.nn Firth, Student Affuirs, 631-2685 Sr. jean Lenz, OSF, StudentA!Tairs, 631-7407 Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 631-7163 

ohn Dillon, Campus Ministry, 631-7163 Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Ctr., 631-4365 
E. Kleva, Health Services, 631-8286 
's Care Center: 234-0363 Charities: 234-3111 


prestigious Luce scholmhlp, finding you an exciting 1'f'Job In the fir east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by o~tober 31! 2008. 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, September 18, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 10,609.66 -449.36
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 283 29 3,237 1,132,687,578 

AMEX 

NASDAQ .. ~/09~.85 -109.05 NYSE ·k· ••••·· ..·. 7,440~39 435Stlll 
S&P 500 1,156.391 -57.20 NIKKEI (Tokyo) ....... 11,377.31 ·"3s7toill FTSE 100 (London) 4,912.40 -291.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE ,.$GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS  -4.50  -5.49  116.61  
AMER INTL GROUP INC (AIG)  -45.33  -1.70  2.05  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -9.60  -1.97  18.55  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -5.19  -2.20  40.21  

Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE -2.32 -0.0810 3.410 13-WEEK BILL -97.67 -0.84 0.02 30-YEAR BOND -0.34 -0.0140 4.081 5-YEAR NOTE -6.81 -0.1820 2.489 
Commodities LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +6.01 97.16 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +70.00 850.50
. 

PORK EiELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.03 90.10 
Exchange Rates YEN 104.8550 EURO 0.6951 



IN BRIEF 
Mayor warns against for.eign entities 
WASHINGTON -New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg warned Wednesday a "next wave" of financial pain may come from overseas if foreign entities stop buy-· ing U.S. debt. 
The billionaire mayor spoke before an audience at Georgetown University, telling them ifs not clear who is going to contin­ue buying U.S. debt as financial firms try to cope with a crisis of confidence on Wall Street. · 
The mayor is scheduled to meet Thursday morning with Treasury Secretary Hank ~aulson and Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Chris Cox. 
Before becoming mayor, Bloomberg made a fortune by launching a financial information company that bears his name, and he has more credibility than most politicians on economic matters. 
Bloomberg said he was concerned that the credit crisis in the United States may scare off foreign investors that, until now, have been willing to buy debt that the U.S. uses to maintain a deficit. 
"It's not clear who's going to be buying our debt," said Bloomberg. "It may very well be that the next wave is going to come back and bite us." 
Company makes "fastest" camera lens 
NEW YORK -Before camera manufac­turers one-upped each other with the number of megapixels, they one-upped each other with the zoom range of their lenses. And before that, in the 1960s, the "speed" of the lens, its ability to gather light, was the big selling point. 
Now, Leica Camera AG, a prestigious but small German maker of high-end cameras and lenses, is going for the speed crown again, making the world's "fastest" lens for still cameras. 
This week, Leica said it has created a new version of its Noctilux lens with an aperture number of 0.95, which in the inverted math of' optics means it gathers 11 percent more light than the old version, which had an aperture of 1. 
Investors worry as market drops again 
Dow Jones industrial average loses 450 points; banking system seems shaky 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The stock market took another nose­dive Wednesday as the American banking system appeared even shakier and investors worried that the financial crisis is spinning so far out of control that even government rescues can't stop it. 
The Dow Jones industrial average, which only two days earlier had suffered its steepest drop since the days after the Sept. 11 attacks, lost another 450 points. About $700 billion in invest­ments vanished. 
One day after the Federal Reserve stepped in with an emergency loan to keep American International Group Inc., one of the world's largest insurers, from going under, Wall Street wondered which com­panies might be the next to falter. 
A major investor in ailing Washington Mutual Inc. removed a potential obstacle to a sale of the bank, and stock in two investment banks, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, was pum­meled. 
It was the fourth consecu­tive day of extraordinary tur­
. moil for the American finan­cial system, beginning with news on Sunday that another venerable investment house, . Lehman Brothers, would be forced to file for bankruptcy. 
The 4 percent drop of money. It is short of confi­dropping from Hong Kong to panel near the top of a Bank Wednesday in the Dow dence," said Sung Won Sohn, London. Brazil's benchmark of America skyscraper in reflected the stock market's an economics professor at index saw the largest drop, Midtown Manhattan fell first chance to digest the California State University. losing nearly 7 percent in a more than 50 stories onto Fed's decision to issue an The financial stocks in the day. the street below and shat­$85 billion taxpayer loan to Standard & Poor's 500 Worse, the short-term tered. No injuries were AIG, which it could convert dropped even more, falling credit markets remained reported. into a majority stake in the 10 percent, and insurance frozen, with overnight inter­In the United States, the company. AIG is important that backs corporate debt est rates soaring for loans faltering economy and bank­because it has essentially soared for the last two sur­between banks and for ing system have begun to become a primary source of viving independent U.S. overnight loans to business­dominate conversations at insurance for the entire investment banks, Morgan es. Long-term loans, howev­dinner tables, bars and financial industry. Stanley and Goldman Sachs. er, didn't rise as much. online, not to mention seiz­
As the stock market stag-"It seems as though banks "The worry on short-term ing the campaign trail. 
-gered, the price of gold, are hoarding cash, no matter loans is you're not sure who One blogger, Michele which rises in times of panic, what rate they could be lend­the ultimate borrower is," Catalano of Long Island, spiked as much as $90.40 an ing it ·at," sa)d David said Brian Bethune, chief posted this on Wednesday: ounce. Bonds, a traditional Rosenberg, North American U.S. economist at Global "Dreamed about AIG and the safe haven for investors, also economist at Merrill Lynch. Insight Inc. stock market, woke up with climbed. Markets around the world And in case an~one needed the urge to stock up on "The economy is not short also tumbled, with stocks additional symbolism, a glass canned goods and shotguns." 

Washington Mutual moves toward sale 
Associated Press raise another round of capital. lurking in Washington Mutual's home 
TPG could have stymied the process loan portfolio. 
Ailing bank Washington Mutual Inc. because of protection when it bought "No one knows what's in their appeared headed toward a sale its stake in April. A clause in its books," said a person briefed on the Wednesday after a major investor agreement co'uld have required a talks between regulators and banks, removed a potential stumbling block buyer or another major investor to speaking Wednesday on the condition and· nervous banking regulators pay TPG hundreds of millions, if not of anonymity because of the sensitivi­began approaching the most logical billions, of' dollars in addition to what­ty of the matter. buyers. ever money was injected into WaMu. Citing unidentified sources, the New 
The New York Times, citing uniden­But TPG agreed to waive the clause York Post said the potential buyers tified people familiar with the matter, ·after concluding WaMu needs all the include JPMorgan Chase & Co. and said an auction of the bank was help it can get. HSBC Holdings PLC., as well as Wells already under way, and J'he Wall "It became clear that it would be in Fargo. The banks all declined to com­Street Journal reported Wells Fargo & the best interests of Washington ment. Co. and Citigroup Inc. expressed Mutual and our investors to waive the Federal regulators would like to sell interest in a takeover. · ... provisions," Fort Worth, Texas­WaMu to a healthy bank, rather than 
WaMu, Wells Fargo and Citigroup based TPG said in a statement. "Our risk a failure that would drain an all declined to comment. goal is to maximize the bank's flexibil­already depleted deposit insurance 
A concession by. investment firm ity in this difficult market environ­fund. By some estimates, a WaMu fail­TPG, which injected $7 billion into ment." ure could cost the Federal Deposit WaMu five months ago, may have The efforts to find a buyer, though, Insurance Corp.'s fund more than $20 opened the way to a sale -or, failing were being complicated by uncertain­billion. At $45.2 billion, the fund is that, made it easier for the bank to ty about the magnitude of losses still already at a five-year low. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, September 18, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Moving beyond the 'us' and 'them' 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, NO<re Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
Vflo:WI'OfNr EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink Scf.NE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
An DF.SIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONT.ROU.ER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
. ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 nbsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
( 574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.I@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
!HE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily nt·wspaper published in prim and online by the smdents of the University of Nmre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertiscmenrs, is not governed by policit'S of rhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsignt-d editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chiet: Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commt·ntaries, letters and columns present the views of rhc authors and not necessarily those ofThe ( >bserver. 
Vitwpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression oLtll opinions through letters is encouraged. Lt•rtcrs ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact infilrmation. 
Qrmtions "f;arding Obsl!rvapolici~s shou/d.b~ direct~d to Eaitor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'!111:: 01-.w::rvl·r (USJIS "i'JI) 2-4HUO) •• ruhlishcd Monday duuu~h rrid.ty except during t'Uin :tml v-.Jc.tmm pt"rwds. A ~uh.o;cupri••n ru'l11c O[,yrver u. $Jilfl fur one acadcmi!." y~::u; .S551i•r U/ICllc:lllt:llfCr. 
l he ObKrvl!r is published ~~ POSTMASTER 
fll-1 S..•urh DinmK IIJJI Send Jddras oorn:ctinm m: 
Norte: D~mc.IN 1f,)%-On9 '111c Ohsuver 
Po:riodi~...al post.~.gc p:tid .tt Notre O.Jmc P.O.BOitn9 ;aud ;uidiuon.tltnJtlmt-: ntfta.\ 0'~ Sourh Dining Hall 
Nurre Dame, IN 1&'SS6-0n9 
Th(." Oh~ervn i• .amcmhd <1f the r~ICJJtcd P~. All rcprodU<:uunrt"lm lilt' n:M:rved. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

When I biked back to my Stadium Club apartment last Monday afternoon, I caught a rare glimpse of South Bend. It was Labor Day; nobody was at work. For the !irst time since arriving, I saw my neighbors. We exchanged how­are-yous, as if either of us cared. 
The house with the bench press on the porch was the most crowded, five or six men and a woman lounging, pius another walking by the mailbox. Mailbox man was shirtless. The type with a Budweiser belly. Sparse, prema­ture gray hair on his chest. Jean shorts that hung just low enough that I could see his ... lower middle class, if you know what I mean. 
These are not the sorts of people we have at Notre Dame. Let's get this out of the way early: I have no delusions of joining arms with all the residents of Bulla Hoad and singing Kumbaya. I know we're different, and I don't mind that. But I do mind hiding behind that difl'erence to justify continued self-seg­regation. 
I like to make fun of how much of a "Stuff (Affiuent) White People Like" kind a guy I can be, as ifjokingly turning myself into a stereotype mitigates my embarrassing "Stuff White People Like­ness." I'm not like those other kids from Connecticut because I know I'm one of those other kids from Connecticut, I can tell myself. I use words like "unfortu­nate" to describe my Volvo. 
Consciousness of privilege may be a frrst step, if done right, but it often serves as little more than a cover for discomfort over actually engaging those 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
with difl'erent backgrounds. It allows us to be reductionist, to fit our experiences and backgrounds and their experiences and backgrounds into set stereotypes. It reconfirms an us and a them. 
We spend a lot of time bemoaning the so-called Notre Dame bubble. In fact, I'd bet I just lost whatever sparse reader­ship I still had by the mention of the phrase. In theory, we have a number of programs to try to break out of it, beyond "awareness." We tutor in South Bend. and then we have seminars where we talk about it. 
But service, like consciousness, does­n't do the job. We can't make significant progress when our only relationship with the South Bend community is one in which Notre Dame serves non-Notre Dame. Obviously, service allows you to engage some. Kids always learn from their service experiences, gain new per­spectives. It's still us and them, though. 
What to do, then? I can't pull my shirt ofT, wear loose jean shorts, and invite myself to the Budweiser-fueled Labor Day block party, as much as I might enjoy that. And an invitation to my Budweiser-fueled Kegs and Eggs proba­bly wouldn't be well received. 
Maybe this isn't so bad. _Maybe there isn't a major problem with separate spheres. People are different. We have disparate interests that socioeconomic status helps define, and the existence of different cultures is not in itself bad. But that is not an excuse to segregate. Not celebrating Labor Day together is one thing. Never saying more than 'hello' is another. 
But short-term, it is a reality. As long as we live effectively segregated lives, there is no easy way to bridge that gap. There's little I can do at Notre Dame today that will change my interaction with much of South Bend. 
Long term, though, there's o·ne solu­tion: interact on as equal a level as we can. It sounds trite, always, to wax 
philosophic about why we need this. 
Without it, we still produce high-achiev­
ing, high-quality graduates, after all. 
But we graduate students who are, by 
and large, happy to parody themselves 
as Volvo-driving, Starbucks-drinking 
insulated eggheads and parody others 
as, well, not like us. 
People from Fairfield, Conne1~ticut are not sushi-obsessed specimens to be observed, though, nor are the other resi­dents of Bulla Hoad all NASCAH-loving mimeographs of My Name is Earl char­acters. We're people with disparate interest!; and experiences, nuanced beyond the stereotypes into which we each cleanly fit ourselves and others. And without equal-footed engagement, we lose this nuan·cc. We're out-of-touch, realize it, but never feel com polled to systematically act on it. 
We need to -get ready for the buzz­word -diversify. We need to find a way to recruit from a wider economic pool and, specifically, from a more economi­cally diverse pool of South Bend high school students. 
This is easier said than dono, of course, and requires sacrifice of other populations. But if we ever really want to break out of the bubble, opportunities for community service and awareness of difference won't be enough. It's a first step, but we have a long w~y to go. 
Andrew Nesi is a senior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. He got his .first kiss in kindergarten, when a girl shoved him into the corner ofthe "cubby area" after serenading him with Billy Ray Cyrus' "Achy-Breaky Heart." It would be the most action he would get for a while. He can be reached at anesi@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those oftha author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News  Sports  OBSERVER POLL  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Kaitlynn Riely Becky Hogan  Fran Tolan Alex Barker  What do you think of the new Facebook?  
Emma Driscoll  Scene  
Viewpoint Kara King  Mark Witte Graphics Blair Chemidlin  Love it Hate it I don't care  "''m not so good with the advice ... Can 7 interest y_ou in a sarcastic comment?"  
I don't have a Facebook  Chandler Bing a.k.a Ms. Chanandler Bong  
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at  
www.ndsmcobserver.com  


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 18, 2008 page 9 
The whole truth, and nothing but the truth 
The truth is harder to come by than law cowis may hope for. The "whole truth and nothlng but the truth" may be God's alone. We pursue with difficulty a multiplicity of truths. "What is truth," Pontius Pilate said, and as a governor he was well versed Fr. Nicholas in partisan politics. Ayo Truth is always a bit more complicated. I tell my students on Faithpoint the first day of class the following cau­tion: "I do not always say what I mean; I do not always mean what I say, and what you heard is not what I said." Perhaps that dis­claimer is an exaggeration, but it should give pause. Pursuit oftruth is fraught with the complications of saying and hearing. I also tell my students what window I claim to have on the truth. I am a white, middle­class, American, male, cleric. That's my background and my viewpoint, and I am fully aware that viewpoint is enough to peeve the whole world. My viewpoint, how­ever, is neither worse nor better than another, all thlngs being equal, but it is lim­ited. Everyone else sees from a limited viewpoint as well, though perhaps not everyone will recognize his or her own situ­ation. No one knows the whole truth and nothing but the truth but God alone. Uniquely God does not observe the truth; God is the truth. God creates the truth that we discover. 
Propaganda, ideology, advocacy, special interests, advertising, and political rhetoric do not tell the whole truth and nothlng but the truth. Such discourses tell what is good about their position and what is not good about their opponent or competitor. What is not good about their own position and what is good about their opponent or competitor is passed over in silence. Resumes tell what is strong about their authors and overlook what is weak. Sacramental confession tells our sins but is silent about our virtues. The whole truth and nothing but the truth may still elude us. 
Post-modernism has urged a "hermeneu­tics of suspicion." One need not conclude, however, that the pursuit oftruth is impos­sible. One need conclude only that truth comes with historical baggage and pack­aged in language that is opaque. Christianity for many centuries was cozy with slavery in its midst, and today is appalled by slavery. Christianity for many centuries was cozy with no freedom ofreli­gion, and today is appalled by lack ofreli­gious freedom. I like to think such changes were changes to stay the same. The truth of human dignity was never denied and always acclaimed, but it was not under­stood that slave people were human. The persecution of heretics was thought to be quarantine of a spiritual "Typhoid Mary," who might infect unto spiritual death a whole population, but it was not under­stood that neither the faith that saves nor personal conscience can be compelled. Notre Dame became a coed university in 1972. It changed to stay the same. Notre Dame was devoted to educating the leaders of society-doctors, lawyers, mayors, pro­fessors, bankers, editors, et al. When women became involved in those profes­sions, then women belonged at Notie 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Diversity com.es at a cost 
As described by yesterday's front-page article, "Jenkins calls for increasing faculty diversity," Fr. Jenkins's goal for increased diversity is certainly very noble, but the implications are certainly not. 
How does Fr. Jenkins suggest increasing the per­centage of minority and women faculty members without taking race and gender into consideration when hiring? What does the University care more about, hiring faculty who will best be able to educate their students and make important discoveries, or faculty that fit their preconceived notions? 
Ifthere had been a disproportionately high number of minorities, would the University turn away highly qualified minorities to hire white men? Surely not. Why then the other way? 
I by no means suggest that women and minorities are not as qualified as white men, but it is naive to believe that in the hiring phases in the coming years, the best person for each job will necessarily be a woman or minority. To aim to hire that way puts an unfair disadvantage to each white man looking for a job. 
I understand that affirmative action is intended to reverse discrimination of the past, but the men and women the University will hire have advanced degrees from top institutions. They already possess an enormous advantage over the vast majority of Americans. Do they really still need reconciliation when they've conquered so many obstacles? 
Jenkins also reaffirmed Notre Dame's commitment to hiring Catholics. I can understand to an extent the desire to maintain a high number.ofCatholic educa­tors, but that also is a form ofdiscrimination. 
The University strives to maintain the deep Catholic tradition ofthe University, true. But I personally believe that men and women of all faiths could respect that, and need not be discriminated against. 
It's a shame to think that ifAlbert Einstein, a white, Jewish man, was to apply in the coming years, he would potentially be turned down because of "a com­mitment to diversity." 
(By the way, I don't hear anyone complaining about the lack ofhomosexual faculty members. I guess that's one kind of "diversity" the University isn't too hung upon). 
Discrimination is discrimination. Period. I for one am a half-white, half-Latino Protestant man who hopes that one day, universities, employers, voters and society in general will truly be blind to race, gen­der, religion and the such, and just choose the best man (or woman) for the job. 
Alex Griswold freshman Knott Hall Sept. 17 
A Christian approach to vvar 
I thoroughly appreciated the point of view that Jim Napier expressed in his letter, "Raytheon important aspect of national defense," (Sept. 17) and I mean this without the usual would-be-satiri­cal sarcasm that seems to be so in vogue for Viewpoint counterarguments. 
However, just because I can appreciate and understand his point does not mean that I agree with him. While it may seem impossible that peace could be achieved without force and threat of vio­lence, that is exactly what we as Christians (and a Catholic University) are called to believe and prac­tice. Jesus' teachings speak overwhelmingly against violence. During the Sermon on the Plain, He famously taught us to, "love your enemies, do good to those who hate you ... to the person who strikes you on one cheek, offer the other one as well" (Luke 6:27 ,29). 
· I don't believe that it is much of a stretch to say that "love your enemies" probably means not to kill them, or even to threaten to kill them, so that you can have your own way (even ifyour own way is such a noble thing as "liberty"). Turning the other cheek is Jesus' proposition for how to deal with your enemies instead. By turning the other cheek, we can expose the greed of-our enemies' violence, looking them in the eye showing the world that we are brave enough to stand and courageous enough not to fight. By fighting back we only vindicate them and perpetuate the pattern of violence. 
Still, it has become commonplace in American Christianity to tolerate militaries and threats in response to increasing patterns of violence as more and more people come to hold the same views as Napier: that these things are necessary to preserve peace. 
But that is not the way of Christ himself. Christ was, after all, opposed to the Pax Romana and the rest of Rome precisely because its "backbone always consisted of its legions." Instead, He taught non-violence and love of enemies as creative ways to disarm those who hate us. 
To think that Jesus is being impractical, or that He just doesn't know how the world works these days, is to lose faith, a faith that I have lost myself on occasion. But we must continue to believe that Christ knew what he was talking about. Contrary to what Napier seems to believe, peace will never be achieved through war and violence, only by defeat­ing hate with love and greed with compassion. 
That's what Jesus would do. 
Greg Jungwirth junior O'Neill Hall Sept. 17 
Dame, which changed in order to stay the same. 
Human beings can know truth, but in this world not "the whole truth and nothlng but the truth." Whether we quote Sacred Scriptures or appeal "to what the Church teaches," or whether we cite empirical sci­ence or claim human wisdom, human beings are limited in knowledge and often spin the truth because sin taints us all. That should come as no surprise to those who know our human minds are darkened and our wills are weakened, and that we need the Holy Spirit, given to all people, who illu­mines our minds and enkindles our hearts. A deep humility· befits us all, believer and unbeliever alike, in our pursuit ofthe "whole truth, and nothlng but the truth." 
This week's Faithpoint is written by Fr. Nicholas Ayo, CSC, Professor in the Program ofLiberal Studies. He can be reached at ayo.l@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this Faithpoint are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Necessity no exc~se for im_m_orality 
Enough with this nationalism! 
Charles Cossell ("Removing Raytheon not enough," Sept. 17) • asserts that "it is blood money that has brought about our nation's freedom." Before spewing more nationalistic, logically empty rhet­oric (old news), how about a look at some other thlngs that have brought about rights and freedoms? 
1. Freedoms: ofspeech, ofreligion, to keep and bear arms, of assembly, to petition, from unreasonable search and seizure ... you know the rest (hopefully). 
Method: A bunch of really smart, good, respectable people (like Notre Dame students are supposed to be?) sit in a room and intel­ligently debate what government should do. 
Outcome: a republic that would become increasingly democrat­. ic. 
2. Right: free public education. Method: social movements for education reform. Outcome: educated citizens create a more democratic democra­
cy. 

3. Freedoms: female, poor and minority people gain the vote. Methods: Marches, petitions, assemblies, civil disobedience, dec­
larations of conscience. Outcome: even more democracy. 
4. Freedom: to be an irresponsible citizen. 
Methods: ad hominem attacks, sarcasm, fundamentalism, false comparison and false simplification; belief that there is a single (military) solution for any threat; corporate control ofthe media; ignorance about social problems; and excess power in the hands ofthe executive. 
Outcome: the dissolution ofdemocracy and its freedoms. 
So war profiteering has never been a preferred or successful method for gaining freedom in this country nor in other lands. Maybe people want to make weapons over wealth, political power or another idol, but those are not freedom. A positive form of free­dom ("freedom to" rather than "freedom from") is strengthened lfy debate and people with strong consciences. 
To Jim Napier ("Raytheon an important aspect ofnational defense," Sept. 17) and Cossell, both ofwhose responses try to convince us ofthe necessity ofviolence to freedom: remember that not all who want integrity from institutions are pacifists. 
On an institutional level, Notre Dame has a chance to tell these folks to get their moral acts together-obviously, Notre Dame opposes torture, extraordinary rendition, war profiteering and indiscriminate killing (by cluster bombs, for example). "You can do better," we can say, without even threatening the existence of those companies -let alone taking an institutionally pacifist stance. 
The argument against Raytheon and other morally inept institu­tions stands; arguing that violence is necessary for freedom does nothlng against it. 
Let's suppose someone did make an argument based on paci­fism. During Pax Romana, which Napier uses as evidence in his letter, many Christians chose martyrdom because they could not in good conscience participate in the military pursuitS ofthe empire. 
The Catholic Church still affirms both pacifist and just war stances. 
Kristi Haas junior off-campus Sept. 17 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 
Thursday, September 18, 2008 


The 

onderbread Guy comes to campus 



By STEPHANIE DePREZ Assistant Scene Editor 
He's one of Showtime's five funniest people. He's appeared on "Seinfeld" and is a veteran on Jay Leno. Thursday, he comes to campus with a bag of tricks so big you won't be able to help laughing. 
Pat Hazell is the go-to guy for today's corporate comedy, as in, he will appear at your busi­ness awards show or conven­tion and, given one night, turn it upside down. He has spent 
25 years in the business writ­ing, producing and perform­ing. He hosts, emcee's and speaks at events all over the country. His latest endeavor, a stage show entitled "The Wonderbread Years," was 

awarded Jerry Seinfeld's funny seal of approval. 
Pat Hazell's self title is that of Boomer Humorist (with jokes that appeal to everyone from baby boomers to our crowd) and Pop Culture Anthropologist. He taps into Americana humor and is always well-received for his take on American life that is not so much crude and dirty (as is the majority of stand up humor today). but rather funny for its verisimilitude. He puts a lens on life and manages to spin it into comedy without depraving or exaggerating it. 
th~t suddenlyHe manages to make you're seeing it his way.
people really look at them­
Born in
selves, their culture and 
Omaha, Neb., the idiosyncrasies that Hazell was a high school
contribute to their 
drama geek and
-lifestyle, and that man­
attended the ages to be the one of the University of Nebraska in his
funniest things ofall. 
hometown, 
where he majored in dramatic arts. After college he moved 
to Los Angeles sparse set and and attempted to Much of the humor just enough props pursue a career to hint at all the
crosses generations,
as a magician. places we've ever
and we can all laugh 
The jury is still been. Hazell not out on whether about dealing with only looks at our his tricks were lives and
trick-or-treaters on 
any good, but fel­lifestyle, but also
Halloween.
low comedians manages to relay encouraged him a sense of won­to pursue stand-der about our­up and he got himself a gig selves that we have, over the opening for Mr. Seinfeld him­years, lost. self. He appeared on The Tonight Show with Johnny Contact Stephanie DePrez at Carson in 1989 and has since sdeprez@nd.edu . 
He manages to make people really look at themselves, their culture and the idiosyncrasies that contribute to their lifestyle, and that man­ages to be the one of the funni­est things of all. 
He's not just a comedian, but also an enter­tainer. Hazell can stand in front of a crowd in any situation and spin your 
perspective so then appeared on it with Jay Lena six times. 
Hazell wrote a comedic about brothers grow­ing up called "Bunk Bed Brothers." It ran in Los Angeles and was optioned by Columbia Pictures, which turned it into a sitcom. 
"The Wonderbread Years" is his latest work, and he's been taking it all over the country. The show presents a down-to­earth look at the American life we all know and love and has been playing to packed houses and garnering glowing reviews. It is a salute to baby boomers, but manages to appeal to all ages. Much of the humor cross­es generations, and we can all laugh about dealing with trick· or-treaters on Halloween. "The Wonderbread Years" lies some­where between theatre and 
stand-up, with a 
Pat Hazell is the go-to guy for today's corporate comedy, as in, he will appear at your business awards show or conven­tion and, given one night, turn it upside down. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, September I8, 2008 
page II 

ay, ept. 1 s presen Rebeck at 5 p.m. Browning Cinema. Theresa Rebeck is a celebrated writer and grad-
of the Notre Dame from 1980. She has pub­lished a book of comedic essays based on her experiences writing for show business entitled "Free Fire Zone." In it, she draws upon her histo­
as a television screenwriter for shows such as ."Dream On, "L.A. Law," and "Third Watch." Rebeck was also a writer and producer fo 
19: L.oJmectums Legends 10 p.m. You may recognize Thea Von and Bert Kreischer Comedy Central's 'Reality Bites Back" competi­
in which 10 comedians competed in reality show spoof competitions. Von won the competition. He is a comedian you might also know from NBC's "Last Comic Standing (Season 4)," Comedy Central's "Live at Gotham" or my personal favorite M1Vs "Road Rules." 
was a regular on the Road Rules/Real World chal­
"Canterbury's Law," "Law and Order: tutJLHatllllllllenges in which he usually dominated physically while 
Jintent" and "NYPD Blue" and she also lthe feature film "Harriet the Spy." ·House/Shay Arehe'art Books recently ,Rebeck's first novel, "Three Girls 'Brother." She is a widely produced 
many New York productions on her In. her talk, Rebeck will address what she ers to be a writer's primary concerns: How to a story with truth and vision and how to ver as a dramatic writer in a difficult world. is a free but ticketed event. Tickets can be reserved by calling the ticket office at 574-631­2800. 
Saturday, Sept. 20: The Compleat Wrks of Shkspr {Abr.), South Bend Civic Theatre at 3 
p.m. and 8 p.m. Also on Sunday at 3 p.m. 
This outlandish, fast-paced play was first per­formed in 1999. Three actors, Matthew Bell, Cecil Eastman and Ted Manier, present all Shakespeare's 37 plays in 97 minutes. The play a hilarious production of some of also cracking everyone up with his humor. He has been performing stand up comedy for five years with nightly shows in Los Angeles when he is not traveling. His bits range from ranting about liis dysfunctional family, the South and poking fun of his own life. 
Bert was discovered by Rolling Stone Magazine 
attending Florida State and named "The #1 Party Animal in the Country" which sparked his come­dy career. He has worked with Will Smith for television projects, co-hosted "The X-Show" on FX, and starred in the TV pilot "Life with David J." Bert currently hosts Spike lVs "Fresh Baked Video Games." This is event is free, but requires a ND/SMOHC ID. 
Sunday, Sept. 21: Gianna Commito Art Exhibit at Saint Mary's College Moreau Art Galleries. 
This new art exhibit displays the new work Gianna Commito. The solo exhibition is on display at three galleri~s at SMC: Hammes, Little Theatre and Sister Rosaire. Commito is currently an Assistant Professor of Painting at Kent State University. She received her MFA from University of Iowa and her 
best-known lines and stories. It satirizes •ut,aLt~t, 1111 t:•rn. from Alfred University. Her paintings and draw-academia and Shakespeare's' classic, but are derived from architectural sources and she is outlandish plots. Highlights of the show include to build a complex matrix of color, form, trans-Othello as a rap, the histories as a football game and texture on a two-dimensional surface. · and Hamlet presented in all sorts of crazy ways. drawings are dynamic and pull the viewer in clos-The play should be outrageous and fun and even to examine the interesting spaces and planes of the elicits audience participation. The play, written The exhibit, which runs until Sept. 26, is open to 
· by Adam Long, Daniel Singer, and Jess Winfield, public. has fielded rave reviews. Tickets are $15 and canlllllll-------------------­
purchased at www.sbct.org 

I By MICHELLE FORDICE 

1 Sitting in the dining hall with a copy of ~Gourmet" magazine isI probably never a great idea. .. Football weekend or not, the dining I hall is never going to be on par with J! the best of t~e wor~d's restaurants t' and chefs. Still, I tried to stay ·con­" tent with my macaroni and cheese ·~ and look forward to the chance to 'I try out some of the recipes found in · its covers over the weekend and to1what I might be able to create for this week's column, always striving I to create something new with what . the dining hall hands us. This week ~; we have our first non-sandwich 
entree, so give it a try. 
Shepherd's Pie 

Full of vegetables, meat, and potatoes, this traditionally English dish is a meal all to you have already covered most of the food groups it doesn't need much of a side, but is good with something like cornbread. Of course, get it in a pub and it will probably be matched with a good beer, but you won't find 
that in the dining hall. 
Fill a bowl with ground beef from the Mexican bar. (Shepherd's Pie is frequently done with turkey as well; you can try this on the occasions the dining hall offers it.) 
Add in chopped onion (or sliced red onion, if that is all that is avail­able, or you like the spicier flavor) and cooked vegetables. Carrots, peas and corn are the most com­mon in this dish, but feel free to experiment with ingredients such as stewed tomatoes and red bell peppers. You can also choose things from the salad bar, but you might want to reheat the bowl ifyou don't think it will be hot enough for your tastes. 
Mix together. 

Top with mashed potatoes and gravy. Some recipes add cheese to the top as well, try it! 
Ice Cream Cookie 
How can we forget dessert? This recipe is so easy, I'd be surprised if half of you haven't figured it out already, but it's always a good one sure to fuljill your sweet tooth. 
Select two of you favorite cookies from the dessert bar. 
Fill a bowl with a good scoop of your favorite ice cream.· Toss in some of your favorite mix-ins. Some good combinations: vanilla ice cream and caramel inside oatmeal­raison cookies, chocolate-chip cook­ies with mint chocolate chip ice cream and hot fudge or peanut but­ter cookies with chocolate ice cream for that Reece's effect. 
Heat up the cookies in the 
microwave. 
Fill the two cookies with your ice cream mixture and take a messy bite! (Or if you're of the more deli--~• cate variety, go after it with a fork.) •...• 
I 

Quick Tip H 
Don't forget to mix up your drinks W as well! Plenty of students walking W around the dining hall have strange * concoctions in their hands ~at .we •1 at least hope are tasty. Its hke ··. when you were a kid making sui-l' cides in McDonald's. Try mixing · Sprite into your slushy to make it ! more fizzy, combining lemonade m with cranberry juice or making a $ dining hall ~ocha by sweetening m your coffee With hot chocolate. w 
Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to feature it! E-mail mfordice@nd.edu. Thank you to Diana Jones for providing ili inspiration for the Shepherd's Pie. · 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
• 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 18, 2008 
MLB 

Koshansky powers Rockies-past Padres 
Harang pitches six-hit shutout to lead Cincinnati over St. Louis; A-Rod homers in Yankee victory over White Sox 
DENVER -Joe Koshansky Chris !annetta and Ian 
made the most of some rare Stewart had two hits apiece for 
playing time Wednesday. the Rockies, who won the last 
Koshansky homered and five two games of the three-game Colorado Hockies pitchers com­series. bined for a live-hitter in a 1-0 The Padres struggled to win over the San Diego Padres. score after getting 10 runs and 
Koshansky, who clubbed 31 18 hits Monday night. homers in Triple-A this season, "Yeah, we're fatigued, but has backed up Garret Atkins at pitchers are fatigued this time Jirst base since being called up of year, too," Padres left fielder on Sept. 2. Wednesday was his Chase Headley said. "Good first start. and he responded pitching beats good hitting with a 2-for-4 day at the plate. every time." 
"The situation he's in right The Padres' best threat came now, he hasn't accepted it, but in the seventh. Sean Kazmar he understands it," manager reached on a one-out single to Clint Hurdle said. "We haven't third and advanced on a forgotten about him, it's a throwing error by Stewart. tough lit right now." Pinch-hitter Drew Macias 
Koshansky played seven walked, and the runners games for the Rockies in July moved up on Will Venable's before heading back to Triple­groundout. But Speier got out 
A. He entered with only five of the jam when Edgar pinch-hit at-bats since being Gonzalez grounded out to recalled two weeks ago, but he third. looked sharp when he sent "We couldn't break through Josh Geer's 3-2 fastball over their builpen," Padres manager the center-field wall with two Bud Black said. "Their bullpen out in the fourth. did a nice job. Speier, Corpas 
"He got it up, and I figured and Fuentes did a nice job." he was going to throw a fast­Corpas pitched a perfect ball," Koshansky said. eighth inning and Fuentes 
Koshansky said he has stayed struck out two in the ninth for sharp by taking extra batting his 28th save in 32 chances. practice and swinging in the tunnel during games. Reds 3, Cardinals 0 
"I've actually taken a lot of Aaron Harang pitched a six­swings," he said. "It's a matter hitter and the Cincinnati Reds That was enough for Harang April 29. That was all the Nady to score and give the of remembering what it feels hit back-to-hack homers to (5-16), who allowed singles to White Sox could muster Yankees a 2-1 lead. like. It's the same game I've beat St. Louis and send the the first two batters he faced against Hughes and four reliev­Johnny Damon hit a two-run played for 20-plus years." Cardinals to their seventh and scattered four hits the rest ers, who threw five shutout homer in the eighth off Scott 
Koshansky's 435-foot drive straight loss Wednesday night. of the way. He didn't walk any­innings. The White Sox entered Linebrink and Rodriguez lined was enough for Colorado's Andy Phillips and Jay Bruce body and had four strikeouts the night with a two and a half his 553rd homer to right two pitching staff. Starter Livan opened the fourth inning with for his fifth career shutout. game lead over Minnesota. batters later for a 5-1 lead. Hernandez and Glendon Rusch, consecutive home runs and The slumping Wellemeyer is With his homer in the eighth Hughes' return to the mound Ryan Speier. Manny Corpas Paul Janish added the first of 1-4 in his last five starts and inning, A-Rod became the first was cut short after just four a,nd Brian Fuentes shut down his career later in the inning to has given up all three sets of player to have at least 35 in 11 innings. Considered a future the Padres' offense. help Harang to his first win back-to-hack home runs straight seasons (1998-2008). ace by the Yankees, Hughes 
Hernandez (2-3) was named since Aug. 22, snapping a per­allowed by St. Louis this sea­snapping a tie with Sammy earned a spot on the staff out the starter late Tuesday after sonal losing streak that had left son. The right-hander allowed Sosa (1995-2004). Rodriguez of spring training. But he went the Rockies decided to shelve him 0-3 with a 3.00 ERA in his just one other hit besides the has 101 RBis this season. 0-4 with a 9.00 ERA before left-bander Jeff Francis for the previous four starts. home runs-Harang's fourth­Ruth had at least 35 homers sustaining a stress fracture in season. On short notice, Harang's threw 111 pitches inning single. Wellemeyer and 100 RBis for the Yankees a rib, and he hadn't pitched Hernandez went five innings, -79 strikes -in his first walked tow and struck out six. 11 times in the 1920s and 30s. since April 29. Manager Joe struck out two and walked two shutout since beating White Sox manager Ozzie Girardi was hoping to see him in his sixth start since joining Pittsburgh 4-0 on Aug. 29, Yahkees 5, White Sox 1 Guillen said he would keep show better command of his the Rockies on Aug. 10. 2007. Alex Rodriguez became the Richard, who came in 2-4 with fastball Wednesday. 
Hernandez hadn't pitched in The Reds have won four first player with 3 5 homers a 6.94 ERA, on a very short Wearing glasses instead of a week and said he had noth­straight and seven of their last and 100 RBis in 12 seasons -leash, and the 25-year-old contacts and No. 65 -his old ing to prove despite going 1-3 nine games. one more than Babe Ruth -rookie Richard earned every number -instead of 34, which with a 9.85 ERA in his first five The Cardinals were shutout and the New York Yankees inning. he wore to start this season, starts with Colorado. for the fifth time this season slowed the Chicago White Sox's He induced double-play Hughes needed 33 pitches to 
"I don't have to show my while extending their longest pursuit of the AL Central grounders in the first; after a get out of the first inning. He ability to nobody," he said. losing streak since they lost crown with a victory leadoff walk, and in the third, threw 89 pitches -57 strikes "The last start I didn't pitch nine straight last September. Wednesday night. after a leadoff single, and -overall. The 22-year-old that bad. The only bad games Albert Pujols went 0-for-4 Johnny Damon hit a two-run struck out Derek Jeter in the right-hander gave up a run I've had are the first two and is hitless in his last eight homer, Robinson Cano had fifth after giving up two singles and four hits and two walks. games." at-bats since a 10-game hitting three hits and Xavier Nady had to start the inning. He struck out four. 
Geer (2-1) scattered five hits streak. a tying RBI single in the sev­But Guillen left him in a bat­The Yankees bullpen pitched over five innings, struck out St. Louis starter Todd enth inning. Nady then scored ter too long. After a visit to the five scoreless innings in relief. live and walked three. His only Wellemeyer (12-8) didn't allow on a wild pitch as New York mound that left Richard with a Phil Coke pitched two-plus mistake was the pitch to a hit until Phillips led off the rallied against rookie Clayton big smile, the rookie gave up a innings, Brian Bruney came on Koshansky. fourth inning with a home run Richard in the fifth to last reg­tying single to Nady. Cano fol­with a ru'nner on second in the 
"He was battling up there," to center, his second homer of ular-season•game at Yankee lowed with a double down the seventh and got three straight Geer said. "I threw a fastball, the season. Bruce followed Stadium. right-field line to end the rook­outs. Joba Chamberlain and he was able to flip it up with another homer to center, Jermaine Dye had an RBI ie's night. worked the eighth before there, just over the center-field his 19th this year. Janish con­groundout off Phil Hughes, who Mike MacDougal relieved and Edwar Ramirez got the final fence." nected two outs later. was making his first start since threw a wild pitch that allowed three outs. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED 
PURDUE WEEKEND VARSITY CLUB SUITE FRIDAY AND SAT­UROAY NIGHTS WITH 2 GAME TICKETS $800. 
CALL (914) 967-3023. 

FoR RENT 
Home for rent for NO football week­ends. 3 bdrm, 1.5 baths with eat-in kitchen. Just 2 blocks from NO campus. 
Contact Rocky at Rock0299@aol.com. 
House near NO. 574-310-3663. 
Homes available now &2009-1 0 & football wknds. 574-329-0308. 


TICKETS 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell NO football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 574-232-0964. 
Wanted: NO football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
Need Purdue tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 

PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit NOs Pregnancy Resources website at: http://osa.nd".edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
It was only a matter of time, Tavaris. 
Philly fans are soft. 
RIP Sean Taylor. 
Next question ... 




OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 18th, 2008 COMPILED fROM THE 0RSERVF:l't'S WlRf. SERVICES page 13 
NCAA Football AP Poll 

team points record 

1 usc 1,596 2·0 
2 Oklahoma 1,485 3·0, 
3 Georgia 1,437 3·0 
4 Florida 1,414 2·0 
5 Missouri 1,389 3·0­
6 LSU 1,274 2·0 
7 Texas 1,140 2·0 
8 Wisconsin 1,076 3-0 
9 Alabama 982 3-0 
10 Auburn 958 3·0 
11 Texas Tech 904 3·0 
12 South Florida 801 3·0 
13 Ohio State 800 2·1 
14 Brigham Young 788 3-8 
15 East Carolina 781 3~o 
16 Penn State 779 3-8 
17 Oregon 679 3-8 
18 Wake Forest 482 2·0 
19 Kansas 445 2-1 
20 Utah 428 3-0 
21 West Virginia 179 1·1 
22 Illinois 163 2-1 
23 Clemson 160 2·1 
24 Florida State 146 2·0 
25 Fresno Slate 121 1·1 
NCAA Football 
USA Today Poll 

team points record 
1 usc 1,518 2-0 
2 Oklahoma 1,423 3-0 
3 Georgia 1,393 3-0 
4 Florida 1,335 2·0 
5 Missouri 1,294 3-0 
6 LSU 1,233 2-0 
7 Texas 1,128 2-0 
8 Wisconsin 1,027 3-0 
9 Auburn 955 3-ll 
10 Texas Tech 887 3-0 
11 Brigham Young 846 3~o 
12 Oregon 783 3·0 
13 Alabama 771 3-0 
13 Ohio State 736 2-1 
15 Penn State 724 3-0 
16 South Florida 685 3-0 
17 East Carolina 508 3-0 
18 Wake Forest 498 2-ll 
19 Kansas 416 2·1 
20 Utah 400 3·0 
21 Clemson 233 2-1 
22 West Virginia 159 1·1 
23 Illinois 127 2·1 
24 Arizona State 113 2·1 
25 Florida Stale 110 -2·0 
MIAA Women's Volleyball Standings 
Team Record 

team league overall 1 Hope 
4-0 9-3 2 Calvin 
3-0 Y-2 3 Alma 
"4-1 9-4 4 Adrian 
2-1 6-5 5 SAINT MARY'S 
2-2 &~3 6 Albion 
2-3 6·6 7 Kalamazoo 
1-4 4-9 8 Trine 
1-4 4·9 9 Olivet 
0-4 3-10. 
around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

No. 21 West Virginia at Colorado 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 


AP 

Kansas City Chiefs' quarterback Tyler Thigpen narrowly avoids being tackled by Oakland Raiders defensive end Derrick Burgess in the second quarter of the Chiefs' 23-8 loss Sunday. 
Thigpen to replace Huard as starter 
NFL 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY -Tyler Thigpen, the first player from Coastal Carolina select­ed in the NFL draft, will be the first to start at quarter­back. 
The 24-year-old Thigpen will be under center on Sunday for Kansas City when the Chiefs go to Atlanta. It will be exactly 11 months after the struggling young Chiefs (0-2) last won a game. 
A 23-8 loss to Oakland on Sunday, in which Thigpen came off the bench and fin­ished 14-for-33, was their 11th straight regular-season defeat. 
"For what we're trying to do, I thlnk he can do a good job of it," coach Herm Edwards said. "He'll be lim­ited in some things but we want to take a look at him." 
After coming in for Damon Huard against Oakland, Thigpen looked every bit like the inexperi­enced second-year pro that he is, and sent several pass­es glancing off the hands of defensive backs. 
But he appeared to settle down, and eventually hit tight end Tony Gonzalez with a short touchdown pass and converted the 2-point conversion. He also threw an interception and finished 14-for-33 for 151 yards. 
"He's another young play­er, a quarterback we want 
IN BRIEF Pt:nn State players ch.~ged
With possessiOn of manJuana 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -Two suspended Penn State football players were charged with one count each of possession of a small amount of marijuana. 
University police filed the mis­demeanor charges Wednesday against defensive linemen Maurice Evans and Abe Koroma, who have been held out of the last two games by coach Joe Paterno. 
Police said officers searched the players' apartment after respond­ing to a call about loud noise on Sept. 2. Investigators said in court papers that they found "three small clear plastic baggies containing marijuana" and a "burnt roach" in Evans' room, and a "burnt roach" in Koroma's room. 
The cutoff for the charge of possessfon of a small amount of marijuana is 30 grams. 
to look at, see where he's at. If he struggles, obviously Damon comes in," Edwards said. 
Brodie Croyle, the strong­armed but injury-prone young quarterback the Chiefs are hoping to build around, has a separated shoulder and will be out at least one more week and possibly more. Huard, a 12­year veteran and the only quarterback in Kansas City who has won in the NFL, made the start against the Raiders but came out in the first half with a sore neck. 
Now Huard is OK, but Thigpen will join several inexperienced. young Chiefs who are getting a cram course in the NFL. 
Kentucky Derby adds new 
qualifying race to schedule 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -The Kentucky Derby could have a more interna­tional feel next year. 
Churchill Downs has partnered with Kempton Park Racecourse in England to create the $150,000 Kentucky Derby Challenge Stakes, a 1 1/8-mile race over Kempton's syn­thetic surface that will guarantee the winner a spot in next year's Derby. 
The move is a departure from the usual Triple Crown nominating process. The entrants to the Derby have traditionally been selected on graded stakes earnings. The winner of the Kentucky Derby Challenge will get an automatic spot in the Derby if the owner agrees to pay the entry fee and shipping costs. ­
The only foreign-based horse to win the Derby was Canonero II in 1971, and overseas challengers have been few and far between in recent years. 
"We're trying to look at young players, it's part of the process," Edwards said. "Is (fhigpen) a two? Is he a one? Is he always going to be a three? You don't know until they play, until they have an opportunity to play." 
With 15 rookies and 32 players of three years of experience or less, the Chiefs are the NFL's youngest team. Branden Albert, a rookie, will start at left tackle and be tasked with protecting Thigpen from Atlanta's John Abraham, who has four sacks in two games. Both starting cornerbacks and a starting defensive tackle are also rookies. 
Hurricane's Williams tears 
tendon, to miss six months 
RALEIGH -Carolina Hurricanes right wing Justin Williams might miss up to six months after tearing his Achilles' tendon on Wednesday. 
General manager Jim Rutherford said Williams will have surgery this week and is expected to be sidelined at least four months. Rutherford said Williams injured the tendon in his right leg while running during an off-ice workout three days before the start of preseason camp. 
The 26-year-old Williams -one of the team's most durable players, and a key member of the No. 1 line that also includes star center Eric Staal and left wing Ray Whitney -aJready was com­ing back from knee surgery that cost him 43 games last season. 
"You can't really tell (how that injury had healed) until you get in a number of games," Rutherford said. "He looked good, his conditioning was good -he really appeared ready to go again. But that's going to be set back for a while now." 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 18, 2008 
NFL 


Frerotte to start 
at QB forVIkings 
Associated Press 
EDEN PHAIHIE. Minn. -Out 

with the new, in with the old. 
With the passing ofl'ense sput­tering in two losses to open the season, Minnesota coach Brad Childress deeidPd the Vikings can no longer afford to let 25­year-old quarterback Tarvaris .Jackson learn on the job. 
On Wednesday, Childress turned to 15-year vnteran Gus Frerotte to run the offense for tho rest of the season. 
"''m just not seeing right now the aggressiveness from Tarvaris that I saw throughout.the oflsea­son. training camp. the two pre­season games that he played in," Childress said. "And part of it may be experience. I know Gus will givn us that. And I know his approach will also lend itself to that." 
.Jackson completed just 51 per­cnnt of his passes this season. lie throw a game-ending intercep­tion at (;rnen Bay that sealnd the Packers victory and was partly responsible for the offense set­tling for fivn finld goals and scor­ing no touchdowns in an 18-15 loss to the Colts. 
"( know tlwn's many other plays, there's a lot of other peo­pln that have to step up," Childross said. "But then when you go back through and look at tlw tape. and most importantly to be able to sit across from the young man and want to be able to verify what you're feeling ­it's kind of like looking in your kids' eyes and saying one (thing) and feeling another." 
It's an abrupt and drastic move for a team that enten~d the sea­son with sky-high expectations after spending $60 million in guaranteed money to position itself as an NFC contender. 
Only two weeks in, the Vikings alrnady are two games behind NFC North-leading Green Bay with games against Carolina, at Tennessee and at New Orleans coming up. 
"We're 0-2 right now, and the key thing, probably one of the reasons Coach made the deci­sion, was maybe because we need to get something to get us ow~r the hump to get us a win,'' tho 3 7 -year-old Fwrotte said. 
Jackson admitted to "inconsis­tent play to say the least," but also said he was surprised and upsnt by the move. 
"I could easily hold my head low, keep my head down, you know, be a cancer to the team," .Jackson said. 'Tm still frustrated and mad about the situation, but I'm going to use that as motiva­tion to try to get better and just better myself for the future." 
The passing ofl'ense has strug­gled mightily through the first two weeks, not only with Jackson's aecuraey, but also with receivers dropping passes and conservative play calling. 
After the loss to the Colts on Sunday droppnd the Vikings to 0-2, Childress said Jackson "is definitely our quarterback this week." 
But that stance started to soft­en on Monday, when he said coaches were "chewing on a bunch of things right now and making sure that he's the best guy for us to go forward." 
By Tuesday, the decision was made to give the job to Frerotte. 
"I wish I had more time, but it's eoaeh's decision," Jackson said. "I don't want all my work to go to waste. I felt I ike I've eolne this far and I've worked so hard to get to where I am now and I'm going to eontinue to work hard and keep trying to get better and take it one day at a time. Whatever happens, hap­pens." 
Childress said he still believes Jackson has a "bright future." 
"While I know he doesn't like it, I'd worry about him if he did like it," Childress said. "I know he'll make the most of it." 
Frerotte has played with seven teams, including Minnesota twice, in his 15 years in the league. 
"I was very surprised," receiv­er Bobby Wade said. "I didn't anticipate that. Obviously it's the coaeh's decision-and the admin­istration's decision and we have to run with that." 
Last season, Frerotte started three games with St. Louis and played in five others, completing 
56.3 percent of his passes for 1,014 yards, seven touchdowns and 12 interceptions. 
Frerotte showed in training camp this year that his 3 7 -year­old arm still has plenty of juice in it. Wade said the playbook may open up with a veteran in there as opposed to a f:.'llY who has 16 total starts. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall 2009, SPRING 2010, AY 2009-10, SUMMER2009 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Thursday, September 18, 2008 5:30pm 102 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15,2008 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2009-2010 MARCH 1, 2009 FOR SUMMER 2009 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-ois 



, presents 


The Religious History o,/American Women: Reimagming the Past 
(University ofNorth Carolina, 2007) 
Catherine A. Brekus, editor, with contributing authors Anthea Butler, Kristy Nabhan-Warren and Kathleen Sprows Cummings 
,'-,'aturday, .S'eptemher 20, 2008 9 a.m. to noon McKenna Hall Centerfbr Continuing Education 

Thursday, September 18, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Colts' Bob Sanders out of action indefinitely 
er] Roy Hall's injury," Dungy would miss four to six weeks. Dallas Clark was expected to go changed and while Clark missed 
Associated Press 
said. "He had his knee scoped, Dungy has been wary of estab­on injured reserve after tearing four games, he played in the sea­
INDIANAPOLIS -Tony Dungy too, so he's going to be out a lishing ironclad timetables since his ACL during the 2006 season. son finale and had a prominent doesn't doubt Bob Sanders will while longer. If it's going to be he told reporters that tight end Two days later, the prognosis role in the Colts' Super Bowl run. be back in the Colts lineup this two or three weeks, then it 
season. He's just not sure how long Sanders will be out. The 2007 defensive player of the year could miss up to six weeks after spraining his right ankle last weekend at Minnesota, and team officials are contem­plating whether Sanders may need arthroscopic surgery on his knee, too. "It's kind of similar to [receiv­~ 511'"»t  makes sense to get it scoped. But [defensive tackle] Keyunta Dawson had the same kind of thing and he told me he was going to practice today, so we're not really sure." Team president Bill Pollan was more definitive Tuesday night while taping a segment for his Saturday night television show on WISH-TV. Pollan said Sanders  UNIVERSITY O:F NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL PROGRAM IN PARIS, FRANCE ACADEMIC YEAR 2009-10 For Social Science and History majors with a good level of French INFORMATlON MEETING THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18,5:00 pm 308 DBRT APPLICATIONS: http://www.nd.edu/--ois  


Save the date. Keep it really, really OPEN. 
join us on Software Freedom Day September 20th. It's your opportunity to show support for all things open source. While you're at it, join aSun Open Source University Meetup at sun.com/swfreedom. Change (Y)our World. Support Software Freedom Day. 
+sun 
microsystems 

The Network is the Computer ™ 
© 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Sun and the Sun Microsystems logo are registered marks and The Network is the Computer is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles take down Albion 

turned in a workmanlike .219
By MICHAEL BLASCO 

attacking percentage. Senior 
Sports Writer 

hitters Kaela Hellman and Cathy Kurczak, along with After struggling in confer­Slupczynski, finished the ence play early this season, night with double-digit kills Saint Mary's has bounced for the Belles. Freshman set­back, claiming its second ter Danielle Brink also kept consecutivn MIAA victory the offense chugging with 48 Wednesday over Albion (6-6, assists and no errors. 2-3 MIAA). Slupczysnki and Brink each The Belles (6-3, 2-2 MIAAJ added three service aces, and moved into f'irth in the con-sophomore hitter Jacee fore nee Watson led standings the squad with tlw "What I think it comes down with a .333 four-snt win attacking
to is connections. We need 
(25-23, 23-percent­
to stay connected with our
25, 25-11, age, finish­25-17) at the teammates. We need to ing the Angela match with
celebrate our successes on 
Athletic eight kills
the court and pick each 
Facility. and one 
Albion, who other up when we are error in 21 has lost six down." attempts. of its last Belles eight match­coach Julie 
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
es, sunk to Schroeder­s i x t h i n tlw Belles coach Sick has league. praised 
S a i n t her squad Mary's, which has won three for defensive prowess of its past four matches, kept throughout the season, but the Britons on their heels the team has faltered at with smotlwring defense and times offensively. op portu n is tic offense. "What I think it comes Leading the Belles' defensive down to is connections," niTort was junior hitter Lorna Schrocder-Biek said. "We Slupczynski and sophomore need to stay connected with defensive specialist Meghann our teammates. We need to Hose, who each contributed celebrate our successes on 2X digs on the night. the court and pick each other 
OITensively, Saint Mary's up when we are down. We 

need to connect as team­mates before we can expect to really compete as a team." 
Albion and Saint Mary's traded points in the early­going, splitting the opening sets. However, the Britons offense collapsed under the weight of 17 errors in the final two sets to give the match to the Belles. Albion, who turned in a woeful .085 attacking percentage, were led offensively and defensive­ly by junior Morgan Watler. She ended the match with 20 kills and 23 digs, but also a team-high 10 errors. 
Saint Mary's, who is 6-1 in non-conference play, opened the season 0-2 in the MIAA. After a win over Olivet last week Wednesday against the Britons, the squad seems to have turned a corner mental­ly. 
"The key factor for us is simply playing our game as a team, with the intensity to win," Schroeder-Biek said. "That is the area of our focus: bring not only our skill but [also] our heart to the court." 
The Belles return to action Friday and Saturday at the Depauw Invitational Tournament at Depauw University in Greencastle, Ind. 
Contact Michael Blasco at 
mblasco@nd.edu 

Live, learn, and work in the nation's capital during the fall or spring semester with the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
N 
GRAM~ 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Monday, September 22, 2008 117 O'Shaughnessy, 5:00p.m. 
\V.ith special guest Tom Kellenberg, Executive Director and Public Policy Professor, Washington Progran1 
Deadline to apply for Fall2009 or Spring 2010 is November 15,2008. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251, www.nd.edu /-wp 
Thursday, September 18, 2008  The Observer + SPORTS  page 17  
NFL  O.J. SIMPSON TRIAL  
Tomlinson sits out pract~ce  Authenticity of tapes  

right big toe isn't as sore as it 
Associated Press 
has been, but he didn't sound 
SAN DIEGO -Maybe the overly confident. fantasy geeks should be wor­"Well, with another day of ried after all. rest and treatment, it's feel­
With his toe injury linger­ing a little better today, so ing, LaDainian Tomlinson sat hopefully, I'm just going to out Wednesday's short prac­play it by ear this week, see tice as the winless San Diego how it feels later in the Chargers began preparing for week," he said. ''I'm hoping their home game against that it's going to make big Brett Favre and the New York progress this week and by Jets on Monday night. Monday night hopefully I'll be 
Tomlinson, who has yet to as close to 100 percent as find his way into the end zone possible." this season, said his jammed Tomlinson was held to 26 
yards on 10 carries in a 39­

called into question
38 loss at Denver on Sunday. In the second quarter, a team trainer was examining 

Associated Press said he obtained with a sep­Tomlinson's toe on the side­
arate analog recorder at a line. 
LAS VEGAS -An FBI pool at the Palms hotel and "I feel better than last 
expert testified via video­casino. That recording was week," Tomlinson said. "If 
tape Wednesday in O.J. made several hours before I'm judging by last week, I 
Simpson's armed robbery the conflict between the for­should be able to play." 
trial that it's impossible to mer football star and two Tomlinson hurt the toe on 
t e I I sports memora­the Chargers' last drive of a 
whether an bilia dealers at 26-24 home loss to Carolina 
audio tape the Palace on opening day. l-Ie said he 
of the hotel "I could not determine Station hotel. aggravated it against the AFC 
room con­Prosecutors
ifthose files had been 
West rival Broncos. 

frontation say the analog
altered or not. " 
"A little bit. But I expected 

w a s tape includes that," he said. "That's going 
altered, but the voices of to happen, especially so much 
the judge Kenneth Marr Simpson and contact you take. I took a 
said she several other
FBI audio examiner 
couple of shots on it. That's 

still might the thing, when teams know 
let jurors you have a problem, they're 
hear the going to attack that certain 
recording. area sometimes, to test it out, 
FBI forensics audio exam­make sure you're healthy." 
iner Kenneth Marr said in So that's why NFL teams 
prerecorded testimony that like to lie about injuries? 
the tiny digital recorder "Exactly," Tomlinson said. 
secretly used by collectibles During the AFC champi­
broker Thomas Riccio to onship game, the Chargers 
record the alleged robbery announced Tomlinson had a 
last year didn't have "sore knee" and "can return," 
advanced features that even though he was sidelined 
would ensure the security of for good with what he 
the information on it. revealed afterward was a 
But Marr· did authenticate sprained ligament. another tape that Riccio 
THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF 
, presents 
The Cushwa Center Lecture 
Women, Religion, and Agency: Some Reflections on 
Writing American Women's Religious History 
Catherine A. Brekus, the University of Chicago Divinity School 
Thursday, .~'eptember 18, 2008 4:30pm 
13.1 DeBartolo Hall 
t Programs and Services (MSPS) 
September 18, 2008 

Rainsite: LaFortune B 
Come meet MSP5 staff, get some free fOOd_ and be multicultural clubs! Music will be provided by Notre Dame's 
"Promoting Equity through Intel 
men planning to confront the memorabilia 
peddlers, Bruce Fromong and Alfred Beardsley. 
Marr's appearance was videotaped Aug. 25 because he was scheduled to be out of the country. Asked by Clark County District Judge Jackie Glass if he could say whether the digital record­ing contained edits or manipulations, Marr replied: "I could not deter­mine if those files had been altered or not." 
A key question is whether any of the tapes contain mention of guns being used. Both Simpson and co-defen­dant Clarence "C.J." Stewart say they saw no guns. 
Stewart's defense lawyer, Brent Bryson, lost a bid to have both recordings dis­qualified as evidence because of problems includ­ing who had custody of them. The digital recorder was kept from police for eight days while Riccio sold the tape to an Internet gos­sip site. 
"The device itself is inher­ently untrustworthy," Bryson said. 
Glass said she would allow the poolside recording and let the recording from the. hotel room be used if the voices on the tape could be individually verified. 
Simpson's lawyer, Yale Galanter, said he wants jurors to hear all 10 hours of Riccio's recordings but has questions about a writ­ten transcript that will be given to jurors. 
Simpson and Stewart have pleaded not guilty to 12 charges including armed robbery, kidnapping, assault with a deadly weapon and coercion. 
A kidnapping conviction could result in a sentence of life in prison with the possi­bility of parole. An armed robbery c-onviction could mean mandatory prison time. 
Simpson maintains that he was trying to retrieve per­sonal items that had been_ stolen from him. 
The former NFL star escaped prison time in the 1990s after his acquittal in Los Angeles on charges of murdering ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and her friend Ron Goldman. A civil jury later found him liable 
·for $33.5 million in dam­ages. 
Riccio, who was waiting Wednesday to testify, has said that prosecutors told him to expect to be on the stand for as long as a day and a half. 

---------------------------------~ 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 18, 2008 
Youth 
continued from page 20 
Johnson and Niall Fitzgerald all have good all­court skills, so we can throw a lot of looks at any­one." 
The team is playing on brand n11w outdoor eourts this season. 
"Tiw new eourts have been great," Bayliss said. "They are much slower, so our guys aro being foreed to learn how to construct points morn methodically. Our guys are learning to tlse the width of the eourt as well as the length. and some have struggled early. but I believe they will make us a better team and make the transition to outdoors much easier this spring, when we go south in March." 
The team will head to Ann llarbor for the Michigan Invitational on Sept. 19. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Hope 
continued from page 20 
contest. one more than llopn sophomore goalie Kelsey Bos. 
Belles eoaeh Hyan Crabbe was upsnt about the hflart­brnaking loss, but said he did sen bright sports in the ganw. 
"Overall I thought the toam performed well against sueh a strong oppo­nent," Crabbe said. "I have been pushing with the team over the last few days to finish games, and unfortu­nately that did not happen this afternoon. I take responsibility for not mak­ing some late adjustments in an effort to protect our lead." 
Despite the loss, Crabbe said the Belles walked away from the mateh with increased confidence. 
"The team certainly showed today that we can eompete at the top of our conference, and we will begin preparations for our first conference match at Olivet in just over a week's time," Crabbe said. 
With the loss. the Belles dropped to 1-4-1 on the season while !lope's 4-3 record puts them above .500 for the first time this season. The two teams will faee off again at Hope College on Oct. 4 in a game with lnagun implications. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mg9timer@nd.edu 
Please recycle The Observer. 
Purcell 
continued from page 20 
Morgan Stanley, provided this pro­ject's $12.5 million leadership gift, the University announced in Oct. 2007. . 
Notre Dame graduatP. Vmcent J. Naimoli and South Bend automo­bile dealership owner Mike Leep Sr. al<>o provided lead gifts for the 
pn~jeet. 

Thfl JoycP. Center wa<> originally dedicated with a weeklong series of events Dec. 1-9, 1968, that induded shows by Andy Williams and Bill Cosby and a Notre Dame­UClA basketball game. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
WaldruiD 
continued from page 20 

the Olympie Developmental Program, to part-time gigs with small college programs. 
Waldrum spent six seasons coaching both the men and women's programs at the University of Texa<>. continuing to learn. From Tulsa, Waldrum went on to coach at Baylor, his last pit stop en route to Notre Dame. 
And coaehing at a program like Notre Dame is equivalent to gold for Waldrum. 
"I don't know when I first start­ed [here] if I would have thought I would have made it 10 years or not," he said. "It's really special to me to be here that long, it's kind of one of those jobs Ithat is] the end-all job, it's what you worked hard at. I spent 19 years coaching before J really got this opportuni_ty and it's one of those things you always aspire to get. It's a special plaee, and 10 years means a lot." 
There's a reason Waldrum ha<> stayed at Notre Dame for 10 years and brought the Irish so much success -his commitment to the sport. And for Waldrum that means traveling to as many seminars and school<> a<; he can to keep learning about the game. And he relays that information to his players, seeing himself not solely as a coach. 
''I'm a coaeh, but I'm an educa­tor, I'm a teacher," Waldrum said. "And what I'm doing instead of teaching biology, I'm teaching soccer, so I'm teaching the tactics, and I'm teaching the skills of the game ... that's kind of allowed me to keep my composure a littiP. bit and keep that progression." 
His desire to teach the game has taken Waldrum to Europe to obtain his UEFA license, somfl­thing few American coaehes can boast. But that's just another way to deepen his love lilr soeeer, and in the proenss create a team like the current No. 1 Irish. 
"I fell in love with the eoaching aspect as much as I did playing and that's kind of what's kept my competitiveness going strong," Waldrum said. "That will to develop players and try to get the best teams I eould on the field lis] the way !found my outlet." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 


----------------------------------------~--­
Thursday, September 18, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

HENRI ARNOLD

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
JUMBLE

BLAcK DoG 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek

JJWJWliD11JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, · one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PUJMY 

I [J I I 
.©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
~~j~fj I I 
UPVERY 

I rJ b
www.jumble.com 

I GENJAL j 
1 

rr I I 
Print answer here: [ 
I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's IJumbles: ERASE TITLE POTTER GYPSUM Answer: Unwrapping their treats during the cowboy movie made them -RUSTLERS 

NO MATT~R WHAT 15 S~RV~D, THIS WIL-L. MAKE: IT A TTRAC. TIVE::. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
Note: When this puzzle is done, unscramble the live circled letters to lind out how the circles could have been left with the puzzle's solution still being correct. 
Across 32 Joan Mir6's 60 Faithful, to a Mythical "L'........ Scot hammer wielder 33 Prefix for many 61 Went on 
5 Nickname for a cold-weather 65 Goddess in the namesake of product names hand of the Mary's husband statue ot Athena 
34 Glacial ridges 9 Burn, in a way 
in the Parthenon
38 Like 1-Across 
68 Poe-ish 14 wave 41 Lee of 69 Call to Rover

15 First name in Hollywood folk 70 Taking care of
43 Position things16 "lnstitutiones 44 Part of a 71 Some histrionicsCalculi 

veterinarian's job 

lntegralis" writer 72 Career division, 46 Aegean island in sports
17 Castle 
near Naxos

stronghold 73 Capt.'s inferiors 48 The Tigers of the 
18 Like some 
Ohio Valley 

interest Down 
Cont.

20 Unauthorized Finger wagger's preview, say sound
49 General for whom a style of 

22 Ocasek of the 2 Speed
chicken is

Cars 3 Comic's stock 
named

23 Apology starter 4 Adjusts, as a
50 Crab 

24 Resettle currency rate 53 Roly-poly 
28 Serious 5 Crooks' lackeys 30 Strip joint, 56 Defiling 6 Sch. in Tulsa, euphemistically 57 German pronoun Okla. 31 My_ 58 Lawyers' org. 7 State tree of Massachusetts 8 Not their 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Port locale 10 Director's cry 11 Out on 12 It holds water 13 Gloomy, literarily 19 Thread type 21 Fly ball's path 24 Fix 25 little brother's cry, perhaps 26 Deli sandwich choice 27 Vernacular that came into prominence· in 1996 
THE OBSERVER 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Damon J. Gulczynskl 
29 One of a candy box duo 35 Making  45 "_with you" (parting words) 47 Smoke a little  59 Wan 62"Shoo!"  
necessary 36 Balsam, e.g. 37 Burned 391n (positioned naturally)  51 "American 52 Grasslands 53 More red. maybe 54 Papery sheath on a plant stem  63 Match 64 Reconstruction, e.g. 66 Do-it-yourselfer's aid  
40 Tangles  55 Protective  67 Uranians, e.g., in  
42 Sticky stuff  protr.usion  brief  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with· a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Wade Robson, 26; Mark Brunell, 38; Kyle Chandler, 43; Cassandra Peterson, 59 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll 19): Taking on more than humanly possible will be your downfall. You can't be everything for everyone, neglecting your own needs or those of your family. Love is on the rise and there will be plenty to celebrate. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't settle for less than what you want and deserve. An old friend will help you make the right choices by playing devil's advocate. A career change may be daunting but it's worth looking at what's available in your field. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Doors will open if you talk about your ideas, plans and intentions. Position yourself with creative people. Develop new friendships and you may find someone to partner with in a financial venture. 3 stars 
CANCER (Jnne 21-Jnly 22): The youngsters, friends and lovers in your life will cause some emotional upset if you get wrapped up in their melodramas. Realize that everyone around you, including yourself, is overreacting. Rely on an older relative to get you back on track. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make your home the place everyone congregates. Your space will give you the edge when it comes to group decisions. A creative change will inspire future projects. Love is evident, so talk about the way you feel. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't get sucked into a deal because of the people in­volved. If you have a little extra money to play with, you are better off putting it into something that will enhance you personally, professionally or mentally. Do things for yourself today. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your next move will determine your future, so take your time and think matters through. If you let your emotions or partners in your life decide for you, regrets will be the result. You are likely to underestimate what's involved --do your own research. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 21): It's nice to be praised but don't let colllf.liments skew your way of thinking, causing costly mistakes. A business associate will assume you have the answers. Ask questions even ifwhat you need to know seems obvious. Let your past experience guide you. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.. 21): If someone thinks you are being misleading, it will cause a showdown. Use your charm and creative expression tu bring people into your plans. Someone you meet at an event will make a difference to your life. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jau. 19): Protect your heart and your assets by not letting your emotions guide you. Travel will lead to dissatisfaction with your life, causing you to second-guess what you are doing. Don't choose someone else's lifestyle; get past your uncertainties. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Start thinking about your future and what you can do to improve your fmances. A chance to make some extra money is apparent if you help someone out. Love and romance will lead to a decision abont a relationship you are in. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Strive for professional and personal stability. Dis­card people and plans that are not a positive influence in your life. Your emotions will not lead you in the right direction, especially where partnerships are concerned. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a charmer, an entertainer and an engaging conversational­ist. You know what to do to get ahead. You are smart, interesting and popular among your peers. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor ftm, eugeninlast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ______________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, September 18, 2008 
page 20 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Tealll depends on young talent to continue recent success 
and Andrew Hoth. The gap er than it was a year ago, but program," Bayliss said. "The victories last season. 
By KATE GRABAREK 

will, by necessity, be filled with he cannot expect anyone to training is primarily to guar­Bayliss feels his team has Sports Writer 
players unaccustomed to play­replace Parbhu, who left with antee healthy bodies and has had a lot of good intrasquad 
ing at No. 2-3, whether they be All-American credentials. been very successful in the competition early in the sea­
Notre Dame will try to con­juniors who did not play much Bayliss, who signed a multi­past. It combines strength son. tinue its success of recent a year ago, others who played year contract with the work with running and "We have several great years despite losing two of in lower positions, and fresh­University earlier this month, stretching. Last week we returners in Brett Helgeson, their top three players from men who are new to the scene is entering his 22 years at the began formal practice, which Dan Stahl and David last season -Sheeva Parbhu entirely." helm of the Irish. has combined match play, Anderson," Bayliss said. "On and Andrew Hoth. The Irish are coming off After completing its training drilling, and tactical strategic the other side, Tyler Davis and 
"Prospects for this season their second straight Big East regimen, the team is preparing dynamics." a few others are getting to the rnvolve around many of our championship and return last to open the season at the Bayliss said many of the net well, so that makes for younger guys," Irish coach year's No. 1 Brett Helgeson, Michigan Invitational on Sept. team's matches this season some interesting confronta­Bobby Bayliss said. "We lost who will try to lead the squad 19. will be decided by the doubles tions. Casey Watt, Matt signifinant experience with the to the title again this season. "This fall we have begun a matchups, which were also graduation of Sheeva Parbhu Bayliss said his team is deep-weightlifting and conditioning crucial in many of the team's see YOUTH/page 18 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Celebrate good times 
Waldrum enjoys 1Oth year with Irish 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 
The 200S season is one full of milostonns lbr the Irish, and some of' them have nothing to do with their No. 1 ranking. 
This year marks the 20th annivorsary of the 

height of the Irish glory. 
Waldrum took over for the Irish in 1999 after a stint coaching at Baylor, and immediatoly made a mark. The Irish entered postsea­son play that year ranked No. 5 and Waldrum led them all the way to the title game. The Irish fell 2-0 to North Carolina, but even in los­ing, Waldrum had made a name fbr himself. Waldrum had taken his team further than any first-year coach in Div. I women's history. But 
his soec~r career had 
Notrn Dame women's start!ld long before that. S!H:eer program as Waldrum grew up in well as Randy Irving, Tex., at a time Waldrum's 1Oth year when soccer was far from as head coach. And a national game. IIe went those two decades on to play at Midwestern have seen a lot of State University in Wichita chango for women's Falls, Tex. Waldrum soccer under the played professionally in golden dome. the American Soccer 
The women have League a few years before 

gone from borrowing nwn's uniforms and playing in a pastun~ to awaiting the arrival of a now stadium. And their skill level hcL'in't sufli~n~d either. 
Thn 20 years have seen numer­ous NCAA Final Fours and a national title in 2004. And Waldrum has been there for the 

the league !bided. He real­ized the only way to stay with the game he loved was to take up coaching -and that's just what he did. Waldrum returned to Irving to teach political science and coach at hi<; old high school. But moving to the sideline didn't come easy. 
'The transition part was difficult from a player to a coach because you want to hang on to your play­ing career as long as you can," Waldrum said. "So I had to change my whole thought process from a player to a coach." 

So Waldrum gathered as much coaching experience as he could, 
at times coaching four teams at once, from the high school level, to 
see WALDRUM/ page 18 
SMC SoccER 

Belles suffer defeat in 
heartbreaker to Hope 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sporrs Wrirer 
On Wednesday, Saint Mary's went up against a familiar foe in !lope and suffered a famil­iar fate, dropping a tightly contested 2-1 match to the Flying Dutch, a match that didn't eount toward the teams' MIAA records. 
The teams were seoreh~ss after the first half, but Saint Mary's was able to find the baek of the net early in the second half. The Belles took the lead with a goal from sen­ior eo-captain Lauren Hinton in the 50th minute, assisted by freshman Julie Hamilton. The Belles held the lead until Hope sophomore Katie Lovinger tied the score at one with her goal in the 83rd minute. 

The match appeared to be headed to overtime as the clock wound down. But with less than two minutes left in the match, Hope senior Allison Van Beek nailed a one-timer into the net to lift the Flying Dutch over the Belles by a seore of 2-1. 
The Saint Mary's defense, led by junior goalie Patty Duffy, helped keep the Belles in the game despite being out­shot by Hope 20-R. Duffy racked up six saves in the 
see HOPE/page 18 
JACC RENOVATIONS 
Pavilion now being built 
Purcell lead donor for $26.3 million facility due to open in 2009 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sporrs Editor 

Sandwiched between the unveiling of Lou Holtz's statue and the wet, wild win over Michigan, groundbreaking ceremonies for the $26.3 million Purcell Pavilion were hnld Saturday. 
According to a University press release, the entire project is scheduled for completion in Jan. 2010. The arena is expected to re­open by mid-Oct 2009 -in time for both the men's and women's basketball seasons. 
The project's first phase will begin this month with exterior changes to the Joyce Center that include a three-story addition on the building's south end. 
The third-floor addition will include the stadium club and hos­pitality area. 
The revamped first floor will include a 3,000 square-foot varsi­ty shop for apparel and souvenirs and nearly 4,500 square feet for ticket offices, ineluding f(mr exte­rior and 10 interior ticket win­dows. 
The arena's new main entrance, situated between Gates 8 and 10, will include displays that highlight Notre Dame's athletic programs. 
Renovations will afleet the inte­rior of the Joyce Center, ineluding new, blue ehair-back seating throughout the entire arena. The wooden bleachers in the upper bowl will be replaced by treads, risers and permanent arena seats. New student seating options are being considered, according to the relea<;e. 
Capacity will deerea<>P from the current 11 ,41R to approximately 9.&00, which includes the 800­person premium club seating located in new third-floor stadium club area. 
The arena, whieh will be named Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center, is a part of the $68.5 mil­lion designated for new athletics facilities a<> a part of the Spirit of Notre Dame campaign. 
Notre Dame alumnus and trustee Philip J. Purcell III, the retired chairman and CEO of 
see PURCELL/page 18 










