
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 53 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14,2008 

ND to mntinue need-b6nd admissions 
As economy worsens, University financial aid office says policies will remain the same 
~li'Jk!J (fXil[} ~ 7Jfiljjj~ 
li'!l9ijllfl@ffil (gi@01iji"jj) _­G:;If,J(qj ~@.~@ @}f)il(q) ~fi.,F,)!J'@: 


NBC to host Green Week battle for last ho111e ga111e 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Stadium is not the only place that the Irish will have a chance to defeat Syracuse next week, as students, alumni and fans will be playing an important role in NBC Universal's Green Week. 
"NBC had their first Green Week last year, but they've never col­laborated with Notre Dame before," president of GreeNO Lourdes Long said. "We have a close corporate relationship with them, so they have invited us to play a role this year." 
NBC challenged both Notre Dame and Syracuse to get as many people as possible to join their Carbon Rally teams. 
"You basically sign up and you can elect to take personal chal­lnnges," Long said. 
Challenges may include making sure tires are properly inflated and driving more "delicately," without pushing the gas pedal more than necessary, Long said. The sehool that gets the greatest number of people to join its team wins $10,000, Long said. 
Studnnts. alumni and fans can all join Notre Dame's Carbon Hally team. Long said. 
"Everyone can go to the Office of Sustainability Web site and join the Irish team there," Long said. 
NBC will also be sponsoring an ad competition between Notre Dame and Syracuse. Students from both schools can create 30­second films about sustainability 
see NBC/page 4 
ByJENN METZ News Editor 
With the stock market down, college affordability has become a significant issue for families across the country. Recent articles in national newspapers like The New York Times have examined the state of financial aid and the feasi­bility of a need-blind admis­sions process in today's econo­my. 
The University of Notre Dame will remain committed to two of its admissions' goals -accessibility and affordabili­ty -and will respond to the economic crisis facing the United States in "typical Notre Dame fashion," Joseph Russo, Director of Student Financial Strategies in the Office of Student Financial Services told The Observer. 
"We're staying steady, focused in a positive direction ... we're typically very deliber­ate and pretty conservative," he said. "In terms of our finances, we're one of the most stable institutions in higher education." 
Russo said he agrees with representatives from other col­leges and universities who say college affordability is becom­ing a concern. 
see AID/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Guzman discusses Pinochet 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Juan Guzman, the Chilean judge famous for indicting dic­tator Augusto Pinochet, dis­cussed the human rights vio­lated during Pinochet's dicta­torship and how some human rights continue to be violated in Chile, at the Hesburgh Center Thursday. 
Guzman, who is currently the director of the Center for 
see GUZMAN/page 4 


University alUITIS participate inACE program 
Students forgo job opportunities in order to give back to community through teaching 
By HONORA KENNEY News Writer 
Acting on the University's core values of faith, service and education, some recent graduates are choosing to postpone their job search in order to participate in Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) program. 
Brendan Ryan, who gradu­ated from Notre Dame last year with an engineering degree, is currently teaching Algebra I and Geometry at Holy Family Cristo Rey High School in Birmingham, Ala. 
"I have been fortunate to go to Catholic schools my whole life," Ryan said. "When I got to college, I finally understood what a huge blessing and opportunity these schools have been in my life. 
Ryan said his parents served as his example when deciding to participate in ACE. 
"I know my parents made huge sacrifices to put every­one in my family through Catholic schools, so I felt that this was an opportunity for me to give this chance to someone else," he said. 
Ryan's twin brother, Brogan, is also part of the program. Despite a degree in account­ing and a job offer from a Big 
see ACE/page 9 


Photo courtesy of Sadiera Hooks Sadiera Hooks, third from left, and the ACE community in Jacksonville, Fla., teach at Catholic schools. 
Students excited for Navy game 

Despite disappointing losses, many plan to flock to Annapolis for Saturday's showdown 

Members of the Fighting Irish football team line up to sing the alma mater after an overtime loss to Pittsburgh on Nov. 1. 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 

Despite Notre Dame's shutout loss to Boston College last Saturday, stu­dents are excited for the matchup with Navy Saturday. The Midshipmen come into the game fresh from a bye week. 
Sophomore Katrina Corcoran, whose brother is a senior at the Naval Academy, will be attending Saturday's game. Corcoran said she believes the Irish will be able to win on Saturday. 
"I believe the talent of our team will come together as one to defeat the Midshipmen," Corcoran said. "If we don't win, I'll be hearing about it for a long time." 
Some students said the game against Navy will be a chance for the Irish to rebound from their recent losing streak. 
"I think this is the week we finally get back on track," junior Sara Seidler said. 
Students said the team might have added incentive to defeat Navy this week­end, since a win will give Notre Dame bowl eligibility. 
"We're one game away from being able to go to a bowl game," sophomore 
see NAVY/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


On Phillies and Phan1ily 
It's bnnn over two weeks since the ''hiladelphia Phillies clinched the rleeisive ganw 5 of the 2008 World Snries, to win the team's first champi­onship sinee 1980. 
It's been an eventful two weeks, dur­
ing which we elected a new president and saw gas prices fall dramatically. (I saw gas at $1.87 at the Marathon by the Toll Hoad the other night ... crazy.) 

John Tierney 
News Writer 
But if you can remember back two 
weeks ago, the World Series was pret­
ty eventful itself. The inclement 
weather that postponed game 5 in the 
sixth inning for two days led many 
pundits to call 2008's Fall Classic the 
most disastrous in memory. 

The 2008 World Series may have 
been messy, gross, and somewhat 
antielimaetic, but led to great joy for 
the winning side. 

The Phillies' victory was especially 
joyful for a cf~rtain 85-year-old lady of 
JefTI~rsonville, Pa., who just got cable 
this year so she would be able to 
watch all 1(J2 games. This certain lady 
would be my grandmom, Mrs. Bita M. 
Tierney, formerly of Conshohoeken. 
Crandmorn Tinrney had talked about upgrading lwr cabin package to get all the Phils' games pretty much for as long as I ean rpnwmb1~r. But she never did it. 
But this year. she finally decided to 
make thn switch. And boy, was she 
glad she did. 

Crandrnom Tierney got so into her 
!'hils this summer. One day, I was 
talking to her and she said that she 
was almost embarrassed by her pas­
sion for baseball. "I should be too old 
to care who's in first place, but darn 
it, I do," she said. 

Crandmorn Tierney has experienced 
a lot of the less than pleasant sides of 
being old-she takes more medica­
tions in one day than an entire sum­
mer camp of middle schoolers takes in 
a week. 

(That's a legit fact. I worked at a 
summer camp and saw how many 
meds we were responsible for in a 
week, and I also stayed with 
Grandmom for a weekend. She wins 
that contest in a runaway.) 

But the Phillies helped give Grandmom a chance to experience one of the best parts of being old. "Being old isn't all bad," she told me. "I get to annoy people and watch the ballgames." 
On the night of Oct. 29, Grandmom 
gathered all five of her kids in her 
apartment in building number three of 
the "Green at Westover" eomplex, and 
they watched the Phils, the losingest 
team in sports history, become world 
champions. 

I grew up in Phoenix and I'm a 
Diamondbacks fan. But nothing in 
baseball could have made me happier 
this year than to see the Phillies win it 
all. 

The victory isn't going to change the 
nation, but it did spread joy in the 
Tierney family. And really, what more 
can I ask for? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne 1 @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Obsaver regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of jounalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
\ 
Friday, November 14, 2008
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU MISS MORE, YOUR CELL PHONE OR LAPTOP? 



Allison Hickey David Unuscheck 
senior senior off-campus off-campus 
"My cell phone "My cell phone because I can because I love always steal text messaging roommate's and blackberry computer." messaging. " 

Katie Demantinl  Tim Scallen  
senior Welsh Family  senior off-campus  
"My laptop because I'm  "Phone because I need to be  

a Youtube fanatic." 

OFFBEAT 
Prisoner, too large for cell, released early 
OTTAWA -Canadian prison authorities were forced to release a 450­pound (205 kg) drug gang member this week because he was too large for his cell, the Journal de Montreal newspaper reported on Wednesday. 
Build Muscle and Get Ripped without Steroids 
Building Strength and Muscle without Illegal Substances 
New GI Bill Can Help You Earn a College Degree 
Michel Lapointe -­
TODAY 

..... 
c:( (,) 

,!3 HIGH 55 LOW 32 
known as Big Mike -­was arrested in September 2006 and received a five-year sen­tence in May this year. The paper said he could not fit on the chair in his Montreal prison cell and when he went to bed, his body protruded six inch­es on either side. 
Preacher with 86 wives gets court reprieve 
LAGOS -A Nigerian court said an 84-year­old Islamic preacher with 86 wives should be released from jail after he was held for failing to heed a call by loeallead­
from Press. 
TONIGHT GAME DAY 

~ 
*&* * 
* *"E* * 
HIGH HIGH 37 LOW LOW 28 


ers to divorce all but four of the women, his lawyer said. 
The authorities in cen­tral Niger state had charged Mohammed Bello with "insulting religious" creed and "unlawful marriages" after local chiefs and Muslim leaders gave him a September 7, 2008 deadline to comply with sharia, Islamic law, which allows a man to have no more than four wives. 
Information compiled 
the Associated 
SUNDAY 

able to text during class. " 
IN BRIEF 
Flipside is holding a screen­ing of "The Breakfast Club" in the Montgomery Auditorium of LaFortune Friday at 11 p.m. Breakfast food will be served. Admission is free and all are welcome. 
The Department of Film, Television, and Theatre will bP showing the play "The Dispute" tonight and Saturday at 7::~o p.m. and Sunday at 
2:30 p.m. in Debartolo Performing Arts Center. The play is a eomedy that explores the question of whether men or women arn more inherently unfaithful. Tickets arc $15 for the general public and $10 for students. 
The Class of 2012 will be having a service project called "Peanut Butter and Jelly Gang" in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune from 1 
p.m. to 3 p.m. on Sunday. Volunteers will be making sandwiches and bag lunches for the South Bend homeless shelters. 
Health and Recreation will be holding a Camp Kesem 5k Run from·:~ p.m. to 5 p.m. on Sunday around the campus lakes. Registration is in Fieldhouse Mall and there is a $10 registration fee. The run will raise money children whose parents have been diag­nosed with or have died from cancer. 
Religious Life is holding Diwali: The Festival of Life on Sunday from 6:30 p.m. to 10 
p.m. in Washington Hall. The event will celebrate the Hindu New Year. It is open to the pub­lie and free to everyone. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mailed detailed 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

e.e
*** Ill 
HIGH 40 HIGH 48 LOW 25 LOW 33 


Atlanta 69 I 58 Boston 55 I 46 Chicago 51 I 44 Denver 39 I 29 Houston 81 I 59 los Angeles 90 I 60 Minneapolis 39 I 35 New York 64 I 50 Philadelphia 64 I 50 Phoenix 86 I 57 Seattle 52 I 41 St. louis 55 I 49 Tampa 86 I 68 Washington 63 I 48 
Friday, November 14, 2008 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

SMC sends letters to soldiers in Iraq 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
In a way to show support for the men and women currently stationed overseas, the Saint Mary's College Office of Civil and Social Engagement spon­sored a letter writing cam­paign for the troops in Afghanistan this past week. 
"We are writing letters of appreciation for our troops are over in Afghanistan," Saint 
Mary's senior Erin Seidelman said. "I started by just asking a few people I knew on cam­pus to write let­ters, but there seemed to be a lot of interest so it grew into a Campus wide event thanks to Carrie Call, the director of the Office of Civil and Social Engagement at Saint Mary's." 
Students were prompted to write a letter of any length with words of encouragement, prayers or gratitude. Letters were for both men and women, and could include quotes or images. Cards will be sent in time for the holi­days. 
"The goal is to send some love from home to our troops that work so hard to keep us safe," Seidelman said. "My cousin is currently fighting over in Afghanistan, and I thought it would be nice to send him and the troops he works with letters." 

Letters have been collected at the front desks in all of the College's residence halls, as well as at the welcome desk in Saint Mary's student center. 
Call said the campaign would help students and faculty con­nect with family members who are currently stationed in Afghanistan. 
"Saint Mary's College is par­ticipating because we rarely 
"Saint Mary's College is participating because we rarely have the opportunity to do something so direct that would benefit our troops. " 
Carrie Call director of Office of Social and Civil Engagement 
have the oppor­tunity to do something so direct that would benefit our troops," Call said. "Many stu­dents, and fac­ulty and staff, have siblings, cousins, and children serving overseas. This is a way to reach out to those serving and send our sup­port and love overseas." 
However, Call said the ulti­mate goal of the letters is sim­ply to provide support to the troops. 
"I hope to achieve some corn­fort for those who are far from home, and allow our students to express their support and gratitude to some folks that they don't even know," Call said. 
Letters are due today. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithOl @saintmarys.edu 
Students ship packages to troops 


Seminar on disabilities joins autistic teens to assist soldiers 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students taking a seminar about mental and physical disabilities will put their classroom learning into action Saturday when they join local autistic teens to put together packages for American sol-
assemble the packages togeth­er, LeFevour said. The Notre Dame vs. Navy football game is during the event and it inspired the theme of the event, she said. 
"The football game will be on in the background which is where we got the title of the event, 'Respect on and off the Field,"' LeFevour said. 
The class 
diers in Iraq. The class,  a  'Tm hoping that I can  brainstormed about possible  
college seminar  learn how to relate  service  proj­ 
called Disability taught by Professor  with them and build some kind of  ects to do with the clients and decided to hold  
Essaka Joshua, collaborates with the LOGAN Center in South  relationship with them where it doesn't seem as ifI'm helping  an event in which the classmates and the clients put  
Bend, which offers resources for the dis­ them, but more as equals.,,  together pack­ages with cards, games  
abled, Bridget  and food items  
LeFevour,  a  Bridget LeFevour  to send to sol­ 
member of the  student  diers  serving  
class,  said.  abroad,  
While educating  LeFevour said.  

students about the social and "We looked online and found medical aspects of being dis­a Web site that provided infor­abled, the class also requires mation on what soldiers want students to perform a mini­in packages sent to them," she mum of three hours of service said. "We narrowed the list work with the LOGAN Center down to ten items, which and hold an event at the cen­ranged from socks, a certain ter, she said. kind of shirt, beef jerky, sun­
LeFevour said a LOGAN flower seeds, crossword puz­Center worker suggested the zles yo-yo's, and things like class hold a service event for that." the students to do with the The students and the clients clients, 22 autistic teenagers. will also write cards to the sol­
"What is most beneficial for diers to put into the packages, the clients is a full circle event, LeFevour said. with us helping them, but also "What they really want is having them give back to the cards," she said. community," she said. LeFevour said the costs of 
The students will meet with the packages, postage and the autistic teens on Saturday items going into the packages at the LOGAN Center for add up to about $2,275, so the lunch, and then they will class had to apply for grant money from the University. The class received half of the funds from the President's Circle and half from Learning Beyond the Classroom, she said. They also received some money from the Center for Social Concerns, and the class members asked their dorms to donate an item to go into the packages. 

"We knew of the President's Circle and Learning Beyond the Classroom so we wrote proposals to both of those about how doing the service project is a learning project for us," she said. 
While tlie event offers the opportunity to give back to the community, it also allows the class to experience the real life context of their studies in the classroom, LeFevour said. The central focus of the class is the different gazes, or ways people look at the disabled, she said. Doctors look at the disabled in a certain way and ordinary people look at the disabled in another specific way, she said. 
"We are going to see how the gazes work, now that we have talked about them," LeFevour said. "It will be interesting to see how we will interact and relate with them now that we are taking the class." 
LeFevour said she looks for­ward to getting to know the teenagers as well. 
''I'm hoping that I can learn how to relate with them and build some kind of relationship with them where it doesn't seem as if I'm helping them, but more as equals," she said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
Saint Mary's College Department of Communication Studies, Dance, and Theatre presents 
Ken Ludwig's 



LEN EATEN R 
aTony Award winning comedy 
Directed by Katie Sullivan 
Scenery by Michaela Duffy Costumes by Melissa BBialko Lighting by Annaliese Furman 
November 13-15, 7:30p.m. Olaughlin Auditorium November 16, 2:30p.m. Moreau Center for the Arts 
Adult-:-$10, Senior Citizen.,. $8, SMC/ND/HCC Fa<:ulty/Staff ~. $7, SMC/ND/HCC Student-$5 
•Box Officer (574) 284-4626 or MoreauCenter.com 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------­
page 4 

Guz01an 
continued from page 1 
lluman Hights at the Univnrsidad Central de Chile, investigated potential human rights violations by Pinochet's regime and spoke nxtnnsively with torture sur­vivors. 
"I don't rnmembcr one that didn't ery. Everyonn cried. And I cried with them," (;uzrmin said. 
(;uznuin began his lecture with a dnscription of thn coup Pinochet staged on Sept. 11, 1973. 
"La Moncda, our Whit!1 llouse, was bombnd thnatri­cally," Guzm;in said. "The president was killed. Pinodwt gave the order to have him killed." 
(;uzman also described the consequences of the coup, which he described as "human sacrifices." According to offieial ligures, over 3.000 people were assassinated, over 1,200 ptlo­ple arn still missing and over 2,500 people were exiled. Guzman said the actual num­bers, however, are much higher than the numbers given. 
The methods of torture were particularly gruesome, Guzman said. People were tracked down, shoved into unmarked cars and taken to concealed prisons. 
"They were tortured in the most terrible forms," he said. 
Guzman also said water torture, sexual abuse, asphyxiation and electric shocks, among other meth­ods, were used to torture prisoners. The tortured men and women were always naked. 
"When I asked the people who survived what was the worst thing for them, they said the worst thing was to be naknd in front of so many people," he said. "Being naked was the ultimate humiliation." 

After the end of Pinochet's regime, impunity ran ram­pant through Chile. An amnesty law that applied to the harshest years of the regime prevented the prose­cution of violent crimes such as homicide and torture. 
Advances in human rights came in the 1900s, Guzman said. A new criminal proce­dure put all power in the judgns' hands, and an inves­tigation provided judges with the names of those killed, abducted and tortured. as well as who committed the crimes against the victims. 
"The investigations began with lawsuits in 1998 against Pinochet -for assassination, for abduction, for torture," Guzman said. "Nobody ever thought Pinochet was going to be subpoenaed." 
While the investigation was going on, Pinochet was in London, but an order was filed that he be extradited to Spain. A court found that Pinochet was mentally unfit and could not be tried in Spain. 
"He returned to Chile and walked around showing everyone how well he was," Guzman said. 
Guzman filed an order to lift Pinochet's immunity, which won a majority vote and was implemented. Guzman indicted him in three cases, but the Supreme Court overruled two of them. 
Guzman said although Chile has made great advances and achieved great progress, human rights are still being violated. Indigenous people, students and other groups are being silenced, and when they mobilize, they are impris­oned. 
"After four governments that are called democratic governments, we are still violating different human rights and impunity contin­ues to rule in Chile," Guzman said. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
', 


JALo~eaa 
1733 N. Ironwood Dr. • South Bend 
574.277.6767 
7220 Heritage Sq. Dr. •l\fishawaka 
574.272.6767 
www.salonnouveau.com 

AVEDA.. 
lht ort ond ~elenoe ofPI'"~-~ gnd pic~nt -­
Hair Care • Extensions •Skin Care • Make Up Nail Care • Body Care • Gift Cards 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 14, 2008 
NBC 
continued from page 1 
issues, and the winning ad will be broadcast during the Notre Dame-Syracuse football game. 
"I think there will be some highlighting of Notre Dame sustainability initiatives dur­ing the football game," Long said. 
Another component of Green Week will be that the football game will be carbon neutral -a first for the University. 
"This is Notre Dame's first game that will be carbon neu­tral. It's actually one of the first in NCAA," Long said. 
Long said emissions from fan travel, team travel and any activities at the stadium on game the day will all be taken into account in deter­mining how much carbon needs to be offset in order to have a carbon neutral game. 
Carbon emissions will be offset with different programs students and the Office of Sustainability have done this semester, Long said. 
Game day recycling, which has consistently collected over 10 tons of recyclable products each game day, will help ofT­set carbon emissions, Long said. 
The energy competition that challenged dorms to conserve energy is another program to that will contribute to the off­set of emissions. On average, dorms reduced their energy use by eight percent, accord­ing to Long. 
"Walsh Hall won and they had over 30 percent reduction over the course of the compe­tition," Long said. 
Students will have the opportunity to exchange their light bulbs for compact fluo­rescent light bulbs as another 
Sophomore Ashley Herrmann, who will also be attending Saturday's game, continued from page 1 said Notre Dame's loss to 
Boston College did not hamper Mary Kelly said. "Hopefully her excitement for the game that will get the team fired against Navy. up." "The Boston College game 
Another factor motivating was a tough loss, but I love the team this Notre Dame and weekend will be I love Notre 
Navy 
"The play calling 
Navy's triple­Dame football," overtime win hasn't been the best Herrmann said. over the Irish "I am so happy I
lately. It'll be 
last year, which have the chance
interesting to see how
ended Notre to go and sup­Dame's 43-Weis does having port the team at game winning the Navy game.
assumed control of 
streak over the The players are
the offense again.,, 
Midshipmen. great guys and 
"Navy beat us deserve our last year when Keith Ruehlmann support." everyone Irish coach
junior
expected us to Charlie Weis win," Seidler has announced said. "So that'll be good moti­he will be in charge of calling vation for the team." plays for Saturday's game, a 
way of offsetting emissions. Long said 1,400 bulbs were exchanged several weeks ago, and another 3,000 will be exchanged this Sunday with the help of volunteer students. 
"I think the really exciting thing is that we're going to be exchanging 3,000 light bulbs. It's a concrete way students can help out," Long said. 
The Utilities of'lice has also trained 100 students to con­duct brief energy audits in the dorms, Long said. During the audits, studnnts will check to see that heaters are running efficiently and that computers are set to ennrgy efficient standards, Long said. 
The Off'ice of Sustainability will host a tailgate before the game for all students and fac­ulty who havn participated in sustainability initiatives, Long said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edricsol@nd.edu 
development that has excited students. 
"The play calling hasn't been the best lately. It'll be interesting to see how Weis does having assumed control of the offense again," junior Keith Huehlmann said. 
The trip to Baltimore will be Herrmann's first away game, and she is eager to see what Notre Dame football is like outside of South Bend. 
"I think it will be great to see and experience the Notre Dame community outside of our own stadium," Herrmann said. "There is nothing like Notre Dame football and the fans it draws." 
The game kicks off at noon and takes place at the MT Bank Stadium in Baltimore, Md. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 




ORLD &NATION 
Friday, Novemeber 14, 2008 COMP[LED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WlRF SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Synagogue bombing suspect detained 
MONTREAL-Canadian police on Thursday arrested a sociology instructor suspected in the 1980 bombing of a synagogue in Paris that killed four people and injured 20 others, otncials said. 
Hassan Diab, 55, was taken into custody on a provisional extradition warrant issued at the request of French authorities, Justice Department spokesman Christian Girouard said 
On Oct. 3, 1980, a bomb containing the pow­erful explosive pentrite hidden in the saddle­bags of a parked motorcycle exploded outside the synagogue as hundreds of worshippers were gathered inside for a Sabbath service. 
Prince Olarl.es celebrates 60th birthday 
LONDON -Talk about an apprentice. By the time he turns 60 Friday, Prince Charles will have spent a lifetime in line to become king. 
That's put him in quite a bind. The longest­waiting heir in British history only ascends to the throne when his beloved mother dies or decides to step down. 
Queen Elizabeth II hosted a birthday party for her son Thursday at Buckingham Palace. The Philharmonia Orchestra, of which the prince is patron, played for invited members of his extended family, European royalty and assorted soeiety figures. 
His sons William and Harry addressed the guests, describing Charles as an inspiration ­but also poked fun at their aging father, joking that an electric stair lift would be installed at his country home in Gloucestershire, in south­west England, to mark his birthday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Seven rescued in Oregon flood 
TILLAMOOK. Ore. -A woman and two young children were rescued from the top of their SUV as floodwaters swept over the vehi­ele's roof on a coastal Oregon road. 
Seven poople were rescued from their vehi­cles south of Tillamook on Wednesday night, after a two-day storm washed out a culvert and a strotch of county road above it. No one was seriously hurt. 
Fire Capt. Charles Spittles in Tillamook County said Stephanie McRae and her three children were in a Ford Expedition that was swept a quarter-mile downstream and lodged against a tree. Jler 11-year-old daughter man­aged to crawl through the broken front win­dow and shimmy across a branch of the tree to get to safety and seek help, he said. 
Photos of alien planets now available 
WASIIINGTON -Earth seems to have its first fuzzy photos of' alien planets outside our solar system, images captured by two teams of astronomers. 
Tho pictures show four likely planets that appnar as specks of white, nearly indecipher­able except to the most eagle-eyed experts. All are trillions of miles away -three of them orbiting the same star, and the fourth circling a dill'erent star. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Court overturns mayoral election 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Court of Appeals threw out the 2007 mayoral election in Terre Haute on Thursday, declaring the otnce vacant because winner Duke Bennett's former job running a federally funded mental health network made him ineligible to run. 
The court ruled 2-1 in favor of former Mayor Kevin Burke, who claimed after the election that Bennett's candidacy had violated the !latch Act prohibiting political activities by federal workers. 
ELECTION 2008 
One million expected at inauguration 
Hotels booked, l£lwrnakers stop taking ticket requests as Obama's inauguration nmrs 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON­
President-elect Barack 
Obama's inauguration is 
expected to draw 1 mil­
lion-plus to the capital, 
and already some law­
makers have stopped tak­
ing ticket requests and 
hotels have booked up. 
Some people are barter­ing on Craigslist for places to stay for the Jan. 20 cer­emony when the Illinois senator takes the oath of office. They are offering cash or even help with dishes for residents will­ing to open up their homes. 
The National Park 
Service, which is planning 
for an inaugural crowd of 
at least 1 million, will 
clear more viewing space 
along the Pennsylvania 
Avenue parade route. 
Jumbo TV screens will 
line the National Mall so 
people can watch the 
inauguration and parade, 
park service spokesman 
David Barna said 
Thursday. 
The District of 
Columbia's delegate, 
Eleanor Holmes Norton, is 
urging planners to use 
arenas and stadiums to 
help with overflow crowds 
wanting to view the cere­crowded parade route. parade route from 20,000 Secret Service the lead inmonies on big-screen TVs. 
War protesters sued after seats to 8, 700, leaving coordinating all law
She is also urging church­
President George W. much more of the route enforcement agencies to
es to hold viewing parties. 
Bush's last inauguration, open to people without secure the event. There"You can't judge by past 
forcing the government to tickets, Barna said. are 58 federal, state andinaugurations. It's going to open up more free public Seat tickets had sold for local law enforcement
break all the records," 
viewing space between the between $15 and $150 in agencies working togeth­
Norton said. "They're 
Capitol and White House. 2005 to help pay for the er.
going to come with or 
U.S. District Judge Paul inaugural parade. Details The largest crowd ever
without tickets .... It's 
Friedman ruled in March for the 2009 parade tick­recorded on the Nationaleach man and woman for that the park service vio­ets have not been set Mall was for Presidenthimself." 
lated its own rules by giv­because Obama's Lyndon B. Johnson's 1965The city's police chief, ing preferential treatment Presidential Inaugural inauguration. At the time,Cathy Lanier, said organ­in ticketing for bleacher Committee, which organ­the park service estimatedizers brought in an addi­
seats along the parade izes the parade, is being 1.2 million people
tional 3,000 officers from route for supporters of the formed. descended on the area. Inforces around the country government over its crit­There will also be desig­1981, President Ronaldto help with the last inau­ics. Friedman wrote the nated "free speech" areas Reagan's inauguration
guration. This time, the 
inauguration "is not a pri­for protesters along the drew about 500,000 peo­request probably will be vate event." parade route, Barna said. ple, and President Billfor about 4,000 officers. 
New rules to be issued The inauguration has Clinton's 1993 inaugura­Because of a lawsuit, Monday will lower the been designated a tion drew about 800,000
people should have more number of ticketed National Special Security people, according to park
standing room along the 
bleacher seats along the Event, giving the U.S. service estimates. 


Nebraska parents abandon teenagers 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb.-The mother was running out of more than patience when she abandoned her 18-year-old daughter at a hospital over the week­end under Nebraska's safe-haven law. 
She was also running out of time: She knew that state lawmakers would soon meet in a special session to amend the ill-fated law so that it would apply to newborns only. 
"Where am I going to get help if they change the law?" said the moth­er, who lives in Lincoln and asked to not be identified by name to protect her adopted·child. 
To the state's surprise and embar­rassment, more than half of the 31 children legally abandoned under the safe-haven law since it took effect in mid-July have been teenagers. 
But state officials may have inad­vertently made things worse with their hesitant response to the prob­lem: The number of drop-offs has almost tripled to about three a week since Gov. Dave Heineman announced on Oct. 29 that lawmak­ers would rewrite the law. 
With legislators set to convene on Friday, weary parents like the Lincoln mother have been racing to drop oft' their children while they still can. 
On Thursday, authorities searched for a 17-year-old girl who fled an Omaha hospital as her mother tried to abandon her. Her 14-year-old brother was taken into state custody, health officials said. 
Child welfare experts said the late deluge of drop-offs was probably inevitable. After all, they said, some date had to be picked to begin chang­ing the law. 
But some of them said lawmakers and the governor missed chances to change the law early because they underestimated the number of des­perate families looking for help. Heineman called the special session only after a spate of five drop-offs in eight days. 

• page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 14, 2008 
~ 
• 
' 
•
. • Aid
•
•
•
• continued from page 1
•
•
• "It has for familins, it has for
' 
•
• policy makers. and it certainly
' 
• 
has for the nwdia." he said.
•
' 
• Familins, he said. an~ now 
•
• wondering if they can still rnal­
: 
• istically aspire for their chil­' dren to attnnd four-year pri­
: 
vate institutions, like Notre
: 
• Dame, or if they need to look at
•
• 
four-year publie or two-ynar 

• 
community schools. Likowise,' • policy makers -both gov<~rn­


' 
mnntal and institutional -are
' 
' 
' concerned with trying to con­
•' strain tlw rising cost of college,
' 
' he said. 
' 
"llow can college costs con­tinun to rise at this rate, and what will thny bn like in 50 ynars? These are legitimate <:oneerns," Husso said. 
According to a rnport recent­ly released by The College Board nntitled "Trends in Collegn Pricing," eollnge price inernasns have gnnerally knpt pace with the rising inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPU. 
In thn 200S-2009 acadnrnie year, tlw averag<~ tuition and reo listnd prices !"or under­graduates currently attending four-year privatn, non-profit postsecondary institutions increas1HI by 5.9 porcent. 
The average price increase was highnr than the 5.S per­cnnt inernasn in CPI as of July 200S. 
Tuition. fens, room and board priens at four-ynar pri­vate, non-profit institutions i n<: r e as nd h y 5 . 6 pn r e e n t , according to the report. Ae <: o r d i n g to a co m p a n i o n report, titled "Trends in Studnnt Aid." also released by The CoiiPgn Board. the total grant, work-study and educa­tion t.ax bmwlits to college stu­dents ros<~ to a record high in the 200S-2009 academic year -$143.4 billion. 
Annualizod over thn period of the last I 0 years. University tuition has gonn up, on aver­age, (> percent earh year. Tho 200S-2009 amount or $36,850 is a 4.S pnrcent increase from 2007-2008's $35,190. 
Taking into account tuition. l"nes, room and board. equal­ing tlw total bill. this year's 11gure or $46,680 is a 4.9 per­<:ent in<:reasn or last ynar's $44,4SO. 
Notre Dame financial aid: A 
profile 
Financial aid is detnrrnined at Notre I>amo by 11rst 11guring out tlw amount a l"amily is abln to pay, Husso said. and then calculating their nnaneial 
IHWd. 
Need is measured "very carnfully," he said. 
I>npnnding on the resourcns in qunstion, need is calculated by two diiTnnmt mnthodologins -l"ederal and institutional. 
The f'ednral government is a "big provider or studnnt aid ­through l"ndPral grants, feder­al loans and work study," Husso said. 
The l"ederal methodology "drives eligibility for nnnd­hased l"ederal student aid," he said. 
For Notre Damn dollars, the Univnrsity us<~s a similar methodology railed institu­tional nwthodology, a product of" Tho College Board. which many schools subscribn to. 
"This is not a perfect science -we gather as much infor­mation as w<~ can from the family. we verify it with tax docum!Hlts and wn revinw the initial reading that The Collegn Board snnds us, and sonwtimns make adjustmnnts 
to that, and in the end, we 
come up with a number that 
we think is reasonable for the 
family," Husso said. 
These calculations make 
several assumptions -induct­
ing the family's willingness to 
contribute, he said. 
"There's clearly going to be, for a lot of families, a lot of sacri11ce ... and a lot of hard work." 
A combination of work and/or loans and University Scholarships may be added to the financial aid package, to cover the family's need and to reach what the Office of Financial Aid calls the "Cost of Attendance." This 11gure takes into account tuition and fees, room and board, books and supplies, as well as personal and transportation expenses. 
The average freshman schol­arship this year will be between $22,000 and $23,000, Husso said, and roughly 45 percent of students receive Univorsity scholarships. Athletes and the children of University employees who receive educational benefits are not ineluded in either of those figures. he said. 
About three quarters of all Notre Dame undergraduates receive some sort of financial help from some place ­including athletes and chil­dren of University employees. 
During the 2007-2008 aca­demic year, over $270 million dollars were given to all Notre Dame students. Of that total, $167 million was given to undergraduates, and specifi­cally $39 million was given to froshmen. 
These percentages are com­parable to peer institutions such as the Ivy League schools, Duke, Northwestern and Stanford, Husso said. 
The University is one of the charter members of an organi­zation called the 568 Presidents' Group-com­prised of 27 institutions com­mitted to need-blind admis­sions and to addressing "some real serious issues that creat­ed divergence in how families ability to pay was being calcu­lated." Husso said. 
Husso is a member of' the Group's technical committ1w working to solve these prob­lems and come up with a con­sensus approach to detnrmine a ramily's ability to pay. 
"We're all going to do it the same way -that's the consnn­sus approach," he said. 
Master of Engineering in Manufacturing Creating Global Professionals 
New technologies and markets require a new kind of professional. We prepare students with the knowledge and experience they need to become innovators in the field of global manufacturing. 
The Master of Engineering in Manufacturing is an intensive one­year program with an integrated, project-oriented curriculum grounded in engineering science. A group project in industry gives students real-world experience. 
Fellowships and opportunities for global study are available. 
'Affordable and accessible' 
Notre Dame is committed to 
meeting 100 percent of stu­
dents' demonstrated need, 
Husso said, and the University 
plans on continuing its previ­
ous admissions and financial 
aid policies, even though the 
11conomy may negatively affect 
its financial situation this year. 
Notre Dame is need-blind 
during the admissions process 
-"which is referenced by a 
couple of presidents in recent 
articles as something that is 
very difficult to do," he said. 
"But we will remain that way." 
Being a need-blind institution is the University's "premier policy" in terms of admissions and financial aid, Russo said. A Need-blind institution does not consider an applicant's finan­cial situation when making admissions decisions. 
"There are not a lot of high­cost private institutions that have this policy, and those that do arc going to be looking hard at it this year," he said. 
Notre Dame, however, will be keeping this policy. 
"We want to be accessible to anybody, we want the admis­sions decision to be basnd on applicants' credentials as they compete with other students, not on whether they can afford to come here," Russo said. "Only a handful of high-priced privates can say that. If you're admitted, we can look anyone in the eye and say, 'Wn can make this happen.' 
"We can make it affordable -we want access and we want affordability," he said. 
The University has a "very generous" policy dealing with the treatment of outside schol­arships -that is, scholarships from outside groups like a local Hotary Club or the National Merit Scholarship. Part of this policy has to do with being competitive with peer institu­tions, Russo said. 
Notre Dame allows the money received in outside scholarships to count toward the amount of work and/or loans in a student's financial aid package. 
"That's very generous. Most schools haven't met families' need, and that gap needs to be lilled with outside seholarships, and those who have met need might not be as generous in the way they treat outside scholar­ships," he said. 
Scholarships awarded by about 140 of the world's rough­ly 280 Notre Dame Alumni 
2S'Yo 
Percent of Global Value-Added Manufacturing, 2005 
Source: United Nations Statistics Division 
Become a leader in manufacturing and learn the process,
product, system, and business aspects of manufacturing. 
For more information, including application materials, visit http://web.mit.edu/meng-manufacturing/ 
Master of Engineering Program MIT Room 35-231 
Massachusetts 
77 Massachusetts Avenue 
Institute of
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139 617-258-5622 
Technology menginfo@mit.edu 
Manufacturing is more important than ever, in the 
U.S. and around the world. 
Association Clubs fall under the eategory of outside scholarships, Husso said. These figures added up "to the tune of over $2.7 mil­lion this year." 
"That's very special for Notrn Dame and I don't see that chang­ing-I see it growing," he said. 
Although the University does not currently plan on cutting out loans for all students, Husso said that might someday bn a possi­bility. 
"There will be students, in the end, who don't have any loans," he said. 
Where does the money come from? 
Husso said money for University scholarships come from three places -the University endowment, private donors and tuition. 
The first two sources provide what Husso called "real money" to pay students' bills. Twenty-five percent of the University endow­ment is allottnd for scholarships 
The third source, called tuition discounting, is the single-largest source o!' University Scholarships, he said. Tuition discounting uses what Russo called "funny money." 
This method reduces the stu­dent's bill "behind the scenes," which creates an expPnse that has to be offset by revenue. The primary source of revenue !"or the University is tuition, "so everybody's tuition has got to como up a bit to pay for this reduction," Husso said . 

The national avnragf~ tuition discount rate is 40 percent, he said. Some schools have reached their limit as far as tuition dis­counting goes, and are currnntly running into trouble, he said. 
"We would like to have most of our scholarship dollars be mal dollars and to not put the burden on tuition," Husso said. "We'd like the tuition discount rate to be zero -that's a tough goal to reach." 
A $1.5 billion fundraising cam­paign is curnmtly underway, he said -the third University f'undraising campaign in the last 15 years. The No. 1 priority of these campaigns has been undergraduate scholarship endowment. 
Reviewing packages 
No immediate changes are planned to thn University's policy of nwiewing or re-evaluating financial aid paekagns. 
Husso said there has benn "nothing out of thn ordinary" in terms of circumstances brought to tlw Office of Finaneial Aid's attention, like a parent losing his or lu~r job or th<~ death or a par­nnt. In these easns, the University does re-evaluate aid packages 
In these eases, the Univnrsity does re-evaluate aid packages. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
Friday, November 14, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 
Jones 8,835.25 +552.59 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,650 81 919 3,711,172,332 

AMEX  ·1~367.62  -~\~)i~[  
NASDAQ  1,596.70  +97.49  
NYSE  @L ..  s,7:t:s·•.7s,::=·::itiiii~;rl:  
S&P 500  911.29  +58.99  
NIKKEI (Tokyo)  8;541.55  
 

FTSE 100 (London) 4,169.21 -12.81 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +6.23 +5.35 91.17 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +6.10 +1.75 30.46 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) +3.50 \ +0.57 16.86 CITIGROUP INC (C) -1.97 -0.19 9.450 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +4.17 +0.153 3.818 13-WEEK BILL +35.71 +0.050 0.190 30-YEAR BOND +3.41 +0.140 4.330 5-YEAR NOTE +0.97 +0.023 2.387 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.08 58.24 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -13.30 705.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.30 85.63 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 97.1350 EURO 0.7846 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2172 BRITISH POUND 0.6747 
IN BRIEF 
EPA coal-burning permit blocked 
WASHINGTON -The Environmental Protection Agency was blocked Thursday from issuing a permit for a proposed coal-burning power plant in Utah without addressing global warming. The ruling by an agency appeals panel means the Obama administration probably will determine the fate of other similar plants. 
The panel said the EPA's Denver office failed to adequately support its decision to issue a permit for the Bonanza plant without requiring controls on carbon dioxide, the leading greenhouse gas. 
The matter was sent back to that office, which must better explain why it failed to order limits on carbon dioxide. This is "an issue of national scope that has implications far beyond this indi­vidual permitting process," the panel said. 
EPA spokesman Jonathan Shrader said the agency wa..<; reviewing the ruling by the appeals panel, which traditionally gives great deference to agency decisions. lie declined to say how many other eoal plant permits might be affected. 
Family, Medical Leave Act Finalized 
WASIIINGTON -The Labor Department on Thursday announced final revisions in the Family and Medical Leave Act, including new rules delining how families of wounded service members will be able to take unpaid leave to care f(Jr them. 
While the addition of military families to the landmark law received positive reviews, the Labor Department's other revisions to the Act caused concern among labor and employee advocates. 
The AFL-CJO's Cecelie Counts said the new regulations dealing with military families were "fair" but called the rest a "rather stingy reading of' the law." 
Rep. Lynn Woolsey, D-Calil'., said letting mili­tary families use the FMLA was necessary "to help military families balance work and family." But the "other changes to the Family and Medieal Leave Act look like they will, on balance, benefit employers at the expense of workers," said Woolsey, a member of the House Education and Labor Committee. 

---------------------. 
• 
• 
THE OBSERVER 


USINESS : 
page 7 
Bush defends free enterprise system 
Prior to this weekend's global economic summit, Bush praises capitalism 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -President George W. Bush fervently defended U.S.-style free enterprise Thursday as the cure for the world's finan­cial chaos, not the cause. He warned foreign leaders ahead of a weekend sum­mit not to crush global growth with restrictive new rules. 
"We must recognize that government intervention is not a cure-all," Bush said from Wall Street, setting his own tone for the two­day meeting that begins Friday in Washington seek­ing solutions to the eco­nomic crisis that has spread around the world. 
"Our aim should not be more government," he told the business executives. "It should be smarter govern­ment." 
The president acknowl­edged that governments share the blame for the severe economic troubles that have hit banks, homes and whole countries. 
He spelled out his pre­scription, which includes tougher accounting rules and more modern interna­tional financial institutions. But he stopped short of the tighter oversight and regu­lation that European lead­ers want. All his ideas came with a warning: Don't rescue the fmancial indus­Leach and former But Britain's Brown, on disturb capitalism. try. His government has Secretary of State his way to the summit, 
"In the wake of the finan­also signed off on costly Madeleine Albright to rep­declared, "There is a need cial crisis, voices from the rescues for housing, insur­resent him. Obama's tran­for urgency." left and right are equating ance and other financial sition team says they will It was fitting that Bush's the free enterprise system institutions. primarily be listeners on argument against regulato­with greed, exploitation The U.S. wields enor­the periphery of the meet­ry overreach was delivered and failure," Bush said. mous clout in any global ings. not in Washington but on 
"It is true that this crisis response to the economic The world leaders come Wall Street. His speech included failures, by lead­crisis, and Bush is host for to Washington with their venue was venerable ers and borrowers, by the weekend gathering, own ideas for change. Federal Hall, home to the financial firms, by govern­bringing together heads of French President Nicolas first Congress and within ments and independent state from the world's Sarkozy, British Prime shouting distance of the regulators," Bush said. biggest economies as well Minister Gordon Brown New York Stock Exchange. "But the crisis was not a as emerging nations. It is and others are advocating There was freshly sober­failure of the free market intended to be the first in a a broader overhaul of ing news on the U.S. econo­system. And the answer is series. financial regulations than my: The number of newly not to try to reinvent that But Bush's personal influ­Bush wants. The laid-off people seeking system." ence is waning. Europeans also want a unemployment benefits 
That warning about the In about two months, pledge for concrete jumped to a level not seen dangers of too much gov­Democrat Barack Obama changes in just 1 00 days. since just after the Sept. ernment intervention came will take over as president. The stated goal for this 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. not long after he champi­Though the president-elect weekend is to examine the Still the Dow Jones indus­oned the biggest bailout in does not plan to attend this causes of the crisis and trial average surged 553 
U.S. history: a $700 billion summit, he has authorized begin mapping out princi­points at the end of the taxpayer-funded plan to former Iowa Rep. Jim ples for a response. trading day. 

Democrats set to vote on auto bailout 
Associated Press General Motors Corp., Ford Motor nor sound fiscal policy," Boehner 
Co. and Chrysler LLC are lobbying said. 
WASHINGTON-The auto industry feverishly for Congress to approve Senate Republican leader Mitch and business groups mounted a lob­the aid, citing an economic downturn McConnell of Kentucky -home to a bying onslaught Thursday to thwart that has choked off sales and frozen General Motors and two Ford plants GOP opposition to a Senate vote next credit. -has been noncommittal about new week on Democrats' plan for a $25 But the idea is running into resist­aid. His office says Congress should billion emergency loan plan for U.S. ance from Republicans and President instead speed release of $25 billion carmakers. George W. Bush, who are reluctant to in loans approved by Congress last 
Senior Democrats are drafting leg­back any additional money for the month to help automakers develop islation that would carve out part of struggling industry. House GOP more fuel-efficient vehicles. the $700 billion Wall Street bailout leader John Boehner of Ohio issued a House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D­for loans to the three major U.S. auto statement Thurs<;lay promising to Calif., has yet to schedule a legisla­companies in exchange for a govern­oppose any new auto industry loans. tive session to consider the new loans ment ownership stake in the compa­"Spending billions of additional as Democrats keep hunting for the nies. federal tax dollars with no promises votes to pass it. 
They hope to push the measure to reform the root causes crippling "Right now, I don't think there are through during a postelection session automakers' competitiveness around the votes," said Sen. Chris Dodd, D­of Congress that begins Monday. the world is neither fair to taxpayers Conn., chairman of the Senate 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, November 14, 2008 
~ 
t 
CONGO 
Kings want share 
Violence in Congo separates fanillies 


in shirt proceeds
Children search for parents in refugee camps; thousands homeless 
safer there. are particularly vulnerable to 
Associated Press Associated Press 
"The military came in. I was abuse, exploitation, violence and KIBATI -Hebncca Nyiringindi afraid," she said. "I hid next to recruitment into armed groups," 
ATLANTA Zealous scanned the sprawling refugee the radio tower. My parents said, said UNICEF spokesman Jaya 
guardians of his words and his camp in eastern Congo, search­'Go, we'll come after you.' I went Murthy. 
likeness, the family of the Rev. ing for just one person among along the road and I didn't see The youngest child registered 
Martin Luther King Jr. is the thousands of hungry and them again." at Kibati is 3 and the oldest 17, 
demanding a share of the pro­homeless. There are no schools in the aceording to Save the Children. 
ceeds from the sudden wave of "My mother's name is camp, and young children run Their young ages and inability 
T-shirts, posters and other mer­Alphonsine," the underfoot all day, to give detailed information ­
chandise depicting the civil 10-year-old said dodging waves of plus the lack of official records in 
rights leader alongside Barack softly, sucking new arrivals. At the Congolese countryside ­
Obama. her thumb. night, say resi­make it even more difficult to 
Isaac Newton Farris Jr.,
"I hid next to the 
King's nephew and head of the 
"She's short. dents speaking in track down the children's fami­
radio tower. My 
nonprofit King Center in Hebecca was parents said, 'Go, drunk soldiers "We're doing everything possi­
She's very dark." fearful whispers, lies. 
Atlanta, said the estate is enti­among more we'll come after rampage ble to find the families of these 
tled to hundreds of thousands than 150 chil­through, raping children," Murthy said. "But 
of dollars in licensing fees ­
you.' I went along 
maybe even millions. for their parents the road and I didn't N e e m a sands of people who have fled. 
dren searching women and girls. we're talking about tens of thou­
"Some of this is probably put­Thursday in a see them again. " Maombi, 8, fled It's just not that easy to find 
ting food on people's plates. camp in Kibati, the northern where these people have gone." 
We're not trying to stop any­just miles from town of Aid workers said they plan to 
body from legitimately support­
Rebecca Nylrlnglndi 
ing themselves," he said, "but and Tutsi rebels refugee 60 miles from the post them at the camp to try to 
where soldiers Nyanzale, about take photos of the children and we cannot allow our brand to 
guarded a tense front line, raising fears that fight­ing would resume in this miner­al-rich region. 
Some 70,000 refugees have fled to Kibati since lighting inten­sified in eastern Congo in August, displacing at least 250,000 people despite the pres­ence of the largest U.N. peace­keeping force in the world. 
Aid agencies took advantage of a lull in righting this week to return to camps near the front line and rnsume registering chil­dnm who were separated from their parents during the eonflict in Congo's North Kivu province. 
Some were clearly trauma­tized. Zawadi Bunzigiye, 6, stared down at her grubby blue dross and said, in a voice barely above a whisper, ''I'm afraid of bulleL'i." 
Many children fled with only the clothes on their backs. When lighting erupted Oct. 27 in the rebel-controlled town of Kibumba, about 12 miles from the camp, Hebncca said she fled on li10t, accompanied only by the family's goat. 
"But I lost it," she said. "It was a chocolatl\-eolored goat. It was a big goat." 
She said her parents sent her to the camp, believing she'd be 
be abused." 
provincial capital help them reunite with their 
But while Obama's election as
of Goma, in early families. 
the first black president may be
September with Congo's conflict has been 
the fulfillment of King's dream
her sister Solange, 16. Her fueled by festering hatreds left 
and could yield a big windfall
account of being caught in this over from the 1994 Rwandan 
for his estate, policing his
complicated conflict is simple. genocide in which half a million 
image and aetually collecting 
"I heard bullets," she said. "I Tutsis were killed. More than a 
any fees could prove to be a
ran." million llutu extremists who par­
legal nightmare because of the 
A<>ked to describe her parents, tieipated in the slaughter fled 
great proliferation of unautho­
the child plucked at her tattered Rwanda for the safety of Congo. 
rized King-Obama parapherna­
blue shirt and said: "My mother Rebel leader Laurent Nkunda, 
lia, much of it sold by street
is small. My father is short." an ethnic Tutsi, accuses the 
"My mother makes good food, 
"Children who are
like potatoes and beans," she separated are added with a shy 
particularly
smile. "She 
vulnerable to
makes banana beer." abuse, exploitation, UNICEF says 
violence and 
hundreds of chil­
recruitment into 
dren have been 
separated from armed groups. " their families since fighting 
Jaya Murthy
flared in August, and that overall UNICEF spokesman more than 1 ,600 children in the 
vendors.
Congolese gov­
King's writings, likeness and
ernment of not 
voice are considered intellectu­
doing enough to 
al property, and almost any use
protect minority 
-from graduate thesis papers
Tutsis from the 
to TV documentaries -are
Hutu militias. A 
subject to approval by his
corrupt and inef­
estate, now administered by his
fective govern­
surviving children, Martin
ment, and rival 
Luther King III, Dexter King
claims to the 
and the Rev. Bernice King.
country's vast 
(Because Obama is an elected
mineral 
official, his words and image
resources, have 
are in the public domain and
fanned the vio­
can be used without permis­
lence. 
sion.)
Aid agencies 
Farris said he expects to
say they are con­
announce deals in the eoming
cerned about the 
weeks to license some items
province are seeking their par­children's vulnerability to malnu­
featuring images of King and
ents. Just 17 have been reunited trition and disease. 
Obama, and may sell some in
with their families in the last Squatting by a muddy stream 
the King Center bookstore
three days in Kibati. Thursday, a young boy used a 
alongside recordings of his
Those who have not are taken plastic bag to draw water, then 
speeches, postcards, calendars, 
in by other families -and they drank the opaque contents. 
mugs bearing images of King, 
wait. Downstream, other children 
and other licensed merchan­
"Children who are separated played in the murky water. 
Solidarity Sunday 
November 16,2008 
The Spirit of Inclusion .•. 
'~Strangers and Sojourners no longer~' (Ephesians 2:19) 
"We value gay and lesbian members of this community as we value all men1bers of this community". "We consciously create an environment ofmutual respect, hospitality and warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourish.... "We prize the uniqueness ofall 
persons as God's creatures. " 
-adopted b_y the ~[Jicers ~[the University on Aunust Z7, 1997 
Please join the Notre Dame family in our annual "'\Veekend-long prayer and "'\Velcome 
Copi...~s ofth(..~ ...~ntirc statement ofthe Spirit of Inclusion will be available f()llo"ving all Mass(_~s on Novcmlu~r 15-16, 2008. 
dise, which nets the center about $800,000 annually. 
The family is protective of how King is depicted, and Farris said any items that are inconsistent with his uncle's message and image would not be approved. 
Any proceeds from King­Obama merchandise would also go to the King Center, said Farris, a member of the estate management team that reviews intellectual property issues. 
The family, which refuses to divulge details of its licensing deals, is also discussing how to go after violators. 
King's estate sued CBS over its sale of a video documentary that used excerpts of his 1963 "I Have a Dream" speech. An appeals court ruled in 1999 that the speech was covered by copyright and was not public domain, but the estate ultimate­ly settled out of court for an undisdosed sum. 
"They are probably one of the most careful, concerned and on-top-of-it groups of image protectors I've ever met," said Philippa Loengard, assistant director of the Kernoehan Center for Law, Media and the ArL<> at Columbia University. 
Realizing the value of his ideas, King himself copyrighted several of his speeches during his lifetime. After he died, that duty fell to his widow, Coretta, and, since her death in 2006, to their children. Some scholars have complained about the family's aggressive pursuit of moneymaking opportunities. 
But the Kings have never faced a ehallenge quite as big as this. Vendors across the country have capitalized on connecting Obama to King, mostly without permission and without a penny of the proceeds going to his estate. 
"We realize the historic nature of events surrounding President-elect Obama and we are seeking an elegant solution to address the eommercial use of Dr. King's image in connec­tion with our newly elected president," Dexter King said in a statement. 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

Friday, November 14, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Millions stage 111ock earthquake 
Emergency drill used to test preparedness ofemergency responders 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -People across Southern California on Thursday looked like they had stepped out of a disaster movie. Children ducked under their desks. Victims with fake blood lay on the ground. First respon­ders sprang into action to treat the "wounded." 
The controlled chaos was all part of a mock "Big One" -an earthquake drill billed as the largest in U.S. history and aimed at testing the prepared­ness of governments, emer­gency responders and residents. 
At 10 a.m., a cast of millions dropped to the ground, covered their heads and held onto furni­ture. Local television stations interrupted their regular pro­gramming to announce the drill and covered it as they would a major earthquake, though with continual reminders that the emergency wasn't real. 
Thursday's drill was based on a fictional magnitude-7.8 event on the southern San Andreas Fault. If such a quake occurred today, scientists estimate it would kill 1,800 people and cause $200 billion in damage. Some high-rises would fall, sec­tions of freeways would crumble and gas pipes would crack. 
The dress rehearsal served to remind Californians that they live on shaky ground that can rupture without warning. That southern San Andreas has not popped in more than three cen­turies, and scientists fear stress buildup could unleash a big quake. 
"We're really taking a step forward toward earthquake safety," said Lucy Jones, a U.S. Geological Survey seismologist who has long urged residents to prepare. 
At Bishop Alemany High School. a San Fernando Valley campus badly damaged by a 1971 quake and destroyed by the 1994 Northridge disaster, the football field was filled with hundreds of mock mass casual­ties who wore colored wrist­bands indicating the severity of their fake injuries. 
Many of the students posing as faux victims said they were too young to remember Northridge, the last damaging quake in Southern California, which toppled bridges and buildings. 
Olivia Paluch, 17, who sported a fake gash on her head and cheek, pondered the "Big One" as she waited for firefighters to take her away by stretcher. 
"It's really scary seeing all my friends like this," Paluch said, gesturing to her fellow students painted with gruesome injuries on their bodies. "It's over­whelming." 
Another student, Emily Loren, 17, lay on the ground nearby with a bandaged head. Loren said she was pretending to be a student who was studying in the library and got hit by a falling book during the shaking. 
"It's exciting. It's better to be prepared. At the same time, it's nerve-racking," said Loren, who had a fake IV attached to her arm. 
Even California's governor­actor played a role. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger arrived by hel­icopter at the football field triage center in the late morning to survey the situation. He thanked the federal government for funding the drill and praised the agencies that cooperated. 
"It's one thing to talk about being ready for an emergency, but it's another thing to actually test it," Schwarzenegger said. 
Some people, however, remained blase. 
"I live under the assumption that the engineering going into these buildings is pretty sophis­ticated," said Grant Casner. who works on the ninth floor of a downtown high-rise and who didn't take part in the drill. 
Although the statewide drill was scheduled to start at 10 
a.m. 
Pacific time, Schwarzenegger surprised his staff by practicing the drill at 5 

a.m. 
The governor said he was pleased by his staffs response. 


Organizers said about 5 mil­lion people had signed up to participate. The exercise coin­cided with an annual disaster preparedness exercise held by the state. Unlike previous years, the simulation involved scores of governments, first respon­ders. schools, businesses, churches and residents, all fol­lowing the same script. 
Under the scenario, the south­ern San Andreas suddenly awakens near the Mexican bor­der, sending shock waves marching toward Los Angeles and eventually stopping in the high desert. The 200-mile rup­ture would leave a path of destruction. Shaking would last about three minutes. 
The minimum participation called for people to dive for safety. Firefighters and other emergency responders staged full-scale exercises complete with search-and-rescue mis­sions and medical triaging of people posing as casualty vic­tims. 
It was business as usual at Bishop Alemany High until sirens sounded shortly after 10 
a.m. and a soundtrack simulat­ing earthquake noise blared through the loudspeakers. 
Spanish teacher Fiorella Linares, who had been checking homework, ordered her approx­imately 20 students to "cover," and they dove under desks and grabbed onto the legs of chairs. 
Some of the teens giggled and joked. ''I'm dying," one shouted in mock horror. 
"Don't laugh," Linares scold­ed. "You have to think about what ifthis really happened." 
Despite decades of research, scientists still cannot predict when an earthquake will strike. 
California sits atop two of Earth's major tectonic plates and is the most seismically active state in the continental 
U.S. More than 300 faults criss­cross the state including the mighty San Andreas, which spawned the monstrous 1906 San Francisco earthquake. 
Less than half an hour after the exercise began, a small quake -magnitude-3.2 -hit central California, but it shook little and injured no one. 
Scientists have long warned about the possibility of a "Big One." They recently calculated a 
99.7 percent chance that a mag­nitude-6. 7 quake or larger will rock the Golden State in the next 30 years. The chance of a magnitude-7.5 or greater was 46 percent during the same period with the epicenter more likely in Southern California. 
ACE 
continued from page 1 
Four firm, he chose to teach math and religion to 7th and 8th graders at St. Jude Educational Institute in Montgomery, Ala. 
"I had always thought about doing a year or two of service after graduation to work on integrating service into my life after college," he said. "I looked at several of the programs that recruit at Notre Dame but was drawn to ACE because of how well it integrates the service, spirituality, community and work aspects of the program." 
Brogan Ryan said ACE's sell­ing point was the fact that it is a faith-based program. 
"ACE separates itself from other programs because it emphasizes not only service and spirituality, but also professional development and community life," Ryan said. 
Members of the ACE program teach in under-resourced Catholic schools for two years while living with other ACE pro­gram teachers in community and growing spiritually. During the summer, the teachers study education at Notre Dame, and typically earn a Masters degree in education after their two­year tenure. 
Like the Ryans, Saderia Nicole Hooks also graduated in 2008. Now teaching at St. Pius V in Jacksonville, Florida, she said the spiritual and communal val­ues fostered by the program served as her motivation to teach. 
Hooks said she thought it "would be a great way to begin a career in education ... ACE not only offered me the opportu­nity to teach, but also to earn a Master's Degree in education simultaneously." 
Contact Honora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 
FRANCE 
Russia seeks new start for U.S. ties 
Associated Press 
CANNES -Russian President Dmitry Medvedev said Thursday that U.S. President-elect Barack Obama's move to the White House is a chance for a fresh start between the two powerful, nuclear-armed nations, whose ties have deteriorated over the past decade. 
"We are ready to develop really good-neighborly relations with the U.S.," Medvedev told business leaders in Cannes, France. ''I'm very glad the president-elect looks at these problems ... as a priority for U.S. foreign policy." 
"For us, relations with the U.S. are a foreign policy priority, too ... given the special role and mission of our two countries," Medvedev said. 
"The new administration will have the chance, if not to start with a totally clean slate, then at least to look at the issues without prejudice," he said. 
Last week, as congratulations poured in to Obama from around the world on his election victory, Medvedev gave a stern warning about U.S. plans to base missile defense units in Eastern Europe, saying Russia would react by bas­ing short-range missiles in the western territory of Kaliningrad. 
Medvedev and other Kremlin officials have backed off slightly since then, however. In an inter­view with French journalists broadcast Thursday, Medvedev again suggested that if Washington halts its plans, Moscow would do the same. 
Medvedev said he had had a good telephone conversation with Obama last week and that the two men had agreed they should meet face-to-face as soon as possible. 
"I hope... we'll be able to find a way out of these (difficult) situa­tions, which we haven't been able to do with our current col­leagues," he said in the televised interview. 
"The new president has a big reserve of good will. He was elect­ed during a very difficult period. I wish him success in dealing with what lies before him," he said. 
United Nations conference rejects religious terroris111 
Declaration by 80 nations express concern at serious instances of intolerance, discrimination, and hatred 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS Countries attending a U.N. inter­faith conference Thursday rejected the use of religion to justify acts of terrorism and other violence that kills and injures innocent civilians. 
A declaration by 80 nations expressed concern at "serious instances of intolerance, dis­crimination, expressions of hatred and harassment of minority religious communities of all faiths." 
But it promoted dialogue among nations and called for understanding and respect for diverse religions and cultures. 
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon read the declaration near the end of the two-day meeting which was initiated by King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and brought 14 world leaders to New York including President Bush, the heads of Pakistan and Afghanistan, and Israel's presi­dent. 
"King Abdullah's initiative has come at a time when the need for dialogue among religions, cultures and civilizations has never been greater," Ban told a news conference. "The chal­lenge now is to go beyond the powerful, positive words we have heard." 
Many speakers spoke out against religious extremists, while defending tolerance and freedom of religion. 
President Bush, who likely delivered his last address at the U.N., echoed this theme saying: "We believe God calls us to live in peace -and to oppose all those who use His name to justi­fy violence and murder." 
Bush said expanding democ­racy is one of the best ways to safeguard religious freedom and promote peace. 
"People who are free to express their opinions can chal­lenge the ideologies of hate," he said. "They can defend their religious beliefs and speak out against those seeking to twist them to evil ends. They can pre­vent their children from falling under the sway of extremists by giving them a more hopeful alternative." 
Among the leaders brought together -at least in the same room -were the Saudi king and Israeli President Shimon Peres. 
Peres had rare praise for the Saudi monarch, saying Wednesday his initiative to end the Arab-Israeli conflict inspired hope that all countries in the Middle East could live in peace. 
But Saudi Foreign Minister Saud Al-Faisal expressed disap­pointment Thursday that Peres only talked positively about parts of the Arab peace plan ­and didn't mention others. 
The plan calls for Arab recog­nition of the Jewish state in exchange for a full Israeli with­drawal from all lands captured in the 1967 Mideast war. But Israel objects to relinquishing all territory and the right of all Palestinians to return, and it wants to keep a unified Jerusalem as its capital. 
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown stressed the importance of peace in the Middle East, telling the conference Thursday that the creation of a Palestinian state side by side with an Israeli state "can be achieved by good­will." 
Saudi Arabia has been criti­cized by Human Rights Watch and others for refusing to allow the public practice of any reli­gion other than Islam and restricting those who do not fol­low the strict Wahhabi interpre­tation of Islam. 
In light of its sponsorship of the conference, Saud was asked whether Saudi Arabia would now allow the freedom of reli­gion and tolerance called for in the final declaration. 
The Saudi minister said this was "an important question" for his country but indicated that the process must be gradual. 
"If you bring people together so that they understand that they have the same ethics, they have the same values, this will open the hearts and minds of people for further progress," Saud told reporters. "But to say from the beginning you have to transform yourself into some­thing which you aren't now or nothing else can be achieved is, I think, carrying the argument too far." 
In the declaration, "participat­ing states affirmed their rejec­tion of the use of religion to jus­tify the killing of innocent people and actions on terrorism, vio­lence and coercion, which directly contradict the commit­ment of all religions to peace, justice and equality." 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, November 14, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box n9. Norr< Dam<, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notr< Dnm<, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Chris Hin~ 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler A~s·I: MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
Nt;ws EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EI>ITOR: Kara King 
SroRTS EDITORS: Bill Brink Dan Murphy SCENE EDITOR: Analist• Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROu.ER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mikt· Moriarry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
Honoring ROTC 
A couple times per week, they train while the rest of us sleep. They aren't training for their shot at glory in Notre Dame Stadium, they aren't practicing their jump shot and they aren't getting ready for the big game. These students arc honing another kind of ability -their ability to be a soldier. 
Early wake-up calls and grueling workouts are no deterrent to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's studentS enrolled in the HOTC programs on campus. They spend weeks over their summer vacation, doing more training, preparing for their lives after college. When they're on campus, they are just like every other Notre Dame stu­
OTHE
dent -they are our classmates, our dorm 
We share that sentiment. 
As students at Notre Dame, it's easy to gnt caught up in the pressures and demands that come with attending this University and sometimes other issues -especially the poor performance of the football tfmm -can doud our judgment of what's truly important. But as we watch the Irish suit up against Navy this weekend, we should take time to pause and retlect. We should reflect upon the sacrifice and eourage of our fellow classmates, of the men on the opposing sideline 
and of the men and women stationed around the 
globe. These men and women are lighting two 
-
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan wars that began
BSERVER
mates and our friends. when most of us weren't old enough to drive a But they are hardly ordinary. car.
Editorial
Some of us will leave this University and Back then, as many of us watched the world 
enter a career, others will continue their edu­cation in graduate school, but some of our fel­low students will head to the deserts of Iraq or Afghanistan, be stationed on a submarine or a ship, or fly the skies in defense of the United States. They will protect the freedoms of our country -the freedom to chase our dream jobs, the freedom to raise a family in peace and even the freedom to say a football coach should be fired. 
As a country and at Notre Dame, we commemorated Veterans Day this past Tuesday. University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Ilesburgh spoke at the ROTC's Tri­Military Veterans Day Ceremony and said he stands "in awe, respect and gratitude to our armed forces." 
change before our very eyes, never eould we imagine that soon, people our age, our friends and classmates, would be lighting in those wars for us. 
That bitter reality has come, but we should not be afraid for them. We should be comforted knowing they will leave this University and take its values, its morals and its teach­ings with them into this world, a world where peaee can sometimes seem unattainable. 
They train to enter that world with us, in the dassroom and in the community. But unlike us, they also train to go out into that world before the sun comes up, while the rest of us sleep. And we sleep safe, thankful that they are there to pro­tect us. 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 63 I -B23 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoint.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.I@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scenc.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Obsem:r is the indcpendt·nt, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Uniwrsiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adwrrisemems based on content. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparrment cdirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThc ()bscrver. 
Vitwpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. I.c:tters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact intOrmation. 
Queitiow "Karding Obsm;frpolicits should bt dirwtd to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'l11~; t>h'oC.'tvfr (l/SI1S ,,)IJ 2-4000) i• puN.td-Kcl Munday thmush Frklo~y c:x..:cp1cltmng cum .mel V,!~'JUU/1 pr;nod!i. A. •uiJ.'If:npnon lo Thr {lb.'ICrvcr ia: $1 on fnr UIIC oiUdcmi~: yc"r;$'ilj ftUIIIIC:kllll!llftr 
lbc: ( lh.cmer ~~: pullhalu:tl .u POSTMASTER 
()Jot ~umh DnunK ll.1ll ~nd JtldttU cometi!)n• w· 
Nnuc Il;~~mc, IN .of(,'5,\f,.on? lkOh!iC'rvcr 
l'criucl,~lll poautr.c p.ud ,u Nouc D<~rnc r.o lluxn9 1111d .uidifll>ll~lm.uling ulfi(a. 1124 South Dining Hall 
Nu~r~: D.tmc, IN 4M'56·Un9 
The ( lhw:rver •• a member otchc At.ocurcd rtca..\. All rcpnxim:ciun r•ghll. ;arc 
re.erve~l. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Friday, November 14, 2008 
page 11 
Forde ounces to freedom 
Forty names, beers, schools and minutiae making news at Notre Dame (1), where the Leprechaun Legion (2) is the second best student body of all the basketball schools in the nation [no 
criticisms of Fr. Jenkins (3) for fir­ing Tyrone Willingham (4) included]. 
The Flash (me, of course) would like to send a huge Notre Dame con­

gratulations over to Bob Kessler president elect Barack Obama (5). House ofStix The first black pres­ident certainly deserves a nice Samuel Adams Winter Lager (6) on me, but I can't seem to send liquids to the future leader of the free world, so he'll have to stop by The Linebacker Lounge (7 ) sometime so I can treat him. 
While on the topic of politics, The Flash would like say happy trails to Hache! Maddow (8) and Keith Olbermann (9). While these two were highly entertaining in the lead up to the election, they will most likely be unwatched for the next four years. Especially Olbermann, who made a second name for himself as the biggest critic of the Bush Administration (10). As consolation gifts for these two I would like to send Ms. Maddow a Busch Light (11) and Mr. Olbermann a Jaeger Bomb (12). 
Speaking of news media, The Flash would also like to send a shout out to ESPN (13), which proclaimed this week that Weis Watch (14) was beginning. I don't know about everybody else, but it seems like firing Charlie Weis (15) would truly signal the end for Notre Dame football. When I look around campus, it seems most of the student body does not care about the sport like we once did. The seniors remember the agony of the MSU Flag Planting 
(16) and the heartbreak of the Bush Push (17), the juniors remember come­backs against UCLA (18) and Michigan State (19), but the sophomores and freshmen only know embarrassing losses. When the student body runs through Stonehenge (20) after a sloppy win against a mediocre Bruin team it is evident that we have seen better days. The Flash thinks that this school needs a marquee victory soon or we could lose the student body indefinitely. A new coach is probably not going to bring that next year and we can not afford to enter another phase of rebuilding. 
Sticking with the football theme for a moment, The Flash still has not gotten "Viva La Vida" (21) out of his head. The Boston College band (23) played the song incessantly and I now know how losing away fans must feel after leaving Notre Dame Stadium (24). If I can't get the Coldplay (25) song out of my head, I have no clue how fans of Florida State (26) could have gotten the Victory March (27) out of their heads after the 1993 Game of the Century (28). 
Speaking of Florida, don't we wish we were in Florida now. With the tem­peratures falling, we are now in a criti­cal time of the South Bend Fall that is perfect for two things: a power running game (29) and sweatpants (30). Since the only place we've been able to find the first in recent memory has been in dorm showdowns at Stepan Fields (31), I'd like to take some time to ponder the second. 
As The Flash walks across campus in this weather, he often notices that you can tell where people come from by what they are wearing. Somebody wearing shorts and a hoodie is proba­bly used to the weather. I'm guessing Minnesota (32); those people can han­dle levels of cold like none other. Anytime I see a person wearing a dress coat and a scarf, I immediately think they are from the East Coast (33) -I 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Tolerate m.ediocre coaching 
Regarding mediocre or worse coaching, it should be obvious that better coaches have not wanted the Notre Dame head coaching job. If the administration had found better coaches than Davie, Willingham and Weis who were willing to take the job, we would not be in this mess. Has anything changed in that regard? No, and it probably won't. The job· is a huge pressure cooker and too many fans and students only make matters worse by calling for Weis to be fired ASAP. We should be patient and tolerant while requiring excellence at the same time. A little more patience and tolerance by fans and students would help in attracting a future top caliber coach. Think about it, no elite coach would come to a school which has a track record of firing two consecutive coaches after only three or four years on the job. Even though he may not deserve it, we need to have patience with Weis for at least a couple more years. Who knows, he might even get his act together in that time. 
Jackson Davis alum class of 1967 Nov. 12 
Still not laughing 
Unfortunately I have not have had the examples such as "Van Wilder" and "pleasure" of seeing the movie "Tropic "Legally Blonde" in defense for his unwar­Thunder" like my fellow student Colin ranted appreciation for degrading comical Keeler has. However, I have had the pleas­movies. Yet, the last time I checked none of ure of knowing both Mary Forr and Mary these movies were even close to being Conroy and all I can say is that I thank God respected in the industry. So why should their siblings have them as sisters. Maybe it anyone respect them as arguments in is necessary to know someone with a physi­defense of the film industry? cal or mental handicap personally in order Lastly, I'd like to point out the fact that to truly appreciate that they are a gift from Colin claims Mary Forr went on and on God, but for those of us who don't, it is cer­about the use of the r-word in the movie. tainly never acceptable to degrade or put Not only is the overuse of the word com­down any of God's children in any way. pletely uncalled for, but there's also a point 
I'm not sure if anyone else had the same in the movie when Matthew McConaughey, reaction I did when I read Colin Keeler's who plays Speedman's agent Rick Peck, Nov. 12 Letter to the Editor, "Learning to seems to have a child who is in some way Laugh," but I could not disagree with it disabled. In one scene the child stands more. Not only was he defending a stupid beside his father, who's talking on the movie over human beings, but his only phone, and says, "At least you get to pick valid argument in its defense was, "I hate him," referring to adoption. This is just baf­to break the news, but many comical fling to me. How would you like it if your movies do have jokes concerning race and parents said that about you? religion ..." This statement is completely Just because some people fmd making ignorant. First of all, he is assuming that all fun of people with mental and physical disabled people can defend themselves to handicaps hilarious does not mean that the degree that one who is fully able can. I Our Blessed Mother has a sense of humor am not saying this to insinuate that the ... sorry, Colin. handicapped are completely incapable but is it fair or right to pick on someone who Lindsey McMahon cannot defend themselves the way you junior can? Pasquerilla West Hall 
In his Letter, Keeler also calls upon Nov. 12 don't know why, just seems like urban attire. Then there are those of us from the Chicago Suburbs (34). I think a lot of us love to sport the hoodie under jacket look in this late fall period. The 
Flash likes the look because it makes it seem like he can take the cold by not wearing a full on coat [like all those people from Florida (35)] but keeps 
him warm inside. 
Speaking of keeping you warm inside, The Flash would like to thank Flashettes Olga Kurylenko (36) and Gemma Arterton (37) who everybody will know by tomorrow as the Bond girls in "Quantum of Solace" (now in a theater near you). 
The Flash would like to thank several people for their unknowing help with this column. Barry Allen (38) and Wally West (39) have been real troopers for unknowingly letting me use their alias. 
Finally, I could take some time to mention how Notre Dame officials are racist for firing Tyrone Willingham, but I wouldn't want to imitate ESPN .com writer Pat Forde (40). 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. You can contact him at rkessler@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Lighten up 
This letter is regarding Robert Scully's Nov. 12 Letter to the Editor ("Offensive comics are back"), which was a response to the Nov. 10 edition of "The Dome Piece." How unintelligent does it make one if he doesn't realize that his intelli­gence is being insulted? I frankly enjoyed this particular issue of the Dome Piece very much, even to the point that I, God forbid, laughed at a joke about an erection. Far from insulting the readers' intelligence, I found it was an ironi­cally self-aware and palatably mild jab at the obvious Quinn fan-boy mentality that so dominates the current Notre Dame communal psyche. Do we really take ourselves so seriously that we're unable to recognize those foibles that make us uniquely Notre Dame? Are we really that uncomfortable with ourselves that a mention of something sexual-that a mention of an erection -makes a joke juvenile and not worth reading? I laud Cavadini and his attempt to make us take ourselves a little less seriously. Scully, ifyou want unfunny comics and visual stimulation, I recommend going and reading Family Circus in the Snite. I'll be laughing with everyone else at The Dome Piece. 
Michael Mesterharm 
seniOr 
off-campus Nov. 12 
Learn -where to dra-w line 
In Colin Keeler's Nov. 12 Letter to the Editor titled "Learning to Laugh," he claims that all motion picture comedies can "seem 'degrading' ifviewed in some manner" but they are actually funny to people with a good sense of humor, and can serve to "highlight" the trials that discriminated groups face. Unfortunately, Keeler's remarks only address what he believes "degrading" represents. The controversy about Tropic Thunder arises from the film's repeated use of the r-word. For example, one of the film's characters, Tugg Speedman (Ben Stiller) plays an actor who starred as a farm boy with a mental impairment in a movie "Simple Jack ... Once upon a time there was a [r­word]." 
Use of the r-word perpetuates negative stereotypes and dehumanizes people with intellectual disabilities. It is an extremely offensive word for those familiar with the challenges of the intellectually-disabled community. Many people fail to understand that the "r-word" connotes the same level of discrimination as other awful words used to denigrate people, such as members of various racial and ethnic groups. I will not list these words, but I think it is obvious which words I mean. Would it be appropriate for SUB to show movies including any such hateful words? Hate speech is not acceptable, especially at a Catholic uni­versity. I applaud Mary Forr, and especially her sister Marita, for their courage and their influence on the Notre Dame community. I also urge everyone to please check out an editorial by Dr. Tim Shriver, head of Special Olympics International, whose cogent words on this issue were published in August in the Washington Post. The Special Olympics is one of over 20 disability advocacy groups to boycott Tropic Thunder. 
Meghan Kaler junior Lewis Hall Nov.12 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 Friday, November 14, 2008 
JORDAN GAMBLE Scene Writer 
Nepal has fascinated director and pro­ducer Julin Bridgham over since her ele­mentary school principal talked about doing Peace Corp work there in the 1960s. 
Bridgham comes to Notre Dame's Browning Cinema on Friday with her documentary "Sari Soldiers," about womnn lighting on both sides of Nepal's brutal 10-year civil war. which killed nearly 13,000 and displaced at least 100,000 by its end in 2006. The film won Bridgham the 200R Nestor Almendros Prize for courage and commitment in human rights lilmmaking at the Human Hights Watch Film Festival. 
Bridgham traveled with her producer Hamyata Limbu (hersnlf a Nepali woman) for thn~n ynars through war­torn Nnpal. following the lives of six wornnn in the struggle between the gov­ernment of Nepal's king and the Maoist insurgents. These womon inducted: Devi, whose daughter was kidnapped by the Hoyal Nepal Army; Maoist Commander 
ulie Bridgham 
)-., ·~ 
. . . ·. ' 
~of 'Sari Soldiers' 
•
Browning Cinema 
Kranti; Royal Nepal Army Officer Rajani; Krishna. a monarchist from a rural com­munity who leads a rebellion against the Maoists; Mandira, a human rights lawyer; and Ram Kumari, a student activist with the hope of helping to reestablish democracy. 
"There's a distinct sense of empower­ment they feel as women being armed. Many see it as an opportunity to have some kind of power," said Bridgham in an interview with a reporter from Duke University in 2006, as the footage for the documentary was being assembled. Still, the film's ultimate message is that if women had their way, most of them would bring a war to its end as soon as possible. 
Initially, Bridgham was wary about showing the film in Nepal for fear that it would endanger the six protagonists, as she explained in an interview with Saathee Magazine, a publication for the South Asian community in the Carolinas region of the United States. "It was important to all of us that the women felt comfortable having the film shown, and to wait to show it in Nepal until things __,.,. .' •· -f. . . 
were more stable. Amazingly, the politi­cal climate changed during the course of the filmmaking, and so we have been able to show the film in Nepal, and the women have been very supportive and encouraging of its being widely shown throughout Nepal," she said. 
Since first visiting in 1993, Bridgham now calls the country her second home. She spent most of the last six years there, making other documentaries for the Nepalese Youth Opportunity Foundation and the United Nations' World Food Program as well as the inde­pendent features "At the Edge of Sufficient," about two families in Nepal's rural region, "Indentured Daughters," a documentary on Nepali girls sent into bonded labor, and "Children of Hope," about Nepali orphans given new oppor­tunities through education. 
Bridgham, a graduate of the University of Colorado, Boulder, has used her degrees in International Affairs and Environmental studies for projects out­side Nepal, crafting documentary series for the BBC, Discovery Channel, and TLC about global issues. Before she got into 
ANDR 
documentary-making, she worked in Costa Hica on a U.N. environmental proj­ect and in Bolivia as a researcher for the Andean Information Network human rights organization. 
"As individuals, we ean make a difl'er­ence by making sure these issues are made public and that we pressure our governments to hold those responsible accountable," Bridgham told Saathee Magazine. "I really think that wide­spread exposure is a key element to making people accountable, but at the end of the day, we need to make sure that the courts follow through on the rule of law, as well as aecountability." 
Sari Soldiers will run Friday night at 
6:30 and 9:30 pm at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, with Bridgham scheduled to be present at the screening. Tickets are $3 for students and $5 for faculty and staff. For more information about the film and its director, go to performin­garts.nd.edu. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 

JAMES DUBRAY Scene Writer 
In the The Band's famous Civil War tlwmed tuno, Lnvon llelm exclaims, "Like my fathnr before me/1 will work the land." Jakob Dylan, known for his time as load singer for The Wallflower's, snems to have borrowed the Bob Dylan assoeiatnd group's sentiment with his debut solo album. "Seeing Things," 
Seeing Things 
Jakob Dylan 
Released by: Columbia Records Recommended Tracks: 
"Something Good This Way Comes," "This End of the Telescope" 

whieh is a gutsy record on many levels. 
First, much like his father before him, Jakob has the eonfidenee to accompany his songs with sparse instrumentation, allowing his lyrics to come to the fore­front. And unlike his fellow acoustic peers, Dylan's lyrics overcome childish sentimentality and banal quips. Banana pancakes are tasty once in a while, but certainly don't need a song written about them. 
In an equally audacious move, Dylan not only signed to his father's lifelong 
friend Columbia records, but also released his record in daddy's staple Red CD format. Despite the not so subtle trademarks, Jakob's record here seems more akin to Johnny Cash's work or even Helm's recent solo album than to Bob Dylan's work. 
Paired with famous producer Rick Hubin, Dylan and Columbia put out the 38 minute solo record on June 1Oth. The album is largely meant for Sunday morn­ing reflection -the instrumentation con­tains itself to Dylan's acoustic guitar and voice, with a muted drum and bass heard on a few songs. The beauty of the record is its thematic focus, which provides a sense of Pete Seeger populism that acknowledges the darkness in the world, but ultimately finds a sense of hope in the value of work and companionship. 
During the "Valley of the Low Sun," Dylan comments, "I know that soldiers are not paid to think/But something here is making us sick." While the Bush bash is not so subtle, Dylan employs a Colin Meloy sense of Americana infused imagery in the tune to discover a notion of meaning within the horrors of an end­less war, "Of snow covered beaches and junkyards of diesel/And bombers named after girls." 
Dylan's voice sounds world-weary throughout the record. His lyrics reveal a man who seems much older than his 38 years. The album tells stories of, "Boarded mansions and ghost filled yards," that contain, " ... a boy in a water tower counting cards," and, " ... an out­law now standing at the foot of infinity." These sorts of tales and images may seem somewhat out of place on a record made by a guy from L.A., yet Jakob Dylan has always sounded much more comfortable talking about anything but his personal life. 
The highlight of the album is the single "Something Good This Way Comes." On this mid tempo, upbeat ditty, Dylan lets go of the rustic backrooms and takes his charaeters on a highway, which leads to the redemption of their souls. The record that began with the declaration, " ... evil is alive and well," shifts to greener pastures where there is, " ... sweet apple pie on the stove." Jakob's voice seems much more at ease in this song as he sits back and sings about this apple pie and a " ... good woman by my side." 
The album ends with a lyrically bril­liant song, "This End of the Telescope," which reveals the former Wallflower in an unusually personal light. Jakob closes with an ode, "Companions we made did­n't last/Lousy lovers do well with their hands/But I'll reach you like nobody can." 
Jakob Dylan's solo debut is not earth shattering. Yet, after the three albums that followed the Wallflowers' commer­cial success, "Bringing Down the Horse," were marked by critical indifl'erenee, the singer songwriter clearly nended a change. Jakob Dylan's return as an acoustic troubadour proves to be a treat to fans of lyrical strength of beauty. 
Contact James DuBray at jdubray@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, November 14, 2008 
page 13 


When we were kids, my sister and I did not agree on much. 
Every day, we would come home from school, grab an afternoon snack of a brown sugar cinnamon Pop Tart, hers frosted, mine not, pour ourselves a glass of milk, hers skim, mine Laura Myers one percent, and sit down in front of the television. We ------­
fought over that, too, Scene Writer because I wanted to watch Sailor Moon and she want­ed to watch Pokemon. Then came 1998, and a little show called "Total Request Live." 
I was in fourth grade and she was in sixth. We were too old to watch Pokemon (you're never too old to watch Sailor Moon), and we needed something we could agree on. 
TRL soon became a fixture in my life, just as it did in the lives of almost everybody in our age group. 
And after 10 years, music video lovers will stop traffic at Times Square for the last time Sunday during "Total Finale Live," MTV's tribute to the monumental show. 
When he announced the scheduling of TFL in September, Executive Producer Dave Sirulnick said the show would not be ending for good, but simply, "taking a break." Whether that will hold true remains to be seen. 
The finale will bring back popular host Carson Daly as well as many stars, including P. Diddy, who appeared on TRL a record 36 times, members of 'N Sync, Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera, Fred Durst, Eminem, Marilyn Manson, Travis Barker and others. The Backstreet Boys will be performing, as will 50 Cent and Fall Out Boy. 
TRL is the third longest-running show pro­duced by MTV, behind "The Real World" (14 years) and "120 Minutes" (17 years). It is the longest-running live show. 
The top-10 countdown, which was voted on by viewers who could call 1-800-DIAL-MTV or vote online, encompasses every genre of music, from bubblegum pop to hip-hop and even country. It helped launch the careers of many artists and continues to do so. It has also helped the careers of its VJ's, or Video Jockeys. Daly left the show in 2003 to host NBC's "Last Call." Since then, other VJ's have come and gone, including One Tree Hill's Hilarie Burton. Damien Fahey and Lyndsay Rodriguez currently host the show. 
The program will be remembered for its outrageous moments, including the time MC Hammer married two fans during the telecast and the interview in which Elton John asked Justin Timberlake some very personal ques­tions about his dreams the previous night. 
It also had its share of awkward moments. After the debut of one of the "Harry Potter" movies, Daniel Radcliffe made an appearance on TRL and was greeted by a fan in Times Square who was wearing nothing but a towel. 
t. , 
.,~ 
In another uncomfortable moment, Daly had to interview actress and ex-girlfriend Tara Reid just days after their very public breakup. 
Through its news portion of the program, TRL was able to give its viewers a glimpse of the world look outside of entertainment. It was a part of MTV's Rock the Vote movement, which encouraged young voters to become active in the political process. 
For the most part, though, TRL is about the music, one of the only shows on MTV that can say that (other contenders: "Making the Band 27," and... no, that's it). It has always catered to its audience with current hits and popular performers. 
When it first started, TRL aired five days a week at 4 p.m., making it perfect for its demographic --teens and pre-teens who could come home from school to watch the show. In 2005, it began airing only four days a week at 3 p.m., which made it harder for many to tune in and could have led to produc­ers' decision to halt the show. "Total Finale Live" airs Sunday at 8 p.m. I plan to grab a frosted brown sugar cinnamon Pop Tart, pour myself a glass of skim milk, and say goodbye to the show that informed, entertained, and united my generation. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd. edu 

ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic ,.­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 14, 2008 
NHL 
Bruins end 12-game losing streak against Canadiens -with vvin 
MacDonald makes 29 saves as Islanders defeat Senators; Penguins win Pennsylvania battle in shootout against Flyers 
New York, which had lost three 
Associated Press 
straight (0-2-1 ). 
BOSTON -Marco Sturm and Islanders rookie Josh Bailey, Stnphane YPlle each seornd two who made his NIIL debut on goals and the Boston Bruins Tuesday, recorded his first snapped a 12-game losing point when he set up Okposo's streak against the Montreal second goal of the season Canadiens with a 6-1 victory 12:42 in, a power-play tally Thursday night. that tied it at 1. 
On a night when most of Hunter gave New York a 2-1 Boston focused on the NFL lead with an unassisted effort game between the New on another man advantage England Patriots and the New 17:30 into the second. Guerin York Jets. the Bruins extlmded scored his sixth of the season their winning streak to five early in the third. games and won for the eighth Filip Kuba netted his first time in nine contests. They had goal on a power play 1:53 in gone 0-10-2 against the for Ottawa, which lost its third Canadiens in the previous 12 in a row after a 4-0-1 spurt. meetings. MacDonald made his sixth 
Manny FernandPz made 27 straight start for the Islanders. saves and is 4-0-1 in his last liP has started eight of nine fivn starts. Boston's tandem of games since No. 1 goalie Rick FP.rnandez and Tim Thomas DiPietro was injured. has allowed only nine goals in Ottawa's Alex Auld made 29 night games. saves in his eighth start in nine 
The Bruins led 3-0 in the first games. period on goals by Shawn Islanders del'enseman Thornton, Yelle and Sturm. Thomas Pock was given a Thornton took advantage of major penalty and a game mis­Mike Komisarek's turnover to conduct 15:44 into the third make it 1-0 at 2:31. Yelle dou­period for elbowing Ottawa's blfld the lead with 3:00 left in Hyan Shannon. Shannon, who the period. Sturm added a made his Senators debut, had power-play goal with about six to be helped off the ice to the seconds remaining. dressing room. 
Montreal netminder Carey New York's Richard Park was Price struggled throughout, called for slashing with 45.2 blowing a three-goal lead Crosby and Malkin scored on ond span during the final half­and he hit a low point when he seconds remaining but Ottawa, Thursday night. bad-angle backhanders less minute of the second period. was whistled for a delay of which had pulled Auld, was Simon Gagne scored twice than three minutes apart early Zetterberg and Samuelsson game early in the second. unable to score with a 6-on-3 short-handed during a four­in the second before the Flyers scored on the advantages to Sturm capitalized with his sec­skating advantage. goal second period that put the surged, only to lose their give Detroit a 3-2 lead early in ond man-advantage goal of the Senators forward Jarko Flyers up 4-3, but the Penguins eighth in a row in Pittsburgh­the third. night, redirecting in Patrice Ruutu began serving a two­came back to win two nights including three Eastern ,Zetterberg tied it..duriog a Bergeron's shot for a 4-0 lead game NHL suspension for after they rallied from three Conference finals games last two-man advantage with an in­at 3:44. The crowd followed elbowing Montreal's Maxim goals down in the third period spring. close goal at 1:38. Detroit went with a derisive "Carey" "Carey" Lapierre in the head Tuesday to beat Detroit 7-6 in overtime. Philadelphia's Jeff Carter ahead on Samuelsson's shot chant as frustrated Canadiens in Ottawa's 4-0 road loss. Goligoski, the sixth and final started the comeback at 7:46 from the top of the right circle coach Guy Carbonneau looked Ruutu will also sit out Saturday Pittsburgh shooter, shifted the of the second. Barely a minute at 2:30. on. against the Islanders on Long puck from backhand to fore­later, Gagne cut through Franzen extended the lead to 
Saku Koivu cut Boston's lead Island. hand before sliding it along the Goligoski and Malkin on a 4-2 at 9:21 before Pettinger cut to 4-1 when he spun around New York held a 16-5 shots goal line and past goalie short-handed breakaway and, the Lightning's deficit to a goal the back of the net and beat advantage in the first, includ­Martin Biron, who made 27 with Malkin draped on his with 4:18 left. Fernandez, who was out of ing four before Islanders for­saves but couldn't preserve the shoulder, put a backhander Tampa Bay, which had position after mishandling the ward Sean Bergenheim was 4-3 lead. past Fleury. scored just 30 goals in its pre­puck with 6:26 left in the sec­called for hooking at 1 :09. Backup goalie Dany vious 15 games, took a 2-0 lead ond. Ottawa took advantage on Sabourin, who replaced Marc­Detroit 4, Tampa Bay 3 in the first on goals by Recchi 
The surprising Bruins (10-3-the power play when Kuba Andre Fleury to start the third, Henrik Zetterberg, Mikael and Jokinen. 
3) are three points behind the scored his first goal in 16 stopped 11 shots before turn­Samuelsson and Johan Recchi put the Lightning New York Hangers for first games on the Senators' first ing aside all six Philadelphia Franzen scored third-period ahead from the right circle at place in the Eastern shot. Kuba, who leads the shooters in the shootout. goals and the Detroit Hed 14:09 with his 1,392th NHL Conference and have outscored Senators with 14 assists, one­Evgeni Malkin scored and set Wings beat the Tampa Bay point. That moved him past opponents 28-13 over the last timed Jason Spezza's pass from up Crosby's tying goal as the Lightning on Thursday night. Brett Hull into 20th place on nine. Boston will visit New the left side, driving a slap shot Penguins, winning their fifth in Pavel Datsyuk also scored for the league's career list. York on Saturday night. past Joey MacDonald from the a row, went into overtime for the defending Stanley Cup Jokinen doubled the lead 
high slot 1:53 in. the eighth time in 16 games. champions, and Chris Osgood with a power-play goal with New York 3, Ottawa 1 They are 6-2, 3-1 in shootouts. had 15 saves to improve to 17-1:41 left in the period. 
Kyle Okposo and Trent Pittsburgh 5, Philadelphia 4 Crosby tied it with 2:33 0 against Tampa Bay. Detroit dominated the sec­Hunter scored power-play Penguins rookie Alex remaining with his sixth goal of Mark Recchi, Jussi Jokinen ond, outshooting the Lightning goals, and Joey MacDonald Goligoski scored on his first the season and 18th in 22 and Matt Pettinger scored for 18-3, but scored just once on made 29 saves to lead the New shootout attempt after Sidney career games against the the Lightning, who were out­Olie Kolzig when Datsyuk York Islanders to a win over Crosby tied it late in the third Flyers. He cut toward the net shot 39-18 and lost their third pulled Detroit within 2-1 at the Ottawa Senators on period with his second goal, from the left circle and scored straight. 1:33. The Red Wings outshot Thursday night. and Pittsburgh rallied to beat when Malkin got the puck out The Lightning paid for three Tampa Bay 13-1 during the 
Bill Guerin also scored for the Philadelphia Flyers after from behind the net. penalties taken in an 18-sec-first 15 minutes of the period. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Babysitter needed for Notre Dame family. Occasional afternoons from 3-6 p.m. Should have own car. Pay: tell us what works for you. 913-426­3838. 
FoR SALE 
3-bdrm, 2.5 bath Condo. Close to ND, Master bdrm on main floor w/bth. Catwalk between bdrm upstairs. 1896 sq. ft. 1330 Bridgewater Way, Mishawaka. $179,900. Call574-247-1567. 
Villa ranch at 18133 Annettas Ct. in South Bend. 5 mins. to ND. Built in 2004. 3 bdrm, 2 bath. 1652 sq.lt. Vaulted great room, formal dining room, oak eat-in kitchen, all appli­ances. large 3-season room, first floor laundry. Finished basement plumbed for bath, egress window. Patio. $249,500. Handicap accessi­ble. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty Jack Egenhoefer. 574-280-n30 
FoR RENT 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
GUESTHOUSE RENTAL 25 MILES WEST OF CAMPUS 
3 large Bedrooms each with Private Bath. 
Great Common Room with floor to ceiling Windows and outside Deck overlooking rolling prairie. 
Breakfasts. 
No smoking; no pets. Call219-778­2585 or email share@sharefounda­tion.org 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
A 3-bedroom fully furnished house 
for rent from mid December 2008 through July 2009. 
Two bathrooms + renovated base­ment (potential additional bed­room). 
10 minute walk from University of Notre Dame. $1000 not including utilities. Call574-233-2618 or 631-8213 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted. visit http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslcsap 
I 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574­631-2685. 
For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml 
Two teachers ready to adopt new­born and provide a wonderful life for him/her. ConfidentiaL Expenses paid. Stephenandliz@aol.com or call us toll free 1-888-760-BABY 
ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies), please call Marie and James (301)977-5069 or (866) 202-1424 PIN 5448. 
3 Cheers for the Zahm ping-pong team, future 2009 RecSports champs! 
Another important moment in the formation of the canon of CliffLee-anity. 

------. 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
l ' 
l 
' 
'
OUND THE NATION l 
I 
' 
CoMPILED rROM THE OBsERVERs wtRE SERVICES
Friday, November 14, 2008 page 15 
MLB 
Women's Soccer 
NSCCA/adidas® Rankings 
team points previous 
1 NOTRE DAME (34) 850 1 2 UCLA 794 2 3 Portland 780 2 4 North Carolina 761 4 5 Stantord 718 6 6 Florida Stale 660 5 7 Oklahoma State 620 
8 8 usc 618 
9 9 Florida 570 1 10 Boston College 527 10 11 Virginia 463 12 12 West Virginia 422 13 13 Missouri 402 20 14 TexasA&M 367 11 15 Colorado 365 16 16 Wisconsin-Milwaukee 306 
19 11 San Diego 301 14 18 Duke 254 11 19 Texas 249 15 20 Penn State 228 23 21 BYU 179 22 22 Minnesota 155 21 23 Wake Forest 137 18 24 Washington State 83 24 25 Virginia Tech 76 
RV 
NCAA Football 
AP Rankings 
team points previous 
1 Alabama (46) 1604 1 2 Texas Tech (12) 1574 2 3 Florida (6) 1567 4 4 Texas (1) 1437 5 5 Oklahoma 1375 6 .e. ·USC• 1311 ·l.P' ''l•· ' 1 7 Penn State 1161 3 
league-best 22-3 this season few things he picked up from to watch it right in front of
Associated Press with a 2.54 ERA. He me," Lee said. "I've tried to me."
8 Utah 1157 10 
9 Boise State 1110 9 
NEW YORK -Cliff Lee received 24 of 28 first-place help him out in situations An 18-game winner in
10 Ohio State 1009 12 
went from the minor leagues votes and 132 points in bal­and he's tried to do the same 2005, Lee was hurt in spring 
11 Oklahoma State 963 8 
to the pinnacle of pitching in loting by the Baseball for me. Apparently it's training last year and strug­
12 Missouri 913 13 
one fantastic year. Now, he's Writers' Association of worked. We've turned into gled so badly he was sent to
13 Georgia 880 14 
14 Ball State 16 eager to repeat his award· America. pretty good pitchers." the minors. He returned to
677 
15 TCU 11 winning performance. Toronto ace Roy Halladay Trudging through a disap­the big leagues and finished 
623 
16 BYU 602 11 Lee took the American was a distant runner-up with pointing season and cog­5-8 with a 6.29 ERA, then 17 North Carolina 597 19 League Cy Young Award in a four first-place votes and 71 nizant of budget constraints, was left off Cleveland's post· 18 Michigan State 584 18 runaway Thursday, capping points. Record-setting closer the injury-depleted Indians season roster. 19 LSU 552 15 a dominant comeback sea· Francisco Rodriguez of the traded Sabathia to "I was kind of pushed to 20 Florida State 380 24 son that made him the sec­Los Angeles Angels finished Milwaukee on July 7. He is the side," Lee said. "That 21 Pittsburgh 318 25 ond consecutive Cleveland third with 32 points. expected to fetch a huge was tough." 22 Cincinnati 269 NR Indians lefty to earn the cov­Lee became the third contract this offseason after The Indians asked him to 23 Oregon State 124 NR eted prize. Cleveland pitcher to win a Cy filing for free agency. visit pitching coach Carl 24 South Carolina 117 HR "It feels a lot better than it Young, following Hall of "I definitely miss him Willis in North Carolina last 25 Tulsa 84 NR felt in '07," Lee said on a Farner Gaylord Perry in being around on the team. offseason, and Lee said their 
conference call from his 1972 and CC Sabathia last He's someone that I leaned chat helped. Determined to Arkansas home. "I want to year. on," Lee said. "I saw how he re-establish himself, he won win this Cy Young again. I "We are pretty close did it in '07 and I watched a spot in the rotation during want to make a habit of it." friends, and there's a lot of everything he did. I knew spring training and was the
CHAA Hockey 
Demoted to the minors last things I picked up from him what it took because I'd seen league's top pitcher from Conference Standings year, Lee went a major and I'd like to think there's a it. It definitely was a benefit April on. 
team conference overall 
1 Miami 4-2·2 4·3·3 2 Ferris State 3-1-2 4·3·3 IN BRIEF 3 Lake Superior 3-2-1 3-3·2 
4 Michigan 4·2·0 7-3·0 Vick plans to return to NFL Aquisition of Gregg ends Yankees aquire Swisher 
5 Michigan State 2·2·2 4-4·2 
after prison sentence Wood's career with Cubs from White Sox 
6 Ohio State 3-4·1 4·5·1 
NORFOLK, Va. -Michael Vick's CHICAGO -The Chicago Cubs NEW YORK -The New York
7 Nebraska-Omaha 2·1-1 6·1-1 
bankruptcy attorneys say the acquired reliever Kevin Gregg in a Yankees started their offseason
8 Alaska 3·3·0 5·4-1 
imprisoned NFL quarterback trade with the Florida Marlins on makeover by acquiring Nick Swisher
9 Bowling Green 2·3·1 3·5·2 
expects to return to football. Thursday, a move that appears to end from the Chicago White Sox on
10 NOTRE DAME 2·2·0 6·3·0 
Attorneys wrote in a disclosure Kerry Wood's career with the team. Thursday.
11 Western Michigan 0·3·3 1·6·3 
statement that Vick "has every Wood, the 1998 NL Rookie of the Swisher, who can play first base and 
12 Northern Michigan H·1 2·5·1 
reason to believe" he will be rein­Year who saved 34 games this year, all three outfield spots, was obtained stated by the NFL once he com­had been the longest-tenured player for pitching prospect Jeff Marquez and pletes a 23-month sentence for a on the Cubs. General manager Jim infielder Wilson Betemit. The teams federal dogfighting conviction last Hendry said Wood was deserving of a also swapped a pair of minor league summer. The attorneys filed the three-or four-year deal and the Cubs right-banders as part of the deal, with statement before a hearing are not prepared to offer him one. Chicago receiving Jhonny Nunez and
around the dial 
Thursday in U.S. Bankruptcy In addition to the right-handed New York getting Kaneoka Texeira. Court in Virginia. Gregg, who was the Marlins' closer Swisher, who turns 28 on Nov. 25, Vick still has a contract with the until the final month last season, hit just .219 with 24 homers and 69
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Atlanta Falcons. But NFL Chicago also has a talented setup man RBis last season. 
(22) Cincinnati at Louisville 
Commissioner Roger Goodell in Carlos Marmo!, who could close. "He's selective," Yankees general 8:00p.m., ESPN2 would have final say on his "We're just in a situation -and manager Brian Cashman said. "He's return. Kerry fully understands -that length got power." The attorneys also lay out a of deal for the kind of salary that he Still, Swisher's .332 on-base percent­
N BA BASKETBALL 
plan for Vick to pay his creditors could command right now is not our age was the lowest of his career."We
Detroit at LA Lakers 
based on his expected NFL earn­first priority," Hendry said during a felt it was a risk worth taking,"
10:30 p.m., ESPN ings and possible signing bonuses. conference call. Cashman said. 

Friday, November 14, 2008 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Willingham w-orried by
Irish to play best of Big East 
year as we head into the post­
By JARED ]EDICK 
season." Sports Writer 
The Irish could leapfrog Connecticut in the standings Having clinched a spot in with a weekend sweep or a the Big East tournament, the head-to-head win with a Irish are now poised to finish Connecticut loss against their season strong against DePaul. The Irish could also two of the elite teams in the drop behind Pittsburgh in the Big East -St. John's and standings if the Panthers can Connecticut. win one of their games and 
The Irish (13-12, 8-4 Big the Irish go winless this week­East) earned their spot in the end. tournament with a disman­Notre Dame has been riding tling of Hutgers last weekend its potent offense all season 
in three sets (25­ long, which it  
13, 25-16, 25-8).  hopes  will  
This win had the largest margin of victory for the  "There's a strong sense of excitement  carry it through the stretch run.  
Notre Dame pro­gram since the modern 25-point  on the team right now.  In the Big East, Notre Dame is sec­ 
set era began.  ond in hitting  
Hiding  this  Debbie Brown  percentage  
momentum, the  Irish coach  (.277), assists  
Irish  will  run  per  set  
into  the  best  {13.27)  and  
team in the Big  kills per set  

East, St. John's (20-7, 11-1), (14.18). Sophomore outside and the team just ahead of hitter Kellie Sciacca is second them in the standings, overall in the conference with Connecticut (20-7, 9-3). A a hitting percentage of .415 couple of victories this week­while junior outside hitter end could have a great effect Christina Kaelin holds the on Notre Dame's seeding in second spot with 3.82 kills the tournament. per set. .lame! Nicholas holds 
"There's a strong sense of the third spot in the confer­excitement on the team right ence with 11.13 assists per now because this is a huge set and Kristen Dealy is weekend for us as we prepare ranked sixth with .390 aces to head into the Big East tour­per set. nament." coach Debbie St. John's currently holds Brown said. "Each match is the top spot in the Big East really important for us not conference and is sitting atop just in terms of tournament a nine-game winning streak, seeding, but because we want including last weekend's vic­to be playing our best volley­tories over South Florida (15­ball towards the end of the 12, 5-7) and Georgetown (12­
By KYLE SMITH and CHRIS 
MICHALSKI 
Sports Writers 
Arter making the smnilinals thn past two years, only to come up short in its run for the stadium, No. 3 send Farley is detnrminnd not to falter again wlwn it mnnts No. 2 seed McClinn Sunday at 2 p.m. at l.aBar fields. 
The Finest eked out 13-7 win over Walsh fast wnekend, and they know they will need to improve tiHlir performance against McGlinn to pull ofT the upset. 
"Wn need to work on capital­izing on all of our chances ol'l'nnsively," Farley captain Jenny Holfs said in an e-mail. 
If thny can execute on ol'l'ense, they know thny can count on thnir defense to keep the game out of reach. she said. 
"Our defnnse is our strongest point and they do their job every game to stop the other team's offensive drives," Holt's said. 
After experiencing such dis­appointment the past two years, Hol(<; said it would mean a lot for her team to finally get over the hump and reaeh the championship. 
"It has been a goal of ours and would mean a lot to the seniors on the team to make it to the Stadium this year," she said. "We have waited a long time and we anl ready." 
But thny will have to first get through McGlinn, who defeated Pangborn 18-14 in the quarter­finals. 
The Shamrocks know Farley will be a tough challenge, but believe they can pull oft" a win. 
"We are confident that we can match up with any team as long as we continue to play the way we have been," McGlinn captain Sarah deGroot said in an e-mail. 
With the playoffs come post­season pressure, and deGroot said the contributions of the seniors will be crucial to her team's performance on Sunday. 
"We're really looking to the seniors to lead the team on Sunday," she said. "They are the most experienced players on the field and have additional motivation since this is their last season." 
McGlinn has never reached the championship game, but the Shamrocks have a feeling that this may be their year. 
"It would be really exciting to be the first McGlinn [team] to ever play in the Stadium," she said. "This is one of the most talented teams we've had in a long time and we'd love to make [rector] Sr. Mary [Lynch] proud by making it to the Stadium." 
Welsh Family vs. Pasquerllla West 
History has a tendency to repeat itself, but the Pasquerilla West Purple Weasels hope this is not true in Interhall playoffs. 
In last year's semifinals, the 13, 5-7). The Red Storm won 
decline of black coaches 
the Big East tournament last year and were picked to go second in the Big East presea­son coaches' poll. 
Red Storm senior setter Wioleta Leszczynska pitched in last week with 68 assists and eight kills in the two wins. 
The Huskies will present an equally formidable challenge to the Irish, as they are riding a six-game winning streak, including sweeps of Georgetown and South Florida. 
The Huskies have been bol­stered by a strong freshman corps. Freshman outside hit­ter Jordan Kirk had an out­standing match with 12 kills against the Hoyas and fresh­man setter Annie Luhrsen led the Huskies through USF with a match-high 28 assists. 
The Irish will begin the Big East tournament a week from Friday at a time and location yet to be determined. 
Note: 
+Hilary Eppink of Indiana and Marie Roof of Michigan signed letters of intent to play for Notre Dame next season. 
"We're very excited have these exceptional student-ath­letes join the program," Brown said. "Both Hilary and Marie have the potential to step in and contribute to the overall success of this team." 
The two players intend to start play for the Irish in the fall of 2009. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE (AP)-Tyrone Willingham and Lorenzo Romar enjoyed a quiet, 10­minute talk in the first row of courtside seats inside the University of Washington's otherwise empty basketball arena. 
Their chat on Thursday was symbolic yet unnoticed at this school, simply routine. 
Willingham, the Huskies' football coach who has been fired effective at the end of the season, Romar, the men's basketball coach, and women's basketball coach Tia Jackson last year made Washington the nation's only major college to have African-Americans coaching the three biggest sports pro­grams. 
Moments after Willingham wished Romar a happy 50th birthday, he made it clear he was anything but happy with the progress of the nation's universities in hiring minori­ty football coaches. 
A report released last week by the Black Coaches and Administrators said Willingham's dismissal last month and the firing of Ron Prince at Kansas State-also effective at season's end-left the NCAA's top Bowl Subdivision with only four black head coaches, plus one Latino and one Pacific Islander. That's down from a peak of eight. 
Minorities filled only four of last year's 31 coaching vacancies in NCAA Division I 
football, the report said. "Obviously, it should be a great concern to all of us
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
because there's a pool of resources in our country that's not being tapped,"
Gan1es to decide Stadiun1 berth Willingham said before his 
tion, that hurts all of us." 
Willingham doesn't have a job beyond Washington's Dec. 6 season finale at California, but he does have a platform from which he can try to reverse the downward trend in minority hirings. 
The 54-year-old was elect­ed president of the American Football Coaches Association last winter and still has a few months left on his one-year term. Willingham has said he has not ruled out coaching somewhere next season, and he wants to make it easier for him and others to get hired. 
"I want to make it a natural platform," he said. "I think that benefits all of us. There are no losers." 
He said there is a move­ment within the AFCA to institute some form of the NFL's Rooney Hule, which requires that teams interview at least one minority candi­date for each head coaching vacancy. 
The NCAA said last week they cannot legislate or enforce such a rule in college football. 
"The NCAA does not hire coaches. The athletic direc­tors (do),"· NCAA vice presi­dent of diversity and inclu­sion Charlotte Westerhaus said. 
Willingham wants to at least increase the odds of hiring by expanding the minority pool. He said the AFCA is looking at a plan that would seek compliance from university presidents, athletic directors, prominent boosters and others most influential in a school's big­business football program. That ambitious goal is why something like a "Rooney Hule" won't become reality in college football for at least a few years, he said. 
"In the NFL, there is one team owner. There are a few more shareholders in college football," Willingham said with a wry smile. 
Purple Weasels fell to top-seed­ed Welsh Family 13-0 in a hard-fought battle on both sides in frigid South Bend November weather. 
The situation is almost identi­cal this year -the two teams 

Huskies, the only winless major college team, practiced for Saturday night's game against UCLA. "We've battled this for some time. At no time has that number been where it should be. In my estima­
will face off in the semis with 
the Whirlwinds seeded first and 
undefeated. The Whirlwinds 
will try to continue their domi­
nant ways, after knocking off 
No. 8 seed Lyons 20-7. 
Welsh Fam has been unde­
feated in the regular season the 
past three years, but that does­
n't always equate to success in 
the playoffs. This year they are 
relying on a team effort. 
"We usually get a lot of big plays from a lot of different people," Welsh Family captain .lenni Gargula said. "Many receivers have caught touch­
Serving Lunch f.,., Dinner

down passes and many defen­
Come Dine With
sive players have intercep­
Our Famiry
tions." 
And Be Our Friend!
The Purple Weasels have a similar all-around approach as Tues-Sat I I-2; 4-9everything seemed to click on Closed Sun & Monoffense and defense in their previous win over Howard 12­
Our Specialties Include Exquisite
6. The winner of this match will 
go on to play in the champi­
Meat Entrees & Healthy Vegetarian Dishes
onship game against the winner of Farley and McGlinn. 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches
Kickoff between the Whirlwinds and Purple Weasels 
Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts 
is scheduled for 1 p.m. Sunday 
Dine In • Take Out • Catering
at LaBar Field. 
Reservations Accepted 
Contact Kyle Smith at 
115 Di.xie Way North, Soutl1 Bend
ksmith31@nd.edu and Chris Michalski at 
(574) 277-7239 
jmichal2@nd.edu 
-----------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------­
Friday, November 14, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Cowboys owner optimistic 
Jones says team can still make playoffs, coaching change not needed 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -Jerry Jones "absolutely" believes the Dallas Cowboys will make the playoffs, isn't considering a coaching change and would welcome Adam "Pacman" Jones back to the team if he's reinstated. 
The Cowboys owner, in an impromptu gathering with reporters during practice Thursday, said he expects his struggling Cowboys to recover. They have gone from Super Bowl favorites to a 5-4 team tied for third place in the NFC East after losing four of its past six games. 
"That's not optimism," Jones said. "I certainly do feel we're going to be a team that plays well enough to be thinking about the playoffs." 
Coming off its open date, Dallas gets injured quarter­back Tony Romo back Sunday night at Washington after he missed three games with a broken pinkie on his throwing hand. 
"I would say Romo gives you a legitimate reason to not have been your best or been what you might have expected over the last three games," Jones said. 
The Cowboys lost two of three without Romo, and the only win was notable for being the worst offensive perform­ance in a victory in franchise history. But they were already struggling when he broke his finger on the opening play of overtime in a loss at Arizona on Oct. 12. 
After the Cowboys lost at St. Louis a week later, Jones emphatically said that coach Wade Phillips' job wasn't in danger during this season. The owner was even more committed to the coach on Thursday. 
"There's just absolutely no, I can tell you without hesitation, thought in my mind about him not coaching the Dallas Cowboys in the future, past this year," Jones said. "No thought. I haven't given that one ounce of consideration .... His contract is his contract." 
Phillips got a three-year con­tract with an option for a fourth season when he replaced Bill Parcells in February 2007. The Cowboys went 13-3 and had 13 Pro Bowl players in their first sea­son under Phillips, but lost to the New York Giants in the playoffs. 
With the recent struggles, and supposed successor-in­waiting Jason Garrett already on the staff, there has been intensified speculation about Phillips' job status. 
Garrett, the team's offensive coordinator who was hired weeks before Phillips, got $3 million and an expanded title (assistant head coach) to stay after being a finalist for two other NFL head coaching jobs last offseason. 
"I understand why that question is. I do, and I helped make that question probably legitimate," Jones said. "But it is worth it in my mind to have him here and have Wade here. It's worth it to have to answer 
YOU CAN tAAKE AWORlD OF DIFFERENCE. 
NATIONAL CLANDESTINE SERVICE CAREERS that question." 
Asked if he was satisfied with Phillips' performance this season, Jones said he was dis­appointed that the Cowboys haven't won more games and that it was fair to ask if the coach was to blame. 
"What I'm hoping is that all of the positive things that Wade Phillips is about really does kick in, in a way that gives him his due and gives him his credit," Jones said. "I thought that for whatever the reasons he didn't get the cred­it that he should have had last year." 
Told of the owner's com­ment's after practice, Phillips said his only concern was the Redskins. 
"This game is the most important (for) our team," Phillips said. "I don't worry about all of that. I do the best I can do." 
Cornerback Adam Jones was suspended indefinitely last month for violating the league's personal conduct poli­cy. Commissioner Roger Goodell said he would deter­mine the length of the suspen­sion after four games, which would be after Sunday's game in Washington. 
Only six weeks after being reinstated from a 17-month suspension because of repeat­ed legal problems, the corner­back was involved in an alco­hol-related scuffle Oct. 7 with one of his bodyguards at a pri­vate party in Dallas. The Cowboys had employed the bodyguards to try to keep Jones out of trouble. 
Be a part of a mission that's larger than all of us. The CIA's National Clandestine Service seeks qualified applicants to serve our country's mission abroad. Our career.s offer rewarding, fast-paced.and high impact challenge-s in intelligence collection on issues-of critical importance to US national security. Applicants should pos.ess a high degree of personal integrity, strong interpersonal skills, and good wrttterl and oral communication skills. We welcome applicants from various academic and professional backgrounds. Do you want to make a difference For your country? Are you ready for a challenge? 
All applicants for National Clandestine Service positions must successfully undergo several personal interviews, medical and psychological exams, aptitude testing, a polygraph interview, and a background investigation. Following entry on duty. comdidate.'S will undergo extensive training. US c~lzenship required. An equal opportunity employer and a d!ug-free work fOrce. 
For more informacion and to apply. visit: www.da.gov 
THE CENTER OF INTELLIGENCE. 
OLYMPICS 
Former coach still upset over age controversy 
Associated Press 
Bela Karolyi says he views the probe into the ages of Chinese gymnasts from the 2000 Olympics as a lame attempt to shift the focus from the investigation of this year's athletes that resulted in no sanctions for China's gold-medal team. "I think that's just a cover-up," Karolyi said Thursday, in Chicago to help USA Gymnastics promote the Tyson American Cup set for the Windy City in February. "They're trying to hold onto their reputation on this issue, when it's one of the most bla­tant things we've ever seen." 
Last month, the International Gymnastics Federation closed the investi­gation into whether the Chinese gymnasts who beat the United States for the gold medal in Beijing were under­age. But the federation said it wanted more information about two members of China's 2000 team -Dong Fangxiao and Yang Yun -saying the evidence and explanations about their ages was not sat­isfactory. China won the bronze medal in Sydney, and Yang also won a bronze on the uneven bars. 
Gymnasts must turn 16 dur­ing an Olympic year to be eli­gible to compete. 
Dong's official birthdate is listed as Jan. 20, 1983. But her accreditation information for the Beijing Olympics, where she worked as a national technical official, lists her birthdate as Jan. 23, 1986, said Andre Gueisbuhler, the FIG's secretary general. 
Yang, meanwhile, said in a June 2007 interview that aired on state broadcaster China Central Television that she was 14 in Sydney. She has since said she misspoke. 
Gueisbuhler told The Associated Press earlier this week that there were no updates on the investigation of the 2000 athletes. 
Karolyi, former leader of 
the U.S. team and husband of national team coordinator Martha Karolyi, said the 12 weeks that have passed since the Olympics have not dimin­ished his anger about the age issue in gymnastics. He long has been a proponent of abol­ishing the age limit, saying that if gymnasts have the mental and physical ability to perform the skills, they should be allowed to compete. 
"If you take it away and our kids lose, they lose," he said of the age limits. "Those Chinese kids are good. I have nothing against the Chinese kids. But how about the other kids who were staying home? Here's Rebecca Bross, two months short of being able to compete, sitting, crying in front of her TV, watching kids younger than her compete." 
Bross, the 2007 U.S. junior champion, turns 16 next year and wasn't eligible for Beijing. 
Karolyi also said he was complaining about the Chinese team back in 2000, when he ran the U.S. women's team that finished fourth. 
"I was screaming, 'Look, she was on the junior team, she was here the year before as a junior,"' Karolyi said. "How did she make up two years of age in one year? So now, eight years later, they come back and investigate that kid?" 
Steve Penny, the president of USA Gymnastics, said the age controversy isn't likely to go away now that the Olympic torch is out -at least not in the minds of those involved daily in gymnastics. 
"Bela makes a good point when he says the Chinese kids went out there and did a good job. They performed," Penny said. "But there's a rule that says you've got to be 
16. And because of everything surrounding this, it takes away from their performance on the field of play. It's going to loom over the event for a long time, I think." 
FOOTBALL HOURS 
FRIDAY Restaurant: 11:00 am -Midnight Pub: 11 :00 am -2:00am 
SATURDAY Restaurant: 8:00am -Midnight Pub: 8:00am -2:00am 
574.6312582 
www.legendsofnotredameorg 
eehtmate witl't .&Jou;h1 
Join us after the pep rally tor food, drinks, and plenty of football coverage on our 144" screen and 16 large, flat screen TVs. Return on Saturday for our pregame party and enjoy breakfast, lunch, and our tailgate menu. Spend your weekend with friends and fans at Legends! 
r page 18 Friday, November 14, 2008
The Observer + SPORTS 
' 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 
Squads head to regionals 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
The men's and women's teams have one more chal­lnngn to f'acn as the postsea­son begins, but they hope it will load to an even bigger one. 
The two squads will run in tho {;reat Lakes Regional at Purdue University Saturday. The raen is one of nine Div·. I rngionals taking place Saturday. and each will yield 
1:o m pn titors for thn NCAA Championship on Nov. 24 in Tnrrn llaute, lnd. 
The top two tnams in the region receive an automatic bnrth to tho Championships, whiln teams that place third 
or fourth may receive an large bid. Men's head eoach 
Michigan, who won the Mid­American Conference Title. 
Women's head coach Tim Connolly said his team also hopes to make the champi­onship meet. 
"Healistically, if we are in the top four, we've got a shot," he said. 
The women finished sixth at the Big East champi­onships, and were paced by junior Lindsay Ferguson, who finished 14th and earned all-conference hon­ors. 
Only four individuals per region who are not on a qualifying team can earn at­large bids to the champi­onships, which makes it very difficult, Connolly said. He said, however, they are not focusing on individuals. 
"!Ferguson! does have a very good chance to quali­fy," he said. "But we want to qualify as a team." 
The women face their biggest challenges from No. 10 Michigan State and No. 17 Michigan. 
The women's race is set to start at 11:00 a.m., and the men will follow at 11:45. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
NFL 
Feeley's OT field goal puts Jets over Patriots 
Associated Press 
FOXBOHOUGH, Mass. ­The New York Jets stand alone atop the tight AFC East standings -barely. 
Jay Feely kicked a 34-yard field goal on the first series of overtime after New England tied the game on Matt Cassel's pass to Handy Moss with one second left in regulation and the .Jets sur­vived a Tom Brady-like comeback with a 34-31 vieto­ry Thursday night. 
The win broke a tie for the division lead between the teams and gave the Jets (7-3) sole possession of' first place for the first time since Nov. 19, 2001, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. The Patriots (6-4) have won the 
AFC East the last five  sea­ 
sons  and  six  of the  last  
seven.  

"It's a great, great feeling for us," Jets coach Erie Mangini said. "Everybody understands that this game was extremely important, and it's important because it allows us to make the next game (against Tennessee) extremely important. It's a really positive step for our team." 
The Jets, who led 24-6 in the first half. extended their winning streak to four with their sixth victory in seven games and are 1 1/2 games ahead of Buffalo and Miami in the division. 
The loss wasted a brilliant performance by Cassel, whose first pro start after Brady's season-ending knee injury in the opener came in a 19-10 win over the Jets. Cassel completed 30 of 51 passes for 400 yards, all career highs, and three touchdowns. He ran eight times for 62 yards. 
"It's not enough," Cassel said. 
The Patriots got the tying touchdown on Cassel's 16­yard pass on fourth down. Moss' diving sideline catch was reviewed when he was 
pushed out of' bounds by cor­
nerback Ty Law, but the 
touchdown stood. 
New England had marched 
to Moss' touchdown from its 
38-yard line with no time­
outs and 1:04 left 
Stephen Gostkowski's extra point tied it and erased a 31­24 lead the Jets had taken on Thomas Jones' 1-yard touch­down run with 3:10 left. 
Brett Favre made his 263rd consecutive regular­season start, an NFL record, and went 26-of-33 for 258 yards and directed the only drive of overtime, covering 64 yards on 14 plays in 7:50. llis 16-yard pass to Laveranues Coles brought the ball to the Patriots' 24­yard line, Jones' (>-yard run moved it to the 18 and Feely connected for his second Jield goal of' the game. 
"We talked during the week about the need to reload and finish the game," Mangini said, "and we did that." 
The Jets scored on their first three series, plus a 92­yard kickoff return by Leon Washington, four days after scoring on all seven of their lirst-half possessions in a 47­3 rout of the St. Louis Hams. 
Washington also scored on a 7-yard pass play before the Patriots cut the lead to 7-3 on their first series on the first of Gostkowski's three field goals, a 42-yarder. 
Feely kicked a 22-yarder for the Jets before Gostkowski connected again. from 31 yards to cap a 12­play drive. 
New York needed just one play -Washington's return -to score on the ensuing kickoff. It was his first kick­off return for a touchdown this season after he tied a team record last year with three. 
And when Favre threw a 15-yard scoring pass to Jerricho Cotchery, the Jets led 24-6 with 4:57 left in the first half and the outlook was very bleak for the Patriots. 
three or four, because of how we've run this season," he said. 
The No. 27 Irish men have had a successful season, which was eapped Oct. 31 with a second-placP. finish at the Big East championships in New York City. Senior Patrick Smyth finished SP.C­ond in that race and was one of thrP.e to earn all-con­ference honors, along with junior Jake Walker and freshman Joe Miller. 
In 2007, Smyth finished 
first at the GrP.at Lakes Hegional, and he has consis­
"Realistically, ifwe 
tently led the 
are in the top four, 
Irish this 
we've got a shot.'' ynar. Piane said a repeat performance
Tim Connolly 
could be pos­
Irish coach 
sible. 
"lie's very capable," Piane said. 
at­"Let's put it this way -he's going to be one of thfJ con­Joe tenders for the title." 
Piano is eonfident that his The team will be chal­team can make it to Terre lenged by No. 6 Wisconsin llaute. and No. ') Michigan, who 
"I think we'd advanee as finished first and second in long as we're in the top the Big Ten, and Eastern 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Men travel to Cleveland for tri-meet 
By MIKE GOTIMER Spons Writer 
Notre Dame travels to Cleveland State this weekend to take on the Vikings and Miami (011) to eompete in a tri-meet with the two sehools. 
In Notre Dame's last meet, it fell to 1-2 on the season with a loss to No. 16 Purdue on Nov. 8. The Irish were overmatched on the diving board. where 2008 Beijing Olympian David Boudia set two Holt's Aquatics Center records for Purdue. 
In their last matchup, the Irish defeated the Vikings 171-124 at the Rolfs Aquatic Center last November. The Irish have won their past 13 
meets  against  Cleveland  
State.  Under  Coach  Tim  
Welsh,  the  Irish  are  21-2  

against the Vikings. 
On the other hand, Notre Dame has not swum against Miami in just over 10 years. The Irish and the RedHawks last met on Nov. 7, 1998 in a quad-meet with Purdue and Iowa State. The Irish finished third in the meet while the Redllawks finished fourth. 
Heading into the meet, the Irish hope to see continued high performance from soph­omore Michael Sullivan, who was named Big East swim­ming and diving athlete of the week. Sullivan earned the honor for his efforts against Purdue, where he won both the 200-yard back­stroke and 400-yard individ­ual medley with season best times in both events. 
The meet is scheduled to begin on Saturday at 2 p.m. at Cleveland State's Robert F. Bubsey Natatorium. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 




NBA 
Bulls come from behind to beat Mavericks 
Chicago came back from 19-point deficit, Dallas loses fourth straight; Cleveland's second-half defense key in win 
INTERNATIONAL !:TUDENT WEEK. 
Nov 17-21, 9 a.m.-4:30p.m. daily 
O'Shaughnessy Hall We will offer an array of beautiful fair trade 
i 
I handmade products from Asia, Africa, 
Latin America and the Middle East. 
Fair trade chocolate and coffee selections 
also available. Come marvel at the many 
ingenious products that support artisans 
and their families in countries 
around the world. 
www. tenthousan 
#1 IRish_Womeo's ~oeeer 
NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Tonight vs. Toledo@ 7:30pm 2nd Round Sun. @ 1:00 prn 
*Admission is FREE for ND students 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO -They barely had time to work up a sweat before the Chieago Bulls found them­selves trailing by 19 points Thursday night against the Dallas Mavericks. 
And less than six minutes into the game, the boos started rolling aeross the United Center. 
"It's only the first quarter of an NBA game, so I knew we'd come from behind somehow," Chieago rookie Derrick Hose said. 
And that's what the Bulls did. They turned up the dHfnnsn, startnd running the floor, then caught up and passnd the Mavericks for a 98-91 victory, sending Dallas to its fourth straight loss. 
"They w1~rn attacking us with transition and they put us on our lwnls narly," said Bnn (;ordon, who led the Bulls with 35 points. kncping them dose early on af'tnr they fell behind 24-5. "We started attacking tlwm and we started gntting back on dd'ense and that really lwlpnd us. 
"Wn are on our home court and wn'rn down 24-to sonw­thing. whatever it was. We !ward tlw fans starting to boo us, and I think everybody start­ed taking it a little pnrsonal." 
But all was forgiven by tlw 
Checkout The Observer's sports blog, The Casual Observer, at Observer 
.~·sports­
blog.21cr. info. 
Williams scored a season-high 24, making a critical 3-pointer with James on the bench, as the Cavaliers improved to 5-0 at home and beat the Nuggets for the first time since 2005. 
"It looked like it was headed in the wrong direction in the first half, but we buckled down in the second and got it togeth­er," James said. 
James had lost his last five games against Anthony, whom he has known since high school, and is now just 3-8 against his 
U.S. Olympic teammate since they broke into the league together in 2003. James added 11 assists and eight rebounds, and for the moment owns brag­ging rights over Anthony. 
"Any time I play LeBron and we play Cleveland it's a fun game." Anthony said. "That's the way it is, there's so much hype around the game. I don't want to say they Wflre the better team. but they executnd down the stretch." 
Daniel Gibson snapped out of a shooting slump and added 15 points for the Cavalinrs. who held the Nuggets to 18 points in the fourth on 39 percnnt shoot­ing. 
Denver lost for the first time in four games since acquiring Chaunc1~y Billups in tlw blol:k­buster trade that sent Allen Iverson to Detroit. 

TEN THOUSAND 
VILLAGES® 
HARMONY. MADE BY HAND."" 
AFair Trade Retailer. 
214 W. Cleveland Road Between Grape and Main (Next to Chico's) Mon-Sat 10-6 574-277-4900 
fourth quarter. when the Bulls pulled away. 
"There is no such thing as a 17-or a 19-point shot. We just had to chip away at the lead, play good defense, run the floor and get some of the shots we wanted, which we were finally able to do," Rose said. 
Rose, who shot 1-for-8 in the first half, was 6-for-7 in the third quarter, when he scored 14 of his 16 points. Luol Deng added 20 points. 
Josh Howard, returning after missing two games with sore wrist, led Dallas with 21 points and added 11 rebounds. Erick Dampier scored 16 and pulled down 18 boards. 
"It's disappointing. We des­perately need a win," Mavs coach Rick Carlisle said. ''I'm just surprised at our Jack of light. I don't know how else to put it." 
Dallas biHw out to a 24-5 lead less than six minutes into the game before Chicago recovered for a one-point halftime lead. In the third quarter, Hose's play helped the Bulls take control and go up 78-70 with a quarter left. 
Chicago's Larry llughes. mak­ing his regular-season debut aftnr dislocating his shoulder in a preseason game last month, hit a jumper, made a 3-pointer and then eame up with a steal 
join Ten Thousand Villages for 

in the fourth quarter that Jed to Tyrus Thomas' follow-up slam. That dunk, two free throws by Thomas, a drive by Gordon and a jumper by Deng completed an 11-0 run that made it 96-79 with 6:08 left. 
Dallas cut it to seven with a minute left on Howard's free throw, but missed several shots to pull doser. 
"We don't play defense," Dallas guard Jason Kidd said. "That's been our problem. First six minutes we were playing defense and found ourselves up and that was it. We have as many offensive weapons (as anyone) in the league, but we got to lind some guys who want to play defense." 
Dallas eame out running and threatened to blow the Bulls out in the first quarter. Howard had 11 points and the Mavericks hit eight of their first nine shots. The Bulls were flat offensively, missing 12 straight shots after Drew Gooden's jumper in the opening minute. 
But just as quickly. the Bulls found their rhythm, reeling ofT 13 straight points behind seven from Gordon, cutting the lead to four. Chicago ended up trailing by 10 after one quarter when the Mavs' DeSagana Diop tipped in a shot just before the buzzer. 
The Bulls shot 28 percent in the opening quarter to 55 per­cent for the Mavs. And strangely enough, those percentages were reversed in the second quarter -55 percent for Chicago and 28 percent for the Mavs. 
With Chicago down by 12 in the second quarter, Deng led the Bulls on a 22-9 run with 12 points, hitting a late driving basket for a 51-50 halftime lead. 
A 15-6 spurt to start the sec­ond half gave the Bulls a 66-56 lead as Rose scored eight. 
Cavaliers 110, Nuggets 99 
In the lockflr room at halftime, Cavaliers coach Mike Brown forced his players to watch a horror flick -highlights of their defense in the first half. 
"We were watching film and it was as ugly as it looked," Mo Williams said. 
After allowing 61 points in a first-half track meet, the Cavaliers buckled down. held Denver to 38 after halftime and won their sixth straight over the Nuggets on Thursday night. 
"The first team that decided to defend in thfl second half was going to get the win," Brown said. "And we did. The first half was a rate race. H-A-T. R-A-C­
F" 
LeBron James scored 22 points, most of them coming with good buddy Carmelo Anthony guarding him, and 
Friday, November 14, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

Big East 
continued from page 24 
they'll be a very good team Friday." 
That game was part of Notre Dame's annual Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament and did not count toward the confer­ence standings. With a spot in the Big East title game on the line and a chance to impress the NCAA seeding committee, Clark isn't worried about his squad taking the Bulls lightly. 
"Just look at their record (12-4-2) -in one of the polls, they're even ranked above us," said Clark, whose team is 12-5­
2. "This is a game that no one is going to even vaguely think that just because we beat the last time that it's going to be easy. Our guys are going to be 
Spartans 
continued from page 24 
the Maui Invitational. 
In his media day press con­ference, Irish coach Mike Brey said his team is excited for its ehallenging schedule. 
"Given these older guys, what they've done, they want to play big games," the reigning Big East eoach of the year said. "You try to gauge your sched­ule every year on who you've got and what they've done, to stratngieally gain an NCAA bid. 
motivated ... we certainly don't need to remind them how diffi­cult it's going to be." 
The Irish scored four goals in an 11-minute span during the first half of their early-season victory over South Florida. But the Bulls have given up just 11 goals all season -a total of six in their 17 games against teams other than Notre Dame. 
Add into the mix the fact that South Florida is at home ­where it is 7-0-1 at and has surrendered only a pair of goals in those eight games ­and it looks like the Irish will have to fight just to put one tally on the board. 
"It's a learning process, play­ing in big games on the road in hostile environments," Clark said. "This is just a fabulous opportunity for us to test the mettle of our team." 
Though its game plan didn't 
work the first time around against the Irish, South . Florida's strategy has worked all year, and the Bulls will stick 
with it tonight. 
"They'll play a 4-2-3-1 with 
very much the same personnel 
they had," Clark said. "[On 
video, they do] exactly the 
same things they did [against 
us], so it all comes down to 
how well we play. If we do 
what we do well and do the 
things that we've set out to be 
the best at in the country, we'll 
be just fine." 
But the stakes remain high 
and the challenge tough. 
"A win here tomorrow night 
would probably be the biggest 
of our season if we can pull it 
off, and I think the guys know 
that," Clark said. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
With the group of guys we [pre-season rankings]." he said. have, they should be thrown in "They've been together for a. there. Let's go after it." while, they've always remained 
The Irish were ranked in the top 10 in the AP pre­"We have a lot of 
season poll and potential and a lot to 
Sports Illustrated 
work with. '' 
rated them sixth in this week's issue. Mike Brey 
But Brey said Irish coach the team will remain focused 
hungry, and have done some really nice things but they'd like to do more." 
After taking on USC Upstate, the Irish will next play when they 
despite the considerable hype head west to take on Loyola surrounding it. Marymount next Friday. 
"We have a lot of potential and a lot to work with ... I don't Contact Fran Tolan at think they are distracted by ftolan@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Next after preseason: LSU in Baton Rouge 
Peters returns to game action for first time 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Managing Ediror 
After crushing Gannon 96­30 in its only preseason game, Notre Dame starts its regular season Sunday -but can expeet a mueh tougher matchup. The Irish travel to Baton Rouge, La., to play LSU in the State Farm Tip-Off Classic. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw said she was honored that her team was invited to play in this game. 
"We've always watched [the Tip-Off Classic], there's always great teams playing in it. Now we have an opportunity to play in it," McGraw said. "I think we're honored to be there and it's going to be a great opener for us." 
The Irish have had a long layoff since their last time on the court -their win against the Lady Knights occurred on Nov. 5. McGraw said that keeping her team focused after so many consecutive practice days between games has been a challenge. 
"I think if you ask the play­ers, it's a tremendous chal­lenge when they're looking at five or six days of practice. At this point they're pretty tired of practice," she said. 
McGraw said she gave her team Wednesday off from practice because of back-to­hack hard practices on Monday and Tuesday. The team will also have a short practice because of traveling. 
Although MeGraw got a look at 10 of her players against Gannon, she has yet to see forward Devereaux Peters in a game situation. Peters missed the Irish preseason game after missing a mandatory study session. Sunday will be Peters' first game sinee tearing her anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) against Pittsburgh last February. 
"She's going to be ready. She had a really good practice on Monday. I think defensively she's doing a great job. She's one of our best defenders," McGraw said of the 6-foot-2 sophomore. "We're going to try her in different spots and see where she's most effective. 
In terms of her knee, she's prob.~bly still high 80 per­eent. 
Adding Peters will only add more depth to an already crowded Irish lineup. Against Gannon, every eligible player played in the first half, and all but point guard Melissa Leehlitner -who committed two fouls in the first four min­utes -had scored. 
McGraw said that she will likely give 10 of her 11 play­ers considerable minutes this season, and that this has led to very eompetitive practices. 
"It's incredibly competitive. Next year, you don't lose any­body so you can't look and say next year I'm going to play a few more minutes because of this or that," McGraw said. "I think playing time is going to be incredibly competitive. I think that's a good thing. We're going to have great bal­ance, we're going to have great depth." 
Although Lindsay Schrader is a senior, she earned a med­ical redshirt after tearing her ACL before her sophomore season. Peters said that the lack of seniors has not been a problem for the team so far in practices. 
"We know what we're capa­ble of doing and we know what we're going to do this year. I think the rest of the world is like, they're younger, they're kind of going to blow us off," Peters said. "I don't think we're worried about that right now. We're just going to come out and play and do what we know we ean 
..
d0. 
Going into Sunday's game, Peters said she and her team­mates feel excited for the early challenge. 
"We love the pressure of playing good teams like that, especially early. We like to get into it and get things done early," she said. 
But looking more long term, Peters said she has one big goal for this season. 
"Mainly just win the nation­al championship and whatev­er else comes along the way," she said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

SAINT(tfJOSEPH Regional Mdical cA!;1ter 
J.t~'l-·lft.nh&or.d~II!Mk~ 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, November 14, 2008 
exciting. Keenan is certainly not Morrissey's freshman left guard 
ing attention to the things that trying to downplay the impor­Angelo Brown said. "They put a 
sometimes its easy to take for
NCAA
Chapel 
tance of this game, and it may lot of pressure on our quarter­
granted." continued from page 24 feel the need for revenge after back, Joe McBrayer." 
continued from page 24 And if anyone is well-versed in the result of last year's final Though they have already 
tournament play, it's Waldrum and makn them earn every yard game. defeated them once this year, 
they play a pretty similar system , and the Irish. When Notre Dame thny gnt". "It should be a good close the Ramblers know Morrissey 
in fact they play the same system won the championship in 2004, it Kennan doesn't expect to win game but I think we have a has a shot at pulling out an 
that we play, so I think that we're posted only 12 goal<> in six games, with just a solid defense, how­good chance at winning it," upset win. 
very well prepared to play four of which were scored of evnr. Dear said. "Stanford is our rival "Morrissey has the best big­
against that and I think that the dead-ball situations. Two of those "We have groat players on dorm, and they beat us in the play potential in their passing 
kids are excited. They're just goals ended up being game win­of'fnnse including our senior championship last year. Its our game, and their running game 
ready to get started. It's some­ners that paved the road to a running back Alex Gonzalez biggest game of the year." is very complimentary to their 
thing they've worked for the penalty kick win over UClA in and Jim Zenker, our senior Kickoff is Sunday 2 p.m. at passing," Siegfried team cap­
whole season, and to get to this the championship. wide receivnr," Dnar said. "Look Hiehle Fields. tain and tight end Kevin Kelly 
point, they're just ready to get "That detail, almost a third of for them to have a big impact in said. "Morrissey is a great 
started." your goals are scored on free the game this weekend". Siegfried vs. Morrissey opponent, and we need to be 
But even with the knowledge of kicks and set pieces, that you've The Stanford Griffins also It's getting down to the wire sure not to underestimate them 
their 4-4-2 system, the Rockets got to pay a lot of attention to, have several players that figure for both Morrissey and Siegfried on Sunday." 
still present some problems for you can't just haphazardly take to make big plays in the game. as they approach the semifinals Overcoming the strong defen­
the Irish. Junior striker Molly them," Waldrum said. "Who "Our quartnrback Brian Salvi Sunday. A win means a trip to sive pressure Siegfried serves 
Cornwell is at the heart of knows? We may never had made and wide receiver Anthony Notre Dame Stadium, but a loss up will take Morrissey's best 
Toledo's attacking offense with it to the final four [in 20041 if we Hizzo are two great players on means a season ending trip effort. Siegfried can depend on 
seven goals in 21 start.<>. Fellow hadn't paid attention to those our offense," Stanford captain home. its defense, but it must be wary 
forward Ali Leak scored the detail<>. So that's what we really John Burke said. "Siegfried is a very talented, of the passing intensive offen­
game-winning goal as the try to focus on when we get into But Stanford has an advan­deep team, so we will have to sive strategy that renders 
Rockets (16-4-1) took down the tournament." tage that doesn't come from the bring our 'A' game to beat Morrissey a worthy opponent. 
Eastern Michigan 1-0 in the finals And even though Notre Dame talent of their players. them," Morrissey's junior mid­"We have the best wide 
of the MAC Championships. boasts the No. 1 seed and home "Nnarly every game we've dle-linebacker Phillip Yuhas receivers out there," said 
And high scores in tournament field advantage, it's hard not to played this year has been said. Brown. "As long as our line can 
play aren't common-Notre wonder if the Irish wouldn't have close," Burke said. "We beat These two teams met once protect Joe [McBrayer], he and 
Dame battled in overtime in the defeated Connecticut in regula­Dillon by one point on a blocked during the regular season, the wide receivers will be able 
rain and snow to defeat the tion time had they had a healthy extra point, and in the rngular resulting in a 14-0 win for to make plays." 
Connecticut 1-0 for the Big East roster -but Waldrum said lead­season we beat O'Neill by one Siegfried. It was one of the The game will take place 
title. Waldrum is well aware that ing goal scorer Kerri Hanks will point, 15-16. I think we have an Hamblers' four shutouts, thanks Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle 
set plays and dead-ball opportu­be suiting up tonight. And with advantage in that we know how to a stellar defense that has Fields. 
nities could make or break a Hanks' seniority, tournament to win dosn games". only let up three points this sea­
team's tournament time. knowledge and healthy knee, the Both teams snem evenly son. Contact Ryan O'Connell at 
"We're not going to be chang­Iri<>h are likely to look better than matched. which will make part "The defensive line is big, and roconne3@nd.edu and Molly 
ing our system and we're not ever, even if rain continues to two of the Battle for the Chapel their tight ends are strong," Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
going to change drastically the storm South Bend. things that we've done to get us And though the Irish players to this point," Waldrum said. "But are focused on tonight's game, I think the things that we really the coaching staff isn't blind to 
grate more freshmen into the to stand by the guys that are 
tried to focus on this week, and the match up of Michigan State
Lakers 
lineup, but didn't want to helping us have success on the 
hopefully if we continue to win, and No. 16 Wisconsin-Milwaukee remove players that were suc­ice. As long as those guys con­
we'll continue on doing it this that takes place before Notre continued from page 24 ceeding. tinue to play well, it makes it 
way, is really trying to get them to Dame's game. They've watched "I can't take guys out if difficult to get some of those 
focus on the little detail<>, because tape, scouted and prepared to with_ a lot o!: energy and a lot of they're not giving me reasons younger guys in." 
I think when you get to games face either team come Sunday. eonhdence. to," he said. "If our team's hav­
like this, the difference i<> going to As for the rest of the lines, ing success, you don't want to Contact Sam Werner at 
be free kicks and set pieces, little Contact Deirdre Krasula at Jaekson said he wanted to inte-tix what's not broken. We have swerner@nd.edu 
dead-ball situations and just pay-dkrasula@nd.edu 
World VIew is an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive f::iilUNIVI!RSITY OF 
O
DE BARTOLO 
dialogue about issues of race, class, ethn1city, religion, and gender through the arts. WNOTREDAME PERFORM NG ARTS CENTER 
Friday, November 14, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

DAVID CAVADINI 
THE DOME PIECE JUMBLE 

JJ&OO®rbrE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ASTEE 
± 
©2008 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
CYRUR 
j 
J r J
1 
www.jumble.com 
I USDABE ±I J 
"-.
I I r 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

THE: MATTRE:55 WA5 GUARANTE:E:O 50 THE: C.OUPL.E: C.OUI.-0 --­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A:"(IIIJ" (IIIIIIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: JUMPY CHUTE PURVEY JANGLE Answer: No matter what is served, this will make it attractive -HUNGER 
CROSSWORD 
Across 441mpart 1 A diehard enemy 45 Broadcast might want yours portion 6 Gather 
46 Call in draw poker
11 OB's goals 52 John P.
14 Amor vinc1t Marquand
15 Milk: Prefix detective 
161n 53 Signify 
17 Call in roulette 54 Prefix with 
19 Suffix with fish carpal20 For smaller 56 Sounds of government, walking inpresumably moccasins
21 One who 60 Deicing tool 
supplies the means 65 Detroit-to­23 Knocks off Philadelphia dir. 
25 Gun dealer's 66 Call in craps stock 
68 Family room 26 Norway's patron 
69 Challenge to __
saint 70 Family girl 
30 Call in blackjack 34 Robot maid on 71 Inexact fig. 
''The Jetsons" 72 Request to meet 36 Buttresses in person 37 Call in many a 73 Photographer 
betting game Adams 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

1-:'=+~:-loiio~...~+-=-RIIIIII..;;J...:.:..j~:..:.j 1=+"-'-+-''-f"'" """"'-+'-'+-"..,..,....;:;...~f"+"-i 
..::.+~+=-l~=-l 
-=+::+.::+:'-1-7+:-:-1 

Down 
1 It has arms, legs and a back 2 "Let's go!" 
3 "Sometimes you feellike " 
4 Italian river valley in W.W. II fighting 
5 Page of music 
6 Cosmonaut Leonov. the first human to walk in space 
7 "Holy moly!" 
8 Fair-sized plot 
9 Old British gun 
1 0 Fountain offering 
11 1991 Geena Davis title role 12 "The Sound of Music" hit 13 "Sophie's Choice" author 18 Per 22 Catch 
24 Celebrity 26 Fort on 
Monterey Bay 
27 w.c. 
29 Tiny tale 
31 Part of r.p.m.: Abbr. 
32 Pre-1868 Tokyo 33 Dog in 1930s films 35 Fitzgerald who sang "A-Tisket, A-Tasket" 
38 Comics cry 39 Start of long­distance dialing 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
FRIDAYS WITH FRAN
HOROSCOPE 
Aries (March 21-April 19): Stop being a fetus. Taurus (April 20-May 20): If teach gives you too much homework, give him the Stone Cold Stunnah. Gemini (May 21-June 20): Impeach Obama. Tim Hardaway for president. You heard it here first. Cancer (June 21-July 22): You're such a sour­puss. You just taste sour to me. Leo (July 23-Aug. 22): What do Brian Cox, Dick Butkus, Rudy Gay and Bobby Cox have in com­mon? That's right, they're all athletes. Except for Bobby Cox--he just has a funny name. Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't be a boy toy, be a sexy boy. Libra (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Send your pianist to a penal colony. Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov. 1): Ball State or Morehead State? Why? Text your answer to (215)514-1642. Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Congratulations, Jenna Jameson. You won last week's poll. As if you needed more accolades ... Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan 19): And as one reader pointed out, "You can give Jenna a two-liter of hot chocolate and she'll find a way to keep it warm for you all night." Aquarius Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't get tight, get light. Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20): How lame would it be to be an ensign? I mean, really. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Puzzle by Robert Dillman 
40 Make music on a comb 
41 Answer before exchanging rings 
42 Have a to pick 
43 Sentimental drivel 
46 Hinder 
47 Some auto deals 
48 Present but not active 49 Contents of some shells 50 Be cozy 51 Write permanently 55 Rock concert setting 57 Pitchers' slats 
58 Depended (on) 59 Pivot 61 Score after 
deuce 62 Bakery display 63" homo"
.. -····· 
64 Line holder 67 NASA vehicle 
For answers, calli-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year) . Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, November 14, 2008 
page 24 
WoMEN's SoccER 
Team opens NCAAs ·with Toledo at home 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Assistant Managing Editor 
Even with a pnrfi1ct reeord. the No. 1 Irish haven't forgotten the lit­tin tl1ings, or at least to pay atten­tion to them. And that's just what they'll be focused on when they open NCM Tournament play at home against Toledo at 7:30p.m. 
Experience has taught Irish coach Handy Waldrum that tour­munent play is nothing like the reg­ular season -<md the lrL'ih coach­ing stall' has been preparing for that as mueh as possible. 
"We've bmm watching video this week and got some scouting report<; from around the country of Toledo, and really we've just been trying to gather a'i mw:h inlbrma­tion about them as we can," Waldrum said. "We've f(mnd that 
see NCAA/ page 22 
Tourney time 

MEN'S INTERHALL 
Battle for theChapel part tvvo 
By RYAN O'CONNELL and MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer 
The Stanford and Keenan rivalry continues this week­end as the two teams face­off for a spot in the lnterhall championship game. 
Although they have already met in the regular season, the game resulted in a 6-6 tie, making the antici­pation of this game even greater. 
"Last game we ended up moving the ball pretty well in the second half," Keenan captain and linebacker Barton Dear said. "We're going to try not to get too many penalties on defense 
see CHAPEL/page 22 
HOCKEY 
After two big vvins on the road, Irish return to CCHA play 
Lakers. games." won two national champi­Brian Mahoney-Wilson hasBy SAM WERNER "If anything, we should have Lake Superior is tied for sec­onships in 1992 and 1994. improved significantly since
Sports Writer 
had a letdown against ond in the CCHA, along with "It's always going to have a last year. 
Providence [on Saturday night], four other teams. The Irish sit special place in my heart," "I think that the goaltcnding 
A week after Friday's mar­and I think we did for maybe in 10th plaee, but have played Jackson said. "I always want to has been the biggest improve­quee 4-1 non-eonferenee win 10 minutes," Jackson said. two fewer conference games see them do well, obviously not ment for them from last year," against Boston College, Notre "The guys understand if they than the Lakers and at this this weekend. They are a very .Jackson said. "I think they're Damn will get back to work in want to be an elite team, early stage of the conference important part of my history getting real solid goal tending." thn CCIIA with two games they've got to show signs of season, all 12 teams are within and I'll never forget my time The Irish have also been against Lake Supnrior State. consistency. They've got to play eight points of each other. there." receiving balanced scoring 
"The guys are eonlident right at a high level every night, "Everybody in our conference Jackson said the Lakers' most recently, notably from the now, a little bit loose, but not regardless of who the opponent can win, I don't care who it is," dangerous weapon was their "Don't Call Them the Fourth eoeky in my estimation," Irish is." Jackson said. "If you're not versatility, and the fact that Line" line of Justin White, Hyan eoach Jeff Jackson said. "It's Notre Dame captain Erik ready to play, you're going to their best players are spread Guentzel, and Garrett Hegan, good that they're starting to see Condra said the solution to get beat on a given night." out over four lines. reigning CCIIA player of the tho fruits of their labor." staying hot was simple. This game is more than just a "You can't take a nap at any week. 
.Jackson said even after the "We just got to make sure regular conference game for point against this team," he "They're playing well," big win in Chestnut Hill, he we're intense," Condra said. Jackson, though. The Irish said. Jackson said. "They're playing wasn't worried about his team "And bring the same intensity coach spent 10 years with the Jackson also said Lake having a letdown against the in practice that we do in the Lakers, from 1986 to 1996, and Superior sophomore goaltender see LAKERS/page 22 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Men begin season play after two exhibitions 
By FRAN TOLAN A'sociate Sports Editor 
After cruising through two blowout nxhibition wins. it's timn to son if No. I) Notre Dame will livn up to thn hypn. The Irish bngin rngular-snason play wlwn they take on USC Upstat1~ at 7:30p.m. Sunday. 
"Thnsn last two ganws have bnnn groat for us bncausn we were able to SIHl a lot of things and a lot of things we need to elean up, but it's n~al now," Irish junior forward Luke llarangody said. "You ean't mess up." 
During a brief exhibition sna­son, Notre Dame beat both Briar ClifT and Stonehill by at least 30 points. 
The Irish have one of the toughest regular-season schfld­ules in the country but get to l)ase into it against USC Upstate, which is beginning just its second year in Div. I and is coming off a 7-23 sea­son. 
Thn Spartans, who will face Georgia tonight before heading to South Bend. joined the Atlantic Sun Conference last season. 
For the Irish. the game pres­ents an opportunity to adjust to thn regular season before embarking on the rest of a non­eonf11rence schedule that includes Ohio State, UCLA and 
see SPARTANS/page 21 
MEN'S SOCCER 
ND faces USF in semifinals 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 
When No. 9 Notre Dame and No. 8 South Florida hit the pitch for Friday's Big East semifinals matchup in Tampa, Fla., don't expect a repeat performance of the Irish's 5-0 thrashing of the Bulls on Sept. 7. 
"They're a good team, and I don't know if people quite realize what a good result [for us I it was at the time," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "Will it be 5-0 again this time'? It's highly unlikely -some days you get goals when they come easy for you, but they were a very good team then and 
see BIG EAST/page 21 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 14, 2008 
COMMENTARY 
Calls for Charlie's 
firing not needed 
Poor Charlin Weis. 
Nnvnr thought I'd spnak thosfl words, but there they arn. N1m~r thought I would pity sonworw who coaches Notre Dame football for a living, who makes mil­lions and who has morn bling than Paul Wall's grill. 
First thing I son whnn I wakn up Tunsday Bill Brink 

morning is a 
column call­
S'ports Editor 
ing for Weis' dismissal. SportsCnnter anehors wondered whether Weis might be through. Not hard to fathom, since the oll'ense never got ofl' the ground against Boston College and eouldn't rnaeh the end zone in four overtimfl periods against Pittsburgh. But the assertions arn unnecessary. 
Weis' abilities as eoach should not be questioned for thrnn rea­sons. One, look at his recruiting dasses. I le blessed this year's tmtm with Mic.hanl Floyd, Kyle Hudolph, Trevor Hobinson and Darius Fleming among others. Last year he brought in Golden Tate and Armando Allen. With the verbal commitments from Shaquelle Evans and Cierre Wood, he's well on his way to signing another great dass. 
If he can recruit while Notm Dame swings through a low point in its history, he's doing something right. Some of these recruits eould go play for Urban Meyer or Pete Carroll, but they eome to spend four years in South Bend, with it.'> lovely weather and the litany of attrac­tions surrounding campus. 
lie rmeds the time for the rncruit.<> to mature. I le inherited Brady Quinn, .Jefl' Samardzjia, Maurice Stovall and Darius Walker when they had maturnd. I le reached two BCS bowls with them. 
Two, he's still adjusting to the head eoaehing role. llis only previous eollef.,riate experience was at South Carolina where, as a graduate assistant and volun­teer eoaeh, he coached defen­sive baeks, linebackers and defensive ends. Those positions rnquired him to focus all of his attention towards a limited number of players and delve into the minutiae of one posi­
tion. 
In the NFL. he coached wide 
receivers, running backs and 
quarterbacks before becoming 
the oll"ensive coordinator of the 
Patriots. Again, smaller groups 
of people with a focused objec­
tive. Even as oll'ensive coordina­
tor, he worknd with one side of 
tho ball. 
Now he's in charge of nearly 100 young athletes who play all sorts of dill'erent positions. !lis first two seasons, he microman­aged Quinn and the oll'ense to great effect. Last year, when Jimmy Clausen came up short of Quinn's talent level, Weis had to rapidly adjust. At the begin­ning of this season, he took a broader role with the team, scaling back his involvement in the ofl'ense to oversee the team as a whole. 
Thanks to offensive stagnation in the last two games, he's revisiting his role with the oll'ense. And rightly so. That's his area of expertise. Corwin Brown, Jon Tenuta and Jappy Oliver can handle the defense. This balance may not work any better than the old system, but once he finds the balance that works best for him, his staff and his players, his coaching style will produce much better results. But this also takes time. 
Finally, Weis isn't throwing the picks, missing the blocks and tackles or committing the penalties. Critics point to the coach as the scapegoat for issues like this, but it's a com­plete non sequitur. lie can tie down the 0-linemen and preach to them not to chop block until they beg for mercy, but in no way does that translate to play on the field. 
Give the man time. He's shown what he can do when the pieces were in place. Now, grad­uation and youth have upset the playing board and scattered the pieces every which way. Weis has spent the last two seasons picking them up, slowly but surely. Once he finds a home not only for the pieces of the team, but for himself, he'll control a potent football team with a great deal of talent. 
The lliews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu 
2008 Irish opponents 
Last week This week (1-9) L, 41-12, BYU Utah (3-7) W, 29-6, Minnesota Northwestern (9-2) W, 21-7, Purdue at Penn State (3-7) L, 21-7, MSU at Iowa (5-5) L, 35-28, Oregon usc (7-2) W, 28-7, Ga.Tech at Maryland (0-8) L, 39-19, ASU UCLA (6-2) W, 41-7, L'ville at Cincinnati (6-3) W, 17-0, ND atFSU (6-3) Idle Notre Dame (2-7) L, 35-17, Rutgers Connecticut (7-1) W, 17-3, Cal at Stanford 

A NEW LOOK FOR OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS! 
The Observer football writers blog about the team at 
Observersportsblog.21cr.info. 
Visit the blog to read 

IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndcololog.com 
more. 


•May not be combined with any other offer. Valid in·~tore and 
on selected Items only. While supplies last. 
0700KB091908A 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, November 14, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
From hardwood to gridiron 
Justin Brown didn't playfootball until his senior year ofhigh school, but he is making upfor lost time 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Managing Editor  to get his scholarship after basketball fell through ­start playing football.  Notre Dame, Penn State, Michigan and Florida all start­ed looking at Brown.  
Brown said that the biggest  
During his  career at Notre  ... to the gridiron ...  reason  for  this  increased  
Dame, Justin Brown has been  Throughout  his  time  at  attention  was  the work of  
a solid, steady presence on the  Bishop McNamara, Brown said  Joseph and his father, Michael  
defensive line. The fifth-year  head football coach Bernard  Brown.  
end has 60 tackles, including  Joseph would half-jokingly tell  "After a couple of games, I  
nine for loss and 2.5 sacks, in  him that he needed to start  played really, really well and  
his career for the Irish while  playing football.  my dad was just, 'We need to  
adding depth to the front four.  Three games into the 2003  send some of these tapes out.'  
Not bad for a guy who didn't  season, Brown took him up on  So between my dad and my  
start playing football until sen­ the offer.  coach, they made some tapes.  
ior year of high school.  "I talked about the football  My dad just sending tapes  
thing with my dad and my  everywhere, probably like 50  
From the hardcourt...  brother and decided to try it  schools,  or  something like  
Brown grew up a  basketball  out. I came three games late  that," Brown said.  
player,  as  a  forward  who  and played  seven  or  eight  Brown said he didn't know  
played competitively during  games, and things worked out  how he was so  lucky that he  
middle school and high school.  well," he said.  could wind up playing football  
Brown  said  B  r  o w  n  at Notre Dame after only one  
he  was a  solid  played a  sort­ year, but said that he  was  
basketball player, starting for the varsity team at Bishop  "I was only 200 pounds [in high school]. They just put me on the field  of hybrid defensive end/outside linebacker that  meant to be here. "That was God's work, I say. It's interesting, I play for Notre Dame and through God in  
McNamara  and let me run around  season,  but  there, and it's such a religious  
High School in Forestville,  and make plays."  said that his position didn't  institution. There's a reason for everything happening. I'm  
Md., during his  matter to  his  supposed to be here, I guess,"  
junior and sen­ Justin Brown  game  plan.  he said.  
ior seasons.  Irish defensive end  Joseph and the  Brown said that when Notre  
Brown  was  other coaches  Dame first started recruiting  
originally going  gave  Brown  him, he had no idea about the DAN COOPER/The Observer  
to go to college to play basket­ simple instructions for playing.  school's history or tradition, Irish defensive lineman Justin Brown tries to deflect a pass dur­ 
ball, he said. Starting his jun­ '"Just go get the ball carrier.  but knew it must have been a ing Notre Dame's 38-21 win over Purdue on Sept. 27.  
ior season, he began to shop  Just go and  run  and make  special place because of how  
himself around to some Div. I  plays.' And that's what I did. I  others treated it.  And then, I believed in the  degree to fall back on," he  
programs for a scholarship.  was only 200 pounds. They  "The thing that struck me  football coaches and what they  said.  
"Going  into  the  summer  just put me on the field and let  was this place had to be spe­ were  telling  me.  Coach  Brown graduated in May  
time, I focused more in on try­ me  run  around  and  make  cial because of the reaction I  [Tyrone] Willingham recruited  with a  double major in Film,  
ing to get scholarships for bas­ plays," Brown said of his high  would get from everyone. It  me, and I felt like I wanted to  Television and Theater and  
ketball. What was happening  school coaching.  was the reaction that people  come here and play," he said.  Sociology. He started with the  
was I started getting injuries  This plan was immediately  gave me that kind of gave me  Once he got to Notre Dame,  FTT major with a concentra­ 
-ankle injuries. Just going to  successful, and Brown finished  the sense that this was some  the biggest adjustment Brown  tion in television, something he  
camps and going to AAU tour­ his first year of organized foot­ place special.  And when I  had to make was learning how  has always been interested in,  
naments where a lot of scouts  ball with  65  tackles,  nine  came up here, it sort of proved  to play technical football.  he said.  
are, I just had ankle injuries,"  sacks and three fumble recov­ itself true," he said.  "I didn't know so much tech­ ''I'm really interested in  
Brown said.  eries. As his senior season  But after giving the Irish  nique and knowledge of the  media. Coming into college, I  
Those ankle injuries kept  wore  on, he started getting  another look,  he  said  the  game  [was involved].  And  wanted to work with advertis­ 
him out of competing in other  more looks for that big-time  school was a  perfect "three­ everything that's going on  - ing,  so that's where I went. I  
camps and tournaments later in the summer. Brown said his  college scholarship he did not get in basketball.  for-three" fit for him. "One of the things that stood  because there going on, on a  is  so  much  really like the creative aspect of things. I was  
inability to play basketball  While Brown was initially  out to me was that people talk  football  field.  happy when I  
during the offseason -and in turn impress college scouts and coaches from big time  recruited mostly by local, smaller Div. I schools, like Richmond and Towson, even­ about ­you get a degree from Notre Dame, you're set for life. The fact that the school was a  There was a lot I had to learn. Probably for the  "Probably for the first two or three years  saw that they have a film pro­gram here," he  
programs  - led to Brown not  tually Boston College started  very religious institution, very  first  two  or  here I felt like I was  said.  
getting the offers he wanted. But Brown had another plan  showing more interest in him. After the Eagles, teams like  religion-conscious, very faith­based -that was important.  three years here I felt like I was playing catch-up  playing catch-up to everybody else,  Brown said he added the sec­ond major  
to everybody else, physically and mentally,"  physically and mentally."  because thought would be  he it a  
he said.  good  fit  with  
Brown said the  Justin Brown  the FTT.  
most  difficult  Irish defensive end  He is current­ 
part  of  that  ly enrolled in  a  
adjustment peri­ non-degree  
od was learning how to take  graduate studies program,  
on blockers, something which  taking some psychology cours­ 
has become much easier as he  es and a special studies class.  
has put on 77 pounds during  For the special studies, he is  
his five years with the Irish.  working on a multimedia CD  
But off the football field, one  for  his brother's wedding,  
big adjustment for Brown was  which was in October.  
a coaching change after his  But in the much more imme­ 
freshman year. Brown said  diate future, Brown said he is  
that, while he sat out the year  excited to play Navy and excit­ 
and was not fully integrated  ed to see his family.  
into the system and therefore  "I guess, it's kind of like my  
the change did not have as big  Thanksgiving. I don't get to go  
of  an  impact  on  him,  home before Thanksgiving, so  
Willingham's firing was still  that's always good to see  my  
difficult for him to deal with.  family around this time of  
"You always see those things  year. People don't always get  
happening to other teams on  to see their families, so I'm  
ESPN. When it happened to us,  fortunate to see mine."  
it was kind of shocking. It was  Brown said he didn't know  
shocking and surprising, but it  how much time he would get  
was something we had to deal  to  spend with them, but it  
with and move on," he said.  won't be enough if this year is  
anything like his last trip to  
•.• and beyond  Maryland two years ago .  
After this season, Brown said  "Last time, they were calling  
his dream would be to play in  me to get on the bus because I  
the NFL. But, just like in high  wasn't ready to leave yet."  
VANESSA GEM PIS/The Observer  school, he has a contingency.  

Irish defensive lineman Justin Brown, right, and linebacker Brian Smith pursue Air Force quarter­"And if that doesn't work, I Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at back Shaun Carney during Notre Dame's 41-24 loss on Nov. 10,2007. always have my Notre Dame jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 14, 2008 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 5-4 AP: NR 
Coaches: NR Notre Dame Fighting Irish Charlie Weis Fourth season at 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame career record: 
2008 Schedule 
27-19 
against Charlie Wels 
Navy: 
Sept. 6 SDSU-W
2-1
head coach 
Sept. 13 MICH-W
Roster 
Sept. 20 at MSU-L
No. Nam~ Pos. Ill Wt. YR lh•innW.11kt•r WR 6-2 18/l FR Mkh.><•l l'luyd WR 6-3 215 FR 
Sept. 27 PURDUE-W 
Cary Gr.1y Dll 5-lt 18/l so Armando Allt•n Rll 5-10 195 so 
Oct. 4 STANFORD-W 
h l<.•y lt,•rring Dll 5-10 19H SR 7 limmv Clau:o.t•n (.)II 6-3 217 so H 1{,\eshun McNeil Dll 6-0 19(1 JR 
Ethan }l1hn~un DE b-4 275 FR 9 Kylt• Rudolph TE 6-fl 252 I'R 
Oct. 25 atWASH-W
10 IJaync Crist (.)II 6-4 233 FR II I >avid Grimt~ WR 5-10 177 SR 12 Ni<·k Lt•1ynski (,)ll 5-H 157 so 
Nov.l PITT-L 
12 f{<llwrt BlttntLm ))ll 6-1 IHO FR 13 Evt~n SIMrpk•y QB 6-2 215 SR 
Nov. 8 atBC-L
14 Brandon Wcllkt.•r K 6-J 202 so l'i llrian Castdh1 QB 6-2 191 so 15 {>an Me<._ ·,trthy DB 6-2 200 FR 
Nov. 15 NAVY 
It> Natt.• Montdllcl (.)ll 6-4 200 FR IH I)uV<tl KanMra WR 6-5 219 so 
Nov. 22 SYRACUSE
19 (;c..•orgt>Wt>tit)r. WR 5-10 I% )R 20 ·ll·rraill..ambc..•rt IJ)j 5-11 195 SR 21 Barry (;,,II up Jr. RU 5-11 2!HI )R 
Nov. 29 at USC 
22 llarrisnn Smith Dll 6-2 206 so 23 ( ;uldc..•n Tatc..· WR 5-JJ 195 so 24 l.eonard ( ;ordnn Dll 5-JJ IH7 )R 24 Brian Coughlin WR 6-0 172 )R 2.'i Jonas Gray RB 5-10 2.10 FR 26 Jamorb Slau~htt•r DB 6-0 1H2 FR 27 David Bruton Ill! 6-2 212 SR 2H· Kyt,• M1C1rthy DB 6-1 203 SR 29 )ashaad Gaim'S DB 6-0 202 )R 29 Mkhad G;;trcid WR 6-1 17H so 
COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
30 StcVl.' Pc1skurz Fll 6-2 235 so 31 Sl•rgio Bn lWn [)Jl 6-2 205 )R 32 Luke Schmidt TE 6-3 246 )R 33 J{ubert Hught>s Rll 5-11 237 so 34 }.tmt"S Aldridgt.• ){ll 6-0 22.<; )R 

Charlie Weis will call the plays this week after the offense failed to score against BC. The pressure is on him to rejuvenate a team that looked inept mov­ing the ball.  Jimmy Clausen didn't have his contacts in against BC: he threw four interceptions in the game. To be fair, We is said he wasn't feeling well.  
Ken Niumatalolo knows the offense well; he was Navy's assistant head coach for six years before being promoted last year. He coached the Midshipmen to a win over then-No. 16 Wake Forest and an overtime win over Temple.  Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku­Enhada won't play Saturday, so Jarod Bryant will take his place. Bryant actually passes well for a Navy quarterback, but has only thrown two touch­downs this season in backup duty.  

Notre Dame accumu­Clausen disappointed in
35 Kevin Smith LB 5-H 200 SR 
LLI 
35 Kevin Brooks TE 6-2 241 )R 
lated only 66 yards on 
his last outing, but his sea­
< ~ 
36 )ut•Bizj.lk K 6-2 165 )R 
21 carries against BC, 
son statistics say he won't
36 David Posluszny J.ll 641 220 FR 37 MikeAnt.>Jio DB 5-10 170 SR 
and 115 yards on 39 
repeat the performance.
c 
37 Eras Not.'! RB 5-H 190 so 
carries in a 4-0T loss to Michanl Floyd and Golden
LLI
38 Chris B.t thon DB 5-10 192 )R 
Pitt. More telling, the 
Tate continue to haul in
a::
3H Christophl•r Currie~ WR 5-10 181 so 
.....
39 Ryan llurkh.~rt K 5-11 )9() )R 
ofTense couldn't convert passns, and Armando
0
411 Maurit'l' Crum Jr. J.B 64) 235 SR 
a fourth-and-1 on the 
Allen caught nine passes
41 Scott Smith J.B 6-3 235 SR 
z 
ground. 
out of the backfinld. 
41 Niknln~ RodriHuez Rll 5-11 205 SR 42 Kt.•vin Washingt(m J.B 6-1 250 SR 42 Dan Fr.mcn WR 5-10 18/l )R 43 john Lt.•onis Dll S-9 169 SR 43 Eric M.tust p 6-2 177 )R 44 Asaph Schwapp FB 6-0 2.';7 SR 45 I )arius Fll'ming Lll 6-1 2.16 FR 
Navy ranks 30th in the 
45 Kris Patterson WR 5-11 185 SR 
country and allowed Wake 
46 Steve Pilcr l.ll 6-3 2.162 FR 
Navy ranks 104th in
47 foe Vittoria LB 5-11 44 )R 
Forest only 43 rushing 
47 Mike Narvc1cz FB 5-11 231 )R 
the nation in passyards and 69 against
4H Steve Quinn Lll 6-2 225 SR 
defense and allows
Temple. Against Air Foree
44 Toryan Smith J.B 6-1 244 )R 
256.7 yards per game
51 f)an Wt•ngt.•r c 6-4 302 )R 
and Pittsburgh, however,
52 13raxston Cave c 6-3 315 FR 
through the air. If therethe Ml<fs allowed a com­
53 Morrh.."t.' Richardson DE 6-2 255 )R 
was a time for Clausenbined 450 yards. The Mids 
54 Anthony McDonald LB 6-3 22.<; FR 
55 Eric Olsen OG 6-5 303 JR 
to bounce back, this is it. 
allow an average of 116.3 
56 Kerry Neal Lll 6-2 246 so 57 Mikt•Gulir)r. c 6-3 2HO FR 
yards rushing per game. 
5H Brian Smith LB 6-3 245 so 59 Chris Stewart OG 6-5 337 )R 61 Martin Quintana LB 6-1 242 )R 62 Bill Flavin c 6-3 252 so 63 )efflis.1k OT 6-3 306 SR b4 Tom Burkt· LB 5-10 242 )R 65 Mike H1•mandez OL 6-2 275 FR 67 Tom Bt.•ml'ndl'rft.•r c 6-5 300 SR b9 Carl Brophy OL 6-4 278 FR 70 MattRomim• OT 6-5 292 so 71 IA•nnb Mllhont.•y OL 6-6 290 FR 72 Pclul Duncan OT 6-7 308 SR 74 Sam Young OT 6-8 330 )R 75 Taylor Dever OT 6-5 308 so 75 l...cmt.· Clelland OT 6-5 281 FR 76 Andn•w Nuss DE 6-5 304 so 77 Mikt.• Turkovich OG 6-6 305 SR 78 Trevor Robinson OG 6-5 301 FR 7~ I iafis Williams DE 6-2 302 FR 81 John Gt)odman WR 6-3 197 FR 82 Rnbby Parris WR 6-4 210 )R H4 Will Yeatman TE 6-6 265 so 85 Sam Vos WR 5-10 199 )R 86 Paul Kuppich TE 6-3 232 SR 87 Joseph Fauriil TE 6-7 245 FR 89 Kaprun Lt.•wis-Moure DE 6-4 257 FR ~() )nhn Ryan LB 6-5 204 )R 

It's tough to envision With Charlie Weis 
91 Emeka Nwitnkwo DE 6-4 295 so 
this game ending well back at the helm of
93 Paddy Mullen NT 6-3 3(XI )R 94 Justin Brown DE 6-3 277 SR 
for Notre Dame. The the offense, the Irish 
95 Ian William.. NT 6-2 310 so 
Midshipmen rush should get back on 
96 Pat Kuntz DE 6-3 283 SR 
attack will tire the Irish track against Navy.
97 Kall<•n Wade LB 6-5 255 )R 98 Scan Cwynar DE 6-4 2!13 FR 
defense, control the Clausen will need to clock and keep Jimmy make the most of his Clausen and the Irish minutes since Navy's pass offense, who can offensive scheme will do damage to Navy's limit Notre Dame's defense, ofT the field. possessions. Navy The offense snaps out scores an early touch­
Irish 
of its funk and scores, but Navy will keep up down, but Corwin 





and, in extra time, topple the Irish for the Brown figures out how to stop the option 
second straight year. and the Irish escape from Baltimore with a
experts 
win -and bowl eligibility. 
FINAL SCORE: Navy 33 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28 Notre Dame 30 (OT) Navy 13 
Friday, November 14, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Midshipmen
HEAD Navy 
Record: 6-3 
Navy Midshipmen 

Navy's option offense always fhrows Notre Dame for a loop. The Mids rank second in the nation in rushing yards per game. Bryant has more rushes than Kaipo and can also effectively run the option offense.  
Notre Dame had trouble stopping BC's Monte! Harris, and could not shut down Javon Ringer and LeSean McCoy. Navy's multiple threats in the baekfield will make life dif­ficult for the Irish defense.  


Surely, the Irish can't lose to Navy, right? Well, that's what everyone was saying last year and look what hap­pened. But for as much as last week's offensive perform­ance resembled last year's team, this isn't last year's team and the Irish 
will do what they're supposed to do this 
week and beat Navy soundly. 
ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
Notre Dame's special tean1s flopped against BC. A fumbled punt return, blocked punt and penal­ties during returns linllted Notre Dame's special teams success. 
Navy nets 34.9 yards per punt. It ranks No. 20 in punt return yardage but No. 111 in kick return yardage. Matt Harmon has made 14 of 16 field goals and hasn't missed inside 30 yards. 
Navy 2008 Schedule 
Aug. 30 Sept..5 Sept. 13 Sept. 20 Sept. 27 Oct. 4 Oct. 18 Oct. 25 Nov.1 Nov.15 Nov. 25 Dec. 6 
TOWSON-W atBSU-L atDUKE-L RUTGERS-W atWF-W atAFA-W 
PITI-L SMU-W 
TEMPLE-W NOTRE DAME atNIU 
ARMY 
INTANGIBLES 
The Irish need to win this garhe to become bowl-eligi­ble and break out of the funk they've fallen into. With Weis calling the plays, the offense may find its old ways.  
The Midshipmen have a one-game streak going, and will want to keep it alive in front of their hometown fans. Also, Niumatalolo wants to prove his abilities as head coach by beating a rival.  

z 
0 
-1 
::a 
m 
c 
> 
3: 
m 


With Weis calling the shots this time in Baltimore the Irish offense won't lay anoth­er goose egg. But a grind-it-out Navy team will slow down the pace of the game and keep this one relatively low scoring. The defense will play tough, but will probably wear down as 

the game goes on. Weis and the Irish realize their backs are against the rope:; this week and they will be able to save face and start a new streak against the Midshipmen. ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 23 
AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Ken Niumatalolo First season at Navy career record: 6-4 against Notre Dame: 

Ken Niumatalolo
0-0 
head coach 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  HI  Wt.  YR  
SvC...ina; BlakeCartt'T  QB CB  5-11  2111 IllS  >1<,.  
JarodBryant  QBISB  5-10  liN  5R  
RickrKyles  s  b-1  I"'  fR  
Kfis,;f'roctur  QB  b-l  175  fR  
J~lwujt  s  b-1  IR~  /R  
RickvDob~ Da\•dDiiWMltl  QB Cll  ~·..,  I",.  "' /R  
Brian BUd  QB  5-10  "'"  FR  
Corl'yjuhn!Kln  OUI  ~'  2llS  SR  
JarrenBmwn  5B  !HI  175  " 
JoeDavi.<> )Ol'Buckl<'y  CB KIP  "''..,  Ill<> 170  so so  
}ame!>Hnwrll  s  "'  m•  so  
Kamt!'l'on Smtih  QB  ~I  I"  m  
10  ~yau Middl<~lUn DariusTPm Bruct' Andrew~ Jamxl Shanoon  s CB WR s  :>-7.,..  "'1611 I&• 197  so,. Fl< FR  
10  Kaipo-Ntld Kahealm-blhada  QB  5-11  1'15  5R  
11 13 13  KetricBuffin HalHWltPr jOI'Taylor  CB OLB QB  5-7.., 5-11  168 220.,  SR fR SR  
"  GrcgZII'I~l11r  QB  6-0  1'12  JR  
15 IS  Jnhn0'1i1rlt"i\o\1litl' KrA•inEdwdrd!<  K/1' CB  '"'6-1  I"' 173  so so  
16  farl'dSmt•arttull'  I"  b-1  187  SR  
'"  JoeyTa}•lur  5  fHI  192  SR  
17  lelfDeliz  s  5-11  210  SR  
17 "  Mich.leiStukel RashawnKing  QB CB  ;...11..  195 1&1  FR SR  
"  Hal Bowron  WR  b-1  "''  ll<  
"  )asonWnght  OLB  6-1  I"'  so  
"  Matt Hannon  K  5-10  185  SR  
"'  And~llynl  SB  5-1  \57  so  
" "  ChmH1ll Casey NIChol~  SB LB  5-10..  207 202  fR SR  
22 22  John McCaull'y )ohnAngeltl  FB DB  6-0...,  225 17&  FR so  
23  David Wright  CB  6-2  1115  fR  
23 24 25 25 2& 2& 28 "' ,. 29 31  Cory Finnerty Coreyfamt>S fuliw;Bratton Emmett Merchant Bryant Alsup ShW1Whttl' MaJCB!ue Greg jones Nei!Doogan G~Siuni!So Jeny Ha~burgt•r  so SB SB s s SB LB WR OLB SB LB  5-10........ 5-10.. '""..,. b-3,.,..  190 168 ""'186 IBS IOJ ,. 181 21B IBS 21B  JR fR so so fR SR fR so FR SR so  
31  Chris Riven.  SB  5-7  155  FR  
32  Kevin Snyder  s  5-11  182  SR  
" 33  BobbyDoyll' Caleb King  SB LB  5-ll...,  195 220  /R FR  
34 34  Cooper Shockley Ram Vela  SB OLB  5-11...  ISO 193  FR )R  
3S "  Kyle!Riahookl' '"'"'"""'  KIP OLB  ~I...  202 198  so so  
36 36  Eric Stein EricKettani  LB FB  6-1 ~1  1m,.,  Fl< SR  
37 3B  Kwesi Mitchell I<evinCarnpbt!ll  CB FB  5-10..,  191 ""  fR jR  
"'  AlPKTl'ich  FB  6{1  "''  fR  
39 411.,  MikeSween~y Ian Meredith JackH~tcher  OLD OLB FB  ~3 !>-3..,  225 219 19.1  so )R,.  
41 41 42 " 43...... " 45 46  ).J.Cosh Scott Reider Mason Graharu Aaron Santiago JerTVFeehery 0int5oviP KyrionNt>l!KII1 Jon Tpague Elliottjoses Brian Smith Andrew Sharp  SB LS OLB SB LS LB FB KIP OLB OLB LB  5-9 ""........, ~3 !>-1..,..  181 22& 190 175 195 210 215 1., 22JJ 215 lAS  so SR FR FR SR )R FR fR,. JR fR  
"'.,  VinceMuiTily Jon Hill  FB LE  &-I 6-1  217 21B  so fR  
47  Marcus Curry  SB  5-11  207  fR  
" "49 "  Glen Woods RichardMa11!hall IRivinOigg:~ CraigSchefer  '~ DE FB OLB  5-11.....,..,  1I1 228 2110 222  JR )R FR,.  
50 50  TonyH<Iberer Mike McCarthy  LB c  6-1..,  225 2&11  )R fR  
Sl 51  """"'"""" Ross Pospisil  OT LB  6-1..,  2.1 223  fR /R  
52 52 53 53 54  Alex Boddiford Jordan Eddington OaytonLydick Andy Lark GarrettSnoeyt.'llbo<l  OT LB DE OG OL  ~5.., ....., ...  ""' 230 '"'28'1 215  fR /R so /R FR  
54  Tyler Simmon~  LB  &-3  230  so  
55 55 56 51 57  Travis Sudderth Brady Dt•Mell DonnieBowl'rr. Aaron McCauley Zach Dryden  OLB OG ar OLB OG  6-2 b-3....,....  224 295 237 I•• 275  so fR so FR fR  
58 58 59 59 "'61  TrevGrissom WafrenFischer MattNechak TorriPreston AustinMtlke jeffBalllpaglla  OLB OT DE c OT OT  b-3 b-5......,.,...  219,._, 249 231 265 ""  so fR,. fR JR so  
&2  Patrick Snow  c  6-1  2'11  so  
&3  DavidH01tg  OG  b-3  290  FR  
"  jabarceTuanl  DE  ~1  242  FR  
64 &5 65 ""67  Michael lien Bargl!n Mikel.etton SanderC05Sard CurtisBa!IS AndR"V>·Burger  OG DE OT OG OT  !>-5...... 6-1 !>-3  270 242 272... 2fo2  SR fR SR )R,.  
6B "' "'70  RickvMool'l' Jotd~SI:ephl'ns TaylorNI.'Wton Eric Douglass  c NG OG NG  6-4....., 6-2  295 263 286,.,  SR /R fR fR  
70 71  Matt Molloy Shane Bothe[  ar NG  6-3..,  2M 239  so so  
72  AnthonyGa.Uins  OG  b-l  284  5R  
72 73  jan>ciMark!. Chad Peterson  NG LS  6-S ...  280 2611  fR SR  
73  john Cabbage  DL  !>-2  240  fR  
"  Taylor Hamilttm  DE  6-3  207  so  
75  Andrew McGinn  OT  !>-1  255  SR  
75  RvanBasford  DE  !>-5  265  fR  
76,.  ~yardRobt.'rts David Sumrall  DE OT  b-2...  237 2b5  /R FR  
77  '"'"""'  OG  276  )R  
77 7B,.  francis Archibald )olmDowd OseiAsante  DE OT c  b-2.. 6-1  255 240 264  fR fR /R  
79  Thomas Batchelder  DE  b-2  225  fR  
BO 81 "B3 84  Mike Schupp NickHender.IOn Doug Furman GaryMyer.o T.J.Thiel  WR WR WR WR WR  5-10....,..,..,  lBO 212,..,.. 192  so )R fR FR SR  
BS B6 87 88..  Mario Washingtoo Curtis Sharp MikeMath<'WS )ames Dryden TynoeBarnt>S  WR WR WR WR WR  5-9....,.., b-2  184 247,.. 204,.,.  so SR /R JR SR  
90  Billy Yarborough  DE  6-S  234  so  
91 "92  Ryan Griffith Austin Hill Maurire CumbPrland  NG LS DE  ~2..,...  252 I~'...  SR fR so  
93 93  Brian Ackerman Chase Burge  LS NG  5-11..  I!<I 250  fR so  
94.,. 95  Lei> Calloway Will Searle fohnMaddoJC  DE J.S NG  5-11 &4...  755 242 253  so SR SR  
%  AleKHome  LB  '""  221  SR  
97.,  Kyle Bookhout ArttePauls  DE DE  b-2 6-1  247 250  JR SR  
9'1  Nate frazier  NG  6-3  281  JR  

Irish experts 
Navy 24 Navy14 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 14, 2008 
Crunching the numbers 
2008 SEASON AVERAGES PER GAME 
ND points scored points scored 


Dan Wenger said you were the fimniest guy on the l£W11, is tJur1 true? 
I think there are a couple diffenmt people who eould probably fall into that category. I'm probably up there with them. It's good to have lim with your IP.am in the locker room. 
lthats yourjarorile place on cmnpus? 
I like Decio. There was the bench in front of DeBartolo. They took that, so it's Dedo now. And I jm;t went to Greenfield<> a couple days ago, and that's really good I think J'll become a fan of that. Go from DeBartolo to Declo right befbro practim or meetings, get yourself a sandwich or a panini. 
lthats your pregame ritual? 
I like to listen to music. I go through the different playlists. I got playlli,is on my blackberry. My mom sends me Bible scriptures, so I read those. I listen to some Gospel songs. 
lthats yourj(JJ)()riJ,e thing to do outside of Joothall? 
I like to bowl, but I haven't had a chanm to do that this semester. Mostlyjust chilling out and sitting amund wi1h my boys. I'm always with Toryan and George, and Brian Smith, Armando. Whoever's amund We just chill out and play around just kind of shoot around. It's kind of cool to have fun with your boys. 
ND points allowed 
Navy points allowed 
ND rush yards Navy rush yards 
N D rushing allowed Navy rushing allowed 
ND pass yards Navy pass yards 
ND passing allowed Navy passing allowed 


J1lhidz bowling alley is yourjm1fJrite? 
Strikes and Spares, right across from Stnak n Shake. Go over them and get a Frisco Molt from Steak n Shake, that's the meal of choien these days. 
How [JOOd are you at bowling? 
I'm decent. I probably could beat you. 
lthats your werage? 
I'm up in the 22(}230 range. 
Are you the best on the team? 
They say Darius Fleming. Heming goes out of the country to go ~Jwl. I don't know what that's all arout. I'll have to go get with him one day. 
What's your favorite 1V show right now? 
Will and Grac,e. I go and we watch 1V all the time. Toryan and George always have on sports, and I can't stand wd.tching sports whnn I!,tet home. I like watching regular sitc,orns, Seinfbld, Will and Grac-e, Scrubs. Ilike all normal sitcom shows. They hate when I do that but they'll have to deal with it 
lthats your all-timej(JJ)()riJ,e rrwuie? 
Serendipity. It's like a chick flick but it's pretty good. Coach Weis lets us rent movies sometimes when we go to hotels, and it's been a chick flick four of the last five weeks. 
WITH 15' SCREEN 
SEATING FOR OVER 500 • PRIVATE DINING OUTDOOR
• 
LARGEST :MARTINI BAR IN THE AREA 
SEATING • BANQUETS • CATERING 
your mood.. Chef Tony~ ~li favqiit:es. 
·01&····· 
Home of the Official Notre Daxne Football Radio show. Hosted by J~!Pk Nolan an4 Reggie ~lf9Pks each Monday at 7:00pm . . 'i::hrough. November 24-WSBT 960 AM. 
Friday, November14, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Thrust into starting role, Rudolph thriving 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
This year's Notre Dame team is characterized by its talented and promising youth. Nowhere is that more true than at the tight end position. 
True freshman Kyle Rudolph has stepped up for the Irish by making a big contribution to the oll"ense as essentially the team's only tight end. 
Rudolph jumped into the lead role right out of the gates when projected starter Mike Ragone announced he would be getting season-ending surgery in late August. Ragone partially tore his ACL running routes during the summer and decided he wouldn't be able to play on it all year. Rudolph immediately jumped to the top of the depth chart. 
"That played a big role in adjusting to the game a lot soon­er," Rudolph said. "You are going against, especially late in camp, the [first team defense] all the time. Those are the kind of guys you are going to be see­ing on Saturdays." 
A few weeks later, Notre Dame lost its only other tight end when Will Yeatman was suspended for the remainder of the season. Rudolph said he didn't mind not having a veteran shoulder to lean on. 
"[Tight ends] coach [Bernie] Parmalee is there, he takes care of me if I have questions. When we're in the film room the older guys are still there helping me and critiquing me with tech­nique. They're still around even if they're not on the practice field," he said. 
Rudolph jumped right into the action as the only freshman in the starting line-up, picking up a five-yard catch against San Diego State in the season open­er. 
Since then, Rudolph has con­tinued to consistently contribute with 20 catches and two touch­downs through his first nine col­legiate games. His first trip to the end zone came week four against Purdue in the third quarter. He followed that up with another one the following week against Stanford. 
"I wouldn't say that I'm sur­prised, it's more excitement. I'm glad that I could do something and contribute to the team. That was my goal coming in," Rudolph said. 
The Irish have gotten some major contributions from their underclassmen in the passing game so far this season. Five of the team's top six receivers are freshmen and sophomore -. senior David Grimes is the only veteran in the group. Rudolph is currently one catch behind Grimes for fifth overall. 
Rudolph said the added pres­sure of a pass-heavy offense wasn't intimidating for him or any of his teammates -they embraced it. 
"For us being a receiving corps, when we throw the ball a lot that's exciting. But being a tight end, running the ball is great too. You get the best of both worlds," Rudolph said. 
During his days at Elder High School in Cincinnati, where he was named the No. 1 tight end prospect in the country, Rudolph split out to play wide receiver regularly. He said the toughest part of adjusting to the college game was run blocking. 
"Most of the [defensive opposi­tion] are bigger than I am, so for me it's not a real big block. Good technique and good fundamen­tals get the job done," hfl. said. 
In the past few weeks, Rudolph said he felt he was making big strides with his blocking. He no longer has to think about where his head and hands are placed; it is starting to become natural for him. 

Blocking aside, the hardest thing Rudolph has had to adjust to in the past few months has been the heavy workload that comes along with being a col­lege football player. 
"In high school you have prac­tice for a couple hours a day and that's all you have. Then you get here and it's meeting for a cou­ple hours, practice for a few hours, then watching film for a little while and lifting," he said. 
But for the 6-foot-6, 252­pounder, it's all worth it on Saturdays. Rudolph said game days make him feel like he is back in high school. 
"You have everybody at your games and you see everybody after the game. I always go back to the tailgate after the games and hang out with my family for the rest of the night," he said. 
The freshman said he normal­ly draws a pretty big crowd of relatives at each game -usual­ly 15 or more -with both his parents coming from large, sup­portive families. 
"Even if they don't get into the game they'll watch it some­where. My family loves being around up here. They love the atmosphere." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

No secret-Navy will try to run early, often Saturday 
using the same rushing Navy," Kettani said. "We've 
By CHRIS HINE 
attack the Irish will see had some of the top rushers Editor-in-Chief 
Saturday. in the nation the past few "Honestly, that's my most years so we plan on giving 
Navy is going to run the memorable game that I've them a run for their money." football Saturday, and it will played in my entire life," This year Navy has had a run it a lot -the Midshipmen Kettani said. change in don't try to hide that from "It was a great coach, but not anyone. win." "We do the same in style. Paul 
"It's not a secret, we're Kettani was Johnson, Navy's
thing every game. It
going to run the ball," Navy Navy's leading head coach
doesn't matter if
fullback Eric Kettani said. rusher in that from 2002-07, "They know when we get the game, running we're going to play a left for Georgia ball, we're running the ball." for 70 yards on Tech, but Navy
Div. f-AA team or if
Nevertheless, even though 20 carries, and stayed in-house
we're going to play
its opponent always knows this season, for its next hire 
what to prepare for, Navy's he's picked up Notre Dame. We're a Ken 
option-run attack is the sec­673 yards and Niumatalolo,
team that does the 
ond-best running game in the scored two Navy's former 
same things game in 
nation, averaging 308 yards touchdowns. offensive coor­per game. "One of the and game out." dinator. And in nine games this sea­bases for this "That's the son, Navy (6-3) has yet to offense is to good thing. It
Eric Kettani 
score under 20 points in a have a bruising was an in-house
Navy fullback 
game, even its three losses. fullback," Weis change," 
"I think they're so good in said. "And Kettani said. their system and it's so Kettani definitely fits the bill. "So most of the things are the unorthodox, that everyone in He's 6-foot-1, 233 pounds, same. He's a different charac­the country knows what's senior, veteran, runs hard, ter and a different head coming," Irish coach Charlie physical player and really is coach than coach Johnson Weis said. "It's the same the centerpiece for this was, but practices are the thing. Everyone offense, along same, games are the same, knows what's with the quar­nothing really too drastic has coming. But at "It's not a secret, terback." changed." 
the end of the we're going to run Last year's While Kettani said beating game almost quarterback, Notre Dame was the greatest
the ball. They know 
every week, Kaipo-Noa football moment in his life, he doesn't matter when we get the Kaheaku­insisted that Navy doesn't do who they play ball, we're Enhada, has anything extra to get pumped against, usually been plagued up for the Irish.
running the ball." 
they have 300 by injury this "We do the same thing yards rushing. season, but every game. It doesn't matter It's just what Eric Kettani substitutes if we're going to play a Div. I­they do." · Navy fullback Jarod Bryant AA team or if we're going to 
But last year, and Ricky play Notre Dame," Kettani Navy did some-Dobbs haven't said. "We're a team that does thing it hadn't done in 43 missed a beat, and have the same things game in and years -beat Notre Dame. helped keep Navy one of the game out." Navy came into Notre Dame most efficient rushing attacks Stadium and downed the Irish in the nation. Contact Chris Hine at 46-44 in three overtimes "We run the ball, we're chine@nd.edu 
r--------------------------------------------------------------­
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 14, 20082 
"Catholics and Evolution: Old Tensions and New Directions" 
»V" 
~ 
Phillip R. Sloan Professor, Program of Liberal Studies and Graduate Program in History and Philosophy of Science 
11:00 a.m. Saturday, November 1, 2008 
Annen berg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art 
Are Catholics committed to supporting "Intelligent Design" against evolutionary theory? Sloan will examine the history of the response of Church officials to Darwin's theory and summarize the most 
recent reflections in Catholic circles and in the official statements of 
the Vatican. 

Fall 2008 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues of our times. 
~ 09/06-San Diego State "Faith Taking Shape: Early Christianity and the Arts" Thomas F. Noble, Professor and Chairperson, History 
~ 09/13-Michigan 
"Peter Pan as Cultural Icon" Susan C. Ohmer, William T. Carey and Helen Kuhn Carey Associate Professor of Modern Communication, Film, Television, and Theatre 
~ 09/27-Purdue 
"Election 2008: Race, Gender, and Faith" David E. Campbell, John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., Associate Professor, Political Science 
Darren W. Davis, Professor, Political Science Christina K. Wolbrecht, Associate Professor, Political Science 
~ 10/04-Stanford "The Sub-Prime Mortgage Mess and Federal Reserve Policy" Christopher J. Waller, Gilbert F. Schaefer Professor of Economics 
~~ 11/0 !-Pittsburgh "Catholics and Evolution: Old Tensions and New Directions" Phillip R. Sloan, Professor, Program of Liberal Studies 
~ 11/22-Syracuse 
"Before and Beyond Modernism: Icons as Art" Charles E. Barber, Professor and Chairperson, Art, Art History, and Design 
3-1 /2 hours before kickoff in the Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art (unless otherwise noted). For more information, visit http:/ Isaturdayscholar.nd.edu 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 






