
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Panel discusses porn industry 
Professor says videos may progress to more violence, youth exploitation 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Students, professors and rectors presented a wide range of attitudes toward pornography during the "Pornography: Fantasy, Reality and Industry" confer­ence Friday at the Center for Continuing Education in McKenna Hall. 
Hobert Jensen, a journalism professor at the University of Texas, began the conference by allowing attendees to finish the open sentence, "Pornography is .... " Their answers ranged from "expres­sive" and "entertainment" to "seductive" and "dehumaniz­ing." 
Jensen then filled in the blank with his own answer. 
"Pornography is what the end of the world looks like," he said. "When one looks hon­estly at the contemporary p o r n indus try, one sees some dis­turbing images of where this world is heading." 
Jensen said that like any other business, pornography companies have had to contin­ue producing new and inter­esting products. 
In the 1960s and 70s, he said, pornography was gener­ally a male and female partici­pating in vaginal sex. Later, in the 1980s, when this became boring to viewers, anal sex was pervasive in pornographic videos. 


"I asked one [pornography producer] about the rise of anal sex in the 80s," Jensen said. "The producer replied that the majority of women do not seek out anal sex, so when men get angry at their wives, they secretly think to them­selves that they would like to do that. Since they can't, they like to watch it." 
Jensen described this atti­tude toward anal sex as "the sexualizing of male domina­tion and female subordination. [It's] a disturbing mirror for the culture in which we live." 
A desire to expand the pornography market has led pornographers to create 
see PORN/page 4 
DanceFest raises funds for theater scholarship 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Eight Notre Dame dance groups performed for 600 people this weekend in DanceFest, hosted by Welsh Family Hall. 
"Attendance was about what we expected," event coordinator Katie Hatfield said. 
In two nights, Hatfield said, DanceFest raised nearly $2,000 for Southold Dance Theater, one of the premier dance theaters in Indiana. The money will allow students to enroll in Southold who normally would be unable to afford its tuition. 
DanceFest started five years ago under the leader­
ship of Mary Duhon, who has since graduated, Hatfield said. 
When Duhon founded DanceFest, "there was vir­tually no exposure for dance groups on campus," Hatfield said. "She was looking for a way to bring dance to campus." 
Hatfield performed in DanceFest her freshman and sophomore years, then took over as coordinator. Since she assumed leader­ship, she said, "there's been more focus on trying to bring every dance group on campus into one show." 
Hatfield said every stu­dent dance group per­formed except the Porn Squad, because it had to 
see DANCE/page 4 

Six tickets vie to lead student body 
Platforms include Webmail improvements, community relations, DVD rentals, shuttle bus 
By JOSEPH MCMAHON Assistant News Editor 
With platforms ranging from revamping Webmail to provid­ing free DVD rentals to advo­cating implementation of a nuclear power plant on cam­pus, the six tickets running for Notre Dame student body pres­ident and vice president all have different visions for improving student life. 
Maris Braun and George Chamberlain, Bill Ehrlich and Michael Roscitt, Rick llollowood and Alex Tomala, 
Students apply for transfer to Duncan Hall 
New male dorm to house more than 200 students; applications due Thursday 
By ROHAN ANAND 
News Writer 
Nearly 200 students are expected to apply to live in Duncan Hall this August, according to the Office of Hesidence Life and Housing, which will draw 150 winning numbers after the lottery closes Thursday. 
Students selected to live in the new male residence hall, currently under construction just west of McGlinn Hall, will choose from singles, doubles, triples and quads, as well as "super-doubles" with large bay windows for extra space and "super-quads," which contain private bathrooms. 
Duncan Hall, the fifth addition Cooper Howes and Daniel Rimkus, Peter Kelly and John Poelhuis, and Robert Reish and Grant Schmidt will compete in this year's student body elec­tions, the Judicial Council said last week in an e-mail to the student body. 
After a year of leadership under an all-female executive administration, this year's tick­ets include only one female ­current student body vice pres­ident Maris Braun. 
Braun-Chamberlain 
Braun, a junior from Breen­Phillips, is running for student 
to West Quad, will be the only dormitory built at Notre Dame in more than a decade. It will accommodate approximately 234 men. The Office of Hesidence Life and Housing began accepting applications for the lottery, which is open to all class levels, last Monday. 
"There were a couple of glitches when the Web site opened on Monday," Director of Residence Life Jeff Shoup said last week, "but it's been smooth sailing since. We understand that there has been a lot of con­fusion about the lottery process for Duncan, especially for cur­rent freshmen who have not been through the room pick process like upperclassmen." 
see DUNCAN/page 4 


body president with junior George Chamberlain, the Sorin senator. 
Their platform includes a number of initiatives focused on improving the lives of Notre Dame students, including implementing a book delivery service to the dorms, increas­ing the points allotted to a Grab-and-Go meal, improving the Webmail system, and plac­ing a coffee kiosk in the Hesburgh Library. 
"I would define our platform as a student life improvement platform," Braun said. "I think when you look at a student's experience, the stuff that mat­ters the most to them are the stuff that impacts them on a day-to-day basis, and I think that a large part of our plat­form is geared towards that." 
Braun said improving rela­tions with the South Bend com­munity is one of the key tasks of student government. Last fall, she and current student body president Liz Brown dealt with an ordinance proposed by the city to restrict large off­campus gatherings. Braun con­siders improving off-campus 
see ELECTION/page 3 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
NEWS ANALYSIS 
Candidates deterllline platforllls 
Ways to reach students, fund proposals debated 
By KEN FOWLER News Writer 
When it comes time to decide what projects will receive sup­port for funding in his adminis­tration, Cooper Howes has a simple -and egalitarian ­answer:. 
"Our platform is just going to be using a magic 8-ball or drawing names out of a hat," Howes said. 
Howes is running with Daniel Rimkus on one of the six tickets to become the University's next student body president and vice president. 
llis answer to the funding question may be the most straightforward, but it is not the most popular. 
Robert Reish, who is running with vice presidential candidate Grant Schmidt, wants the stu­dent body at large to determine what programs and events receive student activities funds. To do that, Reish is proposing a student census. 
In fact, Reish's platform includes a proclaimed desire to replace the LaFortune arcade, which he says is not used enough to merit Its location in the building. However, he refus­es to promise any changes to 
see PLATFORMS/page 4 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Defining relationships 
Hnlationships. 
llonostly, I think that is one whole 
s1~ntnnen. Tlw word 1~neompassns a 
noun, a verb and an adjective. 
You ean be in a relationship and that 
is the noun. 
You ean not 
Ashley Charnley 
lw a "relation­
ship" person, so 
News Wire 
there is the 
Editor
adjectivn. 
As for tlw 
verb. I suppose it still nneds inventing, 
but I promise inadvertent use isn't 
nnw. 
What does it mean "to relationship'!" 
Well. it must be the aet of boing 
"together." It is to want to be with a 
pmson who you earn !'or and enjoy 
spending time with. 
So why do some pnople lind it so 
hard "to relationship?" 
To attempt that question could take 
decades. As a matter of faet. it already 
has. Men and women have coexisted 
on this plannt for an indeterminable 
numbnr of years, and even aftnr all 
that timn. lovn is eomplntely mysteri­
ous. We ean traVf~l through spaee, 
wield the pownr of tho sun, usn watnr 
to generatn electrieity, hut we cannot 
explain why boy meets girl, girl falls 
for boy. boy falls for girl. they get mar­
rim]. and livn hard limes ever af'tnr. 
Not to bn cynical. I lovn love. 
Anotlwr one of those multi-tasking 
words. llowever. love dons not love us. 
It is impossibln to say why. I mean, it 
is our !wart's goal, our very yearning, 
some bnlinvn it is the rnason for our 
existenen. 
We liv1~ to love. llownver, finding 
that lov1~ diseouragns us from loving to 
live. Somewhat ironie, I think. People 
have prmnatun~ly Pnded their already 
brief' lives as a result of' not finding 
that love. Which is only eounterpro­
duetive hneausn dating is hard mwugh 
without havn thn wholn "dead" obsta­
de standing in your way. 
When~ does that bring us then? Love 
is ... ynah, I don't really know. It 
depends on who you ask. 
Paul McCartney said it was all you nend, so is it food or maybe oxygen? Sweet thought. 
I suppose I can't really come to a condusion. I hate to disappoint, but if I had the answers, I would probably be the only one with them. The best I can say is, we are all going to keep searching. Whether we try intentional­ly to find it or it somehow finds us, it will continue its mysterious presence in our lives. 
I apologize for asking you a question that has no obvious answer. If you must have something, I guess we each lind our own reasons for why we love the way we do. So, I am afraid you each have to answer that question yoursnlf'. 
I know, you're welcome for the extra worries. 
Honestly though, any answer I pass along to you will not sound quite right. This is the type of conelusion you come to in 50, maybe 70 years when you look back and wonder about your life. So, all I wanted to do was pose the question, and hopnl'ully, now you don't have to spend half of your life coming up with it. You can start your journey a little earlier. 
The views expressed in the Inside 
(.'olumn are those of the author and not 
necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO1@saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do. however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE CARTOON CHARACTER OF ALL TIME AND WHY? 







Christina Zhu  Taylor Poulin  Mariana Montes  Katrina Epperson  Erika Hagstrom  Erin Rider  
freshman Walsh  senior Walsh  senior Lyons  sophomore Welsh Family  sophomore Walsh  freshman Lyons  
"Winnie the Pooh. He's ,cute.  "Garfield, because it's so sarcastic. ,  "Rockofrom 'Rocko's Modern Life, ' because I like his friend  "Jimmy Neutron. because I wish he was my lab partner. Jimmy's  "Batman, because I'd want to ride in the Batmobile. "  "Pinky from 'Pinky and the Brain .-because I can  

Heifer. , hot!" 

WU YUE!The Observer 

Junior Christian Galvan performs the song "Only Want to be With You" made famous by Hootie and the Blowfish during Saturday night's production of the Keenan Revue in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 
OFFBEAT 
Police remove 209 cats, 3 dogs from 1 house 
BONHAM, Texas Complaints from neighbors prompted Bonham police to remove 209 cats and three dogs from a home apparent­ly overrun by the animals. The SPCA helped take cus­tody of the animals Friday. 
Oflicials found 40 cats in one bedroom. 
Bonham Police Chief Mike Bankston said the situation apparently got well out of hand for the couple living in the house. 
Owner David Wheeler told WFAA television that they started with just 13 cats, but the animals quickly bred. 
TODAY 
a:: 

Wheeler said it's expensive to spay and neuter so many cats, plus feed them. 
NYC artist uses dead animals in art 
NEW YORK-In front of a shuttered Chinatown store, artist Nate Hill rum­maged through a pile of trash, fishing for the tools of his craft in someone else's garbage. 
"Oh, look, a flounder!" he said; as he dug in one bin wearing blue surgical gloves and drew out a quiv­ering white slip of fish. "Does anyone want some? I think there's more." 
There were no immediate takers among the half dozen or so people who had followed Hill on a drizzly night for a tour of his favorite spots for digging through Chinatown garbage. 
The goal: Find interesting dead animals to make into art. 
The 30-year-old artist has been using animal carcass­es to craft his "animal king­dom," as he refers to it, since 1999. The results are grotesque or sculptural, depending on your point of view. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
LIJ :::1: 
!;: 
LIJ 
3: 
...I 
< 
(.) 


r-fV6V~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~~ 
0 
.... 

LOW 41 LOW 31 LOW 27 LOW 18 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

relate. , 

IN BRIEF 
Professor Dan Gran· will prns­ent on the largest singln-industry strike in US history, whieh occurred in 1934, in the labor documentary and lecture "Uprising of' '34" today at 4:30 
p.m. in Ilesburgh Center Auditorium, Room C-1 00 as part of the Biggins Center Labor Film Series. 
On Tuesday, the wonwn's ten­nis team will take on BYU at 5 
p.m. in the Eek Tennis Pavilion. Admission is free. 
On Tuesday, there will be an alumni panel for Teaeh for· America at 7 p.m. in 100-104 McKenna Hall. 
Ash Wednesday ser·viees will be celebrated in the Basillica of the Sacred I-Ieart at 11 :30 a.m. and 5:15p.m. on Wednesday. 
The "Lest We Forget: Two Years After Katrina & Hita" forum will take plaee Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Student Lounge. The event features an afl'ected stu­dent panel for discussion and ticket giveaways for the upcom­ing World View Film Series show­ing of "Desert Bayou." 
A campus-wide Lenten penance service will be held Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Basillica of the Sacred I leart. 
The deadline for Spring 2008 Intramural entries and fees is Thursday. Entries are due at Holfs SportsHec Center. The badminton doubles fee is $5 and the floor hockey fee $50. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an e11ent to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~-~~ 
~­
s 
~ 

HIGH 31 HIGH 28 LOW 26 LOW 23 
Atlanta 67 I 52 Boston 40 I 32 Chicago 40 I 32 Denver 37 I 19 Houston 77 I 65 Los Angeles 60 I 41 Minneapolis 30 I 25 New York 42 I 39 Philadelphia 44 I 40 Phoenix 57 I 39 Seattle 43 I 38 St. Louis 61 I 50 Tampa 84 I 63 Washington 53 I 46 
A second goal Ehrlich and the pair is its stance on toilet with anyone about any of these five people well." Roscitt have is to turn the paper. ideas, Rimkus replied that "the
Election 
reflecting pool in front of the "They keep telling us ND is administration will cave to our Reish-Schmidt library into an ice skating rink our home," will." Braun and Chamberlain are
continued from page 1 
during the winter, again reason­Hollowood said. not the only experienced ticket. safety one of her top priorities. ing that it would be a successful "At home, even "The main thing I've Kelly-Poelhuis Bob Reish, the junior class pres­
"We need to change students' way of bringing the student the worst brand learned as a part of T h e ident from Sarin, and Grant perceptions on what it means to body together. of TP that you student government is Hollowood­Schmidt, the sophomore class be a good neighbor," she said. The third goal the two have is can buy as a Tomala ticket is president from Knott, are run­
what's feasible and
"The fact that there's not an to continue addressing issues consumer is not the only ning for president and vice ordinance on the books is won­with developing countries. better than what's not feasible. pair attempting president, respectively. derful but it gives us a Jot of "It's not an issue on campus what you've got Student government to make up for Priding themselves on "bridg­room to make progress." that is seriously Jacking," said here. No one's lack of tradi­ing the gap" -their campaign
can't change the way 
Braun said it is important to Roscitt, who just returned from going to com­tional experi­slogan -Reish and Schmidt find the "right student life bal­studying abroad in Uganda. "I plain about bet­Notre Dame is run, but ence with cre­plan to improve on facilitating ance between life on campus think that the University has ter toilet paper." they can make minor ative ideas. communication between "the and going off campus." She has done a lot of good things with Hollowood Junior Peter triangle" of the Notre Dame
changes that will help 
spoken with several local this issue," he said, referring to and Tomala also Kelly, who was administration, student body restaurants about the possibility endeavors like Notre Dame's hope to make the student body. " president of St. and student government. of accepting Domer Dollars and Millennium Village Project. pep rallies more Edward's Hall The two have established a also hopes to improve taxi serv­The pair also wants to estab­relevant for stu­last year, and number of objectives for their
Peter Kelly 
ices to prevent students from lish a campus group addressing dents, refurbish junior Jon term in office. One idea, Reish 
presidential candidate
being cheated by high fares. gay and lesbian students' R o c k n e Poelhuis, who said, would be to grant free 
One of the skills both Braun issues. Memorial Hall, has no student DVD rentals to students, as and Chamberlain stressed was "It's an issue that is kind of and possibly add the Wall Street government experience but was opposed to the previous system their ability to side swept," Journal to the list of publica­a leader within the Band of the in which students could rent deal with the Ehrlich said. "It tions for the College Readership Fighting Irish, are also running them at the Huddle for $4. The 
unexpected. would be cool if Program. for the executive office. new system would include not
"You want a 

Chamberlain the University Kelly and Poelhuis say they only a waived rental fee, but
government that is 

said the ability could give them Howes-Rimkus understand the limits of student also a list online of available to deal with adaptable, that is further recogni­Cooper Howes and Daniel government, and simply hope to movies and a late fee if neces­tion." Rimkus are carrying out what improve student life. sary, Schmidt said. 
unexpected malleable to the 
issues is one of Ehrlich and has become something of a tra­"I've realized Another goal
changing times." 

the integral Roscitt have man­dition: two Zahm freshmen run­what's possible is to establish a parts of any aged their cam­ning for president and vice and what's not "In order to improve Midwest Council successful George Chamberlain paign on their president. possible," Kelly parietal breaking to initiate dia­
The two pride themselves on said. "I think our logue with other
administration. vice presidential own and have prevention, we are 
"I think that's worked to raise having several innovative ideas goals are very universities'
candidate

really what you awareness of for fixing student government, feasible. The going to implement student govern­want from your their candidacy. including using Temple Guards main thing I've Temple Guards from ments to under­student govern-Their posters from the Nickelodeon show learned as a part stand how they
the hit Nickelodeon 
ment," Chamberlain said. "You depict the two riding a tandem "Legends of the Hidden Temple" of student gov­handle common
series, 'Legends ofthe
want a government that is bike and running on treadmills to enforce parietals. ernment is what's college con­adaptable, that is malleable to in Rolfs Sports Recreation "We think that the way pari­feasible and Hidden Temple.'" cerns, such as the changing times. Every year Center, building on their slogan etals are enforced now is not what's not feasi­their relations since I've been here, some issue of having fun. very effective nor is it beneficial ble. [Student gov­with their sur­
Daniel Rimkus
has come up that was almost to any of the parties involved," ernment] can't rounding towns. 
vice presidential 
unforeseeable." Hollowood-Tomala Rimkus said. "In order to change the way Reish and Formerly a senator from Knott sophomores Rick improve parietal breaking pre­Notre Dame is candidate Schmidt say Breen-Phillips, Braun has been Hollowood and Alex Tomala vention we are going to imple­run, but they can they have done involved in student government have decided to attempt a run ment Temple Guards from the make minor research to since her freshman year. for student body president and hit Nickelodeon series 'Legends changes that will help the stu­ensure that their proposals are Chamberlain has also been vice president. Neither has of the Hidden Temple.' dent body." feasible -and their Web site involved; in addition to his posi­much experience with student However, an offender can get The candidates say their top includes lists of administrators tion as Sarin's senator, he has government,although past the temple guards by priority is instituting a shuttle and universities they've con­served on Sophomore Class Hollowood is currently Knott employing a pendant of life, but bus to take students from cam­tacted during their planning. Council and as the Senate Hall spirit com-that must be pus to popular locales. They say Among other departments, the Judicial Council liaison. missioner and achieved during it will help improve student two have contacted Food "Experience speaks a lot larg­Tomala says he a feat of safety as well as provide a Services, the Office of Residence
"We are not going to 

er than anything else does, and helped coordinate strength in the cheaper option to the South Life and Housing, and Notre
be the kind ofleaders

if George and I were elected our bowling witlr presence of Bend taxis. Dame Security/Police. experience would play into how members of South who will say, in the who we shall "Something like that is small, "I am a planner. We're both we approach a lot of the Bend's Logan end, we got 3 2 ofour appoint as the and it's feasible, and it has a planners," Reish said. issues," Braun said. Center, a home new head of lasting impact," Poelhuis said. While Reish and Schmidt have 
35 goals

for disabled indi­ResLife, "That's a basic safety issue, outlined certain goals, they are Ehrlich-Roscitt viduals. accomplished." Olmec." especially when we live in such not focused entirely on a plat­Juniors Bill Ehrlich and Mike Hollowood and Howes says it a cold climate." form, but rather on hearing the 
Hoscitt, both from Stanford Tomala say they will ensure Kelly and Poelhuis have sev­specific voices of students. 
Bob Reish

llall, base their platform on know the issues "only the strong eral other initiatives for improv­Schmidt said he and Reish 
presidential candidate

"taking a different approach to truly important to break parietals. ing student life, including mak­plan to listen to the wishes of student government," Roscitt students and We want to ing SUB movies available dur­the student body through stu­said. hope that age will revoke the ing the week, having multicul­dent censuses once a semester. 
"We plan to spice up the cam­not be a factor. University's ability to give out a tural events that incorporate a The goal, Schmidt said, would paign a little bit," Ehrlich "We just have better issues," Gender Relations degree until number of cultures into one be to see what students want added. "I guess you could call Hollowood said. "We'll let our this is done." event, and increasing student accomplished through student our campaign slogan 'Serious. issues do the talking. They're With neither having any pre­involvement in the South Bend government. Seriously fun."' actually doable. They're reason­vious experience in student gov­community. "We are not going to be the 
The pair has outlined four ini­able. There are a couple that ernment, the candidates hope The pair also hopes to make kind of leaders who will say, in tiatives for its term. The first are obviously long-shots, but their ideas will attract voters. Freshman Orientation a less the end, that we got 32 of our would be to erect tetherball they're obvious." Also in their platform are plans awkward experience by incor­35 goals accomplished," Reish poles on North and South Quad. The team has plans to reform to construct a nuclear power porating more events between said. 
"This kind of thing would be a student government and make plant that will power bullet dorms of the same sex and good way of bringing people it more relevant to students. trains running from Zahm to shifting the focus of certain together," Ehrlich said, lament­"The Senate seems to pass Saint Mary's, to use American activities. Katie Peralta and Claire ing the fact that too often he laws on itself quite a bit more Gladiators to prevent theft in "You should try to get to know Reising contributed to this sees students playing video than actually doing anything the dining halls, and to buy people as well as possible," report. games and watching television with the student body," Club 23 with $700,000 worth of Kelly said. "Instead of trying to during their free time. "Plus, Hollowood said. Flex Points. get to know 50 people in one Contact Joseph McMahon at they're not hard to install." One issue that differentiates When asked if they had talked hour, you should get to know jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

r--------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 4, 2008 
"For instance, if 50 residents rate nights with rising seniors from Sorin Hall, which only and juniors eligible to pick on
Duncan 

has 110 residents, win the lot­Feb. 27 and rising sophomores tery, we will deplete their pop­choosing the next night.
continued from page 1 

ulation by a lot. "We are also We also cannot working on About 158 applications had do things like "Our philosophy all planning some been submitted for the lottery take in 80 sen­along is to have a kind of social as of Thursday, Shoup said, iors because -in the form
ladder system so that

but he expects that number to that means we of a game reach 190 since some appli­will have to fill a you may not have the watch or some­cants put down names of pre­larger-than­best room as a fresh-thing-in ferred roommates who had average fresh­between Feb.
man, but you will 

not yet submitted their own man class in 11 and Feb. 27
have a better room 

applications. Duncan the fol­so prospective The 150 students who win lowing year the longer you stay in Duncan resi­the lottery will be able to once the seniors dents can get
the dorm." 

choose up to three preferred graduate." the chance to roommates; however, each Shoup said the meet each roommate has to fill out his OHLII might Jeff Shoup other," Shoup own application in order for to have to conduct director said. be eligible to 1mter the lottery an additional He noted,
Office of Residence Life 

drawing. screening however, that
and Housing

"This will insure that even if process after it students who 
only one member within the draws the 150 group of four wins a lottery winning num­ticket, all of the roommates bers to insure these imbal­stated on the application will ances do not occur. While he be guaranteed a space in did not specify how that Duncan." Shoup said. "It's a sereening would work, he said mutual all-or-none thing." the process would be "very 
llownver. groups larger than fair." four will not be considered "The only way that we can together. For prevent running example, Shoup into any prob­
"The only way that
said. if eight lems is to fn~shmen were we can prevent attract a very interested in diverse pool of
running into any
Duncan, they applicants from
problems is to attract
would have to all dorms and apply in two a very diverse group grade levels to groups of four. ofapplicants from all make things If only one easier for every­
dorms and grade
group won the body," he said. lottery. then tlw levels to make things Shoup said he 
two groups easier for everybody. " has not yet 
would be forced looked closely at to live sepa­the breakdown 
Jeff Shoup 
rately next of the applica­year. director tions to identify Though ideal­Office of Residence Life if any imbal­ly OHLII would ances are occur­
and Housing
like to ring; right now, announce the OHLII is more results on Friday. the day concerned with providing gen­after the deadline, Shoup said eral information to students that aceounting for any incom­interested in the lottery as plete applieations as well as well as assisting those who other factors might delay the are having difficulties with the announcement until Feb. 11. online system. 
"One thing we have to con­Once the 150 winners have sider is that we cannot issue been determined, the next winning tickets that might stage of the process will be Itake a majority ofl students room selections. Room picks from one hall," Shoup said. will take place on two sepa­receive winning 

lottery tickets are not guaranteed the room type or roommates they requested. As with any regu­lar inter-hall room picks, upperclassmen have first dibs on room selections, and popu­lar choices such as quads or singles may be all taken before underclassmen can choose those options. 
"There may be situations where quads will have to split into doubles or triples," Shoup said. "We have all of this information listed on the FAQ section of the ORLH Web site, so applicants are generally aware of this." 
lie also said that incoming freshmen will not be assigned to any of the super-quads, super-doubles, or singles, in order to stay consistent with dorm tradition on campus. 
"Our philosophy all along is to have a ladder-system so that you may not have the best room as a freshman but you will have a better room the longer you stay in the dorm," Shoup said. 
Students who wish to apply for the lottery to live in Duncan next year have until Thursday to fill out an online application. 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
Porn 
continued from page 1 
vidnos involving more prac­tices often objectionable to women, Jensen said. 
"Where is the industry going, and what could possibly eome al'ter this?" Jensen said. "I have asked this to several pornographers. Some will say, 'I hate to say it, but the only plaee left to go is overt vio­lence.' The other place to go is to continue to sexualize youth." 
After Jensen presented his views. a panel discussion between l'asquerilla West rec­tor Sister Susan Bruno. Corby Hall religious superior Father l'ntcr Jarret. sophomore l'atriek Tighe and senior Stnphanie Brauer addressed pornography on the Notre Dame campus. 

"Dependency on porn has son sitting next to me, talking. been dubbed a psychological There was a sense of being 
addiction, but there is not one group in the counseling cen­ter dedicated to men and women addict­ed to porn," Tighe said. 
In spite of this, Jarret said that students have no had a problem speak­ing with him in the dorms about pornog­raphy. 
"I was sur­
"We all have to get involved in changing this culture, changing this mentality. In the end, we want to reject, resist and end the industry of pornography. " 
Sister Susan Bruno Pasquerilla West rector 
trapped in something they lost control over." 
In order for this addiction to be eradicated, and for the cul­ture of pornog­raphy to change, Bruno said, all people must work toward ending it. 
"We all have to get involved in changing this culture, chang­
prised and edified by the will­ingness of people to come and knock on my door and talk about their issue," Jarret said. "I found these conversations revealing, honest, and had a great appreciation for the per­

ing this mentality," she said. "In the end, we want to reject, resist and end the industry of pornography." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
Dance 
continued from page 1 
perform at the men's bas­ketball game against DePaul. The groups includ­ed Troop NO -a hip-hop dance group -and Project Fresh, a hip-hop and break­dancing group, as well as the Irish Dance Team, the Ballroom Dance Club, Swing Club, First Class Steppers, Dance Company of Notre Dame and Ballet Folklorico. 
The DanceFest committee members participated in many of the dances and put together a few of the num­bers themselves. 
"There were between 120 
Platfor01s 
continued from page 1 
the arcade as part of a 1\eish administration. 
"That's just my opinion," Heish said. "But if no one else cares about the LaFortune arcade, then maybe we should invest our time in it." 
One thing he will promise, however. is the creation of free DVD rentals. He said student government owns the DVDs that the Huddle Mart used to distribute. He plans on having the on-duty secre­

and 130 performers, so it got a little crazy back­stage," Hatfield said. 
Southold Dance Theater students participated in several numbers as well. 
"This is the first year Southold was in it," Ilatfield said. "We hope to bring in more groups from outside campus in the future." 
Since Hatfield is graduat­ing this year, she will pass the leadership of DanceFest to freshmen Kaitlyn Maloney and Sarah Grothaus. 
"We want to keep making DanceFest bigger and bet~ ter eaeh year," Hatfield said. 
Contact Theresa Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
He argued that people fill­ing out polls say they will use more things than is true. 
"I would say the thing of sending out a survey doesn't get it done," he said. "No one gives a Ihoot] when they're filling out the survey." 
The most costly platform goal for both the Braun and Heish campaigns is student legal services. Braun said that even if' an administra­tion could convince loeal alumni lawyers to offer advice -not representation -at a signifieantly discount­ed cost, she would probably still suggest a small fee for each consul­tation, in 
tary take order to mini­
"We had no shortage
charge of the mize costs. 
rentals in stu­offeedback. We were Even with a 
dent govern­constantly connected nominal fee, a ment's second­subsidized
with the student
r I o o r plan would LaFortune body." benefit those offices. students who "There's no need the legal
Maris Braun 
funding at all," help and sim­
student body vice 
He ish said, ply be an
president
"which is added cost to
, 
great." 
Maris Braun, the current student body vice president, argued that a cen­sus or survey is not always feasible, especially when a program incurs unexpected costs. Furthermore, she said, many students are busy and fail to complete or submit incomplete online surveys. Braun said the current administration, led by stu­dent body president Liz Brown, hasn't needed such surveys. 
"We had no shortage of feedback," Braun said. "We were constantly connected to the student body." 
Braun, who is running with vice presidential candidate George Chamberlain, said her administration would first ask how a program affects the "quality of student life" to determine whether it deserves funded. 
William Ehrlich, who is running with vice presiden­tial candidate Michael Roscitt, agreed with Braun. 
"I think the best thing is to talk to people when you're walking around on your own time," he said, " ... from dif­ferent rounds, too." 
those who do 
·not. 

Rick llollowood, who is running with vice presiden­tial candidate Alex Tomala, said such disparities are inevitable. 
"A lot of things do benefit one group, and in a lot of senses you can't really avoid that," he said. " ... You try to just hope that it evens out." 
Still, Howes wants the hat lottery to decide what proj­ects and events receive stu­dent activities funding. And he wants to open up funding to each student's desires ­that is, that every student could submit a proposal for student activities money. 
"There's that whole busi­ness with the stuff that's ille­gal, but other than that, I don't think we'd be prevent­ing anyone from submitting," he said. 
The only mandate is that the winners must be chosen from a top hat. 
"But, you know those pro­peller beanies?" he said. "Those would be good, too." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 



ORLD & NATION 
Monday, February 4, 2008 CoMPILED FR01\-t THE OBSERVER'S wmr SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Earthquakes strike Rwanda, Congo 
KIGALI, Rwanda -Two earthquakes struck hours apart Sunday in Rwanda and neighboring Congo, killing at least 39 peo­ple including some who were in a church that collapsed, officials said. 
Nearly 400 people were injured. 

A magnitude-6.0 quake struck Congo early, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. The second quake, which registered 5.0, hit a few hours later near the coun­tries' border in Rwanda's rural Rusizi District. 
"I was at home when the earthquake hit and the next thing I heard, was the house falling down," said Florence Nyiranzoga, who was airlifted to the Rwandan capital, Kigali, for treatment of her injuries. 
Egypt restores tight Gaza blockade 
RAFAH. Gaza Strip -Egyptian police sealed Gaza's border with huge metal spikes and ship­ping containers Sunday, restoring a tight block­ade after a breach that allowed hundreds of thousands of Palestinians to cross freely for 12 days. 
Gaza's Hamas rulers are demanding new bor­der arrangements that would give it a say in administration. But that looks doubtful with the intnrnational community opposed to any role for the Islamic militant group in running the cross­ing. 
Gaza residents settled back into their dreary closure routine after joyous days of freedom and shopping that flooded the territory with sheep, smoked herring and fuel from Egypt. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Telescope arms race takes off 
WASHINGTON -A telescope arms race is taking shape around the world. Astronomers are drawing up plans for the biggest, most powerful instruments ever constructed, capa­ble of peering far deeper into the universe ­and further back in time -than ever before. 
The building boom, which is expected to play out over the next decade and cost billions of dollars, is being driven by technological advances that afford unprecedented clarity and magnification. Some scientists say it will be much like switching from regular TV to high-definition. 
In fact, the super-sized telescopes will yield even finer pictures than the Hubble Space Telescope, which was put in orbit in 1990 and was long considered superior because its view was freed from the distorting effects of Earth's atmosphere. But now. land-based telescopes can correct for such distortion. 
Cajuns celebrate last 'bon temps' 
ST. MARTINVILLE, La. -Far from the Carnival balls, parades and raucous crowds of New Orleans, Cajuns in St. Martinville held their last "bon temps" before Lent in a far different fashion: with a grand boucherie, or slaughtering of a pig. 
Ilundreds of people watched at least part of the ritual Saturday, though most have seen it before. The pig's skin was being shaved for cracklins, a Cajun snack, while the carcass was being pre­parod for transport to a butcher shop. 
"The boucherie is so important to our culture," said Denisn Leger, 34, a Cajun Catholic from New Iberia who helped her uncle butcher the pig. "A lot of people give up their f1;1vorite foods, like boudin, as a penance during Lent." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Teen pleads guilty to neglect of infant 
LAFAYETTE -A teenager has pleaded guilty to felony neglect for causing injuries that left his infant daughter with severe head injuries that will likely last a lifetime. 
Gerald T. Schofield, 19, entered his plea in Tippecanoe Circuit Court in exchange for prosecutors dropping charges of felony bat­tery and aggravated battery. 
If a judge accepts his plea, he faces up to 10 years in prison when sentenced March 28. 
The girl was injured on the morning of Snpt. 19, 2007. 
Schofield admitted in court Friday that he roughly grabbed Emma out of an infant swing. 
SERBIA 

Pro-Western Tadic-wins election 
New president defeats Milosevic ally with 51 percent ofvote, sees 'great democratic potential' 
Associated Press 
BELGRADE -Serbia's pro-Western president nar­rowly defeated an ally of late autocrat Slobodan Milosevic in a closely con­tested election Sunday only days before an expected declaration of independence by the breakaway Kosovo province. 
President Boris Tactic won 51 percent of the vote, while Tomislav Nikolic, who ruled with Milosevic during the wars in the Balkans in the 1990s, had 4 7 percent, according to the state elec­toral commission. 
·~serbia has shown its great democratic potential," Tactic said in his victory speech, praising Nikolic for "the number of votes he has won." 
Nikolic congratulated Tadic but added, "I will remain to be his tough opposition." 
Tactic's supporters cele­brated in downtown Belgrade, waving Serbian, EU and Democratic Party flags and honking car horns. 

The outcome indicated that a majority of Serbians want the country to stay on its path of pro-Western reform and closer ties with the European Union, instead of heading back to the nationalism and isola-down against Kosovo sepa­armed intervention to pro­cried Marko Stipcevic, 51, a tion that characterized the ratists. tect minority Serbs in the clerk. Milosevic era. Kosovo's Albanian leaders province and imposing a Serbia's presidency is for­
Nikolic's defeat will also said they would declare complete economic and mally a ceremonial post, likely alleviate fears in the independence days after the travel blockade for Kosovo though it gained in impor­West that Serbia would Serbian runoff, no matter Albanians. tance and influence under react violently to the expect-who wins, and they expect The election war marked Milosevic 's virtually unri­ed declaration of independ-the U.S. and most EU coun­by high turnout-67 per­valed rule in the 1990s. ence later this month by the tries to follow up with quick cent an hour before polls Serbia's president names Kosovo province, dominated recognition. closed, and voters in the commander of Serbia's by pro-independence ethnic While pledging never to Belgrade said the balloting army -a post that gains in Albanians. . .. recognize Kosovo independ-was crucial. importance before likely 
Both Tadic and Nikolic ence, Tadic has said there is "We have just recovered a Kosovo independence. oppose Kosovo's independ-"no alternative" to EU little, we must not stop A victory for Nikolic ­ence, but Tadic has ruled membership for Serbia and now," says Dusan Andjic, a whose party boss Vojislav out the use of force and will that it is "the only way for­40-year-old lawyer who Seselj is now on trial for likely seek to preserve close ward" for the nation. voted for Tactic. "This is alleged war crimes at the ties with the EU and the Nikolic has insisted that really a matter of life and U.N. tribunal for the former United States even if they Serbia must abandon its EU death." Yugoslavia -would have recognize Kosovo statehood. membership bid if the bloc Voters for Nikolic said the dashed Western hopes that 
The province has been upholds Kosovo's independ­moment was historic, claim­Serbia will arrest two run by the United Nations ence and should turn to its ing the pro-Western Serbian Bosnian Serb war crimes and NATO since the 1998-ally Russia instead. leaders were going to sell fugitives, Gen. Ratko Mladic 99 war, when NATO During the election cam­out the country. and his wartime political bombed Serbia for 78 days paign, Nikolic had advocat­"If we don't stop them, leader Radovan Karadzic, to stop his brutal crack-eel measures including they will give away Kosovo," any time soon. 
Museum_ seeks to store m_em_orial banner 
after the crew mistakenly took off on to read it. Those people are express­
Associated Press a runway that was too short, there ing their thoughts about our loss." was an immediate need for both Since the crash, the combination of LEXINGTON, Ky.-It was the first friends and strangers to express sunshine and wet weather has and may remain the most compelling their condolences. caused some of the ink to bleed visual memorial to the 49 people The makeshift solution was a 20-through the banner material. The killed in a crash at Lexington's air­foot by 5-foot cloth and plastic ban­edges have started to fray. port, but the huge banner bearing ner, which Blue Grass Airport posted "At that point, no one was thinking hundreds of messages of support is at a parking lot near the terminal so about preserving this," said Jack fading and showing signs of wear. people could put their thoughts in Baugh, director of the aviation Now the Aviation Museum of writing. museum. "They were just thinking Kentucky, the current home of the "It is a positive and uplifting thing about this horrible tragedy and the banner commemorating the victims that came out of this," said Anita loved ones who were lost." of the August 2006 crash of Comair Threet, whose husband, Greg, was The museum has been holding dis­5191, is working to preserve the among those killed. "I've viewed it cussion with the Smithsonian muse­original and to produce a life-sized only a few times, but only been able ums in Washington, as well as the replica that can remain on display. to see a handful of signatures. I was Kentucky Historical Society, about On the morning of the crash, when hoping they'd put it in a format storing the banner in inert gas to the airliner went down in a field where I could really take some time prevent further deterioration. 

Professor runs to lead Czechs 
Michigan friends, colleagues 'thrilled' about Svejnar's candidacy 
Associated Press 
ANN AHBOH, Michigan -As tho U.S. presidential race hnats up, a University of Michigan professor is focusing his attention on an nlnction of a different kind. 
Jan Svnjnar. who has spent ynars guiding students in his roln as a public policy and economics professor, says he's rnady to make a real-world impact as the next president of the Cznch Hepublic. 
"Being a president is sort of the utmost public policy one could have," he said. "It kind of naturally dovetails the kind of professional work I do." 
Svnjnar, 55, snrvnd as an economic adviser to former Czech President Vaelav Havel and has Havel's backing, but he faces an uphill battle in the Feb. H election for the Jcugely cnrmnonial post. 
Not only is Svejnar trying to unsnat an incumbent, Vaelav Klaus, he also is battling against uiticism of his U.S. ties, which arnn't viewed as an asset in the race. 
llis friends and colleagues on Miehigan's Ann Arbor cam­pus, howevnr, arc thrilled with Svejnar's candidacy. 
"People think it's cool that a profnssor -somebody that they know -could bn directly involved in running a coun­try," said Nick Powers, an eco­nomics Ph.D. student at Michigan who studied under Svejnar. 
For Svejnar, it all began in Prague, the city of his birth. lin left for tho U.S. in 1970 to study at Cornell University. lie later moved on to Princeton University for graduato work in economics. 
Svojnar was hired as a pro­fessor at Cornnll and in 1981 became a U.S. citizen. 
IIn was forced to rolinquish his Czech citizenship, because he was not permitted at the timn to be a citizen of both countries. But the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 allowed Svejnar to become more engaged in Europe. 
Svejnar and his wife, Katherine Terrell, lived in the Czech Hepublic.in 1992 with their two children and retunwd each summer until the kids got older, Terrell said. 
"Jan himself has been there 
easily one week every six 
weeks since 1990," Terrell 
said. 
Svejnar established an eco­nomic institute in Prague in the 1990s that offers an American-style Ph.D. in eco­nomics. lie also has been a eonsultant to the World Bank and an economic adviser to the Czech government. 
Svejnar had to reject a pro­posal from Havel to be prime minister in 1997 because he was not a Czech citizen. He regained his citizenship in 2001 and says now is the right time to make a run for the presidency. 
"One doesn't get offered the opportunity quite often, natu­rally," Svejnar said in a tele­phone interview with The Associated Press. "The oppor­tunity arose. I thought about it quite a Jot. I talked to my col­leagues, deans at the universi­ty and (the school's) President Mary Sue Coleman and finally decided I would try for it." 
Terrell says she and her husband don't have high expectations for a victory, but view his run as a means to have an impact on the politi­cal process in the Czech Hepublic. 
"Jan entered this knowing that it was a very low possibil­ity that he would win," said Terrell, a University of Michigan business professor. "Jan has been really encour­aged by how people have received his message. If he doesn't win, he's at least opened dialogue about a new way of doing politics there, Jess corrupt, and more open to the European Union." 
The Czech people do not vote for president. Instead, the race will be decided by a secret vote of the bicameral Parliament. 
Of the five major parliamen­

tary parties, Svejnar is sup­ported by the opposition Social Democrats and the Greens, who are part of a three-party governing coali­tion. 
Klaus, 66, is backed by the ruling conservative Civic Democratic Party. Another coalition party, the Christian Democrats, are split over the vote and despite a recommen­dation from the party leader­ship to vote for Klaus, some Christian Democratic lawmak­ers have said they are pre­pared to support Svejnar. 
The last major party -the Communists -have yet to announce their candidate. 
It appears that for Svejnar to win, he will need the sup­port of Communist lawmak­ers, who say they are unhap­py with Svejnar's U.S. citizen­ship. 
Svejnar says he will drop his American citizenship if elect­ed president. 
"I can't imagine that the Czech Hepublic would be Jed by someone who comes here (as iO it was a safari destina­tion," Interior Minister Ivan Langer, one of the deputy heads of the Civic Democratic Party, told the Czech weekly Tyden. "Vaclav Klaus equals for me the Czech Republic while Jan Svejnar is a hunter who arrives here just to do his shooting and have fun." 
Svejnar is on sabbatical from Michigan this year, and his teaching as well as his work as director of the school's International Policy Center have been put on hold. 
Terrell, a Washington, D.C., native, says she would like to live in Prague as first lady and wants to advance an educa­tion agenda. 
As for the couple's children, Terrell says New York invest­ment banker Daniel, 26, and 21-year-old Michigan senior Laura are "very excited at the prospect of their father becoming the next Czech president," but don't plan to move to Europe should Svejnar win the election. 
Boy tnurders sleeping parents and brothers 
Associated Press 
COCKEYSVILLE, Md.-A 15­year-old boy fatally shot his parents and two younger brothers as they slept, then spent more than 12 hours with friends before returning home and calling 911 to report that his father was dead, police said Sunday. 
Police went to their suburban 

Baltimore home and later 
charged Nicholas Waggoner 
Browning after he admitted to 
the slayings, Baltimore County 
Police spokesman Bill Toohey 
said. 
Browning was charged as an adult with four counts of first­degree murder in the slayings of his father, John Browning, 45; his mother Tamara, 44; and his brothers Gregory, 13, and Benjamin, 11. 
The teen had not been get­ting along with his father, police said. On Friday night, he went into the house after other family members had gone to sleep and shot each of them. His father's handgun had been in the house, police said. 
After the slayings, he threw the handgun into bushes near the house, police said. The gun was recovered, Toohey said. 
When the friends took him back to his house at 5 p.m. Saturday, Browning went into the house and came back out to say that his father was dead. 
Browning called 911, telling the dispatcher that a "45-year­old male was lying on the couch with blood coming out of his nose. He was not breath­ing," according to charging documents. Officers were sent on a "call of a cardiac arrest." 
Police said Browning's father was found in a ground-floor room and his mother and brothers were dead in upstairs bedrooms. There was no sign of a confrontation, Toohey said. 
The tall, gangly sophomore at Dulaney High School in neighboring Timonium was denied bail; a bail review hear­ing was scheduled Monday. He was being held at the Baltimore County Detention 
Center in a special section for juveniles. Toohey said he didn't know if Browning had a lawyer. 
Even if convicted as an adult 
of first-degree murder, 
Browning is too young under 
stato law to face the death 
penalty. 
Two of Browning's elass­mates drove past the family's house Sunday afternoon and wept when they learned from reporters that he was charged in the slayings. 
"It's hard to believe someone 
could do this," Brooke 
Kebaugh, 16, said. 
Liz Lazlawbach, 17, said Browning complained about fighting with his father, but "not about anything violent." 
The grounds of the two-story home were neat and neighbor Mike Thomas said the Brownings would even pick up trash along the street. "These people would do anything in the world for you -just incredible people," Thomas said. 
Neighbors called each other throughout the night to discuss the killings, Thomas said. lie said one of his sons had been in Boy Scouts with one of the Brownings' sons and was dev­astated when he learned of the deaths. 
About 50 people -mostly teenagers -gathered for a candlelight vigil in front of the Browning's house Sunday night. The crowd stood in silence for about ten minutns. Some cried. 
John Thibeault said his son Kyle went to school with Benjamin and they were both "traumatized" by the deaths. He said his family locked their doors Saturday night, fearing a killer was on the loose. 
Thibeault described Nicholas Browning as "just a regular, normal kid." 
John Browning was a part­ner in the law firm of Royston, Mueller, McLean & Heid in Towson, focusing on real estate law and commercial and cor­porate law. 
The partners said Browning was an accomplished lawyer. 
Bowl ads go for $2.7 million 
Dancing lizards, dangerous badgers among this year's commercials 
Patriots' chance to go for a putting a young guy in the driv­
Associated Press 
record unbeaten soason. ers seat next to a sleeping fami­
NHW YOHK-It was an epie Using critters is hardly a now ly of badgers that will gnaw his battle of the creatures Sunday trick in the ads for the big face off if awakened. The can­night in the Super Bowl ads, game, but this year saw some nons firing around him aren't ranging from the cute to the novel and elever uses of ani­the problem, but he would have mnnacing to tlw innxplieably mals. been better off putting his cell 
rhythmic. A band of lizard-like FndEx Corp.'s ad took a decid­phone on vibrate. roptiles cutting thn rug to edly llitcheockian turn when a PepsiCo Inc.'s Sobe Life Water Michael Jackson's "Thriller"? corporate underling nntrusts brand brought out some danc­
I ley, it's the Super Bowl. shipping operations to a huge ing lizards to bop along with 
Much is riding on the ads, squadron of carrier pigeons -Naomi Campbell to Michael which arn the most closely scru­eerily reminiscent of "The Jackson's '80s classic "Thriller," tinizod of tho whole year. as Birds." whose 25th anniversary edition wnll as tho most watched and Whnn a tribe of giant pigeons is coming out later this month. 
tho most nxpnnsive. This year's winds up wreaking havoc by Elsewhere, job-search site :HJ-sneond spots on News accidentally dropping huge CareerBuilder.com was back in Corp.'s Fox network broadeast boxes into traflic and picking up the game -not with the cast of worn fetching as much as $2.7 parked cars and hurling them monkeys it used for several million. Tho prien edges higher through windows, a cool-head­years -but with a jarring yet nearly every year. ed supervisor decides that call­effective ad featuring a bored 
Last ynar the game drew 93 ing FedEx would be a good female office worker whose million viewers, a level that idea. heart literally jumps out of her many believe could be sur­Toyota Motor Corp. took a chest, struts down to the boss's passed this year given tho stab at the critter theme with a ollice and jumps up on the desk strong rnatchup between the clever spot for its Corolla with a little sign saying, "I quit." Nnw York Giants and the New model. boasting of the noise­The lesson: Follow your heart, England Patriots, as well as the blocking ability of the car by literally. 
Marionettes 
Thursday, Februa1y 7 7:30P.M., Little Theatre 

The internationally acclaimed Cashore Marionettes redefine 
the art of puppetry. The 
program, Simple Gifts, is a series 
of touching portrayals and 
poignant scenes from everyday 
life set to stunning music by 
such composers as Vivaldi, 
Strauss, Beethoven, and 
Copland. This performance is 
recommended for adults and 
children age eight and up! 
-----------------. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, February 4, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  12,743.19  +92.83  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,539  73  643  3,905,680,917  
AMEX  2,i$2~28 .;\1'~1.9,§  

NASDAQ 2,413.36 +23.50 NYSE 9;277.58 W;¥151.42 S&P 500 1,395.42 +16.87 NIKKEI (Tokyo) "*' 13~819~7bii!iff~25'~5;4; FTSE 100 (London) 6,029.20 +149.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +1.61 +2.21 139.58 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +1.02 +0.46 45.59 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +1.85 +0.54 29.68 CITIGROUP INC (C) +5.40 +1.52 29.69 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.07 -0.039 3.600 13-WEEK BILL +9.63 +0.180 2.050 30-YEAR BOND -0.83 -0.036 4.318 5-YEAR NOTE -2.87 --0.081 2.745 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.79 88.96 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -14.50 913.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.20 94.35 
Exchange Rates YEN 106.7750 EURO 0.6747 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.1050 
IN BRIEF 
Striking writers end 12-week walkout 
NEW YORK-Striking writers have reached interim contract agreements with four New York-based independent filmmakers, ending their 12-week walkout, the two sides said Sunday in a joint announcement. 
The settlement appeared to be another step toward ending the national work stoppage by the Writers Guild of America that has brought lilm and television production on both coasts to a virtual standstill. 
The announcement did not offer details of the agreements but said they were "similar" to agreements reached earlier between the WGA and 13 other film and TV production companies. 
The latest agreements with the Writers Guild's east and west units enables the four indie producers, GreeneStreet Films, Killer Films, Open City Films and This is that corpo­ration to "resume business immediately," the statement said. 
WGA East president Michael Winship called the pacts "a reaffirmation of their dedication to great writing, bold innovation and good old-fashioned, New York City street smarts" by companies that he said had helped to revi­talize the motion picture industry .. 
Chrysler supplier files for bankruptcy 
AUBUHN HILLS, Mich. -Chrysler LLC scram­bled to maintain its inventory of plastic parts after a supplier filed for bankruptcy protection. 
Plastech Engineered Products Inc. apparently failed to negotiate a bailout package with its customers, The Wall Street Journal reported Friday. 
Dearborn-based Plastech agreed to supply Chrysler through the weekend, spokeswoman Michele Tinson said. 
The bankruptcy filing had not forced Chrysler to shut down any plants, Tinson said. "But it could potentially," she said. "It could impact a number of plants." 
Calls to Plastech headquarters were not answered late Friday. 
Chrysler was Plastech's fourth-largest cus­tomer. The Journal said. The company has 8,000 employees at more than 30 plants in North America. 
Senate to vote on jobless benefits 
Dispute arises over extension of $161 billion in House-passed tax cuts, rebates 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -For a bipartisan majority of sena­tors, providing three months or six months of extra unemployment checks to more than 1 million jobless people is a better way to dig the economy out of a reces­sion than just printing tax rebate checks. 
Some economists agree, and undoubtedly, so do the nearly 1.3 million unem­ployed workers who face losing an average $282 a week in benefits before June. 
But there is strong opposi­tion leading up to a Senate vote in the week ahead on whether to add an extension of jobless benefits to a $161 billion House-passed combi­nation of tax rebates and business tax cuts. 
Consider Deborah El, a 64-year-old diabetic who lives in Pittsburgh. She will exhaust her 26 weeks of regular benefits this month after being laid off from her job as a program coordina­tor at a nonprofit literacy agency. 
El is taking care of her 26­year-old disabled daughter, Orissa, while also looking for a job and trying to find a new place to live. 

"I don't know what I'm going to do. I'm really also is on a generally lecting unemployment for the extra 13-week scared," she said. "I've upward trend. It jumped to checks will be unable to find extended benefits now; more never been like this before. 5 percent in December, the a job in the next six months states could join it if the job I've always been employed, highest since right after the and thus lose that help. market continues to worsen. I've always worked. I went Sept. 11 attacks in 2001, The plan before the 100-"Every economist will tell back to school a few years then dipped to 4.9 percent in mernber Senate will need 60 you that stimulus spending ago and got a master's January. votes to prevail. It would will get into the economy degree, but it doesn't mean Last week, the number of cost $14 billion and extend much quicker than a tax anything." laid off workers filing appli­unemployment payments for rebate," says Sen. Charles 
As the economy has cations for unemployment 13 weeks nationwide to peo­Schumer, D-N.Y. slowed, more people have benefits soared by 69,000 to ple whose 26 weeks of regu­Mark Zandi, chief econo­signed up for jobless bene­375,000. It was the most lar benefits have run out. mist at Moody's Economy, fits. The situation can only new claims in one week People without jobs in estimates that every dollar get worse given the report since October 2005, when states where the unemploy­spent on extending jobless last week that employers Hurricane Katrina and the ment rate has averaged 6.5 benefits will generate $1.64 payrolls by 17,000 in other Gulf Coast storms dis­percent or more for three in new economic activity. January-a job loss not rupted the economy. months could qualify for an Income tax rebates, he said, seen since the tail of the last The National Employment additional 13 weeks of bene­generate $1.26 of economic recession in 2003. Law Project estimates that fits, or 52 weeks altogether. activity for every dollar they 
The unemployment rate 1.28 million people now col-Only Michigan would qualify cost the Treasury. 

Businesses acquire Indiana companies 
Once a company or asset is sold, it tion of about 75 jobs in Indianapolis, as
Associated Press 

frees up money that's often reinvested Simon moved Mills' office operations to 
in the state in other businesses, he Simon headquarters. 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana compa­said. The Allison Transmission deal nies for a fifth straight year were most­"It creates wealth that can be switched out-of-state owners, from ly targets for mergers and acquisitions deployed in very innovative and inter­Detroit-based General Motors to Onex rather than buyers, a newspaper esting ways. That injects new capital and Carlyle. reported. into our economy." Of the 186 mergers and acquisitions 
Of the largest 10 deals announced in But there is a downside when involving Indiana companies last year, the state last year, four involved Indiana companies are taken over and the largest number were industrial. Indiana companies being acquired, ownership and top management go Last year, 41 of the 186 corporate which was true for 65 percent of the out of state, he said. deals in Indiana involved retailers or deals overall, The Indianapolis Star "If they are being downsized, that other companies in the consumer seg­reported Sunday. That was also the can be troublesome," he said. "There's ment. case in 2006, when 67 percent of a perception that if' a firm is locally "As the consumer becomes (finan­announced deals involved Indiana owned, there is more stability to it." cially) pinched ... these companies companies being sold rather than The year's two biggest deals in dollar are in the doldrums and nobody wants making the purchase, the Star report­value were the $5.57 billion sale of to acquire them until everything ed. Allison Transmission in Indianapolis to shakes out," he said. 
Being on the sale side of the ledger Onex Corp., with offices in Toronto and A prime example: The $1.5 billion isn't necessarily bad, economic experts New York, and the Carlyle Group of deal announced last year by say. Washington, D.C., and the $1.64 billion Indianapolis-based Finish Line to buy 
"It tells me Hoosiers are creating, purchase of shopping mall owner Mills rival shoe and hat retailer Genesco managing, running things of value to Corp., by Indianapolis-based Simon now is on hold and in tho courts after others," said Cameron Carter, a vice Property Group and Farallon Capital Finish Line sought to get out of the president at the Indiana Chamber of Management. deal and a judge ruled that it must Commerce. The Simon-Mills deal led to the addi-complete the acquisition. 
IRAQ 
Lavv lets former Baath tnernbersingovemrnent 
Associated l'ress 
BAGHDAD -Iraq's presi­
dency council issued a law 
Sunday that will allow thou­
sands of Saddam Ilussein-era 
officials to return to govern­
nwnt jobs, legislation viewed 
by the Bush administration as 
central to mending deep l'is­
surns between minority Sunni 
Arabs and Kurds and the 
majority Shiites who now 
wield power. 
The measure, which was 
passed by parliament on Jan. 
12, was the first of 18 key 
U.S.-snt benchmarks to 
become law al'ter months of 
bitter debate. But it was 
issund without the siJ.,tnaturn of 
the Sunni vice president, and 
the presidency council cited 
reservations and plans to seek 
changes in the bill, clouding 
hopes it would encourage rnc­
oneiliation. 
The U.S. military, mean­
while, said a soldier had been 
killed Thursday in a rocket­
propelled grenade attack in 
Baghdad, raising to at least 40 
the number of troop deaths 
roportnd in January, nearly 
doubln the 23 recorded in 
Decnmber and thn largest 
monthly toll for the Americans 
since 65 in September. 

A U.S. soldier also died of non-c:ombat causes in Ninevah province in northern Iraq, the mililary said Sunday. At least 3,945 members of the U.S. military have died since the Iraq war started in March 2003, according to an Assoeiated Press count. 
Iraq's Sunni Vice President Tariq al-llashemi objected to provisions in the new law that would pnnsion ofT 7,000 low­lnvnl mombnrs of Saddam Hussein's former sncret police and intelligence agents who still worknd in Iraq's security apparatus. 
Top al-llashomi aides also said he wanted decisions on exceptions to the law to be handled by the presidency council rather than parlia­ment as tho law currently requires. 
Tlw presidm1tial council, which also includes President Jalal Talabani, a Kurd, and Vice President Adol Abdui­Mahdi. a Shiite, issued the law 10 days after receiving it for consideration, as required by Iraq's constitution. 
But tho panel also expressed concern "over some items that would hamper the national reconciliation project," point­ing to the elause that would "lead to the exelusion of mnployens with high qualifica­tions of which Iraqi is in dirn nnnd." 
In an apparent face-saving gesture to al-llashemi, Talabani and Abdul-Mahdi. promisml they would agree to send amendments back to the 275-rnem bnr parliam(mt. 
Thn law is the first of 18 pi1H:ns of benchmark legisla­tion demanded by tho Bush administration to promote rneonei Iiation among Iraq's Sunni and Shiitn Arab commu­ni tins and the large Kurdish minority. 
U.S. oiTieials have pinned great hopns on the measure and its passage by parliamnnt was wnkonwd with fanfarn by 
President Bush as Prime 
Minister Nouri al-Maliki's 
U.S.-backed government has 
been heavily criticized for fail­
ing to take advantage of a 
recent lull in violence to make 
progress on the political front. 
"As security has improved, 
it's good to see the Iraqis 
move forward with political 
reconciliation," said Gordon 
Johndroe, spokesman for the 
White House National Security 
Council. "We expect to see 
more legislative progress in 
the near term." 
Other draft legislation, 
including measures to divvy 
up the country's vast oil 
wealth and amend the consti­
tution and define rules for 
new provincial elections 
remain in limbo. 
The new law will allow thousands of former members of Saddam's ruling Baath party to return to government jobs, and those who have reached retirement age will be able to claim government pen­sions. 
The strict implementation of 
so-called de-Baathification 
rules meant that many senior 
bureaucrats who knew how to 
run ministries, university 
departments and state compa­
nies were fired after the 2003 
U.S.-lod ouster ofSaddam. 
Legislators also stressed the law would protect people in the future from ·atrocities like those committed by Saddam Hussein and to ensure those who were damaged by his Sunni-dominated regime had a means of seeking compensa­tion. 
The law ineluded an expla­nation that it was passed "due to the severe sulrering of the Iraqi people for 35 years dur­ing which they were subjected to the ugliest forms of repres­sion, oppression and depriva­tion at the hands of the most criminal of regimes." 
Many Sunnis in Iraq were skeptical. 
Abu Wisam, 51, a former employee in the Ministry of Higher Education who was sacked in late 2005. com­plained the law continued to emphasize on punishing past regime members found guilty of crimes. 
"This law brings nothing new. It still chases Baathists because of past events. The government should be busy lighting current criminals and corruption instead of s~1ttling old scores with us," said Wisam, who currently owns a computer store in Baghdad's predominantly Sunni neigh­borhood of Amari yah. 
"I am not willing to go back to my work because I fear assassination." he added. "Government institutions are controlled by anti-Baathist people. I do not expect good from a law that was written and will be implemented by anti-Baathists." 
Still, the move was seen as a key stnp in tho rnc.onciliation process. Tho decision to out­law tho Baath party was the first official act of L. Paul Bremer's Coalition Provisional Authority, and along with his order to disband the Iraqi army has be(m widely blamed for setting in motion the Sunni insurgency in the fall of 2003. 
KENYA 

Rebels invade Chad's capital 
Invasion an attempt to oust president; global aid operation endangered 
Associated Press 
NAIHOBI -Hundreds of 
rebels charged into Chad's cap­
ital aboard pickup trucks 
Saturday, clashing with govern­
ment troops around the presi­
dential palace in the most 
forceful attempt yet to oust 
President Idriss Deby. 
The violence endangered a $300 million global aid opera­tion supporting millions of peo­ple in the former French colony and also delayed the deploy­ment of the European Union's peacekeeping mission to both Chad and neighboring Central African Republic. 
Libya's official news agency, JANA, reported that Chadian rebel leader Mahamat Nouri agreed to a cease-fire Saturday night after speaking to Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, who was appointed by the African Union to mediate in the crisis. 
Rebel spokesman Mahamat Hassane Boulmaye said he had not heard of any cease-fire and did not believe Nouri would agree to an unconditional end to hostilities. " The fighters would rebel," Boulmaye told The Associated in an early morning telephone call Sunday. Boulmaye said he was speak­ing from the border with Sudan and had not spoken to Nouri since Saturday afternoon. 
The rebels arrived after a three-day push across the desert from the eastern border with Sudan in about 250 pick­ups with mounted submachine guns. 
The rebels gathered outside 
N'Djamena overnight before 1,000 to 1,500 fighters entered early Saturday and spread through the· city, said Col. Thierry Burkhard, a French 
military spokesman.  
Government  forces  were  
pushing  rebels  away  from  
N'Djamena,  he  said  late  

Saturday. "It appears clear that President Deby succeeded in containing them at his palace and is even in the process of pushing them back," Burkhard said. 
A bomb hit the residence of the Saudi ambassador to Chad, killing the wife and daughter of an embassy staffer taking shel­ter from the fighting, according to a Saudi Foreign Ministry statement. 
Chad's ambassador in Ethiopia, Cherif Mahamat Zene, told The Associated Press "the situation is under control. 
"The head of state is fine in his palace. It's true that there are some rebels who have entered the city, but to say the city has fallen is false." Zene said his information came from a telephone call with the defense minister in N'Djamena. 
Boulmaye, the rebel spokesman, told AP earlier that rebel had surrounded the pres­idential palace and claimed that government soldiers were defecting. 
"Many in the military have rallied with the rebels," said Boulmaye, whose Union of Forces for Democracy and Development is the biggest rebel group. 
Chad, a French colony until 1960, has been convulsed by civil wars and invasions since independence, and the recent discovery of oil has only increased the intensity of the struggle for power in the large­ly desert country about three times the size of California. 
In April 2006, one Chadian rebel group launched a failed assault on N'Djamena. 
The rebel force is believed to be a coalition of three groups, including the biggest led by Nouri, a former diplomat who defected 16 months ago, and a nephew of Deby's, Timan Erdimi. They long have been fighting to overthrow Deby, whom they accuse of corrup­tion. Deby, himself a soldier, has suffered many defections in the past and morale is low in the army. 
The rebels also have said they were unhappy with the president not providing enough support to rebels in Sudan's Darfur region, some of whom are from Debys own tribe, the Zaghawa, who are found in both Chad and Sudan. 
The African Union, holding a summit in Ethiopia, said it would not recognize tho rebels should they seize power. Tanzania's President Jakaya Kikwete, new head of the 52­nation bloc, said leaders had selected Gadhali and Hepublic of Congo President Denis Sassou-Nguesso to try to bro­
ker peace.  
France said it firmly  con­ 
demns the attempt  to  take  
power by force."  

INFORMATION MEETING for JUNIORS and SENIORS interested in applying for a 
RHODES SCHOLARSHIP 
(for t11Jo-threeyears ~fstuqy at C):>ford) 
MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIP 
(for two years ~f stuqy in the United KingdoffJ) 
MITCHELL SCHOLARSHIP 
(for oneyear ~fstuqy in Ireland) 
Tuesday, February 5 5:00pm in 118 DeBartolo 
If you cannot attend but would like information, please contact the Fellowships Office 105 O'Shaughnessy fellows@nd.edu 
Monday, February 4 , 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 


*connectedthinking 
© 2008 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limited liability partnership) or, as the context requires. the PricewaterhouseCoopers global network or other member firms of the network. each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. 'connectedthinking is a trademarik of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (US). We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page I 0 Monday, February 4, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

A modest proposal 
1~0. !lox 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Ken fowler Kyle West 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
Ass·1~ MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWI'OINT EmTOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey 
Chris Hine 
ScENF. EDITOR: T:1e Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PIIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVEIUISING MANAl>l\11: Jessica Cortez 
AD OF.~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(S74) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
PoliCIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Uoiversiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirmion. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief~ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the aurhors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lwers ro the Ediror must be signed and must include contact intormarion. 
QuestiollS regarding Obser11er policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
l11r: {lh'>t'rvrr (liSPS 'i99 .Z.-4000} '' puhh~h..:d Munday through Frido~y ex..:cpt dming l'l<;un .tnd v.Llatiotl ~)<;rit..,L.. ,, mlll>l..riptiun ro "[1w Ob\crvcr i~ $\110 fur ;mo; aud\:tni~; yl·.tr~ $')') fur mtl· ~~:mrlllcr . 
J'hc: <J~rver i~ puhli\ht(l .u POSTMASTER 1124 ."iourh Dintn.~t II.Lll Seml.tddra;~ correction~ to: 
Notre Dame, IN 165'Jfl-0779 "Mt~:Obscrvcr Prriodk~l ~L),'li'J~c p.u,[ .u Notre DJiill!' 1~0. Box n9 and :Jdditl<>ll.!ILIL.Iiling utTi~. (1.2.4 South Dining IJail 
Notre Dam!!, IN 46'1'56·1177~ 
The Ob.~JV1:r lb ~member oJ the Aiwl(:I.J!ed Pre~~, AJJ rcpmduclilln rights !lTC 
rc~c:rV1.'d. 

George W. Bush tells us we need to remedy our addiction to foreign oil. AI Gore tells us that greenhouse gases that we create are contributing to global warming, which will cause catastrophic climatic disasters, Jackie resulting in the 
Mirandola
deaths of billions. 
Mullen

Thomas Malthus warned -as early as Guest 1798 -that expo­Columnist nential population growth would lead to widespread famine and poverty. Jonathan Swift provided a solution to rampant poverty in Ireland in his Modest Proposal of 1729, radically suggesting the Irish eat their babies to prevent them from roaming the streets in destitution. 
No matter where you look, you can find impending crises whose roots trace back to overpopulation, excessive energy usage and dwindling resources. Many hippie-minded environmentalists suggest we put our money into finding alternative energy sources, developing more fuel­ellicient cars, and reducing our consump­tion by sacrificing the lifestyles that we have earned through our persistent work and technological innovation. They then warn us that oil is running out, that coal will not be around forever, that the earth is limited and that one day, the resources we expend will supersede those which the earth provides. 
Instead of listening to this doom-and­gloom nonsense, I propose that we stay the course, that we continue on with the way of life we have cultivated and justly deserve thanks to our unique ability as humans to extensively impact the envi­ronment and ecosystems around us. If we have the ability to shape the earth's out­put.<; to our needs, why waste time pre­serving what "used to be"? Nostalgia for the good old days does not translate to sound survival strategies. 
One of the biggest fear-embedding catch phrases these days is "peak oil" 

and, increasingly, "peak coal." Energy Watch Group, an environmental organi­zation out of Europe, predicted in sum­mer 2007 that the U.S. has only 200 years of coal left -and that China has a mere 37 years of coal reserves if it con­tinues at its current rate of consumption. The Association for the Study of Peak Oil and Gas (A'lPO) predicted as recently as this January that peak oil will occur in 2010. 
If these tragedies are so unavoidable on the horizon, why don't we just let it happen? Just use up the oil and coal until there is literally not a drop or a lump left. Why interfere with inevitability? It's fool­ish to try to fix the plumbing in a house that's already burning down. Why not sit in the living room and have a cup of tea until it's time to build a new house? 
Some who claim to be looking ahead to "the long run" assert that the only way to save the human race is to establish pre­ventative measures to protect the envi­ronment. Well, here's what I have to say. What is one of the biggest causes of the strain on our resources? Overpopulation. What happens when overpopulation abounds and we do not attempt to abate environmental problems? Widespread famine and disease. What is the result of famine and disease? Massive deaths. What do mass deaths and extinctions result in? Lower population levels. See the cycle? 
In order to truly solve all of our envi­ronmental "problems," what we really need to do is let them go. These changes are nature running its course. According to Conservation International, a new species goes extinct every 20 minutes. Who are we to assume power over such a statistic? Why fight what is obviously a trend toward another mass extinction? If almost everything dies off, won't there still be a couple of humans left, domi­neering over the remnants of the earth? They can then repopulate in a sparsely populated -and thus, renewedly resource-rich-world. There won't be 
enough of them to pollute detrimental 
amounts of, well, anything. 
You see, my friends, the answer is all 
too clear. Instead of dreading the 
inescapable, wasting our time and poorly 
equipped resources fi)f an already 
doomed battle, we should eontinue our 
pmsent lifestylPs. Once we use up all the 
oil and gas, we will have to stop the 
majority of our polluting, liJr there simply 
won't be anything left with which to pol­
lute! That sudden drop-oil' of rnsourees 
will render us unable to attain the food 
and clean water we need for survival, 
and humans will begin dying in droves. 
This might seflm sad to us, but is it really 
different than what is currently occurring 
in third world countries? Letting our 
resources run out will actually level the 
playing field in terms of human survival; 
industrialized countries will no longer 
hold an unfair advantage. 
Overpopulation is an indisputablfl prob­lem. The loss of biodiversity, exorbitant amounts of pollution and rapidly chang­ing chemical balancps in the earth's atmosphere are tnstimony to the nega­tives of our more-than-six billion world­wide human population. So why not kill a few birds with one stone? Get rid of the oil and coal, thereby stopping pollution, let disease and famine occur, so that the few survivors are healthy, and the overall population levels are much more man­ageable for our earth. I wouldn't dream of proposing that we eat babies -that's entirely too extreme, and frankly, morbid. Why not just stay the course? 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a sopho­more German and history major. She spends her weekends turning up her heat and driving big cars in a last-ditch effort to save the earth. She can be reached at jmirando@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports 
Liz Ilarter Chris Hine Claire Reising Bill Brink Emma Driscoll Lorenzo Reyes 

"Suffering is the substance oflife
Graphics Jared Jedick "The only people who think children 
and the root ofpersonality, for it is 
Jared Wafer Scene are carefree are the ones who've
only suffering that makes us forgotten their own childhood. " 

Viewpoint Mark Witte persons." Lianna 
Orson Scott CardMiguel de Unamuno

Brauweiler author
Spanish philosopher 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, February 4, 2008 page 11 
The Velveteen Rabbit, or how I became real 
It all started in a desperate attempt to get the kindergartners to be quiet during quiet time. I had tried everything: Calming music, strategic sleeping mat placement, threats leveled against after­noon recess. All to no avail. So on this particular day, I was searching for inspi­Danielle ration. I scoured the Palkert bookshelves and 
Guest 

came across a copy 
Columnist

of The Velveteen Rabbit. "Perfect," I thought, congratulating myself on my cleverness and settling on a tabletop with a clear view of each of my 13 little miscreants to read. Sure enough, I knocked them out in no time -I'm pret­ty sure I was a hypnotist in a past life. 
But, to be honest, I hardly even noticed that they were asleep. I haven't read The Velveteen Rabbit since I was about seven years old; and at the time, I was more fascinated by the idea of my stuffed ani­mals talking than I was by the story itself. But 15 years later, in the midst of my year as a Jesuit Volunteer teaching kindergarten on a Native American reservation in rural Montana, I finally 
get it. The Velveteen Rabbit is my story. 
It is the story of anyone who has ever 
committed a significant amount of time 
to service. It is the story of how we became real, and how you can become real too. 
"Real isn't how you are made, " said the Skin Horse. '7t's a thing that happens to you." 
"Does it hurt?" asked the Rabbit. 
"Sometimes," said the Skin Horse, for he was always truthful. "When you are Real, you don't mind being hurt. " 
My parents were less than thrilled when I told them that, with the cost of a very nice car in undergraduate loans, my grand plan was to spend a year living on an $80 monthly stipend. Even now, I can't really put into words why I did it, . except to say that I had to. When it came right down to it, nothing else made sense. I was being called to service. God knows I tried to avoid it, and with all those loans some would probably say I should have, but I couldn't. And that's why it's worth the pain and the tears and the sometimes seemingly endless frustra­tion. Because it couldn't have been any other way. 
"Does it happen all at once, like being wound up," he asked, "or bit by bit?" 
"It doesn't happen all at once," said the Skin Horse. "You become. It takes a long time. Generally, by the time you are Real, most ofyour hair has been loved off, and your eyes drop out and you get loose in the joints and very shabby. But these things don't matter at all, because once you are Real you can't be ugly, except to people who don't understand." 

Over the past five months, I have been loved to pieces. I have been hugged so hard and so many times that sometimes I think they mistake me for a giant teddy bear. I have had my midsection covered with stickers (they can't reach much higher), and 'I love you, Teacher' whis­pered into my stomach enough times to convince me that the love of a five-year­old could single-handedly bring about world peace. Faced with the reality of a life radically different from the one I led at Notre Dame, I have grown shabby. Preconceived ideas have been loved off, certam worldviews have dropped out, and comfortable moral absolutes have grown loose when forced to go toe-to-toe with certain painful realities. But I really don't care because these have made me Real. 
"I am the nursery magic Fairy," she said. '1 take care ofall the playthings that the children have loved. When they are old and worn out and the children don't need them any more, then I come and take them away with me and turn them into Real." 
"Wasn't I real before?" asked the little Rabbit. "You were Real to the Boy, " the Fairy 
said, "because he loved you. Now you shall be Real to every one. " 
My kindergartners have made me Real. But as the year moves ever more quickly toward May, the question becomes how to be Real without them, how to leave the comfort of this reality and carry its transformative character with me wher­ever I go next. And while I'm not quite sure yet how I'm going to do it -I sus­pect that it will be the love; the transfor­mative, life-giving love I experience every day here that will pull me through it. So for those of you almost-graduates considering service, don't listen to the people who tell you that it's a foolish attempt to stave off the real world. Don't listen to the voice in your head that ticks off the cost of your college loans and how hard it's going to be to explain yourself to people who have "better" plans for you. In the words of the Skin Horse: "Become." But know this: "Once you are Real you can't become unreal again. It lasts for always." 
Danielle Palkert graduated from Notre Dame in 2007 and now serves as a Jesuit Volunteer in Montana. She can be contacted at dpalkert@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are not those ofthe author and not necessar­ily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Check facts 

, ..\ .. ' . \ 
Facts can be a dangerous thing especially when they are wrong. The Observer quoted Joe Russo, director of student financial strategies, as stating that while fmancial aid to students has increased 13 percent over· the past 18 years, tuition has only increased by "about five to six percent." Simply stated, this is not accurate. According to the Notre Dame Magazine (available online) tuition costs were $8,626 in ~987. Tuition costs for the 2007-08 year are $35,190. This is more than a 400 percent increase over the past 20 years, not even close to the five or six percent stated. 
Jon Kennedy junior off campus Feb. 1 

Higher tuition requires more aid 
I have some comments regarding Kate McClelland's article ("ND looks to boost fmancial aid," Feb. 1) regard­ing student financial aid at Notre Dame. First, I applaud the University for finally making this concerted effort to substantially increase student financial aid. As a parent who had three children enrolled at Notre Dame last year, I can attest to the fact that the University is falling way behind our competitors (such as Boston College) when it comes to student financial aid awards. 
I also wanted to point out that the statistics cited in the article are very confusing, and perhaps even more so, misleading. First, the article reads that the University's fmancial aid budget has risen from $55 million to $72 million over the last 18 years, or an increase of 13 per­cent. Isn't that an increase of 31 percent, on a total basis? (It certainly does not equate to 13 percent on an annual basis.) Second, the financial aid officer says that over the same period, Notre Dame's tuition has risen only five to six percent. Isn't that misleading as well, since obviously the tuition increases are on an annual basis, whereas the financial aid award increase cited above was over an 18-year period? Obviously, over the same 18­year period, the Notre Dame tuition has probably risen well over 100 percent, versus the apparent 31 percent increase in financial award money. 
Hopefully these comments help clarify how significant the fmancial aid problem at Notre Dame really is. If we don't get this situation rectified, and rectified soon, we will become a university with little if any economic diver­sity among its student body, and we will lose many highly qualified students to other Catholic universities. 
Jim Blase alumnus . Class of1981 Feb. 1 

UWIRE 
The dreaded Greek cheek kiss 
"Meet my Grandma," my friend said, pointing in the direction of a gray-haired woman firmly planted in her loveseat. 
I hesitated, but upon further coaxing I did as instructed. 
"Hello," I said extending my 
Emily Hemson 

hand out to her, "it's nice to meet you." 
Oregon State 
"You too," she responded. 
University's

I slowly began to feel her grip 
Daily

on my hand increase, then the grip quickly turned to a tug. She Barometer began to pull me closer to her, as though she had a special secret she wanted to share just with me. 
"Give me a kiss," she shouted in my ear. 

I didn't know what to do. First, where did she want me to kiss her? Initially, I assumed the cheek, but this lady really wanted a kiss, perhaps she was hoping for more of the mouth business. Also, I just met her, how was this OK? I was confused. I was scared. I also hap­pened to be surrounded by every person ever to exist in my friend's extended family, so I had to do it. 
I went for the cheek. And, thankfully, she wasn't expecting anything more. I've never been so happy to end an introduction with a person and plan to avoid that person at any future 
family functions I may attend. However, I cannot escape the fear -the fear of introductory kisses. 
Two years ago one of my roommates was Greek. This was real Greek, as in she actually spoke the lan­guage and had a house in Greece. Her grandparents had lived there, and she possessed a strong apprecia­tion for feta cheese. She was the real deal. So whenev­er we would go out in public, she would constantly be running into her Greek-language speaking friends, and I would always be introduced. 
"This is my friend Emily," she would say. 
And then it would happen. The awkward in­between: Are they going to kiss me on the cheek now? Are we going to shake hands? Or perhaps a cordial hug? 
None of this was enough for these Europeans, these people were double kissers. Two cheeks, one sweeping motion that almost always produced one terribly awk­ward American. No matter what I did, I couldn't seem to get used to it. I would think I was prepared, but then I would see them and wonder if maybe this time they wouldn't kiss me. And I thought if that happened, then wouldn't it be odd if I kissed them? I'm not the European one, I'm the non-kisser, and if the non-kiss­er initiates the kissing then isn't that just strange? 
All of this confusion just led to uneasy'head bobbing, and a stressed-out mind. I sought a remedy. I couldn't be European. I was far too comfortable being an awk­ward American with a gigantic personal bubble, and I decided I would no longer apologize for this. 

From that moment on, upon every foreign introduc­tion, I would place my hand in a wave-like position, and state very firmly I was my Greek friend's American friend. Generally, people understood. 
But does this discomfort make me unable to adapt to other cultural norms? Should it be normal for people to kiss each other on the cheek? Are we a culture so self-consumed and so scared of everyone around us that kissing a stranger on the cheek seems uncomfort­able and out of place? If this is true, how are we sup­posed to break out of this box we've placed ourselves in? To be perfectly honest I'm much more comfortable with a kiss on the cheek when I've got a little wine flowing through my bloodstream. Does this mean that I should always be drunk at affairs that involve a kiss on the cheek? 
Or maybe it would be best to altogether avoid Europeans and the grandmothers of friends, as those seem to be the prime culprits in this crime of kissing. 
This column first appeared in the Feb. 1 edition of The Daily Barometer, the daily newspaper at the Oregon State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Monday, February 4, 2008 
Revue shovvs courage 
On Friday morning, as is usual at tlw bnginning of nach of my .lapannsn dassns, our snnsei had us makn small talk about our wnnkmul plans. I askml my Mark Witte rwighhoring dassmatn 
Scene & 
how his 
/Ieard
wnPknnd 
was shaping 
up and bPforn I krww it, lw was 

ofl(ring nw tickds to his dorm's 
twnning show. 
I had not bnnn planning on 

attnnding thn Knnmtn Hnvun, but 
my dassmatn was so adamant in 

giving nw tieknts that I almost 
couldn't rnfusn. As wPII. I had an 
old friend visiting from out of town 
and I ligurnd tlw annual show 
might providn him with a good 

sampling of Notrn Damn cui tum. 
So Iatnr that night wn caught the 

trollny, packnd in with a few ine­
hriatnd studnnts and traversnd 

ovnr to Saint Mary's ()'Laughlin 
Auditorium. 
Tlw show kicknd oil' with a 

spnnch by its "Enlightnned 
Consultant," who also happnned to 
bn my ticknt-providing dassmatn. 

J.J. Cappa. llis speech laid down some humorous ground rules pnr­taining to the show's zombie thmne. The real treat. however, camnwhen zombies appeared on thn sides of the stage, slowly creep­ing toward the prodtu:er. He picked up thn spnnd of his speech in per­fnct stride. linally jamming the play button on sonw zombie-repelling Mkhael Jackson music, causing the zombies to fall into a perfectly choreographed zombi1~ dance. It was only the show's introductory <u:t, but it demonstrated the preci­sion with which the show had b11en carefully rnhearsnd. 
But it was a eouragnous show as wnll. 
Ovnr the course of the next two and half hours, the llfwue pulled numnrous sidesplitting skits out of its bag of tricks. From staining nveryone's childhood memories of "Casper the Friendly Ghost," to poking fun at Notre Dame's ethnic maknup. to calling out the f(JOtball tnam on its disastrous season, the Knighl'i of Keenan showed they wnn~n't afraid to ofl'fmd, or stay in dutractnr. 
Oh, and that whole bit about not bning allowed to use "Saint Mary's" in any of their jokes­wPII. tlwy never said "Saint Mary's" specifically, but what they didn't say madn the jokes that mw:/r funnier. 
For someone who didn't know much about Notre Dame, its eus­toms or its running jokes. my friend lauglwd along the entirn way. As for me. after a wnek of Carnnr Fair stress and little sleep, l.lw Htwun was a wnlcome relinf'. So thank you, "Enlightened Consultant," thank you for tlw tick­ds and for a wnll donn, genuinely nntnrtaining show. And nven though most peopln missed thn jokn. tlw Bruce Campbell, "boom­stick" Jnsus, was just what I need­mi. 
Contact Mark MiUe at mwit.te@nd.edu 
The views expressed in !·ir:ene and 1/r~ard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
By JESS SHAFFER Scene Writer 
There's only one placP you can sec .Jesus and nxeessive pelvic thrusting on tiH~ same stagn. That's right, it's that time ofy1mr again. 

The annual Kn~man Hevue hit Notre Dame last Thursday under the zombie thnme, "The Night of the Living Hevue." But it didn't need the help of the undead to deliver a thoroughly delightful showing. Under the direction of John Siegel. well executed and hilar­iously contrived skits flowed between musical numbers brought to life by half-naked Keenan dancers. Using a lot of wit and a dash of shock value, Keenan once again placed a monopo­lizing elaim on Notre Dame's funny 
bOIHl. 

Sticking with tradition, no one was exempt from the dorm's scathing humor. The Hevue took jabs at popular campus figures and average Notre Dame students alike. Father llesburgh, Lou Holtz, Father Jenkins, Charlie Weis and Officer Tim McCarthy were all pop­ular subjects. Though insult could have easily tainted these topics, Keenan expertly used the sensitive material to its full advantage. In this way, the show proved the proverb, "a little bit goes a long way." Comments like, "There's enough life sup­port and busty nurses on the fourteenth floor to keep Father llesburgh alive until he's 150," delivered swift digs without taboo heavy-handedness. 
or course, there was plenty of mock­ing to go around. The hilarious image of Tim McCarthy struggling to formu­late his famous double entendres was an excellent opening act. Documenting a series of duds, the skit turned writer's block into crafty humor. And not soon after, a scene called "Jono" integrated the popular elements of the film, "Juno," into the Notre Dame 

Sticking with tradition, no one was exempt from the dorm's scathing humor. The Revue took jabs at popular campus figures and average Notre Dame students alike. Father Hesburgh, Lou Holtz, Father Jenkins, Charlie Weis and Officer Tim McCarthy were all popular subjects. 
WU VUE I The Observer 

The "Asians of Domination" raise cameras during a skit from the Keenan Revue. From left: Tae Kang, Gabby Ymalay, Jonathan Nguyen, Joe Tsai and Jonnie Lee. 
mainstream. Heplacing Juno McGuff and Bleaker with a pregnant Father Jenkins and Jesus in short-shorts, the skit created a memorable if not dis-· turblng fusion. 
Apart from pop­culture refer­ences, tried-and­true material on Notre Dame females and Saint Mary's students were also granted a fair share of attention. Evidence of a reported restraint on Saint Mary's jokes was mea­ger. On several occasions, Saint 

Mary jokes slipped into the show, through allusions and substitutes like "St. Monica's College." 
Though the Revue is perhaps best known for this type of potentially sexist material, in reality the show is an equal opportunity offender. Exhibiting consciousness of a wide range of stereotyping, Keenan didn't keep any­thing off limits. including males. Indeed, Keenan was just as willing to mock a stereotypical male disposition of horniness, oblivion and inebriation. 
By taking on a variety of subjects, Keenan represented a commendably diverse talent that was just plain funny. 
Not all teasing was done at the expense of the Notre Dame community. Several stronger skits proved Keenan's sense of humor extends beyond the University. A skit entitled "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Firecrotch" was per­haps one of the most memorable high­lights of the show. Presenting a Hogwarts turned on its head, Dumbledore, Harry and Ron took the stage, Keenan style. Heturning from break, pupils find Dumbledore outed and llamboyantly homosexual. In a nice reference to an on-campus contro­
. versy, Dumbledore donned a "Gay? Fine By Me" shirt. Hounding out the ensemble, llagrid appeared as a sketchy child-molester with eyes for Harry, while Voldemort took a form reminiscent of a drunken frat boy. These well defined, amusing charac­ters created an enjoyable scene evoca­tive of Saturday Night Live. The Keenan Hevue was a well round­ed display of comic aptitude. It clearly understood the duality of humor: social commentary and laughter. It did both well. No wonder it sold out tickets in 20 minutes. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel @nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, February 4, 2008 
page 13 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 
Disclaimer: There are two types of people: people who watch "The Wire" and people who don't. If you are one of the latter, feel free to continue living in ignorance of the best show on television. However. if you are one of the former and ha11en 't yet seen Sunday night's episode of Season 5. this column contains plot details that may ruin your 11iewing experience. Continue reading at your own risk. 
Fans of HBO's "The Wire" breathed a collective sigh of relief Sunday night as fan favorite Omar Little (Michael K. Williams} escaped certain death. Or 
Stanfield's men, who had holed themselves up in an apartment. Normally, the ever-vigi­lant Mr. Little has a leg up on the competition with his patience and seasoned eye, but on this particular evening, Marlo's muscle, Michael (Tristan Wilds), Chris (Gbenga Akinnagbe) and Snoop (Felicia Pearson) flipped the script on him with an ambush. 
Things looked bleak for the trench coat street soldier when the trigger­happy trio had him pinned down behind a sofa beneath a hail of bul­lets. Staying alive appeared to be a 
JARRED WAFER I Observer Graphic 
tall order even for the survival-of­the-fittest Omar. In an act of des­peration, he narrowly avoided tak­ing a lead shower by smashing through a glass door and making a swan dive off a balcony several sto­ries off the ground. 
When Michael, Chris and Snoop peered out over the ledge, Omar had vanished like a ghost into the night. Over the course of the show's five seasons, Omar has built a repu­tation for himself throughout the course as the biggest, baddest cat on the street, but has he finally met his match? 
In Chris and Snoop (and now their protege Michael), Marlo has a tri­umvirate of merciless murderers. For Omar to get at Marlo, he'll have 

did he? Fans ofHBO,s "The Wire, 
In his ongoing 
breathed a collective sigh of

blood feud with Baltimore drug czar reliefSunday night as fan 
Marlo Stanfield favorite Omar Little 
(Jamie Hector), 
(Michael K. Williams)

Ornar and an asso­
ciate launched an escaped certain death. Or assault on some of did he? 
to take care of his enforcers first, apd going three-on-one appears to be over­whelming odds even for Omar. 
In his resolutions of earlier plot arcs in seasons past, "The Wire" creator David Simon has proven that he's not one for happy end­ings, instead opting for realistic conclu­
sions to conflicts on the show. He has also shown no hesitation in killing off show regular characters and fan favorites. As such, in Omar's case it's uncertain if he'll give the fans what they want and if Omar will get his revenge. However, one thing is certain: the man, the myth and the legend that is Omar Little lives to fight another week. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 

Longest Dunk 


Shunsuke Nagasaki sets the world record for the longest dunk. He misses denting his face by abou 6inches. 
youtube.com/watch ?v=UUevNQ3oSAc 
Motavit Mineral Water Ad 
Indiana Jones like 
commerdol, only this 
time the hero thinks 
of the reprecussions 
of saving the damsel 
in distress 
youtube. com/watch ?v=MBONe8AcE9E 
Careful driving down these streets. Even the rood con be preiudice. 
youtube.com/watch ?v=AKVBK-OveEB 

Man iuggles soccer ball while sitting on the 
ground. Get this guy 
on oprofessional team 
please. 
youtube. com/watch ?v=-pQuw-H05LI 
SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 

JARRED WAFER I Observer Graphic Photo courtesy of hbo.com 


-
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 4, 2008 
SuPER BowL XLII 

Giants disrupt historic season, upset Patriots 
Eli Manning named game MVP, leads fourth-quarter comeback culminating in game-winning TD pass to Plaxico Burress 
beli>re bursting into tears.
Associated Press 
"That's a position you want to 
GI.FNI>ALF. Ariz. -The Gianl'i be in," said Manning, who fol­had the perfect answer for the lowed older brother Peyton's suddenly imperfect Patriots: a MVP performance last year with big, bad defense and an improba­one of his own. "You can't write a ble comeback led by tlwir own better script. There· were so Mr. Cool quarterback, Eli many big plays on that drive." Manning. And now the 1972 Miami 
In one of the biggest upsets in Dolphins ean pop another bottle Super Bowl history. New York of ehampagne in eelebration of a shattered Nnw England's unbeat­reeord still intact, the only perfeet en s1mson 17-14 Sunday night as season in the Super Bowl era. Manning hit Plaxko Burmss on a The Patriots were done in not I:~-yard fade with :{5 seconds left. so much by the pressure of the It was the Giants' 11th straight first unbeaten season in 35 years victory on the road and the first as by the pressure of a smother­time thn l'atriol'i tasted deli~at in ing Gianl<; pass rush. Tom Brady, morn than a year. the league's Most Valuable Player 
It was the most bitter of losses, and winner of his first three too, because 12-point favorite Super Bowl, was saeked five Nnw England ( 18-1 l was one play times, hurried a dozen more and from winning and getting the ulti­at one point wound up on his mate revenge for bPing penalized knees. his hands on his hips fol­for illegally taping opponents' lowing one of many poor throws defensive signals in the season­in New England's lowest scoring opener against the New York game of the season. .lel'i. "They played well," Patriots 

But its defense couldn't stop a coaeh Bill Belichiek said. 'They final. frantic 12-play, 83-yard made some plays. We made some drive that featured a spectacular plays. They just made a few leaping catch by David Tyree, more. We played as hard as we who had scored New York's lirst could. We just couldn't make touchdown on the opening drive enough plays." a totally strange outcome for a game usually associated with, minutes to go 63 yards. Almost of thn fourth quarter. Hardly a familiar position for team that seemed destined for well, Brady. exactly, but not quite, because 
"It's the greatest feeling in pro­the record-setting Patriots and historic glory. Peyton Manning was seen in a they settled for a 32-yard field 
fessional sports," Burress said their megastar quarterback. And Oddly, it was a loss to the luxury box jumping up and goal after converting four third Patriots that sparked New York's pumping both fists when Burress, downs on the 16-play series. The stunning run to its third Super who didn't practice all week 9:59 drive was the longest in Bowl and sixth NFL title. New because of injuries, caught the Super Bowl history. England won 38-35 in Week 17 winning score. That 3-0 lead lasted for the rest as the Patriots became the lirst "We just hung in there on of the quarter, but only because team in 35 years to go spotless offense, kept executing," said the Patriol'i were stopped at New through the regular season. But Burress, who wasn't far off on the York's 1 as the period expired .. On by playing hard in a meaningless 23-17 prediction he made a few the next play, Laurence Maroney 
-game for them, the Giants (14-6) days ago. "It came down to one scored. gained something of a swagger play and we made it." New England's 12-play drive and Manning cast found his foot­The Giants became the first was aided by a 16-yard pass ing. NFC wild card team to win a interference penalty on line­
Their growing confidence car­Super Bowl; four AFC teams have backer Antonio Pierce in the end ried them through playofl' victo­done it. They also are the second zone. It began with Maroney's 43­ries at Tampa, Dallas and Green wild-card champions in three yard kickoff runback. Bay, and then past the mightiest years, following the Pittsburgh It was the fewest possessions in opponent of all. Steelers after the 2005 season. the first quarter of a Super Bowl. 
Not that the Patriots were very The upset also could be viewed New York's first series of the mighty this day. They even con­as a source of revenge not only second quarter looked dangerous ceded with 1 second on the clock for the Giants, but for the other after Amani Toomer's lunging as coach Bill Belichick ran across NFL teams over Spygate back in sideline catch for 38 yards. But the field to shake the hand of September. That cheating scandal rookie Steve Smith mishandled jubilant Giants coach Tom made headlines again late in Manning's throw at the New Coughlin, then headed to the Super Bowl week, and could have England 10, Ellis Hobbs inter­locker room, ignoring the final placed an infinite cloud over New ceptnd and returned it 23 yards. kneeldown. England's perfection. Those are opportunities teams 
That it was Manning taking Until the frantic fourth quartnr, can't waste against a strong that knee was stunning. He not the only scoring came on the opponent, let alone the Patriots. It only matched his brother's game's first two drives. was Manning's first interception achievement of last year with the The Giants did almost exactly of the postseason, albeit entirely Indianapolis Colts, but he showed what they sought with the open­not his fault; the last was by the brilliant precision late in the ing kickoff, using up nearly 1 0 Hobbs in the season finale. 
.... 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Blue & Gold Homes Showing for ADOPTION · Catholic family will "After all the jacks are in their boxes 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" provide your baby with a life of And the clowns have all gone toFOR SALE WANTED leases bluegoldrentals.com PERSONAL unconditional love, opportunity & bed 
Oakhill Condo for Sale. Students Minor League soccer club looking will love living here and parents will for part-time intern. Must have love knowing their child is looked strong computer and communica· after and safe! Secure, upstairs, lion skills. Please send resume to: two-level furnished two-bedroom, ininvaders@aol.com or invader­two-bath condo unit with loft area. scoach@ hotmail.com One thousand twenty-two square feet of beautifully redecorated living space-includes 42" HD flat screen FoR RENT TV and parking spaces in front of condo. Garages are available at an 3·4 bdrm, 3bath home close to additional cost Parking lot surveil-campus. safe, cathedral ceilings, lance cameras. pool. clubhouse, fireplace, 2·car garage, 1Ox20 deck, water and rubbish removal included deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. as part of the ownership package. Call574-232·4527 or 269·683·5038 Only $180 per month exterior main-or 574·340·1844. 
tenance fees. Five minute walk or less to the Notre Dame campus, Large house available for 2009· shopping and restaurants. Less 2010. Full renovations completed than ten minutes to other hot spots 2007. Close to campus. and mall by car. $200,000. Only 4,000+ square feet, serious offers considered. 562-733· 5 bathrooms. 5166. MacSwain@gmail.com 

522 Napoleon Street: 1-2 students. Newer ktchn,bath.Bsmnt storage. Washer/dryer. 5 blks W off ND Avenue. $570/mo+ut1(219)629· 5483 Denise 
For rent: Two story house ready for immediate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house. Laundromat next door, basement available for storage, new furnace and central air, new kitchen including appli· ances. large living room, free trash removal. Garage available for car· extra. Call 289·4071. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at I ·BOO-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or some· one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg· nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
security. Exp paid, A tty involved. 1-You can hear happiness staggering 888·833-8230. on down the street 
Footsteps dressed in red "The long and winding road that And the wind whispers mary leads to your door, Will never disap· A broom is drearily sweeping pear, I've seen that road before It Up the broken pieces of yesterdays always leads me here, life Leads me to your door. Somewhere a queen is weeping The wild and windy ni_ght the rain Somewhere a king has no wife washed away, And the wind, it cries mary Has left a pool of tears crying for The traffic lights, they tur'l, uh, blue the day. Why leave me standing tomorrow here, let me know the way And shine their emptiness down on Many times I've been alone and my bed many times I've cried The tiny island sags down stream Anyway you'll never know the many cause the life that lived is, ways I've tried, but Is dead Still they lead me back to the long And the wind screams mary and winding road Uh-will the wind ever remember You left me standing here a long, The names it has blow in the past? long time ago And with this crutch, its old age, Don't leave me waiting here, lead and its wisdom me to you door It whispers no, this will be the last Da,da,da,da And the wind cries mary" 
-


OUND THE NATION 
CoMrruo FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVlCES 
Monday, February 4, 2008 
NCAA Men's Basketball AP Top 25 Poll 

rank  team  record  previous  
1  Memphis  21-0  1  
2  Kansas  21-1  2  
3  Duke  19-1  4  
4  North Carolina  20-1  5  
5  UCLA  20-2  8  
6  Georgetown  18-2  9  
7  Tennessee  19-2  3  
8  Michigan State  19-3  10  
9  Washington State  17-4  6  
10  Texas  17-4  12  
11  Indiana  17-3  7  
12  Butler  19-2  15  
13  Wisconsin  17-3  11  
14  Stanford  18-3  20  
15  Xavier  18-4  23  
16  Drake  20-1  22.  
17  Marquette  16-4  21  
18  Pittsburgh  17-5  13  
19  Vanderbilt  18-4  14  
20  Florida  18-4  30  
21  St. Mary's  18-3  26  
22  Kansas State  15-5  28  
23  Texas A&M  18-4  18  
24  Mississippi  16-4  17  
25  Baylor  16-4  25  
NCAA Men's Basketball  
Coaches' Poll  
rank  team  record  previous  
1  Memphis  21-0  1  
2  Kansas  21-1  2  
3  Duke  19.;1  3  
4  North Carolina  201  4  
5  UCLA  20-2  1  
6  Georgetown  18~2  9  
7  Michigan State  19-3  10  
8  Tennessee  19-2  5  
9  Washington Stale  17-4.  6  
10  Texas  17-4  12  
11  Indiana  17-3  8  
12  Buller  19-2  14  
13  Wisconsin  17-3  11  
14  Stanford  18-3  21  
15  Xavier  18-4  22  
16  Marquette  16-4  20  
17  Drake  20-1  23  
18  Vanderbilt  18-4  13  
19  Florida  18-4  21  
20  St. Mary's  18-3  24  
21  Pittsburgh  17-5  17  
22  Mississippi  16-4  15  
23  Texas A&M  18-4  16  
24  Kansas Stale  15-5  34  
25  Mississippi State  14-7  38  
USFCA College Fencing  
Coaches' Poll  

Men's Women's 
rank team rank team 
1 Penn State 1 NOTRE DAME 
2 Ohio State 2 Ohio Slate 
3 NOTRE DAME 3 Columbia-Barnard 
4 St. John's 4 Penn State 
5 Columbia 5 Harvard 
6 Pennsylvania 6 Northwestern 
7 Harvard 7 St. John's 
8 Princeton 8 Pennsylvania 
9 Brandeis 9 Temple 
10 Stanford 10 Princeton 
around the dial 
NBA 
Mavericks at Pistons 2:30p.m., ABC 
NHL 
Rangers at Canadiens 2 p.m., NBC 


MEN'S GOLF 
Associated Press 
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates -Tiger Woods watched his 25-foot putt race down the slope and bend toward the cup, then he skipped backward and punched the desert air in cel­ebration when it disap­peared into the cup for a final birdie. 
So ended his spectacular charge Sunday to win the Dubai Desert Classic over Ernie Els, a familiar victim. Woods birdied his last two holes, and five of his last seven, for a 7-under 65 to start his season with two vic­tories that looked nothing alike. 
One week was an eight­shot victory at the Buick Invitational. The next week was his largest comeback in eight years when Woods ral­lied from a four-shot deficit with an array of impressive shots that make him look tougher to beat than he already is. 

''I'm just happy to get a win out of this," Woods said. 
It was the third time Woods has started his season 2-0, another sign that he could be headed for a big year. He now has won his last four official tourna­ments, and six of his last seven dating to the Bridgestone Invitational in early August. Woods also won his unofficial Target World Challenge by seven shots in December. 
"It's the ideal start, isn't 
IN BRIEF Holmes' birdies outdistance 
Mickelson in FBR Open 
SCOTTSDALE, Arizona-J .B. Holmes failed to birdie the 18th hole in the first three rounds of the FBR Open. Then he did it twice Sunday, coming back from the brink of defeat to steal a victory from one of the biggest names in golf. 
Holmes' 13-foot birdie putt forced a playoff with Phil Mickelson, then moments later he sank an 8-footer after a monster, 359-yard drive to win the tournament for the second time in three years. 
"I can play under pressure, I guess," he said. 
Holmes, whose victory as a rookie at the FBR in 2006 is his only other PGA Tour win, had blown a four­stroke lead and was one shot behind going in to the 18th. The far more seasoned Mickelson seemed destined for his third victory in the tournament and 33rd of his career. 
it?" Woods said. "You play to win. So far, I've done that this year." 
Woods finished at 14­under 27 4 for a one-shot vic­tory over Martin Kaymer of Germany. Woods had already posted his score when Kaymer, who won two weeks ago in Abu Dhabi, closed birdie-birdie-eagle for a66. 
But the real victim was Els. 
He started the final round with a one-shot lead over Henrik Stenson and was four shots clear of Woods. The 38-year-old South African missed par putts inside 5 feet on the 11th and 12th holes to lose the lead, but he still had a chance to force a playoff with a birdie on the par-5 18th. Instead, Els hit 5-wood 
page 15 
that came up well short and ended up in the water. 
He finished with a bogey for a 71 and tied for third with Louis Oosthuizen. 
It was a devastating blow to Els, who stared at the ground as he walked toward the 18th green. He is in the middle of a three-year plan to overtake Woods at No. 1 in the world, and said at the start of his season that he needed to start winning. 
This was the perfect occa­sion, and he let it slip away in familiar fashion. Two years ago at Dubai, Woods birdied the last two holes to force a playofl' against Els, then beat him when the South African hit his second shot into the water on No. 18. 

Miller wins slalom in 
World Cup super-combi 
VAL D'ISERE, France -Bode Miller was far from his best in the slalom portion of Sunday's World Cup super-combi, and that might be why the American won both the race and clinched the discipline title. 
"I was at 40 percent in the slalom," Miller said after winning in a combined time of 2 minutes, 18.45 seconds. "I know that if I'm at 100 percent in the slalom, chances are that I won't finish." 
The American skied the Face de Bellevarde downhill leg in 1:33.88 in the morning, 1.37 seconds faster than second-place Didier Defago of Switzerland. Most of the slalom spe­cialists trailed by more than a sec­ond. 
"I've understood that when I'm at 100 percent in the downhill, it gives me more maneuvering room over my opponents," Miller said. "I can then adjust in the slalom." 
Germany-U.S. match 
rained out at Fed Cup 
SAN DIEGO -Steady rain washed out Sunday's matches at the Fed Cup quarterfinal between Germany and the United States, forcing organizers to try again on Monday. 
Officials waited four hours past the scheduled starting time before call­ing it a day. The rain let up for about an hour and workers attempted to dry off the court at La Jolla Beach & Tennis Club before the rain resumed and the match was postponed. 
The rain was supposed to clear out by Monday. The best-of-5 series was tied at 1­1. 
When it resumes, Lindsay Davenport is to play Tatjana Malek in the first reverse singles match, fol­lowed by Ashley Harkleroad against Sabine Lisicki. The doubles match is scheduled to be Davenport and Lisa Raymond against Julia Goerges and Anna-Lena Groenefeld. 
NBA 

Kobe's 30 points propel Lakers over Wizards 
Newly acquired Casal sits for Los Angeles; Detroit stifles high-powered Maverick offensefor 67 points, season-low percentages 
A..sociated Press 
WASHINGTON -Driving and 
dunking and dropping in a 3­
pointer. KobP. Bryant delivered 
a ganw's worth of highlights in 
tlw first quarter Sunday, 
outscoring the Washington 
Wizards all by himself. 
ThP.n he let his Los Angeles 
Litknrs teammates join in all 
the fun. 
Bryant put up 19 points in 
thn opening period on his way 
to finishing with 30, and the 
Laknrs ran thnir offense so 
well tlwre was no need for the 
newly acquired Pau Gasol to 
don a uniform in a I 03-91 vic­
tory over the Wizards. 
".Just taking what they were 
going to give me," said Bryant, 
an efficient I 0-for-15 on lield 
goals. 
Casol, the 7-foot Spaniard 
who came over from the 
Memphis GrizzliP.s in a trade 
Friday, sat on the sideline in a 
pinstriped suit jacket, listening 
to tips on the Lakers' triangle 
offense from assistant coach 
Brian Shaw. 
The 2002 NBA Hookie of the 
Year's new teammates put on 
quite a clinic, too, repeatedly 
making the extra pass to find 
wide-open looks. The Lakers 
compiled 27 assists on 41 field 
goals, with Vladimir 
Hadmanovic scoring 15 points, 
Lamar Odom 14, and Ronny 
Turiaf 13. 
Another measure of how well 
the visitors played: Nine 
Lakers scored in the second 
quarter. 
"We've grown a lot together. And we understand how to play with one another," Bryant said. "That's the big thing ­the chemistry. Knowing where guys are." 
Asked whether he'd like to see the Lakers make another move before the trade dead­line, he said: ''I'm letting (gen­eral manager) Mitch (Kupchak) handle that stuff. I gave up playing GM in the summer." 
llis every move greeted by a mix of boos and cheers -even some "M-V-P!" chants -from the sellout crowd of 20,173, Bryant gave the Wizards fits whenever hn was on the floor. 
Leave it to Wizards rookie 
Nick Young, who grew up in 
California as a Lakers and 
Bryant fan, to sum things up: 
"lie's just better in person." 
Young, a rnserve, tried guarding Bryant some, and wound up with three fouls before halftime. That. at least. was better than the player chiefly assigned to guard Bryant, DeShawn Stevenson. lie was sitting down, a black T­shirt ovor his jersey, with three fouls, only 6 minutes into the game. 
"lie's going to get calls," Stevenson said. "Two of them, I don't think that was a foul, but that's the way it is when you're guarding a guy like that." 
Caron Butler -back after missing three games with a hip injury-also tried to defend Bryant, with similar results. On one sequence, Butler was spun around on Bryant's twisting baseline drive for a layup. On another, Bryant made a 3­pointer over thn outstretched hand of his former tnammate. 
Add it up. and Bryant helped Los Angeles build a 30-15 lead aftnr one quarter -or, put another way: Kobo 1<J, Wizards 15. 
Bryant had 25 points by half­
time, when the Lakers were up 
63-41 -the most points 
allowed by Washington in a 
first half this season. Los 
Angeles made 66 percent of its 
shots in the half, while limiting 
Washington to only 36 percent. 
"lie took us out of the game," 
Stevenson said. "We were pas­
sive. We weren't trying to 
attack. That's not like us." 
Wizards coach Eddie Jordan 
noticed that, too. 
And he was critical of his 
team, which has lost three 
games in a row. 
"We didn't play as a group as 
well as we need to play to beat 
a team like the Lakers. Or any­
body. We don't win this game 
against anybody tonight," 
Jordan said. "We had bailouts, 
we had short cuts and not 
enough passion from every­
body and not enough concen­
tration from everybody." 
Pistons 90, Mavericks 67 
Clank! 
The Detroit Pistons held 
Dallas to its worst game offen­
sively this season and Rasheed 
Wallace backed up his talk 
with 21 points and nine 
rebounds in a win Sunday. 
The Mavericks had their low­
est scoring game while making 
a season-low 30 percent of 
their shots. 
Dallas missed 16 straight shots -spanning 8 minutes in the first and second quarters -leading to scoring a season­low 38 points and shooting a season-worst 29 percent in the first half. 
"We were active and 
switched more than we usually 
do," Pistons coach Flip 
Saunders said. "And, we threw 
a couple zones in." 
Dallas had a rough day at the other end of the court, too. 
Wallace said the Pistons had to take advantage of the undersized Mavericks by going inside, and he did. 
The bombastic center scored over Dirk Nowitzki on a fade­away late in the third quarter as Detroit pulled away, and Wallace had more to say to the Mavericks. 
"lie can't guard me!" Wallace screamed toward Dallas' bench. 
Saunders isn't sure anybody in the NBA can effectively defend Wallace under some conditions. 
"When Rasheed is ready, motivated and focused. he can dominate anyone he plays," Saunders said. "lie's that good." 
The Pistons were on the other end of a 102-86 rout a month ago in Dallas. 
"They looked a little like the Mavericks the time we played them down in Dallas," coach Avery Johnson said. "They really wanted to even up the series, and they came out and took care of business." 
Nowitzki had 15 points on 3­of-18 shooting and 10 rebounds, Josh Howard scored 15 and reserve Brandon Bass added 14. 
The Mavericks struggled in part because they're missing two standouts, starting point guard Devin Harris (left ankle) and key reserve Jerry Stackhouse (right hamstring). 
"Forget about who we are missing," Johnson said. "We 


Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, February 7 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 

The Core Council invites gay, lesbian. and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family. their friends, and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Eve!)'Qne IS welcome and coofidenlmlity IS assured. 

CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &USBIAN 
STUDENTS 


need the guys out there to play." 
Despite Dallas' awful start, Detroit led just 20-14 after the first quarter and 44-38 at half­time. 
While Wallace scored seven and Nowitzki was scoreless in the third, the Pistons took con­trol by outscoring the Mavericks 22-13 in quarter. 
"Our goal is to always push for the first five minutes of the half and if we can, it seals the game," rookie Rodney Stuckey said. 
Tayshaun Prince scored 16 and Hamilton scored all 10 of his points in the second half for the Pistons, who got solid contributions off the bench for the second straight game. Stuckey scored a career-high 11 and Jarvis Hayes had 10. 
The Pistons have won five straight. 

The Mavericks, who missed a chance to pull into a first-place tie with New Orleans in the Southwest Division, have lost two in a row after winning 12 of 14. 
"We didn't have too much of a rhythm on offense, and we've got to figure that out," Jason Terry said. "We know what we are facing -we're under­manned right now -but we have to get things done." 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Hoosier star freshman Gordon scores 29 in win 
Kelvin Sampson switches to zone defense in second half to impede Wildcats; Tar Heels take down FSU in overtime 
goal until a 3-pointer by Craig Moore led the Wildcats 
Associated Press 
Michael Thompson with just with 17 points, and Jeremy 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. over two minutes remaining. Nash and Kevin Coble added Indiana switched its defense By then, it was way too late. 12 apiece. just in time to cool "We missed a few. It gets Gordon, wearing a padded Northwestern's shooters. contagious," Northwestern splint on his left wrist after a 
Eric Gordon scored 29 points, coach Bill Carmody said. "All hard fall in practice Tuesday, 
D.J. White added 26 points and night, neither team looked like had five 3-pointers in the first 13 rebounds, and the 11th­they were stopping each other. half, but the Hoosiers couldn't ranked Hoosiers used a zone ... Then we missed seven or pull away for good. defense much of the second eight, and that's a lot against a His fifth 3-pointer gave half to beat the Wildcats 75-63 good team on their home court. Indiana a 38-30 lead with two Sunday. "If we're going to play with minutes left in the first half. 
"It was hard to get them out this team -and we did for 30-But a basket by Moore and a 3­of their offense," Indiana coach some minutes-you can't have pointer by reserve Jason Kelvin Sampson said. "Those missed opportunities." Okrzesik pulled the Wildcats kids are good players. At least Gordon, who had 1 7 points in within three, and after two free in the zone, we could dictate the first half, had eight points throws by Indiana's Jamarcus where their shots were coming during a 14-2 run that broke Ellis, Nash scored on a fast from." the game open. break with a second remaining 
Once the Hoosiers went to Indiana took a 66-52 lead to make it 40-37 at halftime. the zone, Northwestern went after a 3-pointer by Gordon, Northwestern closed within more than nine minutes with­his sixth of the game, and one two points four times early in out a field goal, and Indiana of two free throws by the fresh­the second half before the pulled away to its 35th straight man guard, the Big Ten's lead­Hoosiers began pulling away win at home against the ing scorer. Northwestern, los­for good. Wildcats since 1968. The ing its 14th straight Big Ten "When a team like Hoosiers (18-3, 7-1 Big Ten) game over two seasons, never Northwestern gets comfortable also snapped a two-game los­came closer than 10 points the on offense, you just have to get ing streak, but it wasn't easy. rest of the way. them out of their comfort 
"In the second half, we With the 6-foot-9 White in zone," Sampson said. played with a lot of energy and the middle, Indiana dominated 
effort on defense," Gordon the rebounding 39-17. White, Tar Heels 84, Seminoles 73 said. "It's obvious what we who shot 9-of-11 from the Florida State had a miracle have to do. field, also had two blocks and a shot Sunday. North Carolina 
"Their cuts were fast. They steal. still had Tyler Hansbrough. 
were cutting all kinds of direc­"Our game plan was to be The junior forward had 22 tions. Their offense was click­aggressive on the offensive points and a career-high 21 ing in the beginning, so we just boards," said White, whose six rebounds to lift the fourth­had to make an adjustment." offensive rebounds helped give ranked Tar Heels to an over­
Northwestern (7-12, 0-8) Indiana an 18-3 advantage in time victory over the never led, but twice rallied second-chance points. "We Seminoles. from eight-point deficits and wanted to attack and when the North Carolina (21-1, 6-1 
cut Indiana's lead to 52-50 guards take shots get the offen­Atlantic Coast Conference) with under 12 minutes to go. sive rebounds." shook off an unlikely 3-pointer The Wildcats, who shot 64 per­Northwestern cooled to 35 by Florida State's Ryan Reid cent in the first half, then went percent shooting in the second with 8.1 seconds left that sent cold against the Indiana zone half and 48 percent for the the game into overtime. and did not get another field game. "We expected a fight, but we didn't expect it to be that that he finds a way," Florida 
close," said North Carolina's State coach Leonard Hamilton Danny Green, whose three­said. point play with 2:53 left in the North Carolina point guard overtime ignited the 10-2 run Ty Lawson. who is averaging that doomed the Seminoles 14.1 points and 6.0 assists, (13-10, 2-6). sprained his left ankle 4 min­
The shot that tied the game utes into the game after collid­was the first 3-point attempt of ing with the 240-pound Reid Reid's career and the 6-foot-9 underneath the North Carolina sophomore drained it from basket. deep in the corner with "Some guys had to step up aplomb. and play well," Hansbrough 
"I saw that I really couldn't said. "We knew it was going to pass the ball to anyone so I be tough without Ty." shot the 3," said Reid, who Green scored 19 points and admitted he more-or-less Deon Thompson had 11 for wished the ball into the basket. North Carolina, which over­
"In my head: 'Just get in came 21 turnovers, the loss of there,"' Reid said. "It got in!" Lawson and a mediocre 42.6 
And When North Carolina percent shooting effort. couldn't even get a shot off in Hansbrough, the ACC's lead­the final seconds of regulation, ing scorer and rebounder, was the Tar Heels were staring at held without a field goal until overtime before a raucous 9:43 remained in the game. He crowd already roaring about was just 5-of-14 from the field, Reid's unexpected heroics. but was 12-of-14 at the free 
"You can't do anything about throw line where the Tar Heels that," North Carolina coach made 27 of 33 tries. Roy Williams said. "When Hansbrough's fourth free things aren't pretty you can throw Sunday gave him North still find a way to win." Carolina's career record, sur­
-
And by then, Florida State's passing Lennie Hosenbluth. big men were all in foul trouble Hansbrough has made 613 free from trying to contain the 6-9 throws with at least 1 0 games Hansbrough inside. remaining this season and he 
"In the second half he just has another year of eligibility. kept fighting his way through," Florida State trailed 31-29 at Florida Statp,'s Uche Echefu halftime despite shooting a said. "He just keeps going, no chilly 34.4 percent in the open­matter what." ing 20 minutes. 
Echefu, Heid and freshman Jason Hich led the Seminoles Julian Vaughn -who took with 22 points while Isaiah turns guarding Hansbrough -Swann and Toney Douglas all fouled out in the overtime. added 12 each, although 
Held to just three free throws Douglas was just 3-of-20 from in the first half and no field the field. goals for more than 30 min­The Seminoles will have to utes, Hansbrough had eight finish 6-2 to reach .500 in the points and five rebounds in the league as they try and end a ?­
 Offer valid every Monday 11 a.m. to close. overtime. year drought without_ an invita­"fie's such a relentless player tion to the NCAA tournament. 
-




~--~ ---~ 
NFL HALL OF FAME 

Pair of Redskins teammates inducted together 
Long-tinzefriends Art Monk and Darrell Green celebrate honor in same induction class; Tagliabue denied for second time 

one of the NFL's premier
Associated Press 
receivers. Monk held records 
I'IIOENIX-Like tho two old for most consecutive games frit>nds they are, Darr·oll with a reception (164) and Gn~nn and Art Monk ehatlml career catelws (820). Both 
about tlw latest news in their livns: making tlw Pro J.'ootball Ilall of Fame. 
Never mind that thousands of pnopln wt~rP Iis ten in g to llw confnrPnrn rail af'tnr Saturday's ann o u n en Ill I' nl. This was simply two former Washington Hndskins shar­ing vBrhal hugs a.ftpr rncPiving t.hn sport's high­est honor. 
"May I just say to you whnn I 
l"irst canw to Washington, you had just won llw SupPr Bowl, you guys workPd mn ovnr for nine wnPks and I hatml all of you," Cnwn told Monk, draw­ing laughtPr. 
"I apprPciatP your words," Monk told Crnnn, who covernd Monk in practirns for years. "I was trying to Jwar some of the 1:onunnnts that you madn and I feol tlw samo way. " 
For thn sneond straight year, former commissioner Paul Tagliabun failed to elected. 
Other players joining Green and Monk includnd Nnw England linnbaektH Andre Tippett, San Dingo/San Francisco dnfensive end Fred Dnan, Minnnsota/Denver tack­In <;ary Zirnnwrrnan and son­ior committee choie1~. Kansas City cornerback Emmitt Thomas. 
Monk finally was chosen in his nighth year of eligibility. lie concluded his earner after the 1995 season with Philadelphia, but spent 13 years with the Hedskins as Tippett was a force against the run after a stint in junior college and a standout career at Iowa. 
"This is by far the proudest moment of my professional football career," said Tippett, who made the NFL's 1980s All-Decade team and waited 10 years for this day. "I will be joining the greats of the game and I am deeply hon­ored." 
Although he weighed only 230, Dean was a fearsome pass rusher because of his speed and agility; blockers struggled to get their hands 

-

(~ICO~Y ij!lJ[)I
1 "T1 

Chicory Cafe m 
C3VA~ 
French Quarter Style Coffee House ij 
eaturing beignets and ca~e au fait ?fi 
(\Orner of Jefferson and MIChigan fTi in downtown South Bend ~ 
(jj FAIR TRADE Coffees ·~ Teas and Espressos ~ :>S Sandwiches, Soups, Jambalaya 
~ 
c'S Chocolates and Gifts 
~ 

Former Redskins defensive back Darrell Green smiles after being introduced as a member of the 574-234-1141 www.chicorycafe.netHall of Fame class of 2008 at a press conference Saturday. 
-
"This is incredible. This is so special. This is out of this world. This literally transcends football. everything I have gone through to do what I was able to do. It was more than the ability to run and cover. It just goes so far beyond that.,, 
Darrell Green Hall of Fame inductee 
play in the NFL or deservn even to be in Hall of Fame, I just loved tlw ganH~. loved to play, loved being out there," Monk said. 
Groen, ono of the NI·'J.'s speed­
have been surpassed, but Monk didn't play in as wide-open an era on offense as many other receivers. lie was one of tho most consistent possession and third­d o w n receivers in the league throughout his 14 pro seasons. 
"Whntlwr I deserved to 

do what I was able to do. It was more than the ability to run and cover. It just goes so far beyond that." 
The other player in his first year of eligibility, receiver Cris Carter, was not elected. Carter finished his 15-year career second on the career list in receptions and TD catches. 
I nd uetions will be at the Pro Football Hall of Game in Canton, Ohio on Aug. 2. 
"I looked forward to the day we are going to Canton," Green said, breaking up with emotion. "Hopefully, there are several hundred thousand hotels there, and several hun­dred thousand tickets." 
Perhaps the most surprising outcome was that Tagliabue, again. did not get enough sup­port. 
In his 17 years as commis­sioner, the NFL experienced no labor stoppages, while its revenues from TV contracts skyrocketed. There also were expansions to Jacksonville, 
Charlotte, 
Cleveland and Houston under his watch, and s1weral teams moved into new stadiums, many of them built with public funds. But many, AP including some Former Patriots linebacker Andre Tippett poses for pictures after reporters on being inducted into the Hall of Fame Saturday. 
the 44-member selection com­Bob Kuechenberg, Vikings mittee, found guard Randall McDaniel, and Tagliabue Kansas City Chiefs linebacker unapproach-Derrick Thomas. able and unco­Senior committee nominee operative. Marshall Goldberg was not 
Also failing to elected, either. 
on him. lie starred with the Chargers from 1975-81, then with the 49ers from 1981-85. 
"All I can say is thank you. I am trying to get my heart in order, it's still raeing," Dean said. 

Zimmerman was a standout for the Vikings from 1986-92 and the Broncos from 1993­97, winning a Super Bowl in his final season. lle made his reputation in the USFL before joining Minnesota. 
"I am in shock right now," Zimmerman said. 
Thomas, who also was Green's position coach for years in Washington, was a superb bump-and-run and coverage cornnrback for the Chiefs from 1966-78. lie was the interim coach of the Falcons at the end of the 2007 season and has been retained as an assistant by nnw coaeh Mike Smith. 
Thomas was thrilled with the company he is koeping, most speeif'ieally Green and Monk. 

"Those guys have high char­acter. I'm proud to go in with them." 
FRANZ JACKSON · Tenor Sax 
This jazz legend is still swinoin' Af AnA 951 
iest and most skilled corner­backs for two decades, spent his entiro earner ( 1983-2002) with the · Hedskins. lie holds the rneord for consecutive seasons with an interception (19), and had 54 picks for 621 yards and six TDs. A member 

"Whether I deserved to play in the NFL or deserve even to be in Hall ofFame, I just loved the game, loved to play, loved being out there., 
Art Monk Hall of Fame inductee 
of the 1990s All-Decade team, Green made seven Pro Bowls. 
"This is incredible. This is so special," Green said when informed of the vote. "This is out of this world. This literally transcends football, every­thing I have gone through to 

get in were Redskins guard Russ Grimm, Buffalo Bills receiver Andre Heed, Oakland Raiders punter Ray Guy, Denver Broncos linebacker Randy Gradishar, Chicago Bears defensive end Richard Dent, Miami Dolphins guard 
Tippett, who is in town as the Patriots' director of com­munity affairs, was consid­ered the best linebacker in the AFC during an era when Lawrence Taylor ruled the other conference. An out­standing pass rusher who also could handle coverage, 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles break losing streak 
Kessler, Rashid have 14 pts, 6 boards each 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI Sports Writer 
Entering their game against Adrian after losing consecutive conference games to Calvin, Hope and Olivet, the Belles (9-10, 5-6 MIAAl needed a win. Thanks to a solid performance, they got it. 
Saint Mary's snapped its losing streak Saturday when it beat Adrian 61-51 on the road. 
The first half was a back­and-forth contest, something the Belles have seen a lot of this season. Neither team could get much of a run dur­ing the opening half, and Adrian's five-point lead with 
2:52 left before halftime was as far apart as the teams got. 
Despite shooting just 31.1 percent from the field in the first half-including 18.2 percent from beyond the arc, uncharacteristically low for a team that shoots 29.2 per­cent from 3-point range ­the Belles entered the locker room down just 31-28. The 
team was unhappy with its performance, sophomore for­ward Anna Kammrath said. 
"We were frustrated at the half," Kammrath said. "We knew we should be [good] enough by now to cruise through the second half and we were not. We knew we should good. 

"Our defense made them make the mistakes they did," Kammrath said. "We were able to capitalize on their turnovers. We stopped mak­ing little mistakes, too, and we finally hit the shots we weren't mak­ing in the first 
and would pull half."
"We knew we should

away." Kammrath
be [good] enough by 

As if to answer was right to Kammrath 's now to cruise through credit the frustration, the Belles'
the second halfand 

Belles took the defense,
we were not.,

court with a which forced renewed energy, four turnovers starting the sec­Anna Kammrath during the ond half on a run.
Belles forward 
12-4 run. Still, the Bulldogs would not go away quietly and kept within six -until Saint Mary's guard Katie Rashid decided it was time to turn it up a notch. 
The junior went on a tear, scoring eight points as part of a 10-2 Saint Mary's run and helping give the Belles a 55-41 lead with 8:09 left in the game. While Rashid accounted for all but two of the team's points during the stretch, Kammrath said she wasn't the only reason Saint Mary's took the lead for 

After going 
down 14, the 
Bulldogs were unable to get within eight for the remainder of the game. 
Rashid and senior guard Alison Kessler led all scorers with 14 apiece -each also had six rebounds -and jun­ior forward Erin Newsom chipped in with 10 points and seven boards of her own. 
The Belles will look to con­tinue their winning ways when they host Alma Wednesday night. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 
fENCING 
Top-ranked W"Olllen perfect over vveekend 
By MEGHAN MCMAHON 
Sports Writer 
After a less-than-superb show­ing at the NYU Duals last week­end, Notre Dame re-established itself as a national contender at the Northwestern Duals Saturday and Sunday, the final team road event before the NCAA Midwest Regional competition on March 2. 
The No. 1 women finished with a perfect 11-0 record for the weekend, beating three of the top 10 teams in the country. 
Irish coach Janusz Bednarski was thrilled with the girls' show­ing. 
'These are very high resultc; for us," Bednarski said. "We showed great form and fenced superbly against some of the most impor­tant teams." 
After a 21-6 victory over defend­ing national champion No. 4 Penn State, the Irish women beat No. 2 Ohio State 17-10, redeeming their Jan. 26 loss to the Buckeyes. The women also had two perfect matches, 27-0 victories against both Cal Tech and Cal State Fullerton. 
A major factor in the team's improvement was the return of top sophomore epeeist Kelley Hurley. Hurley, who has been competing in Europe in hopes of maintaining a spot on the U.S. Olympic team, made her dual sea­son debut in Evaru;ton this week­end. 
"She lost only one bout during the two days of competition," Bednarski said. "She was the best fencer of the whole competition." 
The No. 3 men finished 8-2 in their matches, including a 21-6 victory over No. 10 Stanford. 
The men's only losses came against Penn State and Ohio State, the nation's first and second ranked teams. The Nittany lions topped Notre Dame 16-11. The Irish men came up short in the final bout versus Ohio State, losing to the Buckeyes by a narrow 14­13 margin for the second time thic; season. 
"The boys all competed equally greatly against very tough compe­tition," Bednarski said. 'We com­peted in one of the biggest tourna­ments in the country, and the whole team fenced very strongly." 
The Irish will finish their regular season when they host the two­day Notre Dame Duals this Saturday and Sunday. 
Contact Meghan McMahon at mmcmaho2@nd.edu 
SuPER BowL XLII 
Giants front seven manhandles Pats' 0-line 

ing, history-making 17-14 Logan Mankins. Throw in return. It happened again in the 
Associated Press 
loss. right guard Stephen Neal and "l-Ie was an upset guy," Super Bowl, only worse. 
GLENDALE, Ariz. -The "They have some great right tackle Nick Kaczur, and Giants linebacker Antonio With help from their line­New England Patriots' big, pressure schemes, obviously Brady played most of his Pierce said of Brady. "He was men, the Patriots set NFL brawny and bearded guys some great record-breaking yelling at his linemen. I think records for points scored and were just plain bad. pass rushers," season not hav­that worked in our favor." total touchdowns, while 
The AFC champions' her­Brady said. ing to worry The offensive line was also Brady broke the league mark alded offensive line allowed a "Once we kind "They have much about get­clearly rattled by the Giants, for TO passes and Moss set season-high five sacks to the of got the idea ting hit by with Light being called for the record for scoring recep­
tremendous players 

New York Giants in the Super of what we bloodthirsty false starts on tions. That Bowl on Sunday, failing to were doing, I up there and they defenders. consecutive high-powered give Tom Brady the type of thought we just outplayed us.,, "I like when I drives in the offense was tight protection they had handled it don't get third quarter. "We all could,ve done held to a sea­guarded him with all season. much better, touched," Brady With 19 sec­son-low t4
Dan Koppen things better 
"It's one of those things but we didn't said earlier in onds left in the points in the where they have a great front get the ball in Patriots center the week. game and the tonight.,, Super Bowl­seven," center Dan Koppen the end zone Then, disaster Patriots facing a mostly said. "They have tremendous enough." struck -in the do-or-die sce­because it
Tom Brady

players up there and they Coming in, Brady had been form of an all-out, pressure­nario, Brady was couldn't get
Patriots quarterback 
just outplayed us." sacked a career-low 24 times packed swarming defensive sacked for the time. 
Their inability to protect this season playing behind a attack by the Giants -in the final time when " T h e y Brady was a major reason line that produced three Pro worst possible setting. It was Jay Alford pulled played well the Patriots' quest for perfec­Bowlers in Koppen, left tack­the first time Brady had been him down at defensively," tion ended with a disappoint-le Matt Light and left guard sacked as many as five times New England's 16-yard line. coach Bill Belichick said. since the New York Jets did it Brady was left with nothing "They've been able to rush. on Sept. 21, 2003. to do but try two straight They led the league in sacks, 
New England had no desperation heaves to Moss they rushed all year. They answer for the Giants' bull­to no avail. are a good defensive football dozing defense. "I think their intensity from team. They played well." 
"If I could tell the beginning While the Giants were still you, we'd have it snap to the celebrating their upset victo­fixed," running end of the ry a half-hour after the game
"/ think their 
back Kevin Faulk game was ended, the Patriots and their
intensity from the
said. "At .the really higher offensive linemen were head­same time, they beginning snap to than ours," ed to the team buses for a ­outplayed us." Moss said. disappointing ride back to
the end of the game 
They sure did, "We just the hotel. 
was really higher 
and left Brady couldn't meet The offensive line received wondering what than ours. ,, that intensi­a great deal of attention this hit him. Brady ty." week, for their consistency ­simply had no The Giants and for the hair on their face.
Randy Moss 
time to find came in with All five of Brady's bunch had
Patriots receiver 
Randy Moss and 56 sacks, some sort of facial hair going his other targets including the on, including Neal's Fu on a regular playoffs, and Manchu and Mankins' big, basis against the Giants. He showed in their Week 17 loss bushy Grizzly Adams-like should've known he was in to the Patriots that they could beard. for a long day when he was be a force against New It's safe to say they were sacked by Kawika Mitchell England's line. Brady was red-faced after their embar­and Justin Tuck on consecu­sacked just once and threw rassing performance against tive plays midway through for 356 yards and two touch­the Giants. the second· quarter. downs in that one, but was "We all could've done 
It didn't help that Neal left hit repeatedly and forced to things better tonight," Brady after Tuck's sack, and didn't stray from the game plan. said. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish lose doubles point but fight back for vvin 
Freshmen contributions key against No. 15 Duke 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
No. 1 I Notre Dame over­carne a rocky start to improved its dual-nwet record to 5-1 Sunday with a 4-:{ win over No. 15 I>ukn in Durham, 
N.C. The Irish gavP the Blue I >evils their second loss of the season. 
The Irish got into a hole early by dropping tho doubles point. Tlw Blue Devils No. I doubles team of David Goulet and Christopher Prien defeated senior Shenva Parbhu and jun­ior Brett llnlgeson!J-7. 
"Nnitlwr of those guys likos to take charge on court." Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said of Parbhu and 11!-lgeson. "This hurl them tonight, and sonw­times a relationship on and ofT court can go sour." 
Heid Carlnton and Kiril Dimitrov defeated Irish fresh­man Stephen llavens and sen­ior Andrew Holh <J-X (7-2). 
"Hoth rmdly takes control of points on court," Bayliss said. "lie lets you know that he is in charge, and that's definitely been beneficial with him play­ing with llavens." 
.Junior Santiago Montoya and freshman Tyler Davis earned the Irish their only doubles win of the day. Montoya and Davis, the No. 3 doubles team, defeated Dylan Arnould and Alex Stone X-5. 
Bayliss said thn doubles per­formance was uncharacteristic of his team. 
"Our doubles teams have played well lately," Bayliss 
said ..."We had a rough day today. 
The Irish picked up the pace of the match in singles. Freshman Daniel Stahl earned the f'irst singles win for the Irish, 6-2. 6-4. 
"Stahl is trying to stay out of tho middle of thn court as much as possibln," Bayliss said. "The freshmen have real­ly stepped up and made their presence known. There are six or them, so they arn going to make quite an impact." 
llavens earned his first win of the day by beating Arnould 6-4, 6-4. The win tied the score at two. 
Parbhu earned his win at No. 2 singles by beating Dimitrov 7-5, 6-4. 
"Parbhu has been a great asset for us the last four years." Bayliss said. "He will probably go pro after this sea­son, and thfm possibly go to medical school." 
Freshman David Anderson earned the decisive win for the Irish. Anderson defeated Ja.red Pinsky in three sets by scores or 5-7, 6-4, 6-3. 
This is the second straight win for the Irish over the Blue Devils. In the matchup last year, Notre Dame topped Duke 6-1. The Irish improved their record against the Blue Devils to 6-15, and Bayliss' record is at 6-10 for his career. 
Wisconsin will face the Irish Saturday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. The first serve is set at 1 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

-
WU VUE/The Observer 
Irish senior Sheeva Parbhu serves the ball against Penn State in a 5-2 Notre Dame win on Jan. 20. 

SMC SWIMMING 
Belles drop fourth straight 
really great things to look for­

By PETE REISENAUER 
ward to in two weeks at our 

Sports Writer 
conference championship." 

There were some solid Saint Mary's came close, but efforts by many of the swim­couldn't stop the bleeding. Its mers Friday. The 400-medley losing streak stretched to four relay all-freshman team of meets when it fell to Maggie Williams, Casey Kalamazoo 149-145 Friday Niezer, Caroline Arness and 
night.  L  a  u  r  e  n  
The  Belles  Hartman  beat  
faced a Kalamazoo team that now has a 3-2  "All in all, I was proud ofhow competitive we were  the previous school record by three sec­o n d s  
record in MIAA meets. TIH1 meet was close, and i['  against a team that was three spots ahead of us in our  Dombkowski said he thinks the team could beat the time by  
several races had gone the  conference last year."  10 seconds in the conference  
other way, the Belles could  Ryan Dombkowski  championship. The 400  
have pulled it  Belles coach  freestyle relay  
out.  team of junior  
Belles coach  Rachel  Kalas,  

Hyan Dombkowski praised his sophomore Lindsey Nelis, jun­team's effort, despite the loss. ior Melissa Gerbeth and 
"All in all, I was proud of Hartman beat the previous how competitive we were best time in the season by against a team that was three over three seconds as well. spots ahead of us in our con­Their times were better than ference last year," their .time at the champi­Dombkowski said. "Our times onship meet last year. They show that we have been work­fell just short in the event, ing hard and we have some however, which propelled Kalamazoo to victory. 
Dombkowski was also proud of his divers, who he said won "key points to help us keep the meet close." 
"Freshman Erica Severson took up diving for a week and competed on both the one­meter and three-meter boards, showing some groat eourage and what it means to do whatever it takes to help the team," he said. "Freshman Meg Otten eom­peted on the thrne-mpter board for the first time as well." 
Dombkowski said the times posted by the Belles this weekend bode well for the upcoming conference meet. 
"Obviously, we would have liked to come out on the other end of the score, but it was still a great opportunity to be a part of' some fantastic com­petition and a f'un mont," Dombkowski said. "We swam great for a team broken down, looking forward to a few weeks of rest to get prepared for our conference champi­onships in two weeks." 
Contact Pete Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 2 Lady Vols oust Kentucky 
Candace Parker notches 20 points, seventh career dunk in win 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. Coach Pat Summitt wanted Candace Parker to take it to the hoop. Instead, the All­American went above the rim. 
Parker dunked for the sev­enth time in her career and scored 20 points to help No. 2 Tennessee overcome a slug­gish first half in a 79-51 win over Kentucky on Sunday. 
"Coach Summitt told me to go strong to the hoop," Parker said. "She said I need­ed to go inside the paint and take over and stop taking fade-aways." 
Parker dunked for the sev­enth time in her career and scored 20 points to help No. 2 Tennessee overcome a slug­gish first half in a 79-51 win over Kentucky on Sunday. 
"Coach (Pat) Summitt told me to go strong to the hoop," Parker said. "She said I need­ed to go inside the paint and take over and stop taking fade-aways." 
With the Lady Vols' leading by 18, the 6-foot-4 Parker chased down a loose ball after Chante Bowman lost control of it at midcourt. 
After the fast break, Parker hesitated at the baseline as if she were going to dunk but stopped to get better control of the ball. Then she turned around and put it in with 
8:08 left in the game as the home crowd erupted. 
The Lady Vols (20-1, 7-0 Southeastern Conference) led 32-24 after a slow first half, but went on a 15-6 run that ended as Parker drove for a layup with 14:07 left to put Tennessee up 49-31. 
Kentucky (11-11, 5-3) never recovered. 
Parker had four dunks last 
season, including one against 
rival Connecticut. She also 
dunked twice in her fresh­
man season against Army in 
the NCAA tournament. 
LSU All-American Sylvia 'Fowles is the only other 
women's college player to 
dunk this season. Only six 
women have dunked in a col­
lege game. 
Parker was one of four 
Lady Vols in double figures. 
Alexis Hornbuckle added 13 
points, Alberta Auguste had 
11 and Nicky Anosike 10. 
Vicki Baugh grabbed 10 
rebounds. 
The Lady Vols missed 28 shots and a free throw during the first half. The 30.3 per­cent field goal shooting was their worst first-half percent­age of the season for a team that averages 47.2 percent shooting. 
"Obviously it was a game of' two different halves," Summitt said. "In the locker room I said we go as Candace Parker and Alexis Hornbuckle go. They have to bring intensity from the opening tip to the last posses­sion. We saw what happens when they do that." 
Tennessee warmed up a bit 2 minutes into the game as a jumper by Shannon Bobbitt sparked a 20-5 run that ended o.n a pair of free throws by Nicky Anosike with 
7:28 left in the half. 
But the Lady Vols !'ailed to score in the last 2:35 before the break, and Kentucky took advantage by cutting Tennessee's margin to 32-24 on baskets by Sarah Elliott and some free throws. 
Samantha Mahoney led 
Kentueky with 18 points and Elliott added 11. 
Kentucky shot 47.4 percent from the field -the best shooting percentage of any Tennessee opponent this sea­son besides UCLA. But the Wildcats couldn't overcome their 36 turnovers. 
"We didn't take care of the ball obviously," said eoach Matthew Mitchell, who tutored under Summitt as a Tennessee graduate assistant in 1999 and 2000. "It was a tough, tough day." 
Kentucky's Amber Smith sprained her right knee with 
0.5 seconds left before half'­time af'ter she collided with Auguste. She did not return, and Mitchell said she would be evaluat1~d Monday. 
"Amber's been doing such a good job at the point," Mahoney said. "I had to move in and take her spot. With them cranking up the pres­sure and really getting in our passing lanes, it was disturb­ing our offense." 

Join America's # l Student Tour Operator 
CANCUN, ACAPULCO, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, PUERTO VALLARTA, SOUTH PADRE, FlORIDA, CRUISES
'7!:-..WJ 
Sell Trips, Earn Cash c"' ~~~:W 
&Travel Free ~D::flu 
1-800-648-4849 
www.d~travel.:am 



Press 
continued from page 24 
first half," McGraw said. "And it helped our traps; we got more steals and suddenly we were able to get out and run in transition because we were getting steals." 
McGraw said she was "thrilled" with her defense's performance. This came less than two weeks after saying her team was "certainly the worst defensive team in the Big East" following an 81-80 loss to DePaul. 
Throughout the first half, Notre Dame and Cincinnati played each other tight, with seven ties and five lead changes in the opening 20 minutes. Cincinnati went on a 9-0 run over a 2:52 span in the first half before the Irish responded with one of their own to leave the score tied at 26. 
McGraw said the defense of junior guard Lindsey Schrader late in the first half supplied the energy for the second-half surge. 
"She was really helping us defensively and making things happen -really being able to push the ball in transition," McGraw said. "So I thought bringing her back in for the last three minutes of the half really helped turn things around." 
McGraw said her team strug­gled early on partly because it came out "sluggish" in the first half. She compared it to the beginning of Notre Dame's game against Providence on Jan. 30. Notre Dame scored only two points in the first five minutes of that game, but pulled out an 85-54 win. 
"Just didn't have any energy and weren't able to get any­thing going. We only had a couple steals, we hadn't any 


transition points, we weren't rebounding," McGraw said. "We played okay defensively holding them to 26, but we couldn't get anything going offensively and that really changed in the second half." 
One reason for the team's sluggishness was that its flight out of South Bend was delayed for three hours on Friday, meaning it missed its usual shoot-around. 
The Irish got into some foul trouble early -Peters com­mitted her first two infractions after playing less than four minutes. Peters has averaged 
4.4 fouls per game during eight Big East games this sea­son. 
"I think she's just got to learn that she can't go for steals early," McGraw said. "She's got to come in and get comfortable in the game before she tries to get steals, block shots. She's really been working on that in practice; she was a little disappointed with herself this game. But she's really been working hard on it in practice." 
On the other bench, Cincinnati was playing with a limited roster due to injury and had to stick with players in foul trouble for most of the game. Guard Kahla Roudebush finished with four personals and guard Stephanie Stevens fouled out with 1:27 to play. 
Since the Bearcat starters still played most of the game, McGraw said, she did not notice that they were in any foul trouble. 
Notre Dame finished wit four players in double figure for the 13th time this season. Guard Charel Allen led the charge with 16 points, fol­lowed by Peters with 12 and guards Tulyah Gaines and Ashley Barlow with 11 apiece. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 
Irish svveep top 4 tnile spots at Indy invite 
Notre Dame 4x800 relay team also takes first 
"We still have a very long
By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
way to go to be at full 
Sports Writer 
strength and be close to our 
full potential," Connelly said. 
Building on last week's suc­The 4 by 800-meter relay 
cess at the Notre Dame team looked in top form, how­
Invitational, the Irish set ever. The squad, consisting of 
themselves apart again this Treece, Kelly Langhans, Molly
weekend at the Indiana Sullivan and Natalie Johnson, 
Invitational. blew by the 
The foursome 
rest of the of Marissa 
"We still have a very field, posting a 
Tl"'eece, Amy time of
long way to go to be
Kohlmeier, 9:04.97. The 
Lindsey at full strength and mark was goodFerguson and close to our full for first place, 
Becca Bauman 
with the next
potential."

rolled over the 
closest team competition, finishing four ·finishing with Tim Connelly seconds four
the top Irish coach behind. 
spots in the mile run. 
The meet consisted of 20 other teams, including No. 22 Indiana and Big East rivals Marquette and Cincinnati. 
Despite the stiff competi­tion, the mile runners were able to come home with the top times. Treece captured first with a time of 5:04.00, while Kohlmeier was right on her heels with a time of 
5:04.96. Ferguson finished in 
5:07.67 and Bauman posted a time of 5:08.94. Irish coach Tim Connelly expects more future success from the group. 
Notre Dame 

also found suc­cess in the field. Anna Weber continued her strong season, besting her season highs in both weight throw and shot put. Her mark of 63-7 1/2 in the weight throw was good for third place, and her shot put of 47-7 1/4 was good for fifth place. 
Notre Dame will return home next weekend for the Meyo Invitational, which will take place Friday at the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 

finished with seven top-1 0 finishes.
Atkins 
The team's next event is continued from page 24 the Meyo Invitational, host­ed at the Loftus Center. a time of 23.08 seconds. Events begin at 5 p.m. 
Freshman Greg Davis Friday and at 8 a.m. took ninth place in the Saturday. weight throw with a dis­tance of 17.75 meters. Contact Pat Stynes at 
Overall, the men's team pstynes@nd.edu 

·­
-
-------------=::..:::______:_=======:-======-=========================================-=====================================-
Deinons 
continued from page 24 
morn linislwd with 10 offensive boards, and the Irish converted :w second-chance points to DoPaul's 10. Tory Jackson stole llw ball on thP next Blun l>mnons possession and puslwd it up murt to Ayers for a thundProus dunk. The honw crowd went wild and Notre DamP newr look11d back. 
Tho Irish hnld oil' every subsP­qunnt Blue Demons run and made tlwir crunch-time free thr·ows to put their conference rivals away. Notre Damn finished with a 17-1 mlge in foul shots made. 
Altnr· boating Providence 81-74 Thursday night in overtime, the Irish trailod f(Jr much of the first half against DPPaul. But their legs wnro frnsh enough to build a 46­:~6 half'tinw lead. 
"Today our nner~ry was back," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "Thursday night. we invPstPd a lot physically and mnotionally." 
With DePaul leading 21-19, 
Ayers nailed a baseline jumper with 6:54 left in the first half. Blue Dnmons center Wesley Green then turned the ball over and Jackson found Irish guard Jonathan Peoples for a transition layup. Overall, the Irish converted 11 fast-break points to just two l<lr DePaul. 
After the basket by Peoples, the Irish led for the remainder of the game and improved their record to 1(J-4 overall and 6-2 in Big East play. The squad is alone in second place in the conference standings, trailing only Georgetown. 
"I told our guys we're in great position but we're not even hallway through the league yet," Bmy said. "But I'm proud of how we've handled ... this week." 
Brey said his team hopes to crack the top 25 in the national rankings this week but is not overly concerned with the polls. 
.. , think we probably nave earnnd that )honor) quite frankly," Brny said. "But if we don't get it, nobody's losing any sleep here." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 



IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Irish guard Tory Jackson defends Friars guard Dwain Williams dur­Ing Notre Dame's 81-74 overtime win over Providence on Jan. 31. 

Jackson 
continued from page 24 
was the best finish by a U.S. team in the tournament ever. 
Jackson said he was struck by memories of his time run­ning the national team during the national anthem, even more strongly than when he first coached against Lake Superior State -the team with which he won three national champi­onships. 
"When I was in the NIIL walking around rinks and every team had graduates from that program, that makes me proud," he said. "So many kids have come from that program that have helped Notre Dame and helped a lot of college hockey programs. Those kids come in much more complete to play." 
Sean Lorenz, Patrick Gaul and Kyle Palmieri ­
three U.S. guard because
"When I was in the
national play­they don't think ers -had NHL walking around we're not going to the chance to rinks and every team come out as seri­play against ous," said Irish
had graduates from 
their future goalie Brad
that program, that
team. Lorenz Phillips, who made and Gaul will makes me proud. " 10 saves in his two join the Irish periods of work. as a defense­Sophomore
Jeff Jackson 
man and for­goalie Tom 
Irish coach 
tively, next season, while Palmieri will enroll in the fall of 2009. 
Lorenz said there was a little trash talk between himself and former national players, such as freshmen defensemen Ian Cole and Teddy Ruth. 
"The guys are great on the 
ice, off the ice," Lorenz said of his future teammates. "You can't go wrong with that group 
of guys." 
Gaul had fami­ly who went to Notre Dame and 
said  the  Irish  
coaching  staff  
was  the  main  

reason he gave his verbal com­mitment to the Irish, a reason echoed by Lorenz as well. 
"They're not an easy team to play against," Gaul said of the Irish. ''I'm happy 

"They tried to catch points at my helmnt and is
our guys offguard 
likn, 'Are you

because they don't 
ready'?'think we're not going "Uhhh, guess," O'Brien
to come out as 
joked.

serious. 
The Under-ISs scored first Brad Phillips 15 minutes into the first period
Irish goalie 
I'm going to be on the other side of that meeting next year." 
Irish senior Evan Rankin scored the winning goal 2:24 into overtime when he beat U.S. goalie Joe Cannata from the bottom of the right eire! e. 
"They tried to 
catch our guys ofT 
his first collegiate 
game when Jackson put him in net for the third period, while the game was tied 1-1. O'Brien wasn't told at any point during the week that there was a chaneP, for him to enter the game, and he had to pop a couple Tums to settle his nerves. 
"I had no idea," said O'Brien. who made seven saves in the third period, allowed no goals and earnnd the win. "!Jackson! came in after the second period and he 
to take the 1-0 
lead. Vinny 
Saponari, a Boston University commit, sent a one-timer into the top shelf over Phillips' shoulder off a pass from Hyan Bourque, son of former NIIL star Hay Bourque. Bourque has committed to the University of New llampshire, the sehool that the top U.S. national player and second overall draft piek last year, James van Hiemsdyk, now attends. 
The Irish tied the game 1-1 three minutes later in the first when a wide shot took a large bounce off the boards back to the front of the U.S. net. Irish left wing Garrett Hegan picked up the carom and slid it into the net. 
"I knew that by playing these guys it would be a high tempo game because they are extremely fast," .Jackson said. "And by playing a team likn that, they'rn not ov11rly physical to whern it's going to put us in a position to get injured." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

Monday, February 4, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DoG 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
GOD, HAL-O :3 MAKeS MY NIPPt.eS INTO DIAMONDS. IF ONt.Y we COUL.D SKIP Ct.ASS 
HEY I>EJ..IOliC.K? l'TS 
C-fiAI!liE Wf.l~. Y!OAH, T"OVlrH 1.-o~S. HEY, J..,ISTjO)J. N0\.1 THAT Youft,. SJ:As.)tJ's "~ER l W).S HOPitJ6-"(ov
uvt..!> 11E.L.l> ME AIJAL.YzE. WHE.R:E NDTI'l.E-DAME Wi:NT Wf2,ot-J6-T"HIS 'I'E'AR. 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
HAH-l-ISTeN KID, HeAt.TH Sel2VICeS ONL.Y HAS TH12ee DIAS.NOSISeS' THe STl2eP, THe Hel2P, AND THe Pl2eGO 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJIJJJMIDl1IE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
KNETO 
I [J [] 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
TANGE 
I [ J [)
t.KELCHE 
IJ I [) 
www.jumble.com
tDEFANE 

IJ I I I Answer: rnrX I J " [ I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's I Jumbles: AFOOT FAIRY JAILED BECKON Answer: What Dad considered the icy drink on a hot day -A COOL "AID" 


CROSSWORD 
Across 35 Atop, poetically 62 Didn't go out for dinner

Doorframe parts 36 63 Gift recipient 
6 Chinese-born Speedwagon American 64 Floppy rabbit 
37 Horizontally architect 
feature

38 Musical 11 Be a pugilist transitions 
651ssues an advisory14 Bide one's time 40 "What was 66 Edgar Bergen's for do?" 

Mortimer15 Manicurists' 

41 Bulls, rams and 

concerns bucks Down16 Electrical unit 43 Goes to Where the 17 One who's 44 Long, long Pokemon crazealways up for a sentence originatedgood time 47 "I know what 2 Cognizant (of) 19 Coastal inlet you're thinking" 3 Nintendo brother 20 Out of bed claim 
4 Kibbles 'n 

21 Aviv 
48 Mississippi's 5 Eyelid woe 22 In the near 
Trent 6 Holiday_future 

49 BlackBerry, e.g., 7 Drink that often 23 Prefix with -lithic 
in brief comes with an 24 of students umbrella
52 Unretrievable 26 President before 8 Olive stuffing 
54 Illustration, for D.D.E. 

short 9 Airline to Ben­27 Background Gurion
55 Husband of Isis check for a 10 Nantucket, e.g.: 
58 April15 org.

lender 
Abbr. 59 Light hauler 

32 Jay-Z and 11 Bruce Timbaland 61 Sgt., e.g. Springsteen's first hit ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Akron's home 13 Marvel mutant superhero 18 Big name in fairy tales 22 Egyptian viper 25 Actor Harris and others 26 Regarding this point 27 TV's"..... Sharkey" 28 Send again 29 Place that often has picnic tables 30 Hollow-stemmed plant 
THE OBSERVER 


WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Mark Sherwood 

31 Flip 45 Superlative 52 Word that can suffix follow the starts
32 Fence part of 17-, 27-, 44­33 Play's start 46 Brenda Lee's and 59-Across 

34 "Nutty" role for Around the 53 Killer whale Jerry Lewis Christmas Tree" 54 Sandwich bread39 Xers 49 Trim. as 56 Norms: Abbr. 
42 Worker with branches 57 Fe, to chemistsgenes or film 

50 Kitchen gizmo 
59 Furry foot 

43 Bit of land in a river 51 Questioned 60 Little _ (tots) 
For. answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kathleen Kinmont, 43; Morgan Fairchild, 58; Blythe Danner, 65; Fran Tarkenton, 68 
Happy Birthday: You have a host of things you want lo do !his year but, the more you focus on what's really important, rhe better you will do. Set your priorities and stick to them. Emotional issues can be resolved and partnerships dealt with. Your numbers are 12, 14, 20, 24, 32, 47 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Keep things a secret today. The less you share with others, the less opposition you will face. You can get a lot accomplished if you work quietly on your own behind the scenes. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't listen to what orhers say or think !hat what is promised will actually be honored. Count on yourself. It's you who will excel be­cause you are dedicated, detennined and a doer. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A geographical change can turn a mediocre life into a spectacular one. Money is in the picture and a chance to try your hand at something creative, innovative and right up your alley is evident. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do something that will enhance your persona1life. Get involved in a deep conversation about your future plans and intentions and you will get help achieving your goals. The timing is right for changes. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make a difference if you are serious about a cause. Get involved and take action and you will impress the people you encounter and make new friends and possible partners for future endeavors. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Involvement with others will be to your benefit and should lead to a special kind of relationship. Love is in the stars --plan a good time for yourself and someone special. 5 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get over whatever is being thrown at you personally by the people you live with. You have to branch out and discover what else is available to you. A new hobby or pastime will do wonders for your ego and confidence. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The more time you spend at home or idle, the more difficult your day will become. Keep busy and engage in outings that will bring about good conversation with expenenced individuals who aren't critical. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Emotional reactions will backf'rre, so rhink before you do something you may regret. Spend time researching something you want to pursue. Attend a class or visit someone who can help you find your way. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Have some fun and you will discover a new way to do something that will be beneficial to you financially, professionally or even physically. Follow through wirh some of your thoughts and ambitions. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can make some personal changes that will wow the people you are closest to. Do somerhing special for yourself and you will feel more confident and enthusiastic about pursuing your goals. 3 stars 
-
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be a Good Samaritan and you will meet orhers Just like yourself. Love is in the picture and the opportunity to build new friendships is looking positive. The influence that the new people in your life make will give you needed strength and courage. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are knowledgeable, insightful, detennined and industrious. You are true to your beliefs and are willing to go rhe distance to accomplish your goals. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugeniala.rt.com for confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ __ Address ______________________________________ City----------'------State ____ Zip_______ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, February 4, 2008 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Harangody scores 29 in -win over DePaul 
By FRAN TOLAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Damn forward Luke llarangody seowd 29 poinL'i and grahbPd 14 rnbounds to win his game-long battlP against DePaul big man Mae Koshwal as the Irish dnlimtnd thn Blun Dnrnons 89-80 Saturday at tlw Joyen Cent11r. 
Koshwal's 18 points and nine n1bounds wern not enough as I>PI'aul's second-half' rally l'nll short and the Irish won their 33rd straight home ganw. 
"It's a lot of' fun," llarangody said. "When you'm playing like this. it's just great to bn on tlw court." 
Al'tl1r DePaul cut Notro Damn's lead to (J8-66 on a :~-point play by Blue Demons guard ClifT Clinkseales. the Irish responded with a 9-2 run. On Notre Damn's next possession. Irish guard Kyle MeAiarney, who linislwd with 17 points, took a pass from point guard Tory Jackson and drilled a 
:~-pointer. 
Al'lnr McAianwy's trey, Irish forward Hyan Ayers nailed a basnlinn jumpPr and llarangody tipped in his own miss to give the Irish a 75-68 cushion. The sopho­
see DEMONS/page 22 

Hot Hand Luke 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer Left, Irish guard Kyle McAiarney works the perimeter during Notre Dame's 89-80 win over DePaul Saturday at the Joyce Center. Right, forward Luke Harangody pulls down a rebound during the game. Harangody had 29 points and 14 rebounds. 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Second-half scoring surge leads Irish to vvin over Cinci 
points, she still felt she needed of the court in a 73-41 win trap them in the back court a second half after tallying onlyBy JAY FITZPATRICK to switch defensive schemes. Saturday in Cincinnati. It was little bit more. We played a lit­six takeaways in the opening
Associate Sports Editor 

The result was a dominating Notre Dame's ninth 30-point tle more zone than we did in period. performance. win of the season. the first half; I thought that "In the second half we 
Though Notre Dame played The Irish outscored the "We extended the defense. was more effective. I thought switched our press up to take what Irish coach Muffet Bearcats 47-15 in the second We played a little man-to-man we rebounded better too, away the sideline pass that McGraw considered solid half-including a 21-0 run full court, when Iforward] which I thought helped us." they had been throwing in the defense in the first half against spanning 13:22 -and con­Devereaux [Peters] came in," The Irish forced 13 Cincinnati, allowing just 26 trolled the game at both ends McGraw said. "And we tried to turnovers with the press in the see PRESS/page 21 
HocKEY 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
It was a nostalgic game for one person and an introduction li>r others. 
No. X Notre Damn defoated tho U.S. National Undor-18 team 2-1 in overtimo Friday night in an nxhibition game. It was the first time Irish coach JHIT Jac:kson coaehNI against the program ho forged a decade ago, and it was th11 11rst time thrno futuro Irish playnrs lac:ed up skates in the Joyce Center. 
Jackson was tlw lirst eoach of thn National I>nvnloprnnnt Program team. which he led in 1997 to a silvPr modal in thn World Junior championships. It 
see JACKSON/page 22 


MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Molnar sn1okes field at Indiana Invitational 
By PAT STYNES Spons Wrirer 
This weekend, a different Hungarian runner shined for the Irish. 
At the Indiana Invitational in Bloomington, Ind., sopho­more sprinter Balazs Molnar won the 400-meter dash with a time of 48.35 sec­onds, more than six tenths of a second faster than the rest of' the field. While fresh­man Miklos Szebeny has been tearing up the competi­tion of late, Molnar has flown under the radar this season. 
Molnar also performed 
well at last week's Notre Dame Invitational, finishing 
in  second  with  a  time  of  
48.40 seconds.  
Molnar, however.  was  not  

t hn on I y success fu I Irish runner at the Indiana Invitational. Senior John Cavanaugh took second place in his first 800-mctcr race of tho season with a Big East qualifying time of 1:50.66. 
Freshman Chandler Brooks ran a 22.54 in the 200-metPr dash, good enough for a sec­ond-place finish. FrPshman Tyrell Atkins finished in 1Oth plaee in the event with 
see ATKINS/page 21 



