THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 32 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2008 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND students vote Obama in mock election 

Democratic candidate wins 52.6 percent ofvote over McCain's 41.1 percent 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Students at the University of Notre Dame elected Sen. Barack Obama and Sen. Joe Eiden as the next president and vice president of the United States in a mock election Tuesday. 
With 2,692 undergraduates and graduate students voting in the election, the Democratic ticket won 52.6 percent of the vote, or 1,414 students, followed by the Republican ticket of Sen. John McCain and Gov. Sarah Palin, which won 41.1 percent of the vote, or 1,105 students. 
Former congressman Bob Barr and Wayne Allyn Root, the Libertarian Party ticket, won 2.7 percent of the votes, or 72 stu­dents. 
The independent ticket consist­ing of Ralph Nader and Matt Gonzalez drew 1.4 percent of the vote, or 37 students. Thirty-nine students, or 1.4 percent of the vot­ers, chose to abstain and 23 stu­dents, or .9 percent, voted other. There was no option to write in a candidate preference for the "other" selection. 
Student government organized the mock election, placing voting stations at LaFortune Student Center, DeBartolo Hall and North and South Dining Halls, where stu­dents could vote on laptop comput­erS throughout the day Tuesday. 
As some hurried to and from class Tuesday afternoon, a line of students waiting to cast their votes stretched from the DeBartolo vot­ing tent down the sidewalk. 
"I think it could not have gone any better," student body vice president Grant Schmidt said Tuesday night after the voting sta­tions had closed. 
Schmidt told The Observer on Monday that he hoped to have 1,500 people participate in the election, but he said his expecta­
see ELECTION/page 6 
Issue 
•Abert.on liiCM! L~t--~rt<es 
c'[C(ltlo!l'!f 
• [ducatlOll 
• Encrgf aM the EnwQtlme<\t 
'fOfl!"JO Poky l!'rmgrat oo 
,, .::a ·war 
Other 
Graphic Provided by Notre Dame Student Government 

University reopens suspended Jerusalem program 
Abroad program at the Ecumenical Institute for Theological Studies at Tantur will begin in summer 2009 after nine years 
said Liz Murdock LaFortune, program," Lafortune said. "A by people employed by the the University for several 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
Assistant Director of OIS and lot of people weighed in on University, is located at the years to consider plans for a 
News Writer 
Program Coordinator for the that, including people on the Ecumenical Institute for Jerusalem Program. 
Jerusalem Summer Program. ground in Jerusalem." Theological Studies at Tantur, "We've actually been in dis­
Nine years after the In the past, the Jerusalem LaFortune said students which is on the road from cussions with various people at University suspended its study Program was offered as a have continued to express Jerusalem to Bethlehem, the University for at least the abroad program in Jerusalem spring semester program until interest in the program since it LaFortune said. last two years," LaFortune. eight to ten students will once 2000, LaFortune said. was suspended. "Students will live with the She said the Office of again have the opportunity to The program was suspended Although the State Tantur community and take International Studies has live and study in the city. in November 2000 during the Department warning still meals with them and be part worked with both the General 
The Office of International time of the beginning of the exists today, LaFortune said of the daily prayer," LaFortune Counsel's Office and Risk Studies (OIS) is offering a Second (or al-Aqsa) lnfitada violence has decreased in the said. Management. Jerusalem Summer Program and the "general violence in area and the program's struc­According to Tantur's Web The Board of Trustees gave for summer 2009. the area" associated with the ture will enable the University site, it was purchased by the the final approval for the 
''I'm really grateful that we Intifada, LaFortune said. to take steps to protect stu­Vatican after the Second Jerusalem Summer Program have the opportunity to send The State Department issued dents. Vatican Council and leased to last spring, LaFortune said. students there because there's a warning regarding travel in The summer program will be Notre Dame for fifty years, However, the Program is sub­just really nothing quite like it. the area at the time. a lot more structured in order according to the Web site. The ject to cancellation if there are . . . Talking to people there is an "One was planned for Spring to minimize risk to students, Institute was opened in 1971, any changes in security. experience that you can't 2001. At that point, the deci­LaFortune said. according to the Web site. duplicate here on campus," sion was made to suspend the The program, which is run OIS has been working with see JERUSALEM/page 4 
TCEs replaced vvith online feedback forms 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Beginning this semester, Notre Danw 's Teacher and Course Evaluations (TCEs) will be replaced by the online Course lnstruetor Feedback forms (CIFs), whieh students will be able to consult for advice when n~gistering for classes next semester. assistant provost Dennis Jacobs said. 
When students register for spring semester classes, the traditional registration information, such as the eourse description and availability, will appear on the registration website as usual, but below them will 
be a new section titled 
"Detailed  Course  
Information."  
This  section,  known  as  

Enhanced Class Search (ECS), will include the instructor's description of the course, the enrollment history and student ratings. The Iast section comes directly from questions stu­dents answer on the CIF evaluation forms. 
Jacobs said they decided to make course evaluation information available to stu­dents as a resource to help students decide which class­es to take. Before this sys­tem, students' sources for information about a profes­
see FEEDBACK/page 4 

Vote can be tampere~ with easily 
OIT officer says electronic voting software has miniJnum security 
By MOLLY MADDEN News Writer 
If someone wanted to manipulate the presidential election in November it would be relatively easy due to the prevalence of technol­ogy in today's world, Office of Information Technologies (OIT) Officer Mike Chapple said at Tuesday's "Hacking the Vote" lecture in DeBartolo Hall. 
Election hacking, or using technology to fraudulently affect the electoral process, has become an unfortunate reality in American politics, he said. 
see VOTE/page 8 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Hold on for 

one n1ore day 
The wise Wilson Phillips once sang, 
Someday sonwbody's gonna make you 
vant to turn around and say goodbye I 
Jntil tlwn hahy are you going to let 
l.lwm hold you down and make you 
cry'? I Don't you know things ean 
chang~~? I Things'll go your way il' you 
hold on for one more day." 
I'm sure Chicago Cubs fans could use those words of advieo right now. 
Let me prnl'aee my column with this, I am a Hod Sox fan. !\II that 
Sam Werner 
stands between 
my team and the World Snries is the i\ssistant 
fonnt~rly hapless .','ports [3'dilor 
and currently Pplwmeral (Devil) 
Hays. 
1\.s a Hed Sox fan. though, I feel that it is my personal rnsponsibility to tdl Cubs fans to just "hold on for one morn day." It will be worth it, I promise. One day you'll sn•~ your players spraying nad1 ol.lwr with champagne and it will lw worth thosn 100-plus ynars. 
I rPmemlwr just four years ago when my team hadn't won a d~ampionship in S6 years. While not quite a eentury, let's just say it had been a while. 1\.aron Boone, Bul'ky I>Pnt. and Bill Buckner wPrn tlw nanws that canw to mind when it c~ame to tlw Hed Sox in thn playoiTs . .lust like right now Cubs fans think of Steve Bartman. Leon Durham, and Itlw lack o() 1\.lfonso Soriano. 
1\.ller 2004, though, whiln thosn mPmor·ins still hurt. tlwy hurt a lot less with addition ol' Big Papi. Manny, and .Josh Beckett to Boston playoff lorn. Maybe those rww Cubs legends are on the roster right now. Maybe Hyan Theriot will turn into a playoll' stud. 
The point is that a Cubs champi­onship will happen eventually (and it probably would help if people didn't write columns promising "an extended gloat" when the Cubs win). When the Cubs pitehnr drops to his knees at Wrigley and is mobbed by his tnam­mates, you'n~ going to be glad you did­n't give up hope aftnr 200R. I'm not saying all will be fonwnr well in Wrigleyville, but it enrtainly will be niee to have Mighty .Jon Young ofT of your back. 
Which brings me to tho most asinine baseball argunwnt I've evnr heard: the idna that Cubs fans (and previously Hed Sox fans) would be upsnt if thnir team won thn World Series, bnc~ause they would lose their "identity" as baseball fans. 
I nnjoynd last year's playoll's more than 1nvor had before. Why'? Bneause Rf1 ynars of failure weren't weighing on my back. 
Just know this. Cubs fans: you'rn morn inv1~stnd now. Tlw champagno will taste a little hit swnntnr b1~eause of !\lex (;onzalnz and Mark l>eHosa. I've alrnady had my moment: Whnn Knith Foulke flipped an Edgar Benteria ground hall to Doug Minntkiowiez. Your monHmt is still to eome. 1\.nd it will be better than anyone cvnr told you it would be. 
"I know that there is pain I But if you hold on for one morP. day, you can break fren from the chains." 
The t'iews expressed in the Inside (.'olumn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obser(l(~r. 
Contact .'·iam Werner at swerner@Jnd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

l )ue to a reponin!\ error, the arriclc "Group addresses budget concerns" in the Ocr. 7 issue ofThe Observer incorrectly stared rhar rhe Saint Mary's Student ( ;overnmt·nr Executive Board stipend decreased by $30,000. The stipend decreased by $20,000. Also, rhc sub-headline of rhc same article could be misleading. The Observer regrets these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU SAY TO SOMEONE WHO WASN'T GOING TO VOTE? 






Jimmy Zumit  Kathleen Hession  Mike Martinson  Rob Schaus  Taylor Sheppard  
sophomore Keough  senior off-campus  freshman O'Neill  freshman O'Neill  freshman LeMans  
"Vote or die. "  "If you don't  "You need the  "Vote ... please?"  "Vote ... it's sort  

vote. you can't exercise. 
complain. " 


ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 
Students vote in Tuesday's mock election organized by the Notre Dame student government. Sen. Barack Obama won the election with 52.6 percent of the vote. Sen. John McCain took 41.1 percent of the vote. 
OFFBEAT 

man skipped the jury duty so he could drink himself. 
Lemons received a sum­mons to appear as a prospective juror in the ease. When he didn't show up on Monday, a bailiff called his house. Lemons told the bailiff he was too busy to come to court. 
Associate Circuit Judge Scott Thomsen instrueted offieers to bring Lemons to the courthouse. Deputies say they detected a strong odor of aleohol on him. Lemons was held in custody while the DWI trial went on. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Angry airline passenger flings foot powder 
BOSTON -Boston police said a passenger who was angry becausn his flight was delayed tried to get back at the airline by throwing foot powder around the plane. 1\.rthur Nicolson. of Framingham, was arrested Monday after tho U.S. 1\.irways flight from La'i Vegas hu1ded at I .ogan International 1\.irport. 
The plane's captain told state police that after the plane landed, Nicol'ion began throwing the white powder and said, "This is what your airline gets for treating me bad." 
When state police arrested Nicolson, he allegedly had a 7-ounce container of Dr. Scholl's foot powder. 
Nieolson, 42, pleaded not guilty and was released on personal recognizance Tuesday after his arraign­ment on charges induding disorderly conduct and inter­fering with the operation of an aircraft. 
Authorities say man skipped jury duty to drink 
.11\.CKSON, Mo. -Curtis Lemons was supposed to report for jury duty in a drunk driving case. Inst(~ad, according to authorities, the 50-year-old Cape Girardeau 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
::r:: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
-1 c( 
e 
(.) 
0 

HIGH 68 HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I LOW 50 LOW LOW LOW 




of the law." 
IN BRIEF 

Free Flu Shots will bo givnn out at lh~ JoYf.X~ Center today /i·om 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. Van~inations are avail­able for students. faeulty, staff, retirees. and spouses of retirees. Hedpienl'i mu'it prnsnnt their ND II> card, wear short slnavns, and sign informoo consent to mc~eiw tho var­dne. 
Studnnts ean partidpatn in Mindfulness and Helaxation Training. '11m :{-ses.'iion da......., will be held at Holt's Sports Hecreation Center from 4-5 p.m. tonight Come woaring loose, warm, c:omfiwt.ablo dothing. It is eo-sponson~d by the University Counseling Conter and Hee."lports. Studonts can sign up via HecHegistor on rnesports.nd.edu. Cost i'i $12.00. 
"The Mushmom Pieker" a ono­man play, performed by Patrick Dewane in the Philbin Studio Theatre, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight at 7:30 p.m. 'tickets are $10, $8 lor famlty /staJJ: and $5 fhr seniors citizens /veter­ans/ students. It is presented by Tho Nanovic Institute for European Stuoies and Shakespnare at Notn~ Dame 
Economic:'> profPBsor Jim SulliwUJ will diseuss "And Justiee for All: Economies, the Election and Faith" at lboology on Tap tonight at 9 at Legend'i. Frne ((XJ(I i'> providod wilh aeashbar. 
"Back's Lunch: A Noontime Concert," a short da'isieal eoneert f(laturing advaneed studnnL'i from the Dnpartment of Music will take place Friday at 12:10 p.m. in Penote Performer's Hall in DebBartolo Perfonning At1s Center. The audi­ence is,wnlmme to bring thoir lunch to thi'i event. 
1b submit in:fbrmation to be includ­ed in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed inJhmzation aboul an event to obsnews@ndedu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 73 LOW 50 

Atlanta 68 164 Boston 66 I 47 Chicago 68 I 56 Denver 72 I 43 Houston 85 I 60 Los Angeles 94 I 63 Minneapolis 69 I 47 New York 71 148 Philadelphia 71 I 47 Phoenix 100 I 70 Seattle 54 I 44 St. Louis 68 I 58 Tampa 85 I 73 Washington 72 I 48 
Wednesday, October 8, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COR 
Census likely to be out Sun. 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
The student census will hopefully be distributed to the student body on Sunday, student body president Bob Reish announced at Tuesday's Council of Representatives (COR) meet­ing. 
Faculty members from the marketing department are currently reviewing the cen­sus to make sure that there are no biased questions, he said. 
One question on the census will be dedicated to finding out what students think about football pep rallies, Reish said. 
The state of the pep rallies was also discussed at COR in regard to Sarin College's boycott of Friday's pep rally. 
Hall Presidents Council (IIPC) eo-chair Phil Krichner said he is going to bring up the boycott at both Tuesday night's HPC cabinet meeting and with Sarin president Aidan McKiernan. 
"There are a whole lot of mitigating factors [in pep 
see COR/page 4 




Professors discuss national security 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame professors and students gathered in the Hesburgh Center's Great Hall to discuss foreign policy and national security as it relates to the upcoming election at the fourth Pizza, Pop and Politics event sponsored by NO Votes '08, which is a part of the Center for Social Concerns, and the Washington Program. 
Law School professor Mary Ellen O'Connell said the presidential candidates must ask themselves how to best approach the major issues of the election. 
The future president will need to work for peace in Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia, where the United States military is engaged in armed conflicts, she said. 
"These conflicts need to be resolved. Our troops need to be brought home," O'Connell said. 
Also, a peace agreement between Israel and Palestine has to be very high on the future president's 'agenda, she said. 
"The problem of weapons administration has been huge" and peaceful solutions must be found, O'Connell said. "Look at South Africa, Libya [and the] Ukraine. Countries that have given up their bombs have done so through peaceful means, not through force." 
Another key issue for the promoting rule of law, and future president is the re­backing off out use of force." establishment of America's Joseph Bock, Director of international image, External Relations for the O'Connell said. Kroc Institute for 
"We have been the rule-of­International Studies, direct­law country since our found­ly addressed the foreign poli­ing," she said. "We respect cy and diplomacy strategies human rights. The next pres­of presidential candidates 
ident  will  John McCain and  
refurbish our  Barack Obama.  
reputation for human rights." O'Connell cited the Law of the Sea  "These conflicts need to be resolved. Our troops need to be brought home. ''  The two candi­dates share many similarities in these areas, he said. "They both  
convention, a  oppose torture,  
treaty which  Mary Ellen O'Connell  they both want  
defines  the  Law School professor  to  close  

rights and responsibili­ties of nations in their use of the world's oceans, as an exam­ple of one way the next pres­ident could improve American international image. 
"I think the next president will sign this one right away", O'Connell said. According to the Web site un.org, however, the United States has already signed the treaty, but the Senate has not ratified it. President Bush has endorsed the treaty and asked the Senate to support it, said the Web site America.gov. 
"I think we need to rethink our use of military force in the world, rejoin the interna­tional court of law," O'Connell said. "I think we need to focus on diplomacy, 
Guantanamo Bay, they both support increased resources for the military," Bock said. "They want to talk with Iran, they see the need to improve [the 
United  States']  image  
abroad."  
At the  same  time, Bock  

cited several differences between the two candidates. 
"Obama made a statement at one point that he would be willing to bomb Pakistan if· the Taliban was found there," Bock said. "McCain said that is careless." 
"McCain says we need a victory in Iraq", while Obama wants to redirect resources there, Bock added. 
McCain has expressed interest in a League of Democracies that could be a counterpoint to the United Nations, while Obama is gen­
erally supportive of the U.N., Bock said. 
Bock compared the deci­sion-making processes of the two candidates, asking, "Who is a strong decision maker?" 
Obama takes a "no drama" approach, while McCain's approach is intuitive, Bock said. 
Political science professor Michael Desch agreed with Bock that the candidates have a lot in common. 
"Both McCain and Obama are developing very similar sorts of platforms," although McCain groups foreign policy issues together with national security issues, he said. 
"There is a big food fight between the two campaigns over diplomacy," Desch said. "Their strategies for the war on t.~rrorism are very differ­ent. 
Desch compared McCain's and Obama's strengths and weaknesses as measured by polls. 
Obama is preferred on economy issues, for example, while McCain has an advan­tage on immigration. 

"Obama has shown surpris­ing strength on foreign poli­cy," Desch said. "[But] McCain has a slight edge on handling terrorism and for­eign policy." 
In the end, "domestic poli­tics are sucking the oxygen out of everything else," Desch said. 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 


($1UNIVERSITY OF 
'WNOTREDAME 
The Law Sch.ool 
COR 
continued from page 3 
rally planning, I" Krichncr said. 
There are many difl'f~rent constituencies that have a role in planning a pop rally, he said. lin cited IIPC, the football team. tho band, the Alumni Association, the .Joyce Center. the ushers and NDSP as having roles in the planning. 
IlPC is responsibln for planning the portion of the pep rally bnforo Chuck Lennon. the nxeeulivn direc­tor of the Alumni Assoeiation Pntnrs. This portion of the pep rally was praised by COH membnrs. 
"[Thn tinwl before Chuck Lennon has bonn awesomf~ this year," CCC President .John Burke said. 
ltnish also said he and stu­dent body vice president Crant Schmidt will present an in-depth report at the next Board of Trustees meet­ing in February on tho rela­tionship bntween the student body, NI>SP and tho South 



Feedback 
continued from page 1 
sor or elass were limited to anecdotes from upperclass­men who had already taken the course or to websites like ndtoday.com, Jacobs said. 
The new system will be available to all students Oct. 30, and will continue to be updated. 
"The data is not going to be nearly as complete by Oct. 30 as we hope it will eventu­ally become," Jacobs said. 
However. to ensure stu­dents approach the CIFs seriously, they can only see the detailed course informa­tion if they have filled out a CIF for each of the previous semester's classes, Jacobs said. 
"The primary concern was, will students respond'? Will they take the time to go online and fill this out'?" he said. 
Jacobs said the University's Advisory Committee to the Provost on the Evaluation of Teaching (ACPET) has been working on the new feedback 


Jerusale01 
continued from page 1 
The six-week program will include required travel because a lot of learning will take place on-site, LaFortune said. Students may have the opportunity to travel to Galilee, Haifa, Jericho, Beer­Sheba, Acre and other archae­ological and religious sites in Israel and the other Occupied Palestinian Territories, according to LaFortune. The Faculty Director and On-Site Director will go with students on these trips. 
The students in the program will take the same six credit hours and be required to take basi<: introductory courses in both Arabie and llebrnw, LaForturw said. The language courses arP integral to stu­dents' experienees with the program. 
"!Tho courses arn ani impor­tant part of the program. to be abln to nxperience Israel as wnll as the West Bank .... 

Bend Police Department. 
lie said that he will solicit advice from COR membnrs throughout his preparations for the presentation. 
In other COR news: 
+ The Off-Campus Council is sponsoring two block par­ties this weekend to encour­age students to get to know their neighbors. 
The first block party will be held on Friday from 4-7 
p.m. at the Lafayette Apartment complex. It will 
feature  free food  and  a  live  
band.  
This  weekend's  second  

block party will be held on Sunday from 3-6 p.m. in the field behind Corby How. Ne i g h b o r s o n Not r e Da me Ave. and Corby Blvd. will be invited. 
"We're hoping to get a cou­pln more neighbors out," Off­Campus Pn~sident Billy Lyman said. The Off-Campus Couneil will canvass some of the area neighborhoods to inform residents of the block parties, according to Lyman. 
Contact John Tierney at 
jtiernel@nd.edu 
system for three years. 
Notre Dame has also used data from other universities that have implemented an online feedback system, including Harvard, Stanford, Yale and Northwestern, according to a document released by ACPET. 
"When the committee looked at the existing TCE, there were a lot of concerns. It required a comprehensive redesign," Jacobs said. "One of the concerns that has always plagued us is that the items, or questions, were the same if you were taking a science class, an art class, a seminar. It dido't reflect the diversity of classes." 
To address this concern, ACPET sought to create a form with more flexibility, Jaeobs said. 
Jacobs said another prob­lem with the TCEs was pro­fessors could opt not to par­ticipate. In Fall 2006, for example, TCEs were not col­lected in 181 class sections that were designated for evaIuation. 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
Language goes a long way toward that," LaFortune said. 
In addition to language courses, students will also take Middle Eastern History, Ileligion and Culture; International Relations and the Arab/Israel Conflict; and Holy Land Geography and 
Archaeology, according  to  
LaFortune.  
"Living  and  studying  in  

Jerusalem provides students with a unique opportunity to better understand the Bible, Middle Eastern history, and the religious, social and politi­cal situation of the Palestinians and Israelis in the Holy Land through distinctive course offerings and daily experiences," LaFortune said. "Simply stated, there is no other location that offers the options and resources that are available to University of Notre Damn students in Jerusalem." 
The deadline to apply for the Jnrusalem Summer Program is November 15, 2008. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
, October 13, 2008 5:45-6:45 p.m. ~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME
Pizza Provided 

Mendoza College of Business Giovanini Commons, Lower Level Mendoza College ofBusiness 






Catholic Charities USA® 
Fr. Larry Snyder, President of Catholic Charities USA will discuss: 
• 
The mission ofCatholic Charities 

• 
Getting involved in Catholic Charities 

• 
Professional and entry-level positions 


For information contact (574) 631-3277 • shwang2@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 8, 2008 CoMPILED rRoA,, TI-IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Maldives prepares for first election 
MALE, Maldives -To supporters, President Mamoun Abdul Gayoom is a hero who turned a poor nation of fishermen into a tourist paradise and the economic success story ofSouth Asia. 
Detractors accuse him of ruling the Maldives as a dictator, violently suppressing dissent and amassing wealth for his friends and family. 
On Wednesday, Asia's longest-serving ruler will face his first democratic election, challenged by a crowded field of opponent<; who say it is time for a change. 
"We've had a dictatorship for the last 30 years," said Mohamed Nasheed, head of the opposition Maldivian Democratic Party. "The people of this country deserve better." 
Whoever wins will inherit a stunningly beautiful country of 1,190 coral L'llands, about 200 of them inhabited and dozens more developed into tourist resorts, many owned by current and former Cabinet minL'lters. 
The elected president will also confront a grow­ing heroin problem, increasing fundamentalism in the Sunni Muslim nation and the thnmt of rising sea leveL<; caused by global warming. 
Dark matter physists touted for prize 
STOCKHOLM -Scientists who have pur­sued dark matter, hunted for undiscovered planets and advanced nanotechnology were being touted Monday as candidates for the 2008 Nobel Prize in physics. 
But the prize being announced on Tuesday is one of the toughest to predict given the complexity of science involved for an award encompassing a wide latitude of subjects. 
Karin Bojs, science editor of Stockholm daily Dagens Nyheter, predicted the 2008 award would honor work to discover plan­ets in other solar systems. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

NYC mayor pushes for third term 
NEW YORK Mayor Michael Bloomberg's bid to change the term-limits law so that he can campaign for another four years rests in the hands of the City Council, where two competing bills were introduced Tuesday. 
The 51-member council won't vote until Oct. 23 at the earliest, and two hearings were set for next week on the highly charged issue that could dramatically alter the city's political landscape. 
Two-thirds of the council members will be forced out of office next year under the existing term-limits law, which restricts the mayor, council members and other city officeholders to two consecutive four-year terms. 
Ohio court mulls abortion files 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Ohio Supreme Court justices appeared skeptical Tuesday that an abortion clinic's medical records on other patients are relevant to a lawsuit brought by parents of a 14-year-old girl who had an abortion without their consent. 
Lawyers for the girl's family argued that the information they seek is necessary to prove that Planned Parenthood of Cincinnati had a pattern of violating Ohio's parental consent law and failing to report abuse. The unusual case pits a single plain­tiff against the privacy interests of a decade's worth of patients. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Cbargesdrowedforgroup home ownm; 
FORT WAYNE -An Allen County judge has dis­missed neglect charges against two group home employees charged in the death ofa resident. 
Prosm~utors on Monday asked Judge Fran Gull to dismbs thn charges of neglect of a dependent caus­ing death against Erica K. Wheeler, 23, and Valerie Mann, 26, alter learning that a private laboratory destroyed a kny piece of evidence in the death of David Beville. 
"We can't establish, beyond any question, that the original sample wa'l from David Beville," Chief Deputy Prosecutor Michael McAlexander said. . 
McCain and Obamaclashovereconomy 


Candidates debate the economic crisis, taxes, foreign policy, and health care 
Associated Press 

NASHVILLE Barack Obama and John McCain clashed repeatedly over the causes and cures for the worst economic crisis in 80 years Tuesday night in adebate in which Republican McCain called for a sweeping $300 billion pro­gram to shield homeowners from mortgage foreclosure. 
"It's my proposal. It's not Sen. Obama's proposal," McCain said at the outset of a debate he hoped could revive his fortunes in a presidential race trending toward his rival. 
In one pointed confrontation on foreign policy, Obama blnntly challenged McCain's steadiness. "This is a guy who sang bomb, bomb, bomb Iran, who called for the annihilation of North Korea -that I don't think is an exam­ple of speaking softly." 
That came after McCain accused him of foolishly threat­ening to invade Pakistan and said, ''I'm not going to telegraph my pnnches, which is what Sen. Obamadid." 
The debate was the second of three between the two major party rivals, and the only one to feature a format in which voters seated a few feet away posed questions to the candidates. 
They were polite, but the strain of the campaign showed. At one point, McCain referred to Obama as "that one," rather than speaking his name. 
"It's good to be with you at a town hall meeting," McCain also jabbed at his rival, who has deregulation of the financial homes and let people be able to The two men also competed to spurned the Republican's calls industry, predicting that would make those payments and stay demonstrate their qualifications for numerous such joint appear­"let markets run wild and pros­in their homes," he said. as reformers at a time voters are ances across the fall campaign. perity would rain down on all of "Is it expensive? Yes. But we clamoring for change. 
They debated on a stage at us. It didn't happen." all know, my friends, until we McCain accused Obama of Belmont University four weeks McCain's pledge to have the stabilize home values in being tl1e Senate's second-high­before Election Day in a race government help individual America, we're never going to est recipient of donations from that has lately favored Obama, homeowners avoid foreclosure start turning around and creat­individuals at Fannie Mae and both in national polls and in sur­went considerably beyond the ing jobs and fixing our economy, Freddie Mac, the two now-dis­veys in pivotal battleground $700 billion bailout that recently and we've got to get some trust graced mortgage industry giants. states. cleared Congress. While he said and confidence back to "There were some of us who 
Not surprisingly, many of the bailout money should be used to America." stood up against it," McCain said questions dealt with an economy help homeowners, the bailout McCain also said it was impor­of the lead-up to the fmancial in trouble. legislation merely gave the tant to reform the giant benefit crisis. "There were others who 
Obama said the current crisis Treasury Department authority programs such as Medicare, took a hike." was the "final verdict on the to purchase mortgages directly. Medicaid and Social Security. Obama shot back that failed economic policies of the "I would order the secretary of "My friends, we are not going McCain's campaign manager, last eight years" that President the Treasury to immediately buy to be able to provide the same Rick Davis, has a stake in a Bush pursued and were "sup­up the bad home loan mortgages benefit for present-day workers Washington lobbying firm that ported by Sen. McCain." in America and renegotiate at that present-day retirees have received thousands of dollars a 
He contended that Bush, the new value of those homes at today," he said, although he did month from Freddie Mac nntil McCain and others had favored the diminished value of those not elaborate. recently. 

IRAQ 


Iraq's FM: "Bold" decisions needed 
an agreement governing the operations the Americans had submitted new ideas 
Associated Press 
of U.S. forces in this country after the and language that "could be acceptable 

BAGHDAD -The Iraqi foreign minis­current U.N. mandate expires at the end or reasonable." He gave no details and ter said Tuesday it will require "bold of the year. cautioned that the government had not political decisions" to resolve the major Iraqi officials say the draft calls for U.S. accepted them. issue standing in the way of a deal allow­troops to leave the country by the end of "I don't want to give you any false hope ing American troops to remain here next 2011 unless the Baghdad government about where we are, but I think we are year -who would try U.S. troops asks them to stay. very close," he told reporters at a press accused of crimes. But legal immunity for U.S. soldiers .conferel}ce with U.S. Deputy Secretary of 
Neighboring Iran stepped up pressure under Iraqi law has emerged as the State John Negroponte. against the proposed agreement, with major obstacle, with neither side able to Zebari said the immunity issue "needs. President Mahmoud Ahmedinejad telling find language to satisfy the other. I think, some bold political decisions. And a visiting Iraqi official that Iraq had "a The U.S. wants the exclusive right to we are at that stage." duty" to resist the Americans and anoth­prosecute soldiers accused of crimes. The "And that's why I suggested that soon er Iranian leader warning of unspecified Iraqis want some form of legal jurisdic­you and your colleagues will see hectic consequences throughout the region. tion over American soldiers as an· affir­political meetings here in Baghdad on 
American and Iraqi negotiators have mation of national sovereignty. this issue to determine the fate of the been working for months to hammer out Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said agreement." 

SMC hosts lecture on fair trade items 
By MANDl STIRONE 
News Writer 
Thme years ago rPprnsPntatives from Just (;oods and Ten Thousand Villag!'s nune to Saint Mary's to discuss purchasing organic-and fair trade products. Student~ liked tlwrn so much that tlwy werP invitPd baek, said Hngina Wilson, tlw assistant dime­tor of Campus Ministry and organ­izPr of thn "What Dillimmen Dons it Make'!" lectun• snrins. 
It was lkcky lkirnbold's, of Just c;oods, semnd visit to Saint Mary's and Clwryl Schairer's, of Tnn Thousand Villagc•s. first whnn thny presented "A SPries on .Justice, ContPmporary l.ifn and f<'aith: What llifl'Pn'IH'P flops it Makn to Buy (<'air Tradn and Organic ... Ciothing'!" Tuesday. Wilson said. 
Tlw IPcturn series, which olli~rs two IPrlurns eVPJ)' fall, is f(tr stu­dc•nt."i to look at diiJ(•rent aspnc:t.<; of their liws and snP how tlw choices t.lwy make afli~c:t tlw world around thPm. slw said. Tlwy also "try to bring in Catholir social tcmching," to show how "faith can conw to !war on individual rhoi('.es." 
Hnimhold spokP first about lwr organization, .Just Coods, a South lknd ston~ committed to providing "dothing and products for tlw honw, made with respoct for workers and tlw environment," according to thP website. 
".Iust Coods is kind of f(>eusnd on clothing," shn said 
During hnr talk, Heimbold passed around some samples of product.<; that arn sold in tho store. 
They eome from all over the world, and they "resnareh the eompanins that produce our goods, a~suring that they pay their workers minimum wage or above and that tlwy use nnvironmnntally­l'rinndly matc~rials and methods of production," aecording to the web­site. 
One of the Companies, Global Marna's, works with wornnn in Chana who own their own busi­nesses, have their own sewing machines and some even have thoir own shops, Heimbold said. 

Most of thn tags on the clothing am signed and buyers can go on the website and read the stories of the women who made the cloth­ing, she said. 
Scharier explained why Ten Thousand Villages works fill" fair trade. 
With fair trade conditions, women can work from their homes, their children can go to sehool, and they can make their lives better, she said. These fami­lies can purchasn things like health insurance, savings accounts, medical care and other things that they have never had bnlbre, she said. 
These jobs become the "one point of stability in their lives," Sdmrior said. 
Ton Thousand Villages is a not li>r profit company that works with artisans, she said. 
"Wo marknt quality products from divorse eultures around the world made by people that we know and care enough about to do business in a mannnr that together we considnr fair. We strive to oper­ate as a business with a eompas­sionate mission so that we can provide vital, fair ineomn to arti­sans," according to the w1~bsite. 
They have over 150 stores around tho country that are almost eompletely run by volun­tenrs with the exeeption of a few managmnent employees. she said. 
The important thing is to not getting overwhelmed by the amount of fair trade and organic products out there, both presen­ters said. 
"As a consumer, it's hard beeause you want to do the right thing ... [butI you don't have time to look it up," Scharier said. 
Trying to take it one thing as a time, for example purchasing fair trade cotl'ee and making a com­mitment to do so, Reimbold said. 
"[The important thing isl know­ing you're part of something good ... it's really amazing," she said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO I @saintmarys.edu 

Election 
continued from page I 
lions were I)XCt)nded, with morn 

than 2.500 people turning out to votn. 
"Evnryonn was talking about it all around campus, so I think it was ovnrwhelmingly stu:cnssl'ul," lwsaid. 
Senate University Afl'airs chair Ashloo Wright, who hnlpnd organ­iznd the event, said she was impmssod by tho turnout. 

"I was pn~tty happy with Notre Dame with how they eame out and voted, even though it is not a rnal nfection," she said. 
She said sho hopes tho nxpnri­nnce will motivate studnnl"i to vote in the real pn~sidnntial election on Nov. 4. 
Tho mock 1d1~etion not only <L"iknd studenl<> l<>r their pmsidnn­t.ial ti1:ket piek, but also a~knd them to fill in inf(ll'mation about gnnder, rl<L"iS year and n~sidnn1:n hall, Uwn to r.hoosn tlw issuP that is most important to thPm and how dosnly tlwy an~ f(>llowing tlw Pledion cov­erage. 
Tlw most important. issue for those who votPd wm; the economy, with 4 I .5 pnrrnnt of tlw votes, f(JI­Iownd by forPign policy at 17.7 
percent. Of the remaining i.c;sues, 
9.8 percent chose energy and the environment as the most impor­tant issue in the election, 9.5 per­cent chose other, 7.7 percent chose abortion, 6.2 percent chose the Iraq War, 3.3 percent chose educa­tion, 3.2 percent chose civil liber­ties and one percent chose immi­hl'fation. 
When asked how closely they had been following the election, 
37.2 percent chose the selection "I eheek the election news once or twice a week," 36.8 percent said "I check the headlines once a day," 
19.1 percent said "I stalk multiple news networks daily," 5.1 percent said "I've heard of the candidates," . 9 percnnt said "Election? What election'?" and .8 percent gave no rnsponsn. 
Four years ago, student media groups on campus, not including The Obsnrver. conducted a mock nlnetion in LaFortune a week before the election between President George W. Bush and Sen . .John Kerry, reported Notre I>arne Magazine. With 570 under­graduates and graduate students voting, the vote was 47.5 percent J'or Bush and 4(J.8 pereent for Knrry. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at t<riely@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, October 8, 2008 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  9,447.11  -508.39  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
458  32  3,067  2,867,994,260  
AMEX  ·1,550~50  ··~()$;20:  

NASDAQ 1,754.88 -108.08 NYSE 6,388.38 .,:j()();$3 S&P 500 996.23 -60.66 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 10i155.90 ().00 FTSE 100 (London) 4,605.22 +16.03 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -4.48  -4.69  100.03  
FIN SEL SPDR (XLF)  -10.56  -1.88  15.92  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -6.34  -2.21  32.65  
ULTRA FINANCIALS (UYG)  -19.43  -2.86  11.86  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.34 +0.080 3.5060 13-WEEK BILL +91.46 +0.380 0.7900 30-YEAR BOND +2.16 +0.085 4.0270 5-YEAR NOTE +3.51 +0.084 2.4790 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.25 90.06 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +15.80 882.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.30 93.35 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 101.3900 EURO 0.7358 

IN BRIEF 
Fed makes emergency loans 
WASIIINGTON -Frantically trying to stop the bleeding on Wall Street. the Federal Reserve took a first-time step Tuesday to get cash directly to businesses and hinted that interest rates could come down soon. Stocks continued their free fall anyway and hit new five-year lows. 
The central bank invoked emergency powers to lend money to companies outside the financial sector and buy up mounds of commercial paper, the short-term debt that firms use to pay for everyday expenses like salaries and supplies. 
The Fed. which has only loaned money to banks before, made the move as the gravest financial crisis in decades wore on and concern spread around the world. 
In a speech to the National Association for Business Economics, Fed Chairman Ben Hernanke delivered a strong signal interest rates may need to be cut. And he warned the country could be stuck in the economic doldrums for some time. 
"The outlook for economic growth has wors­ened," Hernanke said. "The heightened financial turmoil that we have experienced of late may well lengthen the period of weak economic per­formance." 
Execs' vacation angers lawmakers 
WASIIINGTON -Less than a week after the fed­eral government had to bail out American International Group Inc., the company sent execu­tives on a $440.000 retreat to a posh California resort. lawmakers investigating the company's IIfelt­down said Tuesday. 
The tab included $23,380 worth of spa treatments for AIG employees at the coastal St. Regis resort south of Los Angeles even as the company tapped into an $85 billion loan from the government it neP-ded to stave off bankruptcy. 
Thp, retreat didn't include anyone from the finan­dal products division that nearly drove AIG under, but lawmakers were still enraged over thousands of dollars spent on catered banquPts, golf outings and visits to the resort's spa and salon for executives of AIG's main U.S. life insurance subsidiary. 
"Average AmeriCans are suffering economiCally. They're losing their jobs, their homes and their health insurance." House Oversight Committee Chairman llenry Waxman, D-Calif., scolded the company during a lengthy opening statement. 
Stocks tumble as worries escalate 

Concerns about credit markets cause a two-day decline of 875 points 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The misery 
worsened on Wall Street 
Tuesday, with stocks piling on 
losses late in the session and 
bringing the two-day decline in 
the Dow .Jones industrials to 
more than 875 points amid 
p,scalating worries about credit 
market<> and the fmaneial see­
tor. 
The Dow lost more than 500 
point<> and all the major indexes 
slid more than 5 pereent. The 
Standard & Poor's 500 index 
saw its first close below 1,000 in 
five years. 
Steps by the Federal Reserve 
to reinvigorate the dormant 
credit markets ultimately 
weren't enough to ealm nerv­
ous investors. News about 
financial companies only added 
to their despondent mood. 
"lbe call<> I'm getting-every 
money manager I deal with, 
and every client I talk to -are 
just very emotional. This is a 
very, very emotional time, and 
most of them am taking steps to 
shore up their defenses, reduc­
ing exposure to stocks just to 
defend their portfolios," said 
Hugh .Johnson, chairman and 
chief investment officer of 
.Johnson lllington Advisors. 
The magnitude of the stock 
market's plunge is reflected in 
the Dow's grim stats: 
+ Tuesday's close was its lowest close in five years, since Sept. 30, 2003. 
+Injust five trading days this month, and in the fourth quar­ter, it is down about 1,400 point<>, or 13 percent. Index, which tracks 5,000 U.S.­paper. The evaporation of faith lubricate the credit markets 
+ 
It has fallen 33.3 percent based companies' stocks. So far that loans will be repaid has stops short of a broad interest since its record close of this month, the loss has come to lenders weary and is making it rate reduction that some 14,164.53, a year ago Thursday. about $2.2 trillion. more difficult and expensive for investors say is necessary to 

+ 
Through Tuesday, it suf­Federal Reserve Chairman businesses and consumers to restore confidence in the mar­fered its largest five-day point Ben Bernanke warned in a borrow. ket. Other market watchers decline ever, and its largest five­speech Tuesday that the finan­The credit markets did show argue, however, that more day percentage drop since the cial crisis could prolong the diffi­some slight signs of easing as focused steps like Fed's decision Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks. culty the economy is facing. demand for safe-haven invest­to buy commercial paper are 


The Dow's percentage loss While his remarks were widely ments decreased, though that what's needed. Tuesday was 5.11 percent, regarded as a sign that an inter­offered little comfort to investors Investors remain worried actually a better performance est rate cut could be in the off­highly anxious about the about financial companies like than the 5.74 percent suffered ing, Wall Street appeared little extremely low lending levels Bank of America Corp., which by the S&P, the market indica­comforted and focused on his and their impact on the econo­fell after slashing its dividend tor most watched by traders downbeat assessment. my. The markets seized up last and reporting that its third­and analysts. The Nasdaq com­Earlier, the Fed announced month after Lehman Brothers quarter profit fell 68 percent. posite dropped 5.8 percent. plans to buy massive amounts Holdings Inc. filed for bankrupt­The stock fell $8.45, or 26 per­
The market's paper loss for of corporate debt to jump-start cy and the government stepped cent, to $23.77 Tuesday. It was the session came to about $700 lending in the markets where in to rescue insurer American by far the steepest decliner billion, as measured by the Dow many companies turn for short­International Group Inc. among the 30 stocks that com­Jones Wilshire 5000 Composite term loans called commercial The Fed's latest move to prise the Dowindustrials. 


Bemanke: More economic pain ahead 
Associated Press low rates would aggravate inflation. Consumers -major shapers of eco­Since then, financial and economic nomic activity -have buckled under WASHINGTON -Federal Reserve 
conditions have deteriorated, while the weight of rising joblessness, shrink­Chairman Ben Bernanke warned 
inflation pressures have calmed, giving ing paychecks, hard-to-get credit, Tuesday that the financial crisis has 
the Fed more leeway to again cut declining net wealth and tanking home not only darkened the country's cur­
rates. and stock values. All the strains are rent economic performance but also 
Many believe the country is on the "now showing through more clearly to could prolong the pain. brink of, or already in, its first reces­consumer spending," Bernanke said. The Fed chiefs more gloomy assess­
sion since 2001. Meanwhile, worsening sales ment appeared to open the door wider 
"The outlook for economic growth prospects and a heightened sense of to an interest rate cut on or before Oct. 
has worsened," Bernanke said in pre­uncertainty have begun to weigh more 28-29, the central bank's next meeting, 
pared remarks to the annual meeting heavily on businesses, making them to brace the wobbly economy. 
here of the National Association for more cautious to hire and to invest in Bernanke said the Fed will "need to 
Business Economics. their companies, he said. consider" whether its current stance of 
All told, economic activity is likely to Employers cut jobs in September at holding rates steady "remains appro­
be "subdued" during the remainder of the fastest pace in more than five priate" given the fallout from the worst 
this year and into next year, Bernanke years, the government reported last financial crisis in decades. 
said. "The heightened financial turmoil week. Payrolls were slashed byIf the Fed does lower its key rate 
that we have experienced of late may 159,000 last month alone. It was the from 2 percent it would mark an 
well lengthen the period of weak eco­ninth straight month of job losses. A about-face. The Fed in June had halted 
nomic performance and further staggering 760,000 jobs have disap­an aggressive rate-cutting campaign to 
increase the risks to growth," he peared so far this year. revive the economy out of fear those 
warned. 

PAKISTAN 

Refugees go to homeland 
Government tells 50,000 Afghans to leave war zone, return to country 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD Afghan refugees ordered out of a Pakistani war zono begged Tuesday ((n· bus farns and flowed over tlw border into their home­land, worsening a humanitarian crisis rnsulting from an army oiTensive against Taliban mili­tants. ollieials said. 

Pakistan has told 50,000 Afghans to lrmvn tho Bajur tribal region, accusing them of links to militants that usnd the remote and impoverished area as a base for att<u:ks on both sides of the frontier. 
U.S. ollkials concnrned about the nscalating insurgency in Afghanistan have praisnd the military operation in a region that has bmm touted a...:; a possi­ble hiding place for al-Qaida chief' Osama bin Laden. 
Pakistan's army claims to have killnd morn than 1,000 insur­gents in two months of lighting. It ha...:; given no fih'llrn for civilian casualties, but acknowledges that many villages have been dnvastatnd by airstrikes, artillery lirn and gunbaltles. 
Bacha Khan, a police ollidal at the Toorwandi border post in Bajur, told The A.:;soeiated Press on Tuesday that somo refugees havo crossed into Afghanistan and others moved to other parl<> of Pakistan. 
lie had no figures for how many Afghans have left since officials distributed leaflets in B<~jur last week tnlling them to go. 
Ilownvnr. he said an estimated 20,000 refugees had returned honHi in recent weeks. Thousands more went to other parL.:; of Pakistan, he said. 
An Afghan community leader in Khar, Bajur's main town, urged the government to provide transportation for the refugees. "We are poor people, and we don't have enough money to pay for the buses," Ghulam Jan told an AP reporter. 
Authoritifls were threatening to deport those who resisted and to demolish their houses. Iqbal Khattak, a government otlicial in Khar, said 45 Afghans had been detained by Tuesday and some Afghan-owned shops sealed. 
Pakistani ollicials say the fight­ing in Bajur has displaced up to a half-million people -roughly half the region's population. Most are in nearby areas of Pakistan wiU1 relatives or in camps. 
The U.N. refugee agency said la...:;t week that 20,000 people had moved into the neighboring Afghan province of Kunar. It described them as "Pakistani families" and forecast they would roturn aftp,r the lighting. 
Kunar provincial Police Chief Abdul .!alai Jalal said Tuesday that 30,000 people had arrived from Pakistan. 
Of 4,140 families there, 70 per­cent were Pakistani and 30 per­cent Afghan, said Sardar Khan, an ollieial dealing with refugees in Kunar. lie said seven families arrived Monday. 
"They are very poor families," Khan said, and residents are sheltering them in their homes. Helief agencies and the govern­ment were scrambling to build one-room shelters in time for winter, he said. 
Afghans flooded into Pakistan during mom than 20 years con­flict before U.S.-led forces top­pled the Taliban government in 2001. 
According to U.N. figures, more than 5 million have since returned. Pakistan complains that refugee camps and Afghan 
communities remain hotbeds of 
militant activity and has been 
pressing for them to be cleared. 
Militants have responded to the military operations in Bajur and other regions in the north­west with suicide attacks, includ­ing the deadly Sept. 20 truck bombing at the Marriott Hotel in Islamabad. 
President Asif Ali Zardari has described the hotel bombing as Pakistan's 9/11 and sought to talk his fellow citizens out of the widespread belief that the coun­try is fighting "America's war" and paying an unacceptable price. 
The government has called an emergenc;y session of parliament Wednesday to discuss the securi­ty situation. 
Many analysts and politicians argue that Pakistan needs a national consensus on tackling Islamic extremism to have any chance of success. 
Former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, who resigned in August after the government ousted U.S. ally Pervez Musharraf from the presidency, could act as a power­ful spoiler. 
However, Sharif's politician brother indicated that their party, the main opposition bloc, also wants to get tough on mili­tancy. 
"If we want to survive, we have to eliminate terrorists. Either we will survive, or they will survive," Shahbaz Sharif said after visiting survivors of a suicide bombing that injured a lawmaker and killed 17 other people Monday. 
"We will soon come up with a better strategy to fight this men­ace," he said. 
Analysts warn that the govern­ment could lose its popularity if the violence intensifies and eco­nomic problems persist. ' 
Vote 
continued from page 1 

"The impact of technology on election is huge," Chapple said. "There are many ways that technology can possibly be used to manipulaie the outcome of the election." 
There are ways to hack the secret ballot, especially elec­tronic ballots, Chapple said. 
The most vulnerable method of electronic voting is the touch screen system, he said. In touch screen voting, the voter is given an anonymous Smartcard, which authorizes the holder one vote. The machine records the votes on a memory card and when the polls close, the memory cards are retrieved and the votes are tabulated. 
"In this system, you let soft­ware run the election," Chapple said. "In many cases, no paper trail exists for these machines. Without a paper trail, a recount is impossible." 
Chapple discussed a study that was done in 2003 in which the software of the Diebold AccuVote TS, a touch screen voting machine, was analyzed. He said the soft­ware of the machines that were being used to elect the next President of the United States had minimum security. 
"Essentially, it could have less security than your lap­top," Chapple said. 
He said it is possible, even relatively easy in some eases, to take votes that were cast for one candidate and change them to another candidate. 
"A' poll worker with access to the storage media of that software could modify the bal­lot definition," Chapple said. "A voter would push the but­ton to votp, for John McCain but in reality the vote would be cast for Obama." 
If an act such as this was ever suspected to be taking place, very little could be done about it due to the eon­struction of the software, hP. said. 
"What is most frightening," Chapple said, "is that we do not have any ability to prove that no one tampered with the results of thfl eleetion if somo­thing like that were to hap­pen." 
Chapple cautioned voters to be aware of what mnthod they are using to east thnir votP.s on Election Day. 
"Hacking the election is not only possibln," Chapple stat­ed, "b~t it has already hap­pened. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 



1Credit default swaps' share blame for economic problems 
ly being blamed for the near­lion. default swap doesn't write sense of security.
Assocjated Press 
collapse of insurance giant So what are credit default this insurance for free. It gets "Everyone walked around 
WASHINGTON -It can be a American International Group swaps and how have they a fee, usually a percentage of saying 'we're insured,"' said l'ine line between investing Inc., the bankruptcy of invest­caused all this trouble? the value of the bond. Greenberger, who is a law and gambling. But in Las ment bank Lehman Brothers, The swaps are a form of The transactions are made professor at the University of Vegas, you know the odds. On and the downfall of other insurance, but they aren't "over the counter," meaning Maryland. Wall Street, that's not always investment houses and finan­regulated that way. they are not regulated by any As housing prices rose and the case. cial institutions. Say a big investor buys a public exchange. more people could get mort­
Espeeially when it comes to Members of the House bond from a company. But the And since these contracts gages despite questionable the $62 trillion market in Oversight and Government investor is worried about the are not considered "insur­credit records, mortgage­arcane financial contracts Reform Committee on company's ability to pay off ance," Greenberger says, the backed securities were an known as "credit default Tuesday accused AIG of open­that bond. The investor turns companies that guarantee the attractive place for pension swaps." ing "a casino in London" to a third party like AIG, for bonds are not required to funds and other investors to 
"Moreovor." adds Michael when it began dealing in example, and buys protection keep enough capital on hand park their money. Greenberger, formp,r director these complex derivative con­in the form of a credit default to pay them off in the event of "Were it not for that insur­of trading and markets for the traets. The Federal Reserve swap contract. AIG agrees to a default. ance, it certainly wouldn't Commodity Futures Trading came to AIG's rescue three pay the investor the value of The swaps have given those have reached this manic state Commission, "Las Vegas is weeks ago with an $85 billion the bond in the event the invested in all manner of of growth," Greenberger said regulated." line of credit; so far the com­company defaults on it. debt, including mortgage­of the questionable invest­
Thosn swaps arp, increasing-pany has tapped it for $61 bil-The issuer of the credit backed securities, a false ments. 

page 9 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, October 8, 2008 
UNITED NATIONS 



Peacekeepers face dangers 
Troops sustaining Sudan's Darfur region cannot be strengthened this year 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -The beleaguered peacekeeping force in Sudan's violence-wracked Darfur region cannot be signifi­cantly strengthened this year because of increased dangers, the U.N. chief said Tuesday. 
Secretary-General Ban Ki­moon said he has delayed his goal of putting 22,000 o'f the authorized 26,000 troops on the ground by the end of this year. 
The African Union-U.N. force known as UNAMID in Darfur currently numbers about 10,000. Ban said he hopes to reach 17,000 by January and the 22,000 mark around March. 
"I may have to adjust a little bit in view of the circumstances on the ground," he told reporters. "The situation in Darfur is deteriorating. We are seeing increasing attacks on 
U.N. and international staff." 
Only Monday, a Nigerian peacekeeper was killed in an ambush, he noted, becoming the ninth U.N. soldier to dfe in Darfur in the past three months. 
The force relies heavily on African troops, which Sudan has insisted on, and has been beset by a critical lack of equip­ment contributions like helicop­ters. Ban said he has been dis­cussing with Ukraine's presi­dent and defense minister the possibility of that nation provid­ing some military choppers and more troops. 
In July, the U.N. Security Council voted to renew the peace mission despite a raging debate over whether it should invoke its power to suspend an independent court's efforts to prosecute Sudanese President Omar Hassan al-Bashir on genocide and war crimes charges. 
The Darfur conflict began in early 2003 when ethnic African rebels took up arms against Sudan's Arab-dominated cen­tral government, accusing it of discrimination. Many of the worst atrocities in the war have been blamed on the janjaweed militia of Arab nomads allied with the government. 
Ban and other diplomats say the only way to end the fighting that has killed up to 300,000 people and forced 2.5 million to flee their homes is through political talks and a peace agreement. 
On another matter, Ban said he was greatly concerned about the security of food aid that 3 million Somalis depend on in light of increasing piracy in waters around the Horn of Africa. 
He said there was an Oct. 23 deadline for nations to replace a Canadian frigate that has been the only ship escorting the U.N.'s World Food Program food aid deliveries to Somalia. 
Before Canada, he said, the food program relied on security provided by ships from the Netherlands, France and Denmark. 
"Without escorts, those ships will not arrive. Without that aid, more people will die," Ban said. "Three million people are in danger of starving." 
In a move to curb the piracy, the U.N. Security Council unani­mously approved a resolution Tuesday calling on all nations with a stake in Somalia's mar­itime safety to send naval ships and military aircraft to Somalia's coastline. 
Ban opened his hour-long press conference, his first in a promised monthly ritual, addressing the global financial crisis and expressing confi­dence in nations' commitments this month to donate to the U.N.'s ambitious goals of notch­ing significant reductions in poverty, hunger and disease by 2015. 
"Despite the market turmoil, we raised $16 billion," he said. "I urge world leaders to honor these pledges." 
The U.N. chief also said he agreed with comments made by World Bank President Robert Zoellick a day earlier suggest­ing that the Group of Seven industrialized countries should be expanded to include growing economies in Asia and Latin America. 
Energy Dept. predicts high cost of heating 
Households will pay $449 more this winter 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Although global oil prices have plum­meted, the cost of heating your home this winter will be a lot more expensive, especially for households that depend on 
fuel  oil,  the  Energy  
Department  predicted  
Tuesday.  

Households that use fuel oil can expect to spend an aver­age of $2,388 -or $449 more than last year -for the October-April heating season. Users of natural gas will pay less than half that, $1,010 on average, still $155 more than last year. 
The department's Energy Information Administration emphasized that the cost fig­ures should be viewed as "a broad guide" comparing this year's expected heating costs to last winter and said actual e~penses can vary depending on region, local weather and the energy efficiency of indi­vidual homes. 
But across the board, whether one uses heating oil, natural gas, propane or elec­tricity, costs will be higher, said the agency. 
Users of electricity to heat homes will see the smallest increase, about 10 percent on average, followed by propane, 11 percent; natural gas, which is used in more than half of the nation's homes, 18 per­cent; and heating oil, used widely in the Northeast, 23 percent. 
That's not good news for a country where people have been reeling from a summer of record $4··a-gallon gasoline, a booming credit crisis and a struggling economy. 
Energy experts say some people have yet to pay last winter's heating bills or the summer's air conditioning costs. A recent Associated Press survey found that utility shutoffs because of unpaid bills have been running 17 percent to 22 percent higher than last year in some parts of the country. 
The Energy Department said it expects the price of fuel oil will average $3.90 a gallon, 60 cents more than last winter. 
While the cost of crude oil has declined from a high of $147 a barrel in July to just under $88 a barrel for delivery in November, the department said "oil markets are expected to remain relatively tight because of sluggish production growth." Barring a worse than expected global economic decline, prices are likely to edge back up to about $112 a barrel, the agency said. 

Fremantle, Australia Information Meeting Wednesday, October 8, 2008 5:30PM 129 DeBartolo IStudents in the Colleges of AL & BA only I Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 for Fall 2009 and Spring 2010 Apply Online: www.nd.edu/-ois  

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page I 0 Wednesday, October 8, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
He's a transponster! 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Oame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EmTOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay rirzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler ASS'!~ MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
All DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6.31-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@)nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 63!-4540 sccnc.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
snlC.I @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DesK 

(574) 6.31-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University of Nmre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colle14e. Editorial coment, including adverrisemcnrs, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
Till' news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsignt·d editorials represent the opinion of tht· nMjority of rhe Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, Assistam Managing Editors and department cdirors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views of rill' authors and nor ncct">Sarily those ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Que;tiom rrtarding ObsmJtr policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris /line. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

l'hc l)],.,,,.l v,., {t JSI''\ 'i'N 2-4110H) PI puhl,~lu:tl Mmulo~y thn>u~f;h friday cxc;cpt during .;JI,IIIl ~thl v.t~.uu•n fk:li>~<.l\. A ,uhw:ripri•ut W '!1tc ()b\f'rvcr ill $1Utl for ••nc nc;~dcnti,· 
f'ht' UM.;rvcr i• puhhshcd .ar POSTMASTER 0~4 Suuth l>ininl'l I!all S<nd 01d1lrt,;.~ corr~ctmn5 to: Nmrc DJmc:. IN o\6'>'5(,.0n9 The<Jhserver P~riudkal pm1Jfit' p.ud ar Notre: D.amc 1'.0. Um: 719 .tllclJtddwouJiuuiliuK ullic:cs. 024 South Dining Hall 
N(>ttt> D~me. IN 46"i~6-0771J 
The Oh'.('rvcr 1$ .t member of 1hc Auuci.ucd Preu. All tcpmdw..lion tigh1s arc 
11:!1(:11/C'd. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Liz llarter Dan Murphy Madeline Buckley Alex Barker Robert Singer Scene Viewpoint Michelle Fordice Patricia Graphics Fernandez Madeline Nies 
Until about five years ago I had no idea what my father did. 
I knew he was an accountant by profession. I knew he was a CPA. I knew he worked for one of the Big Four accounting firms. And I knew that his title was "foren­sic accountant." But I didn't know what that meant. If people asked me I just evaded the question. 
Such evasion got me into trou­ble, though, when upon say­ing, "He's a forensic accountant," the inquisitor replied with, "So does that mean he goes to crime scenes and counts the dead bodies?" Hardy har, inquisitor. Bu't it's not like I had a bet­ter answer so I just let him walk away in his glory. 
I went on a quest after this encounter to discover the nature of my father's employment. For reasons beyond my sheer ignorance, I was growing weary of making fun of my dad for not doing very much work when I knew he clearly did a lot. I didn't know what it was he was doing, but I knew that my jokes were cruel. 
So what does my dad do? I didn't know. But I vowed to find out to make myself a better son and a better per­son. 
I tried to cull my memories of him talking about his days at the office: 
"Today, this idiot intern walked into my room while I was with a client! Can you believe it? Idiot!" 
"So I was in a meeting today and I made a reference saying that this deal we're talking about is putting us between Scylla and Charybdis. Everyone in the room looked at me like I had two heads. Idiots!" 
"I was on the plane coming home and I was assigned seat 2B. I turned 

to the flight attendant and told her 
they put me in the Shakespeare seat. 
She didn't get it. Idiot!" 
My dad certainly must deal with idiots. But these anecdotes certainly didn't answer my question about what he actually does for a living. 
I decided I would have to think back to the few times I had visited his office while a little child. One day in particular stuck in my mind; I think I was about eight at the time. I remem­ber walking through a series of secu­rity doors, meeting his executive assistant, sitting in his big comfy chair, and looking out the wil}dow onto the streets of D.C. for a few hours. Then we went to the florist and picked up a bouquet for my mom's birthday. But this wasn't suffi­cient insight into the essence of his employment. 
The next step to solve my mystery was going to be a big one: I was actu­ally going to ask my dad what he does. It seems like such an importu­nate question. I've been his son as long as he's been my dad. I should know what he does. I should know what a forensic accountant does. Thinking this way made me afraid of embarrassing myself in front of the entire family. And there's no way I was about to make myself look like one of the idiots that my dad always talked about in front of my sisters and me. Our family motto is, in fact, "How Could You Not Know That?" But this fear couid not last forever. I could only go so long believing that my question would be answered without further effort, believing that all my problems would be solved magically. 
One day, in my junior year of high school, months after I began my ini­tial quest, on a drive from my house to somewhere inconsequential, when it was just me and my dad in the car, I turned to him and said: 
"Dad, and I say this with total def­erence and respect, can you tell me 

what you do?" 
And he told me. 
Now, I'm not going to tell you what it is a forensic accountant does because that would ruin the surprise. The point of my artiele is not to illu­minate the world of the financial service sector of accountancy to you. Nor is my point to tell you about a great moment in personal develop­ment when my dad and I came to a better understanding of each othnr. Come to think of it, I may not have that strong of a point. But that point, as weak as it may turn out to be, is that you should all know what your mom and/or dad do for a living. It's insulting to them otherwise. They're busting they're butts to be your par­ent and you can't even turn to a stranger and say, ''I'm proud that my parent does so and so?" What kind of a child are you? You make me sick! 
Well, you don't actually make me sick. You just need to come to the place that I came to that one day my junior year. I sucked it up and asked my dad what he did because I didn't know. And I should have known. And I do now. And I feel good about it. And I'm a better person. And I'm a better son. 
Oh, and by the way-the title of this article is a reference to the Friends episode where Chandler and Joey face off against Monica and Rachel in a trivia challenge for the apartment. When Hoss asks Hache) what Chandler does l'or a living Rachel says the above. Chandler's an accountant on the show. It's a clever reference. 
Goodnight. 
Andrew Miller is a senior English major. He can be contacted at amille15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
Who would you rather spend a night on the town with? 
Sarah Palin Cindy McCain Michelle Obama Mrs. Biden 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ can accept failure, but I can't 
accept not trying." 
Mrchael Jordan 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 8, 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reactions to the Sorin Boycott 
Support Sorin · 
I will never forget the most fun I ever had at a pep rally as an Otter of Sorin College. 
It just so happened to be one that we hosted. In what ended up being Ty Willingham's final pep rally, Ty proceeded to do a role call of the host dorms. In the usual scripted and expected form, the dorms each tried to make as much noise as possible. However, when Ty called for noise from the Otters of Sorin, he was greeted with nothing but dead silence· from us. Confused. he called us again, but we stood firm in our silence much to the amusement of the rest of the JACC and the players. Thinking a third time would be a charm, he moved on, called the rest of the dorms, came back to the Otters whom again stood in silence. 
Think about that story for a second. My favorite memory of a pep rally was one in which I stood in dead silence. Isn't there something wrong with this picture? 
The fact is the pep rallies in the JACC are a complete joke and we all knew it. Sorin standing in silence was the most spontaneous and unexpected act that I can ever remember actually happening at a pep rally (we actually "planned" this on the way there). 
The pep rally should serve to get the players and student body hyped up for the game, and not the current Disneyland production that we have today. 
As a student, they felt like nothing more than a huge waste of time. As an alum, I still do not want to go into the JACC for another one. As a former Otter, I salute all current Otters in Sorin College for your pep rally manifesto. You have hit the nail square on the head. 
As a former member of the Norte Dame family, I encourage all members of the student body to support Sorin in their effort and to stand with them outside the JACC. This is your pep rally. Take it back. As one of many Notre Dame alumni, I encourage those of you on campus this weekend to support the Otters of Sorin as well. 
Forgo the dog and pony show and let the current students see your support outside the JACC. We should give them nothing but our support for trying to bring back true fire and passion to our pep rallies. 
Ryan Ritter alum Class of200l Oct. 3 

Pep rallies for the students 
This past Friday evening, I attended the pep rally for the Stanford game at the Joyce Center with a Notre Dame classmate of mine. It was pitiful. Scripted and spirit­less, the thing was painful to sit (and I do mean sit) through. It was light years from the raucous rallies of my undergraduate days. I left thoroughly disheartened, and doubt that I will ever attend one again. 
Our experience started when our choice of seating was challenged by an usher. Apparently, we were in a section reserved for ND parents only if their students were with them. (Fortunately, one of my sons was with us.) After being thwarted by our legitimacy, the usher proceeded to eject two men and their young sons from the mostly empty section. A great ND moment for them, don't you think? 
We were then "treated" to a program of pre-fab cheers, videos and introductions of our Olympic athletes. It seemed like 30 minutes before the actual football team made it's calm, gentlemanly appearance. 
During the rest of the event, it was some­times difficult to tell the team members from the old, tired alumni who were sitting on their hands behind them. That's how bored they looked and justifiably so. 
The momentary exception was when Jimmy Clausen, Terrail Lambert, Pat Kuntz and Kyle McCarthy got up to talk. They were terrific, but could not rescue the event from the stranglehold of civility, or from their own head coach's passion­less, stupefying remarks. Charlie sounded more like he was offering a statement to the media than attempting to inspire any­one. 
In days of yore, when I was an under­graduate, rallies were held in the Stepan Center. There was no sitting down because there were no chairs! The rally began when the band, cheerleaders and team entered the building. Lots ofjumping, screaming, fist pumping and cheering. 
·Girls held up on guys' shoulders. The pro­gram was led by the leprechaun, and fea­tured short, impassioned talks by two cur­rent players and two ND legends, either 
• ex-players or other fiery notables like Digger Phelps. Sometimes Stepan Center was so packed, and the crowd so fired up, that condensation dripped from the ceil­ing! (Gross, I know, but gives you the true flavor of the event). It concluded with the fight song. The whole thing took 30 min­utes. 
Here's what it didn't include: reserved seating, ushers, players in suits, "host" dorms, videos, cheers led by the executive director of the Alumni Association, intro­duction of non-football folks, or the Alma Mater. 
Listen, I think Chuck Lennon is one of the greatest Notre Dame men alive. Our Olympians are amazing and a true source of pride. I love the Alma Mater so much that I can't hear it without tears coming to my eyes. But these things have no place at a football pep rally! 
The sole purpose of a football pep rally is to get the team and students fired up to go beat the crap out of Saturday's opponent. Period. 
That's what they were all about when I attended Notre Dame, and I don't think that my classmates or I are any the worse for it. And, oh yeah, our teams played with passion on Saturday. 
I concur entirely with Sorin College men Aidan McKiernan and Tristan Hunt who wrote in Friday's Letter to the Editor enti­tled Our Pep Rally Manifesto, "Pep rallies should involve only three groups -the students, the band and the team. Pep ral­lies should be of the students, by the stu­dents and for the students. This means parents, alumni and outside visitors aren't invited. If they want to come, they're more than welcome -but they'll be one of us, not a polite guest at our show." Amen, brothers! I am both ND alumnus and ND parent. 
What I want to see when I come to a football pep rally is a team and student body ready to tear it up on Saturday. Nothing else. That's the way it used to be, and that's the way it should always be. 
Return the pep rallies to the students! 
Go Irish! 
Mike Schafer alum Class of 1982 Oct. 6 

Appreciate the experience 
Once a year my brother, father and myself travel over 800 miles from Burlington, Vt. to attend the pep rally, watch the game, and ultimately enjoy the whole ND experience. This is a tradition I hope continues for as long as I live, and I hope someday I will be able to bring my children out to ND. 
Unable to get in to Notre Dame as an undergrad and still unable to get in as a graduate, it shocks me to hear of students "boy­cotting" the pep rally because of too many Group Performances and not enough interaction with the players. 
I truly don't think those student understand how lucky they are. It's hard to even describe the feel­ing I have knowing I will never be able to attend Notre Dame, and yet those who are fortunate enough will look back and remember they boycotted pep ral­lies. It makes no sense to me, and I feel sorry for those students. Perhaps those students should realize that those who are per­forming take what they do just as seriously as the football players. Obviously it doesn't gather as much attention, but they also deserve the respect of the student body. 

Enjoy Notre Dame.You have no idea how lucky you are. 
Bryan Fortier Chicopee, Mass. Oct. 7 

Pep rallies too formulaic 
OK! Here comes one from a cranky old alum (Zahm '82) who believes everything was better "back in the day." Well, maybe not. I don't believe everything was bet­ter in the early '80's. 
Notre Dame is a much better academic instition than when I matriculated. Frankly, I probably wouldn't get in today. The food's a lot better in the dining halls. I was really impressed by South Dining Hall when I dropped my step­daughter off for her freshman year in August. 
Now that I've spread some sun­shine, I feel a need to rail! Pep ral­lies have become so sanitized I can't even attend them any longer. It sounds to me like the students can't stand them either. They are "corporate" beyond recognition. The last one I attended felt like an annual shareholders meeting -a couple of interesting guests, but far too much hackneyed "blah, blah, blah." 

My recommendation is that the pep rallies need to be given back to the students. Let's start with an utterly bizarre idea. Let's go back to the Stepan Center. 
If you really want to attend, get there early. If you don't get in the door, your loss. I will guarantee that it will be spontaneous, erratic, wild, fun and -get this -inspir­ing to both the team and fans. What a great juxtaposition to tick­ets, boring, under-attended and ­get this -unispiring to both the team and fans. Give it some thought. I actually feel sorry for Charlie and the team having to endure more canned rallies with insipid speaches. The team seems to be turning it around. Maybe pep rallies should be re-invigorated as well. 
Jeff Barber alum Class of 1982 Oct. 6 

Rally together 
As a transfer student from Northwestern, I can assure you that Notre Dame's undying school spirit is one of the things that make our school wonderfully unique. Even though 
. Northwestern is a.Big Ten school with a Division I football team, the year I was there the school had only one pep rally for the season in a venue similar to our Washington Hall. The enthusiasm at that rally was forced and the spectacle was awk­wardly confined to a proscenium stage. I can understand how you might see our pep rallies as formulaic and more of a show than a rally, but that is no excuse for turning your back on a very special Notre Dame hall­mark. Keep in mind that much of the pomp and circumstance that come before the football team, like speeches by former players, video clips, and cheerleader performances, is to remind us that the Irish football team that we cheer for on Saturdays comes from a long tradition of greatness. Hopefully that reminder will inspire us to cheer them on to become another one of those immortal teams. Notre Dame pep rallies are about bringing 

together ALL of us who love Notre Dame. We go every Friday not just to support Irish football, but to celebrat­ing everything that makes Notre Dame, Notre Dame. 
I know that Sorin and those who chooses not to go are just as spirited as everyone else, so please go to the rallies and scream your hearts out for what you and I know is the best school in the country. I agree that it would be great to have more interaction with the football team. The fact that they got out of their seats and started a few cheers this season is a small step in the right direction. Ifyou think that the rallies' formal'> need to be changed, talk to the administration and the rally coordinators to find ways to make the rallies better, but please show up.. 
By boycotting you are hurting the team, you are hurting our university, and you are missing out on a once in a lifetime opportunity for yourself that you are incredibly fortunate to have. 
Connor Kobeski junior Siegfried Hall Oct. 7 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page I 2 Wednesday, October 8, 2008 
Hail to the Oscar season... good movies are here again. 
1he Argentine 
~rucio ~llaro $tars. et$ Cha Guevare. in thfi' c1wrthn:•w of Ar~ntini~n Ge.tw~l Fu" 
:;tutv of llUIN GLJ€'Y<:Ira ctrld F-idvt Ce.stro ltJd tt1~ gt?r1CtO f:lllti:;t<t Sh\>wn Sodt'!rt~gh dir~d~ what n~y ~ th~ rmst adiun~ padc€'{i rruvt~ crt t1is JJFH10us.~ ct'lnt€'rod car-eer, yt?t und~rn\.'lth'~ thll' filrn's ~urfi'lw is a chtlfact~~ study of tht< rriln 'Nho boc~f'fl'l ~ no~Nrt as E I Che, A nice toLlch is addocl by th~ toct the iilrn \NilI oo ir1 S~nish, whie:h will allow Uw e'J€tf',t\11tllnll:id ~I foro to ~hlflf> i'\S tt1e fll'vOitjttmklfV 
Synecdoche, New York 
fharltfJ Kaufrrnn wites (:tnd directs ttn in~lghttt~l thtil c~raei£Jrs mixoo with Uw hutmr 
tUm hf!3dlir~ by Philip Se~1ur Hotfrr1111n in ~n, Ki1ufft¥Ut infu\i.~~ in hi~ ~;mri~ ~hould 
atllf.l! !ltardoLlt ~toty abmlt the 1c:nrt~nting natLlft.l rrli!k~ this film SQff'f!~t ~imil.t~t to 
uf thtl cUtlst Koo~~fiY 1)<1ltl1Nith tht~ th~T~S *lQ~t in han!llaiionu 
Kouftt\in (ifJ'Mioped in ~Ht•iny .l<1hn Mcllkovic~ and "Adaptiltimt" "Synf>(~dodWl, N~m YOfk ~ chr-orw;:l~" 
as.tru\.)I,Jhng tbwtn~ diroctm (Hoflff1Ein) trvu-© to 
creatt) a hhHi?e r~plie& of N~ Ycrk In a ~ 
hou~r.! a~ pat tot a pkw. KCI~Jtrrnn'$ ~uipt ~hould be 
e~rr~ttf\Q i!!S <~~vs. and, trorr11,•\h:tt too tr~il~s 
~low. Ultl wrtw of lonytt\j and en{lttt~ l~lt by 
Dirt)(:~ by Gu~ V@fl '!i@nt "Milk~ i~ tht~~ 
~to.v e~t H&rv~v Milk. tht:~ tit"'it ''~ntv 
WIY IT!ilfl ·tc. 00 ~oc,too to 1\rfYi'Jfii=Citl 
pulltic oftict<, '-i\4'\\'J "''k!~ I~M a~~'<~i~ 
r1flt~d fdlr~ytl(~ by \wm Pe;rm, KMIIK" 
looks 1o ~troy 1~ totJQh ~t~b.l~t with 
QUlce Peopl~ ar~ ~tarting lct e&U it U-1\3 
rll:'~t "Bfokebtlck MOL!fll11in, ~ but how · 
!uii'A ltk~ Ar19, too~ tllrn it will~ a 
htlff\;'\f\ <;tory, a11d not i'l.n 'isst@' rnNi~ 
<:Hid e.:~m !!;,ttu1d apqrt 
TlurSecret Life of Beea 

"HW! Sfile:~t~t Lit~ of~~~ H -.pm~ nsteili)r Ci'l~t intJLKilfiQ Osc(lr,winnt'w Jtmntfl,)!' HtJd~on, QtJ~~n l~tifah, Alit:ti'l 
K~lf... Sophie Okon~dn, .:11nd Dakc1t& Fanning Th~ film, 
oosoo on Sui!.' Mc:mk Kidd's oo:~t!:i~llino nowl, wnwrs em 
thi'ilitOfy of fi~urtootH/tklNlld Uly (hmrlltlt..)) vvho rtJn>. 
"tl~t<Jay frorn har bittflr f~;ther (P~lLJI ~ttimy) INith her car~­
taker Rmaloon (Hue'l!>CWI). Thf.' tw1 are harboring i'l -secr\)t 
t~bmJt thfl dwJth of Lily'r> rrcther, m•d ~nd up ti:lken in tv 
thH "trono &J<:1tw'iaht ~~s~. (L~t1 f11t1, Kt'N!i. Ok(:)nfldo). $t;lt 1n 'South Cmnlin<1 dt.t in<J thtJ Civtl 
Righ'bi era, thii! Bo<!ltvvrighh \'l!'tl intt!llig~nt i:tnd indept;ndant wonlln n~king 4 llwlQ off of honey. Ulv mw hr,1w flf'ltllly tmmd ~ ffirdly, btJ1 in th~ turbul~nt tif'f~~; of rw:~i~;rr1 things <1r~ not 
~~l!iY Th~ tilm al~o ro~<£tar':l Nat~ Pi'lrkt:lf &nd Tri~hm Wild!> 
n.e Soloist 
Dir~etocl by Jld~ WriQhl (*A'km~t"nt" "Piidill i'lnd fJr~iudl~"), wlhti! Soloi!!t" 
~t.~r<ii Rotwlrt t>o.wn~y. Jr., and J(:1rrli~ 
f{l)t(K It i~ i:¥1'\oo on tt1a trw sttlry ~{ 
N<1ih¢H!it?l f:l.;'/f'Jfs (Fol<Qt), fJ $Chi;optirw>ie: 
horr~l~~ ff\(\fi &rid ~odiQy on ttwl 
~llo i'lnd th~ violin, who i~ ft'lwld by 
.·m "l-A lirr~!\." j{)urnali~t ~WI.ft3loP\'!ii' 
(~")Q1Nf1~yJr.), '"''JhQ trl~~ tel ~t him 


Nck (~fi hi~ ·ret'lt <1nd tm stf.!Qt'l A~ thlil film illu$Tt~~s. whi'!t you can 00 it you stop ~inQ 
fTIYi."h ~~ €100tJt loQ~il! {11! it i~ A~'· & ~1isintE1ftF!t@c1 ~JtJ.-"fflver <'.lnd t~n.lff'fl if! friafld 
Micl<ey f~QtJrke plqys o w-estlet', Rllndy 'The Rarn' RotJifi!lOfl, rr~k1ng his wctV 
thfOl~Qt~~ ttif.l inc.lr.lpendent ntnJit <.1nr.i 
tr\lltlQ to ®teat his ri~l ?Jrd hts QINil 
retlf.lllirlQ body Clnd tet:4ptUI~ hi'i li1~ 
lh~ filrn ~M:Jn one of the Wf 1ice Hln 1 
F-e,,tiV<ll~ flindple aYW~rrt<, ~the 
c,olf.!en Unn ~and ig <;qre to rlf1 ju~.t 
CIS. ~II with auqience~ In the sMes 
Al~o ~t:ninQ Mofis.CJ lm*"'· ~Win 
Rae:hel W~, cmd frr~st M11ie~. 

Rr.tsllt! uft t:lf U~ st~ f~a'A ~IJQubt" t=~n~s atuund tt~ ronflift t~~n o nw\ ploW(1 tN M~~ i;,tr~p, qfl\l '~ ~hlik~l lll~t, r\aW\1 t»j Philhp S~ruLJ Hntlrn~m. Wtt:lln "'t# ~\.(U,~~ Of ~f-1\.f/iif\Q ~ blacK !!hK~t)t n~ h~T) wll t'fll'lk~ ttl? ~~Jdiflnr~? ql~lloo 1\'hQIUn, ff't1f~li\y >1flti lt ~1th <'!~ l~V ~l~tld 'J~Jlth g !.i)>tt>l, pl>\Wt1l.vl!nv~t~, Vllt'1tl '~n·t kx~~ tt•l¥Ph~~. ~l~~r~t1 tt~ n\l~~ yt::~u thit\~ >1ild rot ltl ~ m~'.~i 
R~~ltJtionary Ro~do L~~fl~ffJt'l OICi'}fl'ii"'l and l<otl? Wins.l~t f~Wf"1iW ~fl ~t'f~f1 ftM it@ fir~l tirrlil ~it1\',ti! ~lit~f1i(': # Dit~~~1 ~lJ Sarn M~nt'~f, ("Atl11':lfiran ~l~'\y"), "R~~~ll}o tim1i3f\l Rt"Md" ifi the r.tory ell & VQWl~ rn:lffi~j OOLJPIIO liV~Af.J in ~fl €lQ@ ~Jt t:~nformty V'Jilo ·~ook & ~m ot ~~~iflQ 
~ ffoo1 tflill mlfrtln~~ ©f th~ir ~i>ii~~fK'~ Wh€!t \Nt;j ~htJult.l ~~t i; e film tt1€lt i~ ri!*' wtth dt~hi <1ntl "lf~ljilih and lull tJf OiJMandir1Q ~'fOftf'\jf1@~ l~t\ l€lf~ it, wh~Ft ~~d ~~flfJ ~~ €\1\,ll~bly tr@ t'Ml oo~t YflYr~ ocm ot thi; ~~€ltlOFt iH1d yiw t~ ~t !itll.fti:l n11rtt*ii!ll ur--w;~ tfw; ~~~~ifttl tlf ~ ~i@llii!f di11Klof1 ()1\f.-I!N ~iii fJI~f\ 
-

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, October 8, 2008 
page 13 
The Lucky Ones 
"The Lur.ky On£'5" is this ~r·s  State~ &nd reconciling with thl'lir @X~ri!'!rKe If it tllkm  
lrctq rrovie  Fllrrrt'\'lker~ h.Jvo  c~m m:'lt tt:J croi!i:> the lin~ of fT)(liodri'lrrlil th~ rmvil'l ha~  
alrill!dy i!lttempt~d to hand!~  thtl potantil(ll t!':'l btl Wf'flP@IIing, bLJt that i!£ yti!t to bt~  
tho ~ut1i!}ct with litllit~d sue:c~ss.  s~n.  
Him such as "In tht1 V&ll~ of  
~lt~h." ''Rtmdition." ''Gr€lt~ tji  
t:iona" and "Rf•dt1doo, • whnt"  
flw.r th@ir rrnrik mw haw  
ooen. carne and -mnt with  
llttiM spl~$h. ''Th~ Lucky Ont1~."  
starm 11.,1 Tim Rubbins. R<1ch~l  
McAdam; cmd MichcJ~I P~f"'~.  
tall~ the story of thrt:Je woundmJ  

The Changeling 
Ang~lirlfl Jolif<, Jqhn Mt'llkcwie:h ~nd Nt't.; Rvmn sti:ir In this C::!1nt ffl<;W)or:'hjiroctad thnllar ~lilt 
in 19J~ Los AnuelfK A<i~ad on a trLJe ~tory of kidnaPfllflQ ,~nct p;Jiic~ f,Tlrruptirm, it h£J~ ~NGn 
mcm•iw critical c,ccol~de$ oilt fet.tivgl scrooninQs Thtj) ~diQr~ of "Th~ Che.tng{lling" I~ 
unriV~JIIed <tfT'QFlQ ft1ll rslflCl~~. <tnd Ei:t~i\Nood ha~ ~fln on i:t dir~cklri.'ll hot ~treak !ilnce JQO~'!I "My.;tie Riw" Whil~ tht.? d~rl<' tone fl\'!Y thrtlW SQfTtl puh:Jntit~l VitiliMWS, 411\jQfl~ ltlnkinQ kJr i:t flll>'lftc:ed ~riod piece rite with politiEEJI LlndtlflOflflS will!ikttly bfl pi6Cl">l'l<i. 
At thts ~r·~ h:cJd~nv .Aword~. "No. (t'ltJI'ltr\1 for Old 
Mt!n. • on ndi:lptdtion of i:t (orfftlc Me:CI:lrthy no~l. 
INOFl th~ a\Ni'Jfd tor ~t P1ctur~ Nen·:t w&r, i:l dift~f(;mt 
Me C:&rthy no~I, ~006 ·~ "The Rotld." i~ hitting th? big 
~t:;reen Viggo Morterl!lon stars i:t~ il!n unni:tnled rr~n 
who. wth hill !!WI. spends s~ctl rmnths tri:tlttlling 
thtntJfJh fli'!Fl t)f f! dtlSOI€1~. po'ih'lp:x:tJiyptic A.rrwWi'l 
An unna!"ffid di~i:t'>~ hi'!$ latt the li:tndsc:&pa fi'M:lged 
and q IM)Ljflfiati hl.lffli:lnity d~:spr~tC1te m~lJrvive Tht'l 
film willlllso star C:hf!rillf:l T~on, Robert DLNI'lll &nd 
Gwy P~rce (" Meff)')nto") 
n.e Curious Case of Benjamin Button 
fhi!i film i~ <tdl!ptocj trorn F ~ott r-rt~QSFC!kl's short story i:tOOLlt BeFljClmin tMton (f:J·i'!d ~itt) q rnm WIQ 1s burn in hi~ etghtie!i gnd C!Qa~ b.:!t::kWI'Ird!'., while ewrwns 'lrownt:J hirn ~>till QfDINi old The tggline ot the film, "I WQs born t~nfkli' qf\li>l.li:ll rirnn1-'i1i1m:es'' Cf;lftqlnly rings true We follow his odd storv, from the end of World War I in >191 fl New Orlei:'lflS into the 21st centtJry. 
The life of f:leni<~tnin Bwtton i~ Of)f; qf q qniqqe Ft'¥!fl <:~nd the people, plqt::es, lave clfld Si'ld­ness he rihcfNSI-s nlono hi& Jowrney. Tha tilm <:~lfif.l stQr~ (.qte Sl<tt!chett and Til$ Svvinton. 
Other films to catch .... 
Happy-Go-Lucky -9/27 Rachel Getting Married-10/3 Flash of Genius-10/3 Body of Lies-10/10 
:,, w.-10/17 
111• Duchess  
i<~in~ Knightl~y tJk~s on i:l  Sorn'l ha~ c;ornpli:lined thilt it is "mLJch !!ldo  
ehallanginQ nw.; role a~ ... ij  &boiJt nQthing, ''  but who ~n really m5i!.it Knightley  
i.;JIJ~Y kn~l11 foret"d to daal  In il mr!i~t; fNf.!n if ~hlil i!i ju!it tf!N~'flping h{l( old looks'?  
with@ rrli:ln'~ world llnd look  
for low in 4 r:~·iod piocli'  
AlriQht it rniQht not oo tfltlt  
"off thf! btltlti.iln p;1th" filn1  
we·~ bafcln w<:1iting tor Kni~Jht,  
l~y to rTlllk~, but thi$ is 11 rolf1  
~hi'# kne.M~S how to pull off PILJ$,  
with R(Jiph Pi~nn~ I:'IS her lt?au­ 
inQ n~n. be reildy kJr !>On-~  
lmfi('.irtQ bclttle$ of tt1f:! St!;.tt3~.  

Quantum of Solace 

"QwE!nhJtTI ot SQit]ce" ct~ntintJe$ thl\l il\'J-thtt truth Rond i:lfld M (JLidi Clench) int.t>rrQgats Mr . wntur~$ ot th~ lcr\a!'!t JiltT~f, ~mel, C1;;miel WhiUl, wnt::Q'v'eFinq thi!Jt the (')f~)EJni;.;,~:~tiof'l thEJt biat;k-
Crilig. 8etr;;JYQd by hi~ lo'.Mf Ws~, in fn!liled Vs;;per i~ filr rmre dangt.trQLJi than pWifi~Jsly 
"C&fiino RoYii1!1," 001 fiqht~ ttJ tJnctJver irrnoined. In thi'? filrn, Bond has a be.:JLJtift.JI and feisty 
new k:lve jnter~t (fJrnille (Olga Kt.Jrylc:tnkQ) who hils her own Clgendfl. Expect rrore ijction, violence, ~!'ln­~Ll<Jiity .:mel fun <l~ 8ond trqyels the ruwntry sean;hing fqr the tnith He m..J~ t fliNI{J<Jte hi$ wqy &rQt.Jnd the t:IA. tErrori~t'i &nd ~n M to stop the orgC!nimtion responsible tor the betrayt~l of Vesper B.wt this tirr-a ilrownd, tbings qre pen~onill 
Piret:tor ~;<> l-uhFm!n, of glit?y films ~wt::h <IS "Mf!wlin RouQe" 01nd "Rurreo +Juliet," triss hi§ h"lnd &t ~ cli'J~~ic s~ping epif': with "AtMri:lli<l" ~tarrinQ Nicole KidrrfJn, whQ is lookin[J for the win her l<~st feMJ filrfl5 h<1ve not !TOvided, i'lnd Hugh Ji'lt:krriOin. hoping to pwll off hi5 first Ft'¥!JOF leqcj role, there ill sene definite rn:Jtiv<Jtiqn <1mong e~ll tho;:.e involved to n1E!ke thi; filmswcceed The film will be Lmdenlilbly be&wtifwl CJnd the rorrnntic !';totv rli:ls. tht:l ~tentl&l to be c&ptiyqting, PLJt racent filrrl!\ that hil~ tried to reach ~pit; stcttws, fillch CIS ''Troy," Ap.ocqrllyptQ," .:'tnd "Kingdom EJf Hailven, • h.'l~ye 
Gran Torino 
(lint Ei'l~tw:lod's second film in 2000 &s "~ director i& ill~o the l!t1it he 1-li:l~ Clcted in SlflCe JOU4'ti "Million [)qJiqr Bqpl" While not quite <l!i high r:tofile iJS hi!i other releils.e ttw; Wi'lf (''The f.hqngsling"), the fiLJPdt.l6d dri:lfn:l ~till h&~ cntics b1~z;ing. Stqrring tqsti!IK.locl Cl!i the owner ot the titul<'!r Ford, he attempts to connect with the irrtTUQfqnt teen whq ~tei'!ls 1t Thowgh it ~till cjqesn't hqye il finn releqse dilte, the tightly,LJndeh'IKi:1P5 filrn-r\Cl tfC~iler hC!s heen released -CQI~Icl be i'! &leer-;er hit 
· ..... "·_ 

fi:1i led to do ~o Hopefwlly "Aw~tral!il" U'Jn !iiJCreed whsre they have not 
Slumdog Millionaire ­
Defiance-12/12 
Seven Pounds-12/19 .Frost/Nixon-12/26 
Valkyrie-12/26 

PRESEASON N BA 

Raptors blowout Cavaliers in preseason opener 
Nowitzki leads Mavericks over hurting Wizards; McGrady sits out in Rockets narrow victory over Grizzlies 
in 26 minutes. The Cavs have
Associated Press 

craved a point guard for years 
CLEVElAND -LeBron James and feel Williams can fill that 
spent a rare night relaxing on void while giving James some­
the bench, Mo Williams showed one to share the scoring load. 
why Cleveland traded for him When he had the chance, 
this summer. and the Cavaliers Williams pushed the ball up the 
opened th(·lir exhibition season floor and he wasn't shy about 
with a 1 04-X4 loss to the Toronto directing his teammates. 
Haptors on Tunsday night. "It's just great to be here," said 
.lames playnd just X minutes in Williams, who has been smiling thn first quartnr before he raised since his arrival in Cleveland. "I his hand for a substitutn and think we can do some big things coach Mike Brown pulled his this year." superstar for the remainder of Brown has tried to cut James' Cleveland's preseason debut. minutes before. However, it's 
James, who won an Olympic been tough to get him rest in gold medal this summer at the games the Cavs needed to win. Bnijing Garnes, missed his only James averaged 40.4 minutes thrne shots from the field, made per game last season, nearly a one free throw and added two half-minute less than in 2006­rPbounds and two assists. 07. llis minutes-per-game aver­
"It was good to play another age has dropped the past three team," James said. "We're kind years, but except for his rookie of tired of beating up on each year (39.5), James has averaged other. We did some good things more than 40 minutes per game and some bad things." each season. 
The wear and tnar on James is a major concern for the Mavericks 108, Wizards 82 Cavaliers. lie has had little time Dirk Nowitzki and Brandon away from the floor since last Bass each scored 17 points to season ended because of his lead the Dallas Mavericks to a commitment to USA Basketball. victory over the injury-depleted Brown intends to reduce James' Washington Wizards on Tuesday playing time -the 23-year-old night in the preseason opener has been among the league lead­for both teams. ers in minutes played through­Wizards forward Antawn on to lead by as many as 36 seven rebounds in 2007-08. light-reel dunks in the fourth out his career -with the idea of Jamison left in the first quarter points in the fmal quarter. "I expect him to play well," quarter. Hakim Landry led keeping him as fresh as possible with a right knee injury and did Andray Blatche's 18 points Carlisle said. "As far as any Memphis with 15, including a for the grinding, 82-game sched­not return. paced the Wizards. other stuff (adverse fan reaction dunk that tied it at 92. ule and playoffs. Jamison's leg appeared to Dallas' Josh Howard, who fm­to Howard), I don't expect much Artest got the loudest ovation 
Toronto's Jermaine O'Neal, buckle while playing defense ished with 15 points, was greet­if any of that. I think his (apolo­of the night when he was intro­acquired from Indiana in a July midway through the first quar­ed by a mixture of cheers and gy) was sincere and heartfelt ... duced with the starting lineup. trade, scored 11 points in his ter, and he had to be helped to boos from the crowd when he As you progress through this He deflected a pass and made a Haptors debut. O'Neal missed 40 the locker room by teammates. was introduced with the starting business, your skin thickens a steal on the Grizzlies' first pos­games last season because of A team spokesman at first said lineup following a controversy­little." session, but missed his first shot lingering knee problems and the knee was sprained, but later filled offseason. as a Rocket, a 3-point try from dropped weight over the sum­changed the diagnosis to a less In a video posted on YouTube Rockets 96, Grizzlies 93 the top of the key. He sank a 3­mer to ease the pressure on his serious-sounding strain. that was widely viewed on the Ron Artest scored 12 of his 15 pointer from the same spot a joints. Jamison will have an MRI and Internet, Howard was shown at points in the first quarter of his minute later. 
Will Solomon scored 17 points, be evaluated on Wednesday. The a summer charity flag football Houston debut and the Rockets Gay scored five points, includ­Andrea Bargnani 15 and Kris two-time NBA All-Star averaged game disrespecting the national beat the Memphis Grizzlies in ing a driving dunk past Yao, to Humphries 14 for the Raptors, 21.4 points and 10.2 rebounds in anthem. Howard apologized on the preseason opener on help Memphis build an early who didn't attempt a 3-pointer 79 games for the Wizards last the first day of training camp. Tuesday night. lead. Artest scored seven points, in the first half but dropped six season. Howard held his hand over his Tracy McGrady sat out to rest including another 3-pointer, dur­from long range after halftime. Wizards center Brendan heart while the national anthem his sore left knee. The Rockets ing a 9-0 run that put the 
Toronto's reserves outplayed Haywood missed the game with was sung prior to the game. star had offseason surgery to Rockets up 18-13. Cleveland's during the second a sprained right wrist, which he Howard had another off-court remove loose tissue in the knee Yao had a quiet start and half. when the Raptors will have examined by a hand incident during the offseason and said last week that it was came out with 1 :44 left in the outscored the Cavs 57-37. specialist in New York City on when he was arrested in July healing slower than expected. quarter. He had five rebounds, 
"We've got a lot of work to do, Wednesday. Haywood sustained after police said he was drag Yao Ming had 10 points and but only two points, in 10 min­it's the first preseason game," the injury last week at training racing at 94 mph in a 55 mph nine rebounds in less than two utes before he was replaced by Haptors coach Sam Mitchell camp. zone. quarters of action. Houston Landry. said. "We got better as the game The Wizards are already with­Last season Howard was criti­coach Rick Adelman has said Artest also sat out the second progressed. We made a lot of out high-scoring guard Gilbert cized for saying in a radio inter­he'll be careful with Yao during quarter. Brent Barry, the mistakes defensivley, especially Arenas, who's expected to miss view during a first-round playoff the preseason to try to keep the Rockets' other big offseason in that first quarter. You can't several months with a left knee series against New Orleans that six-time All-Star fresh and acquisition, hit a 3-pointer with give up 28 points in the first injury. he occasionally smokes marijua­injury-free. 10:12 left in the first half to tie quarter. We carried out our prin­Dallas shot 52 percent from na. Later in the same series, he Carl Landry, Yao's backup, had the game at 27. dples as good as any time we've the field and built a 55-40 half­drew the ire of then-coach Avery 18 points and nine rebounds. Adelman only used reserves in done it so far in training camp time edge behind Nowitzki's 10 Johnson by throwing himself a Houston led 71-70 after three the second quarter and Houston and practice." points. birthday party after a Game 4 quarters, and Artest and Yao took a 46-43 halftime lead. 
Zydrunas Ilgauskas scored 16 Nowitzki's layup and 3-pointer Joss to the Hornets. were done for the night. Artest Warrick had nine points and O.J. points and Williams, acquired in on consecutive possessions mid­New Mavericks coach Rick played 24 minutes and Yao Mayo had eight for Memphis in an August trade from way through the third quarter Carlisle said he anticipates a played just over 22. the first half. Milwaukee, added 12 points, stretched Dallas' advantage to strong season from Howard, Rudy Gay scored 14 for the Yao and Artest were back for four assists and three rebounds 70-51, and the Mavericks went who averaged 19.9 points and Grizzlies and had a pair of high-the start of the third quarter. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS 
NOTICES LosT & FouND FoR RENT AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER TICKETS Do not go it alone. 
PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR LOST: Gold and black necklace Gorgeous Completely Rehabbed KRAMERHOUSES.COM VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell NO foot-If you or someone you love needs DC area students ND,SMC & HCC: charm lost Saturday night at House, 4 bedrooms, 3 full baths, ball tickets. www.victmytickets.com. confidential support or assistance, Legends.Not expensive but irre-washer dryer, dishwasher, new stain-574-232-0964. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at NO Club of DC has contracted for placeable to owner. If found, please less steel appliances, 3 car garage, (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574­
WANTED

bus transportation to & from the DC call716-816-5669. central air, beautiful light fixtures, 631-2685. 
area for all breaks this year. deck and front porch. Marble entry-
PERSONAL 

way. All new. 2 miles to NO. Available STUDENT WORK, $14.25 base-For more information, visit our web-Safe & affordable! FoR SALE immediately, fourth month free or flat appt., flexible schedules, no experi-site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­
screen TV installed. $1180 per ence needed, customer sales/serv-If you or someone you care about ments/pregnant.shtml Contact Ann Rimkus, CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO month. ice, conditions apply, ages 18+, has been sexually assaulted, visit arimkus1 @verizon.net NO. PLEASE CONTACT TED @ 574-273-3835, www.workforstu-http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap/ 
574-233-6191 MSL #231736 Call Harold 574-315-n81. dents.com Go Irish! 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, October 8, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICEs page 15 
NBA 
NCAA Women's Volleyball 
AVCA Top 25  
team  points  record  
1  Penn State  1500  14·0  
2  Nebraska  1440  12·0  
3  Texas  1366  8·2  
4  usc  1286  7-2  
5  UCLA  1230  10·2  
6  Stanford  1218  11-2  
7  Hawaii  1126  11-2  
8  California  1106  12·1  
9  Washington  1033  11-1  
10  Florida  929  10-1  
11  Oregon  826  11·3  
12  Colorado State  807  11-1  
13  Minnesota  774  12·2  
14  Witchita State  707  14-0  
15  Pepperdine  642  12·0  
16  San Diego  612  10·2  
17  Kansas State  554  13·2  
18  Purdue  474  10·4  
19  Illinois  409  10-3  
20  Wisconsin  249  10-4  
21  BYU  224  9·3  
22  Michigan  204  13·1  
23  Santa Clara  147  8·3  
24  Cal Poly  108  7-6  
25  Arizona  89  11·2  

Big East Women's Volleyball Standings 
·team record 
1  NOTRE DAME  5-0-0  
2  Rutgers  4-1-0  
3  Georgetown  3-0-0  
4  Marquette  3-1-1  
5  Villanova  3-2-0  
6  Louisville  2-1-2  
7  West Virginia  2·1-2  
8  Cincinnati  2·2-1  
9  USF  2-2-1  
10  Connecticut  1-2·2  
11  Syracuse  1-2-1  
12  Seton Hall  1-3-1  
13  Providence  0-2-3  
14  Pitsburgh  1-4-0  
15  St. John's  0•2-2  
16  DePaul  0-5-0  

-MIAA Women's Volleyball Standings 
conference team record 
1 Hope 10-0 2 Calvin 7-2 3 Alma 7-2 4 SAINT MARY'S 5·5 5 Adrian 6-5 6 Albion 4-6 7 Trine 3-7 8 Kalamazoo 2-8 9 Olivet 0-9 

overall record 
19-3 
13-4 
15-6 
12-7 
10-9 
1HO 
6-12 
5-15 
4-15 
around the dial 
CLASSIC BOXING 
1992 Heavyweight Title Fight Evander Holyfield vs. Riddick Bowe 8:30 p.m., ESPN 

Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. ­Ronnie Brewer and Paul Millsap each scored 13 points, Deron Williams had 11 points and eight assists, and the Utah Jazz beat the Los Angeles Lakers 99-90 on Tuesday night in the preseason opener for both teams. 
Kobe Bryant played 24 minutes for the Lakers, finishing with eight points, five rebounds and five assists after sitting out the entire second and fourth quarters. Bryant, who won the league's MVP last season for the first time in his career, was on the gold medal­winning U.S. Olympic team at the Beijing Olympics along with Williams and Utah team­mate Carlos Boozer. 
The Lakers got as close as 89-84 on Andrew Bynum's short hook shot with 5:34 to play, but Kevin Lyde capped an 8-2 run with a short hook shot to give Utah its biggest lead, 97-86, with 
2:24 left. Bynurn and Jordan Farmar each had 15 points for Los Angeles and Bynum grabbed eight rebounds. 
Lakers coach Phil Jackson missed the game because of soreness and swelling in his lower legs. Assistant coach Kurt Rambis ran the team in place of the 63-year-old Hall of Farner; who has been experiencing dis­comfort for the past few days and was examined on Monday by a team doctor. Jackson remained home and watched the game on TV with his legs elevated. 

"We don't anticipate that it's anything serious at all," team spokesman John Black said. 
Jackson has undergone two hip replacement operations since October 2006-the second one in June 2007. He used a cane for four months, including the preseason last year. His nine NBA titles as a head coach are tied with fellow Hall of Farner Red Auerbach. Last June, Jackson got the Lakers within two vic­tories of the fr-anchise's 15th championship. 
Sasha Vujacic, who signed a three-year, $15 
Luke Walton brings 34­
year-old stalker to court 
MANHATTAN BEACH, Calif. -A woman has been charged with stalk­ing Los Angeles Lakers forward Luke Walton. 
Stacy Elizabeth Beshear of El Segundo was arrested Sept. 18 aft.er she pulled up to his car and pretend­ed to fire gunshots at him with her hand, police Sgt. Steve Tobias said. 
The 34-year-old Beshear has pleaded not guilty to a misdemeanor count of stalking. A Nov. 6 trial date has been set in the case. She faces up to a year in county jail if convict­ed, district attorney spokeswoman Jane Robison said Tuesday. 
A phone number for Beshear was not in service. 
Walton said Beshear has been harassing him since late last year. He told the Orange County Register she waited outside his Manhattan Beach home numerous times and wrote on his car with a marker after he refused to sign an autograph. 
Buffaloes' Hawkins 
signs contract extension 
BOULDER, Colo. -Colorado coach Dan Hawkins and the university agreed to a contract extension that could keep him with the Buffaloes through 2012. 
The new contract was announced Tuesday and takes effect July 1. 
"Everybody else seems to worry about that more than I do," Hawkins said of his new deaL 'The way I was raised, you've got to show up, put your boots on and go to work every day." 
Hawkins originally signed a five­year, $4.25 million contract, not including incentives, that was to run through Dec. 31, 2010. He's scheduled to earn $951,720 this season prior to incentives. 
With his new deal, Hawkins can earn incentives for winning seven games ($50,000), being Big 12 coach of the year ($25,000) and national coach of the year ($50,000). 
million contract as a restricted free agent in July after deciding to remain with the Lakers and not play in Europe, was sidelined because of a sprained left ankle. Luke Walton, who under­went surgery on July 18 to remove bone spurs and scar tissue and clean up some cartilage debris from his right ankle, also didn't dress. 
The Jazz were missing Boozer because of a sore left hamstring. Matt Harpring also is sidelined due to complications from surgery in June to remove a bone spur from his right ankle. Last year, Harpring missed training camp and the entire preseason schedule following knee surgery. 

Bonds enioys times 
away from fhe ball field 
SAN FRANCISCO -Barry Bonds made a rare public appearan.ce Tuesday and said he is enjoying life away from baseball. 
''I'm happy now that I have more time," Bonds told the crowd at the kickoff event of the Macy's Christmas tree lighting. 'Tve actu­ally enjoyed myself immensely." 
Bonds, honorary chair of this year's lighting, did not talk to reporters and left quickly after giving a brief speech during the 30-minute ceremony. Lights adorning the large tree in Union Square are sold to benefit the UCSF Children's Hospital palliative care program, and nearly $700,000 has been raised during the past five years. 
Bonds was questioned by a young patient about potentially returning to baseball. 
"I had fun," Bonds said. "But I like my freedom. 
n 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------­
NBA 

Baylor out as Clipper VP 
Associated J>n:ss 
LOS ANGELES -Elgin Baylor is out as vice president of basketball operations with tlw Los Angeles Clippers, and eoaeh Mike Dunleavy will assume his responsibilities as general manager. 
l>unlnavy said Baylor had decided to resign after spend­ing 22 years as an exeeutive with tlw team. 
"Wp, greatly appreciate Elgin's efTorts during his time with tlw Clippers, and we wish him the very best," Clippers owrwr and chairman of the board Donald T. Sterling said in a statemP.nt issued Tuesday. 
Tho 74-year-old Baylor became vice president of bas­ketball operations with the Clippers in 1986 after an out­standing 14-year playing eareP.r with the Lakers and a brief stint as coach of thP. New Orleans Jazz. 
lie was inducted into the Baskdball llall of Fame in I <J76, chosen as one of the NBA's !iO greatest players dur­ing tlw league's !iOth annivP.r­sary celebration in 1997, and namod tlw NBA execu tivP. of tlw ymtr following the 200!i-06 
s<~ason. 
Tlw Clippers havn b<~en one or tlw NBA's least successful franchises over the years. but lhoy boat Denver in lho first round of tho playofTs following the 200!J-06 snas.on and extendl'd tlw Phoenix Suns to a seventh game in the second round bnfore being eliminated. 

The Clippers also announced that Neil Oshley, the team's director of player personnel, will be elevated to the position of assistant general manager. 
"In Mike and Neil, we're for­tunate to already have talent­ed people in place to make this transition a seamless one," Clippers president Andy Hoeser said. "Going forward. we have high expectations for our team. From a basketball standpoint, these arc the peo­ple we're counting on to make those expectations a reality." 
Dunleavy, about to start his sixth season as coach of the Clippers, has manned dual roles before; he was the coach and vice president of basket­ball operations with the Milwaukee Bucks from 1992­
96. 
"About a week or 10 days ago, I was approached by the team about being named the general manager," Dunleavy told The Associated Press. "The sense was there was a chancn that Elgin might resign. Basically, thny were trying to figure it out as soon as possible. They had made Elgin a couple different offers about going forward, and he had until Monday to make a decision on it. 
"Today, Andy Hooser eame to me and said they were going to go forward with this, that Elgin had resigned, and they 
were going to name me the general manager and Neil Oshley the assistant general manager." 
Dunleavy said he hadn't seen Baylor for nearly a month, since the funeral of longtime Clippers physician Dr. Anthony 
F. Daly, who died Sept. 5. 
"I enjoyed my time working with Elgin, it was a good work­ing relationship," Dunleavy said. "I wish him all the best. The way we've done business the last couple of years, we've all worked together to go for­ward with whatever made the best sense for us, and we'll continue to move forward." 
The Clippers have 10 new players under contract this season, led by Baron Davis, Marcus Camby, Ricky Davis and first-round draft pick Eric Gordon. They will join holdovers Chris Kaman, Cuttino Mobley and AI Thornton. 
"I think we've got a really good group and they'll play well together," said Dunleavy, whose team was beset by numerous injuries last season, finishing with a 23-59 record. Elton Brand later signed with the Philadelphia 76crs as a free agent, and Corey Maggette joined the Golden State Warriors. 
Tho Clippers were eliminat­ed from playoff contention on the final day of the 2006-07 season, linishing with a 40-42 record. 

recycle The Observer. 


Additional 2008 
Ths Sari Soldiers • Nepali language with English subtitles • Friday. November 14 • Join director Julie Bridgham
Fall Semester Events 
know no boundaries 
World VIew is an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive ~UNIVERSITY OF 
ADEBARTOLO 

dialogue about issues of race, class, ethnicity, religion, and gender through the arts. WNOTREDAME v PERFORM NGARTSCENltR Office ofthe President 
Wednesday, October 8, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
CYCLING 
Cycling threatened by latest doping allegations 
IOC vice president worries that continuous doping violations could jeopardize future credibility of sport 
Associated Press 
LONDON-The future of men's road cycling in the Olympics could be threatened unless the sport cleans up its doping record. 
Thomas Bach. vice president of the International Olympic Committee, said Tuesday the lat­est Tour de France doping revela­tions have further damaged the sport's credibility and called its Olympic status into question. 
If the entire sport doesn't pull together to improve the situation, "then you have to consider giving men's road cycling a pause" from Olympic participation. Baeh told The Associated Press in a tele­phone interview. 
The head of world cycling called Bach's suggestion "com­pletely unacceptable" and said the sport was weeding out the drug cheats. 
Anti-d,lping and cycling officials said Monday that Leonardo Piepoli of Italy and Stefan Schumacher of Germany had tested positive during this year's Tour de Prance for CERA, an advanced version of the blood booster EPO. Italian cyclist Riccardo Riceo previously admit­ted to CERA use. 
"This is a hard blow for the erndibility of men's road eyeling," Bach said. "Obviously, the riders have not ehanged their mentality. They had a ehance to do so, but they did not and this makes it even worse." 
The head of the Tour de France on Tuesday hailed a new lab test that has exposed the three riders. 
"It's very good. It allows us to confound the cheaters," Christian Prudhomme told the AP. "What's being done at the Tour de France has never existed in the world of sport, in no competition." 
Prudhomme said it took more than two months for the positive tests to emerge. While blood sam­ples from riders were taken dur­ing the race, testing them for CERA was not yet authorized. 
· In another development, Luxembourg's anti-doping agency expanded an investigation against cyelist Frank Schleck, who wore the yellow jersey for three days during the Tour and was sus­pended by his team last week. 
Schleck said he transferred money to a Swiss bank account held by a Spanish doctor at the heart of a major doping scandal. Schleck denied direct contact with the doctor and reiterated he never engaged in doping. 
Bach, a German lawyer, said the international cycling union, or UCI, had begun effective anti-dop­ing programs but blamed the sport's riders, race organizers, team owners and sponsors. 
"I hope that now these ·stake­holders realize that they have to join this program and work seamlessly together," he said. "They have to react. The credibil-ity of men's road race cycling is at stake." 

Bach said the sport should be given more time and did not face any immediate sanctions. 
"I am confident that UCI will react and will call upon the other stakeholders to join and to work 
hand in hand," he said. "They have made an effort, but it's not enough if you have no real collab­.oration and cooperation. The UCI 
has to be the leader." 
UCI president Pat McQuaid 
reacted strongly to Bach's com­
ments. 

"It is completely unacceptable for Thomas Bach to be saying this," he told the AP. "I don't like talking about other sports, but there are other sports with per­sistent problems. Instead of firing guns at cycling he should fire guns equally at them as well." 
Welcome to 21st century student apartments. 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Brand new, contemporary, furnished apartments now leasing for Fall 2009. 
• 
Two bedrooms 


• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
Furnished 


• 
Includes 42" flat panel HDTV 

• 
Laundry room with washer &dryer 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations 

• 
Walk to campus 




luxury apartments
IIIrish 
ROW 

TENNIS 

•
Venus upset In opening round 
F,;@ 
w 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
COLLE<>E OF SCIENCE 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Venus Williams was bnatm1 in the opening round I(Jr tho sneond time in 12 tourna­nwnts this snason. losing 6-4, 2­6, 6-4 to Flavia l'nnnetta of Italy at the Kn~mlin Cup on Tun11day. 
Thn Wimbledon champion, who also lost in the lirst round at Memphis in Man:h, droppnd to 1­;{ against Pnmwtta. 
"I totally carne lwrn because I love winning," thn nighth-ranknd American said. "I have nnvnr won this Litln, but I just had a day whnrn I eould not eontrol my garnn. She playnd well." 
Svntlana Kuznntsova and Vnra Zvonareva. two snndnd Hussian who have nnvnr nmdwd the final of tlwir lwnw 1went, won tlwir first-round matehes. 
On t.he nwn's side, whern Hussians have won nino of the last 11 Cups, tlw winnnrs indud­nd two-tinw defnnding champion Nikolay Davydnnko and Mar<Lt Salin, runner-up to Davydnnko in 2006. 
Pnnnotta and the sixth-sendnd Williams traded breaks in thn first sot bnforn the Italian broke dndsivnly on hnr third chance in thn ninth game with a lob. 
Williams broke twice in the seeond set. but droppml serve in the first game of tho third and n1wer reeowm~d. 
"I think the match was very tough," said Pennntta, a two-time winner on tour this year. "Venus is always a tough opponent. Today, I was playing my best ten­nis. My service was working very woll. I am very happy with the match." 

Davydenko beat Florent Serra of France 6-1, 7-5, and seventh­seeded Saf'in struggled past Israeli qualifier Noam Okun 7-6 ( 5). 3-6, 6-4 to begin his 12th attnmpt to win tho homntown nvent. 
l>avydenko, who also won the Litle in 2004. improved to 16-2 in Moscow. 
"I would like to defend my title horn, but as usual I'm my worst nnmny," he said. 
Hobby Ginepri of the United States beat Jiri Vanek ol' the Czneh Hepublic 6-3, 6-4 and eighth-seeded Janko Tipsarevic ol' Serbia held oil' Hussian qualili­er Alexandre Kudryavtsev 4-6, 6­3, 7-6 (6). 
Former U.S. Open champion Kuznntsova earned a 6-4, 7-5 vie­tory over Li Na of China, who ended Snrnna Williams' reign as No. I last week in Stuttgart. 
"Li Na beat many serious oppo­nents this snason and to win in two sets, I think, it's not a bad start to the tournament," Kuznntsova said. Hanked No. 7, she has lost all seven of her WI/\ Tour lirutls this season. 
Sevnnth-seedod Zvonareva ousted Maria Kirilenko 6-4, 6-4 and Ekaterina Makarova beat· Elena Vesnina 7-6 (4), 7-6 (1) in aii-Hussian matches. 
In another men's match, Uzbek qualifier Denis lstomin upset sixth-seeded Michael Llodra 7-6 (2), 6-3 in only his second ATP match. 
The 121st-ranked Istomin will face French veteran Fabrice Santoro in thn second round. 

2008 Law Fair 
NFL 

Bengals' Blackstock suspended four ga111es 
counter product that includ­
Associated Press 

ed a banned substance." 
CINCINNATI -The NFL The Bengals also re-signed suspnnded Cineinnati running back Kenny Watson, Bengals reserve linebacker who was released on Darryl Blackstock for the Saturday when they needed next four games on Tuesday to open a roster spot for because he receiver Chris used a per-Henry. The formancn­troubled
''I've apologized to my
enhancing receiver substance. coaches and returned from The Bengals teammates for an a four-game 
signed suspension for
unfortunate mistake.,, 
Blackstock as misconduct a free agent and played in from Arizona Darryl Blackstock a 31-22 loss at in the offsea­Bengals linebacker Dallas, where 
son. lie has 
played in all five games, including one start, and has four tackles. The fourth-year veteran said in a statement that one of his nutritional supplements contained an ingredinnt banned by the league. 
"I've apologized to my eoaehns and teammates for an unfortunatn mistakn," Blackstock said. "I did not intentionally violate tho poli­cy, but I know it's my responsibility to use only approved nutritional supple­mnnts, and I didn't realize I was taking an over-the-

October 10, 2008 11 a.m. -3 p.m. 
-<OC 

JACC Concourse 
The following schools will be represented: 

American University Saint Louis University Boston College University of St. Thomas Boston University University of San Diego Brooklyn Law University of San Francisco Catholic Univ. of America Santa Clara Law Chapman University Seton Hall University of Chicago SMU Dedman University of Cincinnati Southwestern Columbia Law School Stanford University of Dayton Syracuse DePaul University Temple Univ. Beasley Duke Tulane Law Duquesne University Univ. of Cal -Hastings Emory University Univ. of Cal -Davis Fordham UCLA George Washington Univ. of Detroit Mercy Georgetown Univ. of Miami Hofstra Univ. of Minnesota Indiana U -Bloomington Univ. of Pacific McGeorge Indiana U -Indianapolis University of Pittsburgh John Marshall Univ. of Tennessee Loyola -Los Angeles Univ. of Texas Loyola ~ Chicago Texas Tech University Marquette University Texas Wesleyan University University of Michigan Univ. of Toledo Michigan State Tulane University Northwestern Valparaiso Notre Dame Vanderbilt Univ. of North Carolina Villanova Ohio State-Moritz Washington University Penn State Dickinson William & Mary Roger Williams University William Mitchell St. John's University Univ. of Wisconsin 


he didn't have  
a  pass thrown  
his way.  
Watson  carried  seven  
times for  32 yards in  the  

l'irst four games, when he was Chris Perry's backup. His return gives the Bengals three tailbacks, including Cedric Benson, who was signed last week as a free agent. 
Cineinnati also added rookie cornerback Simeon Castille to their practice squad on Tuesday. Castille, an undrafted free agent from Alabama, played in the first four games and was waived last Friday. 
Representatives from 70 law schools will be available in an informal setting to answer questions and provide information to applying seniors and other interested studeots about their law schools. 

Wednesday, October 8, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NASCAR 
N a scar to use softer tires 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Goodyear may have an answer for one of Indianapolis Motor Speedway's toughest challenges: softer tires. 
As driv~rs took a break dur­ing Tuesday's latest testing session at the speedway, NASCAH and Goodyear offi­cials explained they had seen dramatic improvement in tire wear, prompting optimism they could avoid a repeat of the Allstate 400 debacle in July. 
"We're not all the way there, but we're pretty close to it," said Hobin Pemberton, NASCAH vice president of com­petition. "We were in about an eight or nine-lap window before (during testing), and that got up to 10, and now we're in the mid-20 range. So it's improved 300 percent already. We walked the track last night, and the track was taking on rubber, so that's a good sign." 
Things got even better after Pemberton's midday news con­ference. 
Speedway officials said one driver made a 33-lap run on the tires and another put in a full fuel run. generally 35 to 40 laps on Indy's 2.5-mile oval, before it started raining Tuesday afternoon. 
It was the second testing ses­sion at Indy since NASCAR officials were forced in July to turn one of the series' signa­ture races into a series of 10­to 12-lap sprints because of tire wear. NASCAR officials even apologized to fans for the fiasco. 
Kyle Petty was the only driv­er on the track two weeks ago. 
The latest testing session comes in the midst of more tire questions for Goodyear. 
Sunday's race at Talladega was marred by four tire fail­ures and a fifth occurred dur­ing practice. One of the fail­ures sent Denny Hamlin, who drives for Joe Gibbs Racing, hard into the wall. He was hospitalized overnight before being released Monday. Hamlin is one of 12 drivers in the Chase for the Cup. 
Stu Grant, general manager of worldwide racing for Goodyear, said early assess­ments indicated all of the tires at Talladega were punctured, though they are still undergo­ing analysis, and Pemberton believes the problem had to more do with debris than tires. 
"At Talladega, we went clean, then we had a few tires that lost air for a while and then we were clean again," he said. "So my guess is there may have been debris on the track and it wasn't all cleared off. But that's just specula­tion." 
The problems at Talladega caused yet another image problem for Goodyear, the sole supplier of tires for NASCAR's three series, after the disas­trous race in July when NASCAR officials continually called competition cautions. 
The longest stretch of green­flag racing lasted just 13 laps, and points leader Jimmie Johnson won the race in a seven-lap sprint to the finish. It was the second-slowest race in NASCAR's 15-year history at Indy. 
Drivers were disgusted with the tire problems as dust par­ticles constantly flew around the track surface and into the stands. Some complained afterward that Goodyear need­ed to look seriously at improv­ing the tires because they had been having trouble with them for several years at the speed­way. 
Grant seemed to acknowl­edge as much Tuesday when he said testing in 2005 and 2006 also showed tires were wearing out after about 10 laps. 
The difference this time was that on race day, the rubber never stuck to the track as it had in the past. Some won­dered whether the cars con­tributed to the problem since it was the first race at Indy with the Car of Tomorrow. 
Grant said studies showed the cars did have heavier loads and more slippage than previ­ous years, and Pemberton explained that finding the right combination will always be a work in progress. 

CATHOLIC VOTERS 
AND THE 2008 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION 
A DISCUSSION FEATURING 
VINCENT ROUGEAU GERARD BRADLEY 
Notre Dame Associate Professor of Law Notre Dame ProfessorofLaw c:::bama's Catholic Natimal Advisory Council Catholics for N\cCain Steering Committee National SteeringCommittee 

Moderated by : 
I. A. O'Shaughnessy Dean College of Arts and Letters 


WEDNESDAY, OCTOBERS 6:30PM MCKENNA HALL AUDITORIUM 
Reception to follow This event is free and open to the public 
The central question for discussion will be: What, for an otherwise pro-life voter, constitutes a sufficient "proportionate" reason to justify a vote for a pro-abortion candidate? 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics & Culture and Funded by the Notre Dame Fund to Protect Human Life 
Streak 
continued from page 24 
that long(," said Irisb coach Bobby Clark, who was unaware of the statistic. "When you're playing, you're not aware of those things. llaving said that, these are good habits that we ereate records like that. We want to get back into those kind of habits." 
To do so, Notre Dame will likely need its attack to return to form af't11r a pair of disap­pointing one-goal efforts. Before their two losses, the Irish had won their previous two games 3-0 -against Syracuse on Sept. 21 and at Cincinnati on Sept. 26. 

they're well-coached -they'll be out make this a special year for !coach Joe Baum, who is retiring after 32 years!." 
The recent scoring slowdown has not been for lack of oppor­tunity, Clark said. 
"Last week's game against Michigan, we made a lot of half­chances, but you've got to stop and take some of them," he said. "You just go out, hope you play well and do the right things. If you're doing the right things, there's a good chance you'll make some chances ­but the thing is you've got to take these chances." 
Near-goals and just-misses can be the most frustrating moments in soccer, and the team that wins isn't necessarily the one with the most 
But while opportunities
"If you're doing the right 
tlw team will to score, Clark
things. there's a good
look to snap said. its slide, sen­chance you'll make some "It's not like ior forward basketball,
chances -but the thing 
Bright Diko where if you
is you've got to take
will bn looking have a lot of to 1~ontinun a these chances." possessions streak of his and you takfl a own. Dike has lot more shots
Bobby Clark 
scornd a goal than your
Irish coach 
in ead1 of Notre Dame's last four games and now leads the team with snvnn. 
As a team, the Irish enter tonight's contest averaging 2.3 goals per game, ninth in the nation. Michigan State's 2.33 goals per game rank seventh. 
"We just hope we get one more )goal) than them, that's the way we'll look at it," Clark said. "They're a good side, thny're well-organized, and 

opponent, 
chances are 
you're going to win the game," he said. "Soccer doesn't always reflect that ­the team that takes the most shots doesn't always win the game. You've got to be patient and concentrate on playing well. 
"That's our focus, to put together a complete perform­ance -play good defense and hope to create some chances, and to take some of them." 
Clark said it could be the Irish 
defense that decides this game, 
though. 
Notre Uame gave up five goals in the two losses after allowing just three goals -and never more than one in a single game -in the previous seven games. The Irish went 6-0-1 in those contests. 
"You hope that (tonight( we get back in among the goals, but it's also important we don't lose goals," Clark said. "We've just got to take care of business -that's the important message for our guys. 
"Our guys know the impor­tance of this game, especially having lost two last week. It's a 'set the record straight' game." 
Note: 
+ An outbreak of the norovirus on the Georgetown campus caused Sunday's home game against the Hoyas to be postponed. 
Georgetown released a state­ment Monday that said 212 patients, mostly undergradu­ates, had sought treatment for the norovirus. A Friday release described the norovirus as "a highly contagious group of viruses" spread through food and person-to-person contact. 
A make-up date for the game had not yet been determined, but Clark said Oct. 29 and Nov. 2 were two possibilities. The first round of the Big East tour­nament is scheduled to begin Nov. 5. 
"There's a couple of possibili­ties, but a few things still need to be sorted out," Clark said. 
Propn~tors 
Warren & Linda

Y?occo's 


Restaurant 
?rrslOrijpruz/:A-zza in ?own/ 
Since 195t 
Specializing in lt;J/ian Entrees 
Turs. -Thurs.: 5:00 PM -l1 :00 PM Fri. ~ Sat.: 5:00 PM -1:00AM 537 North St. Louis • S.Outn Bt-r'!d, IN 
574-233-2464 
'WVaiJc..Liste~n.Lear~n.Aot.:toos. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


OCTOBER 1 2» 2008 1::00 p~m. Indiana University South Bend 
Joi#t the Sourt:lt Dea:ad eoan...-.unit;y :in a 2 nt~."ille. ._-aile. iiR solidarity "''I'Vith th<e? <~>hiicfren ofl Norther~n Uga~nda. 
p_...,,...,,....,.,.1t,..,..,.., -c:o li!oltow 
a-.: llUSB•s ea...,.pu:s. 
Sponsored by Africa Faith and ..Justice Network. For more Information. contact gdupuis@nd_edu. 
WhcrcWillYC>t JWalk 
Interhall 
continued from page 24 
Howard 26, McGlinn 19 
Howard put itself in prime position for a playoff spot with a 26-19 victory over MeGiinn on Tuesday night. 
Thn Shamrocks (3-2) burst out of the gates as quarter­back Sarah deGroot connected with Kathlnen Stanley on a fadn route from 15 yards. 
But on the resulting s1~ries, the Dueks (2-2-1) would answer. On fourth-and -1 8, quarterback Kayla Bishop 

complnted a "She's got the best "This is the touchdown pass, best we've
hands ofany girl I've 
knotting the played the 
seen out here. " 
game at seven. ontire year," he 
Throughout said, "This is thn game, both Kyle Carter the first of our teams relied big games that
Howard coach 
!wavily on tlwir aerial attacks to move the ball. Bishop was especially happy with her reenivers who wnre consistent­ly able to make erueial catch­es. 
"Our offense definitely did a good job executing," she said. "Our rnceivnrs did a really good job of catching the ball." 
As thn first half eamn to a close; Bishop connected with KristPn JnfTries for a 55-yard touchdown. Tlw PAT was unstu~e•!ssful, and thn Ducks l1!d 13-7 at halftime. 
On MeCiinn's first drive after the brnak, dnGroot and Stanley didn't wait long to 1~onnnct yet again. This tinw it was a 11)­yar·d grab by Stanley tu lin tlw ganw at I]. 
lloward coach Kyln Cartnr was blown away by Stanley's talnnt. 
"Siw 's got tlw hnst hands of any girl I've seen out here," he said. 

Howard reclaimed the lead on their next drive, as Bishop again found Jeffries for a 20­yard touchdown, and the Ducks led 20-13. 
With five minutes to go, Howard was still within strik­ing distance, but Howard's Laura Giezeman intercepted a tipped ball, and the Ducks put the game out of reach on the following drive with another touchdown. 
Carter was especially happy with the Ducks' performance, 
which he thinks 
they can ):wild 
upon going into 
the playoffs. 
we didn't make 
any mental mis­
takes." 
McGlinn man­aged to score late but didn't have the time to muster a sec­ond half rally. 
Although the Shamrocks moved the ball well in the mid­dle of the field throughout the game, they struggled in the red zone, an issue Coach Keith Crnasy knows will need to be addressed for the playoffs. 
"That's been our struggln all year long," he said. "That's going to be our main focus in pral:tice and Iin I getting ready for the playoffs." 
Pasquerilla West 8, Lyons 0 
With the rain pouring down, a lirst half touchdown catch by rnc1!iver Alyssa Moya proved to be the difference as l'asquerilla West clinehnd a playoff spot with an 8-0 win over Lyons. 
PW appeared better pre­pared than Lyons (3-2) for the rainy conditions, incorporating an effective man-to-man defense without much blitzing, which led to three key inter­ceptions. 
Although they ran only a few designed blitzes, defensive lineman Jordan Johnson was a bulldozer at the line, at times easily breaking through three blockers to make a play in the backfield. She finished the game with two sacks. In addi­tion, PW ran an effective run­ning and short passing offense, with quarterback Cara Davies running for numerous first downs. 
Lyons struggled throughout much of the game to put any­thing together on offense. With long passes out of the question due to the weather, they turned to the short pass game and incorporated some runs into the mix, but not as effec­tively as PW. 
In the end three intercep­tions, especially a late red zone pick, ended Lyons hopes of overcoming their single touchdown deficit. 
Heading into Tuesday's game, PW found itself in a do­or-die situation. 
"We came out here knowing what our situation was and we did exactly what we needed to do," Purple Weasel coach Justin Betz said. 
"Now we're in the playoffs as an underdog and we like our position. We've been underes­timated by our opponents, but we only lost one game this season which was a tight game. We're looking forward to proving ourselves," PW coach Derek Woznicki said. 
Contact Charlie Spokes at cspokes@nd.edu, Kyle Smith at ksmithl9@nd.edu, and Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu . 


"!be Quest Project Fall Lecture Series 
The Quest Continues ... 
The Quest for the Living God 
Thursday, October 9 
7:30P.M. 
Little Theatre Moreau Center for the Arts 
Elizabeth Johnson, CSJ Distinguished Professor ofTheology at Fordham University 


CENTER JDR SPIRffiJAl.ITY --.sAiNT MARY'S COU.EGE saimmarys . .,dulspirituality (574) 284-4636 
Supported by the Saint Mary's College Endowed Fall lecture Series and the John Templeton Foundation 
Free and open to the public 
Read the weekly "That's what she said" at ... 
observersportsb log.21 cr.info 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, October 8, 2008 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Hope takes down Belles in three sets 
Team can't handle high-powered Dutch 
By PAT STYNES Sports Wri rer 

Saint Mary's showed some potnntial in thn later sets against MIAA-powerhouse llopn Collnge, but it wasn't enough for the upset as they lost in straight sets Tuesday night at home. 
"If they ean eomn together as a team and play as one cohe­sive unit, we will be in position to bn a top team in the league," Bolles eoaeh .Julie Sehroeder­Biek said following the Belles :{-1 victory over Trine Univnrsity last week. 
The Flying I>uteh. who improved to 11-0 in conference play with the victory, dominat­ed thn opening sP! with a 25-4 win. Ol'f'ensive standouts junior Lorna Slupezynski and senior Kania llellmann could not withstand thn stout dnl'ensive niTort by llope, as they were only able to eonvert a paltry six pnreent ol' their kill attempts -finishing only five ol' S1 attl~mpts. 
llop!~ senior Meghan Winer 

Gridiron 
continued from page 24 
over 911, while the 'B' team linished last in the field of six­tmm with a 76-over 916. 
On the back of a third disap­pointing tournament showing, Notre Dame head coach Jim Kubinski is not worrying. The Irish arc a young team, with no active senior playnrs and only three juniors. 
"To be successful, we'll just n1wd a little time for the young players to learn on the job and grow," Kubinski said. "My job will be to build their confi­dence. They have a great deal of physical talent. Tlwy just nned to realize and believe it. That takes time. 
"7b be successful, 
Wlwther it's fall tallied a 232 
or spring, this we'[[ just need a little (80-73-79), plac­team will begin time for the young ing him along­to show its tal­side Santos­
players to learn on 
ent level at some Ocampo in 62nd point this year. place. Freshman
the job and grow." 
I'm very confi­Chris Walker dent in that." ended in 78th
Jim Kubinski 
.Junior Doug place, shooting a
Irish coach 
Fortner, coming ofT a sixth-plan~ nJl is h a t t lw Saint Mary's (California) Invitational last week. led the Notre Damn nfTort with a plus­15 225 (75-76-74). Ilis score was good enough to til~ for :Hth overall. Fortiwr tallied nine birdies against eighteen bogeys and two double bogeys, an inconsistent performance in stark eontrast with the mostly shining play that has marked his season. 
"Doug is really rounding into form," Kubinski said. "!He] gave us an outstanding effort at Poppy Hills last week and is really becoming a top player nationally." 
Sophomore Jeff Chen trailed his teammate by a stroke, fin-and junior Andrea Helminiak spearheaded the defensive nffort with 11 and 15 digs, respectively. 
On the offensive side of the ball, the Flying Dutch had their way with the Belles, as they were able to convert 40 kills on 101 attempts, posting an impressive .396 average. Saint Mary's sophomore Meghann Hose valiantly tried to stem the assault, posting 10 digs, yet due to the offense's inability to put any pressure on the Hope defense, the Duteh proved to be too much for the Belles. 
Saint Mary's did show some life in the second and third sets when they fought back for respectable 25-22 and 25-16 losses. The Belles never baeked down, but in the end could not muster the firepower to come away with a victory. 
The loss dropped Saint Mary's to 5-6 in the MIAA and 12-8 overall so far this season. The Belles will look to move back above .500 in conference play with a pair of games against Alma and Olivet College at Olivet this Saturday starting at 11 a.m. 
Contact Pat Stynes at pstynes@nd.edu 
ishing 39th with a Hl-over 226 (78-72-76). Fellow sophomore Connor Alan-Lee carded a 17­over 227 (76-75-75) to end up in 46th place overall, while freshman Max Scodro rebound­ed after a first-round 84 to fin­ish in 78th place with a 239 (84-77-78). Sophomore Dustin Zhang rounded out the 'A' squad with a 240 (78-81-81), slipping to 80th. 
For the Irish 'B' team, English import and freshman Tom Usher carded a respectable 16-over 226 (78­74-74) to tie Chen in finishing 39th overall. Junior Carlos Santos-Ocampo turned in a 20­over 230 (82-72-76, 57th), while junior Olavo Batista shot a plus-22 232 (73-79-80) to fin­
ish in 62nd. 
Sophomore 
Tyler Hock also 
239 (80-81-78). 
Kubinski real­
izes the difficul­ties facing his young team mov­ing forward. but is conlident in its taiPnt. 
"We need to play smart golf out there. maybe beyond our experience level at this point," Kubinski said. "We can do it, though. If we play intelligently and allow our talent to come out, there's no reason why we ean't be in the mix." 
Notre Dame returns to action Monday morning at the Prestige Tournament in La Quinta, California. Play begins at 8:30 a.m. on the PGA West Golf Course. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
4o,ooo+ reasons to think about starting your own venture... 
Register today for the 2oo8-2oog University of Notre Dame Business Plan Co!llpetitions 
MCCLOSKEY BUSINESS  SOCIAL VENTURE PLAN  
PLAN COMPETITION  COMPETITION  
Focuses on new ventures that  Fosters collaboration  
have not yet been launched  between business and social  
or are in the earliest stages  ventures-business plans with a  
oflaunch.  social mission/purpose.  

Teams compete for $40,000+ in prize money. Submission Deadline: November 3, 2oo8 
OPEN TO ND STUDENTS & ALUMNI 
ALL PARTICIPANTS RECEIVE FREE BUSINESS PLAN PRO SOFTWARE 
FEEDBACK, NETWORKING AND MENTORING OPPORTUNITIES 
TRAINING SESSIONS AVAILABLE 

Notre Dallle 
business plan competitions 
2008... 2009 

FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT THE GIGOT CENTER WEBSITE AT 
gigot.nd.edu 
Questions? Contact us by telephone at 631-3042 or by email at entrep@nd.edu. 

Wednesday, October 8, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 
BLACK 006-PltESENTS: r51C Y'CLE CDMIC s 
THE DOME PIECE JUMBLE 

JJ&MIID~r! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BABFLY j 



WHE:N THE:Y ME:T

rii I I 
ON HORSE:BAC.K,
www.jumble.com 
SHE: WAS ON THE:--­
tTEMRIP t

J rJ J 1 
Ans: 

" rI I I I I ]" rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's j Jumbles: KNOWN LITHE LIQUOR TROUGH Answer: What the electrician did while he recovered from his injury -"LIGHT' WORK 
MIKEARGIRION JEFF KNUREK 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

... 

CROSSWORD 
Across It's rounded up in a roundup 

5 Propel· a bicycle 
10 Pinnacle 
14 Hawaii's ·valley 
Isle" 15" Get Your 
Gun" 16 Linen fiber 17 Operation for a 
new liver or kidney 20 Home (in on) 21 Mao -tung 22 That woman 23 "The Sweetheart of Sigma_" 26 Refuses to 28 Encourages 
30 Jane who wrote "Sense and Sensibility" 
32 Take home a trophy 34 Beer component 35 Swains 
36 Cry after a bad swing 37 Decorates, as a cake 
38 Beneficial substance in fruits. vegetables and tea 
41 Feature of many a wedding dress 43 Picking _ with 44 Alto or soprano 
47 Letter-shaped building support 48 Small number 49 Yuletide songs 
50 Mortarboard addition 52 Face-to-face test 54 Puppy's bite 
55 Inventor Whitney 56 Grain in Cheerios 58 Great-great­great-great-great grandfather of Noah 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

60 Literary genre popular with women 
66 Shortly 67 Message from a BlackBerry. maybe 68 Tiny critters found twice each in 17-, 38-and 60-Across 
691mpose, as a tax 
70 Car dings 
71 Yuletide 
Down Insurance grp. 2 Where a phone 
is held 3 Oriental._. _ 4 Actress 
Cameron 5 Sponsor 6 Company with a 
spectacular 2001 bankruptcy 7 Reproductive materia\ 8 "_ it the truth!" 9 Made smaller 10 C.I.O.'s partner 11 Kind of suit 
12 Street opening for a utility worker 
13 Spreads 
~ 8 Most recent 
19 Place to hang one's hat 23 Taxi 24 Shade 25 "1, Robot" author 27 Four 29 Key of Saint­
Saens's "Danse 
macabre" 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Steven Ginzburg  
31 Radio receiver parts 33 Eye part 36 --~gras 39 Puffed up 40 King Arthur's burial place 41 Without  42 Mother-oFpearl source 45 151 , in old Rome 46 Telepathy, e.g. 49 "Streets" of Venice 51 Period in history  57 It heals all wounds, in a saying 59 Lee of Marvel Comics 61 One or more 62 Soup container 63 Year, in Spain 64 Sault Marie  
metaphor  53 Size again  65 Fashion inits.  

For answers, call 1-900-285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years.: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. · 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Shown Ashmore, 29: Roche! McAdams. 32: Yo-Yo Ma. 53; Simon Cowell, -+9 
Happy Birthday: You will be inclined to take things tl1e wrong way, especially in yonr personal life. Your values \vill be tested by family and friends but doing what's right will build character and help you move forward. Judge carefully your motives and those of others. Your numbers are 13, 16, 20. 26..B. 39.44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): If you try to do things that you know lillie about, you \\'lll fall short and feel bad. Listen to someone who is doing some good for tl1e comnumity or a group you are involved with. You will learn something new that will be valuable to yonr work. ** 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Personal and professional partnership' can be altered or developed if you are diplomatic. You'll be surprised how much you can gain JUSt by using common sense. being practical and makmg the people around you feel good. ****** 
I 

GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): Pause before you make a move. It will be difficult to reverse a mistake. You will need to back np your claims v..-ith facts. Do not overspend to impress someone. Chances are good he or she ~viii think yon are a spendthrift. *** 
CANCER (Jnne 21-July 22): You can make a personal and professional change that will better suit your needs and your lifestyle. Dontt \\'on-y about the little complaints you get at home. Believe in yourself and follow your heart. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't give into demands or to someone trying to manipulate your time. Yon ha,·e a great way of putting things today. so tell it like it is. Stretching the tmth will keep things colorful but don't go too far or someone will be upset. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): Put some pressure on the people yon need to do their fair share and it will happen. An op[~)rltmity will be enhanced hy the little extras yon imple­Inent. Children or youth-oriented acti\'ities \'-'ill give you ideas for helping your comnm­nity. ***** 
LIBRA {Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Cahn down and focus on something you enjoy doiug. Don't get dragged into a fight or meddle in someone dsets business or overreact to emotional 
issues. Strive for perfection. ** 

SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): Take a turn at something yon have ignored or avoided in tl1e past and you will discover you have the skills required to do a good job. Offer your ser­vices to a group or organization that has something to offer you in rehJrn. Love is taking on a whole new meaning. **** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let your stubbornness cause you to make a professional mistake. Don't conn! on something happening nntil it acmally takes place. Let everyone else make his or her move first. Being last can sometimes be best. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't give in to emotional whims. You are far too prac­tical to get yourself involved in somethmg with too many variables. Talks will be mislead­ing because \\'l10ever is handing out tl1e facts is probably not being realistic. *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let love cost you financially. Set up a budget that 
will encourage both you and.your loved ones to save·so you don't suffer the stress that 
comes with having difficulty paying your bills. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone may offer to help you out but, before you accept, 
consider vour colleailue's motives. You can bet vou \\'iU be asked to give something in 
return and you may not be willing or able to obiige. A change in youi-financial starus is ap 
parent.**** 

Birthday Baby: Yon are loving, compassionate and willing to make sacrifices. You are an effective cOJmnunil~ator mid adapt well to change. 
Eugenia's Web sites: euger1ialast.com for confidential consultaTions. myspnce.com/eugmia/astfor Eugenia's blog. mtroadvice.com for ftm 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
' 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name ___________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State _____ Zip______ 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, October 8, 2008 
page 24 
MEN's SoccER • 
Getting back on track 
Clark's team has lost back-to-back contests for the first since 2001 
By MATT GAMBER A,.sociarc Sports Editor 
Thn No. 14 Irish mturn home 
tonight to host Michigan State, 
looking to snap a two-game los­
ing streak -something Notre 
Damn (6-3-1, 3-1-1 Big East) 
hasn't had to do in seven years. 
Not since cons11cutive losses to No. 5 Furman and No. 16 Clemson at the Umbro/Spinx Furman Invitational on S11pt. 7­9, 2001, had the Irish lost back­to-hack regular season games. Notre Dame fell 2-1 in overtime at No. 7 Louisville on Sept. 28 and 3-1 against Michigan in Ypsilanti, Mich., on Oct. I. 
"Considering the schedule we play, lit's surprising it's been 
see STREAK/page 20 


HOCKEY 
Irish lose Phillips for season 
Observer Staff Report 
No. 3 Notre Dame found out earlier this week that they would be without the services of sopho­more goalie Brad Phillips this season. 
Phillips played live games last season backing up starter Jordan Pearce and was expected to play a similar role in the 2008-09 campaign. The highly recruited netminder finished his freshman campaign with a 1.53 goals against average. 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson said Phillips injured himself during pre-camp training two weeks ago, but his situatioJ1 was not certain until an MRI earlier this week. 
Pearce will be baeked up by junior Tom O'Brien. 
"I have confidence in Tom," Jackson said. "lie has benn wait­ing for this kind of opportunity." 
INTERHALL fOOTBALL 

Pyros co111e up just short of first vvin against the Chaos 
nn route to a 7-yard touch­halftime after a final "The defense stepped up because Cavanaugh is a good
By CHARLIE SPOKES, KYLE 

down scramble. Cavanaugh drive to end the tonight and made some key team," Pillai said. "But we'reSMITH, and SHANE STEIN­
Pasquerilla East (0-4-1) half. stops," Pyros captain Tara looking forward to our last
BERG 

responded with a methodical An uneventful second half Pillai said. "It was great to game on Sunday and hopefully
Spores Writers 

touchdown drive led by quar­came to an end as Cavanaugh hold them to six points." we get the win." terback Caitlyn Lynch that turned the ball over at the 8-Dunn pointed to the Chaos' Afterwards, Dunn was quick 
Arter a game of tough defen­inefuded a key fourth down yard line with eight seconds stingy defense as the reason to stress the importance of sive football, Cavanaugh and conversion around midfield. remaining. for their success. remaining foeusnd. Pasquerilla East ended up just "All they could do was throw "We tried to put in a couple "The defense played well, led "We're going to take one wherP they started -all tied little shovel passes," Dunn of new plays before the game, by Gina Paitta with two sacks," game at a time and next up is up. said. "We'll give that to them but they just didn't work out," Dunn said. the position games on Sunday 
Cavanaugh (2-1-2) opened all day." Dunn said. Both teams were eontnnt to deeide the four teams that the scoring in the first half as A failed 2-point conversion PE was happy with its strong after the game, but ready to go to the playoff's," Dunn said. captain and quarterback Katie by the Pyros left the score at defensive showing in its first move forward. Dunn completed thren passns 6-6 as the game headed into non-loss of the season. "A win would've been great see INTERHALL/page 20 
MEN's GoLF 

Irish finish in last at home 
Teams shows youth at Gridiron Classic 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 

,. 
Youthful dPlPrmination and honw-litdd advantagn wPrP not nnough for thn Irish this wnnk­nnd. 
Notn• l>anw's two squads lin­ishnd at thP bottom of' t(lP standings of tlw third anriual Fighting Irish Gridiron Classic at tho University's WarrPn Coif Cnursn. 
No. 4 Arkansas rlainwd first plan~ with a 2:~-ovnr X6:~. whiln Michigan Statn snnior Handy Hutchison took home thP nwdalist honors with an nver­par 210. 
Tlw Irish 'A' squad finished in fil'tnPnth placP with a 71­
see GRIDIRON/page 22 


SMC SocCER 

Belles stay vvinless in MIAA against Adrian 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's dropped tlwir fifth straight game Tuesday with· a 1-0 defeat at the hands of conference foe Adrian. 
The Bulldogs' stilling dd'ense held the Belles to only two shots throughout the entire game compared with 10 of their own. 
Adrian received all thn offense it would need early in the game netting the lone goal in the sixth minute. Junior goalkeeper Patty Duffy tried to koep thn Bolles in the gamo recording three savns to main­tain the onn goal dPikit. 
However, the Bolles just couldn't find their ol'l'enso in time to spark a comeback. 
Belles' senior Lauren Hinton, the leading scornr on tho sea­son with four goals, and junior Bridget Honayne recorded the only shots of the game. 
Dospite the losing streak, thP Belles are not overmatdwd by any means. In the past five gamns. the Belles have sull'ered four 011!~-goal losses, orw ·com­ing in double-ovnrtime. 
This loss drops Saint Mary's to 1-8-1 on tho stmson and 0-3 in MIAA eonf'ernnce play. 
The Belles will look to bre1tk­through and notch a conference win when tlwy rnturn home to facn Calvin on Saturday. Thn gamn is scheduled to kick-oil' at 12 p.m. at Saint Mary's. 
No members of tlw tnam were available for eomnwnt. 
Contact Alex Barker at 
abarker I @nd.edu 






