
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ELECTION 2008 
NDSMCOBSERV 



Debaters weigh in on candidate petfonnance 
Students gather in Coleman-Morse to watch nominees square off on domestic issues for third and final debate 
By KRISTIN DOLO News Wrirer 
After Sen. John McCain and Sen. Bantck Obama faced off in their third and final debate. the Notre Dame Debate Team had its own debate -about the Hepublican and Democratic candidates' performances. 
Students assembled in the Coleman-Morse lounge Wednesday night to watch debat11 and listen to analysis by the Notre Dame Debate Team. 
Members of the debate team had a mixed reaction to the candidates' performances, though they all agreed that the debate had not altered the course of the campaign. 
"Because he is behind, McCain had to come in tonight with a knockout punch. and he didn't," Debate Team president Henry Chan said. 
Dr. Susan Ohmer, a Film, Television and Theatre profes­sor, moderated the debate team. 
"McCain did a better job than he has in the past two debates," she said. "However, Obama appeared cool and level-headed compared to some of McCain's snarky tactics." 
Tom Foote, a member of the debate team, referenced Joe the Plumber, a man, perhaps real, perhaps symbolic, whose name was repeatedly mentioned by both candidates. 
"I don't know if Joe the Plumber exists, but if he does, Obama did a good job articulat­ing how his policies will affect him," Foote said. 
Junior Elyse Hoffman explained why McCain would try to show Americans how elo­quent Obama is as a speaker in order to make them rethink his words. 
"A big part of this is speaking pretty; however, the majority of Americans don't realize that," she said. 
The final debate, held at at 
see DEBATE/page 4 

ELECTION 2008 



Saint Mary's political clubs anticipate election 
Dems say club is 'fired up' for the Obama-Biden ticket 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 

For many students, this is the lirst elec­tion they are voting in, and the only elec­tion that will be held during their four years of college. For the Saint Mary's College Democrat<;, this is primetime. 
College Democrats president Blaine Nolan said the club is frred up about the election, especially after the recent vice presidential debate. 
"The girls are so excited about the debates. Even girls who aren't so active in the club are talking about the debates and loving every minute of them," she said. 
"The Bielen/Palin debate has brought a lot of good information to the table because of the way it played out." 
Nolan said there has been a noticeable increase in membership this year as well. 
"Our membership has almost doubled this year as compared to the past," she said. 'The interest level is very high. I get daily e-mails about girls wanting to get involved in many different aspects Lof the club]." 
The club has been active in the "Super Tuesday" events on campus and is trying to get the word out that voting, no matter which candidate one votes for, is impor­
see DEMS/page 4 
Numbers attending Rep meetings increases exponentially 
By KATIE KOTARAK 
NewsWrirer 

Saint Mary's College Republicans are getting excited for the historic vote on Nov. 4, said Erin Horvath, the president of the Saint Mary's College Republicans, with involvement in the club up significantly since last year. 
"This year, the group has nearly 70 members and 30 attend meetings regularly. Last year, honestly, we had between 2-5 girls at meetings ... it was pretty sad," she said. 
The increase in the number of girls who attend meetings makes for good discussion, Horvath said. 
Club member Kara Rusnak said she is happy with the way meetings have been going so far. 
"I enjoy the meetings because a lot of different perspectives are expressed," Husnak said. 
Due to this year's presidential cam­paign, interest and participation have increased, allowing the group to plan more events involving cam­pus Republicans, Horvath said. 
"[The club] organized events to watch the Republican National Convention as well as the debates," 
see REPS/page 4 



Group promotes body love 
Through yoga, dance and talks, Feminist Voice builds confidence 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Associate News Ediwr 
On a rainy Wednesday afternoon, some students were taking midterms. Others were writing papers. On the second f'loor of' the Hock, 17 students were doing Downward-Facing Dog. 
Stretched out on mats, light music playing in the back­ground, 15 women and two men followed the directions of a HecSports yoga instruc­tor, raising their shoulders ofT the mat to do the Cobra Pose and expelling tension from their muscles. 
The free yoga session was 
see BODY/page 4 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Board fails to approve budget with stipend 
By LIZ HARTER and ASHLEY 
CHARNLEY 
News Wrirers 
For the second week in a row, Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) failed to approve the Student Government Association (SGA) · budget with the necessary two­thirds majority at their weekly meeting Wednesday night. 
The budget, which failed to pass in a 14-11 vote, had been revised after last week's meet­ing. The original budget includ­ed a $20,000 stipend for the Executive Board consisting of student body president Mickey Gruscinski, student body vice president Sarah Falvey, execu­tive treasurer Mo Weaver, Student Activities Board coordi­nator Michele Peterson, Student Diversity Board president Adriana Rodriguez, Hesidence Hall Association president Maura Clougherty and execu­tive secretary Jenny Hoffman, who has previously written for The Observer. 
The revised budget decreased the amount of the stipend to $16,000 and increased the funding for the College's 
see BOG/page 4 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE MOST IMPORTANT ISSUE TO YOU IN THE ELECTION?
INSIDE COLUMN 
Undecided 
voter 
I slill don't know who I'm going to 
votn ((Jr. 
If you don "t know either, raise your 
hand. Now look around the dining hall 
to son how many other people haven't 
decided. Now fi~Pl f(Jolish for a minute 
because you're the only one raising 
your hand. 
Crantnd. I take just as long to fill out my MLB all-star ballots in June, so it could just be voter indecision. But I Bill Brink can't decide between Barack 
Obama and John Sports Editor McCain. It's not a matter of economic policy, foreign relations or the aesthet­ics of the vice-presidential candidates. 
Campaigning doesn't do it for me. I 
know they're lying the whole time. 
What I want to see is intelligence and 
reason behind the lies that tell me a 
candidate will perform well in office. 
I'm still waiting lilr a definite sign. 
I've thought in passing about writing in an oul'iider filr president. Brett Favre and Lil' Wayne, obviously, wore my first chokes. But what about others who have previous exporieneo as a world lnadnr. even if they did so in a fictional setting'! linn~ arn my favorite fktional prnsidnnl'Y'world leaders who I think would do an admirabln job loading our wuntry through il<; c~uTtmt mess. 
+.Jnd Bartlntt, "The Wost Wing" 
You gotta love the morality of this VnrmontPr whosp relatiVP sigm~d tho I>edaration of lndPpnndnncn. lie always knows tho correct coursn of aetio;J. Plus. I lovn tho idna of a presi­dent who takes time out of running tim muntry to dnbatn tlw proper procndun~ of cooking a Thanksgiving turkey on the ButtPrball hot linP. Thn faet that he's a donwr dons1d hurt. 
+AndrPw Shnphnrd, "The Anwrkan l'rnsidnnt" 
lin's popular, hn's smart and hn's a good-looking singln father. lie malizns tht1 country needs to rnduce fossil fuels and gd guns oll"thn strnots. But he's human-he falls in loVP and acts on his impulses with Sydney I men Wade. And any guy who has thn n~sources he does (the White llousn, Camp David. ntr.) and uses thmn to full efl"eet gets poinl'> in my book. 
+Thomas Whitmorn, "Independence l>ay" 
Unlikn Bush, who pulled a cheap pub­licity stunt with his "Mission Aecomplislwd" aircraft carrier landing, Whitmore llew a mission that saved American govnrnmtmt leaders from sun~ dnstruetion. Whitmorn also has the rhetoric to rival Obama. Hmnembnr his spnerh in the early morning hours of .July 4'! Spine-tingling. 
+.lanws Marshall, "Air Forr1~ One" 
I admirn Marshall for not wimping out and hopping in the eseapn pod, and he dmtrly knows how to deal with ter­rorist<;. In selecting a female vice prnsi­dmlt. hn shows he can help break gen­dnr barriers. Also important: he did his hnst to shield himself from the scorn of the Notrn Dame-Miehigan game so he could watch it on the plane. That's the kind of dndieation I want leading my country. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obser(J(~r. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a profes­sional publication and strives for the high­est stanadrds of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct this error. 

Alice Harada 
freshman Badin 
"Human rights and the energy crisis. " 

Andrew Clark 
sophomore Alumni 
"Tax policy. " 

Chrisandra Downer 
junior 
Badin 
''The health care crisis and abundance of uninsured citizens.,, 

Joe Cannova 
freshman Dillon 
"The energy crisis needs to be solved. More resources need to be put toward clean 
,, 
energy. 

Mary Goodwin 
freshman Badin 
"We need to fix both the economy and our dependence on foreign energy 
,, 
sources. 

IN BRIEF 
The film "Tell No One" will be played today, Oct. 16, Friday, Oct. 17 and Saturday, Oct. 18 at 6::{0 
p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
A discussion entitled "Mod Bod: Using Bodies to Sell" will take place today at 7 
p.m. in DeBartolo 1:{1 as part of "Love Your Body Week" will take a look at America's Next Top Model and the usn of bodies in modeling. Th11re will bP a reception with rcl"reshnwnts following thn discussion. 
The Class of 2009 is spon­soring a leeturn today at 7 
p.m. ealled "Dispelling Myths About Haiti; AIDS, V~udou, etc." Pr(Jf"nssor Karen Hichman in thn lnstitutn of Latino Studies and senior Brennan Bollman will present in McKenna Hall. 
The Kroe Institute for International Peaee will host a lecture entitled "Seeking San tuary-Lcssons from Zones of Peaee" today at 
12:30 p.m. The lecture will feature Charles Mitchell, professor nrmitus from George Mason University and Landon Hancock, professor from Kent University. 
South Bend Symphony Orchestra will present "Ciassie Baroque" at 2:30 
p.m. Sunday in Leighton Center Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
TOM LA/The Observer Autumn leaves lay scattered across God Quad, signaling the beginning of Fall Break and colder weather. 
OFFBEAT 
Suit against God thrown out over lack of address 
LINCOLN, Neb.-A judge has thrown out a Nebraska legislator's lawsuit against God, saying the Almighty wasn't properly served due to his unlisted home address. State Sen. Ernie Chambers filed the lawsuit last year seeking a pnnna­nent injunction against God. 
He said God has made terroristic threats against the senator and his eon­stituents in Omaha, inspired fear and caused "wide­spread death, destruetion and terrorization of millions upon millions of the Earth's inhabitants." 
Chambers has said he filed the lawsuit to make the point that everyone should have aeeess to the courts regardless of whether they are rieh or poor. 
On Tuesday, however, Douglas County District Court Judge Marlon Polk ruled that under state law a plaintiff must have aeeess to the defendant for a law­suit to move forward. 
Dozens get gas for 35 cents after a mistake 
WISCONSIN RAPIDS, Wis. -Sure, gas prices have come down lately. But to 
34.9 cents a gallon? That's what Kelly Joosten and dozens of other motorists paid at a Citgo station Monday. The sign adver­tised $3.43 for a gallon of premium fuel, but the pump eost read $0.349 a gallon . 
"That was amazing," said Joosten, who normally spends about $100 to fill up her 1998 Ford Expedition. 
Joosten proudly showed off her receipt for 25.36 gallons at $8.85. She said she saw other motorists fill­ing gas eans, too, at the dis­counted price. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
============================================~~---­
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
D:: 
LLI 
:::z::: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
....I
c::c· 

e 

e
(.) 
..... 0 HIGH 65 HIGH 58 HIGH 55 HIGH 60 HIGH 65 HIGH 62 LOW 59 LOW 50 LOW 38 LOW 40 LOW 45 LOW 45 
Atlanta 80 I 61 Boston 67 I 53 Chicago 66 I 55 Denver 50 I 30 Houston 83 I 73 Los Angeles 83 I 54 Minneapolis 53 139 New York 68 I 58 Philadelphia 78 I 56 Phoenix 83 I 55 Seattle 55 I 50 St. Louis 71 I 67 Tampa 89 I 74 Washington 81 I 58 
Thursday, October 16, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Site offers opinions, reviewsontoprolleges 
Unigo.com serves as electronic guidefor prospective students, gives tips on application process 
By ELLYN MICHALAK News Writer 
New electronic college guide­book Unigo.com offers more than just statistics on a partic­ular university -it offers stu­dents uncensored opinions through an interactive and multi-dimensional Web site. 
Unigo.com is a free online guide to 267 of North America's top colleges for prospective students. Current students create the reviews so that prospective students are able to get an unbiased opinion of campus life. 
The Web site includes origi­nal articles from students and recent grads on every aspect of a particular college, an "Intelligent Calendar" to guide students through the search and application process and "Unigo Match" to help students find the colleges that are right for them 
aging editor was in charge of finding student liaisons on about 10 college campuses. One managing editor, Dan Mesure, sent an e-mail to Notre Dame's English depart­ment last spring looking for interns. Junior Lindsay Sena applied and now serves as the Unigo intern for Notre Dame. 
"The main reason that I decided to work for Unigo is that I love Notre Dame," Sena said. "For better or worse, I think high school students deserve to learn what Notre Dame is really about and why we are so incredible, but they should also learn that we aren't perfect." 
Since February 2007, Sena has collected student reviews from Notre Dame students and taken photos for Web site. Unigo even provided 100 of its interns with flip video cameras to include video footage of campuses nationwide on the site. One 
"The college "The main reason that video Sena cre­resource market ated was an
I decided to work for 
is typified by "unofficial" cam­
Unigo is that I love 
costly print pus tour. A Notre guide books Notre Dame.'' Dame official which generally tour guide, jun­have only a few ior Kim
Lindsay Sena 
pages of infor­Fitzgibbon,
junior
mation, no pho­showed notable 
tos, no videos, no interactivity and little insight from the real experts -the students who attend the schools," said Jordan Goldman, founder and CEO of the New York-based start-up in a 2008 press release. 
Goldman graduated from Wesleyan in 2004 with the idea to start an online student-pro­duced college guidebook. After he e-mailed over 500 people in the Wesleyan database with jobs in finance, Goldman final­ly received a reply from Frank Sica. a former president of Soros Private Funds Management. The two met, and Sica now serves as Unigo.com's leading investor. 
Goldman's company has grown exponentially over the past year -he has a Park Avenue office and 25 employ­ees to work under him. During the past year, 18 full-time edi­tors, 300 on-campus interns and more than 15,000 students collaborated to create Unigo.com. Last year, Unigo began to collect information through student interns on each campus. Each Unigo man-
spots on Our 
Lady's campus as a real tour guide would. Sena gave the real dirt on each campus hot spot. 
Within the last year, the Web site has received over 30,000 bits of content from its student interns, including reviews, writing samples, photos and videos. 
"I think our goal is to get the content and make the content," Unigo editor Nikki Martinez said. "We are not going to be ranking a school according to other company's views. [Unigo] is centered on the experience and what students have to say. We don't censor or edit student surveys." 
Martinez also encouraged students to get their personal opinions onto the website. 
"We love all kinds of perspec­tives and we're aiming to pro­vide a very comprehensive look at Notre Dame," Martinez said. "So if you think your perspec­tive is not being heard, this is definitely the platform to do it on." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
STUDENT SENATE 
Group passes donations resolution 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assisstant News Editor 
Wrapping up some unfinished business, Student Senate passed two resolutions and a constitu­tional amendment in its final meeting before fall break Wednesday. 
The Senate first passed a reso­lution proposed by Senate Social Concerns Committee chair Michelle Byrne that called for allowing students to make chari­table donations to clubs using Domer Dollars. The resolution passed by a vote of 26 to 1. 
To facilitate this, student gov­ernment will be forced to pur­chase an ID card swiper, which can cost up $3,500. But Byrne said she was exploring purchas­ing an old swiper from Food Services or the Career Center. 
"We're looking into using some money from the technology fund," Byrne said. 
Senate also passed a resolu­tion commending the Office of Information Technology (Om for its work on the transition to Google Mail from the old WebMail system. 
"We're thanking orr for going through the WebMail transition helping students get some new applications to communicate," Senate Technology Committee chair Devin Fee said. 
The resolution passed by a vote of 26 to 1, with Cavanaugh senator Robin Link casting the one dissenting vote. 
"These kinds of resolutions are just a waste of time," Link said. 
But student body vice presi­dent Grant Schmidt said the res­olution was a nice way of thank­ing OIT for their work. 
"This is a formal way of appre­ciating the work they did," Schmidt said. 
Senate Academics Committee chair Ryan Brellenthin agreed, saying the resolution will help strengthen the working relation­ship between student govern­ment and orr. 
"By doing this it encourages [OIT] to keep working with us," Brellenthin said. 
Continuing his crusade to clean up and organize the stu­dent government constitution, Senate Oversight Committee chair Ian Secviar proposed grouping the awards given by student government -the Irish Oover Award and the Michael J. Palumbo Award -under the same article. The amendment to the constitution passed unani­mously. 
In other Senate news: +Schmidt handed out copies of University President Fr. John 
Jenkins' recent address to the faculty and asked the sena­tors to read the address with­in the next three weeks to be prepared to discuss it in Senate. 
+Knott senator Greg Salter said he was giving a resolu­tion to the Oversight Committee for reviiew which would examine the constitu­tional stipulation that states "no person may simultane­ously hold more than one office enumerated in this Constitution." 
Salter's proposal would allow this clause to be sus­pended in specific eases by a two-thirds vote of the Senate. 
Salter said Knott Hall presi­dent Matt Barloh, who led the dorm to Hall of the Year hon­ors last year, was being forced to resign his presidency to become president of The Shirt Project. Salter said Barloh's resignation would be a major loss for the dorm. 
"None of us want to see him have to stand down because he's doing such great things for the dorm," Salter said. "We think it should be in our hands to decide whether or not he's still capable." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho06@nd.edu 

Break draws students off can1:pus 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
This fall break, Notre Dame students are scattering across the map -returning home, vis­iting friends or going on service projects. 
One student returning home is junior Kevin Partington. 
''I'll enjoy seeing my family, especially my three cats," he said. 
Freshman Chris Stare is also going home. 
''I'm looking to partying with my friends in Milwaukee and seeing my dog," he said. 
Some students, instead of vis­iting family, are spending their break with friends at other schools. 
''I'm going back to Kentucky to stay with friends at the University of Kentucky," fresh­man Ross Finney said. "I might see my family over the week­end. That'd be nice." 
Several students will be going on seminars sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns (CSQ, many of which send stu­dents to the Appalachian region. 
SEN lOR CAPTAIN ERIK CONDRA 
Junior Michelle Perone will be leaving for Appalachia on Saturday morning. She's excited to be going with some of her friends. 
"I've done a couple other trips with the esc and they've been really amazing experiences," said Perone. 
Sophomore Simone Bigi is attending as well. 
"I saw the poster in my resi­dence hall and it seemed like it would be fun," he said. 
Freshman Greg Woods is also going to Appalachia. 
"My group members and I are going to be teaching and tutor­ing at Sacred Heart grade school," Woods said. "I am going to enjoy spending time with the students and seeing their enormous smiles." 
Besides going on the trip, the attendees are required to attend several classes given by the esc. 
"I like that the classes we've been attending in the weeks leading up to the trip have been making sure we understand the causes behind the area's pover­ty," Perone said. "This level of understanding adds a whole other dimension to actually doing service." 
Sophomore Beth !\agel is also attending the Appalachia semi­nar. 
"I am excited about meeting more Notre Dame students and becoming closer to those in my group," said sophomore Beth Nagel, who is also going to Appalachia. 
Another seminar sponsored by the esc over fall break is "Human Rights, Faithful Citizenship and Public Policy." Senior Christine Clark will be attending this seminar, which will be held in Washington, D.C. 
"It's not a service project, per se, but a chance to learn about the intersection of hmnan rights and public policy," Oark said. 
Clark said she is going to enjoy exploring Washington and meeting new people on her trip. 
Sophomore Katrina Corcoran will be attending the Cultural Diversity Seminar in Chicago, also sponsored by the esc. 
''I'm going to enjoy seeing Chicago from other people's point of view," Corcoran said. "I love to be immersed into some­thing." 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
SACRED HEART@ 7:35 P.M. SAT., OCT. 18TH SACRED HEART@ 7:05 PM. FRI., OCT. 24TH MIAMI OHIO @ 7:35 P.M. SAT., OCT. 25TH MIAMI OHIO@ 7:05P.M.  

DeIDs 
continued from page 1 
tant. 
"Wn havn been working on making sun• that girls know how to gel their absentee ballots or know that in some states they will b.-abln to early vote over fall break in tlwir hometowns," Nolan said. 
Tlw College Demoerats have also bonn campaigning for Obama in the South Bend eom­munily. 
Sophomore Collnen Lowry spent a lot of timn working for "Canvass li•r Obama," a door-to­door literature drop that stu­dnnts and adults do every Sunday in St. Joseph County. Thny answer any questions peo­ple may have, give literature to people and show support for Obarna in any way they can. 
Lowry explained that Indiana is a battleground state that is leaning more towards the Hepublican Party, but added that South Bend is very diverse and has a wide range of Obama sup­portnrs. 
"We see great enthusiasm in many of the people wo come into contact with every day, Lowry said. "And they are really look­ing to Obama to change the way tho govnrnrnent has been run­ning for the last eight years." 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Reps 
continued from page 1 
she said. "We have also had the opportunity to go see a McCain/Palin rally in Detroit." 
The College Hepublicans have also taken an active interest, running phone banks that are helping to elect Luke Puckett to Congress as a representative for Indiana's 2nd District and re-elect incumbent Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels, Horvath said. 
The College Republicans can be seen around Saint Mary's campus sporting the club's red "VOTE" T-shirts 
with the GOP Elephant on the front. Members of the club are encouraged to wear their T-shirts each Tuesday leading up to the election, Ilorvath said. 
"I like the !shirts] because [theyI promote voting in gen­eral; whethnr you are a Hepubliean or Democrat doesn't matter," Husnak said. "People are just trying to get involved and do their part and that's important." 
Caitlin Sullivan, the vice president of the Saint Mary's College Hepublicans, said she is excited about engaging fel­low students, and ·said the club is organizing a fundrais­er to send care packages to troops. 
After the election on Nov. 4, Saint Mary's College Republicans' efforts in creat­ing party awareness will con­tinue, Horvath said. Members can look forward to a trip to Washington D.C. to attend the Conservative Poli(ical Action Committee (CPAC) in February, Ilorvath said. 
"Thn CPAC event brings together young consnrvativcs from across the nation and features prominent conserva­tive speakers; it will be our exciting event for the ynar, which has bnnn far more organized than !ynars past!." she said. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
DeAgosti.no talked Tuesday which discussed how people confrontational and unbiased they hope this week-long about "Love Your Body Week," could live in a sustainable way, which was really exciting event will bneome a yearly

Body 
a longer version of the nation­way, reducing their carbon for us," DeAgostino said. tradition at Notre Dame. This al "Love Your Body Day." footprint and There will year, they had the co-sponsor­
continued from page 1 
"Our bodies can do amazing eating healthy, be a dance ship of the Student Union, the 
things for us and a lot of locally produced workshop on Biology Club. GreeND. pa r t ~~," " I.ov? Y!ll~ r Body times wn kind of take them foods. "Our bodies can do North Quad Students for Environmental Wonk, a sei'Jes of events for granted and don't give The group from 6 to 7 Action, the Women's Hunning
amazing things for us
spnarhnadfld by Notrfl Dame them the respect they showed "Heal p m Club, Project Fresh, Ballroom Feminist Voien. a campus club dnserve," DeAgostino said. Women Have and a lot oftimes we Thursday, fea­Dancing Club, Gender Studies, that discusses gender issuns. Like a lot of Americans, Curves," a film kind oftake them for turing ball­Sociology, Men Against Snnior Sarah Lyons, the vice Notre Dame students might starring "Ugly room dancing, Violence, the Progressive
granted and don't give 
president of Feminist Voice, forget to take the time to Betty" star break dancing Student Alliance and the had to run to elass after an reflect on their bodies, she America them the respect they and Filipino Filipino-American Student hour of stretching, balancing said. Ferrera on deserve." dancing Organization. and rhythmic breathing. "Our big push for the week Monday. They instruction. People should love their 
''I'm fm~ling vnry centered," is to raise the issue of how invited a South Following the body more than just one time
Mary DeAgostino
she said. Lyons had never women's bodies are viewed in Bend ob-gyn to dance class, a year, DeAgostino said. taken a yoga elass before. She society, and maybe that isn't talk about Feminist Voice secretary Valerie "Make this something you said she enjoyed it. right. and refocus it, to pro­reproductive Staples of the think about, not just this week 
"Love Your Body Week" is mote awareness of some of health topics, University but throughout your life, about more than physical the issues women and men like sexually Counseling reassessing your relationship health, Lyons said, but also experiencn and make it a pos­transmitted infections, natu­Center will use the reality with your body, and how you about mental. emotional and itive message," DeAgostino ral family planning and con­show "America's Next Top ~r~ treati?g it and respecting spiritual hnalth. said. traception. Model" as a starting point to It, she said. 
Woaring pins that said "I To start off the week, the "It may have been the first talk about the way bodies are love my body," Lyons and group sponsored a sustain­time that contraception was depicted. Contact Kaitlynn Riely at Feminist Voice secretary Mary ability dinner on Sunday, discussed on campus in a non-Lyons and DeAgostino said kriely@nd.edu 

Debate 
conti~ued from page 1 
Hofstra University in llempstead, N.Y.. was moder­ated by CBS's Bob Schinfl'er. The lablll discussion format allownd thn candidates to engagn nach other directly on a mixed bag of issues including the economy, attacks ads, thnir running mates, energy. abortion and ndueation. 
Both candidates strove to present the image of a strong lnader when Schieffer asked them why their eeonomic plan was superior to their opponnnts. Obama was left defending his tax policies to McCain who told viewnrs, "I know how to save billions." 
Obama criticized McCain for rBpnatedly siding with l'rnsident Bush. 
McCain respondnd: "Sen. Obama, I am not Prnsident Bush. If you wanted to run against l'rnsident Bush. you should have run four years ago. I'm going to givn a new 
direction to this economy in this country." 
Schieffer gave the candi­dates an opportunity to reflect on the presence of attack ads in the campaign. Obarna accused McCain for running "100 percent nega­tive ads" and dismissed the McCain campaign for claim­ing lw "pals around with ter­rorists." McCain used the opportunity to point out that Obama agreed to town hall meetings months ago and later opted out. 
The candidates were asked why their pick of a running mate was better than their opponents. Obama passed on critieizing Palin and said, "heaven forbid something happnn to me, Biden would make a great president." MeCain, who listed Palin's accomplishments extensively, failed to address the possibil­ity of her becoming president and nnded with "her hus­band Todd is a pretty tough guy." 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

their services to the University. "I talked to some of the peo­
BOG 
ple on the student government continued from page 1 [at Notre Dame] today and they 
do not get paid," she said. Readership program, which Student Services commission­delivers the Chicago Tribune, er Catherine Meadors said the the South Bend Tribune, New budget issue needs to be York Times and the USA Today resolved because BOG needs to to campus each show a unified weekday, by front to the stu­$2,000 and the dent body and be
"Until the stipend is 
funding for eo­able to move on sponsorships by removed from the to other business. $2,000. budget, we are not "Obviously nei­
Discussion ther side is going
going to approve the 
among mem­to agree on bers of' BOG budget." everything, but before the vote we need to com­was short. But promise and we
Pauline Kistka 
after the vote, need to come
Health and Wellness 
Ilealth and together," she 
commissioner
Wellness corn­said. missioner Every BOG Pauline Kistka meeting is open said that she thinks she speaks to the public and about 25 for the 11 members of BOG who members of the student body voted against the budget by say­carne to share their opinion on ing they are opposed to the the Executive Board stipend. principle of the budget, not the They were allowed to voice amount of' the their concerns after members of budget. BOG conducted 
"Until the their business. 
stipend is "Obviously neither side .J u n i o r removed from Wcnwen Bai
is going to agree on
tlw budget, we attended the 
arc not going to everything, but we need meeting on 
approve the to compromise and we behalf of the budget," Kistka Around thn
need to come together."
said. "The World dub. She sooner the asked BOG to stipend is Catherine Meadors <:on side r the 
-removed, the Student Services fact that clubs sooner the stu­and organiza­
commissioner 
dents will tions are being receive their affected money." because they 
Before the vote, Allison cannot receive funding until the Spurlock, the tri-campus com­budget passns, a fact which missioner, made a clarilication Falvey emphasized to BOG to correct prior announcements members. at BOG meetings that members "The students need their of' the Notre Dame student gov­money," she said. "This is a fili­ernment receive a stipend for buster in conventional govern­ment so if that's what this is then all the student body is hurting. It's not necessarily one side's fault." 
Senior Jessica Sobzcyk said she does not believe student funds should be used for a salary for the Exncutive Board. 
"It's not the amount it's the fact that there is I a stipend I and where !the money isl coming from," she said. "I don't think it should come from where it is coming from -from funds that should be allocated to dubs, organizations and eo-sponsor­ships." 
The students in altl~ndance applauded Sobczyk, who also attended last wonk's BOG meet­ing but did not voice hnr opin­ions, when she said she is dis­appointed with the way the Executive Board is handling. 
"I've notiecd a lot of pressure being put on the rest of BOG saying if this docsn't pass the clubs don't get the money. Basically the implication is that it's [the rest of BOG's] fault. I don't think it's their fault," she said. "I think if you took the stipend out of the budget it would pass like that and every­body would get the money and they would all be happy. Heally, it's on I the Executive Board I. so take tho stipend out of the budget and redistribute the funds to what it should be and let's get this year going ... Servo your student body, listen to what they're saying to you." 
Sincn thn budgnt onen again fail1~d to pass, it will bn nwisnd by the Executivn Board and presented to BOG at its nnxt meeting on Oct. 29. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteOI@saintmarys.edu and Ashley Charnley at acharnO I @saintmarys.edu 

ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 16, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WJRE SFRV1Cf:S page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. soldiers kill no. 2 al-Qaida leader 
BAGHDAD-American soldiers killed the alleged No. 2 leader of al-Qaida in Iraq, a Moroccan who trained in Afghanistan, recruited foreign fighters and ran operations in northern Iraq where Sunni insurgents remain a potent threat, the U.S. military said Wednesday. . 
The man, who the military said was known as Abu Qaswarah, died Oct. 5 during a raid on a building in the northern city of Mosul that served as a major "command and con­trol location" for the region. Four other insurgents were killed in the operation, the 
U.S. said. 
The announcement of Abu Qaswarah's death was withheld until Wednesday to allow for positive identification, the military said. 
Fighting erupts at Cambodian border 
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia -Escalating ten­sions botween Thailand and Cambodia over a disputed border near a historic temple erupted Wednesday in a deadly gunbattle, prompting oft1cials to quickly declare that they would resolve the dispute through talks, not bullets. 
Two Cambodian troops were killed, the first deaths in a 4-month standoff that began when UNESCO, the U.N. cultural agency, approved Cambodia's bid to have Preah Vihear temple named a World Heritage Site. Thailand feared its elaims· over nearby· land would be under­mined. 
In recent days, as the dispute fueled national­ism in both countries, officials appeared to be preparing for a major confrontation. 
Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen issued an ultimatum to Thailand on Tuesday to pull back its soldiers from the disputed territory, calling it "a life-and-death battle zone." Thailand moved reinforcements up to the border area. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Nancy Reagan suffers broken pelvis 
LOS ANGELES-Nancy Reagan suffered a broken pelvis in a fall at her home and will be hospitalized for several days, her spokes­woman said Wednesday. 
The 87 -year-old former first lady fell last week, spokeswoman Joanne Drake said. She did not seek immediate medical care but decided Monday to get checked out because of persistent pain, Drake said. 
Doctors at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center determined she had a fractured pelvis and sacrum, the triangular bone at tpe base of the spinal column. 
"She's in some pain but in very good spir­its." Drake said. 
Residents return as fire fears diminish 
LOS ANGELES -Residents of the San Fernando Valley breathed air free of smoke and ash for the first time in four days Wednesday under brilliant blue skies. 
Gone were the convulsive winds that at times reached gale force. Nowhere could Los Angeles police be found using bullhorns to order residents out of homes and away from deadly fires that have blackened more than 34 square miles and destroyed more than 50 homes. 
The last evacuation orders for two big fire areas at opposite ends of the valley were lift­ed, though some locations were open just to residents. Some of those who returned found only rubble. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Disputed early votes may be tossed 
INDIANAPOLIS -A lawyer for Indiana HApublicans warnep Wednesday that courts might eventually throw out disputed absentee votp,s being cast in the Democratic stronghold of Lake County, raising a new legal cloud over polling in thi'i pmsidcntial battleground state. 
Democratic lfladers including an adviser to Barack Obama's campaign. meanwhile, accused Hcpublieans and John McCain's campaign of dirty tricks aimed at suppressing votes in Indiana and creating unfounded fears over possible vote fraud in the northwestern Indiana county with a long history of political corruption. 
Candidatesgettoughinlastdebate 
McCain, Obama debate domestic policies, attack opposition campaign ads 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. -John McCain repeatedly assailed Barack Obama's character and campaign positions on taxes, abortion and more Wednesday night, hoping to transform their final presi-.. dential debate into a launch­ing pad for a political come­back. "You didn't tell the American people the truth," he charged. 
Unruffled, and ahead in the polls, Obama parried each accusation, and leveled a few of his own. 
"One hundred percent, John, of your ads, 100 per­cent of them have been neg­ative," Obama shot back in an uncommonly personal debate less than three weeks from Election Day. 
"It's not true," McCain retorted. 
"It absolutely is true," said Obama, seeking the last word. 
McCain is currently run­ning all negative ads, according to a study by the University of Wisconsin­Madison. But he has run a number of positive ads dur­ing the campaign. 
The 90-minute encounter, seated at a round table at Hofstra University, was their third debate, and marked the beginning of a 20-day sprint to Election Day. Obama leads in the national ship with William Ayers, a cal independence. Democratic Party. polls and in surveys in many 1960s-era terrorist and the "If I've occasionally mis­"He signed a piece of battleground states, an Democra's ties with ACORN, taken your policies for paper" earlier in the cam­advantage built in the weeks a liberal group accused of George Bush's policies, it's paign pledging to accept fed­since the nation stumbled violating federal law as it because on the core eco­eral fmancing, McCain said. into the greatest economic seeks to register voters. And nomic issues that matter to He added that Obama's cam­crisis since the Great he insisted Obama disavow the American people -on paign has spent more money Depression. last week's remarks by Rep. tax policy, on energy policy, than any since Watergate, a 
With few exceptions, the John Lewis, a Democrat, on spending priorities -you reference to President campaign is being waged in who accused the Republican have been a vigorous sup­Nixon's re-election, a cam­states that voted Republican ticket of playing racial poli­porter of President Bush," paign that later became syn­in 2004 Virginia, tics along the same lines as he said. onymous with scandal. Colorado, Iowa -and in segregationists of the past. McCain's allegation that Obama made no immedi­many of them, Obama holds Struggling to escape the Obama had not leveled with ate response to McCain's a lead in the polls. political drag of an unpopu­the public involved the assertion about having 
McCain played the aggres­lar Republican incumbent, Illinois senator's decision to signed a pledge to accept sor from the opening McCain also said, "Sen. forgo public financing for his federal campaign funds. moments of the debate, Obama, I am not President campaign in favor of raising Asked about running accusing Obama of waging Bush. ... You wanted to run his own funds. As a result, mates, both presidential class warfare by seeking tax against President Bush, you he has far outraised McCain, candidates said Democrat increases that would should have run four years although the difference has Joseph Eiden was qualified "spread the wealth around." ago." been somewhat neutralized to become president, 
The Arizona senator also Obama returned each vol­by an advantage the although McCain added this demanded to know the full ley, and brushed aside Republican National qualifier: "in many extent of Obama's relation-McCain's claim to full politi-Committee holds over the respects." 

IRAQ 
Pact calls for limited U.S. jurisdiction 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -American troops could face trial before Iraqi courts for major crimes committed off base and when not on missions. under a draft security pact hammered out in months of tortu­ous negotiations, Iraqi officials familiar with the accord said Wednesday. 
The draft also calls for U.S. troops to leave Iraqi cities by the end of June and withdraw from the country entire­ly by Dec. 31, 2011, unless the Baghdad government asks some of them to stay for training or security support, the officials said. 
It would also give the Iraqis a 
tWeater role in U.S. military operations and full control of the Green Zone, the 3?-square mile area of central Baghdad· that includes the U.S. Embassy and major Iraqi government offices. 
One senior Iraqi official said Baghdad may demand even more con­cessions before the draft is submitted to parliament for a final decision. The two sides are working against a dead­line of year's end when the U.N. man­date authorizing the U.S.-led mission expires. 
The Iraqi officials, familiar with details of the draft, spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not supposed to release the information. 
In Washington, the State Department confirmed a draft had been finalized but refused to discuss any details. 
"There is a text that people are look­ing at," spokesman Sean McCormack told reporters. "Nothing is done until everything is done. Everything isn't done. The Iraqis are still talking among themselves. We are still talking to the Iraqis." 
U.S. officials declined to discuss details of the draft but characterized it as the administration's final offer, say­ing no more concessions would be considered. 
Colleges face priest shortage 
Declining nun1ber of clergy pose problems for Catholic institutions 
Associated Press 
I'IIILADELI'IIIA -Thn short­
ago of Homan Catholic dnrgy 
isn't just being felt in ehureh. 
Hnfigious ordPrs that have four~dnd and run Catholie eol­lnges and universities aeross tlw U.S. -in some casns for more than a century-are grappling with how to retain thn institutions' distinet reli­gious idnntitins in the faee of declining numbers of priests and nuns. 
The Hnv. Timothy Lannon, presidnnt of Saint Joseph's University. ean envision a time when a lay person will lead the Jesuit school in Philadelphia because of the dwindling num­ber of his brethren. So it's important now to instill the order's philosophy on eampus through eurrieulum and staff initiativns, hn said. 
"Without .Jnsuits, how ean you 1:all yoursnlf .Jesuit?" Lannon said. 
Saint .JosPph's is not ;donn, said Hirhard Yanikoski, presi­dnnt of thn Association of Catholic Colleges and Univnrsitins. 
As rnligious orders shrink, the 1:riti1:al ,·.hallnngn is for Catholie idnntity "to lw built into thn goals and opnrations and prac­tices of the institution," Yanikoski said. 
Hntaining that idnntity was sonwwhat nasinr in provious gmwrations wlwn prinsts and nuns who ran thn sehools wore rnligious garb as th1~y earrind out tnar.hing and administrativn dutins. lw said. 
"Evnryonn could snn the Catholic identity of thn institu­tion in thosn pnopln," said Yanikoski. 
Ynt diminishing numbnrs. and nwrn lwrs of orders opting for S!H:ufar dress. havn combinnd to dmngn that sensibility at pfacns likn Saint XaviPr Univnrsity in Chi1:ago, which was founded by the Sisters of Merry and where Yanikoski served as thn third fay pn~sidnnt. 
Tlw school's studnnt body has rhang<~d as well. said university spokesman .Josnph Moorn. While tlw pnrcentagn of Catholics is still very high, tmlay's students grew up under Vatican II rnli~rms and am less st!~np!Hl in what might be con­sidnn~d traditional Catholic cui­tun~. lw said. Tlwy are rnquirnd to takn two religion r.ourses, but not nncnssarily on Catholidsm. 
Write News. Call Jenn at 
631.5323. 
Saint Xavier tries to maintain 
its roots by offering a "peer 
mentoring" program in which 
stall' members periodically meet 
after work for informal, faculty­
fed discussions on what it 
means to work in a Catholic 
institution. 
But it's still a challenge. Only two sisters remain among the faculty at the 5,700-student campus, Moorn said. Five more work in other roles at the school. 
Overall, the Chicago congre­gation of sisters has dropped from 800 to 200 since 1967, and the median age is now 79, Moore said. 
The story is similar for Jesuits, whose numbers have been decreasing since the 1960s, according to the Jesuit Conference of the United States. Currently, there are about 3,000 nationwide and their average age is 60. 
Heligious orders are losing prinsts at a fastpr rate than dio­cnsns. Overall. the number of' n~ligious order priests in thn 
U.S. has droppNI from about 23,000 in 1965 to 13,000 this ynar. That's a decline of 43 pnr­cent-steeper than the 30 per­cent slide in total number of' priests nationwide during that period, according to Georgetown University's Center for Applied Hnsearch in the Apostolate. 
The identity issue has bmm of' eoncern to Pope Benedict XVI, who addressed the presidents of' the nation's more than 200 Catholic universitins during his 
U.S. visit in April. I In told the educators that they "have the duty and privilege to ensure that studnnts receive instruction in Catholie doctrine and prae­tiee." 
Catholic higher education is also important in terms of' devnloping the next gennration of' leaders in thn church, Yanikoski said. 
"We know that leadership tal­ent has to be systnmatically devnloped. If' we don't do it in Catholic colleges and universi­ties, where will it bn done'!" he said. 
At La Salle University in Philadelphia, the founding Christian Brothers also face shrinking numbers, said BrothN Joseph Willard, exneu­tivn assistant to thn school prns­iden t. 
To supplmnent the presence of' :~8 brotlwrs who work on 
campus, the college offers La 
Sallian leadership training to its 
lay staff to help infuse the 
order's values of' faith, service 
and community, Willard said. 
Otlicials are also increasing the 
number of liturgical events on 
campus. 
"We consider being Catholic 
in name and Catholic in reality 
is very much what our mission 
is about," Willard said. "The 
mission of the brothers can't die 
with the brothers." 
Saint Joseph's has a similar program for lay stafiJJased on the "spiritual exercises" of St. Ignatius, the Jesuit patron. The 12-to 24-week program is designed to help participants strengthen their relationship with God and make decisions within the context of Gospel val­ues. 
The sehool, which has about two dozen priests working on campus, also plans to offer a biannual seminar on lgnatian teaching for faculty, officials said. 
For students, the 57 -year-old Lannon spearheaded an effort to create a required course called "Faith, .Justice and the Catholic Tradition" -one com­ponent of a revised core cur­riculum approved last week by univnrsity trustens. A previous rnligion requirement did not spedlieally include a course on Catholicism. 
The new elass is meant to ensure that students under­stand key doctrines in Catholicism and the Jesuits' commitment to social justice, compassion for the poor and searching for God in all things, said provost Brice Wachterhauser. 
"Our hope is to produce a deeper understanding of our institutional roots and commit­mEmts," he said. 
Saint Joe's sophomore Marissa Foster, who grew up Methodist in Scranton, Pa., said she's interested in the Jesuit tradition and thinks the required dass is a good idea. 
"I don't think I'd go out on my own" and learn about it, she said. 
But interacting with priests outside the classroom is impor­tant too, Foster said. Seeing Lannon -who lives among stu­dents in university housing ­and other Jesuits regularly on campus and in classrooms hnlps ernato a unique, tight-knit spiritual community. 


Hornes -Rentols -Cors -Computers -Appliances 
Need exT:ra cash? Searching "for t:ha.t: special needed it:em? Try our local webslt:e vvvvvv.SefiBuylt:.corn. lt:~s freef List: an lt:em vvit:h phot:o, unlimited dlsc:ript:ion, unt:il sold. 

Meat Entrees & Healthy Vegetwian Dishes 

Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches ~· Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts · Dine In • Take Out • Catering 
Reservations Accepted 
//5 Dixie Way North, South Bend 
(574) 277-7239 
Mormon Illissionaries attacked in Australia 
BYU basketball player, 1 other man stabbed 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY -A BYU 
basketball player on a 
Mormon mission and another 
missionary were attacked 
and stabbed while returning 
to their apartment in a sub­
urb of Sydney, Australia. 
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints said Wednesday that Chris Collinsworth, 19, of Mapleton, Utah, and David Ferguson, 21, of Great Falls, Mont., "suffered multiple non-life threatening stab wounds in an unprovoked attack ... " 
Collinsworth, a 6-foot-9 forward for church-owned BYU, averaged 3.2 points, 
4.8 rebounds and 15.9 min­utes in 35 games as a fresh­man last season before going on the two-year mission. 
A state police spokos­woman, speaking on the police policy condition of anonymity said that Collinsworth and Ferguson were attacked Tuesday night by three unknown men, who made no demands of the two missionaries. The men were described by as being Middle Eastern in their appearance, the spokeswoman said. 
Alisa Collinsworth said hor son was stabbed in tho back near his kidney. She said Ferguson had the tendons eut in his hand and needed surgery. Efforts by The Associated Press to reach Ferguson's family were unsuccessful Wednesday. 
Alisa Collinsworth said her son ealled home early Wednesday. 
"1I1~ said they were just walking him home when all or a sudden he just gets hit from tho side, just slammed," his mother said. 
Chris Collinsworth said he fought baek, but told his par­ents that several men jumped on top of' him. lin got stabbed at some point during the "dog pile," his mother said. 
Alisa Collinsworth said her son told her that Ferguson was cut and injured when he jumped in to get the attack­ers off' his companion. Ferguson bled profusely and Collinsworth used a tie to make a tourniquet, his moth­er said. 
!\lisa Collinsworth said her son told her he also was held from behind and his shirt pulled over his head while several people kieked him in the face and stomach. Tlw attack ended when a motorist pulled up and start­ed yelling and pounding on his horn. shn said. 
Chris Collinsworth was rnleased from the ·hospital Wednesday and told his par­ents hn was rnady to gnt back to missionary work, his mother said. 
"lin's a just a calm, put­togethnr kid," shn said. 
A Wnstninad llospital spoknswoman was unable to provide dotails ol' Ferguson or Collinsworth's conditions. 
Church of'f'icials are work­ing with thP Australian authorities on the case. 
The state polien said they rntrinvnd "a number ol' items for forensic examination," from thn erimn scmw. 

Thursday, October 16, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 8,577.91 -733.0H
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
381 30 3,125 2,329,569,665 
AMEX 1,395.91 d00,94 NASDAQ 1,628.33 -150.68 NYSE 5,759.96 ~620.57 S&P 500 907.84 -90.17 
NIKKEI (Tokyo) 9,122.25 -425.22 FTSE 100 (London) 4.079.59 -314.62 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -9.84 -9.83 90.02 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -8.96 -3.01 30.60 FIN SEL SPDR (XLF) -10.85 +1.88 15.45 !SHARES MSCI (EEM) -16.17 +4.63 24.01 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -0.30 -0.012 4.011 13-WEEK BILL -14.89 -0.035 0.200 30-YEAR BOND -0.28 -0.012 4.248 5-YEAR NOTE -2.53 -0.075 2.888 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -4.09 74.54 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.50 839.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.70 84.98 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 99.7550 EURO 0.7419 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.1924 BRITISH POUND 0.5796 
IN BRIEF 
Bush: federal intervention is temporary 
ADA, Mich. -President Bush said Wednesday he's against government taking part ownership in private businesses, but that it's necessary this time -for a while. "In the long run it's not good for the country," he said. 
Speaking in this traditional election battle­ground state, Bush said he agreed with critics who don't want the government owning pri­vate enterprises. But he said the administra­tion's bank rescue plan was needed to help the nation through the economic crisis. 
"We moved with a plan big enough to make a difference -a plan with features in it that will cause investments to be temporary, because I frankly don't want the government being involved with businesses, owning busi­nesses," he said. "It's not -I don't think it's good for the country." 
World stocks drop due to data 
LONDON -World stocks fell Wednesday after poor U.S. retail sales data stoked con­cerns that global efforts to restore confi­dence in the. financial system will not be enough to stave off a deep recession. 
Wall Street followed Europe and most Asian stocks in heading lower, as the Dow Jones index of leading U.S. shares was down 325.84 points, or 3.5 percent, at 8,985.15, after US retail sales data raised expectations that the world's largest econo­my is already in recession or about to move into one. 
The FTSE 100 index of leading British shares closed down 314.62 points, or 7.2 percent, at 4,079.59. Germany's DAX ended 
337.56 points, or 6.5 percent, lower at 4,861.63, while France's CAC-40 was 
24 7.45 points, or 6.8 percent, down at 3.381.07. 
The renewed selling pressure was stoked by a U.S. government report showing that retail sales plunged in September by a monthly 1.2 percent almost double the 0.7 percent drop analysts had expected. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 
Fears send stocks plunging again 
Dow Jones suffers staggering 733-point loss, economic anxiety continues 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Investors agonizing over a faltering economy sent the stock market plunging all over again Wednesday after a stream of disheartening data convinced Wall Street that a recession, if not already here, is inevitable. The market's despair pro­pelled the Dow Jones industrials down 733 points to their second-largest point loss ever, and the major indexes all lost at least 7 percent. 
The slide meant that the Dow, which fell 76 points on Tuesday, has given back all but 127 points of its record 936-point gain of Monday, which came on optimism about the bank­ing system in response to the government's plans to invest up to $250 billion in financial institutions. 
Wednesday's sell-off began after the govern­ment's report that retail sales plunged in September by 1.2 percent -almost double the 0.7 percent ana­lysts expected -made it clear that consumers are reluctant to spend amid a shaky economy and a pun­ishing stock market. 
The Commerce Department report was in obtaining loans have they will, broader econom­the heavy selling: Mutual sobering because con­choked growth in wide ic recovery will not happen funds need to unload stock sumer spending accounts swaths of the economy. right away," he told the to pay inves.tors who are for more than two-thirds of "Even though the bank­Economic Club of New bailing out of the market. 
U.S. economic activity. The ing sector may be return­York. Investors apparently reading came as Wall ing to normal, the economy Analysts have warned have come to believe that Street was refocusing its still isn't. The economy that the market will see Monday's big rebound over attention on the faltering continues to face a host of continued volatility as it the banking sector was economy following stepped other problems," said Doug tries to recover from the overdone given the prob­up government efforts to Roberts, chief investment devastating losses of the lems elsewhere in the revive the stagnant lending strategist at last month, including the economy. markets. ChannelCapitalResearch.co nearly 2,400-point plunge "It' really doesn't come as 
Then, during the after­m. "We're in for a tough in the Dow over the eight a shock after Monday's noon, the release of the ride." sessions that ended Friday. gains were, I think, a little Beige Book, the assessment Fed Chairman Ben Such turbulence is typical bit excessive," said Charles of business conditions from Bernanke offered a similar after a huge decline, but Norton, principal and port­the Federal Reserve, added opinion. warning in a the market's anxiety about folio manager at to investors' angst. The speech Wednesday that the economy was also GNICapital, referring to the report found that the econ­patching up the credit mar­expected to cause gyrations market's pullback. omy continued to slow in kets won't provide an in the weeks and months lie contends that the gov­the early fall as financial instantaneous jolt to the ahead. ernment has taken so many and credit market prob­economy. Selling accelerated in the steps to help the financial lems took a turn for the "Stabilization of the last hour of trading, a com­system that investors must worse. The central bank's financial markets is a criti­mon occurrence during the now wait for some of the report supported the mar­cal first step, but even if eight days of heavy actions to help steady the ket's belief that difficulties they stabilize as we hope declines. One reason for economy. 

BELGIUM 
U.S., EU call for summit on banking 
Sarkozy said emerging economies The G-8 leaders said in a joint state­
Associated Press 
such as China, India and others out­ment released by the White House 
BRUSSELS -The Group of Eight side the G-8 should also participate that they were united in their commit­major industrial nations announced because "no one should feel excluded ment to change the regulation of the Wednesday they will hold a global from what we are recasting." world's financial sector to restore con­summit -perhaps as early as EU leaders meeting in Brussels "all fidence and "remedy deficiencies November in New York -to forge agreed that we don't want the same exposed by the current crisis." common action to prevent another causes to produce the same effects in "We are confident that, working economic meltdown. future," the French leader said. "We together, we will meet the present 
French President Nicolas Sarkozy don't want all this to start again; we challenges and return our economies said all European Union nations want lessons to be learned." to stability and prosperity," they said. backed radical restructuring of global British Prime Minister Gordon Brown, a longtime former Treasury institutions like the International Brown said the meeting would chief widely seen as a leader in craft­Monetary Fund and World Bank. He require vision similar to the creation ing policies to combat the financial called for a meeting "preferably in of the United Nations and the Bretton crisis, said he wants a group of super­New York, where everything started" Woods conference that laid out the visors from major nations to monitor and said it should lead to "a new capi­post-World War II international fman­the world's 30 largest financial insti­talism." cial and monetary system. tutions. 
MEXICO 
Americans vvary about visiting Ciudad Juarez 
Associated Press 
EL PASO. Texas 
Mexican o!Tieials are trying 
to pnrsuadn Americans to 
visit Ciudad Juarez, touting 
tho city in a new billboard 
campaign as a "land or 
encounters." But on this side 
or the border, that sounds 
like a cruel joke. 
More than 1,100 people havn been killed this year in .luarnz, population 1.5 mil­lion, in a drug-related blood­bath so staggering that the city has been deelared ofT­limits to U.S. soldiers looking to go bar-hopping; El Paso's public hospital is seeing a spi !lover of the wounded; and residents on the Anwrican side are afraid to cross over to visit family, shop or conduct business. 
"We all like to make money, but tlw money I was making isn't worth it," said Fernando Apodaca, who spnnt at least one day a week ror the past 18 years working in Juarez as an auto industry consultant. Al'tnr his Cadillac I\scalade SUV was seiznd in a carjacking last month, Apodaca vowed he wouldn't go over the border again. 
"I had a gun to my face. Tlwre's no law over there," hn said. 
.I uarez. situated just across the Bio Grande from El Paso, has had more murders this year than Nnw York and Chicago togflther had in all of 2007 -and those two citins have seven timfls the population of Juarflz. Last weekend alone, Juarez had 37 killings. 
.Juarez has near his home in May. 
Armed robberies, carjack­ings and kidnappings for ransom are also rampant. 
"The government isn't in control, and that makes for a very dangerous situation," Tony Payan. an expert on border crime at the University of Texas-EI Paso. "Anyone at any time can commit a <:rime and anyone at any time can become a victim." 
While the bloodshed hasn't yet spilled over to the American side, the violence is costing El Paso, a city of about 600,000 where only 17 homicides were reported in 2007. 
Dozens of shooting victims, several of them U.S. citizens or legal residents, have been treated at Thomason General Hospital -the only facility 
for  250  miles  that  is  
flquipped  to  handle  such  
patients  - at a  cost to local  

taxpayers of more than $1 million. 
The hospital has had sev­eral loekdowns because of fears that hit men would realize a victim was still alive and cross the border to finish thfl job -something that has happened in hospi­tals on the Mexican side. 
Soldiers at the Army's Fort Bliss are no longer allowed to travel to Juarez, whose nightelubs were once a pop­ular place to party. 
Mexican Consul General Roberto Hodriguez Hernandez said the number of visitors crossing into Juarez from El Paso this year is down about 20 per-
c e n t "Business has 
always been "The government isn't been off a rough because we
in control, and that 
town, but lost the stu­
makes for a very dents on
one whore m a n y dangerous weekends, Americans and the sol­
situation. " 
rei t sarfl d i e r s , " enough to Hodriguez 
Tony Payan said.
play, shop and work. border crime expert Businesses Violence in Juarez are
University of Texas-EI Paso 
began to mount narly this year after Mexico's pres­ident launched a national offonsivn against drug lords. 
Initially, the bloodshed involved drug cartels fighting each other. Then, military troops, law enforcement ol'/1­cers and government offi­cials became major targets. 
Assassinations have become more brazen and more and more innocents havn bonn killed. Masked gunmnn stormed a drug rnhab ennter in August and killnd night people. Six men wnrn gunned down last weeknnd at a family party. A 12-ynar-old girl was shot and killod in .June whiln riding with two nwn targeted by hitnwn. The second-in-com­mand or thn Juarez police dnpartmnnt was killed in a hail or morn than 50 bullets 
shutting down 
or cutting hours because of both the violenee and the drop in visi­tors. 
The U.S. State Department issued a travel advisory on Tuesday, warning Americans of daylight shootings at shop­ping centers in Juarez and suggesting applicants for 
U.S. visas at the eonsulate in Juarez not pay in cash to avoid getting mugged while in line. 
Hosa Flores, 30, has lived on both sides of the border and used to travel to .I uarez twice a month to visit family with her 9-year-old son and 11-year~old daughter. With killings on the rise this sum­mer, she insisted the chil­dnm not play video games or listen to music in the car so they could be alert for gun­Jim. 
Speaker opines on democracy 
Former Congresswoman discusses role ofwomen in leadership positions 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
What women contribute to soci­ety is incredibly important, Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky said during her lecture, "Empowering Women in Democracies Around the World" ure out how, without turning a lot of people ofl', we integrate what we know about the importance of women and leadership into mem­bers of parliaments all over thfl world," Margolies-Mezvinsky said. 
Women's Campaign Internationai is an organization that works on training women in 
at Saint Mary's Wednesday. 
Margolies­Mezvinsky chairs Women's Campaign International, a group that provides politi­cal training to women 
around  the  
world.  In  
1992,  she  
became  the  

first woman elected to 
"Why I think it's so impor­tant, and basically talk to you about reaching out to women around the world because, we've found at Women's Campaign International that what women have to say is incredibly important." 
Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky chair 
democra­eies. 
"We only go into emerging democra­cies. We often go into failed states. We always go into countries where we are invited i n , Margolies­Mezvinsky said. 
Congress from Pennsylvania  Women's Campaign International  a  Five years g o ,  
and  three  Women's  
years later led  Campaign  

the United States delegation to the International went into Malawi. United Nations' Fourth There they were able to double International Women's the number of women in the cau­Conference in Beijing. cus, and have been working with 
Since that timfl she has repre­them ever since. sented U.S. delegations to Austria, "We work very closely with the India, Spain, Kazakhstan and people who are there," Margolies­Turkey. Mezvinsky said. "We do an 
"What Women's Campaign assessment. We go in and figure International has tried to do is fig-out what's needed. We just do a lot of listening. We set up in a week's time maybe 50 meetings." 
But Women's Campaign International does not only work with women in political positions. The Campaign also does charita­ble work by testing women for HIV and helping support certain international hospitals. They also work to change laws that are unfair to women. 
The Campaign wanted to increase testing for IllY in Malawi, so they tested the Congressional Women's Caucus. 
"The country is at least 14.5 percent liN positive," Margolies­Mezvinsky said. Since that time, Malawi has quadrupled the amount of tnsting fbr IIIV through the Women's Caucus. 
"That's what can be done. That's what we do," she said. "Why I think it's so important, and basically talk to you about roaching out to women around the world becaus1~. we've found at Women's Campaign International that what women have to say is incredibly important." 
Margolies-Mezvinsky was the Democratic candidate for the Lieutenant Governor of Pennsylvania in 1998. 
She is the author of ((mr books and cul'l'ently she is a fellow at the Fels Institute of Government at the University of Pennsylvania, her alma mater. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
''I Call You Friends~~5.15) 
DAY OF RECOLLECTION 
A Special Silent Retreat Opportunity for Faculty Members 
Retreat Director: Fr. Gustavo Gutierrez, O.P. 
John Cardinal O'Hara Chair ofTheology 
Saturday, November 8, 2008 9:00am-5:15pm, followed by dinner 
Sponsored by the Institute for Church Life 
What is a "Day of Recollection?" It is an opportunity to set some time aside for God. 
We are all busy! Sometimes in the midst of all our activity, it is good to tale an 
opportunity for some time apart, time for guided prayer and meditation, time with 
God and one another. The Day is structured around two "conferences" (biblically 
based reflections) offered by the retreat director, one morning and one afternoon. 
Each is followed by guided meditative and conversational response for the group, 
and opportunity for individual prayer and reflection afterward. lhe day will end 
with Mass and dinner. 
Who is invited? All faculty members interested in deepening their relationship with God. The retreat is in the living tradition of Catholic spirituality. It can be meaning­fully experienced from a variety of perspectives, including those with no previous exposure. The only requirement is commitment to the whole day's experience. 
For .further information and to register: The Day of Recollection is a project of the Institute for Church Life, which assumes all costs. Simply email: cavadini.l@nd.edu. Deadline: Monday, Nov. 3, 2008. 
For more information, please visit our website: http://icl.nd.edu/faculty-retreat.html 

,-----­
Thursday, October 16, 2008 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Bus seat belts mandated 
New Alabama policy requires safety devices after deaths of 4 students 
Associated Press 
DEATSVILLE, Ala.­Smaller school buses will have to be equipped with lap­and-shoulder seat belts for the first time under a govern­ment rule drafted following the deaths of four Alabama students on a school bus that nose-dived ofT an overpass. 
Larger buses also will have higher seat backs under the new policy, which was announced Wednesday. The design change is supposed to keop oldor, heavier students from being thrown over the seats in a collision. 
The seat belts will only have to be installed in new buses weighing 5 tons or less, and the requirement will not take effect until 2011. These smaller school buses are already required to have lap belts, but not the safer, har­ness-style belts. There is no seat belt requirement for larger buses. 
Transportation Secretary Mary Peters said she stopped short of requiring seat belts for larger buses because that could limit the number of children that can squeeze into seats, forcing some chil­dren to travel in ways that aren't as safe as school buses. 
School districts sometimes expect as many as three younger children to share a bus seat, but if there are only two belts installed per seat then fewer children can ride the bus. 
"We wanted to make sure that any measures we put forth don't needlessly limit the capacity of the buses and then force that school or that school district to have more children walking, riding with parents, biking, etcetera," Peters told The Associated Press in an interview. 
At Pine Level Elementary School in Deatsville, about 20 miles north of Montgomery, Gov. Bob Hiley and Deputy 
U.S. Transportation Secretary Thomas Barrett climbed aboard a bus with 12 school­children who have been using the belts in the pilot project. 
It was started after four Lee High School teens were killed in Huntsville on Nov. 20, 2006 when their school bus went over a highway overpass rail and plunged to a street below, with dozens of students flung from seats. 
"We asked the question at that time -would it have been safer if the students on the Huntsville bus had had seat belts?" Riley said. "We were amazed to find out that no one knew." 
A bus driver who has been part of the pilot project, George Caudle, noted that keeping children from unclicking the belts may be a problem. He said the bus can­not start until all are strapped in, but sometimes after he starts driving it's not long before he hears belts being clicked off. 
Jacob Chandler, 12, said he was worried about the belts. 
"If you were to flip over in a pond, the little ones might not be able to get the belt off and they might drown," he said. 
But Monessia Smith, anoth­er 12-year-old, said she sup­ported them. 
"They're good. It keeps kids safe," she said. Schools buy about 2,500 of 
the smaller school buses each year, the Transportation Department said. The buses seat about 16 to 20 students. Larger buses carry more than 50 students. 
The Transportation Department estimates it will. cost about $6.1 million a year to equip new, smaller buses with the three-point seat belts and higher seat backs, and $3.6 million a year to equip new, larger buses with higher seat backs. 
The rule gives schools the option of using federal high­way safety funds to help pay for retrofitting buses with seat belts, in addition to other money already available through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. 
Jonathan Adkins, a spokesman for the Governors Highway Safety Association, objected to the use of addi­tional federal funds for seat belts on school buses. 
"Federal highway safety money is very limited and using that money to install seat belts on school buses isn't supported by crash data," Adkins said. "School buses are already an incredi­bly safe mode of transporta­tion. We are more concerned about the areas surrounding schools and bus stops. States should not be pressured on this issue." 
The new rule also includes a performance standard for seat belts on new, larger buses so that schools that want to voluntarily add belts will have guidance on what belts are best, Peters said. Providing a common standard may also lower the cost of adding belts, she said. 

Beer enthusiasts find God at annual festival 
Brewers create drinks with divine inspiration 
Associated Press 
DENVER -In the beginning, there was a long line for Judgment Day ale. 
Shortly after the doors opened on the 27th Great American Beer Festival, a crowd congregated at the booth offering that and other pours from The Lost Abbey of San Marcos, Calif., where the tap handle is a Celtic cross and the legacy of beer-brewing monks endures. 
Standing under a banner promising "Inspired beers for Saints and Sinners Alike," pro­prietor and former altar boy Tomme Arthur had a confes­sion: He's using God to sell some beer. 
"It's the oldest story ever told -the struggle between good and evil," said Arthur, 35, a product of Catholic schools in his native San Diego. "There is a battle being waged between those who make good beer and those who make evil beer." 
Without question, unholy excess is in evidence anytime 18,000 gallons of alcohol is served to 46,000 people over three days. See: women in Bavarian maid outfits and "Beer Pong" tables. 
Yet perhaps surprisingly, God could be found at last week's Great American Beer Festival -in the crassly commercial, in homage to religion's long histo­ry in brewing, in needling faiths that turn a suspect eye on drinking, and (if the prophet of home-brewing is to be believed) at the bottom of every glass. 
While alcohol and religion don't always mix, no less a fig­ure than Benjamin Franklin once said: "Beer is living proof that God loves us and wants us to be happy." 
Charlie Papazian, author of "The Complete Joy of Homebrewing," the undisputed bible of the craft, can cite many intersections of beer and the divine. Mayan and Aztec priests controlled the brewing of beer in pre-Columbian days, monks in Bavaria brewed strong bocks for sustenance during Lent and the first brewery in the Americas was founded by Belgium monks in Ecuador in 1534. 
Before Louis Pasteur pin­pointed yeast as the culprit in the 1850s, brewers didn't know what caused fermentation, said Papazian, president of the Boulder, Colo.-based Brewers Association. So they invented one run-on word to describe the mysterious stuff at the bot­tom of the bottle: "Godisgood." 
"As you drain a glass of beer, look at the yeast at the bottom and be reminded that God is good, because that's the way it feels," Papazian said. 
Like most business owners, brewers tend to avoid politics and religion out of fear of alien­ating customers. At the same time, microbrewing has become an intensely competi­tive industry, so putting a saint on a bottle can help a guy stand out. 
When Brock Wagner was looking to name his new brew­ery in Houston 14 years ago, his search took him to the library of a local Catholic semi­nary. There, he found the story of St. Arnold of Metz, the French saint of brewers and 
one of many patron saints of the brewing arts. ­As the tale goes, Arnold {580­
640) urged his people, "Don't drink the water, drink beer" because he believed water boiled in beer was safer than tainted water sources. 
Centuries later, St. Arnold Brewing Co. became Texas' first craft brewery, with a "divine reserve" single-batch beer and 21 fermnnters named for different saints. 
"One purpose of religion is the formation of eommunities, and our brewery kind of has that effect, of bringing pe,,.qple together," said Wagner, who describes himself as spiritual but wary of organized religion. "Some of our regulars say going on our brewery tour is going to church." 
Jeremy Cowan, the marketing mind behind He'Brew (the cho­sen beer), was absent from his company's booth on the festi­val's first day; it was Yom Kippur, the Jewish day of atonement. 
Established in 1996 (or 5757), Cowan's. Schmaltz Brewing Co. uses Jewish humor, scripture and imagery in packaging its beers, all of them kosher. There's Genesis Ale ("our first creation") Messiah Bold ("the one you've been waiting for") and Jewbelation ("L'Chaim!"). 
"I am passionately Jewish," Cowan said. "I don't get as caught up in the legal minutiae. I'm more fascinated in the proj­ect of· Judaism as a civilization. This is the way I participate." 
Some faith traditions reject alcohol as an intoxicant that invites bad behavior and abuse. Observant Muslims and Mormons, among others, abstain from drinking on reli­gious grounds. 
Last year, an evangelical church targeting young adults in the St. Louis area got in trou­ble with the Missouri Baptist Convention for holding a church ministry at a micro­brewery. (The Southern Baptist Convention opposes making, advertising, distributing and consuming alcohol). 
At Denver's Great American Beer Festival, four ex-Mormons who met at Utah State University ran a booth selling "X-Communicated Mormon Drinking Team" T-shirts, sweatshirts and other products. 
"Our business model is to sell enough T-shirts to pay the cost of a group of our friends getting together and having fun for the weekend," said Mike Hansen, 36, of Whitefish, Mont. 
Another entrepreneur ped­dled "WWJB: What Would Jesus Brew?" T-shirts, with an image of a smiling Jesus with a mash paddle in one hand and a pint glass in the other. 
Vinnie Cilurzo of Russian River Brewing Co. in Santa Rosa, Calif., brews a series of religion-themed beers that began with "Damnation." A strong golden ale, the beer's name is a nod to the great Belgian beer Duval, which comes from the Flemish word for devil. 
A restaurant around the cor­ner from Cilurzo 's brewery refused to stock it. 
"It all started with 'Damnation,"' said Cilurzo, who has no religious affiliation. "I felt like if we started with 'Damnation,' we needed to be redeemed. We needed 'Salvation.'" 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday October 16, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Notre D"me, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
A.'iST, MANAGING ElliTOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Mctz 
VlhWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica lee 
GRA!'HICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD 0F$1GN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROI.l.ER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GeNERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 obst•rvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-454I obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 News DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
Is this honesty thing so good? 
They don't give me 800 words every other week to state the obvious. 
But sometimes, when the obvious is so different from what it long has been, it's important to make sure everybody gets what has changed. 
"It's a very 17­year-old American view of the world to think that you should tell someone you love everything and somehow the world will be a better place," a friend told jour­nalist Phillip Weiss in New York magazine. 
Of course, it's not just "someone you love," today. In some ways, we are hon­est with everybody. We say things online that we would not say in person or on the phone. People we've never met know who we are, where we live, who we know, and what we did last weekend. 
We trust this will make the world a better place. 
We are a generation that worships authenticity. Even as we grow up, we will continue to be the 17-year-old American kids who think we should tell most people most things. 
We want honesty, openness, and self­consciousness. We're hyper-conscious of advertising and manipulation. Our politics are the politics of Stephen Colbert: ironic and self-aware. We share some of the most intimate details of our lives on the Internet, accessible to just about anybody if they try hard enough. 
I've written before that the Internet "means that we'll be able to talk more frankly about our experiences and their social implications. Judgments-political and personal-will be informed by an 

acknowledgment of the reality of peo­
ples' behaviors, not by denying their 
existence." Because of the Internet, I 
wrote, maturity will no longer mean 
shaping a public image of yourself sep­
arate from the reality of your past. 
In many ways, this is true-we will have to be more open about ourselves because more information will be instantly available. This is still a good thing. We won't be able to as easily sugarcoat our pasts. We will have to acknowledge complexity and mistakes, and admission will become normalized. From the top down, our policy and interactions will be governed by these acknowledgments. 
But I was wrong, too. This openness won't be-and shouldn't be-as absolute as it might sound. Yes, the Internet means that more information about each of us is available. But college still encourages-or, at least, allows-us to bracket our private and public selves. Increasingly, even those with whom you are closest have lives beyond what you know of them. We're becoming adults, and adults have secrets. 
Today, college and our maturation into adulthood are paradoxical, bal­anced against the ethos of Facebook and nearly-anonymous online conver­sation. 
College and emergence into adult-­hood begin to create entirely separate spheres in which we operate. Before, we operated in small spheres -in gen­eral, one or two social groups dominat­ed our social and academic activities. Most people in our lives knew most other people in our lives. 
Now, we have professors who do not have yearly meetings with our parents to facilitate a well-eoordinated effort towards our growth. We have friends from home, friends from school, friends from summer jobs. We will all move on to the real world, develop new social circles, leave behind the people we know here and the identities we've cre­ated with them. 
Think of it like Bug Juice-style camp friends versus home friends, super­sized. 
I don't only say this to boast about my many friends. Because we begin to exist in separate spheres in college, it represents a time we can deline our­selves di!Terently for different people. 
This is not earth shattering. Freshman year has always represented the ability of people to recreate them­selves, without preeonceived notions. And adulthood has always facilitated further expansion of these different public and private identities. 
But for us-unlike for our parents or even older siblings-this is mixed with a need to be partially honest about what we've been. Now, your first imprnssions of your roommate aren't the body of your experiences with them. Instead, your first impression is a somewhat fil­tered, pre-packaged virtual self. It is a self over which we have limited-and definitely less-control. It makes it more challenging to define each other based solely on our experiences with each other. 
This is the paradox of a Faccbook world. Just as we come of age to define ourselves, we arn tied to our past. 
Andrew Nesi is a senior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn who thought we needed a respite from elec­tion columns. In fifth grade, after preparing a lengthy biography ofLucille Ball for class -a subject choice that no doubt raised the eyebrows ofhis par­ents and teachers -he misspelled "Lucille" on the accompanying poster. He can be reached at anesi@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper publisht·d in print and online by rht· students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not goVt'rncd by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content, 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possibk·. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Ediror in Chid, Managing Editor, Ao;sistam Managing Editors and department edirors. Commt·maries, letters and columns present the views of the aurhors and nor necessarily those ofThc ()bserver. 
Viewpoinr space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.t·tters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions T't!f,arding Obsm,~r policies should b~ directed to Editor in ChiifChris Hin~. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The: Ohwrvn (lJSi'S ~99 .l-4tJOO) tJ published Munday tluou~h Friday MctJ11 during c1w11 .1nJ v.u;;umn pcriodo~. A 1uhk·npnnl1111'n\C 0\l'Klrvrr •• $10010r ()1\(' ac.~detnk ~.lt;$S5furnncllt'tne~l<"t. 
The Oblervcr i• publilh<d ~r: I'OSTMMiTER OH South Dining H<tll St:nd •ddrc!l.~ corrcc;tioru to: Nuut D.:unc. IN 46~~0n9 Th!!Oh.crvc:r 
l'crtudiOtl pom.gc p1ud ;n Nom O.tmc r.o. Um:n9 ;md addirinnJinuiliu~~: offic:a. 024 South DinU"tg H;t.ll 
N111rc D11mc, IN 4M56·0779 
The Olwrvcr 111" member ol rhe Auot:•.ued PriW. All reprndu~lion li~r' .ue. 
IC''ICI'Y'C'd, 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Bill Brink Becky Hogan Dan Murphy Graphics Alex Barker Blair Chemidlin Viewpoint Scene Patricia Mark Witte Fernandez 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Who would you rather spend a night on the town with? 
Submit a tetter 
John McCain Barack Obama 
"Truth does not happen. it just is".
to the Editor at 
Joe Biden 
American Indian Proverb 
www.ndsmcobserver.com
Mr. Sarah Palin 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 16, 2008 page 11 
Message in a meltdown 
After suffering record-breaking losses last week, the stock market finally began a potential recovery on Monday with a bang, jumping up 11percent in the best single day ever. Close-up pho­
tos of joyful,  
relieved-looking traders replaced  Katte Barrett  
the close-up photos  
of horrified,  
stressed-out traders on the front  Faithpoint  
pages of newspa­ 
pers everywhere.  

The non-stop news coverage of this financial crisis has felt overwhelming at times, and in fact it did trump all other news for the past week or so. After all, investment banks and individual investors watched trillions of dollars evaporate overnight. Jobs and compa­nies and homes that seemed secure have been exposed as overbuilt on shaky foundations. This financial melt­down has touched just about everybody somehow. 
On one level, we all have to hope that really, really smart people who have taken the best interests of the common good to heart can help us out of this mess, without letting it become hope­lessly politicized or lobbied into com­plete ineffectiveness. 
On another level, though, can we view this crisis as an opportunity? A chance for a fresh start? A reason tore-exam­ine what we really hold nearest to our hearts? While there's certainly nothing wrong with accumulating and spending money, perhaps we've been sucked into the very alluring and constant call of our culture to make a god out of con­suming, placing our money or material possessions at the center of our own attention. Maybe we've even come to believe that if we lead good and faithful lives, our very prosperity itself serves as a sign from God that he is pleased with us, that he has somehow blessed our efforts. Yet nowhere in the example of the life or words of Jesus Christ; or anywhere in our Scripture; or in the Tradition of the Church do we find that we can place all our trust in anything but the kingdom of heaven. 
When we find the rug -financial or otherwise -pulled out from under us, our faith calls us to a new way of think­ing. We can come to a new awareness of our true dependence on God; we can recognize the truth that our lives rest in God's hands, no matter the balance in our checking or savings accounts, the labels on our clothing, the University we attend, the kind of car we drive, or the prestige of our new job. 
Our faith may call us to a new way of living. Why not try to get by on less of everything? Make your downsizing intentional and purposeful, so that you have more room and time and resources for life as a follower of Christ. Then, try giving something away. Guess what somebody out there needs it more than you do, whatever "it" is: a pair of shoes, a winter coat, a few hours of your time, a couch or a chair, or a hun­dred dollars. 
In other words, let's try to recognize that we depend on God even more deeply than we depend on our individ­ual (or our national) financial success, and let's try to live like it. With utterly perfect timing, this Sunday's Gospel reminds us that we ought to pursue our relationship with God more closely than the workings of our government and economy. As Jesus fearlessly tells the angry Pharisees and Herodians, "Repay to Caesar what belongs to Caesar, and to God what belongs to God." Though his audience has been trying to trap him by forcing him to take a side, Jesus neatly demonstrates that the coin of the realm is a limited currency, and that to recognize that God's demands go beyond the secular economy is to acknowledge the real truth of the mat­ter. 
The sense of panic and urgency which has accompanied the-lion-stop news reports will no doubt subside in the coming weeks and months. Will we just move on to the next "big thing," or can we force ourselves to remember what it feels like to be on such shaky ground? Can we, also with a sense of urgency, ask God by our prayers, actions and choices to help us continually re-align our priorities? 
Kate Barrett is the director of the Emmaus program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces-
U-WIRE 
A Shakespearean sense of political activism 
It's been a pretty exciting week for any sports fan-hockey season is starting, foot­ball season is getting into full force, and baseball season is reaching its peak. As a Philadelphia native, my week has been par­ticularly exciting, as the Phillies reached 
Dan Blank
the second round of the playoffs for the first time since I was 
Colombia Daily 
6 years old. 
Spectator
That's not why my hometown pride is at the highest level it's been in two decades, though. Last Saturday night, Sarah Palin dropped the ceremonial first puck at the Philadelphia Flyers' opening game as part of a promotion for finding the "Ultimate I Iockey Mom." And the crowd, in true Philadelphia fashion, booed her. The chorus of boos was loud and clear, and frankly ­without propagating my political beliefs too openly-I have never bmm mom proud to be a Philadelphian. 
Usually, I'm embarrassed by the notorious "boo birds" of Philadelphia, whose claim to fame is, according to legend, having booed Santa Claus. It's a reputation that's earned Philadelphia sports fans a bad name around numerous professional leagues, and it even led me to a brief stint as a Dallas Cowboys fan in fourth grade. But there was something about this booing that seemed different. It was impassioned, and directed not at something superficial, but rather at some common dislike for a public figure. And despite how out ofplace it seemed and how much ofit was probably caused by excessive imbibing, I couldn't help but feel somewhat inspired when hearing it. 
Across America, there is a renewed sense ofpolitical activism. Voter turnout stands to be at record levels, with the young and old alike getting more and more involved in the political process. As November approaches, activists all over the country have only one concern-getting their candidate elected and cheering vehemently against the oppo­sition. This is not an election characterized by indifference-people have strong feel­ings, and they're willing to voice them. 
But there's a reality check question that's been on my mind for some time now. With all this focus on Nov. 4, what's the day after going to look like? Columbia's liberal envi­ronment is no secret, and there seems to be some common responses to the notion of McCain's winning. Surveying three people randomly with the question "What would you do if McCain won the election?" I was met with only two answers. The first was ''I'd buy a flask and drink it instead of going to class," and the second-which I heard twice-was ''I'd move to Canada." The log­ical question becomes, then -is that renewed sense of American political activism going to be reduced by half come Nov. 5? My columns, as some ofyou might have noticed, tend to have at least a little relation to Shakespeare. He-watching the classic Marlon Brando Julius Caesar this past weekend, I was reminded ofhow pow­erful a people's interaction with its leader can be. One element of it struck me, in par­ticular, perhaps due to its current relevance -the desire of a few high-ranking men to take power into their own hands. 
Shakespeare's plays, particularly his his­tories, are often concerned with how to deal with a ruler who has become tyrannical. The question underlying Julius Caesar is whether taking desperate action is justified when a leader has overstepped his bounds. To be clear from the outset, I am well aware of how different Roman times were, and in no way would I consider unlawful overthrow of the government or the violent stabbing of a political leader to be justified in today's day and age. But in the abstract, Caesar portrays passion for the political process extending so far as to provoke a form of activism -the kind of activism that arises only when you stand in opposition to those in charge. 
Now is not the time for indifference. In the midst of economic turmoil and an unpopular war, now is the time to stand up for what we believe in-whether we're standing with or against the sitting execu­tive power. Shakespeare challenged his audience with the question of whether or not extreme action was justified, but nowhere in his text is there any implication that apathy would have been commend­able. The conspirators perhaps went too far, but the lesson remains the same -it is our responsibility in a democracy to remain politically active, whether or not our candi­date makes it into office. 
There is nobility in opposing those in power. Whether it's by marching on Capitol Hill or rallying the vote for 2012, it's as important a part of the democratic process as is supporting your own candidate. Shakespeare tells us that Romans didn't allow Caesar's power to remain unchecked, and neither should we -neither by moving to Canada nor by drinking ourselves into oblivion. 
"You are not wood, you are not stones, but men," declares Antony to the Roman mob. As men, we must continue to fight for what we believe in and refrain from becom­ing idle creatures -whether or not Election Day goes the way Wf! want it to. At the very least, remember that life will go on as long as we're able to boo public officials at hockey games. 
This column first appeared in the Oct. IS edition ofColombia Daily Spectator, the daily paper ofColombia University.. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
College debt adds up after school 
On average, AU students graduate with $19,000 in debt-near the national aver­age of $20,000. It is a credit to this univer­sity's fmancial aid system that we are under the national average for college debt, especially when one factors in Staff Editorial AU's sticker price. Board 
But $19,000 still isn't spare change. We can only hope The Eagle that an AU degree will help us pull in big bucks after graduation and enable us to pay off our student loans and then quickly get back into debt for more fulftll­ing things, such as expensive cars that we can't atl"ord. The Princeton Review ranked AU's career placement services as the 18th-best in the nation this year. With the help of these services, as well as a vibrant job market in the surrounding area, a good-paying job -and that sweet car -is possible. Even then, the payment of all $19,000 in student loans will surely be a drain on a graduate's finances for years to 
come. 
It seems that this debt is a necessary by­product of our competitive college system. Students at private universities had cheap­er options available when they chose to opt for a private education over a public uni­versity. Even though a state's university system is still more expensive than some of our European counterparts systems, for the most part they offer solid educations for less money than private universities. This interplay between cheaper state uni­versities and more expensive private insti­tutions keep American colleges globally competitive. 
The best advice for students is to save as much money as possible during their col­lege years. Every bit of money you can divert away from alcohol-or whatever else it is you splurge on -towards your student loan will pay off in the future. Another good move would be to get your­self a part-time job so you can make a little extra money and come out of college in good fmancial standing. Save carefully and you can graduate college and move on to a job you enjoy, rather than one that just makes you money. Here at AU, a politically active campus, many students make this choice anyway. 
It's a simple lesson: save now, benefit later. Save now, and you can afford to hitchhike down to South Anwrica -or whatever you plan to do-after you grad­uate. The recent economic downturn means your student loans are bound to become more expensive. Offset them early and you can at least come out of college with a clean financial slate. 
This column first appeared in the Oct.14 edition ofThe Eagle, the daily paper ofAmerican Unioersity .. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, October 16, 2008 
==============~~ 
================================================~ 
Scene Wrirt·r 
Last fall. ronowned funnyman Carlos Mencia brought his aggressive and often criticized humor to South Bend. !lis lirst show at South Bend's Morris Performing Arts Center -which actu­ally occurred at Mencia's urging ­was ·truly a hot ticket. selling out before thH 
Sept. 30 perform-
Carlos Mencia "At Close Range" Tour Morris Performing Arts Center 
e Mencia's ?p.m. last stop in Tickets: $3 7 and up
s () u t h Bend. it wasn't just the audi­ence that enjoyed the performance. 
"It's a really interesting show. Last year I was in South Bend and a lot of people wanted to come. It was one of my best shows if not the best," Mencia said. 
Mencia enjoyed the performance so mueh that he promised to return to South Bend for another performance. 
"Some doubted that I would be back next year," he said. "After the show I thought. 'Wow. this is a great market!'" 
Carlos Mencia's most recent success can be attributed to the popular sketch eomedy show, "Mind of Meneia," which recently eompleted its fourth season on the television network Comedy Central. 
Since Mencia," has enj increasing suc­eess, becoming a staple ·on the popular comedy network. 
Known for his exploitation of stereo­types and questionable depictions of ethnic and social groups, Mencia's comedy is often criticized as inappro­priate and crude. Mencia, however, disagrees. 
"American has freedom of speech. I'm not trying to be edgy or controver­sial. I'm really not doing it to get a reaction. I believe in freedom of speech and freedom of thought and I exercise it," Mencia said. 
While his jokes may seem abrasive to some, Mencia believes the arousal caused by his jokes is simply the exag­gerated reaction of the "sensitive soci-
Companera. ety" in which we Mencia regards
"From the moment they said 
live. the successes of A self-pro-my name, I knew that God put other comedians claimed intellectu­as a valuable
me on Earth to be a 
al, Carlos Mencia resource, while
comedian. I knew at that
didn't realize he aeknowledging the had a future in moment. There was no importance of comedy until he defining his own
doubt." 
was about nine­personal style. teen years old. "Anyone who
Carlos Mencia 
"I was never claims to be a self­
funny as a kid, but I always saw the irony and the angst in life," he said. 
He said his elosest friends provided the initial motivation to develop his comedic talent, Mencia said. He described his first performance experi­ence as an epiphany. 
"From the moment they said my name, I knew that God put me on Earth to be a comedian. I knew at that moment. There was no doubt," he made comedian is 
mistaken ... but I do want to become my own entity on stage after having all of these influ­ences," he said. 
While Carlos Mencia continues his "At Close Range" tour of 80 American cities, he is unsure of what endeavors the future holds. Hegardless of what path his career takt~s after his tour concludes in January, Mencia wants his fans to know that his time in enter­tainment is far from over. 
"I don't know what the future holds. I've gotten lots of ofl'ers from dill'ernnt 
T.V. stations. radio stations as well as movie ofl'ers. I want to do bigger and better things. I want my fans to know I'm not going to bf~ a one-trick pony," he said. 
For now, Mencia will continue his comedic assault on America. Though the future of his career is presently undefined. Mencia is sure that the comedy will continue. 
''I'm like a lighter just out of training. I don't know who I'm fighting. but I'm ready to light," he said. 
Contact Patrick Griffin at pgriffi3@nd.edu 

w lY-'119 
Once Mencia's talent manifested on stage, there was no looking back. lie promptly quit his job and dropped out of California State University, where he was studying electrical engineering. The results of Mencia's early career decisions turned out to be incredibly fruitful, as he is now one of comedy's elite. 
Although Mencia's material contin­ues to evolve, he admits that he har­bors rooted influences from some of history's greatest comedians. lie cites the work of Lenny Bruce, George Carlin, Sam Kinnison and Bill Cosby as some of his more popular influences, while also drawing motivation from lesser-known artists like Paul Mooney 
and John 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, October 16, 2008 
page 13 


By JAMES DuBRAY Scene Writer 
American pop culture is in the midst of a severe downward spiral. While comedy endeavors have held their own in relation to the past as well as the rest of the world. other genres of entertainment are virtually in ruins. "Beverly Ilills Chihuahua/' topped the box office this past weekend. The American movie viewing public isn't "aggressively mediocre," they're aggressively idiotic. 
Pop music isn't much better. While .Jennifer Hudson and Robin Thicke bat­tle for the top spot on the charts, many college students count annoying, banal acts such as Maroon 5 and Coldplay among their favorites (Or "favs"). It is far from surprising 
U.S. and Europe. 
This Sunday night, the traveling band of troubadours pulled the caravan over just two blocks shy of Wrigley Field at the famous Metro. The Metro has qui­etly become one of the best concert venues in the U.S. recently. With a capacity nodding over 1 ,000, the Metro established itself in the 1980s and early 90s as a destination for up and coming alternative acts. Notable shows have included The Smashing Pumpkins farewell concert, as well as two Bob Dylan shows following the release of the stunning "Time Out of Mind." 
After a quick 30-minute set by moun­tain folkie Frank Fairfiled, the five bearded gentlemen from the Pacific Northwest took the stage. Pecknold's voice was reminiscent of Graham Nash, yet his tenor maintained its 
strength even as he 
work, Kerouac trades the speed­infused 6 a.m. jazz blowouts for a bot­tle of wine and the terrain of the American Northwest. 
Crowd favorites included the up­tempo "Mykonos" and the set closer "Blue Ridge Mountains." The 15-song, 90-minute set was broke up by Pecknold performing two songs with­out his bearded friends. The lead singer sang a touching version of Judee Still's "Crayon Angels," followed by the acoustic ballad "Oliver James." During their encore, the band also treated the capacity crowd, which included members of Wilco and Beach House, to a new, unreleased song, "Silver City." Pecknold picked up an electric on this tune, yet there were no "Judas" declarations as the Foxes showed that their new album will con­tinue to accentuate their knack for harmonic melodies. 
Since their last stint in the capital of the Midwest, the Foxes have clearly matured as a live act. Their live per­formance now accentuates their mag­nificent debut record. Pecknold looked comfortable throughout the night, trading jokes with the audience. At one point Pecknold responded to a member of the audience, "You really would rather have corn than Sarah Palin as your V.P.?" Most of the audience nod­ded in jest, but also with the hope that in some fashion a part of this band could enter their society. It won't hap­pen, but if it did what a more tolerable place America would be. 
The views expressed in this coloumn are that of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. James DuBray can be contacted at jdubray@nd. edu 
then that the few screamed above is legitimate music five piece band. artists out there are Pecknold and the
The Fleet Foxes harmonic 
appropriating from Foxes played the 
their parent's record folk brings a keen notion of majority of their collections. One of melody to Pecknold's debut album, as well the best at that as most of the songs
lyrics, which focus on the
endeavor is the off their 2008 "Sun 
newest indie group beauty ofnature and life. Giant EP." Both from Seattle, Fleet records are charac-Foxes. terized by three and 
Led by earnest, nco-hippie Robin Pecknold, the Fleet Foxes released their debut album, a self-titled Double LP, in June of this year on Sub Pop Records, the previous home of Nirvana and Dinosaur Jr. The record has received a warm critical reception, notably receiving the high­est Pitchfork rating to date. While the lavish praise has created some doubters, the Foxes have responded by touring relentlessly throughout the 
four part harmonies, which echoed throughout the small Northside venue like forlorn shouts bouncing in the Smoky Mountains. 
The Fleet Foxes harmonic folk brings a keen notion of melody to Pecknold's lyrics, which focus on the beauty of nature and life. Whereas peer Craig Finn borrows lines from "On the Road," Pecknold explores themes pres­ent in the lesser know Kerouac novel "The Dharma Bums." In this later 

Spanish Rice and Salami 

By MICHELLE FORDICE So if you were really going fusisrant Scene Editor for the Spanish flair, this dish would be called Spanish Rice Fall break is coming! And and Chorizo, but good luck that means it's time to take a finding chorizo (Spanish pork break from the dining hall. Go sausage, spiced with different home. give your mom a big flavors such as paprika.. red hug, and beg for your favorite chilis and garlic) in the dining comfort foods. !lit the road hall. Instead we hearken back and find some excellent to those old Italian peasants ,, restaurants to give a try. Or and their own version of cured 
~ shake the dust from your sausage -salami -which is recipes. open up the kitchen tasty too. It gives the dish and get cooking. The last one much the same effect. is my plan. I can't wait to try 1. Fill a bowl with the out some or the dishes I Spanish rice from the Mexican haven't had time for since I've Bar. been bogged down with 2. If the rice does not school. But until then. here include beans already, add in are some new dining hall black beans. recipes to get you through the 3. Add in cheddar cheese, rest of the week. cubed salami (Every few days 
they do not have salami, but This week's recipes: the seasoned chicken from the Mexican bar is a good substi­tute), diced tomatoes, diced onion and bell peppers (diced is best, but they will be heated up and made soft enough to use the sliced kind if that is all that is available). 
4. 
Dash on some red pepper t1akes from the pizza area. 

5. 
Mix together. 

6. 
IIeat in the microwave for at least a minute. Serve with a tortilla you have warmed in the Panini press until it starts to brown and bubble. 


Root Beer Floats 
Root beer floats, or Black Cows as my Grandma always called them, are a deliciously sweet and crisp dessert. And so easy. Not big on root beer floats, per se? Try orange fanta and vanilla ice cream for an orangesicle like taste. 
1. 
Fill a cup with either vanilla fro-yo or ice cream. 

2. 
Add in root beer. You may have to let the foam go down a • couple of times before you can fill the cup to the top. Tada! 


Quick Tip 
Want something sweet but; are tired of fro-yo and not ·· ecstatic about the. other l dessert selections? Try taking ' the corn bread from the home-® style bar and dribbling honey .·· over it to make the perfect J blend of sweet and savory. 
Thanks to Katie Valko for reminding me about Root Beer Floats... how could I forget? Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to fea­ture it! E-mail mfordice@nd. edu. 
NBA 
Bogut, Ridnour lead Bucks to victory in China 
Hill hits shot with just seconds left to lift Suns over Hawks; Pacers defeat Mavericks in first game at Conseco Fieldhouse 
making two 3-pointPrs in the
Associated Press 
first three minutes. But 
CUAN<;ZJIOU, China Milwaukee went scoreless for Andrnw Bogut scorPd IS points nearly four minutes, and the and LukP Hidnour added 16 Warriors finished the quarter Wednesday night. leading the ahead 27-18. Golden State was Milwaukee Bucks past the led by Azubuike, who came ofT Colden State Warriors 9S-94 in the bench to score seven points an NBA exhibition game. during the Bucks' drought. 
Milwaukee trailed most of the In the second quarter, night but Bogut took control in Milwaukee drew within two thn sewnd half with B points. points of the Warriors as center KPlenna Azubuike led the Francisco Elson scored six Warriors with 24 points while points to narrow the gap at 31­Corny MaggPlte addnd 16. :B. Anthony Morrow, who did­
Bucks eoach Scott Skiles said n't play in the first quarter, hn ehangnd his stratPgy in the gave the Warriors a spark, sneond half bneause of a mis­scoring six points to put them rnateh. up 48-41. 
"We wern going to Bogut a lot Alexander. who played for bncausn they had a small play­West Virginia, was the Bucks' fW on him," he said. top pick in the last NBA draft, 
With seconds to play, and Skiles said he has a lot to Azubuike missed a 3-pointer learn. that would have tied it at 95. The Bucks then hit free throws Phoenix 102, Atlanta 100 to seal the victory. Grant Hill made an 18-foot 
Bucks rookie Joe Alexander, jump shot with 5.6 seconds left who finished with 11 points, and the Phoenix Suns beat the was tho crowd favorite in this Atlanta Hawks in a preseason southern Chinese city. lie's the game Wednesday night. first NBA player to be born in "I thought it was going to be Taiwan and can speak 120 or something the way it Mandarin. was in the first half." Suns 
The Warriors took a 75-70 coach Terry Porter said of the lead going into the last period. game, which Phoenix led 59-58 and Boris Diaw added 15 points clean it up before the regular Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle But the Bucks it 85-85 with at halftime. "There wasn't that for Phoenix. season starts.... Guys were returned to Indiana, where he about six minutes to play when much defense to be played in Steve Nash scored 11 points coming in and shooting the ball spent four years coaching the Alexander hit a short turn­the first half. It was like we had before leaving with a sprained quickly rather than running Pacers. During his tenure in around from the baseline. signed a peace treaty with each right ankle with a little more offense." Indiana, he led the Pacers to 
The Bucks broke to a 10-3 other." than two minutes left in the three straight playoff appear­
lead, with Richard Jefferson Raja Bell scored 18 points first half. He may be held out of Dallas 93, Indiana 100 ances, including a trip to the Friday's game against the Danny Granger had 18 points 2004 Eastern Conference Nuggets at Syracuse, N.Y., as a and rookies Brandon Rush and finals. precaution, according to Suns Roy Hibbert scored 15 apiece, "This will always feel like spokeswoman Julie Fie. leading the Indiana Pacers to a home in a certain way," he 
Hawks second-year point victory over the Dallas said. guard Acie Law hit two free Mavericks in a preseason game Indiana Pacers forward throws with 26.6 seconds left to Wednesday night. Danny Granger, right, shoots tie the game at 100. Law, start­Jeff Foster finished with 10 over Dallas Mavericks guard ing his third consecutive game points and nine rebounds, and Gerald Green in the fourth in place of Mike Bibby, had six T.J. Ford and Jarrett Jack each quarter of an NBA preseason assists and 12 points. scored 10 for Indiana, which basketball game in 
Following Hill's go-ahead evened its presfmson record at Indianapolis, Wednesday, Oet. jump shot, Law's last-second 2-2. The Pacers have nine new 15, 200H. layup was blocked by Louis players competing for roster Carlisle was impressed with Admundson. spots. the new-look Pacers. 
''I'm glad Louis blockPd that "We have a new team, we got "They play with a lot of mwr­so we could go to the airport," to get acclimated," Granger gy at both ends," he said. "You IJill said. said. "We don't have time to don't hear this expression 
Hawks coach Mike Woodson just breeze through the presea­murh. but they really eompetP said Law "had a great play at son. We're actually trying to hard olTonsively. It's impres­the rim, but (Admundson) win some games." sive." made a groat stop." Antoine Wright scored 14 Dallas jumped out to an 11-2 
Flip Murray led the Hawks points, James Singleton added lead on Josh Howard's layup with 23 points. including 15 in 11 points and nino rebounds, early in the f'irst quarter. tho first half. AI Horford, start­and DeSagana l>iop contributed Indiana outscored the ing at forward. had 15 points 10 points and eight rebounds Mavericks 25-10 tho n~st of thP and six rebounds. Zaza for the Mavericks. who dropped period to opon a six-point Pachufia, starting at center, to 3-1 in the preseason. advantage. had seven points and 10 Dallas guards Jason Kidd and The Pacers took a 45-43 lead rebounds. Jerry Stackhouse, and center on Stephen Graham's layup 
"We didn't defend like we Erick Dampier did not play with 2:35 left in the seeond could have," Horford said. "We because of a coach's decision. quarter, but Dallas scored the gave up a lot of layups, stuff Dirk Nowitzki had two points in final seven points of the half to like that. It's things we need to 12 minutes. go up by live. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifleds musr be prepaid. The 
charge is 5cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Dog walker needed. 1/2 block from ND. $25/week. Call 847-370-0486. 
WANTED 
Financial Partner wanted. 7% ROI plus 2.5 Pts. 1DO% secured w/real estate. 35 Yrs. Experience. References. Call574-360-8707 or Email: 2heavn@comcast.net 
FoR SALE 
CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO ND. PLEASE CONTACT TED @ 574-233-6191 MSL #231736 
FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
Gorgeous Completely Rehabbed House, 4 bedrooms, 3 full baths, washer dryer, dishwasher, new stainless steel appliances. 3 car garage, central air, 'beautiful light fix­tures, deck and front porch. Marble entryway. All new. 2 miles to ND. Available immediately, fourth month free or flat screen TV installed. $1180 per month. Call Harold 574­315-7781. 
1-bdrm apt. 100 yrds to ND. All inclusive plus new appliances in your kitchen. $500/mo. Call 574­243-7777. 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 
TICKETS 
Wanted: ND football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 574-232­0964. 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap/ 
Spring Break 2009. Sell Trips, Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed! Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. Information/Reservations 1­800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
TAXI TAKING TIME CALLS TO AIR­PORT FOR BREAK. CALL 574­360-6480. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go ij alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn. OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574-631­2685. For more information, visij our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­mentslpregnant.shtml 
Two teachers ready to adopt new· born and provide a wonderful life for him/her. Confidential. Expenses paid. Stephenandliz@aol.com or call us toll free 1-888-760-BABY 

OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVlCES 
Thursday, October 16, 2008 page 15 

USA Today Coaches' Football Poll 
team points previous 
1 Texas 1505 5 2 Alabama 1452 4 3 Penn State 1416 6 4 usc 1198 9 
5 Texas Tech 1195 7 6 Oklahoma 1147 1 7 Florida 1145 12 
The NL East champions wanted to change. We is primed for a party. And
8 Brigham Young 1143 8 Associated Press 
-the losingest team in were used to losing. I those Philly fans, who
9 Georgia 1010 10 
pro sports history -took wanted to see what I could always expect failure, can
10 Oklahoma State 958 17 
LOS ANGELES -Jimmy advantage of three errors do." relax -at least for a
11 Ohio State 920 11 
Rollins got the Phillies by shortstop Rafael Furcal Brad Lidge closed it out week.
12 Missouri 886 2 
rollin' with a leadoff in the fifth inning and for the Phillies, who won "It's a great feeling right 
13 Utah 819 13 
homer and they kept right shrugged off another their lone championship in now," Howard said. "I
14 lSU 716 3 15 Kansas 676 15 on going. Next stop, the home run by Manny 1980 by beating Kansas don't know what to say." 16 Boise State World Series. Ramirez. City in six games. They Ramirez homered in the 
648 16 
17 Michigan State 468 19 Rollins homered in the Now, the Phillies go for also reached the World sixth to end 1-Iamels' 18 Virginia Tech 467 18 first inning, Cole Hamels their second World Series Series in 1915, 1950, 1983 shutout bid in what might 19 Wake Forest 376 21 pitched his third gem of title beginning next and 1993, when they lost have been his final game 20 South Florida 334 20 the playoffs and Wednesday night at to Toronto in six games on with the Dodgers. The 21 North Carolina 321 NR Philadelphia beat the Tampa Bay or Boston. The Joe Carter's ninth-inning slugging left fielder, who 22 California 169 25 bumbling Los Angeles Rays lead the Red Sox 3-1 homer off Mitch Williams. hit .520 with four homers, 23 Vanderbilt 147 14 Dodgers 5-l Wednesday in the ALCS, which Now they're headed 10 RBls and 11 walks in 24 TCU 138 NR night to win the NL cham­resumes Thursday night back, carrying the hopes eight playoff games, can 25 Ball State 135 NR pionship series 4-1 for its at Fenway Park. of a championship-starved become a free agent after first pennant since 1993. "After hearing about the city that hasn't had a title the World Series. He bat­"These guys are going '93 team over and over to celebrate since the ted .396 with 17 homers crazy right now," slugger and over again, we finally NBA's 76ers won it all in and 53 RBis in 53 regular­Ryan Howard said. "I can get a chance to make our 1983. season games for the
NSCAA/Adidas Division I 
only imagine how it is in mark," Rollins said. 'This You can bet your last Dodgers after beingSoccer Rankings Philadelphia." was an organization that I cheesesteak, Broad Street acquired July 31 from 
Men's 
team 
1 Wake Forest 2 Northwestern 3 Creighton 4 St. John's 5 Akron 6 Maryland 7 UC Davis 8 Loyola (Md.) 9 NOTRE DAME 1 0 North Carolina 
Women's 
IN BRIEF 
team 
NOTRE DAME 1 Owners conside~ add~ng Knight says he may return Pacman's probation will 
North Carolina 2 
preseason games m spnng to coaching in interview not be revoked in 
Portland 3 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -NFL INDIANAPOLIS -Bob Knight, Georgia
UClA 4 
owners discussed playing spring the winningest coach in Division I IRVING, Texas -Twice-sus­
Stanton! 5 
preseason games as part of a possi­history, left the door ajar to a pended cornerback Adam
Texas A&M 6 
ble expansion of the regular-season return to coaching college basket­"Pacman" Jones is off the hook
usc 7 
schedule. ball during a wide-ranging televi­with Georgia probation officers
Florida State 8 
No action was taken by the owners sion interview broadcast over his scuffle in Dallas. He's
Duke 9 
as they wrapped up their meetings Wednesday night. also off the radar of Cowboys
Florida 10 
on Wednesday. No change in the reg­"I got nothing else to do. It would coach Wade Phillips. ular-season schedule is expected for just depend on the circumstances," Fayette County District 2009. the former Army, Indiana and Attorney Scott Ballard said "I think the focus was on how do we Texas Tech coach told host Mickey Wednesday there were no plans 
prepare for the season," commission­Maurer on "Mickey's Corner" on to revoke Jones' probation er Roger Goodell said. "Football Indianapolis public TV station because he wasn't arrested after
around the 
readiness was probably the No. 1 WFYI. police responded to an alcohol­issue that everyone wanted to do fur­Knight, well-known for his related serum with his own body­ther analysis on. We still have a lot crusty demeanor, peppered his guard at an upscale Dallas hotel more work to do on the analysis." answers with language that Oct. 7.
MLB 
Spring games, normally an brought on several bleeps, but The latest disturbance-the intrasquad contest, have become overall was laid-back during the 13th for Jones involving police Tampa Bay at Boston commonplace in college football. hourlong interview taped Sept. 10, since Tennessee drafted him Some top programs have capacity eight years to the day the Hall of three years ago-led to an indefi­
8 p.m., TBS 
crowds for the game. Fame coach was fired from nite suspension Tuesday by NFL "It was raised by a few clubs," Indiana, which he led to three commissioner Roger Goodell. Goodell said. "More in the context of national championships in his 29 Weeks earlier, Goodell lifted a what the colleges do.:· years there. 17-month ban over Jones' per­
Apps and more at 
echo.nd.edu 
Are you interested in ... 
Master's degree in Theology? Catholic Identity? Spiritual Formation? Professional Development? Community Living? Working with kids, teens, and adults? Teaching Theology? 
Then come learn more Oct. 29 

''So, 
I'm thinking of b 
.... ng a new c\u


NOW ACCEPTING 

Notre Dame students interested in starting a new club must submit a proposal by 5:00 pm on October 31, 2008. Details on proposal contents may be found on the SAO website: 
sao.nd.edu/studentgroups/listing 
Questions? Contact Mary Kate Havlik at mhavlik@nd.edu, or by calling 631-7308. 

Thursday, October 16, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Kazmir to st•art 
game five for Rays 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The Tampa Bay Rays are giving Scott Kazmir the chance to pitch them into the World Series. 
The 24-year-old left-bander was moved up in the rotation so he could start in the potential AL pennant clincher against the Boston Red Sox on Thursday night at Fenway Park. The move keeps Kazmir on his regular rest and bumps scheduled starter James Shields to the if-necessary Game 6 at home Saturday. 
"I was very eager for this opportunity to get back out there and try to redeem myself from my last outing," said Kazmir, who allowed five runs in 4 1-3 innings in Game 2. ''I'm not real­ly going to think about it too much, about 'This win right here will take us to the World Series.' I'm just going to go out there and have fun. Our team is real loose. It's kind of like we don't even realize the situation that we're in right now." 
Kazmir will match up against Daisuke Matsuzaka, who went 18-3 in the regular season and beat the Rays in Game 1 of the AL championship series. The defending World Series champi­ons have lost three in a row since then to fall to the brink of elimi­nation, but it's a position that has served them well: They're 7-1 in elimination games since 2004, including Matsuzaka's victory in Game 7 of the ALCS against Cleveland last year. 
"Believe me when I tell you: How he pitches this -the inten­sity, the meaning, as much as 
this game means-that will help 
him," Red Sox manager Terry 
Francona said Wednesday, a day 
after the Rays beat Boston 13-4 
to take a 3-1 lead in the best-of­
seven series. "That won't hinder 
him.'' 
Matsuzaka has been Boston's 
most reliable pitcher in the play­
offs, with the Red Sox winning 
each of his first two starts. 
Meanwhile, Jon Lester struggled 
in his last start, and Josh Beckett 
has had problems in both of his. 
Beckett's problem appears to be the lingering effects of a side strain he sustained at the end of the regular season, an injury that has deprived Boston of the ace who was 6-2 with a 1. 7 3 ·ERA in his postseason career 
before this year. 
''I'm not Beckett," Matsuzaka 
said. "But if I can pitch like he 
did last year and hand the ball 
off to the guys behind me, that 
would be great." 
If he can, the Red Sox will need 
Beckett and Lester to rebound in 
Games 6 and 7 if they're going to 
have any chance at a third title 
in five years. In both previous 
World Series runs, the Red Sox 
came back from a 3-1 deficit in 
the ALCS -in 2004 they trailed 
the Yankees 3-0 -to win the 
pennant. 
"If we can draw on anything 
from tlmt, good," Francona said. 
"Anything that's happened in 
your past -you try to turn it 
into an advantage for you. 
Saying that, this is a different 
team, it's a different Tampa 
team. But, again, we'll use any­
thing we can to give us any kind 
of advantage." 
Rebuild lives. 
You can help. Find out how. 
Winter Break Trip to the Gulf Coast January 5-11, 2009 

Morris Box 211 North Michigan Street, Sponsored by the Alliance for Catholic Education 
Phone: 574-235-9190 or 1-800-537-6415 Online: www.MorrisCenter.org =: Pt:RfOR:\111H>.UinCf.!'oiflt *SOUTH8F.t;D.IS Morris Ticket Outlet: Super Sounds Catalog Center, Goshen, I 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Surgerygate: Manning hides knee operation 
A..sociatcd Press 
INDI/\N/\I'OLIS -Peyton Manning kPpt quid about his sncond knPP surgnry for onn rnason: II(• thought it would givn opporwnls an advanlagn. 
Th(• lwo-timP lnague MVP answPrPd quPslions about llw surg(•ry for I hi' first limn pub­lirly WP<hwsday, two days aflnr coad1 Tony Dungy conl'irnwd Manning nPPdPd two surgnriPs to dPar tlw bursa sac ini'Pction in his (pft krwP. 
"Tlw rPason I just didn't n~al­ly conl'irm or dPny it thP first limP was I just didn't rPally wanI tlw BPars 26. didn't play in his first gamP until tlw regular-season opener against Chicago; and spent the lirst month of the season trying to get that preeision timing down with his receivnrs. 
Sunday was thn first time Manning looked like himself, hitting rocoivnrs in stride and hooking up on denp balls. 
"You have to diselose most things, but I do think when it comes to protecting a playnr and not giving the opponent any unfair advantage besides what you're n~quired to reveal, that was the whole reason for 
th~t. ".}~1anning 
s<ud. I hat was what I wanted 
to know lhPy to do."
"You have to disclose 
wnro playing Manning, the
most things. but I do 
against a guy perfectillnist. that was four think when il comes to still isn't satis­wn P ks o IT of protecting a player lied. surgPry, lw Despite the
and not giving the 
said. "I know if' dramatic I was playing opponent any unfair improvement against a corrwr advantage." Indy (3-2) that was four shownd against Wn(~ks off' of' tlw lnague's top
Peyton Manning 
surgPry. I would defense, dPI'inilPiy LPst Indianapolis quarterback Mann ng 
out how good that surgPry was in a ganw. So I just didn't think it was fair to rPvnalthat information." 
Manning (~ontintws to insist it is irrniPvant now that lw has producml his two best games of tlw sPason. !\ wnnk ago, lw lwlpP<l orrlwstratn a rnmark­abln comPback at Ilouston, ral­lying from 17 points down with h~ss than !) minulns to go, and thPn thrnw for thren touch­downs in Sunday's 31-3 vietory over Baltinww. 
Tho n~ward for boating the BavPns was Manning's first /\FC player of thn wenk award sincn Doe. 2. 2007. 
But for wonks, Manning dndinnd to answnr pnrsistent rumors about a sm:ond surgery. Tlwn last Friday. during a TV production nwnting, Manning confirnwd it. 
On Monday, for thn lirst time tho Colts also aeknowlndged Manning had undnrgone a sec­ond surgical procedure. BneausP Manning usually spnaks to reporters on Wmlnnsdays and al'tnr gamrs, hn was not availabln for inter­vinws. 
Tlw questions have not dissi­palml. 
Dungy was asked Wednesday to nxplain why the team did not providn dntails narlinr. 
"I don't know, that's some­thing you'd probably have to ask organization," he said. 
That question-and-answer promptod Craig Kellny, Colts vice pn~sidt•nt of publie rela­tions. to say the team never denind it. 
Clearly, though, the injury has been big news since the Colts announend July 14 that Manning needed surgery. 
Tho surgery was the seeond higgnst story during training 1:am p, exceeded only by Brott Favre's summer soap opera in Creon Bay. Even Manning, who has rwvt~r missed an NFL start and has only missnd one earner play because of injury, acknowledges the Favre saga took sonw of' thl' spotlight ofT his rProvnry. 
But wlwn Favre was traded to tlw .INs. Manning's absence mov('d to C('lltPr stage. 
liP didn't rt>turn until 1\ug. 
bnlievns the 
Colts ean 
improve in a f'ow arnas. Thny had 11 penal­tins, onn of which cost Manning a fourth touchdown pass and his lirst 300-yard game of the snason. and thny still ran for only 7(> yards. 
Plus, Manning continues to recover from the operations that may have been blamed for his uneharaeteristie slow start. Others don't see it quite the same way. 
"I think he's responded very well," Green Bay coach Mike McCarthy said. "I think that was very evident in the Baltimore game. You see the 1:omfort and timing, and the timing is eoming baek." 
/\s for Manning, he wants to be finishnd talking about the krwe. 
"I w.as just trying to not give them any type of advantage, whnthnr they change their blitzes or what not," Manning said. 

ConlideDiiaJlll1P/)O.rtandauistrmce a.vailalJkaNotrt Dame: 
Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, Student A.fl(lirs, 631-7819 Ann Finh, Srudent Affairs, 631-2685 Sr.Jean Lenz, OSF, Student Affairs, 631-7407 Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 631-7163 
John Dillon, Campus Mmistry, 631-7163 Dr. Susan St:eibe-Pasalich, Counseling Ctr., 631-4365 A.nn R. Kleva, Health Setvices, 631-8286 
V\Tomen's Care C'..enter: 234-0363 Catholic Charities: 234-3111 
Visit our website at: osa.nd.edu/departtllent>/pregnant.shnnl 
Check out our sports blog at 
observersportsb log@21cr.info 

The Central European Studies Program in Innsbruck, Austria 
• 
Immersion in German language and culture 

• 
Academic year and semester options 

• 
An opportunity for exposure to Central European Issues 

• 
A great location from which to access Eastern and Western Europe 


INFORMATION SESSION 
with Dr. Gernot 0. Guertler, Director of the Central European Studies Program, and CESP returnees on 
Thursday, October 2nd 5:30PM -129 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline is November 15,2008 
Thursday, October 16, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
NHL 
Irish head to West Lafayette 
Khabibulin's 29 SeLves 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will try to continue their winning ways when they compete this weekend at the Lady Northern Tournament in West Lafayette, Ind. They are coming off a record-setting first-place finish at the Heather Parr Memorial, a big confi­dence boost for the Irish. 
"I look for the team to really be ready to play," Irish coach Susan Holt said. 
The Irish will face all of the teams in the Big Ten, including Purdue, Michigan State and Ohio State, all of whom are in the top 25. 
"!The Lady Northern! is a 
real opportunity for us to pick they're playing. It's a good test 
leadBlackhavvksto win
up a couple of Top 25 wins ... of golf, but I think we'll be up with us looking in at No. 28," to the challenge." 
llolt said. 
The match is a two-day event that will be played on Purdue's Kampen Golf Course. The course, Holt said, is a difficult one, but is similar to Notre Dame's own Warren Golf Course. 
"The greens are very big. We have to hit the ball in the right place or you could be three­putting all day long," Holt said. "But, the kids are used to doing those types of things when 
FREEBIES (SUBS & CLU8S ONLY) 
Onion. lettuce. alfalfa sprouts, tomato, mayo. sliced cucumber, Dijon mustard, oil & vinegar, and oregano. 
"We have to hit the ball in the right place or you could be three-putting all day long." 
Susan Holt Irish coach 
The Irish will 
Associated Press 
play with the same five golfers 
CHICAGO Nikolai as they did in the 
Khabibulin kept it close until Heather Farr, 
the Chicago Blackhawks' which includes 
offense took over midway senior captain 
through the second period. Lisa Maunu, jun­
Khabibulin made 29 saves, ior Annie Brophy, 
and Martin Havlat, Patrick sophomores So­
Sharp, Brian Campbell and Hyun Park and 
rookie Colin Fraser scored in Katie Conway 
the final 29 minutes to lead and freshman 
the Blackhawks to their first (1-2-1) scored more than two goals in a game for the first time this season. 
Khabibulin kept it score­less early. He made several close-in saves until a power­play goal by Phoenix's Peter Mueller at 4:30 of the second gave the Coyotes a 1-0 lead. 
"We got great goaltending in the first period," Chicago coach Denis Savard said. "Then we got some breaks and the puck went in for us." 
A big hit by Chicago rookie defenseman Aaron Johnson on Phoenix's Viktor Tikhonov in the second seemed to fire up the Blackhawks. 
So did a highlight-reel goal by Havlat with 8:25 left in the period that tied it at 1. Havlat skated in from the left point, danced around Phoenix defenseman David Hale, stickhandled across the slot and beat goalie Ilja Bryzgalov with a high back­bander. 
"That was the play we were waiting for," Chicago captain Jonathan Toews said. "When he pulled that, we were laughi l1g on the bench. I couldn't believe he pulled that off. We went to work and everything came together." 
Added Havlat: "It was one of the prettier ones, but it doesn't matter how you score. The whole team was working hard and 'Habby' was unbelievable tonight." 
Fraser's goal was his first in the NHL. Campbell's was his first with the Blackhawks after signing an eight-yeal', $56.7 million free..agent con­tract. 
"With every game, we're getting a little better," Campbell said. "Tonight the turnovers were down a ton, although we came out a little loose." 
Bryzgalov made 26 saves in the Coyotes' first loss after opening with two victories. 
"We played too easy of a game," Phoenix coach Wayne Gretzky said. 'After a period and a half, we started to cheat a little bit. If you cheat, you're going to get beat at this level." 
The Coyotes played most of the game without defense­man Derek Morris, who was injured in the first period and didn't return. Team offi­cials wouldn't comment on Morris' condition. 
Mueller's opened the scor­ing on a high, screened shot from the right circle moments after a 5-on-3 Phoenix advantage lapsed to a 5-on-4. 
After Havlat tied it at 1, Sharp gave the Blackhawks a 2-1 lead with 58 seconds left in the second, just after a Chicago power play expired. From the right edge of the crease, Sharp ripped in a rebound of Keith's shot from the point. 
Becca Huffer. Junior Kristin Wetzel will also compete as an individual in the tournament. 
Contact Eric Prister at 
eprister@nd.edu 
victory of the season, 4-1 over the Phoenix Coyotes on Wednesday night. 
Duncan Keith and Kris Versteeg each had two assists, and the Blackhawks 
Fraser made it 3-1 just over a minute into the third.
WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK 
He fired from the slot and 
beat Bryzgalov high on the
1290 E. IRELAND 138 S. MICHIGAN 54570 N.IRONWOOD DR. 5343 N. MAIN ST. 
glove side after taking Dave
574.291.1900 574.246.1020 574.277.8500 574.968.4600 
Bolland's pass from behind
SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 
the net. Campbell completed the scoring with just under 8"VOUR MOM WANTS VOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOHN'S!"® @ minutes left in the third 
when he trailed in late on a rush. 

Ho01e 
continued from page 24 
strang~~ bml," he said. "I hope some of our studenl<; stiek around lbr the Friday night gmnP atlna<;t." 
.Jackson said despite the loss, thorP were plenty of thin~-,rs to build on going into thL<; weekend's games. The rPiatiVf~ly young Irish team showed that they have the talent to earn their top-10 r<Ulk.ing. 
Notr1~ Dame's O-li1r-R efliwt on the power play had a big roln in the loss. Scoring with the man advan­tage W<L<; also an Achilles hm~l filr lw.;t year's team. 
.l<u~kson said he plm1.•; on making dmnges this weekend by putting sophomore Dan Kissel and Ben Hym1 on 1me of tim two power-play units. Hyan missed the Denver game becausn of an injury. Freshman Billy Maday is also expm~ted to sen some timn on the unit a<; wnll. Maday scornd on his first career shot against the Pioneers. 
"''m going to make ehMges. You havn to have guys who play spedfic roles -playing solid in lhmt of the net, retrieving pucks in tim eorners. Scoring goals on the pownr play is 
Wo01en 
continued from page 24 
junior Lindsay Ferguson and sophomom Marissa Treece has f'inislwd f'irst and second for Notre Damn at every race this season. Ferguson finished 17th at the ND Invitational, while Treeee f'inished 38th. Behind Treece was freshman Hache) Velarde, who was running in about getting down and dirty in fhmt of the net," Jackson said. 
Sam~d lleart ha<; killed nine of its 11 penalties so far this season. The Pioneers dropped their first two games of the year to Air Force last weekend. The Falcons won 4-1 Friday night and 4-3 in overtime Saturday . 
''I'm not that knowledgeable about them, but l know they're well coached and they'll compete extremely hard." Jackson said. 
The Pioneers linished 16-17-4 last Simson and advanced to the Atlantic IIockey Association Final Five bdi1re losing to Mercyhurst. 
Jackson made it dear that his young team knows not to overlook a team like Sacred lleart if they hope to rnturn to tlw NCAA Tournament this March. lie said his team ha<; to play witl1 more consL<;tency <Uld dis­cipline in order to bn successful. 
Notrn Dame will opnn up CCI !A play the wnekend li1llowing mid­semester break at home against No. 7 Miami (Ohio). 
"We hope that by then the stu­denl<; will be back from break Md we get a good turnout for the gmnes," Jaekson said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
only her seeond race. 
Although the opposition will bn more intense, Connelly said the basic strategy has not changed. 
"It's not like basketball where you install a new offense," he said. "Basically, you're training every day, you're running, and ~opefu.~ly you'll improve your lttness. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles get first MIAA win 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Wri[er 
Saint Mary's notched its first MIAA win of the season with a 4-0 victory over Trine Wednesday, breaking a five­game losing streak. 
The Belles grabbed the lead in the 23rd minute when sen­ior Lauren !linton assisted junior Mieki 1-Iedinger on her second goal of the season. 
Just 10 minutes later, Saint Mary's struck again when lledinger assisted freshman Alex Mullen on the first goal of her career to give the Belles a 
Hoosiers 
continued from page 24 
"We've seen IndiMa play a few times ti1L<> year because we played down at their tournament and they played up at ours earlier in the sea<;on," Clark said. "They are a very good team and they are similar to us. This will be a big test for us because they always work really hard. They are com­ing off a loss so they'll be ready for us." 
While Indiana enters Thursday's game in less th<Ul con­vincing form, the Irish have impressed with their recent play. After a two-game losing streak to Louisville and Michigan, Notre Dame seems to have regained the 2-0 lead heading into halftime. This goal marked the first time the Belles have scored more than onee in a game this season. 
But it didn't stop there. In the 62nd minute, the fresh­men duo of Michelle Leonard and Michelle Marshall hooked up on Marshall's first eareer goal to give the Belles a deci­sive lead. 
Hinton added her fifth goal of the season in the 69th minute to finish orr the Thunder. 
In a rainy-match, the Belles put together their jwst domi­nating performance of the sea­
early-season form that saw the lrL<;h rise a<; high a<> No. 3 in the polls. La<;t wonk, the lri<>h defeat­ed Michigan State <Uld Pitl<;burgh by a eombined smre of 7-1. 
The catalyst for last week's impressive resull<; wa<; a dynmnie offensive attack that has helped the Irish overwhelm opponents at times this sea<>on. Notre Dame is currently averaging 2.5 goal<; per gam{\ which L<; good for second in the nation. 
"It's a fun team to watch," Clark said after the Pittsburgh game. "We have a lot of attacking per­sonalities Md very skillful players. It's hard to single Mybody out. On My given day somebody difl(Jrent eM step up." 
Ten different Irish players have found the back of the net so far thi<> season. Despite the bal<Ulced son, outshooting Trine 33-0. 
Junior Patty Duffy played the first 70 minutes in goal before senior Nicole Beier took her place to finish out the game. They combined to pro­vide Saint Mary's with its sec­ond shut-out win of the sea­son. 
The Belles improve to 2-9-1 on the season with a 1-4 con­ference reeord. 
Saint Mary's will take the lield for its final home game or the regular season whnn it faces Alma Tuesday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu 
team scoring, senior forward Bright Dike has emerged a~ the go-to attaeker, seoring in six eon­secutive games. Dike currently lead<> thn team in sho1s, goals and poinl'>. 
Thursday's bogins at 7:30 p.m. Clark said he sees thn dynamic atmosphern that awail<; a<; a posi­tive for his tnam. 
"lbi<; will bn a great opporiunity because it will have the lhel of a road (NCAA) Tournament game," Clark said. "It will be a fanta<;tie opportunity to give our guys a chance to play in that environ­ment. It will be nspeeially gnod fi1r some of our younger guys who haven't had a ehanee yet to play in <Ul environment like that." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Save the date: Friday, November 141h 
Amajor concert announcement from SUB awaits you upon your return to campus after fall break... 

Who could it be? You'11 have to wait and C, and CC, to find out! 
brought to you by the student union board 
Thursday, October 16, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Big Ea.st 
continued from page 24 

tougher. We wish we were in a position where we could control things if we just won." 
Brown said she does not believe being behind or ahead in the standings has any effect on the way the team plays. She said she considers the team highly determined to win. 
"The team has that atti­tude to compete all the time anyway," Brown said. "Needing motivation is not a factor for us. We are already motivated." 
Coming up first today is a trip to play a struggling DePaul (2-16, 1-5 Big East) on the road. Brown said she feels confident that the team will be ready for the game, but is concerned about some fatigue creeping in around midterms. 
On Tuesday is a rare non­conference opponent, Long Beach State (14-3, 4-1 Big West). The Irish hope this matchup will keep the team sharp over the break and allow the team to improve without affecting the confer­ence standings. 
"It is really good for us to have a match thrown in there," Brown said. "There is no question that we are going to be playing to win. We are going to be pushed." 
At the end of fall break will be matchups against Big East opponents Villanova (11-9, 2-3 Big East) and Seton Hall (10-10, 2-3 Big East). Although both teams are below .500 in the Big East, Brown said she's con­cerned that her team be properly prepared to face the Wildcats and Pirates. 
"Both of these teams are good," Brown said. "With the parity in the Big East, every team could beat any other team on any given night." 
These games are coming at the right time for the Irish, as they finally feel like they are starting to get healthy. Brown said she was espe­cially happy that she has no new InJUries to report. Junior outside hitter Serinity Phillips and freshman libero/defensive specialist Frenchy Silva are back and playing well, Brown said. Junior middle blocker Tara Enzweiler is getting ready to comeback soon. 
Notre Dame will be back in the gym on campus in two weeks when it faces Big East foes Syracuse (1~~-9. 4-1 Big East) and Marquette (7-10, 2-3 Big East). 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

Thursday, October 16, 2008 

UConn 
continued from page 24 
plaee to play over the years." he said. "Part of that's been that llwy've been one of the top teams in the eonferenee. We've gone out there unde­feated a few limes and they've ruined it for us. They've got enough to make life diffieult for us." 
Waldrum said senior for­ward Elizabeth Eng and jun­ior rnidl'ielder Annie Yi eould pose problems for the Notre said. "And that game could come down to determining the championship in our divi­sion. provided we take care of business this weekend. Ilopefully, that should give us some extra motivation." 
Waldrum said he is happy his team will face tough chal­lenges against Connecticut and Rutgers. 
"It's good for us to finish with some really good teams like that," he said. "You want to be tested as you head into the Big East tournament the later the NCAA 
Dame defense. "/t 's good for us to lie also praised 
finish with some 
Conneeticut's 
really good teams
goalkeeping and coaehing. like that. You want 
And life will to be tested as you 
not get any easi­
head into the Big 
er for the Irish al'ter they take East tournament on Conneeticut. and later the NCAA 
They return for 
/Tournament].,
their final home weekend. which concludes with a Randy Waldrum rnateh against Irish coach 
No. 14 Hutgers. 
Hutgers is 10­3-1 overall and 5-1-1 in Big East play, and beat Villanova 5-0 on Sept. 22. Last week­end, Villanova took Notre Dame to overtime before the Irish won 3-2. 
"Hutgers has had some real­ly good results," Waldrum 
[Tournament]." 
But before the Irish have the opportunity to take on heavyweights like Connecticut and Hutgers, they will head to Providence (5-5-3 overall, 0-4-3 Big East) Friday. And Waldrum said Notre Dame is not overlooking the Friars. 
"I think we're better than 
Providence on paper but we have to keep our focus and intelligence level," he said. "We wanna make sure we take care of business." 
Contact Fran Tolan at 
ftolan@nd.edu 
.. Recycle The 
Do you consider the word "motivated, an understatement? \X:e thought so. 
It's time for your hard work to pay off within an organization that was once again named one of Business'M>eKs 50 Best Places To Launch A Career We offer a collaborative, Inclusive culture. With customizable careers, professional development, and benefits. And a commitment to community, the environment. and making time for family. 
II ;; >U -c,l(e it? 
For an electronic Information packet. text "NOTREDAME" to 78573. Visit us on the \11/eb at deloltte.com/us/notrec:t.me. 
Oelo1tte ll P and Its 1~Jb1>1d1an-:o'!o are ar. equal oppm1unny employ,.r. 
About Delottto~? 
!)ltl•.>tHe refP.r~ tu OM ()f rnc•m af [..~loJtU! Tout:b~! Tohmat:.u, a Sw•s.~ VE!!Eiin, and l!'i netwQrk of rnernbt~r firm!.. !NKh ~Jt which 1'!. .:~: lega!iy !.upar.~tE' 
cu~ct lndt!'pe!1dt!H tnt11y Plta'io·~ s.Em 'IIINWdE!IO!t1t!.((l/l'll.lhout for.~ detmled dasaiphon of the IE>f}ai '!.tnJ<turt! of D•!'loHt<!' Touct11? Tohrnals.U and tiS 
Deloitte.
mt'!mber f•rmi Pleas.e ".ee www.delo•ttt!' comlusJabo;.Jt for a detailed d<:-s<nptton of the legal structure of Delo1tte LLP and its subsid1anes. Copyngtn 0 2008 Delo1tt• D•velopment LLC. All rights reseN<!d 
Thursday, October 16, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

PATRICK GARTLAND 
THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
TEEN PUZZLEMAKER WEEK 
Note: All the daily crosswords this week, Monday through Saturday, have been contributed by puzzlemakers ·under the age of 20. Today's crossword is by Caleb Madison. 15, of New York City. He is a sophomore at Bard High School in Manhattan. This is his fourth puzzle for The Times 
Special instructions: When this puzzle is done. connect the circled letters in alphabetical order, and then back to the start, to reveal something seen on the 32-Down 4-Down. 
Across 27 You might end 45 Cultural org. 1 Waxed up w1th a bum 46 Retain 5 First name in one 48 Rand who 
erotica 30 Actress Tyler c..reated Dagny31 Ch'ld f raggart
10 They mig ht be 1 • or one 49 Striped quartz chocolate 34 Ad1e~ who pop music
53
14 .. Flynn Boyle outwitted -.· h 
of"Tw1n Peaks" Sherlock Holmes ~§gb~ s1nce t e 15 Request at a 36 -·--·· Impulse . 55 Nocturnal laundry 38 --·-+ gren.ad~ne bloodsucker 16 Like some keys + maraschino 60 Tony Musante 17 D I t 
cherry= Roy TV · 
· ye Pan Rogers cocKtail senes 18 Pooula( 39 Illumination of 61 Extracted 
women s manuscripts chemical 
fragrance and others ' 62 Punishment unit 19 Together, in 40 Headline-making 63 Frost 
mUSIC 
20 Makes people illness of 2002-64 Options during offers they can't 03 computer woes refuse? 41 Dis 65 James of jazz 
22 Apportionment 42 Mushroom 66 Com!)etitor of 
maker, for short Ben & Jerry's
23 Set of values 43 ToqY, nominee 67 'Thus ... " Puzzle by Caleb Madison 
24 ~~~~r~?: ~fenG~6'~s"'rry 68 Spotted 25 Relatives, 44 Interrogator's 26 Home. of "Th~ 32 With 12-Down, 51 It's often 
Last ::>upper' locale of the 4-unaccounted for slangily discovery Down 
Down 52 Allen in
Ruiner of many 27 Place for 
American historya photo P,icnickina and 33 "lshtar'' director 
54 All_
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE tiog-walkTng
2 Charged 35 You might give a 55 Lynn who sang 28 Hill dwellers 
3 Filmmaker Von speech by this "We'll Meet
Stroheim 29 alia 
37 Ultrasecret org. Again" 
genov~se
4 Theme of this 56 Port near the
(sauce) 47 "That mad oamepuzzle the world so Red Sea30 City whe.re 32­
5 Without loves to olav/' to 57 Yellow squirt?
ana 12•Down is
(riskily) Jonathan ::>w1ft
tound 58 Pie chart figs. 
6 It may be 48_ readywrinkled 
31 Also sends ·io, 59 "Wishing won't 
as an e-ma1 50 Peter out make_"
7 Ancient Semitic fertility goddess 8 Bakery 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with aemployee credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
9 Elvis Presley's
" Not You" Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 10 Detective's need crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 11 Like some six-Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
packs past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).
12 See 32-Down 
13 Vile smile Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords tor young 21 That, to Tomas solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike 1\rgirion 
JJ1JJM00lb[;
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form tour ordinary words. 
INYAR 
j
I [I I I 
@2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Righls Reserved. 
TECOT ± 
IJ I [] 
WHE:N RAIN HITS A
www.jumble.com 
PICNIC., IT C.AN---­
tNIPPEG ± 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answ•ar, as
J I [ J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A:"[ I IJ" AN(II I I I IIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: SWOON FIORD BOYISH BAUBLE Answer: What they did when she pressed his shirt and he practiced his swing -USED II=!ONS 
EUGENIA·LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Paige Davis. 39; Sarah Fergwmn. 49: Emeril Lagasse, 49: Penny Marshall. 66 
Happy Birthday: Don't miss out on something that could potentially change your life or your direc-tion because someone is selfish or has other plans for you. Consider making a residential move or taking on a little bit different lifestyle. Having more people visit. living with someone or even getting a pet should be implemented in some capacity. Your numbers are 14. 15. 19, 26, 28, 35. 39 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Think matters lhrough before you decid" to take a leap of faith. A unique partnership can help you become more secw·e and confident. How­ever. remember. one who is demanding and controlling will hold yon bo.ck. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You stand to make some fabulous new connections, moves and accomplishment_, ifyou are not slow out of the starting gate. Recognizing your talent and when to make your move will be what will facilitate your success. 3 starsr successes. You have lhe potential to make a difference by making reforms. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may wanl to consider making a mow before one is forced on you. Don't let others in on what you are going to do. Financial loss is possible 
if you brag, exaggerate or promise more than you can deliver. Intimacy with someone off-limits will stifle yam career. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don'llisten lo bad advice. Make up yow· own mind. A love relationship is about lo change in a positive way if you jusI lei things unJold nalu­rally. You will pick up valuable information from someone very different. ~stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't push your luck when it comes to dealing \\~th family. your lover or anyone else who means a lot to you. Focus on work. monc!y and doing what you can to be successful and put your personal life on hold for now. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone may want to take something from you. Do not donate, loan or spend too freely. Open your mind to new alternatives that complement what you already have goi11g for you. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Before yon decide to do something that may influence your financial situation. get sound advice from someone who is conservative and not likely to spend frivolously or invest unwisely. AYoid mixing emotional matters with money mat­~ers. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be preoccupied with an emotional issue. Are­lationship with someone you've known for a long time will change. Don't get other people involved in your private affairs or your close friends or relatives in your business ventures. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A fast decision to help or donate to something will leave you short of time and cash. A course regarding how to manage your business. money or your cun-ent profession will help you excel. Don't be afraid to do things dif­ferently. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Selling new rules al home and at work will enable you to be more productive. leaving more lime to enjoy the pleasures of lik Travel will be a \Vaste of time: far more will be achieved if you work from home. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't be fooled by someone promising you too much. Read between the lines and ask what this person needs from you and how you can make it work to your advantage. Anger and emotional fuss mnst nol be allo"ed to surface. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If you have caused someone grief, or vice \'ersa, you have to confronl the situalion. Unless you can get past your grudge, you can't move for­ward successfnlly. Deal with issues that are clouding your vision. Face the truth. 4 stars 
Eugmia's Web sites: mgenialnst.com for confidelllinl comultations. mvspace.comleugenialastfor Eugenia's blog. ostroadvicr.com.for ftm 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ____________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, October 16, 2008 
page 24 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Friars next, Huskies loom 
Top-ranked team faces Providence today and Connecticut Sunday on the road as the season winds down 
By FRAN TOLAN 
A<sociatc Sports Editor 
No. I Notre Dame will have little time to rnlax over fall hrnak. ThP undPfnaWd Irish w i II t a k ~~ on fo u r Bi g 1\ as t opponnnts tlw twxt two wnnk­nnds. lwginning with a road tilt. against Providnnc1~ Friday. 
But Irish roach Handy Waldrum said his tnam will facn an 1~ven biggor test at Connedirut Sunday. The lluskies. pPrennially one of the strongPst squads in the Big J·:ast. suf'l'nrnd from injuries early in the season 
h u t a t' n c o m i n g o IT a t i c 
against No. 15 West Virginia on Sunday. 
"I think what's happetwd with Connnrtirut and them bning a litll!\ bit down this ynar ean bn attributed to somn of their early injurins," 
Waldrum said. "But they're going to be there in the end and you just know [Huskies coach Len Tsantirisl is going to get them turned around." 
Connecticut, which was ranknd earlier in the season, has had to struggle just to even up its Big East record at 2-2-3. 
''I'm a little leery of them bocause it's a bit of a situa­tion where they feel like they havn to win." Waldrum said. "They're like a wounded ani­mal. They need to win just to survive and keep their hopes for tho NCAA Tournament ­and oven the Big East tourna­ment-alive." 
Waldrum said Connecticut's .Joseph J. Morrone Stadium brings back bad memories for him and thn Irish. 
"That's been a very difficult 
see UCONN/page 22 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Squad runs in pre-NCAAs 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Consider it a midterm nxam for the nwn's and women's cross country tPams. 
While most students will be relaxing Saturday, the runners will face their toughnst chal­lnngn yet when they travnl to Tnrrn Jlautl~. Ind., for the pre­NCAA nHwt. 
Doing wPil at the pre-NCAA ment would be a major step for Notrn Dame to earn an at­largo tnam bid to tlw NCAA Hngionals and Championships, which take place in Novnmber. 
"It's a must-pnrform meet to get at-largo points and have a rnalistic chance to make the NCMs," women's head coach Tim Comwlly said. 
The Irish faced national competition for the first time this season on Oct. 3 at the Notre Dame Invitational, which featured several ranked teams. There, the men tied for sixth place and the women lin­ished in 11th place. 
llownver, Connelly said he thought his team could have done hotter. 
"We came up a little short of where we wantnd to be, where we needed to be," he said. 
The love! of competition will be even higher in Terre llaute, as 23 of the top 30 women's tnams will be competing and 24 of the top 30 men's teams will be competing, according to tho U.S. Track and Field Cross Country Coaches Association. 
rankings after the Notre Dame Invitational, but remain dose. The women, who are also not in the top 30, received votes for the first time. 
"If we had run a lot better two weeks ago, we would be well-entrenched in the top 30," Connelly said. 
Both tpams have an even distribution of veterans and rookies who have done well. Senior Patrick Smyth linished first among the Irish and fifth overall at the ND Invitational. The next three linishers were sophomores Dan Jackson and Paul Springer, and freshman Ryan Gamboa. It was only the second career race for Jackson and Gamboa. 
For the women, the duo of 
The Irish men fell out of the see WOMEN/page 20 
MEN'S SOCCER 
In-state rivalry reneW"ed against No. 22 Hoosiers 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
Aftnr recent matehes against out­of-stato opponents, No. 9 Notre Dame will travel to Bloomington Thursday to mnew its rivalry with No. 22 Indiana. 
The Hoosiers await the Irish in what will be the 29th installmnnt of thP seriPs bntwPPn thn two schools and the eighth consecutivP year they have met. Indiana holds a 22­5-1 edge in the all-time series, but Notre Dame has enjoyed a rPcent run of success, going 4-4 against the Hoosiers under coach Bobby Clark's tenure. 
If recent signs are any indication, the Irish have a good shot to move above .500 against Indiana with CJark at the helm. 
The Hoosiers enter Thursday's game with a 6-4-2 record and a 2­0 loss to Michigan State in the team's most recent game on Oet. 
12. Indiana is eurrently averaging only slightly more goals scored than conceded at a 1.33 to 1.25 dip. 
Tlw lloosicrs' slow start is some­what surprising given that they rnturn nine starters from a team that won the Big Ten title and advanced to the second round of the NCM Tournament in 2007. Clark, however, said he still feels that Notre Dame's in-state rival will provide a stern test. 
see HOOSIERS/page 20 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
No fall break for Irish, who face Big East foes 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Wri rcr 
The Irish will l'ight through a tough s dwd u Ie o v n r the break when they play IJel'aul. Long Bnaeh State. Villanova and SPt.on llall throughout tlw twxt lO days. 
"Our team is pretty focused," lwad coach Debbifl Brown said. "W1~ arn hungry. We want to gnt baek out tlwre and compPtn." 
Thrnn of the upcoming games are in tlw Big East, which could help the Irish (IJ-9, 4-2 Big East) move 
closer to their goal of win­ning the regular season con­fnrenco title. With a .500 weekend against West Virginia ((J-12, 0-6 Big East) and Pittsburgh (13-8, 5-1), tlw Irish fell from first placP in the conference to a tie for third with Cincinnati (16-5), Ceorgetown (11-8) and Louisville (8-9). This puts the Irish in a bad position, Brown said. 
"We would definitely still like to be in first," Brown said. "Falling behind some tiHtms really makes things 
see BIG EAST/page 21 
HOCKEY 
Pioneers visit South Bend 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Ediror 
The Irish go from ono !-,>Toup of Pioneers to the nnxt thi<> wnnkend. 
A week after losing il'i sea<>on­opener to tho No. (J Denver Pionflers in Colorado. Notre Dmne returns to South Bnnd filr a two­game serins with tho Pioneers from Sacmd I teart. 
Notre I>am1~ dropped fhnn No. 4 to No. 8 in the rankings liJI!owing last Saturday's 5-2 loss, but Irish coach Jell' Jackson said he thinks being at home will help his tnam thi'i weekend. 
"You'rn morfl in your own routine and you don't have to sleep in a 
see HOME/page 20 






