
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 98 TUESDAY, MARCH 11.2008 

Jenkins greenlights ~Monologues' 
Despite criticism from Church leaders, the 'Vagina Monologues' will again be performed on campus 

By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's Security, Notre Dame Security/Police and St. Joseph's County Police appre­hended two burglars attempt­ing to rob the Hilton Garden Inn on Indiana Route 933 in the early morning hours of Feb. 28, local news outlets said. 
The St. Joseph's County Police received a call at 4:10 
a.m. from the front desk clerk at .the Hilton, the news outlets reported. The Hilton borders Madeleva Drive, which is Saint Mary's property. 
The clerk reported that the hotel had been robbed and a maintenance man was attempting to subdue one of the suspects in front of the hotel, according to the South 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

College's for111er pres dies 
Sr. M. Alma Peter served SMCfor 34 years 
By LIZ HARTER Saitit Mary's Editor 
Thirty-eight years after her inauguration as the President of Saint Mary's College, Sr. M. Alma Peter died at Saint Mary's Convent Friday. 
Alma Peter was 98 years old and worked for Saint Mary's for 34 years in both a teaching and administrative capacity. She served as the College's president from 1970-72. 
Current president and 1972 alumna Carol Ann Mooney expressed sadness at the loss of the former educator. 
"I have known Sister Alma since my days as a student at Saint Mary's College," she said. "I am deeply saddened by her passing." 
After taking her Final Profession in 1933, Alma 
·Peter received a bachelor's degree from Immaculate Heart College in Los Angeles and a master's degree in chemistry from Marquette University. She also held an honorary doetor of humani-. ties degree from Saint Mary's College and an hon­orary doctor of laws degree from the University of Notre Dame. 
She joined Saint Mary's faculty in 1950 ·and became the academic dean in 1955. She was instrumental in 
see SMILE/page 6 

By BILL BRINK 
News Editor 
"The Vagina Monologues" will b~ performed on campus this spring, University President Father John .Jenkins said in a statement Monday, a month af'tpr criticism from Church leaders revived debate about . the role of the sexually explicit play at a Catholic university. 
J~nkins said the student pro­posal to perform the "Monologues" -which received approval from several academic departments and the dean of the College of Arts and Letters before he reviewed it ­was consistent with guidelines reached in spring of 2006. 
Those guidelines, formed by Jenkins and chairs from Arts and Letters after 10 weeks of campus-wide discussion, stipu­late that academic panels will be held after each performance, and at least one panelist will offer "a thorough and sympa­thetic account of the Catholic tradition in relation to the issues raised in the play." 

The performances will take place March 24-26. 
"My decision on this matter arises from a conviction that it is an indispensable part of the mission of a Catholic university to provide a forum in which multiple viewpoints are debated in reasoned and respectful exchange -always in dialogue with faith and the Catholic tra­
see JENKINS/page 4 

Hilton Garden Inn faces burglaty attempt 
Bend Tribune. 
Sgt. Dale Shines, a Saint Mary's security guard, was monitoring the St. Joseph County Police frequency at the time of the robbery and decided to patrol the area, David Gariepy, director of Saint Mary's Security, said. 
"[The attempted burglary] caused a concern for our campus should the perpetra­tors have decided to escape towards our property," Gariepy said. 
NDSP also responded to the robbery after being contacted by the St. Joseph's County Police, who requested mutual aid from another police agency, Phil Johnson, director of NDSP said. 
Gariepy said NDSP arrived "nearly simultaneously" with 
see HILTON/page 4 

Speakers kick off Body hnage week 
Conference promotes awareness ofeating disorders, examines campus health 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Wri[er 
People feverishly working 

out  on  the  elliptical  
machines,  countless  
wannabe  bodybuilders  

pumping iron, students run­ning around the lakes in the middle of winter and the Subway line surpassing the few people at Burger King are scenes that may seem familiar to most here at Notre Dame. 
The student government's gender issues committee, however, is now raising the question of why this is the case. Is Notre Dame simply a healthy campus? Or are thnre deeper issues concern­ing health and body image that pervade the campus, as students obsess over a need to be thin, fit and "perfect"? 
With millions of Americans, many on college campuses like Notre Dame, suffering with eating and body image disorders, the gender issues committee has organized "Live As You Are: 2008 Health and Body Image Conference," in conjunction with National Eating Disorder Awareness Week. 
Promoting greater aware­ness and understanding of eating disorders, the "Live As You Are" conference is bringing these issues to the forefront of Notre Dame, hoping to provide support, education, and insight for professionals and students alike. 
Sophomore Patrick Tighe, co-chair of the student gov­ernm en.t 's gender issues committee, has been a part of the planning and organi­zation of the conference, along with senior co-chair Brenda Doyle. Modeled after last year's Eating Disorder Conference, Tighe and Doyle "decided to change the con­ference to make it more gen­der neutral and attract .as many people as possible," Tighe said. 
Started in the spring of 2007 by a Notre Dame stu­dent suffering with an eating disorder, the conference has 
see IMAGE/page 4 


Observer appoints eight new editors 
Observer Staff Report 

Five new editors assumed their roles on the 2008-09 General Board positions, Editor­in-Chief Chris Hine announced Monday. Three editors are abroad, and will begin their roles in the fall of 2008. 
"It's a challenge to put out five papers per week while main­taining good grades in the class­room," Hine said. "But I have complete faith in everyone's ability to maintain the high standards established by outgo­ing editors. 
The other appointments are: 
+Bill Brink, news editor 
+Mary Jesse, graphics editor 
+Kara King, viewpoint editor 

+Liz Harter, Saint Mary's edi­tor 
+Jessica Lee, photo editor 

In the fall, junior Jenn Metz will take over as news editor. Brink, along with junior Dan. Murphy, will become co-sports editors in the fall. 
Freshman Matt Gamber and junior Fran Tolan will jointly run the sports department for the rest of the spring semester, with oversight from Hine, one of two co-sports editors since last March, and Managing Editor Jay Fitzpatrick. 
Senior Tae Andrews will con­tinue to oversee the Scene department with help from Hine. Junior Analise Lipari, who is currently abroad, will take 
Tuesday, March 11, 2008

page 2 The Obser'ler + PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
What a sad truth 
Hacism in America isn't any more cur­abln now than it wa'i 30 years ago. 
For thosn of you who read "radsm" and flippnd to the comics, bear with me. Just wanted to grab your attention. Becausn what I recently saw made me reverse any optimism I had about the progress we have made in this country. The following is not a sick joke; it actually happtmed. 
Over spring bmak, at a large southern state university, I watched a col­lege student tie a piece of rope around the m~ek of an African-American Barbie doll, tie the other end to a ceiling l~tn and turn it on, to raucous laughter of most others in the room. 
Anyone who says racism is gone L<> absolutnly kidding themsnlves. 
This incident told me two things. First. no amount of sensitivity training can erad­icate racism set deep enough into a per­sonality to inspin~ sonwthing likn this. (Although I didn't have the priviledge of witnnssing this, tlw f.,'llY daimnd he rigged lysol and a lightor together to blow-ton~h tlw doll's face as wPII). lie must think this W<l'i funny bncausP no one told him other­wisn. IIn must havn grown up in a society that, oven if it didn't eondone it, cortainly didn't prohibit this typo of bnhavior. Unlnss tho stmn of tlw problnm is rnmoved. mani­li~stations likn this will occur. 
Sneond, the twistnd humor was infne­tious. Most pnoph~ in the room who didn't break into laughtnr li1ll inti> slack-jawnd shock and lot looso a "That's terrible," or somothing along thost~ lines. A'i time passnd. howover, thnir faces slowly broke into sheepish smiles, and they became more and morn amusnd. 
Some might see this as a harmless col­lege prank, egged on by alcohol and an audience. It may be relatively harmless in the privacy of an apartment, but what happens if it becomes public? Anyone remember the Jena Six? 
Others may fault me for making a sweeping generalization about a country 

• basnd on one incident. Perhaps this was just an isolated incident; this guy's family and upbringing wa<> an exception to the ruh But I don't buy that, and I bet many othnr people don't eitlwr. I know people who ref(~r to people by their race a<> though that L'> the most important charac­teristic about them. And it's not usually done ta<>tnli.Illy. Then again, can it ever be done ta'itefully? 
A<> long a<> racism goes unchecked dur­ing childhood, people will continue to bm~ome racists. It may seem harmless when a doll takes the brunt of the suffer­ing, but if a person becomes the target, it rnpresenl'i a eontinuing problem in this country. 
It goes deeper than whether someone can catch a taxi or not. As I sat there watching, my mind racing in disbelief, I malized the true extent of the problem. I Wcl'i a'ileep to this issue, and watching what I did woke me with a start. It is sown underneath the soil of our sodety, and the only way to remove it is to dig it out, seed by seed. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not ·necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact/Jill/Jrink at wbrink@nd.edu 

Bill Brink 
News Editor 
CORRECTION 
I )ue to a reporting error, the article entitled "Theology on Fire lecture lix:uses on liiends" in the Feb. 28 edition ofThe Observer incorrecrly identified the speaker at the lecture as Richard Egan. Egan's name is actually Keith. The Observer regrets this error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE BEST THING ABOUT RETURNING TO CAMPUS AFTER SPRING BREAK? 

Katie Gradecki Jenny Scully Dan Haggerty Marissa Treece Brian Lee Justin Tresnowski 
sophomore sophomore sophomore freshman senior senior Welsh Fam Walsh Morrissey Lewis Off-campus Off-campus 
'That Easter is "Seeing John Being neighbors Going back to "Finishing "Having in a week and Saulitis all day with John the D-hall-school in two internet so 



,, 

a half" every day. Saulitis all day South for 
Collision with overpass cancels obese man's date 
MEXICO CITY -When Manuel Uribe went out on a date, he made all the nec­essary arrangements: a forklift to carry him out of the house and a flatbed tow truck big enough to haul the formerly half-ton man and his bed to a party. 
But even the open road wasn't big enough to han­dle Uribe's dream of cele­brating a budding romance and his success in losing about 440 pounds. 
Uribe was halfway to a picnic near his Monterrey­area home on Sunday when 
TODAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 ::1: 

!;;: 
1.&.1 
3: 
..J 
II( 
(.) 


every day. ,, sure!" 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 
Pat O'Brien, left, lands a right cross during his win over Jack Dillon in the second round of Bengal Bouts on Feb. 28. The semifinals begin tonight at 7, where O'Brien will face Chris Izaguirre. Izaguirre lost his championship bout to Sagare Navare last year. 
OFFBEAT 
Why not use that time to recover from a vasectomy? 
"When March Madness approaches you need an excuse ... to stay at home in front of the big screen," the clinic's radio ad says. "Get your vasectomy at Oregon Urology Institute the day before the tourna­ment starts. It's snip city." 
Institute Administrator Terry FitzPatrick said men need two to four days to recover from the proce­dure -but not all take the time. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

one of the posts holding a sun-shielding tarp over his bed hit an overpass. 
Uribe's blood pressure dropped so much his doc­tors advised him not to go on and the celebration ­being documented by about two dozen photographers and reporters from around the world -was canceled. 
March Madnes: rest and relaxation after vasectomies 
SPRINGFIELD, Ore. -For guys who park in front of the TV during college bas­ketball's March Madness, the Oregon Urology Institute has a suggestion: 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

••• 4 

..... 0 HIGH 45 HIGH 39 HIGH 50 HIGH 50 
LOW 40 LOW 35 LOW 35 LOW 30 


months. ,, I can watch 'Lost.,,, 
IN BRIEF 
The Bengal Bouts semifinals will be held tonight at 7 at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Tickets are available at the Ticket Oflice. 
Ann Simonton will deliver the keynote address, entitled "Sex, Power and the Media" of the "Live As You Are: 2008 Health and Body Image Conference" at 5 p.m. in McKenna Hall. 
The RecycleMania Art Contest will take place tonight from 5 to 8 p.m. in the Dooley Room of the LaFortune Student Center. The contest will judge art made from rocydnd materi­als. 
Chi Epsilon will show the film "World Trade Center: Anatomy of a Collapse" tonight at 6 in the engineering lounge of Fitzpatrick Hall. The film, pro­duced by the Discovery Channel, is part of the Civil Engineering Movie Series. 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team will play Delaware at 3 p.m. Thursday on Moose Krause Field . 
The film "I'm Not There," which tells the story of legendary singer Bob Dylan at different stages of his life and with difi"er­ent actors in the lead role, will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Thursday at 7 p.m. 
There will be Stations of the Cross on Friday at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 37 HIGH 36 LOW 28 LOW 28 
Atlanta 60 I 39 Boston 45 I 28 Chicago 48 I 25 Denver 63 I 29 Houston 68 I 54 Los Angeles 67 I 52 Minneapolis 43 I 25 New York 46 I 32 Philadelphia 4 7 I 32 Phoenix 82 I 54 Seattle 51 I 45 St. Louis 66 I 33 Tampa 7 4 I 55 Washington 51 I 34 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, March 11, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 


ND ranked No. 13 in Vaticantakes new stance on sin 
top 25 Latino colleges Genetic manipulation, mind-altering drugs among Church issues 

Special to The Observer  college credit for their efforts. Additional information on the  Associated Press  "If yesterday sin had a rather individualistic dimension, today it has a weight, a reso­ pontiff. John Paul also dedicated much of his long papacy to  
Hispanic Magazine has ranked  Latino Community Leadership  VATICAN CITY - In olden  nance, that's especially social,  condemning the gap between  
the University of Notre Dame 13th  Seminar  is  available  at  days, the deadly sins included  rather than individual," said  have and have-nots in speech­ 
on its 2008 list of "Top 25 Colleges  http://www.nd.edu/-lclsernl.  lust, gluttony and greed. Now,  Girotti, whose office deals with  es in his travels throughout the  
for Latinos," the sixth year the  Founded in 1999, the IlS plays a  the Catholic Church says pollu­ matters of conscience and  world as well as in writings.  
University has made the list since its  pivotal role in providing an academ­ tion, mind-damaging drugs  grants absolution.  "The poor are always becom­ 
debut in 1999.  ic environment that advances  and genetic experiments are  It's not the first time that the  ing poorer and the rich ever  
The magazine based its evalua­ knowledge and understanding of  on its updated thou-shalt-not  Vatican has sought to put a  more rich, feeding unsustain­ 
tions on academic excellence,  the Latino experience in the United  list.  modern spin on sin. Last year,  able social injustice," Girotti  
Hispanic enrollment and achieve­ States.  As an interdisciplinary unit,  Also receiving fresh attention  the Vatican took on the prob­ said in the interview published  
ment, selectivity, graduation rates,  the institute seeks to incorporate the  by the Vatican was social injus­ lem of highway accidents, issu­ Sunday.  
student-to-faculty ratio, percentage  study ofthe Latino population of the  tice, along the lines of the age­ ing  a  kind  of  "Ten  Closer to home, Girotti was  
ofHispanic faculty, financial aid, cul­ United States as a vital component  old maxim: "The rich get rich­ Commandments" for drivers  asked about the many "situa­ 
tural programs, and support for  of Notre Dame's academic mission  er  while  the  against the sins  tions of scandal and sin within  
Hispanic students. It gathered information from numerous sources  and also provides an administrative home and support for the Latino  poor get poor­er."  "If yesterday sin  of road alcohol  rage, abuse  the church," in what appeared to be a reference to allegations  
including the universities, Hispanic  student clubs on campus.  In  the  had a rather  and even  rude­ in the United States and other  
scholarship organizations, U.S. News & World Report's annual sur­vey "America's Best Colleges," and  "Students are central to our mis­sion and have been incorporated into the life of the institute from the  Vatican's latest update on how God's law is  individualistic dimension, today it  ness behind the wheel. Vatican offi­ countries of sexual abuse by clergy of minors and the coverups by hierarchy.  
Hispanic Outlook in Higher Education, which publishes a list of the top 100 institutions that award bachelor's degrees to Hispanics.  beginning," said ILS director Gilberto Cardenas, assistant provost for institutional relations and the Julian Samora Professor of Latino  being violated in today's world, Monsignor  has a weight, a resonance, that's especially social,  cials, however, stressed that Girotti's com­ments broke no  The monsignor acknowl­edged the "objective gravity" of the allegations, but contended that the heavy coverage by  
Diversifying Notre Dame's popula­ Studies.  Gianfranco  rather than  new ground on  mass media of the scandals  
tion has been a top priority for the University for some two decades.  "Recognizing that the needs of individual students vary, we strive to  Girotti, head of  the the  individual. ,,  what constitutes sin.  must also because it  be denounced "discredits the  
Since 1987, minority enrollment has  create a sense of community at  Apostolic  On the environ­ church."  
increased from 7.5 percent to more­ Notre Dame through maintaining a  Penitentiary,  Gianfranco Girotti  ment, both Pope  Benedict has been leading  
than 21 percent. Hispanics cur­rently constitute 9 percent of under­graduate enrollment.  balance among education, research and outreach. We have established both a minor and supplementary  was asked by the Vatican newspaper  head of Apostolic Penitentiary  Benedict XVI and the late Pope John Paul II fre­ the Vatican's campaign against abortion, and Girotti was asked about the "widespread  
Hispanic Magazine praised the  major in Latino studies and offer a  L' Osservatore  quently  perception" that the church  
Latino Community Leadership  variety of classes in fields including  Romano what, in his opinion,  expressed concern about the  doesn't consider the "difficult"  
Seminar  sponsored by  Notre  political science, sociology, theology,  are the "new sins."  fate  of the  Earth.  During  predicament for women.  
Dame's Institute for Latino Studies  literature, history and art. We pro­ He cited "violations of the  Benedict's papacy, Vatican  Girotti rejected that view,  
GIS), which each year brings 40 top  vide a wide array of research and  basic rights of human nature"  engineers  have  developed  saying that Catholic organiza­ 
Latino high school students to cam­ experiential learning opportunities,  through genetic manipulation,  plans for some Holy See build­ tions help unwed mothers,  
pus in an effort to foster commit­ and we sponsor or subsidize a  drugs that "weaken the mind  ings  to  use  solar  energy,  educating "their children who  
ment to the community and Catholic  gamut of cultural and academic  and cloud intelligence," and  including photovoltaic cells on  come into the worth because of  
tradition, introduce them to Notre  events for students many initiated  the imbalance between the  the roof of the auditorium for  their lack of foresight" and  
Dame, and allow them to earn one  by the students themselves."  rich and the poor.  pilgrims' audiences with the  facilitating adoption.  

TOUR GUIDES 


NEEDED 
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions .. d' h~ ~d
tnt:en. s to .tre ne"W gt.tl es for the summer o8, fall o8 and spring 09 sessions 
~ 

~~~ 
.iii•\~
•tre.,..._ • 


~ 

A.pplications are available for pick up now: 
2.20 Main Building 
[>.·lea.. .. ... .·
se·· ret.:t.u~n.l'y.··. 5····Prrl.·('n .'T.·t.te.;~sd·..ay,..A.p.ri.ll~ ..·· 
C~!:J.estio·r1s? E-mail Betl"l Git.:tdicessi: egit.:tdice(~)ncl.,edu 

r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, March 11, 2008 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 

Hilton 
continued from page 1 
Shines and both worked to apprehend a second suspect bntwnen the Hilton Garden Inn and the Inn at Saint Mary's. 
W h e n S h i n n s a r r i v !HI , hn offered assistance to tlw St. .Joseph's County officer already tlwre and ascertained wlwthnr or not other suspects worn involved. lin also doter­mined wlwther a continuing threat existed that might have al'feeted the safl'ty of Saint Mary's 1:ampus, Gariepy said. 
Gariepy eommond1HJ the fast derisions of tlw front desk clerk and the mainte­nance man in calling thn police and hindering the sus­poet's escapn in keeping the campus safe. 
"Qui1:k action by all emer­g<' ne y r n s pond~~ r s 1: o up I e d with thn alert actions by the llilton (iardnn Inn employee, in dPiaying the suspect's 

President 
continued from page 1 
implernnnting the Study Abroad program in Home, of which she later served as director, and she also served as the counselor of the College's Ireland program. 
Alma Peter beeame acting prcsid1mt of Saint Mary's fol­lowing tho death of President Monsignor John McGrath. She served that role during the time when the College and the Univ£irsity of Notre Dame were determining whether or not to unify. In November 1971, Notre Dame and Saint departure, n~sulted in the demic building in the same best possible outcome," area this coming fall, howev­Gariepy said. er, he said there will be addi­
Many Saint Mary's students tional security coverage via hadn't heard about the inci­surveillance cameras in the 
dent when they  area.  
returned  to  "Nothing pro­ 
campus from spring break.  "It doesn't change  vides plete  a com­security  
Junior Jessica Sobczyk was one of them,  my opinion of security at Saint Mary's. I still  blanket and we therefore encourage all to be aware of  
but said a  rob­ feel safe  their surround­ 
bery occurring so close to  on campus. "  ings lant  and vigi­to suspi­ 
campus did not  cious  persons  
change  her  Jessica Sobczyk  and activity," he  
view of Saint Mary's campus.  junior  said. "We e n c o u r a g c  
"It  doesn't  everyone  to  
change  my  report all suspi­ 

opinion of spcurity at Saint cious activity and persons to Mary's," Sobczyk said. "I still campus security or the feel safe on campus." police." 
The incident is not prompt­The Observer could not ing Saint Mary's Security to reach the Hilton Garden Inn add new security patrols of and the St. Joseph County the area of campus around Police. the IIi Ito n (;arden 1 n n, Gariepy said. Upon comple­Contact Liz Harter at tion of the Spes Unica aca-charteO 1 @sain tmarys.edu 
Mary's jointly announced pivotal time in our history," termination of unification she said. "She and I enjoyed plans. Notre many visits over Dame said it the past few would admit "She and I enjoyed years. I will 
women begin­many visits over miss her wisdom 
ning in and friendship."
the past few years.
September 1972. The visitation Saint Mary's I will miss her and funeral for remained an all­wisdom and Sister Alma will women's college. take place at the
friendship. " 
Mooney said Church of Our Alma Peter was Lady of Loretto more than just a Carol Ann Mooney at Saint Mary's p reside n t an d Salint Mary's president today. The administrator, reception of the but someone body will be at important to the College's 9:30 a.m., with the funeral heritage. Mass and Eulogy beginning 
"Saint Mary's has lost not at 1:30 p.m. only a former president, but a w o m an w h o he Ip e d to Contact Liz Harter at shape our l'u ture during a eharteOl@saintmarys.edu 

Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
dition -even around highly controversial topics," Jenkins said in the statement. 
In February, the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops moved its conference from Notre Dame to a convent in Mishawaka to avoid con­nection with performance of the play. 
The play, which had been pPI'formed at Notre Dame for six years before moving off' campus in 2007, has drawn criticism in the past, most notably from South Bnnd-Fort Wayne Bishop John D'Arcy. In 2006, D'Arcy released a state­ment disagreeing with Jenkins' decision to allow per­formance of the play. 
Jenkins said he regretted that his decision would offend people like l>'Arcy as well as members of the Notre Dame community, but felt it was best for the University. 
"While I know the decision is likely to disappoint many, and perhaps satisfy no one fully, it is, in my judgment, the action that best serves the dis­tinctive mission of Notre Dame," Jenkins said. 
The Observer could not reach D'Arcy Monday night. 
Dennis Brown, assistant vice president for News and Information, would not com­ment on any recent criticism of Jenkins' decision but said the statement came because "this year's proposal has been approved." 
The anthropology, sociology and political science depart­ments co-sponsored the event, said senior Jordy Brooks, co­organizer of the play. She said she was pleased with the level of support the play has received. 
"It's been great, everyone has been really supportive and helpful in making this an academic event," she said. 
Brooks said the academic aspect to the performance will enhance the play. 
"We wantnd going into this year to makn it academic," she said. "We thought it was really important that everyone understand it their own way. Adding an academic panel was one of the greatest things to do for the performance." 
Brooks said she and the other four co-organiznrs had not reeoived any direct criti­cism for planning the play. 
Brown said thn policy .hmkins put in placo two years ago remains in ni'J'nct. In Jenkins' dosing statement on academic froedom and Catholic charactnr, released April 5, 2006, lw outlinnd four tem~ts of his philosophy used when determining whether the University could allow cer­tain events. 
lie said sponsoring speak­ers and events was "an indispensable means for pro­moting debate on controver­sial subjects." Academic departments, he said, are best for deciding which events should be sponsored. The departments must make clear that sponsorship does not imply agreement with the views presented in the event, he said. Finally, he said, a Catholic viewpoint must be discussed in relation to the event. 
An academic panel will discuss each performance after the play concludes, Jenkins said in his state­ment, and at least one of the members of the panel will discuss how issues raised in the play relate to tho Catholic tradition. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.cdu 


l01age 
continued from page 1 
taken on a nnw dimension this yoar by incorporating speakers addressing various topics related to eating, exer­dse, health and the int1uence of the nwdia on body image. 
The keynote speaker, Ann Simonton, a former top fashion model and now <HIP of tlw nation's leading author­itins on the el'feets of the media on body image, will speak tonight at 5 p.m. in the McKenna Center. 
"We wan ted 
someone who might," Tighe said. The conference will emphasize the resources and programs available for stu­dents struggling with various health and body image issues. 
Furthermore, the provoca­tive film Thin, which was also shown last year, can be viewed again Wednesday night at 8 p.m. This docu­mentary about a prominent 

"Our biggest goal is to raise awareness and get people to realize this is a major problem on campus. 
Patrick Tighe sophomore 
f\ating disorder treatment cen­tl~r reveals the emotional and physical effects of anorexia and bulimia on both the victim and their fami­lies. 
With greater publicity and a more inclusive range of topics, Tighe hopes for a better turnout at the 
someone who would have morn appeal to a broader audimH~e." Tighe said. 
Otlwr speakers at the eon­fernncn will include well­known doctors who have studiml eating disorders and rnlated psychological prob­lems. In addition, snvnral graduate students at the University will present papers on eating disorder and body image in what Tighe ealled tlw "call for papers." 
The University Counseling Center will givn several pre­sentations "addressing how to dnal with these issues and what to do if you suffer with an eating disorder or know llealth and Body Image Conference this year. 

"Our biggest goal is to raise awareness and get people to realize this is a major prob­lem on campus," Tighe said. 
Students can register for the conference online or can attend any of the events over the next three days without prior registration. For a list of tho speakers and events at the conference or to register online, students ean visit the student government website at nd.edu/-studegov/. 
~~~9-'';/':/':,,-,:-,-'~::-· 
< 
~ 
.y 
'( 



The Riley Prize 
• 
lll 


Pui History and Criticism 
The Department of Att, Art History and Design is pleased to announce its annual competition for the Ri1ey Prize in Art History and Criticisn1. Current Notre Dan1e undergraduate and graduate students are invited to suhmit essays on any topic in the history of art or art crihcism for consideration in the cotnpetition, Essays 1nust deal with the vjsual arts. They tnay have been wri1tten in conjunction with a course taken at the University~ but need not have been. 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, March 11, 2008 CcHvtrH.ED FROM THE OBSERVER'S W!RE Sf:RV!CES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
AI-Qaida responsible for kidnappings 
CAIRO, Egypt -Al-Qaida in Islamic North Africa claimed responsibility for kidnapping two Austrian tourists last month in Tunisia in an audio recording aired Monday on Al-Jazeera television. 
A man who identified himself as Salah Abu Mohammed said in the recording that the terror­ist group kidnapped the two Austrians on Feb. 22 in retribution for Western cooperation with Israel, but said the hostages were in good health. 
"We tell Western tourists that at the same time they are flowing into Tunisian lands seeking joy, our brothers are being slain in Gaza by the Jews with the collaboration of the Western states," said Abu Mohammed. 
"The mujahedeen have previously warned and alerted them that the apostate Tunisian state can­not and will not be able to protect you, and the hands of the mujahedeen can reach you wherever you are on the Tunisian soil." 
Serbian leaders call for an election 
BELGRADE, Serbia -Serbia's caretaker gov­ernment urged the president Monday to call oarly parliamentary elections in May after· the Cabinet collapsed in a political impasse over Kosovo's deelaration of independence and ties with the European Union. 
The European Union called on Serbia's leaders to shun isolationism and keep their country on course to join the bloc, while the Bush adminis­tration urged them to focus "on the future." 
Early elections are seen as a test of whether Serbia will continue on a path toward EU mem­bership or revert to the international isolation of the 1990s under the late strongman Slobodan Milosevic. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Auburn student's murderer confesses 
AUBURN, Ala. -Authorities say a man accused of killing an Auburn University student confessed to shooting her. 
Courtney Lockhart's statement was read at a court hearing Monday. He says in the statement that he abducted Lauren Burk on the Auburn cam­pus, robbHd her and attempted to rape her before he shot her. 
The 18-year-old freshman from Marietta, Ga., was found fatally wounded Tuesday night about live miles from the campus. Lockhart in the state­ment describes setting her car on fire after the shooting. 
His statement was read in a Lee County court­room as several thousand Auburn University stu­dents held a memorial service for Burk on campus. 

Polar bear legislation decision delayed 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska -Three conservation groups sued the Department of the Interior on Monday for missing a deadline on a decision to list polar bears as threatened because of the loss of Arctic sea ice. 
A decision was due Jan. 9, one year after the 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service proposed listing the animals as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. 
Agency Director Dale Hall said in January that officials needed a few more weeks to make a deci­sion. But two months later, no decision has been announced. 
LOCAL NEWS 
RCA Dome memorablia to be sold 
INDIANAPOLIS -Stadium seats, turf and even pieces of the soon-to-be-razed RCA Dome's roof are available to buy online by fans who want a piece of Indianapolis sports history. 
A pair of stadium seats will cost $450. 
Along with fixed-price items, an online auc­tion began Monday afternoon. Items up for bid include lockers for tight end Dallas Clark and center Jeff Saturday and the midfield helmet turf logo. 
The RCA Dome opened in 1984 and cost $82 million to build. The new home of the Indianapolis Colts this season will be Lucas Oil Stadium being built across the street for about $700 million. 
The 63.000-seat, retractable-roof stadium is scheduled to be complete by Aug. )5, about a week before the Colts are scheduled to play a preseason game there. 


Spitzer surrounded in scandal 
New York governor accused ofbeing involved in a prostitution ring, called to resign 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Gov. Eliot Spitzer, the crusading politi­cian who built his career on rooting out corruption, apol­ogized Monday after he was accused of involvement in a prostitution ring. He did not elaborate on the scandal, which drew calls for his res­ignation. 
His stoic wife at his side, Spitzer told reporters at a hastily called news confer­ence: "I have acted in a way that violates my obligations to my family." 
"I have disappointed and failed to live up to the stan­dard I expected of myself," he said. "I must now dedi­cate some time to regain the trust of my family." 
Spitzer's involvement in the ring was caught on a federal wiretap as part of an investigation opened in recent months, according to a law enforcement official who spoke to The Associated Press on condi­tion of anonymity because of the ongoing inquiry. 
The New York Democrat, identified in legal papers as "Client 9," met last month with at least one woman in a Washington hotel, the law enforcement official said. 
The prostitution ring, identified in court papers as the Emperors Club VIP, arranged connections Spitzer spoke hours later. cal reputation on rooting out Spitzer had been expected between wealthy men and Stunned lawmakers gath­corruption. including several to testify to the state Public more than 50 prostitutes in ered around televisions at headline-making battles Integrity Commission he had New York, Washington, D.C., the state Capitol in Albany to with Wall Street while serv­created to answer for his Los Angeles, Miami, London watch, and a media mob ing as attorney general. He role in the scandal, in which and Paris, prosecutors said. gathered outside the office stormed into the governor's his aides were accused of Four people allegedly con­of Lt. Gov. David Paterson, office in 2006 with a historic misusing state police to nected to the high-end ring who would become gover­share of the vote, vowing to compile travel records to were arrested last week. nor if Spitzer was to resign. continue his no-nonsense embarrass Senate 
The club's Web site dis­It took opponents only min­approach to fixing one of the Republican leader Joseph plays photographs of scanti­utes to call for his resigna­nation's worst governments. Bruno. ly clad women wtth their tion. Time magazine had Spitzer had served two faces hidden. It also shows "Today's news that Eliot named him "Crusader of the terms as attorney general hourly rates depending on Spitzer was likely involved Year" when he was attorney where he pursued criminal whether the prostitutes with a prostitution ring and general and the tabloids and civil cases and cracked were rated with one dia­his refusal to deny it leads to proclaimed him "Eliot Ness." down on misconduct and mond, the lowest ranking, or one inescapable conclusion: But his term as governor conflicts of interests on Wall seven diamonds, the highest. He has disgraced his office has been marred by prob­Street and in corporate The most highly ranked and the entire state of New lems, including an unpopu­America. He had previously prostitutes cost $5,500 an York," said Assembly lar plan to grant driver's been a prosecutor in the hour, prosecutors said. Republican leader James licenses to illegal immi­Manhattan District 
The scandal was first Tedisco. "He should resign grants and a plot by his Attorney's Office, handling reported on The New York his office immediately." aides to smear Spitzer's organized crime and white­Times' Web site. Spitzer, 48, built his politi-main Republican nemesis. collar crime cases. 


IRAQ 
Suicide bom_b kills five U.S. soldiers 
Associated Press 
districts. borhood when a man in his 30s deto­
The military insists that recent nated his explosives about 30 feet 

BAGHDAD -A suicide bomber attacks do not point to a growing away, said a police officer who wit­killed five U.S. soldiers as they chat­trend in violence, and continues to nessed the attack. He spoke on con­ted with shop owners while on a foot tout the security gains achieved over dition of anonymity because he was patrol in central Baghdad on the past year. not allowed to talk to the media. Monday, the deadliest attack on At an'y rate, the push over the past Four of the soldiers died at the American forces in the heavily forti­six months to place U.S. bases inside scene, and the fifth died later from fied capital in more than eight neighborhoods and get soldiers out wounds, the military said. Three months. of their armored vehicles increases other Ameriean soldiers and an Iraqi 
The bombing, just four days after the Americans' vulnerability to interpreter were also wounded in the nearly simultaneous blasts killed attacks. While the face-to-face con­attack, which military spokesman scores of people in a vibrant Shiite tact from foot patrols builds good­Maj. Mark Cheadle said was "was commercial district, again showed will, it also gives suicide bombers, reported to us as a suicide bomber." the insurgents' ability to strike inside who often slip past security vehicle Iraqi police said two civilians were a capital secured by hundreds of checkpoints by walking, better also killed. security checkpoints, U.S.-funded access to striking soldiers. It was the deadliest attack against neighborhood watch groups and On Monday, the soldiers were the U.S. military since Jan. 28, when hundreds of miles of blast walls that walking in a shopping district of the five soldiers were killed in a roadside surround buildings and cordon off predominantly Sunni Mansour neigh-bomb in the northern city of Mosul. 
.------------------------------------------------------·· page 6 Tuesday, March II, 2008
The Observer + NEWS 
GUATEMALA 

Docu111entation fraud causes adoption li111bo 
Discrepancies found with papers of nine kids 
Associa(ed Press 
GUATEMALA CITY Ludany Ball's adoption file says sho was born 14 months ago by Caosan~an snction to a singln mother who gave her up so slw could be raised by a lov­ing family in a six-bodroom Indiana farmhouse. 
But now some of thn doeu­monts appoar to bn fraudulnnt, part of a slnw of irrngularitios at tho agency handling Luciany's adoption that have Inn dozm1s of babies in dangnr of being seiznd from their anguishnd American adoptive parents. Thn probe also casts a doud of uncertainty ovor some 2,900 pending U.S. adoptions. 
Prosneutors dnscribe their probn of Casa Quivira -eon­sidnred (;uatemala's best adop­tion agency -as their first serious attmnpt to investigatn a $100 million industry that has made tiny Guatemala the largest source of Ameriean babies al'tnr ~:hina. 
The system has dnliverod 29,400 (;uatemalan children into U.S. homes since 1990 ­so many that mw in every 100 Guatemalan babies born each year was growing up in an Amnriean home. 
But after a monthslong inves­tigation that began with the seizure of 46 babies from Casa Quivira last August, prosocu­tors say they found fraud cloaking the true identities of at loast nine ehildren and that half tlwir birth mothors could­n't be found at all. 
The fraud points to mueh doepnr problems with the flawed adoption system that Cuatnmala replaced in January. and casts a doud of uncortainty over the back­grounds of thousands of ehil­drPn now growing up in Amnri1:a, Thn Associated Pross has lnanwd. 
Arter intnnsf' lobbying by U.S. parnnts, most of thn 2,900 JWnding U.S. adoptions will likely go forward. partly lwcausn (;uatnmala laeks the rnsourcns to fully invostigate thorn. Parents of tho Casa Quivira babios, hownver, are stuck in tlw vnry nightmare thny trind to avoid by spending at least $:~0.000 pnr child for hassln-fron adoptions. 
"I certainly wouldn't want to givn Luciany back," said Mary Ball, tlw child's adoptive moth­PI", lwr nyes wPIIing up. "She's our family. She's our daughtor." 
l'rosneutors say thn problems at Casa <)uivira indudo illng<tl paynwnts to at lnast one birth mothnr, stolen idnntities ­induding that of a child still­born 22 years ago -and a nwntally ill birth mother who was incapabln of giving eon­sent. 
A Cuatnrnalan judgn said he would announee Tuesday w lw I. h n r to JHif s u n a t r i a I against Casa Quivira's attorney and notary. Prosecutors also havn obtaimld an arrnst war­rant against the Amnrican ownor. and tlwy want fn~sh DNA tnsts for all tlw babies, oven thosn whoso papnrwork is apparnntly in ordor. 
"Tiwir rights to an identity arn violated bocauso if thnir rnotlwrs have no identity, nei­

ther do they," prosecutor Jaime Tecu told the judge. 
Luciany's story reveals some of the complexities of adop­tions in the poverty-·ridden country. 
Luciany was born on Jan. 4, 2007. ller birth mother shows up twice in her village's civil registry, with the same picture and fingerprints but different names. One says she is Marfa Natividad Hernandez, a mar­ried woman. The other -cre­ated in her village the same day she gave birth to Luciany in a hospital hours away ­identifies her as Orbelina Davila Paz, a single woman. 
Prosecutors suspect she got a false I.D. so she and her hus­band eould give the baby up without going before a judge. They believe many of the birth mothers with false identity documents were trying to get around laws that require hus­bands and grandparents to renounee their rights in court. 
Lueiany's birth mother gave her to a network of notaries and attorneys supplying babies to Casa Quivira, a spotless home in the picturesque colo­nial city of Antigua. A few weeks later, Mary and Michael Ball started adoption proceed­ings for Luciany. 
Mary Ball, 39, has .an adopt­ed sister, and has wanted to adopt a child since she was a little girl herself. Shn felt so strongly about adoption that she discussed her plan with Miehael even before getting married. 
Sh~ ehose Casa Quivira because her best friend had adopted through the same agency. Tho Balls did not want to adopt an American child out of fear the birth mother would back out at the last minute. 
"We didn't want to grow attached to a child and have that child taken away," said Ball. who prosecutes sex crimes and ehild abuse in Indiana. 


Sta.ff 
continued from page 1 
over as Scene Editor in the fall. 
Brink, a former sports writer, is a sophomore llistory major with a journalism, ethies and demoeraey minor. A resi­dent of Fisher Hall from Edgewater, Md., Brink started working as a sports writer for The Observer in the fall of his freshman year aJ1d has cov­ered Notre Dame women's soc­cer and women's basketball. 
Murphy, a junior film, televi­sion and theater major with a minor in journalism, lived in St. Edward's Hall before mov­ing ofT-campus. lie is eurrently studying abroad in Australia. He lives in West Hartford, Conn., and began working for The Observer in the fall of his freshman year, eovering hock­ey and men's soccer. 
Metz, a sophomore from Cavanaugh, is currently study­ing in London. She is an English and Homance Languages major and has cov­ered news for The Observer since her freshman year. She lives in Westfield, N.J. 
Jesse, a junior who lives in Farley Ilall. is a Graphic and Industrial Design major. She previously worked on ad and graphie design for The 


Fr. l~rry Snyder, President of Catholic Charities USA will discuss: 
• 
The mission of Catholic Charities 

• 
Getting involved in Catholic Charities 

• 
Professional and entry-level postitions 


Tuesday, March 11, 2008 
~UNIVERSITY. OF
5:30-6:~'0 p.m. 
~NOTRE DAME
Pizza Provided 
Mendoza College of Business 
Giovanini Commons, lower level Mendo2:a College of Business 
information contact (574) 631-3277 • Jean.Meade@nd.edu 
·Observer. 
King is a sophomore Accounting and Economies major who lives in Welsh Family. She lives in llouston, Tx., and was a copy editor for the Viewpoint soetion. 
llarter is a junior from Cincinnati, Ohio, who lives in LeMans Hall. She is an English Writing major with a minor in Spanish and has written for The Observer since her fresh­man year. She covered the Board of Governanee at Saint Mary's and was a copy editor for the News section. 
Lee is a junior Biological Sciences major who lives in Welsh Family Hall. She has been a photographer sinee the spring of her frnshman year. 





Catholic Charities USA® 

For more information go to http://ace.interri.googlepages.com/home 
ACE UNDER RADUATE INTERNSHIPS 


Tuesday, March 11, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 11,740.15 -153.54

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 555 69 2,805 4,261,306,905 

AMEX ·2,257;82 NASDAQ 2,169.3<4 -43.15 NYSE 8,534.37 214t;90 S&P 500 1,273.37 -20.00 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,532;13 \(),00 FTSE 100 (London) 5.629.10 -70.80 
COMPANY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  -1.32  -1.71  128.00  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -2.84  -0.69  23.63  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -1.93  -0.81  41.26  
CITIGROUP INC (C)  -5.83  -1.22  19.69  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -2.91  -0.103  3.438  
13-WEEK BILL  -7.14  -0.100  1.300  
30-YEAR BOND  -2.05  -0.093  4.448  
5-YEAR NOTE  -3.21  -0.078  2.353  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +2.75  107.90  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -2.20  972.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -3.00  81.05  
Exchange Rates  
YEN  101.5000  
EURO  0.6517  
CANADIAN DOLLAR  0.9965  
BRITISH POUND  0.4977  

IN BRIEF 
Gas prices could reach $4 a gallon 
NEW YOHK -Gasoline prices were poised Monday to set a new record at the pwnp, having surged to within half a cent of their record high of $3.227 a gallon. Oil prices, meanwhile, surged above $108 to a new inflation-adjusted record and their fifth new high in the last six sessions on an upbeat report on wholesale inventories. 
The national average price of a gallon of gas rose 0.7 cent overnight to $3.222 a gallon, 69 cents higher than one year ago, according to AM and the Oil Price Information Service. Last May, prices peaked at $3.227 as surging demand and a string of refinery outages raised concerns about supplies. 
That record will likely be left in the dust soon as gas prices accelerate toward levels that could approach $4 a gallon, though most analysts believe prices will peak below that psychologically significant mark. In its last forecast, released last month. the Energy Department said prices will likely peak around $3.40 a gallon this spring; a new forecast is due Tuesday. 
Blackwater taxes 'appear dubious' 
WASHINGTON -Asenior House Democrat has called for a wide-ranging federal investigation into Blackwater Worldwide, alleging that the private security contractor violated tax and labor laws by classifying it<> guards as independent contractors rather than company employees. 
Blackwater spokeswoman Anne Tyrrell called the charges "completely without merit." 
"Blackwater's classification of its personnel is accurate, and Blackwater has always been forth­coming about this aspect of its business with its customer, the U.S. government," she said inane­mailed statement on Monday. 
But Hep. llenry Waxman, who chairs the House Committee on Oversight and Government Heform, says Blackwater's claims on its business status "appear dubious." 
In letters sent Monday, Waxman asked the Internal Hevenue Service and the Labor Department to investigate whether Blackwater defrauded the government of tax revenue and vio­lated labor laws. Waxman also asked the Small Business Administration to determine if Blackwater violated federal regulations by claim­ing it was elit,rible lor small business preferences. 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Retail stores are feeling a cutback 
·Drop in consumer spending causes many outlets to file for bankruptcy 
Associated Press 

Tho signs that smaller retailers are struggling are unavoidable at malls across America: "Going out of business" sales at many Wilsons Leather stores. "Up to 70 percent off"' at KB Toys. 
At the once-sizzling Paradise Valley Mall in Phoenix, the space once occupied by Bombay Co., the furniture chain that went bankrupt last year, is empty. Wilsons just fin­ished liquidating its inven­tory. KB Toys, AnnTaylor and American Eagle fea­ture bold posters advertis­ing steep discounts. 
"I don't think it brings much business when all these stores are closed," said Michelle Green, a sales clerk at Fred Meyer Jewelers. 
Around the country, mall centers are starting to feel the recoil from a rapid expansion in recent years that allowed retailers to aim stores at almost every niche, from shoppers who wanted Talbots clothes for their children to those who craved Bombay's lit­tle wood tables. 
Now, consumers who are closing their wallets amid rising gasoline prices and a housing month and plans to shut­estate operations division. over the last six months, slump are forcing special­ter nearly half of its 184 "Those retailers and busi­according to data from ty retailers to pare back stores. nesses that have a product NAI Global, a commercial their brands. While still That retrenchment, that is desired by con­real estate services firm. healthy overall, mall cen­along with the Chapter 11 sumers will survive, and David Solomon, presi­ters in areas hardest hit bankruptcy of catalog those who do not will not." dent and CEO of ReStore, by the housing downturn retailer Lillian Vernon Unless the economy dra­NAI Global's retail divi­-like Paradise Valley -Corp., marks the begin­matically improves, Ansell sion, expects the vacancy are suffering the most ning of a wave of retail believes retail bankrupt­rate could hit 10 percent store shutdowns. bankruptcies that's cies this year could reach by the end of the year. 
Hetailers including expected to go well the highest level since the Suzanne Mulvee, senior AnnTaylor Stores Corp., beyond the home furnish­1991 recession. More clos­economist at Property & Talbots Inc. and Pacific ings stores hurt by the ings could leave gaping Portfolio Research, figures Sunwear of California Inc. housing malaise. holes in the nation's retail that vacancies could rise have closed hundreds of "This is economic centers, which have as high as 12.5 percent stores so far this year. Darwinism," said Dan already seen average this year. Her figure Gadget seller Sharper Ansell, a partner at vacancy rates creep up to includes retail spaces Image Corp. filed for Greenberg Traurig LLP between 7 percent and 8 where tenants have bankruptcy protection last and chairman of its real percent from 5 percent defaulted on their rents. 

BRAZIL 


Energy company accused oflabor abuse 
Associated Press 

SAO PAULO, -A team from Brazil's Labor Ministry found "degrading" living conditions for 133 sugarcane workers employed by an ethanol company whose investors include former President Clinton and other high-profile financial players. 
At five sites inspected, workers "complained they were suffering from hunger and cold, and all of the locations were overcrowded and with terrible sanitary condi­tions," according to a statement issued Friday by Jaqueline Carrijo, who led the inspections last month. 
The target of the probe, Brazil Henewable Energy Co., known as Brenco, apologized over the week­end and said it is fixing the prob­lems at its rural operations, which 
turn sugarcane into ethanol. 
Clinton's connection is via an investment in Brenco by The Yucaipa Cos., a U.S.-based fund in which Clinton was a senior advisor until last year. His investment in Brenco is valued between $15,001 and $50,000, according to a finan­cial dislosure report submitted last year by his wife, presidential can­didate Hillary Hodham Clinton. 
Yucaipa, whose chairman is prominent Democratic billionaire Ron Burkle, holds an overall 2.8 percent stake in the initial $200 million raised by Brenco last year to start up operations in Brazil's booming ethanol sector. 
Bill Clinton spokesman Matt McKenna said that the former president's investment made via Yucaipa was small but that he had been assured Brenco was "com­mitted to the highest ethical stan­

dard with regard to the treatment of its workforce and of the envi­ronment." 
"The president finds these alle­gations deeply troubling and expects Brenco to move swiftly to ensure that those responsible are held accountable," McKenna said, adding that Clinton is "taking steps to ensure that there is an appro­priate transition for his business relationships should Senator Clinton become the Democratic nominee." 
The Brazilian labor probe focused mostly on living conditions for the workers, including 17 who were paying rent to live in housing overrun by rats and cockroaches, Carrijo said. In addition, trucks lacked special seatbelts for work­ers who ride atop the vehicles as they throw sugarcane seedlings to the ground, she said. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 11, 2008 


Big Apple approves Harlem rezoning 
Residents fear proposal will sap character from the lively main street neighborhood 

Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -A city com­mission on Monday approved a massive rezoning plan for the heart of Harlem that would create condominiums, performing arts spaee, hotels and a 21-story office tower with such high-profile tenants as Major League Baseball. 
Ofl'icials say the changes approved by the Planning Commission wi II revive a cultured identi­ty that had 
"It will be a

been threat­exist now. ened by unreg­disaster." "If you had the ulated develop­resources and ment on 125th you could get a
Slkhulu Shange 

Street. a lively shovel into the 

Harlem resident

thoro ugh fare ground before 
heyday of the arts," Raynoff said. "People used to come here to be entertained. We're trying to have more Apollos." 
City Council Member Inez Dickens, who represents cen­tral Harlem, has also largely supported the plan, which would require the council's approval. Dickens has said fears that rezoning would ereate a high-rise district are unfounded. The plan, she noted, actually sets height lim­its for develop­ment that don't 

where rem­
nants of the 
neighborhood's 
legendary past sit side-by­
side with newly arrived banks 
and chain stores. 
As new development sprouts among the soul food restaurants, funky record stores and such landmarks as the Apollo Theater, Harlem's main street -named one of the nation's 10 greatest last year -is struggling to retain the character residents have cherished for decades. 
But many longtime resi­dents fear a rezoned 125th Street will price them out of their homes and erode even more of their community. 
"It will be a disaster," said Sikhulu Shange, the owner of a 125th Street record store for more than three deeades. 
"People come to llarlem, they don't come to see a McDonald's. They don't come to see a Burger King," he said. "They want to come to places like The Hecord Shack, like Sylvia's (the famed soul food restaurant), where they ean come down and feel the atmosphere of Harlem. All t.hn~~) things. they are in dan­ger. 
Many business leaders dis­agree with Shange's take on thn zoning proposal, which has been in the works for four years and would cover dozens of blocks on 124th. 125th and 126th Streets. Columbia University plans a $7 billion nxpansion on the west side of the eorridor -approved late last year -that raised simi­lar debates about displaced residents and changed neigh­borhood character. 
Tho largest arts groups in the !25th Street corridor have supportod it. Jonelle Proeopn, presidont and CEO of the Apollo Theater Foundation, said the rezoning "demonstrates a true under­standing of Harlem, where culture is not simply impor­tant. but fundamentally woven into the fabric of eom­munity." 
Tlw plan offers devolopers incentives to ernate perform­ing arts space by allowing tlwm to build three square font of spaee for every one square foot for the arts, said Planning Dopartment spokes­woman Hachaele HaynoiT. 
"We wantnd to respect the hnritagn and rnspeet the great this rezoning, no 
one could stop 
you from build­
ing something so out of con­
text, so out of character with 
the rest of the streetscape, 
you could pierce the very fab­
ric of this village of Harlem," 
Dickens said at a public hear­
ing. 
City planners will propose 
one exception to the height 
restriction: Harlem Park, the 
first large office tower to be 
built in Harlem in decades. 
• Major League Baseball is a likely tenant and the city has offered millions in other eco­nomic incentives. 
Height is a main concern for 
Franc Perry, chairman of a 
Harlem community board. 
The neighborhood is one of 
the last business districts in 
New York to allow pedestri­
ans unobstructed sky views, 
he said. 
"It has a village character. 
You really do see people 
walking down the street say­
ing hello to each other," Perry 
said. 
He said no building should 
rise higher "than the cap of 
the Hotel Theresa," the land­
mark where Louis Armstrong, 
Lena Horne and Fidel Castro 
stayed and where Malcolm X 
held meetings of the 
Organization of Afro­
American Unity after break­
ing from the Nation of Islam. 
Perry and others also worry 
that allowing about 2,500 
nnw apartments on the eorri­
dor would displace residents 
and threaten the street's com­
mercial feel. Haynoff said new 
residents would bring a eus­
tomer base for the business­
es. 
Shange said denser develop­
ment would dwarf his small 
storefront, where he has 
fought eviction for over a 
year. He said when he arrived 
in Harlem, his store· selling 
Caribbean, African and gospel 
was one of 15 music stores. 
''I'm the only one left now," 
he said. 
About 70 other small busi­
nesses with a history on the 
street feel similarly threat­
ened, he said. 
"The little bit we have, we are being disloeated. It does­n't seem that there is any­thing we can do if they are successful," Shange said. "The only thing which will help us is. that this whole plan fails." 



Pa.terson could be next N.Y. gov. 
Spitzer's lieutenant would be the state's first black leader 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y. -Less than two years after he reluctant­ly ran for lieutenant gover­nor, David Paterson is sud­denly .in line to be only the third black governor since Recom.truetion, and the first in New York. 
"He'> the next governor and probably quite soon," said Maurice Carroll, direc­tor of Quinnipiac University's Polling Institute and a longtime New York politiCal reporter. 
Atte [ltion turned to Paterson immediately after word ~:urfaeed Monday that Gov. Eliot Spitzer had been linked to a high-priced pros­titution ring. In a brief appearance in front of reporters, Spitzer issued a vague apology and did not mention resignation. 
If Spitzer quits, Paterson automatically becomes gov­ernor and would complete Spitzer's term, which ends Dec. 31l, 2010. 
There was no immediate comment from Paterson. 
Paterson, a 53-year-old Democrat from Harlem who is mostly blind, is well respected by Republicans and Democrats. 
Former New York City Mayor Edward Koeh recent­ly ealled Paterson "very capable, not withstanding his near sightlessness. It's never impeded his publie actions or his personal actions, and he's really over­come it in an extr11-ordinary way." 
Paterson, who does not use a eane or a guide dog, can make out shapes and even people up close. He lost most of his sight as an infant when an infection damaged his optic nerve. He still talks of his fragile self-esteem in childhood and recalls not being invited to parties because "people thought I would fall and hurt myself." 
Paterson's disability has never been an issue in Albany in his 20-year politi­cal career. He has memo­rized lengthy, impassioned speeches without missing a mark; cited arcane legal ref­erences in fast-paced floor debates; and won more vic­tories for his party in the 
Senate than any other leader in the Legislature. His efforts brought Democrats to within a seat of taking the Senate majori­ty for the first time in decades. 
Critics and supporters alike all point ttl the intel­lect, compassion and humor that Paterson brings to the Statehouse. When Spitzer picked him to be his running mate in 2006, Paterson deadpanned: "I told Eliot, 'Whenever you are trying to reform a system, you need a person with vision and a person who is a teehnician,' and that's what I am ... because I sure don't have vision." 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 


c~h£1W~MUSIQVE 

GREGORIAN CHANT FROM MEDIEVAL MANUSCRIPTS 
SCHOLA MUSICORUM 
8:30 & 9:30 P.M. \NEDNESDAY, MARCH 12, 2008 
REYES ORGAN AND OIORAL IIALL MAlliE 1'. Dfl\i\RTOU) CENTER ruR HH PERFORMING ARTS 
fRH AND Oi'EN TO I Hf. i'UI\l/(

llNlVERSlTY OF 
TICKHS $3

NOTRE DAME 
D£l'AR1'MENT Of' MUS.JC f'HONr 574-631-2800 FOR TICKETS 


Tuesday, March 11, 2008 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Offspring fear risk of Alzheimer's 
Study shows 22 percent ofadults ofparents with memory-loss disease developed the illness 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -One parent with Alzheimer's disease is tough enough, but imagine the mem­ory-robbing illness striking both parents -and knowing chances are high you'll get it, too. A study of more than 100 families for the first time gauges the size of that risk. 
''I'm scared," said Jackie Lustig, 52, of Sudbury, Mass., whose father died of Alzheimer's and whose mother is living it. ''I'm hoping to heck that the pharmaceutical com­panies come up with some­thing better than there is now. It's not a nice way to go." 
The study, appearing in March's Archives of Neurology, found more than 22 percent of the adult chil­dren of 111 couples with Alzheimer's had the disease themselves. Hisk grew with age. Among offspring older than 60, more than 30 percent were affected. In those older than 70, nearly 42 percent had the disease. 
Prior studies have found a 6 to 13 percent prevalence of thn disease in the U.S. popula­tion older than 65. 
At age 62. Gayle Dorman worries every time she mis­places her car keys. "Is this the day I'm going to start los­ing it?" she wonders. 
The suburban Tacoma, Wash., woman spent eight years caring for her parents, who died of Alzheimer's, and in a cruel coincidence, her husband's mother, who also died of the illness. 
She said she was surprised to learn "a lot of other people have a double whammy like I do." No one knows how many people have two afflicted par­ents, but experts say that as baby boomers age, there are likely to be more. 
for now, there's no cure for thn more than 26 million peo­ple worldwide estimated to have Alzheimer's, which grad­ually destroys memory and other mental abilities. 
Dorman took part in the University of Washington study to find out more about hnr risk and to help researchers identify culprit genes that could lead to new treatments. Families were recruited through the univer­sity's Alzheimer's research center. 
In the study, diagnoses were confirmed through medical records, autopsies and exami­nation by researchers. The parents with Alzheimer's had 297 children who lived to adulthood and 67 of those children had Alzheimer's. 
Senior author Dr. Thomas 

Bird of the University of 
Washington said he was 
uncomfortable saying the nor­
mal risk tripled or quadrupled 
in people with two affected 
parents because the study was 
small and had no comparison 
group. 
"What I'm comfortable say­ing is that risk is increased and we're working on trying to find out what the magni­tude is," Bird said. 
The study was funded by the National Institute on Aging and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. 
Bird disclosed in the paper that he has a licens­ing agreement with Athena Diagnostics Inc. The com­pany does lab testing for a gene related to late-onset Alzheimer's. But Bird 's agreement involves genetic discoveries unrelated to Alzheimer's, he said, and the company had nothing to do with the research. 
Many people with two affected parents ask their doctors to quantify their risk, experts said. 

Ferry systelll faces rough vvaters 
Associated Press 
BAINBRIDGE ISLAND, Wash. -Starved of money for nearly a decade, the nation's largest ferry system has hit rough water. 
The ferries that cruise Puget Sound and surrounding waters have become symbols of the Pacific Northwest, recalling its rich maritime history and figur­ing prominently in movies and television shows such as "Grey's Anatomy." But beneath their cheery green-and-white paint scheme, the aging ferries are rusty, old and unreliable. 
Some boats have been yanked from service for repairs. Routes have been can­celed and schedules thrown off. Washington state commuters are frustrated. 
"We have a love-fear rela­tionship with the ferries. It's our highway and there's always massive uncertainty," said Pete Gillis, 38, as he caught a ride to Bainbridge Island in Puget Sound, en route to Port Townsend, north of Seattle. 
The system's problems date back to 1999, when voters repealed a vehicle-registration tax that provided much of the money to build, maintain and operate ferries. That caused fare increases, cuts in service and delays in maintaining and replacing boats. 
"We had this aging, deterio­rating fleet that was ignored and put on the back burner," said Democratic state Rep. Sherry Appleton, whose district west of the Seattle mainland includes three ferry runs. 
State Transportation Secretary Paula Hammond says relief is on the way in the form of 13 new boats to be built over the next 20 years. 
"We've allowed the system to limp along, ignoring the long­term consequences," she said. "We were delaying the inevitable, and now we see the problem square in the face." 
The Washington ferry system hauls 24 million passengers each year, about a quarter of all U.S. ferry passengers. Its 24 vessels range from a tiny boat that links Tacoma to Vashon Island, to a tourist-friendly international run that winds through the scenic San Juan Islands to Vancouver Island in British Columbia. 

On upscale Bainbridge Island, thousands of commuters take the ferry to work in downtown Seattle, filling boats that can carry 2,500 passengers on each 30-minute crossing. 
For many riders, it's a pleas­ant time for drinking coffee and reading the morning paper. Some catch up on work using free wireless Internet access. Others just catch a few extra winks. 
I 

It's not cheap, even though .I I the state subsidizes the system. A walk-on passenger pays $6.70 a day-$134 a month, minus commuter discounts. Driving a car onto the ferry costs $11.55 each direction, or $460 a month for 20 workdays. 
But many commuters cheer­fully swallow those prices, making up the difference on cheaper real estate across the water from pricey Seattle. 

THE 0 1BSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page I 0 Tuesday, March 11, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Torture on, patriots 
1'0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Smuh Dining Hall. Norre Dame. IN 46SS6 
EDITOR IN CIIIEF Chri• Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 

A~s·1: MANAc;ING ElliTOR: Katie Kohler 
Ass·1: MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Hill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EDITOJt: KC~ra King 
SJ•orus EDI H>R: Chris Hine 
SCENE EDITOR: T;w Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EmToR: l.i~ llarrcr 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jcs.~ica Lee 
GllAI'IIIC~ EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
AllVFIUISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGI,R: Kelly Gronli 
CONTI!OI.LHI: "l"im Soholew,ki 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardi.t 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
('574) 6.ll-7117l 
FAX 
(574) 6.\l-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(~74) (,J[-(,<JOO ohscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(5711) (l) l-'l'i42 
MANAGING EDITOR 
('i74) 631 ,-i'i·ll oh,me@'nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) (l.\l-'\324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-'i313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) (,_~l-5323 ohsnt•ws.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
('i74) 6.11-5303 vic·wpoim.l @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
('i74) 6.31-4543 sports.I@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4'540 scenc.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
('574) 631-8767 obsphow@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
I"HE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not govcrnnl by policit-s of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse ;tdvcniscmcnts based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediwr in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edirors and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the views of the ;turhors and nor necessarily 1hosc ofThc Observer. 
Vicwpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.t·ttcrs ro the Editor must be signed and must include contacc intl>rtnarion. 
Qumiom rrgarding Obs~r[ler policies should be direaed to Editor ir1 ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

·n,~· (lh..rrv('l {LISI''\ 'ii)•J .2-41MIII) '' puhi.J,cd Mumf;~y dunu~h hitl01y CX<..'t'pt dming t'LIIU .1m! v;I,'JIIt•ll ~l<.-fl•~<k A ,ul~rtp!IOI! Ill Thr Obv:rvrr i" $HHI!i,r nnr .ICO!dcmic yc,1r; S'i'i fllf Ullt' ~t·mc.•lcr 
I"hc Oh\ctvet i' puhli•hc,l.u i'<JSTMASTI'R ()llj ~ou1h illlllllK ff,lll Nnuc: D.1mc. IN Jl(,'j')(>.{ln9 Thc:Clh~rvcr 
Pt'ric~tlllal i'mLlgt· p.uJ ~• Nulr'C D~me t~U.tklll:n9 .11\d Jdd111un.11 uwhnM, olface.l t12A Sotllh Dining llo~.ll. Nom: Dame. IN 46S"iU·On9 
The Oh~t"I'VC"I 1~ .1 nwmhtr ulthc Allo~IC!Jit'd l'r..:\\, All repmducliun tiglm 1ttt' rc~ervnl. 
The House and the Senate presented the President with a bill last week that would have prevented American intelli­gence agencies, specifically the CIA, lh1111 USing certain techniques of prison­er interrogation which many foreign countries and human rights groups have labeled torture. One criti­cized technique is waterboarding, a mnthod whern intPrrogators stwtch a prisonnr on his back and ele­vate his rent, gag his mouth with cloth or plastic lihn, and pour wat!H' onto his face. Watnrboarding induces gagging. simu­latPs tlw sensation of drowning, and gives the fear or imminent death. President Bush quickly vetoed the bill. sending a dear signal that the United StatPs will allow torture when and \VIwre it deems fit. 
The sanction of waterboarding puts us in t.lm proud ranks of interrogators from t.lw Spanish Inquisition, Pinodwt's Chilean regime, and the Khmer Houge, all of' whom used the teehniquo or varia­tions thereof. The President tried to draw attention away from waterboard­ing, pointing out. the bill "would not sim­ply ban one particular interrogation method" but "would eliminate all the alternative procedures we've developed to question the world's most dangerous and violent tnrrorists." 
The President is correct: the bill would ban any technique not found in the U.S. Army Field Manual. Those secret. unlisted techniques (all of whose efl'ectiveness remains disputed) include being made to remain standing for exor­bitant lengths of time, undergoing slaps to the belly, and standing naked in cold cells while being drenched. The Bush administration insists the U.S. does not practice torture and tries to sanitize such methods by calling them 

James Dechant 
Foregone Conclusion 
"enhanced interrogation techniques." That dark euphemism cannot disguise the fact that waterboarding is designed to psychologically ravage prisoners (who may or may not have received a trial, given current U.S. policy) with the goal of extracting information. The CIA actu­ally prohibits waterboarding presently and claims not to have used the tech­nique since 2003, but the President wants to leave the option on the tablf\. The consent of the President and Attorney General in specific cases could allow for its use. 
The President who condones all this once staked his candidacy on promises to clean up Washington. lie vowed to restore dignity to governnwnt. But if we are truly to be a nation of moral dignity acting on our principles, then our poli­cies must reflect our character. By pnr­mitting even the chance that thn CIA might use torture, we nffectiwly give ourselves the power to choose when another human being suffers. We make ourselves the ultimate moral authority. 
Supporters of this abhorrent policy nat up a masculinized vision of American justice and portray themselves as inli­nitely morn pragmatic than those who oppose torture. They think they alone accept the "tough reality" of our current military situation and understand the valuable information torture can yit~ld. But tell me who is more realistic: "bleeding-heart liberals" who believe we can foil terrorists without resorting to inhumane methods and compromis­ing our morality, or "freedom-loving patriots" who buy into the action-hero image of Jack Bauer squeezing out that necessary clue just in the nick of time by a willingness to use methods outside the law? Please excuse me if I do not buy into the pragmatic argument. 
Bush's veto centers on the proposition that our safety rests on not revealing our hand. "It is vitally important," he said, "that the CIA be allowed to main­tain a separate and classified interroga­tion program." Otherwise, militant organizations can train themselves to resist acknowledged techniques, such as the nineteen outlined in the Army Field Manual. The amount that a terrorist can 
prepare himself for interrogation is 
doubtful. and such second-guessing still 
does not morally justify the techniques, 
yet this argument actually contains 
some logic. Interrogation can rnvnal 
information; tc~rrorists resist interroga­
tion when they know techniques before­
hand; tlwreforn, knep a few sncrnt 
methods in reserve. 
Nevertheless, the argum1mt is funda­
mentally flawed, and most certainly 
bereft of the morality to which wn 
aspire. Its problem lies in a dogmatic 
adherence to tlw acwpted diseourso of 
msolution, a disl'oursn with eonllict 
built in. To be dnan~r: the desire to knep 
our a'rsnnal of anti-terrorist methods 
perpetually one stl'p ahead of' tho mwmy 
antidpatns, in its vnry naturn, the eon­
tinund existence of' conllict. I! dons not 
allow for a way out of' the eonlhmtation­
al cydP. This modP or thinking assunws 
that "might makns right" and that our 
military superiority must prncndP our 
moral justificatiOJl. First we kill the bad 
guys. thnn Wf) show nveryonn how virtu­
ous wn are. It prPdudns the possibility 
or a non-violl~nt solution to our hostili­
tif\S. Bush's veto symbolizes tlu~ broad 
renoUtH:nment of cJiplomacy and locks 
us into an nndlt)ss contest or st.rPngth. 
II" we wish to fully commit ourselves to accepting an intnrnationallnadnrship role then we must reject the usn of secret torture techniques on any prison­er, terrorist or otherwise. We must also abandon the testostnrone-driven, pulp­fiction-born notion that such techniques are the best del'nnse against an unavoid­able reality. Rather than resign our­selves to an endless cycle of conllicl, we must look beyond the violent discourse of military superiority, become better than our enemies, and set a moral example for the world. 
James Dechant is a senior English and Theology major. Questions. comments, and rude remarks can be sent to him at jdechant@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Bill Brink Fran Tolan How far will Men's Basketball go Beck): I logan Alex Barker 
in the Big East tournament? 
Nikki Taylor Meaghan Veselik Graphics Scene Loso in quarterfinals "To have a right to do a thing is not Andrea Archer Tae Andrews Loso in semifinals at all the same as to be right in 
doing it." ·

Viewpoint I ,ose in finals Maria Stohler Win it all 
G.K. Chesterton author 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 11, 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Boxing with purpose 
In response to Ryan Simmons' "Strong Bodies Fight" (Feb. 28), I agree that there is much more to the Bengal Bouts than winning a trophy. The Bouts do a fantastic job of raising money for the poor and underprivileged of Bangladesh. His view that all the practices and training were worthwhile, even though he does not get to fight, is a great view of the situation and one that I'm sure the boxing club desires for all their fighters. 
However, I have a problem with Simmons' statement that " ... selfish pride is for freshmen and novices who learn to drop after their first year." First, I would not consider fighting just for a shot to win "selfish pride." Numerous fighters enter the ring to prove to themselves that they are capable of facing fear, taking a punch and delivering one back. Some happen to be good at it and enjoy it-others, not so much. 
Who's to say if one enters the Bouts in order to try to win is because of selfish pride? It could be out of a competitive nature and the desire to win -all the while keeping the mission of the Bouts in perspective. 
Furthermore, I see no correlation between this so-called "selfish pride" and freshman and novices who drop after their first year. Simmons is wrong judging those who do not fight after their first year. Those young men (and women of the Baraka Bouts) should be complimented and applauded for at least trying and having the courage to enter the ring, not ridiculed because they find it is not for them. Their one year of 
Nerds hurt too 

Last I checked, which I do at least six times a day, The Observer was "an independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." It's right there on the cover, so I don't know why I'm con­stantly checking that, but that's a separate issue. 
Despite this stance, The Observer forces its audience, practically at gunpoint, to turn against itself several times a year. I agree with Liz Froehlke's view ("Offensive comic strip demeans women," Feb. 
27) that the Viewpoint has been pretty dull lately, what with there being no comic strip controversy in the last several months. In fact, it rarely stirs an exciting debate, outside of politics, campus traditions, the Vagina Monologues, race and gender issues, and religion -which certainly speaks to the actual intellectual vigor of its audience, you bottom-feeders, you-but publishing a truly offensive comic that not only is disparaging to, but also "dispar­ages against," nerds and so many of the students whose petty whims you supposedly "serve" should not be your fall-back for increasing readership. 
The "nerdy-guys-commenting-on-girls' -frigidity" comic pub­lished recently ("Lollerskates," Feb. 26) actually hurts the opposite group that it intends to insult. It makes active, "cool" people with real lives -like comic writers -look like arrogant bullies. And we all know that a bully is really just insecure in his newsprint core. How pathetic that a person who has actually spoken to a girl before feels the need to pick on a group of nerds that even U.S. News and World Report's rankings-and they totally make them -would not place in the same category, namely "appealing peo­ple." 
So pathetically pathetic. The saddest part of all this, for me, is that nerds make up part of The Observer staff. I can't believe any self-respecting nerd... actually exists. But ifhe did, he would never allow this offensive material to be a part of what he represented. At least not after he stopped crying. 
I love Notre Dame. Carnally. Possibly because of that, I don't actually have any close "cool" friends, but ifI had some, you popu­lar Observer people would be making them look ignorant and arrogant. Hey, come to think of it ... 
Anyway, Notre Dame is like a red giant in a small spiral galaxy: South Bend. (Astrophysics metaphors always did it for me better than outdoorsman ones.) Outside of this star cluster, there are much bigger ones in which you "interesting" people (who leave your rooms on Saturday night) would feel much smaller. Remember that, and stop trying to instigate a debate that isn't even valid, that has been beaten into the ground, that no one wants to have, and that I happen to be participating in with great vehemence and verbosity. 
If The Observer's mission is to serve Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and me personally, but mostly just me, then I suggest it start pro­moting the shared and unique aspects of both "cool" people and nerds that we all have to be proud of, whether we like it or not, and stop encouraging material that turns this community against itself in an infmite regress of inward turns spiraling into nerd-hate oblivion. 
Bow to my hypersensitivity! 
Andy Gray sophomore Siegfried Hall Feb.27 

service did not go to Wi:lSte. They participated in the Bengal Bouts and helped raise money for the Bangladesh Missions. 
Many fighters participate for one year to say they gave it a shot, and in the process helped a great cause. As a former Bengal Bouts partici­pant (only fighting one year), I am disappointed Simmons believes fighters drop after one year due to "selfish pride." Before joining the boxing club, I had never been in a true fight. I wanted to participate in the Bouts in order to prove to myself that I can take a punch and return it while helping a great cause along the way. However, this year I joined the Notre Dame Rugby Club and to add boxing, along with other activities and school, would be far too great a time commitment for me. I'm sure others have not boxed after their first year due to similar reasons, or because of class, or because boxing simply wasn't their thing. 
Bengal Bouts participants deserve a great amount of respect, and the purpose of the fights should be kept in mind. However, those who box but do not continue after their first year should not be associated with "selfish pride," but instead remembered and applauded for their year of dedication, hard work, and service. 
Ben Frost 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Feb. 29 

Real issues 
Congratulations to Greg Yatarola on his recent Observer article, "Challenging male promiscuity," (Feb. 26). From my reading of the Letters to the Editor for almost the last five years, it would seem that the main interest of students is sex. Students live for the weekends to be free of classes and to get to the important issues of alcohol and sex, or at least attempting to find a sexual partner, and if not in reality, at least in imagination. 
This school year has been the first time in five years that I've seen any articles specifically counter­ing the wanton use of sex, besides those arguing against "The Vagina Monologues." Also, each year there are several things put on by the student Right To Life organization, including talks on respect for sex. So it has been refreshing to see the article regarding pornography by Fr. Lou DelFra and the recent Yatarola article. 
A college-age man caught me off guard one day by asking me how to keep pure and chaste. I didn't know if he was Catholic or not, so I didn't give him the complete answer -which for a Catholic would be frequent participation in the Sacraments of Reconciliation and the Eucharist, both attending and receiving. A third major help would be daily, individ­ual, private prayer, including prayer to the Blessed Virgin Mar_y. 
Brother Bill Mewes, C.S.C. alumnus Columba Hall Feb. 28 



Defending 'Breytopia' 
During the recent presidential elections for Student Government, we all heard numerous cam­paign promises and pledges by the various candi­dates. I noticed a recurring theme: most ofthe can­didates stressed that their most important goal was service to the student body. Bob Reish and Grant Schmidt, the winners in that hotly contested elec­tim'l., seemed to put particular stress on the idea that their actions would be directly tied to whatever issues were deemed especially important by the students. 
Well, gentlemen, consider this your first request. Last Friday, the faithful members of "Breytopia," the dedicated ranks of the Leprechaun Legion that camp out in advance for basketball games, were broken up and chased off by NDSP, threatened away by citations and ResLife. Many seniors were bullied out of camping for the last basketball game they will get the chance to see. 
At a school that has developed such a strong home-court advantage (36 straight home wins speak for themselves), to have this entirely unnec­essary and uncalled for display against school spirit and team support is simply outrageous. This is not the first time NDSP has chosen to break up one of these sleeping sessions, and I doubt that it will be the last unless quick and efficient action is taken. 
Students camping out for basketball games is far from unprecedented at schools around the country, and even has a rich history at our own University. 
The team's performance over the past few years shows that Mike Brey is bringing the program back to the status it rightly deserves. However, when one looks at the truly elite basketball programs around the U.S. (North Carolina, Kansas, Duke, etc.), it is easy to see what these institutions have in common: an enthusiastic, energetic, and dedicated fanbase. To have Notre Dame's own security force take actions to cut fan energy is entirely counterproduc­tive to the rise of the program. Imagine Duke shut­ting down Krzyzewskiville! This type of action should not be tolerated by Father Jenkins, Father Poorman, and the rest of the administration, and especially not by our own Student Government. 
If Bob and Grant really want to make their mark in the coming year, they should get started right now by opening discussion with NDSP and ResLife about arranging a safe haven for students that want nothing more than to camp out and watch our Fighting Irish take the hardwood. With almost all of this year's squad returning, next year is bound to be an exciting year for Notre Dame basketball. It would be unfortunate if, during a year that could be so important for the program, the University allowed the negative actions of NDSP to continue. 
In the words of one very distinguished (and awfully handsome) former presidential candidate: "The only thing that should be louder than these pants is the voice of the student body." Well, Bob and Grant, I hope you are taking the time to listen: this is an issue that must be addressed. 
Dan Rimkus freshman Zahm House -Feb. 24 

Comics in good humor 
lf I ever have any daughters in the future, I would love for them to attend a college like Saint Mary's. However, as Liz Froehlke and others' outrage illus­trates, there is one thing that is clearly not being taught at Saint Mary's: a sense of humor. You have to be able to poke fun at yourself. "Black Dog" ran a comic making fun of Georgians (Feb. 27), portraying them as wanting nothing more than a big trailer. I've lived in Georgia my entire life and never once set foot in a trailer. Yet I laughed. From the typecasted character of Cohutta on MlVs "The Real World" to the brother-"loving" Georgia girl on "Nip'fuck", pop culture repeatedly represents Georgians in a stereo­typical way. Yet they're hilarious in their absurdity. 
And that's the point of the comics. You don't get a caricature made at Disney World only to be out­raged that it doesn't look like you. Being offended at a comic that pokes fun at a Saint Mary's education only reveals your inner insecurities about such an education. Ifwe're going to get offended at every comic that stretches the truth to the point of absurd­ity, we get stuck with poorly drawn pictures that only leave us confused ("Flu at ND" anyone?). 
So I applaud Didier and· the other comics that tread the line of absurdity. And ifyou disagree with me, you can find me in my '69 Dodge Charger mak­ing out with my sister and writing my next Viewpoint about how the South should have won the War of Northern Aggression. Damn Yankees. 
John Neiner senior off campus Feb.28 

THE C~BSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, February 11, 2008 
By CASSIE BELEK As,isranr Scene Editor 
Will Fnrrdl's aet may be getting old but it's still good for a few laugl ts. In his latest comedy oiTering, "Semi­Pro," Ferrell squmm~s into a pair of short short<; and eontinues his trond of playing an ovDrsized bull"oon who can't SI!Om to get a grip on reality. It's a shtick that has brought in box nflice gold ovPr the yPars, but after seeing
\ 

\ 
"Semi-Pro," it is clear that Ferrell will need to explore new avenues bBforo 
his eomody beeomes stale. But thPn again, he docs wrestle a bear this timD around. 
FPrrnll stars as .Jackie Moon, a om~­hit wonder (for the disco ditty '"Love Me Sexy") and owm~r. head coach and power forward of the Flint Tropics, the worst team in th1~ American Basketball Association. When .laekie finds out that the ABA is going to merge with the National Basketball Association, he convinces the ABA commissioner (David Koechner) to take the top four t~~ams to the NBA, giving the Tropicf, one last chance lor survival. Not only does .Jackie become an expert at promo­tions to increase attendance (hence the bear wrestling), but he trades the team's washing maehine for former Boston Celtics player Ed Monix (Woody Harrelson). Monix is a washed-up point hruard, but he takes his basketball know-how and tries to turn the team around in time li1r the morger. 
The movie hits a maJor snag with the padng. First-time director Ken Alterman doesn't keep the funny coming fast enough and instead tries to inject some heart into the plot. But scones like those bPtween Monix and lady love Lynn (Maura Tierney) fall fiat. I larrelson plays the straight man too straight, and Tierney is even straighter. We care little for their relationship because they're just so gosh darn boring. Michael Cora proved in "Superbad" that the straight man can be funny too, but Harmison's performanee evokes little laughter in "Semi-Pro." 
Of eourse, every COmDdy ha<; bright spots. Andre Benjamin of Outkast makes a refreshing appearance a<; a funky NBA-wannabe trapped on a terrible basketball team. Comedians Will Arnett and Andrew Daly are bril­liant as the loyal Tropics radio announcers and television show hosts. Arnott's Lou Redwood always has a drink in his hand as Daly's Diek Pepperlield does most of the real announcing. Daly's humor is so dry and spot on, that at tin1es we forget that he's an actor and not a real sportsea<;ter. 
However, just like thfl Tropics play like a second string high school ba<;­

Woody Harrelson demonstrates the Xs and Os of Ed Monix, a member of the last-place Aint Tropics. 
ketball team, the ea-;t appears to be a collection of second string players from the Will Ferrell and Judd Apatow gangs. With star players Paul Hudd and Steve Carnll moving on to bigger and better pn~jccl<;, Fermll is left with people like Hob Corddry and Andy Hiehtnr. While them is no doubt that these comedians are absolutely hilarious. "Semi-Pro" does little to demonstrate their comedic talent. These actors will have to keep on try­ing to find their "Anchorman" since Alterman never quitl' lets them shine. 
"Semi-Pro" can make no claims of brilliance; it's meat and potatons tures Jackie M. sun and the re: sea horse anc rehearsing for tainmcnt. All tl versation is taJ ers look like th1 lloat at a bowl . erous, but it ~ "Semi-Pro" 1 Ferrell's bnm rwming out of s 
Contact Cassie cbelek@nd.edt 

comedy, Will Ferrell-style. True fans of Ferrell will appreciate his performance, but those look­ing for a good movie won't tind it hern. "Semi­Pro" could have used more over­the-top, ridicu­lous situations and less realism and heart. After all, one of the funniest scenes in the movie lea­
Semi-Pre 
Donners' Com1 
Director: Kent Alterman Starring: Will Ferrell, WO< Andre Benjamin and Will 




THE OBSERVER 


CENE 
"I feel like my mind is an encore." 
These immortal words were uttered by a friend during a much needed coffee break. After hours of drawn out academ­ic exertion, we, like many others, flocked to Waddick's for our daily 
Jess Shaffer 

ritual of caf­fination. This 
Scene & Heard

remark most likely does not warrant being recounted in print. But alas, I've looked beyond the superficial lunacy of the comment. Its claim made me consid­er some wwy real an existential truths about life under the influence, of caffeine that is. · 
Truth Number One: Cotree defies reali­ty. In college, there is no escape like caf­feine. Okay, maybe there is no du Lac friendly escape like caffeine. The most obvious case of coffee's delusional power is its dominance over sleep deprivation. Coffee is the all-nighter's best friend. 
Any advisor or physician would suggest water and healthy eating habits as the perfect fuel for your academic fighting machine. But then again, who listens to someone whose trying to rob us of our god given right to eat fried foods and stay awake into the wee hours of the morn­ing? This article is about wonderfully unhealthy caffeine habits, not addiction to carrots and such. 
Ultimately, everyone knows that noth­ing provides a quick fix like a hot cup of joe. Coffee can defeat the worst karma and the dreariest day with rejuvenation and energy. It provides miraculous serv­ices to college students everywhere. 
Truth Number Two: Cause and Effect. As mom always said, "Everything in Moderation." Caffeine can do strange and wonderful things. Case and point: 2 AM trip to St. Liam's after two pots of extra strong cofl'ee. Heart palpitations aren't as cool as they sound. And then there is the whole confusing affect of being awake when you should be asleep. There is that point in cafiination where up becomes down. The thin line between opposites becomes confused and non­sense ensues. Remember that mental encore. 
Truth Number Three: You are what Tuesday, February 11, 2008 
dressed a..<; a giant the team donning ingo costumes, pre-show enter­while a serious con-place as the play­about to hop on a parade. It's Judi­Unfortunately, inly shows that of comedy may be 
page 13 
courtesy of scoote~oescoffee.com 

Other coffee drinks such as this latte can provide a break from the routine. 
you drink. The beautiful thing about cof­fee is its ability to compliment the per­sonality of every drinker. Black coffee for those not so faint of heart. Frappaccinos for our beloved pink-iPod-listening Grey's Anatomy fans. Cappuccinos for seniors missing their year abroad in Europe. Soy infusions for granola yuppies. Mochas for chocolate lovers. The stereotyping is end­less. Coffee is all about what you, as an individual, want. Just remember that you define your cofTee. Don't let your coffee define you. 
Caffeine may be the path to greater enlightenment. So make sure to hit up your cafe of choice. Whether it comes from Waddieks, Decio, or Starbucks, approach your daily jolt with a newfound appreciation. It may open your eyes to your own, nonsensical mental encore. Then again, it could also leave you a sleepless zombie. But at least you'll be in good company. 
The views expressed in Scene & Heard are those ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect those ofThe Obseruer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe 1 @nd. edu 

Photo courtesy of mrianingrum.wordpress.com A piping hot cup of joe can help even the most bel~uered and sleep-deprived stu­dent power through his or her studies, no matter what t1me of night or early morning. 
page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
MEN's lACROSSE 


UNC hands squad first loss 
Tuesday, March 11, 2008 

NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish fall to Yellovv Jackets, blank Havvaii 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI 
Sports Wrirer 
Notre Dame lost for the first time this season 8-6 to North Carolina Saturday in Chapel lliU. 
The Irish (4-1), ranked No. 7 in the most recent Nikellnside Lacrosse Poll, lost despite out­shooting the Tar Heels 41-29. Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan said his team was done in by a combination of an outstanding performance by UNC goalie Grant Zimmerman and a general lack of execution by the Irish. 
"It wasn't them, it was us," Corrigan said. "We had the first five shots of the game, and their goalie had four saves before they even had the ball at the offensive end of the field. We controlled the ball for the large part of the game, we just gave up some goals we didn't need to give up and didn't take advan­tage of our opportunities." 
Junior midfielder Ben Hunt scored the Tar Heels' first goal with 5:45 left in the first period. The score was Hunt's first of five and began a run of five unanswered Tar Heels goals that lasted until the second half. 
Corrigan said he did not berate his team at halftime because it knew its situation. 
"I think our guys felt like [we] weren't dominating play," he said. ':[The Tar Heels] were dominating the scoreboard but they weren't dominating play. It wasn't anything I felt like I had to say or do. We were disap­pointed in the poise we showed offensively but we knew that we were right in the game. We just had to start cashing it on oppor­tunities." 
The Irish responded to their collective disappointment by going on a tear of their own. Senior midfielder Michael Podgajny scored Notre Dame's first goal just over three min­utes into the second half. Podgajny quickly followed up the first of his two goals with an assist to junior midfielder Peter Christman just over a minute later. 

When senior attack Alex Wharton capped a 4-1 Irish run with 4:24 left in the third quar­ter, the score was 6-4 in favor of North Carolina. Despite the run, the Irish could not overcome Zimmerman':; spectacular play in a game where the keeper set a career high with 18 saves. 
While Corrigan was disap­pointed at the first loss of the season, he said the Irish still know what they have to do to be successful in Saturday's game against Dartmouth and beyond. 
"It's just part of the continu­um of the sea.son. What we take from [this loss] is nothing differ­ent from what we've been talk­ing about," Corrigan said. "We know that when you play good teams you can't give goals away. We created opportunities for ourselves; we just didn't make them count. I don't think we learned anything new we just confirmed some things we already knew." 
Contact Griffin Dassani at gdassatt@nd. edu 
:. 
MEN'S TENNIS 


Team falls to defending champs 
Stephen Havens and Tyler with the loss.
By MIKE GOTIMER Davis earned the only Irish Illinois' momentum contin­

Sporrs Wri rer 

doubles win with an 8-5 tri­ued as Gonzales defeated Irish umph over the Illini's No. 3 captain Parbhu 6-2, 6-3 in 
On March 1, Notre Dame pair of freshmen Abe Souza straight sets. The loss dropped traveled to Illinois to face the and Connor Roth. Parbhu to 19-8 on the year. defending national runner-up. Irish freshman David Ryan Rowe clinched the In the end, the No. 7 Fighting Anderson recorded Notre match for Illinois with a Illini proved why they Dame's only other point of the straight-set 6-3, 6-4 win over advanced so far in last sea­match out of the No. 4 singles national No. 32 Helgeson. son's tournament, as they easi­slot. Anderson defeated Illini Rowe also defeated Helgeson ly defeated the No. 15 Irish by junior Marc Spicjaric. this fall at the ITA Midwest a score of 6-1. Anderson lost the first set 5-7, Region Championships. 
The Illini began the match but he rebounded to take the Despite the loss, Helgeson still with two decisive performanc­second set 6-2 and clinched holds and impressive 22-5 es to get the doubles point. the match in a tiebreak, 1-0 record on the season. Irish junior Brett Helgeson and (10-8). With the win, Anderson The Irish woes continued as senior Sheeva Parbhu fell 8-2 improved to 15-9 on the year. freshman Dan Stahl lost to to the Illini pair of senior Anderson was also one of four Illinois freshman Waylon Chin Ryan Howe and sophomore Irish freshmen to start in sin­in straight sets, 6-4, 6-2. Billy !Ieiser, who are ranked gles play on the day. Illinois earned its final point No. 20 nationally. With the Anderson's strong perform­when Souza won a tiebreak loss, Helgeson and Parbhu fell ance could not be matched by over Davis at No. 6. Davis won to 8-5 on the year. his teammates, as Illinois won the second set in a tiebreaker 
The No. 27 Illini pair of sen­the other five singles matches, after dropping the first set 6-1, ior Brandon Davis and senior including four in straight sets. but he was defeated 10-3 in Huben Gonzales, ranked No. Illinois earned its first singles the match tiebreaker. The loss 27 nationally sealed the dou­point when No. 30 Heiser was Davis' llrst singles loss of bles point with an 8-3 win over defeated Havens in straight the spring. the Irish duo of junior sets, 6-3, 6-1. It was Havens' Santiago Montoya and senior first match at the No. 3 spot Contact Mike Gotimer at Andrew Roth. Irish freshmen and he fell to 7-6 on the year mgotimer@nd.edu 
By DAN MASTERTON 
Sporrs Wrirer 

Notre Dame hosted the defending national champion Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets then traveled to sunny Hawaii, spliting the pair of matches, and falling to 8-7 for the dual season. 
Georgia Tech 5, Notre Dame 
2 

The No. 2 Yellow Jackets 
(10-3) came to No.19 Notre 
Dame on March 1, boasting six 
ranked singles players, includ­
ing four ranked in the top 30. 
The Irish started the match strong, winning the first two doubles matches and the dou­bles point. 
"Our doubles teams played really well," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "We had lost to their one team last year." 
Irish doubles squad Cosmina Ciobanu and Colleen Rielley notched the first win by a score of 8-4. The duo of Brook Buck and Kelcy Tefft followed suit, avenging last year's loss with an 8-2 victory over Georgia Tech's Whitney McCray and Kristi Miller, the No. 19 doubles pair in the country. 
With the doubles point in hand, Irish pair Kali Krisik and Kristen Rafael forced a tiebreaker in their match but dropped the tiebreaker, losing 8-7 (7-4). 
Georgia Tech quickly bounced back, sweeping all three matches in the first half of singles play. The Yellow Jackets were led by No. 4 Amanda McDowell and No. 6 Kristi Miller. Krisik, Ciobanu, and Buck all came out on the losing end of their matchups and the Irish fell behind 3-1 for the match. 
The Irish needed the final three singles points to take the match, but No. 19 Maya Johansson clinched the match for the Yellow Jackets, defeat­ing Rafael, 6-3, 6-4. 
The showdown between each team's No. 1 went to Georgia Tech's Miller, who defeated Tefft, 6-3, 6-4. 
Rielley notched the only sin­gles victory for Notre Dame. Her upset of No. &4 Christy Striplin, 6-2, 7-6 (7-3), made the final score 5-2. 
The outcome was not what the Irish would have liked, but the team was pleased with the effort. 
"We played well overall, and the kids felt good about the match afterwards," Louderback said. 
Notre Dame 7, Hawaii 0 
The outlook became sunnier for Notre Dame as they trav­eled to Honolulu to face Hawaii (0-8). 
The Irish swept every match on the way to a 7-0 triumph. 
Now the No. 1 doubles pair in the nation, Buck and Tefft got the momentum going with an 8-3 victory. Ciobanu and Rielley clinched the doubles point with an 8-1 win, and Krisik and Rafael completed the doubles sweep, winning 8­4. 
Now the No. 39 singles play­er in the country, Tefft validat­ed her ranking with a 6-3, 6-1 
win  over  No.  81  Sophie  
Kobuch.  
Buck cruised to a  6-0, 6-0  

win, and Ciobanu sealed the match for the Irish with a 6-1, 6-0 victory. 
Krisik, now No. 113, Rafael, and Rielley all won in two sets to give Notre Dame a clean sweep of the match. 
After weeks of indoor prac­tice and matches, Louderback was happy to get some time playing outdoors. 
"The biggest thing was get­ting a chance to get outside and play in the heat," Louderback said. "We were outside all week, and we got a lot of work outdoors." 
In addition to the outdoor reps and confidence boost, the team took time to reach out to the community, visiting a local hospital in Hawaii. 
"Our kids had a chance to visit a children's hospital, and it was a really great experi­ence for all of them," Louderback said. 
The Irish also took advan­tage of being in Hawaii and got a chance to have a little spring break, too. 
"We had a nice luau while we there," Louderback said. 
Though the team now returns to chilly South Bend, the Irish look to stay on the hot streak they started in Hawaii. They take on Illinois at home Wednesday. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-~ay cl~sifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. . The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, mcludmg all spaces. The Observer reserves the nghr to edtt  
all classifieds for conrenr withour issuing refunds.  
$14.25 BASE·APPT. STUDENT  3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to cam·  If you or someone you care about has  They Can Not See Me, They Are Uke  
WORK flexible, no experience  pus, safe, cathedral ceilings, fireplacEt,  been sexually assau~ed. vis~  Stevie  
WANTED  needed, customer sales/service, conditions apply, ages 18+, 574­ 2-car garage, 1Ox20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. Call574-2324527  PERSONAL  httpJ/osa.nd.eduldepartments/rape.sht ml  I Am Barling-a·ton like Levy I Circle Ya House Uke Bee-Bee  
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a  273-3835,  or 269-683-5038 or 574-340-1844.  Colder Dan Da He-Be-Gee-Bees  
difference in the Ide of a child! Summer  www.workforstudents.com  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOMEONE  Adopt: Active, young, loving couple,  Neva Give Free Bees, 75 Thousand  
therapy camp for children with physical  3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to cam·  WHO IS? You do not have to be alone.  teacher and business owner, wish  For Deez Fees  
disabilities. Located on shore of Lake  pus, safe, cathedral ceilings, fireplacu,  We want to help. Call our 24 hour con- more than anything to raise your new·  I Can Get A 100 Thousand Up In Deez  
Superior in Big Bay, MI. Positions avai~ able for Counselors, Waterfront,  FoR RENT  2-car garage. 1Ox20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008.  fidential hotiine at 1·800-No Abort or vistt our web s~e at www.ldecall.org  born with care, warmth and love. Expenses paid. Please call Josette and  Jeans Big Stacks My Pockets On Creatine.  
Instructors for Nature/Arts &  Call574-2324527 or 269-683-5038 or  Tim 1-800-418-0230.  
Crafts/Recreation. Nurses. Therapists,  Blue & Gold Homes Showing for  574-340-1844.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  It is WeeZ!-J Baby got these rappers in  
Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be  08/09,09/10 Now offering 'flex'  Do not go ~alone. If you or someone  Lost seed: He goes by Paul, p-lanz or  my stomach,yummy,  
enthusiastic, responsible, and love chi~  leases bluegoldrentals.com  5 bedroom house just off Angela & 31.  you love needs confidential support or  slampiece. Last seen in South Jersey.  I'm lakin' it I ain't askin' 'em for nothin',  
....,  dren. June 8 through August 3. Salary,  Available now & for next year. 2 baths  assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn,  Can' I handle big things. Scared of the  If you sell a million records we could  
room & board, and experience of lifetime  HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09  & laundry. 232-6964.  OP, at 1-7819.  number13.  battle for your money,  
provided. Call or write for application and  If you spot him, do not approach too  I'd rather count a hundred thousand  
information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, P.O.  CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING  Furnished Quiet 4Br house walk ND.  For more information, vis~ our webs~e  quickly or he will prance away. Very  dollars on a Sunday,  
Box 310, Big Bay, M149808. (906) 345­ FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. CALL 574­ Security, air, washer/dryer, dishwash3r.  at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­ wonied parents. Please contact Aaron  Watch a football game and bet it all  
9314, email BayCiiffHC@aol.com. VISit  234-2436 OR  Basement porch yard.  nant.shtml or see our bi·weekly ad in  Nichols with any information regarding  on one play.  
us at www.baydiff.org  KRAMERHOUSES.COM  10-12 mos. 574·309-3105.  The Observer.  the whereabouts of his seed.  FIRE DANA JACOBSON  





OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, March 11, 2008 Cotv\PILf:D FROM THE OBSERVER'S Wl Rf: SERVlCf:S 
APTop25 Women's Basketball Poll 

rank  team  record  points  
1  Connecticut (49)  30-1  1,249  
2  North Carolina(1)  30-2  1,189  
3  Tennessee  30-2  1,157  
4  Stanford  29-3  1,087  
5  Maryland  30-3  1,012  
6  LSU  27·5  1,010  
7  Rutgers  24-6  953  
8  California  26-5  879  
g  Baylor  24-5  773  
10  Duke  23-9  759  
11  Texas A&M  23-7  691  
12  Utah  27-3  657  
13  Oklahoma  21-7  641  
14  Old Dominion  26·4  621  
15  Kansas State  21-8  505  
16  West Virginia  24-6  485  
17  NOTRE DAME  23-8,  466  
18  Oklahoma State  23-6  456  
19  George Washington  25-6  380  
20  Vanderbilt  23-8  241  
21  Marist  31-2  209  
22  UTEP  27-3  205  
23  Louisville  23-8  141  
24  Virginia  23-9  114  
25  Ohio State  22-8  82  

APTop25 Men's Basketball Poll 

rank team record points 
1 North Carolina 29·2 1,776 2 Memphis 30-1 1,693 3 UCLA 28·3 1,646 4 Tennessee 28·3 1,626 5 Kansas 28·3 1,517 6 Texas 28·3 1,360 7 Duke 26·4 1,316 8 Wisconsin 26·4 1,309 9 Georgetown 25-4 1,300 10 Xavier 26·5 . 1,043 11 Stanford 24-6 1,036 12 Butler 28-3 976;( 
13 Louisville 24-7 959 14 NOTRE DAME 24-6 802 15 Connecticut 24-7 767,, 16 Drake 28-4 672 17 Purdue 24-7 646 18 Vanderbilt 25-6 565 19 Michigan Stale 24-7 497 20 Gonzaga 25·6 474 21 Washington State 23·7 375 22 Indiana 25-6 357 23 Davidson 25·6 181·N 24 Brigham Young 25·6 154\f' 
Marquette 22-8. 128 
NCAA Men's Fencing 

rank team previous 
1 Penn State 1 2 Ohio State 2 3 NOTRE DAME 3 4 Columbia 5 5 Pennsylvania 6 6 St. Johns(NY) 4 7 Harvard 1 8 Duke NR 9 Princeton 8 10 Brandeis 9 
around the 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
UConn vs. Louisville 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 


Associated Press 

MIAMI -Dwyane Wade needs time to heal, and the Miami Heat saw no reason to further postpone the inevitable. 
Wade will miss the remainder of the season so he can further rehabilitate his surgically repaired left knee, which has bothered him for about a year. He will undergo a powerful shock-wave treatment later this week, and hopes he will be pain free in time for next season. 
''I'm doing what's right," Wade said Monday night. "I would love to be out there with my teammates, but in the long run, I think my teammates would love for me to be healthy and be out there with them when we're fighting to get in the playoffs again." 
There's no chance of that this year -Miami entered Monday's game against the Los Angeles Clippers with the NBA's worst record, 11­50. 
So, with all hope of sav­ing this dismal season gone, Heat coach Pat Riley agreed that the time has come to shut down his All­Star guard. 
"There's no doubt it's a function of the record. My God, it didn't take a news bulletin for that," Riley said. "Yes, we aren't going to make the playoffs. It's a 
IN BRIEF Brewers' pitcher not 
worried about contract PHOENIX -Ben Sheets thinks sep­arating money from pitching is no big deaL 
"To me, the business end is totally different than the baseball end," said Sheets, entering the final sea­son of a $38.5 million, four-year contract. "''ve never worried about it and I'm not going to worry about any of that. It has no bearing on how I play the game or anything else for that matter." 
The three-time All-Star could be in line for a hefty contract -if he stays healthy. He's averaged 13 missed starts a year during ihe past three seasons. 
"There ain't nothing you can do about it. People want to say whatev­er, look at it either way," Sheets said in his Louisiana drawl. "There's going to be topics and it's nothing to do with me. It might be about me, but it's nothing to do with me." 
lost season. We know that. We don't want it to be a lost career. That's how I look at it." 
Wade finishes the season averaging 24.6 points, fifth­best in the NBA 
He will miss Miami's fmal 21 games, and essentially get about 3? months off before the U.S. Olympic men's basketball team reconvenes to resume training for this summer's Beijing Games. Riley clearly has some concerns about seeing his franchise's best player expose himself to potential injury, but indicat­ed he won't bar Wade from playing for his country, either. 
"That's Dwyane's deci­sion," Riley said. "He wants to be an Olympic champi­on." 
Wade still wants to be part of that, yet acknowl­edged that playing in China isn't his primary goal right now. 
''I'm still committed to the Olympic team," Wade said. "But right now, my focus is on getting healthy." 
That's been his focus for some time. 
Injuries have been a con­stant throughout Wade's five NBA seasons, especial­ly since the Heat won the title in 2006. He dislocated his left shoulder last February, returned for the final few games of the reg­ular season, but was so 
Suspicious liQ!lids found on 
flight further Olympic fears 
BEIJING -China disclosed Monday that suspicious liquids were found on a flight headed to Beijing from a far western Muslim region, and Olympic organizers tried to dismiss fears that the sum­mer games were under threat. 
The government announced over the weekend that authorities had foiled a plot by Islamic terrorists targeting the August games and also said there was an apparently unrelated attempt to crash a pas­senger jet on Friday. 
Scant details were initially released about the reported plot or the airplane incident. 
However, China's head of civil aviation said Monday that the flight from the far western Xinjiang region to Beijing had been diverted after some passen­gers were found with suspicious liquids. 

Michigan to improvehandicap access in stadium 
DETROIT -The University of Michigan agreed to improve wheelchair access at one of the nation's largest fo_otball stadi­ums· as part of a deal approved Monday with a paralyzed veter­ans' group that had sued the school. 
U.S. District Judge Sean Cox signed the consent decree outlin­ing the changes, avoiding a pos­sible trial. 
Starting with this season, 96 new accessible seats -plus seats for companions -will be available along the east side of the stadium, which can seat more fans than any other such site. And by the start of the 2010 season, at least 329 accessible seats, plus seats for companions, will be available. 
The agreement also includes five years of court oversight. 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 11, 2008 
MEN'S GOLF 

ND SOFTBALL 
Bargar, Irish start season strong



Sandman earns 


By JARED )EDICK 
Sports Writer 
third place overall 
By PAT STYNES Sporrs Writer 
Irish coach Jim Kubinski cer­tainly knew what he was talk­ing about when he said Junior Josh Sandman "has the talent to mix it up with the top play­ers." 
Over spring break, Sandman 
played the best Connor Alan-Lee 

Deanna Gumpf said. "Brittney
"Josh is as physically
golf of his and sophomore 

[Bargar] pitched a one-hitter for 
career, posting talented as any play­Kyle Willis also 

us against Long Beach State, and 
a score of er in the country." contributed to 

we lost 1-0. That is almost 
seven-over par the Notre Dame's 

unheard of." 
and leading success. Each 

Senior Katie Laing had a strong
Jim Kubinski
Notre Dame to a player shot 21­

offensive performance for the 
12th place fin­Irish coach over par, tying 
ish at the USC Collegiate 
Invitational. 
Sandman fin­ished in third place individually, just two shots behind tourna­ment winner. USC's Tim Slutiter. 
"Josh is as physically talented as any player in tlw country. lie is growing both emotionally and in his decision making," Kubinski said. "I've seen sever­al top players.grow in leaps and hounds f'rom thPir f'roshman year to tlwir junior y«~ar. Josh is in that position." 
But t.he 12th place finish f'or 




astle1'olr~t 
1.801.1. C.1.eve.1..and Rd_ SouUt Ben:d,
Apat·tllleiJts P.kone: (574) 272-81.1.0 Fax: (574) 
"""""_ cppj _COlli" 
the Irish was not solely based 

Notre Dame celebrated spring 
on Sandman's strong showing. 

break in style, winning three of 
Sophomore Doug Fortner did 

four in the Worth Invitational and 
well in his return to his home 

three of five in the Long Beach 
state of California, shooting 17­

State Invitational, including a 2-1 
over par and placing 39th. But 

victory over No. 24 Virginia Tech. 
the sophomore's first-round 81 

Junior standout Brittney Bargar 
handicapped his strong finish. 

was named the Big East pitcher
lie posted scores of 74 and 75 

of the week after posting a .55 
in the second 

ERA in 25.1 innings throughout 
and third rounds, 

the week. 
respectively. 

"The pitchers really stepped up 
Freshman 

for us this week," Irish coach 
Irish, breaking the Notre Dame for 56th place in 
career record for doubles with the tournament. 
50. 
Like Fortner, 

"Katie Laing does not get cheat­both underclass-ed when she is at bat," Gumpf men had trouble with the wind. 
said. "She is consistent and she 
But each player finished strong 

just fighl'i and fighl'i until she gets with second and third rounds of 
a hit." 75 and 77, respectively. 
The Irish began the break in The Irish will continue their Fullerto11 Calif., by beating up 
season this weekend in 

Paeific University 11-3 and UC Statesboro, Georgia, where the 
Davis 6-5, behind strong pitehing team will partieipate in the 
from Bargar and freshman JodySelwnkPI E-Z-GO Invitational, 
Valdivia. Valdivia tallied a career which is hosted by Georgia 
high nine strikeouts against UC Southern. 
Davis. The bats came alive for the Contact Pat Stynes at 
Irish. who had bmm in a bit of a pstynes@nd.edu 
slump before those games. Laing 
Best Value 1n Town CtJDle See Why.' 
,... Int/oor.l Out-Joor Tennis a.nJ Has.lcetball 
,.. Free Tuning 
,... Heat"e~l Poal 

,... .HelaziJrJg Jacuzzi 
..-GateJ Cam..m unil";y 
,... Cam..m i~nit";y Business Center 
,... No-ApJJical"ian Fees ftU StuJent-s 

,... Clo-se ~·o-e..-er;yt-lting_ __ far fram o-rJina:r;y! 
Ilfl 46637 272-81.1.4 


WU VUE/The Observer Former Notre Dame hurler Kenya Fuemmeler throws a pitch against Seton Hall on March 25, 2007. 
and freshman Sadie Pitzenberger both crossed home plate three times, and Laing and sophomore Heather Johnson combined for six RBI's. 
"I think we are making some small strides in improving our hit­ting," Gumpf said. "But our pri­mary goal is still to have better at­bats and hit the ball consi'itently." 
The Irish lost to Cal State­Fullerton 1-0, in a game they thought they should have won. 
"We felt like we needed to beat them because we should," Gumpl' said. 
The Irish got their mvengn later in the week when the two teams met for a second time, this time with the Irish on top of another 1­0 contest. 
Next came another ofl'onsive explosion against UC Hiverside, in which Laing broke the Notre Dame doubles record while going 3-4 with 3 HBis. 
The Irish then traveled to the Long Beach State Invitational in Mayfair Park, Calif., to take on some of the best pitching in the NCAA. 
"We faced three of the best pitchers in the nation going against UCLA, Virginia Tech, and Long Beach State," Gumpf said. "Virginia Tech's pitcher !Angela Tincher I is probably the best in the entire country." 
The Irish bolieve that fadng the best and competing is the best measure ofthe team's progress. 
"Every game is important to show that we arc able to compete with the best pitching in the coun­try and <wnn beat them,"' Gumpf said. "That is great fiJr the girls confidence." 
Tim Irish lost to UClA and Long Beach Stato in one-run heart­breakers. In thosn two eont1~sts, the Irish pitching staff allowed just two earned runs over 13 innings. 
Bargar allowed only one run and six hil<> with four strikeout<> in a 2-1 vietory over Virginia Tech, while Valdivia also impressed against Cal State-Fullerton in the rematch, hurling seven shutout innings. 
The final game ol' the trip, a :3-1 victory against Cal State Northridgn, belonged to Pitznnberger, whose two-run dou­ble was enough to ensure the Irish ol' victory. 
"A<> a freshman, [Pitmnbnrgnrl really handles herseu· with great sflll'-eonfidenee," Gumpf said. 
Pitzenberger's work othie has rubbed ofl' on all of the freshmen, who all have exdtnd Gurnpf. 
"Everyone is contributing," Gumpf said. "This is a mally gnmt freshman dass." 
The Irish hope to ride their momentum into next weekend's Charleston Southern University Invitational. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 11, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Strong pitching performances highlight road trip 
On the first day of play, the hits over five shutout innings,
By LAURA MYERS 
Belles split their two games. sophomore outfielder Ashley
Sports Writer 
The first, a 10-0 win over Peterson who went 3-for-3 Clark University, was high­with three runs scored, and Saint Mary's posted an 8-2 lighted by the performances freshman outfielder Hayley record on its spring break of junior pitcher Calli Bojorquez. Bojorquez had a trip to Florida. Davison, who gave up three single and a double while 
Pick up your copy of the lvinter issue of 


The Juggler 
Notre Da1ne's student literary ntagazine 
this lveek on can1pus 

Contribute poetry, short stories or art to the spring issue of the Juggler Deadline is March 14 
For more information: 

http://www.nd.edut"'juggler/ 
driving in two runs in her first college game. In the second game of the day, a 14­12 loss against Anna Maria College, Davison and junior Ashley Fusaro had four RBis each. 
The Belles split again on day two, beginning with an 8­0 win over Worchester Polytechnic Institute (WPI) followed by a 5-3 loss to Dominican University. Against WPI, Davison won her second game with six shutout innings and senior McKenna Corrigan went 2­for-3 with 3 RBI. 
The Belles swept their com­petitors on the third day of the trip, winning 6-0 over Wisconsin Lutheran and 5-4 over St. Joseph College. Davison notched another win with seven shutout innings against Wisconsin Lutheran, and Corrigan got the win against St. Joseph's. 
The fourth day of competi­

tion was another Belles sweep as they defeated Eastern University 7-1 and bested DeSales University 4­
2. Pitching was once again an important factor against Eastern, as Davison improved her record to 4-2. In the sec­ond game, the offense was the key as Peterson drove in three runs and sophomore Maureen Healy went 3-for-4. 
On the last day of their trip, the Belles put together anoth­er two-game sweep by once again beating WPI, 10-2, and getting revenge on Dominican with an 11-2 effort. Healy and Peterson had big games again, both going 3-for-4 a'gainst WPI. Davison won her fifth game of the trip and struck out seven. 
The Belles will begin their home season on Thursday against Manchester College. 
Contact Laura Myers at 1myers2@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles start season over .500 in Orlando 

By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Playing seven matches in five days isn't ideal for any team, but Saint Mary's managed to come out on top in four of them as it opened up its tenth season over spring break in Orlando. Their young team of two sophomores and eight freshmen ended the week with a record of 4-3. 
"One of our goals of the week was to have a winning record and we achieved that goal," Belles coach ('.huck Rubino said. "Another goal we achieved was showing improvement, which we definitely did towards the end of the week." 
Saint Mary's began play on March 2 against Methodist College, an NCAA qualifier last season. The Belles lost 8-1, with their only victo­ry coming from freshman Laura Arnolds, who beat Methodist's Lauren Hulse 6-4, 6-3. 
As the week progressed, Saint Mary's seemed to overcome their first match anxieties and grabbed a 7-2 win over Martin Methodist early on Monday. But the Belles were unable to keep the momen­tum as they lost 8-1 to Div. II Grand Valley State Monday afternoon. 
Against Martin Methodist, fresh­men Belles Jillian Hurley, Betsy Reed, Jessica Camp, and Jessica Kosinski all came out on top in sin­gles play. Sophomore Usa Rubino also won her match. Hubino and Reed dominated Martin Methodist's Fidelina Diaz and Allison Wmters 8­2 on the doubles side, while the Saint Mary's pair of sophomore Camille Gebert and Hurley fell 8-1 to Martin Methodist's Jenny Herring and Flora de la Garza. 
The Grand Valley State matchup was another story for Saint Mary's. The Belles weren't swept thanks to a win by No. 2 singles player Hurley, who downed Grand Valley's Katelyn Grashom 7-6, 6-4. 
A day off from competing proved to be exactly what Saint Mary's needed. On both Wednesday and Thursday the Belles beat both King's and Ursaline 9-0. Gebert and Hurley proved themselves·as the Belles No. 1 doubles pair, winning 8-0 on Wednesday and Thursday. No. 3 Reed had a strong showing of her own on Thursday, defeating Ursaline's Danielle Robinson 6-0, 6­0. 

Saint Mary's finished off the week of competition Friday, defeating St. Scholastica 7-2 but losing 6-1 to Wayne State. Gebert and Hurley showed their strength once again with an 8-5 defeat of St. Schoiastica's Katie Motley and Paula Beckermann, but were unable to carry their winning way into the afternoon, losing 8-2 to Wayne State's Milena Vuksonwowich and Sharon Gill. 
"No. 2 singles player Jillian Hurley had a great week, going 6­1." Hubino said. "She played excep­tionally well; she was slow on first day and then won six in a row." 
Hurley was named one of Saint Mary's athletes of the week, an honot Rubino said is well deserved. 
Overall, the Belles were pleased with their first week of competition. 
"Over spring break, it became apparent that have really good chemistry as a team, which is going to be an advantage when it comes time to pull together some big wins," Gebert said. "I hope that we can stay competitive as our season starts in hopes of bringing home a 
...

title." 
Looking ahead to the start of MIAA competition on March 18, Rubino said his team is well pre­pared. 
''Thi<> week was good prep for the MIM in terms that we saw teams that were a lot better than MIAA teams, such as Grand Valley and Wayne State, St. Scholastica is com­parable to our team and others in the MIAA, and there were some weaker teams," Rubino said. "This was a good stepping stone for us as we get into the MIAA matches next week." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @nd.edu 
-~ 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March II, 2008 
ND WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish go 1-2 on west coast 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Writer 

Notro Damn \waded west to California for its spring break. hut took a very businesslike approach to its rolazing desti­nation. Tlw Irish played three gamns against l'ae-1 0 compoti­tion. falling to Stanford and Oregon bdorn linally breaking through with an IS-S victory ovnr California Saturday. 
Over the eoursn of' the week, forward .lillian Byers wntinuml to play at a high lnVPI. notehing 15 goals in the three games. Bynrs has nPtlPd :{0 goals on tlw season. Bynrs, who Irish coarh Tracy Coyrw ealled an "awesonw l'inislwr." now has 142 earner goals. which puts her at sm:ond on Notrn Damn's all-tirnn list. B·ynrs has been nanwd a preseason first-loam 
AII-Anwrica by Inside Lacrosse magazine. 
"Jill understands how to work her defender and get herself open and the team has been great at been finding her so she can finish," said Coyne. 
After dropping the opening game ol' the trip at Stanford, 1:{-9, the Irish looked poised l'or a wbound against Oregon, rac­ing out to a 7-5 halftime lead. The Dueks, however !'ought back and managed to tie tho game late. Senior Caitlin McKinney poured in three goals in the game and Byers added six ol' lwr own, including one with 4:38 left that gave Notre Dame a B-12 lead. 
But the Irish could not hold tho lead. Oregon scored with 15 snconds remaining to tie the score at 13-13. Then. with llmw seconds loft. Ducks attack lisa van d1~r Berg fired a shot into the net, giving Oregon the decisive goal and the victory. Irish goalie Erin Goodman stopped 12 shots but could not stop the final two, which proved to be tho dif'fp,renee. 

SaturdaY., however, the Irish bounced back. Notre Dame came out with a fury, amassing a 1:~-4 halftime lead behind four goals from Irish junior Jann Stocekert. The 12 first-half goals were a season-high for the Irish. 
In the second half, the Bears could not get much closer, as the Irish continued their aggressiveness on both offense and defense, capturing the vic­tory 18-8. 
The Irish will return home for a three-game homestand start­ing Thursday against Delaware. 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at azkcare1@nd.edu 
ND WoMEN's GoLF 




Tean1 cruises at Rio Verde Invite 
By MICHAEL BLASCO Sports Writer 

Tho Irish startPd spring-dPan­ing -a little early last weekend, sweeping both tho team and imli­vid ual awards at tho Hio Vnrdn Invitational. 
After struggling at last month's Central District Invitational, No. 26 Notrn Damn cruisnd to a com­fortable first-place finish at last weekend's Hio Venll~ Invitational in Hio Verde, Ariz. Tho Irish shot an 11-over par S75 (294-290­
291) to eaptun~ their program­record fourth team victory this s1mson. 
Notrn Dame freshman So Jlyun Park lml the field with a 4-under 212 (72-70-70), her second career first-place finish. Two other Irish golfers also finishi·~d in the top-1 0 -Annie Brophy and Kristin Wetzel finished second and sixth, respectively. Park and Notrn Damn c:ardml tournament­low individual and tnam scores of 70 and 290. resp1~1:tivnly. 
"I feel like we all played well," Irish mach Susan Ilolt said. "The opportunity to store low at the golf course was there and we took advantagn of that. We capi­talized when we needed to and we were able to lower our seor­ing average. I think it'll give us a confidence boost for the rest of the season." 
No. 4S Texas Teeh led after the first round, shooting a 291, but faded in later rounds to finish 18 
SMC GoLF 
Belles struggle at St. Andrew 

strokes behind the Irish, gooQ enough for second place (893). Minnesota (894), Arkansas-Little Hoek (908), and Eastern Michigan (909) rounded out the top 5. 
Notre Dame was led by a one­two puneh of young golfers, with sophomore Brophy shooting an even-par 216 (71-73-72) on the tournament. The second-place result was her highest career lin­ish and lowest career three­round score, while Saturday's 1­under par 71 was her lowest career 18-hole score. 
Fellow sophomore Kristin Wetzel finished sixth overall with a five-over par 221 (74-72-75), a career-best score and placement. Junior Lisa Maunu shot a 14­over par 230, tied for 26th over­all (81-75-74) and freshman Katie Conway shot a 16-over par 232, tied !'or 33rd overall (77-76­79). 

Irish sophomore Julie Kim completed the round as an indi­vidual entrant, shooting a 21­over par 237 (77-80-80) in her first event o(the season. 
Notre Dame hits the links again this weekend at the Betsy Rawls Longhorn Invitational in Austin, Texas, March 17-19. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary's f'inishcd 1Oth in an I I-team field at the St. Andrew Spring Invitational at Woodlake Hesort and Golf Club. 
Bolles s1~nior Kate O'Brien 

•. 
led the Belles with a two­round total ol' 173. O'Brien finished in a tic for 22nd place. 
Emily Gore's 184 was the Belles second-best finisher. Perri llamma, Meredith Fantom and Meghan Lehr 

rounded out the scoring for Saint Mary's with r.espeetive scores of 184, 191 and 194. 
Pfeil'l'er won the team event with a team score of 631J, 97 strokes ahead of the Belles. 
ND WOMEN'S ROWING 

Squad has strong shovving in first n1eet 
Obsei'Ver Staff Report 

The Irish defeated Northeastern in all ninn races between the two teams on the last day of Notre Dame's spring break trip in Oak Hidge, Tenn. 
The Irish varsity eight blue boat beat Northeastern's A and B squads in the opening race. 
And the Irish were just getting started. Notre Dame won the other two varsity eight races, as three varsity four races and throe novien eight races. 
"We had a good week of training outdoors and trained very hard," head coach Martin Stone told und.com. "I was pleased with how we responded in our first raeos of the sea­son. We know what we need to work on. but all in all. it was happy with our per­formance." 
The Irish will next com­pPle in thn Wind1~mere Heal Estate Rowing Classic March 29-30 in Palo Alto, Calif. 

* 
IIOI.Y 
CHOS!' COLLEGE 
You can advance the Catholic Mission of Holy Cross! 
HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED 2008-2009 liOLY CROSS C'OLLF''('L'
. .kl.. /¥, ../Jr:: 
MARRIED OR SINGLE GRAD STUDENTS LAW STUDENTS 
CONTACT RESLIFE(li;HCC-ND.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION 



The (~lest Project 2008 Lecture Series 
Science ~1nd Religion in rhe Abrahamic hliths: judaism. Christi;mity. and Islam 
join us... 
on M.1rdt 17 f:;:>r <l lecture by Ceorg<' Salib<t. Professor ofArabic and Islamic Science, Columbia Univa~in 
4:00 l'.M. · Vand<"r Venner 'fhcatcr. 5rudenr Center ' 
Sdwce Across Borders: Europ< aw! the YVorld<!fis/,nn 
on A1arch 26 for a lecrure l>l' Ilava Tirosh-Samuclson. Professor, Dcp;1rtrncnt. of Ili;tory. Arizon<l State Univ('!'sity 7:10 P.M. Suplcton Lounge. Lc Mam I Jail 
.-\ Fi'minist neads Afaim,mides: .S<iencc .wd Rd(~fon iujudais111 
on A.pril 1 for kcture by NarKey Murphy. Prnfcssor ofChristian l'hilnsoplw. Fulkr Theological Seminarv. l'asadcna ..j,:OO P.~L · Staplct;m L<•unge. Lc ~lans llall ' Neurasdentr, Christ"i.m :\nthr:•poh~~y. anJ the fl..,•lc ~(\\-(•men in th£' Church 
CEN'fF.R FOR SPIRITUAilTY SAINT MARY;S cX:i:UGT­

Tuesday, March 11, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

Thursday Night Open House 


Please join us for cocktails & Hors d'oeuvres to introduce the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Faculty and Staff to the fastest selling community in Michiana 
Stonebridge Villas at Edison Lakes Ranch Villas starting in the $190's 
March 13th, zoth, and zrh 2008 5:00pm to 8:00pm Beer & Wine will be served Hors d'oeuvres provided by LaSalle Grille 
Stonebridge Villas Clubhouse 625 Dublin Drive Mishawaka, IN 


RSVP appreciated RSVP by March 12 to be entered in the drawing for a $50 Gift Card jim@g90re.com or 574-247-0770 stonebridgecondos.net 

fENCING 

Deep Irish squad downs Buckeyes 
By KEN FOWLER Senior Sports Writer 
Ohio State stood tall, but Notre Dame showed ofT its depth at the Midwest Regional on March 2. 
Buckeyes fencers captured titles in five of the six events at the Regional in Detroit, but the Irish earned 11 medal positions, compared to Ohio State's seven. 
With that, and the combined results from the regular season, Notre Dame automatically quali­fied the maximum 12 fencers to the national event, which begins Thursday. 
The Buckeyes, meanwhile, earned 11 automatic berths. Ohio State senior epeeist Kaela Brendler finished ninth at the Regional but received an at-large bid to the NCAA Championships to give the Buckeyes the maxi­mum 12 entrants. 
A year ago, Penn State earned the national title ahead of sec­ond-place St. John's and third­place Columbia. Notre Dame and Ohio State qualified only 11 fencers in 2007, but finished fourth and fifth. respectively. 
This time, Ohio State, Notre Dame, St. John's and Columbia will be the only teams with the full allotment at the national event. Ohio State, ranked No. 1 on the women's side and No. 2 on the men's side, will also have another factor playing in its favor-home-strip advantage. 
Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said Ohio State is the favorite, but he is looking forward to the event, at which seven of the 
·Notre Dame fencers will be freshmen. "It's encouraging and it's a lit­tle bit scary," Bednarski said of 

the youth movement. 
He said that the young team is not fully prepared for the "intense pressure" of the nation­al event, but that they are "men­tally strong." 
"A young team is always unpredictable," he said. 
The story from the Regional, though, was the back-and-forth between the Buckeyes and Irish, who look poised to make a run at the title. That is, if they don't knock each other off in the process. 
Notre Dame's sweep of the medal positions in the men's epee -Karol Kostka earning gold; Greg Schoolcraft, silver; and Greg Howard, bronze -was the only such dominance in any weapon. 
Ohio State's Andras Horanyi won the men's foil competition. but Irish freshmen Zach Schirtz and Steve Kubik were the other medalists. In men's sabre, Buckeye fencers Sergey Smirnov and Dexter Wilde took the top two spots, respectively, and Notre Dame freshman Barron Nydam placed third. 
Buckeye Alexandra Obrazcova won the women's epee event,· while Northwestern's Christa French earned second and Irish sophomore Kelley Hurley took fourth. 
In women's foil, Buckeye Oksana Dmytruk bested Notre Dame junior Adrienne Nott and freshman Hayley Reese. 
Irish freshman sabreist Sarah Borrmann finished third, behind Ohio State champion Siobhan Byrne and Buckeyes runner-up Eileen Grench. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
WOMEN'S TRACK 



Weber, Hasan shine at Wilson Invitational 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
Not even some of the fiercest competition Notre Dame has faced all season could keep Anna Weber from continuing her dominance in the throwing events at the Alex Wilson Invitational this weekend at Loftus Sports Center. 
The junior took first place in the weight throw and finished fifth in the shot put. Her throw of 19.23 meters met the NCAA provisional mark. 
Another standout was junior Alyissa Hasan who won the pentathlon by over 200 points. Hasan, coming off a second place finish at the Big East Indoor championships, has already met the NCAA provi­sional mark for the Pentathlon. 
The tough competition limited the number of Irish competitors who were able to place in their respective events. 

Freshman Marissa Treece fin­ished off her successful season by placing seventh in the 5000­meter run. Senior Jacqueline Carter and Freshman Abby Higgins took 17th and 18th place, respectively, in the 800­meter run. 
The Alex Wilson Invitational was the last-chance for athletes to set NCAA provisional marks in order to gain entry into the National Championship meet. With the exception of the national meet, this marks the end of the indoor season. 
Monday night the qualifiers for the NCAA meet were announced and Hasan will be the only Irish representative. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March I I, 2008 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Pair of bailers na111ed to Big East first tea111 
HocKEY 



Irish set to face Ferris State 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

No. 12 Notre Dame split its last regular season series two weekends ago with Western Michigan and after sitting out tlw first round of the CCIIA playoffs with a bye. the Irish will play Ferris Stall~ in the second round. 
Tlw Irish (22-12-41 will play the lif'th-seedl'd Bulldogs in a best-of-three ganw series this WIH~ ken d at home starting Friday night and running through Sunday, if necessary. Ferris State ( 17 -15-5) was one of four higlwr-sPeded teams to win its lirst-round series last wenkend as tlw firth-through­eighth plan~ squads advancPd, w hi I e l'i r s t-through-fourth place teams sat out. 
Tlw Bulldogs swept their li rsl.-rou nd opporwnt, Western Michigan, by srorPs of 4-:~ in 
Break 
continued from page 24 
tlw ganw was knotted at four when sophomore A . .J. Pollock stepped to ttw plate with two outs. The rightf'i1~lder deliv­IH'ed a two-run double that put the Irish up (J-4. !leaded into the ninth inning, Irish junior eloser Kyle Weiland had the task or ser~uring the vidory and did just that, toss­ing a scoreless frame to close out the game and pick up the save. 
Tate continued to con­

tributP, going 3-for-4 with 
two runs scorl'd against the 
Bonnies. Tate also added a 
stolen base in the contest that 
!wiped spark the Irish. 
Despite not pieking up the decision. Irish freshman starter Brian Dupra pitched well. going 6 and 11:~ innings and allowing only thnw hits and two narned runs. On only 74 pitdws, thn righty struck out four batters and didn't allow a walk. Irish senior rPiinver Tony Langford picked up the win although he allowed a two-run homerun and surrendPred the lead. 
Boston College 7, Notre 
Dame 2 
In the seeond half or a dou­ble-header. Notre Dame dropped the deeision to the Eagles partly because it allowed three home runs on thn evening. 
Senior pitclwr Wade Korpi's homecoming to Lake Worth, Fla., was ruinnd despite a deennt outing. The southpaw wnnt 6 and 2/3 innings, allowing four mtrned runs on nine hits. Thrne of those hits were inlinld singles. 
Eagles sophomore eatcher Tony Sanchez hit a three-run· blast in thn firth inning to put Boston College up 5-1. In the snvnnth and ninth frames the Eagles picked up solo home runs from senior outfielder Hyan Akel and frnshman ratdwr Dave Laufer to give Boston College more than enough run support to heat tlw Irish. 
Notre Dame 11, Maine 10 
As the gamr! went into extra innings Tuesday, Sharpley had seen enough action. Sharpley belted a two-out 
overtime and 6-3. Those wins came a weekend after the Irish were shut out 3-0 on the road to Western Michigan before winning at home on senior night, 3-1. 
Notre Dame and Ferris State were cluster-mates this sea­son, playing each other four times -two at home and two on the road. The Bulldogs frustrated the Irish, gaining a 2-1-1 edge. The two teams last played in a two-gamo sot at the Joyce CPnter, where Ferris State won 5-3 before tlwy tim! 2-2 on Feb. 8-9. 
In other parts of the CCIIA, first-place Michigan takes on Nebraska-Omaha while sec­ond-place Miami faces Bowling GrtHHl. Third-place Michigan State and Northern Michigan complete the see­ond-round matehups. The winners will meet at Joe Louis Arena next weekend for the semifinals and finals. 
solo walk-ofT home run in the 
bottom of the tenth to propel 
the Irish over the Black Bears 
on March 4. 
Sharpley entered the con­
test in the seventh inning as a 
pinch-hitter. and the move 
paid off' as the infielder went 
:~-l'or-3 on the day with a dou­
bln and three HBis. 
Notre Dame's bullpen con­
tributed 4 and 1/3 scoreless 
innings to bide time for the 
Irish bats to get the squad 
back in it with late runs. 
Sophomore relievers David 
Mills and Stephen Mazur, as 
well as junior Brett Graffey 
led the charge, striking out 
six, and allowing only two 
walks. 
Lehigh 4, Notre Dame 2 
On Thursday, Notre Dame 
allowed a pair or home runs 
that gave its opponent the 
runs to pick up a victory. 
Lehigh combined the long ball 
with a solid pitching perform­
ance from sophomore hurler 
Hob Hussel, who allowed two 
runs in 6 and 2/3 innings. 
Mountain llawks sopho­more eloser Jordan Warncke picked up his second save of the season with 2 and 1/3 innings of scoreless relief that secured the Lehigh win, drop­ping the Irish record to 4-4 on the year. 
Texas A & M Corpus Christi 5, Notre Dame 2 
Tournament host Islanders benefited from a solid per­formance from their senior starting pitcher, Brian Anderson, who went seven innings without allowing a run to pick up the win. 
Aside from the home-field advantage, Irish coach Dave Schrage said the credit should go to the Islanders' hurler for the win. 
"It was their home opener," Schrage said. "They were excited to play and had a big crowd behind them but the credit should go to their pitcher. He did a great job against us, and overall had a good outing." 
Notre Dame starter Phelps fell to 1-2 on the year as he went six innings, allowing four earned runs and a sea­son-high four walks. 
Notre Dame 10, South Alabama 4 
The Irish bounced back 

Notre Dame's 3-0 loss to Western Michigan on the first weekend of spring break con­tinued a long scoring drought for the Irish when they fired 40 shots on net without hitting the twine. But during the sea­son finale, the Irish found a way to light the lamp three times for the 3-1 win on senior night. 
All three goals came on the power play and were scored by consistent, but snake-bit­ten, Irish snipers Ryan Thang, Erik Condra and Mark Van (;uilder. 
The second-round series against Ferris State will begin Friday night at 7:35 p.m. at the Joyce Center, while Saturday's game will begin at 
7:05 p.m. Sunday's game, if necessary, will begin at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
from an opening-round loss 
in the WhataburgBr Classic 
with a victory over the 
Jaguars on March 8. An 
eight-run fourth inning put 
Notn~ Damn past South 
Alabama, as the team strung 
togPiher a series of hits. 
"We put a lot of hits togeth­
er, and hitting is contagious, 
so before we knew it, we had 
put up a solid inning that 
helped us get the win," 
Schrage said. 
Schrage said he hopes his 
offense can begin to produce 
on a game-to-game basis. 
"I was pleased with the run, 
but we need to see more of 
these," Schrage said. "The 
frustration comes when we 
can't play consistent baseball 
and see these results in con­
secutive days.'; 
Korpi benefited from the Irish seoring and picked up his first win, going 5 and 1/3 'innings and allowing three 
runs on nine hits. 
Ariz(J•na 16, Notre Dame 0 
In Notre Dame's most lop­
sided defeat of the season, 
Arizona notched 20 hits and 
scored at least one run in 
every inning to crush the 
Irish Sunday. · 
Wildcats junior starter Ryan 
Perry excelled in the contest, 
goinj~ seven scoreless frames 
and allowing only a pair of 
hits while striking out seven. 
"lie's a great talent," Schrage said. "His pitches were hitting the 97 MPH mark. He had an excellent outing, and that's why he'll probably be one of the top-1 0 picks in the draft." 
Although the defeat was an ugly one for the Irish, Schrage tried to take some positives from the loss. 
"This showed us that when we relax and play our style, that we're a pretty good team," Schrage said. "But we went out there and played nervous." 
After the bitter loss, howev­er, the Irish are looking ahead. 
"We have four days to put this behind us," Schrage said. "This is a loss that can wake the team up -hit them right between the eyes. Hopefully we can turn it around and play better from here on out." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at 
lreyes@nd.edu 
By CHRIS KHOREY and CHRIS HINE Sporrs Writers 

Notre Dame sophomore f(l!'ward Luke Harangody and junior guard Kyle McAlarney were voted to the All-Big East first team Monday by thn league's head coaches. 
This is the third straight year that the Irish have had at least one player on the all-conference first team. In 2006, guard Chris Quinn was honored while guards Colin Falls and Hussnll Carter both had a spot last season. 
llarangody led the conference in both scoring and rebounding dur­ing the rogular season. averaging 
23.3 points, including a earner­high 40 against Louisville Feb. 28, and 11.3 rebounds per game. 
"To be on the f'irst team is a huge honor." llarangody said. "You kinda think who you're among right there and it's a good dass to be in." 
MrAlamey averaged 15.0 points per game and led the Big East with 62 3-pointers made. lie scored over 30 poinl<> on three dif­ferent occasions. 
''I'm pretty surprised, I'm shocked that I made it," McAlarney said. "There are so many good players in this league." 
llarangody was named to the Big East All-Hookie team last sea­son. This honor is the first season­long conference honor that MeAlarney has mmived. 
In addition to the Irish players. 
Cincinnati's  Deonta  Vaughn,  
(;eorgetown's  Hoy  llibbert.  
Louisville's  David  Padgett,  

Pittsburgh's Sam Young, South Florida's Kentrell Gransbflrry. Seton llall's Brian Laing. West Virginia's Joe Alexander and Conm~eticut's A..J. Price and Jl'fl' Adrien also made the list. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu and Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


From your mobile phone, text DUMMIES to 24474 to save$$ and win big! Visit your college bookstore or dummies.com· to find out more! 
DUMM.IE-.5' 
Standard text message rates apply. 

Tuesday, March 11, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
said. "He was just getting in opening round and will play in there and going. He played the quarterfinals Thursday


Bulls 
smart and he played poised. He against either Marquette or continued from page 24 
knew he had a Seton Hall. mismatch and "This was a
"This was a grueling
back. They scored but we did­he took advan­grueling week for n't put our heads down and my tage of it." week for us because it us because it was shot ended up falling." Freshman was three games in a three games in a With Kurz in foul trouble for g u a r d week and we had
week and we had to
much of the game, Irish junior Dominique to play hard to
play hard to get

forward Zach llillesland deliv­Jones led the get them," Brey ered 10 points and seven way for South them." said. "So to not rebounds in 28 minutes of Florida with play until playing time. 20 points and Thursday, I
Mike Brey

Even though it might have s e v e n think, helps us 
Irish coach 

been somewhat of a stretch, rebounds. get our legs Jackson compared Hillesland Irish coach under us and get to the forward's favorite NBA Mike Brey said a little more player. he was glad his team secured a refreshed." 
"I told [llillesland] during the first-round bye for the Big East game he was attacking the rim tournament. The Irish do not Contact Fran Tolan at like Kobe Bryant," Jackson have to suit up for Wednesday's fto1an@nd.edu 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our \vebsite at: http://osa.nd.edu/programs-and-links/dennymooreaward.shtml 
Nominations are due by Tuesday, March 11, 2008. 


Collapse 
continued from page 24 
Up 14-2 early, Notre Dame gave up a jumper and a pair from the charity stripe to Panthers guard Xenia Stewart, but bounced back with a strong traditional three­point play from guard Brittany Mallory to go back up 1 7-6. That was Notre Dame's last points for the next five minutes. 
The Panthers clawed their way back in the game (pun intended) by simply waiting for Notre Dame to miss shots. And miss it did. Irish guards Lindsey Schrader, Melissa Lechlitner and Mallory combined to shoot 4-for­24 from the floor, including 0­for-6 from 3-point land. 
Despite the atrocious percent­age (14.2 percent for my fellow Arts and Letters students), Irish coach Muffet McGraw said that the shot selection wasn't the problem. 
"They were all good shots. Brittany Mallory is our 3-point shooter. We want her to shoot 3s. Schrader had some wide-open looks in the lane. Lech's shots were all pretty good," she said. 
So ifyou're already taking all the right shots, there has to be something that can be done to make this team better before Good Friday when the NCAA Tournament starts. And the solu­tion is simple: Do the little things better. 

In psychology, there is a term "gestalt," which means the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. Case in point is Notre Dame's loss on Sunday. What cost the Irish in the second half was not doing the little things ­Mallory missing open 3-pointers, the guards leaving Panthers guard Xenia Stewart open to hit game-deciding triples and not boxing out Walker in the post. Forward Becca Bruszewski and Ashley Barlow each committed two fouls in six and seven min­utes, respectively, and Lechlitner turned the ball over five times without getting an assist. (At least she was in good company since every Irish player who saw minutes had at least one give­away.) 
The other main issue with these problems is how prevalent they have been all season. 
McGraw has talked about wanting to make her team's 3­point defense better since media day. Back in October, she said it was a point of emphasis for her team. Even going back to last season it was a major problem for the Irish. And what did McGraw say was the final nail in Notre Dame's coffin against Pittsburgh? 
"[Stewart] hit those two 3s and I thought that was the game," she said. 
Same crap, different day. 
But it's not just the 3-point defense. Big men have pestered the Irish all season long. Walker might not be in the same league as Tennessee's Candace Parker and Connecticut's Tina Charles, but her 18 points and 13 boards made it seem that way. 
Now, I'm not pretending that I know how to fix these problems mostly because that's not my job. I'm a sports writer, not a basket­ball coach. McGraw, on the other hand, is. She has to find a way to make these little problems disap­pear come Tournament time if she wants her team to keep dancing. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd. edu 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 
Panthers 
continued from page 24 
"ll's really disappointing to 
play so well for 29 games," 
Notre Dame coach Muffet 
McGraw said. "We've really 
had a great season and to end 
on a note like this the last two 
games is really disappointing 
for us after all the hard work 
we've put in throughout the 
year." 
Pittsburgh center Marcedes Walker had 18 points and 13 rebounds in the game. Stewart had 13 points and guard Mallorie Winn added 12. 
Irish guard Charel Allen led her team with 17 points and eight rebounds, and guard Ashley Barlow added 11. Notre Dame only shot 30.6 percent from the floor in the game. 
Despite the Panther's come­back, Notre Dame kept the end of the game close until the last minute. Barlow made a layup to tie the score at 41 with seven minutes remain­ing, but Stewart hit the first of her two :{-pointers to give Pittsburgh the lead. Allen gave the Irish a one-point lead with three minutes left, but a triple from Winn and Stewart's second trey gave Pittsburgh a 56-51 lead. 
"We needed to get some­thing going and I didn't feel like I was contributing like the rest of my team. so I was just taking open looks and taking the shots," Stewart said. 
McGraw said Stewart's 3­pointers sank her team for good. 
McGraw aeknowledged that Stewart's play late in the see­one! half changed the eventual outcome. 
"I thought Xenia Stewart was the difference in the game," McGraw said. "She hit those two 3s and I thought that was the game." 
Notre Dame rendered Pittsburgh ineffective after the opening tip. Walker's layup with 17:38 left in the first half would be Pittsburgh's last basket until Stewart hit a jumper with 10:04 left, a span of 7:34. In that time, the Irish seored 14 points and squashed the Panther offense. They swatted passes and blocked shots, clogged lanes to the basket and forced poor shot selection. 
"I started to get a 11ashback of the West Virginia game, because when we played West Virginia we had two points and they had about twelve like Notre Dame today, and we lost that game by a lot," Pittsburgh coach Agnus Berenato said of Notre Dame's early lead. 
Just as the Irish had the opportunity to bury Pittsburgh, -they swapped places with their opponents. It was now their turn to turn the ball over, throw passes out of bounds and suffer through offensive stagnation. 
As Notre Dame's transfor­mation took place, Pittsburgh's offense revived itself. Walker completed two baek-to-back 3-point plays, and a Winn 3-pointer and a jump shot from guard Taneisha Harrison tied the game at 17 with 4:36 remain­ing. 
"We were too laid back. We should have kept being aggressive but we were just relaxed and laid back," Allen said. "We should have been aggressive from the start. When you are up 14-2 you want to keep shoving it down their throat but we didn't do that." 
McGraw said Notre Dame's offense, which didn't click even when they had the chance early, never got off the ground. 
"Overall, offensively we did­n't really play well. I don't think we moved the ball well," McGraw said. "I thought when 
we to around going."  the a lo zone t never  we  stood really got  
Notes:  

+Allen was named first team all-Big East, and Barlow and junior guard Lindsay Schrader were honorable mentions. Guard Brittany Mallory and forward Devereaux Peters were named to the all-Big East freshman team. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
MEN'S TRACK 



Irish cotnpete in Alex Wilson Invitational 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO 
Spans Wrirer 
Notre Dame spent part of its spring break competing at the Alex Wilson Invitational at the Lortus Center and preparing for the upcoming national meet. 
On the first day of competi­tion, the Irish got strong per­l'ormanees from senior Kurt Benningnr, who ran a 3:58 mile and helped the Irish dis­taneP. medley relay earn the No. 11 send for the NCAA National Indoor Championship. Other members of the relay squad ineluded senior Adam Currie, sophomore Blake Choplin and freshman Austin WP.chter. 
For field events, freshman .Justin Schneider placed ninth in the long jump while fresh­man Greg Davis led the Irish in the weight throw with 16.8 
meters and a third-place fin­ish. Freshmen Denes Verez and John Belcher followed close behind with 14.65-meter and 13.60-meter throws, respectively. 
The second day held the same intensity as senior Jake Watson won the mile run with a time of 4:00, winning by almost three seconds. Other runners in the race included Irish juniors Daniel Clark and Patrick Smyth, who finished ninth and tenth, respectively. 
Schneider. jumped 1. 94 meters for a seventh-place fin­ish in the high jump. 
The Irish now face their final indoor meet at the NCAA Championships before heading outside for what is expected to be an exeiting outdoor season. The National Championships are Mareh 14-15 at Arkansas. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu 

The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 11, 2008 

For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, March 13 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman.,.Morse 


The Core Council invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members· of tile Notre Dame family, their friends, and suppo1ters to an intormal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyl)!le 1s welcome and cnnlidentiality is assured. 
CORE CIJIJMC!l 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN

STUDENTS 


or call (574) 284-4560. 
Registration will be accepted through May 16. 
*unless otherwise noted. 

SAINT 

MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN \VWw.saintrnarys.edu 

Tuesday, March 11, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

Answer here: A " [ I I J" rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: WEARY EPOCH OUTFIT RAREFY 
Answer: When the charter pilot's son took over the 
business, it became an -HEIR FORCE 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LIST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Shannon Miller, 31; Jasmine Guy, 44; Sharon Stone, SO; Chuck Norris, 68 

-
Happy Birthday: Although new doors will open and old. ones will close this year, you will have to remind the people around you what you really want to see unfold. Your energy will be high and your determination strong. Don't be afraid to ask for favors or to press people for what you need to complete your year's mission. Your numbers are 5, 1!, 18, 24, 27,36 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Avoid overbooking your time if you want to do a good job today. A power I?lay may be in effect so keep a close eye on what everyone else is doing. Charm, creativity and good common sense will win out. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't get bogged down with what everyone else wants you to do when you should be pushing your own talents and ideas. Discuss your plans wtth people m the know who want to help you out or even get involved. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can find your way to the top if you use ingenuity and imagination. Don't be fooled by anyone who is constantly changing his or her mind. Follow your own path and don't look back. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have the power to push your way to victory. Your persistence coupled with your desire to get what you want will pay off. You don't have to go too far off the beaten track in order to find what you want. 4 stars : 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let love lead you astray or stop you from getting what needs to be done complete. Gauge what's important and what can wait if you don't 
want to lose ground. Take advantage of an opening or opportunity. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):·You'll be persuasive, appealing and very knowledgeable about what needs to be done. Your vision and powerful push for what you want will be victorious. Travel and invest in yourself. 5 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Watch where you spend your money. Bad deals surround you. Love is in the air. A new relationship can begin or you can renew your vows with someone you are already with. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Emotional matters will escalate, causing problems that must be dealt with. This is not the time to hide your true feelings. A chance to invest in something you believe in is apparent. Money is heading your way. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can make changes and set a standard for all to follow but be aware that someone is watching your every move. Do things right and you will end up a hero for your accomplishments. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN ~ec. 22-Jan. 19): You may know what you are doing but don't expect everyone else to be in your corner today. Questions will be asked, so be prepared to answer accordingly. Whatever support you need will be offered if you can prove you have a solid plan in place. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): Money is in the picture if you use your imagination 
and creative ability to persuade others to help you out. You may question emotional 
issues from your childhood but you mustn't let this limit what is done now. You can't 
live in the past. 4 stars 

J!ISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't overspend on something that someone else is 
prompting you to get involved in. A secret matter is likely to entice you but you will 
have regrets if you do something questionable. Fix whatever is causing you trouble at 
home and in your personal life. 3 stars 

Birthday Baby: You are inventive and quick to react. You are a humanitarian, a loyal friend and a great companion. You can see both sides of any situation. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
_... 

BLACK DoG 
WE.LL 7 WHAT l>D YVU SE.E, Pf1.DF'ti.ET 7 WI-IAT OOES MY 
FVTUJtE HOLD? 

LOLLERSKATES 
1111111/S tllatarll 11111/IIF1/IR/11: 
· ·nu .. snyings on the Taco Bt'"'ll hot SllUCt.. pnekt.'"ts. 

ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 
lh~ Cj\JY {~IYl Jia.-·lV\-R-\?oX! N0. Yo~ oY\\y li i:.e l-. iwt beco.vse 
'Vle loo\::$ (;1. \it\\e tl\4:' yovr 
~ytvieh&. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Daredevils 18 Nick at 22 Tangled, as hair 23 Big tops 24 Lei Day greeting 25 Blacktops, say 27 Surveillance 
evidence 28 Fact fudger 30 Common union 
demand 31 Part of a min. 34 Flow back 68 Sees red 
69 Informal top 70 Center of power 
71 Some. retired 
racehorses 
Down 1 Wonderful, 
slangily 2 Fuss 3 Partner of 
improved 4 Big bash 5 to none 
(long odds) 6 Stellar swan 7 Part of a repair 
estimate 8 "Got it!" 9 Showman Hurok 
10 Went at it alone 
11 Cereal morsel 
12 Purple hue 
13 Country/rock's 
Mountain 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
MY LEG-Ac..Y WILL ~E OI'JE ol' .1 THEY WILL REM.EM.&£R MY WITI-I C.r<.tES oF f>AIJ>J! 1 W 1 Ll 
MY .' ~ii!ia.w-~ ....... 
·nu~ host of Anu"'J•icn • s 
Ftnulif"st 
Vidt''f)S. 

DIDIER LEWIS 
Pt•opJt,.•s AilS\\'e 1--s to tl.U2' 'Question. of tht"' Dav•
. ..... "'*" 
SARAH MUSCARELLA 
be v-i.J.ic~iwo.-lo'*~vlov$. 
t \o".:d AV\J.y wo-'j be~v-.e \ \ Me.."\-\:JOY tYi.e Y\CQ_ 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by C. W. Stewart and J. K. Hummel 
36 Nostalgic tune  47 Skin-related  58 Dirty reading  
37 Mullally of "Will  48 Makes hard  61 "_ y plata"  
& Grace"  49 "Se.mper Fi" org.  62 Trader _(old  
38 Fred Astaire's  50 Milk purchase  restaurateur)  
sister 40 Bow-toting god  51 Loosen, in a way  63 Rhea relative 64 Like Republican  
41 Certain plea, for  52 Bit of wisdom  states on an  
short  53 Parting word  electoral map  
42 Of one's  57 Klutzy sorts  65 Braying beast  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 






JJlJJWIDILJE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GEFUD 
j

I I [ I I 
@2008 TribLme Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
MYKUR j
I I r (] NIWWON b
rJ 
1 
www.jumble.com
tREYJES I

IJ I I I 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
*THE FIRST THING 


THE TEEN TOOK WHEN HE GOT HIS DRIVER'S L..IC.ENSE. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
Across Prominent feature of Dracula 6 Reunion group 11 Showman Ziegfeld 
" 

14 "Let's Make 15 Search engine name 16 Designer Claiborne 171t may end up in 
the gutter 19 In the style of 20 _ acid (protein 
component) 21 Schindler of "Schindler's List" 23 Spy's device 26 Sweater style 29 Runs out 32 Slave girl of opera 33 Exploding stars 
34 Fuel economy org. 35 City in ltalia 
39 What 17-, 26-, 50-and 50­Across have in common 
43 Pageant • accessory 
44 Tony Soprano and cohorts, with "the" 
45 Cheese hunk 46 One on a pedestal 48 Old timer? 5oClassic 
breakfast fare 54 Suffix with butyl 55 Reporting to 56 How-to 
presentations 59_ glance 60 Item on a set 66 Fix illegally 67 Disney mermaid 



THE OBSERVER 









l?ORTS
Tuesday, March 11, 2008 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

The Pitts 
ND gives up early lead, falls to Panthers 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
IIAHTFOIW -A 14-2 Ni1tre Damn lead 10 minutes into tho first half was not enough to bury Xonia Stewart and Pittsburgh. 
Artnr tlw Pantlwrs battled back. the guard hit two late :l-pointnrs, onn with 54 sec­onds rnmaining in the ganw. to give Pittsburgh a !i-rwint lnad. It would hold that lead a n d w i n . 6 4 -5:l . a t t he X L Centnr Sunday in tho quartnr­l'inals or thn Big East tourna­
m n nl. 
The Panthers advanen to play Connrwticut tonight. The Irish (23-R) have now lost tlwir last two opening games or thn conferencn tournament. Af'tnr a 61-51 loss to St. .John's on March 3, Notre Damn has dropped two straight wh1~n it had won seven of its previous eight. 
see PANTHERS/page 22 


Irish turn in subpar showing in Hartford 
HARTFORD -A-; I sat in my hotel room aftnr Sunday's game, one thought consistently ran through my head. 
"How the hell did ND just lose to Pitt?" 
I was appalled after thP gamP­and with good rea­son. Thn Irish startnd the game with a suf­focating defense that held thn Panthers to two points in 10 minutes, got Pittsburgh center Marcedes Walker into early foul trouble, and managed to have a 22-21 odgP-on thP­boards. 
But Big East basketball giveth, and Big East basketball taketh away. 

Jay Fitzpatrick 
Sports Writer 
see COLLAPSE/page 21 
BASEBALL 


Sharpley's walk-off homer highlights trip for ND 
Notre Dame 5, Saint Mary's batters last May in the Big lies that helped give Notre Lilley finished the day with two
By LORENZO REYES 

0 East tournament. Dame the win. Booekford went HBI. With Notre Dame's lead at 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame junior starter Notre Dame's offense put up 2-for-2 with an HBI double 3-0, Phelps had all the support David Phelps stole the show an impressive performance as that brought in senior catcher he would need to finish off the Ovnr thn week-long spring against the Mountaineers well, getting multiple hits from Sean Gaston in the bottom of victory. 
brnak, Notre Damn saw a bit of March l, allowing only four sophomore designated hitter the second. 
evnrything, ranging from a hits in seven scoreless innings. Billy Boockford and freshman In the fourth frame, fresh­Notre Dame 6, Saint 
walk-ofT honw run by junior ThP-Irish pitching, staff outfielder Golden Tate. Tate man third baseman Mick Doyle Bonaventure 4 
l·:van Sharpley, to a 16-run loss struck out a total of 14 Saint picked up two doubles and two brought Tate in with an HBI In the bottom of thfJ eighth, 
to No. I Arizona. Overall. the Mary's batters in the game, the runs in his 2-for-3 outing. His single, and a Brett Lilley single 
Irish went 4-4 for the week. most since disposing of 14 USF doublP-s both started Irish ral-brought another Irish run in. see BREAK/page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish clinch No. 3 seed inconference tourney with win at USF 


Harangody leads team as it holds off late charge by Bulls 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

Luke llarangody strength­ennd his candidacy in the Big East player of thn year race with 21 points and nirw rebounds as No. 14/14 Notre 
f) a m e 

d n re a t ~~ d See Also South 
"Pair of bailers

Florida (> 7­(J () named to Big 
Saturday in 
East first 
thP regu­
team."

lar-season finale for 
page 21 

h () t h 
teams. 
With the victory ovnr the Bulls. the Irish dinchnd tho No. 3 seed in tho Big East tourna­ment. And al'ter notching wins against DePaul and St. John's P-arlier in the wP-ek, the Irish (24-6, 14-4) head into the con­ference tournament on a three­game win streak. 
"I think we're playing like one of the best teams in the eountry right now," said senior forward Hob Kurz. who scored 14 points against South Florida before fouling out. "We feel that we have a lot of momen­tum." 
But despite taking several big leads over the Bulls, South Florida kept coming baelc 
Notre Dame f{Jd by as many as 1CJ points in the second half but South Florida went on a 22-4 run to pull within onn with just over five minutes rnmaining. 
But tl111 Irish were able to fend ofT the late South Florida rally to finish their season with 14 Big East victories in the expanded 18-game Big East schodule. 
Juniors Kyle McAlarney and Hyan AyP-rs each drained two free throws in the final 23 sec­onds to put the Bulls away. 

"We did a good job of not dwelling on our mistakes and just moving onto the next play," Irish point guard Tory Jackson said. "We did a good job finish­ing them off at the end and knocking down free throws." 
At the end of the first half, Jackson squashed a South Florida run by knocking down a long 3-pointer as the buzzer sounded. 
After Jackson missed a shot with 10 seconds remaining in the half, Bulls guard Jesus Verdejo converted a three­point play to cut Notre Dame's lead to 33-27. 
But Jackson took the inbound pass and streaked down tlw court in time to hit a running jurn per fi·mn behind thfJ arc. 
"I got lucky," Jac:kson said. "I made a mistake the play beforP­and kinda forced a shot. But we did a good job just getting 
see BULLS/page 21 






