----------------,-----------------.. 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

THE 


ND builds on Ugandan partnership 
University develops plan to work with village; students involved in research, interviews 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
Last January, a group of Notre Dame delegates led by University President Father John Jenkins traveled to Nindye, Uganda, to visit the village that would become Notre Dame's partner in the Millennium Development Initiative. 
One year later, the ties between the University and the village of 5,000 have strength­ened with the research and find­ings of the project's staff and Notre Dame students, as well a5 the enthusiasm among the Ugandans, according to the pro­ject's assistant director. Tim 
Juniors contend alone 


SMC candidates run unopposed for president, VP 
By KRISTEN EDELEN 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students met juniors Mickey Gruscinski and Sarah Falvey, who are running unopposed for next year's student body president and vice president, in the atrium of the Student Center Thursday night during a "Meet the Candidates" event. 
Gruscinski, who is running as president on the ticket, currently serves on Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association (RHA) as treas­urer. Falvey is the National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH) executive assistant, a representative position in a national organization. 
"An unopposed race is something that is definitely not normal and will make for an interesting election because they still have to campaign," said senior Maggie Siefert, former stu­dent body vice president and executive director of elec­tions. 
Shortly after the forum, Gruscinski and Falvey began knocking on doors across campus to promote their campaign to students. 

"Even though there is only one ticket they are working just as hard, as if there were 
see ELECTIONS/page 9 Lyden. 
"We've done a lot 'of listening and learning over the last year, in order to really understand the people of Nindye and their needs. That was the first thing we needed to do," Lyden said Thursday. "We didn't want to just jump into this partnership without taking a breath to figure out what our next step would be and how we were going to do it." 
After the 2006 Notre Dame Forum on global health, Jenkins announced the University's involvement in the United Nations' Millennium Villages Project. Notre Dame, he said, would partner with a sub-
see UGANDA/page 9 




Coalition slow to meet 
Committee has yet to convene to discuss town-gown relations 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
The Community Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC), the central part of the South Bend Common Council's compromise to ditch its proposed party permit ordinance, has yet to meet since being estab­lished in September and has no current plans to convene. 
Student body president Liz Brown lobbied for the group as part of a compro­mise with the South Bend Common Council when dis­cussing alternatives the proposed ordinance. 
The major founding goal of the CCAC was to foster 
better relations between South Bend and the local universities-Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross and Indiana University­South Bend (IUSB). However, bringing all these parties to the table can often take some time, said Timothy Rouse, the presi­dent of the South Bend Common Council and co­sponsor of the original ordinance. 
"When you have a variety of folks and you want the inclusiveness, it takes a while to get it jump-start­ed," Rouse said. ''I'm sure that it will happen and it will be inclusive of the entire community." 
In addition, poor weath­er, the Council elections in 

Nevv students arrive 
for spring semester 
ND admits 9 transfers, SMC admits 15 
By MEG MIRSHAK News Writer 
Notre Dame added nine transfer students, and Saint Mary's gained 15 new stu­dents as members of the spring transfer class. 
The Notre Dame Office of Admissions received 95 applications from students seeking to be admitted as a spring transfer student, said Susan Joyce, the associate director of admissions. 
Although juniors can apply to transfer to the University, all nine students admitted for the spring semester were sophomores. 
This year, the University's spring transfer class was unusually small, Joyce said, adding that the normal num­ber of spring transfer stu­dents is typically around 18 students. 
"[The Office of Admissions] does not see this as a trend," 
see TRANSFERS/page 4 
November, and winter break have all been factors in delaying the CCAC's first meeting. 
"We had hoped to have a meeting before Christmas time, but then it was thought with finals and the students going home, so we'd thought we'd wait until after the first of the [new] year," said at-large Council member AI "Buddy" Kirsits. 
Still, no date has been set, and many are hoping 
that the group  can  meet  
within  the  next  few  
months.  

Brown, whose term ends April 1, said she would like to have the opportunity to 
see CCAC/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND SIBC launches projects 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
NewsWrirer 
Notre Dame students have been putting their business savvy to many uses through the Student International Business Council (SIBC). 
Organized into six different divisions -accounting, business consulting, fmance, global devel­opment, human resources, internships and marketing -the SIBC works on projects to "accomplish [its] vision of peace through commerce," said Maria Bufalino, director of the market­ing division. "We accomplish this by working with different compa­nies on a more international level." 
The SIBC has worked with companies such as PricewaterhouseCoopers, Boston Consulting Group, Starcom, Deloitte, RSM McGladery and NBC Sports, as well as nonprofits like Luca Leadership, Bufalino said. 
The Council has also worked with Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative (NDMDI), Bufalino said. 
Bufalino said there are three to six projects for each of the six divisions, and anywhere from five to 20 students working on an individual project. 
"We try to keep it very diverse," Bufalino said. "It really can benefit everyone, not just business majors. You get to prac­tice presenting in front of people and you get to meet a variety of people and you get to learn and have fun." 
Students present projects to companies in order to form part­nerships. 
see SIBC/page 4 


Transfer Students at ND &SMC  
4lill_. "'f.J s)lling 200&(9 transfenl NDllftrJftP\, l(J spring 2007: (25 transfers) ltlblfitd~~  
SMC spring 2008: (15 transfers) spring 2007: (11 transfers)  

INSIDE COLUMN 

Waiting for George 
Possibly as a result of the winter dol­
drums or Christmas vacation withdrawal, 
I have decided to approach this Inside 
Column with rny current annoyances. 

First, political candidates can no longer 
use the word "change." They should con­
sider olli1ring less 
abstract, insub-Katlyn Smith 
stantial plat-
limns to run 

their campaigns. News J.tlre Editor 
As a first time 
voter, I'd prefer 
to see dear-cut 

strategies as opposed to simply identifying 
the nation's problems. Furthermore, the 
news media seems to devote ample time 
to tears and haircut<> on the campaign 

trail whm1 coverage of genocide is rare. 
Similarly, I do not turn to CNN fi>r the latest cow~h-jumping or umbrella-attack­ing celebrities. Attempting to stay aware of international events, I find myself more infi>rmed on recent mug shots or failed court appnarances. I Iowever, I no longer need to purchase an US Weekly. 
Third, although going green is crucial fiw the planet, I do not think changing light bulbs is truly elfeetive. Massive relilrms at the W<L<>hinhrton level must increase fuel eflidency standards in the even nearer future. Nevertheless, any global warming critics can support their ea<>e with South Bend weather. 
Fourth, the standard cable company fi>r the residm1ce halls does not provide Turner Classi1: Movies. Apparently, Cornc<L'>t <L<>sunws students are morn like­ly to watch IIG'IV and Jjfetime. In addi­tion. the channPI broadcast<> d<L<>sics when llollywood had IDEAS. This sum­mer. tlwatnrs ollernd an impressive selec­tion. nanwly Shn1k ;) or Hush I lour 3. Tough call. 
Filth. the writers' strike ha<> prevented tlw purn joy, dation and ecstasy of George Clooney in a tux. In nfli1ct, tim award sea­son aeknowh1dges and honors the writ­ers. Mornover, I'm already overwhelmed with rnality television. Without the writ­ers, I'm (()f(:ed to watch reruns of David . Letterman throwing pizza<> at a Christma'i tree. 
Sixth, Green's Bay pa<>s protection and special teams prevented one of the more sport<>manlike, humanitarian quarter­back.<> from rnaching the pinnacle Super Bowl. Eli h<L'> his entire career ahead of him. 
Also, no words c:an express my frustra­tion with my hometown team: the Bears. Except, perhaps sign Brady, as in Quinn. Only a former Purdue quarterback with a terrible beard would stumble under the press urn. 
Although I would never convert to the Sox fan ba<>e. how many times do I have to dedare, "Maybe this is the year?" And the hall of tiline ha<> denied Hon Santo's induction for too long. Shockingly, this ba<>eball player ha<> never used steroids. 
Jjkewise, tl111 p(;A ha'i not scheduled a tournament lilr Illinois until 2009. No Tiger. No Serhrio. 
I ,ooking toward Notre Dame's next sea­son, student<> who leave during the alma mater only rnaflirm the "!"air-weather" aceusation. Furthermore, field goals are an aecnptable mnans of seoring. 
Surely, tile spring weather will bring a more positive outlook. So until the hrroundhog !hils to see his shadow, I can only wait f()r George's Oscar win to allevi­ate my winter doldrums. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsen1er. 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmithO1@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publicarin and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, reco&nize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please comacr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT MOVIE/ACTOR SHOULD HAVE BEEN NOMINATED FOR AN OSCAR? 







Meghan Newcomb Anne Martell Carolyn Plou Jim Brady Kaitlyn Conway 
senior senior senior senior freshman offcampus offcampus offcampus offcampus Farley 
"Journey to "Life at "725 E Angela: "A Night at the "The destroying of Jay's Lounge, Waddicks. " Peace, Love and Torch." du Lac. It would be 
starring Crazy Tequila. " Doug. " 
RIBBIT! This green isn't part of salad 
NEW YORK -You just don't want to eat some greens. That's how a 
Brooklyn mom felt when she found a tiny frog comfortably nestled in the leaves of organic let­tuce she was preparing to eat. 
"I jumped away," said :39-year-old Yvonne Brechbuhler, who described the green crit­ter as no bigger than the tip of her pinky finger. 
"I didn't know what it was. But once I realized it was a frog, I was OK," she told the Daily News 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 

Construction of the new law building on DeBartolo Quad progresses as the frame­work of the building is erected. 
OFFBEAT 

an exhibit· at Linfield 
College,  where  the  
Portland  artist  is  an  
adjunct professor.  

Police said a man saw it in a garbage bin Monday, recognized it from news about the theft and called. He'll get the $500 reward the college offered. 
The work is titled "The Sexy Sex: All Nude Revue Rug One." It is a hooked rug in hand-dyed alpaca, 85 by 17 inches. Bremer said it took about two years to complete. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
in Thursday editions. Intrigued, she named the frog "Curious." 
Brechbuhler, a stage actress. said she bought the lettuce at her local food co-op and kept it in the refrigerator three days before using it last week. 
Naked rug portrait found in dumpster 
MCMINNVILLE, Ore. ­Tamera Bremer has her woven self-portrait back. It's a bit stinky but the image is as curvy and naked as the day it was stolen. In October, the weaving was taken from 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a::: 
L&.l 
:::z:: 

r~vrr~
c!6v?J~.
~ 

~3 
'> ·~
L&.l 

-~ ·.· 
~ 

~Qt::J.J
...I 
(jJ' 
. v~Ji
c:r: 
0 
0 

HIGH 22 HIGH 12 HIGH 33 HIGH 35
..J LOW 15 LOW 5 LOW 27 LOW 28 
about the various ways one could destroy du Lac. " 
IN BRIEF 

Actors From The London Stage will present "The Taming of the Shrew" tonight and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Student tick­ets are available for $12. 
Prints from the Suite Museum of Art's collection that focus on artistic subjects from the 17th century will be displayed today from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The exhibit. "Hembrandt and the Art of Printmaking in Holland," will highlight the golden age of Dutch art, depictions of" land­scapes, portraits of animals and individuals in non-aristo­cratic social and economic classes, and scenes of their everyday life. 
There will be a men's and women's indoor track invita­tional tonight at 5 in Loftus Sports Center. Admission is free. 
The Harlem Globetrotters will be playing tonight at 7 at the Joyce Center. For tickets, call 631-7356. 
Men's hockey will play Bowling Green tonight at 7:35 at the Joyce Center ice rink. 
The Noire Dame Student Film Festival is taking place today and Saturday at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. It features 13 short films made in classes during the past year by stu­dents in the FTT department. From dark comedy to docu­mentary, the films cover a wide range of genres. Tickets are $3 for ND students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
~~ 

~·
••..•• 
~ 

HIGH 38 HIGH 33 LOW 28 LOW 18 
Atlanta 44 I 21 Boston 28 I 13 Chicago 24 I 0 Denver 42 I 17 Houston 46 I 37 Los Angeles 59 I 47 Minneapolis 23 I 4 New York 33 I 19 Philadelphia 35 I 19 Phoenix 65 I 45 Seattle 42 I 29 St. Louis 33 I 9 Tampa 65 I 48 Washington 37 I 22 
.....-------------------------------------­
Friday, January 25, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Rvvandan dancers visit SMC 
Michiana-based group makes second appearance on campus 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
Members of the Saint Mary's community attended a per­formance by the Berwa Organization at O'Loughlin Auditorium on Thursday night. This was the second time that the Rwandan dance group, consisting of about 30 mem­bers, performed at the College. 
"It's more of a local, regional group," said Richard Baxter, the College's director of spe­cial events. "They performed at Saint Mary's about a year ago in a much smaller, inti­mate setting, and I explored the possibility of having the group return for a larger audi­ence." 
Traditional dance and music play an important part in the lives of Rwandans. At the beginning of the performance, one of the leaders of the group said dance and music are a way to teach younger genera­tions how to live in peace, love and harmony. 
All members of the Berwa Organization live in the Michiana area, where hun­dreds of Rwandans reportedly live. The name Berwa means "be proud" in the native Kinyarwanda language. The Berwa members ranged in age from 9 to 50. 
"They use dance to cope 
with what they have been through and pass the heritage of their dance styles on to their children," Baxter said. "Watching them perform these dances on a grander scale serves as a great lesson to us." 
The performance began with the "Inganzo" dance per­formed by younger girls, fol­lowed by the "Nyaruguru" dance performed by teenage girls. The second act consisted of the "Abakobwa b'Iwacu" dance that showed, in artistic movements, the typical day in the life of a Rwandan Movement. 
Following was the "Ingoma" dance performed by the Berwa drummers, and after the inter­mission was a series of acts depicting the Rwandan tradi-
Heritage dinner to honor Moreau 

tiona! wedding, the Rwandan naming ceremony, and the cel­ebration of a child's birth. The performance concluded with a fashion show. 
"It's uplifting to watch them dance, because it reaches their hearts," Baxter said. "It's hard to talk about dance and how it affects you emotionally, but you are so captivated by their commitment to what they are doing, and you can't help but invest in the project." 
All proceeds from the event will be sent by the Berwa members back to their fami­lies in Rwanda, a nation that has been torn apart by geno­cide and civil war. 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance will host a Heritage dinner in Stapleton Lounge tonight at 6 to round out its celebration of the third annual Heritage Week. 
The week celebrates the his­tory of the College, and tonight's dinner will honor Father Basil Moreau only days after the first celebration of his feast day since his beatifi­cation in 2007. 
Student body president Kim Hodges said this year's dinner will be different from years past. BOG has invited Sisters of the Holy Cross to attend the dinner to tell stories about their experiences at Saint Mary's, and one· of the sisters is going to share her experi­ence from the celebration of Moreau's beatification. 
"The main purpose of the dinner is to bring the Sisters of the Holy Cross, faculty and students to converse and cele­brate the heritage of the College," Hodges said. 
BOG is strongly encouraging student patricipation. 
"The significance of the din­ner is to pass down tradition, pass down themes of who we are as Saint Mary's women from people who have been pillars at Saint Mary's College," Hodges said. 
College vice presidents and BOG officials will attend the dinner along with the Sisters pf the Holy Cross. 
Sodexho, the company in charge of dining hall services, will cater the French-themed meal. The courses will be sim­ilar to the dinner Monday in the dining hall that was held for Moreau. 
The dinner is open to the public and free of charge, but space is limited. Students interested in attending need to sign up at the front desk of the Student Center. 
The dinner will be followed by a sock hop in the Student Center Lounge from 9 p.m. to 
11. There will be an ice cream bar at the dance, and free T­shirts will be passed out in honor of Heritage Week. 
Another Heritage Week fes­tivity today will be guided tours of Reidinger House, a small building in the center of campus. The building was for­merly the location of home economics classes at the College. The tours run from 3 p.m. to 5. 
The winners of the scav­enger hunt that began Monday will also be announced today and award­ed their prize. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

SIBC 
• continued from page 1 
"The projects, almost all of them except for the global devel­opment projects, are presented to the companies that we work with, mostly in Chieago," Bufalino said. "There was a group of stu­dents last semester that went to Goldman Sachs in New York and another group that went to Liz Claiborne in New York. We try to broaden out and get to other projects that are across the coun­try." 
Through working on various projects, studenl'l get the oppor­tunity to learn about the business world. Many students also work on projects and internships inter­nationally -in places such as Uganda, Cambodia, Ireland, London, Thailand, 

Ghana and "The projects, almost all of seminar to 
Poland. them except for the global learn how to "Artisan dye fabrics to
development projects, are
Opportunities earn money, International presented to the companies Gaines said. is an organiza­that we work with, mostly The women tion founded in Chicago. ,, live in an by two SIBC area heavily members a affected by couple years Maria Bufalino HIV/AIDS, ago," said director and part of Tina Tovar, the project
SIBC marketing division 
global devel­opment divi­sion director. "They founded it and they went to Nicaragua and when they were there, they decided they wanted to work with hammock artisans." 
The SIBC purchased the ham­mocks made by artisans, took them to the United States to be sold and used the profits from the hammocks to help the artisans in Nicaragua, Tovar said. 
Tovar said that she researched the needs of the artisans and determined the best use for the hammock profits when she visit­ed Nicaragua. 

"We would go visit homes everyday and kind of observe and talk to them about what their needs were," she said. "Basically our trip was mostly for research purchases." 
While in Nicaragua during its rainy season, Tovar saw that the artisans' houses "were in very bad condition, they were getting rained on and everything inside was getting wet." 
Thus, the SIBC members in Nicaragua decided a housing project would benefit the arti­sans. 
SIBC chief financial officer Kadeja Gaines also spent time abroad with the program. She traveled to Uganda on the Uganda Project, part of the NDMDI. 
Members of the Uganda Project found a group of women in which 
one had 
attended a 
will aim to 

"create a sewing school where HIV orphans can learn a craft that can make them money when they are adults in the future," Gaines said. "Currently we are trying to research markets, importing and exporting the fabrics, and also ]determining] what these fabrics can be made into." 
Students and women in Uganda can benefit a great deal from this project, she said. 
"Students in this project are learning how to build a business from the ground up. [It is] great for these women in Uganda because it is hopefully going to allow them to turn a profit and allow them to better their com­munity," Gaines said. 
The SIBC has developed more of an international focus recently. 
"It has changed in the fact that we're more focused on our vision of peace through commerce ... and what skills we can use to develop the vision," Bufalino said. 
Bufalino said that interested members can attend division meetings next week, and infor­mation about all projects is avail­able on the SIBC's Web site. 

Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 


St. Thomas Aquinas 
''Lessonsfrom Aquinas 
on the War in Iraq" 
Featuring Professor Timothy Renick Chair, Dept. of Religious Studies, Georgia State University Author ofAquinasfor Armchair Theologians Saint Mary's College • Notre Dame, Indiana 
-~­

Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center 
SAINT 

Monday, January 28 at 7:00 P.M.
MARY'S 

Free and open to the public
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 

This Symposium is sponsored by the Joyce McMahon Hank
www.saintmarys.edu 

Aquinas Chair in Catholir; Theology. 
Transfers 
continued from page 1 
Joyce said. "Sometimes the application pool is different." 
A transfer student must complete one-half of his total degree requirements at the University. The number of jun­iors applying for transfer dur­ing the spring semester is usu­ally less than the fall semes­ter. But, occasionally, the 0 ffice of Admissions will receive an application from a first-semester junior who is off the normal four-year col­lege sequence, Joyce said. 
Last summer, the admissions committee evaluated 572 fall­semester applicants. Of the 159 students admitted, 87 percent were sophomores. 
At Saint Mary's, the number of incoming students is similar to what the Admissions Office has seen in past spring semes­ters, said Summer Runyan, the assistant director and campus visit coordinator of the Admissions Office. 
Saint Mary's evaluates transfer applicants on the qualifications that the student has completed two consecu­tive semesters of transferable college work. The applicant must have earned a 3.0 grade point average, Hunyan said. 
The Notre Dame sophomore class experienced a net gain of students after gaining fall and spring transfer students, Joyce said. Transfer students register for classes after returning students and enter a lottery for on-campus housing. 
All nine spring transfer stu­

dents at Notre Dame obtained on-campus housing, and the remaining fall transfer stu­dents who were placed on a waiting list in the fall received on-campus housing assign­ments this semester, Joyce said. 
Orientation sessions were held for transfer students at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Twelve students attended the Saint Mary's ori­entation, which included information sessions introduc-_ ing students to the campus and technology use at Saint Mary's. 
At Notre Dame, transfer stu­dents attended an abbreviated schedule of normal orientation events. The Transfer Orientation Committee, chaired by previous spring ­semester transfer students Ashley Weiss and Colin Ethier, planned two days of activities beginning the Sunday before classes began. 
Twelve previous transfer students were on the commit­tee. 
"[The members of the com­mittee] go out of their way to welcome the new students because they know what it is like to transfer colleges," Joyce said. 
On the first day of transfer orientation, separate panel discussions were held for stu­dents and parents, followed by a dinner in the Main Building. Transfer students and their families also joined University President Father John Jenkins for a Mass in the Log Chapel. 
Contact Meg Mirshak at mmirshak@nd.edu 


Lafayette Square Townhomes 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, January 25, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.N. set to increase sanctions on Iran 
UNITED NATIONS -Major U.N. Security Council powers have agreed on an incremen­tal increase in sanctions on Iran, including a new restriction on exporters doing business with the country, diplomats said Thursday. 
A draft resolution also calls for more moni­toring of Iran's military and financial institu­tions, broader travel bans on Iranian nuclear scientists and other key officials, and freezing the assets of people and banks linked to weapons proliferation, Security Council diplo­mats told The Associated Press. 
Diplomats from the five nations with veto power on the council -the U.S., Russia, China, Britain and France -spent a third day negotiating a final agreement on principles that would form the basis for a third round of 
U.N. sanctions on Iran. They were joined by Germany, which has long been involved in efforts to resolve the Iran nuclear dispute. 
Italian premier resigns after vote 
ROME -Italian Premier Romano Prodi resigned Thursday night after his government lost a risky Senate confidence vote. 
The center-left government fell four votes short of the 160 needed for victory. The vote was 161-156. 
Elected in April 2006, Prodi has had a shaky government from nearly the start. But it lurched toward collapse after a small Christian Democrat party, whose votes were vital to a coalition majority in the Senate, yanked its support earlier this week in the lat­est squabbling among his allies. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
GOP candidates compete for Florida 
BOCA RATON, Fla. -For Republican presidential contenders John McCain and Mitt Romney, Thursday's debate presented a chance to step out smartly in the strug­gle for victory in next week's Florida pri­mary. 
For Rudy Giuliani and Mike Huckabee, it represented perhaps a last, best hope to shake up a statewide -and national ­campaign that appears to be slowly leaving them behind. 
Rep. Ron Paul, a libertarian-leaning Texan with a vocal following, also had a spot on the stage for the prime-time debate, broadcast on MSNBC, five days before the primary. 
The Florida primary offers 57 Republican National Convention delegates to the win­ner. It is the first big state to vote in the nominating campaign, the first winner­take-all contest in terms of delegates, and the final election before a virtual national primary on Feb. 5. 
Feds raid museums for looted art 
LOS ANGELES -Federal agents executed search warrants Thursday at several Southern California museums, looking for stolen antiquities, officials said. 
Authorities were searching the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the Bowers Museum in Santa Ana and the Mingei International Museum in San Diego, said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman with Immigration and Customs Enforcement. 
A search warrant was also issued for the Pacific Asia Museum in Pasadena. 
LOCAL NEWS 
A tied vote stalls pro-life legislation 
INDIANAPOLIS -A tie vote in the Senate Thursday stalled legislation that would allow pharmacists to deny customers prescriptions they believe cause abortions -a bill oppo­nents say could limit women's access to birth control pills and other common contraceptives. 
The Republican-controlled Senate voted 24­24 for the contentious bill, but legislation must have 26 votes -a majority -to pass the chamber. Because the bill was not defeated outright, however, it could come up for anoth­er vote in coming days. 
Bill sponsor Sen. Jeff Drozda, R-Westfield, said pharmacists should not be required to fill prescriptions that go against their moral beliefs. 
PAKISTAN 

White House offers combat aid 
Gates says U.S. 'ready, willing and able' to help fight insurgents affiliated with Al-Qaida 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Bush administration is will­ing to send a small number of U.S. combat troops to Pakistan to help fight the insurgency there if Pakistani authorities ask for such help, Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Thursday. 
"We remain ready, willing and able to assist the Pakistanis and to partner with them to provide addi­tional training, to conduct joint operations, should they desire to do so," Gates told a news conference. 
Gates said the Pakistani government has not requested any additional assistance in the weeks since al-Qaida and affiliated extremists have intensified their fighting inside Pakistan. And he stressed that the United States would respect the Pakistanis' judg­ment on the utility of American military assis­tance. 
"We're not aware of any proposals that the Pakistanis have made to us at this point," he said. "This is clearly an evolving issue. And what we have tried to communicate to the Pakistanis and essentially what we are saying here is we are prepared to look at a range of cooperation with them in a number of differ­ent areas, but at this point Command at the time; dis­larly with the tragic assassi­in Pakistan earlier this week it's their nickel, and we closed a deal with Pakistan nation of Mrs. Bhutto," meeting with senior await proposals or sugges­allowing U.S. troops in Gates said. "So I think it's Pakistani officials, including tions from them." Afghanistan to cross the not particularly surprising the new army chief, Gen. 
Gates made his remarks border in pursuit of fugitive that they have not fully Ashfaq Kayani. Last week not as an announcement but extremist leaders. thought through exactly how Fallon told reporters that in response to questions Gates said Pakistani they intend to proceed and Pakistani officials were from reporters at a regularly authorities were under­their strategy going for­more willing to seek U.S. scheduled news conference standably taking their time ward." assistance. in which he also declined to in deciding whether to The United States has Adm. Mike Mullen, chair­say whether U.S. combat request more military assis­about 28,000 troops in man of the Joint Chiefs of troops have previously tance from the United neighboring Afghanistan, Staff, who appeared at the crossed the border from States. He noted the assassi­and Gates earlier this month news conference with Gates, Afghanistan into Pakistan to nation in Dec. 27 of former ordered another 3,200 to go said he did not know conduct combat operations. prime minister and opposi­this spring to train Afghan whether Fallon had offered 
The question of a U.S. tion leader Benazir Bhutto forces and to help fight or received any new propos­troop presence in Pakistan is and subsequent fears of Taliban insurgents. als. highly sensitive, although at increased unrest. U.S. intelligence believes Most of the discussion times senior U.S. officials "I think that the emer­al-Qaida leader Osama bin with the Pakistanis thus far have acknowledged various gence of this fairly consider­Laden is on the Pakistani has focused on the possibili­arrangements. · In an able security challenge in side of the border with ty of U.S. troops being used Associated Press interview Pakistan has really been Afghanistan. to train Pakistani forces, in January 2002, for exam­brought home to the The top American com­Gates said, but he acknowl­ple, Gen. Tommy Franks, Pakistani government rela­mander in the region, Navy edged that combat opera­who headed the U.S. Central tively recently and particu-Adm. William J. Fallon, was tions might also be included. 

Border Patrol widens searches 
Associated Press York; Marcelina and Jasmin to patrol agent in charge of the Border Carolina del Norte; Jose Aguilar to Patrol's Gulfport, Miss., station. But Alabama; Josefina Ortega to Chicago; Operation Uniforce, as the two-week 
PEARL, Miss. -Detective Nick Gustavo Ribera to Florida." crackdown begun Jan. 13 is called, McLendon, on stakeout duty along a The arrests -some 800 miles from "is pretty much a shocker for the dark stretch of eastbound Interstate the Mexican border -represented a smuggling organizations." 20, noticed a red Chevy Suburban new and dramatic shift in U.S. immi­More than 300 immigrants and sus­with heavily tinted windows and no gration enforcement strategy. pected smugglers had been arrested light over its rear Texas license plate. Federal agents, with help from as of Tuesday, more than a week into The missing light gave him all the local law officers like McLendon, a the operation. excuse he needed to pull the SUV Pearl detective, have begun inter­Interstate 20 has become a major over. cepting illegal immigrants and smug­corridor for immigrant smugglers. It 
Packed into the Suburban, he dis­glers along stretches of highway deep peels off from I -10 in West Texas and covered, were 14 illegal immigrants, in the U.S. interior, where those who runs across the South, passing two suspected smugglers, and a spi­have slipped into the country usually through Atlanta and linking up with ral notebook on the front seat, listing have little chance of getting caught. other major highways, including I-95, the passengers and their destinations "They think they're pretty much which leads to Miami to the south in Spanish -"Arteria Ramires to home free once they get up here," and Baltimore, Philadelphia, New Nuy Yersey; David Luna to Nueba said Bill Botts, the assistant chief York and Boston to the north. 
CCAC 
continued from page 1 
meet with the coalition 
before s h P leaves office ­
and slw has bPen trying for 
the last sevPral months to 
organize a nwnting. 
"1 won't have a whole lot 
left to contribute because I 
only have a littln over two 
months ldt in my tl~rm, but I 
do think it's important to at 
least got it formed in the year 
that it was creatf~d." she said. 
Houso, howover, is not posi­tivo that thn eoalition will moot before April 1, and although he welcomes Brown's input, says he will not rush a meeting. 
"Although we wish Ms. Brown well and are sure that she will be very suceessful in whatever field she decides to go into, and her thoughts will always be wPlcome through­out tho years, in all fairness to tho coalition. this is not contingent upon whether she's in the community or not," he said. 

llowever, Brown is not ;tl o n ~~ i n w a n t i n g to m e e t sometime this spring. Some Council nwmbers would also like to see the CCAC con­vened to discuss what they consider a very important issue. 
Though he still receives "some" complaints about stu­dent partying, Kirsits said that he has already seen an improvement in student-com­munity relations since the CCAC was formnd. 
"I do believe, with some of tho ordinance work, and the idea of registering parties, it got p1~opln together to reel things in and get people talk­ing to try to make thn nnigh­borhoods a little bit better for nverybody." lw said. 
I>ospite the slow start, Housn is optimistic that the coalition will be able to accomplish its goals. 
''I'm sun~ that it will meet tlw nned that it was cn~ated for, and wp'rn still vory opti­mistic and proactive on that whole process," lw said. "The results arP going to be very mw:h worth tlw wait." 
Nonetheless, these goals can Iwver be fulfilled if the CCAC is rwv<'r convened. And ultimately, thP responsibility rPsts with the members of the South Bnnd Commo.n Council to empower the coali­tion. 
"In terms of our end, we've followed up by asking when it's going to be formed, if it's going to be formed," Brown said. "Unfortunately at this point I just think it's kind of a waiting game. The ball is in tlwir court. They know we've beon following up." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

Write news. 631..5323 



THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Friday, January 25, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,378.61 +108.44
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,149 63 1,208 1,443,234,961 

NASDAQ 2,360.92 +44.51 
················ iiiia:21 ~-~~~~~
NX$~. 
S&P 500 +13.47 
~·NllliLGIQ~tJr•••·••·•·• '3;isl~lailifilll~~$ 
FTSE 100 (London) 5.875.80 +266.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.84 +1.13 134.99 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +2.02 +0.89 44.91 FINANCIAL·SEL SPDR (XLF) +0.04 +0.01 27.91 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +4.13 +1.32 33.25 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +6.25 +0.214 3.640 13-WEEK BILL +9.00 +0.190 2.300 30-YEAR BOND +4.26 +0.178 4.353 5-YEAR NOTE +10.17 +0.261 2.827 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.42 89.41 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +23.90 907.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.83 84.63 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 107.2550 EURO 0.6772 
IN BRIEF Dems spar with Bush's EPA director 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration's top environmental regulator faced off Thursday against Democratic senators who took turns denouncing him for blocking tailpipe emission cuts in California and more than a dozen other states. 
EPA Administrator Stephen L. Johnson defended his decision and didn't budge as he was accused of doing the bidding of the White House and the auto industry. It was his first Capitol Hill appearance since denying a feder­al waiver last month that would have allowed California to implement a law slashing green­house gas emissions from cars and trucks. 
Other states could then have followed suit and 12 were ready to do so, with others mak­ing preparations. 
"I evaluated all the data, I made the deci­sion, it's the right decision," Johnson said. "I was not directed by anyone to make the deci­sion. 
"I am bound by the criteria in the Clean Air Act, not people's opinions," he said, contend­ing California did not meet all those criteria. 
Bush proposes family leave changes 
WASHINGTON-The Bush administration is proposing the first changes in more than a decade to regulations that give workers unpaid leave to deal with family or medical emergencies, a move that concerns some of the law's supporters who want to see it expanded. 
The Labor Department announced Thursday it had sent the first proposed changes to regu­lations governing the Family and Medical Leave Act to the White House's Office of Management and Budget for approval. 
While refusing to outline the changes, Assistant Labor Secretary Victoria A. Lipnic said the proposed regulations will not reduce the number of people today who can take advantage of FMLA leaves. "People who are currently eligible under this law do not lose their eligibility," she said. 
But Debra Ness, president of the National Partnership for Women and Families, sug­gested that officials should be trying to expand the law, not change regulations. 
Asian markets rise on U.S. news 
American stock gains, labor figures, strong rate cuts stimulate Pacific rally 
Associated Press 

HONG KONG -Asian 
markets rallied Friday, further recovering from their plunge earlier this week, as investors took heart from gains on Wall . Street overnight and posi­tive figures about the U.S. 
economy. 

Investors also welcomed 
details of a tax rebate for 
U.S. consumers announced as part of President Bush's economic stimulus plan. The tax rebate will put $600 to $1,200 in most tax filers' pockets. 
"The markets are react­ing to news that Bush and Congress have agree to accelerate tax rebates for 
U.S. consumers so they can go out and buy more exports from Asia," said Francis Lun, a general manager at Fulbright Securities in Hong Kong. 
Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index jumped nearly 6 percent in early trading before trimming some gains. By midmorning, it was up 1,138 points, or 
4.83 percent, at 24,667 points. The index fell 2.2 percent the previous day. 
In Tokyo, Japan's bench­mark Nikkei 225 index extended its gains for a second straight session, rising 367.05 points, or cheered by strong gains all Asian markets suffered drop as a "knee-jerk reac­
2.8 percent, to 13,459.83 Thursday in Europe. steep losses before tion" to the French bank's by midday. It gained 2.1 . Hong Kong gainers were rebounding Wednesday news. percent Thursday. led by property issues on and Thursday after the "We should have ended 
Markets in Australia, expectations that the U.S. U.S. Fed slashed lending up yesterday," said Rob 
South Korea, Taiwan and Federal Reserve would rates by 0.75 percent. Hart, an analyst at Morgan 
the Philippines were also again slash rates when it The Hong Kong index Stanley. "But there was no 
up. meets next Tuesday and bucked Thursday's where else to pull money 
On Wall Street Thursday, Wednesday. Hong Kong upward trend. After rising from when the Societe 
the Dow Jones industrials banks usually match the 3 percent in the morning, Generale news came out. 
rose more than 100 points, U.S. rate cuts as the Hong it slumped 2.3 percent Tokyo and Seoul had 
partly lifted by data that Kong dollar is pegged to later in the day after already closed." 
suggested the U.S. job the U.S. currency. French bank Societe The Dow Jones industri­
market is holding up. The Asian markets have had Generale announced a al average rose 0.88 per­
Labor Department said a volatile week, buffeted massive write-down in cent to 12,378.61 
number of people seeking by worries that the U.S., a subprime assets and Thursday, following a 2.5 
unemployment benefits key export market and the detailed how a junior trad­percent surge on 
last week fell for a fourth world's biggest economy, er had lost the bank more Wednesday. The Nasdaq 
straight week. was going to contract. than $7 billion. Analysts composite index advanced 
Investors were also On Monday and Tuesday, described Hong Kong's 1.9 percent to 2,360.92. 

FRANCE 

Trader defrauds bank for $7 billion 
the largest trading fraud ever car­more than 230 years. 
Associated Press ried out by a single person. Leeson himself told the British PARIS -Last Sunday, Societe The losses, Societe Generate Broadcasting Corp. on Thursday Generale Chief Executive Daniel announced Thursday, amounted to that he was not shocked such a Bouton got the call every banking 4.9 billion euros, or more than $7 fraud had happened again, but "the chief dreads. billion -making it one of history's thing that really shocked me was Undetected hy multilayered secu­biggest banking frauds and prompt­the size of it." rity systems at the bank, France's ing immediate calls for tighter regu­Though the scale of losses at second-largest, 31-year old junior lation of the industry. Societe Generale is far greater, trader Jerome Kerviel had for over Societe Generale said Kerviel -Bouton insisted that the bank is still a year been fraudulently using com­described as a "brilliant" student by financially sound. pany funds to bet on European stock one of his former university teach­The company said it expects to markets -wrongdoing that was ers -appears to have netted no post a net profit of 600 million to going to cost the bank billions. personal gain from the scheme. 800 million euros ($87 4 million to The timing could not have been The trader was compared to Nick $1.16 billion) for all of 2007-even worse: Stock markets suffered their Leeson, who bankrupted British after the fraud and another 2.05 bil­blackest day since the Sept. 11 ter­bank Barings in 1995. Barings col­lion euros ($2.99 billion) lost in the rorist attacks on Monday, meaning lapsed after Leeson, the bank's subprime mortgage crisis. Societe Generate was forced to sell Singapore general manager of As a result, the bank said it would the contracts built up by the rogue futures trading, lost 860 million be forced to raise about $8 billion in trader just as bourses were plung­pounds -then worth $1.38 billion new capital, partly by selling shares ing. -on Asian futures markets, wiping in a rights offer underwritten by It took the bank three days to out the bank's cash reserves. The JPMorgan Chase and Morgan unload them, and appeared to be company had been in business for Stanley. 
' 

LEGACY VILLAGE 
BECAUSE YOU DESERVE IT 
(AVAILABLE FOR RENT STARTING JUNE 1, 2009) 
IF YOU ARE PLANNING ON LIVING IN A HOUSE OFF CAMPUS AND YOU DO NOT CONTACT US FIRST, YOU'RE NOT SMART ENOUGH TO BE A NOTRE DAME STUDENT! 
WHY LIVE IN AN OLD, SMALL AND WORN, DOWN HOUSE WHEN YOU CAN LIVE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE TO CAMPUS THAT ONLY CONTAINS NEW, SPACIOUS HOUSES SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS? WHY LIVE IN AN APARTMENT WHEN YOU CAN LIVE IN A HOUSE WITH A BIG YARD? WHY PAY DEPOSITS 15,17 MONTHS IN ADVANCE? 
New 2,400 square feet (4 Bedrooms, 2 ¥2 Bathrooms) and 3,000 square feet (6 Bedrooms, 3 V2 Bathrooms) brick homes close to campus with Dens, Kitchen, Family Room, Dining Room, Mud Room and Back Porch/Patio. Each home has the following main featuress 
1.. Fully equipped Kitchen with new refrigerator, range, oven, dishwasher, microwave, cooking pots/ pans, plates, cooking utensils, and dinnerware; 
2. 
Dining Room; 


3. 
Family Room with fireplace; 

4. 
Mud Room with laundry center, including a washer and dryer; 

5. 
Hardwood flooring on entire main floor (except Mud Room); 

6. 
Each Bedroom area is approximately 10' x 16' and has the following design featuress 

* 
Fully carpeted 


* 
Vanity cabinet with sink and mirror 

* 
Walk,in closet 


* 
Wired for cable television and internet service 



7. 
Each two students will share a porcelain,tiled bathroom (private toilet room and a steam shower with seat) and a small den with kitchenette (sink, bar refrigerator, cook top and microwave) having hardwood flooring; 

8. 
Gas barbeque grill on Back Porch/Patio; 

9. 
Wireless internet service ready; 

10. 
Fire/Security Alarm System and locks with dead bolts for all exterior doors and all doors from staircase to bedroom areas; 

11. 
ToP'Qf,thf'line heating, air conditioning and other mechanical systems (the "Mechanical Systems"); 


12.The floors, ceilings and walls surrounding each bedroom and bathroom are completely insulated to reduce noise; 
13. 
Reduced utility costs because of the Mechanical Systems and the fact the homes are extremely well,insulated; 

14. 
Spacious yards; and 15.Substantial parking available. 



For more intt.wmntion, contact Robert L. Cimala at legacyhomes@comcast.net or (630) 88~7715. 
HURRY AND RESERVE YOUR HOUSE BEFORE IT IS TOO LATE! 

Friday, January 25, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Uganda 
continued from page 1 
Saharan village to help it tackle the challenges of disease, hunger, poverty, illiteracy and environ­mental degradation through the empowerment of itc; people and institutions. 
This meant that rather than impose a solution to these prob­lems, Notre Dame would collabo­rate with and give the villagers the tools and resources they 
"Word was getting
might need to improve the stan­out among the people dard of life. 
about the way in 
Lyden said that 
which we wanted to 
during the first half of 2007, build the partnership 
Notre Dame and -an inclusive one.,, 
its partner school, Uganda Martyrs 
Tim Lyden

University, worked 
together to con­assistant director duct research on Millennium Development the village and Initiative 
comprehensive interviews with its residents. The two schools also studied Ruhiira, a more advanced Millennium VIllage in the Isingiro district of Uganda. 
"We looked at some of Ruhiira's strategies, timelines and budgets and hope to adapt those to Nindye's needs," Lyden said. 
One of those strategies was hir­ing a consultant from the Ugandan capital, Kampala, to conduct a participatory mapping exercise in Nindye. Lyden said the project's staff called on the same consultant used in Ruhiira to "map out existing infrastruc­ture, water sources, topography and population density, among other things, so that we could gain a better understanding of the region and take those things into consideration in the future." 
The mapping exercise, he said, involved the villagers by inviting them to three open meetings where they could offer their input and knowledge of the region. More than 100 people attended each of the sessions, Lyden said. 
"Word was getting out among the people about the way in which we wanted to build the 
partnership ­
open and receptive. 
"People were extremely willing to spend one or two hours talking to our students," Lyden said. 
Two students were there through the Student International Business Council (SIBC), identifYing and interview­ing local entrepreneurs while the other three were doing academic research on different areas, including the education system and the economic and political conditions in Nindye, Lyden said. Their findings and conclusions will become the basis for a more tailored systematic survey that the project staff hopes to get out to the villagers in 2008. 
an inclusive one," he said. "And they were also willing to coop­erate with us and talk to us because they knew we were working with U g a n d a Martyrs." When five Notre Dame undergraduates arrived to spend the summer in 
Nindye, the vil­lagers were 

This baseline survey, he said, will yield more information about Nindye's demographics, the level of education of its residents, their religion, mortality rates, meas­ures of maternal health and inci­dence rates for HIV/AIDS and other diseases like tuberculosis and malaria, among other key attributes. 
"We hope the results from this baseline survey will tell the peo­ple of Nindye what to tackle first: Do they work on purifYing water sources or on building new schools? Although ultimately, the hope is to be able to start work­ing on a variety of different initia­tives at the same time and in that way, 'jumpstart' the entire vil­lage," Lyden said. 
He said it's likely the survey will not be conducted until mid­2008, when Uganda Martyrs stu­dents in need of a summer job and who can speak the local lan­guage -Luganda -can dic;trib­ute it to the villagers, compile the results and communicate them to the people of Nindye. 
Notre Dame, for its part, will concentrate on raising more cap­ital to back up the project, Lyden said. This might include extend­ing an invitation to the alumni to become more involved in the efforts to help Nindye, but those plans aren't finalized yet. 
"We do know that sometime this fall, we hope to be able to gather the villagers, tell them what our findings are, work with them to prioritize their needs and come up with specific actions to address those needs, so that when resources become avail­able, they know exactly where to distribute them," Lyden said. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
Elections 
continued from page 1 
five tickets," Siefert said. 
Speaking to a group of about 20 students, Gruscinski acknowledged the unusual nature of their unopposed contest, but said she and Falvey are still tak­ing their campaign very seri­ously, and are concerned with increasing voter turnout at Saint Mary's. 
"Students "We really want to wants to will still be make Saint Mary,s a increase the 
asked to vote," study break
[better] place for 
Gruscinski options to once 
said. students to be.,, a week S h e throughout the explained that semester
Sarah Falvey 
students will instead of just
SMC vice presidential 
have the option during exams. of either voting candidate "The idea for 
for them or selecting an abstain option on Saint Mary's PRISM Web site on Monday. 
In the circumstance that 51 percent of students do click the abstain option, Gruscinski and Falvey will not take office next school year. 
If the abstention vote wins, it will be the first time in school history, Siefert said. Since that has never hap­pened before, she was unsure how the situation would be handled. 
Extended Student Center hours, reliable and extended wireless Internet are part of the issues. that built the can­didates' platform. 
"We really want to make 
Saint Mary's a [better] place for students to be," Falvey said. 
If elected, a push to extend Student Center hours until midnight on weekdays and 2 
a.m. on weekends will be made, and improving wire­less connection on campus is something the team said they would "really fight hard for," even if it means cutting funds elsewhere. Falvey believes it can be done. 
"We'll make it work," she said. The duo also 
study break 

options came from a thought that stress occurs at different times, not just during finals week," Gruscinski said. 
When asked what these study breaks would entail, Gruscinski suggested more movie showings in Vander Vennet theater, recruiting performers onto campus, and hot chocolate nights. 
Falvey ended the event by emphasizing her and Gruscinski's dedication. 
"We both have great visions for the school," she said. 
Voting begins on PRISM at midnight on Monday and continues until 11:59 p.m. 
Contact Kristen Edelen at kedeleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, January 25, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining I fall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 EIJITOR IN CHII'.F Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken rowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity AssT. MANAGING EI>ITOR: Mary Kate Malone NlcWS EDITOR: Karen Langley VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King SroRTs EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hinc ScENt: EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Conez An Ot~~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
fAX 
('\74) 631-6927 ADVERTISING 

Ramadan loss unfortunate 
Four years after it was created, the teaching position That complexity is what makes Hamadan fascinating ­meant for Tariq Ramadan is still unfilled. The Muslim and unique. Whatever his critics say, Ramadan is an aea­scholar, hired by Notre Dame in spring of 2004 to teach demic whose charisma and message propelled him to Islamic ethics and fill a new tenured position at the Kroc prominence, an Islamic intellectual with a reputation both Institute, had his visa revoked that fall for reasons initially good and bad. It would have been a distinetive baekground unreleased by the U.S. government. Barred from entering for a professor at Notre Dame. the country, the Swiss citizen resigned his position at Notre It also would have been a distinctive experience for stu­Dame. So Oxford promptly took him. dents. Hamadan "is influential with millions of 
In fall of 2006, the government finally people whom we seek better to understand and 
OTHE

explained the problem: Hamadan had given engage in a constructive way," R. Seott Appleby, 
BSERVER
money to a Swiss charity later classified as a director of the Kroc Institute, told The Observer terrorist group. The ACLU took up his case. earlier this week. That perspective is unparal­
Editorial
This December, a federal court dealt leled. 
Hamadan another blow, dismissing his law­suit and upholding the government's deci­sion. 
It is a long-awaited disappointment. 
Hamadan is a complex figure. His criticism of certain French Jewish intellectuals has drawn accusations of anti­Semitism. But he has also called for religious tolerance. His writings and lectures and his family history -his grandfa­ther founded the Muslim Brotherhood -have elicited warnings from critics, who call him insincere and accuse him of baeking oppressive, militant Islam. But he is also known as a reformer, strongly opposed to extremism. 
At a Catholic university that emphasizes the 
importance of' dialogue, Hamadan would have added an important voice. The Kroc Institute would have gained an invaluable dimension. Notre Dame would have gained additional prominence. 
A controversial professor should not be hired for contro­versy's sake; a professor -controversial or not -should be hired for the value he presents to the University. Tlw Kroe Institute pursued Hamadan for the contribution he could have made to Notre Dame and defended its ehoiee to eritics. Notre Dame eannot shy away from controversy in the future. 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.cdu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the smdents ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on contem. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include contact inlc1rmation. 
Que>tions regarding Ubsm;er polici~ should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ohv:rvct (lJSI'S "iiJ'l 2-41100) u. (•uhhshc.l Mund;~y through rrid~y t•x,:cpt dunng nam .1nd vo~~-a1iuu J't'fllli.b. A IIJh..cnJIIIII/1 w 11u· O~·rvcr ·~ $1 OH for nne o~~a,kmi\· yc;~r; $551i•r nne !l('nu:5lrr. 
rlu: Ob!iervcr 1~ puhl11hcd .u: I'OSTMASTER 
0.1:4 Sou1h Dinintt f Iiiii Send .1ddrc~ correction:. to: Nnnt' Oo~.mc, IN 4M"i6·0""7<) The OhSC"rvcr i~n.~tcal po.,.t..gc paad .u Notft" l lo~mc P.U. Bo~ nr:J .tnd uldiu,,n.tl m.ulmg nfficc~. O.Zi Xluth llming H.lll 

Num Do~rne, IN 46'i56-0n'' 
I he Ol>Krvcr I\ o1 !'lcml>e:l of the ~l.llcd Pre$',. All rcpHM\ucrion ril(lm ;m: 
re~rvnl 

Let's got it startnd (ha!). let's get it started in here. Let's get it started (ha!), let's get it started in here. After wasting far too much time trying to come up with an adequate introduction to this article, we concluded 
that anything we came up with would pale in comparison to the words of the Black Eyed Peas. Now that we got things "started (ha)" on to the topic at hand ... how the new Budweiser spokesman is the embodiment of all the worst qualities of every jerk we've 
ever met 

For all of you who watched the AFC and/or NFC champi­onship games, no matter who you were rooting for, I think there is something we can all agree upon. The new Budweiser guy is a huge d-bag. Who is this condescending butt clown and why is he wearing that obnoxious sweater and sport jacket combo. 
I think we all know what this guy's story is: He was second team all confer­ence in hockey as well as the captain of the football team which made it to state his junior year. After high school he went to the same college as 69 percent 

Kessler and ... 
Smooth as Silk 
Ad nausea 
of his graduating class and was a pre­ferred walk-on to the football team. After quitting halfway through his freshman season he joined a fraternity where he earned the nickname "Moose" for his drinking prowess. 
Junior year, well on his way to his com­munications degree, he met his wife, Jenni, at the Phi Delta Phi "Jungle Jamboree." 
Fast forward 20 years and they are married with three boys. No longer known as "Moose," he prefers to be called "Coach" since he coaches his 12­year-old son's traveling baseball team. He is a really crappy coach and contin­ually plays his son way more than other kids even though his son throws like 
Smalls at the beginning of "The Sandlot." Up 15 runs, he has no prob­lem stealing second and then third. He enjoys bullying the pimple-faced 14­year-old umpires not just to get the calls but out of the pure pleasure he gets from seeing a pre-pubescent boy cower in fear. Finally, he intentionally walks the opposition's top players to reach the uncoordinated weiners at the bottom of the batting order. 
As if his on field actions weren't lame enough, this is the same dude that brags amount his hemi-loaded Dodge Ham and eats three quarters of his meal before deciding he doesn't like it and demanding a refund. Furthermore, this stud is the one creepy old guy who is always overly willing to buy beer for the high school kids in hopes of gettin' some from a 16-year-old JV cheer­leader. 
This patronizing douche is supposed to make me want to drink Budweiser "premium lager" by talking to real fake-looking people in a picturesque bar setting? I really wonder who thought it was a good idea to make this stereotypical meat head the face of Budweiser. I mean, I think everyone feels like they kind of know that guy or have met his type of person at some time in their life, but the only problem is when you think of that guy you immediately then think about how much he sueks and make that comment to the nearest person whereupon they agree and bring up something about him that you didn't know you hated. 
Kessler and ... is a non-profit pharmaceutical organization in search ofa cure for male pattern baldness. Rick Loesing, Pat Canna, Dave Ferron, Ces Knee and Matt Lisowski con­tributed to this column. They can be contacted at kesslerand@gmail.com 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Obsemer. 

TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY

News Sports 

Observer Poll 
Liz Harter Chris Hine 
Who will win the Republican nomination? 
Katie Peralta Miehael Bryan 
Votes Percentage 

Brian McKenzie Pat Stynes John McCain 309 46% 
"The trouble about trying to make
Graphics Scene 


Mitt Romney 251 37% yourself stupider than you really are
Mary Jesse Tae Andrews 
is that you very often succeed." 
Mike Huckabee 40 6%
Viewpoint Mark Witte 
Kara King 

Rudy Giuliani 36 5% C.S. Lewis English novelist 
Ron Paul 26 4% 
Fred Thompson 17 3% 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, January 25, 2008 page 11 
Debates tarnish Obama's image 
Last Monday, during the contentious South Carolina Democratic debate, Sen. Barack Obama tarnished his own image as a "new" type of politician -so much so. that only his support from African­Americans rises above double dig­its over rival Senator Hillary Clinton. Obama continues to fall off message, exposing his inex­perience while under intense pres­sure and scrutiny on the national stage. The political landscape of the past half-century is littered with similarly unsuccessful presidential candidates of both parties who offered a new direction, good intentions and charismatic rhetoric -but failed to win their party's nomina­tions. Consequently, Obama has drifted away from his original image as an inclu­sive candidate with high ideals who hap­pens to be an African-American into the more narrowly defined candidate of African-Americans. Unfortunately, voters demand broad appeal rather than a nar­rowing candidacy, which can be as fatal as being labeled the Haliburton candi­date. 
Political pundits have consistently mis­characterized Obama's appeal. In Iowa, they lumped him with former Senator John Edwards as the anti-Clinton change agents. However, it is Edwards, the party's former vice presidential nominee, and Clinton who are dividing the experi­ence-based vote over Obama's inexperi­ence. While Obama energized new and independent voters with lofty ideals in early contests, South Carolina is the first "closed" primary of the season in which only Democrats may vote. With more than half of the voters African-American, Obama's win will be narrowly viewed. 

Obama's back-to-baek losses in New Hampshire and Nevada caused his cam­paign to change tactics, taking their eyes off of the ultimate prize. Desperate for a win, Obama catered to South Carolina's African-American majority voters, first with his Nevada concession speech (read from a Teleprompter), then with new body gestures and language that make him sound more like a Southern Baptist minister. Voters in other parts of the country can clearly see his transforma­tion away from his original Iowa persona, a demeanor that now dramatically emphasizes the notion that he is just another politician doing what he needs to do for a desperate win. 
Obama unwittingly began transforming himself by describing his candidacy to a Nevada editorial board. Comparing his goals with the coalition-building skills of Ronald Reagan was a fair assessment but lacked the wisdom to avoid agitating Democrats unenthusiastic about Reagan. However, when Obama lumped Bill Clinton with Richard Nixon, an effort to contrast and slightly discredit Hillary, he stooped to a personal level by insulting the former president. It is a mystery how Obama cannot comprehend that his remarks were personal and how they surely invited, and drew, a quick response from Bill Clinton. 
The Obama campaign has been too sen­sitive against and too quick to engage the Clintons. First, they accused Hillary of a callous disrespect for Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. when she suggested that he needed President Lyndon Johnson's sup­port to achieve the passage of civil and voting rights laws. Then, in a zeal to win the next primary and break his losing streak, Obama himself complained about the former president's remarks that Obama's votes for military funding are identical with Hillary's votes, yet she is accused of supporting the war. Obama has become so rattled by the Clintons that he publicly whined about the former president to Hillary during the debate. 
Bill Clinton is demonstrating that in the presidential arena, Obama cannot have it both ways -hurling insults on the one hand, which Obama then decries as the old political way, and rationalizing his personal Clinton slurs as simply laying forth the facts. If other Democrats, like AI Gore or John Kerry, had been standing in Hillary's place on stage, they would have scolded Obama with, "Well, welcome to the big leagues. Do you naively think Republicans are will be genteel this fall because you invoked Reagan's name?" 
Most importantly though, Obama has been impatient and sounded curt during the debates. This week, he landed a body blow to Clinton by announcing that she served on the Wal-Mart board of directors when he was working as a community activist. The savvy and experienced Clinton returned a roundhouse knock­down when she countered that he had worked for a "slum lord in the inner city of Chicago," a reference to "Tony" Rezko, an unsavory Obama financial backer, whose contributions of $40,000 this year and another $11,500 in 2006 were given to charities. 
Modern history shows that challengers like Obama rarely overcome insider can­didates like Clinton in the contest for either party's presidential nomination. Despite lofty ideals eloquently espoused by charismatic candidates, party faithful of all genders and races routinely reward candidates who are experienced and have earned their rises through the party ranks. Beyond Saturday's South Carolina primary lies Super Duper Tuesday, a national primary day of 22 states, most open only to Democrats. Immediately fol­lowing Monday's debate, Hillary left South Carolina to campaign elsewhere, keeping focused on the prize. For Obama, last Monday's debate marks a transformation of him and turning point in the campaign where his stature has been diminished. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
PERSPECTIVE: 1969 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
SENIOR WEEKEND 
Second drink 
5 gal1ons of free spiilts as door prizes 
TOIIICHT 


This image first appeared in the Nov. 19, 1969 edition ofThe Observer. 
PERSPECTIVE: 1984 
Timid males 
Dear Editor: 

Why is it that so many Notre Dame males com­plain about the quality and quantity of "normal" social interaction with their female counterparts? I for one am tired of hearing it. 
The problem does not lie within the female pop­ulation. The problem is rooted in the timid males who hide behind masks of studliness. The reason for this is more complicated than it may first seem. It begins with the devastating fear of rejec­tion. 
Most Notre Dame males were very popular in high school and never quite became attuned to the reality of being rejected. Hell, one of the greatest and most mystical universities in the country even granted them acceptance. 
Then they enter the "Notre Dame zone" where the next guy is just as smart, just as popular as he. 
And the women are so much brighter and wiser to the ways of the world than Notre Dame males are used to. The Notre Dame male enters a world where he is no longer numero uno -which is in itself rejection. 
Many of these males become intimidated by the whole situation. Unfortunately one of the conse­quences of this is that they shy away from doing the things they did in high school-i.e., asking girls out on dates. 
This leads to the formulation of excuses for the poor social interaction between men and women here at Notre Dame. It also may be a cause of other problems such as alcohol abuse. And it is a shame that the major excuse used places the blame on the women in the Notre Dame communi­ty. Wake up, guys! 
I feel that it is a responsibility for you and me to cure this situation. Not by passing the blame to those who don't deserve it, but by taking action and asking that cute blonde who sits in front of you in philosophy class if she would like to see a movie with you on Friday. If she says no, ask another. 
John K. Spendley 

This letter first appeared in the March 5, 1984 edition ofThe Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 Friday, January 25, 2008 
TITANIC 
'I'he Musical ~'> 


By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 

Under the tagline "a familiar story told a whole new way," direc­tor Kyle Chamberlin and the rest of the "Titanic: the Musical" crew east off with two performances this Saturday night in the 
Titanic: The 
Ballroom of t h e Musical LaFortu nn 
LaFortune 

Student 
Ballroom

Center. 
As the .'•iaturday at 7 

first pnr­and IO:JO p.m.formanee 
Admission: Free 
put on by 

Fortnight Productions, "Titanic" ditrers vast­ly from nearly every other campus production in one regard -the east and crew will have staged the entire show, from auditions to per­formanees, in just two weeks. Talk about a whole new way of telling a familiar story. 
Given how busy many Notre Dame students are, Fortnight Productions provides another the­ater venue for would-be perform­ers who might not otherwise have the time to commit to a full-scale production. The cast read and sang through the show for the first time on Jan. 14 and then went through scheduled rehearsals for 12 of the next 13 days. With the accelerated production schedule, the extremely tight timetable forced the production staff to be flexible and adapt to various chal­lenges as they arose. 
Despite the many challenges of staging Titanic on two weeks' notice, Chamberlin said he has enjoyed the experience of directing the ship. "It has been particularly rewarding to help a group of tal­ented. intelligent, experienced per­formers do something that none of us have over done before," he said. 
Chamberlin went on to say that he listnrwd to the soundtrack for "Titanic: The Musical" well before he ever saw the show onstage. When he finally did see the show, the performancn didn't live up to his nxpectations. "With so many pnople on board that fateful voy­age, there was a host of' com­polling stories," he said. "I felt them was an opportunity to do so much more with the story." 
One of the stories the show does not indude is the story arc played out Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet in the movie version of "Titanie." "Neither Jaek or Hose are anywhere to be found in our production, and if' you want to hear 'My lleart Will Go On" you best bring your mp3 player," Chamberlin said. "Instead of trying to eompetn with the grandeur of the movie. we left the foeus on our talnnt and the music." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
"American Gladiators" is back-just not the way you remember it. 
NBC has resurrected the reality eom­petition this season in the wake of the writers' strike, but the new, glitzy ver­sion of the show fails to live up to the legacy of the origi­Jay Fitzpatrick nal. 
Viewers are greet­

Scene & 
ed to the arena by 
·Heard 
former WWE super­star Hulk Hogan and boxing's super middleweight champion Laila Ali. Hogan can be counted on to get the crowd excited, and his personal­ity has not changed much since he was a professional wrestler. But Ali lacks the charisma that defined her father, Muhammad Ali, and often comes up short when doing interviews. 
Moreover, the pair act merely as talk­ing heads, laeking the same kind of play-by-play coverage that former hosts Mike Adamle and Larry Cso_nka did in the original series. Adamle and Csonka could be counted on for quality and insightful commentary that rivals most of what to be athletes; now, each of them has to have an interesting story. In the same episode, three different contenders claimed they needed to win the 
$100,000 grand prize in order to rebuild a house destroyed by Hurrieane Wilma, buy a house to help her mother move out of a trailer and help spread Christianity. 
On the other hand, the gladiators remain as they were in the original: mysterious and dominant. The names that you grew up with are gone (no more Thunder, Lazer or Gemini), but they have been replaeed by the Haka­dancing Toa and the howling Wolf. Wolf is by far the best of this new crop of American heroes, if for no other reason that he looks to be flat out crazy. During events in which he is competing, he has the wild look in his eye of a madman bent on vengeance -something that has suited him just fine in the early goings of "American Gladiators." 
The female gladiators have drastically changed from the original. Fans of the original series will remember the 
Amazons who eompet­
ed were large, incredi­
is on television today. bly muscular women
Fans ofthe original 
Ali and Hogan's inter­who would have fit 
series will remember the 
views with the eon­right in with the East tenders rarely add any­Amazons who competed German swim team. thing meaningful to the But in an age when
were large, incredibly 
show, instead only wast­sex sells, NBC traded
muscular women who
ing just enough time to in these behemoths for cut down on the number would have fit right in a set of gladiators of events. (In the origi­who, despite still at
with the East German 
nal run of the show, con­least as strong as their
swim team.

tenders competed in predecessors, look like 
seven events before the eliminator. That has since been reduced to five.) The contenders usually show their hubris by blurting out absurd statements that make them look either silly or rude. 
The contenders themselves are inher­ently different from their counterparts in the original. When standing next to the gladiators, the original contenders looked downright puny. They were fit, but rarely did any of them have any really muscular builds like all of them do today. . 
The contenders were also asked only 

actual women. Even the mighty Hellga, whose role in the show is simply to be an immovable object, at least has some ladylike fea­tures. 
Many of the events remain the same as in the original series, and the new ones still have the same general feeling of eon tender versus gladiator. But the new show has a distinct advantage over the original in its Eliminator. In the original series, the Eliminator was a lengthy obstacle course at the end of the show that was more or less ceremo­nial because it was impossible to make 

Photo courtesy of fetemagazine.com 

NBC has reinvented the American Gladiators of yore. 
up any lead lost during the race. But 
that has all changed. The Eliminator is 
much longer now and requires con­
tenders to use all or their strength just 
to finish. 

The most important ehange is the move of the "travelator" (an inclined treadmill) from the beginning of the race to the end. This has wreaked havoc on the contenders in the revival, pun­ishing the proud contenders as they struggle to maintain their footing all the way up to the finish. 
Overall, the new series provides the same quality entertainment that the original provided a decade ago. Even though the current installment or "American Gladiators" has not been able to, and may never, match enter­tainment and competition of its prede­cessor, this new 21st-century install­ment is still very much worth watching. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
Hellga continues to strike fear into the hearts of contest­ants on the new American Gladiators show. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, January 25, 2008 
page 13 


After the deaths of his father and a good friend, Lupe Fiasco bounces back with the release of his second album. 
Fiasco opened for OK GO at the 2007 version of "The Show" in Joyce Center here at Notre Dame. 
LOPE'S "THE COOL" 
AVOIDS THE 
f' 
SOPHOMORE.
SLUMP . 
By CORBIN HICKS Scene Writer 
Lupe Fiasco was given the tough task of following up a debut album that was pro­duced by Jay-Z and nominated for a Grammy. While the hip-hop artist doesn't deliver a classic this time around, it's safe to say that he has exceeded expectations. 
Since releasing his debut album, much has changed in the life of Lupe Fiasco. Gone are the incessant comparisons and references to skateboarding. Fiasco has had to deal with a bevy of recent personal struggles and obstacles -including the deaths of his father and his good friend, rapper Stack Bundles. Also, his mentor, business partner and close friend Charles "Chilly" Patton was sentenced to 44 years in prison after a conviction on drug charges. These have not been the best 12 months for Fiasco. 
However, it hasn't been all negative. Average listeners and critics alike hailed his debut album as an instant elassic. He almost effortlessly became an icon for lyri­cism and the poster child for a return to the founding ideals of hip-hop. Seemingly coming out of nowhere, he has established himself as an epic songwriter and has leapfrogged other· up-and-coming Chicago MCs, such as Rhymefest and Bump-J, in mainstream accessibility and critical acclaim. No small feat for a rookie in the music business. 
Lupe Fiasco's follow-up effort, "The Cool," shakes off any fears of falling victim 
The Cool Lupe Fiasco Label: Fiction Records 

Recommended Track: "Hip-Hop Saved My Life," "Intruder Alert," "Fighters" & "Paris, Tokyo" 
courtesy 
to the sophomore slump. The album begins with a spoken-word intra that discusses the subjectivity of things that are tolerated in our society. Fiasco claims that what may be "cool" for one person could strike fear into the hearts of others. This track is followed by a solemn tribute to his incarcerated mentor. 
The grave seriousness of these first two tracks is eased somewhat by the up-tempo, double-time rhythm used in "Go-Go Gadget Flow," where Fiasco proclaims that Chicago is the "best city in the whole wide world." The brooding theme returns on the next track, ''The Coolest," and we begin to see a trend that is littered throughout this album. Obviously, Fiasco has been dealing with some personal demons, and his song-· writing reflects these struggles. The subject matter on this album is very dark, but it is not unbearable as the music alternates between the lively and the moody. 
The next song is "Superstar," which was the album's first single. Most of the Notre Dame student body remembers this as one of the unknown songs that Fiasco per­formed when he stopped by for "The Show." The next track is "Paris, Tokyo," which has an old-school, A Tribe Called Quest vibe to it. In this song, he explains all of the different kinds of places that he would take a special lady. 
These places include Paris, Tokyo, New Orleans, Brazil and various other exotic locations. Next is perhaps the song that stands out the most. "Hi-Definition," which features a guest verse by Snoop Dogg, is by far the most commercial attempt on the 
album. It is not bad by any means, but it throws off the continuity that the album has built up so far. 
After "Gold Watch" are two of the best storytelling tracks to ever come from a rapper. "Hip-Hop Saved My Life" is a detailed description of the life of an aspiring rapper and the journey that they endure in order to reach stardom. By the way, if you hear a song with a screwed-up hook that goes "Stack That Cheese" in the next six months, you know where it came from. 

"The Cool" is Lupe's follow-up to is Grammy award winning debut album. 
"Intruder Alert" goes where very few rap songs go. In the span of the song, Fiasco covers three topics that are considered taboo, expounding on the vulnerability and heartache that certain situations cause people who become engulfed by tough cir­cumstances. 
The first verse deals with a female rape victim, the second verse discusses a drug addict and the third verse talks about a father sending his infant daughter to the United States so that she can have a better life. These topics could be stand-alone songs, but the fact that he is able to com­bine all three of these emotional stories into one song -that is actually an enjoy­able listen -speaks to the wonders of Lupe's songwriting abilities. 
The rest of the album is solid. The sub­ject matter varies drastically from child sol­diers to the average day of a cheeseburger, but it still maintains the album's somber undertone. His versatility makes this effort thoroughly enjoyable and the tough subject matter easy to digest. Lupe's latest might not win a Grammy, but it's worth a spin. 
Contact Corbin Hicks at chicks2@nd.edu 
London actors stage 'Shrew' 
By CLAIRE REISING Scene Writer 
In a play known for its complicated array of impersonation and deception, only five actors portray 23 characters, with some of them in disguise for the majority of the play. The Actors from the London 
Stage take a 
minimalist The Taming of approach to the Shrew Shakespeare in 
Washington

staging "The 
Hall

Taming of the Shrew." With Tonight at 7:30 the exception of 
p.m.

a few nonde­
Tickets

script chairs and a table, $I2 students, they use no 
$I6 

scenery. What's 
faculty/staff

more, the five actors constant­ly switch between roles. They wear black cos­tumes and distinguish between most of their roles by changing accessories, props and accents. 
This bare-bones production may not be a good choice for viewers who are unfamiliar with "The Taming of the Shrew" because the actors' multiple roles, combined with the convoluted plot, could make this production diffi­cult to follow. Sometimes, the actors even play two characters within the same scene and carry on a conversa­tion between their different roles. Also, portraying so many different roles with only five actors may lessen the depth of individual characters, but most of the roles in "The Taming of the Shrew" are played for comedy and not depth, so the acting does not suf­fer much from this minimalist approach. 
The actors establish a chaotic, yet humorous atmosphere throughout the play, exploiting their characters' quirky personalities and portraying their dilemmas in a humorous light. Martin Parr draws several laughs from the audience, portraying a ser­vant who impersonates a young woman and playing Bianca's suitor Gremio with an exaggerated accent, and Andy Greenhalgh smoothly tran­sitions between characters just by changing his posture. 
The main characters, Katherine and Petruccio, are still likable, despite their strong wills and quick tempers. Although Katherine is a "shrew," Louise Yates makes her seem like a rational character, and the audience can sympathize with her assertions of independence and her frustrations with the other characters. For exam­ple, in one scene, as Bianca snivels in front of her father, viewers can under­stand Katherine's annoyance with her sister. Also, after Petruccio marries Katherine, Yates leaves the audience wondering whether Katherine is actu­ally submitting to him or just humor­ing him to get what she wants. Likewise, Victor Gardener blends Petruccio's volatile personality with craftiness and even affection, as he attempts to "tame" his new wife. 
Although newcomers to "The Taming of the Shrew" may have trou­ble understanding the play, viewers already familiar with the comedy will enjoy this alternative approach to Shakespeare as they watch five actors play 23 diverse roles. 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish host WVU in final hon1e n1eet 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame gets one more chance to take on Big East competition before the con­ference championships when it faces West Virginia Saturday in the Shamrock Invitational. 
The Irish have almost a month ofT before the Big East meet. which will begin on Feb. 20. 
"This is really our last run­through," coach Carrie Nixon said. "We really want to hone and fine-tune our racing skills." 
The Irish take to the pool for their last regular season meet of the season at the Holfs Aquatic Center, and for the seniors, this will be their last opportunity to compete in their home pool. 
"They are a little nostalgic," Nixon said. "They are pumped and sad at the same time." 
West Virginia will be Notre Dame's third Big East oppo­nent this season. 

"It is a good chance to flex your muscles and boost your confidence against an in-con­ference team, and that's always great," Nixon said. 
This will be only the second meeting between the two schools, with the Irish win­ning big in a 222.5-147.5 romp in last year's Shamrock Invitational. 
This year will still be a chal­lenge for the Irish, assistant head coach Joel White said. 
"West Virginia has some great swimmers," White said. "We always like to focus on the Big East." 
This last competition will give the learn a preview of what it can expect in the Big East championship. 
In her final year, possible Olympic hopeful Caroline Johnson has been a top per­former for the Irish. Nixon praised the effort Johnson put forth over the past four years. 
"She has been a joy to coach from day one," Nixon said. "She has had a huge impact on the team and I can­not say enough." 
The Irish are swimming well, as they hold the fastest times in the conference in five individual events and one relay. 
Freshman Amywren Miller holds the record in the 50­yard freestyle, junior Christa Riggins in the 200 freestyle, junior Casey Wagner in the 1,650 freestyle, freshman Sam Maxwell in the 100 breaststroke, and freshman Katie Casey in the 200 fly. 
The Irish also have at least one swimmer in the top five in almost every event. That will be important in the Big East championship format, which favors depth over flair. 
Saturday's meet will consist of a morning and an evening session, the first beginning at 
9:30 a.m. and the second at 4 p.m. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
MEN'S TRACK & FIELD 
Spartans, Golden Eagles visit Loftus 
"It's going to be a little bit dif­By EUGENIA ALFONZO ferent because before I was try­
Sports Writer 

ing to qualify for the NCAA last meet," Benninger said. "(Today[ 
Notre Dame has a chance to I'll be pacing teammates in the improve its conference resume beginning and then try to break today when it hosts Marquette four minutes lin the mile[." 
and Michigan 
State in the 
Notre Dame "It's pretty easy to 
Invitational at 5 keep [the intensity} 
p.m. in Loftus. 
up; everyone knows 
The Irish have already secured the Big East and 
more than 40 NCAA are big meets. " 
Big East qualify­ing times for the 
Kurt Benninger 
conference meet 
in February. Irish senior Senior Kurt 
Benninger, who 
The team shows no signs of relinquishing intensity, judging from last week's performance and its mental attitude, Benninger said. 
"It's pretty easy to keep [the intensity! up; everyone knows that the Big East 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles face Calvin after tough losses 
By PETE REISENAUER Sports Wrirer 
Saint Mary's hopes to rebound after two tough loss­es last weekend when it trav­els to Michigan to face MIAA power Calvin tonight. 
Coach Hyan Dombkowski said he thought the losses to Ilillsdale and Olivet brought his team together and taught it what it needs to do to beat a top-tier program like Calvin, whieh captured the MIAA title least season. 
"Even though we came up on the short end two meets in a row, I think that this week­end may even push us to be a better team than two wins would have," Dombkowski said. 
The team will need its best effort as it faces undefeated Calvin, ranked No. 4 in Division III. 

The Belles believe they are on the cusp of becoming a great program, and a win over Calvin could help them get there. To improve on their strong performances in the losses, the Belles will need top efforts from co-cap­tains senior Kelly Tighe and junior Melissa Gerbeth. Saint Mary's also needs sophomore Lindsey Nelis and freshman Casey Niezer to have another solid meet. 
The meet starts at 7:30 
p.m. at East Grand Rapids High School in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Contact Pete Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu 
set the NCAA provisional mark for the 3,000-meter race with a time of 8:05.22 during the Blue and Gold meet on Dec. 7, has more of a team goal for tonight's meet. 
and NCAA are big meets," Benninger said. "It's really not that hard to get up for it." 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at 
ealfonzo@nd.edu 
PGA TouR 

Tiger two back at Buick Invitational 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Tiger Woods delivered the score he expected in his 2008 debut, just not the game. 
Despite playing from the sand, rough and behind a few trees early in his round, Woods began a much-anticipated sea­son Thursday with a S-under 67 on the tougher South Course at Torrey Pines. That left him two shots behind Troy Matteson, and gave him a strong presence on the leaderboard as he goes for his fourth straight title in the Buick Invitational. 
"It wasn't pretty off the tee, but I hung in there," Woods said. "Shooting 67 is always going to feel pretty good on the South Course." 
Imagine how it felt for Matteson. 
He ran off five birdies in a six­hole stretch on the back nine, then finished his round with consecutive birdies to become the first player since Davis Love III in 2000 to have the first­round lead while playing the South. 
"I won't top that for awhile," Matteson said. 
Brad Adamonis had a 66 on the North Course, which is 600 yards shorter and played more than two strokes easier. 
Rory Sabbatini, Stuart Appleby and Kevin Streelman, who began the day as the third alternate, were in the group at 67 with Woods. They all played on the North, which is where Matteson and Woods play on Friday. 
Phil Mickelson opened his season with a 70 on the North. 
Matteson was 11 shots better than his last trip around the South Course. That was the final round a year ago, when he played alongside Woods and watched the world's No. 1 play­er turn an ordinary round into a winner. 
Maybe someone of that rubbed off on Matteson. 
"That's an experience that 
any player would remember," Matteson said. "Anytime you get paired with Tiger, it's very inter­esting from a crowd standpoint, from a what-he-does stand­point. It's just pretty neat to see the guy shoot 66 on Sunday to 
win." · 

Woods, who hasn't played since winning his Target World Challenge by seven shots on Dec. 16, wasn't the only person returning to work. 
Golf Channel anchor Kelly Tilghman was back in the booth after a two-week suspension for jokingly suggesting young play­ers wanting to take on Woods should "lynch him in a back alley." She recorded an apology that opened the telecast. 
That seemed to end a month's worth of troublesome news in golf outside the ropes ­Tilghman's suspension, the fir­ing of a magazine editor for putting a noose on the cover, and the death of popular caddie Steve Duplantis in Del Mar early Tuesday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 2 f.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to campus, safe. cathedral ceilings. fireplace, 2-car garage, 1Ox20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 or 574·340·1844. 
Large house available for 2009-2010. 
Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ square feet,5 bathrooms. 
MacSwain@ gmai/.com 
705 ND Ave. 3 Bedroom $1 ,000.00. 273-4889 Available 08/09 

Nice Rental Home within a block of 
ND & Med School. 718 Napoleon,3bdrm, attached garage,basement,large lot,new upgrades/appliances. 
574·339·0275. HOUSE FOR RENT: 608 ND Ave., walk to campus. 3 
Lg.bed/2bath, sleeps up to 5. Central Air, new appl., carpet, WID, off street parking. 
Call 620-704-4663. 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09. 09/10 Now offering "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com 

WANTED 
CYO CAMP Rancho Framasa SUM­
MER CAMP POSITIONS· HIRING NOW! Secure your summer job! Camp Rancho Framasa is an inclu­sive, residential camp, located in south central Indiana, operated by the Catholic Youth Organization since 1946. Serving campers aged 7 to 16 in various programs. We offer a wei­coming staff community in a beautiful outdoor setting. General Staff, Counselor Manager, Inclusive Programming, Ropes Course, Adventure and Health positions avail­able. All positions start at $240/week. Training is provided;start date May 31, 2008. Apply online www.campran· choframasa.org Questions? contact Angi at 888·988-2839, x25 or email angi @campranchoframasa.org 
PERSONAL 

PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hot/ine at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-wee_kly ad in The Observer. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit: 
http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
Need a job to gain experience? · 
Need experience to gain a job? 
Entry-level position in Admissions and Alumni Affairs available January 2008 at a private board-ing/day school located 30 minutes from the University of Notre Dame. LaLumiere School is looking for an energetic and dedicated person who likes to work with high school students. Some coaching and dorm supervision may be available as well. Please email kennedy@ lalumiere.org for further information. 
Happy belated birthday Matt. 
Love, Your Brother Chris 
Happy early birthday Julianna! 

Is there anything more beautiful than a beautiful, beautiful flamingo, flying across in front of a beautiful sunset? And he's carrying a beauti­lui rose in his beak, and also he's carrying a very beautiful painting with his feet. And also, you're drunk. 
Probably to a shark, about the fun­niest thing there is is a wounded seal, trying to swim to shore, because where does he think he's going? 

The face of a child can say it all, especially the mouth part of the face. 


OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED rRoM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Friday, January 25, 2008 
page 15 
NFL
NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Boston 33·7 .825 6·4 Toronto 23·19 .548 6-4 11 New Jersey 18·23 .439 3·7 15.5 Philadelphia 16-27 .372 2·8 18.5 New York 13·28 .317 5·5 20.5 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record perc . last10 GB 
Detroit 30-13 .698 4·6 Cleveland 23C18 .561 9-1 6 Indiana 19-24 .442 4·6 11 Chicago 17-24 .415 5·5 12 Milwaukee 16-26 .381 4·6 13.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Orlando 27·17 .614 5-5 Washington 22-18 .550 7~3 3 Atlanta 17-21 .447 3·7 7 Charlotte 16·26 .381 5-5 10 Miami 8·32 .200 0-10 17 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Denver 25·16 .610 6-4 v Portland 25·17 .595 6·4 .5 Utah 24·18 .571 IH 1.5 Seattle 9·33 .214 0-10 16.5 Minnesota 7·34 ;171 3~7 18 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record perc. last.JO .. GB New Orleans 29-12 .707 9·1 Dallas 2&43 .6&3 3-,2 San Antonio 27-13 .675 6·4 
Gisele Bundchen. several players treated the end Richard Seymour was
HOU$t0n 23"19 .548 8;2 . 
Associated Press 
On Monday, they took pic­Brady-boot saga with a more taken with the bou­
Memphis 12~30 .286 3-7 

FOXBOROUGH, Mass. tures of him wearing a pro­mixture of stonewalling and quet in Brady's hand. 
For once, not even the tective boot on his right smiles. · "Every channel I turned Western Conference, Pacific Division paparazzi could find Tom foot. Later in the day, he "I don't have any com­to, there it was, magnifYing Brady. walked without the boot ment on it," Belichick said in on the boot," he said. "To
team record perc; lasttJO 
Gil 
Or his boot. into a nightspot with in a news conference before me, the good part was the 
Phoenix 30-13 .698 7·3 

They staked out the lock­Bundchen. Video on the Patriots held their first flowers. I wasn't in on the 
LA Lakers 27-13 .675 8~2 

er of the Patriots quarter­Tuesday also captured him practice for the Super BowL boot."
Golden State 25-18 .581 6•4 

back for 45 minutes before without the boot as he "The injury report will be Other players comment­
Sacramento 18·23 .439 6~4 

the media access period headed for and entered a out next Wednesday and ed, or declined to, in more
LA Clippers 13-25 .342 4•6 

ended on Thursday. Then cab. we're excited to give that to typical Patriots fashion: Stay they focused for the 15 min­''I'm going to put on a you. That form will be filled away from anything contro­utes they were allowed into boot and see ifyou all follow out completely and I can't versial and never discuss practice and found two me around," New England wait to give that to every­injuries. quarterbacks, Matt Cassel haliback Heath Evans joked body. "I didn't see the video and and Matt Gutierrez. before practice. "I know you're anxious I don't know anything about 
USCHO.com/CSTV Division I That was quite a change Brady, the NFL MVP, for it, so when it's due on it," safety Rodney Harrison from early in the week reportedly has a minor Wednesday, we'll have it for declared.
Poll 

when Brady walked ankle sprain that shouldn't you. Don't worry about Cornerback Ellis Hobbs team record previous through a bunch of videog­keep him out of the Super that." was no more forthcoming. raphers and photographers Bowl on Feb. 3 against the While Patriots' fans were "That has nothing to do
1 Michigan 22-2-D 1 
near the New York home of New York Giants. concerned about the boot with me, man," he said.
2 Miami (OH) 23·3·0 2 
his girlfriend, supermodel Coach Bill Belichick and on Brady's foot, defensive "Next question." 
3 Colorado College 18·6·0 3 4 North Dakota 14·8·1 6 5 Denver 18·6·0 4 6 Michigan Stale 16·5·4 7 IN BRIEF 7 New Hampshire 13·7-1 5 8 Boston College 11-5·6 11 
Clemens' hearing pushed Beloved Bucs fullback Shara~ova returns to
9 NOTRE DAME 18·9·1 8 
back until February retires after 12 seasons Australian Open final
10 Clarkson 13·7-2 12 
WASHINGTON -Roger Clemens' TAMPA, Fla. -Tampa Bay's A­MELBOURNE, Australia -A year
11 Northeastern 11·6·3 9 
12 Quinnipiac 14-5·3 14 meeting with a congressional com­Train has made his final run. after losing the Australian Open final in 13 St. Cloud State 11·10·3 13 mittee investigating steroids in base­Six-time Pro Bowl fullback Mike embarrassing fashion to Serena 14 UMass 9-H 10 ball was pushed back until Feb. 5. Alstott announced his retirement Williams, Maria Sharapova is looking 15 UMass lowell 11·6·4 15 Clemens originally was as~ed to after 12 seasons Thursday, saying unstoppable in her quest for a third 
appear Saturday for a deposition or goodbye to the NFL during a tearful Grand Slam singles title. transcribed interview with staff news conference in a meeting room But if it doesn't happen in Saturday's members from the House Oversight where the Buccaneers played a high­final at Melbourne Park against Serbia's and Government Reform Committee. light film of some of his most memo­Ana Ivanovic, she won't lose too much That panel has called a Feb. 13 rable plays. sleep over it.
around the dial 
hearing where Clemens and his for­The Bucs all-time touchdown "From the beginning of the tourna­mer personal trainer, Brian leader, who played at Purdue from ment, you want to go a step further than McNamee, are among five witnesses 1992-95, spent the 2007 season on you've done in the past," Sharapova slated to appear. injured reserve with a neck problem said after her 6-3, 6-1 semifinal win 
The committee announced a new that was not related to a career­over Jelena Jankovic on Thursday. schedule Thursday of pre-hearing threatening injury that required sur­"That's always your goal, and your
NBA 

meetings with those witnesses. gery in 2003. He held little hope for mantra going into a tournament. If it's Chuck Knoblauch, a former team­a return, but still had difficulty say­not this Saturday ... if it doesn't happen, Orlando at Detroit mate of Clemens with the New York ing his career was over. hey, it's lilc." 
7 p.m., ESPN Yankees, was subpoenaed to appear "Though mentally I feel like I can The way Sharapova is playing, she for a deposition or transcribed inter­continue, physically I can't," he said. can afford to be introspective -six view on Tuesday, although the com­"The second injury to my neck will straight-set wins, including one that mittee said he has yet to be prevent me from playing football for­ended No. 1 Justine Henin's 32-match served. ever." winning streak in the quarterfmals. 

.. Come explore the life of zeal of the Congregation of Holy Cross with an evening of prayer and conversation with Holy Cross 
religious and other discerning men. 
Feb1 
DISCERNMENT 
with Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. Tom Eckert, C.S.C. &Seminarian Thomas Haan from Old College 
Feb8 
PRAYER 
with Fr. Nick Ayo, C.S.C. & Fr. Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. 
Feb22 
COMMUNITY 
with Fr. Peter Jarret, C.S.C. Fr. Austin Collins, C.S.C. Fr. Gary Chamberland, C.S.C. 
s:30-]:30 p.m. 
beginning at Log Chapel with dinner to follow at the Coleman-Morse Center 
Blessed Brother Andre Bessette, c.s.c. Dinners 
Have questions? 
Call (574) 631-6385 or e-mail vocation.1@nd.edu 
....._~ 
Friday, January 25, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Swimmers face West Virginia in final tune-up 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
Coming off losses last week­end to Louisville and Northwestern, No. 22 Notre Dame will try to capture a win Saturday in its final meet of the regular season, an important test before the Big East champi­onships. 
The Irish will face West Virginia in the Shamrock Invitational, a meet that coach Tim Welsh said will be special. 
"This is an important week­end for the team for several reasons," Welsh said. "It's the last meet of the season prior to the Big East championships, and it's the last home meet in this pool for seniors ever. It's our last chance to get every­thing right." 
The Irish have competed against two other Big East schools in dual meets this sea­son, notching a victory over 
Pittsburgh in November before 
dropping the meet against 
Louisville. 
Last season, the Irish squared 
off against Wes-t Virginia, 
Oakland, Penn State and 
Connecticut in the Shamrock 
Invitational. The Irish posted a 
2-2 mark to finish third in the 
meet, while the Mountaineers 
won, going 4-0. 
Junior diver Michael Bulfin, along with sophomores John Lytle, Andrew Hoffman and Ross Moore, are some of the returning point scorers from .last year's invitational. Their experience, along with contri­butions from a large freshman class, should help the Irish in their attempt to avenge last year's home loss to the 
Mountaineers. 
The two teams also met at the 
2007 Big East meet, where West 
Virginia, which ended its regu­
lar season undefeated, edged 
Notre Dame by 4 1/2 points to 
win the conference crown. 
West Virginia has faced four 
conference opponents in dual 
meets this year and has com­
piled a record of 2-2 with losses 
to Pittsburgh and Louisville, and 
victories over Georgetown and 
Cincinnati. 
Welsh thinks that Notre 
Dame's schedule in the past few 
weeks should help the Irish 
against West Virginia. 
"West Virginia is the defend­
ing champion, and Louisville 
has been the hottest team in the 
conference all season long," 
Welsh said. "We will have seen 
them both in the last two weeks 
of the season. It's good prepara­
tion for us, and' it's pretty excit­
ing." 

This year's Shamrock Invitational is a two-session dual meet, with the first session set to begin at 9:30 a.m. and the .second at 4 p.m. Saturday at 
Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 



New Year's Resolutions for 2008 
1. 
I will download and run NO's free antivirus and antispyware software. 

2. 
I won't share my password with anyone. 

3. 
I wilt dispose of bank statements and credit card bills/offers using a crosscut shredder. 


Visit secure.nd.edu for more information. 
Are you secure? 


NO WOMEN'S TRACK & FIELD 
Runners face first big test at ND Invitational 
Ten opponent Michigan State. and illnesses this fall, we now personal best times before becomes realistic. We need to
By ALEX BARKER and 

"This weekend's competi­have almost everyone back the Big East meet. take a step in that direction."
ANDY ZICCARELLI 

tion will be a major step up and training consistently," "We still have a very long Irish athletes will use this 
Sports Writers 

from previous meets," Irish Connelly said. way to go to be close to our meet as another opportunity coach Tim Connelly said. "It Sophomore Lindsey full potential. The big focus to qualify for the Big East 
For tho f'irst timn this sea­will be a big step up in com­Ferguson and senior Julie for us will be to continue to championships in February. son. tho Irish will face legiti­petition and a difficult chal­Opet will run the mile after improve and continue to com­So far this season, the Irish mate Big East compntition lnnge for us." be.ing held out of last week's pete hard," Connelly said. "If women have set 30 qualifying whnn they suit up for the The timing of the meet. The Irish grabbed we compete well against bet­marks for the conference Notre Damn Invitational Invitational could not be bet­three of the top four spots, ter competition, our times event. today at the Loftus Sports ter for the Irish. who will not but couldn't take the top spot will continue to drop and we Center. be battling health issues for in the duo's absence. will start to work our way Contact Alex Backer at 
The Irish will host confer­the first time this season. Connelly said his team can into a position where scoring abarker1 @nd.edu and Andy encn foe Marquette and Big "Corning ofT a lot of injuries use the meet to improve their well at the conference meet Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Cotntnodores look to 

"SALESIAN LIFE IS VERY APPEALING TO YOUNG 1VIE1'I WHO SEEK TO .MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THIS WORI.D."
avenge last year's loss 
S••t~n Hognu, Noh••· Dame,o.t 

I wl'ik. tbh !u tnrtttU'IIli.(' tlw~(' ymm2. 1li('ll wbu mud! likt mf durina my Kcley Tnl'f't remain the No. 3 
lim~ m Nolt"f Damt ytumrd r..r· wmdtttm;: mot't !han ju.,t a .fOh. wtto 
By LORENZO REYES 

ytmn~d ["I' (i MUillg i<.> ~tl"'H, h> p•·~ ;JU tllt)' lll!d fOI" olhN'S. Most
eombination in the country. 
h!H'£mlty f<rr tho•~ who h~of>t 1<> sera ymmll. pti>jll~ mHI hl'ing. tl1~mSpores Wriccr 
Despite Notre Dame's individ­
flOWI'm.ksus. ual talents, Louderback would 
Arter a elose 4-3 defeat last rather have this weekend's 
In, f"m s~ali H<>!!>lll dlt'>'~ ..r 'il-l \IIIII \!ill ,. k£1>11¢1 Ruu "' lit'IU1. AftN' gnulu,.Uug from ;>.;otl'~ 1.himf. I li:nmd lilY'"" In a ~mall wwn in Chin:~ working m< ~ hiy mi~<i<>t~ou·,· wlt.h Ill<' Sak<hm•lf t:a•.John Rosto. \VIJ<·n l
ynar. Vandnrbilt is looking to dual match be an overall team 
avengn its loss against Notro effort. 
applkd fur >l ytrtl" of~rvjn and fHll btfon· l kfl for Chil!ll, .l ki~tw \'~t'Y
Dame this weekend in "For us all year it has been 
Iiiii~ llh(HII !it~ Suk~lll.n<, hill l>d.llll, llmund th~m for· 11 sh<>r1 riuu it ww; 
Nashville. Tenn. The No. <J Irish about everybody," Louderbaek 
twy N> •tt what thdr lif~ "'"~ au nllom. are aiming to thwart those said. "Everyone is going to 
I ~1><>11 l't'llli~<d why fhh gJ1JUI> of m<:u. lh~~~ &odfsilm pd~~h >111d
plans as thny face a vnry talent­have to be in the match as 
fwotltrl"S, W~!'e llH' ~~WJH! h1.rg~~~ l"dl~<IU~ Ol"dtl' ill !11~ CIIUHII.
nd No. 16 Commodorn team. opposed to one or two individ­Coach Jay Louderbaek does­ual players. We are also very 
S>llt•i'm li.ft !.~ wry :ilfllli"Jl.lin% f<J yomo\'( m~tl who <uk ru uwkt a 
dill'~l'Uift mlhh WOI'Id. Saifsiuns, \\ htUltl' lhr men l W<tl'kNI \tilll ill
n't want to overlook this week­deep so we are extremely 
Chiltn. Koren. or 111~ our~ I Wt>rk 1111!11 m:m in 111• ~llllt•s, llvt for yow1g JltopJt, Scltsian.' mtrt tilt y<mllt whtl'f ihty un· ut. in •daooh. youth 
on d's dual match against a lucky, but we need everyone in 
solid opponent. the matches." 
t'tllttl~. JHili<h"\ aml ~verywlltl"t rbt i.n bdwr~n. Saksi~ll~ lin >l lire
The Comrnodorns are "very This week gave the Irish an 
illut allow~ ihem if1 ofl'N' 11 :p·ru! JH"fSfllt't 10 yoUII\'( JIN>J>It, lfadillll. ami 
good," Loudnrback said. opportunity to jell as a team. 
l>~'<"f>".ling thrm w ht gmHl Chl"h1.ian~ nnd lwntsf dl.i~.tll~. 
"They're ranked No. 16, but "We had a great week of 
St. Jodm Howo, h:~~m<kr <>I' lllr Sodf-~lum, Wll$ <l<:danll lht _pah'1.>H Ill t.lu
they're better than that. They practiee," Louderback said. 
ymmg b<otllUS<t of IIi.~ "'~"·k l'nl' JH>OI" mul hom~l~~s young,•kl"!i. II• 
arc definitely a top-1 0 team. "We were all fired up coming 
hmlldt'd th~ S11le<lalt~ to n>Hiinllr God'.< wurk fm· til~ yom1~ a "'"rk Cfnlt
Last year they didn't finish in after the Louisville win and we 
1ww noadll'o~ H4 t·mmlrits. John ,\11tn. \'uritiUJ t·on·r~poudtnl for t.hr 
the top 10 because they had a had Sunday off. The rest of the 
Nallurm.l Catlwl.ir Report~r. "Tiles uf llltm, '"Tbt Sal••sbms 111-e s«>o as couple of kids injured, but now week was great, though." 
l'<lbUSi"!)' rt!J~blt 111.!1 tl!tJ>lt>gl(Ql itul<lV!lfOI'~·. bll{ <iOYi'tl..f(\· Ulrth l>QSI0!'5 and cduottors, lind g~l!tl'otlly "ill1 a f.',<)Od ~enst of limnol' ... th~ Siilf~hm
that they're back, they have a Louderback wanted to focus 
Fur mort' infummtlon; www.sall•'iianvocation.cum 
pa~tiltlll mudd I~; suDtl. <lrtho<iox Cattmlk ftlrly: llll 'IJJ.tllt-trt'll<'hr<'
lot of depth. Another thing on certain tactics to employ 
E--mail: sal'nu:ra'aill.coJg tollll11itlutm to ll1t Y<llllll;. th~ poOl'. and to ~•lut-gllom: and ll >millnf? about them is that they have against Vanderbilt. 
Phone: (973) 761 02111 do~rnus i.o Iii" l•~Of>lf..~ experience. Only one of them is "This semester we started a sophomore and the rest are working on a couple of drills," 
\Vorklng with iJ1~ lillle~runs 112.~ d!J<t~gtd my life. I am XIIJW pnpruiug w join Uu·m .uui routinur st. John Bos•·o's WQI'k of l'tllchllu; out to tlto~e 
To l't'lHJ.John /\ll~·u\ llrtide llhou! tlw Sllh·~hut'i visit: 
h.!.!.J1.;i.LJ1ll tional rat h ol ir rt'llOrl e.r.o rg)wo.rd/
juniors and seniors." Louderback said. "These drills 
who m:t yonng and IIQOr. ff you havt tnr ftll tltt ~holy temptation~ to
wonll!ti30(t6.htm
Notre Dame is corning off a try to get our players to keep 
~tt<ve Chl"M ill Ulls W>ly, di~t'k ~~~ ont. 
decisive 6-1 victory over their balls deeper in the court Louisville last Sunday and closer to the baseline. This wants to keep its momentum way, our opposition won't be going. able to be as aggressive in their 
To do that, the Irish will need attack." big contributions and solid play from sophomore Cosmina Contact Lorenzo Reyes at Ciobanu, who is the highest­lreyes@nd.edu 


----------------------, 
Friday, January 25, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 




FOLLOWING IS A UST OF ALL FIRST ROUND GAME Sat., Jarmary 26, 2008 TIMES FOR LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS. 6:00 PM * 2:00 Al\1 ADDITONAL TIMES WILL BE PROVIDED AT Joyce Center
Late 

THE END OF EACH ROUND. 631-6100 
Night
~­

Be a Real f'luurxpion-Support Special ()lynxpies!!! .4/l LNO 1.\J.edals Vouated hy 
the Notre Dame Alumni A.swdation
Olytnpics 

$1.00 lJonation Requested at the Door 
XXII Keough/Welsh Family Sorin/Le\vis 
Volleyball 'feamA 7:30 Bags 'Team/\ 8:45 
Volleyball Team A 6:00 Bags . Team A NA Team B 6:30 Team B 8:00 
Team B 8:00 Team B NA Men's Basketball Team A 6:00 LNO Obstacle Course Team A 10:15 
Men's Basketball Team A 6:{)() LNO Obstacle Course Team A 8:30 Team B 6:20 Team B 8:00 
Tet1ntB NO. Team B NA Women's Basketball Team/\ 7:00 Men·s Table Tennis Team/\ 8:00 
Women's Basketball Team A 6:40 Men ·sTable Tennis Team A 8:00 Team B 6:40 TeamB 8:15 
Team B No\ TeamB NA Target Golf Team A 7:00 .Women ·sTable Tennis Team A 10:00 
Target Golf Team A NA Women ·sTable 'Iennis Team A 8:00 Te>lm B 7:40 TeamB 8:00 
Team B NO. Team B 8:45 Co-Ree Broomball 7:30 
Co-Ree Broom ball 7:00 
Keenan/Saint Mary's 
Volleyball Team A 8:30 Bags "Hearn A 8:15 
Volleyball Team A 6:00 Bags Team A 10:00 Team B 7:00 Team B 8:15 
Team B 6:30 Team B NA Men·s Basketball Team/\ 6:20 LNO Obstacle Course 'IcamA 8:30 
Men's Basketball leamA 6:40 LNO Obstacle Course ·ream A 11:15 Team B 7:00 TeamB 9:45 
Team B 7:00 Team B NA Women·s Basketball Team A 6:40 Men's Table Tennis Team A 9:30 
Women·s Basketball ·learn A NA Men's '[able '!ennis Team A 9:45 Te~m A 6:00 Team B 8:45 
Team B NA Team R 10:00 Target Golf 'feamA 8:20 Women ·sTable Tennis '[eamA 10:15 
Target Golf Team A NA Women's Table Tennis ·ream A 8:15 TcamB NA Teamfl 8:45 
Team B NA Team B NA Co-Ree Broomball 8:00 
C'0-Rec Broomball 7::10 
I)illon/\Valsh 

Volleyball Team/\ 7:30 Bags '[earn A 8:00 Volleyball Team A 6:00 Bags Team A NA 
Team B 6:00 TeamB 9:45 
Team B NA Team B NA Men's Baskelball Team A 6:00 LNO Obstacle Course Team A 8:00 
Men's Basketball Team A 7:40 LNO Obstacle Course Team A 10:00 Team B 7:20 ·ream B 11:00 
Team B NA leamB NA Women ·s Basketball Team A 6:00 Men·, ··~~ble Tennis Team A 8:00 
Women's Basketball Team A 6:40 Men·s 1~tble Tennis Team A 8:00 Team B 7:00 Team B 9:30 
'IeamB NA Team B 8:30 Target Golf Team A 7:40 Women's Table Tennis Team A 8:15 
Target Golf Team A 8:00 Women·s Table Tennis Team A 8:00 Team B NA Team B 8:30 
Team B NA leamB 8:15 
Co-Ree Broomball 7:30 Co-Ree Brooml)all 8:30 
Alumni/Carroll/Ho\vard Zahn1/Cavanaugh
;.._~ 
Volleyball Team A 6:30 Bags ·leamA 8:30 
Volleyball Team A 6:30 Bags Team A 8:00. Team B 8:00 Team B 8:30 
Team B i:OO Team B 8:30 Men's Basketball leamA 6:20 LNO Obstacle Course Team A 8:45 
Men's Basketball leamA 7:()() LNO Obstacle Course Team A 8:15 Team B 6:20 TeamB 9:30 
TeamB NA Team B 9:30 
Women's Basketball Team A 6:00 Men's Table Tennis 'JeamA 8:30 
Women·s Basketball Team A 6:20 Men's '[able Tennis Team A 8:15 Team B NA Team B lO:OO 
T<~am B NA TeamB 10:15 'l~trget Golf Team/\ 7:20 Women's Table Tennis Team/\ 8:45 
TargetG<>lf Team A 7:.~0 Women's Table Tennis Team A 9:30 Team B NA TeamB 10:()() 
Tt·amB NA Team B 8:15 
Co-Ree Broomball 7:30 Co-Ree Broomball 7:00 
-K-­
-
')'

., J'h.. t u 

Stanford/Breen-Phillips 


Volleyball Team A 6:00 Bags Team A 8:00 
Volleyball Team A 7:.\0 Bugs Team A 8:15 Team B 7:00 Team B 8:45 
Team B 7:00 Team B lN5 Men ·s Basketball Team A NA LNO Obstacle Course ·ream A 8:!5 
Men's Basketball Team A 6:40 LNO Obstacle Course Team/\ 10:00 Team B NA TeamB N/A 
TeamB NA ·leamB NA Women's Basketball Team A 6:00 Men's Table Tennis Team A 9:45 
Women ·s Basketball ·IeamA N/\ Men's Table Tennis Team A 8:15 Team B NA TeamB 8:45 
Team B NA Team B 9:30 
Target Golf Team A 7:00 Women's Table Tennis Team A 8:00 litrget Golf Team A NA Women's Table Tennis Team A 9:45 
'leam B NA TeamB 9:45 
·learn B NA ·IeamB NA Co-Ree Broomball 8:00 
Co-Ree Broomball S:JO 
Fisher/Pangborn 

Volleyball Team A 7:00 Bags ·leamA 8:45 
Volleyball Team A 6:00 Bags ·leamA 8:30 Team B 6:30 Team F.l 9:30 
Team B 7:()() Team B 9:45 Men's Basketball 'IeamA 7:00 LNO Obstacle Course 'feamA 10:15 
Men's Basketball Team A 6:40 LNO Obstacle Course 'ream A 8:45 
T"arn B 7:20 T"mnB 10:30 Tt•arn B 6:00 Team B 9:45 
Women's Basketb>llJ ·leamA 6:20 Men's Table Tennis Team A 8:45 
Women ·s Basketball 'IeamA 7:(Kl Men's '[able Tennis ·1\eamA 8:15 Team B 6:20 Team F.l 8:30 
TeamB NJ\ Team B 10:15 Target Golf ·ream/\ 8:on Women's 'I~•ble Tennis Team/\ 8:30 
·n,rget Golf Team A NA Women's Table Tennis Team A 9:30 
Team B NA 'l"amB 8:30 Tt•am B NA Team H R:30 
Co--Rel· Rroomball 8:00 Co-Ree Broomball i:()() 
SiegfriedlPasquerilla W. 
Volleyball ·ream A 6:30 Bags 'leam/\ 9:30 Team B 8:00 Team B 8:15 Men's Basketball ·learn A 6:40 LNO Obstacle Course "leamA 10:45 
Team B NA Team B NIA Women's Basketball Team A 6:20 Men ·sTable Tennis ·ream/\ 8:30 TeamB NA T\,am B 8:45 Target G•1lf leamA NA Women's Table Tennis ·1eamA 8:45 
Team B NA 'feam B N,'\ Co-Ree Broom ball 7:00 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Starting spots up for grabs in opening exhibition 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
SportS Writer 
While Sunday's opening game against Hobert Morris is an exhibition, the Irish have plenty to play for with several starting positions still up for grabs. 
Notrn Dame, ranked fifth in Laerosse Magazine's preseason poll, will begin the season with a home serimmage against the Colonials at 10 a.m. The Irish will look to build on a strong 2007 eampaign that featured an NCAA Tournament appearanee and the team's 1Oth Great Western Laerosse League title. 
Notre Dame eoaeh Kevin Corrigan said he was looking forward to seeing his players go up against new eompetition. 
"l just want to see our guys going up and down, playing in the roles we're looking to !ill," Corrigan said. "When you eom­petn against yourselves every day tlwrn are things you don't get to see." 

Robert Morris enters South Bend in just its fourth season as a varsity program. The Colonials struggled last season, going 3-9 and ending the sea­son on a seven-game losing streak. 
Key returnees for Robert Morris indude senior eaptains Andrew Watt and John Kennedy, whose mammoth presenec in goal will ehallenge the Irish offense. The 6-foot-2, 330-pound Kennedy reeorded an 11.78 goals-against average last season in six games, while Watt led the Colonial offense with 22 goals and 30 points. 
While the Irish return seven of 10 starters from last season's 11-4 team. Corrigan said there are still battles for starting posi­tions. 
"We still have eompntition at some positions," Corrigan said. "A lot of guys will be trying to win jobs or solidify their spots." 
Heturning in net for the Irish 
· 
is senior eaptain Joey Kemp, a preseason All-Ameriean selee­tion and the 2007 GWLL player of the year. A four-year starter for Notre Dame, Kemp has a 26-11 reeord and 7.43 goals­against average for his eareer. 
Senior Sean Dougherty, another preseason All­Ameriean, anehors an Irish defense that gave up a pro­gram-best 6.66 goals per game last season. 
Two-sport athlete Will Yeatman, the 2007 LaxPower rookie of the year, will return as the leader of a strong Irish attaek. Yeatman, who also plays tight end on the football team, led Notre Dame in points as a freshman with 21 goals and 25 assists. 
Joining Yeatman on the attaek will be junior Ryan Hoff, who netted a team-high 40 goals for the Irish last year. Even more impressive than Hoff's searing might have been his aeeuraey -he posted a .500 shooting 
FENCING 

Irish travel to NYC for elite duals 

VANESSA GEMPISrrhe Observer 
Irish senior midfielder Taylor Clagett runs for a ground ball against Air Force in a 164 Notre Dame win on April13. 
percentage on the season. Notre Dame-will have one 
Corrigan said while the team final tune-up Feb. 2 with an has high expectations, players exhibition against Bucknell are foeused on meeting daily before beginning the regular goals in practiee. season Feb. 16 against Loyola. 
"We want to take everything we're doing up a level, and do it Contact Michael Bryan at on a daily basis," Corrigan said. mbryan@nd.edu 

By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame fenees in New York City Saturday in the most important regular-sea­son competition on almost every elite team's schedule. 
The Irish take on the major powers of the sport in the NYU Duals this weekend, meeting with a slew of top-1 0 teams -Ohio State, St. John's, Columbia, Yale and Northwestern -among oth­ers. 
The only top team expected to challenge for the NCAA epeeist Kelley Hurley, who Colo., from Jan. 12-13. will be competing in a World "For us, it would be like an Cup event in Europe. The NCAA final and we want to team will rely heavily on see how we can be accounted freshmen, who are f o r , " expeeted to com-Bednarski pose about half of said. "It will the two dozen "It will be good just to give us an fencers slated to try out our opportunity compete. to see how

possibilities. " 
The Duals is sim­strong the ilar to NASCAH's others are Daytona 500, in Janusz Bednarski and what that it is an early Irish coach the strong 
competition with significant eonse­quences for the remainder of the season. 
The one-day event is. only 
title this year who will not fence at the eompetition is Penn State. The Nittany Lions and Irish will fence at the Northwestern Duals on Feb. 2. 
"It will be good just to try out our possi­bilities," Irish eoaeh Janusz Bednarski said. 

"It will give us an opportunity to see how strong the others are and what the strong side ofour 
team is.,, 
Janusz Bednarski Irish coach 
Notre Dame's second NCAA­sanctioned team event of the season. Irish fencers have competed individually in N o r t h American Cup events in Dallas; in Richmond, Va.; and in Atlanta over the past three months -but the only 

"Of eourse it will not say team event to this point has everything yet, even if we win been the Air Force Western or lose ... but I hope the kids Invite. Notre Dame won both will fence well." the men's and women's sides 
Notre Dame will be without of that competition, which sophomore All-Ameriean was held in Colorado Springs, 
side of our 
team is." 

Because of Notre Dame's victories at the Western Invite two weeks ago and its national rankings (No. 1 among women's teams, No. 3 among men), Bednarski said, there will be added expectations for the Irish. 
"It's a pressure for sure. Kids, knowing we are going to the strong tournament, are very nervous -some of them," Bednarski said. "It's also an opportunity to deal with stress." 
The Irish left for New York Thursday morning and were scheduled to arrive in the eity by Thursday night. The team will go sightseeing in the Big Apple today before having dinner with alumni, including former feneers, tonight. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

-~-----------------------------------------------------' 
Friday, January 25, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Virginia 
continued from page 24 
both times. Last year, the Irish lost to the Cavaliers 6-1, and they fell 4-3 two years ago when Virginia was again ranked No. 1. 
"We proved it can be done," Bayliss said. "We've had them on the ropes the last couple of years, but our freshmen have never been under that kind of pressure. It will tell us a lot about our team to see how well they handle the pressure this weekend." 
Last weekend, the Irish played in a home doubleheader. In the opening match, Notre Dame defeated talented Penn State 5-2. It capped off the day with a 7-0 win over Toledo. 
Coming through for the Irish was the doubles team of senior Sheeva Parbhu and junior Brett Helgeson, winning both of their matches. 
"They return as well as any­one in the country, and have made great improvements at net," Bayliss said. 
While Parbhu and Helgeson make the obvious splash at the top of the lineup, a quieter force has been brewing at No. 2 doubles: senior Andrew Roth and freshman Stephen Havens. Roth is putting his game togeth­er after injuries plagued his early years at Notre Dame. 
Roth has a determined work ethic, Bayliss said, and has become more accountable ­along with being an emotional sparkplug. 
Although the Irish came out with wins in their opening matches, they found some things they need to work on as well. 
"Stephen Havens needs to stay in longer rallies," Bayliss said. "[Freshman] David Anderson is still working on attacking with his forehand more often. He is also working on coming to net more." 
While these players are gear­ing up to face Virginia, one player isn't quite ready to see action. Freshman Matt Johnson is still sidelined because of a strained pectoral muscle. He has begun serving this week but will take more time to get back into playing shape, Bayliss said. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Bowling 
continued from page 24 
"I expect it to be a playoff­type situation because they're playing at a very high level right now," Jackson said of the Falcons, who will bring a "quick, frantic style of play" to the Joyce Center for tonight's 7:30 start. "They have had a lot of success and gained a lot of confidence, and it's up to us to take the style of play we want into this type of game." 
After a tough weekend series with No. 1 Michigan, in which the Irish lost a 3-2 heartbreaker on Friday before getting waxed 5-1 on Saturday, Jackson gave his frustrated club just what it needed: not extra rink-time, not added power-play drills, nor bonus conditioning, but a little game of "shinny." 
"We came in Monday not sure exactly what we were going to do," said junior right wing Erik Condra, who leads the Irish in scoring with 27 points. "Coach surprised us by saying we should go out and have some fun out on the pond like we used to when 
UConn 
continued from page 24 
(18-0, 5-0 Big East) and most recently beat No. 3 North Carolina at home on Monday. Regardless of the challenge the Irish face, Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said the chance to play the best team in the nation at home on national television -ESPN2 will tele­vise the game -will indicate how her team compares with the rest of the Big East. 
"[It's] another opportunity for us to come out and see just how far we have to go this sea­son to get to a spot in the Big East where we can really com­pete with everybody in the Big East," McGraw said during a conference call with reporters. "And we haven't been able to do that just yet, so that's some­thing we're working on." 
The Irish (15-4, 3-2 Big East) have sometimes hidden behind their offense, McGraw said. They average 79.4 points per we were younger, so we got our mittens and hats and hooded sweatshirts ana went out there.... Playing six-on­six, just having fun, having some hot cocoa out there ­just getting back to our 
roots." 
The timing may have been just right for a quick break from the daily grind of a long, grueling season, as Condra believes the time is now for the Irish to start ele­vating their game to a new level. 
"This is the weekend we need to start making a push for the end of the season," Condra said. "We're shooting for a playoff spot and a top­four seed in our league, and this weekend needs to start us off right." 
Much has been made of the power play's current dire straits, which appeared to hit rock-bottom hy giving up a short-handed goal in Saturday's loss to Michigan. Consistency's the word for Jackson, and he saw signs that the unit's coming around. 
"We're getting some scor­ing chances, and that's all we can really ask," said Jackson, who hinted at minor changes 
game and shoot 4 7.1 percent from the field. 
"We have a little bit of an attitude that our scoring's going well, so let's just keep scoring and get the ball back and outscore them," McGraw said. "And we really can't do that against good teams, and that's really been hurting us." 
Notre Dame allowed 87 points to Tennessee, 74 to Louisville, 86 to Georgetown and 81 to DePaul. McGraw said that playing zone defense might counteract the team's defensive woes, but that the team needs to focus no matter what defense it plays. 
"We've been playing a lot of man to man, and we just haven't been good guarding the 3-point line whether in man or zone," McGraw said. 
McGraw said the lineup did­n't matter. She said she could tinker with it to tailor the game plan against specific defensive matchups, but she doesn't anticipate lineup changes if the team plays more zone defense. 
Rejoice! Mass 

January 27, 9p.m. 
Chapel of Notre Dame Our Moth,~r Coleman Morse Center 
Mass in the African-American Tradition 
C-M 

For information, contact Judy Madden 631-XSOX or jmuddcn2@nd.cdu 
in personnel and strategy around the net. "Right now it's about getting the puck and trying to establish some pressure at the net. Those are the basics of the power play, and we have to make sure we're doing those things on a more consistent basis." 
Puck control will be crucial in thwarting the Falcons' fast-paced, transition attack, which is led by senior for­ward Derek Whitmore, Bowling Green's leading scor­er (24 points, 19 goals). Defenseman Kevin Schmidt (15 assists) and forward James Perkin (13 assists) will try early and often to get the puck to Whitmore, who has scored 18 of his 24 points in Bowling Green victories. 
"Looking back to last year, we didn't have that many close, tough games," Irish senior defenseman Brock Sheahan said. "A lot of things seemed to go our way, and that might've hurt us in the NCAA Tournament. We've been facing a lot more adver­sity this year, and hopefully that will help us in the long run." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
"We're playing the same eight or nine people, not 1l big deal to me who starts," she said. 
While the Irish need to improve their perimeter defense, that will be the least of their worries against Connecticut. The Huskies aver­age 83.4 points per game and give up only 46.1. They shoot 
49.6 percent from the floor and make an average of 6.4 3­pointers per game. They out­rebound opponents by 16.9 per game. 
Huskies guard Renee Montgomery dropped 53 points in her last two games, 27 against Cincinnati on Jan. 19 and 26 against the Tar Heels, despite only averaging 
11.9 points per game. Freshman forward Maya Moore leads Connecticut with 
15.8 points per game, and cen­ter Tina Charles averages a double-double (13.8 points, 
10.4 boards). Guard Mel Thomas has hit 39.3 percent of her 3-point attempts. 
Despite her displeasure with the team's recent performance, McGraw said she was happy with the play of sophomore center Erica Williamson and freshman guard Ashley Barlow of late. Barlow led the team in scoring in the past three games and Williamson scored a career-high 16 points against DePaul Tuesday. She was also happy with sophomore guard Melissa Lechlitner. 
When asked about the notion that some conference coaches view Connecticut as a throw­away game, McGraw dismissed the idea and said she wel­comed the chance to face the Huskies. 
"I think there might be some teams in the league that feel they can't compete against Connecticut right now, but I think it s a challenge for us and opportunity for us to play the No. 1 team in the confer­ence ... and certainly for us on national TV, it makes it an even bigger opportunity," she said. "It's great to have them in the league because they set the standard for the conference. I think most of us would love to be where they are." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

Nova 
continued from page 24 
Georgetown team last weekend. Villanova does not have any play­ers taller than 6-foot-1 0, but the Wildcat<> feature a quick, guard­oriented system. 
"It's a different team than (;eorgetown," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "They're nowhere near as big but they're fast and they'll shoot it. And they'll drive it and they'll spread us out with a lot of speed." 
One of the biggest challenges for the Irish defense will be Wildcats sophomore guard Scottie Heynolds, who is the reigning Big East player of the week after scoring a combined 46 points against DePaul and Syracuse last week. 

"lie's a heck of a player," Brey said. "We've gotta really be aware of him because he's the guy that kind of makes them go." 
But in an 80-68 win over Villanova Wednesday, Rutgers proved that Heynolds can be con­tained. Rutgers held the Wildcats' star to 16 points on 5­of-1 9 shooting. 
"I think [defending him has] gotta be by committee," Brey said. "We'll change it up. You gotta throw a lot of different looks at him." 
Brey said he thinks the Irish can exploit Villanova's lack of size by giving touches to their big men, senior forward Rob Kurz and llarangody. 
"I do think we can get the ball inside and establish our inside game more successfully than we could against Georgetown," Brey said. "So we definitely want to try and do that." 
Kurz and junior forward Ryan Ayers, who both grew up in the Philadelphia area, are looking forward to playing in the Wachovia Center. 
Ayers said he is also excited to see Villanova red-shirt freshman Andrew Ott, who was Ayers' high school teammate at Germantown Academy. 
"It's gonna be a great environ­ment," Ayers said. ''I'm just excit­ed to play in front of my family and friends." 
Despite the many extra ticket requests he has received from family and friends, Ayers said. he is not distracted from his goal of helping the Irish to their first conference road win. 
"As long as we play like we've been playing at home [we'll winI," he said. "We have to trans­late our home identity onto the road." 
Brey agreed with Ayers, saying he doesn't want his team to change its style because it is the visiting team. 
"We have not been very good on the road but I don't know if we want to overanalyze things," Brey said. "We want to, you know, come out and compete again. I don't think you make all kinds of changes to your system." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Hope 
continued from page 24 

team they haven't beaten since the College joined the MIAA in 1997. 
In the teams' last meeting, Saint Mary's struggled to keep up with Hope, shooting only 36.2 percent to Hope's 
46.8 percent. 

"Hope comes into the game still undefeated and top in the country," Henley said. "We 
·need to find a way to slow down Hope's transition game and play solid team defense." 
The Belles take on the Flying Dutch at 3 p.m. Saturday at Angela Athletic Center. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmacys.edu 

Plug in to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
Campus Ministry  
Free 1Tunes subscription for reflective listcuiug 011 your iPod.  
A"'')))))) M www.ndprayercast.org  Type "udprayercast" on the iTunes search engine,-or -log 011to www.ndprayercast.org Hear it here this week: Rev. Richard Warner, c.s.c. Songs of the NO Folk Choir • psalms • homilies • prayers • meditative music  


Friday, January 25, 2008 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

-=-+:..:..t-:-+==-1 

Rome 63 Zealots have them 
Down 
Sorry situations 2 Gist 3 Guam's _ Bay 4 Each 5 Bite-the-bullet 
type 6 Leader of the Alamo siege 7 "The X-Files" 
subj. 8 Schmoozes 9 Something to bid 
1 0 Dilapidation 11 Gypsy moth 
target 12 Period of time 13 "Now I see!" 14 See 36-Down 20 Neighbor of 
Hoboken, N.J. 23 Singer John and others 
-=+-++.:.j 25 "Fuhgeddaboudit !ll 
26 Renaissance artist Piero Francesca 
27 Relatives of the Missouria 
-=+4-+~.:..j 28 Change ..:.:.t--4-.:...J.:~=-1 30 Without hindrance 32 Steer stopper 
WILLSHORTZ 

1::-:<--1--11-+--t--t--+­
Puzzle by Manny Nosowsky  
33Sea  37 Keeping  49 Actor  Cobb  
denizen of the  company with  51 British ends  
North Pacific  44 Of a durable  53 "And so?"  
34 Wayne W. _, author of "Your  wood 46 It's seen on the  54 Loathsome sort  
Erroneous Zones" 35 Tear 36 With 14-Do~nl somethin~t a can have ou  back of a U.S. quarter 47 Some programs, briefly  55 Flow in a coulee 56 Two from sixty-six? 58 Bart, to Maggie  
seeing thi  gs  48 Judge's order  59 Feather  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JJ1JJ~{t00)1JE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
OFTUL 
LIJ [J
l92008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Right~. Reserved. 
MEERY 

j 
trsrHTI
www.jumble.com 

I SNAMEA ± 
1 1
rx J 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT THE: HORSE: BRe:WE:R CONSID­E:Re:o He:R 1-VSBAND. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A:A"[IIIIIJ"[IIIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterda 's IJumbles: FIFTY EXCEL CORNEA INVITE y Answer: Any way you look at it, this pertains to a city-CIVIC 

Fridays with Fran 
HOROSCOPE 
Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) 
Try not to look like a skank. 

Libra (Sept. 23-0ct.22) Use the word dingle in a sentence. Try not to say it to someone with a dingleberry; he or she will blush. 
Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov. 21) 

Wear those loafers, former gophers. 
Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) 

Anyone who relies on TMZ for news is an idiot. Sorry, their stories have been classified as news too often lately. Stupid, man. 
Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) If you wanna make that dollah or dem dollahs, call (713) 569-2690. 
Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) 
Calm down, you incestor. 
Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20) 
Are you part of the J. Crew? 

Aries (March 21-Apr. 19) Don't misbehave. It was okay before but Heath Ledger is watching you now (from below). 
Taurus (Apr. 20-May 20) 

Search "Bling Bling" on YouTube if you can handle hav­ing your life changed. 
Gemini (May 21-June 20) 
Have an individual pahty. 
Cancer (June 21-July 22) 

Out of 300 million swimmers, how were you the fastest? 
Leo (July 23-Aug.22) Hey Leo... LEO the Lion goes GER! If you know what that means, stand up and remove the pole. 
CROSSWORD 
Across Deadlock 8 Watches in astonishment 15 Went for unhesitatingly 16 Luxembourg grand duke in whose name an annual art prize 
is awarded 17 Tropical spots 18 Plant material 
used for fuel 
19 Brawl-ending cry Beta tester. e.g. Commandment 
French city where William 
31 35 Snap out of it 38 Much work to 
get done 39 Place for good deals 40 Some bridge 
players 41 Titan's place 42 Blade 43 "Baudolino" 
novelist 45 It may be kept in a boot 47 Hand tool · 
50 Unclear 52 Spill the beans 57 Cook first, as pie 
crust 59 Cardiff Giant or 
Piltdown man 60 Went through 61 Away 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, January 25, 2008 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Road worries 
After two dismal losses mvayfrom home, Irish face Villanova in Philly 
By FRAN TOlAN Sports Writer 
Following blowout losses to Marquntt1~ and Georgetown in its only two Big East road games, Notre l>anw is ronl'ident the third time will be the charm in tho quest for a eonf(~rnnee road win. 
Tho Irish f'nel good about their l'hancns as tlwy lwad to Phil<uiPlphia to take on No. 18 Villanova (13-4, 3-3) at the Waehovia Center Saturday. 
"We'n~ finally going to get over this road hump," sophomorn for­ward Luke llarangody said. "We'll bn linn.... We just gutta go out thorn and show what we can do." 
The Irish I 13-4, 3-2) have won all three of' their league home games but are coming oil' a 19­point loss to a physical 
see NOVA/page 22 


AP Sophomore forward Luke Harangody is swanned by defenders in Notre Dame's 84-65 loss to Georgetown on Jan. 19. The Irish will try for their first conference road win against Villanova on Saturday. 
MEN'S TENNIS. 

ND set to duel vvith Cavaliers 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sporrs Writer 

Notre Dame has a chance to see how it stacks up against tile toughest competition in the country Sunday when it hosts No. 1 Virginia at noon at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
"We will need to play our best match to have a chance," coaeh Bobby Bayliss said. "They have two new guys that I haven't seen play yet, but they will go to Illinois on Friday, so we'll know a little more about them I then]." 
Virginia will field a strong lineup against the Irish. The Cavaliers' top doubles team of Treat lluey and Somdev Oevvarman is also No. 1 in the nation. 
Notre Dame has played Virginia each of the last two years, but the Irish fell short 
see VIRGINWpage 21 
HOCKEY 

Eagles could be the cure for ailing Irish 

wu Irish right wing Erik Condra, right, gets ready for a faceoff in Notre Dame's 5-4 win over Nebraska-Omaha on Nov. 30. 

By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
lleading into a weekend horne-and-home serins with 1:onl'nrnnce foe Bowling Grnnn, something's got to givn for struggling No. 9 Notre Dame. 
Not much has goru~ right lately for coach Jeff Jackson and thn Irish, who arn in the midst of a 2-5-1 slide, are eoming olf ronsecutivn lossns for tho l'irst time in rH~arly two years and have senn their power-play unit give up more goals than it has 

scored during an 0-for-38 stretch. 
That said, Notre Dame has dominated the No. 21 Falcons (12-10-0, 9-7-0 CCIIA) recently, posting a 9­0-1 mark over the last 10 meetings, including a pair of wins earlier this season. The Falcons are surging, howev­er, and now find themselves just l'ive points behind the fourth-plaee Irish, who are elinging to a top-four slot in the conference, with which comes a first-round bye in the CCII;\ tournament. 
see BOWLING/page 21 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Hungry Belles seek revenge 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
After an upsetting four-point loss to Calvin on Wednesday, Saint Mary's will have a tough time rebounding with a win Saturday when it takes on con­ference rival Hope. 
The Flying Dutch (16-0, 8-0 MIMI lead the MIAA and post­ed a 75-58 win over the Belles (8-8, 4-4 MIAAJ on Dec. 21. 
S11.int Mary's had a strong effort to defeat Calvin, narrow­ing the Knights' 24-14 lead with eight minutes remaining in the first period to 31-30 at the half. As the Knights contin­ued to score in the second half -led by junior forward Marcia Harris, who finished with 23 points -the Belles managed to stay dose, pulling within 63-62 with 1:11 to go. Still, they were unabln to snatch the win. 
"Our team played very hard against Calvin," Belles head coach Jennifer Henley said. "We had some opportunities to come home with the win, but we had too many turnovers, especially in the first half." 
Saint Mary's had 20 turnovers, 13 in the 11rst half. But Henley said the Belles were able to stay close thanks io their rebounding and 92.9 percent performance from the line. 
Up next for the Belles is a second chance at making histo­ry as they attempt to top the undefeated Flying Dutch, a 
see HOPE/page 22 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
No.1 Connecticut cotnes to tovvn 
By BILL BRINK Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame hasn't fared well against teams ranked in the top five this season. The Irish have lost to Maryland and Tennessee, both ranked No. 3 at the time of the games. 
And after coaches and play­ers alike expressed the need to improve the defense after an 81-80 loss to DePaul Tuesday, a third loss in six games, the prospect of facing the No. 1 team in the nation catches Notre Dame at a bad time. 
The Irish have their work cut out for them against Connecticut, which visits the Joyce Center at 7 p.m. Sunday. The Huskies are undefeated 
see UCONN/page 21 


,.­






