
--~~----------------, 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 2 WEDNESDAY. AUGUST 27.2008 

Malloy recovers after kidney operation 
President Emeritus donates organ to anonymous recipient in four way procedure 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
6 7 -year old University presi­dent emeritus Father Edward A. "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C, returned to work last week after donat­ing a kidney to an anonymous 61-year-old woman on August 11. 
The procedure was part of a four-patient operation during which the woman's son donated his kidney to Johnny Rorapaugh, Malloy's nephew. 
Malloy said donating his kid­ney was a sort of natural pro­gression in his life. 
"My father only had one kid­ney from the time he was born to age 77 ," he said. "It never had any bad effects. It was just a fact about our family." 
Malloy had discussed organ donations in an academic set­ting in the 1970s and early 1980s while he taught biomed­ical ethics as a professor of the­ology at the University. 

"I discussed all the issues of transplant theoretically, but 
never imagined it as a reality," he said. 
There are about 80,000 peo­ple in the United States waiting for kidney transplants and for Rorapaugh to move to the top of the list he needed a family member or friend with the same blood type to volunteer to donate their own kidney. Other family members were unable to offer their organs to him because they didn't match his blood type or there were other health reasons preventing them, so Malloy decided to donate his. 
-

"At first, I thought I was too old, but they told me I wasn't," Malloy said. 
Until two weeks before the scheduled August 11 date for the procedure, Malloy expected his kidney to go to Rorapaugh. However, his doctors notified him of the anonymous mother­son pair, who were incompati­ble for each other. Malloy, how­ever, was a compatible donor for the mother, while the son was a compatible donor for 
see MALLOY/page6 

NO opens year with Mass, picnic 

Sustainability a theme throughout the evening, Jenkins calls for a hopeful perspective 
centered on Psalm 104, which asks God to "send forth [His] spirit and renew the face of the earth." Both tied in part to issues of sus­tainability, a theme through­out the evening. 
Jenkins' message made note of the Notre Dame Forum on Sustainable Energy on Sept. 24. 
The challenges of sustain­ability go beyond high prices at the gas pump, Jenkins said. The complex issues include depletion of fossil fuels, higher energy prices, increased food prices associ­ated with increased malnu­trition in certain areas, and increased competition in the search for resources, partic­ularly oil. 
In response, Jenkins said his "fervent prayer... is that 
see MASS/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Sterling 
•
gtven new role 
Former Arts & Letters dean to lead grad school 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 

Gregory Sterling, the former executive dean of the College of Arts and Letters was appointed dean of the Graduate School over the summer. 
The appointment follows a split between the University's Graduate School and Office of Research in 2007 and Sterling plans to use his new role to help strengthen the Graduate School and increase collaboration between graduate and under­graduate programs. 
"The Graduate School has long been seen as a secondary citizen in the University of Notre Dame," Sterling said. "The University has made its reputa­tion on the basis of the under­graduate programs and the graduate school has, to a great extent, been an afterthought. My task is to help put the graduate school on fum footing so that it takes its rightful place in the University." 
Notre Dame has only one graduate student for every 4.3 undergraduates, Sterlin·g said. By comparison, Princeton has 
2.3 undergraduates of every graduate student, and Brown has 3.5 he said. 
"I don't know of any of our peers that would have as few graduates in comparison to undergraduates as we do," 
see DEAN/page 6 

Students reflect on first 
day back on campus 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
For some, it's nerve-wreck­ing. For others, it's a walk in the park. For all undergradu­ate students at Notre Dame, Tuesday was the first day of classes. 
Every year, students return from a summer of doing noth­ing -or a summer of doing everything -and re-enter the classrooms of O'Shaughnessy and DeBartolo, Fitzpatrick and Planner. 
On a day in South Bend with a high of 80 degrees and a low of 58, Notre Dame stu­dents walked down the quads, most with backpacks, and some in specially-chosen First Day of School outfits, like sophomore Amanda Bremer. 
Bremer, wearing a white polo, white tank top and a blue and white striped skirt, laid out her outfit Monday night. 
"I wanted to go to the Opening Mass, so I wanted to dress up a bit," she said. But Bremer, who lives in McGlinn, had an 11 a.m. class at Planner Hall, across the cam­pus from her dorm, so she wore casual flip flops with her outfit. 
Ronny Kunst, a freshman, said he did not experience 
see SCHOOL/page 6 


By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
University president Fr. John Jenkins told the Notre Dame community to pray they are "afflicted with hope" when facing problems -especially emphasizing global environmental and sustainability issues -dur­
ing  his  homily  at  Notre  
Dame's  Opening  Mass  
Tuesday evening.  

Students, faculty, staff and their families were invited to participate in the annual Mass in the Joyce Center, and enjoy the traditional University picnic dinner afterwards on the Hesburgh Library Quad. 
The Mass, led by Jenkins, included words of welcome from University provost Thomas Burishand and was 
SMC opens new building 
Spes Unica Hall will house 13 ofthe college's 20 academic departments 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 

It wasn't just the freshman who had to find their class­rooms and navigate a new building when classes began at Saint Mary's Monday morn­ing. Upperclassmen and pro­fessors have joined the first years in exploring Spes Unica Hall, the College's new aca­demic building, since it opened at the start of the semester. 
The College announced plans to build Spes Unica ­which means "our only hope" in Latin, referring to the cross 
see SMC/page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, August 27, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Wake-up call 
So. Anotlwr start to another year 
here at Notrn Damn. 

I haven't been on eampus sinee 
I>n1~1~mbnr, and 

some things have Jenn Metz 
changnd­

there's a gor-News Editor 
gnous nnw mall~ 
... dormitory, 

scafl'olding all over the Basilica and 
modern bathrooms in Cavanaugh 
(tin ally). 

Somn of the more unfortunate things 
I rmnember from eampus, however, 
remain the same. 

When I was in Home last semester, I 
loved (almost) everything about the 
vibrant dty life -the open-air mar­
kets, the cafes, the constant activity, 
thn pnople. 

The Eternal City, however, was 
homn to nternal trallic -motorinos 
and Vespas going 100 miles per hour 
and unnncessarily honking at all 
hours. 

Considering that my bedroom in my 
apartmnnt there was three-quarters 
windows, those motorcycle noises 
were particularly irksome at night, 
when I was trying to sleep. My room­
mate resortnd to earplugs. 

Imagine my excitement at finally 
rnturning to the Midwest, to a beauti­
ful, dean campus that, most of the 
time at lnast, is quiet at night. 

Much to my dismay, I was awoken 
my first night (or morning, rather) 
hen~ by the sound of various trucks 
ncar LaFortune delivering things. 
My bmiroom in Cavanaugh, with its 
onn window (now open, to encourage 
air cireulation) becomes lilled with the 
drnadnd sounds I thought I left behind 
when I boarded my trans-Atlantic 
!light.: the screeching of tires, the 
beeping large vehides make when 
t.hny baek up, the droning of engines. 
These noises followfld me to Indiana. 
And thny wake me up. At 6 am. 
Every day. 

Except Sunday. Even dnlivery trucks 
have a day of rest. 

With this new year comes a new schedule. Now, I've found, when rising with the dnlivery trucks, I have about four extra hours of my day to fill. 
I could exercise? 

Maybe this is a good time to take up running. I'm really embarrassed to run outside. I could go around the lakes in the cool of the morning, when it's unlikely I'd be seen. 
I could read? 

Who knows how many of those great books that everyone claims to have read (but really never has) I can get through in a semester if I read for all those extra hours a week. 
I could write? 

Forget reading those great bopks, maybe I will be struck by inspiration and write the great American novel in the mornings before class. 
I could knit? 

I can knit a pretty sweet looking scarf. Unfortunately, that's all I can knit. But when the weather changes and my window is no longer always open, I could wrap up in all the awe­some scarves I would make. 
I could learn some unique trade? I could spend the hours trying to come up with cooler things to do to pass those hours? 
I'm probably not going to do any of these things, though. I'm probably going to go back to sleep. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The ( )bservcr regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives I(JC the highest standards ofjournalism at all timt·~. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistake~. If we have made a mistake, please con­tact U5 at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ADVICE DO YOU HAVE FOR THE INCOMING FRESHMAN? 




Chris Esbers Kat Hake Rob Plasschaert L1eo Rubinkowski Erin Wash 
senior senior senior senior senior 
Knott offcampus offcampus Stanford offcampus 
"Enjoy the good "Call your "Don't eat after "Don't get "Four years at 
,

life." mom. midnight -and between the Notre Dame go stay away from baby geese and by fast, so live 
,

water. their mothers. " it up!" 

OFFBEAT 

Priest stops nuns from order, speaking from his partying by Western walking pageant catwalk convent in the town of tourists, the southeastern 
ROME -An Italian priest Mondragone. resort is now catering for who had planned an online Rungi's idea appeared in dogs amid growing discon­"pageant" for nuns has sus­newspapers around the tent that pooches had no pended the project, saying world after he wrote of a place to cool off from the he was misinterpreted and contest for nuns on his blog, sweltering summer heat. had no intention of putting called by some "Sister Italy "We have seen lots of peo­sisters on a beauty catwalk. 2008." ple taking their dogs for a 
"My superiors were not walk since the establish­happy. The local bishop was Dogs get own vacation ment of the designated area, not happy, but they did not spot In Cyprus and we have been inundat­understand me either," NICOSIA -Cyprus's pop­ed by phone calls from Father Antonio Rungi told ular holiday resort of Ayia happy pet owners thanking Reuters by telephone from Napa has introduced the and congratulating us for his convent in southern Italy island's first legal beach this initiative," said Antonis on Tuesday. exclusively for animals after Tsokkos, mayor of Ayia 
"It was not at all my inten­complaints it was becoming Napa. tion to put nuns on the cat­a dog's life for man's best walk," said Rungi, a priest friend. Information from the of the Passionists religious Better known for all-night Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
IJ.I 
:::1: 
~ 
IJ.I 
3: 
..... 
oct 
(.) 0 



..... HIGH 80 HIGH 70 
LOW 68 LOW 58 IN BRIEF 



There will be a Meet and Greet hosted by The Department of Film, Television and Theater today at 6 p.m. in the Philbin Studio Theater in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Auditions for "The Dispute" will follow. 
Campus Ministry will host an open house tonight from 7­
9  in  the  Coleman-Morse  
Lounge.  
Seniors  must  attend  a  

mandatory Career Center Presentation in Stepan Center today from 6-6:30 p.m. 
The movie "Ferris Bueller's Day Off" will be shown on North Quad tonight at 9. 
The annual Saint Mary's Club Fair will be in Angela Athletic Facility Thursday from 6-8 p.m. 
The welcome back picnic for graduate students will be Friday from 5:30-7:30 p.m. in the Fischer O'Hara-Grace (FOG) Graduate Residence Parking Lot. There will be free food, music, games and prizes. 
The Student Activities Office is hosting illusionist Mike Super, the winner of NBC's Phenomenon, Saturday at 9 
p.m. in Washington Hall for an interactive magic experience. Super will make an audience member levitate four and a half feet off the ground with absolutely no connections of any kind. He will also make is snow from his bare hands. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
85 67 


77 58 


HIGH LOW 

Wednesday, August 27, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
New V.P. for public affairs and comm.unication elected 
Special to The Observer 
Janet M. Botz, executive direc­tor and chief communications offi­cer for Dow Corning Corp., has been elected vice president for public all"airs and eommunication at Notre Dame by its Board of Trustnes, on the rncommendation of University president Fr. John I. Jenkins. The appointment is effec­tive Nov. 1. 
"Jan has very successfully led a communications oflice with inter­national reach, and in a career that has spanned decades she has gained experience in all aspects of organizational communications," Jenkins said. "We are fortunate to have someone with her intelli­gence, discernment and back­ground heading our Office of Public Affairs and Communication." 
"It's a great honor for me to be invited to join this great universi­ty," Botz said. "It will be exciting to be part of its long tradition of excellence and to work with all the dedicated people who will assure its continuing success." 
In her new role, Botz will be responsible for advancing Notre Dame's interests and contribu­tions in the public arena and directing the University's commu­nications with il<> multiple internal and external audiences. Established in 2001, the public afTairs and communication divi­sion is composed of some 50 staff membnrs in news and informa­tion, community relations, the Hobinson Community Learning Center, Notre Dame Magazine, and the marketing communica­tions units -Notre Dame Web Group, Notre Dame Media Group and ND Works. 
Botz has worked since 1980 for Dow Corning, a high-technology, specialty chemical company based in Midland, Mich., with service and sales of approximate­ly $5 billion and 10,000 employ­ees. 
For the past seven years, Botz has been responsible for the glob­al direction and implementation of the company's internal and external communications strate­gies. Her primary role has been management of Dow Corning's reputation by integrating commu­nications to customers, employ­ees, managers and external publics -including government and community relations. She has served as the chief communica­tions counsel and strategist for executive management and has been responsible for corporate branding, employee and manage­ment communications, corporate contributions, and risk, issue and crisis communications. 
From 1996 to 2001, Botz man­aged various communications divisions for Dow Corning for the Americas, Europe and globally. She began her career at Dow Corning in sales, then spent five years in marketing before becom­ing cash manager and then finance manager in the treasury department. She joined the com­munications team in 1992. 
Botz has been honored by the International Association of Business Communicators with two Gold Quill and two Silver Quill Awards of Excellence in employee communications and crisis com­munications. She is an invited member of the Arthur Page Society, chair of the Conference Board's Council of Corporate Communications Strategy, chair of the American Chemistry Council's communications committee, and a member of the Vice Presidents' Forum. 
BOG unveils 2nd annual''SMC-tee'' 
SMC students will wear the shirt to the San Diego State pep rally 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
With the tagline "Helping the Dome Shine One Victory at a Time since 1874," the Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) has unveiled the second annual "SMC-tee" for Saint Mary's students to wear to the San Diego State pep rally the College will co-host on Sept. 5 as well as to football games. 
The shirt is a way for Saint Mary's students to be a part of the Notre Dame community at football games while still main­taining their identity as stu­dents at the College. 
"Last [year's BOG] wanted Saint Mary's women to be able to represent their school pride at football games while still fit­ting into the 'Sea of Green,"' student body vice president Sarah Falvey said. 
The first SMC-tee was dark green, to match the color of last year's "The Shirt." It said "Saint Mary's Belles" on the front and the back said "Ringing in Irish Victories since 1844," referencing the year Saint Mary's was founded. 
It was unveiled on Nov. 15, 2007, the night before Saint Mary's co-hosted Duke pep rally. 
Since that shirt was a suc­cess, BOG decided the second SMC-tee needed to make an earlier appearance and there­fore was unveiled at the First Year Orientation last week. 
"This year, we decided to continue the tradition but reveal the SMC-Tee earlier so students could take advantage of it at our pep rally [which will take place earlier in the year]," Falvey said. 


This year, in keeping with BOG's desire for Saint Mary's students not to stand out while wearing the shirts they decid­ed to once again match them to 'The Shirt," Falvey said. 
"In keeping with "The Shirt" we made our shirts navy blue with white writing," she said. 
The slogan on this year's SMC-tee refers to the fact that the College donated the famous Golden Dome to Notre Dame after the Main Building built by University founder Fr. Edward Sorin burned down in 1879. The 1842 date refers to the year that the Notre Dame football team began to meet unofficially even though the inaugural game against Michigan didn't take place until Nov. 23, 1887. 
While it may seem as though BOG is trying to usurp the pop­ularity of Notre Dame's "The Shirt," Falvey said there was never any intention of replac­ing the Notre Dame tradition. It was more about school pride, she said. 
"I don't think we made the SMC-tee with the intention of wearing it over "The Shirt," she said. "We are asking stu­dents to wear it to our pep rally on September 6. We want students to be able to show school pride." 
She also said that, like prof­its from "The Shirt," BOG has decided to donate any pro­ceeds to a local charity, which will be determined at a later board meeting. 
Falvey said many students seem excited about the shirt. 
"Our first year students ­and their parents-were real­ly excited about the shirt," she said. "We got a lot of compli­ments on the design and I've already seen the shirts all around campus." 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO1@saintmarys.edu 


r------------------­
~-----­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 27, 2008 
Mass 
continued from page I 

you will be afnietnd by hope." 
.Jenkins askPd those in attnndarH~n to consider the distinc~t.ion betwenn hope and optimism. lin l'omparcd the vic~wpoint of tlw optimist and pessimist to clarify what he considers hope. 
"No matter how bad tlw sit­uation. the optimist believes there's a solution," .Jnnkins said. "The pessimist bel i11ves the problem is not only grave but insolvabl11." 
.Jenkins called optimism and pnssimism "exrusns" for analysis. and statPd that the person "aiTiirtPd with hope," hownver. is required to ana­lyze thn situation as it is. 
llopn isn't an c~xcuse . .Jenkins said. llopn d11mands that. orw see tlw world as it is. analyzl', and thf'n act. 
With that hopn in mind, .Jnnkins prayPd that (;od afllict thP Notre Damn community with hopc~ and that th11y might "face problmns with perspica­cious honesty. respond with courage... to act, and inspire oth11rs to act." 
Following the Mass, the Notre Dame community nnjoyed the picnic lunch that also emphasized sustainabili­ty. 
"A major event at the begin­ning of the academic year is the perfect time to nducate the Notre Dame community on the University's recycling and pro­curement initiatives, as well as about how to make individ­ual decisions that are earth­friendly," said HacheI Novick, a coordinator in the University's recently estab­lislwd Ol'lice of Sustainability, in a press release. 
Tho picnic used locally grown produce, 100 per cnnt recycled paper plates, and rneycling bins. 
Tuesday's Mass and picnic were the first of several University events to focus on sustainability. After the Notre Dame Forum, Notre Damn's second annual Energy Wnek begins Sept. 17 and a Forum Film Festival begins Sept. 19. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

freshman class is so lucky that they can take advantage of it all four years." 
Senior Sarah King had only had two classes in Spes Unica Tuesday afternoon but she loved the design of the build­ing. 
"It's beautiful," she said. "It was exciting just to go in with the [College's] seal on the floor and there's a spiral staircase there that I really like. It's a place where I want to go and study and a place where I want to go hang out." 
Sophomore Caitlin Buzaid met with junior Claire Orfanos to do just that in one of the many student lounges after their elasses ended in Spes Uniea Tuesday. 
"Everything is nicer than Madeleva," Buzaid said. "I love it." 
She said the elassrooms in the building, some of which have stadium-style seating, are more like what she imagined classrooms would be like before she carne to college. 
Orfanos agreed with Buzaid, saying she liked the comfort­able chairs and seats in both the elassrooms and the lounges. 
Junior Grace Lape said she enjoys the windows in the building, which she says are nicer than those in Madeleva. 
She is also looking forward to using the new Social Work laboratory. 

"It has a two-way mirror so we can tape each other doing fake sessions with clients," she said. 
The faculty in the 13 aca­demic departments housed in the building moved their offices from Madeleva over the past two weeks and history professors Bill Svelmoe and Dave Stefancic love their new offices. 
"I like the fact that we're in a suite with our colleagUies from English," Svelmoe said. "You get to interact with morn peo­ple on a daily basis and tho English people are cool." 
Stefaneic said he has more room for the 69 crates of books he moved from his o!Tice in Madeleva and now thalt they're put away he feels like his officn is his own again. 
"I love the window for the fresh air," Stefancic said. 
Svelmoe said he like the nat­ural light that comes in through the many windows in the building's hallways and classrooms and the fact that the building is environmentally friendly. 
"It's very green," he said. "The lights are all on timers so we don't waste too much elec­tricity. The toilets are supposed to be all tricked out, although what that exactly means I'm not entirely certain and I'm not sure I want to know." 
The "tricked out" toilets are another green aspect to the building -literally. The flush handles have a green plastic coating on them to protect against germs. 
Each bathroom stall has a how-to diagram on the baek of the stall doors to explain how to flush the toilets to keep them environmentally friendly. The handle is supposed to be pushed up for "No. 1 (liquid wastn)" and pushed down for "No.2 (solid waste)." 
The diagram also has a note saying that by installing thn water-saving handle with tlw dual-function flush Spns Unica "has dmnonstratod its commit­ment to protect and presnrve the environment. For the sys­tem to work, we need your help. Please take a look at the diagram above and push the handle in the direction which best suits your needs." 
One complaint students and faculty have had so far is the fact that there aren't elocks in any of the classrooms. 
"The classrooms an~ well designed but what's up with no docks in the entire building," Svelmoe said. "I guess I've got to start wearing a watch." 
Orfanos said the lack of clocks bothered her too but she has asked her professors why there weren't clocks in the building and was assumd they would be arriving soon. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



SMC students Claire Orfanos, Grace Lape and Caitlin Buzaid study In a lounge In Spes Unlca Hall Tuesday. 
that will bn found in this new building. This first rate facility
SMC 

will mateh the quality of our faculty and reflect the value
continued from page 1 

wn place on them and on the of .Jesus Christ-in thn spring learning environment for our of 2006 and broke ground in students." the fall of' that samn ynar. The Whiln students have only tnrm is tlw motto of' both Saint attnnded a few elasses in thn Mary's and the College's found­building so far many of the ing ordnr, the Congregation of uppnrclassmen are excited to the lloly Cross finally be able to attend class 
"This building rnprnsm1ts our in the building that has benn future -a f'uturc~ that will sne undnr construction for so long. us cwnr morn ambitious and ''I'm so excited it opened for evnr morn widely rneogniznd my senior year," student body for the excellent education of vice president Sarah Falvey women," College president said as she walked to her first Carol Ann Mooney told The class in the building. "Our 
Observer in .January. 

Tho (Jfi,OOO squarn-f'oot nnw building is honw to 13 of the College's 20 acadPmic dnpart­ments as well as thn Center for Academic Innovation. the CPntPr for Spirituality and the CPnter for Womnn's lnt.nrrultural Lnadnrship (CWIL). It also offers statn-of'­tlw-art classroom, laboratory and ol'li!'l' span•s and contains a numbnr of common areas wlwrn faculty and students !~an gatlwr. such as a l'al'!;, a rdlee­tion room and a patio. It will lw dndi!·.atnd in Octolwr. 
It is a vast improvmnent ovnr Madrdnva llall. where the majority of the Collnge's class­ns were held prior to Spes Unira's opnning, Moorwy said in .January. 
"One of' thn hallmarks of' a Saint Mary's education is that students and faculty work and Inarn tognther." shn said in .January. "Collaborativn work rnquirns the kind of spacns 




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, August 27, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S w1 RE sr:RvJCrs page 5 



INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
US troops accused of civilian deaths 
KABUL, Afghanistan -In a stark warning to U.S. forces, the Afghan government said it will try to regulate the presence of U.S. troops and their use of airstrikes, while the 
U.N. on Tuesday announced that "convincing evidence" exists that an American-led opera­tion killed 90 civilians. 
The U.N. sent in a team of investigators, who relied solely on villagers' statements in alleging the American-led operation in the western province of llerat on Friday killed 60 children and 30 adults. The U.S. military stood by its account. that 25 militants and live civilians were killed in the operation. 
The U.N.'s allegation of such a large num­ber of civilian deaths could set the U.S., U.N. and the Afghan government on a collision course over the use of military force in Afghan villages, where international troops battle Taliban and al-Qaida militants daily. 
Rice clings to Mideast peace hopes 
llAMALLAil, West Bank -Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Tuesday there is hope for a Mideast peace deal but she offered no reason for optimism beyond the fact that the two sides are speaking. 
"God willing, with the goodwill of the par­ties, and the tireless work of the parties, we have a good chance of succeeding," Rice said after summoning top negotiators for a joint status report. It was her seventh peace mis­sion since President Bush set an ambitious year-end goal for a Palestinian state. And like the others, it ended without announce­ment of any specific agreements. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Detroit mayor faces removal hearing 
DETROIT-Mired in criminal charges for months, Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick now finds his political future strapped to a little-used provision in the Michigan Constitution that allows a governor to remove an elected offi­cial for misconduct. 
Gov. Jennifer Granholm, a fellow Democrat, confirmed Tuesday what had been in the works for much of the summer: A hearing will begin Sept. 3 to determine whether Kilpatrick was seeking private gain when he endorsed an $8.4 million settlement with three fired police officers. 
It will be the first time since 1982 that a Michigan governor has considered the removal of an elected official. The target then was a township official who drank too much. 
SAT scores lowest in a decade 
COLUMBIA, Mo. -For a second straight year, SAT scores for the most recent high school grad­uating class remained at the lowest level in nearly a decade, a trend attributed to a record number of students now taking the test. 
The 1.52 million students who took the test is a slight increase from last year but a jump of nearly 30 percent over the past decade. Minority students accounted for 40 percent of test-takers, and 36 percent were the first in their families. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Eddy street to be paved this week 
SOUTH BEND -The west side of Eddy Street at LaSalle and Colfax avenues will paved this week as part of an improvement project, according to city engineer Carl Littrell. 
Littrell said utility relocation slowed down the project, but completion is still expected to be on time in late October. 
Littrell said contractors are working on some driveway approaches this week and all the curbs are back in place. 
Hillary addresses convention 
Speech aimed to unify Democratic Party, provide "catharsis" for Clinton supporters 
Associated Press 

DENVER -Former first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton closed out her histo­ry-making 2008 quest for the White House Tuesday with a prime-time appear­ance at the Democratic National Convention, while party leaders were caught up in curious debate about the wisdom of assailing Republican John McCain from the podium. 
Despite lingering unhap­piness among some dele­gates nursing grievances over Clinton's loss, party chairman Howard Dean declared the convention determined to make Barack Obama the nation's first black president. "There is not a unity problem. If any­one doubts that, wait till you see Hillary Clinton's speech," he said. 
Former Virginia Gov. Mark Warner was tapped to deliver the keynote address on the convention's second night. It was the same assignment that Obama ­then an Illinois state law­maker running for the Senate -used four years ago to launch his astonish­ing ascent in national poli­tics. 
Clinton paid an advance visit to the convention hall in late morning with her daughter, Chelsea. While The 4 7 -year-old Illinois working to ease the ill feel­to forge a change in the her appearance was the senator formally receives ings among Clinton's dele­way campaigns are con­main event of the night, it the nomination on gates, suddenly grappled ducted. Still, Obama has was far from the role she Wednesday in a roll call with a second challenge gone after Clinton and envisioned more than a that will also give Clinton's when two well-known aides McCain sharply when aides year ago when she supporters a chance to cast to former President Clinton thought it necessary. launched her bid to become votes for her. said the convention speech­"My inclination is you the first female commander Obama delivers his es were too timid. have to be careful about in chief. She was the pro­acceptance speech Paul Begala spoke dismis­attacking McCain" because hibitive front-runner then, Thursday night at a football sively of Warner's plans to his life's story buys him def­but soon found herself in a stadium. An estimated go easy on McCain. "This erence, Tennessee Gov. Phil riveting struggle with 75,000 tickets have been isn't the Richmond Bredesen said in an Obama that she could not distributed for the event, Chamber of Commerce," he Associated Press interview. win. meant to stir comparisons said. The Republican presidential 
Obama campaigned in with John F. Kennedy's "If this party has a mes­hopeful was a prisoner of Missouri Tuesday as he appearance at the Los sage, it's done a hell of a job war in Vietnam for more slowly made his way Angeles Coliseum in 1960. hiding it," James Carville than five years. toward the convention city. The Republican National told CNN as he reviewed Dean, the party chair­Speaking to airline workers Convention meets in St. the opening night's pro­man, bristled at criticism in a giant hangar, he Paul, Minn. next week to gram. from two of the men who accused the Bush adminis­nominate McCain and his If Obama's advisers had helped put Bill Clinton in tration of failing to enforce still-unnamed running any reaction to the sniping, the White House. health and safety laws and mate. That will set the they kept it to themselves. "We don't need to attack said McCain "doesn't get it" stage for a final sprint to The Illinois senator has cast McCain" at the convention's when it comes to the con­Election Day in a race that himself as a different kind opening events, he said. cerns of blue collar work­is remarkably close. of politician, a "post-parti­"There will be plenty of ers. Obama's aides, already san" whose stock in trade is time for that.'' 


Russia recognizes Ossetian independence 
President Dmitry Medvedev said hours breakaway regions of South Ossetia and 
Associated Press 

after announcing the Kremlin's decision Abkhazia suggested it was willing to 
MOSCOW -Russia stunned the West and one day after Parliament had sup­risk nearly two decades of economic, on Tuesday by recognizing the inde­ported the recognition. political and diplomatic bonds with its pendence claims of two Georgian While the risk of a military clash with Cold War antagonists. breakaway regions, and U.S. warships the West seemed remote, the lack of Medvedev's grim announcement, car­plied the waters off of Georgia in a gam­high-level public diplomacy between the ried on national television, inspired bit the Kremlin saw as gunboat diplo­White House and the Kremlin added to jubilation on the streets of the rebel macy. an uneasy sense here at least of an capitals. In the South Ossetian capital of 
The announcement by Russian escalating crisis. Tskhinvali, a parade of cars bearing the President Dmitry Medvedev ignored the Medvedev also promised a Russian South Ossetian and Russian flags blared strong opposition of Europe and the military response to a U.S. missile their horns, women cried for joy and United States, and signaled the defense system in Europe. Washington gunmen fired their weapons in the air. Kremlin's determination to shape its says the system would counter threats The United States, surprised by the neighbors' destinies even at the risk of from Iran and North Korea, but Russia speed of the llussian response, threat­closing its doors to the West. says it is aimed at blunting Russian ened a veto in the U.N. Security Council 
"We are not afraid of anything, nuclear capability. should Russia ask for international including the prospect of a Cold War," The Kremlin's recognition of the recognition for the territories. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 27, 2008 

Malloy 
continued from page I 
Horapaugh. 

The doctors at Johns llopkins University Hospital, where the procedure occurred, proposed a switch, so that Malloy would donate to the mother and the son would donate to Horapaugh. Malloy said he and his nephew agreed that "it was the right thing to do." 
The procedure marked the first time ever that a compatible pair (Malloy and Horapaughl dnddnd to trade kidneys with an incompatible pair (the mother and son). 
While the trade in donors ben­efited the mother, who would not have bonn able to rncnive a kid­rwy without it, the 40-year old Horapaugh also benefited because he now has the kidney of the son. who is in his 30s, as opposed to Malloy's 67 -year old kidney. 
Malloy said lw was not scared of the procedure bncausn of his faith. 
"I never lost any sleep in the days before," he said. "I had great confidence in the surgeons and my 1:apaeity to sustain the surgery. Ultimately, I plac1~d my trust in God." 
He also said he was inspired by several people he knows who had donated organs in the past. 
"They all talk about what a meaningful thing it was to them and say that they would do it again," he said. 
Prior to donating his kidney, Malloy spent the summer travel­ing, initially to Uganda and Kenya to visit the Holy Cross aetivities there. He then went to Australia, to help open the new medical school at the Notre Dame Australia complex. He was in Sydney during World Youth Day and was able to see Pope Benedict XVI. 
llis travels concluded with an eight-day tour of Ireland with Notre Dame alumni, during which his primary responsibility was to celebrate daily Mass. 
Malloy continues to teach a freshman literature university seminar and is working on his mnmoirs. lie has a book contract for the first volume of his mem­oirs and has completed half of the second volume. He is also working on a book on ethics and spirituality. 
Contact John Tierney at tierney.16@nd.edu 

School 
continued from page 1 
any first-day-of-school-at­Notre-Dame jitters. 
"I was not really nervous so much as sad that summer is officially over," he said. Kunst began his Notre Dame career with three classes, including a "pretty rough" 
9:30 a.m. political science seminar. 
But even with a full sched­ule, Kunst was able to take a break to get pot stickers and sloppy joes at South Dining Hall for lunch. 
"It was fantastic," he said. "Always is." 
Freshman Yulie Lee said she was excited but also nervous Monday night, and couldn't get to bed until around 2 a.m. Lee attended physical education orienta­tion and a University semi­nar Tuesday, but her biggest challenge might come later this week, when Lee partici­pates in the mandatory swim test. 
"I can't even l'loat," Lee said. "So I'll just go and I'll try." 
First year law student Brett Bean was walking across South Quad Tuesday afternoon after his second day of classes; he began school on Monday. Bean said his professors are "awe­some," and that law school -so far -hasn't been as hard as he imagined it would be. 
"It was supposed to be like storming the beaches of Normandy," Bean said, "but it was all right." 
Bean, who was an under­graduate at Boston College, said he loves being at Notre Dame. As for first day of school jitters, he said he had a little anxiety. 
"But it wasn't like I was vomiting in the bathroom before class," he said. 
Sophomore Edward Larkin's first class was later in the day, so after a. sum­mer of relaxing, he was able sleep in one more day. The "shock" of the school year beginning will come when he has to be up for his 9:35 
a.m. Wednesday class, he said. 
Lawrence Cunningham, the Hev. John A. 0'Brien profes­sor of Theology, was leaving campus Tuesday afternoon after teaching his first class of the year, a two and a half hour doctoral seminar. Cunningham, who has been at Notre Dame for 20 of his 35 years of teaching, said he is always eager for school to start again. 
"Once the students are back, it's like an adrenaline rush," he said. 
Junior Marvin Langston was rushing Tuesday, as he hurried down South Quad in the direction of the Joyce Center for the Opening Mass. Langston, a member of the Glee Club, had a relatively easy first day of school, since he had just one class. But with four classes, Langston has a packPd Wednesday. 
Freshman Erin Vogel fin­ished her l'irst day at Notre Dame conlident that she will be able to take on her four years at Notre Dame. 
"I think it's going to be a lot different from high school, but I expected that," she said. "I'm just excited for the school year to get underway." 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Dean 
continued from page I 
Sterling said. 

Ilowever, far from detracting from the college, Sterling said strengthening the Graduate School would aetually be benefi­dal to everyone at the University. 
"I actually think the graduate studies are complementary to undergraduate education. They mutually reinforce one another," he said. 
One particular area where graduate students could help undergraduates is research, he said. 
"The emphasis that we are now putting on undergraduate roseareh is going to feed into this because graduate students are primarily here to do research and they're actually going to have more and more of a leading role in helping foster undergrad­uate resnareh," Sterling said. 
While he stressed there is nothing wrong with professional studies, Sterling also said having mom graduates at Notre Dame could help foster the pursuit of intnllectual studies. rather than just tho pursuit of a career. 
"(;raduate studnnts help to set an intellectual tone," he said. "It's one thing to think about a career, but it's another thing to engage a disdpline for th1~ sake of ongaging that discipline. That adds an intellectual riehness to one's studies that looking for a carenr won't add, and I think graduato students will help snt that tone." 
lin said he bnlievns a stronger Graduate School will help improve the aeadPmie nnviron­nwnt at Notrn Damn and eould be another hallmark of an alnmdy prnstigious university. 
"Whon graduate studios wnrn nstablished in 1<J 1S, the immi­grant population was looking I(Jr a way for tlwir children to advance socially and thern was an intorest in professional schools." he said. "I think we've now rnadwd the point whern wn 1:an take one morn step and put an emphasis on advancing not only prol(~ssionally but also with­in the academy, and that will eln­vatP thn academic rnputation of Notre DamP." 


Th sky's t 
e limit 
There's everything you need to get the job done_ Smart people_ A happy envi­
ronrnent. And absolutely nothing to 
hold you back. That's why we were 
named one of the Top Corn ponies for 
Leaders by Fortune in 2007. We invite you to pursue o career ot GE in engi­neering, finance, manufacturing, sales and rnorketing, humon resources, or 


THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, August 27, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 11,412.87 +26.62
Jones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,115 96 1,248 3,642,974,047 
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500 NIKKEI (Tokyo) FTSE 100 'London~ 51470.70 -34.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
FREDDIE MAC (FRE) +20.67 +0.68 3.97 
FANNIE MAE (FNM) +8.29 +0.43 5.62 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -+0.29 +.37 127.39 
POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.13 -0.06 46.43 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -0.18 -0.007 3.784 
13-WEEK BILL +1.82 +0.03 1.675 
30-YEAR BOND -0.18 -0.008 4.395 
5-YEAR NOTE +0.26 +0.008 3.048 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.16 116.27 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.40 828.10 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -3.00 94.05 

Exchange Rates 
YEN 109.3000 
EURO 0.6803 
CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0451 
BRmSH POUND 0.5424 
IN BRIEF 


Banks languish amid credit slump 
WASHINGTON -The number of troubled 
U.S. banks leaped to the highest level in about five years and bank profits plunged by 86 percent in the second quarter, as slumps in the housing and credit markets continued. 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. data released Tuesday show 117 banks and thrifts were considered to be in trouble in the second quarter, up from 90 in the prior quarter and the biggest tally since mid­2003. 
The FDIC also said that federally-insured banks and savings institutions earned $5 bil­lion in the April-June period, down from $36.8 billion a year earlier. The roughly 8,500 banks and thrifts also set aside a record $50.2 billion to cover losses from soured mortgages and other loans in the second quarter. 
"Quite frankly, the results were pretty dis­mal," FDIC Chairman Sheila Bair said at a news conference, but they were not surpris­ing given the housing slump, a worsening economy, and disruptions in financial and credit markets. 
The majority of U.S. banks "will be able to weather" the economic and housing storms,with 98 percent of them still holding adequate capital by the regulators' stan­dards, Bair said. 

Number of U.S. uninsured declines 
WASHINGTON -The number of people without health insurance fell by more than 1 million in 2007, the first annual decline since the Bush administration took office, the Census Bureau reported Tuesday. Incomes edged up for the middle class while poverty held steady. 
The numbers represent a scorecard on President Bush's stewardship of the economy at the kitchen-table level. But they only went as far as the end of last year, before the cur­rent economic downturn started gathering force. Although there were some bright spots, it was a mixed picture. 




Marshals detain 600 plant workers 
Raid nets alleged illegal immigrants in Mississippi factory, hundreds in custody 
Associated Press 

LAUREL, Miss. -The largest single-workplace immigration raid in U.S. his­tory has caused panic among Hispanic families in this small southern Mississippi town, where fed­eral agents rounded up nearly 600 plant workers suspected of being in the country illegally. 
One worker caught in Monday's sweep at the Howard Industries trans­former plant said fellow workers applauded as immi­grants were taken into cus­tody. Federal officials said a tip from a union member prompted them to start investigating several years ago. 
Fabiola Pena, 21, cradled her 2-year-old daughter as she described a chaotic scene at the plant as the raid began, followed by clapping. 
"I was crying the whole time. I didn't know what to do," Pena said. "We didn't know what was happening because everyone started running. Some people thought it was a bomb but then we figured out it was immigration." 
About 100 of the 595 detained workers were released for humanitarian reasons, many of them mothers who were fitted with electronic monitoring any kind of news and a lack Mexico, Panama, and Peru, dads and pregnant mothers bracelets and allowed to go of understanding of what's said Barbara Gonzalez, an who got their husbands home to their children, offi­happening to their loved ICE spokeswoman. taken away," said Velez's cials said. ones," he said. "A complete Elizabeth Alegria, 26, a son, Robert, youth pastor at 
About 475 other workers and utter feeling of helpless­Mexican immigrant, was the church. "It was like a were transferred to a U.S. ness." working at the plant Monday horror story. They got han­Immigration and Customs The superintendent of the when ICE agents stormed in. dled}ike they were crimi­Enforcement facility in Jena, county school district said When they found out she has nals. La. Nine who were under 18 about half of approximately two sons, ages 4 and 9, she Howard Industries is in were transferred to the cus­160 Hispanic students were was fitted with a bracelet Mississippi's Pine Belt tody of the Office of Refugee absent Tuesday. and told to appear in federal region, known for commer­Resettlement. Roberto Velez, pastor at court next month. Her hus­cial timber growth and 
John Foxworth, an attor­Iglesia Cristiana Peniel, band, Andres, was not so chicken processing plants. ney representing some of the where an estimated 30 to 40 lucky. The tech company produces immigrants, said eight percent of the 200 parish­''I'm very traumatized dozens of products ranging appeared in federal court in ioners were caught up in the because I don't know if they from electrical transformers Hattiesburg on Tuesday raid, said parents were are going to let my husband to medical supplies, accord­because they face criminal afraid immigration officials go and when I will see him," ing to its Web site. charges for allegedly using would take them. Elizabeth Alegria said Gonzalez said agents had false Social Security and res­"They didn't send their through a translator executed search warrants at idency identification. kids to school today," he Tuesday as she returned to both the plant and the com­
He said the raid was trau­said. "How scared is that?" the Howard Industries park­pany headquarters in near­matic for families. Those detained were from ing lot to retrieve her sport by Ellisville. She said no "There was no communi­Brazil, El Salvador, Germany, utility vehicle. company executives had cation, an immediate loss of Guatemala, Honduras, "We have kids without been detained. 

FAA vvarns of flight delays nationwide 
and in the air. said there were no problems landing for
Associated Press 

She said she did not know exactly planes that were already in the air. 
ATLANTA -An electronic communi­how many flights were being affected, "There will be flight delays," Bergen cation failure Tuesday at a Federal but she said it was in the hundreds. She said. "It could be any location, because Aviation Administration facility in added that officials might not have total one facility is now processing flight data Georgia that processes flight plans for figures until Wednesday. Bergen said for everybody." the eastern half of the U.S. was causing that in a 24-hour period the FAA Bergen said there was an unrelated hundreds of flight delays around the processes more than 300,000 flight hardware problem at the Hampton country. plans in the U.S. facility on Aug. 21 that resulted in issues 
An FAA Web site that tracks airport Bergen said the problem that processing flight plans, but she was status showed delays at some three occurred Tuesday afternoon involved an unsure ifthere were any flight delays. dozen major airports across the coun­FAA facility in Hampton, Ga., south of A spokesman for Hartsfield-Jackson try. The site advised passengers to Atlanta, that processes flight plans. She Atlanta International Airport, the "check your departure airport to see if said there was a failure in a communi­world's busiest airport, did not immedi­your flight may be affected." cation link that transmits the data to a ately return a call seeking comment on 
FAA spokeswoman Kathleen Bergen similar facility in Salt Lake City. the impact there from Tuesday's in Atlanta said there were no safety As a result, the Salt Lake City facility episode. Bergen said officials at t,he issues and officials were still able to was having to process those flight plans, Atlanta airport were entering flight data speak to pilots on planes on the ground causing delays in planes taking off. She manually to try to speed things up. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, August 27, 2008 


Colleges purchase survival program 
Associated Press 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. Hundreds of collegp,s across the nation have purchased a training program that teaches professors and students not to take campus threats lying down but to fight back with any "improvised weapon," 
from  a  backpack to a laptop  
computer.  
The  program  - which  

includes a video showing a gunman opening fire in a packed classroom -urges them to be ready to respond to a shooter by taking advan­tage of the inherent strength in numbers. 
It relloets a new response 
"! do think it's important 
at colleges prepared to and universi­that we talk to our folks survive that." ties where The sort of
and give them some 
grisly memo­aggressive
guidance on how to
ries of the survival campus prtoect themselves. It's response 

shootings at not something that 1 o cited by 
Virginia Tech Brouillette 
years ago we thought
and Northern troubles I I I i n o i s we'd be talking about. school vio­Univnrsity are But unfortunately, lence resear­still fresh. cher Loren
it's something we
"Look at Coleman, a your environ­need to do now." retired ment through University of the lens of Southern
Jeff McCracken 
survival," Maine profes­
U.N.C. Campus pollee chief 
s a i d sor. 
programs. Spivey expects that by year's end that number will have grown to about 1,000 schools. 
Schools may provide the training to students as well as staff. as at Metropolitan, or limit it to instructors or secu­rity personnel. 
Campus safety experts interviewed by The Associated Press said they are not aware of any similar survival train­ing courses marketed specifi­cally to college campuses. 
"It's a dark subject," Brouillette said. "But we can't say 'It's never going to hap­pen again.' It's 'When is it going to hap­pen?' And we have to be 

Domenick Brouillette, who administered the course at Metropolitan Community College, which serves more than 20,000 students. "Survivors prepare them­selves both mentally and emo­tionally to do what it takes. It might involve life-threatening risk. You may do something you never thought you were capable of doing." 
Nearly 300 professors at Metropolitan Community College were shown the video as part of a training exercise bnfore the lirst day of classes on this downtown campus. The training, produced by the Center for Pllrsonal Protection and Safety, a for-profit firm basnd in Spokann, WasiL, is also available for thn school's students. 
Tlw training drills teachnrs and studnnts in a "survival mindset," said Handy Spivey, a former U.S. Department of Defense hostage negotiator who is executivn dirnctor of' the centnr. The center's roster indudes retired FBI agents and otlwrs with foderal law enl'on~enwnt experience. 
"Thr.ro are two extremes. On the one hand is paranoia, and on the other is oblivion," he said. "We're just trying to got people to k11ep this on thnir radar." 
Thn training discouragPs cowering in a corner or hud­dling together in l'nar, Brouillette emphasized at the Kansas City session. 
Instead, Metropolitan Community College faculty members were taught to be aware of their surroundings and to think of common class­room objects -such as lap­tops and backpacks -as "i m provisnd weapons." 
The program has been bought. by rwarly 500 colleges, which tailor tlw company's sal'nly messages -laid out in instructional videos and ot.hnr training guides-to craf't localized violnnen prevention 
Showing 
students vio­lent images of school shoot­ings could trigger post-trau­matic stress or other reac­tions that resident advisers, graduate assistants and simi­larly untrained workers would be unequipped to handle, Coleman said. 
And the techniques shown in instructional videos such as "Shots Fired" could provide inspiration for troubled stu­dents considering their own acts of violencr., Coleman sug­gested. 
"You more or less are giving them a blueprint for how to avoid law enforcement," he said. 
At the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, offi­eials are looking for ways to incorporate the training as part of the school's "Alert Carolina" program. Campus police ehinf Jnff McCracken said the school may offer hands-on training to _students and faculty, or simply post a link on the university Web site. 
Despite the relative rarity of deadly violence on campus, eolleges can no longer assume that they are immune from such problems, McCracken said. 
"I do think it's important that we talk to our folks and give them some guidance on how to protect themselves and others," he said. "It's not something that 10 years ago we thought we'd be talking about. But unfortunately, it's 
something  we  need  to  do  
now."  
Todd  Bowdish,  a  

Metropolitan Community College life sciences professor who participated in the recent training session. agreed that today's elassroom climate requires extreme caution. 
"It's a really basie thing," Bowdish said. "We have drills for firr.s and tornadoes. This is just another tool for the toolbox." 




Master something a little easier, like your personal finances. 
Wells Fargo knows that college can be a challenging time. That's why we have a wide range of tools to help you along the way, from checking and savings to a College Combo"' specifically designed to help you be financially successful. And best ofall, you'll get someone to answer your questions and help you make sense of it all. Why wait for someday?5M Stop by Wells Fargo, visit wellsfargo.com/student or calll-800-WFB-OPEN (1-800-932-6736) today. 
<02008 Wells Fargo Bank N.A. All rights reserved. Member FDIC. (117926_1 0322) 

~~ 

Wednesday, August 27, 2008 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
EGYPT 


Septuplet births cause ethics debate 
Fertility drugs given to couple spark controversy over population control 
Associated Press 

ALEXANDRIA -The 27 -year­old woman and her husband already had three children -all girls. They badly wanted a boy, and she had not conceived in five years, so doctors gave her hor­mones. 
The startling result was healthy septuplets -four boys and three girls -heralded by Egyptian doctors as a miracle. But debate persists about the ethics of fertility treatment in a nation where medical oversight is lax, incubators and neonatal respirators are rare, and many familins face pressure to have a son. 
In addition. Egypt faces con­cerns about overpopulation and cheap fertility drugs could lead to a wave of multiple births. President llosni Mubarak warned in June that growth is hindering Egypt's economy, say­ing Egypt's population of 79 mil­lion -mostly crammed into the 3 percent of the country's area around the Nile River -will double by 2050. 
For the mother, Ghazala Khamis, the most pressing ques­tion now is how her impover­ished family is going to get by. 
''I'm really scared," she said, lying in her hospital bed in this Mediterranean coastal city. "We live in a mud hut with only two rooms. I don't know how we're going to afford 10 children now." 
Khamis' husband Farag Mohammed Ali, a 31-year-old farm laborer, can find work only a few days a week, she said. ''I'm really worried about what the future looks like." 
Much about the Aug. 16 birth, by Caesarean section, was stun­ning. The babies are large for a multiple birth, weighing between 3 pounds 3 ounces and 4 pounds 10 ounces each. The duration of the pregnancy was also the longest ever for septuplets -34 weeks. 

By contrast, the world's first surviving septuplets, born to the McCaughey family in Iowa in 1997, came at 31 weeks and the biggest baby weighed about the same as Khamis' smallest. There are two other sets of surviving septuplets, both born to Saudi women. 
Khamis' doctors waited so long to deliver the babies because Egypt has only a few respirators for newborns, and none w.ere available. So for weeks, doctors kept Khamis in Alexandria's Shatby Maternity University Hospital, letting the fetuses develop enough that their lungs could function on their own after birth. But the wait also increased the risk to the mother. 
Homes-Rentals-Cars-Computers-Appliances 
Need extra cash? Searching for that special needed item? Try our local website www.SeiiBuyit.com. It's free! List an item with photo, unlimited discription, until sold. 
PAKISTAN 


Diplomat attacked by Islamic militants 
Head of U.S. consulate Lynne Tracy survives heavy gunfire directed at armored vehicle 
Associated Press 
PESHAWAR-A U.S. diplo­mat narrowly escaped an attempt on her life Tuesday when two men with AK-47s jumped in front of her armored vehicle and sprayed it with bullets, staging a brazen attack that raised fears other foreigners could be targeted. 
The attack -which the driv­er eluded by jamming the vehi­cle into reverse and speeding away -came just hours after the collapse of the governing coalition that drove Pervez Musharraf from the presidency as Pakistan grapples with escalating violence by Islamic militants. 
A late nighttime bombing at a cafe on the outskirts of the Pakistani capital killed seven people and wounded 20, police reported. 
Lynne Tracy, an Ohio native who heads the U.S. consulate in restive northwestern Pakistan, left her home in an upscale and heavily guarded area of Peshawar with a body­guard provided by the local anti-terrorism squad about 8 a.m., police chief Arshad Khan said. 
Moments later, the vehicle came under heavy gunfire, Khan said. He said no one was hit by bullets but a rickshaw driver was hospitalized after his three-wheeled taxi was hit by the consulate vehicle during its rapid retreat to Tracy's home. 
A spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad, Lou Fintor, declined to identify or describe any of three consulate employees in the vehicle, including where they were from or what role they played in what he would only refer to as a "security incident." 
The attack follows a week of extremist violence and political strife in this nuclear-armed nation. There have been at least three suicide bombings, the deadliest outside the coun­try's largest and most sensitive weapons factory, just 22 miles from the capital, Islamabad. 
Police said a homemade bomb exploded late Tuesday at a street cafe and rest stop on the edge of the capital and seven people were killed and 20 wounded. The blast also damaged vehicles and left a large crater at the scene. 
Senior police official Ahmed Latif described it as a low­intensity bomb and said it was unclear why the site was cho­sen. The casualties included truckers and laborers and not security forces, which tend to be target of militant attacks, Latif said. 
The United States and other Western nations have been nervously watching the ruling coalition unravel since close ally Musharraf resigned last week after nearly nine years in power to avoid the humiliation of impeachment. 
A decision by the coalition's second largest party to quit the government Monday could concentrate power in the hands of a more-Western lean­ing party that says it is com­mitted to supporting the U.S.­led war against extremist groups. 
The government immediately announced a ban on the Pakistani Taliban -blamed for the wave of suicide bomb­ings -and it rejected a cease­fire offer from militants in the Bajur tribal region, where the army has been on the offensive for several weeks. The fighting in Bajur has reportedly killed hundreds of people and caused 200,000 to abandon their homes. 
Washington has pledged $750 million toward a five­year drive to develop impover­ished areas along Pakistan's frontier with Afghanistan, which it hopes will reduce extremism. 
Militant activity is rampant in parts of northwest Pakistan, which is a rumored hiding place for Osama bin Laden and where U.S. officials say insur­gents have found havens allowing them to mount attacks across the border in Afghanistan. 
Pakistan, where anti-American sentiment runs deep, is considered a hardship posting for U.S. diplomats, with many coming for one­year stints without family. Attacks on Western targets do occur, but ones targeting indi­vidual diplomats are relatively unusual. 
Talat Masood, a political and military analyst, said that could start to change. 
"I think (foreign diplomats) have to be very careful" he said, especially as the army intensifies its offensive in the tribal regions along the border with Afghanistan. "They should take a low profile; their movements should be restrict­ed during this period." 
Masood cautioned against Western nations scaling back their presence, however, say­ing that would further embold­en al-Qaida-and Taliban­linked militants and demoral­ize Pakistanis. 
Pakistan's Foreign Ministry condemned the attack on Tracy and said the government was committed to ensuring the security of diplomats. 
Peshawar, a crowded, dusty city, has not been immune from violence. Concerns about militant activity in and around the city prompted the govern­ment to conduct an offensive in the neighboring Khyber tribal region earlier this year. 
There have been several attacks in recent years on Western targets. 
In 2006, a suicide attacker blew himself up outside the Karachi consulate, killing a 
U.S. diplomat, and five people, including two Americans, died in 2002 when a militant hurled grenades into a Protestant church in Islamabad. 
This March, a bombing at a restaurant frequented by Westerners in the capital killed a Turkish aid worker and wounded at least 12 others, including four FBI personnel. A suicide bombing outside the Danish Embassy three months later killed at least six people. 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page I 0 Wednesday, August 27, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Not so predictable after all 
P.O. llnx 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEf' Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
Ass'!~ MANA!;ING EIJITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
Nr~ EDITOR: Jcnn Mcrz 
VIEWPOINT EI>ITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz llarrn 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
AllVI'.RTISING MANAGiiR: Maddie Boyer 

All DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLF.R: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
('i74) 631-6900 ohsavad@nd.edu 
EOJTOR IN CHIEF 
('i74) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
N4) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
('i74) 63 1-';303 vil'Wpoim.1 @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
'me. I @nd.<·du 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@)nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
rHE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre 1)arne du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial colllent, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of rhe adminisrration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements b:t~cd on content. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsign<·d editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily rhosc ofThe (>bserver. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leuers is encouraged. l.t·ncrs ro the Editor musr be signed and must include contact information. 
Qutstiow l't'Karding ObsmJer po/ici(S should b( dil't'Ct(d to Editor in ChiifC'hris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

"Jl1c l )!Jwrvcr {USI''i "il)') :Z-4000} ll puhltJhcd Munday thruul4h ..ril.l..y t'J~'cpt donn~ u.1m ~nil V.l~aunn P'"tiu1IJ, A ~uh".:nptum to Thc t,)l~rvrr 11 $!{}() filr ~me .u . .;~.Jcmk yc:;u; $')Cj fnr IIUCIIC:/UC~Il'f 
l11c OhKrvcr It puhli1hcd Jf t'OHMASTE!t 024 ~unh Dinmg ll.tH Send Jddn$, conc:uions. w· Nnrrc llo~mc. IN "M~-077? ThcObcrvcr l'rrimhl.IIJMlJt~t' p.uti .u Nouc tl.1mc P.O&xniJ o~nd o~ddirtunJI m.ulmtt ulflro. Ol4 Souch Dining Hall 
Nom: Dame:. IN 46'5';6-0n9 

Tltr: Ohlk:rwr IJ 11 mcml~r nl the A.uoc14t~ P!"':U. All rcpruo.iucdun righrs arc rettrvcd. 
What ever happened to predictability? Morn importantly, what ever happened to "Full I louse?" From 1987 until 1995 it was broadcast on ABC and was extremely popular -the key element of ABC's TGIF Friday night line-up. Now it's a show on whieh people reflect with mixed reviews. 
The serious: ''I'm busy every weekday at 12:00 p.m. watching it." 
The ironic: "I bet Comet has some stories to tell from that set!" 
And the confused: "I just don't get it." 
No matter how you feel about "Full House," you have to admit that this fam­ily-orinnted sitcom whieh ran for eight seasons became part of the nineties cul­tural zeitgeist. 
Many nineties sitcoms began to push boundaries. In its third season, "The Simpsons" became a giant of television that remains on the air to this day, simultaneously ushering in the genre of the animated sitcom not inherently intended for youth audiences. Meanwhile, Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David rnceived the opportunity to create a show about nothing. The thirty minute comedy did not have to present a prob­lem in a wholesome atmosphere and force that problem to be resolved by the end credits anymore. The standard sit­com progression would no longer suffice as Ivy League writers and outsider comedians pushed the limits of what is funny. In the midst of all this, the show­runners on "Full House" said, "Nuts to you, avant-garde sitcoms!" 
Not that "Fullllouse" didn't change the rules. It most cettainly did. In 1987, America was still holding on to tradi­tional family models. Heagan's "Morning in America" had not yet turned to dusk: the color of states remained dominantly crimson. Full House played to the con-servative by using traditional sitcom themes. The premise of the show itself. however, offered a non-conformist fami­ly model: a widower who raises his three daughters with his brother-in-law and his best friend. At a time when America was not necessarily ready to see a strong family bond exist without both a dominant mother and father fig­ure, "Full House" showed that as long as love exists in a household, a family will survive. 


"Full House" also deserves much more respect than it is given in terms of its comedy. We look at shows like "The Simpsons" and "Seinfeld", with ironic jokes so subtle and elever that most audiences will never pick up on them, and we say, "'Fullllouse' comes nowhere near their comedic sensibili­ties." But that's because all we remem­ber is Unele Joey's "Cut it out," Stephanie's "How rude," Michelle's "You got it, dude" and Unde Jesse's "I lave mercy." What we forget is the subtle physical humor that Bob Saget and Dave Coulier brought to the table, the facial expressions that Candace Cameron and Jodie Sweetin exchanged at Mary Kate and Ashley Olsen's expense and the hilarious use of the dog Comet who could lighten the mood of any situation. I implore you to watch old episodes of "Full llouse." Give them a second or third or fourth try and you will sec that there's much more humor there than you would immediately expect. For example, who could forget the episode where Jesse's Greek family visited San Francisco. Papouli, Jesse's grandfather, brings the Katsopolis cousins, including a Michelle Tanner look-alike named Melina. The look-alike was in fact the other Olsen twin in a brown wig playing alongside her sister. Only a show as smart as "Full House" would think to do this: subvert child labor law to introduce a completely unnecessary one-time character and in the process produce a lasting hilarious impression on its audi­ence. 
I could have discussed any number of 
f'arnily-orientnd sitcoms. "Two and a Half Men" is hugely popular right now despite the eponymous fradional char­actor growing ever nearer to full numer­ie maturity. If I wanted to sustain a retro portrait of thl) family sitcom, I could have discussnd "Family Mattnrs", "Step by Step" or the lesser known "Aliens in the Family." The elder siteom purists will be mad if' I don't tip my hat to the comedic f'ornbears of' "Full !louse:" "Tiw Brady Buneh," "All in the Family," "Happy Days," "The Adventures of Ozzie and llarriet." But I chose "Fullllouse." And I purposely intended to choose "Full House" if only for the reason that Jodie Swectin is a consistently underrated comedic actress. (It still bothers me that tlw show's producnrs sacritieed launch­ing her stardom in favor of the behe­moth that is the Olsen twins, leading Sweetin into a lack-luster television career after the show endnd). 
Yet "Full House" is not univnrsally accepted as a high-quality program. People hate it for reasons as varied as its campy humor or its unrealistic analy­sis of' suburban San Franeisco life in the mid-nineties. The reason I adorn it (as a show, as a souree of entertainment, as a way of life) is its unceasing ability to provoke such reactions and yet remain a genuinely wholnsome thirty minute program at its core. That is, disregard­ing its inevitable turn as Olsen twin vehide. 
So the next time you're in Best Buy or flipping channels on basic cable, go past "Family Guy" and "Everybody Loves Haymond," even "Seinfeld" and "The Simpsons." Direct yourself toward the bastion of hope that is "Fullllouse". When you're lost out there and you're all alone, the Tanners will be there to carry you home. Choopa-ta-pop-pa-pa. 
Andrew Miller is a senior English major. He can be contacted at amille1.5@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, August 27, 2008 page 11 
U-WIRE 

Lo"Wering drinking age not a bad idea 
Earlier this week, more than 100 uni­Naturally, we would advocate educa­versity and college presidents signed tional programs in high school about their names to an initiative launched in drinking, as well as education at home July to encourage lowering the drinking by parents. If people can learn at an ear­age to 18. lier age the difference between binge 
Leaders expressing support for the ini­drinking and social drinking, the less tiative include likely they would probably be to do it presidents of Staff Editorial later on. Duke University, If people want to drink, they're going Dartmouth to fmd a way, regardless of the legal age. College and Ohio The Daily Just because a person is 21, he or she State University. O'Collegian isn't instantly able to drink with an air of 
The movement maturity. From our experience, it's quite has been met with the opposite; people sometimes go a little widespread dissension and debate from crazy with the bottle once they turn many groups. including Mothers Against legal. Drunk Driving. For instance, when one of us celebrat­
Also, a state not enforcing the 21-and­ed turning 21, it involved losing the abili­older drinking age faces a penalty of 10 ty to walk and being carried out of one of percent of its federal highway appropria­the bars on The Strip. tion, thanks to the National Minimum Another board member remembered Drinking Age Act that Congress passed this summer doing doughnuts in a go­in 1984. cart at a Tulsa public park and trying to 
Oftentimes, when people discuss crash through a locked baseball field whether 18-year-olds should be allowed gate. to drink, some will argue that young This immature behavior is not limited adults aren't mature enough to partake to twentysomethings. Basically, there's in such activities. no age lin1it on stupidity. 
Personally, we're of the opinion that It's time we let the 18 -year-olds come many students start drinking in high socialize at the bar. school, and all of us either experimented with alcohol ourselves or had friends This editorial first appeared in the who drank. Aug. 22 edition ofThe Daily Collegian, 
We are all in agreement that if, at 18, a the daily paper at Oklahoma State person is considered old enough to vote, University. pay taxes and serve in the military and The views expressed in this editorial possibly die for his or her country, that are those ofthe author and not person should be allowed to drink. necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
S111oke, vote and drink? 
It's Saturday night and you and some Surely the parents would step in and friends are headed to the bars. You enter intervene at some point iffuis law did go and find yourself rubbing elbows with over, and would it be to stop their children seniors from U-High. from getting a license or driving? Ifso, the 
This could become reality according to burden on parents to drive their kids a story by the everywhere would be heavier and as a Associated Press Staff Editorial result teenagers would be walking around which noted that intoxicated, running fue risk of breaking presidents of other laws like public intoxication and 
The Daily Vidette 

some offue curfew. nation's most We all agree that drinking is something prestigious universities are among ofuers fuat is going to happen, at age 14, 18 or vying to lower the drinking age to 18. 21 because the fact remains fuat if kids Enraged groups like Mothers Against want to obtain alcohol, they will always Drunk Driving are fighting to ensure this find a way. law becomes nothing more than a pipe One stance is fuat students will be more dream. prepared for college ifdrinking is some­
Our first impression of this topic led­fuing that is not new to fuem. three of us to believe that this change Even 21-year-olds are often heard pro­would not necessarily be the worst fuing claiming fuat now fuat fuey can drink, it to happen. The United States assumes its has lost fue thrill. If this law was passed, citizens are old enough at the tender age fuere would certainly be some sort of of 18 to choose a president, purchase cig­drinking frenzy fuat would take place, but arettes and decide to potentially put their after it became commonplace, would life on fue line to defend fueir country, so drinking become as nondescript as it is in why not let them knock back a few cold say, Europe? ones? Drinking is a privilege, not a right. The 
We are not naive enough to believe that current legal drinking age is 21 for a rea­all of these students began drinking when son. We are all so busy waiting to reach fuey arrived at college. These laws have some age fuat we are missing fue most not stopped teenagers in high school from enjoyable years of our lives, sober or not. drinking in the past, and experimenting For right now, fue combination of 18­wifu alcohol as a teen is an element of years-olds drinking and driving is a cock­American culture that is as expected. tail too lefual for anyone to stomach. 
This driver's license, the crowning achievement of most 16-year-olds, is the This editorial first appeared in the Aug. problem. Can 18-year-olds be expected to 22 edition ofThe Daily Vidette, the daily juggle the responsibility of driving a car paper at Illinois State University. with their newly obtained freedom to The views expressed in this editorial drink? What about driving somebody are those ofthe author and not else's kids around? necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 12 
Wednesday, August 27, 2008 

Dorm Decor: Creativity never goes out ofstyle 
By JESS SHAFFER 
Assistant Scene Ediwr 
It's that time of year again: hammers pound lofts into place and bunks shuffle and slide aeross miniseule living spaces. But before you're lost in an end­less maze of homeless couches, bedding. carpet. and posters, consider the dogma of dorm dceor: ernativity never goes out of style. Check out these tips, thoughts, and hints before you get a case of the move-in blues. 
Captivating Creativity: 
Unusual objects make dorm 
room bliss 
It seems that there's an end­less number of Breakfast at Tiffany's Posters and Notre Damn pennants to go around, but it is the unusual items that will give your room a homey, personal touch and that added distinction. You may even have the power to turn trash into treasure. A perfect example of this is found in Pasquerilla East, where some freshmen room­mates created surprisingly chic wallpaper from trash. Accumulating wrappers from Vitamin Waters, the roomies created a pattern with pops of color that covered an entire wall. What about the slides attached to lofts, as seen in Keenan Hall? What a better way to start your morning than to enjoy a kiddy classic? Or if you're looking to bring a bit of Zen into your room, you could take a notn from some Zahm residents who crafted a fish­pond, complete with an accesso­ry hammock in their room. Who knows, maybe your idea for an end table crafted out of water bottles could be the next great thing. 
Compromised Vision: Why 
negotiating Is worth It 
Though your vision may seem as infallible as Kanye West's lat­est sunglasses fad, remember that in reality there is more than one worthwhile approach to deeorating your dorm. It may be the compromise between your various roomies that takes your abode to the next level. Not only ean you avoid the tension that eomes from arguing over assorted aesthetics, you may stumble upon an unexpectedly brilliant idea. A painless way to include all your roomies taste into one item is that tried and true staple of a collage. For an easy do it yourself project, eol­lect magazines, postcards, and other miscellaneous items. Then 
go crazy with glue, scissors, and markers to craft an original piece of art just for your room. Just remember that kinder­garten safety measures still apply (i.e. be careful not to mix enthusiasm with sharp objects). 
Mod Quad: Simplicity lends 
elegance and modernity 
Does excessive color make you cringe'? Do you abhor multitudes of posters? Can't identify with the wild bohemian vibe of tapes­tries? Than a more mod style might be for you. Try picking out a few colors to play with in your bedding, curtains, and car­pets. The pop of color will be refreshing but not-overwhelm­ing. Neutrals are relaxed clas­sics. Black, chocolate brown, khaki, and navy are solid tones that make a statement without being obnoxious. Simple lines (especially found in plain cur­tains) can break up the various parts of your room that you'd like to divide. Also try selecting a single focal point like a bright throw pillow to add in personal touches without becoming over­whelmed. 
Suite School Spirit: Rah, rah, 
fight, fight, gee I hope I look 
alright?! 
Make use of the ridiculous amounts of free ND stuff to show your spirit and add some flare. And what better common ground than the love of the Irish'? Not to mention the fact that green is very "in" right now. So shake your shamrocks and display your ND pride in your decor choices. 
Shabby Chic: In with the old, out with the new. 
Nothing is cooler than vintage classics to accent your fresh pad. And, lucky for us students on a budget, old school decora­tions are really cheap. Check out local thrift stores and antique shops for steals that no one else will have. South Bend abounds with hidden, and ­more importantly -cheap treasures. 'Used furniture is comfy, inexpensive, and easily spruced up. And if your budget is a little bigger, consider re­upholstering couches and chairs to freshen up old pieces. 
Overall, the name of the game is creativity. The trick is to com­mit to your vision and to just have fun. Cheers to another great year with awesome dorm decor. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel @nd.edu 


... t-.:.._ ... *oV  Ssm~ Club. Buying In bulk has never been so greati Nowhere else can 'VOU get a lifetime's supply of ratne1 noodles. Except maybethe Pn08 Ia 'Right. ..  
0 TARGET  Tlllflel. What f11(R can be aaid7 Tavget provides a baJance between good-looldng and well priced.  
Marshalls Shop Ort  MsiWhsl~. Cheap and wonderful. But be nt"ar.a• and rummage thn()ugh a lot of junk to flnd SUJJ the great prices are worth your time. Thla store especiaJJy great fc:w fashion forward tltudentl, who how to rock out Sl amaJI budget.  

 Goodwill; It may ulke some eearohJng, but you can 1111 great accent pHJce8 at charfty ahopa. And what you goes to a good cause too.  


THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Wednesday, August 27, 2008 
page 13 

CECILIA MITSCH I Observer 


Tips for setting up your dorm room 
By STEPHANIE DePREZ Assistant Scene Editor 

The first step is being aware of your space. Know what you have to work with. Take measurements so that when you are out shopping for things you know what will fit. 
The first thing that should go in your room is the carpet. Know how much you want to cover. Do you want carpet covering the whole room, including under the beds, or just in certain areas? You want to do carpet first because it's hard to move everything out if you change your mind and want to put one in after everything's set up. 
Let's face it, the bed is the center­piece of your life, and of the room. Talk to your roommate about where you want the beds to go. Should they both be against one wall? Putting beds perpendicular to each other is a way to create new space and break up the boxiness of a room. If you can, try lofting the beds on top of the desk and dresser or each other. 
When you place your desk, be sure it is somewhere where you can work. If you like natural light, try to arrange the room so that it is nearest to the window. If you don't like being interrupted, avoid putting your desk near the door. It's easy to create your own space if you put the desk up against a wall and cover the wall with pictures and posters that motivate you or remind you of home. 
Designate a place where you can be artsy. Pick a corner or a shelf that is all your own, that you can decorate without roommate input. Take care to make it look good, whether it be a leveled structure where you organize your jewelry, or a shrine to your favorite baseball player. When the rest of the room becomes a mess, this area should stay neat, and is your "interior deco­rator" place. 
Look for places to coordinate. Matching accent pillows, similar patterns for hanging up photos or just a color theme can make a room look more deliberate and planned out. 
Decide where your "messy corner" is. It's annoying for everyone if you leave all of your stuff in the middle of the room. Pick a place where you can throw your dirty laundry or drop your books so that they are out of the way when your roommate comes in. Sometimes you won't have time to do laundry or clean every­thing up, but if your mess is some­what tucked away, it makes the 
room as a whole look nicer. Contact Stephanie DePrez at
I 
:.:. .... . ' ... p sdeprez@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, August 27, 2008 
MLB 


Baseball's nevv instant replay era to begin Thursday 
In spite of new system, commissioner opposes use of 'unlimited instant replay,' calls change 'emotional and difficult' 
Series. 
A..sociatcd Press 
Fan interference has been a 
NI\W YOHK-Heplay ball! big issue in baseball, with 
Umpires will be allowed to almost constant debate since 
chnck vidno on home run calls Jeffrey Maier reached over 
starting Thursday after Major the wall and gave Derek Jeter 
l.nagun Baseball. guardian of a horne run during the 1996 
America's most traditional AL championship series. Many 
sport. reversc~d its decades­blown calls have occurred at 
long opposition to instant newer ballparks, where fans 
rnplay. are doser to the f'inld have the 
"Like evnrything else in life, ability to reach ovnr fences. there arn times that you have "In this day and age, where to make an adjustment," base­all these ballparks are being ball commissioner Bud Selig built now where peopln can said following Tuesday's reach out over the outfield announc:emenL "My opposi­renee and catch balls, fan tion to unlimited instant interference is becoming more replay is still very much in and more of an issue," Atlanta play. I rc~ally think that the Braves pitcher Tom Glavine game has prospered for well said. over a century now doing Detroit pitcher Kenny things the way we did it." Hogers called the decision "a 
Tlw 74-year-old Selig, who slap in the face of umpires deseribtHi himself as "old that have been here for a long l'ashionf1d" and an admirer of' time" and said the decision baseball's "human element," might have been made softened his opposition follow­because Alex Hodriguez lost a ing a rash or blown calls this home run on a blown call May year. 21. 
For now, video will be used "It overshot the mark by far only on so-called "boundary just because, what, in a calls," such as determining Yankne game someone didn't whetlwr fly balls went over get a homer? Please. It's hap­the l'nnce, whether potential pened thousands of times," hornc1 runs were fair or foul Hogers said. "That's part of and whether there was fan the game. It's the beauty of interl'ernnce on potential the game. Mistakes are home runs. made." 
"Any time you try to changn Baseball gennral managers somnthing in baseball, it's voted 25-5 last November to both emotional and difTicult," reeomrnend use the technolo­Selig said. "There's been some gy, and baseball's lawyers eoncern that. well, if' you start spent recent weeks finalizing here, look what it's going to agreements with the unions lead to. Not as long as I'm the for umpires and for players. commissioner." "I find it very strange that, 

Heplay will go into use with with 30 games to go in the three series scheduled to open season, that they would start Thursday: Philadelphia at the it now. I find that very pecu­supervisor or a retired seen as often as it is in the ance of the season but Chicago Cubs, Minnesota at liar," Baltimore Orioles man­umpire. If the crew chief at a NFL." retained the right, through Oakland and Texas at the Los ager Dave Trembley said. "If game decides replay needs to Selig would consider refine­Dec. 10, to ask for additional Angeles Angels. For other they wanted it so bad, what be checked, umpires will leave ments during the offseason bargaining for future years. II' games, n1plays will be avail­took them so long to get it the field, technicians at but boldly said he never will players don't, the replay able to umpires starting going and why wait until this MLBAM will show umpires the allow replays to be used for agreement will run through Friday. particular point in time?'' video and the crew chief will other calls, such as determin­2011. 
Cubs manager Lou Piniella Baseball officials wanted to make the call, overturning the ing whether a ball was caught Union head Donald Fehr wondernd wiH~thnr a team avoid having a situation in the original decision only if there or trapped. The use for doesn't anticipate an expan­could challenge a calL postseason where fans with is "cle.~r and convincing evi­safe/out calls hasn't been con­sion of what calls replays can 
''I'd lovn to be able to throw aeeess to televisions and view­dence. sidered. be used to determine. a rnd hankit) or a green han­ers at horne knew what the Leaving the dugout to argue "I believe that because of "We haven't talked about k i n . I rn a g i n t) b td n g a b I e to correct call was but the a call following a replay will the configuration or ballparks, that. I think that that's unlike­throw something on the field umpires on the field did not. result in an automatic ejec­both new and old, that calling ly over the term of this agree­and not be ejncted," he said. "Some people thought that tion. Heplays of the boundary home runs is really much ment," he said. "What we'll "I shouldn't say it's not going we ought to wait until the calls will not be shown on sta­more difficult than it once obviously do is look at it after to work. but this could turn postseason," Selig said. ''I'd dium video boards, MLB exec­was," Selig said. "I don't the World Series. We're hope­into a littln bit of a fiasco ini­rather go into the postseason utive vice president for base­believe in the use or instant ful that we're going to say it tially." knowing that we've already ball operations Jimmie Lee replay for other things." was great." 
Tlw N Fl. first used replay to used it." Solomon said. Players generally agreed. Umpire Gary Cederstrorn aid officials in 1YX6, the NHL Video from available broad­MLB said replay delays will "I just don't wam it to open said his crew had a training in 1991 and thn NBA in 2002. east feeds -not every team be offset by fewer arguments. up Pandora's box, with calls at session Tuesday at Yankee 1\vnn at stuffy old Wimbledon, televises every game -will be "So if the game is held up home and calls at the bases Stadium. tnchnology has been used on collected at the ofl'ice of Major for a couple of minutes a cou­and eventually behind the "We talked to the techni­line calls since 2006. Heplay League Baseball Advanced ple of times a year. I think plate," Tampa Bay third base­cians and he explained what equipment to help determine Media in New York, where it that's OK," New York Yankees man Evan Longoria said. they're going to be doing," he calls was in plaee at this will be monitored by a techni­pitcher Mike Mussina said. The players' association said. "We just basically did a year's Little League World cian and either an umpire "It's certainly not going to be agreed to replay for the bal-dry run." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES Needed for 2008 Fall Season -The Stanley Clark School, a south side elementary/mid­die school is located north of Erskine GoH Course on Miami Street. Soccer referees are needed for 5-6th grade and 7 ·8th grade girls and boys soc­cer matches. Pay is $35 per game to licensed referees. If interested, please contact Caryn MacKenzie, Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at 574-291-4200. 
TUTOR for Prob & Slats. Fee nego­liable. Call574-276-8299. 
FoR SALE 
Computer desk 48 x 60 $70. Girls bike 3 spd w/bsket $50. 299-9747 

FoR RENT 
1-bdrm apt. All utilities except elec­tric. Close to NO. $550/mo. Call Joe 574-514-0900. 
B&B lodging w/alumni family for NO home games. Great rates & close to campus. Groups up to 10. 57 42432628. 
3-4 bdrm, 2 full bath house. New construction. 1 mile to NO. Laundry, CIA. and more. $1 ,000/mo. Call Joe 574-514-0900. 
Roommate wanted. New home. $450/mo. includes utilities. Close to NO. Call Joe 574-514-0900. 
Rooms 4 blocks from campus. $400 per month including utilities. 6 bed­room home also available. Call574­532-1408. 


TICKETS 
Wanted: NO football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell NO football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 574-232­0964. 
A BUSINESSMAN NEEDS FOOT­BALL SEASON TICKETS. ANY HELP APPRECIATED. 574-277­1659. 
BUYING SAN DIEGO STATE. MICHIGAN & PURDUE TIX. 574­654-0169(LOCAL CALL). 


PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
Was it something I said or some­thing I did, did my words not come out right, though I tried not to hurt you, though I tried, I guess that's why they say: 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information. visit NOs Pregnancy Resources website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
Every rose has its thorn, Just like every night has its dawn, Just like every cowboy sings a sad, sad song, Every rose has its thom 
-~-~ ----~-------­



OUND THE NATION 

Wednesday, August 27, 2008 COMP!UD FROM THE ()BSERVHfS WlRf SERVICES page 15 

MLB 

American League, East Division 
team record perc. GB 
Tampa Bay 79-51 .608 Boston 76-55 .580 3.5 New York 70-61 .534 9.5 Toronto 68-63 .519 11.5 Baltimore 62-70 .470 18 
American League, Central Division 
team record perc. GB 
Chicago 76-56 .576 Minnesota 74-57 .565 1.5 Cleveland 64·61 .489 11.5 Detroit 64·68 .485 12 Kansas City 56-75 .427 19.5 
American League, West Division 
team record perc . GB 
Los Angeles 79-51 .608 Texas 64-68 .485 16 Oakland 60-71 .458 19.5 Seattle 49-82 .374 30.5 
National League, East Division 
team record perc. GB 
New York 73·59 .553 Philadelphia 72·59 .550 .5 Florida 67-64 .511 5.5 Atlanta 57·74 
.435 15.5 Washington 47·85 .356 26 
National League, Central Division 
team record perc. GB 
Chicago 81-50 .618 Milwaukee 76-55 .580 5 St. Louis 73-59 .553 8.5 Houston 66-65 .504 15 Pittsburgh 57-74 .435 24 Cincinnati 57-74 .435 24 
National League, West Division 
team record perc. GB 
Arizona 68·63 .519 Los Angeles 65·67 .492 3.5 Colorado 62·71 .466 7 San Francisco 58·73 .443 10 San Diego 49·82 .374 19 
NCAA College Football Preseason Polls 
AP USA Today 

1 Georgia 1 Georgia 2 Ohio State 2 usc 3 usc 3 Ohio Slate 4 Oklahoma 4 Oklahoma 5 Florida 5 Florida 6 Missouri 6 LSU 7 LSU 7 Missouri 8 West Virginia 8 West Virginia 9 Clemson 9 Clemson 10 Auburn 10 Texas 11 Texas 11 Auburn 12 Texas Tech 12 Wisconsin 13 Wisconsin 13 Kansas 14 Kansas 14 Texas Tech 15 Arizona State 15 Virginia Tech 

around the dial 
MLB 
Boston at NY Yankees 
7:05 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


AP 

Former New York Giants defensive end Michael Strahan talks about his retirement at a news conference June 10 in East Rutherford, NJ. Strahan turned down an offer from the Giants to return to the team Tuesday. 
Strahan turns down offer to return 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, 
N.J. -Seven-time New York Giants Pro Bowler Michael Strahan is staying retired. 
"This has been one of the toughest nights of my life," Strahan told FoxSports.com in a story released Tuesday afternoon. "But after long deliberation and throwing around a million scenarios in my head for the past day, I think it's just best if I stay retired." 
Tony Agnone, Strahan's agent, did not immediately return a telephone call from The Associated Press. 
Giants general manager Jerry Reese has asked the 36-year-old Strahan to reconsider his retirement on Monday, just 48 hours after the Super Bowl cham­pions lost Pro Bowl defen­sive end Osi Umenyiora for the season to a knee injury in the preseason game against the New York Jets. 
Strahan needed just about a day to turn down an offer to return for a 16th season with what could have been an $8 million contract. 
"I really love my life now," he told FoxSports.com while on vacation in Greece. "It's great having nobody put a finger on me. You really put yourself through an awful lot in this league, more than people 
realize. Reese did not seem sur­prised by the decision. 
"We knew it was a long shot, but we owed it to our­selves to exhaust the possi­bility," Reese said late Tuesday evening. "We appreciate Michael even considering ending his retirement. He has a new career in front of him and we wish him nothing but the best. As we all said when he announced his retirement, Michael was and is a great Giant." 
The Giants moved Mathias Kiwanuka from linebacker to defensive end on Monday to take over for Umenyiora, who had suc­cessful knee surgery on Tuesday morning and was placed on season-ending injured reserve. 

The move will not be a major one for Kiwanuka. He was drafted in the first round in 2006 as a defen­sive end and started nine games as a rookie. He also lined up as a defensive end in third-down situations last season. 
"There is a reason he went in the first roWld obvi­ously," middle linebacker Antonio Pierce said. "The guy, he is playing behind Strahan and Osi, and then we moved him to line­backer, so obviously he is one of our top players on the team and he is going to show that he is a top defen-
IN BRIEF Knee injury will bench 
Jurevicius for six weeks 
CLEVELAND Cleveland Browns wide receiver Joe Jurevicius will miss the first six weeks of the regular season while he recovers from knee sur­gery. 
The Browns placed Jurevicius on the physically-unable-to-per­form list Tuesday. 
Jurevicius had swelling and dis­comfort in his right knee related to a previous operation and need­ed another procedure in June to further clean it out. 
After the sixth week of the sea­son, the Browns have three weeks to allow Jurevicius to start practicing. Once he begins prac­ticing, the Browns will have another three weeks to make a decision on his roster status. 
Jurevicius had 50 catches for 614 yards and three touchdowns last season. 
Yastrzemski discharged


from hospital 
BOSTON  - Baseball Hall of  
Farner  Carl  Yastrzemski  was  
released from  a hospital Tuesday,  

one week after having triple bypass surgery. The former Boston Red Sox out­fielder had surgery at Massachusetts General Hospital after experiencing chest pains. His discharge was announced by team spokesman John Blake. Yastrzemski, the last player to hit for the Triple Crown by leading the AL in batting average, homers and RBis in 1967, turned 69 last Friday. His family released a statement after the surgery saying it was "a complete success." Yastrzemski took over for Ted Williams in left field in 1961 and spent his entire career with the Red Sox before retiring after the 1983 season. 

LPGA to require players 
to speak English ORLANDO -The LPGA Tour boasts players from all over the world, and it wants all of them to be able to speak English. The LPGA will require players to speak English starting in 2009, with players who have been LPGA members for two years facing suspension if they can't pass an oral evaluation of English skills. The rule is effec­
tive immediately for  new play­ 
ers.  
"Why now? Athletes  now have  

more responsibilities and we want to help their professional development," deputy commis­sioner Libba Galloway told The Associated Press. "There are more fans, more media and more sponsors. We want to help our athletes as best we can succeed off the golf course as well as on it." 

r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 27, 2008 
NFL 

Manning back in the saddle again at Colts' practice 
A..sociated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -More than a 
month after having knee surgery 
and enduring weeks of rampant 
speculation about whether the 
injury was worse than first feared, 
two-time league MVP Peyton 
Manning finally provided his 
doubters with one emphatic 
ar1swer Tuesday: lie's baek. right 
on sdwdule. 
"This is a significant step f{>r me to get back out on thn practice linld," Manning said bnf(lfe throw­ing and running with t1~ammates. "II' things go well, as we expect they will. tlwn I hope to be l'ull go next wePk and ready f(>r tlw sea­son opPnPr." 
Manning will be limited in prae­ticn initially after being aetivatPd !'rom tlw physirally unable to pl'r­lilfm list. 
Coach Tony Dunf.,ry said the Colts will lw ntutious with tlw l'ranchise quartPrback during this short wnnk -Indy played Bul'l'alo on Sunday night and l~u~1~s Cincinnati on Thursday -bdhre giving him a l'ull mmpiPnwnt ol' snaps next WPPk. 
"We're going to monitor him and (rookiP tight end) Tom Santi, who will start pradieing today," Dungy said. "So WI' do havn a pitch f'ounl. on thosp guys." 
It's IH'f'n a crazy month !'or Manning. tlw CoiL-; iron man who has rwwr missed a start in his I 0­ynar N Fl. ~~an'PI'. 
IIP was instrurtPd by dol'tors not to rPport to training eamp with his teammates July 24, 10 days al'tPr having surg1~ry to removP an ini'Pcted bursa sac !'rom tlw ldl knm~. Tmu11 ollidals said it would takP Manning ({>ur to six WPPks to rPcover, and the six­week anniversary came Monday when tlw CoiL-; did not practice. 
Still. local radio talk shows, hloggPrs and l'ans continually quesl.iorwd Manning's when~­abouts and readiness even after Dunf.,ry said .I uly 29 that Manning had arrived in Tern1 Ilautn, Ind., the CoiL-;' training camp site. 
Wlwn Manning didn't appmtr at any practices or gamns, thn doubts increasPd. A local televi­sion station ran what appnared to be a ePII phorw photo ol' Manning wearing a brace on his right krwe -a photo Manning latPr called not t.run. I .alP IlL'it week. a nation­al bloggPr suggested Manning had a sPcond surgical procndurP on tlw right knnn. something Manning would not confirm Tuesday. 
"I think it's sonwwhat irrelnvant becaUSI' OJ' whern WP arn today, and I kind ol' like to knnp you guys gw~ssing," Manning said, drawing laughtPr. "I rwwr rnally likn talk­ing too much about an injury bm~ausn if you play well. they say 'Man. look how tough hn is.' And if ~I.>U ~lon't play ~ell. thny say 
Ihats the rn<L'ion. 
Manning's rl'turn has taken on oven grnatPr signilkanee given tlw Colts dnplded situation at quarterback. 

Longtime backup .Jim Sorgi wa-; expn1~ted to play into thn third quartN Sunday night but never made it out of strnnt elothPs because of what the tnam dnscril}('d <L'i a gimpy knee. Dungy said that although X-rays and t1~sts wnrn rwgativn. Sorgi wasn't at practii~P Tuesday bm:aus11 doe­tors WPI'I' still trying to eontrol thn sw11lling. 
Sorgi's absnnn• means thn CoiL-; while Gray threw four intercep­tions and one touchdown in the 20-7loss. 
But activating Manning doesn't nen~ssarily mean he will start the season opener, Sept. 7 against Chicago. 
''I'm not really doing pmdictions at this point," Manning said. "I hope to be ready, and I certainly don't want to ereate this dramatic announcement. I think I will do some parts of practice today and tomorrow and I may even dress for (Thursday's) game though I won't play. We'll do a short prac­

tice Monday, and then, hopefully, I'll be full go Wednesday." If' all goes aeeording to plan, No. 18 will then start against Chicago. 
The question that still lingers is how long will it take for Manning to round into MVP form? 
Even he's not sure. 
Manning has never missed this much time as a professional or college athlete. One thing that should help in getting the timing down, is that Manning did partici­pate in the team's spring and summer minicamps and team­mates know Manning well enough to know he won't be behind when he steps onto the field. 
"lie's been doing it forever, he's been doing it since he wa-; 6 years old in his baekyard," two-time Pro Bowl receiver Heggie Wayne said. "He and Marvin (Harrison) have been together forever, and this is my eighth year, so you kind of' get used to it." 
With the Manning saga perhaps nearing a conclusion, there arc more injury concerns f(Jr a CoiLs team that has opened the past three seasons with at least seven straight wins. 
• EXP~ESSYOU~SELF WiTH HP. 


ns24867 N b k PC 
p T n dv9819wm Entertainment ote oo HP 0~110 and fashion for your mobile, digital lifestyle Techno ogy f h erformance 
• 
3GB (max. 4GB~) system memory .or sm~ot, p . d d . for your digital rnedla 

• 
160GB hor nve c' M b'\e Processor for fast,


1
1
'' ·r · T!vl X2 Tl62 Duo: ore • 0 
• AMv unon · erful rnobi\ity d h 1 J 
pow I d· y for high-definition movies an p o.os
I 
• 17" diagona. lspla . , , , d bcom4 
.. -• 
1. ·th the integrate we · 
• Cha1 face to-face onune WI , , 
HP 20" Widescreen 
• 70' diagonal viewing area

LCD w2007 Monitor 


• 
16:10 widescreen aspect ratio -ideal for movies or viewing documents simultaneously 

• 
Great performance with 5-ms response time; 1000: I contrast ratio 

• 
Integrated rear-facing speakers $ to reduce desk clutter 


278 
Available at I 

-




$6997 


am 

HP Deskjet F4240 All-in-One Printer 
One mochine can do it all-and 

. save you
senous money. 

• 
Print scan d f


• 
_' : ' copy an ax--quickly and easily. ENERC7Y STAR0 compliar;t for power efficiency 


11524804, #524B11 
HP60 
Blat:k and Color Ink Cartridges 
$]597-$]868 
More pages, great reliability, amazing value. Original HP. 

#5218\9 
HP Premium Photo Paper 


$]567 
4x6, glossy finish, 100 sheets 


Niles -21 07 South 11th Street, (269) 683-2773

Walmart ~~~-

Mishawaka -316 Indian Ridge Road, (574) 243-9188
s .... montl)'. Live better. 

South Bend-3701 Portage Road, (574) 243-4915 
Walmart.com/hp 

Indy is still trying to figure out what's wrong with .Jeff Saturday's right knee. Saturday, a thrnn-time Pro Bowler at eenter, wa-; injured during Sunday's game and Dunf.,ry said doetors are evaluating how serious the injury is. 
"We really don't know, at this point, whern it is," Dungy said. "It could be anywhere from a couple of weeks to a major injury. We don't know that yet. Jell' ha-; some options, but we don't know how bad it is and it eould be through this weekend bnf(m~ we know for sure." 

hav11 just two quartPrbacks, .Jared 

©Copyright 2008 Hewlett-Packard Develop men I Company, l.P. The informalion conlained hereinl.ornnwn and <)uinn Gray, who Prices valid while supplies last. See product package for complete specifications and details. 
is subject lo change withoul notice. The only warranlies for HP products and services are set forth w11n~ both sigrwd .July 24, avail­'4GB memory: Up to 1GB may not be available due lo 32-bit operating system resource requirements. in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and se1·vices. AMD Turion is a abiP against tlw Bt>ngals. l.ast 'For hard drives. I GB ~ 1 billion bytes. Actual formatted capacity is less. trademarl of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ENERGY STAR is a U.S. registered trademark of the 
'High-definilion contenl required for HD performance 'Internet access required and sold separately. United Slates Environmental Proteclion Agency.

wn11knnd. l.orPnzen produend onP signilicant driw in tlw lirst half 
Wednesday, August 27, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 


Confirmati n 


Monday, September 1 -5:30 -6:30pm Sunday, September 7 -5:30 -6:30 pm 

Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Contact: Fr. John Conley 631-7888 or John & Sylvia Dillon 631-7163 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 


US OPEN 


Ivanovic avoids early exit, defeats Dushevina 
Serena Williams crushes Bondarenko on home turf, sister Venus follows suit in straight sets 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Ana Ivanovic raised her racket, ready for an easy overhead slam in what was shaping up as an easy match. 
Then she somehow spiked the ball right into the net from just a few feet away. 
Out of whack lately because of an injured right thumb, the world No. 1 was suddenly out of sorts. Ivanovic recovered in time Tuesday to avoid becoming the first top-seeded woman to lose in the first round at the U.S. Open, rally­ing past Vera Dushevina 6-1, 4-6, 6-4. 
"I could feel some shots, lack of practice," Ivanovic said. 
Serena Williams took a more direct approach. Favored by oddsmakers to win the women's title, she overwhelmed Kateryna Bondarenko with her serve in a 6-1, 6-4 victory. 
Wearing bright red, the fourth-seeded Williams was dressed for an afternoon workout -chances are, she'll reveal her more elegant outfits at evening matches. The two-time U.S. Open champion is ready to domi­nate the Grand Slam event she last won in 2002. 
"I don't even remember holding up the trophy," she said. "I didn't even know I won this tournament." 
Seventh-seeded Venus Williams advanced, too, beat­ing Samantha Stosur 6-2, 6-3. Like her younger sister, she's twice won this Open. 
"I've had a chance to play and be healthy, so I'm excited to be here," the elder Williams said. · 
Roger Federer, aiming for his fifth straight U.S. Open title, played later Tuesday night. 
Sixth-seeded Dinara Safina of Russia, No. 9 Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland, No. 13 Agnes Szavay of Hungary and No. 16 Flavia Pennetta of Italy won. Anna-Lena Groenefeld of Germany beat No. 11 Daniela Hantuchova. 
No. 13 Fernando Verdasco of Spain, No. 14 Ivo Karlovic of Croatia and No. 15 Tommy Robredo of Spain won. Tommy Haas of Germany beat No. 12 Richard Gasquet of France 6-7 (3), 6-4, 5-7, 7-5, 6-2 and Sam Querrey beat No. 22 Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic 6-3, 6-1, 6-2. 
Marat Safin, the 2000 U.S. Open champ, was as volatile as ever, throwing a tantrum after being called for a foot fault during his 3-6, 6-2, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 win over Vince Spadea. 

"I don't want fight. I don't want to shout," the Russian said later. "I wish I could play normal matches and enjoy tennis sometimes." 
Expected to cruise, Ivanovic struggled against a Russian ranked No. 57. Down 3-2 in the third set, the French Open champion found her confidence -and her win­ning strokes. 
The 20-year-old Serbian star had played only two matches since Wimbledon in mid-July while her thumb healed. The injury forced Ivanovic to withdraw from the Olympics before they began and kept her from practicing until last week. 
"Happy finally to be without the pain," she said. 
The worst start ever for a No. 1 woman at the U.S. Open came in 1967 when Maria Bueno drew a first-round bye and then lost in the second round. The last top-seeded man to lose in the first round at Flushing Meadows was Stefan Edberg in 1990. 
Ivanovic was breezing as she took a 4-2 lead in the second set. Ahead 40-15, she seemed on her way to a com­fortable win when, at deuce, she charged forward but net­ted her smash -one of her 40 unforced errors. 
After that, her problems really flared. "I dropped my concentra­tion," she said. 
Soon, Ivanovic was tenta­tive on backhands and failed to finish forehands. Gone was her signature fist pump after winning key points. Instead, she spent more and more time looking into her family box during breaks. 
By the final set, Ivanovic was moving better, covering the court and pressuring Dushevina into misses. Even so, she made it tough on her­self, double-faulting while trying for a match point. 
Ivanovic certainly wasn't worn down from her recent hours on the court. Her travel time, however, took its toll ­she left Beijing to see her doctor in Australia and then came to New York. 
Despite winning her first Grand Slam championship this year, Ivanovic sensed her limited practice session would make it tough to take this title. 
"I think at the moment it's a lot to ask for," she said. 

r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, August 27, 2008 
MLB 



AL Cy Young contender Lee gets 19th win in rout of Tigers 
Blue fay's Halladay beats Rays for first time this year; A-Rod flops in loss to Red Sox in Yankee stadi-
Associated Press 
DETHOIT -Cliff Len got 

his Anwriean League-leading 
I9th win and Ben Francisco 

hit two homn runs in the 
Cleveland Indians' ninth 
straight victory, 10-4 over the 
Dntroil TigPrs on Tuesday 
night. 
Jamny Carroll and Kelly 

Shoppaeh hit back-to-buck 
honwrs for Clnvnland, which 
overtook I>Plroit for third 
place in thn AL Cf~ntral. The 
Indians arn thrnn games 
under .500 for llw f'irst time 
since May 24. 
Edgar Hentnria hit a horne 

run for llw Tignrs. who have 
dropped thrne straight. 
l.nn (I <J-2) allow1~d two runs 

and six hits in 7 2-:~ innings 
to tiP Brandon WPbh of 
Arizona for tho major league 
IPad in wins. It's also a 
earPnr-high; l.nn won I H 
ganws in 2005. L1~n has won 
f'ivn straight starts, and night 
of' nirw. Tlw Cy Young eon­
tender is 5-0 with a 1.H6 1\HA 
in August. 
l.nn bncamn the eighth pitelwr since 1920 to win 1C) of' his f'irst 21 decisions in a season, according to Slats 
I.I.C. Thn last to do it was Hoger Clnnwns. who was 20­1 af'tnr beating the White'Sox on Snpl. 19. 2001, whiln with the Yankees. 
Chris Lambert (0-1) gave up six runs-two earned-and five hits in 2 2-3 innings in his major lnague debut for the Tigers. Lambert's con­tract was purchased from Triple-A Toledo earlier on Tuesday. 
The Indians used the long­ball and two Tigers errors to score six in the third. Carroll and Shoppach led off with back-to-hack home runs. Carroll's was his first since last Aug. 11. 
Lamhnrt then hit Orlando Cabrera with a pitch. Cabrera stole second and came home on third baseman Hyan Haburn's error on a groundball by Franklin Gutierrez. One out later, Jhonny Peralta singled and Guttierez scored when the ball skipped past left fielder Marcus Thames for an error and rolled to the fence. 
Peralta later scored on David Dellucd's double, and Carroll chased Lambert with an RBI single. 
Francisco's first two-run homer. in the fourth. made it H-0. lin added a second in the seventh inning and has 14 on the season. 
The Tigers got on the board in the fifth on Haburn's run­scoring double and Brandon lnge's HBI single, and scored two more on Henteria's ninth-inning home run. 
Grady Sizemore, a night after becoming the 14th Ameriean League player to join the 30-30 club. went 0­f'or-4. 
Blue Jays 6, Rays 2 
Hoy llalladay beat Tampa Bay for the f'irst timo this season, and Vernon Wells homered and had three HBis as tho Toronto Blue Jays beat the AL Hast-leading Hays on Tuesday night. 
llalladay (I h-9) gave up two runs and six hits in six innings. ThP right-hander posted a 5.32 EHA in losing his previous three starts against Tampa Bay this year. No team has beat Halladay four times in the same sea­son. 
Wells had two run-scoring singles and addod a solo honwr in the ninth that made it 6-2. lie has four homers and nine HBis over his last three games. 
Hod Barajas hit a solo homer for the Bluo Jays, who have won 10 of their last 13 road games. 
Erie llinske drove in two 
runs for Tampa Bay, which 
has lost conseeutive games 
for just the second time since 
the All-Star break. Tampa 
Bay is anAL-best 47-19 at 
home this season. 
Red Sox 7, Yankees 3 
Alex Hodriguez l'loppnd all night when the New York Yankoes needed a big hit. 
Tim Wakefield won in his roturn from the disabled list and the Boston Hed Sox moved a step closer to squashing New York's playoff hopes, beating Andy Pcttitte and the Yankees 7-3 Tuesday night. 
Jason Bay drove in two runs, David Ortiz had a strong game at the plate and Boston got an outstanding effort from its bullpen to close out the opener of a key three-game series. 
Johnny Damon homered twice for the Yankees, but Hodriguez grounded into two double plays -one with the bases loaded -and struck out for the final out. 
This is Boston's final regu­lar-season visit to Yankee Stadium, the site of so many memorable moments throughout the teams' long rivalry. Next year, New York moves into a lavish new ball­park being built across the street, and this isn't the way A-Rod and the 'Yankees want­ed to say goodbye. 
The three-time MVP fin­ished 0-for-5 and was booed loudly as New York fell six games behind Boston, which 


AP Indians outfielder Ben Francisco hits a two-run homerun off of Tigers pitcher Aquilino Lopez in the fourth inning of Cleveland's 10-4 viiCtory in Detroit on Tuesday. 
leads the AL wild-card race by a slim margin over Minnesota. Rodriguez also committed an error at third base. 
With a couple more wins this week, the Red Sox can leave the Yankees with a huge hill to climb and little time left to do it. New York hasn't missed a postseason since 1993. 
Wakefield (8-8) allowed three runs and eight hits in five innings. The 42-year-old 
1733 N. Ironwood Dr. 1 South Bend 
574.277.6767 
7220 Heritage Sq. Dr. 1 Mishawaka 
574127216767 
www.salonnouveau.com 




AVEDA.. 
1ile ort ond .cltnct ofpu11 flcrt~tr ond plant-­
Hair Care • Extensions • Skin Care • Make Up Nail Care • Body Care • Gift Cards 
knuckleballer hadn't pitched since Aug. 6 because of tight­ness in his right shoulder. 
Five Red Sox relievers com­bined for four scoreless innings, and Jonathan Papelbon got four outs for his 34th save in 38 chances. 
Usually reliable in big games, Pettitte (13-10) was touched for six runs and 10 hits in 4 2-3 innings. 
Ortiz hit two doubles and walked twice. Playing his first game in the rivalry, Bay had an RBI single in a two­run third and a sacrifice fly in the sixth. 

Rodriguez flied out with two on in the fifth. With the Yankees trailing 7-3 in the seventh, he came up with the bases loaded and grounded into an inning-ending double play against Justin Masterson. 
That left A-Rod 1-for-1 0 this season with the bases loaded -0-for-7 when there were less than two outs. 
is a truly unique dining and drinking experience that features a creative blend of culinary delights with 
delicate touch of Asian flavors in an exciting yet intimate setting. Plus, i:efljQJt our stylish and contemporary fusion martini bar. 
Wednesday, August 27, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NFL 

Patriots have glut of running backs, unsure w-ho w-ill stay 
Belichick to face Super Bowl spoiler Giants in final preseason game; players focused on improvement, not cuts 
Associated Press 
FOXBOHOUGH -The New England Patriots have a deep group of experienced running backs and just one more exhibi­tion game before they decide which ones to keep. 
So improvement is more impor­tant than the identity of that opponent -the team that beat them in the Super Bowl. 
"We really don't care," third-down back Kevin Faulk said Tuesday. 'The thing that we care about right now is getting our team better. If you watched our first three preseason games, there's a lot of work we have to do." 
Hoping to avoid a winless exhi­bition season, New England visits the New York Giants on Thursday night. Then coach Bill Belichick will have less than 48 hours before the 4 p.m. deadline on Saturday to decide which players to cut to get down to the regular­season limit of 53 players. 
"Whether it's your second year in the league or 12th year in the league, it's a pretty somber day," running back Sammy Morris said, "just in the sense of guys that are potentially losing their jobs. Typically, it's kind of weird." 
The Patriots reached the 75­player limit by Tuesday's 4 p.m. deadline by placing starting guard Stephen Neal on the physi­cally-unable-to-perform reserve list, sidelining him for at least six weeks, and backup tackle Ryan O'Callaghan on the injured reserve list, ending his season, and releasing fullback Kyle Eckel, cornerback Jason Webster and offensive lineman Ryan Wendell. 
Laurence Maroney, the team's top rusher last season, and Faulk, are virtual locks to make the 53­man roster. Morris, who missed the last 10 games last season with a chest injury, and LaMont Jordan, signed July 26 after being released by Oakland, also have a solid chance to stick. 


Fullback Heath Evans, a strong special teams player, is highly regarded by Belichick. The coach even praised Benjarvus Green­Ellis, an undrafted rookie free agent running back. 
Green-Ellis appears to be a longshot but the other five all could be on the opening day ros­ter. 
"I don't think that the players at the same position are necessarily in competition with each other," Belichick said. "We want to keep the best players and that may be a balanced roster or not. It may include a few more players at one position and a few less at anoth­er. 
"All of our running backs have been productive." 
Jordan, entering his eighth sea­son, had a strong opening game. He rushed for 76 yards and a touchdown on 19 carries in New England's 16-15 loss to Baltimore, missed the next two games with an undisclosed injury but said Tuesday he had no restrictions in practice. 
"I know the backfield is crowd­ed but I've also said I know what I'm capable of doing," he said. "Unfortunately, I had this setback with the injury this past couple of weeks. But once they make their decision what they're going to do, if I'm here it's just up to me to make sure that come Sunday I'm at my best." 
Morris also had played seven seasons when the Patriots signed him on March 3, 2007. He rushed for 384 yards and three touch­downs in six games before going on injured reserve but said Tuesday he's fully recovered. 
With so many running backs carrying the ball in exhibition games, it can be difficult to get into a rhythm. 
"A lot of it is established in practice," Morris said. "I guess, especially in preseason, we actu­ally get more reps or more car­ries than we do in the actual game. I think it puts the onus a little more individually to go out and execute with the limited amount of actual game reps." 
Maroney, more elusive than Jordan and Morris, is in his third season. Faulk's 323 receptions in his eight years are the most by a running back in club history. 
"We probably have one of the deepest backfields in the league," Jordan said. "The thing about us is that we all bring something dif­ferent to the table, which gives the defense a different look." 
With Tom Brady throwing an NFL-record 50 passes last sea­son, the Patriots led the league in overall offense and yards passing. They were 13th in rushing. 
They have plenty of options to improve their ground game. By Saturday afternoon, Belichick must decide how many of those options will still be with the team. He also must decide who to keep at other positions. Many decisions have been made and those still trying to impress him will have one last chance Thursday night. 
"If you are running a race with a guy and he is a lap ahead of you and you have a strong fmish, you are still going to finish behind him," Belichick said. "If you are neck and neck with the guy and you have a strong finish then you beat him and it makes a lot of dif­ference. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 27, 2008 


Health 
continued from page 24 
imated us. Our big key will be to stay healthy and improve as the season progresses," Irish coach Tim Connelly said. 
Connelly said that the kny to staying healthy is sleeping enough. eating well. and doing all the things 
something that most coll1~gp kids a 1'1~ n 't always really ronsl'innlious of," he said. "But our runrwrs have to be conscinnlious of it if tlwy hope to stay healthy and n~arh llwir potential as runners." 
With underclassnwn making up ovnr half llw team, thn Irish will be rPlying on young talent to carry the. learn this year. The tnarn has thrne sen­iors and two juniors who havn prnviously run in the lop seven. 
"If we arn to be successful. the reality is that wt~ will need several freshman and SIWPral others who have not been con­tributors in the past to step up 

Draw 
continued from page 24 
the 35th minute when he made a diving stop ofT a snap header from the Flames for­ward Phillip Mitchfdl. Earlier in the half, Quinn was beaten to his near post, but Charlie Trout's low 
thought  it  
looked like  we  
had  been  in  

sessions all day long during thn first half," Irish coaeh Bobby Clark said. "I thought in the first half we played a lot of patehes without penetrating." 
Clark made some half-time adjustments that put Notre Dame on the offensive in the seeond half. The wide mid­fielders started to press higher up the field and attack more often to put the pressure on Illinois-Chicago's defense. The result was an Irish onslaught that resulted in everything but the winning goal. Notre Dame outshot Illinois-Chicago 8-2 and held a 5-1 advantage in corners for the second forty­live minutes. 
The best chance came late in the game when freshman Brendan King played a neat one-two with sophomore .Jeb Brovsky. Brovsky's l'liek put King one-on-one with Flames' goalie .Johan Buboja, but King's effort rebounded ofT the and contribute," Connelly said. 
.Junior Lindsey Ferguson and sophomore Marissa Treece are expected to be among the fastest finishers this season. Both ran well last season for both the cross country and track teams. Their cross coun­try years were cut short last fall when both Treece and Ferguson contracted mono. 
Connelly is 
hopeful that if 
his runners can 

needed to "Our first several stay healthy that recover from meets in ,S'eptember they will be the strenuous eompeting for a
will be fairly

training that a Big East cham­long distance low-key." pionship and at runner puts the very least herself through. qualify for the
Tim Connelly 

"That is NCAA Finals.
Irish coach 
The team 
starts their sea­
son Sept. 5 at 
the Crusader Invitational in Valparaiso, Ind. -an 1went that the Irish won in 2007. 
"Our l'irst several meets in September will be fairly low­key, and wn will use them to ass1~ss whnrn we are as a team. It will give us an idea of wherP some people are fitness and corn petitiveness wise," Connelly said. 
Connelly said he wasn't planning on running the entire team at Valparaiso and would most likely hold most of the 
Contact Marie Bugnitz at mbugnitz@nd.edu 

drive rebound­"They brought energy heart. They 
ed back ofT the and they got forward. brought energy post. and they got
They made good

"The lads forward. They
things happen. " 

were in meet­made good ings and ses­things happen." sions all day Bobby Clark Both King and long, and I Thiermann
Irish coach 
same post that had denied Trout earlier in the game. 
Clark said King and fellow outside midfielder .Josh Thiermann provided a much­needed spark to the Irish attaek in the final half. 
"They had the benefit of talking about it at halftime ~ getting higher up and making things happen," Clark said. "They took it to 
carne on at half­
time as substi­
tutes. Clark used last night's contest as an opportunity to give many play­ers a shot as Notre Dame tries to pin down its rotation before the regular season and confer­ence play begin. 
"We played nineteen players last night, and that's quite a lot to get into a game," Clark said. "We're trying to find out what we've got. The sooner the better, but it's starting to shape up." 
Last night's game served as a fundraiser for Grassroots Soccer -an AIDS awareness and education organization that reaches youths through soccer clinics. Money was raised through the one dollar admission price as well as additional donations. All pro­ceeds will be matched by a Notre Dame alumnus that wishes to remain anonymous. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Dew 
continued from page 24 
well." 
Dew has immediately taken eharge on the field, leading an Irish defense that held Miehigan to just one shot-on­goal in a 7-0 Notre Dame rout to open the season last Friday. 
Notre Dame out shot the Wolverines 34-4 in a state­ment game for the 2008 sea­son. Dew and eompany have not surrendered a goal to Michigan at any point in their eolleetive careers. The l'ive­game streak of shutouts dates back to 2004. 
"She has shown that she is definitely. completely back," Waldrum said. 
Dew was named Big East defensive player of' the week Tuesday for her performance against the Wolverines. 
It is the third time in her career the senior has earned that honor and she also adds the accolade to her 2006 Big East defensive player of the year award. 
Still, Waldrum said that Dew is an underappreciated player for No. 5 Notre Dame. The Irish have some of the best strikers in the country and eonsistently finish as one of the top-scoring squads in the NCAA. 
"If' you play on the defen-sive side of the ball on this team, you definitely feel underappreeiated," Waldrum said. "People who know soc­cer understand how impor­tant it is to have a terrific eentral defender like IDewl." 


Waldrum said that last sea­son's team did not reaeh its full potential because Dew was not fully healthy. But despite her injury, the California native notehed one of Notre Dame's two goals in its College Cup semifinal loss to Florida State. 

Now, Waldrum said he expects her to thrive in lwr final season. 
"She has such a calm man­nerism and way of going about things," Waldrum said. "She's the perfect player to have in the baek of the del'ensn." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Write Sports. E-mail us at sports@ nd.edu. 

Wednesday,August 27e, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
Be the change you -w-ish 
to see in the -w-orld. -Ghandi 


The University of Notre Darne Center for Social Concerns wishes to honor the following students for their contributions to communities near and far this sum1ner, as part of the ACCION Program, the Latino Leadership Intern Program (LLIP), the Interfaith Worker Justice (IWJ) Program, the International Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP), and the Summer Service Learning Program (SSLP). For more information visit: socialconcerns.nd.edu 
ACCION  LLIP  Clark DuMontier  
Dennise Bayona  Jenna Adsit  Stephen Eckart  
Mary Connell  Rocio Aguinaga  Amy Elliot  
Joseph Gagnon  Kimberly Burkart  Christopher Esber  
Andrew McDonald  Priscilla Longoria  Emily Everett  
Nicole Medina  Anastassia Fagan  
IWJ  Kristopher Perez  Matthew Fanous  
Christine Clark  Daniel Salas  Bianca Fernandez  
Sean Gaffney  Aileen Villarreal  Caitlin Ferraro  
Elizabeth Ferrufino  
ISSLP  SSLP  Claire Fisher  
Brendan Apfeld  Christine Anderson  Kevin Flanagan  
Nicholas Bloom  Teresa Backes  Kelly Flynn  
Caitlin Booth  Marie Bader  Lisa Folkerth  
Tara Brito  Sherry Bajaj  Emily Forester  
Caitlin Brodmerkel  Nicole Balduf  Nicole Fortuna  
Montserrat Corbera  Courtney Bal!  Anne Frazer  
Kate Crecelius  Michael Banning  George Frey  
Michael Daly  Lillian Bauer  Allison Fullenkamp  
Joseph DeMott  Patrick Bears  Sarah Furman  
John Daughton  Sarah Boeding  Elizabeth Furman  
Kristen Drahos  Alessandra Bouchard  Maria Gaither  
John Engelbert  Claudia Braga-Henebry  James Gallagher  
John Firth  Caitlin Broglie  Michelle Garber  
Brandon Frost  Matthew Brown  Benjamin Gavel  
Edward Gutierrez  Kieran Bulger  Tara Gilbride  
Kristi Haas  Jacquelyn Bunick  AnU1ony Ginocchio  
Andrew Hebert  Jacquelynn Burke  Mebola Giwa  
Jeffrey Henkel  Rebecca Cabrera  Dennis Goebel  
Mark Hincapie  Alexis Calabrese  Katherine Gruenberg  
Barbara Ho  Maura Caufield  Will Guappone  
John Maltese  Gail Cech  Ashley Hardy  
Katelyn McAnany  Constance Chen  Michael Hartn1an  
Colleen Moran  Adrianna Chut1  Eric Harvan  
Theophilus Ossei-Anto  Elaine Coldren  Khad\ja Hashil  
Matthew Panhans  Jennifer Cole  Kathryn Hatfield  
Francesca Pennino  Melissa Coles  William Hayman  
Gregory Podolej  Michael Collins  Marissa Henry  
Alicia Quiros  Kelsey Conlon  Caitlin Hildebrand  
Bryce Ramos  Mariana Cuervo  Kimberly Hildner  
Thomas Robertson  Timothy Cummings  Noelle Hi!mer  
Marie Sanchez  Joseph Czerwien  Matthew Hire  
Megan Savage  Margaret Devany  Danielle Hoehn  
Andrew Seelaus  Casey Dolezal  Mike Hopkinson  
Kaitlin Sullivan  Julia Dombrowski  Megan Hrdlicka  
Mark Sullivan  Kendall Downer  Joshua Hubert  
Conrad Vinal on  Adeline Dozois  Courtney Hummel  
Merissa Yellman  Elizabeth Dubbs  Eleanor Huntington  
..  

Evan Jame.s Melissa Janisch Patrick Johnson Amanda johnson Sarah Johnson Rebecca Jones Michael Kaiser Amy Karwoski Elizabeth Keating Mackenzie Keller Kevin Kelly Jack Kiley Colleen King Patrick Kirkland Greg Klazura Cristina Kline-Quiroz Rachel Koch Leeah Kahley Carlene Koken Nat.atlie Kratz Daniel Kuzma Laura Lauck Christopher Lee Meehan Lenzen Kate Leszkowicz Jonathan Lopez Sandra Lucero Matthew Lynch Elliott]v1agers Maeve Maher Genevieve Malone Kaitlyn Maloney Nicholas Mancinelli Anita Marquez Nathaniel Marsh Kelly Marszalek Kirsten Martin Megan Martin Stephanie Martinez Megan Martino Emily Matich Brendan McCarthy Ryan McDermott Mariah McGrogan Derel< McQuade Kathryn Merriam Rachel Michels Stacy Mick 

I 



CERNS 
Leah Miller  Kevin Smith  
Meeghan Miller  Angelique Snyder  
Elizabeth Mitchell  Laura Souchik  
Annie Mokris  Gregory Speidel  
Andrew Mrugala  Amanda Spiegelberg  
Caitlin Murphy  Rachel Staran  
Mary Murphy  Crystalia Sulaiman  
Anna Nanigian  Yanning Sun  
Cara Nazareth  Elizabeth Tacl  
Patrick Needham  Jeremy Tamargo  
Mai Nguyen  Gabrielle Tate  
Quyen Nguyen  Kathryn Thesing  
Trevor O'Brien  Stephanie Tjia  
Patrick O'Brien  Brian Torro  
Rachel Odioso  Krystyna Traudt  
Erin Olaughlin  Marisa Truong  
Lauren Orozco  Catherine Twetten  
Angelica Pangilinan  Rachel VanderGenugten  
Anthony Parrish  Alexa Wagner  
Daniel Peck  Eileen Wahl  
Shanna Pereira  Emily Whalen  
Brian Pieh  Lindsay Williams  
Callie Pogge  James Wintering  
Andrew Polich  Anne Witt  
Jessica Pollum  James Woods  
Michelle Pratt  Jennifer Wulf  
Eliza beth Pu rgert  
Maeve Raphelson  
Kerry Reardon  
Andrew Renner  
Erin Rider  
David Rivera  
Casey Robertson  
Heidi Rocha  
Lisa Russ  
Eric Saito  
Abigail Salazar  
Malisha Samarasekera  
Catherine Scallen  
Kathleen Schenkel  
Kimberly Schlesinger  
Margaret Schreck  
Elizabeth Scott  
Joseph Serafin  
Rebecca Sharbaugh  
Brittany Shelton  
Claire Sloss  
Chelsea Smith  

--, 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 27, 2008 
On their road to the finals, the behind the back four she could 
U.S. also took down Canada in a head it in."

Gold 
2-1 quarterfinal match. The Along with Zagunis and the continued from page 24 
game featumd four former Irish foursome or soccer players, an players with alums Candace additional live currnnt or former Chapman ('06) and Melissa NO athletes competed in the 

Sada Jacobson in tho women's Tancredi ('05) playing for the Beijing Games. sabre ovont. She also added a Canadian side. Junior Kelley Hurley and fresh­bronze modal to lwr two golds -"We'rn very proud of all timr of man Gerek Meinhardt joined tho first of which eamo at tho them," Notw Dame soccer coach Zagunis on the U.S. Fencing 2004 gamns in Crnoce -in the Handy Waldrum said. "It shows team. Meinhardt, 18, was the toam sabre ~~vent a few days you that ND has been a women's youngest male fencer in the latnr. soccer power for tho past 15 Olympics by nearly live years. All 
Zagunis has already rackml up years and it's grnat to be a part three Irish fencers are projected All-America hon-or that." to be major forces on the colle­ors at Notre Dame Waldrum giate level this year and arc hop­as well as winning coached both ing that their Olympic experience a national cham­"Any time you go to Canadian players will take them to the next level. pionship in 2006. the Olympics there but Boxx and "Any time you go to the 
Boxx and Markgraf graduat­Olympics there are hopes that
are hopes that you 

Markgraf ( (iJrmer­ed before he took you come back better," ly Kate Sobrero) come back better. " over as head Bednarski said. "It is a very also won a nation-coach fi>r the Irish stressful competition so it really al championship in 2000. helps on the mental level." 
Janusz Bednarski 

with the Irish in Boxx served up Former track standouts Selim
Irish fencing coach 

1995. Both the game-winning Nurudeen ('05) and Thomas women played all assist on a header Chamney ('07) competed for 120 minutes in play the overtime Nigeria and Ireland, respectively. ,· tho ow~rtime limtl!>•match against win to the United States. Nurundeen ran a personal best Brazil. "Amy !Rodriguez] got it in the 13.58 in the 110-meter hurdles 
"I don't think we over doubtnd corner and just laid it back and l to advanced to the second round lwe would win the gold!, but we was wide open," she said imme­but did not make it any further. just didn't think about it," diately following the game. "I Markgraf said to USSoccer.com knew Natasha IKai] was in there, Contact Dan Murphy at following the win. so if I could get that cross in dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Pound 
continued from page 24 
Mendoza created spceif'ically for them. 
Hight tackle Sam Young said the plan consisted of many drills tailored to linemen, such as llipping tires, King of t he IU n g , a n d e v e n s o m c Sumo wrnstling. 
phy; the  run- we  can  pound  
ning  backs  it) is getting  
will also need to pull their  "Bruno's [Restaurant]  the big boys up front to get  
own  weight.  put the weight on. "  orr  the  ball  
In his Monday  and  hand  it  
news ence, said  confer­Weis he is  Sam Young Irish right tackle  off to those backs. I like all of them. I  
pleased with  like  all  of  
all  the  run- those backs.  
ning  backs  on  the  depth  You've got to  keep fresh legs  
chart.  out there  at [half]back and  


"Across the board, every­one's gained weight, every­one's gotten strongnr," Young said. 
But Young said thn wnights weren't the only tool they usnd for adding some pounds. 
"Bruno's IHestaurantl put tlw woight on," he said. "I guess you could say it was our carbo shake." 
In addition to the ofTnnsivn linn's increased stmngth, the u n i t a Is 0 bIHln nt s f r 0 Ill i t s nxperinncn, right guard Eric Olsen said. 
"As we've gotten older a year as a group, things have gotten easit~r with that nxpn­rienco. so I don't know if the sehenws are that much sim­pler. But when you gain nxpe­riencn. it really slows the game down for you," he said. 
Young also said thn of'f'en­sivn linn has assumnd thn responsibility inherent in Weis' "pound it" offense. 
"That puts a lot of rnspon­sihility on us. We establish tlw line of scrimmage, and as an offonsive lineman that's what you love to do. Instead of bning passive-aggrnssive and pass block. you have to lw aggressive and knock the other guy in the mouth," Young said. 
But the ofTensive linn is only 

Write Sports. Email us at sports@nd. edu. 

half of the "pound it" philoso­"The only way to find out lif 
keep pounding it," he said. 
Going into the opener against San Diego State, sophomore Armando Allen is the No. 1 running back listed. 
"[The running backs I arc very, very confident in the offensive linemen. I think that's one of the strengths of the team that's really improved this year," Allen said. "The offensive line's improvement gives us confi­dence as well." 

Young also noted the impor­tance of running the ball for developing an offense. 
"When you run the ball you can control the clock much better," Young said. "And to go along with that, you run the ball, you suck the safeties in. Then you can throw over the top, play action, it all plays off each other." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

Wednesday, August 27, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jell Knu rek



JJIJJM®lL&. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

LURBY 
1 

rJ I I 


daredevil
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 




~~~r~flJ 

~ PORRAL 
t 


WHAT HE TURNE:D INTO WHE:N HE


J I I J 

WE:NT TO SKYDIVING
www.jumble.com 
SC.HOOL-. 
DRAFIT 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
1 

rJ [) 

suggested by the above cartoon. Print answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: VITAL IVORY NIBBLE SLOGAN Answer: Watching an ironworker high on a skyscraper can be -"RIVETING" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

ARIES (March 21-Aprll 19): Situations will escalate out of control if ~ou 
let yourself get bullied into an argument or you start something you can t flrush. Keep!>usy with professional business and do not let any personal
matter stana m the way of your progress. 2 stars 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't lose sight of your goals. So much can be achieved if you buckle down and do your thing. Your charm will be _pro­nounced by your ability to see the big ptcture and adapt to make it worll:. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Listen and take in all the information you can. If you speak up or pretend to know more than you do, you will not maintain your statu~ quo. Achange in one of your relationships or with a partner may
be a surpnse. 3 stars 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): An opp<?rtunity to make a move professionally or ~rsonally is in the stars. Your love life is peaking and, as long as youdon't get angry. jealous or too clingy, everything will turn out as planned.Changes to your residence will please the ones you Jove. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): If you talk about helping someone or an organiza­tion, you fietter follow through. Your reputation is at stake. A twist in a settlement you've been trying to resolve will give you something to think 
about. 3 stars 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't get all worked up over nothin11,. Stepback. and you will clearly see that you are in the ri~t and you don t have to defend yourself. Someone will come to your rescue if you need help.However, don't overspend. 4 stars · 
LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): There is no telling what might happen if youdon't stay cairn and do your best to deal with whatever emotional trauma is unfolding. Someone you know will overreact or take something out on you. Quietry take control. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take advantage of any opportunity to discuss a project you are working on. It's word of mouth that wlll help you move to the next level. Someone you meet along the way will have a greater interest in you. Don't be shy. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone may !fY to trick. you out of something. Keep your money in your pocket and only pay for your fair share. An older, more expyrienced mdividual will create uncertainty. Question any­thing you don't understand. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take a direct approach. Fast, productive maneuvers will get you wha~you want and when. Ibis is a great time to begin ren~vations, tiuy or self property or make future plans with your part­ner of chmce. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Socialize but don't make ~omises youwon't be able to keep. This is not the day to Jet money slip through your fin­gers. A partnership will develop through a function or furidrai.sing event youattend. Your services or talent will be all that's required of you. J stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Love is on the rise. Getting together with someone socially will help you form a closer relationship. Unex~ted results will come from working in partnership with someone you look. up to. You can expand your skills, kriowledge or services. 5 stars 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

CROSSWORD 
Across 1 Puppies' plaints 5 Cobb of "12 
Angry Men" 9 Icy look 14 Oratorio 
highlight 15 Di or da preceder in a Beatles song 16 Moves like sludge 17 "What Did" (classic children's book with a punny title) 18 _ Spee (old German warship) 19 Catcher's position 20 Enjoying an outing. of sorts 23 ·•Gets the red out" sloganeer 24 Italian auto, for short 
25 Scientology founder Hubbard 
28 For no profit 32 Sister of Marge 
Simpson 36 Forsaken 38 Get the 
habit 39 Enjoying an outing, of sorts 42 Homecoming 
figure, for short 43 Yin's counterpart 44 Checking out 45 Michelin offering 47 Flagston family 
pet 49 Gin flavoring 51 Edit 56 Enjoying an 
outing, of sorts 61 Like wild tigers 62 Drought relief 63 Hi Flagston's 
wife, in the comics 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

64 Garden plant support 65 One hired by a corp. board 66 McCann of country music 67 Cheated, slangily 
68 One of "The Addams Family," informally 
69 Comrade in arms 
Down 
Comic Smirnoff 2 Tehran denizen 3 Actress ZaSu 4 Greet cordially 5 Paul Bunyan, 
e.g. 6 River of Spain 7 Mideast airline 8 Port of Israel 9 Treat leniently. 
with "on" 10 Talkativeness 11 France's Cote 
d'_ 12 Actor Stephen and kin 13 Renaissance family name 21 China's Zhou 
22 Trolley sound 26 Gymnast Korbut 27 Ad infinitum 29 "The Love" 
(R.E.M. hit) 
30 British W.W. 11­era gun 
31 Chinatown gang 32 Exchange jabs 


THE OBSERVER 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Victor Aemlng  
33 Former Connecticut governor Grasso 34 Speak well of 35 "I can't blame  46 Trued up 48 Twist badly 50 Everglades wader  55 Lamb or Bacon piece 56 browns (diner fare)  
anyone else" 37 Latvia's capital 40 Fishing line material 41 Geor~ who wrote ''The hilosophy of Right"  52 Home overlooking the sea, maybe 53 How some tuna is packed 54 Dexterity  57 Analogy part 58 Havana aunts 59 Kind of stand 60 Doesn't dally  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Wednesday, August 27, 2008 
page 24 
OLYMPICS 
Golden Donters 

Irish athletes rack up three golds in China 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
The Blue and Gold got a little bit more gold this summer when three athletes with Notre Dame ties brought home first-place medals from the Beijing Olympics. 
Junior feneer Marie! Zagunis and alumnae soccer players Shannon Boxx ('9Y) and Kate Markgraf ('Y81 all won the sec­ond gold medals of their Olympie careers this August for the United States. 
"The Olympics are a great adventure, it's a very exciting time," Irish fencing coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
... Zagunis became the first U.S. athlete to win a 2008 gold when she defeated fellow American 
see GOLD/page 22 
IRISH OLYMPIANS 
a list ofthe mostdecorated NO olympians 
1) leaMarkgraf('98) 
2) AMIWilson ('28) 
3) MittelZlgunls ('10) 
4) Shannon 8oxx ('gg) 
M«JDII pa Yeors
' ­
J Socc. 2000,04,08 J TrackaField 1SJ28, 1~12 J; Fencing 2004,08 
..Socca'
2" 2004,08 
-;~ ----~ 

ND WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
ND looks to bounce back in '08 
By MARIE BUGNITZ Sports Writer 
After a disappointing season last fall, Notre Dame is hoping to stay healthy and atop the Big East in 2008. 
The Irish ran to first place finishes in the National Catholic Championships and the Crusader Invitational in early September before seri­ously dropping off. They ended the year with an 11th place 11nish at the NCAA Great Lakes Regional, which knocked them out of' con­tention for the national race. 
"We are coming off of a very disappointing season last year where we had a number of injuries and illnesses that dec­
see HEALTHY/page 20 
FOOTBALL 
Weis says tea111 vvill''pound it'' on offe11se this season 
pound the football. And we "We're teaching them that on offensive line. Last season, they've run in the past
Beefed up 0-line is 
haven't yet. So we're going to first-and-ten when we call Notre Dame gained Y03 net years," Haywood said. "So it lind out. Because we're going this play, we're expecting yards on the ground and creates an opportunity now
ready to run the ball 
to pound it," he said. four yards on this play to . allowed an NCAA-worst 58 for us to run the ball a little Offensive coordinator Mike make it second-and-six. On sacks. But Notre Dame's bit more effective in which 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Haywood said on Tuesday the next call, we're making a offensive coaches said they we've run over the past sev­
Sports Writer 
that the 11rst step in develop­call to get us in third-and­are confident that won't be eral years." ing a "pound it" of'fense is short or to pick up the first the case this season. The offensive line's added 
At Irish head coaeh Charlie instructional. down." "I think what Coach !Weis] bulk this season comes mostly Weis' press conference on "The most important thing In order to implement this is really saying is that we from the summer weight regi­Monday, he clearly set the in whieh we're doing is that smash mouth style of football, have an offensive lline who is ment that strength and condi­team's offensive identity. we're teaching guys football, the offense will need to see a lot bigger and stronger, we tioning coach Hueben 
"Ever since I've been here, we're teaching guys situation­improvement from two key have multiple backs that are I've wanted to be able to al football," Haywood said. positions: running back and running a lot better than see POUND/page 22 
MEN's SoccER 
Midwest battle ends in tie 
Team ends preseason with scoreless draw 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sporrs Writer 
In its final preseason tune­up, No. 3 Notre Dame played to a scoreless draw with No. 16 Illinois-Chicago Monday night at Alumni Field in front of 2,053 fans. 
Despite the similarity of' the box seore, the game was a tale of two halves for the Irish. In the first forty-five minutes, the majority of the best ehanees went to the Flames. Only some great saves by Notre Dame keeper Andrew Quinn and a little hnlp from the woodwork pre­vented Illinois-Chicago from taking the lead. 
Quinn's best save eame in 
see DRAW/page 20 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Dew expected to have big year at full strength 
Irish senior anchors strong defense after long recovery period 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 
Last season, Notre Dame defender 
Carrie Dew -who was then a jun­
ior 
anchored a back line that was a key to the team's run to the national 
semifinals. Imagine what she 
could have done playing on 
two good legs. 


Now that Dew has fully recovered from the ACL sur­gery that cut her sophomore season short, Irish fans should get to see what she can do when she is healthy. 
"She's definitely her old self again," Irish head coach Randy Waldrum said of his central defender. "I mean, last season she played the whole year coming off surgery and we made it to the College Cup, so who knows what she can do when she's a hundred per­cent." 
Dew, who has shed the bulky knee braee she wore last sea­son, was named a team co­captain in the preseason. 
"She has taken that role on really well," Waldrum said. "She has such leadership skills and understands our system so 
see DEW/page 20 











