Stud. gov't mock election figures mirror current national polls 
ByJENN METZ News Editor 
When student body vice president Grant Schmidt announced the 2008 Notre Dame mock election earlier this fall, he had no idea the results would be on par with national polls. 
However, the Gallup Poll, in the days leading up to Election Day, has almost exactly mir­rored the student government data from Oct. 5. 
2,692 undergraduate and graduate students participated in the mock election. Democrat Sen. Barack Obama and running mate Sen. Joe Biden won 52.6 percent of the vote, followed 
see MOCK/page 3 

International students reflect on right to vote 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
International students at Notre Dame are paying close attention to the 2008 Presidential election, even though they cannot joi.n the millions of Americans who will vote today. 
Sophomore Christina Zhu said she came to the United States from China to attend Notre Dame, and has paid a lot of attention to the election because it is a good way to learn about American poli-

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and !:Jaint Mary's 
ELECTION 2008 


Notre Da•ne prepares for historic results 
'Loyal'play 
to campus 
Preston serves as first male co-writer in third annual production 
By ELLYN MICHALAK 
News Writer 
The third annual production of "Loyal Daughters and Sons," a play about sexuality at Notre Dame, will open Thursday; this year's version features a male student on the writing team. 
Junior Devin Preston, along with junior Zoe Cross, served as the first male co-writer and interviewer for the controver­sial play. The two also serve as producers of the show. 
"'Loyal Daughters and Sons' was designed to be updated so that the material remains fresh and current. Notre 
see LOYAL/page 4 


AP 

The 2008 contest between Sen. Barack Obama and Sen. John McCain, the longest campaign in history, will be decided today. 
tics. 

"Living here during an elec­tion year, I got to know more about the political system," Zhu said. 
In the United States, people have every opportunity to educate themselves about the candidates' positions on issues and their proposed policies, but in China, one of the biggest obstacles to vot­ing is a lack of education, Zhu said. Many people in China are impoverished and only about 50 percent of the 
see RIGHT/page 4 


The youngest voter 
Freshman, wJw celebrated his 18th birthday N(J{). 3,fills out hisfirst ballot 
. 

By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Stephen Kahn is one of the millions of college students eager to cast a vote for the first time in this year's pres­idential election. The fresh­man from New York, howev­er, is like few others -he is one of the youngest eligible voters in the nation after celebrating his 18th birthday on Monday, Nov. 3. 
"I find it pretty amusing, people think it's cool when I tell them," Kahn said. "Also, 
Political club leaders, professors contemplate life after Nov. 4 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Soon, the confetti will be mopped up, the balloons popped. The bottles of champagne will be drunk and discarded. 
The red and blue electoral maps will be archived for perpetuity. The pollsters will get some sleep. 
There will be a winner, and there will be a loser. The winner and his staff will begin preparing for the transition to the White House. The loser will go on with his life, for­ever in the history books as the also-ran. 
see LIFE/page 3 

I have good friend that is two weeks younger than I am that can't vote." 
The majority of the stu­dents on campus will be casting 

their bal­lots for the first time in a presiden­tial elec­tion this y e a r •. Anyone 

Kahn born after Nov. 2, 1986 was ineligible to vote 

NDSP reports 8 arrests during game vs. Pitt 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
On Saturday, Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) reported making eight custo­dial arrests at the Pittsburgh game. , 
A custodial arrest occurs when the person arrested is transported to the county jail, according to David Chapman, assistant director of NDSP. 
Saturday's figure is compa­rable to the nine arrests reported during the Oct. 7 match-up with Stanford. 
Four citations were issued to minors for alcohol-related offenses, and one of those cited was transported to a local hospital by ambulance. 
in the 2004 contest between George W. Bush and John Kerry. 
Kahn knows someone who is at the other end of the spectrum: a friend who missed the last presidential election by only five days. 
"My best friend's brother is three years and about 360 days older than I am, and we will be voting for the first time in the same election. It's a small fact that I will always be able to tell peo­ple," said Kahn. 
see YOUNG/page 4 

-, 
Three arrests were made for public intoxication outside the stadium, one of which involved public indecency, while four were arrested in the stadium for public intoxi­cation and one for minor con­suming alcohol. 
Four others were ejected from the stadium for viola­tions of Stadium rules and regulations, according to Chapman. 
Chapman encouraged stu­dents and visitors to report "unruly or unlawful behav­ior" to NDSP by calling 574­631-5555 or by using a call box in one of the parking areas. 
"If your football weekend 
see ARRESTS/page 4 

~ ~~-----------­

Tuesday, November 4, 2008 
page 2 The Observer + PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Post-Election Uncertainty 
Decision 2008 is upon us. Today, a strug­gling nation di'icovers which candidate will spearhead the efforts of recovery and reform so desperately desired by the American people. Regardless of which can­didate emerges victorious, our next presi­dent will assume his position with more than enough on hie;; presidential plate. The 
economic crisis, the  
war in Iraq, health- Patrick Griffin  
care. and abortion  
are all critical issues  Scene Writer  
that deserve expert  
analysis and repre­ 

sentation. But what about the state of the entertainment industry in America? 
The matter of American entertainment will obviously not be of paramount concern to our nation's next president. However, it is impossible to ignore the condition of the entertainment industry as the presidential race culminates. Never before has the competition to earn the presidency incited such attention across all levels ofAmerican media. The matter at hand extends beyond the realm of major news networks where poll after poll is graphically produced and presidential debates reiterate the contrast­ing platforms of each candidate. We're talking about a whole new level of media that has emerged. This progeny of presi­dential coverage has been successful in attracting the attention of young Americans. 
Consider NBC's recent revised fall lineup. Amidst the schedule of the network's typi­cal sitcoms and drama.;; lies political satire. NBC recently took advantage of the execu­tive inspiration and has been airing one of its most popular programs, Saturday Night live, on Thursday nights. Since adopting a new political cynicism thi<> seac;;on, the vet­eran program has seen its ratings up 50 percent according to The New York Tunes. Republican candidate John McCain even embraced the programs media success, appearing as a special guest on November 1st. 
Late night cable ha'i flourished ac;; well. Both The Daily Show with John Stewart and The Cnlbert Report have seen record numbers of viewers ac;; of late. Democratic candidate Barack Obama championed his campaign during an unorthodox interview with John Stewart on Oct. 29. Both pro­grams, which thrive off of political mockery stand atop the late night talk show viewers eharts. 
Not to be outdone by television, the musi­cal world has also become vocal in the nation's political proceedings. Artiste;; such as Will.I.Am of the Black Eyed Peas, P. Diddy, Bruce Springsteen, Big & Rich, Ted Nugent and LeAnn Rimes have publicly expressed their allegiance towards their favorite candidate. Political issues have given many artists a newfound inspiration and purpose. The Rock the Vote Foundation has successfully employed the appeal of popular music in order to engage the political power of America's youth. 
So ac;; we stand on the precipice of politi­cal change, at a time when global econom­ics and peace remain uncertain, the enter­tainment industry may be the only current certainty in American daily life. However, the issue of governmental uncertainty finally concludes this evening. Where will thi'i leave Ameriean media? Maybe it's not one of the more pressing issues c.oncerning the United States. Nevertheless, it will be one that is closely watched by the American public. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Patrick Griffin at pgrij]i3@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times.We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU PREPARED FOR THE COLD WEATHER? 

Alan Yanchak  Avery Scott  Cam Thorpe  Kristen Drahos  Matt Walters  
freshman Dun an  junior O'Neill  freshman Duncan  senior Welsh Pam  senior off-campus  
"No, ·cause I'm not wearing any pants.,  "Yeah, bring it ,, on.  "Yes, ·cause I am wearing ,pants.  "Heck yeah! Snow football is the shizz. ,  ..It gets colder?!"  






TRAVIS ALLEN/The Observer 

Eric Mark runs for a first down In a Duncan Hall section football game on "Duncan Fields" Monday evening. 
OFFBEAT 
Waterbury tattoo parlor on Halloween, married by a justice of the peace dressed as a witch. 
The couple dressed like their favorite characters from the horror flick "The Return of the Living Dead." 
As part of the ceremony, Fox and Adams each had a special word tattooed on their knuckles. She chose "werewolf" because she loves werewolf movies and he chose "wormfood" because he says everyone will be worm food some­day. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Man accused of stealing 8 piggy banks from home 
ST. PAUL, Minn. -Police said a 34-year-old man was charged with second­degree burglary after allegedly stealing eight piggy banks from a home, netting more than $2,700 in change. 
Police said the man then went to a bank, where he spent more than half an hour standing at a coin­counting machine while the device tallied the money. 
Police said the man, already on probation for first-degree burglary, then picked up his girlfriend and bought a coat, boots and 
shirts at Burlington Coat Factory. 
Police found him after a neighbor saw a man leave with two large nylon bags and noted the plate num­ber. 
Police said the man may have lived with the victims in the past. 
Couple decide to tie the knot at tattoo parlor 
WATERBURY, Conn. ­Some say it with diamonds. But a couple wanted tat­tooed knuckles to seal their matrimonial bond. Tracy Fox, 24, and her 22-year­old groom, Nick Adams, tied the knot in a 

IN BRIEF 

Saint Mary's College Right to Life will sponsor Right to Life Week. It includes a can­dlelit prayer vigil on the Library Green at 8 p.m. today, a Celebration of Life party in Reignbeaux Lounge in LeMans Hall at 7 p.m. on Wednesday, and a panel dis­cussion from 6 to 7 p.m. in Haggar College Parlor on Thursday. 
A colloquium entitled "What the most metal-poor stars tell us about the early Universe" will be held Wednesday from 4 to 5:30 
p.m. Dr. Anna Frebel, of the McDonald Observatory, University of Texas at Austin will present in 1 18 Nieuwland Hall of Science. The event is sponsored by the Department of Physics. 
Downtown Lunch & Learn/Eco Film Series: "Six Degrees Could Change the World" will be held at the Crossroads Gallery (Notre Dame Downtown, 217 S. Michigan Street, South Bend) on Thursday at 12:05 
p.m. The event is for a free environmental film series. 
Frank Baseman will pres­ent a lecture sponsored by the Snite Museum of Art and the Department of Art, Art History, and Design on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the museum. The main event on Thursday is free and open to the public. Baseman is on campus to meet with and cri­tique the works of design students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 43 LOW 35 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
:I: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
-I 
<
(.) 





0 

-I HIGH 75 65 HIGH HIGH LOW 55 55 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
70 
52 
70 42 

Atlanta 69 I 50 Boston 62 I 46 Chicago 71 I 57 Denver 64 I 40 Houston 83 I 60 Los Angeles 68 I 55 Minneapolis 67 I 56 New York 64 I 48 Philadelphia 63/ 51 Phoenix 79 /61 Seattle 50 I 45 St. Louis 77 I 52 Tampa 79/63 Washington 61 /52 
Tuesday, November 4, 2008 page 3 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Schmidt said, however, that make sure Notre Dame was conservative, but at least a lowed by foreign polic'y at Obama's appeal to the youth politically involved," he said. quarter of the student body 17.7 percent. Of the remain­
Mock 
voters of America indicated he 
continued from page 1 would be a popular candidate 
on college campuses. 
by the Republican ticket of "A lot of professors I talked 
Sen, John McCain and Gov. to, a lot of people I talked to 
Sarah Palin, which won 41.1. about the election thought 
percent of the vote. Obama would actually win by 
The final Gallup Poll, based more than he did because of on data from the fact we are Oct. 31 to Nov. a college cam­
..The numbers we're 

2, has Obama at pus," he said. 55 percent to seeing ... it's cliche. "Obama is gen­44 percent erally very well ·
but Notre Dame as a 

advantage liked among
whole is a

among likely college stu­voters. Trend representative dents." 
..

data shows Schmidt said
group.

Obama ending he believes his campaign Notre Dame's 
Grant Schmidt 

with a lead of unique identity up to 11 per­student body vice as both a col­centage points president lege campus, among likely whose members voters. tend to be 
Schmidt told The Observer among the more liberal elec­on the eve of the election that torate and a University that is the general perception about typically viewed as conserva­the University -that Notre tive balanced out the results. Dame is a conservative cam­"The numbers we're seeing pus -caused him to predict a .. , it's cliche, but Notre Dame Republican victory in the stu­as a whole is a representative dent government mock elec­group," Schmidt said tion. Schmidt said members the 
"I thought that McCain work of the campus media, would have won [in the mock ND Votes '08 and residence election]," Schmidt said. "I halls has helped make stu­just assumed, because we are dents aware of the issues that a fairly conservative universi­will make the difference on ty ... I thought McCain would Election Day. come out ahead." "Everybody's goal was to 
"I really feel like we are voted, and Obama was the aligned with the winner," she national polls said. now, and will be She said 
..... We have such a
aligned trends indicate [Election DayJ tag line ofbeing 'the the further because people conservative campus' along students 
are really are in their
-that it's in a bubble
aware of the years at issues. We're and it doesn't know school, the 
representative what's going on in the more tendency 
of where there is for
real world.·· 
American them to vote stands right liberal. now." Ashlee Wright "I think it's 
Senate awesome,"
student senate 
University Wright said.
University Affairs chair 
Affairs chair "Just because Ashlee Wright, we have such a who helped tagline of coordinate the mock election, being 'the conservative cam­also did not predict Notre pus' -that it's in a bubble Dame's results to so closely and it doesn't know what's parallel national percentage going on in the real world. spreads. Now, we're exactly the same 
"I was very shocked, as the national polls -it's because you always hear such astounding." taglines about the University, Wright said she believes stu­that we're a homogonous, dents making use of the conservative body. But there College Readership Program is that diversity of opinion, has helped "get us out of the and in discussing your views bubble" and "debunked the against those of others is the rumor" that Notre Dame is only way you can form opin­uninformed politically. ions," she said. According to an Oct. 6 
She said the results of the Observer article about the mock election worked to mock . election, the most change outside perception of important issue for those who the University. voted was the economy, with 
"They assumed it would lean 41.5 percent of the votes, fol­
ing issues, 9.8 percent chose energy and the environment as the most important issue in the election, 9.5 percent chose other, 7. 7 percent chose abor­tion, 6.2 percent chose the Iraq War, 3.3 percent chose education, 3.2 percent chose civil liberties and one percent chose immigration. 
When asked how closely they had been following the election, 37.2 percent chose the selection "I check the elec­tion news once or twice a week," 36.8 percent said "I check the headlines once a day," 19.1 percent said "I stalk multiple news networks daily," 5.1 percent said "I've heard of the candidates," . 9 percent said "Election? What election?" and .8 percent gave no response. 
Before the 2004 presidential contest, student media groups on campus, not including The Observer, conducted a mock election in LaFortune a week before the election between President George W. Bush and Sen. John Kerry, reported Notre Dame Magazine. With 570 undergraduates and grad­uate students voting, the vote was 47.5 percent for Bush and 
46.8 percent for Kerry. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
Many have followed the and speeches. After Nov. 4, Notre Dame's Film, Television focus will be on analyzing his election in a manner border­Yap, who has been working and Theatre department who election strategy to see what

Life 
ing on obsession. Junior Ed for Luke Puckett, the teaches a class entitled future candidates can Jearn continued from page 1 Yap, the president of the Republican candidate for "Media and the Presidency," from it. Notre Dame College Congress in Indiana's 2nd joked that she has spent most That analysis can go on for And then, what will we do? Republicans, said the election District, has no idea what he of her waking hours thinking several weeks, and then the 
The longest presidential occupies his thoughts "25 will do. about the election. press will focus on the transi­race in U.S. history comes to hours" per day. "I really don't," he said. "I really want it to be over tion process and President an end tonight, pending any He has two TVs, one turned "This has just been my life with, big time," she said. Bush's final days in office. vote tallying problems. For to Fox News and the other to for the past two years. I'll Today and tonight, she will The news will then turn to nearly two years, the presi­CNN. He also watches local think about it." be glued to the returns, wait­the next president's inaugu­dential candidates have par­television stations WSBT and Online political sites are ing to see whether the polls ral address. ticipated in the world's WNDU. Yap has a daily sub-also getting plenty of hits have been accurate. The topics will change, longest and scription to from the co-president of the Unlike Yap, she does not Ohmer said, but the intensity toughest job the Wall Notre Dame· College have two televisions. But she will not. interview. Street Democrats, does plan to "I think we can get to They've Journal, and senior set up her Christmas on the wave of g i v e n reads the S p e n c e r laptop in energy we've built up," she speeches in South Bend Howard. front of her said. small towns ../ think we can get to Tribune, the I m "Tm addicted to the TV to watch Only after the January and giant Christmas on the way of Indianapolis addicted to Internet. I don't ez,en know Election inauguration, when the next stadiums. Star, the t h e Night pi ay president settles in and faces
energy we've build up." how many Web sites I 
They've Chicago Internet," he out. massive problems that
have bookmarked that I
kissed Tribune, the said. "I don't "You do require large solutions, will dozens of Susan Ohmer New York even know check multiple times a start to feel, the energy die down, Ohmer babies, professor Times, the how many day." 'Are we predicted. appeared on Washington Web sites I humans or But the confetti has not
Media and the Presidency

"Saturday Times and have book­are we been thrown and the balloons 
Spencer Howard 
Night Live" t h e marked that androids?'" have not been dropped. The and late Washington I check mul­president she quipped. champagne bottles are being night talk Post. Yap tiple times a College Democrats Even after chilled. shows, tast-also sub-day." all the bal­The electoral maps are red ed the local scribes to Political lots have and blue but also gray. The food and they've shaken Time Magazine and National work will been counted pollsters' eyes are bloodshot more hands than most of us Review. not end after and the and their hairlines receding. will shake in a lifetime. This is not an exhaustive the election for either Yap or champagne bottles corked, There will be a winner, and 
And we've watched it all on list. Howard, who will continue Ohmer thinks there will still there will be a loser. But Yap, television. We've read about "I also check out Drudge running their clubs on cam­be plenty of political news to Howard, Ohmer and the rest it in the papers, on blogs and Report every five minutes," pus. However, life post-Nov. 4 stave off a post-Election Day of the country and the world talked about it with our fami­he said. "Every five minutes is likely to be a lot less hec­letdown. still have several hours of ly and friends. on the minute." tic. If McCain wins, the media election coverage overload to 
When the winner is decid­After Nov. 4, these media "Personally, I'm going to will focus on what happened savor. ed, the long drama will be outlets will not have daily sleep more," Howard said. to Obama, with his record­over. And then what will we tracking polls. They will not For the last two years, Dr. breaking fun dr aising, she Contact Kaidynn Riely at watch, read and debate'? cover the candidates' travels Susan Ohmer, a professor in said. And if Obama wins, the kriely@nd.edu 


page4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 4, 2008 
franchised people who would ernment on the matter, she vote for candidates with a said. pro-Western agenda," she "People didn't want the said. bases to be in Bulgaria, but 
Beltsar said she once tried the government had no way 
. to  vote in the  to  refuse  as  
Ukraine elec­ part of being  
tions through  in  being  in  
the Ukrainian embassy but the paperwork did not go  ..... the more people registered to vote, the more they got excited  NATO, which is important to us, being in a small country,"  
through  in  about it and the more  Cucumanova  
time. V a n y a Cucumanova, a  I felt involved in the ,, process.  said. "In that particular sense, who is  
graduate stu­ the next presi­ 
dent in the Peace Studies  Olga Beltsar sophomore  dent affects us because he  


Young 
continued from page I 
Since the beginning of the school year, the campus has been abuzz with different student groups trying to get out the message to vote. The student body has consequent­ly taken a heightened interest in the election. 
Like many first-time voters in the freshman class, Kahn said that he is thrilled to be voting for the first time this election. 
"It's pretty exciting. I have friends that are still in high school telling me that I'm lucky," he said. 
Kahn also pointed out that the strong participation by young voters in both presi­dential campaigns con­tributed to his anticipation. 
"I've never really consid­ered voting to be that 'excit­ing' but with so much atten­tion being paid to this elec­tion, especially from the youth of America, I certainly feel like I'm fortunate to be involved," Kahn said. 
Similar to many people, Kahn said he believes the economy is the most impor­tant issue in this election. 
"Being a college student, the state of the economy is probably my No. 1 concern when it comes to politics, I know I would hate to have graduated from college last year or be graduating this year, and I don't want the economy to be in a similar state in four years," he said. 
Kahn also cited the war in Iraq and national security as two other important issues. 
Pollsters are predicting a record number of college-age voters in this year's election. 
. Kahn agreed with these fore­casts, but personally hopes that the youth have motives behind their choice. "I think it's extremely important for the youth of America to vote, but it's even more important that they vote for the right reasons. It seems that voting is becom­ing a 'trendy' thing to do. Young voters need to pay attention to the issues, and make educated decisions," he said. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonne 1 @nd.edu 
Arrests 
continued from page 1 
festivities include the use of alcoholic beverages, remem­ber to follow Indiana laws and drink responsibly," Chapman said, "Law enforce­ment officers will arrest underage drinkers on campus and at tailgate parties." 
Chapman said NDSP worked with Indiana State 
Excise  Police,  St.  Joseph  
County  Police  and  South  
Bend Police.  

Contact John-Paul Witt jwittl@nd.edu 
Right 
continued from page I 
Chinese  population  has  
access  to  education,  she  
said.  

"Voting for the right person and the right policy depends on how much education you receive," Zhu said. "If you are being educated, you can make a better choice." 
president." 

Zhu said she believes vot­ing is a duty as a citizen and a responsibility. 
"I think this is one of the best ways to express your opinions and one of the best ways to really change your life," she said. 
Olga Beltsar said although she grew up in California, she was born in the Ukraine and cannot vote in the upcoming election. The 
Zhu said she has watched all three of the presidential debates between Sens. John McCain and Barack Obama and the debate between Vice Presidential candidates Sen. Joe Biden and Gov. Sarah Palin because the platforms of the next 
sophomore has b e c o m e involved in poli­..Voting for the right tics through her work as
person and the right 

Cavanaugh
policy depends on II all's dorm 
how much education commissioner for NDvotes '08.
you receive. If you are 

She said she
being educated, you helped students 
can make a better in her hall reg­ister to vote.
choice'' 

"It felt kind of nice because Christina Zhu the more people sophomore registered to vote, the more they got excited about it and the 
program and a citizen of Bulgaria, said she is follow­ing the election because the financial crisis in the United States has hurt the economy in Bulgaria. 
"The Bulgarian market is very much dependen( on the 
U.S. dollar and the Euro, and now the prices here are affected greatly," she said. "There was a big fallout in the Bulgarian stock market, much bigger in proportion than what it was here." 
Cucumanova also said many Bulgarians are paying attention to the election because of issues with American military bases in Bulgaria. The Bush adminis­tration asked for military bases in Bulgaria, and the people clashed with the gov-
will affect how 
these bases 
are used." 

Cucumanova said Bulgaria has a President along with a Prime Minister and a Parliament. For the Presidential elections, there are usually four or five can­didates, she said. Cucumanova said the Presidential elections in Bulgaria are different because Bulgarians usually vote based on personality and she said she believes people in the U.S. usually vote by party. 
"I think that the U.S system is very much narrowed down to party lines," she said. "In Bulgaria, that's not the case." 
Contact Madeline Buckley mbuckley@nd.edu 
president will affect Chinese foreign policies and International organizations like the United Nations. 
"A new president is going to have a new foreign poli­cy," she said. "China has a really close connection to the U.S., so China will have to change their foreign policy when the U.S. has a new 
more I felt involved in the process," Beltsar said. 
Beltsar said voting in the Ukraine is much more diffi­cult than in the United States because the country is unsta­ble and many leaders are corrupt and partake in elec­tion fraud to get certain leaders elected. 
"Election fraud has disen-

Loyal 
continued from page 1 
Dame students should be able to go every year and learn something new from the show. New stories will be included, and some stories from previous productions will be integrated into new productions," Cross male perspective with the cre­ative efforts of a male co­writer. Preston and Cross con­ducted interviews with stu­dents and other members of the Notre Dame community in order to gain new material for the show's script. 
"I think having a male inter­viewer is invaluable to the project in terms of gathering stories from the community. 
said. "This year, with two authors, one of them a male student, we feel that the show con­tinues to evolve, which was the original hope." 
The play, _ originally titled "Loyal Daughters," debuted on campus in 
W h e n you're talk­"Most ofthe people in ing about 
sexual
these stories are confused 
issues, it is

about something, and important 
trying to play them on that people are able to
stage forces you to really 
interview

identify with that with either confusion, which, for me, · a man or a woman,
led to a very unique 
because

understanding ofthe most likely 
issues and the difficulties they will be more com­
this play addresses. " 
fortable 

2006. Emily Weisbecker, a  Devin Preston  with one or the other,"  
2007  Notre  co-writer  Preston  
Dame gradu­ said. "This  
ate, wrote the  is  an issue  

show in order to increase stu­that also can't be solved by one dents' awareness of sexuality gender alone, which makes it issues present on campus. In crucial to have men just as 2007, Sarah Van Mill, a 2008 involved in the production as graduate, took over as the women." show's co-writer and decided Preston first became interest­to rename the show. ed in "Loyal Sons and 
"The show was renamed Daughters" after he saw the "Loyal Daughters and Sons" to 2006 production. In 2007, ref1ect the increased propor­Preston auditioned for, and tion of male perspectives that successfully landed. a role in were incorporated," Cross said. the play. 
This year, the show hoped to "I loved performing in the incorporate even more of a show last year," Preston said. 
"As a theatre major, I appreci­ated being involved in some­thing that channeled my the­atrical talents towards a posi­tive cause. The great thing about performing in this show is that you're dealing with real stories, which allows you to get to know someone who you means to be raped. We also tried to pay attention to how people around the victims responded or reacted to sexual assault so that the show exam­ines what we as a community can or should do about the issue." 
"Loyal Daughters and Sons," 
probably haven't had a chance to meet. Most of the people in these "I would say. go to stories are con­
performance. Stay for
fused about 
the panel 
something, and trying to play discussions. " them on stage forces you to 
Zoe Cross 
really identify 
co-writer
with that confu­sion, which, for me, led to a very unique under-
directed by senior Megan Hartmann, will be shown Nov. 5-7 at 
7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents and $5 for non-stu­dents and will be available both at the LaFortune Box 

standing of the issues and the difficulties this play address­es." 
This year's production con­sists of 30 different scenes. Each scene deals with sex, sex­uality and sexual assault at Notre Dame and is based off of real-life experiences of Notre Dame students. 
"We have 13 new scenes this year, which we think bring in a lot of material that the show hasn't dealt with before. We tried to pull in and utilize pre­vious stories that complement­ed the new material," Preston said. "This year's show reflects a lot of confusion and ques­tions. The people in these sto­ries are trying to figure out what things mean, what it means to be sexual, what it means to be Catholic, what it Office and at the door. 
Immediately following the Thursday and Friday perform­ances, a post-show panel will be held to discuss how to pre­vent, avoid and address sexual assault at Notre Dame. 
"I believe that if students choose to attend the play, they should do so with open minds, ready to listen to these stories and respond, as a member of the Notre Dame community," Cross said. "I would say, go to the performance. Stay for the panel discussions. And then, don't let your involvement stop there. Keep asking questions, having discussions, speaking out, and listening to what oth­ers have to say." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 


Tuesday November 4, 2008 Co~\-tPILED FRo~~\ THE OBSERVER'S \VIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bin Laden aid gets life in prison 
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba-A Guantanamo prisoner who made propaganda videos for Osama bin Laden and says he volun­teered to be a Sept. 11 hijacker was convicted of terrorism charges and sentenced to life in prison Monday. 
A jury of nine U.S. military officers deliberat­ed for just under an hour before condemning Ali llamza al-Bahlul at Guantanamo's second war-crimes trial. Al-Bahlul was convicted of 35 counts of conspiracy, solicitation to commit murder and providing material support for ter­rorism. 
The jury, which announced its verdict earlier Monday, dismissed one count of conspiracy and one count of providing material support for terrorism. 
The 39-year-old Yemeni defiantly admitted joining al-Qaida, accused the U.S. of oppress­ing Muslims for 50 years and said "we will fight any government that governs America." 
Congo refugees angry at lack of food 
KIBATI, Congo-Hungry refugees cheered when the first humanitarian convoy in a week arrived at their camp Monday, but the jubila­tion turned to anger when U.N. workers dumped only soap and plastic jerry cans instead of food and sped on past rebel lines. 
U.N. officials conceded that hunger at the Kibati camp, where tens of thousands shel­tered from fighting in eastern Congo, was dire but said the first priority was to resupply med­ical clinics looted by retreating government troops. 
"Are we supposed to eat this?" demanded Boniface Ndayumujinya, an elderly man wav­ing a bundle of spring onions brought by a friend. He said he was with eight family mem­hers who had not eaten in five days. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Fnneral held for Hudson's slain family 
CHICAGO-Hundreds of mourners attended a private funeral service for Oscar winner Jennifer Hudson's slain mother, brother and nephew Monday at a South Side church. 
A composed Hudson paused before the bodies of her relatives before giving her mother a final kiss, said attendees ofthe invitation-only service. 
Chicago Mayor Richard Daley and the Rev. Jesse Jackson were among those who spoke at the three-hour service for Darnell Hudson Donerson, 57, Jason Hudson, 29, and Julian King, 7. 
The three were found shot to death late last month, the adults in Donerson's home and Julian in a vehicle found several miles away. Julian is the son of Jennifer Hudson's older sis­ter, Julia Hudson. 
Bones identified as Fossett's remains 
MADERA, Calif. -Authorities said Monday they have positively identified some of Steve Fossett's remains: two large bones found a half-mile from where the adventur­er's plane crashed in California's Sierra Nevada. 
Madera County Sheriff John Anderson said DNA tests conducted by the state Department of Justice positively identified the bones as the remains of the millionaire aviator who disappeared last year. 
Anderson has declined to say what bones were found, saying he didn't want to cause the family further anguish. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Clerk ends voting with 1OOs waiting 
EVAI\ISVILLE. Ind. -The county clerk turned away hundred<; of voters who had stood in line for hours to cast absentee ballots in person when Monday's noon deadline arrived. 
Radio station WIKY reported hundreds of voters were in line at noon pressing against the door to the office of Vanderburgh C.ounty Oerk Susan Kirk when they were turned away. 
"l was right there in line ready to sign the book. and the lady said I couldn't sign the book," Danielle Groves of Evansville told ""l.KY. ''I've been in this line sinee eight o'clock this morning waiting to vote. Thi~ is ridiculous. It doesn't make any sense." 
ELECTION 2008 
Candidates campaign relentlessly 
McCain, Obama travel the country, looking for votes in battleground states 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Barack Obama radiated confidence and John McCain displayed the grit of an underdog Monday as the presidential rivals reached for the finish line of a two-year marathon with a burst of campaigning across battlegrounds from the Atlantic Coast to Arizona. 
"We are one day away from change in America," said Obama, a Democrat seeking to become the first black pres­ident -a dream not nearly as distant on election eve as it once was. 
McCain, too, promised to turn the page of the era of George W. Bush, and he warned about his opponent's intentions. "Sen. Obama is in the far left lane" of politics, he said. "He's more liberal than a guy who calls himself a Socialist and that's not easy." 
Republican running mate Sarah Palin was even more pointed as she campaigned in Ohio. "Now is not the time to experiment with socialism," she said. "Our opponent's plan is just for bigger government." 
Late-season attacks aside, Obama led in virtually all the pre-election polls in a race where economic concerns dominated and the war in Iraq was pushed -however temporarily -into the back­ground. 
Early voting, more than 29 million ballots cast in 30 states, suggested an advan­tage for Obama as well. Official statistics showed Democrats who have already voted outnumbered Republicans in North Carolina, Colorado, Florida and Iowa, all of which went for President Bush in 2004. 
Democrats also anticipated gains in the House and in the Senate, although Republicans battled to hold their losses to a minimum and a significant number of races were rated as tossups in the campaign's final hours. 
By their near-non-stop attention to states that voted Republican in 2004, both Obama and McCain acknowl­edged the Democrats' advan-tage in the presidential race. 

The two rivals both began their days in Florida, a tradi­tionally Republican state with 27 electoral votes where polls make it close. 
Obama drew 9,000 or so at a rally in Jacksonville, while across the state, a crowd esti­mated at roughly 1,000 turned out for McCain. 
One day before the election, no battleground state was left unattended. 
But Virginia, where no Democrat has won in 40 years, and Ohio, where no Republiean president has ever lost, seemed most coveted. Together, they account for 3 3 electoral votes that McCain can scarcely do without. 
Democratic volunteers in Maryland, a state safe for Obama, called voters in next­door Virginia, where McCain trailed in the polls. The Democratic presidential can­didate's visit to Virginia during the day was his 11th since he clinched the nomination. 
Unwilling to concede any­thing, McCain's campaign filed a lawsuit in Richmond seeking to force election officials to count late-arriving ballots from members of the armed forces overseas. No hearing was immediately scheduled. 
Several hundred miles away in Ohio -the state that sealed Bush's second term in 2004 -voters waited as long as three hours in line to cast ballots in Columbus, part of heavily contested Franklin County. Poll workers handed out bottles of water to sustain them. 
Lori Huffman, 38, a supervi­sor at UPS Inc., took the day off to vote early for her man, McCain. "It's exciting isn't it?" she asked, gesturing toward the long line of waiting voters. 
"This is happening all over the state, from Cleveland to Dayton," said Gov. Ted Strickland, a Democrat trying to deliver his state to Obama. 
Obama hoped so, after more than a year building an elabo­rate get-out-the-vote opera­tion, first for the primary campaign, now for the gener­al election. 

ELECTION 2008 






Obama mourns grandmother's death 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU -Barack Obama's grandmother. whose personality and bearing shaped much of the life of the Democratic presidential contender, has died. Obama announced Monday, one day before the election. Madelyn Payne Dunham was 86. 
Obama announced the news from the campaign trail in Charlotte, N.C. The joint statement with his sister Maya Soetoro-Ng said Dunham died late Sunday night after a battle with can­cer. 
"She's gone home," Obama said as tens of thousands of rowdy supporters at the University of North Carolina­Charlotte grew silent in an evening drizzle. 
"And she died peacefully in her sleep with my sister at her side. And so there is great joy as well as tears. I'm not going to talk about it too long because it is hard for me to talk about." 
But he said he wanted people to know a little about her -that she lived through the Great Depression and World War II, working the latter 
on a bomber assembly line with a baby at home and a husband serving his country. He said she was humble and plain spoken, one of the "quiet heroes that we have all across America" working hard and hoping to see their children and grandchildren thrive. 
"That's what we're fighting for," Obama said. 
Obama learned of Dunham's death Monday morning while he was cam­paigning in Jacksonville, Fla. He went ahead with campaign appearances. The family said a private ceremony would be held later. 


page 6 Tuesday, November 4, 2008 
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
IRAQ 

Tuesday, November 4, 2008 page 7
l String of bon1bings shake Baghdad, kill 10, wound 40 
I 
MARKET RECAP 
1 
U.S. auto sales sho-w drastic decline
Attacks show t_hat extremists still have the capability to stage bombings even in heavily guarded capital city 
Stocks 
northeast of Baghdad, a car 

Auto sales drop to 17-year low while General Motors sales drop by 45 percent
Associated Press 

t 
Dow -5.18
bomb blew up across the street 

9,319.83
Jones
BAGHDAD -A series of from the provincial council 
Associated Press 
bombings struck Baghdad and headquarters, killing two 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume:
l 
a neighboring province policemen and a 10-year-old 
DETROIT -U.S. auto
1,963 74 1,508 2 71,993,156
Monday, killing at least 10 peo­girl, Diyala provincial police 
sales dropped to their low­
ple and wounding 40, including said. Nine people were wound­
AMEX t'@f.if:ll:i 1,475.32 +8.42_ 
est level in more than 17 
a deputy oil minister who was ed. 

years last month as con­
NASDAQ 1 726.33 +5.38
injured when a bomb went off A group of people were inside 
sumers frightened by Wall
,:ltJYs!iB•"!R ~--6~os4:9a~&:tr!
in front of his house as he was the council headquarters 
Street turmoil stayed away
leaving for work. attending a conference on how 
S&P 500 966.30 -2.45 
from showrooms, prompt­
Most of the six blasts to protect journalists in Diyala, 
ing some auto company
NIKKEl (ToicYoJ:,~&,,.:;:·S:942.34'!':f365;]36;f
occurred in Baghdad, reinforc­one of Iraq's most unstable 
executives to predict dire
FTSE 100 (London) 4,443.28 +65.94
ing U.S. military warnings that provinces. None of the partici­
consequences if the mar­
extremists remain capable of pants was hurt, police said. 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ket doesn't improve.
launching attacks in the capital The police officials all spoke 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +0.29 +0.28 97.11 
By the time all automak­
despite an overall improvement on condition of anonymity 
ers reported their num­
POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.21 -0.07 32.82
in security. because they were not sup­
bers Monday, sales had 
AMER INTL GROUP INC (AIG) +12.04 +0.23 2.14
The attacks took place on the posed to release the informa­
eve of the U.S. presidential tion. 

!SHARES MSCI E.M.I.F. (EEM) ·0.90 -0.23 25.20 
over 838,156 vehicles, the 
election between Sen. Barack U.S. officials say attacks in 
lowest monthly sales fig­
Obama and Sen. John McCain, Baghdad are averaging about 
ure since .January 1991.
Treasuries
who hold widely differing views four a day, down nearly 90 per­
according to Autodata 
10-YEAR NOTE -1.66 -0.070 3.900
on the war in Iraq. cent from levels of late 2006 
Corp. and Ward's 
Six people died when a pair when Shiite-Sunni lighting was 
13-WEEK BILL ·3.45 ·0.020 0.420 
AutoinfoBank. 
of bombs -one of them hidden at its high point and just before 
"This is clearly a severe,
30-YEAR BOND ·1.10 -0.048 4.321
in a trash can -exploded in the U.S. troop surge, which 
severe recession for the
5-YEAR NOTE ·4.08 ·0.115 2.706
Tahariyat square in the helped bring down violence in 
U.S. automotive industry
Karradah district of central the capital. 

and something we really
Commodities
Baghdad during the morning Nevertheless, Monday's 
can't sustain," said Mike 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -3.90 63.91
rush hour. bombings show that extremists 
DiGiovanni, General 
Police said 21 people were retain the capability to stage 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +8.60 726.80 
Motors'Corp. 's executive 
wounded, including 10 police­bombings even in the heart of 
director of global market
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.88 83.90 
men and two women. The the heavily guarded Iraqi capi­
and industry analysis who 
blasts blew out store fronts lin­tal. 

said the government
ing the square in a mostly Last week, unknown 
Exchange Rates 
should speed up actions to 
Shiite area of eastern Baghdad. assailants blew up a major 
thaw out frozen credit.
YEN 98.6700
Soon afterward, a bomb went water pipeline in northern 
"There really needs to be
EURO 0.7943
off in front of the north Baghdad, interrupting water AP 
actions focused on the
An Iraqi policeman secures the area at the scene where a car bomb exploded in Baqouba, 35 miles
Baghdad home of Abdul-Sahib supplies to thousands of people 
CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.1826 
consumer and available
northeast of Baghdad on Monday.
Salman Qutub, a deputy oil before the damage was 
BRITlSH POUND 0.6341 
credit." 
minister in charge of crude oil repaired. 

GM's sales plunged 45 
production. Ministry U.S. military commanders to go to war and opposes by the end of the year when the islative hurdle standing in the 
percent in October, the 
spokesman Assem Jihad said have warned that both Sunni scheduling a troop withdrawal, U.N. mandate governing coali­way of provincial elections by 
worst drop of any major
the bomb was attached to and Shiite extremists remain saying the U.S. strategy since tion operations expires. the end of January. Christians 
automaker. Chrysler LLC, 
2008 Fusion Sedans sit at a Ford dealership in the southeast Denver waiting to be
Qutub's car and went off as he active and have cautioned the 2007 troop surge is suc­Without an agreement or a complained, however, that the 
which is in talks to be
IN BRIEF
was walking to the vehicle. against major reductions in the ceeding. new mandate, U.S. military bill granted them too few seats. 
acquired by GM as a way sold on Sunday. 
Qutub was treated and 145,000-strong U.S. force until The U.S. and Iraq are negoti­operations would cease on Jan. Iraqi Christians, believed to 
for both companies to sur­
financing offer on most
released from a hospital, but Iraqi police and soldiers are ating a new security agreement 1. number no more than 3 per­
Hundreds of Circuit City stores close 
vive in the current climate, watched figure indicates the Dearborn-based com­
his driver was seriously capable of maintaining securi­which would end the U.S. mili­The U.S. contends that lasting cent of Iraq's 27 million people, 
RICHMOND, Va. -A'> the lighl'> go out at about 
saw a 35 percent decline .. what sales would be if they pany's senior economist, models for another month, 
injured, Jihad said. ty. tary presence by 2012 and give peace will not come to Iraq have complained of violence, 
20 percent of Circuit City's stores, the company is 
Ford Motor Co.'s sales remained at their current said that because automo­while GM announced it 
One policeman was killed and But U.S. strategy in Iraq may Iraqis a greater role in manag­until the rival religious and eth­intimidation and the loss of sta­
hoping that by closing hundreds of stores and 
dropped 30 percent. rate all year, with adjust­biles are more durable would begin its annual 
six were injured in a roadside change depending on the out­ing combat operations. nic groups reach power-shar­tus since the rise of Islamic mil­
cutting thousands of jobs it can survive con­
Japanese companies ments for seasonal fluctu­than in the past, people "Red Tag" year-end sale 
weren't immune from the ations. can wait without buying a Tuesday, earlier than nor­
bombing in east Baghdad, come of Tuesday's presidential Prime Minister Nouri al­ing agreements. As part of that itancy in the wake of the U.S. 
sumers who are reluctant to spend and vendors 
police said. Another policeman contest. Maliki's government is waiting process, Iraq's parliament invasion. 
carnage, with Toyota "There are no hot seg­new vehicle until they feel mal. Auburn Hills, Mich.­
less eager to give it credit. 
more confident in the based Chrysler said it
and a civilian were wounded Obama opposed the Iraq for a U.S. response to proposed approved a bill granting On Monday, however, al­
But analysts say the moves announced Monday 
Motor Corp. sales down 23 ments or really hot prod­
when a bomb went off near a invasion of 2003 and has called changes in the draft agreement Christians and other small reli­Maliki, a Shiite, pledged to pro­
renewed the specter of bankruptcy hanging over 
percent despite a zero­ucts," said George Pipas, economy. would continue incentives 
police patrol in the western for a complete withdrawal of before referring it to parlia­gious groups seats on several tect the Christians, whom he 
the nation's No. 2 consumer electronics retailer 
percent financing offer. Ford's top sales analyst. "The answer to when we introduced in November 
part of the capital. combat troops in 16 months. ment for a final decision. The provincial councils. described as "an essential com­
Honda Motor Co.'s sales The figures were espe­will start to come out of that include cash rebates
heading into a holiday shopping season that 
In Baqouba, about 35 miles McCain supported the decision agreement must be approved The measure was the last leg-ponent" of Iraqi society. 
dropped 25 percent and cially troublesome for GM that trough lies in when of up to $6,000 and dis­
could determine its future. 
Nissan Motor Co.' sales and Ford, both of which the economy comes out of counted financing on
"Clearly, (Circuit City) is frantically working to 
keep itself alive," JP Morgan analyst Christopher 
tumbled 33 percent. are trying to conserve cash that trough," Kolinski remaining 2008 models. 
I lorvers wrote in a note to investors. 
October's seasonally and stay in business long Morris said on a confer­Toyota's no-interest 
. 
Cireuit City Stores Inc. is dosing 155 of its more 
adjusted annual sales rate enough to outlast a severe ence call with reporters loans gave it an advantage 
~I PAKISTAN 
last month over automak­
than 700 U.S. stores by Dec. 31. The stores are 
of 10.6 million vehicles economic downturn. and analysts. 
was worst the since Neither company had any The poor sales, though, ers such as GM and
spread throughout 28 states, inducting multiple 
' 
February 1983 and far idea when sales might will mean good deals fur Chrysler whose finance
locations in areas like Phoenix and Atlanta. It is 
li 
below the rate of 16 mil­rebound to more normal people who do want to buy companies are having
laying off about 17 percent of its domestic work 

i.\ Zardari warns Petraeus against n1issile strikes on border 
~ 
lion a year earlier, levels. cars. Toyota decided to trouble getting access to
force, which could affect up to 7,300 people. 
I \ 
James A. Marcum, vice chairman and acting 
Autodata said. The closely Emily Kolinski Morris, extend its zero-percent capital. 
president and chief executive, called the decision 
I i Pakistani president says attacks are counterproductive and must be stopped to avoid backlash in war on terror 
to close stores "difficult, but necessary." 
I ! ' 
sages with each of those we Secretary of State Richard lire. acknowledged its dependence 
Hystericalady bought for $3 million 
Associated Press 

talked today and some of those Boucher that the attacks from There have been no reports of on Western aid in the face of 
Banks tighten lending in all areas
LEXINGTON, Ky. -Moments after his
I 
ISLAMABAD -Pakistan on were very clear and we have to unmanned drones should be additional ground assaults economic problems and taken a 
racehorse sold for $3 million at auction, 
1: Monday urged the American take those on board," CNN stopped. Washington is suspect­since and Petraeus has given tough public stance against ter­
trainer Jerry Jlollendorfer began lobbying 
The latest Fed survey was conduct­all major loan categories over the
general taking charge of the quoted Petraeus as saying. ed of launching at least 17 such few hints about what strategy rorism and extremism. 
the buyer to preserve Ilystericalady's rac­
Associated Press 
~ war in Afghanistan to halt mis­"The tone of the conversation missile strikes on Pakistan he will follow. Defense Minister Ahmad 
ed in the tirst two weeks of October, previous three months."
ing career rather than retire her as a
sile a"ttacks on militants in its was very frank and very forth­since August. Without confirming the sub­Mukhtar said in a statement 
WASIIINGTON -Banks tightened too soon to ref1ect possible effects of The ligures reflect the condition of
broodmare. 
, ~ border badlands to avert a right, as it should be," he added "Continuing drone attacks on ject of Petraeus' discussions in after his meeting with Petraeus 
the spigots further on all sorts of the government's program to inject bank lending "as the economy has
John Ferguson, who placed the winning
backlash against the U.S. in this later. our territory, which result in Pakistan, White House press that missile strikes could "cre­
lending, from home mortgages to about $250 billion into U.S. banks by entered into a recession," said Keith
bid Monday at Keeneland on behalf of
~ 
vital ally in the war on terror­There is growing U.S. concern loss of precious lives and prop­secretary Dana Perino said it is ate outrage and uproar among 
credit cards and business loans, as directly buying shares in them as Leggett, senior economist at the
Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al Maktoum,
ism. about how Islamic militants are erty, are counterproductive and normal for allies such as the the people." But his statement 
the worst financial crisis in seven part of a broader financial rescue American Bankers Association.
the ruler of Dubai, said she would likely
Gen. David Petraeus met using pockets of Pakistan's difficult to explain by a demo­U.S. and Pakistan to exchange also noted that both sides 
decades took a bigger toll on the effort. The government also plans to The Fed found 85 percent of the
head to the breeding shed. But, he
President Asif Ali Zardari, army northwest region as sanctuaries cratically elected government," views frankly. "stressed the need for 
economy. buy billions in distressed mortgage­domestic banks responding to the
acknowledged Hollendorfer was persua­
The Federal Reserve said Monday related assets that banks hold. survey reported that they had tight­
chief Gen. Ashfaq Parvez to support the escalating insur­Zardari was quoted as saying. "There's a lot of tension in enhanced cooperation to elimi­
sive. 
~~ Kayani and other officials on gency in Afghanistan. He said the government was Pakistan right now," Perino nate the scourge of terrorism." 
that its latest quarterly survey of The unprecedented government ened their lending standards for a
"IIe's rnak"mg a case," F;ergusonr sm"d .
' 
I his first international trip since Complaints from U.S. com­"under pressure to react more said. "They have a lot of issues It was unclear whether 
bank lending practices found high moves are designed to bolster banks' major type of business loans known
With the sale, Hollendorfer gave up his
i 
taking over U.S. Central manders about Pakistan's aggressively" to the strikes. on their plate, from terrorists to Petraeus addressed vows from 
numbers of banks reporting tighter balance sheets and break the logjam as "commercial and industrial"
:n percent stake in the 5-year-old racing
I 
credit standards across a broad in bank lendmg to get the credit sys­loans, up from 60 percent in the June
I Command three days earlier. efforts to counter the insur­In September, a U.S. ground their economy to the concerns Pakistani and Afghan leaders to 
star who won s!'ven lifetime starts, includ­
Petraeus, who now oversees gents have been accompanied assault in a tribal region in about their future security and seek talks with elements of the 
range of loan products. Nearly 60 tem moving again -and avoid the survey. Nearly all banks -95 per­
ing last year's Grade I Humana Distaff, and
the wars in Afghanistan and by a surge of missile strikes on Pakistan's northwest spurred their political situation, as they Taliban. Petraeus. previously 
percent of banks responding to the country sinking into a deep and pro­cent-reported tighter standards for
came up short of winning the Breeders'
Iraq, told CNN he had heard suspected Taliban and al-Qaida particular outrage. Days later, have a new administration the top U.S. commander in Iraq, 
survey said they had tightened lend­longed recession. the lines of credit they extend to
Cup Distaff later that year.
I ' 
criticism over the U.S. attacks targets, despite condemnation Pakistani troops fired on or sent that's trying to get settled." has indicated support for 
ing standards on credit card debt. The Fed survey of 55 domestic large and medium-sized businesses. 
Hollendorfer said he understands the 
on militant targets on the in Pakistan. flares at two American helicop­Pakistan's government is efforts to reach out to members 
"We're into the eye of the storm banks and 21 U.S. offices of foreign A large number of banks also
temptation to retire the Distorted Humor
~ Pakistani side of the border According to state-run APP ters operating near the border mindful of widespread opposi­of the Taliban considered mod­
here," said Brian Bethune, chief U.S. banks found that siLable percentages reported they were tightening stan­
mare, but he said her durability also opens 
financial economist at IllS Global of banks had "continued to tighten dards for both credit cards and other
with Afghanistan. news agency, Zardari told and U.S. and Pakistani ground tion at home to its ties with erate enough to cooperate with 
the door for continued success on the track
"In fact, we got certain mes-Petraeus and Assistant forces in the area exchanged Washington. However, it has the Afghan government. 
Insight in Lexington, Mass. their lending standards and terms on types of consumer loans.
should the sheikh decide to go that route. 
Tuesday, November 4, 2008

page 8 The Observer+ ELECTION 2008 
Key states could bring early winner 
Landslide possible if Obama secures Georgia, Indiana, Virginia 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Election watchers won't have to wait for polls to close in the West to know how things are going. The first clues will come early, when voting ends in Georgia, Indiana and Virginia. 
If Democrat Barack Obama wins any of the three, he could be on his way to a big victory, maybe even a landslide. If Republican John McCain sweeps them, he could be head­ed for a comeback. And if any of these three are too close to call quickly, that could indicate a long night ahead -and, per­haps, a squeaker of a result. 
President Bush comfortably won the trio four years ago. But Obama has used his financial muscle and his draw as the youthful first black Democratic nominee to put them, and other historically reliable Republican states, into play. 
Thus, the Democrat has sev­eral routes he can take to reach the 270 Electoral College votes needed for victory. McCain's strategy has no room for error; he must win nearly all the states that went to Bush in 2004, and possibly even one or two that voted for Democrat John Kerry that year. 
Here's a timetable for arm­chair election watchers, all given in Eastern Standard Time: 
-7 p.m.: The last polls close in Georgia, Indiana and Virginia, new battlegrounds this year offering a combined 39 votes, as well as in Kentucky and South Carolina, GOP coun­try and 16 votes McCain should easily win, and Vermont, three, a sure thing for Obama. 
-7:30 p.m.: Ohio and North Carolina, both are critical for McCain. 
Ohio is a perennial swing state that no Republican has ever lost on his way to the pres­idency. Bush captured the state twice, and a loss would be diffi­cult, if not impossible, for McCain to weather. He has few options to make up the 20 elec­toral votes elsewhere, while Obama probably could sustain a defeat here and look for wins in other GOP states where polls show him running stronger. 
North Carolina, with 15 votes, is another GOP state that Obama targeted for a pickup from the start of the general election and one where he is working to get blacks and young adults to turn out for him in droves. He also made a late play for West Virginia's five votes. Both are less likely than others to flip; McCain losing either would be disastrous. 
-8 p.m.: Final voting ends in some 15 states and Washington, D.C. 
For Obama, the biggest prizes among them are Florida and its 27 votes and 11-vote Missouri, a bellwether for decades. Both went for Bush, and while Obama can afford to lose both, McCain can't. 
Should the Republican stum­ble in those states or others, he hopes to make up any deficit in Pennsylvania, which offers 21 votes and hasn't voted for a Republican since 1988. A loss here could be the death knell for McCain's chances; it's the only Kerry-won state where he and the Republican National Committee are fiercely compet­ing. 
Among other Kerry states, McCain hopes New Hampshire and its independent streak will come through for him again; the state, which has four electoral votes, made him in his 2000 presidential primary and saved him eight years later, setting him on course to win the GOP nomination. McCain also has been gunning for a single elec­toral vote in Maine, one of two states that award them by con­gressional districts. 
In this election-night hour, the Republican will almost certainly rack up 33 quick votes with wins in Alabama, Mississippi, Oklahoma and Tennessee, while Obama banks 4 7 from Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey and the nation's capital and 24 more from his home state of Illinois and that of running mate Joe Biden, Delaware. 
-8:30 p.m.: Arkansas should be called for McCain shortly after its polls close. It has six votes. 
-9 p.m.: Another big wave of states closing. The ones to watch are hotly contested Bush states Colorado and New Mexico, where Obama hopes Democratic-leaning Hispanics will lift him to victory. McCain could withstand losing the 14 votes these two offer -as long as he wins just about every­where else he's competing. 
It's also worth keeping an eye on the typically reliable Republican territory of North Dakota and South Dakota. Obama has competed in the for­mer, and there may be overlap effect in the latter. They each offer there votes. Obama is also pushing for one vote in a Nebraska congressional district. 
Arizona, McCain's home st~te, may be another key indicator of which way the election will play out. If McCain loses that state, it's all but certain his presiden­tial dreams are over. Some sur­veys show the race there having tightened. 
The Republican can essential­ly guarantee victories worth 52 votes in Kansas, Louisiana, Texas and Wyoming, while Obama is virtually certain to collect 72 votes from Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Rhode Island and Wisconsin. 
-10 p.m.: Voting ends in GOP-held, Iowa, Montana and Nevada, a combined 15 votes. Losing these would be a setback for McCain, while winning them would be a boon for Obama. Utah's five votes are a certainty for McCain. 
-11 p.m.: Four states ­mega-prize California, Hawaii, Oregon and Washington -are expected to quickly give Obama a combined 77 votes, while Idaho is expected to award its four votes to McCain. 
-1 a.m.: Capping off the night is Alaska, where GOP vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin is governor. The Republican ticket is a shoo-in for those three votes. 
And then it's over. Or not. 
As the past two elections showed, there's no certainty. If it's a contest at all, the victor may not be declared until Wednesday's wee hours. Or later. 
Candidates visit undecided Indiana 
Associated Press -more than 14 percent of the 
state's 4.5 million registered vot­
INDIANAPOLIS ers. Unexpectedly undecided Indiana Secretary of State Todd Rokita is drawing both John McCain was hoping for a smoother elec­and Barack Obama back for tion night than the one in the last-minute campaign stops May primary. before voting ends Tuesday in Lake County results came in their quests for the state's elec­late on primary night, but elec­toral votes. tion administrators say they are 
Indiana hasn't backed a adding counting stations for Democratic pres-absentee ballots idential candi-and have created date since a separate prob­Lyndon Johnson ..We've got the lem-solving sta­won the state in tion so ballot
momentum. my
1964, but recent questions won't
friends. We've got it.,, down
polls have shown bog the the race between counting process Obama and Sen. John McCain during the gen­
a eral election.
McCain as Republican presidential 
dead heat. Rokita said it
candidate
McCain spoke at an airport rally Monday afternoon in Indianapolis -his first stop in the state since July 
1. Republicans hoped McCain's visit would bolster the state's long-standing conservative lean­ings. 
"We've got the momentum, my friends. We've got it." McCain told the crowd. "Indiana is now a battleground state, but it's a battle we're going to win." 
Democrats said the visit was too little, too late. 
"If John McCain thinks he can ignore Indiana, show up for a brief stop in the final hours of this election without talking about the issues that Hoosiers care about, and win votes, he has another think coming," said Lauren Smith, spokeswoman for the Indiana Democratic Party. 
Obama planned to visit the Indianapolis area on Tuesday in his ninth Indiana campaign stop since mid-July. 
The Obama campaign released no details, saying the Illinois senator planned to meet voters in person and ask for their support. Obama's Indiana stop on Tuesday comes as he travels to Chicago for a massive rally in Grant Park. 
Many Hoosiers, meanwhile, have already voted. A'i of Monday, 631,906 people had cast early absentee ballots 
sometimes takes 
time to get fair 

and correct results. 
''I'm not going to sacrifice fair­ness or accuracy for speed," Rokita said. 
Many voters were drawn to the polls this year because of the presidential election, but Tuesday's election will also determine control of the gover­nor's office and the Statehouse. 
Republican Gov. Mitch Daniels, who introduced McCain at Monday's rally, has outraised and outspent Democratic chal­lenger Jill Long Thompson. Polls have shown Daniels with a wide lead over Long Thompson. 
Daniels' campaign spokesman, Cam Savage, said they feel confi­dent about Daniels winning a second term but are taking nothing for granted. 
"We have knocked on tens of thousands of doors and made hundreds of thousands of phone calls," he said Monday. "We're not going to let up one bit through Election Day. There seems to be a lot of enthusiasm for the way he has taken the state the last four years." 
In the Statehouse, Republicans are expected to keep their grip on the state Senate. But the Indiana House is up for grabs as Democrats try to hold on to or expand their slim 51-49 advan­tage. 
Palin cleared in "Troopergate" 
Legislative investigation Jmd earlier concluded nominee abused her office 
found that Palin had abused The separate investigation
Associated Press 
her office. by the Legislative Council 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska -Monegan said he felt pres­recently concluded that Palin Gov. Sarah Palin violated no sure from Palin, her husband -the Republican vice presi­ethics laws when she fired her and her staff to fire a state dential nominee -abused public safety commissioner, trooper who had gone her office by allowing her the state personnel board through a nasty divorce from husband and staffers to pres­concluded in a report released Palin's sister. Palin denied the sure Monegan to fire the Monday. claim, and said Monegan was trooper, Mike Wooten. 
"There is no probable cause fired last July because she However, it upheld the firing to believe that the governor, wanted the department to because Monegan was an at­or any other state official, vio­head in a new direction. will employee. lated the Alaska Executive Monegan told The Petumenos said his conclu­
Ethics Act in connection with Associated Press he was "per­sions differ from the report by these matters," the report plexed and disappointed" by the legislative panel's investi­says. the report. It was prepared by gator, former prosecutor 
"Gov. Palin is pleased that Timothy Petumenos, an inde­Stephen Branchflower, the independent investigator pendent investigator for the because the earlier probe for the Personnel Board has Alaska Pf~rsonnel Board. assumed facts without having concluded that she acted "It conflicts with the first all relevant data at hand. lie properly in the reassignment investigation and then casts said Branchflower used a 
of Public Safety Commissioner doubts on both of them. So, it wrong statute as the basis for Walt Monegan," her attorney, doesn't really resolve any­his conclusions, misconstrued Thomas Van Flein, said in a thing." he said. "If it did, then the available evidence and did statement. I could walk away. It does not consider or obtain all the 
An earlier. separate investi­seem to fly in the face of cir­mat(~rial evidence to reach a gation by the Legislature cumstantial evidence." proper finding. 

r 
Buy 5 Feet. Get The 6"' Foot Free 
I

I 
For A Limited Time At I Participating Locations Including: I 1706 South Bend Ave* Downtown I
I US 31 N * SR 23 @Ironwood 
I

I 
*UP Mall *Indian Ridge* WaiMart 
'  I  
I  8!2:1~~·1?  '~  I  
I  ~a.:t.  ~r~s~­ I  
'  I  



Tuesday, November 4, 2008 page 9 

Today, as you are watching Election Day coverage on television or tracking the results online, use The Observer's Electoral Map to chart the battle for 270 electoral votes. Color states blue for Sen. Barack Obama, and red for Sen. John McCain and tally their votes. 
I ' 
.. 
McCAIN

OBAMA 

WASH. II 
N.D

MONT. 
3
3 
ORE. 7 
S.D. 3 
WYO. 
3 


IOWA 7
NEB. 
NEV 
5 
5 
CALIF. 
55 
ARIZ. 10 


ALA 
MISS. 
9 
6 
,o 
~Cib 

HAWAII $:> 
4 
{) 

MAGIC NUMBER 270 ' 

p 
THE OBSERVER 

Tuesday, November 4, 2008 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 

The Catholic vote 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: K.uie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey 9ill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(57,4) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver. com 
Pouc1es 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advenisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chiet: Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom rtgarding Obs~rorr polici.ti should b~ directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oh..rver (USPS 599 l-4000) i. puhlisha.l Munday through Friday "''"'I" during cx.am and vaasion periods. A subscript inn to The Observer .is $100 fornn< acadc:mk yt:M: $S5 for on~ sctnt.'Slc:r. 
The Obs<rv<r ;, pubhshed ato POSTMASTER 02~ Sourh Dining Hall Stnd addrcss wrrec.tions ro: 
Notr< Dame. IN ~6556-0779 Th<Ohkrvcr 
PeriodioJ pmtJ.ge pald ~r Notre Dam<." PO. Box779 
and .ufdirionaJ rn:.tiling ofltcts. UH South Dining Hall 
No"'' Dame. IN 46556-077Y 

The C>mcrver l$ a me-mber ofthe ~J.at~:d Pn:.. All reproduction rlghu :.t~ re§ervt'd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  
Jenn Metz  Bill Murphy  
John Tierney  Greg Arbogast  
Sarah Mervosh  Eric Prister  
Graphics  Scene  
Mary Jesse  Jess ShafTer  
Viewpoint  Cartoonist  
Lauren  Thomas Reagan  
Brauweiler  

In this presidential campaign, why did so many Catholics apparently reject the teaching of the Church on citizenship? The bishops and clergy presented clearly the Church's teaching on abortion and voting. "Not all moral issues," said Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, now Pope Benedict XVI, "have the same weight as abortion ... There may be a ... diver­sity of opinion ... among Catholics about ... war and ... the death penalty, but not ron] abortion and euthanasia .... A Catholic would be guilty of formal cooperation with evil ... If he were to ... vote for a candidate ... because of the candidate's permissive stand on abortion ... When a Catholic does not share a candidate's stand in favor of abortion ... but votes for that can­didate for other reasons, it is ... remote material cooperation, which can be per­mitted in the presence of proportionate reasons." 
With over 48 million surgical abortions and uncountable millions more by pill or other abortifacients, all authorized by law, Archbishop John J. Myers of Newark accurately concluded that "policies on welfare, national security, the war in Iraq, Social Security or taxes, taken singly or in any combination, do not pro­vide a proportionate reason to vote for a pro-abortion candidate." 
The Obama campaign, as the Washington Post put it, reached out "aggressively" to Catholics, arguing "that the church's teachings on social justice and ... poverty, the environment, health care and unjust warfare should guide Catholic voters as much as abortion .... The Democratic effort includes antiabor­tion Catholic scholars who ... favor ... Obama [and] progressive Catholic organi­zations that have sprung up." Some Catholic professors described Obama as the "pro-life" candidate, because he would reduce abortions by promoting pro-life attitudes and providing social services. You probably have to be an aca­demic to believe that. 
The readiness of some Catholics to put abortion on a par with issues of lesser gravity and so find a "proportionate rea-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

son" to support a pro-abortion candidate could be an unintended consequence of a 
decision the bishops themselves made nearly three decades ago. 
In Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court ruled that, whether or not the unborn child is a human being, he is not a "per­son" and therefore has no right to life. The Court acknowledged that if he is a -"person" the case for abortion "eollapses, for the fetus' right to life is then guaran­teed by the [Fourteenth] Amendment." 
The National Conference of Catholic Bishops (NCCB) promptly condemned the decision and urged "legal and constitu­tional conformity to the basic truth that the unborn child is a 'person' in every sense of the term from conception." When four cardinals, Krol, Manning, Cody and Medeiros, testilied before the Senate in 197 4, they insisted that a con­stitutional amendment "should clearly establish that, from conception onward, the unborn child is a human person in the terms of the Constitution." It should restore the "right to life ... to the unborn, just as it is provided to all other persons in the United States." Cardinal Medeiros said "A 'States rights' amendment which would simply return jurisdiction over the abortion law to the States, docs not seem to be a satisfactory solution ... Protection of human life should not depend upon geographical boundaries ... Therefore, the prohibition against the direct and intentional taking of innocent human life should be universal and without excep­tions." If the unborn child were recog­nized as a "person" with respect to his right to life, abortion would still depend on state legislatures for its prohibition but those legislatures would be bound by "the supreme law of the land" not to deprive the unborn child of that right to life. 
During the late 1970s support for the cardinals' position eroded. In 1981, the bishops endorsed a states' rights amend­ment. Archbishop John R. Hoach, presi­dent of the NCCB, in endorsing the amendment, told the Senate that "(w]e are committed to full legal recognition of the right to life of the unbo.rn child," but the NCCB acknowledged that the amend­ment "places the extent of restriction and prohibition [of abortion] entirely in the discretion of the federal and state legisla­tures." The Senate Committee on the Judiciary agreed that, under the amend­ment, a state legislature or Congress "could ... prohibit abortion or ... main­tain ... abortion on demand [or enact] reforms that fall somewhere between these ... propositions." Report, June 8, 1982. 
The "states' rights" approach affirms the holding of Roe that the unborn child is a nonperson. If your life is subject to termination at the diseretion of a state legislature or Congress, you are, in terms of the Constitution, a nonperson. That goes beyond the limited recognition in Evangelium Vitae, no. 73, that a legislator "could licitly support" an imperfect law on abortion when it is "not possible to overturn or abrogate a pro-abortion law." Nor is "states' rights" a return to the situ­ation prior to Roe. Before Roe, there had never been a ruling by the Court on per­sonhood. Once the Court ruled in the neg­ative, the only coherent response was, and is, to insist on the personhood of the unborn with respect to his right to life. That does not preclude the advocacy also of effective restrictions on abortion. 
The bishops continue in their support for "states' rights." One of the most elo­quent statements by bishops in the 2008 campaign undermined its affirmation of the right to life by saying, "Roe is bad law. As long as it stands, it prevents returning the abortion issue to the states where it belongs, so ... the ... people can decide its future through fair debate and legisla­tion." 
It is no surprise that some Catholics interpret, or use as apretext, the bishops' consignment of abortion to the evaluation and "discretion" of state legislators as an invitation to them, as voters, to make that same political evaluation with abortion as one issue on a par with others. 
The technology of early abortifacients is making abortion a truly private matter beyond the reach of the law. To promote what John Paul II called a "culture of life," it is more essential than ever to insist on the entitlement of every human being "to be respected and treated as a person from the moment of conception." Introduction on Bioethics. 
It involves no criticism of the bishops, whose witness is admirable, to suggest that it would be appropriate for them to reconsider the cardinals' 197 4 insistence on the entitlement of the unborn child to the right to life guaranteed to persons by the Constitution. 
Charles E. Rice is professor emeritus at the Law School. lie may be reached at 633-4415 or at rice.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
How far is the ND men's basketball team going to go this season? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We cross our bridges when we 
come to them and burn them behind 
us, with nothing to show for our 
progress except a memory ofthe 
smea ofsmoke, and a presumption
that once our eyes watered. '' 
Tom Stoppard British dramatist and screenwriter 
IE 
THE OBSERVER 
p

Tuesday, November 4, 2008 

page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Hark! 
Hark, ye fellow Domers! 

As we were watching the Texas Tech students rush their field not once, not twice, but THREE times this past Saturday, a sad realization settled over the room: Texas Tech just rushed the field three more times in one game than we will in four years. As a matter of fact, the Texas Tech student body has had so much fun in recent years that their field goal posts have been placed on ropes so field officials can lower them before students can tear them down in their joy­
rage. 
I know that rushing the field is not necessarily the goal of every game, but it would be nice to win a game that would warrant such a glorious celebration. Unfortunately, the outlook for winning such a game is bleak given the lack of quality home wins in recent years. To enlighten the freshman and sophomore classes, who have cursed our football program with their presence, the last quality win we've had at home was against Penn State in 2006 and that was far 
from field-rushing material. 
Therefore, to remedy this problem, we propose a premeditated stampede to the gridiron at the next home game. That is correct folks: we are planning to storm our hallowed field after the conclusion of the Syracuse game. We are about 87 percent sure even we can't lose to Syracuse at home. I mean, they're no Navy. 
I know some of you haters sitting in your ivory towers will say that a victory over Syracuse is not worth populating the turf with students. but after last sea­sons lone· home victory coming against Duke and our loss against a mediocre Pittsburgh team last week, we should never take a home victory for granted again. Each win we have at home is worth celebrating. For all of you that don't think this will be worthwhile, imagine how much fun it will be to watch Sportscenter analysts try to make.sense of the student body rushing the field after beating a (projected) 2-8 Syracuse team. And then imagine your delight after seeing Lou Holtz explain to Mark May why such an event is occurring. 
As my beloved father once told us after losing to Pittsburgh, "I hope you boys came to this school for an education." Well, let's put it this way: when I tell peo­ple that I go to Notre Dame, they don't say "Wow! What an education you must be getting!" Conversely, they usually say "Wow! You must really hate football now!" It's time to change that. Maybe at least a few people will one day say "Wow! Rushing the field against Syracuse must have been a blast." 
To all the alumni reading this letter sitting aghast wherever it is that alumni read The Observer, allow me to sway you. I know Notre Dame is "more than football", but what do you reminisce about most when recounting the glory days? I know football is near the top of your list. Well, when I graduate, I want to be able to talk about something other than how I survived the worst season in school history. My kids will never have to know that Syracuse was 2-8. And to all of you that cite "tradition" as a reason not to rush the field, I say to you: if Charlie can make the team wear green jerseys against Army, then the students can rush the field against Syracuse. 
Let's go all out on this one. Do it for the seniors. Make signs. Dress up in cos­tumes. It's time to have fun at a home game. Let's do this right. To recap: Rush the field after the Syracuse game (contingent upon victory). 
Cameron Randle junior Matt Howard junior Chris Adcock junior Stanford Nov.2 
Guilt not the only motivator 
I am compelled to respond to the opinion voiced by Bradley Duffy ("Spread the Logic", Oct. 30). He accused Sean Lyttle of "feel[ing] guilty for everything from his upbringing to his race to his potentially successful future" based on Lyttle's acknowledgment of a charmed life, and the less-fortunate lives of others. It is unfortu­nate that, in the mind of Duffy and others like him, that the only motivator can be shame. That one can't be moved out of pity, or generosity, or love for your fellow man. By this logic, all pro-lifers act only because they feel guilty that they were born. All doctors are motivated to treat the sick, only out of guilt of their own health. Your professors teach because they feel guilty that they're so smart. We can argue the best way to help others, and· indeed we should. But Duffy's cynical analysis of Lyttle's motivation is an attitude unbecoming of anyone associated with Notre Dame, and I feel pity that anyone would choose to see nothing but guilt from a man who counts his blessings. 
Christopher Middendorff grad student off-campus Nov. 3 
U-WIRE 
It's not about who wins or loses, but who casts the vote 
I acknowledge that I will be relieved, for many reasons, when this election ends. 
I am sympathetic to every side of this fight. I am tired of the word "maverick," and I am tired of mocking the same word. I am tired of Bill Ayres, Joe the Plumber, Lipstick, Pigs and ACORN. Most of all, I am tired of the idea that voting is a waste of time. 
Maybe the voting booth is a place that has no real meaning. 
Eryk Salvaggio Perhaps you have always been skeptical of people and you do not want to hand over a piece of paper declaring that you believe in something. It's understandable. 
The Maine 

After all, we've been tossed into a mud-stained democracyCampus run by blowhards and fools, many of whom condescendingly University of sneer if we express an interest in an idea or a candidate they 
Maine don't like. We've heard about how so-and-so is a terrorist and so-and-so doesn't shvw up for any votes; how one side is embroiled in scandals and how the other side has no experi­
ence; how one is too religious or not religious enough, or the wrong religion, or has the wrong kind of really amazing, powerful, empowering speeches. 
My advice to you, skeptical voter, is one more layer of noise, but bear with me. I'm asking you to put the noise aside and vote, even if you don't believe that vote will count. I'm asking you to walk into the multi-purpose room on Tuesday, sign an aflidavit if you haven't registered, and cast a vote. Just this once, just to see how it feels. 
I am tired of hearing about how this generation always says it will vote, but does­n't. I am tired of being ignored by candidates because they don't think we'll make it to the polls. Let's face it, you've probably been late to class for worse reasons: hangovers, flirting, video games, boredom, hunger, who knows? Why not have a better excuse? 
Maybe your guy loses, maybe your guy wins, but there are plenty of reasons to believe that winning or losing doesn't matter. What matters is mustering up an 
ounce of faith in a broader system, taking the risk of being wrong and taking the 
plunge toward the single inch of progress you want for this world. You stake your claim and it's terrifying. 
Voting, you see, is not just about politics. It's about working up the courage to believe in something you want to believe in. It's the moment when you ask someone on a date even if you think you aren't cool enough. It's the moment when you raise your hand in a class to give an answer you kind of, maybe, think you know. It's not the vote that matters, it's the risk you take when you cast it: that you might be wrong, certainly; that it might break your heart if he wins, and becomes just anoth­er politician, the kind of guy who made you not want to vote in the first place. I believe the courage of asking for an impossible kind of dream is more important than the pleasure of getting it. 
You can decide if that's reason enough to vote. But to not vote is to say no to pos­sibility, and yes to whatever you get stuck with. Sure, if you vote, you might not make it to that boring class on time, or have time to read the next article and eat your lousy sandwich. You can resign yourself to fate, or you can design your own. You don't need to tell anyone you voted, or who you voted for. You can have a secret moment where you said yes to your rightful stake in the world, where you let your­self become the type of person who has ideals and takes action to make them come to fruition. 
The ballot doesn't care if you aren't cool, or if you have all the answers. It just wants to know one thing: Who are you voting for? 
This editorial first appeared in the Nov. 3 edition of The Maine Campus, the daily paper at the University ofMaine. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessari­ly those of The Observer. 


page 12 Tuesday, November 4, 2008 Tuesday, November 4, 2008 

/.71/'
~{,I 
. . 


. 

.· · · · · · .. · · ···. 
Everyone knows. H"s The candidates them­
+· n~arly EJ,ection Day when·. selves certainly aren't the canipaign ads start , reliable: both want their . getting ~:eally, really nasty. · views to· get across~· and No th i n g they do so by casting screams Kaltlyn Conway'-.: their opponent in a "El~ct m~!" negative light. quite like .· M,y question to both ·attacking Scene Writer candidates is this: 
ev~rything what are you reallyl'; yoti possibly could about $Oing'to do? Stop talking 

· 

., 
plans· that either one of them has to reform our health care system. I think • it would be great to see · wha.t their plans are for · public education. But the way things are going now, I barely know what either candidate ·plans on doing· for any problem we face. Oh, other than that, it won't be what their oppo­nent is doing. · 
If both ·candidates focused on their· own views instead of just con­demning the views of the... other, their own platforms would b~ much stronger. It's undeniable: -half of 

t. Won't End! ··r-:~ * * ** * ** * 
*···:
. • .· . . . .. -~ .· . ByJQRDAN GAMBLE 
your opponent, from. his voti:~1g record to his family life. ~· 
I think we're a)l ready for the election to he done and over with, not only to resolve this whole 'who·s going to win' lssue.butto g~t those ads off the tele:. vision. · 
We all wonder, if the negative ·ads -ate really nec-essary to running a campaign. It makes y~y. wonder if either candidate is strong enoughon his or her -own merit to really 
-·win the election. Almost 
. ·every ad ;J've seen has focused first on blasting thi oth.~r· candidate,· and 
··. then basically said; '•This candidate won't do this. Sponsored by this candi­date's campaign." The problem seems to be that neitl)er candidate has actually told the truth in one of their campaign ads. I feel like everything fve seen. read, and heard has been skewed by one souree or another. There are, vory few •• reliable. unbiased pla(:es to go for such. a l}~ated election. 

about 'what you're not 
going to do and give me some concr~te ideas of what you are going to do. ·.No matter who you're vot­ing for, 1 feel like we can all agree on o_ne thing ­.this country needs chahge: Our economy is spiraling. downwards. 
· Education and healthcare are~ mess·. America has a million reasons and the resources to be an incred­ible country, and yet we . ar,e lackluster compared to many others. , 
· A decent campaign ad should address these issues, clearly and honest­
lv. I know that we should expects some skewing of the facts -in a race, we all want to be ~the winner, and our presidential can­didates are no different. They pull ah~ad by spin­ning what they believe as best they can. But honest­ly, I'd think t.his 'race would be far less close than it is if both candi­dates focused on their own views instead of the views of their opponent. I'd love to know the solid 
. the undecided .voters are undecided simply because they don't see what either candidate offers over the other one. It's too 'late for the current election to be changed by a new wave of positive campaign ads, but let's hope that the next one isn't so negative. So good luck to whichev­e·r candidat~ you're voting · for tomorrow. Any hopes I can just hide under a rock until it's over and the win­ner is decided, just to 
, avoid the Election Day wave of nastiness? Yeah, I didn't think so. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obseroer. 
Contact Kaitlyn Conway at kconway2@nd.edu 
. · . · · · .··· · Scene ~.er 
. 
.

Jezebel.com · 
Jezebel is a self-proclaimed "blog for .. women that Will attemptto take allthe . essentially meaningless but sweet stuff directed our way and ·give it alittle : more· meaning." ' Besides showcasing celebrity fashion 
faux-pas and clips from Gossip Girl, the contributors at the Jezebel blog offer their takes on eleCtion news, from the polls to Sarah Palin's appearance on SNL. Slant:,Pro-Obama.. 
Yes We Can (Hold Babies) «. 
.. 

Yeswecanholdbabies.wordl)ress. com 
. With so much vitriol in a campaign -the accusations, personal a~~cks and Paris ·· Hilton-sometimes ifs'1iice to just see . 
·some cute kids. The bloggers at Yes We"·· ­
Can (Hold Babies), a couple of college students from Massachusetts, say their , mission as "the international source for pictures of Obama holding babies" is to uphold the storied tradition of politicians scoring brownie points by kissing babies 
.: at public; events. Slant: Pro-Obama and people who love .. cute babies 
I, 
· ,, · · 
• _UfttAir.com 
Founded by MicheUe_MaJkin, a con-. servative.columni~t~· blogger, and. comll,lentat()f, Hot.Air.C9fl.l prides its,elf .on being:the nrst "conservative. Internet broadcast network~" . Its main focus is. video:blogging, with clips of election coverage and com­Inentary from the site's staff. A signif-. 
.icant portion of the main page lists headlineffrom major newspapers and TV networks selected by the staff. Slant:. Pro·McCain. 
-::~ ·t . ~tc('£inBlogette .com 
. ;: . ~·~ 

:! Meghan McCain, John McCain's 24­year-old daughter:; chronicles· the election through l:le.r own pictures 
and musing.c;; while on the campaign trail with tierfamily. Meghan runs 
~t with blog \\ith help from a photogra­
.1) 
r.:-­
ftlic. 

pher and producer who also travel 
~j 

with the McCain campaign. The pho-..
Jf 

I 
{; tos are the biggest qraw fQr this site, capturing both the public rally atmos­phere and 1ife-Ii¥l1lg on the "Straight 
·~·· 

I 
Talk Express" campaign bus. · Slant: Pro-McCain (duh). :•j;_ 
~t ContactJordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu
.·1 

~, 
' . 
The Google 8Iection Blog 
··~ 

· . . http://www.google~com/2008election/ 
If you want comprehensive, non-partisan electioJ coverage and commentary. the Google Election Blog is where you go. It's not so much a blog a..'> $1 cpntinually upd~.tingcompendium of everyone else's blog pQ~ news stories. Youtube videos, '}tnd quotes from all the presidential candidates .. for the 2008 election, from Barr tO Barack. from Nader to McCain. . 



. ', /-._. 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 



page 13 



.., 

. . 
. . -. 
OUR FAVOR.J, 
hero ""ith surprisingly good hand-tQ.,.hand combat s.ldlls. Everithough .·. · the,classic common man, and also a (;ijarnpionpf the.. hoffieless... 

Scene Writer 
H~Fotq M Presicfent~§MarshaJJ in..Air Force One" · · . Bio: PresidimtJames Marshall ta:Kes a tough stancs against terror* ism and then becomes ahostage liliriSelf whenAir Fo;rctt One is taken, over by te.rrorists from Kazakhstan, led by Ivan 1\.0:rshunov ((iary Oldman). The terrorists demand the· release of theft leader General Radek. Marshall appears to .. escape from. the plane in an emergency capsule yet is actually hiding .on board. Then he sill)rltlykills amem.. ber of the terroristgroup before ~stablishing GontactWith F-15~s to engage the hijacked plan(1. Marshall is the handsome. down-to-earth 
he is the President he takes chalices with his life (much to his Vice Pl-esident, Glenn Close's. chagrin) such as wh~n he 'S~gs .f{{)m .a cable in midair~ . . L ·· Weapon of Choice: His fJSts 
Memorable Quote: ''We will never negotiate:'We will no longer tol­erate and we will no longer be afraid. It's your turn to be afraid.. " Also, "('.ret offmy p}ane!" · 
~ .. ,.,­' . Morgan Freeman 8.5 President Tom Beck in "~ Impact" 
Bio: The unfortunate job of breaking the news to the American peo­ple that the planet is about to be hit by a massive comet is left to the able President Beck. He,must also inform the public that the govern· ment has been preparing underground caves to house a million lucky peop!e chosen to survive the calamity. Beck devised the plan to build the c~ves. and eventvaUy em~s up saving humanity. National survival was his forte. 
Weapon of Choice: Freeman's characteristic, calming voice . Memorable Quote: ''Cities fall, but they, are rebuilt. And herbes die, but they are remembered." 
Michael Douglas as President Andrew Shepherd in "The American President" 
Bio: While President Shepherd runs for re-election and negotiates a new crime bill, he courts·an environmental lobbyist (Annette Bening) and the press watcl}es their every move~ Douglas J.s theatrical enough to make even the most cynical viewer feel at least a twinge of roman~ tit: patriotism. Seeking re·election, the Democrat sells his environmen­tal lobbyist girlfriend out for a pansy crime bilL In the end, he redeems himself by backing her bill. then issuing a stinhring challenge to the Repuplican senator who attacked her ACLU·card-carrying ways. . 
Weapon of Choice: Rhetoric and romance 
Memorable Quote: "If you want to talk about character 'and Americap values, fine. Just tell me where and when, and I'll show up. This is a time for seriou..'l people, Bob, and your 15 minutes are up. My nameis Andrew Shepherd, and I am the President" 
Bill Pullman as President Thomas J. Whitmore in ..Independence 
D~' 
Rio: Whitmore leads by example in his battle against an alitm inva­sion. lie refuses to let the aliens stay and pools together his resources !<) proteet the world's natural n~sourees. Whitmore proved he was an everyman president by piloting a fighter plane in the war against extratet·restrial invaders, who were bPnt on destroying mankind. i\.nd in a powerful Fourth of July speech he w;cs a megaphone to rouse the American people from the back of a pick-up truck before climbing on board.that tighter. 
Weapon of Choice: Fighter jet and the Fresh Prinee. 
c:»-····&:
. . . _, . /.­
... Mem~~able QuQte: "We are . And should we winthe day, the Foul'th gf tntlir·•wt as an Americart holiday. but as the (}ay, ·. voice~ "We will not go QUietly into the · out a fight!,We're goirig to live onf We're m·rnn.cr celebrate ·ourlndependenc~ D~yf'' . · ­
. , Bio; .Du~ · an uncanny · . . .•....• 
man; Dave Kovic, moonlights as·.. . . . . .. . · After.tlie.' . mander;.in:,;ehief has a stroke, he impersonates the Pr~z , coerced a pair qf Machiavellian ad\isors~.Dave tleei~~t-·•io t(d]sotrt~ 
good while he has the chance, including fiXing. · ..· . . ·. .·· ··. uw..tK~'vQ;u~ repairing,rela~(}ns with the icy First La~y (Sigourney ·. ·.··.· .• .•• •. •. • . · 
wants to secure employment tor allAmericans. · :/ Weapon ofChoice: Virtue . / :· .· . . . .. 
•• Memorable Quote: ..If you've ever seen the look on~OtiH:~bod'Y~~{(l;~~. the day they fmally get a job. I've .had some exp~rience with this~ they : look like they could fly. And itS not about the paycheck. it's ab(HJt respect, ifs about looking in the mirror and knowing that you't>(tdon_e something valuable with your day. And if one person could startto feel~ . this way, and then another person, and then another person, soon all these other problems may not seem so impossible. You don•t really .. know how much you can do until you, stand up ~nd decid~,f~'try·" · ·•· t 
· ·.. · ····-·········· ··· · · · ··· Martin Sheen as President Josiah •Jed' Bartlet on ;1Ib~·West 
Wmg", · . ..• ..•. ... . \" ·..· ·• .·. 
Bio: A devout Roman Catholic who attended the one. and only University of Notre Dame in the hope of one dRy ~coming a .pries:t~ .,. until meeting his future wife and First L~ady Ab}>ey (Stockard · Chanhing). He speaks four languages, and was .a Nvbel ~aure~te in EconorniGS. Bartlet is portrayed as a stern but loving father. He hides the fact that he suffers from multiple sGlerosis from the .A.merican public, then divulges his illness, but is still re-elected. Bartlet's acco~r.? plishrnents as President include granting amnesty to illegaLimmj~> grants from the Americas, appointing the 'first Hispanic Suprom~ Court Justice and first female Chief Justice, negotiating a peace settl~~ ment between Israel and Palestine, creating millions of pew jobs, and support for alternative energy. Bal"tlet is endowed with a fierce inte~; . .·· lect, great personal_ integlity, toughness yet compassion, and a sen5e of humor. He also demonstrates respect and affection for his staffers. 
Weapon ofChoice: Wit, charm and impeccable taste in universities. Memorable Quote; Mrs. Bartlet asks the introspective Presid-ent\ what he is thinking about, and Bartlet replies: "Tomorrow... · 
Dennis Haysbert as President David PaJmet on ..24.. .. 
Bio: As a Senator from Maryland. Palmer is elected Presidept after. several assassination attempts against him ()n the day of the California primary are foiled by Counter Terrorist Unif(CTU) agent Jack Bau~r:: · (Kiefer Sutherland). Palmer's role as Presjde.nt is often vital tothe sue:.. ccssful foiling of terrorist plots. Palmer i$,soon as a good leader \VliO ·. makes difficult decisions without much hesitation. On severat·oeca~ sions. his intervention as President and the exe~ution ·of his Presidential powers arc c,ttremcly helpful for the CTU and Bauer. 
Weapon of Choice: Jack Bauer 
Memorable Quote: ..Listen to me. All of you. I know you're not in the.liame room with me but you can se~ and hc!U" me plainly enough. Take a good look. Do I seem scared? Ant I hn...,.aking j!ltu a nervous sweat? Am I babbling? At a loss for word.';;?Is my vpi{:e shaking? Can any one ofyou look me in the eye and tell me 
I'lii: djsabl(\d?" · 
. 0 

Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrarl@nd.edu 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

Tuesday, November 4, 2008 
page 14 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
Kings stay winless after blowout loss to 76ers 
After trade for Iverson, six Pistons score in double figures helping Detroit beat Charlotte, stay perfect on season 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -The solution to the Philadelphia 76ers' 3-point shooting woes might be at the end of their bench. 
Kareem Rush and Donyell Marshall have to hope the way they almost flawlessly buried all those open looks earns them a second look at a bigger role in the rotation. 
Thaddeus Young scored 18 points, Lou Williams had 17 and the 76ers led by as many as 40 points in a 125-91 rout of the win­less Sacramento Kings on Monday night. 
Marshall and Rush went a com­bined 6-for-7 from 3-point range and each played their season high in minutes, even though most of their playing time came when the game was put away. 
The 76ers were last in the NBA last season in 3-point percentage and 3s made. So they signed Rush as a free agent and hoped he would boost those numbers. 
Instead, Rush earned a DNP-CD the last game and had attempted only one 3-pointer this season. 
"It's very discouraging," Rush said. "I didn't plan on this when I signed here, but it's the way it is. A lot of these guys have been here for a number of years and played with [coach Maurice] Cheeks a number of years, so I think it's a familiarity thing that he has with these guys." 
Willie Green scored 16 points and Elton Brand had 15 for the Sixers, who were up 20 points at halftime and were able to stretch the lead in the second half instead of blowing it like they did Saturday at Atlanta. 
In that one, the Hawks rallied from a 23-point deficit to stun the Sixcrs. This time, role players like Green and Williams kept making shots in the third quarter and to keep the road-weary Kings from rallying. 

"We talked about coming out in the second half and being more aggressive than we were," Green said. "We weren't going to let that happen again." 
No need to worry about blowing this one against the Kings. 
Jason Thompson scored 17 points and Spencer Hawes had 15 for the Kings (0-4), who can't wait to head home after a dreary sea­son-opening road trip. 
The Kings, off to their worst start since 1997-98, open a four­game homestand on Wednesday against Memphis. 
"You can't win in the NBA if you give up 120 points a game," coach Reggie Theus said. "I told them that is not acceptable, from the leaders all the way down. In order to win, you have to be tough­minded, and right now we're not tough-minded." 
The Sixers shot only 32 percent (13-for-41) on 3s in their first three games but seemed to dis­cover their long-range form against the Kings, finishing 1 0-of­13. 
"This is what I do," Rush said. "That's what they brought me here for. That's what I can bring to this team. Hopefully I can find a way to get some regular time, crunch time, instead of blowout games." 
Cheeks said he learned a lesson after blowing the big lead over the weekend and would try to play a deeper rotation late in the game. 
He used 10 players in the third quarter and all but Samuel 
AP 


Dalembert scored. Rush scored 10 points and hit a 3 for a 92-65 lead. 
Pistons 101, Bobcats 83 
The Detroit Pistons overcame a wild, emotional day to crush their old coach's new team. It didn't mean they were easily coming to grips with the blockbuster deal that shook the foundation of their core. 
It was clear after their 101-83 rout of the Charlotte Bobcats on Monday night that it's going to take the Pistons time to warm to the idea that Allen Iverson is now their teammate -and Chauncey Billups and Antonio McDyess are headed to Denver. 
"Do we like the trade? Maybe not. Ain't no telling," forward Rasheed Wallace said. 
Added Tayshaun Prince: "When you have six straight years with somebody, you've got that bond, that connection. Now all of a sud­den it's gone." 
Richard Hamilton scored 19 poinl'i and the Pistons toyed with Larry Brown's Bobcal'i, improving to 3-0 and perhaps showing Iverson that he'll have plenty of scoring options when he takes over at point guard. 
But from the tone of the sub­dued locker room, Iverson will have to win over his new team­mates as he joins a team used to being among the Eastern Conference powers. 
"Obviously we're all shocked by the situation," Prince said. "We're going to go out and play. Under the circumstances I thought it was a good win. No matter who you play, when something happens like this it's tough for the team to go out and play. We were able to come out with a win." 
Wallace added 15 points and four other players scored in dou­ble figures. Rodney Stuckey replaced the departed Billups at point guard and had nine points and three assists as Detroit shot 50 percent. 
"It was a tough game," coach Michael Curry said. "When your captain gets traded and Dice, who's not a captain, but is one of the emotional leaders of this team, it's a tough day for the guys." 
Shannon Brown came off the bench to score 16 points, and Gerald Wallace had 15 points and 12 rebounds for Charlotte, which couldn't build off Saturday's win over Miami in the beginning of a week of reunions for the well­traveled Brown, who has his own problems. 
Brown. who has lamented man­aging partner Michael Jordan's inability to bring in more depth up front. was clearly frustrated after being overmatched by the team Brown led to the NBA title in 2004. 
''I've known our problems since May. We've got to address them somehow," Brown said. 
The beginning of Brown's reunion week -he visits New York on Wednesday, where he spent one ugly 23-win season in 2005-06 -was overshadowed by Detroit's makeover. 
The Pistons arrived in Charlotte on Sunday while president of bas­ketball operations Joe Dumars worked into the night on a trade he felt would give his team a dif­ferent way to win games "other than the same predictable way we've been doing it for quite some time." 
Informed they were headed to Denver early Monday, Billups, McDyess and project Cheikh Samb left town before the morn­ing shootaround. It left Detroit with 12 players -and Stuckey starting at point guard -against their former coach. 
Stuckey, wearing No. 3 in per­haps a precursor to the Iverson era, had only one turnover and Detroit showed its depth, inside play, rebounding prowess and steady outside shooting to over­whelm Browns' ninth NBA team. 
Hamilton, who agreed to a three-year contract extension Monday in the midst of the Iverson trade, scored 11 points in the third quarter when the Pistons pulled away. His 3-pointer and mid-range jumper on consecutive possessions made it 76-60. 
Playing again without forward Sean May, who is struggling with his weight and conditioning fol­lowing knee surgery, the Bobcats couldn't recover with their under­sized lineup that included 6-foot-7 Jared Dudley at power forward. Held most of the time to one shot, the Bobcats were outrebounded 42-31. 
"You can get away with it against Miami," Brown said of Saturday's win against the under­sized Heat. "You're not going to get away with it against 6-10, 6­11, 6-10 frontline, all athletic. It just doesn't happen." 

Kings guard Kevin Martin hangs on the rim during the 76ers 125-91 win over Sacramento Monday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
HOUSE FOR SALE 1/2 MILE FROM NO. 3 BEDROOMS 2 FULL BATHS. CRESSY EVERETT PAM DECOLA 574-532-0204 
947 RIVERSIDE DR., 4 BDRMS, 
2.5 BATHS, HISTORICAL HOME CLOSE TO NO. CRESSY EVERETT, PAM DECOLA, 574­532-0204. 
FoR RENT 

HOUSES FOR LEASE 09·1 0 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 
574-234-2436 OR KRAMER HOUSES. COM 3/4 bedroom, 

3 full bath deluxe homes, 
close to NO, fireplace, cathedral ceilings, skylights, 2-car garage, 
10x20 deck. Much more. 
Call 574-232·4527 or 269-683­5038. From $1,700/mo. 
2-bdrm house near NO. Very clean, garage. $675/mo. Call 269-426­1570. 
1-bdrm apt. 100 yrds to NO. All inclusive plus new appliances in your kitchen. $500/mo. 
Call 574-243-7777. 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit 
http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap/ 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 

If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 
or Ann Firth at 574-631-2685. 
For more information, visit our web· site at: http://osa. nd. edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
Two teachers ready to adopt new­bom and provide a wonderful life for him/her. Confidential. Expenses paid. Stephenandliz@aol.com or call us toll free 1-888-760-BABY 
Five. Five. Five dollar footlongsssss 

Here's how it works. Election is today. And then Wednesday is the first day of Sarah Palin's 2012 cam­paign. 

COMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVEll'S \VJRF SERVICES
Tuesday, November 4, 2008 
page 15 
Women's Basketball NCAA Division I AP Poll 
team points 
1 Connecticut (44) 1124 2 Stanford (1) 1018 3 Maryland 1005 4 Oklahoma 946 5 Rutgers 914 6 North Carolina 892 7 Tennessee 857 8 Duke 815 

9 California 769 10 louisville 726 11 Texas A&M 624 12 Vanderbilt 546 13 Texas 501 14 Oklahoma State 442 15 Virginia 437 16 NOTRE DAME 374 17 Arizona State 364 18 Ohio State 359 19 Baylor 353 20 Auburn 239 21 Florida State 204 22 Xavier 170 23 Purdue 148 24 LSU 133 25 Old Dominion 124 
Women's Soccer NSCAA/Adidas Division I Rankings 
team  points  previous  
1  NOTRE DAME (34)  850  1  
2  North Carolina  799  2  
3  Portland  764  3  
4  UCLA  763  4  
5  Stanford  733  5  
6  Florida State  677  6  
7  Florida  639  7  
8  Virginia  607  8  
9  Oklahoma State  525  9  
10  usc  505  10  
11  Duke  464  11  
12  Texas  461  12  
13  Boston College  457  13  
14  Texas A&M  449  14  
15  Colorado  367  15  
16  San Diego  364  16  
17  West Virginia  301  17  
18  Wisconsin-Milwaukee  244  18  
19  Wake Forest  243  19  
20  Missouri  162  20  
21  Penn State  153  21  
22  Washington State  130  22  
23  Georgetown  101  23  
24  Rutgers  66  24  
25  Minnesota  59.5  25  

MIAA Women's Volleyball Standings 
team conj. record 

1 Hope 15-1 2 Calvin 14-2 3 Alma 11·5 4 SAINT MARY'S 9-7 5 Adrian 8·8 6 Albion 5-11 7 Kalamazoo 4-12 8 Trine 4·12 9 Olivet 2-14 
around the dial 
NCAAF 
Miami (OH) at Buffalo 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 2 
NFL 


AP 

Browns quarterback Brady Quinn watches from the sidelines during Cleveland's 10-6 loss to Pittsburgh on Sept. 14. Quinn will start next week against Denver. 
Browns replace Anderson with Quinn 
Associated Press 

BEHEA, Ohio Quarterback Derek Anderson ha" been benched by the Cleveland Browns, who will start popular back­up Brady Quinn on Thursday night against the Denver Broncos. 
The surprising and unex­pected switch was announced Monday by the team, just hours after coach Romeo Crennel said he had no plans to make a change. 
Anderson, who has been inconsistent this season, threw a costly interception that was returned for a touchdown in the final min­utes of Sunday's 37-27 loss to the Baltimore Ravens. The pick prompted Browns fans to begin chants of "Brady! Brady!" for Quinn, the former Notre Dame star who has thrown just eight passes in two seasons. · A team spokesman said Crennel and Quinn would not be available for com­ment until Tuesday. 
Earlier, Quinn was asked for his reaction to hearing fans call his name. 
"We lost the game, really that's all that matters," he said. "That's something in the NFL, everyone always loves the backup. That's just how it is." 
Browns center Hank Fraley found out about the change when he got a text message during the after­noon from Anderson. 
"I was surprised," Fraley said. 'Tve become real good friends with Derek and I feel for him. I told him to stay positive. He will. He's a team 
I
payer." 

Anderson had gone 132 pass attempts without an interception before he was picked off by Ravens line­backer Terrell Suggs, who stepped in front of a screen pass and ran it back 42 yards for a TD. Anderson finished 17 -of-33 for 219 yards and two TDs, but the 25-year-old's stats would have been even better if wide receiver Braylon Edwards hadn't dropped a certain TD pass in the fourth quarter with the game tied. 
Edwards leads the NFL with 13 drops, and Anderson has had to throw to wide receivers Syndric Steptoe and Steve Sanders, two former backups who have played only because of injuries to Donte' Stallworth and Joe Jurevicius. 
Fraley was asked if Anderson was the fall guy for the Browns, who were expected to contend for a playofl' spot coming off a 10­6 season in 2007. 
"That was the coaches' decision," he said. "Maybe they feel like he (Quinn) will bring a spark. It's tough because Derek is a great guy, a team leader and a captain. We just haven't been playing welt around him. It's a shock to every­body on this team. It's their decision and we're going to have to live with it." 
IN BRIEF 

Iverson traded to Pistons 
for Billups, McDyess 
DETROIT -The Detroit Pistons worked the phones last summer, trying to trade for a superstar to shake up their roster. 
They ended up standing pat because a deal didn't make sense. 
Two games into the season, Allen Iverson was the answer to their hopes in a blockbuster that generat­ed rare buzz for the NBA in November. 
Detroit acquired the former NBA MVP on Monday for All-Star point guard and former finals MVP Chauncey Billups, top reserve Antonio McDyess and project Cheikh Samb. 
"We just felt it was the right time to change our team," Pistons presi­dent of basketball operations Joe Dumars told The Associated Press. "Iverson gives us a dimension that we haven't had here and we really think it's going to help us." 
Fulmer to be replaced
after season 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -An emotion­al Phillip Fulmer, with his wife at his side and tearful, angry players surrounding him, announced Monday that he had accepted Tennessee's decision that this will be his last season as the Volunteers coach. 
Fulmer, 58, is being forced out after 17 years as Tennessee's coach, a run that included a national championship. He, has a 150-51 record with the Vols, including the 1998 NCAA title -the school's first since 1951. 
"This is not an easy day for me or my family. It is not a day that I sought or accepted easily," said Fulmer, his voice cracking as he fought back tears standing next to wife, Vicky. 
"Our Tenness{'e family is united in its goals, but divided in the right path to get then•. 
Orton's status uncertain 
after ankle injury 
LAKE FOHEST, Ill. -One day after leaving the field on a cart, Chicago Bears quar­terback Kyle Orton was undergoing more tests on his right ankle to determine the extent of his injury. 
Orton was injured in the final minute of the first half in Sunday's 27-23 victory over the Detroit Lions, forc­ing the Bears to turn to for­mer starter Rex Grossman. And Chicago might be with­out Orton for the next few weeks. 
"I'm not playing doctor; you shouldn't either," coach Lovie Smith said Monday. "You should let us come and tell you once we know for sure exactly what the injury is. We're hopeful, I 'II just say that." 
~·-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, November 4, 2008
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 

GMs meet admist economic troubles 
Associated Press 
DANA POINT, Calif. Baseball general managers began an offseason of cconom-· ic uncertainty when they gath­ered Monday for their annual meeting -at the same posh resort Rep. Henry Waxman criticized AIG executives for convening at following the company's government bailout in September. 
Walking past a circular lobby area with sculpted plants, intricate stone floors and glass artwork at the St. Regis Monarch Beach Resort, the GMs prepared for feeling each other out about · potential trades Monday, down more than 30 percent from last month, according to auto club AAA, the Oil Price Information Service and Wright Express. 

"We'll have to check the gas market, I guess, before I go and speak with him," Dodgers general manager Ned Colletti said. "I know how the fans feel and how we feel..It's obvious. I mean, what he did for 10 weeks -regular season and postseason -was as good as anybody can do. I've been at it long enough to tell you that I'm not going to tell you what my gut feeling is." 
Ramirez is represented by 
Scott Boras, who 
last year per­

and meeting "I know we're suaded Colletti with agents to give Andruw
sensitive to the

touting their Jones a $36.2
softness ofthe

free-agent miJlion, two-year clients. While economy and frankly contract. Jones baseball is then hit .158
are taking it into 

coming off a with three 
account as we do our

season of homers and 14 record $6.5 bil­planning for next RBis. lion revenue, season.,, Colletti said some teams are the Dodgers worried the go­haven't made an go years might Jeff Moorad offer yet to be over and Arizona chief executive Ramirez and it 
still have not set final payroll budgets for next season. 
"I know we're sensitive to the softness of the economy and frankly are taking it into account as we do our planning for next season," Arizona Diamondbacks chief executive officer Jeff Moorad said. ··we're bullish about next sea­son on the one hand, but we recognize that especially on the corporate partnership side, that there could be.some direct impact." 
Just five days after the Philadelphia Phillies defeated the Tampa Bay Rays for the World Series title, the other 28 GMs were plotting overtaking them to win next year's pen-

would be diffi­cult to afford both Ramirez and Sabathia. 
"You can't let one player stand in the way of everything else you need to do," he said. "Every player's got their own timeline and their own rhythm to their thought process. So when you have other needs that you need to address, you can't really hold them up wait­ing for somebody to make a decision, unless it's a very unique situation." 
Milwaukee said it made an offer to Sabathia last weekend, 
hoping  to  sign him before  
other  clubs  can  offer  
megabucks.  

"It's in their hands," general manager Doug Melvin said. "He 

nants. They hasn't really had
"I want to see who

can't start talk­a chance to talk ing money with is the highest with other free agents bidder. Gas is up teams." 
from other Free-agent
and so am I.··

teams until contract Nov. 14, and demands won't the offseason Manny Ramirez slow because of 
maneuvering is Dodgers outfielder the economy. 
unlikely to pick up speed until the winter meetings are held in Las Vegas from Dec. 8-11. 
CC Sabathia, A.J. Burnett and Francisco Rodriguez high­light the available free-agent pitchers, and Manny Ramirez and Mark Teixeira top the free-agent hitters. San Diego pitcher Jake Peavy likely will be shopped by the Padres in the lobbies of the fancy hotel, where a bagel goes for $5.50. 
Ramirez. whose $20 million team options were voided when the Los Angeles Dodgers acquired him from Boston on July 31, expects a bull market for his services. 
"I want to see who is the highest bidder. Gas is up and so am I," he said last month after the Phillies eliminated the Dodgers from the playoffs. 
Perhaps Ramirez didn't notice, but the average price for a regular gallon of gas dropped to $2.41 nationally on That could cause 
negotiations to 

drag out even longer than usual because budgets may be in flux. 
"I think in some places it may very well have an effect," Houston Astros president of baseball operations Tal Smith said. "From the standpoint of free agents, it's something clubs will probably take a look at." 
Some high-revenue teams, relatively certain that they will sell close to 100 percent of their tickets, don't have to worry as much. • 
"I don't have a final number yet, but my boss, Crane Kenney, I think he feels that our payroll will go up slightly," Cubs general manager Jim Hendry said, referring to Chicago's chairman. "We're fortunate that it's not going to stay flat or take a reduction, but at the same time you have to be eognizant of what's going on in the world." 
FOOTBALL 

Huskies now only winless team 
Associated Press 

SEATTLE -A week ago, on the day Washington announced coach Tyrone Willingham's firing, univer­sity president Mark Emmert· said the Huskies' lowly foot­ball program was at the "lowest ebb" in the school's storied history. 
His reference was  proba­ 
bly a week early.  
Burdened with  a  lame­ 

duck coach in Willingham, and players still reacting to 
effective the end of the sea­son, surely felt like the low­est point of Washington's downward spiral. That was before the Huskies were shut out for just the second time since 1981, prompting Willingham to be asked Monday whether he second­guessed sticking around for the final five games of the season. 
"No, not at all," Willingham said. 
When later asked if a new 
voice was 
needed to 
the news of "Honestly, it's not incite some 
Williingham 's emotion from 
easy. I've never been
firing, the a dreary team Huskies' 56-0 in this position that has loss to No. 7 before.,, scored more USC on than 14 Saturday left points only
Ty Willingham
Washington as twice this the only win­Washington coach s e a s o n , 
less team in the country. North Texas beat Western 
Kentucky  51-40  on  
Saturday, ending its  own  
nine-game losing skid.  

The Huskies (0-8, 0-5 Pac­
10) are caught in a 10-game losing streak dating back to last year, matching the longest skid in school histo­ry. The 56-point rout was the third-worst loss ever for the Huskies in the modern era, and could have been far worse if Trojans' coach Pete Carroll had wanted it to be. 
"Honestly, it's not easy," Willingham said Monday of his "interim" status. "I've never been in this situation before." 
The announcement last week of Willingham's firing, 
Willingham 
said: "That's a hypothetical that I won't consider." 
What Willingham must now consider is whether his team has the desire remain­ing to rally around it's out­going coach and find a way to avoid the first winless season in Washington's his­tory. The Huskies schedule appears to soften for the next three weeks, beginning with Arizona State at home on Saturday, which is deal­ing with its own six-game losing streak. 
After the Sun Devils comes a visit from former coach Rick Neuheisel and UCLA (3-5) and the Apple Cup pil­low fight against equally woeful Washington State (1­8). 
··our head coach keeps us grounded and keeps us focused. It's easy for any­body in this kind of situa­tion to lose focus but our team is pulling together and we're staying close," quar­terback Ronnie Fouch said. ··we're not letting people get frustrated or give up on the season." 
The blowout against USC concluded a difficult week for Washington's players. It started with most of them receiving word by e-mail or text message that Willingham would be out at the season's end. It conclud­ed with a lifeless perform­ance against the Trojans, where Washington managed only 184 total yards and didn't make a first down on offense until its sixth pos­session. 
In the modern era, only a 65-7 loss at Miami in 2001 and a 58-0 loss against Oregon in 1973 had larger margins of defeat. Washington lost to California 72-3 in 1921. 
Despite knowing that a new regime will be in charge next year, players still believe that Willingham's direction is getting through and being taken seriously. 
•'Definitely. He's an incredible man. He has a lot of things he can coach us on as far as being better young men and players," defensive tackle Johnie Kirton said. "I feel people are still listening to him and taking his words of advice. I don't think any­one is going to give up on the way he teaches us." 
Tuesday, November 4, 2008 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Belichick's call costs Patriots 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. ­
Matt Cassel keeps making 
progress. The Patriots quar­
terback might have made 
more if coach Bill Belichick 
hadn't called a timeout. 
While Cassel was sneaking from the Indianapolis 7-yard line for an apparent first down, Belichick was signal­ing for a timeout as he ran frantically to get an official's attention. He got the time­out, the run didn't count and Belichick decided to go for a field goal in the fourth quar­ter of New England's 18-15 loss Sunday night. 
"We didn't get a very good look at the spot," he said. "At first, we thought it was fourth-and-inches, then all along it was fourth and about a yard. So once we saw what the distance was, it just seemed better to get the points." 
It was an unusual miscal­culation by one of the NFL's best coaches that con­tributed to the loss that cost the Patriots (5-3) sole pos­session of first place in the AFC East. 
Stephen Gostkowski did make a 25-yard field goal that tied the game 15-15, but New England had used its last timeout and there was still 11:33 left in the game. Then, 3 and 1/2 min­utes later, Adam Vinatieri kicked the go-ahead field goal. And when the Colts got the ball again with 3:54 left, the Patriots couldn't stop the clock. 
Had the Patriots gone for a first down and made it 
behind an offensive line that 
had been solid all game, 
they would have been in 
excellent position to take the 
lead with a touchdown. Had 
they tried and failed, the 
Colts still would have been 
backed up against their goal 
line. 

But the New England sec­ondary was missing key injured players who could have given the Patriots a better chance to stop the Colts, who ended up reach­ing the Patriots 34 before Vinatieri's kick. 
Cassel played very well, completing 25 of 34 passes for 204 yards and directing four drives of more than 6 minutes. But moving the ball becomes tougher inside the 20 because the offense has less room to work with. 
"An area where there is not much field space, it is harder to throw down there than it is out in the field. But it is still something you have to do. It is harder to run down there, too, because everyone is closer to the line and there is less space to defend," Belichick said Monday. 
"I am confident in Matt throwing the ball. I am con­fident in us running it. I am confident in us stopping them, but we just have to do a better job of it, that's all." 
Still, his confidence wavered that his offensive line could push defenders far enough for Cassel to run for the first down. 
"I thought it was too long for a quarterback sneak," he said. 
The Patriots gained 140 
yards on 32 carries and did­
o 't lose ground on any of them. The offensive line did­n't allow a sack. 
"We just ran the play and 
snapped the ball at that 
point," Cassel said. "Then I 
got up and saw the coach 
called a timeout." 
The loss left the Patriots 
tied for the division lead 
with the Buffalo Bills and 
New York Jets, their next 
two opponents, both at 
Gillette Stadium. With half a 
season of experience since 

Tom Brady suffered a sea­
son-ending knee injury in 
the first quarter of the open­
er, Cassel should be ready. 
"I think Matt has continued 
•to improve every week since Week 1," Belichick said. "It doesn't surprise me. He works hard. He is a very attentive, smart kid who has talent, and every opportunity he gets a chance to practice, take reps and play, I think he improves. He's worked hard on it and I think that has shown up in his per­formance on a consistent basis." 
But his longest completion Sunday covered 20 yards and he rarely threw longer, even though Randy Moss was running patterns against a defense without three side­lined cornerbacks. Moss caught six passes, all in the second half, for 65 yards. 
"I thought both teams real­ly played well," Belichick said. "There weren't a lot of negative plays, turnovers or things like that. It just came down to a lot of little things in the end. They had just a little more than we did." 

NFL 
Cowboys have bye week to fix issues 
Associated Press  
IRVING,  Texas  - How  
'bout them Cowboys?  
Since  a  3-0  start  that  

reinforced their preseason Super Bowl hype, America's Team has gone in reverse. The latest loss dropped them to 5-4 -and last place in the NFC East. With a week to stew over it, too. 
Yet Dallas coaches and players have been eyeing the bye week for a while because this is when they're supposed to reload. Quarterback Tony Romo, running back Felix Jones, 
after the game, is every­body doing their part in 
getting  us  where  we  need  
to be."  
One  thing  the  last  few  

weeks cleared up is that Bollinger is less awful than Johnson. Phillips said Bollinger is now No. 2 on the depth chart and would start against the Redskins if Homo somehow isn't ready. 
Dropping Johnson to No. 3 creates another problem -who will hold on kicks? Phillips mentioned Crayton and punter Sam Paulescu as likely can­didates; he 
left guard ..We are not going also ruled out Kyle Kosier Homo, whose
into it saying, 'Hey,
and corner­tenure in that
just because these 
back Terence role ended Newman could guys are back quite memo-all practice rably in a
everything is fixed 
Wednesday playoff loss
and we are going to
and should be against ready to play win all our games. , Seattle. when the After going Cowboys go to 13-3 last sea­
Wade Phillips
Washington a son, then
Cowboys coach
week from seemingly 
Sunday. 
"We are not going into it saying, 'Hey, just because these guys are back everything is fixed and we are going to win all our games,"' coach Wade Phillips said Monday. 
However, Phillips spent 
much  of  the  rest  of  his  
news  conference  saying  
exactly that.  
The  reality  is  Romo  

replacing Brad Johnson and Brooks Bollinger should juiee up the offense. Dallas went from scoring at least 24 points in all his starts to topping out at 14 in the three games he missed. 
"It's kind of sickening," receiver Patrick upgrading the 
roster, Dallas was the chic pick to rule the NFC this season. By late September, the Cowboys were doing exactly that. 
A home loss to Washington began the tail­spin. It's hard to say whether the offense or the defense has been the bigger disappointment for Phillips and owner Jerry Jones. 
So the dream of closing out Texas Stadium with an NFC championship victory has pretty much vanished. At this point, the Cowboys need to get in gear just to claim a wild-card spot. 
"As far as I'm concerned, 
we're just 
playing to win 

Crayton said ..It's kind of games right following a now," Jones
sickening. I don't 
35-14 loss said Sunday, 
Sunday to the really know what's postgame. "We 
division-lead­going on. We really know where ing New York we are and it's
need to regroup 
Giants. "I not where we 
don't know during this offweek, planned to be what's going at all by this on. We really Patrick Crayton point in the 
need to season. It's
Cowboys wide receiver 
regroup dur­ing this off week .... Right now, we stink all across the board." 
Having Kosier back 
should  give  Homo  more  
time in  the pocket. Jones'  
return  provides  another  

big-play threat, perhaps opening up room for Terrell Owens to have his first 100­yard game. Homo also has a new target in Roy Williams, the receiver acquired a few days after the star quarter­back broke the pinkie fin­ger on his throwing hand. 
But then there's this sobering thought: The Cowboys weren't very good in Homo's last three games, losing twice and barely beating a Cincinnati team headed to a record of 0-8. 
"Everything is not well," Phillips acknowledged. "I do think some of the play­ers coming back will help us obviously in some areas. But that is not the answer. The answer, I told them 
very disap­

pointing. We just don't look anything like we had hoped." 
There are seven games left to change that. It's almost as if the playoffs already have begun for this group. 
"You make or break your­self in the second half of the season," Phillips said. "At least, with this team, that's where we need to go." 
Phillips believes his play­fHS are up for the chal­lenge. 
"I got the feeling after the game they're going to come back strong," he said. 
And what gave him that feeling? 
"Thirty-one years of coaching," he said. "Just being around it and seeing how they react and I just get that feeI. I think we do have a lot of high character guys that want to do well and they want to compet(~." 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 4, 2008 
====~~========================== 
Interhall 
continued from page 24 
that consistently halted promising drives. 
"Our defense played well," St. Edwards' coach Cameron Hogue said. "Even though we did not force turnovers, we can't complain with the shutout." 
The game came down to a battle of the defenses. Specifically, Sorin's tight eoverage broke up the passing game and it forced several three­and-outs from a usually explosive St. Edwards' offense. The Gentleman attack, led by quarter­back Matt Abeling, managed less than 50 yard'> of offense on the day. 
"Offensively, we did not execute at all," Hogue said. 
This offensive ineptness may be attributed to the fall break that broke up the momentum of their sea'ion. 
"It's hard coming off fall break," St. Edward's sophomore Daniel Quinlan said. "We just need more practice time to get people used to each other again." 
Freshman St. Edwards' line­backer Jay Mathes said the offense wasn't connecting. 
"We just have to play throw and catch and really establish the ground game for next week," Mathes said. 
Despite not scoring, Sorin coach Tony Bellino said his team played well on the offensive side of the ball. 
"Our offense was very strong today," he said. "We're going to try to take all the positives we can out of this tie." 
The Sorin offense maintained possession and had the ball for most of the game, including a drive play again, resulting in a safety. 

Despite playing like a bad section football team in the first half. Fisher came out of halftime trailing only 2­0. 
Sticking to their game plan, the Green Wave ran such plays a'> the "Mahondoff'', a designed run for offensive lineman Dan Mahon, and the "Gerow for it", a play that saw a Fisher tackle become eligible as a receiver, both of which resulted in penalties. Soon enough, Fisher found itself facing a 3rd and 50. 
Zahm stuck to its running game and finally broke a long run in the second half, putting the Rabid Bats deep in the red zone. They fini.'ihed ofi' their drive with a short run up the middle, making the score 8-0. 
Late in the fourth quarter, Fi..'iher crossed midfield for the first time and almost scored, only to be stopped by Zahm's defense. 
With Zahm taking over to run out the clock, apparently unbeknownst to his team, Zahm's quarterback tried to take a knee and complete a long pass. After an earful from the coaches, the Rabid Bats ran out the clock and walked away with a win. 
With its offense picking up penal­ties and racking up yardage losses, the Green Wave could only shake their heads and laugh off their shutout loss on Sunday. 
"This was the ugliest football game I've ever been a part of going all the way back to fifth grade pee­wee football," Mahon said. 
Siegfried 24, Duncan 0 
Siegfried cruised to a comfortable 24-0 victory over Duncan this Sunday, preserving its unbeaten record and proving it will be one of the teams to beat in the playoffs. 
Carried by the . 
potent duo of half­
back Marcus Young 
and fullback Dex 
that took up the "Offensively, we did Cure, the Ramblers entirety of the not execute at all. " (4-0) out-muscled a third quarter. Highlander (0-4) In the fourth defense that was
Cameron Hogue

quarter, a key helpless to stop the 
St. Edwards coach 

sack by Sorin run. 
defensive lineman Matt Gamber gave the Otters the ball back with 32 seconds left and a chance to win the game. Sorin, though, decided to play for the tie and simply let the clock run out. 
Some players on Sorin suggested that their lack of scoring wa'> inten­tional. 
"We didn't want to show anything before the playoffs," Otter freshman Bobby Sullivan said. 
St. Ed's also has thoughts of post­season success. "We can be a contender," Quinlan said. "We will make a run for this." 
St. Ed's earned the No. 2 seed in the playoffs and will face Keenan next week, while the tie dropped Sorin all the way to fourth. They will face Morrissey next week. 
Zahm 8, FISher 0 
Although only eight points sepa­rated Zahm and Fisher in the Rabid Bat'> sea'lon-ending win Sunday, the game couldn't have been more lop­sided. 
Armed with an arsenal of ineffec­tive trick plays and a collective amnesia about the rules of organ­ized football, Fisher (0-4) finished the game with more penalty yard'> than offensive yard'>. 
Zahm (1-2-1) began the game with a quarter-long drive only to get stopped in it.'> tracks at the one-yard line by Fisher's blitz-happy defense that blitzed as many as eight play­ers on a given play. After taking over possession at their own 3-yard line, Fisher ran a trick play in which the snap was supposed to go through the quarterback's legs and directly to the fullbaek. 
The play did not go as planned, though, hitting off of the quarter­back's leg and costing the team two yards, leaving the ofl'ense on its own goal line. The Green Wave proceeded to run the exact same On its first pos­

session, Siegfried 
found the end zone 
as Young took a pitch 30 yards for the score. The Ramblers' two-point conversion was successful and they took an 8-0 lead. 
While Siegfried jumped out to a fast start, the Highlanders struggled to ignite their offense. The Rambler defense consistently caused confu­sion and pressure, and Duncan had no response, going three-and-out on its first two possessions. 
"It was a tough game," Duncan captain Garrett Burke said. "Our detense had a tough time handling their strong run game and our offense was too inconsi.'itent." 
On Siegfried's second drive, Young scored again, capping off a 74-yard drive with a touchdown from two yard'> out for a 15-0 lead. 
As the half drew to a close, Duncan threatened for the first time when wide receiver Mike Kearney caught a 34-yard pa'>s to move into Siegfried territory. But the Ramblers forced a fumble on the following play, and Cure recov­ered the ball to snuff out the drive. 
The Ramblers debuted a direct­snap shotgun ofi"ense to start the second half that proved effective. But for the first time, Siegfried couldn't break through the Highlander's defense, and had to settle for a 30-yard field goal, which Gary Burke converted, and the Humbler's led 18-0. 
Siegfried's defense kept Dunean in check the entire semnd half, and backup quarterback Zach Maxwell closed out the game in the final minute with a 19-yard scoring pass to Cllarles Drury. 
Although the Ramblers finished the regular season unbeaten, Kelly knows the playoffs are a fresh start for everyone, and an unbeaten sea­son is meaningless unless they make it to the championship game. 
"It is important to stay focused and keep reminding ourselves that the ultimate goal is the Stadium," he said. 
Stanford 6, Keenan 6 
The Battle for the Chapel resulted in a, with the evenly matched Stanford and Keenan squads end­ing up with only a touchdown apiece. 
The tie allows both teams to advance to the playoffs, Stanford a'> the No. 6 seed, and Keenan as the No.7 seed. 
Stanford started off the game with pos..'>cssion, but was forced to punt after some great coverage from the Keenan secondary. After the punt return, the Knights were also stopped and neither team was able to finish out a Keenan had three plays on the goal line and our defense stopped them," Salvi said. 
O'Neill 0, Keough 0 

Keough blocked a field goal with les..'i than a minute left in the game ensured a shutout as Keough and O'Neill battled to a scoreless tie on Sunday. Exceptional team defense from both rivals was the story of the game, as neither offense could find the end zone. 
Keough (0-2-2), which began the year with a scoreless tie against Keenan, finishes the season without a victory. Nevertheless, senior cap­tain Nazur Ahmed said hn is far from disappointed with his team's season. 
''I'm proud of the 
way our guys 
played all season, 
drive. especially today,"
..We were able to run 
However, with Ahmed said. "This
what we wanted to
58 seconds on the team is laying the clock, Stanford run.'' foundations for regained the ball success in the and moved down future."
Joe McBrayer
to the 10-yard Although
Morrissey quarterback
line. Quarterback Keough struggled 
Brian Salvi pitched the ball to David Costanzo, who then completed a pass to tight end Tommy Smith. With six sec­onds to go, Salvi connected with Costanzo for the touchdown. The kick was blocked by Keenan defensemen Pat Kelly, and the score at halftime read 6-0 in favor ofthe Griffins. 
Costanzo was a standout on both sides of the ball, with numerous receptions and a punt return that he ran back for what would have been a touchdown, ifnot for a hold­ing call on the Griffins. 
"Costanzo is our best athlete, it is nice to have him on the team and he can play everywhere, we put him on offense today to switch things up and surprise the defense," Salvi said. 
In the beginning of the third quarter, the Keenan offense came back strong, moving the ball down to the 1 0-yard line with a run by senior running back Alex Gonzalez. Freshman quarterback Terry Mahoney had a pass to put a touch­down on the board for the Knights. The kick was blocked, and the score remained tied at the end of the third. 
With 52 second'> to go, Mahoney passed to Jim Zenker, and the Knights remained at first down and goal. However, in spite of three attempts to run the ball into the end zone, Keenan was stopped by an aggressive Stanford defense. 
"This game was about defense, 
once again to 
establish a rhythm 
on offense, the Roos were poised to score late in the first half. 
Tailback Reed Looney ran the ball well on the ground, finding holes and breaking tackles. Quarterback Matt Bruggeman found receiver Kevin Laughlin for a 25-yard pass down to the O'Neill eight, but a controversial offensive pass interference call effectively ended the Keough drive. 
As a result, the Roos finished the first half without completing a pass or obtaining a first down. 
The Mob defense created havoc in the Keough backfield all day, amassing four sacks. Pressure from the defensive line forced Keough interceptions to defensive backs Tom Freel and Brendan Mulharen. 
"Our defense played strong all game," O'Neill captain Matt Bono said. "We had a great sense of camaraderie this year." 
O'Neill (1-2-1) started strong on offense as running back Tom Freel powered through the holes, break­ing multiple tackles and gaining good yardage. But after starting quarterback Bobby Powers was injured on the third play of the game, the Roo defense took advan­tage of an inexperienced backup quarterback. 
Freshman linebacker Alex Boll and defensive back Chris Kosinski intercepted passes on consecutive drives, while senior linemen Faustin Weber recovered a fumble late in the fourth quarter. 
But the Roo defense had it.'> most important stop with 40 seconds left in the game. Rushing all 11 players, Keough blocked an O'Neill kick that would have sealed a victory. 
"It's a rivalry, but I still have much respect for O'Neill," Ahmed said. 
Morrissey 21, Knott 6 

Early in the week, Morrissey cap­tain Joe McBrayer said this week's matchup against Knott would come down to who worked harder in practice. After a 21-6 win against the Juggerknotts on Sunday after­noon, it's clear all the hard work was worthwhile. 
"We were able to run what we wanted to run," McBrayer said. 
With the win, Morrissey (3-1) will be the No. 5 seed in the playoffs and will play No. 4 seed Alumni thi'i Sunday. After a last second loss to Alumni earlier in the season, McBrayer expressed the impor­tance of the momentum Morrissey will carry with them after the big win over Knott. 
"We're glad to end our regular season on a high note and go into the playoffs with all the momen­tum", McBrayer said. "But the play­offs won't change our game plan, we're looking to go out there and do what we've done all year long." 
On the opposite sideline, the Juggerknotts (1-3) are headed for the offseason. 
"Not too much went well," Knott captain Aidan Fitzgerald said. "We made some plays, it was just that we eouldn't string them together." 
The game, a microcosm of Knott's season, was characterized by a lot of abrupt changes. 
"Our defense was in a strange alignment lor most of the game," Fitzgerald said "We also had trou­ble finding a consistent offense. We've been forced to do a lot of on the spot changes and that obviously isn't conducive to a winning record." 
Fitzgerald did see reason for opti­mism though. A relatively young team this year, the Juggerknotts will have a lot of returning talent next year and they are confident that they can build off of a di.o;ap­pointing season and make a run for the playoffs in 2009. 
Contact Christina McDonnell at cmcdonne@nd.edu, Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu, Kyle Smith at ksmith3l@nd.edu, Liza Navarro at lnavarro@nd.edu, Christopher Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu and Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 


Tuesday, November 4, 2008 page 19 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 


4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 
Fnr Gay, Lesbian, BisexualS Ouestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 4 7:00p.m.-9:00p.m. 316 Coleman Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesbian, bisexual Squestioning members of the Notre Oame family. along with their friends and allys, to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured 
Caffee anrfRefreshments W!11 Be Served 
CCRE COuNCIL 
'Md:t. ifFi¥ ~Wi' &$~SVJMiii' m~HfS 

Chicago plays waiting game on Orton injury 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. -One day after leaving the field on a cart, Chicago Bears quarterback Kyle Orton was undergoing more tests on his right ankle to determine the extent of his injury. 
Orton was injured in the final minute of the first half in Sunday's 27-23 victory over the Detroit Lions, forcing the Bears to turn to former starter Rex Grossman. And Chicago might be without Orton for the next few weeks. 
''I'm not playing doctor; you shouldn't either," coach Lovie Smith said Monday. "You should let us come and tell you once we know for sure exactly what the injury is. We're hopeful, I'll just say that." 
Orton was examined after 
the game and 'Tm not playing 2005. 
underwent tests Back then,
doctor; you shouldn't 
Monday morn­Orton was simply
either.,,
ing, Smith said. a game manager. More were The Bears sim­scheduled for plified their
Lovie Smith 
later in the day, offense and lim­
Bears coach 
but the odds of him being ready for next week's game against Tennessee certainly did not look good after he went down against the Lions. 
Asked if the injury was more than just a sprain, Smith said: "It's an ankle injury. That's about all I'm going to tell you right now. Wednesday, I'll tell you more." 
He also offered few details about safety Mike Brown's calf injury, although Smith did say he doesn't think it's season­ending. 
Smith said the Bears have no plans to bring in another quar­terback. 
"To do that, you would say that Kyle will be out for a long period of time," Smith said. "We're not there. We're evalu­ating an ankle injury. That's about all we're doing right now." 
Several reports said Orton could be out up to a month with a high ankle sprain, but team spokesman Scott Hagel said Monday night: "The evaluation process is ongoing and it will go through tomorrow." 
Orton's agent David Dunn did not return messages seeking comment. 
Orton was enjoying a break­out year after beating Grossman in a preseason com­petition before the injury in the closing minute of the first half. That happened moments after the Bears lost Brown, their emotional leader. 
Brown walked to the locker room after Detroit's Jason Hanson booted a 52-yard field goal that extended Detroit's lead to 10 with 1:05 left. 
The Bears had a third down on their 35 with 40 seconds left when Orton scrambled to his right. Cory Redding hit him and Dewayne White fell on Orton as the f{Uarterback was hitting the turf. 
Orton got up and took a few steps before crumbling to the ground. He was tended to for several minutes before being carted oft' the field. He was 8­of-14 for 108 yards and was in line for his sixth straight game with 199 yards or more. 
Now, the Bears might be without him for a while. 
"I don't want to be prepared for that," tight end Desmond Clark said. "Hopefully, he comes back and misses a mini­mum amount of time .... At this point, I'm going to hold out hope that he's not going to miss much time because he was playing at an elite level, and hopefully, we can get him back as soon as possible." 
Orton has 1,777 yards in all while completing 151 of 244 passes, and has 10 touchdowns and four interceptions -none in the past four games. He might not have been on his way to the Pro Bowl, but clearly was playing at a much higher level than when he got thrust into the starting role as a rookie fill­
ing  in  for  the  
i  n  j  u  r  e  ·d  
Grossman  in  

ited him mainly 
to handoffs and 
short passes. 
And although Chicago went to the playoffs, fans couldn't wait for Grossman's return late that season. 
On Sunday, they cringed when Orton went down. And they serenaded Grossman with boos, a familiar tune the past few seasons. 
Although Grossman threw a 6-yard touchdown pass to Rashied Davis in the third quar­ter and scored the winning TD on a 1-yard sneak with 5:36 left in the game, he was erratic. There were deflections. There was an interception. And there were jeers before he gave the Bears the lead. 
After he plunged into the end zone, Grossman ran to the right and slammed the ball to the ground. 
Grossman's stats -9-for-19, 58 yards, one touchdown, one interception and a 49.9 rating -were far from impressive. But the Bears have won with him in the past. He played at a Pro Bowl level early in 2006 before inconsistency set in. The Bears made the Super Bowl, but fell to 7-9 last season, with Grossman getting benched for Brian Griese and then injuring his left knee late in the season. 
That opened the door for Orton, leading to a quarterback competition. 
"Rex has played a lot of downs around here," Smith said. "He's been in that position before." 
Brown finds himself in a familiar spot, too: recuperating. 
An Achilles' tendon injury ended his season in 2004, and he missed the final four regu­lar-season games the following year with a calf injury. In 2006, he started the first six games before going down with a foot injury, and last year, he tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee in the opener at San Diego. 
"It's a concern because it's happened so many times," Smith said. "But right now, he just has a calf injury. Mike doesn't have a season-ending injury." 
-----------~-~--~-~----------------------------------­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 4, 2008 
NFL 

Leftwich fills in, leads Steelers over Redskins 
Associated Press 
LANDOVER, Md. -Byron Leftwich led two touchdown drives after Ben Roethlisberger reinjured his throwing shoulder and the Pittsburgh Steelers beat the Washington Redskins 23-6 on Monday night. 
The Steelers' top-rated defense had seven sacks, allowed only 221 yards and became the first team this 

season  to  intercept Jason  
Campbell.  
Leftwich  went 7-of-1 0  for  

129 yards and a touchdown as the Steelers (6-2) beat an NFC East team for the first time in three attempts this season. 
Roethlisberger was 5-of­1 7 for 50 yards and an interception before leaving the game at halftime, again hindered by the slightly sep­arated shoulder that has bothered him since the sec­ond week of the season. 
Roethlisberger said he hurt the shoulder on the 1­yard sneak that gave the Steelers a 10-6 lead near the end of the first half. 
"I have no update on Ben at this point," coach Mike Tomlin said. "Potentially, he 

was capable of going back came close to scoring a in the game, but we went touchdown only once ­down the field~ with Leftwich when Campbell threw in there to start the second incomplete to eligible line­half. We'll just see how he man Lorenzo Alexander on is." fourth-and-goal at the 1 in 
Roethlisberger spoke the fourth quarter. briefly in the locker room. Campbell, who finished 24­Asked if the injury was seri­of-43 for 206 yards, thought ous, he said: "I hope not. he had scored on a scramble We'll find out." on the previous play, but a 
Leftwich's 50-yard com­replay challenge showed he 
pletion to  Nate  was down just  
Washington set  before  the  
up a 1-yard TO run by Willie Parker, who was back from a four-week  ../ have no update [on Roethlisberger] at this point .,.  goal line. While the Steelers remain atop the AFC  
layoff  with  a  North,  the  
knee injury.  He  Mike Tomlin  Redskins lost  
also yard  had a 5­scoring  Steelers coach  ground in the NFC East to  

pass to Santonio Holmes, who returned from a one-game benching over a charge for a marijuana­related offense. Roethlisberger celebrated that touchdown on the side­line by high-fiving his team­mates -with his left hand. 
The Steelers held Clinton Portis to 51 yards rushing, ending his streak of five straight games with at least 120 yards. Washington (6-3) 
the New York 
Giants Washington enters its bye week needing to tweak an offense that has put togeth­er promising drives all sea­son but has often struggled to find the end zone. 
The game was the first hosted by Washington on the eve of a presidential election since 1984, and there was no mistaking the combination of football and election fever. One fan alternately waved a white towel with Barack Obama's image in the left hand and an all-burgundy Redskins towel in the right hand. Sports-themed interviews with Obama and John McCain were broadcast by ESPN during halftime. 
The Redskins also used the special occasion to wear burgundy jerseys and pants together for the first time in franchise history. A more noticeable color, however, was the yellow from the sea of Terrible Towels waved by Steelers fans who managed to secure tickets by the boatload for the lower bowl of the stadium. In a bizarre sight, visiting Pittsburgh players were waving to the fans all around them to make noise crowd during defensive stands. 
Neither team managed 100 yards in a first half that included seven sacks and a combined 13-of-3 2 perform­ance by Roethlisberger and Campbell. The Redskins did­n't convert on third down until Campbell hit tight end Chris Cooley for a 12 -yard gain late in the third quar­ter. 
Campbell's streak without an interception reached 271 attempts -249 this season 
before cornerback Deshea Townsend grabbed a pass tipped by Portis late in the third quarter. 
Washington was on the board early with two field goals in the first four min­utes -without the benefit of a first down. Linebacker Alfred Fincher alertly recov­ered the Steelers surprise onside kick that opened the game, and Cornelius Griffin intercepted a pass tipped by teammate Andre Carter. Both plays gave Washington the ball in Pittsburgh terri­tory, leading to field goals of 44 and 43 yards by Shaun Suisham. 
The Steelers didn't cross midfield until Carlos Rogers grabbed Hines Ward to com­mit an obvious 43-yard pass interference penalty, setting up a 35-yard field goal by Jeff Reed that e u t Washington's lead to 6-3. 
The Steelers went ahead after Andre Frazier blocked Ryan Plackemeier's punt. William Gay recovered, giv­ing Pittsburgh the ball at Washington's 13 and setting up Roethlisberger's 1-yard
TO. ­


A Special Information Session for Arts and Letters Students 
(Others are welcome to attend) 

he L ndon Sumfner 

May 13th to June 14th 2009 
~All returning ND & St. Mary's undergraduates eligible 
~Four and one-half week study in London 
~Mid session study/travel to Paris, Normandy, Belfast, Spain, or Amsterdam 
~ Earn 6 credit hours 
~Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 
Information Session for 2009 & 2010 Programmes THURSDAY 6™ November 2008 5:00pm to 6:00 126 DeBartolo Hall 
Applications are available at 305 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.edu/--sumlon 

Tuesday, November 4, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
eighth grade, our bread-and­tape of Pittsburgh, especially its Notre Dame's performance 
butter run play was called game against Rutgers. By CO's against Marquette in the Big
Pastor 
Injury

Power-I right 32. In this ease, he means DVD's game film. 
East semifinals. And even the continued from page 24 Notre Dame uses a rare three­Notre Dame ran 10 offensive 
continued from page 24 prospect of No. 17 West back set with Robert Hughes, plays in the third quarter. Five of 
Virginia in the finals shouldn't accepted into the students' Asaph Schwapp and James them were passes, five of them 
son, just that sophomore hold too much threat -after cheer repertoire. Aldridge in the backfield at the were runs. The first two drives 
Taylor Knaack or junior all, we are talking about an 
·' 
But upon further examination, same time. Aldrigde, the three­of the quarter started with runs 
Michelle Weissenhofer may be undefeated team here. the song contains words of wis­back, would take the handoff by Allen -both five-yard losses. 
where Hanks once paced the 

dom for the Fighting Irish, espe­and run behind Hughes and Why the need for balance? 
field. The views expressed in this 
cially after the tough loss to Schwapp through the two-hole, Both Irish touchdowns at that 
So even though and injury is column are those ofthe writer Pittsburgh Saturday. Pastor Troy the space between Wenger and point came on passes. The 
never welcomed -unless and not necessarily those of knows pain, in the same way as right guard Chris Stewart. Why offense should not have ignored 
you're playing against Notre The Observer. Notre Dame does, and he knows this wasn't part of the "pound­threats like Michael Floyd and 
Dame -the temporary loss Contact Deirdre Krasula at what it's like to have a rough it" philosophy is beyond me. Golden Tate; instead of putting 
of Hanks isn't likely to affect dkrasula@nd. edu history like the Irish had last Aldridge and Schwapp in the season. "Putting it down for five years. backfield and motioning Duval Also, the name "Pastor" plays the blood. the sweat, the Kamara in to run-block, thereby to Notre Dame's religious affilia­{explicative/ tears": A clear ref­telegraphing their intentions, 
both team highs. Sophomoretions, even if there aren't pas­erence to the hard work the they should have spread the 
defensive specialist Meghann tors in the Catholic Church. fifth-year seniors, Maurice Crum field with four or five wide 
MIAA 

Rose led the team with 4.48 Minor detail. It's nothing new to Jr., Terrail Lambert and Justin receivers and let Clausen do his 
continued from page 24 digs per game. have a priest pray with the team Brown, have put in during their thing. 
The Bulldogs finished the before kickoff, so having the careers. They lasted through Same thing in overtime. Nine 
matches, finishing fourth in season at .500 in the confer­crowd chant the words of the two coaches, two BCS bowl loss­rushes, seven passes. An aver­
the MIAA on the back of suf­ence (8-8) and 14-15 overall. Pastor puts the team in a famil­es and the worst season in the age of 7. 7 5 yards rushing per 
focating defense and an Adrian plays a similar game iar state of mind. history of Notre Dame football. overtime period. That won't cut 
opportunistic offense. The as Saint Mary's, relying on Let's look at some of the lyrics: They deserve some dap. it. If the rush isn't getting it 
Belles' record was an smothering defense to offset a done, allow Clausen to throw. 
improvement over last sea­pedestrian offset that posted "Now ease up shorty, let the G "Hard as a hammer, I am Granted, he completed only two 
son's 6-10 mark in league a .164 attacking percentage. slide through": Offensive line Atlanta": a shout-out to Paul of those seven passes, but he 
play (fifth place) and 12-17 Senior hitter Jenny Carlson coach John Latina says this to Duncan, Eric Maust, Morrice had Floyd wide open in the end 
overall, and the squad leads the Bulldogs' offense center Dan Wenger, who at 6-Richardson, Jamoris Slaughter zone and just overthrew him. 
demonstrated giant leaps in with 3.37 kills per game, foot-4 is the "shorty" of the and Toryan Smith, who all hail Give him more chances and he'll 
consistency and team effort. while senior defense special­offensive line. What he means by from the great state of Georgia. make it happen eventually. 
Standout junior hitter Lorna ist Samantha Mercy added this is to let the defensive guard 
Slupczynski paced the offense 5.04 digs per game, first on slide through a hole in the line "Soon as I step on the scene, "Ifyou a gangsta you need to 
with a team-high 3.14 kills the squad. when Wenger pulls to the side to its lights camera, action, cash crank this up": the offense need­
per game, while freshman The game starts at 7 p.m. block for a sweep. This lead in, fat-a** cheques, my rolex": ed to channel its inner gangsta 
setter Danielle Brink added a blocking helps spring running The way Jimmy Clausen must and crank up the passing game, 
.323 attacking percentage Contact Michael Blasco at back Armando Allen to the side­have felt when he first arrived but instead kept the ball on the 
and 8.25 assists per game, mblasco@nd.edu lines, where he can use his here. As highly regarded as he ground. As a result, the team's speed to create plays, or on was, the cameras certainly hopes of beating a.good team short-yardage conversions when rolled. His watch may not be a stayed grounded. the defense guesses that James Rolex, but it certainly attracts Aldridge will run up the middle. attention. The views expressed in this 
column are those ofthe author 
"And I don't leave without my "/watch your CD's, my man, an dnot necessarily those ofThe .32": An homage to Notre y'all suck": What offensive coor­Observer. Dame's secret weapon. When I dinator Mike Haywood must Contact Bill Brink at last played organized football in have thought when watching wbrink@nd. edu 

Welcome to 21st century student apartments. 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Brand new, contemporary, furnished apartments now leasing for Fall 2009. 
• 
Two bedrooms 


• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
·Furnished 


• 
Includes 42" flat panel HDTV 

• 
Laundry room with washer & dryer 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations 

• 
Walk to campus 




luxury apartments
IIIrish 
ROW 


Welshfam 
continued from page 24 
the underdogs in the lead, 7­0. 
"The 4th down conversion we had on our first offensive drive was the most exciting play of the game," Lyons quarterback Claire Connell said. "It really gave us a boost to start the game." 
But Welsh Family must've received a boost as well ­Welsh dominated much of the rest of the game. 
"We started off a bit slow," Welsh Family captain and quar­terback Jenni Gargula said. "But once we got into the game,

l 
\ we played like we always do." Gargula ran in the Whirlwind's first touchdown,
I ; 
tying the game 7-7 just before 

l 
the half. They kept the momen­tum going for the remainder of the game, and the Lyons defense struggled against a strong Welsh Family offense in the second half. The Whirlwinds scored two more touchdowns, by Katherine Hart 

' and Natalie Baldasare, before the time ran out to secure their victory. 
"We came up a little short, but everyone improved as the 

I. 
·, 
year went on," Connell said. "I

'' 
am looking forward to seeing what we can do next year." 
As Lyons finishes their sea­son, Welsh Fam still must pre­pare for another opponent as it hopes to stay undefeated going

}!\ 
into the championship game in

,I. 
,) 
the Stadium. 

:t 
Pasquerilla West 12,

~ 
I' II 
Howard 6 

,. 
Pasquerilla West's hopes of a 

I' 
page 22 

w ' r! 
I . I. 
I\
I., I ' 
I. 
I 
third Stadium appearance in four years survived as PW downed Howard Sunday, thanks two touchdowns, one by air and one by ground. from senior quarterback Cara Davies. 
On its opening drive, PW, the No. 4 seed, marched down to the end zone in seven plays. Davies competed a 9-yard pass to junior receiver Cynthia Curley for the touchdown and an early 6-0 lead. 
Howard, the No. 5 seed, attempted to respond quickly with a score, but the Purple Weasels defense held strong. On fourth-and-goal from the 5-yard line. Howard sophomore quar­terback Kayla Bishop looked to throw, but PW linemen Jordan Johnson grabbed her flag from behind for the sack, killing Howard's momentum. 
PW opened the second half by intercepting Bishop at the 15­yard line. Two plays later, Davies raced around the end for a 1-yard touchdown and a two-possession lead. 
Howard was able to manage one touchdown on its final pos­session. A deep completion set up a Bishop five-yard touch­down run. Nonetheless, the Ducks left the game saddened, still looking for a playoff victory in team history. 
"We are really disappointed with the way we played today." Bishop said. "We just got out­played." 
Davis added: "The win today was a good step towards our season goal. But we don't want to rest on our laurels." 
Staying motivated won't be hard for PW. In the semifinals, the Weasels will face Welsh Family. Last season Welsh Fam beat the Weasels in the same round. That loss is the only 
\1. ,·; 
I I' 
I ' I 

:'.· :: ;~· 1 '.'. -~· 

' 
I 
II ~ l 




-··?· 
....... 

i> 
or (Instant Message)I I 
l ,, ' ~ $50 
~ l 
' i
. 
I 
( 
) 
>! 
,. 
'. ,. 
' : i 
---~--­
The Observer+ SPORTS 
playoff loss for PW in the past four seasons. 
"The semifinals matchup will be a grudge match -they ended our Stadium run last year," Davies said. "Hopefully we'll return the favor this time around." 
Farley 13, Walsh 7 

Whether it is a short field goal, a solid drive, or a strong defensive stand, every coach looks for that little bit of momentum at the end of the first half to carry through to the second half. In this first-round playoff match between Farley and Walsh, that little bit meant everything. 
With only seconds remaining in the first half, Farley quarter­back Emily Murphy and her offense faced fourth and goal on the 4-yard line. The Finest were driving effectively and were poised to break the score­less tie on the last play befQre halftime. To the chagrin of the Finest, Walsh junior Molly McCarthy intercepted Murphy's pass. McCarthy quickly found a seam down the sideline and seemed to have a clear path to the end zone. The ecstatic Wild Women were all ready to con­gratulate her on her touchdown interception .return until a Farley player chased her down and dove to grab her flag. The play undoubtedly saved a touchdown and, more impor­tantly, saved the Finest from the ultimate turn of events and potential loss of momentum. Walsh assistant coach Christopher Cugliari recognized its importance. 
"The game-saving play was the tackle at the end of the half," he said. "She made a great play and it changed the 
outcome of the game." 

The second half was all Farley's. An interception on the first drive led to touchdown and extra point passes both to soph­omore Molly Casanova. 
The Finest then forced a three-and-out, which Murphy turned into six more points on a pass, again to Casanova. 
By this point, the Wild Women, found themselves behind 13-0 with little time left. They managed to find Meghan Hadley in the end zone, but it was too little too late. 
Although the Wild Women's season was over, the coaching staff was proud of the team's accomplishments. 
"The difference between our first game and this game is just astounding," coach J .J. Rees said. "We have improved so much and we are all so proud to be able to coach Walsh." 
On the other sideline, the Finest were able celebrate a win and a spot in the semifi­nals. 
"Our defense played very well, and I was glad our half­time adjustments were success­ful in getting us some offensive production," coach Doug Susco said. 
The Finest will play No. 2 seed McGlinn in two weeks. 
McGlinn 18, Pangborn 14 

In a tight game from start to finish, McGlinn defeated the Pangborn and will move on to face Farley in the semifinals. 
"I could not have been more excited with the way that we played," McGlinn captain Sarah deGroot said. "We came out the gates fast, which has been·an emphasis at practice all week, and gained a lot of confidence by scoring first. The offense did 
_,~~-~~....:..: 
.. -=~·­


•
1'-."
!i: 
..,,:, 


~---·-·-----­
Tuesday, November 4, 2008 
a great job setting the tone all game and putting up three touchdowns on a solid Pangborn defense." 
DeGroot said the Shamrocks played well on defense, allow­ing McGlinn to hang on to its close lead at the end of the game. 
"The defense did a terrific job shutting them down, keeping the their offense off of the field, and holding a dangerous offense to only two scores," deGroot said. 
DeGroot was also pleased with McGlinn's aggressive atti­tude throughout the game 
"I thought that we did a great job battling. We had some tough calls that didn't go our way, but we never lost our composure," deGroot said, "We still have improvements to make before our next game against Farley but we feel like we have some momentum and that we can play with any team in this league". 
The Phoxes were disappoint­ed with the loss. 
"Our quarterback Gabby Tate and our defense played a great game," Pangborn captain Kathleen Poploski said. "It.was a tough loss". 
Despite Pangborn's loss, the team is encouraged for next season since this year's team is young. 
"A lot of our team was fresh­men and sophomores so we'll have a lot of returning players. We're only losing two seniors. We should be much improved 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu, Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu, Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu and Ryan O'Connell at roconne3@nd.edu 

IM 2 W·ln· . ~ All Y'alloolf!15110Google Talc 
iTunes Gift Card Raffle:. 

j 
I 
Go to ht:t:p://asklib.nd.edu 
'· 
' 
Click on IM or Text: to enter drawing 
'
I,j 
by November 12th for a chance to win.
d 
I I 
' ' ( i 
'~ 
I' 
Text or IM the word \Nin with your
r: 
I 
: 
name, netid & email address to
~ ~ 
'.. 
~ 
) 
• 

I 
ndlibrar1es: Send the text to number 26501 0. 
!i 
:j 
I 
; : 
Include the colon followed by a space then type Win, etc. or it won't workl Standard text charges apply. 
f$1UNIVERSITYOF 
'9fNOTREDAME 
Hc1burgh Ubrarict 

I, 
r 
~-------­

Tuesday, November 4, 2008 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT PATRICK GARTLAND 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek

Jru1/W&i1IK
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
··4 to form four ordinary words. 
PUJMY 
1 

rJ I I 
c~·>200s Tribune Media Services, Inc. 

~~1~fj I I 
UPVERY NO MATTEI< WHAr
I [] tJ 

IS SERVED, THIS WIL-l­~· www.jumble.oom MAKE IT ATTI<ACTIVE.
I GENJAL j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as

I (I I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Print answer here: rI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: ERASE TITLE POTTER GYPSUM Answer: Unwrapping their treats during the cowboy movie made them -RUSTLERS 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
Across  36 Pungent­ 63 Squirrel away  
Put out, as a fire  smelling  64 Suspect's story  
6 Furry TV  37 Expensive tooth  65 Stephen of "The  
extraterrestrial  filling material  Crying Game"  
9 Arouse. as  38 Sport with beefy  66 Out of favor,  
interest  grapplers  informally  
14 "In my opinion  39 Admonition to a  67 Derby prize  
..  showboating  68 The whole  
15 Place for sheep  athlete  shebang  
to graze  42 Notes after do  69 Activities in 57­ 
16 Mrs. Bush  43 Doll's cry  Down  
17 Utensil used with  44 Almost any doo­ 
flour  wop tune  Down  
18 Perry Mason's  45 What a driver's  Satellite TV  
field  license shows  receiver  
19 Out of kilter  proof of  2 Garfield's pal, in  
20 Old "Tonight  47 Makes tough  the funnies  
Show" intro  48 Understood  3 _-friendly  
23 Fork over  49 By way of  (simple to  
24 Word after show  50 "Cheers"  operate)  
or know  bartender  4 Put money in the  
25 Bygone Rambler  53 Kid's book with a  bank  
mfr.  hidden character  5 Poker player's  
27 Classic arcade  60 Atlantic or  headgear Puzzle by Fred Piscop  
game  Pacific  6 Give the O.K. 31 Hardly cramped  
31 Set free  62 Buddhist sect  7 Wife of Jacob 32 Director Kazan  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  8 Young Bambi 9 Benchwarmer's plea 1oThe Beatles'  33 Napped leather 34 Cybermessages 35 Stadium toppers  a collegian 47 Bro's sibling 49 Open to bribery  57 Features of science classes 58 "Dang!"  
"_ the Walrus"  37 Pesky swarmer  50 Suds maker  59 5:2, e.g., at a  
11 Wit's remark  40 Most common  51 Rights org.  racetrack  
12 Celestial bear  U.S. surname  52 Golda of Israel  61 Muscles to  
13 "Piece of cake!"  41 Zero  54 Poet Pound  crunch  
21 Rock's Bon Jovi  

22 Nita of silent For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
films credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 26 Windsor, notably Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 27 Father: Prefix -crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
28 Felt sore Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 29 Oreo's filling Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for yo"ung 30 Sinking in mud solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Dolph Lundgren, 51; Adam Ant, 54; Kate 
Capshaw, 55; Roseanne Barr, 56 

Happy Birthday: Tie up any mess you've left. Straight talk will make your life easier. It's not the outcome but the journey that counts. However, thi.s year. without the final stage the journey has no meaning. Your numbers are 5, 13,18, 20. 28, 36,40 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You ean make a big enough splash if you are original. A short trip to experience something first hand or to become \\.·ell-informed about some­thing you want to pursue will result in help and success. Schedule in a little loving. ** 
TAI'Rt:S (Apri120-~-lay 20): Talks, tra\·el and expressing your desires with passion will help you move forward. Don't let someone's lies or misinformation slow you down. You have to surpass those lo\'ho are jealous or competitive. ***** 
GEMINI (May 21-june 20): Learn from your mistakes and you won't have to do a repeat perfonnance. Too much is on the line to overreact or to let your emoti;..ns control your actions. Be creative and do things a little differently and you will confuse your op­ponents. *** 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): You may think you know the outcome of a situation you face but your intuition is wrong. The people with whom you discuss things \viii not be well enough int"ormed to help you. Let things unfold further before you make a costly mistake that rannot be reversed. *** 
LEO (July 2J-Aug. 22): Stop expecting everyone else to do the work. Drive and deter­mination at home and work will enable you to take control and get vour way. Love can he a powerful tool when coupled with a playful attitude. *** • 
VIRGO (Aug. 2.l-Sept. 22): A change is heading your way that should bring about abw1dance, new friends and a lifestyle change. All these will help you get out of a sticky situation. Make decisions for the future based on what's best for you. * * *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 2.,-0ct. 22): Don't get into trouble with someone over a trivial matter. Get out of the house and meet nelo\' people but don't divulge secrets to newfound friends. Consider a new course of action, job or outlet that will challenge )'OU creatively.** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 2J-Nov. 21 ): Share your thoughts, feelings and future plans with others today. The feedback and interaction you have with others will provide the spark you need to move ahead with something you've been procrastinating about.**** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Work diligently on a project that will allow you to leam, teach and grow intellectually. A love connection is likely to be frustrating and, if you allow it to get to you, you will limit what you can accomplish. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't blurt out or argue without thinking. Put things into context. Steady progress comes from stability, s~·urity and building a solid reputa­tion for being professional and maintaining a code of ethics. *** 
AQllARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): Say what's on your mind and you can put ongoing emotional problems behind you. Draw up an agreement that will help you gain ground in other areas of your life. Don't allow anyone to hold you hack from educational pur­suits.*** · 
PISCES (Feb. 19-l\-lanh 20): There is money heading your way. A sudden rhange of course or turn of events will surprise even you. Don't let love leave you in a vulnerable or guilty position. You have to remain in control if you want to come out on top. 
**** 

Birthday Baby: You have everythi11g you need to be successful: charm, attitude, deter­
. mination, openness and the desire to try new things. You are a fighter' and a great asset to any group you join. 
Euge11ia's Wt>b sites: t'llgenitJ/ast.com j01· confidentinl comultarions. 
mvspace.comleugenialast for Eugmia's blog, asfroadvice.comfor fim 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one acadetnic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name -------------------------------------------------------------­
Address ________________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip___________ 
......­
------~ 
: I 







with nine on the season, and she boasts six goals in addition to that. 
But it's not just Bock and Henderson who will help ease the pain of Hanks injury. The Irish have had 17 difierent players score 69 goals in the 2008 season. And the Irish defense has only let up eight goals in a still-undefeated sea­son. So Irish fans, I see no rea­son to worry yet. 
The Irish defense makes up yet another reason the Irish are likely to push right _on through to the NCAA Championship. 
nents will get a chance to see the back of the Irish net is slim. Goalkeeper Kelsey Lysander and the Irish defense were even able to keep No. 2 North Carolina scoreless in their 1-0 win over the Tar Heels back in September -even more encouraging is the fact that Bock posted the lone Irish goal. 
And its easy to forget who stands at the crux of it all ­Irish coach Randy Waldrum, a man who's never stopped learning about the game, espe­cially on the women's side. Arid even if this Irish team hasn't top defenders -Dew -to an ACL injury right before the start of the 2006 post-season. 
And despite losing to North Carolina in the College Cup Final. they made it there nonetheless. Waldrum has dealt with injury before, and Hanks' is the first really trying injury of the season, and I'm sure Waldrum will know how to deal with it. The Irish are like­ly to step on the field Friday and look like essentially the same team you've seen all sea-
see INJURY/page 21 


FOOTBALL COMMENTARY 
Helpful words from the Pastor 
It's no secret now that the "Crank me up" chant, a sta­ple of third-down noisemak­ing from the student section, stems from a 

Pastor Troy song by the same name. The offi­cial story is, defen­sive back 


Sergio Bill Brink 
Brown 

asked Sports Editor 
corner­
back 

Jamoris Slaughter how he 
got his defense pumped dur­
ing high school games. 
Slaughter apparently got 
"cranked up" in high school, 
and the phrase became VANESSA GEMPISffhe Observer A Pittsburgh defender upends Irish running back Armando Allen see PASTOR/page 21 during Notre Dame's 36-33 quadruple-overtime loss Saturday. 








