
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 28 THURSDAY, OCTOBER2, 2008 

CoHax 37 offered diven;ion program 
Three arrested students with prior records, including Yeatman, to be 'dealt with more harshly' 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Budgetary concerns discussed 
Members weigh propriety of paying selves salaries 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) members dis­cussed the budget approved this week by the Student Government Association (SGA) Executive Board at their meeting Wednesday night. 
The budget, which was prepared by executive treasurer Mo Weaver, and voted on by student body president Mickey Gruscinski, stu­dent body vice president Sarah Falvey, executive secretary Jenny Hoffman, chief of staff Lauren Theiss, Student Activities Board Coordinator (SAB) Michele Peterson, Residence Hall Association (RHA) coordinator Maura Clougherty and Student Diversity Board coordinator Adriana Hodriguez, lays out the allocation of funding for the $243,040 which SGA received from thP student government fees each full-time student pays. 
Vice president of student affairs Karen Johnson and director of student involvement and BOG advisor Patrick Daniel will review the approved budget, which they can accept or reject. 
"The Executive Board is the budgeting eouncil for SGA," Falvey said. "This budget is a recommen­d a t i o n For the second year in a row, the budget includes an allocated stipend that "the executives 
see BOG/page 9 

Seniors consider post-grad service at fair 
International, domestic sites pitch options including teaching, homelessness advocacy 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY-News Writer 
Almost 80 service organiza­tions came to Notre Dame Wednesday to educate students about postgraduate service opportunities for the University's annual service fair. 
The organizations represented at the fair serve domestic and international sites and programs that involve teaching, health care, prison ministry, homeless­ness advocacy and much more, the Center for Social Concerns' Student Leadership and Senior Transitions director Mike Hebbeler said. 
"It's great for the students who have all these diverse interests," Hebbeler said. "They are bound to fmd something that they are interested in as an issue." 
Hebbelcr said he started con­tacting the organizations in August to invite them to partici­pate in the fair. He e-mailed list­serves for different organizations and found other groups through networking Web sites. Many organizations were easy to con­tact because they have come in past years, he said. 
Hebbeler said he expected about 300 students to attend the fair. 
"I hope students will first and foremost come to the fair, but 
see FAIR/page 6 


Senior Joella Bitter speaks to a representative from the Peace Corps Wednesday at the service fair. 

Google explains Apps on pit stop 
Notre Dame's switch to Gmail also provides access to programs like Calendar, Talk 
The bus's trek across the country will end at Northwestern University on Friday. 
Schneider said that "tons" of students stopped by to check out the 1978 ceo­friendly bus, and learn about the additional features that Google Apps offers. In addi­tion to the Gmail service, stu­dents also have access to other applications such as Calendar, Docs, Talk and Sites. 
At the bus, which parked near Notre Dame Stadium's northwest corner, students could explore the applications on computers. 
Schneider and her team 
see BUS/page 6 


By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
With the switch to Google Apps service for student e­mail accounts earlier this semester, students have been able to do more than just send and receive e-mails-and the Google bus made a special trip to campus Wednesday as part of its "App to School" road trip to help students learn about these new fea­tures. 
"The Google bus has been on its way around the country, visiting 10 schools since Sept. 8, starting out in Mountain View, Calif.," said Mirriam Schneider, associate market­ing manager for Google Apps. 
. 

Break-ins on the rise in county 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Residential burglaries are becoming a more common problem in South Bend, South Bend Police Department (SBPD) spokesman Capt. Phil Trent said, and students living off campus are feeling the effects of the jump in the crime rate. 
Trent said residential bur­glaries have increased 27 per-
see BURGLARS/page 8 

ByJENN METZ News Editor 
The St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office offered the 37 people arrested Sept. 21 at a party on the 700-block of E. Colfax Ave. the chance to participate in a voluntary diversion program, according to apress release. 
If the individuals in question choose to participate in the diversion program, they will pay user fees and "may be required to perform community service, participate in an alcohol use evaluation and follow through with any educational program determined to be appropriate after the evaluation," the release said. 
This action is consistent with the han­dling of' most first-time offenders who have been arrested for similar offenses, 
the release said. 
If they choose not to participate in the program, or fail to respond to the letter sent by the Office, the reports will be referred for formal charging, according to the release. 
Three of the 37 arrested Sept. 21 have prior records, and these individuals will "be dealt with more harshly, on a case­by-case basis," the release said. 
One of the three, Irish tight end Will Yeatman was on a "Deferred Sentencing" program for a January arrest for driving while intoxicated. He entered a guilty plea to the charges of Operating a Vehicle While Intoxicated, a Class C misdemeanor and Reckless Driving, a Class 8 misdemeanor, on Feb. 25. 
His sentence was deferred for one year, allowing Yeatman the opportunity 

to earn the dismissal of the charge of "Operating While Intoxicated," the release said. 
A term of this agreement stated that Yeatman "shall not commit any criminal · offenses during the term of this agree­ment," the release said. 
Because Yeatman failed to comply with this term of the agreement, according to the release, he will be sentenced on the charge of Operating While Intoxicated, and both the State and the Defendant will "be free to make arguments to the Court regarding the appropriate sen­tence." The Court will set a date for the sentencing hearing. 
Yeatman and the two others with prior records have been offered the opportuni­ty to enter the voluntary diversion pro-
see COLFAX/page 6 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 2, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Playing the stock :m_arket 
I know as much about th1~ stock mar­

kd as I do about physks or women's 
shoes. 
I watch "Trading Places" and laugh 

at the appropriate times but have no 
idea what's really happening. But I 
know enough that when the bailout 
plan f'loppnd in the !louse of 
Hnprnsm1tatives Monday, I knew the 
bottom would fall out of the market. It 
did. 
My roommate made a joke when we 

were talking about it. 
"We should buy stock," he said. A 

funny idea at first, but when we 
thought about it, it sounded logical. The 
stock market lost more points than it 
ever had. It had nowhere to go but up. 
I looked up which stock lost Bill Brink the most percent­age-wise, and 
Sports Editor 

found a perfect fit -Wachovia. They sold $1.2 billion worth of a..<;sets and dropped from eight dollars to under two. Tuesday morning, I snatched up 25 shares. A nice social experiment, I thought. I don't know what Wachovia does. I know they have free Coinstar machines in their banks back home. So why not? 
Maybe I'll learn something about finances. I feel like I need to. On a meent visit to my girlfriend's college, I sat through her 75-minute finance dass with her and felt hopelessly lost. I'm terrified of the day I become an adult for real and have to worry about mort­gages and ront and bills. I can bamly balanee my checkbook. 
Important side note to any fledgling investors like myself: buying stock is not free. My bank eharged me a $12 eornmission fee. Who knew? 
I checked the stock at the end of the trading day Thursday and I'd made $:t30 after the eommission. Seems like I'm pretty successful at this gig; I really have the eye of a broker. I could see myself hemming the Michael Douglas character in "Wall Strnet," a slick-talk­ing, well-dressed scumbag robbing hardworking Americans of their money just to pad the top of my collers a little more. 
With my newfound prowess at pre­dicting the market, maybe I can finally afl'ord a new set of speakers, because my surround sound system conked out on me recently. Maybe I can upgrade from Keystone and Natty to Four Horsemen at parties. Maybe I really can have the Lamborghini Diablo I've always drnamnd of, although it would bn a pain to work with in the snow. 
Then again, maybe my miniscule gain was a fluke. It could all be gone by tomorrow. If one company buys anoth­er, dons the sneond company's stoek stay thnrn? Or does it disappear? I don't know. I don't evnn know if I rnally have stock. My bank's Web site eould bn lying to mo. 
Hngardless, I feel like I helped my country. Thn American economy is fail­ing, and it's thn American thing to do to throw some dollars in the right direc­tion. 
Ilopefully when the economy rights itself. it will remember my gracious eontribution and throw a job my way in the futun~. That surround sound system may still be in the eards. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Hillllrink at wbrink0)nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH DORM ON CAMPUS IS THE MOST IRRELEVANT? 


Brian Conway Chase Riddle Mary Jenkins Matt Ong Mimi Dlsipio 
freshman freshman junior feshman sophomore St. Edward's Keenan Howard Keenan Pangborn 
"Duncan, "''ve never "Keough, "Pangborn, "Carroll, because they heard ofanyone becase they live becasue it's off because it's just try to be like St. from Howard." in O'Neill's in a corner. " out there by 


Edward's. shadow." 
Mich. bride picks grand­mother as matron of honor 
SAGINAW TOWNSHIP, Mich. -Many brides-to-be pick best friends to serve as their maids or matrons of honor. But Erica Schultz's best buddy isn't a high school friend or a col­lege pal. It's her 92-year­old grandmother. 
Angelene Schultz will stand beside her grand­daughter when the 26­year-old marries Mark James on Oct. 18 in Bay City. 
"She is my best friend," said Eriea, who owns a Web design business with her fianee. "When my 
TODAY 




itself" 
IN BRIEF 
Saint Mary's Symposium on Gender Violenee continues today from 5-7 p.m. in Vander Vennet Theatre. There will be a panel of four scholars who will address the issue of gender vio­lence from diverse perspec­tives. 
Cathie Black, President of Hearl'> Magazines and author of "Basic Blaek: The Essential Guide for Getting Ahead at Work (and in Life)," will deliver a lec­ture titled "Speaking of Sueeess: A Basic Black Guide to the Cirde of Life" at 7 p.m. today in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. The tectum is part of the Berges Lecture series and is presented by the Center for Ethics and Heligious Values and Business and the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide. 
The Viee Presidential Debate wiU be broadcast in the Coleman Morse Lounge Thursday. The debate begins at 9 p.m. but snacks will be served before hand. The Notre Dame Debate team will provide analysis and commentary after the event. 
The Student Activities Offiee will host Tom Deluea Friday in Washington Hall at 9 p.m. to hypnotize student volunteers in a 90 minute show. Doors open at 8:30p.m. 
The Student Actitvities Office will host "End Zone: Breakfast and Bingo" at 10 p.m. Saturday in Lafortune Ballroom and will feature Denny's breakfast, Music Video Bingo and "The Breakfast Club". 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation afJOut an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 
67 

LOW 
50 



NICK SIMONSON/The Observer 
Senior Gloria Mwez flips and frolicks on South Quad on the first day of October. 
OFFBEAT 

Saturday after he put a ketchup bottle under his clothing and left the sehool's cafeteria. 
The man must appear in court, and if charges arc filed he could face 45 days in jail. 
In 2005, the board repri­manded the man and told him to limit his remarks to school issues after he ram­bled about credit unions and his father's death. He sued the district for violat­ing his right to free speeeh, 
but  the  case  was  dis­ 
missed.  
Information  compiled  

from the Associated Press. 
grandpa died, she bought a house down the street from our family. We both needed someone. 
"I still go over to her house every day, to get her mail and prescriptions," she told The Saginaw News. 
School board trustee accused of ketchup theft 
OHANGE, Calif. -An Orange school board trustee known for his dark glasses, knit eap and rants at meetings was suspected of condiment kidnapping. 
A Chapman University spokeswoman said the man was cited for petty theft on 

TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY 
...I 
<t 
(.) 





0 
HIGH 60 48 HIGH HIGH
...I 
LOW 37 35 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
62 42 

68 
45 
Atlanta 71 I 50 Boston 68 I 55 Chicago 59 I 45 Denver 81 I 50 Houston 85 I 57 Los Angeles 83 I 64 Minneapolis 60 144 New York 67 I 52 Philadelphia 65 I 52 Phoenix 101 I 76 Seattle 65 I 56 St. Louis 66 I 44 Tampa 84 I 68 Washington 68 153 
Thursday, October 2, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Panel to discuss gender violence 
By MANDl STIRONE 
Assisstant News Editor 
Domestic· violence is something that may affect anyone, regardless of race, ethnicity or social back­ground, Saint Mary's Spanish pro­fessor Luzmila Camacho-Platero said. 
Saint Mary's two-day Symposium on Gender Violence began Wednesday with a movie screening and continues tonight with a panel discussion on gender violence. 
"I think it's important to talk about women's issues and women's politics," Camacho­Platero said. 
The Vander Vennet Theater was mostly full for the showing of "Take My Eyes," which tells the story of a woman in an abusive marriage. 
"We thought that students need to be very aware of these issues," Camacho-Platero said. "This is not something that happens only to strangers." 
Saint Mary's senior Becca Mason, who attended the screen­ing, said she thought the film did a good job of making domestic vio­lence not such a "back and white" occurrence. It "portrayed both people [the abused wife and the abusing husband] as real people," she said. 
A GeQder Violence panel will take place tonight from 5 to 7 p.m. at Vander Vennet Theater. The panel will include Edith Miguda, Yana Hashamova, Bettina Spencer and linda S. Baechle. 
The program was organized to be "as interdisciplinary as possi­ble," Camacho-Platero said. 
Miguda and Spencer are profes­sors at Saint Mary's. Miguda, an assistant professor of history, will give a talk entitled "Women and Vilene in Electoral Politics in Africa." Spencer, an assistant pro­fessor of psychology, will discuss domestic abuse in her talk entitled "Rethinking Gendered Violence: Domestic Abuse and Family Systems." 
Hashamova is \ill associate pro­fessor of Slavic aAd East European Language and Literature at Ohio State University. She will discuss events in Eastern Europe in her talk, "Trafficking in Women: Reality and Repression." 
Baechle is the Executive Director of the YWCA of St. Joseph County, she will also cover domes­tic violence in her talk "Justice for Domestic Violence Victims in United States." 
The two-day symposium is sponsored by the Board of Governance (BOG), the Student Diversity Board, the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership, Multicultural Services and Student Programs, the Modern Languages Department, Women's Studies, Justice Education, Intercultural 
· Studies, the Office of Civic and Social Engagement, the Spanish Club and the Women's Resource Center. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
STUDENT SENATE 

Group considers cab regulation 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Assisstam News Editor 
Student Senate discussed how the University should regulate cab service on campus at their meeting Wednesday, building on a meeting student body presi­dent Bob Reish, vice president Grant Schmidt and Senate Community Relations commit­tee chair Gus Gari had with Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP). 
"We communicated what we think the major issues with cabs are [at the meeting]," Gari said. "We saw that there have been many students complaining that on Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday taxi drivers are overcharging and some of the taxi drivers are being rude." 
Gari said while there is little student government can do to change the practices of South Bend cab drivers, they can ban certain cab companies from coming to campus. 
"We can't regulate customer service aspects, but we can reg­ulate what cabs can come on campus," Gari said. 
Gari said they discussed the idea of a universal flat rate for all students as well as placing cab stands somewhere near North and South Quads as pos­sible ways to regulate the taxis. 
"Only companies that entered into negotiations with the University could come on cam­pus," he proposed. 
Many senators agreed that a flat rate would be a welcome remedy to haggling with diffi-cult cab drivers. 


"I like the idea of a flat rate," Alumni senator Zach Reuvers said. "I've had a lot of problems negotiating cab prices depend­ing on where you're going." 
Cavanaugh senator Robin Link said one of the best ways to advertise approved cab com­panies would be to post fliers listing those companies' num­bers in the dorm entrances. 
Senate Academic Affairs committee chair Ryan Brellenthin agreed the best companies should be adver­tised, and suggested an online rating system for different driv­ers and companies "so it's not so much regulated by the administration but more by [the students]." 
In other Senate news: 
+ Schmidt. announced that 
student government's mock election, scheduled for Oct. 7, will be conducted via voting booths stationed outside of DeBartolo Hall, LaFortune · Student Center and North and South Dining Halls, as opposed to with an online ballot. Students can go to one of these stations to cast their vote. 
+ The Student Senate unani­mously approved a new amendment which places all executive titles underneath the same heading. Previously, the job descriptions for student body president and vice presi­dent were under their own heading, but now descriptions of all 7 executive positions will be organized underneath Article II of the constitution. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Monday, October 6, 2008 Room 131 DeBartolo Hall 
IsuMMER ENGINEERING PROGRAMS I 
FOREIGN STUDY IN LONDON, ENGLAND OR ALCOY, SPAIN 
Information Meeting: 
7:00p.m. 

Application Deadline: November 25 for Summer 2009 
Application On-line: www.nd.edu/,_engineerI sumlon/apply.html 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 2, 2008 
Forum examines 
price for going green 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
People's physieal environment, health and standard of living are all hurt by dimate change and the laek or sustainable energy sources, GreeND vice president CollePn Kelly said Wednesday at "The Pri1:e of (;oing Green for the Poor," a rorum sponsored by Multicultural StudPnt Programs and Serviens (MSPSl. 
"The U.S. has only live pnrcent of thn world's population. but we mnit 25 Jwn·ent of all pollution," Knlly said. "A lot of peopln are advnrsnly afTncted who are not eontributing to tlw problem." 
Thn MSPS dinrwr and rorum f'oeused on how difTerent levels of initiativn -individual, busi­nnss. and national -can work to aehinve a more sustainable environnwnt. 
The forum diseussed the ways that individuals can decrease their ennrgy use and work toward a sustainable environ­ment. Driving less, being con­scious of food consumption and using enPr),ry-efficient light bulbs were methods mentioned. 
Notre Dame students, Kelly said. waste an average of five ounces of food every dining hall meal. 
Kelly started the discussion by asking the question: "What can we do for Notrn Damn and what can we do as citizens?" 
It is a "global commons prob­lmn," Kelly said, bncausn when we pollutn, we do not necessari­ly bmtr thn eosts of our actions. But if wn do not change our bnhavior, in the long-t11rm, she said. the worldwide erfects will bn dnvastating. 
Thn economic incentive to save enPrgy eosts is changing 
how businesses operate,. Kelly said. 
"Businesses are actually mak­ing money by going green," she said. 
But the incentive is not yet there for many businesses, so Kelly suggested that legislation might be a necessary part or the solution. 
A "cap and trade" program would issue pollution permits that allotted a set amount of car­bon emissions to each business, Kelly said. Businesses would then buy and sell these permits, according to the amount of pol­lution they intended to release. 
Kelly described the program as "harnessing the market to solve something complicated." 
The forum discussed other ways that environmental and energy problems can be solved on the national level. Changes to infrastructure and city planning, according to several partici­pants, will be central to adapt­ing the United States to an econ­omy based on sustainable ener­gy. 
Freshman Mark Easley point­ed out that by building more public transit systems, the United States could rely Jess on cars. 
"America needs to move to trains," he said. "There's the example of Europe and Japan switching to the more efficient trains." 
Other participants made the ease that towns and cities in the United States should be planned around the goal of making transportation easy and effi­eient, commenting that people should be able to walk to work or the supermarket. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 

Saint Mary's to host Light the Night Walk 
By ALICIA SMITH Nrws Wriwr 
At the Light the Night walk tonight, sevnral mmnbers or the Saint Mary's College community will bn walking fi1r "Tnam Kathy.'' 
"Toarn Kathy" walks in honor of Saint Mary's sophomorn Kathy Chlnbda. Chlnbda W<L'i diagnosed with lymphoma in August 200(>. In .January 200S, shP rdapsnd and is still reeowring from trnatments. 
"I am so flaw~n~d to !war that people arP walking fi1r my tnam." Chlnbda said. "I n~ally can't dnscribn how gn~at it's boon to know that Saint Mary's is totally behind nw." 
Saint Mary's senior Sarah King plans to partir.ipatP in tlw nvnnt by walking fin· "'J(•am Kathy.'' 
"I wa'i so inspirPd by lwr story that I decided to havn my Irnsi­dnncn halll section join up on hnr tnam." King said. "I was blown away by tlw PXpnriPnen. Now that Kathy has had to go through this fight for a secmHI timn, it just snnrns nvnn morn rwcessary to take part in l.ight tlw Night in h1~r honor." 
Light tlw Night. an annual rundraising nvnnt sponsored by tlw LPuknmia and Lymphoma Sodnty, takes placP tonight at 7 p.m. 
This is thn second ynar I .ight the Night will bP held at Saint Mary's, but the walk first took place in 1998, said Katie Walters, the Light the Night Campaign Coordinator of Northwest Indiana and South Bond. 
"Light tlw Night got started because it was aware that morn rweded to bn done to raise money fill' cancer rnsearch and that those atlildPd by cancer wanted to do something to give back and help others," she said. Walters said she expncl'i 600 pnople to att1md Light the Night this year. 
Carrin Call, director of the Oflke fi1r Civil and Social Engagement at Saint Mary's, said during the walk p1mple carry illuminated balloons. 
"Those who are supporters carry red balloons, survivors or canenr carry white and some walknrs carry gold balloons in nwmory or one who has dind." Call said. 
Light thn Night has raised $1.2 million in the past 10 years. 
"Tho procnnds go toward blood cancer research, patient serviens and education." Walters said. "Wn have ramily support groups, finan­cial aid, and educational work-· shops lin· patients and their care­givnrs," said Walters. 
Hegistration begins at 5 p.m. on the Le Mans Green. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Students present energy research 
SURGE projects examine energy efficiency, solar power sustainable design 
By EMMA DRISCOLL News Writer 
Undergraduate students pre­sented their green energy research projects at the Symposium of Undergraduate Research in Green Energy (SURGE) Wednesday night in the Hesburgh Center. 
Thirteen students presented on topics such as energy effi­ciency, solar power sustainable design and other green energy topics. 
"Back in late summer we sent out a call for projects," GreeNO member Alice Griesemer said. "It went a cou­ple times to all the student list­servs, and we also targeted specific people in majors that we knew were doing projects just from word of mouth .... We had kind of an application process but we didn't turn any­one away either." 
Students had already been working on t h e s e 
research projects, and SURGE gave them the oppor­tunity to share their research. 
"All of this [research] was already going on .... We were just going to see the response 
we were going to get," Griesemer said. "We weren't sure we were going to have the event. There was such a large rBsponse, so we could have it and that was great." 

Griesemer said that over half' of the student presenters worked with Notre Dame pro­fessors on their research proj­ects. 
Dr. Edward Maginn of the Department of Chemical and 
"That's where your researeh comes in." 
Maginn discussed President Hichard Nixon's promise to end the United States' dependenee on foreign sources of energy by 1980. 
Maginn said that despitB 
Biochemical Engineering kicked off the symposium with an intro­ductory speech telling the "small but dedicated" group of stu­dents in the audience that their research could have a great impact on the world. 

"What I like to tell people is that ifyou really want to save the world, be an engineer or a scientist." 
Dr. Edward Maginn engineering professor 
Nixon's promise then, ")the United States! is more dependent now than ever before." 
Maginn also compared two spenches made by Prnsident Jimmy Cartnr's speech in 11J79. In the first speech, Carter said thn nnergy shortagn was 

"What I like to tell people is that if you really want to save the world, be an engineer or a scientist," Maginn said. 
Maginn said that some of the 
current key research areas for the Department of Energy are catal­ysis -the chemi­cal transforma­tion of matter, electrical storage of energy nuclear power, utilizing energy from the sun, smart or reliable grids and theory and computa­tions. 
Maginn said 
permanent but that soeinty could lind ways to "adjust" and become more effieinnt. 
In his later speech, Carter said "the energy crisis is real. ... These are facts and we simply must face them" and announced import quotas for foreign oil. 
"It was shocking to watch this video .... The frustration is very apparent on President Carter's face," Maginn said. 
ThB idea for SUHGE started with a committee of students that met last May to find ways to further integrate the ideas discussed in the Notre Dame Forum into students' lives. 
"IThe committcB was) made to promote the forum and WB were looking for ways to crys­tallize the ideas of the forum and help students take action basically," Griesemnr said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
"[The committee was] made to promote the forum and we were looking for ways to crystallize the ideas of the forum and help students take action basically. '' 
Alice Griesemer senior 

that students' research would help solve energy problems. 
"You guys here are the ones who arc going to solve this problem ... ," Maginn said. 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 2, 2008 CoMPILED FROM TI-·-IE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Tainted milk causes lawsuit 
BEIJING -The parents of a 1-year-old boy who developed kidney stones after drinking infant formula tainted with an industrial chemical are suing the dairy at the heart of the scandal, state media reported, as tests implicated 15 more companies Wednesday. 
The case is believed to be the first civil lawsuit filed in response to the contamina­tion of milk, yogurt and other dairy products with melamine, which causes kidney stones and can lead to kidney failure. Nearly 54,000 children have been sickened and four infants have died. 
According to the lawsuit, the boy was fed baby formula made by Sanlu Group Co. from the time of his birth, said the report by Caijing, a leading Chinese business maga­zine. 
The child's parents, who come from cen­tral China's Henan province, filed a lawsuit in a court in Zhenping county seeking $22,000 in compensation from Sanlu for medical, travel and other expenses incurred after the child developed kidney stones, the magazine said. 
.li said his clients sought legal help because they could no longer afford medical treatment for their child, the report said. 
Russia to withdraw troops soon 
KAIWJ~TI. Georgia-European Union moni­tors in white shirts and bright blue berets began patrolling a buffer zone Wednesday out­side the breakaway region of South Ossetia that has been controlled by Russian troops and sep­aratists since an August war in Georgia. 
The deployment paves the way for a prom­ised Russian pullback of its remaining troops from arnas they occupied out.<>ide South Ossetia and another separatist region in Georgia. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Man charged with killing niece 
MONTPELIER. Vt. -Federal prosecutors said Wednesday that a man charged with drugging, sexually assaulting and killing his 12-year-old niece coerced another girl into aiding his plot by claiming to be part of a child-sex club that sometimes selected girls for "termination." 
The federal grand jury in Rutland that indicted Michael Jacques also handed up special findings that would make him eligi­ble for the death penalty if he is convicted on the charge of kidnapping with death result­ing. 
Brooke Bennett, of Braintree, disappeared June 25 and was found dead a week later. ller disappearance triggered Vermont's first­ever Amber Alert, and state residents were shocked" when her body was found in a shallow" grave July 2. 
Teacher sentenced for sex crime 
OMAHA Neb. -A former math teacher sen­tenced to federal prison for a sex crime with a minor says the age of the 13-year-old schoolboy she fled with to Mexico didn't matter to her. 
"We didn't see age anymore.... In my mind he quit being a teenage boy.... to me, he was a man," Kelsey Peterson said in a taped interview on ABC's "Good Morning America" aired Wednesday. 
Peterson, 26, was sentenced Monday to six years in federal prison and live years of super­vised release. She also must register as a sex oll'ender. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indy man arrested for extortion 
INDIANAPOLIS -The FBI said an Indianapolis man tried to extort more than $200,000 from insurance giant AIG after stealing a computer server that con­tained personal and health care informa­tion for more than 900,000 people. 
Kevin Michael Stewart, 27, was in feder­al custody Wednesday night at the Marion County Jail, said Special Agent Wendy A. Osborne, an FBI spokeswoman. He was being held without bond pending a deten­tion hearing. 
ELECTION 2008 

McCain loses some groui:td in polls 
Voters help Obama surge ahead with a seven point lead over McCain 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON  - Barack  
Obama has surged to a seven­ 
point lead over John McCain  
one month before the presiden­ 
tial election, lifted by voters  
who think the Democrat is bet­ 
ter suited to lead the nation  
through its sudden financial  
cns1s,  according  to  an  
Associated Press--GfK poll that  
underscores the mounting con­ 
cerns of some McCain backers.  
Likely  voters  now  back  
Obama 48-41 "percent over  
McCain, a dramatic shift from  
an AP-GfK survey that gave  
the Republican a slight edge  
nearly three weeks ago, before  
Wall Street collapsed and sent  
ripples across worldwide mar­ 
kets. On top of that, unrelated  
surveys show Obama beating  
McCain  in  several  battle­ 
grounds,  including  Ohio,  
Florida and Pennsylvania - 
three states critical in the state­ 
by-state fight for the presiden­ 
cy.  
Several GOP strategists close  
to McCain's campaign privately  
fret that his chances for victory  
are starting to slip away.  - 
These Republicans, speaking  
on condition of anonymity to  
avoid angering the campaign,  
point  to  several  factors:  
Obama's gains nationally and  
in traditionally GOP states. no  
McCain gain from the first  
debate, McCarn's struggles with AP  
economic issues as the finan­· Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Barack Obama shakes the hands of his su~  
cia! crisis has unfolded and porters before speaking in la Crosse, Wis., on Wednesday.  
deepening public skepticism  
about his running mate, Sarah  we can be whipsawed back  still a month away, plenty of  pared to vote late Wednesday  
Palin.  very, very quickly."  time for anything to happen  on the administration's $700  
They said McCain's options  Not all Republican insiders  in politics.  billion bailout plan, 16 per­ 
for shaking up the race are  are pessimistic.  Yet the AP--GfK poll shows  cent of likely votPrs said they  
essentially limited to game­ Obama's failure to achieve  McCain faces substantial hur­ thought McCain hurt negotia­ 
changing performances in the  a double-digit lead and main­ dles.  tions over the proposal when  
final presidential debates or in  tain it "has given a lot of hope  With the perilous financial  he bolted back to Washington  
Palin's vice presidential debate  to Republicans," GOP pollster  situation at the forefront of  last week to get involved. Just  
with Joe Biden Thursday night.  Whit Ayres said. Yet he also  voters' minds, 60 percent in  5 percent thought Obama did  
Short of that, they said, McCain  allowed, "You can't have a  the  survey  say  it's  more  damage when he returned  
can do little but hope Obama  playing field that leans this  important to them to choose a  after a summons by President  
stumbles or an outside event  heavily toward the Democrats  president who would make  Bush to attend a White House  
breaks the GOP nominee's way.  and not be nervous."  the right economic decisions  meeting on the crisis.  
Democrats hope Obama is  Added Neil Newhouse, also  than a commander in chief  McCain also lost ground  
starting to build a lasting lead.  a Republican pollster: "If any­ who would make the right  among likely voters on expe­ 
"We have a light optimism,"  body thinks we're in for  a  decisions on national security.  rience, though he still leads  
said David Redlawsk, a dele­ straightforward next month  Obama leads among econom­ on the issue, while Obama's  
gate to the Democratic National  of this campaign all tlfey have  ic voters, with 63 percent  marks ticked up slightly. And  
Convention who teaches politi­ to do is look back at the last  support, while  McCain is  McCain slid a bit as voterS  
cal science at the University of  30 days" of topsy turvy devel­ ahead among security voters,  measured which candidate  
Iowa. "We've already learned  opments.  with 73 percent. ·  "cares about people like me,"  
in the last several weeks that  To be sure, the election is  As the two senators pre­ while Obama gained.  

IRAQ 

Military hospital helps Iraqi patients 
lower left leg and left tiny pieces of 
Associated Press 

"There are people with injuries that metal scattered over his body. 
BALAD, Iraq -The U.S. military's are brought here, and I say this with "Thank God, we are positive he is main combat hospital in Iraq has confidence, if they went anywhere else going to live," said Wahid, who planned increasingly switched to helping Iraqis. in the world, they would not survive," to bring the puppy picture home to their As the numbers of wounded American said Col. Mark Mavity, the commander mother as proof that Sajad was alive. soldiers have fallen, the hospital is now of the hospital. Over the years, the hospital on Balad saving the lives of a remarkable 93 per­On one recent day, 5-year-old Sajad Air Base has become synonymous with cent of Iraqis who come with devastat­Lafta lay in his bed crying for his father combat trauma care. It is best known ing lhjuries. while his older half brother, Abdul for saving countless U.S. soldiers with 
It's another sign of the radical Wahid, tried to comfort him by holding catastrophic battle injuries -more improvements in health care ;nade at up a picture of a puppy that Sajad col­than 96 perc-ent on average over the combat trauma care units in war time ored while recovering at the hospital. six-month period ending in August. -especially because unlike U.S. sol.­The boy didn't know yet that Wahid, But even more astonishing: during diers, most Iraqi patients at the Air 25, came to visit him because his father that same time, about 93 percent of Force Theater Hospital don't wear body was attending the funerals for two of Iraqis left the hospital alive -up from armor and helmets or drive in vehicles his other young sons. They were killed an average of 89.7 percent during the designed to withstand roadside bombs. by a car bomb that blew off Sajad's previous six months. 

Thusday, October 2, 2008
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Fair 

continued from page 1 
also visit with an opnn mind about Llw difl'nrnnt snrviens that nwnts tlwir girts and also pro­vi!h~s an opportunity that will bn a mal h~arning nxpnrinnce and growing nxpnriPIH'.n," lw said. 
llPbhPlPr said lw hopns stu­d!•nts will fii1d a program that intnrnsts tlwm and that thny will initiatP contact with tlw organi­zation lw1:ausn, hn said, post­graduatn snrvicn can bn a form­ativn nxpnrinncn. 
"It 1:an shapn ltlw studnnts] in a way that that will stay with thom as tlwy mow on to medieal school or to tlwir businnss jobs," lw said. "It will havn a lasting influnncn." 
About I 0 pnn:Pnt of graduat­ing snniors movn on to postgrad­uatn snrvieP nvnry yt~ar, 
Notre Dame students crowd around Google representative Mirriam Schneider, second from right, in the Google bus Wednesday. 
Bus 
continued from page 1 
showed students how to use applications on Google Apps by visiting google.com/apps/stu­dnnts. 
"It's a great Web site that gives an overview of' the products which are all linked to student's ND aceounts," Schneider said. "A lot of studnnts arn familiar with thn e-mail application and are already aware that Notre Dame has switched over its !student e­mail I accounts. but many stu­donts an~ not aware of' other tools they can use like Does, the eollaborativo word )'lrocessing applieatiim." 
Stmior Mni-Kay Wong, who vis­itod the bus, said she has been using many of tlw Google Apps foatun~s including Calendar, Docs and Sprmtdshnnts. 
"1 sonwtinws usn Docs and SprPadshnets whnn I'm using anotlwr eomputnr," she said. 
Wong also said that she uses G-chat frequl'\ntly bncause she can chat and chock her o-mail at tlw sanw time. llownver, she explainod that the Googln chat utility is not oasior to use com­parod to other chat utilities such as AOI. Instant Mnsstmgnr or MSN Instant Mossongor. 
"It's not rnally nasior to use bn!~ausn you havn to manually invitn pnopln to dmt with you the first tinw," Wong said. 
Thn Coogle wam also used thn trip to campus to make students awarn of a nnw applieation ntllnd "Forms" whieh is thoir 1wwnst appliration and will allow studPnts to snnd surveys out through o-mail and gnt quick rnsponsns. 
"Thnrn arn always nnw things to lnarn. and WI' 'rn lnarning how studnnts an· using thl'sl' things as wdl. It lwlps us with tho nnxt stop of' tlw fH'OCPSs," Sd11wich~r llebbnler said. 
Interested students crowded the booths at the fair and cited different reasons for pursuing service opportunities after grad­uation. 
Snnior Michael Massengale said lw was at the fair largely bncausn hn is unsure of a earner path. 
"Service is a good way for me to dndieatP time to the commu­nity and figure out what to. do with my life at the same time," Massengale said. 
Senior Erin Dowel said she has always bt~en interested in a career path that involves serv­ice. 
"I would like to work with kids, but not in a classroom set­ting," Dowel said. 
Slw said she would like to find a program that otTers teaching opportunities at a community eentnr or' sal(~ haven shelter. 
Snnior Jm111y Holf's also said 
said. 
Wong said that when she visit­nd the bus she learned about the new "1-'orms" application, as well as "Sites." 
"Sites" allows students to cre­ate Web sites and add content easily so that they can "share all their info in one place," accord­ing to the Google Apps Web site. 
Students who stopped by the tent also received Google t­shirts, frisbees and whiteboards Schneider said. Students also had the opportunity to play Rock Band on the bus. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

Digital Visualization Theater 

she is interested in findirig a teaching program like Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) or Teach for America at the fair. 
"I want to be a teacher and I think some of the programs here force you to go to plaees most in need ofteaehers," Rolfs said. 
Senior Mike McCann said he wants a chance to leave the United States and gain a new experience after graduation. 
"If you go into the business world you start your life right away. With service you can con­tinuo to grow as a person," he said. "It's all about the experi­ence." 
Many representatives for the service organizations said they were eager to meet and recruit Notre Dame students. 
®

i'>~~J1:CHEN 

Unmistakably Italian ~ \Unbelievably Good 
Chicken Picatta 

"".."""' including Salmone alia Griglia, Tri-Color Tortellini, signature Sizzelini® and generous portions of Italian Classics like Lasagna and Chicken Parmesan 
CATERING 
For et•ety ocn1sion 

Kevin McKenna, a representa­tive for Amigos de Jesus, a home in Honduras for impoverished children, said the group fs at Notre Dame because the stu­dents havP a great desire to servP. 
"They really embody the spirit of service," he said. 
Sr. Karen Kelly, director of' OperationTEACII, a 2-year teaching program, said Notre Dame students in particular arc service-oriented. 
"Notre Dame promotes serv­ice, expects service and cele­brates service," she said. "We love to get IN otre Dame stu­dents!." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
Mishawaka • (574) 271-1692 1332 Hilltop Rd. St. Joseph, Ml • (269) 983-9900 
www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 
Diversion 
continued from page 1 
gram for the Sept. 21 arn~sts for Minor Consuming, which is a Class C misdomnanor, tlw releaso said. · 
The studnnts involvnd may be further subjnct to any dis­ciplinary proeondings that may bo initiated by the University's Off'ice of Residence Life and Housing, in addition to sanetions 
imposed  by  the  State  of  
Indiana,  according  to  the  
release.  

Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS

Thursday, October 2, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  10,831.07  -19.59  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,706  59  1,742  1,557,501,685  
AMEX  1,832.99  +46.10  

NASDAQ 2,069.40 -22.48 NYSE 7,519.95. S&P 500 1,161.06 -5.30 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 11,443.41 +75.18 FTSE 100 (London) 4.959.59 +57.14 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE NATL CITY CP (NCC) +65.14 +1.14 3.50 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.06 +0.07 115.99 WACHOVIA CP (WB) +1.43 +0.05 1.75 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +3.92 +0.78 38.91 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.54 -0.059 3.768 13-WEEK BILL -11.11 -0.100 0.80 30-YEAR BOND -1.32 -0.057 4.248 5-YEAR NOTE -3.28 -0.098 2.888 
Commodities LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.11 98.53 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +6.50 887.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.60 92.15 
Exchange Rates YEN 106.1650 EURO 0.7162 
IN BRIEF 
Financial crisis hurts retirees 
DES MOINES, Iowa-So close and yet so far. It's a frustration being felt by Americans who thought the linish line to their working life was almost in sight. 
The financial crisis that toppled major Wall Street banks and snarled credit markets around the world has also taken a toll on nest eggs, forcing people to rethink when -and even if-their savings will allow them to retire. 
More than half of people surveyed in an Associated Press-GfK poll released Wednesday said they worry that they will have to work longer because the value of their retirement savings has declined. 
Denise Edwards, 62, now expects to work 
. for at least another decade selling condomini­ums because of the damage to her and her husband John's retirement savings. "We just have to work for as long as possi­ble. And we're going to have to count on our (two) daughters," said Edwards, who lives in a Virginia suburb of Washington. In the fast four years, Edward's IRA has hov­ered at about the same level, and the couple's other savings of less than $1 million have taken a double-digit hit this fall. They also still owe $425,000 on a house with a market value of $650,000. 
Lobbiests worked for bailout votes 
WASHINGTON -Lobbyists for restaurants, the solar power industry and other businesses hunted votes Wednesday for the $700 billion financial industry bailout package, touting new provisions that leaders added in hopes of finally pushing the bill through Congress. 
Working off a color-coded spread sheet listing House members whose "no" votes sank the bill in that chamber on Monday, business groups con­tacted dozens of lawmakers -at home and in Washington -to seek their support. By late-after­noon. that list showed five legislators who'd voted "no" now leaning toward supporting an over­hauled version of the bill the House rejected by 23 votes. 
The all-out lobbying came as the Senate pre­parnd for a Wednesday evening vote in which the revamped legislation was expected to be approved. 
Bailout passes Senate, heads to House 
$700 billion plan needs 12 more votes from House to send bailout bill to Bush 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -After 
one spectacular failure, 
the $700 billion financial 
industry bailout found a 
second life Wednesday, 
speeding toward passage 
in the Senate and gaining 
ground in the House, 
where conservative oppo­
sition seemed to soften. 
Senators loaded the eco­
nomic rescue bill with tax 
breaks and other sweeten­
ers for the right and left, 
hoping to secure approval 
in the House by Friday, 
just days after lawmakers 
there stunningly rejected 
an earlier version and 
sent markets plunging 
around the globe. 
The measure has not 
caused the same uproar in 
the Senate, where both 
parties' presidential can­
didates, Republican John 
McCain and Democrat 
Barack Obama, were mak­
ing rare appearances to 
vote their support. That 
would send the pac.Kage 
back to the House, where 
passage would require a· 
turnaround of 12 votes 
from Monday's 228-205 
defeat. 
Leaders in both parties, 
as well as private econom­
ic chiefs everywhere, said 
Congress must quickly 
approve some version of 
the measure to start loans 
flowing and stave off a 
potential national eco­

nomic disaster. Monday. remained the same. It leaning Democrats who 
"This is what we need to House GOP opposition would enable the govern­voted for the rescue 
do right now to prevent appeared to be easing ment to spend billions of Monday to abandon it 
the possibility of a crisis after the Senate added dollars to buy bad mort-. because it would swell the 
turning into a catastro­$110 billion in tax breaks gage-related securities federal deficit. 
phe," Obama said on the for businesses and the and other devalued assets ''I'm concerned about 
Senate floor. In Missouri, middle class, plus a provi­held by troubled financial that," said Rep. Steny 
before flying to sion to raise, from institutions. If successful, Hoyer, D-Md., the majority 
Washington, McCain said, $100,000 to $250,000, the advocates say, that would leader. 
"If we fail to act, the gears cap on federal deposit allow frozen credit to As revised by the 
6f our economy will grind insurance. They were also begin flowing again and Senate, the package would 
to a halt." cheering a decision keep the economy from a extend several tax breaks 
At the White House, Tuesday by the Securities deep recession. popular with businesses. 
President Bush said, "It's and Exchange Commission Proponents say the gov­It would keep the alterna­
very important for mem­to ease rules that force ernment eventually could tive minimum tax from 
bers to take this bill very companies to devalue sell the devalued assets at hitting 20 million middle­
seriously." assets on their balance a better price, reducing income Americans and 
Even as the Senate sheets to reflect the price the program's final cost . provide $8 billion in tax 
neared its vote, congres­they can get on the mar­As for House passage, relief for those hit by nat­
sional leaders targeted the ket. there were worries that ural disasters in the 
133 House Republicans The heart of the bill, the tax breaks would Midwest, Texas and 
who voted against the bill and the opposition to it, cause some ·conservative-Louisiana. 

Eli Lilly offers $6.1 billion to ImClone 
Associated Press $64.85 in after-hours trading. neither confirm nor deny that his com­
In a statement late Wednesday, pany is the buyer, saying it doesn't 
INDIANAPOLIS -Drugmaker Eli ImClone said a "large pharma compa­comment on "market rumors and Lilly & Co. reportedly is the secret suit­ny" had completed a due-diligence speculation, especially if they relate to or that's been courting.ImClone review of ImClone's books and made a potential deals." Systems Inc. and is offering approxi­buyout offer not subject to fmancing or "This is market speculation," he mately $6.1 billion for the biotech more due diligence. It did not say how said. "We're not going to comment." company much the company was offering. · The tug-of-war over ImClone started 
Indianapolis-based Lilly is in "Negotiations between the parties three weeks ago, when the company advanced talks about the deal, the are under way and the large pharma rejected an offer from Bristol-Myers Wall Street Journal reported company has requested that ImClone Squibb Co., its partner in developing Wednesday, citing people familiar with not divulge its name until negotiations and marketing the blockbuster cancer the matter. The newspaper said Lilly is are completed," the statement, which drug Erbitux, and said it had a secret the unnamed large pharmaceutical the company attributed to Icahn, said. suitor offering $70 per share. company that ImClone's chairman, The deadline for the review of Bristol-Myers on July 31 had offered Carl Icahn, has said offered three ImClone's books to be completed was $60 per share for the 83 percent of weeks ago to acquire the company for just before midnight Wednesday, at ImClone it doesn't already own. The about $70 a share, pending a review of which point ImClone said it would initially friendly marriage proposal its books. reveal the suitor's identity and turned hostile last week when it raised 
ImClone shares shot higher on the whether there was a firm deal or the its offer to $62 and said it would take news, rising $2.95, or 4.7 percent, to potential buyer had backed out. the offer straight to shareholders and $65.35. They slipped 50 cents to Lilly spokesman Mark Taylor would seek to replace ImClone's board. 
-~ -­

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 2, 2008 
Burglars 
continued from page 1 
cent. since January, but the burglars are hitting a wide variety of targets and not f<H:using solely on students. lie said SBPD would be increasing its patrols. 
"We're up in burglaries, but it's nothing one could say that this all happened when the Notre Dame people came back," Trent said. "There's been no (special! increase in break-ins at student houses." 
St. Joseph's County Police Sgt. William Hedman agreed with Trent, adding that all of St. Joseph's County has seen an increase in break-ins and bur­glaries recently. 
"The last month or two, bur­glaries in St. Joseph County seem to be on the rise as well," Hedman said. "This is wide­spread throughout the entire county, and I know there have been some areas near the University that have been bro­ken into also." 
Students have been feeling the collateral effects of the increase in crime, with bur­glars targeting not only their homes, but their cars as well. Seniors Mark Langhans and Daniel Castellanos; who live on the 200-block of N. St. Louis Blvd., said they have been the victims of nine separate inci­dents, eight involving items stolen from their cars and one involving a burglar breaking in through the first floor window to steal a laptop. 
"Most of the times (the bur­glars were) just someone breaking into a car, usually just by opening the door -my 
roommates leave their cars 
unlocked and empty so that 
their windows don't get bro­
ken., which happened at the 
beginning of the year -and 
rummaging around for some­
thing," Castellanos said. 
Langhans said he and his roommates have had a variety of items stolen from them, ranging from a laptop comput­er to an empty backpack to $1.75 in change. 
"There's no peace of mind," he said "You're worried about stuff being stolen all the time, and I feel like you really shouldn't have to worry about that." 
Langhans had his laptop stolen sometime last Saturday between the hours of 4 a.m. and 8 p.m. -the first time someone had actually broken­into his house. 
"The scary part of it was, in order to see the laptop, they had to have been up against the window," he said. "It's obvious that they're coming up and pecking in our house while we're sleeping." 
Langhans lives in a house located across the street from the 700-block of E. Colfax Ave, where 20 hours after the bur­glary took place, police arrest­ed 37 for alcohol-related charges. 
"(The burglary) happened 20 or so hours before the party was broken up," Trent said. 
Langhans said he was disap­pointed that the rate of resi­dential burglaries has risen, but to him, it seems as though police are more focused on preventing underage drinking. 
"You know that they're tar­geting students, and you wish that they would step up patrols," he said. "The thing 
that makes you really·mad is 
when you see (the headline] of 
37 arrests for underage drink­
ing because they were able to 
mobilize all these elite police 
forces, while, at the same time, 
our house can be broken into." 
Mark Kramer of Kramer 
Properties, who owns the N. St 
Louis Blvd. property in addi­
tion to about 200 other housing 
units throughout South Bend, 
said he also thinks the police 
needed to readjust their priori­
ties. 
"I think the police need to concentrate their efforts more so on the real crimes in the comml.lnity and the crimes towards the students and a lit­tle less about parties inside homes," he said. 
Kramer said he has had one other break-in at a home this year, but has heard dozens of complaints from students about cars being broken-into. After the first home break-in earlier this semester, Kramer doubled his security force which checks ·on each of his properties nightly. 
"We've had two house break­ins, which is two too many. But if you look at the ratio between two houses being broken into and 200 total units, it's pretty low," Kramer said. "When we had [the first break-in], I dou­bled my patrols." 
Senior Catie Peters, who declined to give her address but said she lives "near Club 23," said her home was entered in broad daylight sev­eral weeks ago and her laptop and some of her roommate's jewelry were taken: But Peters said after she attended a safety talk at LaFortune for off-cam­pus students given by ·Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) 

and SBPD, she understood that 
the police officers care much 
more about student safety than 
underage drinking. 
"It was a: very good event to have because it [became] very obvious that the police officers did not care that much about busting parties," she said. "It just doesn't make sense that police officers would care about student getting busted for underage drinking above their safety.... It kind of frus­trates me that students are not seeing this from a holistic point of view." 
Peters said she blamed stu­dents' prejudice against the local police force on the University's failure to embrace the South Bend community. 
"I think a lot of the problem comes from Notre Dame's fail­ure to integrate into the com­munity," she said. "Notre Dame is not a bubble, as much as it tries to pretend that it is." 
Student Senate Community Relations committee chair Gus Gari said students must be aware that, when they enter the South Bend community, they need to be vigilant. 
"Like ISouth Bend Police Chief Darryl Boykins] told us, it's really easy money for (bur­glars] if students aren't smart enough to practice crime pre­vention," he said. 
Senior Michael Benz, who lives on the 900-block of South Bend Ave., said a laptop was recently stolen from his house due to his and his roommates' failure to practice crime pre­vention. 
"Our burglary happened right under our noses," Benz said. "We let two people oft' the street play beer pong with us for a minute. They left and broke through the air condi­tioner in my housemate's first floor roo.m and stole his com­puter and bolted." 
Unfortunately, Trent said many students do not realize the importance of crime pre­vention until after they have been burglarized. For example, Trent said few students attend­ed a recent safety seminar organized by SBPD and NDSP. 
"There are students who are affected and they are very upset, but whf:Jn we call these public me!!tings [with University officials! there has been a very dismal showing from the student population," he said. 
After such a negative experi­ence, Kramer said students often leave South Bend after graduation from Notre Dame, resulting in a "brain drain." 
"The talk about 'brain drain' in the South Bend community and they would like to see stu­dents stick around," Kramer said. "Well, what motivation do you have after you've been treated the way you've been treated?" 
Langhans said while he still enjoys living off-campus and being a member of the South Bend community, his recent experiences with crime have jaded his view of the town. 
"There's a lot of cool parts of South Bend that you get to know being off-campus, but it's hard to look to the bright side of South Bend with what we've had to deal with," he said. "You want to lind the good in it, but it becomes increasingly diffi­cult the more you are taken advantage of." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

The Central European Studies Program in Inns~ruck, Austria 
• 
Immersion in German language and cultq_re 

• 
Academic year and semester options 

• 
An opportunity for exposure to Central European Issues 

• 
A great location from which to access Eastern and Western Europe 


INFORMATION SESSION with Dr. Gernot 0. Guertler, Director of the Central European Studies Program, and CESP returnees on 
Thursday, October 2nd 5:30PM -129 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline is November 15, 2008 
~--~--------------------­
Thursday, October 2, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
receive for being executives," Weaver said. 
The Executive Board can choose whether or not they wish to accept this money for their services to SGA and the student body. 
"Last year was the first year they did [take a stipend]," Weaver said. "They told us about it at the end of last year so it was something we needed to vote on .... 
"This year we're looking at things like making ground rules ... not just for this year but it'll continue in years to come," she said. 
While it is not specified in the SGA Constitution if the Executive Board can set aside a stipend for themselves, it is also not stated that they can­not, Falvey said. The addition of a clause stating whether or not they can will be taken to the Constitution Oversight Committee and Falvey said she hopes it is more explicit in the Constitution next year. 
Many BOG members said they took issue with the fact that this stipend is coming out of funds received from the stu­dent government fees included in each student's tuition. 
"I don't see how we can take money we get out of tuition and pay other students," health and wellness commis­sioner Pauline Kistka saitl. 
Class of 2009 president 
Jenny Antonelli agreed. 
"I have an issue with it com­ing out of student funds ... that can be used towards another activity on campus or some type of thing that could benefit the entire student body," she said. 
Members also took issue with the idea that students are deciding whether or not a stipend should be set aside for SGA executives. 
"Is there a way that Karen [Johnson], Patrick [Daniel], Slandie [Dieujuste, director of Residence Life!, and [College President Carol Ann] Mooney can sit down and decide this?" public relations commissioner Katie Danko asked. "I don't think it's ethical for students to decide this." 
Kistka also said she doesn't know how she feels about the fact that the students who will be receiving the money are the ones deciding the budget. 
"We were not informed of this [happening] last year," she said. "My concern is that I know that six people -and I'm not saying you guys, I'm saying on boards prior -were given the option to receive money. If the decision was in their hands and they're the ones going to receive the money, I don't see the open­mindedness of the decision or an unbiased decision regard­ing it. I guess I kind of see a conflict in getting money in general." 
Admissions commissioner Kristle Hodges, who held the same position on last year's 
BOG, said former student body president Kim Hodges and the rest of the Executive Board did not come up with a proposal for the executives to receive a stipend out of the blue. 
"[The student governments] at most schools and universi­ties across the nation not only get paid a stipend every month but they get free room and board," Hodges said. "They get a lot of other privileges that Saint Mary's [executive board] does not get at all," she said. 
Daniel said he knows that the amount the College's Executive Board allocated for a stipend is "a drop in the bucket" compared to larger schools and "very compara­ble" to schools of the same size. 
"This is not something that does not happen," he said. 
Elections commissioner Francesca Johnson, however, said she thinks putting a clause for a ·stipend in the SGA Constitution will change the reasons why people will run for student body president and vice president. 
"When did we get to the point that we need to be rewarded?" she asked. "I think it's taking away from the reasons why in the future peo­ple are going to be running for positions and running for board ... In the past it was because you love student gov­ernment or you love the organization you are in. I don't see why we have to say 'because I put in so many 


hours and because I put in whatever I have to get some­thing out of it."' 
Gruscinski sent an e-mail to the Executive Board members as part of their discussion before approving the budget, stating that she was okay with the executives receiving a stipend, though not the $5,000 last year's Executive Board took. 
However, she "would not keep the stipend and [she] would publicly give it back to the school in a way that [she] knew would benefit the stu­dents." 
"As the president of our stu­dent body, I cannot ethically and intentionally connect myself to something which upsets the student body," she said. 
She said she does not want to receive any sort of stipend from the money collected from student activity fees. 
"I believe it is unethical, no matter how much we would allocate to ourselves or how we try to justify it, to decide to pay ourselves out of student money," Gruscinski said. "The core value for this year is jus­tice and I think we need to hold ourselves to a higher standard and choose what is just." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteOl @saintmarys.edu 
Professors preview vice presidential debate 
Missouri match up poses different challenges for Republican Gov. Sarah Palin and Democrat Sen. Joe Biden 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer  plan, as well as the war in Iraq, to be major topics in tonight's debate.  Eiden's inability to self-censor." Palin,-who lacks the extensive experience of Eiden, will face dif­ out of the blue by McCain and carried with it subsequent risks based in her lack of national  Senator [Hillary] Clinton, I think his chances of winning would be a lot higher."  
Eiden,  a  senator  from  ferent challenges in the debate.  experience and lack of experience  All the professors stressed their  
Less than a week after presi­ Delaware, has been .  "Gov.  Palin  dealing with the intensity of a  belief that this election is crucial.  
dential candidates Democratic  involved with politics  may be given  national campaign," Arnold said.  "This election is extremely  
Sen. Barack Obama and Republican Sen. John McCain faced off for their first debate, their running mates will argue tonight which ticket has the strongest policies. Sen. Joe Eiden, the Democratic vice presidential nominee, and  on a national level since 1972. Palin, the governor of Alaska, began her term in 2006. The debate could pose different challenges for the two candi­ ''This election is extremely important, especially for young adults. Don't be arm-chair consumers of politics. Become informed and participate in the ,, process.  an opportunity to clarify or make-up for issues that appeared to give her prob­lems in previ­ous inter­ Davis agreed on the point of Palin's inexperience. "In terms of knowledgeability of the issues, prior experience, media savviness, and credibility, Senator Eiden is strongest," Davis said. Political science professor  important, especially for young adults," Davis said. "Don't be arm-chair consumers of politics. Become informed and participate in the process." The vice presidential debate will be held tonight at Washington University in St. Louis. It will  
Gov. Sarah Palin, the Republican  dates, the professors  views," politi­ Joshua Kaplan said McCain's pick  begin at 9 p.m. EST.  
vice presidential nominee, will answer questions tonight from moderator Gwen Ifill, the manag­ said. "Eiden is a smart and experienced  Darren Davis Political science  cal science professor Darren Davis  has been criticized because it counteracted his "message about the importance of experience  ND Votes '08, a non-partisan campaign of the Center for Social Concerns, will hold a debate  
i"ng editor and moderator for  senator with loads of  professor  said.  which he had emphasized."  watch followed by commentary  
"Washington Week" and a senior  foreign policy and  McCain's  The selection of Biden was "a  from members of the Notre Dame  
correspondent  for  "The  domestic  policy  choice of Palin  safe pick for Obama," Arnold  Debate Team in the Coleman­ 
NewsHour with Jim Lehrer."  experience, but he is also prone to  to be his vice president was unex­ said.  Morse Lounge from 9 p.m. to 11.  
Some Notre Dame political sci­ verbal gaffes," political science  pected, some Notre Dame profes­ "It is  understandable  why  
ence professors expect economic  professor Peri Arnold said.  "I  sors interviewed said.  Obama chose Eiden," Davis said.  Contact Amanda Gray at  
policy and the financial recovery  suggest that one might watch for  "Palin was a choice that was  "However, if Obaina had chosen  agray3@nd.edu  

SENIOR CAPTAIN ERIK ON ORA 
MONDAY, 0CTORER6TH 7-8:30 P.M. 
@THE JACC 

MEET THE 3RD RANKED 2008 HUSH 
HOCKEY TEAM. ENJOY FREE FOOD AND liSTEN TO GUEST SPEAKER BRIAN BURKE. GM Of THE ANAHEIM DUCKS! DON'T MtSS OUT! 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, October 2, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
I~O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dam<, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Him· 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USINFSS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 

Ass·I~ MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
A~s·1~ MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Mctz 
Vn:WI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'HICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANA<;ER: Maddie Boyer 
Ao DF.m;N MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
('574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4'542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vit-wpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
('i74) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
rHE 0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the UniVt'rsity of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer rt"Serves the right to rdi.tsc adverti!cmt'llts based on contt·nt. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represt·nt the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chic!; Managing Editor, Assistam Managing Editors and department ~dirors. Cornrnenrari~s. letters and wlumns present the views of the authors and not nea'SSarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Vi<·wpoinr space is availablt· to all readers. The fu.'C expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.mcrs w the Editor must be signed and musr include contact information. 
Questiow rtf(tmling Observer policits should be diremd to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

'llu· Olt\t'rvt'r (lJSI"\ "i1)'J l-4UUO} 11 ruhla.h~cl Mundny thwugh FrKI.ay cxccp~ duun~ u.un .uul V.I~WIInH ll(lilltb. A tulMiQlpllnncu l11c Oh'll'rwr IS $!flO for unr ar;-.kkmk ye.1r: SS5Iill nnC:KIIl<:JIIC'f 
l11c: {>h~~<.·m:r ti puhli5htd .11: I'OS'I'MAS1'ER 
0.24 South Dinu1R I l ..ll Stnd Jddrt"!i-~ corrcccions tQ: Nm~ I l.a.rnc, IN 4Nii'lfJ·0779 TheOh~r\ICr l'cmoi(lt~.tl pt~JIJ~r: p.ud :u Nouc: D.t~ l~t) Box n? aud ~tWiunn~l mo~ilmg utlh:n.. 024 Souch Dining 1-!.lll 
Nuue Dame, IN 46'i56-0n9 

11~e: Oh'Ctvtr 11 .1 mc:mhcr uf rl~e: Aauu.ucd Pres.\. All rcprotiuctiun nghts .uc: rtKrYcd. 
With 8:41 left in Saturday's game, an already low-flying-and still descending­wheels-down plane banked over Notre Dame Stadium. I couldn't help but watch and imagine. 
Nothing much was happening on 
Andrew Nesi 
the field. The game 
paused for a 
minutf1 or so. Spicy Sea 
I had the chance Nuggets to focus on this plane, and the whole scene played out in my head: plane keeps descending over the stadium and Notre Dame and Purdue fans gasp in unison, knowing what's about to come and helpless to stop it. 
This isn't Titanic, and the band stops playing. Screams, then fire. 
On board, passengers call loved ones, then fight. Noble characters straight out of United 93 and Let's Roll lorn. The fly-over military jet from America the Beautiful returns to the air and the President is briefed somewhere, hundreds of miles away. A rush of fire trucks and media, even if the NBC cameras survive. 
Uke something starring Nicholas Cage and we're the 80,000 extras, but after this take we'llnever get to collect our $100 appearance fee. The brat and beer turn in my stomach. 
And then, James Aldridge rushed left for seven yards and the student section polite­ly applauded. The plane kept going, off to South Bend Regional Airport. 
At the time, I didn't say anything to my friends. Maybe nobody else noticed. Maybe I am just a New Yorker oversensi­tive to these things. But the next day, I casually floated it to a friend from Washington D.C., who remembered the plane. Every time she sees a plane like that, she told me, she wonders. A friend 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The Victory March for all 
This week we celebrate the 1 OOth anniversary of the greatest of all university fight songs, the Notre Dame Victory March. During the Stanford game on Saturday more than 800 band alumni will join this year's marching band to com­memorate the occasion. 
. Perhaps this is the right time to suggest a slight change in the lyrics of our treas­ured song. In recent decades a growing number of us in the Notre Dame family, men and women alike, have been singing the last line as: "While her loyal sons and daughters march on to victory." 
It has been more than 35 years since Father llesburgh made Notre Dame coed. Our women athletes are marching on to victory in many sports. Our men and women are achieving greatness together in scholarship and service. It just doesn't feel right to sing only of "loyal sons." 
The proposed change works well musi­cally and rhythmically. Both versions have the same number ofbeal<>. The final verse of the original is "onward to victory." In the new version it is "march on to victory." Both arc forceful and convey determina­tion to suceeed. In the new version the accented beat falls on the active verb "march" rather than the adverb "onward." 
I am not suggesting that we alter the ofliciallyrics as originally written. H.ather, 
9/11 

from Kansas City remembered the plane, too, and said she talked to someone about it during the game. I was not the only one. 
A few weeks ago, of course, we recog­nized the seventh anniversary of Sept. 11. We memorialized the victims by reading their names. The Presidential candidates marched together to place a wreath at Ground Zero. We had a service on earn­pus. 
Two years ago, I lit a candle at the Grotto. This year, I bought Fruit Roll-Ups at Martin's grocery store. The anniversary, like Year Seven in general, passed rela­tively quietly. 
Remembering tlwse who died is a pro­found, and important, experience. But in addition to remembrance, we need to rec­ognize the meaning of Sept. 11 for those still alive. Sept. 11 turns anything we can imagine into a possibility. It loads films and literature with new meaning, because all are suddenly real. It makes a plane that flies over northwest Indiana a possible bomb. 
In the weeks and months after Sept. 11, I expected thi<> sort of reaction. But at the time, I never thought that seven years later, the power would still exist. 
It still influences us. It still terrorizes us. 
We have to be okay with this. We can't get rid of it. No matter what we do to pro­tect ourselves, this imagination now does and always will exist. 
Often today, to talk about Sept. 11 is talk about the politics of the last seven years. It is to speak about war in Afghanistan and, Iraq. It is to speak about the PATRIOT Act and Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib. Even bipartisan memoriaL<> on the anniversary come loaded with political undertones. 
It's remarkable that Sept. 11 now holds such political potency. This is an enduring national trauma, as the reaction to the 
we can simply adopt the more inclusive lyric as the preferred usage. 

So this Saturday, as the fight song enters its second century, let's sing it anew proudly, joyously acknowledging Notre Dame's diversity, while her loyal sons and daughters march on to victory. 
David Cortright research fellow Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies Sept. 29 
The Wearing of the Green 

Dear Students, Numni, and Fans­After spending five years at Notre Dame during the Davie-era, and watching our beloved Irish sufl'er from the rollereoaster of coaching decisions, poor recruiting, and uninspired play the next six seasons, it's time to help our teams out as best we can. 
As we look around college football nation, the top tier teams' fans unite on those fateful Saturdays and embrace the home field intimidation factor by wearing a unifying color. There have been "black­outs," "whiteouts" and "red seas" for the visiting team to take-in during the game. 
In Irish folklore, there has always been one color that has been with the Irish ancestry representing the rolling hills and fields of shamrocks of t11e Emerald Isle. It has been used as a symbol of unification plane above Notre Dame Stadium proves. But il'> mere mention invokes. a series of polarized political questions about civil lib­erties, race, and religion. Even comment­ing on the politidzation of Sept. 11 becomes a partisan statmnent in il<>elf. 
This politicization of Sept. 11 distracl'i from meaningful policy lessons about which we can all agree: port and border security, emergency rnsponse funding, defense spending. 
But equally importantly, it eomes at the expense of reflection on what Sept. 11 the event actually means fi1r our collective and individual psyches as we move f(Jrward. The observation that the terror of Sept. 11 lingers isn't political. It doesn't explicitly mean we should or shouldn't do anything in particular to stop future terror. 
But it does mean that we have to recog­nize that Sept. 11 still dirnctly impacl'i our daily livns, seven y<~ars later. It means that no matt<~r which side prevails in our politi­cal debates about eivilliberties, we will always live differently. 
It means that we don't need to say, "Never Forget," because wn can't help but remember every time wn'm in an airport or subway or, yes, football stadium. 
Andrew Nesi is a senior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. His third grade class managed to go through three hamsters in one month at school after the first dted ofnatural causes, the second escaped under the radiator, and an animal-loving friend stepped on the third. In lieu ofafourth hamster, the class got a fish. He can be reached at anesi@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
since the Irish Rebellion of the late 1700's. 
At Notre Dame's founding the original colors of the university were yellow and blue, symbolizing light and truth respec­tively. After the Dome was gilded, gold and blue became the oflieial colors. 
While I realize (as should everyone associated with Notre Dame-are you listening marketers and clothing compa­nies?) that gold is not yellow, tho symbol­ism of the light and the truth remains. What happens when you mix yellow and blue? 
In the following seasons to come, I expect Notre Dame, Charlie, the students, alumni, and fans to pick one home game ~ each year to show our solidarity through 'The Wearin' of the Green." Befilf(~ the season starl'>, print on that game's ticket the words "The Wearin' ofthe Green," so everyone knows. 
So I am asking everyone who will bo attending the Stanford game, to don the color of the Fighting Irish and show the visiting team that whnn you play Notre Dame you play the entiro Notre Dame family. 
Let this year's game against Stanf(Jrd bn "The Wearin' of the Green." Go Irish, 
Chris Carrigan 
alum 
Class of 2002 
Sept. 26 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Kaitlynn Hiely Fran Tolan Becky I logan Alex Barker Who won the political debate? 
Alicia Smith Scene Graphics Mark Witte "We know what happens to people
McCain

Blair Chnmidlin Viewpoint who stay in the middle ofthe road. 
Obama They get run over."
Patricia I didn't watch Fernandez 
Aneurin Bevan Welsh politician
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

-----------, 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 2, 2008 page 11 
Why Jesus approves "Crank me up!" 
Of all the surprises that Jesus' Incarnation unleashed -the inversion of happiness in the Beatitudes, the awesome power of the miracles, the scandal of the Cross, and ultimate triumph of the Hesurrection-F L IF
0

there is one mys-r. ou e ra tory, easy to miss, that. in a sense, FaithPoint 
startles me more than all the others. One day, in the midst of his public ministry, Jesus beholds the crowds "like sheep without a shepherd" and so asks his disciples to "pray that the master of the harvest might send laborers out into the harvest." 
Is it not at least puzzling -if not, frankly, embarrassing-that the self-pro­claimed Good Shepherd, the one whose voice his sheep recognize and so follow, should suddenly see the crowd he predict­ed would follow as "shepherd-less?" And rather imploringly begin to look for some­one to help him? 
It would be like watching a 4th-and-goal play in the game's final minute, and sud­denly see Charlie Weis sitting next to you in the stands, tapping you on the shoulder and saying, 'Too bad there's nobody here who knows to call the play-action." We'd stop our jigging and cranking to scream, "Get down there!" 
Sometimes I feel like responding that way to Jesus. You see the utter misery that the hurricanes have unleashed this month in Haiti, as whole sections of the country starve while living in four feet of mud. And I feel like reminding Jesus: "You had a crowd of 5,000, and fed them all with a wave of your hand. Well, do it again!" 
But right here is the mystery-Jesus doesn't do it again. He doesn'tjust wave his hand and magically take care of the problems of all these people. In fact, he does something much different. He lays one of the biggest guilt trips in recorded history on his disciples. l-Ie says, "The har­vest is .?o rich, but the laborers are just so few.... 
It's as if Jesus realizes his disciples have now reached a certain maturity in their discipleship. So he reveals to them a deep­er mystery of his life -that he needs them as part of his plan of redemption. But not as cogs in a big old ministry machine. Hather, we hear next that most beautiful scene -as one by one, by name, Jesus calls his disciples to him -Peter, Andrew, James, John, Bartholomew, Thaddeus. The list, granted, is a little short on women's names. But the list has grown over the years, and, if we are willing, the list includes us. 
Can we really grasp what is happening here? Jesus is calling us, by name, because for some mysterious reason, Jesus has decided NOT to wave a magic wand over the world and make everything bet­ter. For some mysterious reason, Jesus has decided he wants and needs US to help him fulfill his mission. 
Are we really willing to fathom what we are saying here? For what we are saying is this: that Jesus Christ can't do it all by him-

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The vvorst building on cam_pus 

Stepan Hall is awful-no, not the leaky The lab I'm sitting in right now has eight golf ball at the north end of campus but the hoods running. The ventilation system is so one neatly tucked by O'Shag, the Radiation poorly controlled Stepan is constantly Lab and across from Breen-Philips. under a vacuum. 
Stepan Hall of Chemistry and The new wing on Stepan must be closed Biochemistry is an enormous black eye in ofT from the rest of the building, lest the face of a "GreeNO." ancient and indiscriminately powerful vac­
Just how bad is it? Well, according to the uums of the old building override the new University's Utilities Department Stepan modern and efficient ones which were not hall consumes about 43,788 MMBtu's of designed to compete with technology 30 steam (an odd unit of measure for many years its senior. people -let's say a fair price for an end The solution is updating the technology consumer is about 8 dollars per MMBtu of from a mostly analog system to a digital steam, so you can put it into some kind of system that responds to the presence of perspective.) That's a lot of steam to heat a people in front of the hoods. Such devices little four story building. are standard at Stanford and have largely 
To put it into perspective, Hesburgh replaced the ancient equipment at Harvard library consumes less at 43,200 MMBtu's in recent years. That's not to mention the of steam -a 13 story building with four cost of electricity, since during the summer times the acreage of little Stepan. months the building must be cooled and 
The culprit is antiquated ventilation tech­humidity drained. nology designed in the late 1970s. Stepan Assuming the building purchased its Hall houses much of the research in chem­power from some commercial power plant istry and biochemistry-it's an incredibly like every other person, the annual power productive faculty bringing millions of dol­bill would be $570,000 dollars. And if you lars worth of grants to the school and turns ever walked down the dark, poorly lit halls, out some amazing science, placing Notre you know it's not from an excess of light­Dame in the forefront of several academic ing. fields within chemistry and biochemistry. Needless to say you can imagine the diffi­
The use of ventilation is, quite frankly, culty in recruiting with equipment and necessary to keep people from dying in the technology that was popular under the building. Carter administration (complete with 
If you've taken any chemistry lab course, bizarre psychedelic colors). While the ven­you will have worked in constraining hoods tilation system works and great research is that suck air out so you don't have to done in Stepan, it is time for a massive breathe it in. Well, each hood pulls air out update if it is to be a competitive recruiting of the building and spits it outside. In the tool for top intellectual talent and environ­winter, that air must be replaced with mentally sustainable (not to mention eco­warm air. nomically!). Technology has advanced a lot 
Thus, unlike your dorm or house, the air since the early 1980s and it's time to move never really reaches any sort of steady the building ahead 30 years. Let's do some­nquilibrium -the furnace never turns oft', thing to improve the sustainability and rather it must constantly run full blast, and economy of research at Notre Dame. thus in addition to running ancient air Let's update Stepan. pumps that look like they're straight from surplus WWII equipment, the building Jeremiah J. Gassensmith must also constantly heat itself. grad student 
Ultimately, the cost of each hood is equal off-campus to the cost of running a one story house. Sepr. 30 
self-or at least, chooses not to. Jesus Christ needs help. We often recite the famous prayer of St. Teresa of Avila: "Christ has no hands now but yours. Christ has no eyes now but yours." 
And I wonder if we realize how radical a prayer this Doctor of the Church wrote. Because it's tinged with an implication that Jesus can't do it on his own! 
And I want to ask: "Why? He's God­why can't He just do it himself? It'd be a lot easier, and he'd probably do a darn good job of it!" Why doesn't God just fix everything himselr? 
Why do people have to suffer and die in Iraq today? Why does God need peace­makers to do the slow work of global peace for him? 
Why did some people in Haiti die today from starvation? Why does God need us to do the slow work of social justice? 
Why do all children not get equal oppor­tunities in their education? Why does God need teachers committed to the slow work of improving education, so that quality education becomes a reality for every child, no matter their income, race or school district? 
Why doesn't God just lix it all Himself? Why does God look out over our world, and see how helpless we sometimes are, and seem to say, "I wish there was some­body there who could do something about all this." Why doesn't Jesus just lix it all himself? 
All I know is: the day you decided to allow your faith to be the p1·imary lens through which you view the world, is the day you promised to live in the tension of that mystery for the rest of your life. It's either that, or close your eyes and wait it out-but the suffering will still be there when you open your eyes again. 

Jesus just doesn't lix it all. But Jesus does one thing-this we must believe, of it is the mystery of his own suffering on the Cross: He sees it -every bit of our human anguish. He does not close his eyes to one moment of it. 
But after he sees it, he does the most mysterious thing: He turns to us, and he calls our name. 
He doesn't call us to come as perfect human beings, as people with no flaws and no limitations. We only have to look at Peter and James and the rest of the disci­ples to know that. For some mysterious reason, He just asks us to come, and give of our gifts, as generously and skillfully as we can, whatever our limitations may be. 
Christ has a message for the suffering of the world. And his message is this: "Rejoice, for the Kingdom of heaven is at hand!" But Christ has no mouth now, but ours. So, don't just sit there-crank it up! 
This week's Faithpoint is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, Director ofBible Studies for Campus Ministry. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Mistaken identity? 
I graduated from Notre Dame in 1982. category. We were legally married in I also happened to meet my same-sex life Canada live years ago. It seems the ND partner in 1982. I guess you could say Development Department has just updat­that was an important year for me. ed its files cross-referencing with the 
Since graduating, in every year that I Irish Online directory, which is all well can remember I have contributed when and good. asked to the Notre Dame Annual Fund Maybe they think my Michael is and have done so willingly. At least twice female. Maybe they just took the data a year I am solicited by the ND feed from Irish Online and accepted the Development Department. We may not data without validating. I can't say. So, I be major donors by University standards have to ask was this a case of mistaken but at least we are consistent. identity, a computer error. or a sign of 
To my surprise, this fall for the fust progress? time my solicitation was addressed to Funny that the NO Development both my partner (Michael DeLeon) and Department finally recognizes us as a me (Gregory Bourke). Further, on the couple after 26 years together. When we back of my pledge card there was the are writing checks the University printed note "Gregory and Michael, embraces us. But that seems to be the Thank you for your consistent support. only time. We hope we can count on you again this Regards, fall." · 
For as long as I have had the option Greg Bourke (several years at least) on the Notre alum Dame on-line alumni directory I have Class of 1982 had my partner listed under the spouse Sept. 29 
Proud to be Irish 
I am writing to support Dan to take it to the next level. Hopefully Murphy's plea ("One last time, show showing your spirit in such a way your pride," Sept. 29) to create an will inspire the rest of the fans to get Irish flag in the student section for loud and cheer the Irish on to victory. home football games. I also want to urge the young alum­
I support The Shirt and its cause as ni of Notre Dame to get up and get much as the next Notre Dame fan, loud during the games to help the but visually, navy blue just doesn't students support the team. We all cut it. It's up to the students to do remember what it was like to be in something unique to show their the student section. We need to school spirit. revive that spirit and act as a light­
Every week I turn on my TV and ning rod for our respective sections see entire stadiums decked out in a and get everybody into the game. single color and I get jealous. It's time to give our team a true 
After several pleas over the years home field advantage. by Ty and Charlie to create a "sea of Go Irish! green," it's painfully obvious that attempts to unify the non-students in Nestor Alvarado the stadium usually fall flat. alum 
Most of the energy and noise comes Class of 2004 from the students and it's up to you Sept. 30 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 
Thursday, October 2, 2008 

By SZYMON RYZNER 
Scene Writer 
In their best-reviewed album of recent memory, MPtallica returns to its nwtal roots with powerful rifTs and the angt~r and angst that can only come with greater age and longer hair. 
The songs may last eight minutes but it's hard to notice, due to well planned out song intensities and great vocal performances by James lletl'ield. The f1tSt pumping of tJw baSS, catchy guitar riffs. smooth beat supplenumted by the drums and nwllow dwrds blend effort­lessly. The band both energizes and urges the listener to headbang and heavy metal intensive
Death Magnetic 
that they are sure to 
Metallica 
be concert favorites. Easily considered "speed metal" the pieces are impressive 

Label: Wamer Bros. 
Recommended Tracks: "All Nightmare Long," "A 
feats of musicianship.

Day That Never Comes," and "Suicide and A slower more vocal 
Redemption" 
By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK 
Seem· Writer 
Time Magazine lists "OK Computer" as one of the Top 100 Albums of all time, but Hadiohcad's 1995 sophomore CD "Tho Bends" is truly an all-killer no­filler attnmpt on the band's part. 
As with most of the British alternative band's other CDs. the enigmatic lyrics and intense eneq.,ry in the first few dis­torted guitar chords of opener "Planet Telex" draw the listnner in for the long haul, ready and eager to listen to the rnmaining tracks. 
The title track follows with its dassic rock guitar riffs and symbolic lyrics about deeompression sickness. Though it nnvnr made it as a single, "The Bends" expertly c~aptures some of the band's sentiments about its catapult into fame. 
At~t~ording to Mac Handall's "Exit Musie: The Hadiohead Story:" 
"For their second album. Radiohead chose an extremely symbolic title... Hadiohead rose too soon (due to the suc­cess of 'Creep,' which they were hardly oriented work, "The Unforgiven III," also manages to feature the piano if only for a few moments. "Suicide and Bedemption" is an instrumental track and demonstrates 
prepared for) and had to suffer the unpleasant consequences (critical back­lash, record company pressure, general confusion and dismay about how to con­tinue meaningfully)." 
The Oxford-based band, originally named On A Friday simply because they held band prac­

tices  on  Friday  he  recorded  the  
evenings, was cer­tainly unprepared for the fame they  The Oxford-based band, originally named On A Friday  vocals about mass marketing and mass consumption in just  
received from "Creep." Yet with "The Bends," they managed to pro­ simply because they held band practices on Friday evenings, was certainly unprepared for  two takes, immedi­ately after seeing Jeff Buckley perform at Long Wong's in  
duce one of the most influential alternative albums  the fame they received from "Creep."  Tempe, Ariz. "The Bends" con­tinues to excel with  
of the 1990s. The  such killer tracks as  

intense build-up to the chorus of "Here is Gone" from The Goo Goo Dolls' 2002 album "Gutterflower" has often been compared to "High and Dry," "The Bends"' third track, for the ingenious guitar ehord progressions. 
"Fake Plastic Trees" is a beautiful 90s mosh for the duration of tracks. Even fans of other genres would most likely find something to enjoy in "Death Magnetie" if only the albums cover art, a coffin surrounded by a magnetic field. 
The album's first released single, "The Day That Never Comes," is a rel­atively calm reflective piece that builds into a very generic heavy metal rock piece. This is where the major problem with "Death Magnetic" a-rises as lack of original content becomes obvious. The songs are new, but they could be associated with almost any heavy metal band that considers Metallica as one of their influences. 
But as far as sheer entertainment, 
"All Nightmare Long" 
and "Cyanide" arc so 

"Just," a song chock full of guitar chords and lyrics about an argument between Yorke and a narcis­sistic friend. "My Iron Lung" immedi­ately follows; a track about the band's reaction to the unexpected success of "Creep." IIere, the iron lung serves as a metaphor for both the sustaining and how heavy metal can function without lyrics, especially when the lead singer's voice is a growl. In "Death Magnetic" there is no shortage of catchy riffs, heavy metal rock or impressive sound, but originality is lacking. 
"Death Magnetic" is a return to greater quality music, but this album is a rehash of sorts and lacks originali­ty. With songs such as "All Nightmare Long" and "Cyanide" the listener can enjoy speed metal at its best, while "A Day That Never Comes" gives a greater sampling of the bands creative range. 
This album is no doubt to be found on Rock Band VII and Guitar llero X within a few years, as soon as the 
ballad and its ghost-like keyboard sounds and soft guitar chords in the beginning build up to an emotional cho­rus toward the end with intense percus­sion, loud distorted guitar chords, and passionate vocals. According to Green Plastic, a Hadiohead fan site, Thorn Yorke claimed that 
...._.,;.;,. 
,_ 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

rights are given and as soon as the band becomes a little more lenient with the leaking of their music. After all "Death Magnetic" was leaked 10 days early and the only response by Lars Ulrich was to USA Today, "By 2008 standards, that's a victory. If you'd told me six months ago that our record wouldn't leak until 10 days out, I would have signed up for that." 
Ultimately "Death Magnetic" is a step in the right direction, and Metallica is once again reminiscent of their heavy metal prime. fans will no doubt be grateful. 
Contact Szymon Ryzner at sryzner@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

constraint of the band's musical career. 
The album concludes with "Street Spirit (Fade Out)," a soft peaceful melody eontrasted with dark and myste­rious lyrics. 
Despite the immense success of "Creep" in 1993, many people were ready to write Badiohead off as simply a flash in the pan and place the song in with Beck's "Loser" and a slew of other self-deprecating anthems of the post­grunge generation. In spite of poor expectations, "The Bends" marked a clear shift in musical style for the British alternative band from the traditional, introspective, upbeat rock heard in 1993's "Pablo !Ioney" to more experi­mental art rock with an inventive sound and global themes. The trend of shift­ing musical styles continued with each successive album, which allowed Hadiohead to mature and develop not qnly a more adult sound, but also inno­vative music that no one had previously conceived. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at alcilpatr@nd.edu 
r----------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Thursday, October 2, 2008 
page 13 

Never thought you'd see these two 
ogether, huh? Thanks to the creative 
lks at Legends, you're in luck if you 
d yourself craving fried desserts and 
ublic singing in one night of enter­
ainment. Whether or not you know the 
iteral translation of "karaoke" ("empty" and "orchestra," according to the wise words of Wikipedia), we su gest checking out what will hopeful be the latest in a long series of donut­themed karaoke nights at Notre Dame's on-campus club. Krispy Kremes Karaoke starts at midnight. 
Students are likely familiar with Kennedy's Kitchen, a traditional Irish band often play at Fiddler's Hearth in down­South Bend. Kennedy's Kitchen, who have performed with the Chieftans and Tommy Makem, as well as in a variety of music venues and Irish festivals, will play his Saturday from 7:30 to 11 p.m. at Brighid's Irish Pub. Often mixing stories, Irish tales and ballads into their concerts along with traditional music, the band is to provide locals and visitors alike a solid night of entertainment. Who 
-maybe you'll see a jig or two. Brighid's Irish Pub is located at 52890 SR­933 North in South Bend. 
The Hot Club of San Francisco, a band, will be appearing at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center this Friday at 8 
p.m. in a multimedia event called Surrealism." The band will perform 
azz while five silent films from the 20th century will be shown on screen the DPAC's Leighton Concert Hall. These films include "It's A Bird" and "Now You Tell One" by Charlie Bowers, as well as others from the era. No doubt a unique experience for the adventurous concertgo­er, the performance should prove to be highly interesting one for any fan of music, film or both. 
"Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop \Aitwr·uinn and Love the Bomb" is a film classic. Made at the height Cold War nuclear neurosis in the 
the film is a star turn by Peter Sellers, plays no less than three roles. "Dr. " features an impressive ensem­
cast including George C. Scott, S ,...,,..,.,r,c as Maj. T.J. "King" Kong, and even 
James Earl Jones. For fans of film, outrageous comedy and political jibes, airing this 1964 classic is not to be ....''""''u. The film shows at 3 p.m. Tickets are must be reserved ahead of time by the Ticket Office at 574-631-2800. 

gathering ingredients. First, get glass. Start with yogurt, and then use, but if it is still too early in By MICHELLE FORDICE one of the tall, clear glasses used top with granola and fruit. the dining hall to find them, r Assisram Scene Editor for drinks. Then fill bowls with Drizzle honey over it all. Then shredded works just as well.). ··•••· 
yogurt (Plain yogurt is the easiest repeat. Close it up with the other side of ti ~-Breakfast. That meal they to match things with, but the fla­the bagel. t . always told us was the most vored ones work too.), granola Apple and Cheese Bagel 4. Take your bagel to either the * I important of the day, which we and couple dabs of honey. I found this breakfast when I microwav~ or the _Panini press 1 r have since learned through expe­2. Fill another bowl with what­was a kid in some long forgotten and heat 1t up until the cheese · · l rience is really helpful for getting ever fruit is available. Here you kid's cookbook, and it has been mehs. I1through (and out of bed on time might need to put in a little effort. one of my favorites ever since. A ',. for) those early morning exams. Easiest: Fresh grapes and sliced great combination of sweet and Quick Tip I1It's the fuel that gets you through apples, some of the canned fruit savory, it's a good and filling Head over to North and check 
the day (or at least through offered at the salad bar, such as breakfast. Usually it's baked, out the make your own eggs sta­I lunch) and the focus of this the mixed fruit, mandarin but you can pull it off in the din­tion. Crack some fresh eggs into t w~ek's column. Scarf it down, my oranges or the pears. Middling: ing hall. the pan (thereby escaping the ·~ fnends. Fresh bananas, cantaloupe and 1. Toast a bagel. frozen eggs the dining hall needs t This week's recipes: strawberries (they are easy to 2. Spread bagel with a little to use to meet demand) and fry, 1 Morning Parfait slice with a dinner knife) and butter. scramble, or omelet-ize. They 
Parfait. Probably the best when oranges Uust have to peel and 3. Top one half of the bagel have a great selection of ingredi­
it is of the ice cream and hot separate). Harder: Fresh whole with apple slices (If you're lucky ents to add too, from mushrooms, 
fudge variety, but excellent for apples, pears, peaches and plums the dining hall will have sliced to bacon, to cheese. 
breakfast as well. (harder to slice with a dinner apples, if not you can try grab­

1. This dish is probably best knife). bing a whole apple and slicing it Have your own dining hall , assembled once you're sitting 3. Once you are seated, begin yourself.) and cheddar cheese recipe? We would love to feature '· down so the first step is all about layering your parfait inside the (Slices of cheese are the easiest to it! E-mail mfordice@nd.edu. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 2, 2008 
MLB 

Hamels, Lidge pitch Phillies past Brewers 
Utley's double just enough to down Milwaukee; Loney's grand slam seals Dodger victory at Wrigley 
"I learned what it really
Associated Press 
takes in trying to kind of mel­
Pill LAI>ELPIIIA Cole low out, not have that sort of 
llanwls was so dominant the excitement where you can't 
Milwaukee Brewers were glad really control everything," he 
to s!w Brad Lidgn come in. The said. 
switch to their pnrfnet closer Making his second start since 
nnarly cost the Philadelphia returning from surgery for a 
Phil lies. torn knp,e ligament, 
Behind tlwir top two arms, Milwaukee's Yovani Gallardo the Phillies grabbed their first got rattled after his defense fell postseason victory in 15 years apart in the third. -barely. The 22-year-old righty 
llanwls pitdwd eight brilliant allowed three unearned runs innings, l.idge escaped a ninth­and three hits in four innings, inning jam and Philadelphia walking live. Gallardo became took advantage of Mike the second pitcher in major Camnron's miscue in enntflr league history to start a post­l'ield for a :{-1 win over season game without recording Milwauken in their playoff a win that year. He pitched in openor Wednesday. three games before he injured 
Chase Utley's two-run double his right knee on May 1 and slipped out of Cameron's glove had a 1.88 ERA to go with four in the third. helping the Phillies no-decisions. take a 3-0 lead. l.idge allowed '"fhings like that are going to a run in the ninth but struck happen," Gallardo said about out Corey Hart with runners at the defensive lapses. "There's second and third to end it. no excuse for you to come in 
"I can't lnt him get a hit and let your guard down. You there." said Lidge, who was 41-still have to go out there and for-41 in save chances this sea­make pitches and get out of sit­son. "I've always been a strike­uations like that." out pitcher and that's what I Carlos Ruiz started wanted to do." Philadelphia's third inning with 

Game 2 in the best-of-five a single. Hamels then bunted series is Thursday, with ace CC hard to third baseman Bill Sabathia going to the mound Hall, who bobbled the ball, hit. Hamels pitched out of his er. Ramirez's homer was his the first two pitches, he sent a for the wild-eard Brewers on costing him a chance to get only jam in the sixth. Craig 25th in the postseason, extend­1-2 pitch over the wall in een­three days' rest for the fourth Ruiz at second. Second base­Counsell singled with one out ing his own record. ter for the grand slam that consecutive start. Brett Myers man Hickie Weeks dropped and Cameron walked. But "We get a sense of what he's gave the Dodgers a 4-2 lead pitches for the Phillies. Hall's throw to first for an Hamels fanned Hall on a down­been doing all these years," and silenced a Wrigley Field 
It'll be tough for anyone to error. and-away changeup and got Loney said. crowd that was cheering loudly match llamels' superb per­Gallardo almost worked out Ryan Braun to pop out. It was a good omen for the for Dempster to get out of the formance. The 24-year-old lefty of the jam, though. He retired A sellout crowd of 45,929 at Dodgers. The last time they jam he created. retired the !irst 14 batters and Jimmy Hollins on a shallow fly Citizens Bank Park withstood a started a postseason series "Invariably, when you keep allowed two hits, striking out and struck out Jayson Werth. steady rain for most of the with a victory was 1988 -the putting people on, they're nine. But Utley ripped a liner game, waved their "Fightin' Kirk Gibson game in the World going to score, and they scored 
Phillies manager Charlie through a swirling wind to cen­Phils" rally towels and savored Series. there quickly with that grand Manuel considered sending ter. Cameron took a poor route, a rare playoff victory. The Cubs will try to get even slam," Piniella said. llamels out to start the ninth, raced back and reached up for This championship-starved in Game 2 on Thursday night When Matt Kemp followed but decided to go with Lidge. a backhanded catch only to city hasn't c-elebrated a title when they send mercurial with a doubln, Piniella had The Brewers got the tying run have the ball bounce out of his since the NBA's 76ers won it all right-hander Carlos Zambrano seen enough and brought in to the plate. but Prince Fielder glove. in 1983. against Chad Billingsley. Sean Marshall from the fanned for the second out. Both runners seored on "Let's hope we get better," bullpen. Marshall gave up After Ll. llardy walked to put Utley's double for a 2-0 lead. A Dodgers 7, Cubs 2 Cubs manager Lou Piniella Hamircz's solo shot in the sev­two runners on, they advanced three-time Gold Glove winner, Manny Ramirez and Joe said. "Let's put this one behind enth that made it 5-2. on a wild pitch. Thnn llart Cameron usually makes that Torre brought their winning us and go get them tomorrow." The Dodgers padded the lead struck out swinging to end it. play look routine. postseason ways to the Los Torre made his 13th straight in the eighth when Blake 
"Not too many times you can "If he doesn't make that Angeles Dodgers and postseason managerial appear­DeWitt doubled and reached say you're happy to sen I.idge, catch, nobody can," Sveum Wrigley Field. ance -the previous 12 were third on an error by Cubs' cen­but wn didn't hit the ball hard said. James Loney hit a go-ahead with the Yankees -and ter fielder Jim Edmonds, scor­oiT llanwls all day," BrewMs Gallardo intentionally walked grand slam off a wild Ryan extended his record for post­ing on Casey Blake's single ofT rnanagnr Dale Sveum said. Hyan lloward and then walked Dempster, Ramirez and Russell season wins to 77 in a matchup Jeff Samardzija. Martin home­
llamnls baf'llnd thn fastball­Pat Burrell to load the bases. Martin homered and the new­with Piniella, another veteran red ofT Jason Marquis in the hitting Brewers with his daz­Gallardo walked Shane look Dodgers beat the Chicago skipper. top of the ninth. zling changeup. helping the Victorino to force in another Cubs 7-2 in their NL playoff The Cubs took a 2-0 lead on On the first day of spring Phillins mtrn their first postsea­run, before retiring Pedro Feliz opener Wednesday night. Mark DeRosa's homer in the training, Dempster said he son win sinee the 1993 World on a fly to center. The Cubs entered the post­second inning off Derek Lowe, thought the Cubs would win Snries against Toronto. llamels, who didn't get much season with the best record in but the Dodgers rebounded the World Series this year. 
Thn NL East champions were run support as he went 14-10 league, hoping for a fast start against Dempster, who had Now, they're in a hole already. swept out of the first round by in the regular season, didn't 100 years after their last World trouble finding the strike zone Dempster (0-1). 14-3 at thn surging Colorado Rockies need any more. The Phillies Series championship. all night. Wrigley during the regular sea­last year. llamels lost the open­had just four hits. But Hamirez and Torre, win­Dempster walked the bases son, threw 109 pitches in just 4 or of that series, but didn't llart lined a single to right on ners of six World Series crowns loaded in the fifth, and Loney 2-3 innings, giving up four hits have any jitters this time an 0-2 pitch with two outs in in the AL, wound up on top in delivered for the Dodgers. and four runs while walking around. the fifth for· Milwaukee's first their first playoff game togeth-After swinging and missing seven to tie a career high. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
STUDENT WORK,$14.25 base· appt., flexible schedules, no experi­ence needed. customer sales/serv­ice, conditions apply, ages 18+.574­273-3835. www.workforstudents.com 
Financial Partner wanted. 7% ROI plus 2.5 Pts. ,00% secured w/real estate. 35 Yrs. Experience. References. Call 574-360-8707 or Email: 2heavn@comcast.net 
FoR SALE 
CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO ND. PLEASE CONTACT TED @ 574-233-6191 MSL #231736 
FoR RENT 
2 bdrms, 1 bath, basement, garage. Walk to Notre Dame. 
(574)274-2829. 
Football Weekend B&B close to ND(574)243-9279 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
Home Game Rentals Beautiful, Private apartments. Sleeps 4. Fully furnished, lots of amenities. Only 4 miles from Campus. $500 thurs­sun. Call Joyce 574-339-9241. · 
Gorgeous Completely Rehabbed House. 
4 bedrooms, 3 full baths, washer dryer, dishwasher, new stainless steel appliances, 3 car garage, cen­tral air, beautiful light fixtures, deck and front porch. Marble entryway. 
All new. 2 miles to ND. Available immediately, fourth month free or flat screen TV installed. 
$1180 per month. Call Harold 574-315-7781. 

TICKETS 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 57 4-232-0964. 
Wanted: ND football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go rt alone. If you or' someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn. OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at574-B31­2685. For more information, visrt our websrte at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart· ments'pregnant.shtml 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, October 2, 2008 CoMPlLFD FROM THE OBsERVER's Wl RE SERVICES page 15 
MLB 
Men's Cross Country USTFCCCA Top 25 
team points previous 

1 Oregon 360 1 2 Oklahoma State 346 2 3 Colorado 326 3 4 Iona 301 4 5 Alabama 300 5 6 Wisconsin 279 6 7 Portland 2n 7 8 Michigan 269 8 9 Georgetown 249 10 10 Stanford 244 11 11 Iowa State 224 29 12 Virginia 198 13 13 NC State 194 16 14 Minnesota 188 9 15 BYU 187 30 16 Northern Arizona 1n 17 17 Texas 167 14 18 UTEP 167 12 19 Providence 160 18 20 California 149 19 21 Auburn 114 25 22 William &Mary 106 23 23 Cal Poly 85 21 24 Arkansas 75 22 25 Villanova 73 t26 26 Florida State 60 24 27 NOTRE OAME 57 '20 28 TexasA&M 51 126 29 New Mexico 48 15 30 Syracuse 37 28 

the Red Sox a 2-11ead over the Angels In Game 1 of the ALDS. Boston held on to win 4-1. 
1 
Women's Cross Country 

USTFCCA Top 25  
team  points  previous  
1  Oregon  359  1  
2  Washington  345  3  
3  Florida Slate  337  2  
3  Minnesota  317  9  
5  Stanlord  309  4  
6  Princeton  291  7  
7  Arizona State  281  5  
8  Michigan Slate  276  8  
9  West Virginia  268  6  
10  Illinois  258  10  
11  Arkansas  243  11  
12  Wisconsin  221  13  
13  Providence  203  16  
14  Florida  188  15  
15  Michigan  176'  17  
16  Baylor  162  24  
17  Colorado State  152  14  
18  New Mexico  135  NR  
19  Rice  117  18  
20  NC State  112  29  
21  Texas Tech  110  12  
22  Georgetown  102  21  
23  BYU  100  22  
24  Northern Arizona  88  19  
25  Boston College  79  25  
26  Ouke  66  20  
27  Iowa  58  27  
28  North Carolina  53  28  
29  Tennessee  36  NR  
30  Stony Brook  31  26  

around the dial 
NCAA fOOTBALL Pittsburgh at South Floirda 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 

Bay leads Sox to win in opener 
Associated Press first postseason game of to World Series titles. a 2-1 lead and rookie his career, and the Red Boston tied a major Justin Masterson on the 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -No Sox got a big start from league record for consec­mound, Jacoby Ellsbury matter how much the Los John Lester (1-0). who utive postseason wins made a great diving Angeles Angels dominate allowed only an over the same opponent, catch on Mark Teixeira's Boston in the regular unearned run in seven a mark Oakland set sinking fly to center season, the Red Sox roll innings. against the Red Sox from starting the eighth. in October. "It's big. Any time you 1988-03. Vladimir Guerrero fol­
Jason Bay hit a go­can come into another The Angels will try to lowed with a single ahead, two-run homer team's ballpark and win draw even Friday night before Torii Hunter off John Lackey in the is huge," Lester said. in Game 2 of the best-of­blooped a hit over first sixth inning, and the Los Angeles won eight five series, with Ervin baseman Kevin Youkilis, World Series champions of nine regular-season Santana pitching against who quickly recovered beat the Angels 4-1 games between the Boston's Daisuke · and easily threw out 
. Wednesday night in the teams this year, outscor­Matsuzaka. Guerrero at third. opener of their AL play­ing the Red Sox 42-17 in While just four of 28 Ellsbury and David off series. the final six. But the Red teams to lose NL division Ortiz added RBI singles in Acquired in the three­Sox have won 10 straight series openers have come the ninth off Scot Shields, team trade that sent postseason games back to win series, it's and Jonathan Papelbon Manny Ramirez to the against the Angeles dat­been an even 14-14 split finished for his fifth post­Los Angeles Dodgers, ing to 1986, including in the AL, according to season save, extending Bay brought Boston back first-round sweeps in the Elias Sports Bureau. his postseason scoreless from a 1-0 deficit in the 2004 and 2007 en route With Boston clinging to streak to 15 2-3 innings. 
IN BRIEF  
Broncos defense dominant in win over LA Tech  PG Gordon signs one-yearextension with Bulls  Engram returns from injured shoulder  
BOISE, Idaho -For years, Boise  CHICAGO -Chicago guard Ben  RENTON, Wash. -He's been wait­ 
State's defense has taken a back seat  Gordon accepted the Bulls' one-year,  ing for eight weeks on the injured list.  
to the Broncos' clever, high-scoring  $6.4 million tender offer just before  But Bobby Engram is still unhappy  
offense.  the deadline Wednesday night.  over· the Seahawks refusing to re­ 
But this year, the defense is taking  A restricted free agent, Gordon  negotiate his contract that is in its  
every opportunity to change that per­ was looking for a long-term deal that  final year.  
ception.  never materialized. He led the Bulls  Just ask the 35-year-old. who set a  
Thanks to a fourth-quarter goal­ in scoring last season with an 18.6  team record last season with 94  
line stand, a stifling run defense and  average. _  catches, if his 1-2 team knows his  
constant quarterback pressure, it was  "He's very happy to be able to go  true value by not having him for two  
the defense that led the 17th-ranked  back and play basketball," agent  months.  
Broncos to a 38-3 victory over  Raymond Brothers said. "He looks  "You would hope that you're appre­ 
Louisiana Tech on Wednesday night.  forward to talking to the Bulls next  ciated before something like that has  
"When our defense plays the way it  summer about an extension."  to take place," Engram said of his  
did today, it gives us a lot of confi­ Chicago's leading scorer the past  injury, his eyes growing wide over the  
dence,'' Broncos coach Chris Petersen  three years, Gordon can not be trad­ thought Seattle hasn't gone beyond  
said after his team won its 16th  ed this season but could leave as an  the $1.7 million he is earning this  
straight home game. "Every defense  unrestricted free agent next sum­ season.  
wants to play like that. But these guys  mer. He had few options this time.  It's not even the most or second­ 
have really been backing it up."  He was unable to work out a sign­ most among Seahawks receivers.  
The offense didn't do too bad,  and-trade deal and rejected the idea  Deion Branch, who will also make his  
either.  of playing overseas since the Bulls  season debut on Sunday has a base  
Kellen Moore threw for two touch­ would have retained his rights. The  pay of $3.5 million this year. Nate  
downs and D.J. Harper rushed for  only other option would have been a  Burleson is making $3.25 million, but  
two more.  multiyear deal.  he's on injured reserve.  

ND WoMEN's TENNIS 
Frilling captures first career titles 

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 2, 2008 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Duo leads squad over Trine 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Wri tcr 
Irish freshman Kristy Frilling captured the first sin­gles and doubles titles of her col11~giate career on Sept. 21, teaming with senior Kelcy Tefft for the doubles title. 
Frilling, a native of Sydney, Ohio, took down Florida's Anastasia Hevzina 6-4, 3-6, 1-0 to earn the singles title. 
"It was a great way to start her career," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "She showed very good poise, and had to play a lot of tennis in three days." 
To earn her spot in the finals, Frilling had to defeat Florida's Marritt Boonstra. She had less difficulty in that match as she earned a 6-2, 6­3 victory. 
In the doubles bracket, Frilling and Tefft came up with some big wins for the Irish. 
In the final match, Tefft and Frilling knocked off Ken lucky's Carolina Escamilla and Christine Johnson S-2. 
Tefft also competed in the singles draw and defeated Central Florida's Kate Orletsky 6-2, 6-2. 
Sophomore Kristen Rafael also earned a victory over South Florida's lciri Hai 2-6, 6-1, 1-0 on Sunday. 
Overall, the Irish finished with a 6-2 record at the tour­nament, and Frilling and Tefft came out with a 4-0 record in doubles. 
New assistant coach Julia Scaringe will seek to help the Irish on and off the court this season. 
Scaringe was the assistant coach at Harvard last season and was hired at Notre Dame after former assistant Elizabeth Schmidt took the head-coaching job at Rice University. 
"She has been great," Louderback said. "She brings playing as well as coaching experience. She played on a National Championship team at Florida, so she also brings that experience." 
While at Harvard, Scaringe helped coach two All-Ivy League players last season, including Beier Ko, who par­ticipated in the 2008 NCAA Singles Tournament. 
Scaringe is a 2003 graduate of Florida, where she helped lead the Gators at the No. 1 singles position. 
She has a national champi­onship with the Gators on her resume, along with two SEC conference championships, three SEC tournament cham­pionships. She also finished as the NCAA runner-up and national team-indoor runner­up. 
Before entering college, Scaringe also spent some time on the junior circuit as a member of the US National Team. She also participated in all four Grand Slam Events on the junior circuit reaching the round of 16 at the Australian Open. 
"We want to win the Big East Championship," Louderback said. "We also want to put the team in posi­tion to compete for a national championship." 
The Irish will turn to a core group of upperclassmen to lead the way this season. 
The Irish have only two seniors -Tefft and Katie Potts -and three juniors: Cosmina Ciobanu, Kali Krisik and Colleen Rielly. 
"We have a really great set of upper classmen," Louderback said. "When you add in our three juniors, they have been a big part of our success over the last two years." 
Four Irish players will par­ticipate in the All-American tournament beginning on Oct. 2 in Pacific Palisades, Calif. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
By PAT STYNES 
Sports Writer 
Lorna Slupczynski and Kaela Hellmann could not be denied. 
The junior-senior combo once again dominated the Saint Mary's offensive attack, combining for 39 kills (19 and 20 respective­ly) in the Belles 3-1 win over Trine University Wednesday night. The win moves the squad to 12-5 on the year, 5-3 in conference play. 
As has been the team's trademark all year, the key to last night's victory was the strong start of the 

team's attacking players. Hellmann fired off seven kills in seven attempts in the first set as she scored over a quarter of the team's points in the first set. Hellmann contributed another four kills in the second set, while fellow senior Cathy Kurczak also chipped in offensively with six kills. 
In the third set the Belles faltered and their sloppy play allowed Trine to over­com.e two match points and take the set by a score of 28-26. But Slupczynski quickly reminded the Thunder that Hellmann was not the only offensive force on the floor, ripping off seven kills and six digs in the final set and helping the Belles earn the win as they took the set 25-16. 
Overlooked in the ofl'en­sive display of llellmann, Slupczynski, and Kurczak is tho ability of freshman Danielle Brink, who distrib­u t ed a n i m p r f) s s i v e 5 (J assists while contributing 11 digs defensively. 
Saint Mary's has now won five out of its last six matches, and carries a great deal of momentum as it tra~els to Michigan to take on Alma College this Friday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Pat Stynes at pstynes@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles drop third straight 
"We do not have many games at home this fall and we need to take advantage of the opportu­nities we have to play on our home field," the coach said. 
The loss dropped the Belles to 1-6-1 on the season while the Titans improved to 6-4. The Belles are 0-3-1 in their last four matches against the Titans. Crabbe said he hopes the team learns from the disappointing loss and that they can build upon what has been a relatively disappointing start on the whole. 
"Right now, we need to learn how to win and be the better team," he said. "I hope the players are disappointed and find the motivation to take on our next opponent." 
The Belles should be motivat­ed in their next match when they face Hope College on Saturday. In the teams' previ­ous match up, the Belles squan­dered a 1-0 lead as Hope scored twice in the final seven minutes of play. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

Write sports. Contact Dan or Bill at sports@ nd.edu. 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's dropped its third straight match Wednesday in a 2-1 loss to Illinois Wesleyan. 
The Belles found themselves intensity level." 

The score remained 1-0 at the half, but Illinois Wesleyan expanded its lead to 2-0 just three minutes into the second half on a goal from junior Erin Kugler. Saint Mary's got on the board in the 83rd minute with a 
in a familiar spot when they fell "Right now, we need to behind 1-0 
learn how to win and be
just ten min­
the better team. I hope the 
utes into the game after players are disappointed Illinois 
andfind the motivation 
Wesleyan 
to take on our
freshman 
M o I I y next opponent., O'Brien scored off a 
Ryan Crabbe
corner kick. 
Belles coach
The famil­iar slow goal from sen­ior captain L a u r e n Hinton, assist­ed by junior M i c k i Bedinger. Hinton leads the team with 3 goals. 

Despite Hinton's late goal, the Belles' offen­sive woes con­tinued in the 
start disappointed Belles coach Ryan Crabbe. 
"Overall I was very disap­pointed with the effort we showed in the first half," Crabbe said. "We allowed the visiting team to quickly estab­lish the tempo of the game and our girls never matched their match, as they have scored just nine goals in eight games and haven't had a multiple-goal game since a 2-0 win over Mount Mercy on September 13. 

Saint Mary's is winless in their two home games this sea­son, a fact that disappoints Crabbe. 



Thursday, October 2, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 


............................................ 
......··-·.-.. --......-...... . 
...-.....-·-..... 
.·-~· ........... . 
& ...-···. 




AI NATIONAl ENDOWMENT 
FOR THE ARTS 
MIDWEST 

NFL 

Ex-Bronco Henry arrested by DEA 
Associated Press 

DENVER -Former Denver Broncos running back Travis Henry has been arrested following an alleged cocaine deal, the Drug Enforcement 
Administration  said  
Wednesday.  _  
Henry  and  James  Mack  

were arrested a day earlier after the two met to buy cocaine from a person who was cooperating with authorities, according to an arrest warrant affidavit. 
Mack and Henry were in federal custody on suspicion of knowingly and intention­ally conspiring to distribute and possess with intent to distribute cocaine. They were advised of charges Wednesday. A preliminary hearing and detention hear­ing were scheduled for Monday. 
It was not immediately known whether Mack had an attorney. Henry's attor­ney, Harvey Steinberg, con­firmed he was representing Henry in the case but declined to comment on the charges when reached by The Associated Press. 
The case has its roots in Montana, where a trooper and DEA agent stopped a car that was carrying six pounds of marijuana and about three kilograms of cocaine on Sept. 16, the affidavit said. 
A passenger in the car, whose name was not dis­closed in the affidavit, told authorities Mack and Henry had supplied him with the drugs, which he was sup­posed to deliver to cus­tomers in Billings. The man said he was supposed to be paid $5,000 for delivering the drugs and transporting about $63,600 in sales pro­ceeds to Henry, according to the affidavit. 
The affidavit indicated that separately, the passen­ger and another customer in Billings already owed Henry about $40,000 in drug pro­ceeds. The passenger told authorities Henry had threatened him and his fam­ily over the debt. 
The passenger agreed to cooperate with authorities and set up a drug deal Tuesday with Henry that led to the arrests of Mack and Henry, the affidavit said. 
For Gay, lesbian, Bisexual 5Uuestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday. October 7 7:00p.m.-8:00p.m. 316 Coleman Morse 
The Core Council invites gay. lesbian. bise)llJal oquestioning members of the Notre Dame family, along with their friends and allys. to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 



NFL 

Boldin out with 
•

fractured sinus
-
Associated Press 

TEMPE, Ariz. -Anquan Boldin has a fractured sinus as a result of what he acknowledges was the worst hit he's received in his foot­ball career. 
The Arizona Cardinals standout wide receiver does­n't know how long he will be sidelined, but when he returns, he says, there will be no change in his trademark tough, aggressive style. 
"For me it was just a part of football," Boldin said after watching his teammates prac­
. tice on Wednesday. "It's an unfortunate incident that hap­pened but, you know, you take your bumps and bruises." NFL commissioner Roger Goodell suspended New York Jets safety Eric Smith for one game and fined him $50,000 for the vicious, helmet-to-hel­met hit on Boldin in the end zone during the waning sec­onds of the Jets' 56-35 victory over the Cardinals at the Meadowlands on Sunday. "You never know some­body's intentions," Boldin said, "but I didn't think it was intentional." Arizona coach Ken Whisenhunt said it wasn't for him to say whether the pun­ishment was warranted. "I think the commissioner certainly has made it very clear that player safety is an important issue," Whisenhunt said, "and I think he 
addressed that." 
Boldin said he was consult­ing with doctors on whether to have the sinus repaired or let it heal on its own. He expected a decision "in the next couple of days." 
According to the Web site, eMedicine, a high-impact sports injury is the second­most often cause of a sinus fracture. The most common cause is an automobile acci­dent. 
Whisenhunt said that until he hears from doctors, he is not ruling out Boldin's partici­pation in Sunday's home game against Buffalo, although it seems highly improbable that he would play. 
The two-time Pro Bowl receiver scoffed at any sug­gestion that this would change his bruising, aggressive style. 
"As soon as I get back on the field, it's the same old me," he said. "I don't plan on altering the way that I play, because if I did, I wouldn't be Anquan." 
Boldin, his face swollen and his lip cut, said he remembers everything about the play and its aftermath, although he said he may have lost con­sciousness for an instant. 
He crossed the middle of the end zone and went high for Kurt Warner's throw. Boldin was hit in the back by the Jets' Kerry Hhodos, then from the front by Smith, snapping the receiver's head violently backward. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 2, 2008 
NFL 
Belichick denies Davis' tampering allegations 
Associated Press 
FOXBOBOUGII, Mass. ­Patriots coach Bill lklichick dnnind Wn{lnesday the daim by Haidnrs owner i\1 Davis that Nnw England had a workout with Handy Moss befort~ obtaining him in a trade with Oakland. 
Davis said Tuesday that the Patriots had tam-
ever talked to Handy was the 
Sunday morning of the  sec­ 
lind  day  of the  dral'l  last  
year.  

"So that's the first time I met him. That's tiHl first time I talked to him. There was no workout. There was ni1 other contact with him." 
Davis made the tampering 
accusation after ending a news con­fercnee in 

rwrnd with which he
"Yfm know how many teams

M o s s announced htd"orn the turned him down? That guy the firing of dnal in ·coach Lane
in Green /Jay thought he 

i\pr iJ 2007 Kiffin.
couldn't run any more. Even

t h a t A s k e d brought /Jenoer, where they'll take Wednesday 
t.hn wide anybody, turned him down." if he had a 
rneeivnr to response to t h p Davis, Moss 
AI Davis

Patriots said, "No, for a Raiders owner not at all." fourth-Belichiek round sidestepped ehoiee that the q ues­year on the weekend of the tion when asked by New NFI. draft. England reporters, saying he 
"I've told thn story about was concontrating on Handy many, many times," Sunday's game at San Bnliehick said in a confer­Francisco. ence call with mombers of In an e-mail to The the media covering the Associated Press, NFL 4!Jers, "and the first time I spoknsman Greg Aiello said 
Wednesday, "No tampering charges have ever been filed with our office with respect to Handy Moss." 
Moss, disgruntled for most of his two seasons with the Haiders, set an NI~L single­season record with 23 touch­down receptions in his first season with Nnw England. 
Davis said other teams did­n't want Moss before the Patriots obtained him. 
"You know how many teams turned him d·own?" Davis said. "That guy in Green Bay thought ·he ..could­n't run any more: Even Denver, where they' II take anybody, turned him down." 
He did not identify the per­son in Green Bay. 
Davis said former Haiders senior personnel executive Michael Lombardi, who was· fired 10 days after the Moss trade, spoke to Belichick about Moss. 
"What's his name knew he could run, he's a friend of Belichiek's. Mike Lombardi," Davis said Tuesday. "Mike sold what's his name, Beliehiek, on the idea that he could run. They tampered with him. I remember 


(Patriots owner) Bob Kraft saying that he had to look him in the eye and all that. They went down and worked him out, he could run. lie's t.heir,team, of course, with the quarterback." 
Moss had 98 catches dur­ing the regular season last year, 22 in thn first three games. With Brady out for the season after hurting his knee in the opener, Moss has 12 catches in thren games. 

NHL PRESEASON 
Samuelsson powers Red Wings past.Thrashers 
Brisebois' power-play goal leads Montreal over Boston; Flyers sneak by Capitals in rematch oflast year's playoffseries 
Both of Samuelsson's goals for his second straight debut on a line with Chris at home.
Associated Press 
came within 20 seconds of shutout 9:33 into the third Higgins and newcomer Alex 
1\TL/\NT/\ Mikael Atlanta being called for a period when Bruins captain Tanguay. Flyers 2, Capitals 1 Samuelsson scored two penalty. Zdeno Chara, making his Bruins fight wing Michael Joffrey Lupul had a goal powe...play goals and had an "It is always good to get first presea-Hyder was a and an assist and the assist to lead the Detroit Red time on the power play," son appear-frequent tar­Philadelphia Flyers handed Wings to a 4-1 preseason Samuelsson said. "I was for­ance, scored get of boos -the Washington Capitals victory over tunate to get on the power "It felt good. I'm along with their first preseason defeat, the Atlanta the puck to play. Chara-as he on Wednesday night.
getting used to the

Thrashnrs on go in twice." Brisebois made his first Glen Metropolit scored for WP.dnesday "It will take time to get Christensen drew an pace again. appearance at the Flyers (4-2-0), who lost night. used to wearing a missed the assist after the Bell to Pittsburgh in five games llenrik first three Kovalev used Centre since in the Eastern Conference
shield, but I will 

Zetterberg, preseason Chara as a leaving the finals last season.
eventually." Erik Christensen 

who I fld the games with screen and Canadiens in Nicklas Backstrom scored 
Thrashers center

Hed Wings (3-t h e drove a slap the offse·ason. for the Capitals (4-1-0), who 1-2) with 43 Nicklas Lldstrom Thrashers shot past A two-time are still enjoying their best goals last after hurting Fernandez 30-goal scorer preseason since 1999 when
Red Wings captain 

season, had a a shoulder. during a two-with Montreal, they went 5-2-0. goal and two "It felt man advantage 26 seconds Ryder signed a three-year, Washington, which has assists !'or the good," he into the second. $1·2-million free agent con­never finished a preseason defending StanlflY Cup said. "I'm getting used to With Boston's Jeremy tract with Boston on July 1. unbeaten, has two games ehampions. Johan Franzen the pace again." Heich still in the penalty box remaiqing, both at home, added an empty-net goal serving minors for hooking Devils 3, Islanders 0 against the Flyers and with 1:10 remaining. Canadiens 3, Bruins 1 and holding late in the open­Martin Brodeur stopped 16 Boston Bruins. 
Erik Christensen scored Patrice Brisebois had a ing period, the 37-year-old shots, and Zach Parise, Philadelphia's Martin for Atlanta (1-3-0), tying the goal and two assists as the Brisebois gave Montreal a 2• Patrik Elias and Anss.i Biron had 19 saves and game at I midway through Montreal Canadiens scored 0 lead 42 seconds later Salmela each scored in the thwarted the Capitals on thfl first period. three power-play goals in when he scored off a New Jersey Devils' victory eight power plays. Samuelsson's second goal, the second period of a pre­rebound to the left of the over the New York Islanders Washington's Brent 
8:10 into the second period, season victo-goal at 1:08 on Wednesday night in a Johnson, who figures to gave the Red Wings the lead ry over the a f t e r preseason game. back up Jose Theodore this for good. Roston Fernandez Parise's goal was short­season, stopped 22 shots. 
Detroit's Chris Osgood Bruins on stopped handed and came at 14:24 Metropolit, who played for made 25 saves, while Kari Wednesday "It is always good to get Yannick of the first period, after Boston last season, scored Lehtonen stopped 29. night. time on the power play. I Weber's shot Islanders goalie Joey from the slot after taking a 
Nicklas Lidstrom played Brisebois from the MacDonald fell while chas­pass from Lupol to put the
was fortunate to get the

wearing a face shield after got his first point. ing the puck behind his net. Flyers ahead at 6:49 of the being struck by a puek last goal in two puck to go in twice." A veteran The puck came out to second period. week and had two assists for games and of 17 NHL Parise, who quickly banged Lupul made it 2-0 when he the Red Wings. The six-time assisted on seasons, it in. f'ljpped in a shot from the
Mikael Samuelsson 

Norris Trophy winnflr broke goals by including 15 Elias scored at 5:21 of the right eircle on a power play
Red Wings right wing 

his nose and needed stitehes /\lex Kovalev with the second period on a slap shot at 2:19 of the third period. over his right eye. a n d Canadiens, -from the top of the left cir­Backstrom scored an unas­
"It will takfl time to get Guillaume Brisebois got cle. Salmela scored from the sisted goal at 14:1 CJ of the used to wearing a shield, Latendresse his third slot with 5:57 left. third. but I will eventually," as the Carradiens scored power-play point with an The Devils improved to 3-Philadelphia forward Steve l.idstrorn said. "I haven't three times with the man assist on Latendresse's goal 2-0 in the preseason. Downie was injured in a worn one sinee I was a rook­advantage on Boston goalie at11:25. MacDonald made 19 saves fight with Jay Beagle of the in. I plan to keep it on all Manny Fernandez. Montreal captain Saku !'or the Islanders (2-2-0) in Capitals late in the second season." Jaroslav llalak lost a bid Koivu made his preseason their only preseason game period and did not return. 
Thursday, October 2, 2008 • The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 



Welcome to 21st century student apartments. 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 

Brand new, contemporary, furnished apartments · now leasing for Fall 2009. 
• 
Two bedrooms 

• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 


• Furnished · • Includes 42" flat panel HDTV 
• 
Laundry room with washer &dryer 

• 
FREE Internet &200+ TV stations 

• 
Walk to campus 



·IIIrish 

luxury apartments 
ROW 
.. 

NOW LEASING FOR FALL 2009 
page 20 
NFL 
T.O. in middle of Boys' controversy 
P---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer+ SPORTS 
. Thursday, October 2, 2008 

Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, Student Affairs, 631-7819 Ann Firth, Student Affairs, 631-2685 Sr.jean Lenz, OSF, StudentAtlairs, 631-7407 Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 631-7163 John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 631-7163 Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, CounselingCtr., 631-4365 Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 631-8286 
. · V\lomen's Care Center: 234-0363 .. Catholic Charities: 234-3111 
Associated Press 
liNING, Texas -Folks in San Frandseo and Philadelphia must be loving this: Even though the Dallas Cowboys tried getting the ball to Terrell Owens on one­third of tlw plays last Sunday, he still wasn't satisfied. 
Is this thn be~,'inning of the end of his blissful relationship with Tony Homo'? Are the Cowboys about to be divided, quarterback supporters on this side, reeeiver supporters on the other'? 
Or was T.O. just blowing ofT steam after a loss to the Washington Hedskins'? 
Back at team headquarters Wednesday, Owens and ltomo insisted a lot is being made of nothing. 
"I know in my heart, this team, we'rn still together," Owens said. "Dude, I promise you, W11'rn fine in this lo1:ker room." 
Owens is well aware that any slightly provocative comnHmt he makes will beeonw big news. So lw should've expeetml a back­lash for saying he didn't get the hall 1mough after catching seven passns, taking two handofl'i and having 11 morn balls thrown his way in a 26-24 loss to the Washington ltndskins. All told, 
T.O. was the focus on 20 of 5S plays. 
"Dude. it was frustration," he said. "Dude, we lost. It was a game we should have won." 
lie also blanwd tlw media for "making their stake at a claim to divide this tnarn -and it's not going to happen." 
"It's funny how the wnek bPfi1re you guys praised mn for giving extra efli1rt," Owens said, refi~rring to positive coverage he rm:nived fi1r making a taekle on an intercnption and a downfield bloek on a touchdown run dur­ing a victory at Grnen Bay, a game in which he caught only two pass11S. 
"Then I come out this week and say I nend to be morn involvnd and I'm vilified .... I fnel like everything is being nit­pieked." 
ltomo gavn his usual lines about Owens wanting the ball as mueh as anyone else but because T.O. is T.O. his requests get more attention, and that he likes teammates who want to be involved. 
"It's easy to work with a guy who goes hard and comes here and wants to win," Homo said. "The rest of the stuff? It's stuff. You're going to go through ups and downs. The season is not going to be without bumps in roads. bumps and bruises along the way. We're going to have good moments and bad moments. If you can't keep an even keel. that's when you get in trouble. But this team is fine. There's enough leadership and people on this team that we're going to be line." 
Owens said he didn't need to talk to Homo or offensive eoordi­nator Jason Garrett to straighten things out. And if he did talk to them. "you guys won't know about it." 
"We've just got to right the ship. That's all," Owens said. "I just think we nned to play better as an ollimsP." 
Ownns' problem with what happennd Sunday was quality more than quantity. 
"Put on the sereen all 18 pass­es that were thrown my way and you make the assessment of' all those passes," Owens said. "We just didn't execute. For whatever the case may be, we just didn't play well." 
Part of the problem appeared to bn how mueh Homo was try­ing to get Owens involved. For instance, running back Marion Barber got only eight carries. Just three were in the second half-and two of those came on the opening drive. 
Homo denied he was trying to appease his star receiver. 
"I don't think you consciously think about anything other than trying to win football games," Romo said. "lie does the same thing. lie believes that getting the ball helps us win.... The rea­son you try and throw him the ball a lot is because he's good. lie gets open. If he wasn't as 


g~10d you W<~~ldn't him as muc.h. 
throw it to 
MASS 
IN THE AFRICAN AMERICAN TRADITION 
<A.K.A. REJOICE! MASS) 

SUNDAY. OCTOBER 5TH 
9:00P.M. COLEMAN-MORSE CENTER CHAPEl OF OUR LADY 
<CIIOII'l ('JV.CrJCf BRiiNS A.T 8:l51'M IN Tilt Cl lA.PH.. ALL ARf WFI.COMFl) 
PIZZA AND FEllOWSHIP TO FOLLOW! 
C-M 
C1mpus Ministr)' 
I'<>R INI-<>IlMAliON. CUNTACl JIIDY MADD~N AT <>31·8508 Oil JMADDfN2@ND.F.DU 

Thursday, October 2, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
WPS 
continued from page 24 
kids are as good as any players in the country," Waldrum said. "So we'll certainly push for them to the teams." 
The Irish seniors have played on U.S. junior teams but said that having a chance to join the professional league is a rare opportunity. 
"Our dream was always to play for the [senior] national team. For our generation, those were the pro players," Hanks said. "We looked up to players like Mia Hamm and Kristine Lilley and [Julie] Foudy and all those players and this is a great opportunity for us to make a name for ourselves." 
Waldrum said the opportunity the Irish players have would not have been feasible just sev­nral decades ago. 
"When I first got into coach­ing women ... was in 1989 and I would have never imagined it then," the coach said. "I never dreamt it would turn into the scale it has even on the college scene. I don't think anyone envisioned any kind of women's pro league." 
While the players said they 
are happy to simply have a 
chance to continue playing, 
several of them would have 
preferred destinations. Bock 
and Weber, who both hail from 
the Chicagoland area, said they 
would jump at the chance to 
play for the Chicago Red Stars. 
''I'd obviously love to stay 
close to Chicago just to be close 
to home," Bock said. "It would 
be great to be close to family 
and friends· and even this 
University because of my 
friends." 
And Dew, who grew up in 
Encinitas, Calif., said she would 
like to play for either the Los 
Angeles or Bay Area squad. 
Hanks did not get as lucky as 
her three teammates. The ·Dallas native was dismayed when she found out that the team from her home city will 
not join the league until 2010. 
Still, Hanks said she cannot 
wait for a possible chance at an 
extended soccer career. 
"It was definitely disappoint­
ing that Dallas said they didn't 
have enough money for a stadi­
um so they should come back 
next year," Hanks said. "But, I 
mean, all of us have dreamed 
of going pro so wherever I get 
picked -if I get picked -I'll 
go wherever." 
As Hanks uttered the phrase 
"if I get picked," Dew and Weber chuckled at her. Their laughter seemed to say, "There's no doubt you will get picked." 
And that's how Waldrum feels about all four of the seniors. 
"Not only the experience they gained here at Notre Dame with playing in national cham­pionships and Final Fours and the level of competition we play," the coach said. "But also I think that all of those kids ... with all their national team experience, that when the draft comes around they're gonna have to give our [players] a real hard look." 
Weber said that even though the undefeated Irish still plan on making a national champi­onship run this season, .the prospect of playing profession­ally is too enticing to ignore at this point. 
"We all kind of don't know what were gonna be up to next year so I think its always kind of in the back of your mind," she said. "Right now we're obviously focusing on our sea­son but it's kind of hard not to think about it every once in a while." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


Interhall 
continued from page 24 
After a demoralizing 26-0 loss to Farley to open the sea­son, Walsh has responded with two convincing wins against Pangborn and Lewis. In their two triumphs, the Wild Women have won by more than two touchdowns. 
Walsh captain and line­backer Cindy Brenner has attributed the turnaround to the maturation of the young team. 
"We are a very young team with less than four returning starters," she said. "But our team has done very well adapting and improving from one game to the next. Some of tlw younger gir Is have stepped up and made big plays." 
Brenner added that the ddense has done a tremen­dous job. 
"Last game was our head coach's 22nd birthday and he asked the defense for an interception," she said. "We gave him three." 
The emergence of junior wide receiver Kim Bugos has also been a key factor in the growth of the passing offense. 
"In the 14-0 win against Lewis, Bugos made some great catches to lead the offense to those two touch­downs," Brenner said. 
The story of the season for the Whirlwinds has been the defense, led by senior line­bachr Erin Fitzpatrick. The Whirlwinds have yet to allow a single point on defense and are trying to extend their shutout streak. 
"In our last game, our defense played great as usual and ended up with four inter­ceptions," senior .captain .lenni Gargula said. 
Not to be outdone, the oiTensc for Welsh Family has bf)en equally impressive. 
"Our offense has had no trouble moving the ball on dofenses and scoring," Gargula said. 
Senior wide receiver Katherine llart has combined with quarterback Gargula to form a formidable tandem. Gargula has found Hart in the end zone four times this year, twice in each game. They will try to continue that streak against the Wild Women. 
Breen-Phlllips vs. Pangborn 
Not many teams can head into the third week of a sea­son winless and undefeated, but Breen-Phillips is doing just that. 
The Babes (0-0-2) hope to change from their tying ways tonight when they play Pangborn (1-2). On the sea­son, Breen-Phillips has only managed six points, on a sixty-yard touchdown pass against Badin two weeks ago in a game that ended 6-6. Last weekend, the Babes tied Farley 0-0. 
In order to preserve the tie, Breen-Phillips' defense stopped Farley on two plays at the one-yard line with less than thirty seconds left. This goal line stand and the defense as a whole have defined the season thus far for the Babes. 
"We're proud of how our defense held up," senior team captain Melissa Meagher said. "But lwe are] still disappoint­ed that we didn't win.... Our offense needs to execute in key situations." 
In order for the Babes offense to produce as Meagher wishes, they will have to outdo an opportunistic Pangborn defense. Last week against Badin, the Phoxes defense had three intercep­tions in the first half. Those takeaways led the way to Pangborn's first and only vic­tory this year. That victory could generate some new energy. 
"We have heard that Breen­Phillips is a tough team," sophomore captain Kathy Poploski said. "We just need to keep up the intensity from Sunday." 
Tonight at the Riehle Fields at 7 p.m., Breen-Phillips looks to remain undefeated and hope to notch its first win, 
against  a  Pangborn  team  
looking to  even  up its own  
record.  

Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu, Matt Wilsey at mwilsey@nd.edu and Ryan O'Connell at roconne3@nd.edu 
CYCLING 

Arinstrong accused of doping 
Associated Press 
PARIS -It's just like old times for Lance Armstrong. 
Hours after the French anti­doping authority challenged the seven-time Tour de France champion to agree to retest his 1999 urine samples to see whether a French newspaper was right when it reported they contained a banned substance, Armstrong rejected the notion, lashing out at the agency's leader, Pierre Bordry. 
"Unfortunately, Mr. Bordry is new to these issues and his proposal is based on a funda­mental failure to understand the facts. In 2005, some research was conducted on urine samples left over from the 1998 and 1999 Tours de France," Armstrong said in a statement Wednesday night. "That research was the subject of an independent investiga­tion, and the conclusions of the investigation were that the 1998 and 1999 Tour de France samples have not been main­tained properly, have been compromised in many ways, and even three years ago could not be tested to provide any meaningful results. 
"There is simply nothing that I can agree to that would pro­vide any relevant evidence about 1999." 
Even so, the proposal renewed debate about one of the most contested questions surrounding Armstrong: whether he was dean when he won. He has always insisted that he was, and his new trmm, Astana, is hiring a drug-testing expert, who will post Armstrong's drug testing results on the internet, to try to silence doubters. 
In a statement, the agency proposed the rider "prove his good faith" by agreeing to retesting of his samples from the 1999 Tour, the first in Armstrong's record string of seven wins. 
The samples are frozen in a drug testing laboratory in the suburbs of Paris. They've been a source of controversy since L'Equipe reported in 2005 that a new round of tests on the "B" samples found EPO, a blood­boosting hormone that enhances endurance. 


The agency said it was acting in the interests "of objectivity and of justice and to allow the cyclist Lance Armstrong to cut short the rumors concerning him, if they are unfounded." 
In drug testing, urine is divided into "A" and "B" sam­ples, and both must show traces of a banned substance for the test to be declared posi­tive. 
But only remains from six "B" samples have been kept from Armstrong's 1999 Tour, the French agency said. So even if the "B" samples came back positive in new testing, there are no "A" samples left against which to compare results. 
Armstrong said then he was the victim of a "witch hunt." A Dutch lawyer appointed by cycling's governing body later cleared Armstrong. But Dick Pound, who then led the World Anti-Doping Agency, said the lawyer's findings were full of holes. And in his statement, Armstrong said that independ­ent investigation recommended the issues be taken before an independent tribunal. 
"Two years ago I agreed to have all of these issues aired and decided by that tribunal, but WADA and the French Ministry refused," Armstrong said. "If Mr. Bordry woulc;l now like to re-examine the past, he must start with presenting the issues of the misconduct of the French laboratory, the French Ministry, and WADA before a proper tribunal." 
Bordry told L'Equipe he wanted to act as "a referee" between the newspaper and Armstrong. But Bordry seemed to already have an opinion, speaking to the newspaper of samples "which contain ery­thropoietin (EPO)." 
"I want this comeback to take place in the best circum­stances," L'Equipe quoted him as saying in its Wednesday edi­tion. "This way, he will perhaps have the chance to affirm that he never cheated during his brilliant career." 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 2, 2008 
Michigan 
corftinued from page 24 
sat down from celebrating hnfore the lead was gone. Lnss than a minutn after Dike's goal, Wolverines forward .Jake Stacy sneakf~d to the back and headed a Perica Marosevic cross home. 
"We absolutely had control of the game at that point, yet we let up two goals on three shots," Clark said. "It ean be a funny gamn at times. Although we had the majority of the play, they have guys that ean counter very well." 
After taking their one-goal lead into halftime, Miehigan returned to the field even more content to remain in its own half of the field and play for the occasional counter-
Polls 
continued from page 24 
back." 
Michigan State, Miami (Ohio) and Northern Michigan round­ed out the top five, albeit in a diiTerent order in each poll. 
This year marked the first time the Irish 
were picked No. ior defenseman,
"Being ranked that
1 in either also earned all­CCHA presea­high, there's always a conference first­son poll, but target on your chest. team honors for captain Erik the seeond con­
Teams aren't going to 
Condra said he secutive year. 
take you lightly." 
knows the team "Kyle Lawson has a long way is a guy that to go to make plays passionate­
Erik Condra 
good on their ly," Jackson said.
Irish captain 
ranking. 
"The CCIIA is so tight, you never know who's going to eome out and be the lead dog in the race," Condra said. "Some teams are picked first in the league in the begin­ning and they end up in the bottom six." 
Last year, Notre Dame was ranked third in both preseason· polls. The Irish finished fourth, but mainly beeause of a red-hot start, as the team struggled during the middle part of the season. 
"Being ranked that high, there's always a target on your chest," Condra said. "Teams aren't going to take you lightly and we saw that in the middle of last year." 
.Jackson named Condra team eaptain Monday, along with alternates Christian Hanson, Hyan Thang and Kyle Lawson. A senior right wing from Livonia, Mich., Condra attack. That strategy paid off in a game-clinching third goal in the 69th minute. Marosevic was the goal-scorer this time as he received a Fuzetti pass and fired past Tuttle. 
Although the Irish pressed for the rest of the game and generated five corner kicks, they were unable to mount a eomeback. 
"They were content to sit on their lead and eounter, so it was difficult to ereate ehanees," Clark said of the seeond half. "We ereated a lot of half-ehances. I felt in a funny way it was easier for them as they could sit back and counter." 
Notre Dame returns home to take on No. 24 Georgetown this Sunday at Alumni Field. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
off the ice. 
"It's easy learning from those guys who were just such great captains before." 
Condra was also named to the 2008 All-CGIA first team, though he'd like to get on the ice to earn his aecolades. 
"Those are just preseason," he said with a laugh. "I haven't played hockey in six months." 
Lawson, a jun­
"He's a passion­
ate kid that cares about people, cares about this program, and wears his heart on his sleeve." 
Condra admired his Lawson's ability to stand up for his team­mates when things get rough. 
"lie's intense," Condra said. "lie's willing to start some con­flict up if things are going awry. He's right there to step in." 
Hanson, a senior center, came on at the end of last sea­son for the Irish, a trend Jackson hopes Hanson contin­ues in the new campaign. Condra said Hanson's affability is a good quality to have in an alternate captain. 
"He's buddies with every­body," Condra said. "He knows everybody. He's a guy that can be friendly with everyone and talk to everybody and works hard on the ice." 
Thang, a junior right wing, is 
one of Notre 
Dame's big scor­
led the Irish  "Erik is very well­ ing threats after  
in scoring in each of his three years  respected, and he's very well-liked. That's a very  leading the team with 18 goals last year.  
with the team.  good combination for a  "Hyan Thang  
Last year, lw tallied :~8 points despite  captain, especially when he's your top  is a good guy to follow in terms of his approach  
missing  the  player."  to  detail,"  
last six games  Jackson  said.  
of thn s1mson with a knne  Jeff Jackson  "And in terms of his training, his  
injury.  Irish coach  conditioning,  

"Erik is vnry wnll-resped­ed, and he's very well-liked," Jackson said. "That's a very good combintition for a captain, ospm:ially whnn he's your top player." 
Condra was just honored to follow in the tradition of great Notre Damn captains. 
"The Notre Dame hockey program's como through a lot," Condra said. "And I've had two groat captains hnforo mn, with 
T.J. Jindra, who sort of sd the prneednnt for wlwrn we are today. and Mark Van Guildnr. who's just a gn~at guy on and 
and his work 
ethic." 
Condra echoed his coach in praising the hard-working Thang. 
"Thang's just a workhorse," Condra said "lie's a guy that pushes everybody to go harder and move on to the next level. lin .i ust shows thn younger guys how hard you have to work." 
The Irish drop the pllck for Uw lirst time on Oct. 11 against tho University of Denver in the II all of' Gamn in Denver. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Dublin, Ireland University College Dublin Trinity College 
Fall 2009, Spring 201 0, A Y 2009-2010 

Thursday, October 2, 2008 5:30PM 131 DeBartolo Hall 

INFORMATION and ORIENTATION MEETING with Kevin Whelan, Director Keough-Naughton ND Center, Dublin and Andrew Hoyt, Campus Minister 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 Applications Available Online: www.nd.edu/-ois 


The Centerfor Ethics and Religious Values in Business and The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 
Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the .John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Speaking ofSucc.ess; A Basic Black 
Guide to the Circle ofLife." 
Cathie Black President of Hearst Magazines and author of Basic Black: The Essential Guidefor Getting Ahead at Work (and in Life) 
Thursday, October 2, 2008 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

e Observer. 
Thursday, October 2, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 

THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 

JEFF KNUREK 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
JJIJJMIDI1JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square. 
to form four ordinary words. 
BYNAD 

I [J b
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LITEE 

± 
EMFLEA 

rJ 
1 
IT DOESN'T EXIST 
www.jumble.com 
AT THE EQUATOR. 

CAUTAL ~ 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
rx I I 
Print answer here: 
(IIIIIIIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: MANLY LEGAL ELIXIR ICEBOX Answer: When the manager let off steam, he was ­"BOILING" 
CROSSWORD 
Across 40 Give the giggles 68 Birds whose Private stash 
heads can rotate
42 Gallery showing 
135° left or right6 Eighty-six works by Turner, 69 "Got it" 10 Very smart Reynolds and 70 Full of lip 14 Earthy pigment Constable 

15 Double-reed 43 Calendario units woodwind 
Down 
44 Deb ..ussy's "La 
How much to pay 16 Ruffian 

17 Police ploys 
45 Lead down the 
2 Play parts 20 Old Russian aisle 3 Quickly growing ruler 46 "Call when you "pet" 21 Lid trouble get the chance" 

4 Painter Matisse 22 Omar of TV's 50 Flutter 
5 Wee bit of work 'House" 51 Pocket particles 6 Best-seller list 23 of Man 52 Sandbox item 7 Toe the line 

25 Farm milk producers 54 Univ. lecturer 8 What a welcome sight relieves 
27 Type 56 Way to go 30 End-of-day 
9 Neptune's realm 

58 Duchess of _,spousal Goya subject 10 Lofted 
salutation approaches to
62 Bogart/Hepburn

35 Clear, as a the greenfilmwinter 11 Earring shape 
windshield 65 Work in the garden 12 Charged 
37 Crossed out particles
66 Use of a come company car or 13 They may be private burned and 
38 Sign of things to 
39 When said three 
washroom, say 
boxed

times, a W. W. II movie 67 Took a shot at 18 1993 Israeli/ Palestinian ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
accords site 19 Swarm 
24 "_ Drives Me Crazy," #1 hit by the Fine Young Cannibals 
26 Like some smiles and loads 
27 Holder of a dog's name and owner info 
28 Tea of "Spanglish" 29 Russian bal"let company 31 Outlying community 
THE OBSERVER 


WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Tom Heilman  
32 D-Day beach 33 Apportioned 34 First month in Madrid 36 Social workers' work 40 "You got that right!" 41 Pastries in  45 Action film firearm 47 Tick off 48 Mental grasp 49 Newswoman Paula 53 First lady after Hillary 54 "What a relief!" 55 Rod's partner  59 Island garlands 60 Theme of this puzzle 61 Pop artist Warhol 62 First and last digit in a Manhattan area code 63 Sch. in Troy, N.Y.  
"Sweeney Todd"  57 Decent plot  64 Parts of gals.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Jay Underwood, <W; Esai Morales, 46; Randy Quaid, 58; Julie Andrews, 73 Happy Birthday: Your determination will grab the attention of those watching your progress this year. Don't stop short of your goals. There will be unexpected changes in your personal life that will be for the best. It should be a great ride into the future if you focus and are forward-thinking. Your numbers are 3, 8, 13, 16 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You won't be able to make a move or change any­thing without communication. Use your intuition to help you make the right choices. Someone has a greater interest in you than you realize. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get out and enjoy the company of someone you admire. The interaction you have with good friends will result in a closer relation­ship and possibly a love connection. Someone who likes your style will have an offer you must consider. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Turn on your Gemini charm and dazzle everyone with your ideas and plans for the future. Don't let someone negative ruin your mood. Be mventive and aggressive when it comes to career moves and network as much as possible. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Socialize and you will meet new people. Someone you already know may become jealous if you show interest in someone you just met. Just be honest about your intentions and your friendships. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get out with friends who understand your predicament. Talk about what's bothering you in order to ftnd a solution. A love 1ssue may cause stress and anxiety if you let 1t fester. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can share a memorable time with someone dear to you if you make the effort to visit, regardless of the distance. Whether it's a jaunt to unfamiliar territory or a trip back in time, you will benefit. This is an ideal time for love and adventure. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may feel like arguing in order to get your way but, in the end, you will lose out. Don't let an old lover make a mess of your current life. There is more to a relationship than chemistry. Be smart this time around. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone is withholding information. Be careful not to give away secrets. If you want to stay on top, observe and be mysterious while incorporating new methods, concepts and ideas into your plans. Don't slow down when you need to speed up. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take a serious look at your lifestyle and con­sider what you can do to safeguard against bad habits, illness and instability with friendships. If you don't nurture what you've got, you may lose out emotionally, fi­nancially or personally. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Falling for someone you work with may be dicey but it can work if handled the right way. Don't sneak around. You are likely to upset some people, but if you are honest, everything will work to your benefit. A creative move will ensure success. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let friendships or people you look up to cost yon financially. Collect money that is owed and fmalize settlements that will help you move forward and pursue new goals. Nothing is out of reach. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Ifyou make a promise, follow through. By sticking to your work, you will build a following that can help yon achieve your goals. Don't waffle --shoot straight and you will be treated with respect. 5 tars 
Birthday Baby: You are intense, determined and do well with family, friends and peers. You are a creative speaker who is aggressive but diplomatic. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor ftm, euge~~ia/asl.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Thursday, October 2, 2008 
page 24 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Quartet of seniors hopes to get picked for new pro league 
The league will originally lot of roster spots left." combine last week and hope to these girls are role models for By FRAN TOLAN 
consist of seven teams, which Still, Women's Professional be chosen in the general draft the little girls that come to our Associate Sports EJitor 
Irish coach Handy Waldrum Soccer -WPS, for short -next Monday. games. those older girls are said will force the nation's elite should have a strong Notre Waldrum said the heavy Irish role models for them." 
Seniors Brittany Bock. Carrie players to compete for the lim­Dame contingent. Three former presence in the WPS helps the Bock, Dew. Hanks and Weber Dew. Kerri Hanks and Elise itnd roster spots. Irish players Melissa current players evaluate their will not be draft-eligible until Webnr might want to think "It's gonna be really small Tancredi, Kate Markgraf and own chances of making the they finish their NCAA careers about eaneeling their post­with the few reserve players Shannon Boxx -have already league. but all have strong enough graduate job hunts. they have -you know, just 4 or joined teams as the nation's top "It's easy sometimes to take resumes to garner considera­
The newly-formed Women's 5 reserves on each team -ros­players were allocated to the [Notre DameI for granted if this tion from the professional Professional Socc·er league ter, spots are gonna be at a pre­seven squads. And they will is what you're used to but when teams. opens play in April and those mli:lm," he said. "Each team surely be joined by at least a you see those [players] ... mak­"I think the window [with ros­four Irish players are prime also gets roster space for five few other Domers. ing this a career it certainly ter spots] is gonna be a tough candidates to be drafted at the foreign players and when you Jen Buczkowski and Amanda gives these Icurrent] players one but certainly those four eonclusion of their college start adding the foreign players Cinalli, both Notre Dame grad­hope and inspiration to seize careers. to the mix, there's not a whole uates, worked out at the WPS the opportunity," he said. "Like see WPS/page 21 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Thrown to the Wolverines 
Irish fall for second straight game, 3-1 on the road to Michigan 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame had another 
first Wednesday night against 
Michigan, but this was one 
that Irish coach Bobby Clark 
may opt not to remember. 
With its 3-1 loss to Michigan in Ypsilanti, Mich .. Notre Damn has lost haek-to-back regular season games for the first time undor the Scotsman's eight-year tenure as lwad coach. 
The loss drops No. H Notre Damn's record to 6-3-1 overall Oil tJw SIHlSOn. It Will likely be accompanied by a fall in the rankings. but that's of little importance to Clark, who sees benefit in tlw difl1cult competi­tion the Irish have played to datil. 
"We've played arguably the lol}ghost srheduln in the eoun­try, and we're going to lose games like it or lump it," Clark said. "My approach is always to get as hard a schedule as possible, and hopefully it pre­pares us for down the road. 
"If we're fortunate enough to make the INCAAI Tournament in November, we'll be battle­hardened and ready for any­thing the Tournament throws at us," he said. 
Wednesday night was a good preview of the type of game the Irish might see come November. Although the visi­tors possessed the ball for the majority of the game, Notre Dame ran into a stingy Michigan defense that sat back and looked to counter. 
The Wolverines made the initial breakthrough in the len th minute on their first shot of the game. Finding space twenty-five yards from the goal, Michigan junior forward Mauro Fuzetti ripped a low shot past Notre Dame goal­keeper Phillip Tuttle, who was given his lirst start of the sea­son by Clark. 
The Irish responded 13 min­utes later when sophomore forward Jeb Brovsky threaded a ball behind the Michigan defense into the path of fellow forward Bright Dike. The sen­ior made no mistake as he fired it home from five yards out. With the goal. Dike has a team-leading severi tallies, and he's found the back of the net 


in four straight games. The Irish bench had hardly 
see MICHIGAN/page 22 
HOCKEY 

leers picked to finish near top of conference 
Coach Jackson narnes Condra team captain 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 

Arter edging out Michigan in last year's national semifinals. Notn• Dame finds itself knottod with thn rival Wolverinos atop the CCIIA prPseason polls. wh ieh wero ann o u nc1HI at Tunsday's CCIIA Media Day in c;rand Hapids, Mich. 
The Irish took the lop spot in the coach's poll, with 12H points and eight first-plaee votns. Michigan ranked a close second. with 122 points and throe first-place votes. 
It was a different story in the media poll. though, with the Wolverines topping the rank­ings with 945 points and 43 first-place votes. The Irish were No. 2. earning 915 points and 35 first-place votos. 
Either way, the Irish are cer­tainly one of the top dogs in the CCI lA. 
"It's always nice to get ranked high, but it do~~sn't have a whole lot of meaning at this point," Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson said. "It just speaks for how we finished the season last year and the group of guys we've got coming 
see POLLS/page 22 
WoMEN's INTERHALL 

Badin and Lewis face off 
Walsh takes on Welsh Family; Breen-Phillips plays Pangborn 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI, 
MATT WILSEY and 
RYAN O'CONNELL 
Sports Writers 
With both teams coming ofT a loss. Badin will take on the Lewis tonight at 9 p.m. at Biehle Field. 
The Bullfrogs (0-2-1) lost to Pangborn 21-9 last week. while the Chicks (0-2) lost to Walsh 14-0. 
Despite being shut out, Lewis captain Katie Sushinksy was not entirely displeased with her team's performance. 
"Collectively, we showed great improvement on both 

sides of the ball," she said. 
Sushinksy said turnovers were a main factor in the loss. In practice. the team has focused on taking care of the ball in hopes of winning the turnover battle in future games. 
So far. the Chicks' strength has been their defensive line, which created an aggressive pass rush last game. 
On the other sideline, Badin struggled with moving the ball in their last game. 
"Pangborn was able to pick up on where our receivers were running," Bullfrogs cap­tain Katie Hose Hackney said. 
As a result. the Bullfrogs' focus in practice has been 
mainly to diversify their offense to eonfuse opponents. On defense, they are working on the fundamentals, such as pulling flags. Badin's strength thus far seems to be its ability to share the ball. 
"Our wide reeeivers have caught about an equal num­ber of passes." Hackney said. "That has reaLly bnen the core ol' our team." 
Walsh v. Welsh Family 
The resurgent Wild Wom1~n of Walsh will attempt to hand Welsh Family its first loss of the season tonight at 8 p.m. on tho Hiehl1~ Fields. 
see INTERHALL/page 21 


A FALL 2008 SPECIAL OBSERVER INSERT 
-

to post-graduate service 





Another Notre Dame Tradition 
Every year, over 10% of Notre Dame graduates give a year or more of their lives in service. Since 1983, the Center for Social Concerns has been facilitating these opportunities. 
Post-Graduate Service Opportunities 
Over seventy agencies with post-graduate opportunities are listed, with details about the the organization's goal, type of work, length of service commitment, and contact information. · 

The Post-Graduate Service Fair 
Meet with over seventy agencies listed in this guide, tonight, October 1, from 5-8 PM at the Joyce Center Concourse. Opportunities are available in numerous interest areas worldwide. 
~roRS~CIAL 
~CONCERNS 


Another Notre Dame Tradition 
POST-GRADUATE SERVICE 
Greetings! On b9half of the Center for Social Con­
cerns, I invite you to consider continuing your commit­
ment to service and justice through post-graduate service. 
Post-graduate service offers you an opportunity to enter 
into a relationship with a new community where you will 
continue to learn and share the gifts and talents you have 
nurtured at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross 
College. It would be a chance to challenge yourself to be 
transformed and, in return, transform the world. 
Annually, over two hundred graduating seniors 
from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross commit to 
a year or two of post-graduate service at over one hundred 
sites across the nation and world. They serve with a range 
of programs and agencies, from internationally recognized 
organizations like the Peace Corps and Jesuit Volunteer 
Corps, to national teaching programs like ACE and Teach 
for America, to local Americorps projects and Catholic 
Worker houses. They go on to become teachers, lawyers, 
doctors, community organizers, social workers, politicians, 
CEOs, mothers, fathers, and so much more. 
Consider joining this group of outstanding gradu­
ates. There are opportunities to serve among the young, 
the old, the sick, the hungry, the homeless, the impris­
oned, the lonely, the poor, and the oppressed; to learn 
about a new culture, language or perspective on life; to 
build relationships with new friends and communities; to 
change your world. 
As we seek to live in solidarity with our sisters and 
brothers, we remember Jesus called love the greatest of all 
commandments--to love the Lord God with all our hearts 
and to love our neighbor as ourselves (Mark 12:28-31). It is 
not easy, but it remains no less our challenge and call. It is 
the foundation on which we will build the justice we seek 
and the peace we long for. 
Be a part of the transformation we are called to, 
and be transformed. Give yourself away. One or more of 
the opportunities on these pages could quite possibly 
change you forever. 
You are in my prayers. God bless you well. 

Fr. Bill Lies, C.S.C. 
Executive Director 
ADMINISTRATION, MANAGEMENT, AND BUSINESS 
Catholic Network of Volunteer Service Mennonite Mission Workers 
AGRICULTURE, AGRONOMY, AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY 
Dominican Volunteers USA Mennonite Central Committee 
AIDS MINISTRY 
Mercy Volunteer Corps 
BUILDING TRADES AND CONSTRUCTION 
Salesian Lay Missioners St. Vincent Pallotti Center 
CHILD CARE AND DAY 
Dominican Volunteers USA St. Vincent Pallotti Center 
CLERICAL, SECRETARIAL, AND OFFICE WORK 
Catholic Network of Volunteer Service Little Brothers-Friends of the Elderly Missionary Cenacle Volunteers 
COMMUNICATIONS AND PUBLIC RELATIONS 
Little Brothers-Friends of the Elderly 
COMMUNITY ORGANIZING, OUTREACH, AND DEVELOPMENT 
Amate House Bon Secours Volunteer Ministry Program · Caps Corps Midwest Christian Appalachian Project Dominican Volunteers USA Jesuit Volunteer Corps Northwest St. Joseph Worker Program 
EDUCATION 
Boys Hope Girls Hope Dominican Volunteers USA St. Vincent Pallotti Center 
ELDERLY OUTREACH 
Amate. House Little Brothers-Friends of the Elderly Missionary Cenacle Volunteers St. Vincent Pallotti Center 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
Jesuit Volunteer Corps Northwest St. Vincent Pallotti Center 
EVANGELIZATION 
Missionary Cenacle Volunteers 
FUND RAISING, GRANT WRITING, AND DEVELOPMENT 
Catholic Network of Volunteer Service 
HEALTH CARE 
Amigos de Jesus Dominican Volunteers USA 
HISPANIC MINISTRY 
Inner-City Teaching Corps Little Brothers-Friends of the Elderly Missionary Cenacle Volunteers Salesian Lay Missioners 
HOSPITAL AND HOSPICE MINISTRY 
Bon Secours Volunteer Ministry Program Change a Heart: Franciscan Volunteer Program 

INDEX 
HOUSING ISSUES, SHELTER STAFF, AND GROUP HOMES 
ASimple House of Sts. Francis and Alphonsus Casa Juan Diego/Houston Catholic Worker Covenant House Faith Community Farm of the Child Franciscan Outreach Association Friends of the Orphans Maggie's Place Mercy Home for Boys and Girls Missionary Cenacle Volunteers Share Foundation with the Handicapped Su Casa Catholic Worker 
IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEE SERVICES 
Amate House Casa Juan Diego/Houston Catholic Worker Claretian Volunteers Search Your Heart -Brothers of the Sacred Heart Volunteer/Discernment Program 
LAWYER, LEGAL AIDE, AND PARALEGAL 
Amate House Maternal and Infant Care Maggie's Place 
MULTIPLE SERVICES 

Amate House AmeriCorps*VISTA Amigos de Jesus Bon Secours Volunteer Ministry Program Cap Corps Midwest Change a Heart: Franciscan Volunteer Program Christian Appalachian Project Claretian Volunteer Program Dominican Volunteers USA Farm of the Child Franciscan Volunteer Ministry FrancisCorps Gateway Vincentian Volunteers Good Shepherd Volunteers Humility of Mary Service Incarnate Word Missionaries Jesuit Volunteer Corps Jesuit Volunteer Corps Northwest Lasallian Volunteers Little Brothers-Friends of the Elderly Lutheran Volunteer Corps Marianist Volunteer Program Maryknoll Lay Missioners Mennonite Central Committee Mennonite Mission Network Mercy Volunteer Corps Missionary Cenacle Volunteers Norbertine Volunteer Community Passionist Volunteers International Providence Volunteer Ministry Peace Corps Providence Volunteer Ministry Redeemer Ministry Corps Rostra de Cristo Salesian Lay Missioners St. Joseph Worker Program St. Vincent Pallotti Center Vincentian Service Corps 
PARISH MINISTRY AND PASTORAL COUNSELING 
Missionary Cenacle Volunteers 
PEACE AND JUSTICE ADVOCACY 
Claretian Volunteer Program Dominican Volunteers USA Mennonite Mission Network 
PRISON MINISTRY 

Humility of Mary Service 
RECREATION, CAMP COUNSELING, AND COACHING 
Camp Gray Cristo Rey Network Missionary Cenacle Volunteers Saint Ignatius Loyola Academy Salesian Lay Missioners 
RELIGIOUS EDUCATION AND RETREAT WORK 
Congregation of the Holy Cross Vocation Office Echo Humility of Mary Service Missionary Cenacle Volunteers Notre Dame Campus Ministry Salesian Lay Missioners 
SOCIAL SERVICES AND POVERTY RELIEF 
Christian Brothers Volunteer Program Missionary Cenacle Volunteers 
SOCIAL WORK 
Amigos de Jesus Change a Heart: Franciscan Volunteer Program Little Brothers-Friends of the Elderly Salesian Lay Missioners St. Vincent Pallotti Center 
SOUP KITCHEN/ FOOD DISTRIBUTION Missionary Cenacle Volunteers 
TEACHER (ESL) 
Search Your Heart-Brothers of the Sacred Heart Volunteer/Discernment Program 
TEACHING 
Alliance for Catholic Education Cristo Rey Network Holy Cross Overseas Lay Ministry Program -Chile and East Africa Inner-City Teaching Corps LU CHOICE (Loyola University Chicago Opportunities in Catholic Education) Lutheran Education Alliance with Parochial Schools (LEAPs) Magis Catholic Teacher Corps Maryknoll China Service Project Missionary Cenacle Volunteers Operation Teach PACE-Pacific Alliance for Catholic Education PLACE Corps • Saint Ignatius Loyola Academy Search Your Heart-Brothers of the Sacred Heart 
VOLUNTEER/DISCERNMENT PROGRAM 
St. Martin de Porres Academy Teach For America The Haitian Project, Inc. The Neighborhood Academy Teacher's Aide Missionary Cenacle Volunteers 
TUTORING AND LITERACY PROGRAMS 
Dominican Volunteers USA 
YOUTH AND CAMPUS MINISTRY 
Amate House Amigos de Jesus Boys Hope Girls Hope Camp Gray Dominican Volunteers USA FOCUS Missionary Cenacle Volunteers NET Ministries Notre Dame Campus Ministry Salesian Lay Missioners St. Vincent Pallotti Center 

Post· raduate Senice Opportunities A-z 

ASIMPLE HOUSE OF STS. FRANCIS AND ALPHONSUS 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Our WOrk involves be­friending the poor and coming to know them on a personal level. We strive to meet their spiritual and material needs by delivering groceries, helping new and expectant moth­ers, conducting bible studies, and inviting them to church. We are staffed by volunteers and supported entirely by proclaiming the Gospel through acts of faith, love and charity. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: We accept applicatiOnS on a rolling basis. We have two community houses in the Shaw and Anacostia neighbor­hoods of Washington, DC as well as a new community house which will be opening in Kansas City, Missouri. We are looking for full time volunteers who are practicing Catholics who have a sincere desire to minister to the poor of Washington, DC through the spiritual and corporal works of mercy. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Ten monthS coNTACT: Ryan Hehman 
(202) 678-5898 asimplehouse@fastmail.us www.asimplehouse.org/ 

ALLIANCE FOR CATHOLIC EDUCATION (ACE) 
GOAL oF PROGRAM: ACE is a two-year service program offering college graduates the opportunity to serve as full-time teachers in under-resourced Catholic schools. Because we believe that good teachers need excellent formation, ACE prepares its teachers in an innovative Master of Education program at Notre Dame. ACE teachers represent a di­verse set of undergraduate disciplines, back­grounds, and experiences. While teaching, participants live in small communities of 4-7 members and share the challenges and re­wards of beginning teaching. ACE participants are encouraged to develop their own personal spirituality in the context of community and to share the journey of becoming committed Catholic school teachers. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Two-year teaching placements in under-resourced Catholic schools in 28 dioceses. ACE teachers serve in elementary, middle, and high school placements. LENGTH OF SERVICE: TWO years coNTACT: Sarah Greene 
(574) 631-3386 sgreene@nd.edu ace.nd.edu 

AMATE HOUSE 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Inspired by the SOCial mission of the Catholic Church, Amate House supports and develops women and men rooted in faith, dedicated to service, and committed to building a more just and loving society. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Health care, legal aid, primary & secondary education, social services, work with immigrants & refugees, after school programs, youth ministry, work­ing with the homeless, directing retreats and working with the elderly. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year CONTACT: Lisa Wolff 
(773) 376-2445 lwolff@amatehouse.org www.amatehouse.org 
AMERICORPS*VISTA 
GOAL oF PROGRAM: VISTA is a national service program dedicated to eliminating poverty by helping individuals and low-in­come neighborhoods make positive changes for themselves. Through VISTA, ordinary people provide extraordinary service in organizations and agencies to create and expand programs and to build perma­nent infrastructure that ultimately bring low-income individuals out of poverty. The Indiana VISTA program seeks the highest­caliber candidates for national service. Indiana offers competitive and high-quality professional level opportunities in national and local non-profits, faith based and other community agencies across the state. VISTA service is not ajob, but rather professional volunteer service that can help prepare you for a future in the public, non profit or governmental sectors. VISTA will enable you to practice citizenship at its highest level, by serving other Americans. The Indiana VISTA experience involves incredible professional experience, tremendous responsibility and great challenges. VISTA affords members a unique experience that will endure for a lifetime. Members develop new skills and enhance abilities they have already developed. VISTA members commit to a year of service and are assigned full time to organizations and agencies working to fight poverty at its root cause. By living and working in the community they serve, VISTA members leave behind lasting solutions to some of our country's toughest problems. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Fundraising, 
community outreach, volunteer mobiliza­tion, program development. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year CONTACT: Emily Kubiszewski 
(317) 684-4331 ekubiszewski@redcross-indy.org www.cns.gov 
AMIGOS DE JESUS 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Volunteers come together to form a community that models a Christ-like lifestyle founded on the four pillars of Spirituality, Community, Education and Health for the children of the Amigos de Jesus Orphanage. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Teaching, SOCial work, special education, nursing, agricul­ture, computer/IT, engineering/construction, youth ministry. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Fourteen monthS coNTACT: Kate Reiter 
(610) 644-8237 5eMoecommunit}@lmig)sdejesus.Oig www.amigosdejesus.org/ 
BON SECOURS VOLUNTEER MINISTRY PROGRAM 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Having experienced God's call to live Christian gospel values, we, the Bon Secours Volunteers, commit ourselves to support one another on our spiritual journey. Sharing the mission of the Sisters of Bon Secours, we extend the heal­ing ministry of Christ to those in need, so that we may deepen our relationship with God, self and others. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Health care (medi­cal assistant, dietician, patient assistant, nurse, parish nurse, provide health educa­
tion to community) social work/human ser­vices, community development, education. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year (mid­August to July) coNTACT: Shannon Curran 
(410) 442-3161 volunteel@bshsi.org www.bonsecours.org/bsvm 
BOYS HOPE GIRLS HOPE 
GOAL oF PROGRAM: Boys Hope Girls Hope helps academically capable and motivated children-in-need to meet their full potential and become men and women for others by providing value-centered, family-like homes, opportunities and education through college. 
TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Working With youth (10­18 years old) to promote academic success. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year, renewable coNTACT: Sada Lindsey 
(314) 298-1250 slindsey@bhgh.org www.boyshopegirlshope.org/ 
CAMP GRAY 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Camp Gray, a ministry of the Catholic Diocese of Madison, offers a natural sanctuary for people of all faiths to experience God, discover self, and walk hand in hand with friends. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Camp Gray is a summer camp and year-round retreat center owned and operated by the Diocese of Madison, WI. Each year, Camp Gray hires 5-7 volunteers to lead and facilitate a variety of retreats, from environmental to teambuilding to Confirmation to family camps. They also serve in the kitchen, with light maintenance, with cleaning, and with program development. Volunteers live in community and receive health insurance and a monthly stipend. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Nine months (late August through late May) CONTACT: Sara Knutson 
(608) 356-8200 sara@campgray.com www.campgray.com/ 
CAP CORPS MIDWEST 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Programs With Inter­
national and Domestic Sites. In the spirit of Jesus Christ, Francis and Clare of Assisi, the Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps (Cap 
Corps Midwest) is a community of women 
and men who serve among people in need 
as full-time volunteers, sharing common 
prayer and simple living. 
TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Urban education, 
social services, community organizing, wom­
en's issues, sustainable agriculture, nutrition, 
legal services, children and youth-serving 
placements, environmental education, His­
panic/Latina services, pastoral ministry. 
LENGTH OF SERVICE: Domestic -one year; International -eighteen months. All 
placements have the option to renew for 
additional time. coNTACT: Shelly Roder 
(414) 374-8841, ext. 29 
capcorps@thecapuchins.org 
www.capcorps.org/ 

CASA DE ESPERANZA DE LOS NINOS, INC. 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Casa de Esperanza de los Niiios provides comprehensive residential care to very young children (age birth to six years) in crisis due to abuse or neglect. We specialize in caring for medi­cally vulnerable children with HIV. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Live in a COmmunity home with other young adult volunteers and care for up to six children together. Vol­unteers are responsible for the day-to-day care of the children as well as coordinating and attending all medical, psychological, and developmental appointments. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year required; longer terms available. CONTACT: Teresa Berg 
(713) 529-0639 tberg@casahope.org www.casahope.org/index.html 
CASA JUAN DIEGO/HOUSTON CATHOLIC WORKER 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Casa Juan Diego operates by the philosophy of the Catholic Worker movement and serves thousands of people annually, the vast majority of whom are migrants from Mexico and Central America. It has two clinics, houses for migrant men, women (often battered), two houses for sick/paralyzed men and a community outreach program. 
-TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Men: live in the men's house and help run the inner workings of the house. Also assist with weekly food distribu­tions that have bi-weekly clothing distribu­tions. Women: live in women's house and assist with its inner workings. Also work in the main office of the outreach program. Both: Uve out the life of a Catholic Worker, run er­rands, help run clinic, organize outreach proj­ects. Compensation: Room/board, monthly stipend, health care. Additional incentives after a complete year of service. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Minimum three months coNTACT: Maeve Raphelson 
(248) 568-9515 mraphels@nd.edu www.cjd.org/ 
CATHOLIC NETWORK OF VOLUNTEER SERVICE 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Catholic Network of Volunteer Service (CNVS) is a national membership organization of Christian volun­teer and mission programs that fosters and promotes full-time national and interna­tional service opportunities for people of all backgrounds, ages and skills. CNVS supports and enhances the work of its membership by providing training and resources, networking opportunities, and national advocacy. TYPE oF PLACEMENT: CNVS programs place volunteers with varying skills and talents in nearly every type of ministry. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Varies from one week to three years or more. CONTACT: Katie Mulembe 
(301) 270-0900, ext. 14 kmulembe@cnvs.org www.cnvs.org/aboutusjindex.php 
~S~IAL 
~CONCERNS 
For more information visit soclalconcerns.nd.edu 
CHANGE AHEART: FRANCISCAN VOLUNTEER PROGRAM 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: As they serve with the poor, rooted in the spirit of St. Francis and the mission of the Sisters of St. Francis, volunteers are invited to accept the chal­lenge of experiencing the power of God through relationships which empower the powerless, promote peace, and transform the world around them. Volunteers may seek their own spiritual growth in the milieu of a community that shares a simple Fran­ciscan lifestyle. Change a'Heart: Franciscan volunteers are single young adults, between the ages of 21 and 35, who desire togive one year of their lives to serve the poor in full-time ministry positions. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Ministry place­ments are based on the volunteer ap­plicant's education and interest. Specifie ministry placements include, but are not limited to: instructing educational programming to children, youth or adults, preparing and· proving meals, childcare 
' 
literacy and mentoring programs, nursing care or assisted living care, well ness pr0­gramming, assistance with addiction care. caseworker management for persons w1'th disabilities or unemployment services. LENGTH OF SERVICE: SiX months-one year; one year; one-two years coNTACT: Kelly Caddy 
(412) 821-0861 
volunteer@millvalefranciscans.org 
changeaheartvolunteers.org! 
CHRISTIAN APPALACHIAN PROJECT 
GOAL oF PROGRAM: The Christian Appa­lachian Project in an interdenominationaI, non-profit Christian organization commit­ted to serving people in need in Appala­chia by providing physical, spiritual and emotional support through a wide variety of programs and services. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Home repair, family advocacy, elderly services, summer camps, child and family development, educationaI and recreational programming, respite services, spouse abuse shelters, women's substance abuse recovery, adult educa­tion, counseling LENGTH OF SERVICE: long-term (nine months or longer) and short-term (two weeks to eight months) CONTACT: Amblyn Allen 
(606) 256-0973 
aallen@chrisapp.org 
www.chrisapp.org 
CHRISTIAN BROTHERS VOLUNTEER PROGRAM 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: To grow Spiritually, tO experience community living, and to work with the poor and the marginalized. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: DomestiC faith­based programs LENGTH OF SERVICE: Eight weeks sum­mers or one year. coNTACT: Br. Bob Koppes 
(773) 298-2520 christianbrosvp@sbcglobal.net www. cbvp. org 
BE THE 
CHANGE 
CLARETIAN VOLUNTEER PROGRAM 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: This is a faith-based program that provides young adults with opportunity and skills to serve needy com­munities in a multitude of capacities. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Community organiz­ing, social justice, law, teaching, food pantry, youth groups, publications, ad ult and children's church groups. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One tO twO years coNTAcT: Deana Brewer 
(312) 544-8176 
brewerd@claretians.org 
www.claretians.org 
CONGREGATION OF HOLY CROSS VOCATION OFFICE 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Serve the Church by educating the minds and hearts of the faithful. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: We work in five Con­tinents in service ranging from parishes, parish schools, high schools, universities and direct outreach to the poor. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Ufe-long commitment coNTACT: Fr. Jim Gallagher 
(574) 631-6385 jgallagh@nd.edu vocation.nd.edujcontact 
COVENANT HOUSE FAITH COMMUNITY 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Covenant House is a crisis shelter that provides comprehensive services for homeless youth under the 9ge of twenty-one. Faith Community volunteers Iive in an intentional community with other volunteers and serve full-time at one of our Covenant House Crisis Centers in New York
' 
NY, Atlantic City, NJ, or Ft. Lauderdale, FL. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: The majority Of Faith community volunteers serve in direct care with homeless and runaway youth on the residential floors at Covenant House. Place­ment at Covenant House in other areas may also be available for those with special skills and accreditations (such as pastoral minis­try, recreational programs, or health services for licensed medical professionals). LENGTH OF SERVICE: Three, SiX, Or twelve months cONTACT: Paula Rote 
(212) 727-4081 faithmail@covenanthouse.org www.covenanthouse.org 
CR ISTO REY NETWORK 
GO AL OF PROGRAM: The Cristo Rey Network<ll> is a national association of high schools that provide quality, Catholic, college preparatory education to urban yo ung people who live in communities with limited educational options. Most of our students qualify for the federal free or red uced lunch program. Member schools utilize a longer school day and year, academic assistance, and counseling to prepare students with a broad range of academic abilities for college. All students at Cristo Rey Network schools participate in a work study program through which they finance the majority of the cost of thei r education, gain real world job experi­ence, grow in self-confidence, and realize the relevance of their education. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Students are enrolied in nineteen Cristo Rey schools. LEN GTH OF SERVICE: One and twO year com mitments CON TACT: Chris Broughton 
(773) 575-3001 cbroughton@cristoreynetwork.org www.cristoreynetwork.org/ 
DOMINICAN VOLUNTEERS USA 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Dominican Volun­teers USA searches for new frontiers for the faith by inviting men and women to walk with us in mission as volunteers. Together, we respond to the needs of our sisters and brothers, especially those who are poor and marginalized. We live out the Dominican mission of proclaiming the gospel through our ministry, common life, prayer and study within a diverse intergenerational community. • TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Youth and adult education, parish ministry, homeless ser­vices, eco-justice, prison ministry, health care; nursing, peace and justice advocacy, elderly outreach. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Ten to twelve monthS coNTACT: Stefanie Flax 

(708) 524-5985 

dominicanvolunteers@gmail.com 
dvusa.org 
ECHO 

GOAL OF PROGRAM: Echo is simultaneous­ly committed to forming leaders and serv­ing the Catholic Church. The program offers holistic ministerial formation to participants 
-known as apprentices -while they provide direct service to Catholic parishes through a variety of catechetical ministries. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Each Echo appren­tice serves through a variety ministries in a parish of one of the program's partner dioceses. Typical ministries include chil­dren's catechesis, RCIA and other adult faith formation programs, youth ministry, social justice ministry, and liturgical ministries. Apprentices live together in 'ntentional faith communities.
I 
LENGTH OF SERVICE: TWO years 
coNTACT: Leonard Delorenzo (574) 631-2915 delorenzo.2@nd.edu echo.nd.edu 
EARM OFTHE CHILD 

GOAL OF PROGRAM: In gratitude for the great love that Jesus Christ gives to us, we decide to unite ourselves to form a com­munity to care for needy children and to promote the development of a productive society of devout Christians. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Social WOrk/case management special needs, elementary and middle school teaching ESL community or­ganizing health clinic house aides living with adolescents maintenance work administra­tion accounting youth ministry and formation vocational and life skills training. LE NGTH OF SERVICE: TWO yearS cONTACT: Andrea McMerty-Brummer; 
Felicia Johnson O'Brien (574) 247-1018 felicia@alumni.nd.edu www.farmofthechild.org 
FOCUS (FELLOWSHIP OF CATHOLIC UNIVER­sITY STUDENTS) 

GO AL OF PROGRAM: FOCUS stands for the Fellowship of Catholic University Students. We take recent college graduates, train them, and send them back onto campus to Iead Bible studies, do one-on-one leadership and faith formation, and lead large group events. Our mission statement is: lio know Christ Jesus, and to fulfill His Great Commission, by first living and then com municating the fullness of life within the Family of God, the Church. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Youth ministry LENGTH OF SERVICE: TWO year initial COm­mitment CON TACT: Rosie Haaker 
(847) 456-0110 rhaaker@focusonline.org www.focusonline.org 
FRAN CISCAN OUTREACH ASSOCIATION 

GOAL oF PROGRAM: To provide a safe and established opportunity for volunteers who wish to help the city's poorest and most ne­glected people with basic human needs of food and shelter with respect and compas­sion. This setting provides the opportunities for valunteers to develop relationships with our guests and person with unique chal­lenges and strengths and the complexity of being poor and homeless. This environment encourages volunteers to examine their own values, develop their personal strengths in a concrete lived reality. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: TWO locations: Marquard Center/Dining Room serves a full meal to an average of 150 guests a day and offers drop off laundry service, showers, mail service, and access to health care workers and case management. The Franciscan House of Mary and Joseph offers a safe place for 215 men and 35 women nightly, soup and sandwiches in the evening, coffee and light breakfast in the morning, showers. clothing, mail service, access to medical personnel and case workers. Both operations operate 365 days a year. Uv­
'1 ing Arrangements -room and board that includes U.S. long distance and internet con­nection, monthly stipend, medical insurance ten days vacation time, two days off per ' week. AmeriCorps education awards when individuals meet the requirements. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year, renew­able. We are willing to consider a limited number of summer and shorter term volunteer commitments. coNTACT: Danielle Simonetti 
(773) 278-6724 volunteer@franoutreach.org www.franoutreach.org 

FRANCISCAN VOLUNTEER MINISTRY 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: The Franciscan Volunteer Ministry provides a setting for volunteers to grow in faith, love, and hope by serving the poor and working for social justice. We aim to foster Gospel-based communities as a witness to our faith through prayer and a simple lifestyle. We encourage our volunteers as lay people to come to full stature in the Catholic Church by working with Franciscan Friars and Sis­ters in ministry. We provide a setting where gifts and talents are exchanged with the people of God in a loving and joyful Fran­ciscan spirit, always being aware of how much we can learn from and are blessed by those who are poor and marginalized. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Adults' and Chil­dren's activities coordinator, community organizer, elementary school teacher/ teacher's aide, ESL Instructor, immigrant minister. medical clinic assistant, men­tor and tutor, music minister, outreach to shut-ins and hospital patients, parish as­sistant, pastoral counselor, prison minister, soup kitchen staff, women's day center 
! staff, youth and elderly outreach, and HIV/ AIDS ministry. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year coNTACT: Katie Sullivan (215) 427-3070 fvmpd@aol.com franciscanvolunteerministry.org 
FRANCISCORPS 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: The mission Of Fran­cisCorps is Gospel service. FrancisCorps volunteers are recently graduated lay men and women living and praying in a Fran­ciscan centered community and minister­ing to the underserved in Syracuse, NY 
, and San Jose, Costa Rica. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Syracuse: Refugee resettlement, food pantry, free medical/le­gal clinic, developmentally disabled adults and youth ministry to Asian, African Ameri­can, new refugee children and Latino young people in neighborhood youth centers. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year/renewable coNTACT: Brother Jim Moore (315) 426-0481 francorps@gmail.com www.franciscorps.org 
FRIENDS OF THE ORPHANS 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Friends Of the Orphans raises funds, volunteers and awareness for Nuestros Pequenos Hermanos (NPH), a family of nine homes for over 3,500 orphaned and abandoned children in Latin America and the Carib­bean. NPH's mission is to provide shelter, 
For more information visit: soclalconcerns.nd.edu 
food, clothing, healthcare and education in a Christian family environment based on unconditional acceptance and love, sharing, working and responsibility. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Volunteers live On site, with an international community of volunteers. NPH provides room and board, a monthly stipend and access to health care. Volunteers have a job during the day (teaching ESL, working in a clinic, as a tutor, youth ministry, in maintenance, as a caregiver, etc.) then spend time with the children in the evenings. Applicants should apply at the www.nph.org website (see the "volunteer" section). Friends of the Orphans helps screen and place volunteers and offers support throughout the year. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Most homes have volunteers begin their year in either July or January. Applicants should apply six to nine months in advance. coNTACT: Vicky Medley 
(425) 698-5449 kmatlon@friendsus.org friendsus.org 

GATEWAY VINCENTlAN VOLUNTEERS 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Our mission iS provide young adults with an experience of living in community and working with the poor in the spirit of St. Vincent DePaul, whose life work was dedicated to serving the poor and needy. It is our goal that by working, praying, and living in the spirit of Vincent, these young adults will develop a lifelong commitment to improving the lives of the poor and marginalized in our society. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Social services, education, community organizing, working with those who have mental illnesses, home repair for those in poverty, working with youth, health care, shelter for preg­nant women, etc. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Ten and one-half months coNTACT: Geri Ryan 
(314) 771-1474 gatevol@aol.com www.vincentianvols.org 

GOOD SHEPHERD VOLUNTEERS 
GOAL oF PROGRAM: Good Shepherd Volunteers collaborates with the Sisters of the Good Shepherd to provide full-time volunteers with the opportunity to work in social service ministries and to use their God-given talents serving women, adolescents, and children affected by poverty, violence, and neglect. Develop­ing relationships with the marginalized of our world empowers volunteers to grow in knowledge and faith that inspire them to lead a life of seeking justice. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Good Shepherd Volunteers currently has volunteer place­ments in Los Angeles, New Jersey, New York, Peru, and "Paraguay. Domestic: Vari­ous positions in alternative education high school, youth development counselors in residential group homes, coordina­tor of after school program at inner city community center, adult and elementary educators at domestic violence shelter, assistant caseworker in foster care and adoption services program, coordinator at a fair trade non-profit organization. inter­national: youth services, human services, health services, economic/psychologi­cal empowerment programs, community development, education, collaborative efforts with other local non-governmental and non-profit agencies. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Domestic -one year; International -two years coNTACT: Lindsey Conlin 
(718) 943-7488 Lindsey_Conlin@goodshep­herds.org www.gsvolunteers.org 
HOLY CROSS OVERSEAS LAY MINISTRY PRO­GRAM -CHILE AND EAST AFRICA 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: To offer recent university graduates the opportunity for experiential learning in an international setting among the poor, to introduce them to the international mission of Holy Cross and a spirituality that sustains mission, and to augment the service that Holy Cross is able to offer in the settings of our educational and other ministries in Chile and East Africa. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Teaching at grade school and high school levels; involvement in social ministries in the context of the poor. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Chile: Eighteen months; East Africa: Sixteen month minimum coNTAcT: Thomas Smith, C.S.C. 
(574) 631-5477 
hcmc@hd.edu 
www. nd. ed uj-heme/ 
HUMILITY OF MARY SERVICE 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: The Sisters Of the Humility of Mary are called to bring more abundant life to God's people, especially the poor. Humility of Mary Service, a volunteer program founded by the com­munity, strives to meet the needs of others by serving in many different ministries. In order to empower others we invite gener­ous volunteers to be partners with us in mission to bring life-giving service and love to the poor, weak, and oppressed. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Education, WOmen's shelters, social work, trafficking, immigra­tion law, youth ministries, etc. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Short Or long term coNTACT: Ellen Divers 
(440) 333-5373 
edivers@hmministry.org 
www.hmvolunteers.org/ 
INCARNATE WORD MISSIONARIES 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Inspired by the charism and mission of the Incarnate Word, we choose to live in community and walk in solidarity with the economi­cally poor and marginalized, in order to be tra~sformed by them and to transform unjust social structures that keep people economically poor and marginalized. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Parish/pastoral ministry, teaching, health care, human rights, medical/hospice ministry, work with indigenous peoples, leadership develop­ment, work with women and children, AIDS ministry, agronomist LENGTH OF SERVICE: One tO twO years coNTACT: Meghan Green 
(210) 828-2224, ext. 228 meghan.green@amormeus.org www.incarnatewordsisters.org 
INNER-CITYTEACHING CORPS 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: The Inner-City Teach­ing Corps (ICTC) is a non-profit education organization that transforms education and empowers children in the most underserved areas of Chicago through the provision of outstanding teachers and innovative education programs. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: The Volunteer Teaching Corps, a program of the lnnerCity Teaching Corps, is a two-year, post-grad service program training outstanding recent college graduates to be full-time teachers in inner-city Chicago parochial schools. ALL MAJORS are eligible to apply for both elementary and high school posi­tions. Volunteers live in co-ed, faith-based 
communities of 7-10 in residences on 
Chicago's South and West sides. 
LENGTH OF SERVICE: TWO years 
CONTACT: Bridget Hogan 
(312) 491-9100 teach@ictc-chicago.org www.ictc-chicago.org 
JESUIT VOLUNTEER CORPS 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: The Jesuit Volunteer Corps offers men and women an op­portunity to work full-time for justice and peace. Jesuit Volunteers work throughout the U.S. by serving the poor directly and by working for structural change. JVs also accompany people of great need in sev­eral other countries, assisting in human development primarily through education. Volunteers live a simple lifestyle in com­munity with other volunteers and seek to develop spiritually. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: The JVC offers a very wide range of placements including teaching, youth ministry and mentoring, homeless advocacy, domestic violence and sexual assault counseling, prison ministry, legal aid, farm worker outreach, refugee resettlement, elderly outreach, addiction recovery services, nursing and hospice ministry, AIDS services and community or­ganizing. International: teachers (math, sci­ence, English, etc.), youth ministers, parish outreach personnel, community organizers, counselors, social workers. 
LENGTH OF SERVICE: DomestiC -one year; International -two years coNTACT: Maggie Conley 
(410) 244-1733 
mconley@jesuitvolunteers.org 
jesuitvolunteers.org 
JESUIT VOLUNTEER CORPS NORTHWEST 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Jesuit Volunteer Corps 
Northwest engages women and men in a transforming experience of full-time volun­teer service. Jesuit Volunteers work for a year or more in solidarity with persons living on the margins of society and with vulnerable 
places in the Pacific Northwest. Rooted for over fifty years in the Jesuit Catholic tradition emphasizing spiritual openness and depth, Jesuit Volunteers in the Northwest exam­
ine and act on the causes of social and environmental injustice to promote peace and structural change. Jesuit Volunteers live 
in communities that commit to simple living embodying a healing and sustainable pres­
ence on the Earth. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Community organiz­
ing and advocacy, children's services, 
education, environmental advocacy, 
health care, health education, individuals 
with disabilities, legal services, pastoral 
ministry, refugee and immigration services, 
senior services, social services, social ser­
vices and community centers, substance 
abuse counseling, women's shelters and 
programs, youth work. 
LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year minimum 
coNTACT: Leah Dahlin 
(503) 335-8202 recruiter@jvcnorthwest.org jvcnorthwest.org 
LASALLIAN VOLUNTEERS 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: The lasallian Volunteer Program responds creatively to the educational needs of the poor by providing 50 to 60 education volunteers. Approximately half of the Volunteers return for additional years of service. A unique dimension of the Lasallian Volunteer Pro­gram is that Volunteers live in Community with Brothers and other Lasallian Partners, fully sharing in their daily Community and apostolic activities. This close interac­tion deepens the Volunteer's experience, enlivens the Community, and enriches the service to the poor. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Teach and tutor in elementary schools, middle schools, high schools, alternative schools, adult education programs, outdoor educa­tion centers and after school programs ; adventure-based recreation leaders; case managers and social workers; campus ministry, retreat work and organizing service projects; development: public rela­tions, grant writing and fundraising; coach shelters and soup kitchens. 

LENGTH OF SERVICE: One to tWO years 
coNTACT: Martin Richard (202) 529-004 7 mrichard@cbconf.org www.lasallianvolunteers.org/ 
LITTLE BROTHERS-FRIENDS OF THE ELDERLY 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Little Brothers­Friends of the Elderly, Chicago Chapter is a national non-profit and international organization committed to relieving isolation and loneliness among the elderly. We offer students the opportunity to learn and assist the elderly in a variety of ways. Our motto, flowers before bread, expresses our philoso­phy that people need the special pleasures 
in life in addition to the basic necessities. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: We have fifteen different internship opportunities from Marketing to PR, French, Spanish, Sociol­ogy, Psychology, Art Therapy, Photography, Social Work, Gerontology, Graphic Design, Grant Writing Webmaster Design and Jour­nalism. Work study options are available. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Opportunities are available in the summer, or one year full time, or 5 to 10 hoursjweek during the school year. We will assist students in re­ceiving college credit. Contact your college advisor if applicable. We offer internships for one year as well as for the summer. 
coNTACT: Christine Bertrand 
(312) 455-1000 
cbertrand@littlebrotherschicago.org 
www.littlebrotherschicago.org 
LU CHOICE (LOYOLA UNIVERSITY CHICAGO OP­PORTUNITIES IN CATHOLIC EDUCATION) 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: The mission of LU­CHOICE is to serve Catholic schools that are ministering to populations that are in need. This is accomplished by educating, placing, and supporting talented college graduates in elementary classrooms in the Archdiocese of Chicago. LU-CHOICE teachers live out their faith and embody the Jesuit ideal of being men and women for others through service to their schools and dedication to their community. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Full time teaching in a Catholic in the Chicago area. LENGTH OF SERVICE: TWO years coNTACT: Lee Hubbell 
(312) 915-7049 lhubbel@luc.edu www.luc.edu/educationjlu­choice.shtml 
LUTHERAN EDUCATION ALLIANCE WITH PARO­CHIAL SCHOOLS (LEAPS) 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: The mission Of the LEAPs program is to provide dedicated teachers for under-resourced Lutheran and Catholic school in Chicago and North­west Indiana. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Elementary, middle school, and high school teaching positions and associated extra-curricular activities. LENGTH OF SERVICE: TWO years, including summers coNTACT: Maryann Dudzinski 
(219) 916-9368 Maryann.Dudzinski@valpo.edu www.valpo.edujgrad/ 
~~CIAL 
sports teams; support staff at homeless 

~CONCERNS 
For more information visit: SOCiaiconcerns.nd.edu 
LENGTH OF SERVICE: DomestiC -one
MENNONITE CENTRAL COMMITIEE year; International -two years 
LUTHERAN VOLUNTEER CORPS 
TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Teach While Obtaining 
either your Master of Education in Secondary 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Mennonite CentralGOAL OF PROGRAM: Lutheran Volunteer 

CONTACT: Janet Gary
Teaching. If you already have an education Committee serves people who lack basic
Corps (LVC) offers an opportunity for (215) 641-5535 background, teach while you obtain your necessities because of poverty, war andspiritual and personal exploration while 
ContactUs@mercyvolunteers.org
Master of Science in Teacher Leadership. 
disasters. In the name of Christ, MCCvolunteers work for social justice and www.MercyVolunteers.org
LENGTH OF SERVICE: TWO years 
works with local churches and communi­coNTACT: Courtney Lokken live simply and sustainably in intentional ties to empower people, build peace andcommunity. LVC partners with non-profit 

MISSIONARY CENACLE VOLUNTEERS
(402) 280-3386 
provide relief. courtneylokken@creighton.edu
organizations in twelve cities where volun­

GOAL OF PROGRAM: Our miSSiOn iS to
TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Mennonite Central puffin.creighton.edu/edu/MAGIS/ teers will live and work. Volunteers live in Committee works in the following areas: help Catholics become apostles by provid­

intentional communities of 4-7 people. agricultural and economic development, ing opportunities for spiritual growth while
TYPE oF PLACEMENT: LVC Volunteers MARIAN1ST VOLUNTEER PROGRAM 

education, public health, conflict resolu­serving those in need in the Americas. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Primarily in the 
work in such areas as AIDS/HIV, addiction 

tion, emergency assistance and public United States, with a few openings in and recovery, anti-racism, children and 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: To serve those in 

advocacy. Mexico, Costa Rica and Puerto Rico. 
youth, community development, education, need, live in community and reflect on 

LENGTH OF SERVICE: Eleven months Or LENGTH OF SERVICE: Long term nine 
employment, the environment, food and the volunteer experience with the Marian­

three years months-one year (renewable) open hunger, GLBT rights, health care, housing ist Family. Individuals can volunteer with coNTACT: Mary Ann Weber enrollment; Short term summer programs. 
and homelessness, immigration and a variety of agencies in San Antonio, St. 

(574) 534-4133 coNTACT: Maureen Masterson refugees, international solidarity, legal as­Louis, Rockaway Park, N.Y., Cincinnati, 
mweber@mcc.org 

mcc.org (216) 252-4727 sistance, peace, and more. Required work Honolulu, and Karonga, Malawi (Africa). 
skills vary by position, with on-site training 

The MVP provides opportunities for faith, CenacleVol@aol.com
as necessary. LVC Volunteers receive 
spiritual, and personal development, and a stipend which covers housing, food, 

MENNONITE MISSION NETWORK www.tmc3.orgjmcv.html transportation, health insurance, and empowers a diversity of volunteers to be 
partners for peace and justice. Marian­
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Based on the 

NET MINISTRIES
personal expenses. A weeklong orientation ist volunteers live out an option for the 
example of Jesus' life as a servant leader, and three regional retreats are also an in­
poor and marginalized through a simple 

GOAL OF PROGRAM: Our Ministry travels tegral part of the program. Volunteers are Mennonite Mission Network provides 
lifestyle and cross cultural service, and 

around the country in teams of 10-12 col­guaranteed two weeks of paid vacation, service options for Christians of all agesexperience the Marianist vision of lay 
lege aged adults putting on high school or and most positions qualify for student and interests. 
leadership and community. 

junior high school retreats six days a week. loan deferment and a $4,725 AmeriCorps 
TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Community organiz­TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Community orga­
TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Young aduJtjyOUth Education Grant. Volunteers receive sup­
ing, social justice, business, education, nizing, education (middle school, high 

working with homeless, etc. ministry port from a full-time city coordinator and 
school, adult and non-traditional), health 

LENGTH OF SERVICE: One tO tWO years LENGTH OF SERVICE: Nine months Local Support Committee, who assist the 
care, housing, peace and justice advocacy, 

CONTACT: Jeremy Kempf coNTACT: Matthew Reiswig volunteer with concerns and questions 
social services, servic~s for women and 

(574) 523-3065 (651) 450-6833 regarding their placement and community. 
children, working with adults with disabili­

jeremykempf@mennonitemis­recruiting@netusa.org LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year, from mid­
ties, other opportunities. 

www.NETusa.org August to mid-August 
sion.net 
LENGTH OF SERVICE: DomestiC -One year, 
mennonitemission.net coNTACT: Kelly Shinn 
International -two years 

NORBERTINE VOLUNTEER COMMUNITY (202) 387-3222 
coNTACT: Ruth Pera 
MERCY HOME FOR BOYS AND GIRLS 

GOAL OF PROGRAM: The Norbertine
gJakes@tutheran\blunteerCorps.org 
(314) 533-1207 GOAL OF PROGRAM: Since 1887, Mercy 

Volunteer Community will strive to live thewww.lutheranvolunteercorps.org 
rpera@sm-usa.org Home for Boys and Girls has provided pioneering spirit of St. Norbert through

www.marianist.com;mvp residential care for young men and the charisms of communio -spiritual-

MAGGIE'S PLACE women whose lives have been shattered 

ity-Common Good. These charisms are
MARYKNOLL CHINA SERVICE PROJECT
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Maggie'S Place is 

lived out through hands-on service to the a community that provides houses of by personal and family problems. Mercy
GOAL OF PROGRAM: We seek tO place ac­

needs of the neighborhood in which the hospitality for expectant women who wish Home for Boys and Girls, a Catholic tive and committed Christians in universi­
Norbertine Volunteer Community lives. to achieve their goals in a dignified and institution, transforms young lives of suf­ties where their dedication and personal 
TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Possible service welcoming atmosphere. Following Catholic fering into lives of hope and promise byexample will be of service to the faculty 
opportunities include -serving the elderly social teaching, we recognize that we are providing a nurturing home, the means and students in China. We hope that for­
or infirmed, tutoring in a local multi-cultural responsible to and for one another. We 
for growth, healing for families and God's eign teachers will understand more about 

school, basic social services, jail ministry with challenge one another to strive toward 
mercy in action. Mercy Home offers youthChina and its people and the Chinese will 

adults and juveniles, food pantry, domestic personal growth, to welcome the gifts of 
who seek a new beginning safety, respect,understand more about the West and its 

abuse shelter, homeless shelter and more. every person that enters our door, and to 
opportunities for growth, and the neces­
values and culture. 

sary motivation to pursue a healthy and LENGTH OF SERVICE: Eleven monthS promote positive social change. In this 
TYPE oF PLACEMENT: Teaching ESL in 

successful future. MercyWorks, Mercy coNTACT: Ellen Mommaerts way, we celebrate and provide for the next 
mainland China 

Home's faith-based volunteer program, (920) 403-2944 generation. 
LENGTH OF SERVICE: Summer program for 

is composed of a select group of highly ellen.mommaerts@snc.edu TYPE OF PLACEMENT: LiVe in COmmunity 
5 weeks; one year program 

motivated individuals who are mission­www.norbertines.orgj with pregnant women, new moms, new­
coNTACT: Maretta McKenna 
driven and who wish to make a difference borns, and other staff members; par­
(973) 889-1557 

in the lives of our children. Volunteers pos­NOTRE DAME CAMPUS MINISTRY ticipate in community functions; provide 
chinaserveusa@msn.com 
sess a desire and capacity to work with 

GOAL oF PROGRAM: CM Internship pro­
support and guidance to moms; assume www.chinaserv.org 
the children of Mercy Home for one year. 

gram provides an opportunity for recentadministrative duties; embrace the mis­Volunteers are provided the opportunity to Notre Dame graduates to join the CMsion and core values of Maggie's Place. 
MARYKNOLL LAY MISSIONERS 

grow in their faith and spirituality through I 
team and work side by side with otherLENGTH OF SERVICE: One year, renewable prayer and reflection while being commit­GOAL OF PROGRAM: Maryknoll Lay Mis­Campus Ministry staff members. The year­
coNTACT: Becky Fair 
ted to a process of building communitysioners is a Catholic organization inspired long position provides many opportunities(602) 262-5555 and living in simplicity.

by the mission of Jesus to live and work for spiritual, professional, and personalmpstaff@maggiesplace.org 

TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Residential youthwith poor communities in Africa, Asia, and growth. Anyone considering future studieswww.maggiesplace.org 

care worker, admissions case manager,the Americas, responding to basic needs 

in theology and religious education or dis­and helping to create a more just and 
education and tutoring coordinator and cerning a ministerial career in the Church

MAGIS CATHOLIC TEACHER CORPS 
aftercare case manager.
compassionate world. 

is an appropriate candidate. GOAL OF PROGRAM: Magis Catholic 
LENGTH OF SERVICE: One yearTYPE OF PLACEMENT: Maryknoll lay 

TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Intern WOrkS With a Teacher Corps recruits college graduates 
CONTACT: Jan McBride
Missioners engage in the following types of 

variety of programs while living in commu­who view education as their vocation and 
(312) 738-7556
ministries: Health &Healthcare: HIVI AIDS, 

nity with 2-3 other interns. Three to four their ministry. In a spirit of service, our 
ianmcb@mercyhome.org
nutrition, rehabilitation, mental health, hos­

interns will divide CM programs and assist teachers respond to the question "What 
www.mercyhome.org
pice, primary health care; Education: formal 

in the direction of the programs. One more can I do for Christ?" by making a 
classroom education, literacy, leadership 

position available for music intern. two-year commitment to teach in under­
MERCY VOLUNTEER CORPS
training, skills training, educational support; 

LENGTH OF SERVICE: August-June resourced Catholic schools. During these 
Sustainable Development agriculture, ac­

GOAL OF PROGRAM: In partnership With the coNTACT: Patrick Schenkel two years, teachers live together in inten­
cess to clean water, alternative technologies, 

Sisters of Mercy of the Americas, lay women (574) 631-1832 tional Christian community as they pursue 
income generation; Justice & Peace: conflict 

and men of Mercy Volunteer Corps (MVC), pschenke@nd.edu educational, professional, and spiritual 
resolution, interreligious dialogue, civil/ 

enter into relationship with people who are campusministry.nd.edu development. Magis is a member of the 
human rights, migration, racismjclassism; 
economically poor and marginalized. In a University Consortium for Catholic Educa­
Pastoral Care: faith formation, prison ministry, 

1
spirit of mutuality, volunteers cultivate mercy OPERATION TEACH tion (UCCE). 
youth ministry, lay leadership development and justice in the world by embracing com­

GOAL oF PROGRAM: Operation TEACH fos­
LENGTH OF SERVICE: Three and one-half 
passionate service, social justice, spirituality ters the training of professional educators years initial contract; can be renewed for 

and a simple lifestyle in community. 

who grow in spirituality and witness bysubsequent three year terms 
TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Mercy Volunteers 

sharing the experience of living in small
CONTAcT: Michelle Born 
serve in Education, Healthcare & Social Christian communities. They are bound

(800) 818-5276, ext. 114

BE THE 
Services. Volunteers commit equally to ser­

by common desire to make a differencemborn@mklm.org 
vice, a simple lifestyle in community, and 

1 in the lives of their students and by their
www.mklaymissioners.org 
personal and communal spiritual growth. 

common goal, to teach as Jesus did.
CHANGE 
For more information visit Soclalconcerns.nd.edu 
TYPE oF PLACEMENT: Operation TEACHers teach for two years in Baltimore Archdi­ocesan elementary or secondary schools. They are hired by principals who have openings in their areas of concentration. After their initial orientation, they live in one of three operation TEACH community houses in Baltimore. They are enrolled in the Master's degree program in the Gradu­ate School of the College of Notre Dame of Maryland. LENGTH OF SERVICE: TWO years: July Of year one through June of year two coNTACT: Sister Karen Kelly GNSH 
(410) 532-5326 MKKelly@ndm.edu www.ndm.edu/Academics/Cer­tificatePrograms/Teachingcer­tificates/operationteach .cfm 
PACIFIC ALLIANCE FOR CATHOLIC EDUCATION (PACE) 
GOAL oF PROGRAM: The purpose of PACE is to serve the needs of under-resourced Catholic schools in the Northwest and the Pacific rim by providing dedicated teachers who are committed to service, to developing professionally and to living a simple life in a supportive community which nourishes their spirituality. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Teachers Will live and work in one of three placements: Salt Lake, Utah; Yakima, Washington; or Portland, Oregon. University of Portland affords PACE teachers the opportunity to become certified in elementary and sec­ondary teaching, ELL, special education, or literacy. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Twenty-seven months coNTACT: Mary Gallagher 
(503) 943-7417 gallaghm@up.edu education.up.edu/default. aspx?cid=4322&pid=278 
PASSIONIST VOLUNTEERS INTERNATIONAL 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Passionist Volunteers International appeals to a cross section of 
people-age, gender and background-in­viting them to share their gifts and talents walking with the poor and accompanying the suffering in a cross-cultural setting. The Volunteers have the opportunity to enrich their lives and enable their service 
by living in community, sharing spirituality and faith. They serve in collaboration with the Passionist Community with its focus on the Passion of Jesus as found in those suffering among us today. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Accompaniment Of the poor and suffering: as community's 
needs are revealed and volunteers' in­terests, abilities and talents are deter­mined, appropriate service ventures and 
projects emerge. Needs are abundant; possibilities are endless, e.g. classroom/ 
school needs for children and remedial educational needs for adults; caring for the sick, visiting the home-bound; training 
in hygiene and preventive care; youth 
ministry-organizing, coaching, mentor­ing; housing-building and repair; prison ministry; community organizing, outreach & development; AIDS Ministry. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One tO twO years coNTACT: Tricia Lothschutz 
(708) 256-3013 
pvimission@aol.com 
www.passionistvolunteers.org 
PEACE CORPS 
GOAL oF PROGRAM: The Peace Corps' mission has three simple goals: 1) Help­ing the people of interested countries in meeting their need for trained men and women 2) Helping promote a better understanding of Americans on the part of the peoples served 3) Helping promote a better understanding of other peoples on the part of Americans. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Peace Corps 
Volunteers work in the following areas: education, youth outreach, and commu­nity development; business development; agriculture and environment; health and HIV/AIDS; and information technology. Within these areas, the specific duties and responsibilities of each Volunteer can vary widely. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Twenty-seven months coNTACT: Elizabeth Ategou 
(312) 353-4990 eategou@peacecorps.gov www. peacecorps.gov 
PLACE CORPS 
GOAL oF PROGRAM: The PLACE Corps Partners in Los Angeles Catholic Educa­tion is Loyola Marymount University's Catholic teacher service corps. The two-year program combines coursework at LMU for a debt-free masters and creden­tial, with service in an under-resourced elementary or high school in the Archdio­cese of Los Angeles, and spiritually-based community living with other PLACErs. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Full-time, K-12 Catholic school teachers and full-time gradu­ate students at Loyola Marymount University. LENGTH OF SERVICE: TWO years coNTACT: Matthias Schildwachter 
(310) 338-3774 mschildw@lmu.edu www.lmu.edu/Page31713.aspx 
PROVIDENCE VOLUNTEER MINISTRY 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Providence Volunteer Ministry (PVM) is a lay volunteer program for women and men age 21 and older, who can give a full-time commitment of one year or three months during the sum­mer. PVM's live and work in collaboration with the Sisters of Providence. Through their partnership of service, the volunteers give witness to the spirit of Providence through works of love, mercy, and justice. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Eco-justicejorganic farming, social services, education, health care, hospitality, peace and justice LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year beginning in either August or January, or summer only. coNTACT: Julie Szolek-Van Valkenburgh 
(317) 695-4634 
jszolek@spsmw.org 
www.P-V-M.org 
PUERTO RICO CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: To incentivize initia­tiVeS in economically deprived communi­ties through professional volunteers work community organizing, teaching, grant writing, advocacy issues. 
TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Direct service in health and homeless issues Length of Service: One or two years CONTACT: Sylvia Henriquez 
(787) 944-4444 puertoricocenter@gmail.com prcsc.org 
RED CLOUD VOLUNTEER PROGRAM 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: The mission Of Red Cloud Indian School Holy Rosary Mission, 
a Catholic Institution administered by the Jesuits and the Lakota People, is to develop 
and grow as a vibrant Church, through 
an education of the mind and spirit that 
promotes Lakota and Catholic values. Gen­
erosity knows many forms, and our school 
is eternally grateful for the many dedicated 
volunteers who donate their expertise, 
energy and time to the education of our 
students. Red Cloud offers volunteers a 
unique opportunity to work amid the Oglala 
Lakota, in some of the poorest counties of 
the United States. Here we strive to provide 
an education that is a key requirement 
for a better outlook to the future. Here we 
create the success stories of our future generation. The Red Cloud Volunteer 

--------------------------------------~ 
Program invites men and women to serve the Oglala Lakota people of the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation through work in Jesuit Schools and Parishes on the reservation. Red Cloud vofunteers work with students of all ages at each of the three Red Cloud Schools. In living the values of building community, sharing faith, doing justice and living simply, Red Cloud Volunteers work to grow in communion with God and each other, as well as learn through contact with the traditions and culture of the Lakota people among whom they live. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: High SChool teacher (Theology, English, Math, etc.), librarian (high school, middle school, elementary), high school full-time substitute, pastoral minister in a parish setting, after school program coordinator, elementary/middle school teacher (grade level, substitute, So­cial Studies, etc.), Montessori/kindergarten teacher and/or aide. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One tO three years coNTACT: Patrick Gilger, SJ 
(605) 867-5888 redcloudvolunteers@gmail.com www.redcloudschool.org/volun­teers;volunteers. htm 
REDEEMER MINISTRY CORPS 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Redeemer Ministry Corps volunteers journey beside those who suffer, whether materially, physically or spiritually. RMC volunteers render as­sistance to those most helpless and care for those for whom no one cares. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Child care, health care (nursing, nurse aide, physical, oc­cupational therapy, transitional housing for women and children, homeless shelters, social service/work, agriculture, teaching, education, eldercare, activities coordinator. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year, renewable coNTACT: Eileen Zebrowski 
(215) 914-4116 RMCorps@aol.com sistersholyredeemer.org;com­munity/contact; 
ROSTRO DE CRISTO 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Rostra de Cristo is a Catholic program whose mission is to provide spiritual and educational opportuni­ties for young people from the United States to live out the Gospel of Jesus Christ with the people of Ecuador. The program invites participants to: Lead a simple lifestyle; Build an intentional Christian community; Be in relationship with the Ecuadorian people and reflect on the face of Christ in their joys and struggles; Work with the Ecuadorian people to find long-term solutions to the problems of poverty and together seek opportunities to improve the lives of the people. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: VariOUS. WorksiteS include after-school programs, schools, hospitals, day-care centers, clinics, and social services. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year coNTACT: Jessie Hallerman 
(617) 552-2281 jessiehallerman@gmail.com www.rostrodecristo.org 
SAINT IGNATIUS LOYOLA ACADEMY 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Conceived in the tradition of Nativity schools, Saint Ignatius Loyola Academy is an independent, tu­ition-free Jesuit Catholic middle school for boys of families of modest means, diverse races, ethnicities and religions. The Acad­emy's mission is to draw from and share with its students the very best spiritual ideals and moral values, knowledge and learning skills, discipline, character forma­tion, and personal care, thereby providing its graduates the opportunity to pursue an excellent secondary education that will lead to college and to lives in which they will be Men For Others. 

TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Intern teachers teach a half-load of classes in an area re­lated to their major, live in community with other teachers in their own apartments, are provided with free tuition in the Loyola College in Maryland graduate school of education, participate in the life of the school as coaches and advisors, and have 
-

opportunities for spiritual reflection during the course of the program. Interns are provided a holistic program of mentor­ing through professional development workshops and on-site mentoring by more experienced teachers. Interns receive an Americorps grant of $4750 for each year they complete the program. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Two years coNTACT: Christopher Wilson 
(410) 539-8268 chris.wilson@saintignatius.org www.saintignatius.org 
SALESIAN LAY MISSIONERS 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: The Salesian lay Mis­Sioner (SLM) program is a Catholic associa­tion of men and women seeking to answer God's missionary call in their own lives by dedicating themselves to works of education and human development among poor youth. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Teaching, youth ministry, religious education, staff for recreation/camp services, health care, counselor, pastoral/parish ministry, building trades, social work, orphanages, retreat team members. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One tO three years CONTACT: Adam Rudin 
(914) 633-8344 
SLM@salesianmissions.org 
www.salesians.org/slm 
SEARCH YOUR HEART-BROTHERS OF THE SACRED HEART VOLUNTEER/ 
DISCERNMENT PROGRAM 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Our Program offers volunteers the opportunity to participate in the community life, spirituality and mis­sion of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart. Volunteers are also given the opportunity to discern their call in life. They are given individual guidance in their personal and spiritual development according to the tradition and charism of the brothers. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: A variety Of ministries with young people; refugee settlement programs; GED programs; ESL programs for refugees. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Nine months (September-May) coNTACT: Br. Chris Sweeney, S.C. 
(504) 352-9940 
brochris66@hotmail.com 
www.brothersotthesacredheart.org/ 
SHARE FOUNDATION WITH THE HANDICAPPED 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: Share Foundation is a not for profit, privately funded, Christian or­ganization. Its mission is to provide residen­tial living, services and support programs for other abled adults in the atmosphere of a peaceful and loving mid-western commu­nity. We strive to accomplish this mission through recognizing, respecting and provid­ing for the uniqueness of each individual. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Sharing MeadOWS, a Christian community for other abled adults is looking for a few compassionate, loving people to live in one of twelve homes with two residents to provide companionship and supervision while teaching daily living skills. We provide an attractive salary and benefit package. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year CONTACT: Robert Hess 
(219) 778-2585 rhess@sharefoundation.org www.sharefoundation.org 
~s®CIAL 
~CONCERNS 
For more information visit: SOCiaiconcerns.nd.edu 
6 

.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------­
ST. JOSEPH WORKER PROGRAM 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: The St. Joseph Worker 
Program (SJW) is a new kind of volunteer 
program that trains, supports, and men­
tors women to be change agents while 

-meeting direct needs in the community and working for justice. The St. Joseph Worker Program is grounded in the values of justice, leadership, spirituality, inten­tional community, and living simply. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: The St. Joseph Workers serve in a variety of different placements including education, health care, advocacy, social services, women's services, spirituality, community organizing and social justice. The program is spon­sored by the Sisters of St. Joseph of Caro­ndelet (CSJ) who are well known for their commitment to the poor and marginalized while working for systematic change. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Eleven monthS coNTACT: Bridgette Kelly (651) 690-7049 bkelly@csjstpaul.org www.stjosephworkers.org 
ST. MARTIN DE PORRES ACADEMY 
GOAL oF PROGRAM: St. Martin de Porres Academy, a Nativity Miguel Network middle school, is an independent Catholic school in New Haven, CT close to the Yale Univer­sity Campus. Our school is tuition-free and is focused on providing a holistic, college­oriented academic curriculum for under­served children from low-income families. We serve children of all faiths, races and cultures. For the 2009-2010 academic year, we will have a 5th-8th grade with a to­tal of seventy boys and girls taught in small, mainly gender specific classes. Peace and non-violence education are an integral part of our curriculum. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: We are looking for full time teaching fellows as part of an AmeriCorps program. Their primary responsibilities will be student teaching with assistance and supervision from our Academic Principal; coaching sports or another student activity; and assisting with a major area of school life such as: development. food service, or coordinat­ing volunteers. LENGTH OF SERVICE: We ask for a COm­mitment of one year (eleven months) with the hope of renewing for a second year. While it is recognized that the teaching fellows will have little or no experience, 
the entire atmosphere is one of col: 
laboration and mutual learning. Specific subject areas are but not limited to: math, science, language arts, and social stud­
ies. Compensation: $11,000.00 annual stipend, room and board, health insur­ance, and AmeriCorps Education; Award of $4, 725.00; Eleven months -late August 2009 -late July 2010 CONTACT: Jay Bowes 
(203) 772-2424 
president@saintmartinacademy.org 
www.saintmartinacademy.org 
ST. VINCENT PALLOTTI CENTER 
GOAL oF PROGRAM: The St. Vincent Pal­lotti Center provides services for prospec­tive, current, and former volunteers. We produce an annual publication called 
"Connections" that lists over a hundred Catholic-based volunteer long term programs. We encourage and promote the culture of long-term volunteer service within the Church. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Education, medical care, child care, elderly care, social work, manual labor, eco-justice, youth ministry, summer opportunities. LENGTH OF SERVICE: Three months to three years CONTACT: Julia Strukely 
(202) 529-3330 juliastrukely@pallotticenter.org www.pallotticenter.org/ 
SU CASA CATHOLIC WORKER 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: The ministry Of SU Casa Catholic Worker is three-fold: we 
provide hospitality and a place of healing for displaced Latino families, we partner with our neighbors to make our commu­nity a better place to live, and we engage 
in education and social action related to our ministry. Workers strive for lives of simplicity and non-violence in the tradi­tion of the Catholic Worker Movement. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: All workers take weekly shifts managing the house, which entails watching over the house and provid­ing for the needs of the guests. In addition, according to their skills and interests, work­ers take on one or more of the following roles: community organizing, food service, gardening, grant writing, maintenance, newsletter (writing and editing), outings and activities, plunge group leader, soup kitchen, tutoring, volunteer coordinator. 
LENGTH OF SERVICE: Six monthS tO 
multi-year 
coNTACT: Chantal de Alcuaz (773) 376-9263 sucasacw@gmail.com sucasacatholicworker.blogspot.com 
TEACH FOR AMERICA 

GOAL oF PROGRAM: Teach For America is the national corps of outstanding recent college graduates of all backgrounds and academic majors who commit two years to teach in urban and rural public schools in low-income communities and become lifelong leaders in the effort to expand opportunity for children. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Each year, Teach For America selects a corps of over 2,000 individuals, provides them with ex­tensive training during summer institutes, places them as full-time, paid teachers in public schools, and provides ongo­ing support through a network ofTeach For America staff, corps members and alumni during their two years as teachers and beyond. After their commitment, our alumni use their insight, leadership, and credibility to advocate for change from inside many different sectors. Today, over 12,000 alumni are working in law, busi­ness, medicine, education, policy-making, and journalism. LENGTH OF SERVICE: TWO years coNTACT: Carrie English 
(312) 254-1000, ext. 324 carolyn.englisl@eachforamerica.org http:/ jteachforamerica.org 
THE HAITIAN PROJECT, INC. 
GOAL oF PROGRAM: The Haitian Project through Louverture Cleary School, its Catholic, coeducational boarding school in Haiti, educates and nurtures academi­cally talented and motivated students from the poorest Haitian families to maxi­mize their potential and enable them to work toward building a Haiti where justice and peace thrive. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: Teaching, community life, extracurricular activities, empowerment of female students,program development LENGTH OF SERVICE: Ten monthS coNTACT: Reese Grondin 
(401) 351-3624 
thp@ids.net 
www.haitianproject.org 

THE NEIGHBORHOOD ACADEMY 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: The Neighborhood Academy's mission is to break the cycle of generational poverty by preparing low­income youth for higher education. Type of Placement: The Neighborhood Academy is almost exclusively funded privately through the generosity of indi­vidual donors, foundations, corporations and faith communities. Public funds for textbooks and partial meal reimburse­ments accounts for less than one tenth of one percent of our total annual budget. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One year CONTACT: Ronika Frank 
(412) 362-2001 ronika.frank@theneighborhoo­dacademy.org www.theneighborhoodacademy.org 

VINCENTlAN SERVICE CORPS -CENTRAL 
GOAL OF PROGRAM: The Vincentian Ser­Vice Corps exists to serve persons living in 
poverty as Jesus served them. This service 
is characterized by respect, compassion, devotion and generosity. It is in service that the VSC member also meets Christ, for He has said: "Whatsoever you do for the least of my brothers and sisters you do to me:· Matthew 25:40. TYPE OF PLACEMENT: We WOrk With schools, the homeless, health care, those in prison, at risk youth, the elderly, advo­cacy and justice related ministries as well as home repair and building. LENGTH OF SERVICE: One Year (August-July) coNTACT: Sr. Teresa Daly 
(314) 608-2449 
tdaly@dcwcp.org 
www.vscorps.org 

For the most current listing of post­graduate opportunities be sure to visit: 
socialconcerns.nd.edu. 
TONIGHT~ POST-GRADUATE SERVICE FAIR • 5-8 PM ·JOYCE CENTER CONCOURSE 
ABOUT THE FAIR Considering post-graduate service? Be sure to come to the Post-graduate Service Fair tonight, Oc­tober 1, from 5-8pm in the Joyce Center. Visitors will have the chance to explore domestic and international service opportunities and speak to representatives from more than 70 organizations (whose profiles are in this insert) that offer short and long term service opportunities. 
WHO SHOULD ATTEND? The fair is not only for seniors, but all students who are interested in service. Some placements are available for summer service. 
QUESTIONS? 
Mike Hebbeler 

Director, Student Leadership and Senior Transitions 
Center for Social Concerns Hebbeler.2@nd.edu 
[p] (574) 631-5779 
[w] socialconcerns.nd.edu 
~&~CIAL 

~CONCERNS 






