
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Football weekend security spurs ad hoc group 
Jenkins addresses concerns over home game safety; Reish to represent student voice in newly-formed committee 
"We have one of the most hos­sage boards on NDNation.com football weekend, ensure their The University has created aBy KAITLYNN RIELY pitable college sports venues in the were filled with posts alleging over­safety and make the Notre Dame Web site at http://nd.edu/gameday.
Associate News Editor 
country and routinely receive com­ly aggressive behavior by police football game-day experience one The site was activated Monday, 
pliments, even from opposing team and ushers who staffed the game. of the most enjoyable and celebrat­Brown said. The online form 
University President Fr. John fans ... " Brown said. "But at the Police arrested just over 100 peo­ed in college athletics," Jenkins includes a comment section and Jenkins has created an ad hoc same time, concerns have been ple during the four Saturdays said. "While proud of their work, asks for the person's name, e-mail committee to review football week­expressed about aspects of our games have been held at Notre they recognize that they can address, phone and address. The end safety and security protocol, safety and security procedures." Dame Stadium so far this season. improve, and they look for every required fields for the form are due to written and telephoned The creation of the ad hoc com­In a news release Monday, opportunity to do so." name and comment, Brown said. complaints to Notre Dame about mittee is a response "in particular Jenkins said those who staff the The committee will review Notre Jenkins and his administration the strength of enforcement at to people who have called or writ­football games "recognize that they Dame football weekend protocols chose 10 people, representing dif­games this season, Assistant Vice ten and provided specific informa­can improve." and practices, consider concerns ferent constituencies and with dif­President for News and tion," Brown said. "Many dedicated staff work raised and offer suggestions about ferent areas of expertise, to sit on Information Dennis Brown said Following the Purdue game Sept. extremely hard to welcome more improving football weekends, the Monday. 27 at Notre Dame Stadium, mes-than 85,000 people to campus each release said. see AD HOC/page 6 

Economic crisis has consequences for jol;> search 
Panel analyzes effects of hits to national financial system, impact on graduates 
By ROBERT SINGER 
News Writer 
With global financial mar­kets in disarray, a panel of experts convened Monday evening in the Mendoza College of Business for "The Credit Crisis: What it Means for You and the World" to bring clarity to the current crisis and to describe the consequences for both for individuals and the larger system. 
Margaret Forster, finance specialist and former princi­pal of Wanger Asset Management LLP, spoke first, summarizing the shifting landscape of 21st century finance and the recent down­fall of many of its large insti­tutions. 
Formerly, Forster explained, banks provided credit on a stricter and more personal basis. She said, banks would "set the price of loans such that borrowers could pay them back." Bankers would watch their borrowers' behavior closely, ensuring that the process ran smoothly and intervening when necessary. Although this system was stable, banks could only lend out as much money as they held in deposits. 
In the new system, accord­ing to Forster, banks sell 
see PANEL/page 6 


By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
Flexibility is the key for Notre Dame students looking for jobs and internships in rough economic conditions, according to Ray Vander Heyden, associate director of the Career Center. 
"And don't overlook the power of networking," Vander Heyden said. 
The current economic crisis will affect more industries than investment banking. "Certainly there's going to be a trickle-down effect," Vander Heyden said. "Any industry 
TRAVIS ALLEN/The Observer where credit plays a role" will 

Margaret Forster, finance specialist, spoke Monday be hit the hardest, he said. 
on the current shifts in the financial landscape. But Abigail Wozniak, an 
Prospects for majors across all disciplines affected by current market, credit troubles 
assistant professor of eco­nomics who is on leave teach­ing at Princeton University this academic year, said jobs prospects in every industry are affected by the economy. 
"It's going to be a problem 

-for everyone," she said. "The bad news is that it's not just the stock market, which is fluctuating wildly. The bigger, underlying problem is that growth is expected to be flat." 
The United States is headed either for a recession, which is a period of negative growth, or a sustained period of flat growth, Wozniak, who has done research in the area of the evolution of the job mar-
see JOBS/page 6 

Students fulfill goals in Marathon 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students were among the thousands or people who trained lor and ran in the 26.2 miln Chicago Marathon Sunday. 
Some students wanted to run in thn Marathon in order to fulfill per­sonal goal<; that they had set. 
"I just really wanted to run a marathon once in my life. I felt like if I didn't do it while I wa'i in col­lege where I had a lot mom time at my dL'ieretion, I would never do it," senior rumwr Jamie Smith said. 
Sophomore Brian Sheridan became interestAd in competing in marathon..<; and triathlons after he got to Notre Dame because he missed the competition and goal-setting he was used to as an athlete in high school. His uncle competes in triathlons, and this motivated Sheridan to pick up competing in marathons and triathlons. 
"I just like to set goals ... set a goal, and the feeling when you fin­ish is indescribable," Sheridan said. 
Sheridan is in the process of starting a triathlon club at Notre Dame. 
Sheridan began training for the Chicago Marathon when he returned to school this fall ­which he said did not give him a'i much training time as he would have liked. Sheridan had compet­ed in triathlons over the summer, though, and he said that these helped him stay in shape. 
see CHICAGO/page 6 

ELECTION 2008 
Abortion issue dominates talk 
Pizza, Pop and Politics focuses on the social and moral sides ofplatforms 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
The issue of life and the issue of social justice are the same, according to the Pizza, Pop and Politics panel on Social and Moral Issues. The discussion Monday night focused almost entirely on the abortion issue. 
"Social justice is the care for the dignity of each human being and the work for the common good," Mary Keys, a professor of political science said. "The paradigm should be social 
Monday's Pizza, Pop and Politics panel discussed social and see PIZZNpage 4 moral issues, focusing primarily on the topic of abortion. 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 14, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Scranton party 

Ifyou watdwd Saturday Night I jve 
rm:ently. you lward Jon Bidnn's character 
playnd by Jw;on Sudnikis) rmnark about 
1is childhood honwtown of Scranton, 
:'mmsylvania: "It's a hnll-holn. An 
absolutn jnrk-water of a town. You could­
n't stand to spmul a wneknnd thnrn. It's 
just an awful, awful. sad place, lillnd with 
sad and dnspnratn pnople, with no ambi­
tion." 
Ililllnd this rant 
Mary Frances

hilarious. My mother, Popltraised in Scranton, 
did too, but my undn, 
.','cene writer

who still lives them, 
did not lind it as 
funny. 
The sad ract L'> Scranton holds the mpu­
tation of a ha<;-benn city that is now more 
like thn armpit of the state. 
Studying in Wa'ihington, DC, last semes­ter, I dm:ided to spend my St. Patrick's Day wnnknnd in Scranton to celebrate their annual Parade Day, the limrth largest St. Patrick's Day parade in the country. I took some lwat lhr this lhnn my fiinnds: 
"Scranton does not seem like the best 
phu:n, eonsidnring how it's depicted in The 
<lllim." 
"You're going to Scranton?" 
I would like to think of myself as an "ouL'iider" to Scranton (to use a tnnn that (;ovtwnor Palin also tmjoys throwing around loosnly). I have only spnnt a li1w days at a timn them every coupln of years to visit liunily. This p<L'>t year. hownvnr, I took two oct:<L'iions to come to Scranton and eeh1bratP tlw J,'l'tmt cultural opportu­nities it has to olli•r. 
First. I wtmt to "The Ollit:e" eonvnntion during IiLII bmak. This involved being at t.lw University oi"Scra_nton (a good bang­lhr-your-buck Jesuit sdwoll at an ungodly hour to bn part of tlw Today show, litnrally rubbing nlbows with hung-ovnr studenL<>. and gntt.ing photo ops with ca'it membnrs ofthn show. 
In addition, I saw tlw show's wardrobn tlxhibit at the Elnctric City Trolley Mustllllll, strollnd around Steamtown Mall. and dressed up a<; Pam in thn look­alikn contest hdd at Lackawanna Collegn. Whom else muld you have donn that in 01111 day? 
In Mart:h. I rPturnnd to Scranton li1r Parade Day. Om:n again, I lilund out that Scranton pnople like to start thnir parties Vtlry early-but ror a good rn<L'iOn. One being in addition to the numerous float<; f(laturnd that day, llillary Clinton wa'> walking in the parade with my mom's cousin. thn mayor of Scranton. At one point my friend and I worn nearly inches away from her. This stressed out my aunt, who told nm to take oil' tho Obama sticknr I W<L<> proudly wnaring, a'> to not nmbar­r<L<>s thn lamily munn (though I'm prntty sum thn mayor of Scranton would not even rm:ognizP me as his mlativtl). 
/\llorwards, we enjoynd dinnnr that W<L'> accompanied with ba1,rpipt~s and then par­took in a lilw bt1nrs at Buddy Clark's, a small bar that attractnd an equalnumbtlr of mlltlge studnnL'i and 50-something­ytmr-olds. And surprisingly, tho college studt~nL'i did not lind tl1is weird at all. 
So this fiLII broak. cancnl your plans to go to Dublin. Now York, Chieago, or your honmtown of Nowhen\ USA. Visit Scranton instmtd. You won't bn sorry. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mary Frances Popit at mpopit@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

·I htTC wen: rwo cnur.; in the Ocr. I 0 txlirion oflbe l lbscrver. I lue ro a rqx,ning crro~ rhe article tithl "llnivcmty addrt·'''<" aunmunity n1atiom" inmm.uly statcxl the n:sidenu-ofmmmunity member Marguerite 'lotylor. 'E•ylor liv..,; Wt!'it ofNo~ Dame Ave. in the northeast neiv,hhorhood. Also, due to an t..fiting cm1r, the letter t'Hti­rkxi""Ihmk )'lll~·Ihmk ytlli!Titank ytJt~" was mistakmly ;utrihutcd ro Mike (;ld)'. IL'th MiUcr submitte-d the letter ·1 he ( )bit'TVt.'f regrets these emu,;. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR FALL BREAK? 





Alan Yanchak Cam Thorpe Eileen Gillespie Elise Alonzi Rocky Stroud Ross Degenhardt 
freshman freshman freshman freshman freshman freshman Duncan Hall Duncan Hall McGlinn McGlinn Duncan llall Duncan Hall 
"Coin' back to "Going back to "Going home to "Going to "Flyin' on a jet "Gonna 
Houston where I  New Hampshire  see my 6 year  Chicago to  
don't have to  where I do have  old brother,  escape Red Sox  
wear pants. "  to wear pants. "  Bob."  fans and mourn  
my Cubs in  
peace. "  


ZHIBIN DAifThe Observer Yesterday's unseasonably warm weather drew students out of their dorms. Seniors Patrick Braga-Henebry and Josh Bartrom enjoyed the warm weather by playing fris­bee on South Quad. 
OFFBEAT 

Man tries to purchase McDonald's meal with pot 
VEHO BEACH, Fla. -A McDonald's cashier called 911 after a Vero Beach drive-thru customer allegedly oll'ered to pay for his meal with marijuana. The Indian lEver County Shnrirf's Office said the cashier callnd Monday with a dnscription of the vehicle the suspect had been riding in. 
A deputy spotted the vehi­de, found marijuana in the ear and arrested its oeeu­pant, 27 -year-old Shawn Alexander Pannullo. 
Pannullo was charged with possPBsion of cannabis and postnd $500 bail. It was 
unclear ir he had an attor­
ney. 
A Sheriffs report did not say what the suspect ordered at McDonald's or if he ultimately purchased the meal using something other than marijuana. 
Pumpkin weighs 1,528 pounds, wins contest 
IIALF MOON BAY, Calif. -Thad Starr's giant pump­kin really began putting on weight in August. A lot of weight. The pumpkin gained about thirty pounds a day on its way to victory Monday at the 35th annual Safeway World Championship Pumpkin Weigh-oil' in Half Moon Bay. 
Starr's pumpkin finished at 1,528 pounds, beating the contest record he set last year by rour pounds. 
"We really pamper them," Starr, 41, or Pleasant Jlill, Ore., said about the pump­kins he raises, adding that the secret to growing big pumpkins is good soil. ­
Tim Beeman. a spokesman for the contest, said Starr's pumpkin was four feet, rour inches tall with a circumference of about 15 feet. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI

:::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...I 
e
e
c:t 
I I I
I I .I
0 


...I 0 HIGH 68 HIGH 62 HIGH 65 HIGH 59 LOW 48 LOW 48 LOW 48 LOW 43 
plane. " surprise my parents with a new hair-do." 
IN BRIEF 
German Club and SUB will hold Okdomerfest on today from 7 to 10 p.m. at Legends. Free food will be served, T-shirts given away, and a live German band will perform. The event is free and open to all students of Notrn Damn, Saint Mary's and lloly Cross. 
A health information ses­sion, "Know Your Body," will be held today, at S p.m. in Hoom 117. O'Shaughnessy llall. The event is part of "Lovn Your Body W(Jok." All events throughout thn wnek are free and opnn to stu­dnnts. 
Tho documentary film "The Price of Sugar" will be shown on Wednesday, Oct. 15, at 7 p.m. in tho Carey Auditorium of thn llesburgh Library. Thn event is free and open to the public and is sponsort~d by the Class of 2009 Class Couneil. 
John Schwarz, Harold Brown Profcssor or Theoretical Physies at the Calirornia Institute of Technology will be delivnring a lecturn-at "Connecting String Theory to the Real World" on Wednesday, October 15 from 
4:00 to 5:25 p.m. in 11 S Nieuwland. 
The film "Tell No One" will be played on Thursday, Oct. 16-. Friday, Oct. 17 and Saturday, Oct. 1 S at 6::W 
p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

Atlanta 81 I 58 Boston 72 I 60 Chicago 64 I 52 Denver 55 I 35 Houston 85 I 71 los Angeles 85 I 59 Minneapolis 55 I 45 New York 76 I 62 Philadelphia 80 I 61 Phoenix 86 I 62 Seattle 55 I 42 St. Louis 79 I 59 Tampa 89 I 69 Washington 86 I 63 
Tuesday, October I 4, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students celebrate German culture at Okdomerfest 
German Club, SUB to host annual event at Legends featuring live music, free food such as sauerkraut, pretzels 
. 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Break out your lederhosen and dirndl. 
Notre Dame's annual Okdomerfest, complete with free food and live German music will be held tonight at Legends from 7 p.m. to 10. 
Okdomerfest, which is hosted by the German Club and SUB, is open to any Notre Dame, SMC or Holy Cross student with a valid student ID, Charlie Vogelheim, senior German Club secretary, said. 
Members of the Club are excited about their take on this German cultural event. 
"We have all sorts of Latin and Asian cultural events [on campus) and a lot of the European events get forgotten about," said senior and German club president Emily Doll. 
Notre Dame's event is hoping to be as authentic as possible. 
"Obviously we try and have it mimic Oktoberfest as much as we can given the limits on the kind of food we have available and being a University spon­sored club we aren't allowed to spend any money on beer," said senior and German club treas­urer C.J. Ramsey. 
While they studied abroad in Innsbruck, Austria both Ramsey and Vogelheim had the opportu­nity to attend the real Oktoberfest, which his held in Munich, Germany every late September. 
"Oktoberfest in Germany is like a state fair here except it is just centered around beer, pret­ty much," said Ramsey. 
"Everyone is just so happy when they're there. It is like a carnival almost. They have these huge rides. Every brewery in Munich has its own tent where they serve their tradi­tional beer," said Vogelheim. 
At Okdomerfest, German beer will be on tap to people who are of age, Vogelheim said. 
"It's not like a big drinking festival we're having at Legends. Its more of a celebra­tion of German culture," he said. 
This celebration includes eat­ing German food, like sauer­kraut, bratwurst and pretzels. This will mimic the food served at Oktoberfest in Germany, which Ramsey said is "pretty much anything that is greasy or bread that goes well with beer." 


They will not be serving any of the exotic items that Vogelheim witnessed, such as pork knuckles or ox tails. 
Doll said that she enjoys see­ing people dress in typical German attire at Okdomerfest. 
"I think that my favorite part is seeing the more enthusiastic German club members show up in lederhosen and sometimes dance the polka and jut gener­ally act a little foolish, but have a lot of German spirit," said Doll. 
Vogelheim is one of those "more enthusiastic" members, and plans to wear his lederho­sen. 

Doll said that while this year's Okdomerfest is a celebration of the same traditions as in previ­ous years, more food will be available and she hopes to have more people attend. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Presentation educates students about rape 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College 
Residence Hall Association 
(RHA), Health and Wellness, 
Security, and the Saint Joseph 
County rape crisis center, 
SOS, teamed up for a presen­
tation entitled "I Was Kind of 
Raped" Monday evening to 
educate students about dan­
gerous scenarios facing col­
lege-aged women. 
Regina Hall Director Toyin 
Adeyemi began the presenta­
tion by introducing a fictional 
video created by the RHA 
starring students Andrea 
Krebs, Aimee Cunniff and 
Kristle Hodges. 
The film relayed a potential rape situation, debunking the myths that rapes occur in a dark alley with someone you do not know. According to the . video, a college"aged woman is 10 times more likely to be 
raped then be in a car crash. 
Following the video, direc­
tor of SOS and Notre Dame 
graduate Annie Ehlwall 
defined rape for the crowd 
gathered in VanderVennet 
theatre. "Rape is a noncon­
sensual act where one of the 
two parties says no to sexual 
activity." 
Ehlwall especially warned 
college students about rape 
because "anytime alcohol is 
involved, judgment is 
impaired. As far as rape is 
concerned, alcohol never puts 
you a clear state of mind," 
she said. 
Ehlwall then described 
three red flags for rape. The 
first tactic used can be force; 
whether through threats or 
intimidation. 
Secondly, not saying "no" is 
not saying "yes." 
"If someone is passed out a 
party," Ehlwall said, just 
because they did not say no 
specifically, forcing them to have sex is still considered rape. There needs to be open communication." 
Third, she reminded the audience that it had to be sex­ual activity before it can be considered rape. If not it is considered criminal deviant conduct. 
· SOS has volunteers and advocates on hand dealing with rape, Ehlwall said. 
"Only 10 to 20 percent of rape cases are reported the police. The victim needs to know that people believe her story and are not judging her," she said. 
In terms of attackers, it is a fact that 85 percent of the time the victim is acquainted with the person who raped them. 
"Rapists rape for power and control 100 percent of the time." Ehlwall said. "Also, they rape to humiliate the vic­tim." 
Although Ehlwall said there is some premeditation, rapists often try to find people who are not secure in their own life because those are the people that are easier to con­vince that the rape was their own fault rather than the attackers. 
Director of Saint Mary's Security Dave Gariepy stressed the importance of rape kits. "Even with physi­cal evidence and witnesses it takes almost two years to bring a rape case to trial but coming in as soon as possible with as much evidence as pos­sible it helpful." 
Above all, Gariepy said to not let the rape eat away at you. 
"Turn to someone, please do not try to deal with it on your own," he said. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerOl@saintmarys.edu 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Group 

Taskforce chairs consider options including taxi services, lights, bike lanes 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Campus Life Council (CLC) task force chairs· reported on the initial progress of their groups at Monday's Council meeting, and student body president Bob Reish led a dis­cussion about student safety, specifically regarding commu­nication between students off campus who are victims of crime and the University. 
Reish said he was notified that a group of students resid­ing off campus were assaulted over the weekend, and a con­cern was brought forth regarding the methods in which University officials are made aware of such incidents, especially when students are physically harmed. 
"Is there any kind of avenue where the University reaches out [to these students]?" Reish asked. 
Sr. Sue Dunn, assistant vice president for Student Affairs, said that if a police report is filed, "that comes to the attention of [Notre Dame Security Police] (NDSP), and in turn NDSP would report that to [associate vice presi­dent of Residence Life] Bill Kirk." 
In addition, affected stu­dents can informally notify the University of the inci­dents, Dunn said. 
Reish said this issue ties in to his administration's goals regarding student safety. 
Nicole O'Connor, student government Parliamentarian and chair of the Task Force on Student Safety, spoke earli­er in the meeting about what the focus of her task force. 
The group has discussed taxi services and will work with Senate Community 
Relations Committee chair Gus Gari to gather informa­tion about various local taxi services, O'Connor said, and they are considering develop­ing a grading system to aid students looking to use taxi services. 
O'Connor also said her task force is looking into outdoor lighting in the Mod Quad area, and has contacted Landscaping Services. In addition, Dunn, a member of the task force, met with Christopher Dressel of the South Bend Department of Community and Economic Development to discuss cre­ation of bike lanes around Notre Dame's campus. 
O'Connor said they specifi­cally discussed the possibility of making a bike lane along Vaness St. heading towards Twyckenham Dr. 
Grant Schmidt, student body vice president, said the Task Force on Technology and Study Spaces in Dorms has three projects. 
His task force is working to address the possibility of installing Pharos printers in all dorms, addressing study spaces around campus, and working to develop a calendar system utilizing Google Calend(!.rs. 
Schmidt asked Fr. Pete McCormick, rector of Keough Hall, to describe what he has done within his dorm using Google Calendars. 
McCormick said he has cre­ated a calendar for the dorm that is now embedded in the dorm's Web site. 
McCormick said he thinks Google Calendars can be used across the University. 
"Every single student who now has a Gmail account has, by virtue of that account, a calendar account," McCormick said. 

"This is so simple, but the problem is ... building the infrastructure to do it," he said. 
Meg MacCaughey, SUB rep­resentative and chair of the Task Force on New Student Introduction to Notre Dame, said her group has focused on transfer as well as interna­tional and multicultural stu­dents. 
The Office of Admissions currently runs Transfer Orientation, MacCaughey said, and her group is looking into see how Student Activities or Student Government can get involved. 
"We want to see what aspects we can touch upon, and which we can't," she said. 
The task force is also dis­cussing creating a universal booklet for all new students at the University, combining information received from various sources across the University to help "integrate students a little more quick­ly," she said. 
In other CLC news: 
+ Reish told the Council about a new student govern­ment initiative called Freshmen Leadership Experience (FLEX) which seeks to integrate more fresh­men into student government. 
"It's taking 25 other stu­dents who didn't make fresh­man council ... and students who might not be as interest­ed in the programming side," he said, and getting them involved with various student government initiatives. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 14, 2008 
Dance marathon hosts charity sale 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's Dance Marathon will be giving stu­dents the opportunity to shop and donate to Hiley's Children Hospital at the same time during its Charity Denim sale today from 2 p.m. to 7 in tlw Earley Conference Center located in the basement of the Student Center. 
The sale includes mostly designer jeans but there will also be hooded sweatshirts and other apparel sold as well. The group will be accepting debit and credit cards. 
The committee is asking for a $1 donation at the door, and then students are free to shop. About $10 will b!1 given for every pair of jeans sold, Fundraising Co-Chair Maura Clougherty said. 
The event was held last year, and due to its original suer.ess, the group decided to host it again. Clougherty found the idea while on Facebook. The event has gnnorally been used by soror­ities in the past. 
"It seemed like such a per­fect event for Saint Mary's, since girls love designer jeans, but can't always afford them with the price of tuition, books, gas, etc," Clougherty said. 
Last year more than 200 people were in attendance and the board raised almost $1,200. 
"It was a great success last year and we (my fundraising committee and the DM board( are so excited to host Charity Denim again this year," Clougherty said. 
The committee is able to sell the jeans at prices reduced anywhere from 40 to 70 percent because they are last year's or last season's styles. Brands include Joe's Jeans, 7 for all Mankind, True Heligion, and many oth­ers that you would find at department stores like Nordstrom's, Macy's, Saks Fifth Avenue and other spe­cialty stores, Clougherty said. 
Clougherty and the commit­tee are optimistic about today's turnout. "Since this event is so unique, people are attracted to it. It's a chance to go shopping with­out leaving campus," she said. 
Dance Marathon also has other events planned for the year. The committee goes canning at Kroger. "Canning is where we stand outside with our Hiley's buckets and ask for donations," Clougherty said. 
The committee has a Facebook group called Charity Denim which refer­ences links for more· informa­tion ineluding www.charity­denim.com 
"All money raised from this event goes towards our grand total, which will be revealed the night of the Marathon," Clougherty said. The Marathon will take place April 3 to 4. It will be the third time Saint Mary's has hosted Dance Marathon. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO I @saintmarys.edu 

Pizza 
continued from page 1 
justice, at the heart of which should be the dignity of every human being." 
"There is no common good if an entire class of human beings is denied protection by the law," she said. 
It's important to remember the purpose of politics in dis­cerning a position on life, Professor Paolo Carozza of the Law School said. "We start with one premise, that the purpose of politics is to serve the common good," he said. "If we're electing some­one, we're giving them the 
authority to  serve the  com­ 
mon good."  
"If that's  not  

"Ifwe're electing 

the premise, the modern day rest of the dis­someone, we're giving politics," 
cussion doesn't them the authority to Parkinson 
make sense," s a i d . 
serve the

Carozza said. "Contrast 
As a human common good." this with rights lawyer, thousands of Carozza argued years of his­
Paolo Carozza 

that the common tory of west­
Law School professor 

good is protect­ern civiliza-
The United States is found­ed on the idea that "govern­ments are established for safeguarding the rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, which meant that people should be free from government restraint to pursue the ultimate virtue, the ultimate good, which is God," Parkinson said. "There's nothing about securing the greatest eco­nomic benefit for every­body." 
However, today, protecting human dignity has become less of a focus of politics. "To a large degree, the philoso­phy of materialism, that is, that all politics should boil 
down  to  economics, tends  
more  and  more  to  be the  
paramount  
issue  in  


ing everyone's basic human rights. One human right cannot be sepa­rated from another human right, he said. "All of these principles are necessary and interdependent on each other," he said. "It's an integrity of principles." 
Humans have basic human rights by nature, according to Carozza. "They're founded on the basic idea that human beings have an inherent dig­nity to them by virtue of their being human beings," he said. 
Protecting the dignity of human beings is a principle tenet of both the Catholic Church and the United States, according to Indiana Right to Life supporter Mike Parkinson. 
tion in which the primary purpose of polities was to seek that which was just whether it causes economic harm or benefit, whether it caused comfort or hardship." 
Parkinson, who has done research on the Nuremburg trials, tied abortion to the practices of the Nazi SS. He said that many of the SS offi­cers who were convicted at Nuremburg were convicted for promoting abortions. At the time of the Nuremburg trials, "all countries knew it to be so wrong that those who committed such barbar­ic acts should be brought to justice in an international tribunal to answer for their crimes," Parkinson said. 
Abortion has become a 
political issue in modern day, but at its heart, abortion remains a question of moral­ity, according to Carozza. "The protection that we afford and that we're able to realize for human dignity and human rights is some­thing that doesn't primarily depend on politics or law," he said. "Law and politics are necessary and impor­tant, but they're not suffi­cient." 
That said, abortion is only illegal if the government leg­islates against it. While life issues are currently over­shadowed by issues of Iraq and the economy, the upcoming election will still be important in determining the fate of abortions in the United States, according to Notre Dame Hight to Life member Christine Homano. 
Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Barack Obama is a "consistent champion of free reproduc­tive choice," Homano said. lie supports upholding Hoe v. Wade, and would not sup­port a Constitutional amend­ment banning abortions, she said. 
Meanwhile, Hepublican presidential candidate Sen. John McCain "presents a stark contrast to Obama." she said. McCain is in favor of overturning Hoe, but this decision would not automati­cally ban abortions. Instead, it would return the decision on abortion's legality to the states. 

No matter what happens in the election, the most impor­tant thing is to create a cul­ture of life, aceording to Carozza. "It begins in the human communities in whieh we create, absorb, and transmit basie human values," he said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 
Sopho111ores chosen for KPMG program 
Start Your Career in Accounting. 
Special to The Observer 
Thrnn University of Notre Dame students were selected by the audit, tax and adviso­ry firm KPMG for its 2008 Future Diversity Leaders (FDL) class. 
Saida Khan, Jessica Olivas and Jasmine Williams, all sophomore accounting majors in Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business, are among 51 stu­dents nationwide chosen to participate in the FDL pro­gram. KPMG chooses candi­dates based on high academ­ic achievement, community and campus involvement and partieipation in diversity· organizations. 
The program, now in its second year, provides lead­nrship training and financial support for outstanding minority undergraduate business students. This year's FDL students recently 
completed a two-day leader­ship conference in Hollywood, Calif., where they were able to network and participate in leadership style courses co-instructed by KPMG partners. 
FDL includes a summer internship offer in addition to the leadership confer­ence. Upon completion of an internship, Khan, Olivas and Williams will become eligi­ble for additional scholar­ship money. Students may then have the opportunity for a second "practice internship" which offers hands-on experience with clients in a student's chosen business area. 
·In addition to naming Khan, Olivas and Williams as 2008 FDL members, KPMG selected Notre Dame junior Rebeea Alvarez for the inaugural class. Alvarez completed a KPMG intern­ship last summer. 


Northeastern's MS in Accounting/MBA for non-accounting maiors: 
• 
Earn two degrees in just 15 rnonths. 

• 
Complete a 3-rnonth paid residency at a leading accounting firn1. 

• 
Proven track record of 100% job placement. 


Take the first step. 
Visit us online or at an information session near you. Learn more about the program and upcoming events at www.msarnba.ncu.edu. 
Write News. 
E-mail Jenn at 
jmetz@nd.ed 

617-373-3244 
~ Northeastern
gspa@neu.edu 
~UNIVERSITY
www.rnsarnba.neu.edu 


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 14, 2008 CoMPILED FROA,1 THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Political prisoner with cancer released 
THIPOLI, Libya -The charity run by Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi's son helped secure the release of' a prominent political prisoner for health reasons, one of the group's directors said Monday. 
Activist ldris Boufayed, who had been ordered jailed for life, was freed aftfw the intervention of the Gadhafi International Association for Charitable Organizations, led by Seif at-Islam Gadhafi. din~etor Saleh Abdel-Salam said. 
Boufayed, an out<>poken critic of Gadhafi who had been previously jailed, was arrested early last year with several other activists after announcing plans for a peaceful rally in Tripoli and sentenced to life in prison. 
Boufayed had been hospitalized for the last six months and the organization will now ensure he is treated for lung cancer in Switzerland, Abdel­Salam told The A<>sor.iated Press. 
Last month, Secretary of State Condoleezza Bice visited Libya and said she raised specific human right'> concerns with Qadhafi. Other U.S. ollicials said they have raised Boufayed's case with the Libyan government. 
Christians flee Iraqi city after killings 
BAGHDAD -Cars and trucks loaded with suit­ca<>es, mattresses and passengers cradling baskets stum1d with dothes lined up at checkpoint<> Monday to ilee Mosul, a day after the 1Oth killing of an Iraqi Christian in the northern city so far this month. 
Nobody has claimed responsibility for the attacks, but local leaders have blamed al-Qaida in Iraq, which maintains influence in the region despite an ongoing U.S.-Iraqi military operation launched in May. 
'lbe latest victim was a music store owner who was gunned down Sunday evening at work in an attack that left his teenage nephew wounded, according to police and a neighbor. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Two large wildfires hit Los Angeles 
LOS ANGELES-Two huge wildfires driv­en by strong Santa Ana winds burned into neighborhoods near Los Angeles on Monday, forcing frantic evacuations on smoke-and traffic-choked highways, destroying homes and causing at least two deaths. 
More than 1 ,000 firefighters and nine water-dropping aircraft battled the 5,300­acre Marek Fire at the northeast end of the San Fernando Valley, and the 3,000-acre Sesnon Fire in the Porter Ranch area at the west end. Winds blew up to 45 mph with gusts reaching 70 mph. 
Mother abandons teenager at hospital 
OMAHA. Neb. -A Michigan mother drove roughly 12 hours to Omaha, so she could aban­don her 13-year-old son at a hospital under the state's unique safe-haven law, Nebraska otncials said Monday. 
The boy from the DPtroit area is the second tmmager from out<>ide Nebraska and 18th child overall abandoned in the statP since the law took efleet in July. 
"I certainly rncognize and can commiserate and empathize with families across our state and across the country who are obviously strug­gling with parenting issues, but this is not the appropriate way of dealing with them, whether you're in Nebra<>ka or whether you're in another state," said Todd Landry, who heads the state's Department of Health and Human Services' division of children and family services. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Purdue scientist sues for defamation 
WEST LAFAYETTE. Ind. -A Purdue University scientist who was reprimanded for research misconduct over elaims he produced • nudear fusion in tabletop experiment<> is suing two other faculty members for alleged defama­tion. 
Husi P. Taleyarkhan, a professor of nuclear engineering, said in a complaint filed in Tippecanoe Superior Court that Lefteri Tsoukalas and Tatjana Jcvremovic made false and malicious public statements that led to "a suc1:essful campaign to ruin Taleyarkhan and his sonofusion research." 
Financialcrisisleadsto increase in suicide 
Counseling in demand as authorities urge people to get help rather than tum to violence 
Associated Press 

UNITED STATES -An out­of-work money manager in California loses a fortune and wipes out his family in a mur­der-suicide. A 90-year-old Ohio widow shoots herself in the chest as authorities arrive to evict her from the modest house she called home for 38 years. 
In Massachusetts. a house­wife who had hidden her fami­ly's mounting financial crisis from her husband sends a note to the mortgage company warning: "By the time you fore­close on my house, I'll be dead." 
Then Carlene Balderrama shot herself to death, leaving an insurance policy and a suicide note on a table. 
Across the country, authori­ties are becoming concerned that the nation's financial woes could turn increasingly violent, and they are urging people to get help. In some places, men­tal-health hot lines are jammed, counseling services are in high demand and domestic-violence shelters are 
full. 

"I've had a number of people say that this is the thing most reminiscent of 9/11 that's hap­pened here since then," said the Rev. Canon Ann Malonee, vicar at Trinity Church in the heart of New York's financial district. "It's that sense of hav­ing the rug pulled out from under them." 
With nowhere else to turn, shot his wife, three sons and his loved ones if they feel over­sure on their home when sher­many people are calling sui­mother-in-law before killing whelmed by grim financial iff's deputies in Sevierville came cide-prevention hot lines. The himself. news. They said they were to serve an eviction notice. Samaritans of New York have Karthik Rajaram, 45, left a specifically afraid of the "copy­They were across the street seen calls rise more than 16 suicide note saying he was in cat phenomenon." when they heard a gunshot and percent in the past year, many financial trouble and contem­"This is a perfect American found Ross dead from a wound of them money-related. The plated killing just himself. But family behind me that has to the chest. The case was even Switchboard of Miami has he said he decided to kill his absolutely been destroyed, more tragic because the couple recorded more than 500 fore­entire family because that was apparently because of a man had recently been granted an closure-related calls this year. more honorable, police said. who just got stuck in a rabbit extra 10 days to appeal. 
"A lot of people are telling us Rajaram once worked for a hole, if you will, of absolute In Akron, Ohio, the 90-year­they are losing everything. major accounting firm and for despair," Deputy Police Chief old widow who shot herself on They're losing their homes, Sony Pictures, and he had been Michel Moore said. "It is critical Oct. 1 is recovering. A con­they're going into foreclosure, part-owner of a financial hold­to step up and recognize we gressman told Addie Polk's they've lost their jobs," said ing company. But he had been are in some pretty troubled story on the House iloor before Virginia Cervasio, executive out of work for several months, times. lawmakers voted to approve a director of a suicide resource police said. In Tennessee, a woman fatal­$700 billion financial rescue enter in southwest Florida's Lee After the murder-suicide, ly shot herself last week as package. Mortgage finance County. police and mental-health offi­sheriff's deputies went to evict company Fannie Mae dropped 
But tragedies keep mounting: cials in Los Angeles took the her from her foreclosed home. the foreclosure, forgave her In Los Angeles last week, a unusual step of urging people Pamela Ross, 57, and her mortgage and said she could former money manager fatally to seek help for themselves or husband were fighting foredo-remain in the home. 
CHINA 


Family sues dairy after baby's death 
to increase volume, then adding the indus­subcontractors responsible for safety test­
Associated Press 

trial chemical melamine to increase protein ing. Safeguards were often lax and major 
BEIJING -The family of a baby whose levels. Melamine, used mainly in plastics milk producers have been criticized for not death has been blamed on toxic milk ftled and fertilizer, is high in nitrogen and can carrying out adequate testing. suit against one of China's largest dairies make milk appear to contain more protein, The comments appeared aimed at restor­Monday, while another dairy ensnared in which is what quality tests measure. ing consumer confidence in the wake of the the scandal said it was a victim of The practice has been blamed for caus­scandal that has dinged the reputation of Wlscrupulous subcontractors. ing the deaths of four infants and sickening some of China's best-known food compa­
The lawsuit against Shijiazhuang Sanlu 54.000 others, with 10,000 still hospitalized nies. Group Co. was filed over the May 1 death of Speaking on a television talk show late "We thought they were operating in good 6-month-old Yi Kaixuan in the northwest­Sunday, the president of Bright Dairy said conscience," Guo Benheng said on state ern city of Lanzhou, the family's lawyer his company, one of the largest in the television's economics channel. said. Chinese dairy industry, had been "too nice" ''I'd say we made an innocent mistake, 
It is the first to be filed over a child who toward milk collection stations that bought although an innocent mistake is still a mis­died from drinking the tainted milk and milk from farmers. take. We are definitely making corrections," asks for almost $160,000 in damages. Large dairy companies typically buy raw Guo said, according to a transcript of his 
Milk collection stations and individual milk gathered from small farmers at milk­remarks posted on official Web sites farmers are accused of watering down milk ing stations and collection centers, often by Monday. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 14, 2008 
Ad hoc 
continued from page 1 
thu ad hoc committee, Brown said. 
Student body president Bob Hoish, a senior, will sit on the com­mittee as the student representa­tive. 
"I am very excited to hear about the development of this commit­tee," Reish said. "It shows the University administrative ollices, specifically the Office of the Pmsident, ar1~ listening to student eoneerns and making an ellbrt to sBek a better undurstanding." 
lie added: 'Tm a firm believer tlmt an organization should always seek to evaluate and improve the current praetiees of a process, par­tieularly if there have been con­cerns expres..o:;ed," he said. "!laving this type of direct aceess to the Office of the President and the nwmbors of tllis committee speaks to the University's goal to eontinu­ally seok to improve its current 
praetie1~s." 
According to the release, Reish will join nine other people on the eommitt.oe: 
+ Stnphanie Gallo, the ehair of the Student Affairs Committee of tlw Notre DamP Board of Trustees and senior dirm:tor of marknting for the E. and J. Gallo Winery of Modesto, Calif. Gallo will chair the ad hoe mmmittee. 
• Bob Agnew, the senior eon-
Chicago 
continued from page 1 
"I never rnally trainnd for run­ning ovnr thP summer, I really just stayed in shape," Sheridan said. "When I got to school, I really kind ofbuekl«>d down toward running." 
Shnridan ran thrnn or four days a week and alternated between running one day ;md resting up tl1e next day. 
"Yns, you have to train, but at the same time, you have to do it prop­erly," he said. "For me, in my opin­ion, you need to do double-digit miles ... and then rest the next day." 
Sunday's marathon was more familiar for Sheridan than for Smith bncausn Sheridan had run tho Boston Marathon as a senior in high Sl:hool. 
"I fi~lt like this one, I trained less, but I felt like I was really morn mentally, physically lit," Sheridan said. 
IIe said that he knew more of what to expect and prepawd in terms of nutrition and hydration bdilrn the race. 
Smith has never competed in a marathon before she decided to start preparing for the Chicago Marathon. Smith said that she trained for about eighteen weeks before the race by running five times each week. ller rngime con­sisted in two hard runs each week and three more paced runs, she said. 
About a month into training, Smith said that she had to have surgery on her toe. She said that other than sore muSI:Ies, that was her only injury. 
Before the race began, Smith said that she was nervous about what would happnn and said that she did not know what to expect. 
"Fighting through miles 5-12 was hardest," Smith said. "Once I hit hallway, I knew I wao:; going to bn abh~ to finish it, and I think that made it a lot eao:;ier." 
In order to get through those more dillicult miles, Smith made adjustnwnto:; during the race. 
"I started trying to not eoneen­tratn on the mill' markers ... I wao:; hot and not feeling good, so I just tril~d to rna.ke it from aid station to aid station ... I knew tl1at I wao:; get­ting hydratnd and slowly thn milns sultant on stadium security for the NFL since 1991. 

• 
Jill Bodensteiner, associate viee president and senior counsel for thP University, and a member of the University's gennral counsel's office sinee 1997 

• 
Missy Conboy, Notre Dame's deputy athletics director and a mnmber of the athletic department stall" for 20 years. 

• 
Ann Firth, associate vice pres­ident for student affairs and a member of the student affairs sen­ior staff since 1992. 

• 
Fr. Peter Jarret, the religious superior for the Holy Cross priests and brothers at Notre Dame, and previously the rector of Keough Hall for five years. 

• 
Tun McOsker, a partner in the Los Angeles law firm Mayer Brown, specializing in legal issues related to public safety and govern­mental, regulatory and adnlinistra­tive law. 

• 
Hichard Nussbaum, a past president of the Notre Dame Alumni Ao:;sociation and a partner in the South Bend law firm Sopko, Nussbaum, Inabnit & Kaczmarek. 

• 
Frank Supovitz, the senior vice president for event manage­ment for the NFL. 


Jenkins' chief of staff, Francis Shavers, will serve as the staff liai­son for the committee and will assist in its work, the release said. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
would pao:;s by," Smith said. 

By the time she reached the lin­ish line -after four hours and thirty-three minutes of running­all of her efforts were worth it. 
"I wao:; so excited just to finish. I just wanted to cry when I crossed the finish line because it was done and I had finished it." 
Snlith added that she felt a feel­ing of satisfaction just knowing that she had accomplished what she had set out to do. 
Sheridan said that during the first hour and a half of the race, runners are not tired and winded but are more 'just getting Ithat first part! out of the way." 
Still, there is a moment that the race becomes significantly more challenging. 
"There's always a part where it just hit.o:; you," Sheridan said. For Sheridan, this came around the 12th and 13th miles. 
When he finished the race, Sheridan said that felt "just barely or completely unable to walk" bneause hiS muscles were so tight. 
"Your muscles are beyond your control," Sheridan said. 
lie also said that when runners finish a race, their body tempera­tures drop. 
"It's imperative that they wrap aluminum around you to conserve your h1~at [at the end of the race]," Sheridan said. 
The weather conditions were hotter than many runners antici­pated, and race coordinators turned the condition rating from yellow to red during the race, Smith said. 
"They were yelling at us to slow down and that it was going to be a lot hotter than expected," Smith said. 
"It was hot and the sun was beating down," Sheridan, who fin­ished in 3:39, said. 
Sheridan said that it would have been helpful if an organization at the University arranged some sort of transportation to and from Chicago for student<; running in the race. 
The race began and ended in Grant Park on Columbus Drive near Buckingham Fountain and runners ran through 29 neighbor­hood<; in Chicago, according to thn WebsitP. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

Panel 
continued from page 1 
mortgages in the form of "securi­ties" on the financial markets, allowing for a boost in capital throughout the system but also a distancing of borrowers from lenders. When housing prices fell, people began to default on their mortgages and many large financial institutions were left with worthless slips of paper. 
She summarized the crisis by pointing out that, "Transactions require trust. Trust is dead." 
Tom Cosimano, finance profes­sor and a visiting scholar for the International Monetary Fund, spoke next. As he put it, his focus was on "how the crisis cascades through the economy." 
"As the house prices go down, the default rates go up," he said. 
He also emphasized that uncertainty is driving the down­ward spiral of the financial sys­tem. 
"Trust and lack of trust is 
essentially causing this to snow­ball through the whole finandal system," he said. 
Nelson Mark, Notre Dame's DeCrane Professor of International Econonlics, put the crisis in historical perspective while criticizing some recently proposed solutions. 
According to Mark, what we are currently experiencing is a "credit induced cycle"-not unlike those endured by Sweden, Thailand, Japan and Argentina in recent decades. While those countries all recovered, accord­ing to Mark, they "paid for it over the next ten years" with stalled growth. 
Mark was also critical of Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson. 
"The original Paulson plan was to come in and buy up these bad assets," he said. 
On the scale of bad ideas, he said found it worse than the sink­ing of the Titanic. 
He said of Paulson's original plan, "The reason it's worse than the Titanic is that it was sunk 
major, had an internship in investment banking last summer
Jobs 
and had planned to pursue a career in the field after college." 
continued from page I 
I'm still looking at investment ket for college graduates, said. banking, but I'm also expanding 
"Typically, when a country has my horizons to looking at corpo­entered a recession, those years rate finance," he said. have been tougher for everyone, "I was going to work for but also for college graduates Lehman Brothers, but then they 
entering the job market," she went belly-up," senior finance said. major Mike Graduates with Cikos, who had a variety of an internship
"Students should look 

majors will be with Lehman affected, Wozniak at different last summer, said.
said. alternatives, and be 
But there are Cikos said he
flexible."

job opportunities isn't focusing on in the market, finding a job according to Ray Vander Heyden with another Vander Heyden. bulge bracket
associate director 

"There may not bank, because if
Notre Dame Career 

have two or three they haven"t 
Center 

gone under, they offers, but all you need is that one right one," he said. 
Graduates will earn lower wages than they would have a few years ago once they are able to find a job, according to Wozniak. "They'll earn lower wages typically, but they will find jobs," she said. "They'll just be earning less than similar college graduates who graduated a cou­ple of years earlier." 
She said that the hourly wages of graduates from the Class of 2009 will catch up to the hourly wages of their older peers at the same point of their careers in about 5-10 years. 
"Over their lifetime, their total earnings will be lower, but even­tually, their hourly wage will catch up," she said. 
The amount that their total earnings will be lower by won't be too significant, she said. "It's bet­ter to earn a lower wage in your 20s than it is to earn a lower wage in your 40s," Wozniak said. 
But not all careers will remain unchanged by recent economic developments. 
"Some of these careers on Wall St. paid a lot of money," she said. "Some of those jobs are gone or at least severely curtailed for the foreseeable future. The huge earnings ~hey were making are also gone. 
Many students who had previ­ously planned on pursuing invest­ment banking will have to consid­er other routes, according to Vander Heyden. 
"Investment banking isn't the only option open to finance stu­dents," he said. "Student<; should look at diJl(lrent alternatives, and be flexible. They should be able to do OK." 
Greg Dock, a junior finance have cut down on new hires. 
"If you didn't intern with [a bulge bracket]. they're not recruiting," senior finance major Conor Douglass said. 
Bulge bracket 

banks that "The indicators are jobs will continue haven't gone pretty clear that to be difficult to under are also eome by. But thn
we're going to have
able to recruit good news is that banking veterans flat or negative it c<m't get much who lost jobs in growth. That's pretty worse. layoffs or "The indicators
much as bad as it
because or bank­are pretty clear ruptcy. "There's a gets." that we're going whole bunch of to have nat or talent on Wall negative growth. 
Abigail Wozniak 
Street that they That's pretty
Economics professor 
can choose from," Cikos said. 
Douglass and Cikos are instead concentrating their job searches on middle market investment banks that haven't been exposed as much to the credit crunch. 
The nlid-market banks haven't had any layoffs are are still focus­ing on growth, according to Douglass. 
Douglass said that in addition to mid-market banks, he is looking outside to assent management and sell-side insurance compa­nies. Corporate finance is also an option, but he's not actively look­ing at those jobs. 
Cikos, on the other hand, views corporate finance as an option for him. "''m thinking corporate finance because a job's a job," he said. 
The long-term economic future and how to prepare for it 
The current economic distress should affect students graduating this year, 2010, and probably before it was even launched." 
As the best alternative, Mark praised recent proposals for the government to take direet owner­ship in failing firms. These plans have much in common with the British response to the crisis. 
John Rosenthal, chief executive of the Northern Indiana Hegion of Old National Bancorp, stressed that consumers should not panic. 
"Sorting out fact and fiction is difficult when you're reading sen­sationalist headlines," he said. 
"I think it's important that we hunker down, it's important that we live within our means. I don't think it's a good idea to let fear overrule our intellect." 
He ended on an optimistic tone. 
"My conclusions are stay patient, don't panic, and stay educated. Use your American ingenuity to solve the problem, which means get out and vote." 
Afterward, audience members had a chance to a<>k questions to the panel. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
2011, Wozniak said. She said that the recession will be caused by the confluence of two main prob­lems -the financial crisis' real effects on the economy and fun­damental factors that will h~ad to flat growth. • 
It is generally accepted that th1l fundamental factors include the overextension of American con­sumers, which will cause the con­sumers to curtail their spending and cause the inllation of housing prices. 
"That will have real spending efiects," Wozniak said. 
Wozniak also said that there will be another fundamental fac­tor h~ading to flat growth. 
"I don't think the human capital skills of the· American worker have kept pace with the demand so we won't have industries whieh will produce with the demando:; of the global economy ... " she said. "We're quickly reaching the maxi­mum production point with our highly skilled worker we have." 
The remainder of the work forcP "doesn't have the skills to 
keep pace," she 
said. 
With a pro­
longed recession, 
much as bad ao:; it 
gets," Wozniak 
said. "I wouldn't 
worry so mueh about it getting worse. We're prnt­ty much already there." 
Wozniak advised graduating student<; to start investing early in their careers to try to take advan­tage of the rough eeononlic times. 
"They should buy into the mar­ket and ride it out," she said. 
As far as student<; who still have time left at Notre Dame, Wozniak said they should worry about tak­ing the right courses, and not so much about their actual major. "Employers are going to start get­ting pickier," she said. "Doing whatever you ean do to make yourself look like more than a major in x" is a good idea. 
She especially encouraged stu­dents to develop skills in math, statisties and lim~ign languages. "Employers can look at those ao:; real bonuses," she said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne 1 @nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Tuesday, October 14, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  9,387.61  +936.42  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
3,316  17  205  3,057,758,840  
AMEX  1;462.56 +J;~i*\'~~  

NASDAQ 1,844.25 +194.74 NYSE 6,400.96 +590128 S&P 500 1,003.35 +104.13 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 9~~~0.38 FTSE 100 (London) 4,256.90 +324.84 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +14.52 +12.85 101.35 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +12.16 +3.81 35.13 FIN SEL SPDR (XLF) +7.81 +1.18 16.28 MORGAN STANLEY (MS) +86.98 +8.42 18.10 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 3.8610 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 0.2100 30-YEAR BOND 0.00 0.00 4.1370 5-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 2.7620 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +3.49 81.19 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -16.50 842.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.68 87.15 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 102.7350 EURO 0.7332 
IN BRIEF 
Stevens' wife key in corruption trial 
WASHINGTON -Catherine Stevens has become the linchpin in the corruption trial of her husband, Alaska Sen. Ted Stevens -to both the prosecutors and his defense team. 
One wants her testimony and documents to prove that the Republican icon accepted pricey gifts and failed to report them. The other wants her to help prove Stevens was unaware of how much was being funneled to him by a wealthy Alaska businessman. 
Defense lawyers. who said Monday she will testify this week, have painted her as the person truly in charge of the massive conversion of the modest A-frame cabin into a two-story home with wraparound decks, new electricity and plumbing, a sauna and a master-bedroom bal­cony. 
Stevens, 84. is accused of lying on Senate forms to conceal more than $250,000 in renova­tions on his cabin and other gifts from Bill Allen, the former chief of giant oil services company VECO Corp. It is not yet known whether Stevens will testify on his own behalf. 
The senator. who spends more time at his home in Washington than in Alaska, says he paid little attention to the project that his wife over­saw. lie says he assumed the $160,000 they paid for the project covered everything 
"They have a saying in their house that when it comes to things in and around the teepee, the wife controls," defense attorney Brendan Sullivan told jurors early in the trial. 
Dream Works joins Universal Pictures 
LOS ANGELES -A person close to the deal says Steven Spielberg's DreamWorks studio has signed on with Universal Pictures to distribute its films. 
Universal will distribute up to six DreamWorks movies a year domestically and overseas, except for India, said the person, who was not authorized to speak on the record and requested anonymity. 
The deal has been anticipated as DreamWorks prepan~s to break off from Paramount, which has ownnd the studio since 2006. There has been ongo­ing friction over the costs of keeping Spielberg and his outfit there. 
DreamWorks has lined up $1.5 billion through Reliance Entertainment of India to fmance its future film slate. 
Wall Street soars after last week's losses 
Dow Jones gains record 936 points after government's pledge to support banks 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall Street 
stormed back from last week's  
devastating losses Monday,  
sending the Dow Jones indus­ 
trials soaring a nearly incon­ 
ceivable 936 points after  
major governments' plans to  
support the global banking  
system reassured distraught  
investors. All the major index­ 
es rose more than 11 percent.  
The market was expected to  
rebound after eight days of  
precipitous losses that took  
the Dow down nearly 2,400  
points, but few expected this  
kind of advance, which saw  
the Dow by far outstrip its  
previous record one-day point  
gain, 499.19, set during the  
waning days of the dot-com  
boom. The Standard & Poor's  
500 index also set a record for  
a one-day point gains.  
There were cheers and  
applause on the floor of the  
New York Stock Exchange at  
the closing bell. and trading  
was so active that prices were  
still being computed several  
minutes after the closing bell.  
longer than it would take on a  
quieter day.  
Still, while the magnitude of  
Monday's gains stunned  
investors and analysts, few  
were ready to say Wall Street  
had reached a bottom. The  
market is likely to have back­ 
and-forth trading in the com­ AP  
ing days and weeks -and  Trader Thomas Riley smiles as he works on the floor of the New York Stock  
may well see a pullback when  Exchange on Monday.  
trading resumes Tuesday - 
as investors work through  ment officer at Ancora  vention of the government is a  Neel Kashkari, the assistant  
their concerns about the  Advisors, said it's too soon to  welcome sign for the markets.  Treasury secretary who is  
banking sector, the stagnant  say whether the market has  "I think we had enough  interim head of the program,  
credit markets and the overall  started to carve out a bottom  negatives last week that if the  said in a speech Monday offi­ 
economy.  and that the credit markets  government steps in we could  cials were also developing  
John Lynch, chief market  where many companies turn  have a pretty nice run. Is it off  guidelines to govern the pur­ 
analyst for Evergreen  for day-to-day loans will need  to the races? No, I don't think  chase of soured mortgage­ 
Investments in Charlotte, N.C.,  to loosen for stocks to hold  so. We have a lot of stuff to  related assets. However, he  
said Monday's rally was  their gains. With the U.S.  work through."  gave few details about how  
encouraging but he doubted it  bond markets and banks  The market did appear to  the program will actually buy  
signaled the worst has passed.  closed Monday for Columbus  take heart when the Bush  bad assets and bank stock.  
"My screen is completely  Day, it was difficult for  administration said it is mov­ A relatively tame fmish to  
green and I love that, but I'm  investors to gauge the reac­ ing quickly to implement its  Friday's session and a week­ 
not doing any backflips yet.  tion of the credit markets to  $700 billion rescue program,  end off gave analysts and  
We still have many challenges  actions by major govern­ including consulting with law  investors some time to  
up ahead," Lynch said, noting  ments.  firms about the mechanics of  reassess last week's tumul­ 
the ongoing strains in credit  He said the severity of the  buying ownership shares in a  tuous trading. And stock  
markets and forecasts for  selling last week was one pos­ broad number of banks to  prices that were decimated by  
poor corporate earnings for  sible signal that the market  help revive the stagnant credit  frenetic selling are now look­ 
2009.  might be nearing a bottom  markets and in turn get the  ing attractive.  
Denis Amato, chief invest- and that the stepped up inter- economy moving again.  Jim King, chief investment  

Commodities soar after market rally 
Associated Press Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said demand for gold strong in the near his office would work quickly to imple­term but warned that prices will fluctu­
NEW YORK -Commodities prices 
ment a $700 billion bank rescue plan, ate wildly until stability returns to mar­shot up Monday as U.S. and European 
including a new measure to buy equity kets. governments intensified their efforts to 
in struggling banks, rather than just "This volatility will make it hard for revive the global banking sector ­
their soured mortgage-related assets. investors attempting to profit from prodding investors to put some of their 
Copper prices led the precious metals gold's upside to make money, althoughmoney back into fmancial markets. 
complex, with the December contract as a relic of last resort gold continues Crude oil, copper, silver and agricul­soaring 16.8 cents, or 7.8 percent, to to attract significant buying from ture commodities traded sharply high­
settle at $2.3125 a pound on the New investors," Reade said in a note. 
er, drawing momentum from a mas­
York Mercantile Exchange. December · In energy markets, the recovery in sive, record-breaking rally on Wall silver jumped 19 cents to settle at the stock market boosted buying of Street. The Dow Jones industrial aver­
$10.79 an ounce. crude futures. A weaker dollar also 
age soared 936 points, the biggest one­Gold prices, however, pulled back as made oil more attractive as a hedgeday point gain ever and the biggest 
investors who bought the metal as against inflation and weakness in the percentage gain since 1933. safe-haven last week cashed in and U.S. currency.Investors were calmer Monday after jumped back into the stock market. Light, sweet crude for November European leaders agreed overnight to 
Gold for December delivery fell $16.50 delivery rose $3.49 to settle at $81.19 a 
a raft of new measures aimed at 
to settle at $842.50 an ounce on the barrel on the Nymex, after earlier ris­strengthening the battered financial 
Nymex. ing as high as $82.52. sector, including debt guarantees, 
John Reade, analyst with UBS in . The contract fell Friday $8.89 to recapitalizing banks and new oversight 
London, said persistent fears of "finan­$77.70, the lowest price since Sept. 10, 
measures. At the same time, U.S. 
cial system Armageddon" will ke.ep 2007. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, October 14, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Abortion and the 
l~O. Box n9, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDIIDR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzparrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler A'iST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDIIDR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SI•ORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DFSIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-454 I obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BusiNESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-53I3 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
ViEWPOINT DESK 
('>74) 63I·S303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
('>74) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 63 I -4540 scene.l @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631·8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
!HE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor govcnwd by policies of rhc administration ofeither insticurion. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse adwrriscments based on comenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsignt·d editorials rcprt-sem the opinion of rhc majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistam Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presem the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe ( >hscrver. 
Viewpoinr space is available to all readers. The !i-cc expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lt·ncrs to rhc Editor must be signed and must include comact information. 
Qurstions rtgarding Obsl!rllrr policies should be direcud to Editor in 0JiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tlu: { >IN"rvcr (liSJI,"i ~ 1}'} 2--tfiOO) 111 pulll!dlctl Mmuhty 1hrnu~h Frido~y C:C'-'t'PI durin¥: ('ltJIII .mrl'I';U,:.ltmn ~JCritll.h. A•uhKnptiun w 'l11c t>h'oC'rvt'f IJ $1011 jf.,r nne audcu•k yc:.lr;$C)'jJi,rnncou:mc<~rcr. 
The (. llm::rver u publ11hcd .u rOSTMASTER 02-4 Suurh Oinu•K ll.tll Send .adtlru~ oorrtction' IO! Nurr.: D.unc, IN 4MV•·0779 Thc:()hicrvt"r l~rimliutl pml.at:t' p.11\l•t Notre D.amc r.o BmnlJ AnlJ.u!rJjrimuJm..IJllllHullices. 0.24 Somh Dining Hall 
Nunc Dame. IN 46S'i6.0779 
The ()hservcr ra o1 memher of the Al.MM.r.ucd l'rw. All repwducrum riWtrso~rC' ll:l!Crvtd. 

!low does a Catholic voter decide? If 
you are uncertain, you have plenty of 
company. But you also have clear 
guidance from the Church. 
In "Forming Consciences for 
Faithful 
Citizenship," the 
U.S. Catholic bishops affirmed in 2008, in accord with Vatican state­ments, a "consis­tent ethic of life !which] neither treats all issues as morally equiv­alent nor reduces Catholic teaching to one or two issues." 

Abortion, how­ever, is a defining issue. The Church has always taught that abortion is a grave evil. "[TJhe human being is to be ... treated as a person from the moment of conception," Evangelium Vitae, no. 60. The law must provide appropriate "penal sanctions for every deliberate violation of the child's rights." Instruction on Bioethics (1987). 
In 2004, Cardinal Joseph Hatzinger, now Pope Benedict XVI, in a letter to the American bishops, said: "Not all moral issues have the same weight as abortion and euthanasia. For exam­ple, if a Catholic were to be at odds with the Holy Father on the applica­tion of capital punishment or on the decision to wage war, he would not for that reason be considered unwor­thy to present himself to receive Holy Communion. While the Church exhorts civil authorities to seek peace, not war, and to exercise discretion and mercy in imposing punishment on criminals, it may still be permissible to take up arms to repel an aggressor or to have recourse to capital punish­ment. There may be a legitimate diversity of opinion even among Catholics about waging war and applying the death penalty, but not however with regard to abortion. and euthanasia." 
In other words, there can be a just war, but there can never be a just abortion. In a postscript, Hatzinger said: "A Catholic would be guilty of formal cooperation in evil, and so unworthy to present himself for Holy Communion, if he were to deliberately vote for a candidate precisely because of the candidate's permissive stand on abortion and/or euthanasia. When a Catholic does not share a candidate's stand in favor of abortion and/or euthanasia, but votes for that candi­date for other reasons, it is ... remote material cooperation, which can be permitted in the presence of propor­tionate reasons." 
What could be such "proportionate reasons?" Archbishop John J. Myers, of Newark, in response to the 2004 

Dr. Charles Rice 
Right or Wrong? 
Catholic vote 
Hatzinger letter, gave a clear analysis: "IFlor a Catholic citizen to vote for a candidate who supports abortion and embryo-destructive research ... either 
(a) both candidates would have to be in favor of embryo killing on roughly an equal scale or (b) the candidate with the superior position on abortion and embryo-destructive research would have to be a supporter of objec­tive evils of a gravity and magnitude beyond that of the 1.3 million yearly abortions plus the killing•that would take place if public funds were made available for embryo-destructive research. Frankly, it is hard to imag­ine circumstance (b) in a society such as ours ... [P]olicies on welfare, national security, the war in Iraq, Social Security or taxes, taken singly or in any combination, do not provide a proportionate reason to vote for a pro-abortion candidate." The Myers analysis makes sense because legal­ized abortion involves explicit legal authorization of the intentional killing of innocent human beings, with a toll to date of 48.5 million surgical abor­tions since 1973, not including the uncountable victims of the morning­after pill and other chemical abortifa­cients. 
Senator Obama regards the question of when babies get human rights as "above my pay grade." In the IIIinois 

Senate, despite his "{T]o say that a If a voter's opposition disclaimers, he voted, to war cannot justify a
Catholic cannot vote
in committee and on vote for Obama, he dear­
for Obama is not to
the floor, against the ly cannot justify that vote Born-Alive Infants say that Church because he thinks Protection Act that Obama's position is supe­
teaching requires

would have guaran­rior on economic or
that he must vote for 
teed the rights of a social issues where inno­person to a child born McCain." cents are not subjected of the law because chemieal and other abortifacients are making it a truly private matter. That eultural reality is all the more reason to form the cul­ture by insisting that the law protect the right to life of all innocent human beings. Incidentally, the notion that an administration staffed by Obama activists would promote "pro-life" attitudes is beyond fantasy. Obama promises to set in concrete the princi­ple that innocent human beings can be legally depersonalized and subject­ed to execution at the discretion of others. That is the principle, not only of Hoe v. Wade but also of the 1857 Dred Scott Case, where the Supreme Court said that slaves were property rather than persons, and of the Nazi extermination of the Jews. 
Opposition to the current wars can­not justify a vote for Obama. The toll from legalized abortion dwarfs the toll of military and civilian casualties in the current wars. In legalized abor­tion, government explicitly authorizes the intentional killing of innocent human beings. American law does not authorize intentional killing of the innocent in war. The killing of' inno­cents can occur in war as an unin­tended "double effect" of' justified mil­itary action. If' United States forces, however, intentionally kill the inno­
cent in war, thny are sub­
ject to prosecution. 
alive in a botched abortion. Obama sup­ports Hoe v. Wade. He supports feder-. a! funding of abortion and embryonic stem cell research. He co-sponsored the federal Freedom of Choice· Act which would establish a "fundamental right" to abortion and would ban practically every federal or state law restricting abortion. He is a persistent and comprehensive supporter of legalization of the right of any mother to execute her unborn child. 
Senator McCain has adopted a pro­life position during this campaign. He opposes Roe v. Wade, affirms that life begins "at the moment of conception," and says he "will be a pro-life presi­

. dent." His pre-campaign record is mixed, including, among other points, his leadership of the "Gang of 14" which prevented Senate confirmation of pro-life judges. McCain's pro-life position today, however, is clearly superior to Obama's. Can a Catholic vote for Obama? Some Catholics, who oppose abortion, support Obama on the ground that the effort to "reverse" Hoe v. Wade is futile and Obama will reduce abor­tions by fostering pro-life attitudes. Abortion is moving beyond the reach 
to death by government 
authority. 

A strong, indeed compelling, reason to vote for McCain is to keep Obama out of the White Ilouse. But to say that a Catholic cannot vote for Obama is not to say that Church teaching requires that he must vote for McCain. That is up to the voter's pru­dential judgment. If he can't morally vote for Obama and he won't vote for McCain, he can vote for one of the minor candidates. Or he can skip the presidential ballot. A refusal to vote for President when you have voted on the other offices is still a vote, for "none of the above." 
Space limits require that we defer further discussion of this issue. For now, suffice it to say that a Catholic who supports Obama, despite his record, ought at least to refrain from claiming that his position is consistent with the teaching of the Church. 
Dr. Charles E. Rice is professor emeritus at the Law School. 1/e may be reached at 574-633-4415 or rice.1@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports 

Jmm Mctz Dan Murphy Who would you rather spend a night Emma Driscoll Laura Myers 
on the town with? 
Irena Zajickova Michael Blasco 

"In my many years I have GraJ)hics Scene come to a conclusion that one
John McCain 
Mary Jesse Jess Schafl'er useless man is a shame, two
Barack Obama 
is a law firm and three or more
Viewpoint 

Joe Biden is a congress."
Kara King 

Mr. Sarah Palin 
John Adams former U.S. president
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 14, 2008 page 9 
Sexual morality and business ethics at Notre Dame 
Okay, I admit it, when recently visit­ing campus I could be mistaken for just about any other alumnus wander­ing his old haunts with a nostalgic gleam in his eyes ... 
It's hard not to be 
impressed by this 
John Madigan

university -and I 
visit many colleges 
Guest

and universities 
columnist

through my work. 
Notre Dame -its 
students, priests of the Congregation of 
Holy Cross, incredible facilities includ­
ing numerous jewel-like chapels, each 
reposing the Blessed Sacrament -is 
remarkable. I am proud to be a prod­
uct of this special place, and do hope 
that one or more of my children might 
study at Notre Dame, too. 
Having said that, we all know that 
Notre Dame bears special responsibili­
ties as a Catholic university. And that 
contrary to the "Catholic Disneyland" 
feel, this place is, as it was in my days 
on campus more than 20 years ago, 
deeply conflicted -torn between its 
yearning for academic and worldly 
respect and its mission of service to 
the Church. 
A case in point: Cathie Black, 
President of Hearst Magazines and a 
Notre Dame trustee, recently spoke as 
part of the Berges Series in Business ·Ethics. Why would the University 
"proudly invite" her (per Observer ads) 
to deliver an endowed address on busi­
ness ethics? 
Having worked in the magazine busi­

ness, I am familiar with Hearst. Its 
flagship magazine is Cosmopolitan. 
Anyone who frequents supermarket 
checkout lines knows Cosmo -Hearst Magazines spends millions to place Cosmopolitan right ·square where American consumers pause several times each week -one step shy of the cash register. 
As a father of children aged 4 to 14, I have squirmed, hoping my boys would not view its formulaic, fleshy covers, or that my girls would not be drawn by its lurid taglines inviting them to view themselves as sexual objects. I daresay it's worse inside. 
Don't believe me? Take a look at the cover of the October issue: "Guys talk Sex. SHE DID WHAT?! Outrageous things chicks do in bed; For Naughty Girls Only; His Body; How Long Guys Want Sex to Last ... " Try Googling Cosmopolitan and you'll see the first subjects which come up: "sex positions and sex." Or try cosmopolitan.com's link to "our friends at Marie Claire," another Hearst property. Cosmo points you there to learn "Ultimate Sex Tips from the Pros: We asked the five lead­ing sex experts in the U.S. for their most frequently asked questions. Here, their answers about hooking up, kinky sex, taking charge in the bedroom and more." 
Is it fair to tag Cathie Black with responsibility for these products? Her biography posted on hearst.com does just that, quoting a business publica­tion: " ... During Ms. Black's six-year tenure at the $1.5 billion company, she has maintained the health of big brands like Cosmopolitan [and] brought forth new favorites like Marie Claire." Health, indeed. 
I do not know Ms. Black, but I do know this: she is an aggressive purvey­or of moral and cultural poison that stands in direct opposition to Catholic teaching-deriding the Church's notion of the truth and beauty of human sexuality, standing in marked opposition to Catholic teaching on the dignity and vocation of woman. 
Ms. Black's products are an attack on children's innocence, an affront to parents, and a danger to vulnerable women whom her sex-saturated prod­ucts manipulate. Not to mention that Cosmo's trivialization of sexual intima­cy and de-sensitization to timeless moral issues serve predatory males quite well, thank you. 
Has anyone asked why she was feted to lecture students in business ethics? 
Or how the talk's sponsors -the Mendoza College of Business's Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and its Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide -square the profligate immorality of her leading products with any notion of business ethics in a Catholic context? 
Or why University leaders hold her up as a model to the Notre Dame com­munity by inviting her participation as a University trustee? 
I watched Cathie Black's talk late last night on the University's website. She fairly bragged that Cosmo and other Hearst titles sell with sex, dis­played several covers specifically to make that point-then proudly identi­fied the Russian language edition of Cosmo as the most widely read publi­cation among young women in Western Europe. Incredibly, she called Cosmo a "bible" there, one that "even 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
SMC voice 
While I don't read The Observer on a daily basis, it was pointed out to me that the student government was being addressed via the Viewpoint section. Though resorting to edi­torialletters is tempting, it is neither the most effective nor appropriate way to gain the attention of your student body government. 
At an open forum last week, Saint Mary's students voiced their concerns with the budget approved by the Executive Board. The problem at the core of the issue seemed to be that student felt as ifthey had no voice at Saint Mary's. Various students remarked that they felt as though they had no voice as Saint Mary's students, that they were in the dark regarding decisions made by BOG, and that they felt BOG was hiding their decisions from the student body. 
The 2008-2009 Student Government Association wants desperately to hear from their constituents, represent their constituents and let the student body know what is going on. We want the student body to be interested, informed and vocal. As much as we would love this, we rarely receive input. As sophomore class president, I have not once been approached by a classmate with a question, problem, or idea. It is difficult to represent a silent student body. 
The forum held last week was a tremendous step in the right direction. However, I ask Saint Mary's women that wish to make their voice heard to direct it in the right way. Student body president Mickey Grucinski is one of the most accessible people on campus and truly wants to be the voice of the stu­dent body. So, please, grab some coffee at the Cyber Cafe, come upstairs and chat with us. Ask questions, give us your input and be involved. E-mail any of us with your ideas and your criticism. Approach us, and your voice will be heard. 
Megan Griffin sophomore class president Holy Cross Hall Oct.l2 

Econom_y and m_etaphors 
I am writing in response to the article "How to Cure the Economy" on Oct. 10. The Community Reinvestment Act is a scapegoat in this whole fiasco. It does encourage banks to make a minimum amount of mortgage loans to low-income individuals, that's true. As soon as these were converted to mortgage-backed securities, though, they no longer counted toward that quota. As a result, banks were encouraged to hold on to the loans they made. As we all know, however, banks opted for more money by issuing many more loans than they needed to, and selling these off, and that's what got us into trouble. 
Trying to blame the CRA for this crisis is like trying to blame the $1/gallon gas price floor for gas being so expen­sive. Further, there is evidence that mortgage companies not covered by the CRA made high-priced loans at over twice the rate ofbanks that were a part of it. A Federal Reserve sur­vey showed that 50 percent of subprime loans were made by companies outside of the CRA's scope. 25-30 percent came from banks only partially regulated by the CRA, leaving only 20-25 percent of the subprime loans being made by those fully regulated by the Act. To claim that this whole thing is the result of government interference is ridiculous. Pure cap­italism is just as inclined toward financial disaster as any other economic system. In reality, this crisis was the result of (among other things) deregulation, pure and simple. 
We left the house alone with our teenage son with the strict instructions, "No parties," only to arrive back with our home ransacked, our son with a lampshade over his head and (miraculously) a donkey in the bathroom. You're absolutely right we're going to set some new rules, and make sure he's never left unattended again. By the way, in the metaphor above, the son is the financial services indus­try. 
John Kinney 
senior 
Dillon Hall Oct. 13 

the guys look to" as a "playbook." A follow-up quip that she'd spoken enough about sex, something "we know Notre Dame students never, ever think about ... " added a touch of insult to the injury. 
I'm not too surprised by those com­ments -one rarely reaches her level of professional accomplishment with­out believing in the products she sells. What did surprise me was the plain­vanilla, welcoming introduction she received from a business school pro­fessor and the marked lack of chal­lenging questions from the audience. And that The Observer's next-day cov­erage referred blandly to her profes­sional accomplishments and her description of "success" as being relat­ed to "what is going to fulfill you". 
I wonder if it ever occurred to Cathie Black, or to her hosts, that her success has come -and continues to come ­at a substantial cost to others. 
Exceptionally talented students, leading faculty, outstanding facilities and increasing scholarship support alone do not a truly great Catholic uni­versity make. 
In spite of its dazzling attractiveness, something is missing at Notre Dame. Still. 
Holy Mary, our hope, seat of wisdom, pray for us. 
John Madigan is a 1984 graduate of the University ofNotre Dame. He can be contacted at jepmadigan@yahoo. com 
The views expressed in this column are thoes of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page I 0 
Tuesday October 14, 2008 

Ll<:rHTS NEEDS MORE SHINE 
Anything. But Lights' sound isn'tBy JORDAN GAMBLE 

so much pop-rock as electric­
Scene Writer 
pop, the variety that is so outra­
geously catchy that its born for 

With an approach that's as television placement. much visual as musical, 21-year­Upon first listen, Lights' music old Canadian singer/songwriter seems naggingly familiar, like Lights, on her snlf-titled LP, pro­something that was featured on duces a style that is ambitious Gossip Girl or something else and original, even if it doesn't equally ubiquitous. quito reach its potential. Despite being catchy, all six 
Lights, rH~o Valerie Poxleitner, songs on the album feel hollow takes a very hands-and mutp,d at first on approach to mar­listen. The first sin­
keting her music. Lights' sound isn't gle, "Drive My 
The singer wrote so much pop-rock Soul," is a synth­and illustrated a pop ballad, which
as electric-pop,
comic book to . builds up into an
the variety that is
accompany the LP's elnctric and vocal release. In it, she so outrageously crescnndo that's details the progres­catchy that its actually kind of sion of her career tame. The songs
born for television
from a home­seem like they schooled mission­placement. could have really ary's daughtnr to the great potential, but independnnt, taran­most end up deflat­tula-loving artist she is now, ed. touring with her band in a con­Part of the problem may be 
yorted Meals on Wheels van. Light's soft, little-girl voice over Lights transposes a synthesizer, not this story into a exactly the most space odyssey, After several listens soulful of instru­complete with ments. At times the
through the 20­
rocket ships and music sounds like a
minute LP, it
a cosmic disco techno mix of a ball. The theme becomes apparent Vanessa Carlton 
carries over to that Lights' style song and Lights' 
her first music cutesy space travel
can't really be com-
video. shtick can be a lit-
The LP was tle ofT-putting. released in March But it's hard not 200X by Doghouse Hecords, the to resist her earnest lyrics and same label that turned out tho vocals -even if the latter is All-American Hejects and Say sometimes drowned out by all the electric sound machinations in the background. "February Air," however, stands out as a great amalgam of catchy lyrics, vocals, and a tune that goes from twee to bombastic and then 
· back again. After several listens through the 20-minute LP, it becomes apparent that Lights' style can't really be compared with her peers. Despite the obvious power-pop inl'luences on her sound, Lights doesn't veer into Miley Cyrus sugar-sweetness, nor does she got too self-aware (hello, Avril Lavignol, even with the aforementioned cosmic adventure comic book. Lights somehow managns to strike a balance between the two and produce a mally original sound. With only six songs, though, it's hard to tell what her full'illed potential will be. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
LIGHTS 
Lights 

Released by: Doghouse Records 
Recommended Tracks: 
"Drive My Soul," "February 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, October 14, 2008 
page 11 
. Scene Editor 
Formerly known as The Clubhouse, Dalloway's is 
on-campus cafe, lounge and performance venue t Saint Mary's College. Dalloway's, in addition to stuffs and a pasta bar, often hosts game nights, raft nights and student performers. Past guests ve included the Humor Artists of Notre Dame and 
a variety of student musicians. Wednesday night at 8 p.m., Dalloway's will play ost to a student performer, Brittni Qualizza, a Saint 
's senior and chemistry major from Skokie, Ill., will play a set of covers and original material on ustic guitar. Fans of popular guitar-based acts, including Iron 
nd Wine, the Format and similar bands, should . heck out Qualizza's act. Hecently Qualizza spoke to rhe Observer about her upcoming performance. 
Scene: flow did you get started playing guitar? 
Have you played lived gigs before? 
Qualizza: I started playing the guitar a little over a year ago when my mom bought me a guitar for Christmas. 
I am the girl with all of those hot guy friends who can play and sing, so I wanted to prove that I could do the same thing. 
So I taught myself how to play, with help from my friends. I have never played a gig before and just decided to do it when Dalloway's sent out an email looking for entertainment. No worries; I am pretty sure I will throw up on Wednesday. 
Scene: What types of songs are you covering? 
Qualizza: I really don't know how to categorize them ... I will be playing some Ben Harper, Iron and Wine, The Format and some other acoustic artists. Then I will try and throw in some good girly music -because mostly all girls will be there -and some originals. 
Scene: Do you like performing at Da:Iloway's? 
Qualizza:W.ell, when I played in the basement there, I enjoyed it. I could pretty much enjoy 
my guitar anywhere. 

Scene: When else do you like to play guitar? 
Qualizza: Most of my performances take place my room when random friends are over -oth than that, I have never played for a big group of pe ple. 
Watch for listings of other activities and perform ances going on at Dalloway's this semester Upcoming events include a Guitar Hero tournamen in mid-November, a Jeopardy I Family Feud Gam Show in December and a campus-wide Hallowe Walk on Oct. 29. 
"Our Halloween Walk on the 29th is going to be big event," Stephanie Anton, the Promotion Manager at Dalloway's, told The Observer in an mail. "Groups of students will be walked aroun campus while stories from 'Quiet Hours' are told . We're planning on making it scary." 
For more information on upcoming events 
ByKARA KING Scene Writer 
Located just past Cleveland on 31, El1mi's is the type of place that's easy to miss -and it should stay that way. 
Upon entering, one is immediately struck by the decor. Kindly described as 'ecleetic,' it certainly makes a 
statement. With unmatch­ing patterns on every piece of furniture and assorted unrelated objects covering every inch of wall space (including, among other things, a sombrero, a Greek column, a fishless aquarium and a trom­bone), perhaps "crazy blind grandma's house" is more aecurate. 
Deeorations aside, the 
Upon entering, though), and th~ tzatziki sauce one is could rival the dining hall's (although when the waitress
immediately 

isn't sure if the sauce goesstruck by the with the gyro or the moussaka decor. Kindly there's cause for concern). The 
Greek-style chicken wasn't
described as 

half bad either, and the pota­'eclectic,' it toes actually tasted like some­certainly makes thing that could be found in a statement. Greece. But when the best a 
menu itself is something to behold. While Eleni's claims to offer many Groek specialties, they are definitely a minority on the menu, which offers evnrything from pancakes to chicken nuggots. Indned, the mnnu was so vast tho waitress wasn't even aware of evnrything offered. 
This was far from the server's only 11aw. The service at Eleni's seems to have absolutely nothing going for it. At least one table got up and left after ordering since it left to be desired. The souvlaki was cold and bland, the moussaka tasted like overcooked mush, the spanakopi­ta (spinach pie) had more mint than spinach and the pastitsio (Greek lasagna) eonsisted of overly-cinnamon flavored beef covered in what appeared to be paste. 
Not all the food was so terrible. The gyro meat was actually mediocre (they neglected to serve any of the tradi­
tional veggies in the sandwich 
restaurant has to offer are potatoes, salad and a struggle for mediocrity, there's work to be done. 
Eleni's is the perfect example of what happens when you spread your­self too thin. The servers and chefs have no idea what is going on and struggle when more than one table needs help. The menu offers some­thing for everyone, although judging by the quality of the supposed special­ties, there's not much hope for the other offerings. If the food waas not so sub-par, the 
~kttK 
~ISA~~OINTMtNT
was taking so long. Hefills The food was prices would appear reason­wern l'nw and far between actually able given the generous por­and were, on more than one tions (all entrees came with
surprisingly

occasion, brought to the a salad, Greek-style potatoes wrong table. tolerable. and rice). B11t when you 
By the time the appetizers arrived, an hour after ordered, things worn starting to look up. The food was aetually surprisingly tolerable. The Greek salad had an authentic-tasting dressing, and the Saganaki (Fried eheese) was delicious, although the waitress did struggle a bit to light the brandy and as a result there was quite a bit that never burned off. 
Things then began to go downhill at a rapid rate. There was another hour or so wait before the entrees arrived. And once they ~id, thnre was much 
walk out feeling like you paid $10 for the side dishes, the cost­to-satisfaction ratio isn't good. 
When all's said and done, an evening at Eleni's is not worth the time or effort it takes to get there. 
Service: 0 of 4 
Food: 0.5 of 4 
Atmosphere: 1.5 of 4 
Cost: 1 of 4 
Overall 0.75 of4 

Contact Kara King at kkingS@nd.edu 
Tuesday, October 14, 2008
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 

Rays clear Green Monster four tin1es in rout of Red Sox 
Upton hits fifth home run of playoffs after hitting only nine during regular season; Tampa Bay wins 9-1 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -ILl. Upton, Evan Longoria and the rest of the Tampa Bay Hays have quickly lweonw a playoff monster. 
Upton hit a three-run homo run and Longoria also home­red ofT a suddenly shaky Jon Lester, then Hoeeo Baldolli and Carlos Pena deared the Green Monster later Monday to give the Hays a 9-1 victory over the Boston Hed Sox and a 2-1 lead in the AL championship series. 
Matt Garza held Boston scoreless through six innings as Tampa Bay put the defend­ing World Series champions in a postseason hole for the first time since they overcame a 3­1 defieit in last year's ALCS against Cleveland. Now the Hays right-hander, who thought he was sent to base­ball purgatory when he was traded from Minnesota to Tampa Bay last offseason, has brought them within two wins of their first AL pennant. 
"When I first got traded, yes, there was a doubt. But walk­ing into the clubhouse in spring training, it was like, 'We could actually pull this thing off,"' said Garza, the only Tampa Bay pitcher to lose in the first-round series against the White s(~X. 
"Everybody was on that one mission, and that was to win. We want to win now. We don't want to be the team that waits for later, we want to win now," he said. 

Andy Sonnanstine will try to win Game 4 for the Rays when he faces knuckleballer Tim Wakefield in Game 4 of the best-of-seven series on Tuesday night. 
Fenway Park has batting practice baseballs older than the Hays franchise, and the 37-foot wall that looms over left field is the signature fea­ture of the major leagues' old­est ballpark. But Tampa Bay, which climbed past the Yankees and Red Sox in the regular season, treated the Monster like just another old­fashioned obstacle to over­come. 
Upton, whose shallow sacri­fice fly in the 11th inning won Game 2, hit a three-run homer in the third that sailed com­pletely out of the park. Longoria added a solo shot later in the third -also off Lester, who pitched a no-hitter at Fenway in May and was 11­1 at home this year. 
Baldelli added on a three­run shot in the eighth and Pena made it 9-1 in the ninth, both off Paul Byrd. A lifetime Ray, Baldelli had never appeared in the postseason before; Pena is well-traveled -this is his fifth team, includ­ing the Red Sox -but he somehow managed to avoid appearing in a playoff game until arriving in Tampa Bay. 
The four homers in a game tied the ALCS home run record last matched by Boston in Game 2 against Tampa Bay on Saturday. 

"Solo home runs are good, but three-run homers mean so much more. It put us up 4-0 and gave us all the confidence in the world," said Upton, who has five homers in the playoffs after hitting just nine during the regular season. "We feel the sky's the limit for us all year. To beat (Lester), and to beat him at Fenway, hopefully it'll have a snowball effect." 
The Rays also hit hard on the basepaths. Carl Crawford bowled over Boston catcher Jason Varitek on a play at the plate. There was no immediate reprisal in a matchup between teams that have tangled in the past. 
The Red Sox put two on with nobody out in the seventh to chase Garza, then J.P. Howell gave up a sacrifice fly. Howell pitched two innings and Edwin Jackson closed out the victory. 
CYCLING 

Armstrong to race in Giro d'Italia prior to Tour de France 
aetually be my real three­cocaine overdose in 2004. Mark Higgins said in an e­that I need the Tour de
Associated Press 

week stage race of the year." "I raced a long time profes­mail to The Associated Press France" to raise caneer 
HOME -Lance Armstrong Winning both the Giro and sionally and never did the that "it doesn't look like" the awareness. agreed Monday to ride in the Tour in the same year Giro," Armstrong said in a rider will be in Paris as Giro director Angelo next year's Giro d'Italia and after more than three years video message released expected on Oct. 22 when Zomegnan indicated that suggested the Italian race -away from the sport would Monday by race organizers. Tour de France organizers Armstrong may have entered not the Tour de France -be an unprecedented chal­"It was one of my biggest unveil next year's route. the Giro to protect himself in will be the main target in his lenge for someone of regrets and now I'm going to Higgins said Armstrong has case more problems arise comeback season. Armstrong's age. be able to erase that regret to be at an annual fundrais­with the Tour. 
The American has never The 3 7 -year-old Armstrong and be at the 2009 Giro. And ing ride in Austin, Texas, French anti-doping author­eompeted in the three-week announced last month that who knows, maybe with a where he lives, a few days ities recently asked Giro, eonsidered the sport's he is returning to cycling good result." later. Armstrong to retest his 1999 most prestigious stage race after three years in retire­Armstrong also seemed to There have been subtle urine samples to see after the Tour. ment and hoped to win the take a swipe at Tour de hints all along from whether the Freneh sports 
"Everyone is saying that Tour for an eighth time. France organizers, with Armstrong that he is fed up daily L'Equipe was right the Giro will serve to pre­The 1OOth anniversary edi­whom he has feuded over with the Tour. when it reported they con­pare for the Tour," tion of the Grro is scheduled drug-testing issues. When the new head of Tour tained the banned substance Armstrong said in a written for May 9-31. The Tour de "I look forward to starting organizer ASO, Jean-Etienne EPO. statement released by organ­France starts July 4. The last a race that respects not only Amaury, said recently that Armstrong rejected the izers in Italian. "Actually, it rider to win both the Giro the riders but also maintains Armstrong had embarrassed notion and lashed out at the could be that I come to Italy and the Tour in the same the highest integrity in the French race over the French agency's leader, to win and the Giro will year was Marco Pantani in sport," he said. years, Armstrong responded Pierre Bordry, saying the 
1998. Pantani died of a Armstrong spokesman by saying, "Nobody ever said samples have been preserved 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts dassifleds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Gorgeous Completely Rehabbed  VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell NO  If you or someone you care about  FREE HAIRCUTS! Color 1/2 price  
House. 4 bedrooms. 3 full baths,  football tickets.  has been sexually assaulted, visit  at SALON ROUGE, 620 W. Edison.  
NOTICES  FoR SALE  washer dryer, dishwasher, new  www.victorytickets.com. 574-232­ http:l/osa.nd.edu/departments/csap  Mish. CALL 258-5080. Licensed  

 stainless steel appliances,3 car  0964.  I  apprentice stylists only. Expires  
Dog walker needed. 1/2 block from  CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO  garage, central air, beautiful light  10/31/08.  
NO. $25/week. Call847-370-0486.  NO. PLEASE CONTACT TED @  fixtures, deck and front porch.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
574-233-6191 MSL #231736  Marble entryway. All new. 2 miles to  PERSONAL  not go it alone.  Two teachers ready to adopt new­ 
ND.Available immediately, fourth  born and provide a wonderful life for  
WANTED  FoR RENT  month free or flat screen TV installed. $1180 per month. Call  Spring Break 2009. Sell Trips, Earn  If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance,  him/her. Confidential. Expenses paid. Stephenandliz@aol.com or  
Harold 574-315-7781.  Cash and Go Free. Call for Group  please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at  call us toll free 1-888-760-BABY  
Financial Partner wanted. 7% ROI  HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10  Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!  (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574­ Taxi taking time calls to airport for  
plus 2.5 Pts. 100% secured w/real  SCHOOLYEAR.~10BDRMS  Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,  631-2685.  break. Call574-360-6480.  
estate. 35 Yrs. Experience.  AVAILABLE.  TICKETS  Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre,  
References.  CONTACT KRAMER PROPER- Florida.  For more information, visit our web- Before he became a Tampa Bay  
Call 574-360-8707 or Email:  TIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMER- Wanted: NO football tix for family.  Information/Reservations 1-800­ site at: http:l/osa.nd.edu/depart- Ray, he was a Wadsworth Grizzly.  
2heavn@ comcast.net  HOUSES.COM  574-251-1570.  648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  ments/pregnant.shtml  Go Andy! Beat Red Sox!  



OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, October 14, 2008 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
NSCAA/ adidas Men's Soccer Rankings 
team points record 
1 Wake Forest {23) 575 10-o,o 2 Northwestern 537 9-0-2 3 Creighton 521 7+1 4 Akron 495 7+2 5 St. John's 478 8·1-2 6 California 455 6+3 7 Illinois-Chicago 425 8·0·3 8 Louisville 410 8·1-2 9 Saint Louis 385 4-0·5 10 Maryland 371 7-3-0 11 South Florida 306 6·1-2 12 Loyola (Md.) 301 8·0·1 13 Connecticut 299 5·2·3 14 UC Davis 269 9+1 15 NOTRE DAME 259 6·3-1 16 North Carolina 254 8-2-1 17 Ohio State 195 7-2-1 18 UC Santa Barbara 147 6·3·1 19 Pennsylvania 102 7·0·3 20 Tulsa 101 6·3-1 21 Charlotte 89 8·1·0 21 Virginia 89 6·3-0 23 UC Irvine 83 7+3 24 Michigan 79 8-H 25 SMU 68 6·3·1 
NSCAA/adidas Women's Soccer Rankings 
team points record 
1 NOTRE DAME {32) 824 1Z.O·O 2 North Carolina (1) 780 11+1 3 Portland 743 10-1-0 4 UCLA 731 10-1-0 5 usc 689 10-1-0 6 Stanford 679 10-0·1 7 Texas A&M 631 10-1-1 8 Virginia 594 10+1 9 Florida State 548 9·2-1 10 Texas 464 8-H 11 Duke 462 9-2-1 12 Florida 448 9-2-1 13 Oklahoma Stale 444 10-1-1 14 Boston College 414 8-2-2 15 Wake Forest 306 8-3-0 16 Illinois 297 9-4-0 17 Georgetown 296 8-0-2 18 West Virginia 228 7-2-4 19 California 190 7-3-0 20 San Diego 177 7-3·2 21 Rutgers 168 9-3-0 22 Colorado 164 9-2·2 23 Penn State 114 8-5·0 24 Wisconsin-Mil. 53 10-2·2 25 Washington Slate 42 6-2-3 
MIAA Women's Volleyball Standings 
Team Record 
league overall 
1 Hope 11·0 20-3 2 Calvin 8-2 14-4 3 Alma 9·3 17-8 4 SAINT MARY'S 7-5 14-7 5 Adrian 6·6 10-10 6 Albion 4-7 11-11 7 Trine 3-7 8-14 8 Kalamazoo 2-9 5-16 9 Olivet D-11 4-18 
around the dial 
MLB 
Rays at Red Sox 
8:07 p.m., TBS 


Associated Press 

COLUMBIA, S.C Tommy Bowden decided he'd done all he could do for Clemson football, telling his athletic director 
-Monday he'd step aside for the future of the program. AD Terry Don Phillips said his intent Monday morning was to have a candid, heart-to-heart with Bowden about the football team. So Phillips was sur­prised when Bowden offered to walk away in midseason. "There wasn't a gun to his head," Phillips said. "He put it on the table for the sake of the program," Phillips said. "I agreed." 
Bowden will be paid through the end of the sea­son, then get $3.5 million as a buyout negotiated in the contract extension both 
sides  agreed  to  last  
December.  
Bowden  sat  next to  

Phillips in McFadden Auditorium, where he's held meetings and press conferences the past 10 seasons. He thanked the school, administrators and his latest group of players. 
"I wish them nothing but success and I will be their biggest fan on Saturday" against Georgia Tech, Bowden said. 
With that, Bowden left the stage without taking questions, walked into his office and shut the door as Phillips detailed the day's dramatic events. 
Assistant head coach and receivers coach Dabo Swinney will take over the club. Phillips urged him to act like the team's head coach and make difficult decisions knowing he had the administration's full backing. 
It's a far fall for a team some figured to contend for a national title. 
The year began with the Tigers ranked No. 9 and picked to win the Atlantic Coast Conference. But an opening 34-10 rout by Alabama and recent losses to Maryland and Wake Forest raised calls again for Bowden's ouster despite the contract exten­sion that tied him to the school through 2014. 
"I appreciate the oppor­tunity Clemson University gave me and the support of the administration while I was here," Bowden said in a statement released by the school. 
Phillips heard the anger from Clemson backers. However, he said Bowden's choice was his own and not fueled by fans' dissatisfac­tion. 
Clemson went 72-45 (43­32 ACC) and made eight bowl appearances under Bowden, who was honored as ACC coach of the year in 1999 and 2003. 

IN BRIEF Colts' ManninJ! admits to 
having seconosurgery 
INDIANAPOUS, Ind -One surgery was­n't enough to fix Peyton Manning's left knee. 
Colts coach Tony Dungy confirmed Monday, after nearly two months ofdeflecting que:.iions, thai Manning was operated on a second time before returning to the field in late August. 
Dungy doesn't believe the second operation -to fix an infected bursa sac -was the reason the team had a sluggish start this season. 
"I don't think it set him back, it was part of the rehab process," Dungy said Monday. 'The time frame we were initially looking at was when he came back" 
Manning wa<; not available in the locker room Monday, a day after the Colts routed Baltimore 31-3, in what was e,asily his hffit game of the season. Manning typically does interviews only on Wednesdays and after 
games. 

But he told the CBS broadcast tJ>mn about the second surgery at a pregame meeting, prompting announcers Jim Nantz and Phil Simms to adc:lren the issue during Sunday's game. 
Romo out for at least a 
month with broken pinkie 
IRVING, Texas -The already slumping Dallas Cowboys now must survive a few g'dllles without two-time Pro Bowl quarter­back Tony Homo, who has a broken finger on his throwing hand 
There was indeed something wrong when Romo badly missed on his last two pass attempts to Terrell Owens in a 30-24 over­time l~N> at Arizona on Sunday, the Cowboys' second defeat in three games. Coach Wade Phillips said Monday that Romo broke his right pinkie on the first play of(J[ 
Brad Johnson, the 40-year-old backup whooe last start was in 2006 for Minnesota, takes over Sunday when Dallas plays at St Louis. 
"Obviously, it's unfortunate for Tony to have to go through something like this. He'R recover quick; he has a great attitude about it," Johnson said "At this time, it's really just important for the offense especially to just kind of catch on to my snap count and the ­way we manage the huddle.... I'm excited abo~ the opportunity, worked hard to get here. 

League hands out 
fines after NCLS brawl 
IDS ANGElES, Calif. -Manny Ramirez and Dodg8rs teammate Hiraki Kl.ll"'da were among four players fined Monday by Major League Baseball. for the Game 3 fracas between Los Angeles and the Philadelphia Phillies during the NL rhampion.<illip series. 
Kuroda threw a pitch behind Shane Victnrino's head in the third inning Sunday, apparently retaliation for Philadelphia's Brett Myers throwing behind Ramirez in Game 2. Benrhes and bullpens deared, and plate umpire Mike Everitt immediately warned both teams. There were no ejec­tions. 
Kuroda was fined $7,500, Ramirez was docked $2,500, first-base coach Mariano Duncan got $1,000 and third-base coach Larry Bowa $500, Dodgers manager Joe Torre said 
Victorino was fined $2,500 and first-base coach Davey lDpes and reliever J.C. Romero $1,00) each, acrording to Phillies manager Qmrlie Manuel 
Asked about his penalty, Ramirez said, 'That's fine." 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 14, 2008 
NHL 

Rangers prospect dies unexpectedly 
Cherepanov collapses during game in Russia 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK Alexoi Chernpanov, a 19-year-old first-round draft piek or tlw Nnw York Hang<Hs, died Monday during a Continnntal llockny League garnn in Hussia. 
Formnr Hangers captain .larornir Jagr played a shift with Chnrepanov and was talking to his young Avangard Omsk teammate on the b<mch shortly artnr they lnf't the ice, when Chnrnpanov suddnnly col­lapsed, said a Hangers spoknsman who talked to .lagr. 
Thoro was no collision that precncled the collapse, thn spokesman said, but no other details were available. Chnrnpanov scored thn first goal of' the gamo and had night in 15 contnsts this sna­son, his third wilh Avangard Omsk. 
Th11 Hangers announced thn death of' Chnrepanov shortly bnf'ore they played at horne against the New .Jnrsny Devils. New York coach Tom Henney said his club was not aware of' any health issues with Chernpanov. 
"lin's a Hanger and think it'll .!1ave an irnp~ct <:.n p~o­ple, H•lnney said. We re 
going to have to deal with it in our own personal way, but in the interest of a 
bright, young life that's over we're going to have to pur­sue the objective of tonight and that's get two points from New .Jersey. 
"The first thing we can do is honor him with a great effort tonight." 
Cherepanov surprisingly slipped to the Hangers dur­ing the 2007 Nlll. draft and they grabbed him with the 17th piek. The talented for­ward dropped because of 

concerns about his signabili­ty and the potential dif'ficul­ty in getting him to leave Hussia. 
New York assistant coach Mike Pelino recently returned from a one-week trip to Hussia where he watched Cherepanov play and then dined with him and .Jagr. 
The Hangers maintained a good relationship with Omsk and the dub's general man­ager even though there has been f'euding between the NIIL and Hussia's KilL. 
The f'uture appeared bright for Cherepanov, and the Hangers said he defi­nitely figured in their plans. 
"I was shocked when I heard. I thought it must be a misprint or something because he just had so much going for him," Pelino said. "lie was someone who I was really excited about and thought, 'Wow, we did get something special here.' 
"lie had things to work on. Wn felt he had to become a little stronger still, he had to probably become a little bit more aware defensively. But as far as raw talent 
went  and  the  ability  to  
score, he was gre at."  
Henney  kept  tabs  on  

Chercpanov every few weeks by checking in with .Jagr and new Omsk coach Wayne Fleming, who recently left an assistant coaching posi­tion with the Calgary Flames to take the job in Russia. 
Renney said .Jagr told him that Cherepanov could prob­ably play on New York's sec­ond line now. 
"Alexei was an intelligent, energetic young man, with tremendous talent and an extremely bright future," Rangers general manager Glen Sather said in a state­ment. "We are extremely saddened." 
HoRSE RACING 
Injury ends Big Bro-wn's career 
Associated Press 
There was nothing little about Big Brown's racing career. 
From his overpowering victories in the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness to his spectacular flop in the Belmont as he bid for a Triple Crown, Big Brown and his entourage including his maverick owner and outspoken train­er-simply did not do sub­tle. 
Yet less than two weeks away from his final race, the brilliant champion with brittle feet ended his career not with a victory in the Breeders' Cup Classic at Santa Anita but in front of a few stunned onlookers at Aqueduct following an oth­erwise routine workout. 
Michael lav•arone of lEAH Stables, co-owners of Big Brown, said his horse tore a three-inch piece of !lesh ofT the foot after it collided with his right rear foot while working over Aqueduct's turf course with stablemate Kip Deville. 
"This was a complete fluke," Iavarone said. "He hadn't had issues with his feet for a while and to have him come up just like this was a shock to all of us." 
The injury could take at least two months to heal, making it impossible for Big Brown to run in the BC Classic on Oct. 25 at Santa Anita. Big Brown is due at Three Chimneys Farm in Midway, Ky., by the end of the year to begin his stud career, preventing him from getting back on the track one last time. 
"We don't have a choice but to retire him," Iavarone said. "It's gut-wrenching." 
The injury itself is notlife­threatening, Iavarone said, but added it is important to make sure infection does not set in while he recovers. 
"I expect the next few days to be pretty rough on him," Iavarone said. "We've got to take care of him." 
Iavarone watched from 
the backstretch at Aqueduct while Big Brown eompleted the six-furlong work and thought his horse was ready for a possible shot at reign­ing Horse of the Year Curlin in the BC Classic until Iavarone returned to the barn and saw the troubled look on trainer Hick Dutrow's faee. 
"It looks like he grabbed himself in a bad spot," Dutrow said. 
Big Brown will spend sev­eral weeks in New York 
while he  recovers  before  
being  shipped  to  Three  
Chimneys.  

The injury caps a dazzling but somewhat eontroversial career for Big Brown, who won seven times in eight starts, including dominant runs in the Derby and the Preakness, and earned $3.6 million. 
Yet it could be Big Brown's lone loss that may define him. 
Following remarkably easy wins in the Derby and the Preakness by a com­bined 9 3/4 lengths, Big Brown headed to the Belmont primed to end a 30-year Triple Crown drought. 
Dutrow seemed to have no doubt. lie spent the days leading up to the race boasting his horse was the class of the field, even aftflr admitting he took Big Brown off the anabolic steroid Winstrol and limited the colt's training as he dealt with a quarter crack in his left front hoof that required a patch to be placed on it the day before the race. 
The public seemed nearly as confident as Dutrow, sending Big Brown out as a heavy favorite at sweltering Belmont. 
It never happened. 
Jockey Kent Desormeaux quickly moved Big Brown toward the front and put him in perfect stalking posi­tion on the backstretch only to suddenly ease him after sensing Big Brown had nothing left to give. 
The performanee led to speculation that Big Brown was simply a byproduct of Dutrow's aggrnssive ­though legal at the time ­usc of steroids. 
Iavarone responded to the criticism by announcing lEAH was banning the usc of all unneeessary medica­tion and that Big Brown's victories were a product of talent, not better racing through chemistry. 
Big Brown bounced back f'rom the Belmont with grit­ty wins in tho llaskell Invitational and the Monmouth Stakes and was poised f'or a shot at Curlin, horse racing's all-time lead­ing money winner. 
Iavarone saw the Classic as a chance at redemption. Now he's only left to won­der what might have been. 
"I don't think we ever got to the bottom of Big Brown," he said. "You saw the changeover from utter brilliancll to his heart in his last two races.... lie devel­oped a heart as big as his physical ability was. If we ever got to the part where he put the two together, we would have seen something that would have been breathtaking." 
Horse racing certainly could have used the boost that having its two biggest stars faee ofT after months of back-and-forth between their ownership groups would have provided. 
"Not having the winner of the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness isn't a plus," said Breeders' Cup president Greg Avioli. "It doesn't help us, but there's still tremen­dous enthusiasm for the Breeders' Cup." 
Maybe, though Curlin majority owner .Jess .Jackson said he was "sad­dened" by the news. 
"I am equally disappoint­ed that Big Brown and Curlin will never compete against each other," Jackson said in a release. "It was a dream of mine and thousands of other fans of the sport." 

Write sports. Call Bill or 


Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Information Meeting with program returnees to hear about... 
Spanish and Portuguese Language 

roa r rams 
Mexico hile 

Wednesday, October15,2008 6:oopm 204 DeBartolo Hall 

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2008 
Tuesday, October 14, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Welsh Fan1ily avoids huge upset to ren1ain undefeated 
Ducks shut out defending champion Chaos; Shamrocks secure playoff spot with come-from-behind victory 
By ALEX WEST, LIZA 
NAVARRO, NATHANIEL LEE, 
CHRISTINA MCDONNELL 
and BOBBY GRAHAM 
Sports Writers 
The winless nearly took down the undefeated Sunday, but Welsh Family held on to beat a surging Breen-Philips by the narrow mar­gin of 26-24. 
Welsh Fam (6-0) was its usual dominant self in the first half. The Whirlwinds scored a touchdown on their first possession of the game, quickly going up 6-0. 
However, BP (0-4-2) answered when quarterback Melissa Meagher unleashed a bomb that connected for a completion, taking the Babes downfield. They too scored on their first possession, tying the score at 6-6. 
The Whirlwinds started to pull away when they scored two touch­downs on the strong play of talent­ed quarterback Jenni Gargula, who constantly found her receivers through the heavy traffic of the BP defenders. Gargula led Welsh Fam to a 20-6 halftime lead. 
After one more touchdown by Welsh Fam made the score 26-6 at the start of the half, the BP offense began to come alive. 
Meagher connected with receiv­er Stefani Santeramo, who ran the pass in for a touchdown. After an energized BP defense gave the ball back to its own offense, and Meagher consistently hit receiver Lauren Kalinoski to drive the Babes to another touchdown, leav­ing the Babes down 26-18 with just over a minute to play. 
After a crucial interception, the Babes got the ball back with a chance to tie the game. With time running out, Meagher unleashed another long pass that was suc­cessfully reeled in again by Santeramo to cut the Welsh Fam lead to two. Instead of going for the two-point conversion and set­tle for a tie, the Babes decided to go for three and the win. 
"We came out here with nothing to lose but everything to win," Santeramo said. 'That's who we arn and that's why we went for the three." 
Despite the loss, the Babes con­sidered the game a moral victory, as they finished a frustrating sea­son on a high note. 
Welsh Fam, though, ended with this rather lackluster second half performance. 
"We came out flying to an early lead," Welsh Fam coach Mike Kaiser said. "Letting a team like that come back should serve as a wake up call for the playoffs." 
Welsh Fam quarterback Jenni Gargula emphasized the need to never be complacent. 
This year marks the third year that the Whirlwinds ended the season with an undefeated record. The last two years, Welsh Fam failed to win the championship. 
Pasquerilla West 7, Pasquerilla EastO 
On an afternoon with little offense, it was Pasquerilla West's defense that provided the only points as an interception return for a touchdown gave the Purple Weasels a 7-0 victory their rivals, the Pyros (0-5-1). 
PW's (3-1-2) offense struggled the entire game, as the Pyros held them to only two first downs the entire game. The PE defense also racked up nine sacks and applied pressure all game against PW On five offensive drives, PW was forced to punt on four of them and turned the ball over on downs the other time. 
On the other side of the ball, PE quarterback Caitlin Lynch was effective at moving the ball down the field, but couldn't put together a serious scoring threat until the fmal drive of the game. The PW defense forced a turnover on downs near midfield to secure the victory as time expired. 
Defensive linemen Jordan Johnson had seven sacks for PW 
"We played one heck of a game." Johnson said. "The season so far has been great. We have great team unity." 
PW can now being to prepare for the first round of the playoffs after fall break. 
On the other hand, the Pyros season came to an end with their fifth loss out of six games. "It was a disappointing season." Pyro cap­tain Tara Pillai said "But we did improve a lot from the first week until now and we had fun." 

Pillai's teammate Liz Ruiz is opti­mistic for next year. 
"We have only one senior." Ruiz said. "We will be better next year with a lot of players returning." 
Howard 13, Cavanaugh 0 
One of the most aggressive and intense games this season ended with a shutout, as Howard took down Cavanaugh 13-0. 
"I have never seen anything that physical," Cavanaugh coach Joe Quinn said. 
Howard captain and quarter­back Kayla Bishop added: "We lost to Cavanaugh earlier this season, so it felt really great to have anoth­er chance to come out and win it." 
The Ducks' defense won the game for them, surprising the Chaos (2-2-2) with man-to-man coverage. 
"We are not used to seeing a man defense," Cavanaugh captain and quarterback Katie Dunn said. "If we make the playoffs, we will be working hard in practice to prepare ourselves to face one in the future." 
Cornerback Laura Giezeman came up with several key tackles for Howard (3-2-1), and Kristyn Jeffries notched a second-half interception for the Ducks. 
Offensively, Howard asserted its presence early in the first half, get­ting a touchdown and an extra point completion to put seven on the board. 
Cavanaugh was led by a strong performance from quarterback Katie Dunn, who arrived ready to play despite her ankle injury. 
"We were missing a few mem­bers of our offense today," Dunn said. "But we had a few great line­man dumps to Sarah Cline, who really stepped up." 
The Chaos defense had a few sacks in the first half, including the first big sack of the year for Lauren Madigan. Overall, howev­er, the Cavanaugh secondary could not stop the Howard passing game. 
Both teams will take the upcom­ing weeks to make some adjust­ments and to prepare for the play­offs. 
McGlinn 14, Lyons 7 
Casey Robertson's interception with one second left secured a 14­7 win for McGlinn over Lyons Sunday. 
The Shamrocks came from behind to beat the Lions and have now turned their attention else­where. 
"We are excited for playoffs," McGlinn captain and quarterback Sarah deGroot said. 
DeGroot led the McGlinn offense with some great completions, including a 40-yard spiral to wide receiver Kathleen Stanley at the end of the first half. Also running routes for McGlinn was wide receiver Lauren Miller, who helped move the ball in the second. 
On defense, Emily Dore set the stage with key sacks in the back­field, causing both a loss of yardage and momentum for the Lyons offense. 
It was an unfortunate loss for the Lions, who came out ready to play with a touchdown on the first drive, scored by quarterback Oaire Connell. 
"We had a tough loss today," Connell said. "But we hope to get fired up and ready for the play­off.<>." 
Lions played without a few of its key defensemen. Receivers Neva Lundy and Caroline Maroney played both sides of the ball to fill in the gap. 
"They really stepped up and played hard when we needed them too," Connell said. 
Walsh 6, Badin 6 
Walsh came from behind in the second half to tie Badin and secure a spot in the playoffs Sunday at LaBar Fields. 
In a game dominated by defens­es, one touchdown was all the Wild Women (3-2-1) needed to move on to the post-season. 
The Bullfrogs (1-3-2) offense took control to start the game. On the opening drive, senior quarter­back Katie Rose Hackney was 7­for-9 for 65 yards and a touch­down. Senior tight end Courtney Rains had receptions of 10, four, 12 and 13 yards on the drive. Star freshman Carli Fernandez caught a 17 -yarder and the touchdown pass from 12 yards out. 
"We were really happy to stay competitive with a playoff team," Badin coach Jon Heintz said. ''I'm happy with our season, we had a 


STUDY POLITICS, ECONOMICS AND SOCIETY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS IN 
•PARIS, 
FRANCE AND 

•MONTREAL, 
CANADA 


INFORMATION MEETING Wednesday, OCTOBER 15, 2008 5:30PM 204 DBRT 
great time and these girls can really be proud." 
Down 6-0, the Wild Women drove down to the Badin 11-yard line under the direction of scram­bling quarterback sophomore Amy Langnecker, who ran the ball for 44 yards and passed for another 
25. However, the Badin defensive· unit stood up in the red zone and forced Walsh to turn the ball over on downs. 
The defenses continued to domi­nate the first half, and the next Bullfrog possession was a three­and-out, followed by a Langnecker pick, then another Badin three­and-out. Walsh was unable to drive on the final possession of the half, and walked off the field down a score. 
"The defense got woken up by that first quick score," Walsh coach Jeremiah Herman said. "After that they really got into gear, and have shown continuing improvement." 
But Walsh wasted little time tying things up in the second half. Walsh, led by Langnecker, moved 65 yards for the tying touchdown. Junior flex back Meghan Hadley finished the drive with a 3-yard run, tying the score. 
As the second half wound down, neither team was able to sustain a scoring drive. In the last two min­utes of play, both teams tried long passing plays, but came up unsuc­cessful. The Wild Women threat­ened in the end, but an intercep­tion by mediocre defensive back Deirdre Krasula, an Assistant Managing Editor for The Observer, secured the tie for Badin. 
"We are in the playoffs, which is key," Walsh coach Chris Cugliani said. "Today we shot ourselves in the foot a few times, so in the play­offs we're going to take care of our responsibilities." 
Farley 0, Lewis 0 
It was a defensive battle between Farley and Lewis Sunday as neither team, despite some promising drives, got into the end zone, and the game ended in a tie. 
The Finest (2-2-2) entered the game knowing that it would have playoff implications. Despite some strong play at quarterback from Emily Murphy, Farley failed to convert on third downs, causing them to punt on four occasions. 
Lewis assistant coach Christian 
Galvan  praised  his  Chicks'  
defense,  which  intercepted  
Murphy twice.  

"We have great respect for Farley, and the fact that our defense was able to stay with them throughout the game is a great accomplishment," Galvan said. 
Lewis (1-4-1} was coming in off its first win of the season earlier in the week. Despite their inability to qualify for the playoffs, the Chicks came out with the same drive that they had all season. While their defense kept them in the game against the explosive Finest, their offense, like Farley's, had trouble generating much success. Farley's defense registered three intercep­tions, one of which came in the red zone, and a sack. 
"We started off slow, but we hung tough," Lewis captain Kristie Shushinsky said. "Our defense was outstanding, and we moved the ball. We just kept coming up a few yards short." 
Contact Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu, Liza Navarro at lnavarro@nd.edu, Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd-edu, Christina McDonnell at cmcdonne@nd.edu and Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 14, 2008 
MLB 
Stairs puts team one game away from series 
Associated l'ress 
LOS AN<;t~LES -Sharie Vietorino and the Philadelphia Phillios struck baek with long halls ratlwr than bPanballs to rn o v n with i n one win of tlw World Series. 
Arter ducking a pitch thrown over his !wad the pwvious day. Vietorino and much-travPind pineh-hitter Matt Stairs dt~liv­ered two-run homers in the t~ighth inning that lil'tod Philadelphia over the Los Angeles Dodgers 7-5 Monday night for a :{-I lead in the NL championship snries. 
U was the first time the visit­ing team has won a game in 12 meetings between tlw teams this year. 
Lefty ace Colo llanwls. who won thn series opener, ean pitch tho Phillios to their first World Series sinee I 993 in Carne 5 on Wednesday night. lle'll be opposed by (;arne 2 loser Chad Billingsley. 
"We keep lighting," Victorino said. "We keep plugging along." 
1\leven teams in baseball his­tory have eorne back from 3-1 deficits to win a best-of-seven postseason series -two in thn NLCS. 
There were no brushbaek pitches or other trouble Monday night, unlike Game 3 when tlw benches and bullpens emptied in the third inning, moments after Dodgers starter lliroki Kuroda threw a pitch over Victorino's !wad in retaliation fi1r Philadelphia's high and tight pitches earlier in the series. 
With a runner at first and om1 out in the eighth, Victorino lined Cory Wade's first pitch into the right-field bullpen to tie the game at 5. Then. after a two­out single by Carlos Huiz, Dodgers manager Joe Torre called upon eloser Jonathan Broxton. the seventh Los Angeles pitcher. 
Broxton tried to throw a 3-1 fastball past Stairs, and the 40­ynar-old left-handed hitter drove it halfway up the the right-l'inld pavilion to put thn Phillins ah<~ad. 
"I try to swing for the f'nnees," Stairs said. "That's what l'vn done my whole earner. I was very fortunate to square one up tonight." 
Broxton allowed only two homers in 69 innings during the regular season. 
The Phillies picked up Stairs from Toronto on Aug. 30. lie has playnd for 11 teams in his career. 
The Phillies hit an NL-leading 214 homnrs during the regular S<~ason, and have nine in eight postseason games, good for 17 of' their 35 runs. 
Brad Lidge, the Phillies' sixth pitcher, got four outs for his fifth postseason save in five ehanees, but it wasn't easy. 
Lidge, a perfect 41-f'or-41 in save opportunities during the regular season, entered a game in the eighth for the first time this year, earning in with two outs and nobody on. Manny Harnirez greeted him with a double, and Russell Martin struck out but reaehed first on a wild pitch before James Loney flied to left. 

Lidge retired the side in order in the ninth. giving the Phillies an 85-0 record when leading after eight innings this year, including six wins in the post­season. 
The Dodgers seored twice in the sixth for a 5-3 lead. Casey Blake, who struck out in his first two at-bats, greeted reliev­er Chad Durbin by hitting a 1-2 piteh over the left-field wall for his first postseason homer. 

Juan Pierre, making his first start of the postseason, followed with a double and pinch-hitter Matt Kemp walked. Seott Eyre relieved and first baseman Hyan Howard threw wildly past first on Rafael Furcal's sacrifice bunt, allowing Pierre to score and putting runners at second and third. Andre Ethier lined to first and, after Hamirez drew his second intentional walk of' the game to load the bases, sec­ond baseman Chase Utley snared Martin's liner and turned it into a double play. 

NFL 
Browns hand Giants first loss with blowout 
pregame introductions, Edwards. cornerback Eric dunk over the goal post. The son. Given time to throw, he 
Associated Press 
Cleveland ended New York's Wright intercepted Eli Manning score capped an 87-yard drive made all the corrnet reads and CLEVELAND The 11-game road winning streak and returned it 94 yards for a which was bogged down by live went 5-for-5 for 74 yards, 
Cleveland Browns may have with a 35-14 win over the touchdown and the Browns (2-Cleveland penalties. threading a 22-yard TD pass 
flipped around their season. defending Super Bowl champi­3) finally looked worthy of a The Giants then drove to the over th1~ middle to backup tight I.nd by turn bling wide n1cniv­ons. prime-time TV slot. Cleveland 9, but on seeond­end Darnell Dinkins to give nr Brayton Edwards, who Cleveland quarterback Derek Anderson f'inished 18-l'or-29 and-4, Manning locked onto Cleveland a 17-7 hall'time lead. announced his team's return to Anderson. whose job was in for :no yards, Edwards eaught wide receiver Amani Toomer, Manning countered with an Monday night after five yPars serious jeopardy just a few five passes for a career-high allowing Wright time to durt in 80-yard scoring drive ­by sticking an Olyrnpie-ealiber weeks ago, threw one of his 154 yards and Jamal Lewis front, make· the interception helped by a critieal Cleveland eartwheol and back flip during two touchdown passes to scored on a 4-yard run for the and tiptoe down the sideline to penalty -to pull thn Giants 
Browns, who won a Monday the end zone. It was a satisfy­within 17-14. From the 3, hn night game for the first time ing turn for Wright. who was lofted a perfect 3-yard TI> pass since 1993 and handed the burnnd twice by the Giants to Burress, who easily ran past Giants (4-1) their first loss, during the Aug. 18 matehup defensive back Terry Cousin. leaving the Tennessee Titans as between the teams. Three plays earlier, Manning the NFL's only unbnaten team. While Browns fans danced in had b<lnn sacknd and l'umblnd 
Manning was pieked ofT three the aisles, Anderson hit on third down, but Browns times and the Giants, so domi­Edwards for the 2-point con­safety Mike Adams was ealled nant through their first four version to put the Browns for illegal contact, giving New games, were roughed up by a ahead by 21. York a first down. Cleveland team running out of Cleveland had its best game Browns defensive end Corny time to make good on lofty pre­this season despite playing Williams had provided tlw season expectations. without Pro Bowl tight end Giants with some bulletin­
In the elosing minutes, Kellen Winslow, who was hos­board material loading into the Browns fans chanted "Over­pitalized last week with an game. Williams, who was with rated" at the New Yorkers. undiselosed illness. Green Bay last season and lost 
Aside from some more silly Manning went 18-of-28 for to New York in the NFC title penalties, the Browns were 196 yards and threw a 22-yard game, had said Cleveland's superior to the Giants, who had TO pass to Plaxieo Burress, defense planned to "hit him reeled orr 11 straight wins -who was back after serving a (Jacobs) in the mouth" and 12 counting the Super Bowl -one-game suspension for vio­that "tlwir ain't nothing physi­outside of New Jersey since lating team rules. cal" about tho Giants' offensive Week 1 last season. But Moments after New York line. Manning was not himself and went up 7-3 on Brandon Williams also said he was New York. which embarrassed Jacobs' 7-yard run, Edwards going to try to knoek Jacobs' Cleveland during the exhibition turned cornerback Aaron Hoss head off. remarks that were season, missed an opportunity around with a niee outside prominently displayed on the to open a two-game lead in the fake and hauled in a 70-yard baek pagns of Nnw York's brutal NFC East. pass from Anderson to set up tabloid newspapers. 
Edwards' 11-yard TD recep­Cleveland's l'irst TD, a 4-yard After J aeobs barreled tion on the first play of the run by Lewis. through sevoral Cleveland 
AP fourth quarter gave the On the Browns' next posses­defenders for his TD early in Browns a 27-14 lead, and he sion, Anderson put together his the second quarter. lw jawt~d punctuated it with a reverse best-looking drive of the sna-with Williams. 

Tuesday, October 14, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 • 
goals that year to lead the -country.

Streak 
But while their numbers may end up being similar, Dike is a

continued from page 20 
much different player than career starts entering this year Lapira was for the Irish. At 5­and didn't play at all as a junior. foot-8, 150 pounds, Lapira was He leads the team with nine a quick, energetic forward who 
goals and 21 points, and he has was savvy in taking on defend­taken twice as many shots (54) ers and finding scoring oppor­as anyone on the team -junior tunities. 
midfielder Michael Thomas, At 6-foot-1, 195 pounds, Dike Notre Dame's second leading is Notre Dame's biggest regular scorer, has scored six goals on player, and he has proven to be 27 shots. a physical force. 
And Dike's emergence as the He can both use his size to Irish's go-to scorer has been outmuscle defenders in the box crucial for a team that entered and his speed to outplay oppo­
the season facing the mighty nents in space. And I know if I 
task of replacing Joe Lapira, the was an opposing keeper, I 2006 IIermann Trophy winner wouldn't want anything to do as college soccer's MVP. with some of the rockets that 
Though Dike certainly has a leave Dike's foot. 
lot to accomplish before his And, to risk sounding redun­numbers can be compared dant, Dike's best may still be to favorably with Lapira's, his cur­come. rent scoring streak is just one Irish coach Bobby Clark said game short of one Lapira pulled so before Notre Dame's last 
off during his award-winning game, a 4-1 win over Pittsburgh junior season. Lapira scored 22 Saturday in which Dike put the 
game out of reach with an unassisted second-half goal that made it 3-1. 
"There's still more to come with him, and that's the exciting thing," Clark said. "There's still a lot of room for improvement, and we're excited about the possibilities." 
He proved in high school that he can be a big-game player when as a junior, he led his team to a come-from-behind win in the state title game with three second-half goals. Dike already has two game-winning goals this season for the Irish. 
If Greg didn't unveil Dike's potential three weeks ago, Dike's certainly done it himself on the field. 
Now the real question -can anyone stop him? 
The views expressed in the column are those of the writer and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd. edu 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
MENDOZA. COI.J..F.Cl'. OF BtJSINF.SS 
~•.x,u r,:'oh~ tsf lWS:MI'::.~ 
Alan-Lee 
continued from page 20 
leads Notre Dame in scoring after shooting a l-over 7 3. Alan-Lee scattered three bogeys and two birdies to fin­ish tied for seventh. Junior Doug Fortner, who has been the most consistent scorer for the Irish this season, fired a 5-over 77 on the back of his eagle on a 7 -over 79, good enough for 53rd overall. Sophomore Dustin Zhang, who struggled at last week's tournament had a 17-over 89. Zhang added a 5-over seventh hole to four double bogeys, six bogeys, and two birdies to end the round in 82nd place. But Zhang's score was the high score for Notre Dame and did not factor into its overall score. 

Despite its 
struggles, 
Notre Dame 

the par 5, "They haven't lost flashed some of 536-yard sec­the talent and
their resolve after a
ond. Fortner toughness 
sits in 27th tough performanqe. ,, Kubinski has place heading seen in his into the sec­young golfers. 
Jim Kubinski 
ond round. "!'d like to
Irish coach 
Freshman Tom Usher, coming off his first collegiate tournament at the Fighting Irish Gridiron Invitational last week, shot a 78 to move himself into 38th place. Usher rebounded after a 7­over front nine, carding two birdies and a single bogey down the stretch to finish 6­over on the round. Junior Carlos Santos-Ocampo tallied 

[$1UNIVLRSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Colle?,•' ofAns and Letters 

Are you interested in Social Responsibilil}j Leadership, Innovation, Real Estate, A"nance, Corporate Govern­ance, Environmentalism, Technolog~ Philanthrop~ Economics, Political Science, or International Business? 
The Entrepreneurship Society of Notre Dame, ND Students in Free Enterprise (SIFE), the Mendoza College of Business, and the College of Arts and Letters bring you••. 

The Keynot~_.Sp_g_gt,~_gr of 2008: Jaime_ A\:lgusto Zobel de Ayala II 
M_r.._l.g_bel d!:L,Ayala will focus on: 
"Sustainable Business Solyti.on~ that Engage the Base of the Pyramid-A Way Forward For Growth." 
7:30PM Tuesday, October 14th in 102 Debartolo 
About the Speaker: Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala II 
• 
CEO and Chairman of Ayala Corporation, one of the largest and most diversified companies in Eastern Asia and was recently named by Asiamoney as the "best-managed large capitalization company in the Philippines 

• 
Also serves as Chairman of the Bank of the Philippine Islands, Globe Telecom, Inc., and Integrated Microelec­tronics, Inc 

• 
Recipient of 2007 Harvard Business School Alumni Achievement Award 

• 
Vice-Chairman of Ayala Land, Inc., Manila Water Co., and the Ayala Foundation, Inc. which is the group's social development arm 

• 
Named Filipino Management Man of the Year in 2005 

• 
A member of the J.P. Morgan International Council, Mitsubishi Corporation International Advisory Committee, Toshiba International Advisory Group, Harvard University Asia Center Advisory Committee, Board of Trustees of the Asian Institute of Management, National Council member of the World Wildlife Fund (US), and Chairman of World Wildlife Fund (Philippines). 

• 
He was a member of the World Economic Forum Global Leaders for Tomorrow and was a TOYM (Ten Outstanding Young Men) Philippine Awardee in 1999. 


The Dialogue: In the context of Increasing Globalization, Mr. Zobel de Ayala looks forward to sharing his advice to the Next Generation of Leaders I Innovators at Notre Dame through a short presentation and, more importantly, a Long Session of Question and Answer in order to engage in dialogue with the students. 
talk more about 
what [the 
golfers are] all 

bringing to our team this week but, honestly, actions speak louder than words," Kubinski said. "I expect they'll ... really show us something. They haven't lost their resolve after a tough performance. In fact, I think they're eager· to get back out and play Notre Dame golf." 
The second round of the Prestige concluded late Monday evening. Play resumes this morning, the third and final beginning at 
7:30 a.m. with a shotgun start. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
Better 
continued from page 20 
scored seven points. It scored on its first drive ,!i.ve minutes into the game in Chapel Hill and had 17 points in the first half. 
When the Irish needed a spark near the end of the game, they got it. Jimmy Clausen led the offense 7 5 yards down the field and went 4-for-7. He also converted a third-and-two with a quarter­back sneak. The mess that was the final play of the game notwithstanding, the Irish could have a shot at first-and­goal from the seven yard-line with three seconds on the clock. In a close game like that one, they'll take that any day. 
Against Michigan State, down 16-7 in the fourth quar­ter with a chance to come back, they could only reach the 23 yard-line, which was just close enough for a missed field goal. After another Michigan State touchdown, they couldn't muster anything and walked off the field after a turnover on downs. 
The book is far from over, but it's a page turner. Clausen keeps upping the ante by breaking his personal passing record every week, Floyd and Tate continue to come down with balls they have no busi­ness catching and, in the most shocking plot twist yet, Brandon Walker made every field goal he attempted (one). 
It's a different book from two years ago, but the characters persevered through the tough times. The antagonists won this one, but the team has improved, and will continue to do so as the chapters unfold. 
The views in this column are those of the writer and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu. 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 14, 2008 
Otters 
continued from page 20 
"Wn had snt !the play-adionl up 
all gamn," he said. 
Carroll ( 1-2-1 I opt·med the 
game with a strong snven-play 
drive to get within tlw Sorin 5­
yard line. On the eighth play of 
thn drive sophomore running 
back Kris Kast fumbled when 
reaeht~d for the goal line and the 
Sorin dnfensn reeovnred. 
Nonethelnss. the Vermin w1~re 
optimistic af'ttH the opening 
drive. 
"We had a script down. looked 
at the script," Carroll sophomorn 
quarterback Nick Huof said. 
"And since the script worknd so 
well, we said, 'Let's do it again."' 
That plan was quickly forgot­
ten on Carroll's first drive of the 
sewnd half. Scrambling for a few 
extra yards, Huof was tacklnd 
and sprained his ankle, causing 
him to miss thll rest of the game. 
As a result, the shorthanded 
Vermin nended to reeonsider any 
ommsive strategies. Carroll ini­
tially only had 20 players dress in 
uniform, six of which played both 
offenSfl and defense this wenk. 
Huofs injury curtailed much of 
thll tnam's optimism. 
Kast. who started the first 
game for Carroll this season at 
quartnrback, took over. Dnspite 
his experience and best ell"orts, 
the Sorin defense had little trou­
ble stifling any Vmmin attacks 
the rest of the gamn. 
This loss eliminated the Vermin 
from the playoffs. ending their 
season. 
Whnn play fllsumes after fall 
break, Sorin will conclude its 
season against St. Edward's, who 
is also 3-0. Last fall. St. Ed's 
def(mtnd the Ottnrs, but this sea­
son thn game has morn meaning, 
as the two teams are tind for first 
place in the Gold l.nague. 
Alumni 7, Knott 6 
It is possibly the most over­looknd play in football -the nxtra point. For Alumni and Knott. though. it proved to be the deciding fador in the Dawgs' 7-6 win 
Throughout the first three quartnrs, the game was a def(m­sive struggle, and neither oll"ense managed to enter the opponent's rnd zone. 
Knott (1-2) finally strung together the first successful drive, going 66 yards and ending with a 2-yard touchdown run in the fourth quarter. A holding penalty on their initial two-point conversion attempt forced them re-try from further out. Their second attempt, a fade to the right corner, was unsuceessful, but Knott was still ahead 6-0 and Alumni (2-2) had yet to show any signs of oll"ensive life. 
However, Dawgs coach Hod Santos had a plan for their next drive. 
"We knew we eould run the ball," Santos said. "We wanted to draw them in then hit them with a big pass over the top." 
The Dawgs executed Santos' scheme to perfection, as fresh­man running baek Barrick Bollman ran for a number of short gains before quarterback Pat Hushford connected with freshman wide receiver Sean O'Brien for a 26-yard gain. The Dawgs finished the drivn with a fourth down pass, again to O'Brien, for the score. 
With only six snconds left. the game earne down to the leg of Dan Buckley. Unl~tzed, Bucklny nailed the kick and gave his team the one-point victory. 
After the gamll, Santos was thrilled with the win and his tnam's pl~rli>rmanee. 
"It was a dogfight," he said. "We had our backs against the wall and we knew it was a must-win situation. The guys eame out 

to light." 

With this win, Alumni kept 
itself in the playoff hunt. Knott, 
on the other hand, found itself all 
but eliminated from postseason 
contention. 

Juggerknott captain Aidan 
Fitzgerald said his team played 
pretty well overall, but he attrib­
uted the dismal offensive produc­
tion to the fact that they weren't 
prepared for Alumni's defensive 
scheme. 
St. Edward's 14, Zahm 12 

It was close. but St. Edward's 
secured a playoff spot Sunday, 
defeating Zahm 14-12. 

"It was a game of big plays," 
St. Ed's head coach Cameron 
Hogue said. "It all came down to 
IZahm'sl extra points." 

On the first drive, St. Ed's quar­
terback Matt Abeling, completed 
a 55-yard pass for a score, giving 
St. Ed's an early lead which they 
kept for the rest of the game. 

Zahm (0-2-1) answered with a 
successful offensive series of its 
own, but in a much different way. 
The Habin Bats' offensive strate­
gy was built on acquiring rushing 
yards and throwing short passes. 
;\ series of first downs brought 
the Habid Hats down the field, 
and a short pitch to senior run­
ning back Theo Ossei-Anto was 
good for a score, but a failed 
extra-point attempt kept the St. 
Ed's lead at 7-6. 

"The offensive line played 
incredibly," Ossei-Anto said. 
"They were playing tired and 
hurt, but they really dug in and 
gave it everything they had in a 
very physical game." 

Just before the end of the first 
hall', St. Ed's took over on ofTense 
and Abnling launched a sixty-five 
yard pass to senior and ginger 
adonis Hyan Farrell. giving St. 
Ed's a more comfortable lead at 
14-6. 

"It really gave us momentum 
going into the second half," St. 
Ed's junior captain Andy Nester 
said. 

Midway through the third quarter, a Zahm interception swung the momentum in favor of the Habid Bats. On their next play on oll'ense, fullback Jarred Cartnr took the handofl' and ran it in for a touchdown. Zahm couldn't covert the two-point conversion, though, and left the score at 14-12. 
"!Carter] wants the ball every play," Ossei-Anto said. "He never goes down on a first hit." 
A final chance for Zahm to take the lead was shut down, as a St. Ed's defender deflected a pass with 35 seconds left in the game, giving the ball back to St. Ed's and handing them their third vic­tory of the season. 
Next, Zahm takes on Fisher and St. Ed's concludes their in­season play against Sorin, anoth­er 3-0 team in hopes of defend­ing a perfect record. 
Siegfried 14, Morrissey 0 
Siegfried entered Sunday's game against Morrissey (2-1) determined to hold its own against the Manorites high-pow­ered ofl'ense. The Ramblers did more than that, shutting out Morrissey. 
Hunning back Marcus Young's 5-yard touchdown run in the first half put Siegfried (3-0) up 6-0, and a successful 2-point conver­sion pushed the lead to 8-0, where it would remain for the rest of the half. 
The Hamblers lead quickly widened to 14-0 when running back Dex Cure raced for a 60­yard touchdown run on the frrst play from scrimmage of the sec­ond half. 
While they did give up a few long passes, Siegfried's defense was mostly successful in stopping Morrissey's passing game from hurting the Ramblers like it has other teams so far this season. 

"We tried to keep their 
receivers in front of us in the sec­
ondary," Siegfried captain Kevin 
Kelly said. "We made the neces­
sary adjustments and dropped 
guys back in coverage when we 
m~eded to, and it worked well." 
Siegfried ran a well-balanced offense and its consistent first­down running game opened the door for the passing game. They were both helped by some cru­cial Morrissey penalties and helped themselves by converting on key third and fourth down sit­uations. 
Yesterday's win against the previously unbeaten Manorites not only extended Siegfried's record to a still-unscathed 3-0, but also earned them a spot in the playoffs. 
"It means a lot to be back there, but we have to remain focused as a team and we can't take our next game lightly," Kelly said. "The last thing we want to do is go into the playoffs slouch­ing." 
Dillon 2, Keough 0 
Keough's playofl' hopes came to an abrupt end as the Big Hed of Dillon defeated the Roos 2-0 in their final game of the regular season. 
Still searching for its frrst victo­ry of the year, Keough (0-2-1) began the first half with plenty of fire. 
After allowing Dillon (3-1-0l to march down the field on its first drive, the Hoo defense came up big, forcing a fumble deep in Keough territory. Senior captain Nazur Ahmed recovered the ball at the 2-yard line. 
But bad field position proved to be costly, as the Dillon defensive line plugged the holes and forced a safety on Keough's third play of the drive. 
"Our defense has been the backbone of the team all sea­son," Dillon captain Chris Cugliari said. "They've scored more points than our offense." 
Led by defensive end Jordan Smith, the Big Hed recorded four 
sacks and dominated the game in 
the trenches. Smith, who had two 
sacks himself, created havoc in 
the backfield and left the Keough 
offensive line with their hands 
tied. 
"Jordan's intensity represents the attitude of our team," Dillon assistant coach Hyan O'Connor said. "He's pretty much a mon­ster." 
Nevertheless, the Keough offense had multiple scoring chances in the second half. 
Quarterback Matt Bruggeman found a rhythm in the Roos' Iirst drive of the half, displaying great pocket presence and finding receivers John Mayer and Chris Kaczynski for short yardage. But the Dillon defense stepped up again as cornerback Joey Leary snagged his first of two intercep­tions at the Dillon 6-yard line, ending the drive. 
"We moved the ball into their territory," Keough captain Kevin Laughlin said. "We just couldn't score in the red zone." 
The Dillon offense was also limited by the stingy Keough defense. The Roos surrendered no points for the second time this season in spite of the hard-nosed running of Dillon running back Eric Herbert and quarterback Joe Garigliano. 
Stanford 15, O'Neill14 
In a hard-fought game at Biehle field, Stanford came back in the closing minutes to beat O'Neill by just one point. 15-14. 
Stanford quarterback Brian Salvi found an open receiver in the end zone with only a few minutes left on the dock to bring his team within a point of the lead. The gutsy Grillins opted to go for the win with a two-point conversion instead of ending in a tie. The gamble paid off and put the team in good position for the postseason. 
"Overall, I thought it was a good game and O'Neill is a great team," Burke said. "[The gameI could've gone either way." 
To start the game, Stanford (2­
1) received the ball, but was unable to score as itsoffense 
stalled. 
On O'Neill's (1-2) next posses­sion, the Angry Mob scored a ·touchdown, but was unable to convert the two-point conversion. The Griffins rallied, though, and scored a touchdown as the half expired. They converted the extra point, and went into the 
break up 7-6. 
O'Neill, however, answered 
quickly at the start of the second 
half by scoring to go up 14-7 on a 
drive led by the play of running 
back Tom Friel. 
"Tom played really well today," O'Neill captain Matt Bono said. "lie had several great runs to keep a few of our drives alive". 
The remainder of the game was controlled by the defenses, as several defenders on both teams made stops to halt their opponents' drives. 
"Defensively, we started off slow," Stanford captain John Burke said. "But they came through later in the game when they needed to. 
"Linebacker Billy Parker had an amazing game for us and had several incredible open-field tackles for us. Also, linebacker Josh Von Schuamburg had a really big stop on a third down on one of O'Neill's last drives to keep them from scoring". 
As the end of the game neared, Stanford quarterback Brian Salvi threw a pass into the end zone and hit his wide receiver for a touchdown. With the score now 14-13, Stanford had a decision to · make -either take an extra­point to tie or go for two to win. The Griffins decided to go for two, and the gutsy call paid otr as Stanford took the load 15-14. O'Neill had one last shot to win the game on their final posses­sion, but there wasn't enough time to score. 
"We showed a lot of character today. Obviously, we're disap­pointed with the loss but we have to move on," Bono said. "We're looking forward to our next game after fall break against Keough". 


Rebuild lives. 
You can help. Find out how. 
Winter Break Trip to the Gulf Coast January 5-11, 2009 
Sponsored by the Alliance for Catholic Education 
Tuesday, October 14, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAcK DoG 
· ·· BuT WE STIU.. OH, [)Ut>E. I'D 1-<>V£ TP I'vE 
IIAV&J'T' Fl~ OVT Jt$T 6-<>T A 1-<>r oF CJZAP 6c!NG-ON 1-l>\.J TO f'AY !'ott. TH£ THE.. Wof<LP SEI'J£S IS C.CMII\l6-uP I?AIL.OI.IT. WIL.L. '(ou FoiZJ:I6-NtR·s oN TouP-A(rl>IN, ' 
liEL.P US? HAVII>I'AKE~ 
WEEIC£Nt> ••. 

THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
PATRICK GARTLAND 
JUMBLE 
JJ&WJID)1rE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NEARY 
1 
rJ tJ 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
f;¥fi I I 
CROITE j
I I r tJ 
www.iumble.com 
EOPING j
I I V" P' "i
l l ...A 
.__---'_ __.. _ __,~.;:......"'--......,-.....<.1 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

Al..n-bL.>GH MARRIAGE: IS JUST A WORD, IT CAN TURN INTO--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer here: 

A rxxxxxxxJ 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  PURGE  BERTH  (Answers tomorrow) LACING DAINTY  
Answer:  Known to fall at the end of a performance  - 
THE CURTAIN  

CROSSWORD 
TEEN PUZZLEMAKER WEEK 

Note: All the daily crosswords this week, Monday through Saturday, have been contributed by puzzlemakers under the age of 20. Today's crossword is by Patrick John Duggan. 19, of Arlington, Va. He is a second-year student at Boston University. This is his second puzzle for The Times. 
Across 36 Firebug 69_apple Filter's target 37 1980s TV's 70 Online auction 5 Not much 
"Remington _" site 

38 Tequila source 71 MapQuest invitation 40 N.B.A. Hall-of-suggestions: Fame nickname Abbr. 
9 Answers a party 
14 Big Apple neighborhood 42 Ball of yarn 15 Stuff of legend 43 Ring figures? Down 16 Rankled 
45 Its HQ is in Jet-setters' jets, Brussels once

17 Anybody ... and the missing 
47 Trawler's 2 Hundred Acre clues for 30-, 48-equipment Wood denizen and 63-Across 48 ??? 3 "Oyvey" 20 "Cut me some 50 Order in a bear 4 Old car that was 
slack!" market · famously 21 On the vive 51 Slugger Moises available in 22 Assign an NC-52 Domesticated ox 
black, black ... or black

17, say in India 23 Singer Lisa with 54 Wally's little bro 5 Middle Ages 
pseudosciencethe 1 994 #1 hit 57 Org. with an e­6 __ choy

"Stay" file option 25 Monopoly 59 "Don't bother'' 7 2008 campaign payment 63 ??? 
issue 8 Fire insurance? 

27 Sans ice 66 Teen, maybe 9 "Go, team!"
30 ??? 67 Daddy-o 1 0 1960s TV series
35 Ctri+_+Del 68 Relaxation with numerous spinofts
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
11 Designer Wang 


12 Role 
13 Ocular woe 18 Equal: Prefix 19 Loses on 
purpose 24 Shakespeare, 
e.g. 26 Bananas 27 Org. co-founded 
by W. E. B. Du Bois 28 Composer heard at graduations 29 ColecoVision rival 31 Michaels of "S.N.L." 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Puzzle by Patrick John Duggan 

32 Carolyn who 44 One who bites wrote Nancy the bullet Drew mysteries 
46Wee33 Architect 49 Area in a grandSaarinen tour34 Barbra Streisand 
title role 50 Person in a solarium
36 Blossom element 53 constrictor 

39 "Sex-x-xy!" 54 The Crimson Tide, to fans
41 Rap star who co­owns the New 55 City along the Jersey Nets Chisholm Trail 
WILLSHORTZ 
56 "_Karenina" 58 Name-dropping 
sort 60Coupd'_ 61 End of an 
ultimatum 62 Goes platinum? 64 Mos. and mos. 65 Escape from the 
rat race 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ashanti, 28; Sacha Baron Cohen, 36; Jerry Rice, 46; Marie Osmond, 49 
Happy Birthda~·: Procrastination will not pay the bills. bring you satisfaction or help you solve your proble1ns. Get on with living--you can!t hide from what needs to he done forever. Professional changes are overdue and nmst be put into play if you want to achieve your goals. Your numbers are 6. 17, 21, 23, 18. 35,42 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Treat partnerships with kid gloves. You don't want to start a disagreemenl because you are emotionally sensitive. Pour your heart into your \\'OJ'k and listen to constntdive t~riticism. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-Ma~· 20): A partnership can be a good thing but, if yon fear giving up too much authority, you will have problems delegating \Vho-doe~-what. Communica­tion may not be straightforward. causing problems with co-workers. Ask questions and leave nothing to the imagination. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take part in an event that will ensure you can stand out, he noticed and meet some interesting people. You are overdue for an overhaul. Don't play games when it comes to love or ~omeone is apt to get hurt. **** 
CANCER (Jmte 21-July 22): Misleading someone as to your actual intentions will backfire. It's best to be honest even if you do get hmt initially or hut1 someone else. Helping others will get you much further ahead and keep you out of trouble. ** 
LEO (July 2.~-.Aug. 22): Don't go overboard or brag about what you can do. Taking a course to refresh your memory 011 how to take care of hon:te maintenance is a good idea. A love interest may confuse you regarding your current. personal situation. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll be inclined to overspend on things you don't need. Focus on the youngsters and the seniors in your life and you will learn something about who you are and what you stand for. A love relationship can make up for lost time. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 2.'-0ct. 22): Put your thoughts on paper and follow your plans to the end and you will make progress. Stick by your friends and keep your emotional feelings out of the workplace. Taking on a project at home will cost you too much money, time and 
worry.*** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 2.1-Nov. 21): Let your creativity grow, enabling yon to develop and hone your skills. Work toward ma,tering what you can do instead of struggling with what you cannot. Follow your heart and your dreams. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make yonr home secure and conducive to what you want to develop personally, professionally and fmancially in the future. The more attention you pay to loved ones. the easier it will be to get approval to do the things you want. Turn a dream space into reality. ***** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep your personal and professional dealings sepa· rate. As soon as you bring emotions into the equation. you will make a mistake you'll regret. Keep talks to a min.imum. Being misled by someone you nus! is likely. ** 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let love or someone's advances cause problems for you in other areas of your life. People will not be as they appear, so don't make as­sumptions. Don't be fooled by a fast-cash deal that is too good to be true. **** 
PISCES !Feb. 19-March 20): Donations, loans or gi,·ing to people putting demands on you must he avoided. Work in unison with someone willing to give just as much and who has the same expectations. With love, if you are with the right person, make a promise that will last a lifetime. *** 
Bit·thday Baby: You are expressive, smart, emotional and ahead of the times. You have talent and unusual interests and you keep the peace by being vocal and using reason. 
Eugenia's Web siTes: eugertialast.com for conjidemial consultations, myspace.comleugenialasrfor Eugenia 1S blog. nstroadl·in~.comjor ftm 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address ____________________________________ _ City ________ State _____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, October 14, 2008 
page 20 
MEN'S INTERHALL 

The hunt is on 
Several teams clinch playoff spots Sunday 
By DOUG FARMER, CHRIS 
MICHALSKI, SHANE 
STEINBERG, CHRIS 
MASOUD, and RYAN 
O'CONNELL 
Sports Writer 
Sorln 7, Carroll 0 
Sorin eontinued its quest for an undefeated season by taking down Carroll on Sunday. 
The lone scorn of the game came on the second play of the second half. Sorin sophomore quarterback Jon Bnckmle found senior roeeiver Conor Douglass on the sideline for a 60-yard touchdown. 
"It was a play-action that the corner just bit on," Douglass said. 
Becknrle said that his team tri1HI to take advantage of Carroll's aggressive defense with the call. 
see OTTERS/page I 8 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles take onMIAA foe Calvin 
Observer Staff Report 

Saint Mary's (14-7) will try to make it three straight wins tonight when they weleome Calvin to the gym for an MIAA match-up. 
The Belles picked up wins over Alma and Olivet Saturday to improve their conference record to 7-5, good enough for fourth place. 
Meghann Hose had 29 digs against Alma to l!md the team. She was named MlAA Speeialty Player of the Week for her per­formance. 
Calvin currently has a record of 8-2 in MIAA play and 14-4 overall. 
The Knights and the Belles have faced off once already this season. Calvin took that meet­ing in three straight sets on Sept. 27. They haven't lost a game since. 
fOOTBALL COMMENTARY 

Irish loss is another good chapter in last year's revvrite 
When Brady Quinn and Jflfl' ters. underperformed, the last year's squad. They are a seesaw that is the balance of against the star players? Samardzija graduated, they author went back to training completely different group of momentum in a football game, Against the Spartans, it helped dose the book on a camp after the third week of players, and any attempt to that play was like the fat kid allowed running back Javon two-year the season and the promising contrast 2007 and 2008 is like jumping on one end of the see­Hinger to rush for 201 yards span where 
east of new names fell short of comparing apples to rotten saw, sending Notre Dame reel­and two touchdowns -on 39 the Irish expectations. apples. They have set a new ing through the air unable to carries. Against the Tar Heels, lost six This year, with Golden Tate, standard against which fans, right itself. Not a great show­little big guy Mike Anello took games in Michael Floyd and a host of writers and the team itself can ing for the Irish, especially in a receiver/special teams stud two years others at the keyboard, Notre judge performance against. So big statement game away from Brandon Tate out of the game and made Dame has turned the plot in that sense,. consider this home. early with a hit on a punt two BCS around and pulled the team season Part II of the ongoing That being said, let's look at return, but it did allow receiv­bowls. from the depths of last year's novel. it in the context of this ongoing er Hakeem Nicks to get 141 
T h e despair to becoming a viable In the short run, Notre Dame story. Since we can't compare yards s n q u e I , Bill Brink football team once again. lost a close game on the road it to last season, let's compare llow about scoring? Notre which start-Saturday's loss, in the grand against a ranked team. It com­it to the most analogous game Dame couldn't crack the goose ed last sea-Sports Hditor scheme of things, was another mitted five turnovers, including we have -Michigan State, the egg until the fourth quarter in son, got ofT chapter in the right direction. an interception returned for a only other away game and only East Lansing, and then only to a dark The Irish have earned the touchdown during the first other loss so far this season. and gloomy start. Main charac-right to escape comparison to play of the second half. On the How did Notre Dame do see BETTER/page 17 
MEN's SoccER CoMMENTAY 

Dike streak hits six games 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Ediwr 
Kudos to my fnllow soccer lwat writnr Grng Arbogast. 
In a Sept. 25 column, hn praised the play of Irish for­ward Bright Dikn and prediet­ed biggnr things alwad for tho snnior. who at the time had four goals through snvnn games. 
Looks like Grng got it right­DikP has now scon~d in six straight ganws, ineluding Notre Danw's last live since the artich~ was publishnd. 
DikP's physil:al dominance has been astounding, nspneial­ly considering lw had just four 
see STREAK/page I 7 


MEN'S GOLF 

Golfers back on track after poor first month 
Alan-Lee shoots one over par to lead team to eighth place start 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Damn appears to have turned a corner. 
After a month and a half of disappointing tournament play, the Irish head into the final two rounds of the Prestige at PGA WEST Intercollegiate in a respectable eighth place in the field of 16. 
Notre Dame carded a 19­over 307 in the l"irst round. 
while TCU sits in first place with a 6-over 294 at the 7,156­yard Greg Norman Course at PGA WEST in La Quinta, Calif. 
Irish head coach Jim Kubinski was exeitnd about the chance such a prominent tour­nament provided for his young team to redeem itself after its early missteps. 
"We have a big week in front of us," Kubinski said. "The Prestige itself is one of the very b(1St collegiate events in the country. This is also a tremendous opportunity for us. We can show what we're made of." 
Sophomore Connor Alan-Lee 
see ALAN-LEE/page 17 





