
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
PoHre arrest 37atColfaxAve.~ raid local bars 
At least 17 student-athletes among those booked on charges ofminor consumption, possession offalse ID, resisting arrest 
By KAITLYNN RIELY and 
JENN METZ 
News Wrirers 
Police arrested 37 people and ticketed one juvenile late Saturday and early Sunday morning at a house on the 700 block of Colfax Ave. in South Bend, Sgt. William Redman of the St. Joseph County Police said Monday in a press release. 
In addition to breaking up the party at Colfax Ave., police raid­ed at least three local South Bend bars, including the Linebacker Lounge at 1631 South Bend Ave., Club Landing ·at 1717 Lincoln Way East and Inferno Bar and Grill at 1150 Mishawaka Ave, according to Lt. Tim Cleveland of the Indiana State Excise Police. 
The charges for those arrest­ed at Colfax Ave. included 31 for minor consumption, three for possession of false ID, two for false informing, six for main­taining a common nuisance, one charge of possession of drug paraphernalia and three for resisting arrest. At least 17 of those arrested were student­athletes at Notre Dame. 
Junior tight end Will Yeatman and freshman center Mike Golic Jr. were among those arrested at Colfax Ave. Yeatman was charged with consumption of alcohol by a minor, false inform­ing and resisting arrest. Golic was charged with consumption of alcohol by a minor, according to the release 
Yeatman could face additional charges because he was previ­ously arrested for drunk driving in January. He entered a year­long probationary period and pleaded guilty to drunken driv­ing and reckless driving, according to the AP. His plea agreement said if Yeatman did not commit any other crimes, the drunken-driving charge would be dropped, according to the AP. 
Yeatman was suspended from Notre Dame athletics for spring 2008. He also plays attack for the men's lacrosse team. 
Golic's father, Mike Sr., played defensive line for Notre Dame 


Students rediscover Saint Maty's Grotto 
By JENNY HOFFMAN 
NewsWrirer 
Students praying and light­ing candles at the Notre Dame Grotto is timeless image asso­ciated with the University. Not many people know, however, that at its' neighboring Saint Mary's, students used to be able to find peace and prayer­ful solitude on their own cam­pus in a place called Pearley's Glen on Sisters' of the Holy Cross property behind the Saint Mary's Convent. 
Louise Koselek, web com­munications director for the Sisters of the Holy Cross said in an e-mail the Saint Mary's Grotto had fallen into disre­pair and no longer existed, Judith Johns, executive direc­tor of the Sisters of the Holy Cross told the Observer. However, it is still a place that a few students, like Saint Mary's Senior Sarah King, visit. 
King said she learned of its existence last year from author Dorothy Corson, who wrote the book "A Cave of Candles: The Story Behind the Notre Dame Grotto." The two spoke after meeting at the Notre Dame Grotto. 
"I had heard about [the Saint Mary's Grotto]. but there was nothing that made me believe it really existed," King said. 
Corson uncovered materials 
see GROTTO/page 3 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Students in Notre Dame's Washington Program have a unique opportunity to work at political internships in an elec­tion year while taking Notre Dame courses. 
Liz LaFortune, the Assistant Director of the Washington Program, says that one of the benefits of the Program is that it aids students in their search for a job. "Notre Dame students who participate in the Program are exposed to advocacy groups, policy makers, think tanks, legislators, and political leaders that help broaden their understanding of what a career in politics might mean for them," she said. 
"They make contacts that they often maintain well beyond the end of the semester," LaFortune said. 
This semester, students are interning with a variety of organizations, including the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the Australian Embassy, and the Financial Services Forum. 
The structure of the Washington program combines traditional coursework with an extracurricular internship. Students take a six-credit "Foundations of Public Policy" seminar, which teaches the essential ideas that define pub­lic policy in the United States. The seminar is supplemented by an internship with a govern­ment, cultural, non-profit, or media organization. 
As part of the seminar, stu­dents are required to attend 
see D.C./page 3 

and later for the Houston Oilers, Philadelphia Eagles and Miami Dolphins. He is now the host of "Mike & Mike in the Morning" on ESPN Radio. 
Irish Football coach Charlie Weis said he was made aware of the situation early Sunday after­noon. He said in a statement that he is "currently looking into the matter." 
Police originally said that members of the Notre Dame soccer team were arrested on 
see ARRESTS/page 4 

ELECTION 2008 
NDVotes encourages registration 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 

The presidential election sea­son is in full swing· and that means that voter registration dates are fast approaching. Many Notre Dame students are opting to register for absentee ballots so that they can cast their votes in the 2008 election despite being away from their home states. 
NDVotes '08 has implemented several initiatives to encourage students to take the necessary steps to vote. 
Junior Christine Romero, co­chair for the NDVotes '08 cam­paign run by the Center for Social Concerns (CSC), said that the campaign has a database that helps students register for absentee ballots. 
"We have a system set up right now. It's a database that sends out deadlines for request­ing ballots for each state." 
The database will send stu­dents information about how to register for absentee ballots according to the procedures of their home state. 
When a person signs up, he or she is added to an e-mail data­base and will receive informa­tion for requesting an absentee ballot. 
"Everyone has been filling out voter contact cards to put them in our database at all of our events, including the esc Welcome Picnic, Activities Night, and the Pizza, Pop and Politics events," Romero said. 
Homero said that NDVotes '08 

has been recommending that 
students who reside out of state 
see ELECTION/page 6 




page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 23, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Finding the SMC Grotto 
Fiftlwn mosquito bites, a lightly twistml ankln, hundrnds of nettles on my clothes and in my hair and a snnsn of a1:complishment -these are the things I gained when news writer Jenny 
Liz Harter
llof'f'man and I 
went hiking 
through Pearlny's 
Saint Mary's 
Glen bnhind the 
Editor
Saint Mary's Convent to find the Saint Mary's Grotto last Wednesday. 
The Saint Mary's Grotto has risen to an almost urban legend type sta­tus in the past few years. Students inevitably tell tales of the mysterious Grotto nvery year and more than a few go on expeditions to find it. I have to believe that any student looking for the Grotto would have an easier time doing so during the late fall. As it is, Jenny and I climbed through dense weeds that had grown above our heads and trekked through piles of leaves and mud that were slippery from the torrential rains ov11r the week11nd. 
This was not the first time I had found the Grotto, but it was the first time I was leading the expedition. I had only a hazy memory of where it was -meaning I knew you had to pass the sign that said "Authorized Personnel Only" bnhind the Convent and that it was built into the side of a hill and a tree had fallen over it sometim1~ this summer. 
We wandered through weeds as I tried to look for any landmark that might potentially jog my memory. I think I took us right past the Grotto and then continued lighting my way through trees and cobwebs for about 30 fent before I realized we were nowhere near where we needed to be. Pearley's Glen is just off St. .I ose ph 10 ve r so we thought the Grotto might be underwater since the river had risen because of the rain as well. 
Forty minutes later we were get­ting ready to give up. That was when we stumbled through a group of trees and onto what looks like an old compost pile. Things clicked into place when we found that pile of leaves and I looked up to find the fallen tree that I remembered. After a couple more swipes with the stick I was using to knock spider webs down we stumbled onto the old stone framework of what once held a stat­ue of the Virgin Mary. 
The space is absolutely beautiful, even without the venerated statue in place. 
As I was taking pictures to accom­pany the story I had to climb over one of the fallen trees and into the area directly in front of the Grotto. Surrounded by the foliage I felt as though I had found my way into a piece of history. I had become one of the countless number of students and Sisters of the Holy Cross who had found this holy place. 
There is a real sense of peace sur­rounding the area. I can see why the Sisters wanted to build the holy place and I can see why students like Sarah King have continued to seek the tranquil harmony that our very own Saint Mary's Grotto provides. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 
Contact Uz 1/arter at eharteO 1 @saintmary. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
An article in the Sept. 22 edition ofThe Observer about the Kellogg lnsti!llte for International Studies' 25th anniversary contains several errors. The NO Prize honoree's name should have read Gavaria 'lrujillo. He is the t(Jrmer president of the nation of Colombia. The Observer regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD BE ANY ANIMAL, WHAT WOULD YOU BE? 






Antwane Mason  Christina Shannon  Bisma Sarfaraz  Claire Trempe  Damian Kearney  
freshman Keough  freshman Welsh Family  freshman Lyons  freshman Welsh Family  senior Offcampus  
"A bear. ..  ':4 cheetah. Then, I'd be semi-athletic. ..  ':4 polar bear so I can survive the South Bend  ':4 campus squirrel because they  ':4 deer caught in the head­lights. ,,  

winter. ,, live a good life.,, 

Workers complain about nude skater 
PORTLAND, Ore. Portland Police took a waterfront Lady Godiva down a notch this week. Barely. They were getting calls about a nude skater whizzing past tourists and rush-hour commuters. 
But you can do that in Oregon, where occasional nude bike rides draw police only for crowd control and shows featuring live sex acts are protected as free speech. 
The skater, Gennifer Moss, aka Earth Friend Gen, asked organizers for permission this summer to skate naked in the city of Ashland's Fourth of July parade. She didn't get it. 
Police told her to tone it down after construction workers complained. 
Moss donned a string bikini bottom for the nonce and skated on. 
Police say most callers are concerned about her safety. 
Man names 4.68-carat diamond "Sweet Caroline" 
MURFREESBORO, Ark. ­The good times have never seemed so good for one Michigan man who found a diamond Saturday in an Arkansas state park. 
Richard Burke, a retired high school counselor and golf coach from Flint, found a 4.68-carat white diamond at the Crater of Diamonds State Park in Murfreesboro. 
He named the diamond "Sweet Caroline," after his wife Carol and their favorite song by Neil Diamond. 
The couple had been in Colorado panning for gold and hunting for fossils and then drove 950 miles to Murfreesboro to dig at Crater of Diamonds. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...I 
< 
(.) 





0 
HIGH 80 HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I 
LOW 58 LOW LOW LOW 
70 58 
82 58 

85 65 

Atlanta 81 /59 Boston 65 I 47 Chicago 80 I 59 Denver 80 I 49 Houston 90 I 70 Los Angeles 83 I 61 Minneapolis 76 I 62 New York 70 I 55 Philadelphia 72 I 61 Phoenix 101 I 77 Seattle 63 I 46 St. Louis 84 I 63 Tampa 88 I 73 Washington 73 I 60 
IN BRIEF 

The Ford Program is spon­soring African Underground tonight in LaFortune Ballroom. A screening of the film "Democracy in Dakar" will start at 7 p.m. followed by a panel discussion with the lilmmakers. Live international hip hop, featuring groups from West Africa, will play until 11. 
The event "Love Your Body and the Planet!" will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the Saint Mary's Student Center Lounge. Joanna Livieratos will discuss living in ways that arn healthy and sustainable. 
Campus Ministry will sponsor a Ukrainian Byzantine Catholic Divine 'Liturgy as part of the Evenings of Prayer from Around the World Series Wednesday at St. Michael The Archangel Ukrainian Byzantine Catholic Church. Rides will be available at 330 Coleman-Morse at 6 p.m. 
The Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity opens Thursday at 4 p.m. with a lecture by Oxford University economist Paul Collier, author of the award-winning book "The Bottom Billion." The lecture, which is free and open to the public, will take place in the Hesburgh Center auditorium with a reception to follow. 
Rescheduled due to rain, Cirque du Lac, hosted by Lyons Hall, will take place Saturday from 1 -4 p.m. on South Quad. The carnival will benefit Hannah & Friends. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 83 HIGH LOW 60 LOW 

80 55 
.------------------------­
Tuesday, September 23, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Renovation begins on Madeleva Hall 
Academic building to remain open during construction this year 
offices will be easy to find
By KATIE KOTARAK 
when they have them fin­
News Writer 
ished," says junior Kate 
Ortigara. 
Forty years is a long time In addition to the buildings for a building to go without improved layout, Hambling renovation, but that's how says, "bright colors [will pro­long Madeleva Hall has had to vide a] good learning environ­wait for a facelift. ment." 
The academic building's Until structural renovations south end is currently under are finished, frustration is construction. most likely According to Bill still going to
"It will be nice to see
Hambling, Director be the first 
of Facilities at the finished product word a Saint 
Saint Mary's and finally be able to Mary's stu­College, the third dent thinks
find my professor's
floor ~ 90 percent of when she
office."

demolished, reno-hears some­vation of the sec-one utter the ond floor is under­Maureen Healy w o r d s 
way and the con­struction on the first floor will start soon. These changes are scheduled to be completed by February of next year, allow­ing remodeling to the rest of the structure to commence. Hambling plans on the entire project being completed by the time students return for the 2009-2010 school year. 
According to Hambling, Madeleva's new look will resemble that of Spes Unica, creating a much more open atmosphere as well as areas for students to study and relax. 
"I think it will be nice [for students] to have [their] own place to study. I hope the 
"Madeleva
junior 

H a l l . " 
Madeleva's 
current complicated layout 
makes getting around difficult 
for some students. 
"Finding my way around 
Madeleva is like nothing I 
have ever experienced before; 
it's like walking through a 
maze and not knowing which 
path to take," comments 
Junior Maureen Healy. 
Once construction is com­
pleted, Hambling hopes the 
interior's new floor plan will 
ease student's navigation 
problems when trying to find 
their way around. 
"It will be nice to see the 
finished product," says Healy, 
"and finally be able find my professor's offices." 
As Madeleva Hall undergoes construction, Hambling said workers are doing their best to keep noise to a minimum. Although, students currently attending class in Madeleva may be noticing some disrup­tion. 
"The construction is right across from my math class and I am always hearing hammering and noise. It is hard to learn the material with the constant banging," says sophomore Janine Kingsbury. 
Others do not notice the noise affecting their time in the classroom. 
"There is some noise on the second floor, but other than that nothing has been really noticeable," says Freshman Kate Park. 
When demolition noise is no longer an issue and Madeleva Hall is complete, students will not only enjoy accessible fac­ulty offices, but they will also notice a repaired roof as well as new seating and carpeting in the dated Carrol Auditorium. 
"It's a lot of noise now, but I'm sure Madeleva's end result will be really nice, especially if the inside looks more like Spes Unica," says Kingsbury. 
Contact Katie Kotarak at kkotarO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Grotto 

continued from page 1 
relating to the Saint Mary's Grotto while conducting research for her book, including a letter from Fr. Joseph Maguire addressed to Fr. Thomas McAvoy, the for­mer University archivist. Maguire, a priest who was ordained at the Basilica in the Sacred Heart in 1896, wrote of the hisiory behind the Notre Dame Grotto, and whether or not Fr. Edward Sorin, the University's founder, or former University President Fr. William Corby originally had the idea for the Grotto. 
Corson wrote in her book Maguire's letter stated "Fr. Sorin may have expressed a wish for a Grotto and he may have made one some­where on the grounds but I never saw it or heard of it. If he did construct one he probably built it on the grounds of the Sisters." 
That part of the letter made her look a little closer at the history of the Saint Mary's Convent and sparked the author's curiosity regarding a possible Grotto at Saint Mary's. 
She eventually found Fr. Claude Boehm, the former Chaplain at the Convent. He told her the Saint Mary's Grotto did exist and eventu­ally led her to it, according to her book. 
Her research also revealed that the Sisters built the Grotto in 1937 and it had fallen into disrepair by the 
1950s because it became more and more overgrown and dangerous for the Sisters to visit alone because of its location. 
When Corson told King at this story she knew she wanted to find it. To do so, she enlisted the help of Notre Dame senior Tim Politano. Together they went past a sign labeled "Authorized Personnel Only" and found the Grotto. 
"I remember the first time I saw it. It was beautiful," King said. "It was in the late afternoon, with the sun shin­ing through the leaves, and even though it was over­grown, it just felt peaceful." 
She said she could envision where the statue would have been in an alcove surround­ed by fallen trees. 
"All the trees had some­how missed the statue; it was still protected after all these years," King said. 
After visiting the grotto, King began researching the history behind the grotto and has attempted to organ­ize a restoration plan, but was unable to follow through with it. 
"I've had moments of hope that it will be restored, but on the other hand, I'm real­istic. I'd love to see it cleaned up," King said. "Part of me feels like it'd be a good community builder. The sisters and students could work together. Or maybe it will remain a hid­den treasure at Saint Mary's." 
Contact Jenny Hoffman at jhoffmO 1 @saintmarys.edu. 





Perth, Australia 
Information Session 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23,2008 5:30PM 138 DeBartolo Hall 
For ALPP and ANTH College of Science College of Engineering Students 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2008 APPLY ONLINE: WW\1\{.nd.edu/Nois 


page 4 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, September 23, 2008 

''Last Lecture'' professor honored 
Pausch lauded for challening people to push themselves, have fun 
pancreatic cancer in tant. It's what drives us."

Associatrd Press 
September 2006. A year He said its true lesson was 

PITTSBUHGII A later, he gave the 76-minute not "how to reach your Carnegie Mellon University speech that dreams. It's professor whose "last lec­became the about how to ture" of his life's lessons inspiration for live your
"Thank you, Randy, for 

became an Internet sensa­a book "The life." Live tion was celebrated Monday Last Lecture," challenging me. Thank life right, he for challenging people to co-written you for said, and strive for more than they with Wall karma would
challenging us all."

thought they were capable Street Journal take care of of, while remembering to writer Jeffrey the rest. have fun. Zaslow. Jesse Schell Stuffed 
About 400 colleagues and Van Dam, assistant professor of Tiggers were friends gathered at Carnegie urged
who entertainment technology placed on 

Mellon to remember Handy Pausch to each audito­
Carnegie mellon University 

Pausch, a professor of com­become a rium chair puter science, human-com­teacher as keep­puter interaction and design, because of his sakes. They who was recognized as a ability to inspire and con­were a reference to how pioneer of virtual reality nect, called the lecture "the Pausch saw himself: ener­research. He died of cancer ultimate performance ... It getic and optimistic, as in July, 10 months after giv­gives you something meaty opposed to the mopey ing the lecture that touched to think about, to process. It Eeyore, even when faced millions was done with with certain death. People worldwide. incredible placed dozens of stuffed ani­He was 47. panache, flair, mals on the stage in his Pausch had humor." memory as Pausch was fond
"Never lose the 
the ability to "You had to of them, particularly win­resonate with childlike wonder. It's be sad for him, ning them at carnivals. so many peo­that that kind Jesse Schell, an assistant
just too important. It's 
ple because of talent and professor of entertainment
what drives us." 
t h e y charisma and technology at the university, "instantly accomplish­said Pausch constantly understood Randy Pausch ment would not imparted the message: "You he was the survive, van can do more than you think."
late professor 
real deal, a Dam said. "In a way, I kind of think of
Carnegie Mellon 
genuine "Terribly sad, it as Randy's philosophy in a hero, in an University but again, ter­nutshell," he said. "Thank age when ribly inspira-you, Randy, for challenging more conven-tional at the me. Thank you for challeng­tional same time, that ing all of us." heroes, especially political someone could do all that in Ben Buchwald, one of leaders (and) sports figures, the face of certain death." Pausch's former research all too often, turn out to In the lecture, which assistants, recalled how have feet of clay," said Pausch said was actually for Pausch would push students Brown University professor his three young children, he to strive for their best. Andy van Dam, Pausch's urged the audience to Even now, he said, "I kind mentor. "Never lose the childlike of have in my mind not to let 
Pausch was diagnosed with wonder. It's just too impor-Randy down." 


UMasswon'toffercrtrlits to campaign for Obarna 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -University of Massachusetts officials on Monday quashed efforts by an Amherst campus chaplain to offer two college credits to any student willing to cam­paign in New Hampshire this fall for Democratic presiden­tial candidate Barack Obama. 
Chaplain Kent Higgins told students in a Sept. 18 e-mail, "If you're scared about the prospects for this election, you're not alone. The most important way to make a dif­ference in the outcome is to activatn yourself. It would be just fine with (Hepublican candidate .John) McCain if Obarna supporters just think about helping, then sleep in and stay home between now and l~lection Day." 
Higgins added that an unnamed "sponsor" in th1~ university's history depart­ment would ofTer a two-credit indepnndent study for stu­dents willing to canvass ­identify supporters -or vol­unteer on hehalf of the Democratic nominee. 
University off'icials dis­avowed tho effort after inquiries Monday by The Associated Press. Thny said it could run afoul of state ethics laws banning on-the-job sponsor partisan political activity," said Audrey Alstadt, chairwoman of the history department. "We certainly do not give academic credit for ~art!.cipation in partisan poli­ttcs. 
political activity,  as well  as  
university policy.  
"We do  not engage in  or  

UMass-Amherst spokesman Ed Blaguszewski said !-Iiggins had previously arranged his­tory department credit for students working on disaster relief efforts or other human­itarian ventures, and had raised the idea of similarly rewarding students who got involved in the political process during the 2008 elec­tion. 
Blaguszewski said universi­ty officials had envisioned that the efforts would involve nonpartisan work such as get-out-the vote campaigns, but changed their minds about the proposal when they saw a portion of Higgins' e­mail. 
"The history department chair feels that what they were told was misleading, and then when the details of this emerged through the cor­respondencn, they said, 'lley, this is not appropriate and it's not going to happen."' Blaguszewski said. 

Arrests 
continued from page 1 
Sunday, according to the Associated Press. However, none of the names on the list of those arrested matched names on the men's or women's soccer rosters on und.com. 
Women's basketball player Brittany Mallory was charged with minor consumption. Irish coach Muffet McGraw told the AP the matter is being addressed "internally and accordance with our team rules and procedures." 
Multiple members of the men's and women's lacrosse teams were also arrested. Notre Dame Sports Information Director Bernie Cafarelli told The Observer that both men's lacrosse coach Kevin Corrigan and women's coach Tracy Coyne were unavailable for comment. 
Redman said the St. Joseph County Police Reserves were working with the Indiana State Excise Police, the Indiana State Police and the Stop Underage Drinking and Sales task force of the St. Joseph County Police Department this weekend. The multi-agency group was target­ing local bars that the Excise police had received complaints about, when an officer drove by a house on Colfax Ave. and "observed what appeared to be several underage people drink­
ing,"  Redman  said  in  the  
release.  
The  South  Bend  Police  

Department (SBPD) was called to the residence at this point, Redman said. Capt. Phil Trent of SBPD did not return repeated Observer phone calls Monday. 
Redman said in the release that officers found several underage people drinking alco­hol around the home. 
"A total of three empty kegs of beer were found at the home along with hundreds of empty 
beer cans and drinking cups 
both inside and outside the resi­
dence," Redman said in the 
release. 
People at the home "began to scatter," he said, and many hid in the house. The police officers obtained permission to enter the house from the students renting it. 
"Once inside the home, offi­cers found people hiding under beds, in closets, the attic and in the basement," the release said. 
Hedman said the arrest reports will be sent to the Prosecutor's Office for review and formal charges. He could not be reached for additional comment. 
Eight Indiana State Excise police officers participated in making the arrests, Cleveland told The Observer Monday. 
The Excise police were partic­ipating in a planned detail of several establishments in the South Bend area, Cleveland said, and assisted in the Colfax house arrests. 
Cleveland did not have a com­plete list, but he said the Excise police went to the Linebacker, Club Landing and Inferno Bar and Grill on Saturday night and Sunday morning. 
"I don't have reports on any of them, but we went to those places because we had com­plaints," Cleveland said. "It can be a different complaint for each separate location." Generally, the complaints are regarding minors consuming on the premises and after hours sales to intoxicated patrons, he said. 
Cleveland did not know at press time whether any arrests had been made at the establish­ments. 
Bill Brink and Chris /-line con­tributed to this report. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu and Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

• University of Notre Dame 
• Office of International Studies Presents 
• Study Abroad Programs in 
Angers, France Information Sessions 
Wednesday, September 24, 2008 5:30 p.m. Or Tuesday, October 7, 2008 5:30p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy Center 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 For Academic Year 2009-2010 Fall 2009 or Spring 2010 More information available at www.nd.edu/""ois/ 






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 23, 2008 CoMrtuo FR01\i THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
US military releases Afghan journalist 
KABUL, Afghanistan --An Afghan journalist detained for 11 months at the U.S. military base at Bagram alleged on Monday that his captors kicked him, forced him to stand barefoot in the snow and didn't allow him to sleep for days. 
Jawed Ahmad, who worked primarily for CTV, a Canadian television network, was handed over to Afghan authorities Sunday, said Capt. Christian Patterson, a spokesman for the U.S.­led coalition. 
The U.S. designated him an "enemy combat­ant" this year and had accused him of having contact with Taliban leaders, including possess­ing their telephone numbers and video footage of them, according to a complaint filed by Ahmad's lawyers in U.S. District Court in the District of Columbia. 
The 21-year-old Ahmad said that while in prison, U.S. interrogators accused him of being a Taliban fighter, supplying weapons to the mili­tants and of being an intelligence agent for Pakistan. 
Stonehenge said to be a healing place 
LONDON --The first excavation of Stonehenge in more than 40 years has uncovered evidence that the stone circle drew ailing pilgrims from around Europe for what they believed to be its healing properties, archaeologists said Monday. 
Archaeologists Geoffrey Wainwright and Timothy Darvill said the content of graves scat­tered around the monument and the ancient chipping of its rocks to produce amulets indicat­ed that Stonehenge was the primeval equivalent of Lourdes, the French shrine venerated for its supposed ability to cure the sick. 
An unusual number of skeletons recovered from the area showed signs of serious disease or injury. Analysis of their teeth showed that about half were from outside the Stonehenge area. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
US can't hide detainee photos 
NEW YORK--The United States cannot con­ceal pictures of abusive treatment of detainees by its soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan by say­ing their release might cause enemies to hurt someone, a federal appeals court said Monday in ordering the release of 21 photographs. 
The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed with a 2006 ruling by Judge Alvin K. 1-lellerstein ordering the release of the pictures to the American Civil Liberties Union. Hellerstein had ordered identifying facial fea­tures be removed from the pictures. 
The color photographs were taken by ser­vicemembers in Iraq and Afghanistan. The government has opposed the release of pic­tures of abuse, saying they would incite vio­lence against U.S. troops in Iraq and provoke terrorists. 
Elvis Is Alive Museum for sale 
ST. LOUIS --The Elvis Is Alive Museum is once again for sale on eBay. 
The museum's owner, Andy Key of Mississippi, says military duties will keep him away from home for at least five months. 
The 39-year-old Key set a minimum starting bid of $15,000 on the listing, which ends Friday. He bought the museum on eBay last year for $8,300. 
Key told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch that he hopes someone local buys the contents of the museum and continues running it in l Iattiesburg, Miss. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Governor debates archived online 
INDIANAPOLIS -Each gubernatorial debate is being streamed online through the Indiana Higher Education Telecommunication System and will be post­ed for 30 days on the Indiana Debate Commission's Web site. 
The first of the three debates between Hepublican Gov. Mitch Daniels, Democrat Jill Long Thompson and Libertarian Andy Horning was last week in Merrillville and drew about 150 online viewers; the second will be Tuesday night in Jasper and the third will be Oct. 14 in Bloomington. 
CHINA 
Head of food safety watchdog resigns 
53,000 infants sickened, Jour infants dead as a result of melamine-tainted milk 
Associated Press 
BEIJING -The head of China's food safety watchdog resigned Monday for failing to stop the widespread con­tamination of baby formula as the number of children sickened in the scandal soared to nearly 53,000, including four infants who died. 
The shake-up came as investigators revealed that China's biggest producer of powdered milk, Sanlu Group Co., had received complaints as early as December 2007 linking its infant formula to illnesses in babies. Months later, tests revealed the milk was tainted with the industri­al chemical melamine, which causes kidney stones and can lead to kidney failure. 
"During these eight months, the company did not inform the government and did not take proper meas­ures, therefore making the situation worse," China Central Television reported, citing an investigation by the State Council, China's Cabinet. 
Melamine, used to make plastics and fertilizer, has been found in infant formula and other milk products from 22 of China's dairy compa­nies. Suppliers trying to cut costs are believed to have added it to watered-down milk because its high nitro­
gen content masks the result­baby formula, milk candy Troedsson, adding: "It's was blamed for the deaths of ing protein deficiency. and ice cream, have been clearly something that is not dogs and cats in the United The number of sick chil­recalled or banned in Japan, acceptable and needs to be States. 
dren reported by the Health Singapore, Malaysia, Brunei rectified and corrected." A series of improvements Ministry has jumped from and Hong Kong. The resignation of Li were announced from estab­6,200 to nearly 53,000. Of In a reflection of the break­Changjiang, who headed the lishing a national food recall those, 12,892 remain hospi­down in supervision of the General Administration of system to random inspec­talized, with 1 04 of them in dairy industry, Sanlu and Quality Supervision, tions to increasing exchanges serious condition. Another several other leading compa­Inspection and Quarantine with quality inspectors in 39,965 children have been nies embroiled in the scandal since 2001, comes a year other countries. treated and released. had been given inspection­after he and the government In an indication of Beijing's 
The ministry did not free status by the food safety promised to overhaul the sys­determination to improveexplain the sudden increase watchdog. tem in response to a series of produet safety, the govern­in the number of cases but it That privilege has since product safety scares. ment in July 2007 executed suggested health officials been rescinded, but the New regulations and pro­the disgraced chief of China's were combing through hospi­World Health Organization cedures were introduced in food and drug agency, who tal records from May through stressed Monday it was only an attempt to restore con­was convicted of accepting August to trace the origins of a first step and urged closer sumer confidence and pre­bribes in exchange for letting the contamination. monitoring. serve export markets after a fake medicine into the 
Baby formula and other Quality issues can crop up string of recalls involving domestic market. milk products have been at any point in the supply tainted toothpaste, faulty The official Xinhua News pulled from stores around chain, from the farm to the tires, contaminated seafood Agency said ll stepped down the country and Chinese retail outlet, said WHO China and in March 2007, pet food with the approval of China's dairy products, including_ representative Hans containing melamine that Cabinet. 


Simpson trial figure paid $210,000 
over memorabilia. Instead Simpson ings, and FBI experts said they can't
Associated Press just wanted to retrieve personal be sure they weren't altered. LAS VEGAS -The middleman who mementos he said had been stolen Riccio said he was paid $150,000 by set up and taped O.J. Simpson's meet­from him. the gossip site TMZ, $25,000 by ing with two memorabilia dealers tes­"Did he ever say he wanted to sell "Entertainment Tonight" $20,000 by a tified Monday he was paid $210,000 it?" asked Galanter. sponsor of Howard Stern's radio show by media outlets before he gave police "No," said Riccio, who added that and $15,000 by ABC under the guise his recordings from the alleged armed Simpson wanted the items as "heir­of buying a photo of Riccio and robbery in a Las Vegas hotel room. looms" to give to his children. Simpson. In cross-examination of Thomas Riccio, who also deals in memorabil­Riccio reluctantly revealed the prof­Riccio, Simpson's lawyer, Yale ia, said he arranged the Sept. 13, its for the first time after Clark County Galanter, laid out Simpson's defense 2007, meeting and wanted to make as District Court Judge Jackie Glass that the former football star was not much money as he could before giving ordered him to disclose how much he aware guns were involved and did not police the recorder he had hidden in made. Riccio also said he made about intend to profit when he and a group the hotel room. That delay caused $20,000 from a book he wrote about of men confronted the two dealers problems in authenticating the record-the events. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, September 23, 2008 
Election 
continued from page 1 
visit londistancevoter.org to find 
information on voter registra­
tion, deadlines and absentee 
ballot forms. 
"It's an awnsome Web site. It 
gives you all the deadlines and 
links to addresses and forms 
that you need to rngistnr to vote. 
That would bn the first resource 
I would go to because it's really 
simple to use," Homero said. 
According to the Web site, 
most states requirn voter regis­
tration forms to be postmarked 
by early October. 
Absentee ballot application 
deadlines vary from state to 
state, although most states have 
deadlines that fall in late 
(ktober. Similarly, absentee bal­
lots must be received on or 
before election day, Nov. 4, 
depending on the state. 
The site also features informa­
tion of voting rules and laws, 
links to verify registration and 
statn voter guides. 
Homero also said that most 
students seem to be requesting 
absentee ballots to vote in the 
upcoming prnsidnntial elections, 
rather than registering in 
Indiana. 
"The vast majority lof stu­dents! choose to go absentee bncausn it's a Vflry long process to change your permanent resi­dence over," she said. 
NDVotes '08 has registered over 90 student voters in Indiana according to the Sept. 5 ndition of the Observer. 
Homen> also said that those eligible to vote can go to the Secretary of State's office Web sitn in their respective states to access voter registration forms and contact information for county derks oflices. 
Homero said that she visited the Secretary of State Web site f<>r Georgia -her home state ­to acquire absentee ballot forms. 
NDVotes '08 has also taken the election buzz to residence halls to !mcourage more student participation in the election. 
Sophomore Olga Beltsar, an election commissioner in Cavanaugh, said that she has been working with NDVotes '08 to help boost election participa­tion within Cavanaugh. 
Beltsar said that Cavanaugh is currently holding a section com­pntition in which section mem­bers receive points for various ele<tion-relatnd activities. 
"We have scavenger hunt sheets where people can put down if they registered to vote, voted or attended NDVotes '08 evenl<;," Beltsar said. 
Points are awarded per sec­tion based on the resident's attendance and participation: one point for attending events, two for registnring and thren for voting. 
NDVotes '08 will provide an ice cream party or pizza party for the winning seetion or nach participating rnsidence hall, Bnltsar said. 
"I think that thn competition is somn nneouragnnwnt ... but it's thn fact that wnrn creating an atmosplwrn that's exciting," shn said. 
Cavanaugh has group watchns planned for thn !presidential! dnbatns, and a bulletin board spneif"ically for election news that features blurbs about the candidates and due dates for registration. 
"Everyone is talking about lthe electionl ... and people that that might not normally care about it are getting interested in it." Bnltsar said. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

D.C. 
continued from page 1 
weekly public policy visits. So far this semester, students have visited the United States Congress, the White House, the Supreme Court, and the Democratic and Hepublican National Committee Headquarters. They have also attended a presidential elec­tion forum and a lobbyist forum. 
Students find the Program's courses satisfying. "The class­es are really interesting and make good use of the unique setting," junior Thomas Dybicz said. "They aren't like classes at Notre Dame." 
Junior Kevin Sherrin is so satisfied with his decision to study in Washington this semester that he advises other Notre Dame students to con­sider the Program. "When Notre Dame extends you the opportunity to join the Washington Program, jump on it," he said. 
Contact Erina Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu. 
Bush: $700B planto save econoiTiy 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -President Bush sought to assure anx­ious world leaders on Monday that the United States is taking "bold, aggressive, decisive action" to rescue the crisis-ridden economy with a $700 billion bailout package. 
"The whole world is watching to see if we can act quickly," Bush said, prod­ding lawmakers in Washington to approve his plan. 
Bush balanced the eco­nomic meltdown with for­eign policy problems from Pakistan and North Korea to Hussia and Iran as he opened three days of diplo­macy with presidents and prime ministers assembled for the annual ministerial meeting of the U.N. General Assembly. 
The activities were open­ing with a reception Monday night for foreign delegations hosted by Bush and his wife, Laura, at the Waldorf­Astoria Hotel. 

After seven years of criti­cizing the U.N. for its huge, costly bureaucracy and inde­cisiveness in the face of grave problems, Bush will make his final address to the General Assembly on Tuesday. His speech, sched­uled to last 15 minutes, was to stress the need for multi­national diplomacy . 
The nation's burgeoning financial crisis, anchored on Wall Street not far from Bush's hotel, overshadowed his U.N. visit. Bush is in the awkward position of advo­cating capitalism, free-trade and deregulation throughout this presidency but then overseeing a costly govern­ment takeover of failing financial institutions. 
White House press secre­tary Dana Perino, explaining Bush's turnabout, said "this was not the president's first instinct; that he would not have wanted to take this action to help these compa-
Cairo Information Session 
nies if he wasn't convinced by the considered judgment of his senior economic team that it was critical in order to protect the American tax­payers and the American economy as a whole." 
With the U.S. economy inextricably intertwined with the finances or other coun­tries, the turmoil from Wall Street to Main Street will naturally be a topic of Bush's discussions in New York, Perino said. 
Before leaving Washington, Bush said differences over details or the administra­tion's bailout plan were understandable. But he warned lawmakers not to bog down. 
"Americans are watching to see if Democrats and Republicans, the Congress and the White House, can come together to solve this problem with the urgency it warrants," Bush said. "Indeed, the whole world is watching to see if we can act quickly." 

,. Study Arabic, Middle East Politics, Egyptology, Business, Science, Engineering, and more in the heart of the Arabic world 
~ Academic year and semester options ).-Study at the American University in Cairo ,. Make contacts in the modern capital of the Middle East , Experience modern life in the desert 
Tuesday, Sept. 23 ·,' 5:30PM 231 Hayes-Healy 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2008 


lAKELLOGG 
\V71NSTITUTE 


Tuesday, September 23, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 11,015.69 -372.75
Jones 
Up: Same: 669 54  Down: Composite Volume: 2,796 1,151,968,967  
AMEX NASDAQ  2,178.98  -94.92  

NYSE ,,,. ·"~'illf1!1HF' '''~l!lllll'lfi:l!lm~•l,IJII S&P 500 1,207.09 -47.99 NIKKEI (Tokyo JMi> fz~O§G.S! ·. .i£162.!3 ... FTSE 100 (London) 5,236.26 -75.04 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
AMER INTL GROUP INC (AIG) +22.60 +0.. 87 4.72 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -2.26 -2.81 121.31 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -8.18 -1.83 20.55 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -4.71 -2.02 40.88 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.51 +0.057 3.826 13-WEEK BILL -4.89 -0.045 0.875 30-YEAR BOND +0.94 +0.041 4.407 5-YEAR NOTE +1.47 +0.044 3.037 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +16.37 120.00 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +44.30 909.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.83 93.73 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 105.3150 EURO 0.6767 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0338 BRITISH POUND 0.5395 
IN BRIEF 
GM won't advertise in Super Bowl 
NEW YORK -General Motors Corp. said Monday it will not air a TV advertisement dur­ing the 2009 Super Bowl, as the automaker continues to slash expenses as part of its restructuring plan. 
GM spokeswoman Kelly Cusinato said that while GM will remain a sponsor of the National Football League and will likely air ads before and after the game, it will not buy ad time during the actual event. 
"We're in the midst of cost cutting," Cusinato said. "We're scrutinizing all of our programs and all of our media spending, so in the midst of that, we decided against it." 
The decision to skip the Super Bowl adver­tisement was also based on the fact that the automaker won't have a major vehicle launch to promote then, Cusinato said. 
The Super Bowl isn't the only major TV event that GM has passed on recently. The company also decided against airing ads dur­ing Sunday night's Emmy Awards and the upcoming Academy Awards, Cusinato said. 
Despite a soft advertising market, NBC has­n't had trouble finding other takers for the 2009 game's spots. 
Nike will stop sales to top swimmers 
PORTLAND, Ore. -Nike said Monday that it is leaving the elite swimwear mar­ket. 
The company will continue to provide swimwear for colleges and sell to tradition­al retail customers. But it will not compete against the likes of Speedo to get the swoosh on the world's top swimmers. 
"We will not invest in next-generation swim innovation, which is not in line with our stated category growth strategy," the company said in a statement. 
Nike said it made a "strategic decision as part of the company's long-term growth plan." 
The Beaverton, Ore.-based company had announced several years ago that it would focus on six key categories to reach a $23 billion revenue goal by 2011. Those cate­gories are running, soccer, basketball, men's training and women's training and sportswear. 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Wall Street faces anxiety once again 
After briefcomeback, stocks drop and oil prices break largest one-day jump record 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Elation in 

the financial markets over 
the $700 billion bank bailout 
plan evaporated Monday 
and was replaced by all-too­
familiar anxiety, pummeling 
stocks and sending oil prices 
to their biggest one-day gain. 
Worries that the rescue 

package would cost too 
much, drive up inflation, 
swell the already-bloated 
deficit and hurt the ailing 
economy also led global 
investors to flee the U.S. dol­
lar. 
The Dow Jones industrials 

lost 372 points, wiping out 
the gains the index made 
Friday after administration 
officials and congressional 
leaders promised swift 
action to get bad debt off the 
books of banks and end the 
financial crisis. 
"Investors had a weekend 

to look at the news that was 
streaming out, and they are 
now finding fault in it," said 
Joseph Battipaglia, market 
strategist in the private 
client group at the invest­
ment firm Stifel Nicholaus. 
Oil prices briefly spiked 

more than $25 a barrel 
before falling back to settle 
at $120.92, up $16.37, on 
the New York Mercantile 
Exchange. That shattered 
the previous record for a 
one-day jump in crude oil, 
$10.75. 
Monday was also the last 

day for investors to trade the 
October oil futures contract, gain could have come from trolled Congress would ask Lacking specifics, many 
adding fuel to the rally. But large investors trying to for to approve the plan. investors -especially for­
the November contract also cover short positions, or bets The Bush administration is eigners -sold U.S. dollars 
saw a sharp gain, up $6.62 that prices would fall. already forecasting that the on worries that paying for 
to $109.37. Four days after word of a federal deficit will hit a the plan would increase the 
The government agency massive government rescue record $482 billion next federal deficit and exacer­
that regulates commodities plan began to hit the mar­year. Analysts say the bailout bate inflation. Over the past 
markets said it was working ket, investors had little by costs mean a $1 trillion year, overall inflation is at 
with Nymex to "ensure that way of details. Treasury annual deficit is not out of 5.4 percent. 
no one is taking advantage Secretary Henry Paulson the question. The 15-nation euro rocket­
of the current stresses facing introduced the plan "When you try to print $1 ed past $1.48 in late after­
our financial marketplace Saturday in a document that trillion, that will kill your noon trading Monday, up 
for their own manipulative ran less than three full currency, lifting oil prices, more than 3 cents from 
gain." pages. which then in turn will not Friday in its largest single­
The Commodity Futures By Monday, investors still help the stock market," said day move against the dollar 
Trading Commission said in knew little about how the Gary Kaltbaum, who runs since the European currency 
a statement it was "closely Bush administration would the money management was introduced in 1999. The 
monitoring today's large pay for mopping up the bad firm Kaltbaum and British pound leaped to 
movement in the price of debt, how the process would Associates in Orlando, Fla. $1.8584 from $1.8365, and 
crude oil." work, who would run it and "It is a vicious cycle, and we the dollar dropped to 105.40 
Analysts said some of the what the Democratic-con-are seeing that right now." Japanese yen from 107.01. 

Penny revamped in honor of Lincoln 
Associated Press young Lincoln taking a break from had changing designs to commemo­
working as a rail splitter in Indiana by rate the 200th anniversary of the 
WASHINGTON -Next year, the reading a book. Lincoln as a young Lewis and Clark expedition and the penny will be getting not just one new lawyer standing in front of the old Mint has embarked on an effort to look but four of them, the first state capitol building in Springfield, revive interest in a $1 coin by intro­changes to the 1-cent coin in 50 years. Ill., will be the design on the third ducing four new designs each year 
The U.S. Mint unveiled the new coin. honoring a different president. designs during a ceremony Monday at The fmal coin in the series will show Under the law that authorized the the Lincoln Memorial. The coin the half-completed Capitol dome, design changes for the Lincoln penny, changes are part of the government's evoking Lincoln's famous order that after 2009 the "tails" side of the coin commemoration next year of the construction of the Capitol should will be changed to feature "an image 200th anniversary of Lincoln's birth. continue during the Civil War as a emblematic of President Lincoln's 
Lincoln's profile will remain on one symbol that the Union would contin­preservation of the United States as a side of the coin but the Lincoln ue. single and united country." That Memorial will be replaced on the The first new penny is scheduled to image has not been chosen yet. other side by the new images, with a go into circulation starting on Feb. 12, Lincoln's image was added to the different one being introduced every Lincoln's birthday, and then every penny in 1909 when the nation was three months. three months after that. celebrating the 100th anniversary of 
The first new design will depict a The changing designs mark another his birth and the Lincoln Memorial log cabin, representing the place in effort by the Mint to duplicate the suc­was added to the other side of the Kentucky where Lincoln was born in cess of the 50-state quarter program, coin in 1959 to commemorate the 1809. the most popular coin collecting pro­150th anniversary of the 16th presi­
The second design will feature a gram in U.S. history. The nickel also dent's birth. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, September 23, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Joe Biden: A gaffe a minute 
P.O. Box n9, Nmrc Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIF.F Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
Ass·I~ MANA!;ING ElliTOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NI·WS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EutTOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PIIOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISIN!; MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
An DF.~IGN MANAGF.I!: Mary Jesse 
CONTROW'R: Tim S~bolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 6.31-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4S41 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.~1-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5.30.3 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collt-ge. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all n."aders. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact inl(>rmation. 
Quesriow rry.arding Obmverpolici~s should b~ dirm~d to Editor in C.'hiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

·n,c Oh\t"rYCt (l1Sl'S ~~) l-4000) •• i'uhlu.hctl Monday d.ruu~h Frido~y except •luring exAm .md Vlk'21Wn pcri•14.l.. Atuh••:npckmm ·n\C Ol'!tt'rw:r 11$100 for vnc ac:aJcmil· 
ye;u: $55 (nr 11111: JU:fllOIU:r 
f11c (lhiiCrvtr i• puhlidu:d .u POSTMASTF.R 
Ul4 S.lulh Dmirli!ilall Send o~ddn-u corrtctinn~ co: 
Nom: P.1mc. IN 4f.5~6-on9 ·n.c Observer 
f't-rioJ•..:al pnmjl.r paid ill Nom: 0.1me r.o. Bnx n9 
.md o1dl:liliofl.11 mailing offica.. 014 South Dining H.Ul 
Nacn: Dilmt:,lN 46556..0779 

TI1r (lhi!Crw:r 15 a member uf dtc Auuct.au:d Prc:t\. All reproduction tlt~;,hrs ate: rncrved. 
Poor Joe Biden. Ever since .John McCain announced Sarah Palin as his running mate, the media continue to flock to the Alaskan governor like moths to a flame, leaving Biden standing alone in the shadows of 
Christie

obscurity. 
However, the Pesavento lack of Biden coverage may Right prove to be a Winging It blessing in dis­guise for the Obama campaign. As long as the press is kept occupied with other matters, such as the Obama camp's quest to prove that their presidential nominee's experience outweighs that of the Hepublican vice presidential nominee, they have less time to devote to repeating sound bites of Bielen's ever-increasing number of gaffes. 
As you might have heard, the Senator is not only infamous for his remarkable verbosity, but for being extraordinarily gaffe-prone, like some bizarre cross between AI Gore and George W. Bush. flis most recent presidential bid was ill-fated from the start, thanks in part to his description of his future running mate as the "first mainstream African American who is articulate and bright and clean and a nice-looking guy." 
On a similar note, Biden referred to the presumptive Democratic nominee as "Barack America" during their first event together, right after Obama announced him as the next president of the United States. Where's the teleprompter when you need it? 
Needless to say, McCain supporters were elated when they got wind of their opponent's decision. The Republican National Committee has 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
even launched a "Biden Gaffe Clock" 
on their website to count down the 
time until his next misstatement. 
To be fair, the majority of his blun­ders are more or less harmless, at least for those of us who haven't placed his name under our own on a presidential ticket. For instance, he mistakenly called Palin the "lieu­tenant governor" of Alaska, mixed up army battalions with brigades multi­ple times, and referred to the "Biden administration" before quickly cor­recting himself. . 
Other gaffes are downright confus­ing, such as when he described his "drop-dead gorgeous" wife's posses­sion of a doctorate as "problematic." A few are truly cringe-worthy. 
Hecently in Missouri, he recognized State Senator Chuck Graham by telling him to "stand up and let the people see you," just before realizing that Graham is a paraplegic and con­fined to a wheelchair. 
Perhaps the most troubling verbal slips, though, are the ones that reveal a propensity toward racism. Now 1'1n not one to go around haphazardly accusing people of being racists when something they say could, with the aid of some advanced mental gymnas­tics, be construed as such. Yet if we are to apply the same standards that the mainstream media often uses, it becomes clear that there is something amiss. 
Take his comments regarding Indian-Americans for example. "In Delaware," he told a political activist, "the largest growth of population is Indian-Americans, moving from India. You cannot go to a 7-Eleven or a Dunkin' Donuts unless you have a slight Indian accent." 
When asked to explain the perform­ance difference between schools in 
Iowa and those in Washington, DC, 
Biden respondPd, "Thnre's less than 
one percent of the population of Iowa 
that is African American. There is 
probably less than four of five percent 
that are minorities. What is in 
Washington'?" 
And then there is his most recent 
description of Obama as "clean" and 
"articulate." 
If McCain, or any Hepublican for 
that matter, made similar remarks, he 
might as well be caught wearing a 
white hood; the media would have a 
field day. But for Biden, they make 
excuses for him, defend his eomments 
as mere "verbal slips," and offer 
explanations for what he really 
meant. 
Luckily for him, many of these gaffes go virtually unnoticed by the general public, thanks again to the lack of press coverage. Yet the fact that Palin's nomination has generated so much excitement while Biden's has been dismissed as old news may not bode well for the Obama campaign. 
"Make no mistake about this," Biden said at a New Hampshire rally last week, "Hillary Clinton is as quali­11ed or more qualified than I am to be vice president of the United States of America ... and quite frankly it might have been a better pick than me." 
Obama is probably thinking the same thing. 
Christie Pesavento is a junior Political 5,"cience major, and would like to remind a certain someone that "gaffe" does not rhyme with "Raffl," even though her way sounds much funnier. She can be reached at cpe­saven@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Jenn Metz Bill Brink John Tierney Sam Werner 
Are you going to the Forum? 
Sarah Mervosh Scene Graphics Jess Shaffer 
Yes

Mary Jesse 
No 
tot

Viewpoint 
That will be a game time decision. 
Lauren 
wwv?hds~i~~t>~tr'ier.com
Brauweiler 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Let us so live that when we come to die even the undertaker will be sorry. " 
Mark Twain humorist and author 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 23, 2008 page 9 
Country second 
Much of the political commentary that we will be exposed to in the coming weeks will undoubtedly be focused on the typical political sideshows that make up an unfortunately large portion of our country's political discourse. 
If one digs deeper than the 
Brendan 

sound bites on 
McPhillips

cable news there will also be plenty of coverage of the 
Guest

substantive policy 
Columnist

issues that would differentiate an Obama versus a McCain presidency. I would like to take a moment and dis­cuss the one issue of this campaign that has concerned me the most. Abortion? Taxes? The economy? No. The issue that has disturbed me the most at this point in the campaign that not enough people are talking about is how John McCain shamelessly sacrificed the best interests of the American people, put­ting country second, not first, by choos­ing Sarah Palin as his vice presidential running mate. 
There was a time when I respected John McCain. I paid close attention to his campaign in the 2000 presidential primary. If I had been eligible to vote in that election I would likely have voted for AI Gore, but I was rooting for John McCain to win his party's nomination because it would have been in the coun­try's best interest for McCain and Gore to have a 50/50 shot at the presidency as opposed to Bush and Gore. Eight years later, history seems to have vindi­cated that insight. During this primary season while I was considering voting for one of the many Democratic candi­dates, in the Republican primary John McCain had my support once again. I had the same conversation with a few conservative friends who were undecid­ed. I told them, in all honesty, that I hoped they would vote for McCain because while he would probably be the strongest candidate to run against who­ever won the Democratic nomination, should he win, the country would be better off in his hands than in those of the Arkansas governor with no concept of the separation of church and state, or another MBA president who thinks running a country is no more compli­cated than running a business. 
I was wrong. 
In his first test of presidential leader­ship, selecting an heir to the presiden­cy, should, God forbid, anything happen to him, John McCain resoundingly failed. History will write of John McCain's decision to offer the vice pres­idency to Sarah Palin, as the single most irresponsible decision a presiden­tial candidate has made in the modern era. 
Partisan arguments aside, Sarah Palin is grossly unqualified to hold the second most powerful office in the country, if not the world. Once referred to as a job "not being worth a warm bucket of spit," for better or worse, the power of the Vice Presidency has grown dramatically in recent decades. The next administration will face numerous challenges on the international scene: an emerging China, a re-emerging Russia, two wars in the Middle East of which Iraq is fragile at best, while we are losing control in Afghanistan, and the Taliban is gaining influence in a nuclear Pakistan. America needs lead­ers with keen insight into foreign affairs, the ability to appreciate nuance, and who formulate policy based on thoughtful consideration of the best intelligence and contributions of differ­ent opinions. What we do not need, is another leader that makes decisions from his gut, as was obviously the case with the Palin pick, a woman he met only once prior to his decision. Furthermore, we definitely do not need a woman whose approach to foreign policy is, "don't blink," being a 72-year­old heartbeat away from the presiden­cy. 
Do not dismiss my concerns as merely those of a partisan who wasn't going to vote for McCain in the first place. I assure you, I am in the company of many respected conservatives. Conservative columnist David Brooks wrote about Palin in a recent column, "She has not been engaged in national issues, does not have a repertoire of historic patterns and, like President Bush, she seems to compensate for her lack of experience with brashness and excessive decisiveness." Republican Senator Chuck Hagel shares my con­cerns as well, "I think it's a stretch to, in any way, to say that she's got the experience to be president of the United States." He also had this to say about Sarah Palin's absurd claim of possess­ing foreign policy expertise because she lives close to Russia, "I think they ought to be just honest about it and stop the nonsense... That kind of thing is insult­ing to the American people." I agree, Senator. In addition to being insulted by that pathetic attempt at overcompensa­tion, I am also rather disturbed that, not yet a college graduate, I am more qualified for the vice presidency than Sarah Palin is. In fact, you could proba­bly randomly select any political sci­ence major at our university and odds are, they would have more foreign trav­el, and foreign policy expertise than our potential next Vice President. 
The American people deserve more from someone asking to seek the high­est office in the land than we have seen so far from John McCain. For someone who's campaign motto has been "Country First" he sure has put the nation's priorities on the back burner. I have many policy disagreements with John McCain, and many issues with the manner in which he has chosen to cam­paign. However, none of that matters in comparison to this ultimate failure of leadership and judgment. The selection of Sarah Palin was irresponsible and dangerous. Period. I hope our country will never have to experience another presidential decision by John McCain. 
Brendan McPhillips is a junior majoring in political science. He can be reached at bmcphil@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Mixed messages 
The University of Notre Dame, a top undergraduate institution, prides itself in sending its applicants to premier graduate schools and connecting them with employ­ment opportunities at some of the most successful companies in the United States and abroad. The school clearly in these cases expresses care for the future of its students, and genuinely cares about their futures. A recent of example of this was during the Career Fair held last week. The school administration every year goes to great lengths to invite top employers to meet the Notre Dame student body in order for the students to maximize their opportunities. 
This interest for student well-being seems to be inconsistent, however, espe­cially in light of the University's refusal to stand up for its students regarding police alcohol enforcement. Many students every week are arrested and charged with frivo­lous alcohol charges by the South Bend Police Department, St. Joseph County Police, and State Excise Police. This week­end was no exception: every major bar around South Bend was raided, and nearly forty people were arrested for enjoying a beer at a house party. This same argument here is made countless times in the Observer, and is certainly discussed fre­quently among most students. Otherwise law-abiding students are arrested for drinking alcoholic beverages underage, and these arrests tarnish the good reputa­tions that these young adults carry as Notre Dame students. 
This letter is not about arguing how ridiculous alcohol laws are, nor the school's allowing of local police to patrol tailgates on-campus. It is about Notre Dame refusing to protect its students and their futures while they are participating in normal collegiate activities. Notre Dame, being one of the most famous insti­tutions in the state of Indiana, is more than able to influence public policy, espe­cially those policies that cause their stu­dents to find trouble with the law. The administration can't be expected to change state alcohol laws or turn down police help at tailgates (it's not an entirely bad idea to let police patrol where 80,000 people are partying), but it can be expected to act to promote the best interest of its students. Both on and off-campus, SBPD and excise police invade homes and public establish­ments in order to sniff out every last underage drinker. 
These assaults are specifically concen­trated on Notre Dame students at bars and house parties. These police actions are not questioned (in fact, are encouraged) by the Notre Dame administration. Looking at this side of the Notre Dame administration does not suggest that it takes a great inter­est in student well-being. An alarmingly high number of Irish graduates in good academic and disciplinary standing are denied future opportunities because they decided to have a few beers before their 21st birthday, while the school administra­tion takes no action. Drinking is a normal part of college life, and students who par­ticipate should not be limited in their future careers by a "criminal" record, especially when it could be prevented by students' schools. 
Notre Dame sends a very mixed message in regards to student welfare. Its collabo­ration with law enforcement agencies that unfairly harm its own students must be questioned. The local authorities are not so much to blame as Notre Dame, who fails to minimize the unjust police concen­tration on Notre Dame student activities. The school administration needs to re­evaluate some of its policies, and end its two-faced approach to student recreation, opportunities, and future careers. 
Brian Strickland junior Siegfried Hall Sept. 22 

Do so111ething 
It doesn't matter what you do, as long as you do something. I feel like I've heard people say that at least a million times. 
Last week, I heard John Pendergast speak about the genocide tak­ing place in Darfur. Besides being extremely knowledgeable about the details of what has gone on there and how and why various groups have reacted to the conflict, he spoke on a subject often more difficult and overlooked: what role we could play in helping end the genocide. When I first read that that was the topic of his talk I thought to myself (a bit sarcastically), "Well, at least that's not ambi­tious or anything." But it got me to thinking-he's absolutely right. 
Here at Notre Dame we get a fantastic education -well-rounded and often inclusive of the deficiencies of the world we are a part of. We screen movies, put on plays, hold forums, host conferences, sponsor speakers and carry on hosts of discussion groups on all kinds of topics from global warming to hunger, genocide to sexual assault, poverty and disease and war. None of us has to look far to encounter the problems of this world and we're some of the most blessed, healthiest, richest, safest people on the face of this planet. So what do we do when faced with this disparity, this sense that things are not right in so many ways and so many places and for so many people? 
We do something. It doesn't matter what. Network with other peo­ple, join a club on campus, circulate petitions, send letters to your representatives, write an article for the paper, talk to your friends, your parents, your professors. I'm not telling you what to do, I'm just telling you to do something. The opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference. So much of the good that could be accomplished for this world is not accomplished because everyone figures no one cares. People that care matter and people that care make a differ­ence. 
In case you aren't convinced, check out Jesus. He tells us to feed the hungry, welcome the stranger, clothe the naked, give shelter to the homeless, care for the sick, visit the imprisoned. In fact, he tells us (in Matthew 25) that this is how we will be judged at the end of time. The true depth of our faith is displayed in our actions. 
Mr. Pendergast began his talk with the story of a woman he met in Darfur. Two of her children were murdered in front of her, she was forced from her home, fled across the Sahara desert, and ended up in a crowded, unsafe refugee camp. After telling her story, she looked at him and said, "Now that you know, you must do some­thing." I imagine God tells us the same thing every time we hear one of those talks or watch one of those documentaries. So now, what are you going to do? 
Michelle Webb 
seniOr 
McGlinn Hall Sept. 21 



NSIDER 
r\J:HE 

Monday, September 22, 2008 \.JnSERVER Michigan State 23, Notre Dame 7 
Getting their bell rung 
]avon Ringer's 201 yards lead the way in 23-7 MSU victory 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
There was a double-digit deficit. There was the offense throwing the ball all over the field. At times, it even seemed like Brady Quinn was finding Rhema McKnight and Jeff Samardzija. 
But there was no magic comeback this time in East Lansing as an inept running game, turnovers and a whole lot of Javon Ringer sealed Notre Dame's first loss of the season Saturday, a 23-7 defeat to Michigan State. 
Ringer, Michigan State's sen­ior running back who entered Saturday's contest third in the nation averaging 166 yards per game, ran for 201 yards and two touchdowns on 39 carries. For most of the day, the Irish defense kept the Spartans' workhorse in check. When Brandon Walker missed a 41­yard field goal with 5:50 remaining in the game that would have brought Notre Dame to within six points, Ringer had rushed for 124 yards on 33 carries -an aver­age of only 3. 7 5 yards per carry. 
Yet two plays after Walker's missed field goal, Ringer burst through the Irish line for a 63­yard scamper. Five runs later, Ringer punched his way into the end-zone from one yard out to give Michigan State a 16­point lead and ending any chance of a Notre Dame come­back. 
"What happens is that they can give [Ringer] the ball 39 times a game, and you can hit him and hit him and hit him and he just keeps on coming," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "I think I learned a long time ago that one attribute that great players have is stamina and he obviously has great stamina." 
While the Spartans pounded the ball effectively all day, the Notre Dame ground game was stuck in neutral from the start. After the opening kickoff, Robert Hughes and James Aldridge combined to run the ball three times for four yards. On its next drive, Notre Dame continued to pound the ball with Armando Allen, who rushed three times for a total of three yards. 
It didn't get much better the rest of the first half. Not count­ing a 24-yard end-around by Irish wide receiver Golden Tate, Notre Dame ran for 23 yards on 13 carries in the opening 30 minutes. 

"Our offense came out in the first half trying to win the line of scrimmage and that wasn't taking place," Weis said. "It wasn't some exotic defense they were playing. It still comes down to winning the line of scrimmage, and I think their defensive line got the best of our offense. It wasn't just our offensive line. It was our offense." 
When the Irish were able to move the ball effectively, turnovers and poor special teams prevented Notre Dame from capitalizing. Midway through the first quarter, an interception in the end zone ended Notre Dame's first trip into Spartan territory. Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen threw a jump ball intended for wide receiver Duval Kamara. The sophomore wideout got his hands on the ball, but Spartans safety Otis Wiley ripped the ball out of Kamara's hands for A big reason Notre Dame had the first of his two intercep­a chance to win Saturday's tions on the day. game was the play of Clausen 
Later in the first half, Walker in the second half. After an missed his first of two field ineffective running' game and 
goals,  a  51  lukewarm pass­ 
yarder,  wide  ing game pro­ 
right. Notre Dame had four drives inside the  "Our offense came out in the first half  duced only 111 yards of offense in the first half,  
Spartan 30-yard line that resulted in zero points -two Clausen interceptions  trying to win the line ofscrimmage, and that wasn't taking place.,,  the Irish aban­doned the run­ning game and handed the reins of the  
and two missed  offense  com­ 
Walker field goals. "That was the  Charlie Weis Irish coach  pletely over to Clausen. Running the  
exact thing I said  offense  out of  
in  the  locker  mostly five wide  

room," Weis said in reference receiver sets, Clausen marched to the turnovers and missed the offense up and down the field goals. "I said we didn't field. deserve to win this game, but On Notre Dame's opening we had a chance to win this drive of the second half, game. I think that's the mes­Clausen completed six consec­sage all our players will say." utive passes before a Michael Floyd fumble ended the drive at the Michigan State 14 yard­line. Two series later, Clausen completed five of seven passes down to the Spartan 26 yard­line before finding Floyd along the sideline for Notre Dame's only touchdown of the after­noon. 
After completing only seven of fourteen passes for 79 yards and two interceptions in the first half, Clausen completed seventeen of 27 passes in the second half for 163 yards and a touchdown. 
"He's just the leader of the team," Irish receiver Golden Tate said. "We even went to change it up, two-minute drill, quick game. The whole year so far it's been working for us. We know we can move the ball. We just need to capitalize in the red zone." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Javon Ringer Michigan State running back  16  Michael Floyd's fumble in the red zone  "We didn't deserve to win this game, but we had a chance to win this  
Net rushing yards Notre Dame,  game.  
Ringer rushed39 times for 201 yards and two touchdowns.  its lowest total of the season.  The turnover allowed the Spartans to score and take a IO-point lead.  Charlie Weis Irish coach  

page 2 
report card 

C+ D 
8 
D+ 8­8­B 
D 
C+ 
that eould have produced points and the run game wa<; non-exis­

2.15 
tent. The d1~nmse played a tough running back well . 

adding up the numbers 
Red zone chances, out of two, for Notre 
Dame that produced points. 
0 

Red zone chances, out of four, for Michigan4 State that produced points. 
Average yards per rushing attempt for Notre Dame. 
0.7 

2 Sacks by Michigan State defensive end Brandon Long. 
Sacks allowed by Notre Dame's offensive line. 
3 
0 Sacks allowed in the previous two games. 
Yards, on 32 carries, by Javon Ringer 
124 before his 63-yard fourth-quarter run, an average of 3.9 yards per carry. 
4•34 
Time of possession lor Notre Dame in the 
• fourth quarter. 
quarterbacks: Clausnn threw two inter­ceptions, one in the end zone and one on his own 22-yard line. lie ran the empty backfield shotgun ofl'ense well 
in the second half. 
running backs: llughes, Allnn and Aldridge 
got no ollfmsive production whatsoever. 
They hardly touched thn ball in the sec­
ond halt: though, and still acmmplished 
more than some games last sea..<;on. 
receivers: Tate had a great game, catching five pa..<>.'>es lbr 83 yard<;. Floyd had seven ~~atches lbr 86 yards and a touchdown, but hi<; fumble in the rnd zone killed a promis­ing Notre Dame drive. 
offensive line: The running backs had no holes to run through, and Michigan State saeked Clausen three timns. They proteeted well against the blitz for the most part, though. 
defensive line: The linemen foreed a 
lield goal on a goal line stand and 
Hinger barely got over the line on another series. They also did a good job of pressuring the quarterback. 
linebackers: Brian Smith fi1rced a fumble, whil:h John Hyan recovered. Harrison Smith made some good plays in his lirst start, and both Smiths <md Maurice Crum had tm~klns lor losses. 
defensive backs: Michigan State's slants 
hurt the seeondary all day, and Lambert 
got lost on one play. For the most part, 
however, they knpt I Ioyer w1d hi<; 
receivers in check. 
special teams: "1\vo mi<>.<;ed fiold goal<; in a 
dose game killnd Notre Dwne's ehances. 
Tim punt eoverage WlL'i good, and Allen's 
kickofl" return in the fourth quarter gave 
the Irish good field position. 
coaching: Kicking a 51-yard field goal that almost enrtainly would not be made was not wl'it\ but the dmi'iion to pa..<>.<; almost exclusively in the second half kept the Irish in the gamn. 
overall: Mistakes ended drives 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 22, 2008 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer 

Irish safety David Bruton, left, and cornerback Terrail Lambert tackle Spartans wide receiver Mark Dell during Notre Dame's 23-7 loss to Michigan State Saturday. Dell had four catches for 80 yards. 
Irish better than stats indicate 
"We didn't deserve to win, we had a chance to win the game, but we didn't deserve to win," Irish coach Charlie Weis said following a frustrating 23-7 loss at Michigan State Saturday. 
Notre Dame's first loss since a41-24routby Air Force on Nov. 10, 2007 had a different feeling than the nine losses the Irish suffered last season. 
Not to say last year wasn't frustrating-it was. But this time around they had a chance. 
To look at the final box score it would seem that the Spartans were clearly the better team on the field, but anyone who watched the game knows it was much clos­er than the stats may dictate. 
Weis is right. Notre Dame did not deserve to win, but not because Michigan State was tougher, or more prepared or a better 

Dan Murphy 
Sports Editor 

team than the Irish. ':4t the end ofthe stats with 201 yards Big mistakes in key day, [the defense] put and two touch­situations were the downs, but he was 
us in a position to

difference in this far from unstop­game. keep us in the game. " pable. Take away Turnovers sucked the 77 yards he the life out of a cou­picked up on the
Charlie Weis 

ple promising Notre meaningless final
Irish coach 
Dame drives and also gave the Spartans a short field to work with. Michigan State's two first-half scoring drives were 24 and 22 yards long respec­tively. 
The Spartans' first touchdown came following one of two inter­ceptions thrown by Jimmy Clausen in the hall'. Clausen, with a man in his face, threw behind his intended target and Michigan State took over just outside its own red zone. Nine plays later, .lavon Ringer spun his way into the end zone for a 10-0 Spartan lead. 
The drive was not only indicative of Michigan State's opportunistic offense, but also the deceivingly stout Irish defense. 

It took Ringer and his Spartans nine plays and a questionable third-down pass interference call to punch it in on a 22-yard drive. 
There were only two plays out of the nine that went for more than two yards. The Irish came within inches of keeping Hinger out of the end zone altogether despite the Spartans having first and goal from the two-yard line. 
The goal line defense did finish the job later in the game on another 
first and goal from the two in the fourth quarter. Ringer tried, and was denied, three times before the Spartans settled for a field goal. 
Despite what the stat sheet might show, the Irish defense can hold its head high after an impres­sive showing in East Lansing. 
Sure, Ringer once 
again posted 
Heisman-worthy 
"We didn't deserve to loss of five yards in win, we had a chance the first two series to win the game, but of the game on six we didn't deserve to straight unsuccess­
ful runs. At halftime 

win. Notre Dame had rushed for 32 net yards and wide
Charlie Weis 
receiver Golden Tate

Irish coach 
drive of the game ­including 63 on one carry -and his 
numbers are mediocre at just a shade over 3.5 yards per carry. 
If you give a back the ball 39 times in a game, he is bound to put up some pretty big numbers. 
"At the end of the day, [the defense! put us in a position to keep us in the game," Weis said. 
The defense was on the field for 
10:26 in the fourth quarter, so the def1mse's heavy legs on that final drive can just as easily be blamed on the lack of offensive production. 
Any time you are held to seven points in a game, the offense can't be too pleased with their perform­ance. But once again, things may not be quite as gloomy as they look following the first disappointing loss of the year. 
The Irish came out of the gates 
trying to establish the run game. Mission failed. The three-headed back­field combined for a 
had 24 of them on 
an end around play. 
In the second half. 

however, things got much brighter for the Irish. Weis and offensive coordinator Mike Haywood completely abandoned the run game, opting instead for a quick-hitting empty backfield package. 
Weis-coached teams, including this one, are traditionally strong at empty backfield two-minute drill style offenses. The eff1cient drives during the third quarter provided flashbacks of the good old days with Quinn, Samardzija and Stovall. 
Clausen looks much more com­fortable in this set. lie can spread the defense out and make more accurate pre-snap reads. Clausen's ability to go through his reads dur­ing a play has been one of the main criticisms against him. The set allow Clausen to catch-and­throw, eliminating a long list of reads on plays with longer pass drops. 
A loss is never acceptable at Notre Dame, but the Irish can take away some positives from the loss this weekend. The Irish didn't deserve to win, but they certainly belonged on the field. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd. edu 
Monday, September 22, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Team identity changes by week 
By BILL BRINK Sporrs Ediror 
Even the casual fan could diagnose Saturday's 180-degree shift in offensive philosophy. 
Running backs James Aldridge, Armando Allen and Robert Hughes com­bined for 23 yards on 13 carries in the first half. The first six plays of the game, all rushes, led to two three-and-outs. 
"It doesn't take a brain surgeon to fig­ure out that our offense came out in the first half trying to win the line of scrim­mage and that wasn't taking place," coach Charlie Weis said. 
The "pound-it" philosophy, against its toughest test thus far, failed in the first half. necessitating a new game plan. So in the second half, the Irish came out throwing. 
"We were going to give them an opportunity to run the ball a bunch of times in the first two or three series," Weis said. "And when we didn't, we started adjusting." 
The Spartan defense, Weis said, out­played Notre Dame's entire offense, not just its offensive line. 
"We weren't getting mismatched. A lot of times in the run game you get scared to run because you are getting outnum­bered and that wasn't the case in this game. We weren't getting outnumbered. They were getting the best of us." 
Junior tackle Sam Young agreed and said the Michigan State front seven kept the offensive line from getting orr the ball and creating holes for the running backs. 
"They were able to physically match us," Young said. "They shut us off up front and we just weren't able to get anything going." 
So in the second half, Notre Dame abandoned the run and focused its offense skyward. Notre Dame quarter­back Jimmy Clausen, who was 7-of-14 for 79 yards and two interceptions in the first half, played most of the second half in the shotgun. He finished the game 24­for-41 for 242 yards and a touchdown along with his two picks. 
Clausen attributed the pass-heavy offense partly to the fact that Notre Dame was playing from behind. 
"Obviously when we're down in the second half we gotta get things going, we gotta score faster," he said. 
Most of Clausen's second-half passes were short out routes, slants or swing passes. On multiple plays, Allen would go in motion out of the backfield and into the slot, and Clausen would hit him outside. These plays, Weis said, helped the offense keep from becoming too pre­dictable. 

"We're one-dimensional in the fact that we're throwing so much, but a lot of those three-step drop passes are like outside runs," he said. 
Spartans tackle Justin Kershaw dis­agreed. 
"It made them one-dimensional," he said. "Whenever you eliminate a team's running game, it's discouraging for them." 
One-dimensional or not, Weis said an offense's identity was not something the team could lock itself into. Some flexibil­ity, he said, was good. 
"I think we have to do that on a week­ly basis," he said. 
The players, Weis said, felt they would come back to win the game after Clausen threw a touchdown pass to freshman receiver Michael Floyd early in the fourth quarter. 
"I think that the team felt after that touchdown that we would get a stop, get the ball back, and get another opportu­nity," Weis said. "That it would be a 14­13 final. You could feel it on the side­line." 
Sophomore receiver Golden Tate said he had confidence in the receiving corps should Notre Dame throw the ball like it did in the second half. 
"I think all the receivers that we have are outstanding receivers and we count on all of them like today," he said. 
Regardless of the issues with the run­ning game or the lack of offensive identi­ty, the team, Young said, can't take the loss too hard. It needs to learn from the game and move on, he said. 
"You have to a short memory in terms of 'we lost this one,' but at the same time you can't forget what it feels like," he said. "We're not going to forget what happened, we're just going to build off it." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
page 3 

scoring suininary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  0  0  0  7  7  
MSU  3  7  3  10  23  

First quarter 
Michigan State 3, Notre Dame 0 
Brett Swenson 45-yd field goal with 11:14 
remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 24 yards, 1:44 
elapsed 
Second quarter 
Michigan State 10, Notre Dame 0 
Javon Ringer 1·yd touchdown run (Swenson kick) wlih 3:29 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 22 yards, 3:42 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Michigan State 13, Notre Dame 0 
Brett Swenson 26-yd field goal with 5:32 
remaining. Drive: 12 plays, 77 yards, 5:18 
elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Michigan State 13, Notre Dame 7 
Jimmy Clausen 26 yd pass to Michael Floyd (Walker kick) with 14:51 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 75 yards, 2:34 elapsed 
Michigan State 16, Notre Dame 7 
Brett Swenson 23·yd field goal with 9:10 remain­ing. Drive: 11 plays, 54 yards, 5:35 elapsed 
Michigan State 23, Notre Dame 7 
Javon Ringer 1-yd touchdown run (Swenson kick) with 2:16 remaning. Drive: 7 plays, 77 yards, 
3:34 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

return yards 

Grimes dressed, but held out of game 
time of possession 
Dame's nine touchdowns yards in consecutive games. game you get scared to run
By BILL BRINK 
have come from freshmen because you are getting out­
Sports Editor 
or sophomores. Punt c~verage numbered and that wasn't Notre Dame's punt cover­the case in this game. We Wide receiver David Fresh start age, which was weren't get­Grimes dressed for the Sophomore linebacker ranked eighth ting out­game, but did not play Harrison Smith made his in the nation "We weren't getting numbered. because of back problems. first start of the season before the They were
mismatched. A lot of 

"Ended up holding David, against the Spartans. Smith game, allowed getting the
times in the run game

which will have positive played in the first two only one return best of us." residual effects this week," games, but since the Irish for 10 yards. you get scared to run Irish tack­
passing

Irish coach Charlie Weis opened in the nickel pack­Punter Eric because you are le Sam said during his Sunday age, he did not start. Smith Maust aver­Young said 
Clausen 24·41 Hoyer 12-26
getting outnumbered 

press conference. had six tackles in the game. aged 38.8 the game 
Freshman wide receiver yards per punt. and that wasn't the wasn't lost rushing Michael Floyd, who caught Home-field advantage? case in this game. We because of seven passes for 86 yards, a Saturday's game marked Trouble on the the rushing Allen 6·8 Ringer 39·202
weren't getting Hughes Hoyer 2-6
touchdown and a fumble, the first time since 2000 ground game alone. 5·9 took his place. that the home team has won Notre Dame's outnumbered. They "Any given receiving in the Michigan State-Notre 16 rushing were getting the play you can Youth movement Dame series. yards were the chalk it up
best ofus." Floyd 7·86 Dell 4-80 
Freshman linebacker fifth-worst in to different 
Tate 5-83 White 2·19 Steve Filer saw his l"irst Moving up the charts the Charlie things," Allen 5-20 Celek 2·15 playing time this season on Michigan State running Weis era. Charlie Weis Young said. Parris 4-22 Cunningham 1-22 the kickoff coverage team. back .lavon Ringer recorded "When you Irish coach " T h e y Rudolph 2-29 Curry 1·4 Filer is the eight freshman his 15th 100-yard game, play against a played a 
tacklingto see playing time with the tying him with Sedrick Irvin team that tries great game Irish this season. for fourth all-time in to beat you with seven guys, and we didn't accomplish 

BSmith 10 Jones 9
Floyd's touchdown in the Michigan State history. His it takes seven to block what we wanted." 
Bruton 10 C.L. Rucker 9
fourth quarter was the 203 yards also made him seven," Weis said. "We 
McCarthy 9 Decker 8 
ninth Irish touchdown this the only back in Michigan weren't getting mismatched. Contact Bill Brink at Crum Fortener 7
8 

season. Eight of Notre State history to rush for 200 A lot of times in the run wbrink@nd.edu Lambert 8 Wiley 5 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 22, 2008 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer 

That-was Sparta 

Notre Dame's rushing game started slow: Its first six plays, all rushes, led to three-and-outs. Jimmy Oausen's jump ball to Duval Kamara was intercepted in tho end zone, killing an Irish drive. Another interception, this time on Notre 
Dame's own 22-yard line, gave Michigan State a short field. Javon Ringer even­tually scored, putting Notre Dame down by 10. In the second half, the Irish threw the run out the window and passed, mostly out of five-wide receiver sets. Golden Tate, Michael Floyd and Annando Allen eaught short slants, outs and flat passes, and it IIKJked like the Irish had something going ... until Floyd fumbled on the 14­yard line. Tho Spartans drove down the field and kicked a field goal. Just sec­ond-; into tho fourth quaru~r. Floyd <~ught a 26-yard touchdown pass to pull Notre I >arne within a touchdown. But, as was the ca<;e the rest of the game, Notn~ Damn could not stop Javon Hinger. Another field goal and a Hinger touch­down laklr, thn lri'ih had lost, 23-7. 


Clockwise from top, Clausen recovers from a sack by Spartans defensive end Brandon Long; Spartans center Joel Nitchman prepares to snap the ball to quarterback Brian Hoyer; Notre Dame cheerleaders celebrate an Irish touchdown; Irish receiver Golden Tate runs after a catch; Irish defensive lineman Pat Kuntz pressures Hoyer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Tuesday, September 23, 2008 
page 11 
League West. I was therefore explaining to a Diamondbacks fan how excited I am for the Dodgers to go to the playoffs (and, incidentally, making obvious note of how if this happens, his team will NOT be going to the playoffs, hahaha, etc). He got extremely offend­ed at this remark, not because I was dissing his team, but because I was extolling the virtues of a team other than my own. 
Can a baseball fan have two loves, a lesser and a greater? My mother is from LA. We moved to Denver when I was six months old. There are baby pictures of my little brother in full-out Dodgers gear. I was raised to root for the Dodgers and despise the Giants with all my soul. Somewhere along the line I realized that we no longer lived in Santa Monica, and I had never actu­ally been to a Dodgers game, but only seen the Rockies host them. I wasn't really a Dodgers fan at all, but I still felt like LA fandom was in my blood. 
So I have reached the point of debate, namely, can I love the Dodgers and the Rockies, but if they play each other root for the Rockies? I'll take the Dodgers over any other team, just not my beloved Rocks. Must I be a one-team fan to be truly die-hard? Everyone watching the World Series picks the team they'd like to see win, yet no one is blamed for disloyalty. Sure, I'd prefer to see the Rockies on top, but if not them, the Dodgers would be my next pick. 
Is this disloyalty? I don't think so, but my friend claims it is. Can I have a hierarchy of team love? Am I a poser if I wear the Cubs shirt my roommate bought me? As it stands, The Dodgers are rounding the corner to clinch the NL West, and if they make it to the play­offs, my purple-blooded body will be wearing Dodger blue. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
to smile is but those enter the picture the ruggedness of his face is highlighted and it is absolutely gorgeous. 
I managed to get that picture when I was snapping away as he was talking Jenn. I was too far away to hear what she said to him but it must have been something funny because he smiled that beautiful smile which I caught on camera. 
After the turf carpet, we were able to stay to watch the screening of the movie, which hits theaters on Oct. 10, and participate in a question and answer session with both Brown and Quaid afterwards. 
I have to thank my mom for teaching me how to be a groupie and get pictures with famous people because I grabbed his arm and asked if I could get a picture with him. He agreed and put his arm around me as I did the same to him. As we walked back to Brown, we made our way out of the Hall of Fame, a little bit cooler after our brush with stardom. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
By STEPHANIE DePREZ 
Being a Scene Beast as I am, what with obsessions ranging from Coldplay to the Oscars, one might find it hard to believe I am passionate about any sport (out­side of Irish football, that is). The truth of the matter, though, is that I am an avid baseball fan. I love it. I love sitting way up in the bleachers and crunching peanut shells under my feet. I love cursing at my com­puter when the ump makes a bad call while I'm watch­ing MLB.TV. I love watching the outfielders toss the ball on the field between innings. I even love complaining about how ESPN has a gross bias toward the American League. Baseball is, as far as I am concerned, the greatest sport even invented (that isn't Irish football) and I can't live without it. 
Of course, one cannot just love the sport. One must have their Team. This Team is the entity of divine reli­gion, the bringer of Truth and Light, the end all of devotion. Every baseball fan has a Team. We all love the game, but the communal love ends there. My homegrown Colorado heart belongs to the Rockies. Between the months of April and September I bleed purple, singing the praises of Todd Helton (who is the backbone of the team, even if his back kept him out of most of the season) and have a special place in my heart for Dinger, our triceratops mascot. 
I believe heartily in the manifest destiny that took place last year in the National League, namely that even if we didn't win the World Series, we've got a load of magic and action worth noticing. I love the Rockies and, in the spirit of competition, allow any other base­ball fan their obsession, even if it is for a lesser team. We can't all be Rockies fans. 
That being said, an interesting point was brought up to me the other day. The Rockies are done for the year, never having even touched the top of the National 
movie. Then we were led to The spot on the "turf carpet" of the Gridiron Plaza, where the stars would walk. I set up my camera and waited. 
Last Thursday my career at The Observer officially Rob Brown, who plays the titular Ernie Davis, a hit its peak. I'm calling it now. Granted, as soon as I Syracuse University player who, in 1961, became the do that I'll probably be given the opportunity to break first African-American to win the Heisman Trophy, a huge story or meet someone else famous. So maybe arrived first. A quick look at our press package and I I should just say that after three long years of hard realized where I had seen him before even though his work, The Observer News Desk received an email name was unfamiliar. He starred in "Coach Carter" containing the opportunity of a lifetime. and "Finding Forrester." 
I walked into the office for our usual Wednesday I lived up to my status as a member of the paparazzi editor's meeting and was met by News Editor, Jenn at a movie premiere as I vied with the other photogra­Metz's question, "Do I want to meet Dennis Quaid?" I phers also on the carpet to get the best shot of Brown immediately jumped on the chance without having possible. Seeing Brown was cool. I've always admired any idea how we could possibly be able to meet the him because he says acting was always second to his man who starred in such classics as "The Parent education. But he was overshadowed as Quaid's car Trap," "Frequency," and "The Rookie". pulled up. Come on, it was Dennis freaking Quaid. 
Being Saint Mary's Editor and a photography staffer I have to admit that Quaid is an actor I consider one qualified me to stand beside Jenn in representing the of my "Old Men Crushes." He joins an illustrious Observer. group including George Clooney, Sean Connery and 
When Jenn and I arrived at the Hall of Fame we Richard Gere. I promised myself I would get pictures were given our media passes and press kits for the of him smiling with his teeth showing. It seems his go 


impress Dennis Quaid? 

shaking. But what a rush! He laughed at cnrntnm I said, and gave me a good five minutes of his time. 
Then there was the film itself. 
I was, and if you know me, this will be no sur­prise, one of those audience members moved to tears. 
There's something about football on the big screen that is so raw, so emotional, so full of sound effects that I don't hear in row 44 at Notre Dame Stadium, that just captivates an audience. "The Express," especially, did a phenomenal job of com­bining vintage-looking film with live-action shots, which really transported the viewers back in time. 
Though at times over-acted and a little theatri­cal, the story was, as Mr. Quaid too eloquently told me on the turf carpet, one that transcends football -it is a story about race, it is a story about family, but most importantly it is a story about overcoming the odds. 
Contact Jenn Metz at obsnews@nd.edu 
ByJENN METZ 
I think I have found my true calling. 
Sure, working for the News section is great ­I've had some great interviews and written some really interesting stories -but working the red carpet and shaking hands with celebrities is defi­nitely where it's at. 
Entertainment reporting might be in my future, complete with nice dresses, free movie screenings, and obnoxiously large microphones. 
That is, if I can keep my nerves in check. 
As I lined up with the other reporters Thursday night, waiting for the stars greet their South Bend fans, I was very (very) excited. 
Though, as Mr. Quaid made his way down the line toward my spot on the carpet, my excitement faded and I became very (very) nervous. 
What on earth was I, someone with little to no celebrity interviewing experience, going to ask that 
Luckily, I was able to talk the other star, Rob Brown, first to calm down. 
Chatting up Rob Brown was no problem -he is close to my age and we joked around about foot­ball. He talked to me so much that his publicist had to subtly gesture to me that it was time to wrap it up. 
He's a very charismatic actor and delivered an emotional performance in the film, which, like most football tragedies, brought some members of the audience to tears. One particular audience member was so moved by his presence that she requested he autograph her pregnant stomach. Quite frankly, I thought that was a little weird. 
But back to Dennis. 

He almost missed me, but luckily his publicist saw me with my handy digital voice recorder and reporter's pad, and pulled the actor my way. 
I introduced myself and shook his hand. I asked him a few questions, but I haven't brought myself to listen to the tape yet -I'm sure my voice was 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 23, 2008 
were going to be a tough near midfield. bye before taking on Dunean game, capping off a 65-yard team, but our defense eame A relatively uneventful see­on Sunday, Oetober 5 at drive. Knott moved the ball
Otters 

through." ond half was highlighted by 1pm. by s p r·e ad in g it a r o u n d 
continued from page 20 Keenan star running baek a 30-yard touehdown pass through the air, with four 
Alex Gonzalez was held in from Abeling to Stedsman O'Neill 14, Dillon 0 different Knott reeeivers 
Looking past the disputed check by the Kangaroos, receiver Dan Crisman that After O'Neill's 14-0 victory catching passes of 10 yards 
p1~rsonal foul call, Donovan earning only 52 yards on the brought the final seore to over Dillon, one team was or more from Juggernaut 
was proud of his team. ground. 20-6. left eneouraged; the other quarterbaek J.T. Hedshaw. 
"The boys worked hard," "We just needed to open up Even after the loss, Huof was looking for answers. Knott threatened to 
he said. "Thern is no excuse some bigger holes for him," was very positive about the Dillon was hoping to prove increase its lead shortly 
for losing." Keenan eaptain Barton Dear Vermin's per-itself as an before halftime. With 15 sec­
Sorin will try to build on said. formance. elite team, but onds left, wide receiver Jeff 
its momentum in a contest Despite the tie, Dear was "This game O'Neill made a Skorup broke three tackles 
with Zahm next weekend, satisfied with his team's per­was a big step statement that for a 40-yard reeeption to 
while Fisher intends to use formanee. forward, we it was not the the Hl-yard line, but Knott
"/ had great blockers 
this week's loss as motiva­"We just need to move the played with a same team eouldn 't get a final play off tion in its rivalry game ball a little better on lot of heart and and receivers out that struggled before halftime. against Carroll for The offense," he said. "We have I'm excited for there. We started out last year. Skorup was the offensive Crooked Stick. room for improvement but it the rest of the The Angry star of the game, with 90
slow but we were able
was a good first game." season, he Mob started yards receiving. In addition 
Keenan 0, Keough 0 In spite of the missed said. to wear them down. " out strong on to his reeeption at the end of 
It was a war of attrition opportunity at the end, their first the half, Skorup also made 
Sunday afternoon as Keenan Keough captain Nazur Morrissey 23, Bobby Powers drive, moving an aerobatie one-handed 20­
and Keough fought to a slug­Ahmed was happy with his Alumni 0 the ball well yard eateh on the first offen­
O'Neill running back
gish 0-0 tie. team's performance. "Blaek and until their sive series of the game. 
Despite the tough defen­"In my opinion Keenan is gold vietory" offense stalled "He never played in high 
sive struggle, Keough still the best team in the league," was the eheer and turned the school, but is a tremendous 
had a late chance to win the he said. "Everyone stepped from the ball over on athlete who makes play after 
game, but Kangaroos kicker up, I couldn't be prouder." Morrissey bud-fourth down. play," Knott eoach Brian 
Matt Cirillo's 41-yard field d I e after they shut out After holding Dillon to a Lohr said. 
goal sailed wide of the St. Edward's 20, Carroll 6 Alumni 23-0 in its opening three-and-out, the Mob had Knott's defense was also 
upright with five seconds St. Ed's used a strong game Sunday at Riehle Field. another drive that stalled impressive, consistently 
left. passing attack to roll over "We worked hard all week deep in Big Red territory harassing Duncan quarter­
Keough quarterback Matt the Carroll Vermin 20-6. in practice, we went really with less than two minutes back Chris Toups. Defensive 
Bruggemen set up the field Stedsman sophomore quar­hard today, and it is impor­to go in the first half. end Joe Soriee sealed the 
goal try after breaking off terback Matt Abeling tant to open up with a win," "We had a eouple of kinks win for the Juggernauts with 
for a 24-yard excelled all afternoon out of Morrissey defender John in the beginning but we a late intereeption in the 
run to get the the shotgun Saulitis said. made the right adjustments fourth quarter. 
Kangaroos with-and rolling to The Manorite offense was in the end," O'Neill defender "We aren't the fastest, but 
in field goal both sidelines. led by senior quarterbaek Brad Blomstrom said. we will hit you," Lohr said. 
range. Abeling and team captain Joe Both of the Angry Mob's Duncan's defense also 
The game opened up the MeBrayer, who eonnected seores came in the second played well in the loss, hold­
"In my opinion,
started off with seoring with a with senior wide receiver half on touchdown passes ing Knott to the lone toueh­a bang as Keenan is the best 70-yard bomb Carl Andersen for three from quarterbaek Bobby down and shutting down its Keenan quarter­team in the league. ,, to Sean Reed touchdown passes. Powers, who finished the ground game. back Pat Kelly in the first MeBrayer said that despite day 11-of-16 passing with "I am proud of the connected with quarter that the win, "the game was a lit­two touehdowns. defense," Dunean eaptain
Nazur Ahmed

wide receiver put the tle sloppy." "I had great blockers and Garret Burke said. "They Jim Zenker for Keough captain Stedsmen up "We know what we need to receivers out there." Powers stayed with their assign­a 51-yard gain 7-0. work on," Morrissey eoach said. "We started out slow ments and played tough for on the game's "We feel we Joe DiLuia said. but we were able to wear all four quarters." first play, but a did a good job Defensively, Morrissey's them down." Dunean's young offense strong Keough of exploiting strong play in the trenehes Dillon was never able to stuttered, though. Toups defense soon their weak-paved the way to victory. get into a rhythm on offense. struggled to find open forced the Knights to punt. nesses on defense," Abeling "[Lineman) Mike Kaiser The Big Red was plagued by receivers and was pressured 
The Kangaroos couldn't said. really took· eontrol of this bad snaps and penalties, and throughout the game by the capitalize, and their offense Carroll responded on their game," junior ran only 11 Knott's front four. Burke, at also struggled against the next drive with a 50-yard Manorite offensive running back, provided the talented Knight defense, pass from sophomore quar­defender Phil plays all only spark for Dunean rush­going three and out on their terback Kris Kast to junior Yuhas said. game. Dillon ing for 40 yards. first possession. reeeiver Tommy Mumford, In the sec­"Ifwe isolate those three didn't even Duncan continued to hurt 
Keenan had a chance to followed by a 9-yard fade for ondary, John big [touchdown] passes, it attempt a its own eause with penalties, score at the end of the first a touehdown from Kast to Soltis pass until its surrendering more penalty
was a fairly even game.
half after a drive into Mumford. A missed extra chipped in last drive of yards than it gained offen­Keough territory, but time point left the Vermin down with a We saw some things to the fourth sively. Its longest play of the expired before the Knights 7-6. fourth-quar­build on today and we quarter. game, a 35-yard punt return could get the kick off. "It was nice to see some ter intercep­Next week, was negated by a block in
are excited for next
Early in the second half, rejuvenated play from the tion. O'Neil has the back, and false starts
week.,,
the teams traded posses­upperclassmen," Vermin D a w g s an off week and several dead ball per­sions with both defenses coach Nick Huof said. quarterbaek before play­sonal fouls prevented holding strong. In the fourth After Carroll punted with Pat Rushford ing Keenan Duncan from getting any
Luke Betterman 
quarter, Keenan threatened under two minutes left in the had a strong hall on rhythm on offense.
Alumni captain
with a drive into Keough ter­half, St. Ed's quiekly moved short passing Oetober 5. "The penalties killed us ritory, and Kelly twice the ball downfield, starting game, but the Dillon plays and slowed us down on serambted for first downs. with a 45-yard pass from t 0 u g h again next offensive," Burke. "We will However, the Kangaroo Abeling to reeeiver Ryan Morrissey week against be running this week to defense stepped up and halt­Farrell. That set up another secondary allowed only a Keenan. make sure that we are in ed the Knight's advance with Abeling touehdown pass as few eompletions. shape, both mentality and an intereeption on fourth time expired in the first half. "If we isolate those three Knott 6, Duncan 0 physically, for next week's down. "The offensive line did a big [touehdownl passes, it In a low-scoring defensive game." 
Keough co-eaptain and great job of keeping the was a fairly even game," battle, Knott got its season wide reeeiver Kevin pressure off and I had the Alumni eaptain Luke off to a suecessful start Contact Douglas Farmer at Laughlin was espeeially time to make the time to Betterman said. "We saw defeating Duncan Hall 6-0 dfarmerl@nd.edu, Kyle Smith at appreciative of his team's make some throws," Abeling some things to build on on Sunday. ksmith@nd.edu, Charlie Spokes defensive effort. said. today and we are excited for After turning the ball over at cspokes@nd.edu, Liza 
"Our defense played Coming out from halftime, next week" on downs on their first pos­Navarro at lnavarro@nd.edu, extremely well," he said. Carroll's opening drive Next on the schedule, session, Juggernauts run­Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu, "We knew they had a tough looked promising before Alumni will play Dunean on ning baek Cam Smith seored and Matthew Wilsey at running back, we knew they Kast threw an interception Sunday, and Morrissey has a the only touchdown of the mwilsey@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Home Game Rentals. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Beautiful, Private apartments. WANTED FoR SALE Sleeps 4. Fully furnished, lots of TICKETS PERSONAL Do not go it alone. If you or some· amenities. one you love needs confidential STUDENT WORK, CONDO FOR SALE. Wanted: ND football tix for family. If you or someone you care about support or assistance, please call 
Only 4 miles from Campus. $500 574-251-1570. has been sexually assaulted, visit Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631· $14.25 base-appt., flexible sched-CLOSE TO ND. thurs·sun. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 7819 or Ann Firth at 574-631·2685. ules, no experience needed, cus-PLEASE CONTACT TED @ 574-VICTORY TICKETS For more information. visit our web· tamer sales/service, conditions 233-6191 Call Joyce @574-339·9241. Spring Break 2009. Sell Trips, Earn site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart· apply, ages 18+, MSL#231736 Buy-Sell ND football tickets. Cash and Go Free. Call for Group ments/pregnant.shtml 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 www.victorytickets.com. 574-232-Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed! SCHOOL YEAR. 2·10 BDRMS 0964. Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun, Bill Brink is a smart man. 574-273-3835, FoR RENT AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre, PROPERTIES 574·234·2436 OR Need Purdue tix & parking pass. Florida. Information/Reservations 1· I'm sorry Deirdre. I didn't mean it. I www. workforstudents.com House near ND. 574-310·3663. KRAMERHOUSES.COM 574-276-8507. 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com promise. 

OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September 23, 2008 CoMrn+n FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WlRF SERVICES page 13 
NFL 
USA Today /USA Hockey Preseason Poll 
team  points  'o7 record  
1  Boston College (27)  490  25·11·8  
2  Michigan (4)  432  33·6·4  
3  NOTRE DAME  376  2N6·4  
4  North Dakota  371  28·11-4  
5  Colorado College (2)  355  28·12·1  
6  Denver  299  26·14·1  
7  New Hampshire  287  25·10·3  
8  Miami (OH)  263  33·8·1  
9  Minnesota  223  19·17-9  
10  Boston University  203  19·11·1  
11  Clarkson  173  22·13·4  
12  Michigan State  159  25·12-5  
13  Wisconsin  103  16·17-7  
14  Northern Michigan  75  20·20·4  
15  St. Cloud State  69  19·16·5  
NSCAA/adidas  
Women's Soccer Top 25  
team  record  pus  
1  NOTRE DAME (28)  8·0-0  2  
2  UCLA (3)  5·0·1  ·1  
3  North Carolina (1)  5·1·1  5  
4  usc (2)  6·1-0  3  
5  Portland  6·1·0  6  
6  Stanford  6·0·1  3  
7  Virginia  5·0·1  9  
8  TexasA&M  5·1-0  10  
9  Florida State  5·1·1  7  
10  Texas  5·0-1  8  
11  Duke  6·1·0  12  
12  Boston College  6·1-0  13  
13  Oklahoma State  6·0·0  16  
14  West Virginia  4·1-2  14  
15  Wake Forest  6·1·0  19  
16  Florida  4·1·1  17  
17  Penn State  5·2·0  11  
18  Calilornia  5·1·0  20  
19  Villanova  7·0·0  NR  
20  UC Santa Barbara  5·2·0  NR  
21  Colorado  5·1·1  NR  
22  South Carolina  5·0·2  NR  
23  Illinois  4·3-0  18  
24  San Diego  5·2-0  NR  
25  Kansas  5·1-0  21  
NSCAA/adidas  
Men's Soccer Top 15  
team  record  pV$  
1  Wake Forest (23)  5·0·0  1  
2  SMU  5·0·1  4  
3  NOTRE DAME  4·1·0  5  
3  Maryland  4·1·0  8  
5  St. John:s  5·0·1  11  
6  California  3·0·2  6  
7  Conneclitut  2·0·3  7  
7  North Carolina  4·0-1  12  
9  Northwestern  5·0·1  14  
10  Akron  3·1-2  2  
11  Illinois-Chicago  4·0·1  16  
12  Creighton  3-1-0  3  
13  Saint Louis  2·0·3  17  
13  Indiana  3·1·2  19  
15  Ohio State  4·1-1  10  

around the dial 
WNBA PLAYOFFS 
Los Angeles at Seattle 9 p.m., ESPN2 


Associated Press 
METAIRIE, La. -Tight end Jeremy Shockey, the Saints' second-leading receiver through three games, is expected to be out for three to six weeks because of a sport<; hernia. 
Shockey, who was acquired from the New York Giants in a trade shortly before training camp, had 16 receptions for 151 yards during the Saints' first three regular-season games. He played Sunday in New Orleans' 34-32 loss at Denver, catching five passes for 56 yards. 
On Monday afternoon, Saints spokesman Greg Bensel confirmed a report on the (New Orleans) Times­Picayune's Web site that Shockey was scheduled to have surgery this week. 
A sports hernia is the weakening of muscles or ten­dons in the lower abdominal walL For Shockey, it's the sec­ond serious injury in as many seasons. He broke his left leg last December and missed all of the Giants' postseason run to a Super Bowl champi­onship. 
Shockey's absence also is the second major blow to the Saints' receivers this season following the loss of Marques Colston in Week 1. 
Colston, who led the Saints in receiving in each of the previous two seasons, needed surgery to repair a tom liga­ment in his left thumb and is not expected back for another month. 

Shockey lobbied for a trade to the Saints in the offseason, hoping to rejoin head coach Sean Payton, who was the Giants' offensive coordinator in 2002, the flamboyant tight end's rookie season. 
Shockey caught more pass­es (74) for more yards (894) that season than any other in his career and was the rookie of the year. With the Saints, he was expected to play a major role in a pass-oriented offense led by quarterback Drew Brees. 
So far, the Saints' leading receiver this season is run­ning back Reggie Bush, who has 26 catches for 250 yards and two touchdowns. 
_, 
With both Colston and Shockey out, the Saints may have to rely more on receivers David Patten, Devery Henderson, Lance Moore, Robert Meachem and Terrance Copper. However, Patten pulled his left groin during Sunday's game and is unsure of his status for this week, while Copper was inac­tive last weekend with a pulled hamstring. 
The Saints also have two other tight ends in Billy Miller and Mark Campbell, although Campbell also was out last weekend because of a pulled hamstring. 
Payton met With reporters earlier on Monday afternoon, but did not mention Shockey's injury. 

IN BRIEF Harris undergoes test 
for ruptured spleen 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -Green Bay Packers cornerback Al Harris under­went additional medical tests Monday amid a report he might have rup­tured his spleen in Sunday's loss to the Dallas Cowboys. 
The National Football Post, a Web site that lists Harris' agent as a con­tributor, reported that the injury could end Harris' season, but Harris was seeking a second opinion. Agent Jack Bechta did not immediately return a message from The Associated Press. 
Earlier in the day, Packers coach Mike McCarthy said the team's med­ical staff was "just doing scans" on Harris and were "checking for every­thing." A team spokesman said no additional information was available. 
Harris left Sunday night's game with 6:51 left in the first quarter after he collided with Packers linebacker AJ. Hawk. Harris returned two plays later. 
Ball State's Love could be 
done with football 
MUNCIE, Ind. -Dante Love may never catch another pass or play another football game at Ball State. 
But the senior receiver will always have a special place in the hearts of Cardinals teammates, coaches and fans. 
School officials said Monday that Love is expected to live a normal, healthy life after breaking his spine and sustaining a spinal cord injury during Saturday's game, although he'll likely have to give up the sport that turned him into an NFL prospect. 
"His football career is expected to be over," coach Brady Hoke said. "He has touched a lot of lives and he will continue to do so." 
Hoke declined to give medical details about Love's condition, citing privacy concerns, although he said Love was expected to be moved out of the critical care unit later Monday. He would not say when Love might be released from the hospitaL 
Thronf!_s welcome 
Fernanil.ez to Blazers 
PORTLAND, Ore. -More than 100 fans welcomed Spanish guard Rudy Fernandez to the Portland Trail Blazers upon his arrival to the city with chants of "Rudy! Rudy! Rudy!" 
"It was a good surprise," Fernandez said. "When I arrived, l say, 'OK, let's go practice now. Let's go."' 
The 6-foot-6 Olympian arrived at Portland International Airport on Monday and was whisked to the Rose Garden, where the Blazers held a news conference to introduce him. 
"He's a team player. He's a great kid," general manager Kevin Pritchard said. "I think he'll raise the level of competition for every­one." 
Fernandez played for Spain in Beijing, scoring 22 points in the gold medal game against the United States. The U.S. team won, 118-107. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 23, 2008 

DUBLIN, IRELAND 
A Y 2009-201 0 
Trinity College 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Thursday, Sept. 25, 2008 7:00pm 231 Hayes Healy 
Application Deadline: NOVEMBER 15,2008 F 0 R A CAD E M I C YEAR 2009-201 0 
APPLICATION AVAILABLE: WWW.ND.EDU/-OIS 
Ranking 
continued from page 20 
-ings for the first time in program history. The No. 3 ranking is the second highest preseason ranking for the hockey team behind the 1973-74 club, who was ranked No.2. 
Jackson said he had not heard about the ranking yet, but did not take much stock in any polls before anyone had touched the ice. 
"It doesn't have a lot of meaning at this point," Jackson said. "I hope we learned from the middle portion of the season when things were a bit of a struggle for us and I hope we also gained some confi­dence towards the end of the sea­son." 
Notre Dame finished )a..<;t sea..'ion with a 27-16-4 record and snuek into the postseason tournament as one of the lowest ranked teams. 
The Irish heated up towards the end of the season and rode their streak all the way to the finals. 
This season Notre Dame will have another tough schedule dur­ing the regular season because five CCHA teams ranked in the top 
15. No. 2 Michigan and Notre Dame are joined by No. 8 Miami, No. 12 Michigan St and No. 14 Northern Miehigan. 
"It doesn't surprise me [to have five teams ranked]. Northern Michigan and Ferris State are both teams that looked promising at the end of last season. It is going to be a very tough confer­ence," Jackson said. 
The Irish will play 12 games total against preseason ranked teams including their season opener with No. 6 Denver on Oet. 
11 and a  Nov. 7 ehampionship  
remateh  with  No.  1  Boston  
College.  

Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 



ri 
t 


n 
ormation ession for Notre Dame graduate students and advisers 



ULBRIGH 
~~ ~~ 

Speaker: Joanne Forster Institute of International Education 
September 25 
2:00 -3:00 pm Room 1DO McKenna Hall 
External deadline for submission of Fulbright applications is October 20, 2008 
Tuesday, September 23, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
deGroot 
continued from page 20 
-ly expect our players to develop and get comfortable not .only in the next couple of weeks, but also over the course of the game tomor­row." 
It seems McGlinn was not the only one hampered by the elements as Lyons junior cap­tain Claire Connell echoed many of deGroot's comments. 
"Trying to practice the last couple weeks has been tough," Connell said. "But we have continued to develop and work with our younger play­ers, making sure they are pre­pared for the game on Wednesday." 
Despite its youth, Lyons has some of the same players back from a squad that made the playoffs last year with a 2­3-1 record. To build on that success, though, the Lions will have to deal with an untested Shamrock team hungry for a win after going a disappoint­ing 0-5-1 last season. 
Inexperience and limited practice time are usually not a recipe for success. Luckily, both squads face the same ing by less than Lyons, Howard
"We feel very 

a touchdown looks to make a
optimistic about this 
"We feel very statement and optimistic about upcoming season. rack up its first this upcoming win since last season," Pillai year when it
Tara Pillai 

said. made its first
Pasquerilla East captain 
Pillai has good playoff appear-reason to be ance in hall hopeful on the history. defensive side "We're excit­of the ball, as the unit returns ed to redeem ourselves," all of its starters from last sophomore captain Kayla season. The question marks Bishop said. "We have some­are on the offense, as sopho­thing to prove." more quarterback Caitlin Bishop said the keys to this Smith looks to bring some week's game will be strong experience to the table after play from wide receivers playing as a freshman last Laura Giezeman and Caitlin year. Robinson as well as lineman 
"[Smith] has definitely Mary Jenkins. The Ducks plan improved from last year," to keep players circulating in Pillai said. and out throughout the game 
Imagine the Possi bi Iities 
Join Jeff lmmelt at the 2008 Notre Dome Forum on Sustainable Energy. Jeff lmmelt, chairman and CEO of GE, will be one of the forum panelists: come learn about GE·s projects in renewable energy. 
September 24, 2008 
3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Joyce Center Arena 
ecomagination·M 
To learn rnore visit us at gecareers.corn/notredarne 
imagination at work 


to keep their legs fresh, but their biggest concern is the readiness of their new play­ers. 
"We don't have a lot of experience on the team," Bishop said, "So we need get freshmen on same page as our returning players." 
The Pyros and Ducks will face off at 9:00 p.m. on Riehle Field. 
Cavanaugh vs. Pasquerilla West 
The Purple Weasels look to get their season off to a hot start, while the Chaos hope to remain perfect when the teams face off at 9 p.m. tonight at Riehle Field. 
The Chaos got their title defense off to a winning start Sunday, edging McGlinn 6-0. 
"If there's one thing that McGlinn taught us, it's that we've got a target on our back bigger than Sarah Palin's, the Russian government's, and Wall Street CEOs combined," Chaos captain Katie Dunn said. 
Dunn, who rushed for Cavanaugh's only score against the Shamrocks, said the team was still trying to integrate the freshmen into the game plan. 
"I think they're doing great," she said. "We expect them to step in without a hitch and they have." 
Pasquerilla West will be playing its first game tonight, and captain Cara Davies said that, offensively, the team would look to junior receivers Cynthia Curley and Alyssa Moya. 
"As a team, I think we'd like to end up back at the Stadium," Davies said. "That's the standard we set a couple of years ago." 
Despite the playmakers on offense, Davies said that defense was the Purple Weasels' calling card. 
"Defense has always been our keystone," she said. "We've got a good offense, but when it comes tight, our defense holds tough." 
In practice, Davies said her team had just been working on getting rid of their open­ing-day jitters. 
"We've just been going over the basics," she said. "We've got a few kinks, but all in all we're in good shape." 
Contact Tim Lang at tlangl@nd.edu, Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu, and Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

dilemma and whichever team can acclimate themselves to the game quicker should pre­vail in this opening match of the season. 
Pasquerilla East vs. Howard 
Pasquerilla East captain Tara Pillai said she feels con­fident about the improve­ments her team has made since last year, when it posted an anemic 1-4-1 record with each loss com-
Pillai said there will be mul­tiple freshman contributing early and often at the wide receiver and offensive line positions. 
"We are a young team," she said. "But we have a lot of tal­ent as well as a few upper­classmen who can provide us with experience." 
Their first opponent will be another young team, Howard. 
Coming off of a 
disappointing 
14-8 loss to 


page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Day, Date, 2005 
_;\ Pennv •' Saved... Isn't Nearly ~A..s c:ool i\.s ~A.. Five Dollar Footlong! 
Eve-ry. Dav.. Va lueo 1\.Ie-nu Ava ilab leo At Participating Locations Including: 1706 South Be-nd Ave-"'Downto\vn US 31 N "' SR :!3 @. Iron'"·ood "'UP l\.Iall *Indian Ridge-* "-'aiL\Iart 





Your choice of one of these lunch entrees and a Papa's or Caesar individual salad 
Lasagna 
Layers of Pasta, 
Ricolta and Mozzarella Topped with Spicy Marinara 
or Traditional Meat Sauce 
Pasta Con Polio 
Grilled Chicken Breast, Sun-Dried Tomatoes, 
Mushrooms, Fresh Basil and a Light Alfredo Sauce ·n)ssed with Bow-Tie Pasta 
Wild Mushroom Fettuccine 
Portobella, Shiitake and 
Domestic Mushrooms Sauteed with Fresh Spinach, 
Roasted Garlic Cream Sauce and Fettuccine 
Spaghetti Diavolo 
Whole Wheat Pasta and Spicy Italian Sausage Tossed in Spicy Marinara Sauce with Pepperocinis and Romano Cheese 


5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 

Mishawaka • (574) 271-1692 -'ITALIAN KITCHEN www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 
r~e.~ 
Uganda Information Session 

\ 

J*Moyo .. 
ro> 

Grflu* Morot'W 

• 
Interested in Africa? 

• 
Interested in challenges and issues of developing nations? 

• 
Interested in Sub-Saharan Post Conflict Transformation? 


Don't miss this study abroad opportunity through the School for International Training (SIT)! 
Semester and Summer Options. 
Wednesday, September 24, 2008 Room 217 DeBartolo 5:30PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR ALL SESSIONS IS NOVEMBER 15, 2008 
Tuesday, September 23, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 




6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Film, Television, and Theatre presents for the 2008-2009 Theatre Season 
~ 

Tuesday, Sept. 23 through Friday, Sept. 26 at 7:30 and Sunday, Sept. 28 at 2:30 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Philbin Studio Theatre 
$12 General Public • $10 Faculty, Staff, and Seniors • $5 Students 
For tickets, call the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Ticket Office ($")UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME


Lyons 
continued from page 18 
the difference in the game," Raley said. 
With two minutes left the Ducks managed to cut into the lead, as sophomore captain Kayla Bishop found a rhythm with senior receiver Laura Giezeman. The drive ended with a touchdown and a successful two-point conversion. 
However Giezeman seemed to be the only receiver capable of catching Bishop's darts, as other receivers had trouble holding on to the ball. 
"We definitely need to work on our discipline in practice this week," Bishop said. "Our fresh­men need to step it up." 
Lyons will look to bring the same intensity and hustle into next week as they seek a second playoff berth in as many years. 
"This was our biggest game of the year," Connell said. "Now that the freshmen have adjusted, we can move forward as a team." 
Cavanaugh 6, McGlinn 0 
Cavanaugh turned a key defen­sive stop into an offensive oppor­tunity, and it was enough to take down McGlinn 6-0, on Sunday. 
On fourth-and-long in the first quarter from the McGlinn 34­yard line, Cavanaugh linebacker Shanna Gast sacked Shamrock quarterback Sarah deGroot back at the 28. The Chaos offense took advantage of this excellent field position six plays later when Chaos quarterback Katie Dunn scrambled four yards into the end zone for six. The touchdown would be the only score of the game, but enough to start the defending champions off unde­feated. 
"Our goal was to win, and we came out here and got the job done," Chaos coach Joe Quinn said. "Our defense really showed up, and got us the shut-out which is always the goal." 
Cavanaugh began the game with an opening drive down to the McGlinn 16-yard line, but lost possession on downs. 
The stingy Chaos defense then took over, and held the Shamrock offense to 12 yards on eight plays, ending with the Gast sack. 
Taking over on the McGlinn 28, Dunn ran the ball herself for 20 of those yards during and passed 
Scodro 
continued from page 20 
low and finished in sixth place over­all, and each Notre Dame golfer played competitively throughout the event. 
Head coach James Kubinski, whose team has played with flashes of brilliance beside mediocre outings this season, said he's confident that his players are beginning to put it together. 
'They have a great deal of physical talent," Kubinski said. "They just need to realize and believe it. That takes time." 
Southern lllinois claimed first place after a playoff against Nova­Southeastern. while Georgetown freshman phenom Brian Dorfinan took home medalist honors with a 7­under209. 
Aside from Scodro, three other Irish underclassmen, along with jun­ior Olavo Batista, competed in the event. Scodro's one-under 215 (75­67-73) in his first collegiate tourna­ment led Notre Dame in scoring, while fellow freshman Tom Usher turned in a six-over 222 (75-70-77), good enough for 22nd place. 
Sophomore Dustin Zhang, who started three tournaments for the Irish '/\ team last season, finished a for the other eight over six plays to get the decisive score . 
With two and a half minutes left in the half, McGlinn went into a hurry-up offense, but deGroot was picked off by outside tackle Mo Mathias, who would return the interception back to the McGlinn 26-yard line, where the Chaos ran out the clock and took a 6-0 lead into halftime. 
The second half began with deGroot and McGlinn quickly driving down to the Cavanaugh 13-yard line. As the Shamrocks knocked on the door, the Chaos secondary stepped up and forced incomplete passes on the final three plays of the possession. 
"We drove well, but we could­n't quite capitalize," McGlinn coach Joey Brown reported. "Their defense was tough, funda­mental." 
On the next possession, the Chaos relied on the running game more, and back Brittni Alexander racked up 32 for of her 53 all-purpose yards. The Chaos drove right back down the field, but they could put the ball in either, as Dunn was intercept­ed by Shamrock defensive back Casey Robertson. 
In its final possession of the game, McGlinn drove down to the Cavanaugh 26-yard line, with deGroot hitting receiver Kathleen Stanley for a nine-yard gain. Once again, though, the Chaos defense put down the hammer, and the next three passes fell incomplete. 
The Chaos took over with just under two minutes to go in the game, and ran down the clock for the win. 
"Our fans were a huge part of this victory," Dunn said. "When McGlinn got close a couple of times, they really stepped up huge for us and gave the team great support." 
Dunn herself was 12-of-20 passing for 95 yards and one interception, and also ran for 42 yards and a touchdown. 
"Thay are a great squad," Shamrock coach Craig Wiborg said. "I think we had moments of brilliance, and can take away a lot from this game." 
Contact Kellen Mathers at kmathers@nd.edu, Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu, Shane Steinburg at ssteinb2@nd.edu, Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu and Nathaniel Lee at nleeS@nd.edu 
single stroke behind his teanunate Usher, tallying a 223 over the three rounds (71-74-78, tied for 26th over­all). Freshman Chris Walker played unevenly in his first collegiate tourna­ment, adding a 78 and 81 to his sec­ond-round 70 to finish the tourna­ment at 13-over 229 (tied for 47th overall). 
Batista, who has not broken the 'B' squad in his career, rounded out the team with a 235 (76, 78, 81, tied for 68th overall). 
Strong play from the Irish under­classman has been par for the course this season. Sophomores Tyler Hock, Jeff Chen and Connor Alan-Lee lead the team in scoring at the USF Olympic Intercollegiate two weeks ago, and with no seniors on the Notre Dame roster, it's the perfect time for the underclassmen to shine. Kubinski said he relishes his role in helping his young players develop. 
"None [ofthe underclassmen] have a great deal of college experience," Kubinski said. "To be successful. we'll just need a little time for the young players to learn on the job and grow. My job will be to build their confidence." 
The Irish '/\ squad will compete Sept. 28-30 at the Saint Mary's Invitational at the Poppy Hills Golf Club in Pebble Beach, Calif. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 23, 2008 
Finest 
continued from page 20 
end as well, with defensive baek 
Emma Closterman leading the 
way to a shutout. A late intnr­
eeption halted Walsh's last scor­
ing attempt as Farley's defense 
ruled thfl day. . 
The Wild Women were dis­
heartened by the loss, but also 
intended to use it as a starting 
point for a young team. 
"We have a very young team so 
we're really working on getting 
them used to the speed of the 
game, getting them comfortable 
with themselves and with the 
plays," Walsh captain Kehau 
Meyer said. 
Meyer called the game "a 
learning experience." 
Nevertheless. there were bright 
spots for the Wild Women. 
Sophomore quarterback Amy 
Longnecker threw the ball effi­
dently and moved the oll"ense at 
times, despite being unable to 
eapitalize. 
Walsh coaches J .J. Rees and 
Jeremiah IIerman expressed a 
mixture of disappointment and 
optimism about their team's 
ell'ort. 
"I was really impressed with our frnshmen, espedally the ones who didn't have a lot of lilotball experience," Hees said. "They eame out and exploded like a rocket on the field today." 
IIerman was eoneerned with 
the tentativeness he saw in some 
of his young players. 
"We still have tons we need to 
work on to get up with the speed 
of the game and be a lot more 
physical if we're going to be suc­
cessful in this league and not 
look like a deer in the head­
lights." IIerman said. 
Despite the tough loss, Walsh nxpncts to bouncn back strong next wnek. 
"W(~ got knocked around this time but it's not gonna happen again," IIerman said. "The other teams bettnr watch out beeausn they're gonna be playing a bunch of mad. Wild Women from Walsh." 
Badin 6, Breen-Phillips 6 
The battle between the Badin Bullfrogs and the Brnen-Phillips Babos remained undecided after a 6-6 tie Sunday afternoon at LaBar fields. 
"I was pleased with how smoothly the lirst game went," Badin head coach John Heintz said. "We were able to move up the finld three times, scored once, then shut them out the sec­ond half." 
Breen-Phillips' offense came out !iring, moving the ball down the liPid ellectively, but the Babes wern unable to capitalize, throw­ing two incomplete passes in the nnd zone to end the drive. 
"Brenn-Phillips' first run was scary." Badin quarterback Katie Hose llaekney said. "Our defense was really shaken up, but we wern abln to hold them." 
Badin be1-,rin iL<> oll'ensive game with an early 22-yard pass to one of tlw wide reeeivers, but its monwntum dissipated with a loss on tlw next play. 
On Brnen-Phillips' next drive, though. senior quartnrback Melissa Mnaglwr launehnd a (J0­yard bomb for a seoro. A failed extra point attempt gave tho Babes a load of (J-0 with only a fnw rninutPs remaining in thn lirst half. 
Badin quickly rosponded with a touchdown of iL'i own on tiH' linal series of tlw half whnn llackrwy conrwctnd with fn~shman wi<ln n~(:PiVPr Carli FPrnandnz. 
"Katin Hose II ac k rwy is an amazing qLmrtPrba(·k, and all I had to do was turn around to l'i n d tlw ball in my hands." Fernandez said. 

The second half was highlight­
ed with numerous long passes by 
both sides in a pass-heavy game. 
But neither side could put any 
points up and the final whistle 
blew with the score tied 6-6. 
"Our freshman showed a lot of 
promise, and we have the poten­
tial to be one of the best defen­
sive teams out there," Breen­
Phillips defensive coordinator 
John Souder said. 
Welsh Family 14, Pangborn 0 
What started off as a game of 
two struggling offenses soon 
turned into a tale of two halves, 
with Welsh Family coming away 
with a 14-0 shutout over 
Pangborn. 

Pangborn's offense appeared 
out ofsync for mueh of the game, 
able only to move the ball in 
small increments due in large 
part to Welsh Fam's bend-but­
don't-break defense. 
On the other side of the ball, 
the Whirlwinds, despite early 
struggles, pulled together in the 
second half by running an effec­
tive spread offense, confounding 
Pangborn's defensive backfield. 
The second half saw Welsh ·Family quarterback Jenni 
Gargula and wide receiver 
Katharine Hart hook up for two 
touchdowns within a matter of a 
few plays. Two plays after the 
first score, an interception by 
safety Katie Rehberger gave the 
offensive duo a chance to connect 
again. 

"We barely even had time to 
get back to the sideline and our 
defense gave us the ball back. It 
was a big momentum builder," 
Gargula said. 
While Pangborn will hope to 
earn its first win of the season 
next weekend, Gargula was glad 
to get that obstaele out of the 
way early. 

"With the jitters out of our way, 
we'll delinitely be more relaxed 
for our next game," Gargula said. 
lyons 14, Howard 8 
Lyons dominated the game from 
whistle to whistle, cruising past 
Howard in a 14-8 victory in its 
season opener. 
The Lions offense was relent­
less the entire game, moving into 
Howard territory at will. 
Junior captain Claire Connell 
led the Lions downtield on their 
first drive, threading the needle 
and hitting receivers left and 
right. The drive culminated in a 
25-yard pass from Connell to 
sophomore receiver Neva Lundy 
for a touchdown. Connell and 
Lundy connected again for a suc­
cessful two-point conversion, giv­
ing Lyons an 8-0 lead. 
Lundy and Connell were 
responsible for the majority of 
the Lyons offense, leading the 
attack through the air and on the 
ground. 

"Playing with Lundy last year 
really gave us some vital experi­
ence," Connell said. "Now that 
she's a sophomore, there's no 
telling what we can do on offense 
this year." 

The Howard offense, mean­
while, was feeble for much of the 
game. The Ducks only managed 
to convert one first down in the 
first half. due in large part to 
their multiple penalties. 
The second half was no difler­
ent from the first, as the Lyons 
offnnse eontinued to display its 
vnrsatility. Big pass after big 
pass, followed by hard-nosed 
running led to another touch­
down from Connell as she kept 
the ball on the ground for a 6­
yard score. 

Lyons coach Hick Haley was 
eestatie with his team's play on 
Sunday, especially by the play of 
the ladies in the tnmehes. 
"I can't give the oll'ensive and defensive line enough credit for the way they played. They were 
see LYONS/page 17 





Tuesday, September 23, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD

MICHAEL MIKUSKA JUMBLE
BLACK DoG 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
JPJJOOffirbr! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
HOACC j
rx I I
1 
@2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
~~·fn [J 
SEPORC b 
WHAT THE' SHE'RIFF 1 
ALWAYS HAS IN A

rJ 
RECENTLY, BARS HAVE BEEN BUSTED AND .•. CAUSING MANY STUDENTS TO LOOK \4-'WW.jumble.com 
WESTERN MOVIE.
DORM PARTY! KILL ME NOW.

PARTIES HAVE BEEN RAIDED LOOKING FOR FOR PLACES THEY WON'T BE CAUGHT . 
UNDERAGE DRINKERS.••.• 
tTERLIP t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I IJ I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: 
A "(IIIJ' riiiJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: PILOT GORGE BUMPER DISCUS Answer: When the tattoo artist put a butterfly on her leg, she was -"IMPRESSED" 



CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 35 Word from the 63 The "U" in 21­Admirer of 
crib Down Beauty, with 36 Etiquette maven 64 Puccini opera "the" Vanderbilt 65 In the public eye 6 Sing like Ella 37 Restrain, with 66 Head of France? Fitzgerald "up" 67 Like a cigar.bar 10 Genesis victim 
38 Andrea Bocelli 14 Longtime G.E. deliveries Down chief with the 40 Sicilian spewer N.Y.C. theater best seller "Jack: district, for short 
41 Male gobbler 

Straight From 
2 One of the the Gut" 
42 Say "one club," 
Saarinens of 
say

15 Mrs. Dithers in Finland "Biondie" 43 Like something 
3 Baseball's 
communicated

16 1 950s-'70s Moises 
with a wink and 

Yugoslav leader 4 "The Lion King"
a nod 

17 Loud. as a villain 
44 Comment after 

crowd 5 Bases loaded
25-Across

18 Place for a roast 6 Burn with an iron 
48 MSN rival 

19 Not duped by 7 Place to moor a 49 Lode load 
boat

20 "Huh?" 50 Comment after 8 See 58-Down 
23 And others of 
44-Across 

9 Big mugs Abbr. 59 Inn 10 "A.S.A.P.!" 
the same sort: 
24 Circle section 60 Wild cat 11 Cherry variety 12 Caesarean Puzzle by Harriet Clifton 
25 Comment after 61 Rodeo 20-Across contestant 
rebuke 

39 Tape deck button 47 Dernier 54 Throw off 
13 Chicago district, 

34 Not just once 62 Neutral shade 
40 Have a bite 50 When 12-Down 55 Appear was uttered ominously 
with ''the" 

42 about
21 Abbr. on an

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
appliance sticker (roughly) 51 Valentine 56 facto 22 " Ia Douce" 43 Opera, ballet decoration 
57 Chicken part 25 Desert flora 52 Stringed that's good for 
and so on 26 "Ha! That's 45 Bygone instrument of old soup one!" Japanese car 
53 Letter in a 58 With 8-Down, 27 One of the name mysterious source of an Judds 46 Until now inscription ethical dilemma I-::1H-=+-::+::-iiiir:':+::::+::-lliil """'1--'+-'-+''-+-'-""t 28 Litter cry RH-':-t~iolllll...::+=+':''""""" ..::.:.+-=+"++~ 29 Minneapolis 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a
suburb 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
30 Fine bond rating 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
31 "But of course!" 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. lllllt..::...j..::.:..j-=.j881-=-1 32 vincit amor Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 ..:..:...j-"'-t..:..:...j-"'-i 33 Jane of "Father past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year) . Knows Best" Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 38 Well said solvers: nytimes.com/learninq/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address ____________________________________ City _________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tom Felton, 21; Scott Baio, 47; Joan Jett, 50; Andrea Bocelli, 50 
Happy Birthday: Get serious about what really counts. You may find yourself in a predicament this year that will force you to make a decision. Once you see your relationships clearly, you can eliminate your stress and find your path to success. Your numbers are 3, 8, 14, 22, 27, 39, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): A partnership may be on the line if you don't com­promise. Don't let sentimental feelings guide you in the wrong direction. Overin­dulgence, overreacting and overspending will all bring negative results. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Think on a broader scale if you want to make an impression. Emotional talks will help you understand what's required of you. In­corporate a way to help others in your everyday routine and you will build strong associations with your peers. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): Strive for perfection and you will win the approval of your peer group. You can talk your way to the top if you set emotions aside and focus on what needs to be done. Money is heading your way. 3 stars 
CANCER (Jnne 21-Jnly 2): You'll find it difficult to keep things in perspective today. Chances are good you will fly off the handle or accuse someone of some­thing without having all the facts. Slow down, don't get anxious, swallow your pride and focus. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Nothing is as bad as it seems. There is a lot to be said for love and relationships but, if you aren't willing to share, it isn't likely you will be able to hold things together. Weigh the pros and cons. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get everything ready and begin to present what you want to do. Go directly to the decision-makers. A change in your position is ap­parent. Don't be afraid to show emotions. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0et. 22): Get things out of the way early. Once you have freed up your time, you can concentrate on the personal issues in your life that are stressing you out. Bring things out.in the open and explain your position. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oet. 23-Nov. 21): Reevaluate your position at home and at work. If you feel as if you are being let down or treated unfairly, work toward gaining back what you've lost. A money deal will pay off and old debts can be collected. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dee. 21): Ifyou can up the value of your place or your assets, you can secure your personal position, allowing you greater bartering power. Focus on people who have something to offer in return. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec.. 22-Jan. 19): You11 find it hard to stay out of trouble. Con­troversial conversations will cause emotional upset with people who count both personally and professionally. Don't share your true feelings until you understand the position others have on the same topic. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20..Feb. 18): Everything can come together if you say what 
you think and do what you say. Deals can be closed and money can be made. A promise or agreement will allow you to breathe a little easier. One of your ideas will gain interest and pay off. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't misinterpret what's going on in your own home. Someone is not happy with decisions being made. Make sure you clear 
whatever it is you want to do with the people your plans will affect. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have grace and s:>yhistication and are caring and affection­ate. You are intuitive, talented and a gifted speaker. You can bold a grudge. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun. eugenialast.comfor confidential cons11ltations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, September 23, 2008 
page 20 
HocKEY 
Three's a charm 
Notre Dame hockey ranked No. 3 zn the USA Today preseason college hockey poll 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
The USA Today released its preseason College Hockey Poll Monday and for the second straight year Notre Dame is ranked in the top 10. The Irish picked up the No. 3 spot in 2008, behind defending nation­al champion Boston College and Michigan. 
Notre Dame finished the 2007-08 season ranked No. 3 after an unexpected run to the National Championship game before losing to the Eagles in Denver. 
"Based on our finish in the Frozen Four and that we only lost four guys in our lineup, I figured that people would look at us as a team that should be up there," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
Jackson is entering his fourth year as head coach at Notre Dame and has led his team to baek-to-back preseason rank-
see RANKING/page 14 


WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Shamrocks and Lions face off 
By TIM LANG, BOBBY 
GRAHAM AND SAM 
WERNER 
Sports Writers 
While their enthusiasm to open the season has not been dampened, the lousy weather and persistent rain have thrown a wrench into the preparation of both the Shamrocks and Lions, who are prepared to square off at Riehle Fields tonight at 7 p.m. 
While McGlinn senior captain Sarah deGroot expects the Shamrocks to gel as the game progresses, she did not down­play the effect the weather has had on getting ready for this match. 
"It has been kind of unfortu­nate because we have had three practices rained out," deGroot said. "However, I fully 
see DEGROOT/page 15 

MEN'S INTERHALL 
Controversial penalty gives Sorin second chance and -win 
prayer from the nineteen-yard ing a roughing the kicker call McMahon took a draw straight worked its way to the six-yardBy DOUGLAS FARMER, KYLE line that receiver Jon Beckerle by head official Don Zion. up the middle and eluded a few line where it had a first-and­SMITH, CHARLIE SPOKES, somehow managed to pull in Fisher coach John Donovan Otter tacklers en route to the goal. However, an incompleteLIZA NAVARRO, ALEX WEST over a Fisher defender, tying demanded an explanation, as game's first touchdown. pass, a run for no-gain and aAND MATTHEW WILSEY the game at 6-6. he felt Botsman was simply con­A botched snap cost the Green holding penalty forced the
Sports Writers 
Beckerle gave the Otters their tinuing the play. Donovan said Wave the extra point, but Fisher Otters back to third-and-goal first lead of the game when his Zion gave "no explanation emotions and hopes were high from the 19. 
Sorin started its season off one-and-a-half yard quarter­whatsoever as to why the heading into halftime. Beckerle threw another ball right with a win on Sunday-in back sneak for the two-point penalty call was made." The third quarter resembled to the front of the end zone, but part because of a eontroversial conversion. Both teams had stout, swarm­the first, with a missed Green the Fisher defense again broke roughing the kicker penalty late On the ensuing point after ing defenses and unproductive, Wave field goal the only possi­it up. With one last chance, in its 8-6 win over Fisher. attempt, Fisher lineman Steve sloppy offenses in the first quar­ble points. Beckerle put a ball he described 
The tough Green Wave Botsman broke through the line ter. But as halftime approached, The drive of the game came as "not pretty," but McGushin defense held Sorin seoreless for and blocked the kick. In the Beckerle threw an interception, late in the fourth quarter, which still was able to make the play, most of the game, but Otters process, as Botsman ran which was returned to Sarin was highlighted by a 49-yard knotting the score at six. quarterback Casey McGushin through his block, he also ran 31-yard line. On the next play, pass from Beckerle to the heaved a fourth-and-goal through the Sorin kicker, elicit-Fisher quarterback Mike Fisher 30-yard line. Sorin see OTTERS/page 12 
MEN'S GOLF 
Scodro finishes sixth overall 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Freshman Max Scodro's second­round 67 led the Notre Dame 'B' squad at the John Dallio Memorial Tournament in Lemont, Ill. The Depaul University-hosted tourna­ment was played at the par 72, 6898-yard Ruffied Feathers Golf Oub and featured 15 teams in com­petition. 
The Irish mntingent was smred as individuals in the event, with five young members ofthe team mmpet­ing. Scodro tied for the tournament 
see SCODRO/page 17 


WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Farley blanks Walsh with solid QB play 
By KELLEN MATHERS, 
MOLLY SAMMON, SHANE 
STEINBURG, CHRIS 
MASOUD and NATHANIEL 
LEE 
Sports Writers 
In a dazzling offensive dis­play, Farley quarterback Emily Murphy threw three touch­downs to help the Finest start their season ofl' with a 26-0 win over Walsh. 
"We had an awesome oll'en­sive and defensive game, we were pretty solid on both sides of the field," said Farley senior captain Jenny Holt's. 
Farley drove down the field using a combination of short passes and runs to open up the passing game downfield. On Farley's third drive of the game, Murphy connected with a receiver on a deep fade down the left sideline to put Farley up 20-0 and put the Finest in con­trol for the rest of the game. 
Farley's defense held up their 
see FINEST/page 18 







