
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 103 TUESDAY, MARCH 18.2008 

Consbuction cause ofSMC gas leak 
Authorities respond to line breach near Le Mans Hall; report it is harmless and contained 
By LIZ HARTER and 
MANDl STIRONE 
News Writers 
Construction workers installing storm sewers on the south side of Le Mans Hall, east of the Moreau Center for the Arts, struck a low-pres­sure gas line, allowing a small amount of gas to seep from the ground onto Saint Mary's campus at approximately 6:30 
p.m. Monday. 
Timm Ringer, the College's maintenance working super­visor, said there is no danger to students, but said he did not know how long it would take to turn the gas off. 
"We brought in the 
Northern Indiana Public Service Company {NIPSCO), we're waiting from the word from them to be able to shut this down to see what it's going to affect on the build­ings," Ringer said. 
Bill Rambling, director of the facilities department, said in a statement to The Observer that NIPSCO was on campus within 10 minutes of the gas leak. 
"NIPSCO quickly capped the line and determined there was no need for an evacua­tion of either building," Rambling said in the state­ment, released by Gwen 0' Brien, director of media rela­
see LEAK/page 4 


St. Patrick's Day kicks off March Madness 
Student Activities holds first-ever basketball shootout; championship party awarded to winners 
Student Programs Coordinator at the Student Activities Office. "We thought this would be a perfect way, especially since the women's selection show is tonight." 
The shootout, which was organized by the Student Activities Programming team, began at 4 p.m., with partici­pants attempting five shots from the free-throw line and three shots from the 3-point line. 
The real challenge began at 8 p.m. with an intense game of knockout for all students who had qualified by making 10 out of the possible 14 points. The winner of this game would then take home the grand prize of the pri­
see BRACKETS/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


College 
chooses new RAs 
44 students selected to oversee dorm life 
By LIZ HARTER 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Shortly before spring break, the Saint Mary's Office of Residence Life informed 44 students that they would be hired as resident assistants (RAs) for the 2008-2009 aca­demic year. The group includes 31 students who are new to the position. 
Life as a Saint Mary's RA intertwines dorm living, the full-time workload of a col­lege student and the signifi­cant responsibilities of creat­ing unique living situation for students who decide to take on the job. 
Sophomore Melissa Croft said she was very excited after being informed that she will be the RA of 5 South in McCandless Hall, but is also "very nervous, but the good kind of nervous." 
She said she has wanted to be an RA since she found out what the position entailed when her older sister, Elaine, attended the University of Chicago. 
"I think it is a really unique opportunity to be a part of the campus community and to get to know several groups of people including the entire residence life staff, my partic­ular hall's staff and of course the women in my individual section," Croft said. 
Croft said she is looking for-
see RESIDENCE/page 4 


By ELIZABETH KUHN 
News Writer 
Student Activities held its first-ever basketball shootout competition in celebration of St. Patrick's Day and the beginning of March Madness Monday on the Fieldhouse Mall. Students lined up to shoot free throws and 3­pointers in hopes of winning a private NCAA Championship party in the LaFortune Ballroom for themselves and 25 friends. 
"We just wanted to offer the students a way to cele­brate St. Patrick's Day, as well as the men's and women's basketball teams, who have done so well this year," said Erin Sekerek, the 


NO insta11s new alert system 
Second trial proves more successful; OIT improves e-mail delivery 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
More than 20,000 text messages, voice-mails, and c-mails were successfully sent to students, faculty, and staff Friday afternoon as part of the University's 
effort to set up a  system of  
communication  for  an  
emergency.  

The ND alert test was a response to problems that occurred in the previous test of the system, which took place in November, Chief Information Officer Gordon Wishon said. 
"We specifically ran this test to see if the refine­
ments we made had been effective," Wishon said. "We don't have all the results in yet, but the preliminary results look very good." 
After the first system test, OIT noted a delayed deliv­ery of a number of the emergency e-mails, and students and faculty report­ed "garbled voice mes­sages," Wishon said. In the past months, orr looked closely at these failures, and made the necessary changes. 
To improve the delayed e­mails, OIT has worked with the system administrators and "made some changes in the way campus e-mail is delivered," Wishon said. 
Before the campus-wide test, the department con­ducted some internal tests, all which indicated that the 
· changes were effective. As for the voice-mails, OIT discovered the source of the problems, and Wishon said there have been no reports of garbled messages. Of all the meth­ods of communication, Wishon said text messaging worked best. "Over 96 percent of all texts were delivered suc­cessfully," Wishon said. "Our text messaging system keeps exceeding our expec­tations." 
see ALERT/page 4 

Alumnae discusses leadership roles 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
NewsWrirer 
Saint Mary's alumnae and Board of Trustees member Paula Dawning spoke about her life and qualities she thinks are important for women in leadership roles at the Saint Mary's Leadership Luncheon Monday. 
A South Bend native, Dawning took the audience through her life and the important lessons she took away from .her varied expe­riences. She said she can see the formation of leadership qualities throughout her life. 
For example, Dawning was the fifth of thirteen children. "Being one of thirteen kids, you 
learn how to speak up for your­self, or you'll get lost in the crowd," Dawning said. "You learn how to fend for yourself." 
Dawning was very thankful for her Saint Mary's education and the opportunities it gave her, including the chance to spend her sophomore year in Angers, France. While in France, Dawning had her first real expe­rience with being different, as she was one of the only African­Americans in the city. 
"I learned how to go in and be different, and be unique. That served me well in corporate America," Dawning said. 
After graduation Dawning 
see LUNCHEON/page 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 18, 2008 

INSIDE COLUMN 
The year's best holiday 

As I sit here and think about the cold, the snow, and the mountain of home­work that is piling up on my desk, I lind myself not being able to wipe a giant smile oil' of my face. Why'! It's because 
my favorite holi­ 
day oeeurs this  Andy Ziccarelli  
week. Easter'!  
Nope. Better. The best holiday of the  Sports Wire Editor  
entire year is the  
first and second  

rounds of the Men's NCAA Tournament a four day basketball extravaganza that is unlike any other sporting event any­where. 
I know I am not alone. America is coming down with a case of March Madness along with me, whether it is for good or for bad. Online business maga­zine Slate.com estimates that $3.8 billion are lost in worker productivity during the NCAA tournament and that $750 million arn wagered every year on the tournament. That isn't even counting the millions of dasses skipped by high s<~hool and collnge students to catch the games. 
But there is a reason for it. More than any other sporting event, the NCAA tour­nament allows lor fan participation by filling out a bracket (and likely wagering a few dollars in a pool). It is the only event where you get to pick the winner of such a vast amount of games, sliding each team as much or as little as you decide. Don't like a team'? Pick them to lose in the first round and then root vehenwntly against them. Or, go ahead and do as I did and put the Fighting Irish in tho Final Four. You are ultimately in eharge of your bracket, and the power is intoxicating. 
And because everyone has a bracket, each of the 63 games has a meaning. You. personally, have picked a winner li>r all of the gamns that am on at any given moment. Since you have probably laid down some cash, or are just playing for bragging rights with your friends (or both), you cheer hard for your team to win in every single game, no matter how much you cared about the team one week ago, before the tournament start­ed. Go ahead. watch and see how many people will be glued to the UNLV-Kent State game on Thursday afternoon. 
The only things we love more than our bracket<> are upsets. It is an American institution, something we have seen over and over again in our lives. We love to see the scrappy underdog challenge and beat the talented favorite who might not be giving them their due. It is the reason why America fell in love with George Mason, a No. 11 seed who slayed basket­ball gianl<> North Carolina and Connecticut on its way to the Final Four in 2006. And even though these under­dogs are not as talented, and have almost no realistic chance to win the tournament, it is a once a year treat to see them play with the intensity and pas­sion that they do. 
So go ahead, skip class, ditch work and become a couch potato for the weekend. Use this column as an excuse note if you need to. The best holiday of the year starl<> Thursday at 12:20 p.m. and I, for one, am not going to miss a minute. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives lor the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correcr our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST CONCERT YOU'VE EVER BEEN TO OR WANTED TO ATTEND? 


Cate McGillivray Chantelle Bryant Geoffrey Mooney Michelle Pratt P<UZakas Savannah Breen 
freshman sophomore junior junior sophomore freshman Pasquerilla West Pasquerilla East Alumni Pasquerilla East Keenan Breen-Phillips 
"Spice Girls, "I would go see "I would go to a "OAR was "Best concert "IfI could go to because Scary Usher because U2 concert. cool. They I've been to any concert I'd Spice's he's sexy.,, They're my performed was Staind go to the first microphone favorite band.,, really well and because I like Woodstock. It 







to rock out was a defining hardcore., point in the history of music." 
IN BRIEF 
The next debate in the Student/Faculty Debate Series: "Global Warming: How Should We Respond?" .will take place today at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Notre Dame baseball will play Xavier today at 5:05 p.m. in Frank Eck Stadium. 
Campus Ministry will host a campus-wide Stations of the Cross today at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. A procession to the Basilica will depart from the Grotto at 7 p.m. 
The American Cancer Society Club of Notre Dame will host the Helay for Life Kickoff today from 7 to 8:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune Student Ballroom. 
Marilyn Krysl, the 2008 Sullivan Prize Winner, will read from her prize winning collec­tion of short stories called "Dinner with Osama" Wednesday, March 19 at 7:30 pm in the Gold Hoom of the North Dining Hall. 
The Notre Dame Peace Fellowship will hold a discus­sion called "What Can We Do to Call For Peace?" Wednesday, March 19 at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room of the LaFortune Student Center. 
The tilm "Persepolis," which tells the story of a young girl liv­ing in Iran during the Islamic Revolution, will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obser11er. e-mail detailed information about an e11ent to obsnews@nd. edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 46 LOW 23 


doubled as it was a cool a whip.,, venue. 
Man sues strip club over lap dance eye injury 
NEW YORK -A business­man claims in a lawsuit that he was injured when a strip­per giving him a lap dance swiveled and smacked him in the face with the heel of her shoe. 
Stephen Chang, a securities trader, said in court papers filed Friday that he was at the Hot Lap Dance Club near Madison Square Garden and was getting a paid lap dance when the accident occurred early Nov. 2, 2007. 
According to the lawsuit, as the dancer swung around, the heel of her shoe hit him in the 
TODAY a: 


IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 

Students, some dressed in Irish garb and riding tandem bicycles, parade on DeBartolo quad on their way to Lafortune in celebration of St. Patrick's Day Monday. 
OFFBEAT 

past week. 
Several officers, including Detective Thomas Redmond, watched the 17-year-old walk away from his Lambertville home early Sunday carrying a bucket before he approached Redmond's unmarked vehicle. 
Police say the teen unscrewed the gas cap and started siphoning the fuel before Redmond got out of the car and chased him. 
Authorities say the teen later admitted to the two arsons as well as three other arsons in 2006. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
eye, causing him "serious injuries." 
A man who identified him­self as the manager of the Hot Lap Dance Club said he was unaware of the accident or the state Supreme Court lawsuit. 
Arsonist caught after stealing police car's gas 
LAMBERTVIllE, Mich. -A Monroe County sheriffs detec­tive on a stakeout to catch an arsonist arrested the suspect as he tried to steal gas from the officer's cruiser. Officers were placed around homes currently under construction after police had gotten two arson complaints within the 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
IJJ :::1: 
~ 
IJJ 
3: 
.... 
<C 
(,) 





0 

..... HIGH 60 46 HIGH HIGH 
LOW 47 35 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 

38 23 
38 25 

Atlanta 68 I 45 Boston 43 I 27 Chicago 52 I 39 Denver 48 I 22 Houston 69 I 67 Los Angeles 73 I 48 Minneapolis 36 I 31 New York 45 I 32 Philadelphia 45 I 32 Phoenix 73 I 47 Seattle 51 I 39 St. Louis 58 I 53 Tampa 83 I 61 Washington 55/ 35 
Tuesday, March 18, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
ND aids N at'l Park Service 
Three undergraduates conduct research related to cutting costs 
Special to The Observer 
The University-National Park Energy Partnership Program (UNPEPP) has funded a joint project between the Notre Dame Energy Center and the National Park Service at Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore to provide energy 
related consulting services to the park during this coming summer. 
During the course of the project, three undergraduate students from the University will work with park officials, conduct­ing onsite research that will result in specific recommendations for capital improvement at the Indiana Dunes facilities. 
According to Joan F. 
Brennecke, Keating-Crawford Professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and director of the Notre Dame Energy Center, the students' work will focus on energy con­servation and savings. 
"This is a wonderful opportu­nity for the students to put their training into practice in a real-world setting that encom­passes project management designs for a grass roof system for Building 110 at the park headquarters, and the creation of educational materials for park guests that describe the proposed improvements and energy savings. 
UNPEPP is a nationwide pro­gram that links universities with national parks to address energy issues within the parks. Through these partnerships, parks gain assistanc.e with energy related issues, while students obtain problem-solv­ing experience in the energy field. Since its inception in 1997, UNPEPP has funded numerous partnerships between universities and national parks. Funding typi­cally ranges from $15,000 to $20,000 per project and is used to support students, and faculty and equipment purchases. 
The Notre Dame Energy Center works to develop new technologies to meet the global energy challenge. Housed in the College of Engineering, the center focuses on five areas of expertise: energy efficiency, safe nuclear waste storage, clean coal utilization, carbon dioxide separation, and storage and renewable resources. The center, which was established in 2005, is also committed to playing key roles in energy education and literacy, the development of energy .policy and the exploration of the ethi­cal implications associated with energy. 

NYC investigates crane safety after accident 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -They are part of New York's skyline: hun­dreds of spindly construction cranes like the one that top­pled over the weekend, pul­verizing parts of a city block below and killing seven peo­ple. As the machines work furiously amid a supercharged building boom, experts say it's always a risk. 
Operating cranes in a city of 
8.2 million people where apartments and offices ar~ stacked so closely and on top of one another is especially tricky. 
"Because of the tightness of a construction site in New York City, there's always the problem of having less space, and also there's the problem that if anything does go wrong, there are a lot of peo­ple at risk," said Gene Corley, a structural engineer. 
The city will launch a safety sweep of the cranes in use around the city, Buildings Commissioner Patricia Lancaster said Monday, although officials have no rea­son to believe the accident was "indicative of a larger problem." 
Six construction workers and a woman in town for St. Patrick's Day were killed Saturday when the crane broke away from an apart­ment tower under construc­tion and toppled like a tree onto buildings as far as a block away. The last three bodies were found Monday. 
The crane was being length­ened with a new section -a process known as "jumping" -when it tumbled to the street. A 6-ton steel collar used to secure the crane to the building came loose, the buildings department said. 
When the collar fell, it clanged into another collar on the ninth floor that acted as a major anchor, ·and without that sup'port the counter­weights at the top of the crane's tower pitched it over, the buildings department said. 
Pieces of the crane hurled themselves forward as they crashed to the ground, coming to a rest a full block away. By the time it was over, a brown­stone was pulverized, at least seven other buildings were damaged, and 24 people were injured. 
The scale of the damage gives some sense of a con­struction crane's heft and span. 
This particular model, known as a tower crane, had a 200-foot mast, comprising 13 sections that each weighed 11,000 pounds. The cab and deck at the top of the mast weighed about 50,000 pounds, the boom weighed about 20,000 pounds, and the coun­terweights added up to about 80,000 pounds, city officials said. 
skills, teamwork and leader­ship opportunities," she said. "It also promotes discussion on a realistic and responsible use of resources." 
As part of the project, stu­dents will be required to track and quantify the cost savings ­and projected payback in terms of resources, such as energy 
'This is a wonderful opportunity for the students to put their training into practice in a real-world set­ting that encompass­es project manage­ment skills, teamwork and leadership opportunities." 
Joan Brennecke chemical engineering professor 
use reduction and lower greenhouse gas emissions -relating to their recom­mendations. 
Participants in the 10-week project are Tom Furlong, a junior studying aerospace and mechanical engineering; Brian Klein, a senior political science major; and Jackie Mirandola Mullen, a soph­omore pursu­
ing degrees in German and his­tory. 
Among the projects the stu­dents are scheduled to com­plete during the summer pro­gram are energy audits of one­third of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore buildings, designs for a geothermal heat pump system for the Paul H. Douglas Center for Environmental Education,. 


s it secure? 

red 


re! 
Look for the shredding bin in your ND Residence Hall 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 18, 2008 
their sections, among other sections and between the dif­

Residence 
ferent halls. She decided to reapply for

continued from page 1 
the position because she 

feels that it has helped her ward to leading students in grow as a student and as a what is traditionally a fresh­person. man hallway, and hopes that "I want to continue to help she can bring them together the !Saint Mary's! community through section events that in a way that best fits my tal­she is already planning. nnts," Molosky said. "The 
"I don't even know if this is staff provides a great support f'easibl1~ but I would really system that helps me not like to have a only as a resi­Mario Kart dent advisor, tournanwnt as but also as a
"!don't want to be 

a section student."
known as the stickler 

event," she She hopes to said. "I want for the rules who create a to have events neighborly
girls are scared to 

that allow the atmosphere in
approach or be

girls to better her section of get to know around, but l also Hegina llall each othnr and next year and
don't want to be the 

thn earn pus continuo the
'joke' RA who lets you 

community." events that Crort said gel away with she and the 
sho would try anything, and girls staff in that 
to strikn a bal­hall have cre­
will try 

ancn bntwnen ated through­stieking to the to manipulate. " out the past rules and lnt­year. ting hnr resi­"I would
Melissa Croft 

dents have love to contin­
sophomore

l'un. ue the all hall 
"I don't want events that to be known as the stickler Hegina Hall hosted this year for the rules who girls are such as Royal Indulgence and scared to approach or be Don't Be Dopey as well as around, but I also don't want organize programs that help to be the 'joke' HA who lets to make the women of Saint you get away with anything, Mary's more interdependent and .the gir!.s will t.ry ~.o with the people on-campus 
mantpulate, she satd. I and in the South Bend com­hope to lind a balance." munity," Molosky said. 
Current junior and HA "Community was an impor­Deanna Molosky said HAs are tant theme this year on staff put in the dorms to create a and I definitely want to con­strong sense of unity within tinue that theme throughout 
the upcoming year as well." 
To ensure the safety of stu­dents, there are certain cri­teria that HAs must meet to be considered for the posi­tion. 
Candidates must not have any outstanding debts to the College or be on disciplinary probation, the Hesidence Life Web site said. Applicants must also be at least rising sophomores and have at least a 2.5 grade point aver­age. 
"When hiring HAs, we are looking for women who are passionate about making a positive impact at Saint Mary's in this leadership role," Kathleen O'Leary, assistant director of the Office of' Hesidence Life said. "We are looking for students who will be able to balance their academic workload with the demands of the HA position and have fun doing it." 
HAs' residential placement depends entirely upon where Hesidence Life feels the can­didates' strengths would best fit the needs of' the residents. 
Croft said she knows that being an HA is a full time job, but thinks she will be able to handle having to set aside large amounts of time to be on call and meeting with other HAs. They must also be available to work the front desk in case a shift needs to be covered at the last minute. 
"I think it will help keep me on my toes," she said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Alert 
continued from page 1 
Tlw f'endback from the stu­dents and faculty has benn positive as Wl~ll. 
"I have bnen around cam­pus and havP !ward from students that tlwy received the mnssagns and that they arn thankful that thn univer­sity is snnding tlwse mes­sages." Wishon said. 
W h i Ie t IH• t e s t was s u e­eessful. orr will continue to look for ways to build upon and improve the ND alert system. Wishon said. 
"We continue to explore othnr means to got emor­g e n 1: y no t i ce s o u t to t h e e o m m u n i t y, " 111~ s a i d . "Student safnty !.S our num­ber one concern. 
Currently, the University is developing a public address system in addition to the ND alerts. By Decnmber 200X, every building on campus will have a device installed whi1:h will allow the University to transmit a The University will be able message on a loudspeaker to to choose to send a message thn inhabitants of the build­to a specific building or ing in the event of an mner­area, or alert the whole 
gency, said Amy Coughlin, campus. Director of' Project Management. 
"It is a publie "/have been around 
address system 
campus and have
that utilizes the campus nnt­heard from work tQ com­students that theymunicate an 
are thankful that the 
intendnd mns­
sage," she said. University is sending Prosentl-y, these messages." technieians are installing the 
Gordon Wishon 
dnvices in the residPnce halls. 
chief information officer 
dining halls, and elassrooms of South Quad 
Every build­ing will also have speakers on the exteri­or of the structure to alert students outside, and there will be speakers directed at athletic fields, the Warren Golf Course, and Stepan Center, she said. After the completion of the systom, others sinking shots with no problem at all.

Brackets 
Junior Liz Pike and a friend tried their best to gain the

continued from page 1 
coveted 10 points despite vate, catered party on April their lack of experience. 
7. "It's cold to be out here, but 
Students also received free definitely worth it," she said. food and St. Patrick's Day Other players took the game paraphernalia much more seri­that Student ously, showing Activities was off skills they passing out, "!just want to had perfected in from green hours of prac­
show scouts out 
necklaces to tice. Celebrating
there that
buttons that after dropping said "Worlds I'm for real. " his tenth point, Cutest Sophomore Lepreehaun." Bryan Hayes
Brian Hayes 
Despite the looknd toward
sophomore
cold and the future. 
cloudy weath­er that turned into snow and sleet around 5 p.m., Sekerek said they had a good turnout. 
"We were packed the first half hour, and people have been trickling in since then," Sekerak said. 
The contestants ranged in skill and commitment, with some pieking up a basketball for their first time ever and 
Leak 
continued from page 1 
tions for Saint Mary's. 
Hinger said none of the buildings on campus should be negatively affected by the leak because the dorms use steam heat. 
"There's no gas whatsoever in LeMans !Hall]. except for the gas dryers," Hinger said. "[In the student cen­
"We have secured the air handler so that the gases can't get in [to that building]." Hinger said. 
Hinger said when NJPSCO says it is safe, maintenance men will turn off the gas main to repair the break. Maintenance and security will take extra precautions before 
doing so. "Before !back] on 

"Before we turn the
ter, the] dining hall kitchen gas {back] on we'll do 
equipment will walkthroughs ofall 
be affected, 
the buildings and
we're aware of' that." make sure that each 
Many students and every device is 
11rst noticed the 
working."
gas leak as they 
walked from 
dinner to their Timm Ringer 
dorms. maintenance supervisor 
"I f'irst smelt it around 7 p.m. before signs went up on the doors," junior Krista Durski said. "It smells like dead fish, but I live near the river and it always smells like that when it rains so I didn't think anything of' it. I didn't even know about the leak until the signs were post­ed." 
Hinger also said Opus Hall, the senior on-campus apart­ments, may be affected, though he is not sure in what way. 
He said maintenance men are watching Moreau Hall and ()'Laughlin Auditorium because of the proximity to the gas leak. 
"I just want to 
show scouts out there that I'm for real," he said. 
SAO interns Camille Gabriel and Kyle Chamberlain, who have worked on the project sinee its initial proposal, agreed: "It's entertaining, to say the least." 
Contact Elizabeth Kuhn at ekuhn1@nd.edu 
we turn the gas we'll do walk­throughs of all the buildings and make sure that each and every device is working," Hinger said. llambling said in the statement that the pilot light for the dryers in LeMans and the kiln in 
More a. both directly affect­ed by the leak, will be turned 
back on this morning. 
"At no time were residents of LeMans in any danger," he said in the statement. 
Despite reassurances saying the air was not dangerous, s'igns were posted on the entrances to all of' the resi­dence halls asking students to refrain from smoking due to the gas leak. The handmade signs made no explanation of whern the gas leak oceurred or what caused it. 
Contact Liz Harter at 
ehacteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
and Mandi Stirone at 
astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
before moving to othor buildings on campus, Coughlin said. "The publie address system will provide the University l'lexibility in communicating an urgent message to tho campus com­munity, whether related to wnather or another hazard," she said. 
the University will schedule periodic testing, Coughlin said. The project is the joint efl'ort of Business 0 perations, Hisk Managmnent and Safety, and 
orr. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, March 18, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Suicide bomber leaves at least 43 dead 
BAGHDAD -A female suicide bomber struck Shiite worshippers in the holy city of Karbala on Monday, an official and a witness said, killing at least 43 people and leaving pools of blood on the street leading to one of Iraq's most revered mosques. 
The blast was the deadliest in a series of attacks that left at least 72 Iraqis dead, includ­ing six youths killed when mortar rounds slammed into a soccer field in eastern Baghdad. 
Two U.S. soldiers also were killed Monday in a roadside bombing north of Baghdad, bringing the American death toll closer to 4,000 as the U.S.-led war enters its sixth year. At least 3,990 members of the U.S. military have died since the beginning of the Iraq war in March 2003, according to an Associated Press count. 
Ireland encourages alcohol constraint 
DUBLIN, Ireland -Irish politicians and police urged the nation Monday to have fun during St. Patrick's Day festivities -but not too much fun. 
Prime Minister Bertie Ahern called on cele­brants to drink moderately "and not to get behind the wheel after doing it." 
"There's no reason (why) people can't enjoy themselves and be part of the celebrations without going over the top," Ahern said in Washington, where he was presenting President Bush with a ceremonial bowl of shamrocks. 
Police vowed to crack down harder than in previous years on rowdiness and drunken driv­ing, which typically follow the parades in Dublin 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Construction worker found in rubble 
NEW YORK-The last of seven bodies was pulled from the rubble Monday at the site of a crane collapse that obliterated a town house and severely damaged other buildings. 
Six construction workers and a woman in town for St. Patrick's Day were killed Saturday when the crane broke away from an apartment tower under construction and toppled like a tree onto buildings as far as a block away. The last three bodies were found Monday. 
A preliminary city investigation found that the crane toppled after a steel collar used to tie it to the side of the building fell as workers attempted to install it. 
The crane, which rose 19 stories, came crashing down on a Manhattan neighborhood a few blocks from the United Nations on the city's east side. 
McCartney reaches divorce settlement 
LONDON -Money may not buy her love, but Paul McCartney's ex sure has a lot more of it now. 
One of Britain's bitterest divorces reached a settlement Monday when Heather Mills was awarded $48.6 million -an enormous sum, but a fraction of what she sought and a sliver of the former Beatie's $800 million fortune. 
Mills declared herself "very, very, very pleased" with a payout that amounted to about $34,000 for each day of her four-year marriage. But some legal experts were surprised the former model, who has been widely portrayed in the British media as a gold-digger, did not get more. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man charged with bleach attack 
HIGHLAND, Ind. -A woman remained hospi­talized and her husband was behind bars on attempted murder charges after police say he poured bleach into her mouth while she was sleeping. 
Ronald Kownacki, 37, was in the Lake County Jail on $100,000 bond Monday on preliminary charges of attempted murder, aggravated battery, battery and neglect of a dependent. 
The Lake County prosecutor's office said formal charges had not been filed in the case. 
When police arrived at the apartment the Kownackis share with their two children on March 11 they found Jennifer Kownacki uncon­scious in a hallway, but she regained conscious­ness during an ambulance ride to Community Hospital. 
She told officers she woke up to her husband pouring bleach over her face and into her mouth, and that he beat her as she resisted. 
Paterson sworn in following scandal 
New York's first blackgovernor succeeds Eliot Spitzer, eager to move past predessor's collapse 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y. -David Paterson was sworn in as governor Monday before a crowd of lawmakers who chanted his name and cheered his message of unity in a state eager to move past his predecessor's sordid and speedy political collapse. 
Paterson became the state's first black chief execu­tive and nation's second legally blind governor almost exactly a week after allega­tions first surfaced that Gov. Eliot Spitzer was "Client 9" of a high-priced call girl service. 
"We move forward. Today is Monday. There is work to be done," Paterson said. "There was an oath to be taken. There's trust that needs to be restored. There are issues that need to be addressed." 
Spitzer, according to ex­aides, was at his Columbia County farmhouse 48 miles south at the time of Paterson's swearing-in. 

Where Spitzer's 14-month tenure was marked by parti­san sniping, Paterson, a fel­low Democrat, reached across the aisle in his remarks from the ornate Assembly chamber. The crowd gave the new gover­nor a two-minute standing ovation and chanted "David! David! David!" basketball. Tedisco, an office from Chief Judge him as a lawmaker and lieu­
"What we are going to do upstate Republican, was a Judith Kaye, who ascended tenant governor -without from now on is what we basketball star at Union to the pinnacle of the state's notes or teleprompter. always should have done all College. highest court in 1993 after He joked about his limited along," the former state sen­Paterson, 53, rose from the former Chief Judge Sol vgion -he can see things ator said. "We're going to lieutenant governor's office Wachtler was caught threat­close to him out of one eye. work together." after Spitzer resigned last ening and harassing an ex­At Spitzer's last State of the 
Legislators gave Paterson week amid allegations that lover. State address, he said, hearty applause when he he hired a call girl from a Paterson, who becomes Assembly Speaker Sheldon called for cooperation, and high-priced escort service. It New York's 55th governor, Silver stopped him from acci-. laughs when he made playful was a dramatic fall for has said he will get right to dentally breaking a glass jabs at Republican leaders. Spitzer, who was elected with work. The Legislature faces with his gavel, then told him, 
He said Senate Republican an overwhelming share of an April 1 deadline to pass "I will not allow you to turn leader Joseph Bruno, proba­the vote and who had vowed an estimated $124 billion the State of the State into a bly Spitzer's most bitter rival, to root out corruption at the budget, and Paterson also Jewish wedding." had invited him to dinner at Capitol. said that health care, educa­Before reluctantly accept­his ranch: 'Til go. I'm going 'This transition today is a tion, jobs and problems fac­ing Spitzer's offer to run with to take my taster with me." historic message to the ing "the single mother with him as lieutenant governor, 
He teased Assembly world: That we live by the two jobs" need immediate Paterson was a Democratic Minority Leader James same values that we profess, attention. state senator for more than Tedisco, whom Spitzer and we are a government of Paterson spoke for 26 min­two decades, representing famously and profanely said laws, not individuals," utes -about half of it parts of Harlem and he would steamroll, that he Paterson said. engaged in the banter and Manhattan's Upper West would teach him how to play Paterson took the oath of humor that helped define Side. 

CHINA 

China vovvs to hold onto to Tibet atnid unrest 
Associated Press spokesman Liu Jianchao said at a apart and looking for insurgents" as of 
hastily called news conference. "The Sunday, said Susan Wetmore, a 
BEIJING -China vowed Monday to violent acts have demonstrated the true Canadian who arrived by plane defend its sovereignty in Tibet as nature of the Dalai clique." Monday in Chengdu in neighboring Chinese troops set up checkpoints and Some residents reported Monday that Sichuan province. mobilized to quell an uprising. A dead­Lhasa had quieted down and many She said there were at least 10 line for protesters in the Tibetan capital people were returning to work. Chinese checkpoints between the heart of the to turn themselves in passed without military police reportedly set up many city and the airport about 55 miles any apparent surrenders or arrests. checkpoints to control movement. away. 
In the central government's first com­"All across the city today there are In Beijing, Liu accused the Dalai ment on the anti-China protests in checkpoints where you can only enter Lama's supporters of being behind Tibet, Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu if you have a permit," said Marion sometimes violent demonstrations at Jianchao blamed the violence in Lhasa Berjeret, an intern for a French fashion Chinese embassies and consulates in on supporters of the Dalai Lama, the design company who has lived in Lhasa the U.S., Europe and Asia. revered spiritual leader who fled in for four months. German police detained 25 Tibetans 1959 after a failed uprising against She said foreigners have been moved on Monday after demonstrators tried to Chinese rule. to -the outskirts of the city, where the force their way into the Chinese con­
"The Chinese government will unwa­situation was less tense. sulate in Munich and spray-painted veringly protect its national sovereignty Police were doing "door-to-door "Save Tibet" and "Stop Killing" on the and territorial integrity," ministry searches and just going in and ripping building. 
Tuesday, March 18, 2008

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Kosovo 
UN, NATO troops clash with Serbs 
NOW HIRING: CAMPUS TOUR GUIDES 
Repossession of courthouse causes protests; 63 wounded in attacks 
Associated Press 
KOSOVSKA MITHOVICA, Kosovo -Sorb demonstrators attacked international peace­keepers with rocks, grenades and Molotov cocktails Monday, setting ofT the worst violence in Kosovo since it declared inde­pnndnnce from Serbia last month. 
Tho Sorbs traded gunlirn with 
U.N. 
and NATO fim~es in hours of dashes that wounded at Least 63 

U.N. 
and NATO forces and 70 protostnrs outside a U.N. court­housn. 


The daslws began when the 
U.N. stormed the courthouse in thn divided northern town of Kosovska Mitroviea just before dawn to pull out prot1~stnrs who had occupied it for thren days to protest Kosovo's independenen. 
llundrmls of Sorbs swarmed the arna, blocking thn~e rod-and­white U.N. police vans as they rnovnd through thn angry crowd and ordering the oflicers to open the doors. 
About half of tlw 53 arrestnd Serbs wont frne. The rest were taken out in armon~d vehidns and w1~ro rnloased by tho U.N. after questioning. 
Danish military police said they carne under fire from protnstors and shot back as thny evacuated wounded officers. Maehine-gu n bursts eould bo heard until mid­day, although it was not dear who was !iring. At least one U.N. vohido and one NATO truck were set ablazo. 
Thn U.N. said later it was 
Luncheon 
continued from page 1 
workod as an admissions coun­selor at the University of Notre Dame. and then moved to work for 22 years at AT&T in sales, where she became the first African-American to manage a national account with Volkswagen. 
ller job at AT&T required her to move all around the country. Dawning said one must be open to change to got ahoad in corpo­rate America. 
"Change is the only thing that is certain," Dawning said. "You need to embrace it and move quickly." 
Dawning made a major caroer move when she left AT&T, and corporate Ameriea all together to became the superintendent of the Benton Harbor Ar<Ja School District. She switchod careers to do something more servico orient­od. slw said. 
"I ldt <~oq)Orate America boca usn I f'nl t that I had been giwn so much and I wanted to give baek. and education is servicn," Dawning said. 
(\s stqwrintendent, Dawning said that slw continued to learn leadership lessons. One such lesson was that no orw is right all tlw time. 
"After you graduate you lnaw~ bohind tlw teen yoars wlwn~ you think you know nverything, and realize that you still have a lot to learn," Dawning said. 
Dawning told of a tinw when as tlw superintendent she was asked by a concerned parent to review the lyrks to a song that o1w of the high school marching bands was going to play in an pulling out of the Serb-dominat­ed northern half of the town because of the shooting. 
NATO helicopters hovered above the city and NATO troops remained, but the U.N. with­drawal could fuel a widespread Kosovo Serb desire to split from largely ethnic Albanian Kosovo and rnjoin Serbia. 
Predominantly ethnic Albanian Kosovo has been under U.N. con­trol since 1999, when NATO launched an air war to stop Slobodan Milosevic's crackdown on ethnic Albanian separatists. 
Serbia, which considers the territory its historic and religious heartland, says Kosovo's decla­ration of independence was ille­gal under international law. 
The Serb minority dominates about 15 percent of the territory in northern Kosovo, including about a third of Kosovska M i trovica, Kosovo 's second­largest eity. 
"We will prot~ct you just like we protect the Serbs in Serbia," Slobodan Samardzic, Serbia's government minister for Kosovo, told the protesters. 
lie urged them to continue protesting with the goal of keep­ing Kosovo in Serbia. Monday's dashes came exactly one month after that .Western-backed decla­ration. 
"We will reach the goal only if we arc patient, smart and organ­ized and if we believe in what we want to accomplish," Samardzic said in the dearest indication yet that Serbia's government is orchestrating the protests. 
upcoming parade. Dawning looked at the lyrics on the Internet and did not approve. She told the band to play a dif­ferent song. The story proceed­ed to be picked up by over one hundred different news venues, including CNN and Sports Illustrated, and was spoofed on "Saturday Night Live". 
She ended up telling the par­ents that if they got up a peti­tion the band could play the song in the parade, which they did. That did not stop Dawning from getting a barrage of e­mails and requests for inter­views. 
"If you say nothing it dies a natural death," Dawning said about her handling of the media. 
She learned an important les­son from this experience. "You have to learn how to recover because you don't always get it right," Dawning said. 
Dawning also offered advice to students about how they can be more successful leaders. She stressed that a good leader lets other people know that they are valued. She also spoke of the importance of good communica­tion, and critical thinking skills. 
Balance and being able to pace yourself are also trade­marks of a good leader, Dawning said. It is also impor­tant, she said. to get involved in tho community around you. 
"It gives you a greater sense of purpose," Dawning said. 
Dawning summed up her talk by reminding the audience to be conscious of our legaeins. 
She asked, "When you take your last breath and look back on your life, what do you think about it?" 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO I @saintmarys.edu 
Contributors to the NATO force said 27 Polish officers, 15 Ukrainians and about 20 French soldiers were wounded, with 

Aft You: Ia.tol cub?1AJok1nc ftrI relmd aad frieftd~ Hllpu&work
eight French troops taken to hospital. One of the French sol­

miroullttEacelltfttatwaWnc *kwudland talkilc loudlyat the ue
diers suffered head wounds from the explosion of a Molotov cock­tail, though none had serious 

tile? 
injuries. Authorities did not say how the other peacekeepers were wounded. 

TheNotre Dale Ylaitofl1Cea1efUDOW hirblcltldeattour picltl and desk
Hospital officials said most of the civilians suffered injuries 

worien for ddl..aad the COihsc acadelic,..We olhrflextllt houn
from stun grenades, tear gas and explosive devices. One 

aadeotpeti1iYe 1111 pludpa. PltueellilAadrew Bayes ateck~a bJ
struck in the eye by a bullet was in critical condition. 

FridaJ1Mardi Ultfor10ftilformatioa. Dol~ pus oa this opportaDitJ M
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon condemned the vio­

cub at thtbatworiplactOUUtpll!
lence and pledged that the U.N. will continue "to take measures required to implement its man­date," to administer Kosovo, spokeswoman Michele Montas said. 

Career 012120rtunity 
Still looking for a distinguished career that rewards you mentally and financially? 
Xerox has Services and Solutions Executive positions available in its largest revenue producing entity... 
xerox 

Atlantic Coastal Operations 
Washington. DC-America's most affluent & educated city Charlotte. NC-America's fastest growing metro area 
At Xerox, business runs on fresh idea~. Staying on the crest of digital technology demands originality, creativity, and ingenuity. That's why Xerox recruits exceptional people, whose professional and technical finesse is fueled by imagination. We've created a workplace where Inventiveness flourishes and employees are encouraged to express their vision, ideas, and leadership. 
Submit resume by 11 :59pm on March 23, via Go IRISH website 
Pre-Night/Presentation: March 27 (7:00 -8:30pm) In DeBartolo Hall 
On-Campus Interviews: March 28 (8:30-4:00pm) In Flenner Hall 

Tuesday, March 18, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 11,951.09 -194.65
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
567 72 2,794 1,055,942,658 

-51.12 ..~191124 -27.34  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) POWERSHARES (QQQQ) BEAR STEARNS COS (BSC)  -1.55 -1.84 -2.83 -47.37  -2.04 -0.79 -0.70 -27.00  129.61 42.25 24.00 30.00  

Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE -3.20 -0.113 3.421 13-WEEK BILL -13.85 -0.180 1.120 30-YEAR BOND -2.38 -0.106 4.348 5-YEAR NOTE -6.74 -0.169 2.340 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.12 110.21 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.70 999.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.73 80.08 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 97.8400 EURO 0.6378 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9892 BRffiSH POUND 0.4951 
IN BRIEF Paulson praised for economic tactics 
WASHINGTON -Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, the consummate Wall Street baron who amassed a fortune at investment giant Goldman Sachs, is applying his insider knowledge to help manage a credit-market meltdown. 
Known as "Hank the Hammer" when he led Goldman Sachs, Paulson is winning praise for using hard-nosed bargaining tac­tics to strike deals seen as critical to coping with the worst crisis to face financial mar­kets since the savings and loan crisis of the early 1990s. 
Paulson heads the President's Working Group on Capital Markets, which briefed President Bush at the White House on Monday. He said the president was "quite pleased" with the results of the marathon negotiations over the weekend that resulted in a deal for the sale of troubled investment house Bear Stearns Cos. to JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
Industrial production hits record low 
WASHINGTON -Industrial output fell in February by the biggest amount in four months, providing yet another gloomy assessment of the economy's health. 
The Federal Reserve said Monday that output at the nation's factories, mines and utilities dropped by 0.5 percent in February, the biggest decline since a 0.6 percent fall last October. 
It was a far weaker reading than the slight increase of 0.1 percent that many analysts had been expecting. It served to underscore the severity of the current eco­nomic slowdown. 
Daniel Meckstroth, chief economist for the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, said he believed that the manufacturing sector fell into a recession in October and the overall economy followed in December. 
"The economic shock of a housing col­lapse. credit crunch, including financial sector turmoil. and sky-high oil prices have squeezed consumers' budgets to the point where there is no growth left," he said. 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Market undergoes seesaw trading 
Wall Street recovers as investors grab bargain stocks following buyout ofBear Stearns 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Wall Street ended a temperamental session widely mixed Mond ay after investors grappled with JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s government-backed buyout of the stricken investment bank Bear Stearns Cos. 
The Dow Jones industri­als recovered from an ini­tial drop of nearly 200 points to finish up about 21 points. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 and Nasdaq composite indexes ended lower as investors bailed out of investment banks and small-t~ap stocks and fled instead to large companies apt to be reli­able during a weak econo­my. 
"You move to the defen­sive names in times of mar­ket uncertainty -safer, consumer names," said Ryan Detrick, senior techni­cal strategist at Schaeffer's Investment Research. 

The buyout of Bear Stearns was certainly more appealing than the alterna­tive: letting the investment bank collapse and causing huge losses for anyone linked to it. And some unprecedented moves by the Federal Reserve gave investors a bit of solace on what many predicted would crisis from decimating the banks' exposure to the The Dow rose 21.16, or be a day of precipitous loss­financial industry and the troubled credit markets. 0.18 percent, to 11,972.25, es in the stock market. economy. Policy makers at "The market has after falling nearly 200 and 
Besides supporting the the central bank are absolutely no idea what's rising more than 100. The buyout, the Fed lowered the expected to reduce the tar­going on," said Dan Alpert, blue chip index was sup­rate it charges to loan get fed funds rate -the managing director of ported partially by directly to banks by a quar­rate banks charge each Westwood Capital. "Some JPMorgan, by far the ter-point on Sunday night­other for overnight loans -people have accused them biggest gainer among the two days before its sched­by at least a half-point on of whistling past the grave­30 component stocks. uled meeting Tuesday. The Tuesday, and perhaps even yard -I don't think they JPMorgan rose $3.77, or central bank also set up a a full point. even know where the 10.3 percent, to $40.31. lending option for firms, But the market remained graveyard is." The Dow got a lift as including many non-bank extremely volatile. The sale He added that short-cov­investors aimed for large­financial services firms, to of Bear Stearns -at a ering -the unwinding of cap stocks such as AT&T secure short-term loans for minuscule $2.21 a share as bets that stocks will fall -Inc., up 76 cents at $35.79, a broad range of collateral. of Monday's close, or a total ahead of Tuesday's Fed Verizon, up 79 cents at 
The Fed appears to be of $260.5 million -stirred meeting contributed to the $34.61, and pharmaceutical pledging to do everything in fear among investors market's atypical move­maker Johnson & Johnson, its power to keep the credit worldwide about other ments. up $1.39 at $64.04. 

Conseco Inc. hires Morgan Stanley 
Conseco, an 8 percent stake. comment on Conseco's rebuff. A
Associated Press 

In its statement Monday saying it request for comment was left with a 
was declining the partnership's spokesman for the partnership. 
CARMEL, Ind. -Troubled insurer request for board seats, Conseco Conseco spokesman Tony Zehnder Conseco Inc. rebuffed a bid by invest­referred to Steel Partners' intention to said the company had no comment on ment fund Steel Partners II to gain hire an investment bank to look at its strategic options beyond its written two seats on its board and said ways to increase the value of Conseco statement, but one expert said the Monday it has hired investment stock. insurer probably was shopping itself banker Morgan Stanley to consider "We share with Steel Partners, as around. strategic alternatives. well as our other shareholders, a "That's the most likely 
The Carmel-based health and life common interest in taking actions that scenario,"said Tod Perry, a corporate insurer also reported a preliminary will increase the value of the company finance and governance expert at fourth-quarter loss of $72.2 million, for shareholders," the company said Indiana University's Kelley School of or 39 cents per share, after paying in a statement attributed to Conseco Business. preferred dividends, but said the CEO Jim Prieur. Alternatively, Conseco also might try results could be revised. "In that regard, we have been work­to find a so-called "white knight" 
Steel Partners last week asked ing with a major investment bank for equity investor that would allow the Conseco to nominate its two princi­several months regarding strategic company's current management to pals, the activist shareholder Warren alternatives and plans to maximize remain in place. Lichtenstein and his partner Jack shareholder value for Conseco. We Separately, Conseco reported its Howard, to the Conseco board, saying believe, and hope Steel Partners fourth quarter financial results and the company's stock price did not would concur, that we already are said again that it plqns to restate reflect its true value. exploring courses of action suggested results for fiscal years 2005, 2006 and 
In a filing with the Securities and by them," said Prieur, who took over the first three quarters of 2007. As a Exchange Commission, Steel Partners as CEO 18 months ago. result, its net income may swing by said it owned 14.9 million shares of Steel Partners had no immediate $15 million in any given period. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 18, 2008 
Yreka still has inependence hopes 
Northern California city sought separation from state 67 years ago 
Associated Press 
YHEKA, Calif. --In extreme 
Northern California, far from 
the bright lights of Hollywood 
and the foggy charms of San 
Franeiseo, is a placn unknown 
to most people: a handful of 
counties that onee sought to 
make thnrnselves into a sepa­
rate state ealled Jefl"erson. 
The idea lasted only a few 
days in 1941 before it was 
quashed by the attack on Pearl 
Harbor. But for a few who 
ronwmber its history, thH move­
ment mnbodins the rnindset of 
this sparsely populatod eountry 
that slill longs for morn autono­
my. 
"Wo've always fostered an 
independent streak up hern," 
said Pete LaFortunn, executive 
director of the Chamber of 
Commerce in Yn~ka (pro­
nouneed why-HEEK-ah), about 
270 miles north of San 
Frandsen. 
More than six deeades later, 
many residents of tlw mountain­
ous region along the California­
Orngon border continue to com­
plain that their eonenrns are 
ovnrlooked and umll~rvalued by 
dndsion makers in morn popu­
lated areas. 
The State of Jefferson began 
as part publicity stunt, part 
politkal w~sturn. Even today, the 
movmnnnt is made up of tourist­
frinndly whimsy intertwined 
with morn serious themes of dis­
content. 
In the Palaeo Barber Shop on 
Yreka's main drag hangs an 
animal skull decorated with the 
XX brand adopted by the 
Jefl'ersonians of 1941 to signify 
their disgust with being "dou­
ble-crossed" by authorities. 
"A lot of the laws and dill'erent 
things that affeet us are voted 
on by people who've never been 
here and don't know anything 
about us," said John Lisle, a 
barber at the shop, which 
stands on a site that is said to 
have offered haircuts since 
Ywka was a Gold Hush town. 
Another barber, Hichard Pease, agreed: "Whm1 we vote on something, it doesn't make mueh diiTernnce at all because onH precinct down there out­numbers the whole county here. You vote, but you fe1~l like your votn is going down the tube." 
Siskiyou County, home to Yreka, has about 46,000 resi­dents spread over 6,400 square miles. Although registered Hepublieans have only a modest edge over registered Democrats, residents are often at odds with more liberal parts of the state. 
The 1941 secessionists were angry about the region's poor roads, which beeame useless in winter. 
"Our Hoads are Not Passable, Hardly Jaekassable," went the rallying cry. 
Thnse days, it's not hard to get to Yreka. Interstate 5, which runs the length of California, is a long, smooth route through fir-covered hills and Mount Shasta, a popular recreation spot. 
But there is plenty of resent­ment simmering over long­standing government limits on logging and fishing, and a pro­posal to rip out a series of hydronleetric darns on the Klamath i{iver to help struggling salmon runs. 
Bill Overman, chairman of the Siskiyou County Board of Supervisors, is among those concerned that removing the dams will hurt property values for people living along the reservoirs. Like previous lead­ers, he chafes at the feeling that outside forces are calling the shots. 
"We would like to be able to take eare of our resources and be able to manage them prop­erly, and we ean do that if we're just allowed to," Overman said. 
The idea of forming a sepa­rate state out of the counties in far Northern California and southern Oregon has eome up several times in the past. 
"It's really a very, very old historieal tradition in Ameriea that people sort of removed from the center of power resent the eenter of power," said Jay Mullen, professor of history at Southern Oregon University. 
The 1941 movement got started when Gilbert Gable, mayor of Port Orford, Ore., announced that a number of Oregon counties should join with California neighbors to form a new state. His idea was to draw attention to the region's rotten roads. 
The idea caught fire, espe­cially in Siskiyou County, and Yreka became the nascent state's temporary capital. 
Jefl'erson's attempt to secede got national attention. San Franciseo Chroniele reporter Stanton Delaplane won the Pulitzer Prize in 1942 for his artieles about the rebellious movement. 
But with the Dec. 7, 1941, attack on Pearl Harbor, the movement was shelved. 
Today, the brief chapter is memorialized on a Web site, jefl'ersonstate.com, and a barn south of Yreka painted with the name "State of Jefferson." It's also recalled in the name of Jefferson Public Radio, based in Ashland, Ore. License plate holders reading "resi­dent of the State of Jefl'erson" are a popular item. 

Attention Seniors! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an itnportant contribution to the rectuitlnent and selection of the first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and cornmunication ·within the geographic area, assesstnent and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions. Additional responsibilities \Vill be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Among our candidates, \Ve \vill specifically seek an African American Recruitment Coordinator. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity \Vith all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to \Vork long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Please Note: Interviews will be scheduled after April 1. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2008. 
Please forward your resume to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions 220 Main Building Attention: Alisa M. Fisher, Senior Associate Director 
Officials survey tornado damage 
Twister knocks Atlanta's hotel rooms out ofuse 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA --Workers strug­gled to their offices Monday through debris and snarled traffic days after a tornado struck downtown, but no long­term effects on the eity's lucrative convention and tourism industry were antiei­pated. 
The twister knockPd hun­dreds of hotel rooms out of commission and significantly damaged the city's largest con­vention venue, the Georgia World Congress Center, said Spurgeon Hichardson, presi­dent and CEO of the Atlanta Convention & Visitors Bureau. 
"We are open for business," Hichardson told reporters. 
A volleyball tournament next weekend was still on and expected to bring 38,000 peo­ple to Atlanta, though it will likely be scattered around ven­ues throughout the metro area instead of concentrated at the World Congress Center as plannPd, of'licials said. 
The Omni I lotel lost the USP of nearly 500 rooms when the tornado struck Friday night but is still hosting a 600-per­son U.S. Department of Energy conference this week, said hotel marketing director Mike Sullivan. 
At least 27 people were injured but no deaths were reported in the city. Two peo­
ple  were  killed in northwest  
Georgia  when  a  separate  
storm  movnd  through  
Saturday.  

Statewide, storm damag1~ was estimated at $250 million. Gov. Sonny Perdue said hP would ask the federal govern­ment to expedite a declaration of Atlanta as a disaster area. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Tuesday, March 18, 2008 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
IRAN 
President vulnerable for re election 
Conservative discontent may hurt Amadinejad's electoral prospects 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN -President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad may be vulnerable when he stands for re-election next year, after Iranian parlia­mentary elections showed discontent among fellow con­servatives. 
The president does have a major advantage: support from Iran's supreme leader. A key question will be whether Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's backing lasts until presidential elections expected in the summer of 2009. 
Conservatives maintained their hold on the parliament in Friday's election, but their camp is split over Ahmadinejad. His conserva­tive opponents won a solid bloc that will likely clash with the president over the next year. 
Reformists also managed to preserve their presence even though most of their candi­dates were barred from the race. 
"If the government contin­ues the policies that have been controversial, the majority of the parliament will be against it," said Amir Ali Amiri, spokesman of the Inclusive Coalition of Principlists, an election slate 
of conservatives who have broken with the hard-line president. 
Amiri said the coalition might put forward a candi­date for the presidency, but said "we must wait" until the political situation becomes clearer, according to the semi-official ISNA news agency. 
Two men are seen as top possibilities to challenge Ahmadinejad: Tehran Mayor Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf and former nuclear negotia­tor Ali Larijani, who won a parliament seat in the elec­tion. 
The strength of Ahmadinejad's conservative opponents likely won't mean. changes in Iran's tough line toward the United States. 
They support pushing ahead with Iran's nuclear program despite U.N. sanc­tions. But they also oppose Ahmadinejad inflammatory rhetoric, which they say has provoked the West. Some seek greater pragmatism in dealing with the outside world. 
The economy has been Ahmadinejad's weakest point. Jumps in inflation have at least doubled prices for some foods over the past year, and unemployment is believed by some economists to be around 15 percent. And the public has been angered by gas rationing and heating oil shortages during the unusually cold winter. 
Ahmadinejad's critics say his economic policies have been haphazard and only made the situation worse. 
Amiri said his camp would seek to elect Larijani as par­liament speaker ---a post now held by an Ahmadinejad ally -and oppose the cur­rent deputy speaker, who is widely seen as the brain behind the president's rise to power. 
Still, Khamenei has become more overt in his backing for Ahmadinejad, despite grum­blings in the conservative camp. The supreme leader, as head of Iran's clerical leadership, has final word in all state matters. 
Khamenei ·tries to stay above factional disputes in public, but took the unusual step before the election of expressing strong support for the president, calling on vot­ers to choose candidates allied to the government. 
One reason may be the nuclear issue. Khamenei has praised Ahmadinejad's han­dling of the matter, and the clerical powers may see him as best able to stand up to the West. 

FRANCE 
Funeral remembers last WWI veteran 
Associated Press 
PARIS -France unfurled its military majesty Monday in honor of its last World War I veteran, who died last week at 110, and all the other Frenchmen who fought in the conflict. 
Flags fell to half-staff and the president unveiled a plaque at the gold-domed edifice where Napoleon is buried to honor Lazare Ponticelli and the 8.4 mil­lion other Frenchmen who served in a war that tore Europe apart. 
The day of national commemo­ration was ordered by President Nicolas Sarkozy, who wants younger generations to remember the sacrifices of "les poilus" -an affectionate nickname meaning hairy or tough that France uses for its WWI veterans. 
"Never again will anyone tell their grandchildren or great­grandchildren about the terrible life of the trenches," Sarkozy said. "No more, will anyone hear the. old 'poilu' tell his grandchildren or great-grandchildren: 'Never make war again."' 
"We will never forget them." 
The solemn day began with a Roman Catholic funeral Mass attended by Sarkozy, government ministers, soldiers and teary-eyed members of Ponticelli's family at the Saint-Louis Cathedral, part of the Invalides complex that honors France's military and houses Napoleon's tomb. 
"You didn't talk much but when you did, we felt your wisdom, that you doubted nothing and were determined," Ponticelli's grand­son, Patrick Large, said during the Mass. 
Flags representing all military divisions that fought in World War I were later ceremoniously unfurled. 
Ponticelli was a French citizen for most of the past century and an unusual soldier who fought first for France, then for Italy, where he was born. 
Representatives of the Italian Alpine brigade for which he fought, along with its French counterpart, attended the Mass. 
The 1914-1918 conflict, known at the time as the Great War or the "war to end all wars," killed millions. Only a handful of veter­ans from the war are still living, scattered from Australia to the United States and Europe. Germany's last WWI veteran died on New Year's Day. 
Monuments to battles and war dead cover swathes of France where trenches divided the land­scape during the war, which left 
1.4 million French fighters dead. Ponticelli was born Dec. 7, 1897, in Bettola, northern Italy. 
To escape a tough childhood, he trooped off at age 9 to join his brothers in France, eventually becoming a French citizen. 


\Vhat are you doing next summer? 
May 13, to June 14, 2009 

General Infonnation Session for sumn1ers of2009 and 2010 Two sessions to choose from 
Q?'"Tuesdav. March 18th at II :45 in .\1cndoza's Jordan Auditorium Cff"Tucsday: tv1arch 18th at 5:00 in DeBartolo Room 136 
TAKE~ ADVANTAGE OF 
EARLY ADMISSION 

SUBMIT APPLICATION BY APRIL 5, 2008, FOR 2009 PROGRAMM.E 
YOUR COMPLETED FILE \VILL BE REVIEWED AND A DECISION \VILL BE MADE B\' JUNE, 2008 
YOU CAN APPLY 'TWO WAYS: 

I) ON-LINE VIA THE INTERNAIOIONAL STUDIES WEBSITE 
OR 2) FILL OUT A HARDCOPY APPLICATION AND RETURN TO LONDON SUMMER PROGRAJ\.1JVJE OFFICE 
CONTACT: Liz Reagan 305 Brownson Han 631-0622 Rcagan.9@nd.cdu 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, March 18, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Obama and the end of time 
P.O. Box 779, Notr< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining flail, Notr< Dam<. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BVSINES5 MANAGER 
Jay l'irzpauick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
AsS'!~ MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EI>ITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris !-line 
SCENE EDITOR: Tac Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Mary jesse 
ADVEiri'ISING MANAI:I'.R: Jessica Cortez 
An DF.~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Cronli 
CONTROI.LI,R: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS AnMINISTRAIOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63!-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('i74) 631-4142 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) ()31-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 ohsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the indepmdcnt, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhc students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contmt, including advertisements, is not govnncd by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to rcfi.ISe advert iscments based on comem. 
'!'he news is reported '" :Kcuratdy and ohjcc-rivcly as possihk·. llnsigned ~dirorials rcprcsem the opinion of the 111ajority of the Editor in Chid~ Managing Editor, A<sistant Managing Editors and deparnnent t•ditors. Comtn<·ntaries. letters and columns present the views of tlw authors and nor ncet-ssarily rhose ofThc ( )bscrvcr. 
Virwpoint space is available to all readers. The free exprcs;ion ofall opiniom through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
Qut•stions regardillf( Obsn-vapolicies should be directed to l:'ditor i11 ChiefMaddie IIanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
l"lu; Oh.... rvn IU!-.1''\ <;•J•J 1·<\IK"I~ '' pulol1•lu.:d Mum);~y thwu~h hi&1~ turpt duriu~ 

• 1..uu .uut ~-••.tli<OII 1"11'"'' :, L. 'T'"'" Ill 11w llh\C'rVtr 1\ SlOll lilf unc; .tlJdtml~ 
\~:,If; ~'I') hlf 111\C <oeiBl"\lo;l 
llu· Olbcr,.er i• puhh\lued .u l'<l!'ITMASTF.Il 

01•1 ~•H•th lltnmK )),,II St:n.l .1dd~, curret:tiun~ w: 
Nu••~ D.mu: IN ·)l,'i'li>·U-;--,-.1 ThcOiu,crvtl 

l'rnud1~.1l f'U"·'f(c p.uJ .11 Nuu: llm1o: J~(l Uux n9 .tnJ ll.ilhllun,ll fll ..ulut~o: ulh~• 1124 ~tlUth ll111111~ I!all Nntrr Damr, )!\,/ •\C•'t'ifl-0"'"111 
11u· ()f,.,.l V•'l 1• .1 mcmlx:t nf rhc: Auno ucd l'rr~~ All rcprutluumlt 11~111~ MC" 
rr;~rY\"d. 
Ever since I got this column, I've wanted to write about Barack Obama. At first, I wanted to praise him for being so positive and staying above the harsh rhetoric common to ambitious politicians. As a conservative (well, mainly), I wanted to express my grat­itude for the fact that he, from what I could tell, didn't hate me. It was so nice to see such a prominent Democrat refrain from constantly accusing Hepublicans of hat­ing poor people/old people/little peo­pln/Mexicans/blacks/Muslims/gays/wom en/children/polar bears/etc. I found his warmth and charm a pleasant contrast to his main rival, who I bet would like to bite my face off and eat my brain. Even his name's cool. So duped was I that I nurtured the hope that his ultra­liberal voting record was just a means to get the nomination, and that once elected he'd govern as a moderate. 
By the time I'd submitted articles I considered higher-priority, though, the "Look -this guy's not a shrill partisan jerk!" story was old news. Even impor­tant conservatives had written glow­ingly about Illinois' junior senator, or at least as glowingly as they could about a liberal, and not just because they enjoyed seeing someone giving the Clintons problems. 
My next Obama idea was more about his supporters. Friends who follow pol­itics carefully began telling me about the more ridiculous aspects of Obama mania -people actually fainting at his rallies, describing their "coming to Obama" conversions, making creepily propagandist YouTube videos, etc. By then, I'd realized his campaign was just a bunch of hot air, and that his movement was mainly a pop-culture phenomenon, a shallow fad. I found it especially amusing that most of his support, aside from black voters, was coming from the highly-educated ­the last group you'd expect to fall for smooth empty oratory (unless you're cynical about contemporary higher education, like me). I thought of Santino's question to Michael, whether he'd gone to college to get stupid. 


Once again, though, I was the last lion to the kill. Poking fun at the over­the-top-ness of Obama hype had become a common theme, as had criti­cism of his message as vacuous. So I'd decided to forget about him, and was thinking of writing an advice piece for seniors about how to enter the whitl~­collar world (item: if the ol'fice go-to girl comes to your cubicle seeking a donation for an AIDS charity, don't ask whether she'd contracted it). Then I saw tllR latest issue of Holling Stone. 
At first I thought it was a parody. It's gotta be, right? Then I realized it was­n't, and I was reminded of a book by the great Hussian Orthodox mystic/the­ologian, Vladimir Soloviev. In it, the leaders of the Orthodox, Catholic and Protestant faiths go to meet a mysteri­ous, popular world leader, who's prom­ised to usher in a new order of peace and universal brotherhood and all that good stuff. All his words are spirit and light, and there's even hushed specula­tion in some quarters about whether he could be Our Lord come back to earth, or maybe a man who'd prepare for His return, like a second St. John the Baptist. I think it was the Protestant who, in their meeting with the great man, realized with horror that he was none other than the Antichrist. 
Before you think I'm totally nuts, wait. I don't believe Barack's the Antichrist. Even if biotech develop­ments -human cloning's inevitability, recent creation of embryonic human­animal hybrids, etc. -make me believe time's near its end, there's still much that must happen before the man of sin appears. Besides, there's a goofiness about Obama and his cult that won't be found with the Antichrist. But there's a point-and r think we've reached it with Obama-where gross­ly unmerited adulation and adoration stops being funny, and starts being sin­ister. And there's a point too where a man can no longer deny responsibility for the cult-like following he's gained. Even though I'm deeply cynical, rarely surprised at man's capacity for self­love and little shocked by any sugges­tion that most people end up damned, I still think normal people would be at least a bit bothered by the veneration Obama's received. Hmnembor Monty Python's Brian? I'm conceited myself, and I was siekened by my own surprise graduation party. But Obama seems perfectly comfortable being treated like a god. And I believe it takes a spfl­eial, espeeially evil, man to accept such worship. 
With the ongoing On-Eaghl's-Wings­ification of' tho Church, many Catholics consider tlw idea of thn Antichrist an embarrassing anachronism. That's one reason lw'll manage to gain power. Those who do still look for his entry into history are likely to expect a bloodthirsty savage riding a chariot of human skulls. That's another reason he'll fool so many, for he'll be more Lennon than Lenin. 
Don't get me wrong-thcml's plenty about Obama's politics I consider pro­foundly evil. For instaneo, his opposi­tion to laws protecting babies born in botched abortions (amazing how the little stinkers resist being chopped up). Indeed, the odiousness of his positions is one reason he keeps his speeches away from pesky specifics and policy. But it's his ability to inspire religious fanaticism toward himself, and his delight in it, which I lind most disturb­ing, even chilling. And it's these fea­tures of his candidacy that I think will be of most lasting significance. 
Greg Yatarola is a 1999 alumnus. His address is gregpy@hotmail.com. lie wishes Notre Dame would drop the charade and just give the Laetare to Ted Kennedy. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER PoLL
News Sports Bill Brink Ellyn Michalak Br~eky I logan Jared Jediek 
Who will go further in this year's 
Katlyn Smith Laura Myers 
NCAA tournament?
Graphics Scene Matt IJudson Tae Andrews 
Men's Basketball 
Viewpoint 
Women's Basketball 
Kara King 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver. com 

Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is our choices ... that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities. " 
J.K. Rowlin~ English novelist 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 18, 2008 page 11 
An eye for an eye ... 
There are certain videos posted on YouTube that have become Internet cult classics. An interview of a kid at a carni­val, "Zombie kid like turtles" has four million views. The adorable British brothers in "Charlie bit my finger -Andrea again!" have been Laidman watched twelve mil­lion times on High Sounding YouTube. A clip of a Words toddler boy with an endearing and comical laugh, simply titled "Hahaha," boasts 48 million views. 
These videos offer thirty seconds or a minute of humor, but give viewers little else. And while sites like YouTube have begun to play a role in the political process -evident with the abundance of videos and channels dedicated to cov­ering the 2008 presidential primaries ­videos that offer wisdom alone are largely ignored by the internet commu­nity. 
"Victim to Panel: No to Death Penalty, No to Revenge," is one such clip. With only 1, 700 views, it doesn't even begin to compete on YouTube's "most viewed" page, but the testimony offered in the video is perhaps the most insightful and comprehensive statement about the death penalty that I've encountered over several years on working on the issue. 
Aundre Herron is a former prosecutor in California whose eldest brother was murdered in 1994. In this YouTube clip, filmed during hearings on the death penalty currently occurring in California and posted by the group California 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Sheen deserving 

When I received the e-mail regarding who I wanted to be the speaker at the 2008 Commencement, one name came to mind: Martin Sheen. I was excited to hear that he is being awarded the Laetare Medal. Thus, I have to respectfully dis­agree with Jay Rowley ("Sheen doesn't deserve Laetare Medal," March 17), who argues that Sheen is not a "genius". 
First, the man is a fine actor. Have you ever seen The West Wing? The show won an Emmy for Best Drama four straight years. That has to count for something. In it, Sheen plays President Josiah "Jed" Bartlett, the best fictional president ever (James "Get off my plane!" Marshall in Air Force One comes in a close second). Bartlett got a B.A. in American Studies from none other than the University of Notre Dame. After getting a Ph.D. from the London School of Economics, he won a Nobel Prize, taught at Dartmouth, served as Governor of New Hampshire and then saved the free world as President of the United States. 
He speaks fluent Latin, memorized the Bible and makes the Press Corps sing the Notre Dame Victory March. Obama!Hilary!McCain have nothing on this man. Our University owes a great deal to this fictional President and the fine actor who plays him. 
Finally, Martin Sheen has given us two other fine actors of our day: Charlie Sheen and Emilio Estevez. Anyone who has seen The Three Musketeers or The Mighty Ducks knows how crucial each of these sons was to the movie. Thus, Martin Sheen deserves the Laetare Medal for his great acting and the great acting sons he fathered. 
Tae Kang semor Keenan Hall Marchi? 
Crime Victims for Alternatives to the Death Penalty, Herron describes her ini­tial reaction to her brother's death as one of vengeful vigilantism. She says she wanted to pick up a gun and roam the streets in pursuit of her brother's killer. 
But given time to reflect and heal, Herron explained to the panel, she reached an insightful position on the death penalty that does not forget the real rage and desperation felt by vic­tims. 
"I understand that this sense of revenge is a very legitimate emotion, but it is not a legitimate basis for public policy. I think we denigrate our own noble ideals when we use revenge and we use the public fist for the purpose of killing our fellow human beings." 
Bud Welch, who spoke at Notre Dame in early November 2007, lost his daugh­ter in the Oklahoma City bombing of 1995. Like Herron, Welch initially react­ed with anger, only later to arrive at his stance against the death penalty. Speaking in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune on Nov. 7, Welch said to a group of Notre Dame students: 
"The very idea that this revenge of killing another person is going to some­how help you to heal ... it's impossible. I was trying to go through the healing process while I was living with this revenge, and you can't do it." 
Another speaker who visited Notre Dame this fall, Dr. Michael Radelet of the University of Colorado-Boulder, argues against the death penalty and for the families of murder victims in anoth­er way. He is involved in fighting for a reallocation of funds from maintaining Colorado's capital punishment system to paying for re-investigations of cold cases. 

Rather than seek the so-called highest form of revenge for only a few families, this movement asks that resources be used to work toward answers for all families impacted by the tragedy of murder. 
Herron, too, points to the financial irresponsibility of the death penalty in California, where 114 million dollars are spent each year to uphold the death penalty system: 
"It is a stunning irony, I think, that even as the governor [of California] is about to announce a deficit of fourteen billion dollars, we can still find funds to kill those who kill-all the while pro­claiming that killing is wrong. We can pay prison guards more than teachers, and exalt state-sanctioned killing to a place of greater importance than healthcare and housing, than paying workers a living wage, than protecting our children, our seniors, the disabled and the disadvantaged." 
According to Aundre Herron, a woman who has worked both as a pros­ecutor and a defender, who has "com­forted surviving family members and counseled convicted murderers alike," and who has suffered through the mur­der of her own brother, "The death penalty is not about justice, it is about revenge." 
As a Catholic community, we at Notre Dame must act in the interest of the vic­tims of violent crime, and join in a growing national discussion on shifting public funds from capital punishment to straightforward initiatives that care for the victims of violent crime and their survivors (including helping them to pay for funeral expenses or obtaining grief counseling). We must work toward developing possibilities of giving justice to communities impacted by murder without allowing emotion to become an accepted basis for the law. 
During this season of Lent, and espe­cially during Holy Week, we can consid­er the death penalty in another light, as we recall the execution of Jesus. As members of the Christian faith we follow a man who forgave his killers even as he neared his last breath; we have a responsibility to examine the modern death penalty and challenge the conven­tional wisdom regarding justice and revenge that are often used to support it. 
Andrea Laidman is a senior political science and peace studies major, and the Director ofNotre Dame Against State Killing (ND ASK), a campaign for a moratorium in Indiana. Her column's title recalls advice given to John Adams by his wife, Abigail: "We have too many high sounding words, and too few actions that correspond with them." She can be contacted at alaidman@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

...r;o, WHAT YOU'Rt ~VING \~ THAT TH~R~~ ALOT MOR~ TO TH~ GPRING HOLI~AY THING THAN A~UNCHN JbLLY ~~NG,f. 
THE OBSERVER 

cEN E 
~======================================================== 

By RYAN RAFFIN 
Assistam Scene Editor 
Beat Pyramid, the debut album from England's These New Puritans starts ofl' predictably, given its name. with a big stomping drum-sample. 20 sec­
onds later. the jangly guitar line cuts in. and it seems like the British Isles have produced another hip post-punk band, probably one hyped into obliv­ion. Listen intently to this first song, tlw unusually titled "Numerology AKA Numbers", and you can hear more than just Bloc Party version 2.0. In fact, These New Puritans are far from the normal crop of Gang of Four rip-off's, they are an entirely different breed. The 

The group relies heavily being watched by experts". This then !lows into a smoothly melodic chorus, 
on drum samples, loops 

with cryptic lyrics about God and and other forms of elec-waiting for something. It's a wild tronic programming to song, where in less than three min­utes, the group proves that eccentric­
form the backbone oftheir 

ity and accessibility are not mutually
esoteric sound. exclusive. 
group is nearly as avant-garde and experimental as post-punk can get. 
The group relies heavily on drum samples, loops and other forms of electronic programming to form the backbone of their esoteric sound. Beats are cen­tral here, but not in the mainstream hip-hop sense of making the most watered down, accessible sound possible. No, These New Puritans are more focussed on using percussive ell'ects and loops as a weapon, using them to beat you into submission. Everything else is secondary -vocals, guitar, bass and key­board all serving to baek up and complement the percussion. On "Infinity Ytinifni", there is no guitar or bass at all. just keyboard and huge, eehoing drums, with singer Jack Barnett's half-sung vocals floating over the song. The nearest sounding con-
Beat Pyramid 
These New Puritans Label: Domino Recommended Tracks: "Numerology AKA Numbers," "EMs" and "MKK3" 

temporary to the band is the similarly beat-intensive Battles. There aren't many post-punk outfits that sound like this or for that case, in all of music. 
The band has pop chops as well, and they reveal them on the surprisingly catchy single "Elvis". One line claims "what will happen next. we have no clues," succinctly summing up what it's like to listen to this album. Ilere, an ominous bassline leads into a verse with the paranoid exclamation that "we're 
"MKK3" is a quiet, brooding track that updates Joy Division's melan­choly for today's short attention span culture in less than two minutes. "Navigate-Colours" continues the Joy Division fixation before dissolving into looped vocals and beats that fade in and out. In fact, nearly all of the songs on Beat Pyramid offnr something of interest, with its seeming tug of war battle between conventional and oflbeat sound. You might not think that the idea of mixing late '70s post-punk with modern day electronic programming could sustain a full length album, but These New Puritans pull it off surprisingly well. Perhaps that can be attributed to brevity, by not allowing any­thing to repeat for a long enough time to get boring. The twelve songs on the record, not counting the four sub-30 second interludes, play for a mere 35 minutes. For the non-mathematically inclined, that works out to around three minutes per song. Songs 
zip by, making their point and ending. It's a direct method of song writing that serves the group well. 
These New Puritans have put forward an impressive effort with their debut album, challeng­ing the listener and pushing post-punk in new directions. Not content to merely rip ofl' their fore­bears, they borrow from other genres, melding everything together into one unique sound. There are moments where the bands that influence them shine through, but these are only for brief seconds. Each song is distinct, but overall the album has a cohesive sound, easily identifiable as the work of one group. If you're looking for something a little different than your normal fare, this would be a great place to start. 
Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, March 18, 2008 
page 13 

but if you had a 
Mychal Stanley 
puter, multiplayer person shooters 
Scene & Heard
old hat. But no one seen the likes or before. 
In this game, we could live out all our Nintendo fantasies. We could beat the crap out of that annoy­Mario, or that yellow rat Pikachu. One 
d control the pink ball of terror that is Kirby the he was meant to be used: to dominate all com­Life was good. 
Just two years later, on Nintendo's new console, Smash Bros. Melee was released on her 3rd, 2001. I admit. I bought a Gamecube 
so I could play SSBM. Melee took what was per­and made it more perfect. (I know there are a 
of Melee haters around here who still continue to play original Smash Bros. You guys are sick and wrong.) More characters, more moves, more stages, better graphics, Melee had it all. Or so I thought. 
For nearly seven years, we lived and died in the 
of Melee. We memorized ever pixel of every stage, every move of every character, and argued passionately for our favorites. We did this for nearly seven years, until just last week. 
On March 9th, 2008, the greatest day in the histo­ry of mankind, the pinnacle of human achievement 
bestowed upon the waiting faithful. Like manna from the heavens, Super Smash Bros. Brawl descended upon the ready masses. And it was good. 
A cast of 35 characters including the likes of Sonic the Hedgehog and Solid Snake return to brawl on new stages with new moves. Being a lifelong Sega fan, I know how much o!' a disconnect it is to be playing as Sonic on a Nintendo console, but at least I can use the spiky blue blur to destroy Mario all I want. 
Nintendo has simplified the controls a little bit, allowing new players to jump in easily. But there still remains a depth of control that allows veteran players to show off their skills (and lack o!' social lives) whenever necessary. There is also the addi­tion of Final Smashes, which are random items that give players the ability to perform a single powerful 
There are 41 stages, some old, some new, and redesigned from previous games. Unlike the 

Photo courtesy Super Smash Brothers fans can now wield the power of link on the Nintendo Wii. 
previous two games, almost all of them are dynam­
ic. Obstacles can be destroyed, and things change as night turns into day, or winter turns to spring. It's amazing the amount of detail they have loaded into the stages, and I don't see myself getting tired of any of the levels soon. 
Besides that, they've added a richer single player game. While Melee attempted to have a single play­er adventure, it was weak and shallow. Brawl's sin­gle player game has much more depth and fun, but still pales in comparison to the times when you can play with three of your friends. After all, this was mean to be a multiplayer game. 
While I don't have Wii myself, I can walk down the hall and into any room and find people playing the game. Much like I did with Melee, I can definite­ly see myself buying a Wii just for this game. And I bet I'm not the only one. 
While admittedly fantastic multiplayer games like Halo, Rock Band, and Call of Duty 4 have stolen our hearts the past couple of years, we must remember to gather to praise and give thanks for the latest installment in the greatest multiplayer franchise that has ever existed. Let's brawl. 
The views expressed in Scene & Heard are those ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect those The Observer. 
Contact Mychal Stanley at wstanley@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 18, 2008 
NHL 

Sharks' teatn-record 11-game winning streak ends 

Oilers top team in shoot-out; San Jose has earned 23 points in 12 games despite disappointing start to season 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE -Just a month 
ago, Jeremy Hoenick wasn't 
totally sure his struggling San 
.lose Sharks would make the 
NIIL playoffs, even with all 
their talent, experience and 
depth. 
After the longest winning streak in franchise history, Hoeniek's only remaining question is whether the Sharks can ride this wave all thf~ way into June. 
San .lose's club-record 11­game roll ended Sunday night, but the 2-1 shootout loss to Edmonton still pro­duced the Sharks' 23rd point in 12 games. Led by a rejuve­nated captain, a new def'enseman and a tireless goalie, San Jose has replied to the doubters who saw the preseason Stanley Cup favorites' first 60 games as a disappointment -particular­ly the five before their win­ning run. 
"We had that five-game los­ing streak, and when you're in a playoff race and you get scared of actually missing the playoffs. it gets your atten­tion." said Roenick, recalling a miserable trip from New Jersey to Philadelphia right before the streak began. "Everything started going right at that time, and it just built on itself. It's an energy, and everybody thrives off it. We feel really confident right now. 

With 93 points, the Sharks (42-21-3-6) have leaped three points ahead of Anaheim and four in front of Dallas in the get, Wilson's typically detail­even better than San Jose He has six goals and three for Patty to get going, and he tight Pacific Division after oriented staff has posted a expected. He immediately assists in the 10 games since told us he was going to get mostly trailing for 4'! months. spreadsheet outside the lock­assumed a lead role on the he learned he would stay in going, and he has." Only Detroit, the overall NIIL er room with every playoff Sharks' power play, logging teal, including the Sharks' Evgeni Nabokov is likely to leader seven points ahead of contender's point total and heavy minutes and scoring 11 only goal against Edmonton. get just his third night off all San Jose, has a better reeord. remaining schedule. points in 10 games. Marleau insists the trade year when the Sharks play at 
"With a little bit of luck, we "Absolutely, every single Maybe Joe Thornton is rub­deadline made no difference league-worst Los Angeles on might be able to reel Detroit day," defenseman Craig Rivet bing off on him: Campbell is to him, even when his depar­Tuesday night, but San Jose in," eoaeh Hon Wilson said. said when asked if he cheeks living at his childhood ture from his only NHL team has won eight straight road "But you want to just keep on the standings. "Guys are very buddy's Silicon Valley home seemed to be part of every games -after winning 10 plugging and win the games aware of what's happening. until he finds a place. rumor emanating from straight earlier in tbe season. in hand." We're in a dogfight to try and "It's easier to play on this Canada. The NIIL's best road team 
San Jose also has two get second place. Guys know team with as much talent as "He can say that he wasn't (25-8-3) is the first club in games in hand on both of its the repercussions if we don't. we have," Campbell said. worried all he wants," NIIL history with two road division rivals. putting the We want to be the team that "Everybody on the ice is Roenick said. "The fact of the winning streaks that long in Sharks in control of their has the home-ice advantage." capable of scoring. I feel matter is that we all get wor­the same season. hopes to avoid a rough first­The Sharks seemingly have pretty fortunate to be in a ried at that time, not just "We've been doing it on the round playoff matehup. The had every advantage ever lineup like that." Patty. After it did pass by, I road all season," said Paeifie winner will get the sinee defenseman. Brian While Campbell was the think he did settle down and Jonathan Cheeehoo, the No. 2 seed in the Western Campbell arrived from the Sharks' biggest addition, put those worries out of his Sharks' second-leading goal Conference postseason, while Buffalo Sabres two games Patrick Marleau seems like a mind. This is a game for the scorer with 22 after a slow the second-and third-place into the winning streak. new player as well. After free of mind, and if you get start. "If we ean just start teams are almost certain to Campbell, a two-time All-Star struggling mightily through cluttered, you're going to doing it at home consistently, play each other in the first and a cornerstone of the first 60 games, Marleau look out of place. I think he we're going to be a tough round. Buffalo's back-to-back con­has been outstanding since feels much better for it. matchup for anybody in the 
.lust in case the players for-ference finalists, has been the trade deadline passed. Everybody has been waiting playoffs." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3\1.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT WORK flexible. no experience needed. customer sales/service, conditions apply, ages 18+, 574-273-3835. 
www. workforstudents.com 
Need babysitter for 2 kids. Flex hrs. Good pay. Solid Catholic family. Email: mbrammer@ sbcglobal.net 
FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offering 'flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com 
Newly remodeled 3 bed 1 bth home for rent walking distance to college. Call 847-507-7444. 
5 bedroom house just off Angela & 31. Available now & for next year. 2 baths & laundry. 232-6964. 
For rent: Two story house ready for immediate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame. bus stop in front of house, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage, new furnace and central air, new kitchen including appliances, large living room, free trash removal. Garage available for car-extra. Call 289-4071. 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR CALL 574-234­2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 

3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, 
fireplace, 2-car garage, 10x20 deck, deluxe appl. 
Avail. for Aug. 2008. 

Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683­5038 or 574-340-1844. 
Ode to Phil In my life In my heart In my face Engineering to Accounting Indifference Tony: be my roommate. l"m Phil 
PERSONAL 

PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn. OP. at 1-7819. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg· nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Adopt: Active, young, loving couple, teacher and business owner, wish more than anything to raise your newborn with care, warmth and Jove. Expenses paid. Please call Josette and Tim 1-800-418-0230. 
Bus trip to Munster, IN for the performance of the story of Rockne of Notre Dame on Sunday, April 9. Package includes bus, fabulous brunch, & ticket for show. $77/person. Call 574-291-5869 for info. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assault­ed, visit http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/rape.shtml 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, March 18, 2008 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER"S \VlRE SERViCES page 15 

Women's 

rank team 
1 Connecticut (49) 2 North Carolina(1) 
3  Tennessee  
4  Stanford  30*3  
5  Maryland  30·3  
6  LSU  27•.5  
7  Rutgers  24·6.  
8  TexasA&M  26·7  
9  Duke  23~9  
10  California  26•6  
11  Old Dominion  294  
12  Baylor  24*fi  
13  Oklahoma St.  25·7  
14  Oklahoma  21~8  
15  NOTRE OAME  23·7  
16  Kansas St.  21·9  
17  West Virginia  24·1  
18  Utah  27·4  
19  Louisville  24·9  
20  George Washington  25·6  
21  Vanderbilt  23·8  
22  Marist  31·2  
23  UTEP  27-3  
24  Virginia  23·9  
25  Ohio State  22·8  

APTop25 Men's Basketball Finai.POII 

rank team 
1 North Carolina (53) 2 Memphis {13) 3 UClA(5) 4 Kansas{1) 5 Tennessee 6 Wisconsin 7 Texas 8 Georgetown 9 Duke 
10 Stanford 11 Butler 12 Xavier 13 Louisville 14 Drake 15 NOTRE DAME 16 Con nectlcut 17 Pittsburgh 18 Michigan State 25·8 19 Vanderbilt 24-7 20 Purdue 26·7 21 Washington State 2H 22 Clemson 2H 23 Davidson 26·ti 24 Gonzaga 25·7 25 Marquette 24-9 
1,158 .. 
·1,091 1,027 1,014 952 85S 817 788 711 705 552 435 477 436 434 426 371 352 2.63 222 21S 113 
86 
523 493 418 377 364 253 232 174 

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Mt. Saint Mary's vs. Coppin State 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
N BA BASKETBALL 
Nets at Bulls 
8:30 p.m., CSN 
Celtics at Rockets 
9:30 p.m., TNT 
MLB 



Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va. ­Like most major lea­guers, the New York Yankees don't get too excited about Grapefruit League games, especially when a bus trip is involved. 
Tuesday's spring train­ing road trip will be dif­ferent. 
Derek Jeter, Alex Rodriguez and the Yankees will board a bus at their Tampa,. Fla., training complex to catch a flight to Virginia, then bus to Blacksburg for an exhibition game they all want to play. The Bronx Bombers vs. the Virginia Tech Hokies. 

"All the players are looking forward to it," Jeter said Monday. "The players that can't go want to. I'm sure it will be emotional, especially for the student body." 
It was 11 months ago this college town became the focus of a horrified nation after a gunman killed 32 people on cam­pus, and then himself. 
People around the world rallied behind Virginia Tech and the community, and the Yankees were among the organizations that offered overwhelming support, donating $1 million to the Hokie Spirit Memorial 
IN BRIEF Harmon to coach US men's 
tennis team in Beijing First Andy Roddick, now Patrick McEnroe. 
The United States' men's tennis team at the Beijing Olympics will be missing the top player and the cap­tain from the squad that ended the country's 12-year championship drought in the Davis Cup. 
McEnroe told the U.S. Tennis Association he did not want to return as Olympic tennis coach, a job he held at the 2004 Athens Games. Instead, Rodney Harmon will lead the American men in Beijing, pend­ing U.S. Olympic Committee approval. 
"I just felt like, I've been there, I was lucky enough to have the experi­ence," McEnroe said Monday in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. "I've been the cap­tain for eight years. It seemed like a good opportunity for someone else to have that experience." 

Fund and asking if they could come play a game. 
They'll do it Tuesday afternoon in a stadium packed with 3,000 stu­dents who won a lottery for tickets, 1,000 faculty and staff, and victims of last April 16th. 
Virginia Tech coach Peter Hughes still gets choked up when he thinks about that day, and the one coming. 
"Everywhere in life we've got guys that talk and guys that do things," the second-year Hokies coach said. "And when the Yankees call and say, 'Hey, we want to help out. We've got to do some­thing. Here's our idea: we 
Study questions results of 
growth hormone use 
NEW YORK -Athletes who take human growth hormone may not be getting the boost they expected. 
While growth hormone adds some muscle, it doesn't appear to improve strength or exercise capacity, according to a review of studies that tested the hormone in mostly athletic young men. 
"It doesn't look like it helps and there's a hint of evidence it may worsen athletic performance," said Dr. Hau Liu, of Santa Clara Valley Medical Center in San Jose, Calif., who was lead author of the review. 
Growth hormone, or HGH, is among the performance enhancers baseball stars Roger Clemens and Andy Pettitte were accused of tak­ing in the blockbuster Mitchell Report. Clemens denies using the hormone, while Pettitte admits using it. 
want to come play and here's a million dollars.' How proactive is that? It blows you away, their generosity." 
The Yankees have their own history with massive tragedy, playing in the same city where the attacks on the World Trade Towers claimed thousands of lives on Sept. 11, 2001. 
"I really had a new appreciation for life after that," Jeter said. "I think it brings attention to how precious life is. You real­ize it's going to be a spe­cial trip and you can't take anything for grant· ed. This really puts things in perspective." 

Indiana forms committee to 
search for new head coach 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -While Indiana prepares for its first-round game in the NCAA tournament. the school said Monday that a former trustee will lead a 1O-member commit­tee to search for a replacement for dis­graced coach Kelvin Sampson. 
The head job became vacant last month when Sampson resigned amid allegations of NCAA violations. Dan Dakich, an assistant under Sampson and a former Indiana player and assis­tant under Bob Knight, took over as interim coach for the rest of the sea­son. 
Harry Gonso, a former Indiana quar· terback and attorney, will lead the search committee, which includes ath· letic director Rick Greenspan and for­mer Hoosier player Wayne Radford. 
No timetable for the selection was 
. announced, and Gonso said committee members would not comment publicly on progress until a decision is made. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 18, 2008 
PGA 

Woods looks to maintain perfect 2008 in Florida Swing 
Associated Press 
I>OHAL -The outcome has never been more inevitable. Tiger Woods has never looked so invincible. 
The world's No. I golfer faced a 25-foot birdie putt on the final hole at Bay llill, and the moment he settled over the ball and the crowd grew quiet, it no longer mattered that Woods had not made a putt this long all week. 
This one was for the win. 
For most players, making such a dutch putt would be a can~or highlight. For Woods, it's more like a summer rerun. 
"You know what he's going to do, right'?" Arnold Palmer whispered to those around him right before Woods rapped his putt down the slope and watched it turn sharply to the right and tumble into the cup for a one-shot victory. 
For Woods, it is the ultimate thrill. 
"It's knowing that you have an opportunity to end the tour­nament, and it's in your hands," he said. "Whether you do it or not remains to be seen. It's like having the ball with a few seconds to go. Do you want it or not want it'? I would much rather have it in my hands." 
Lately, it has been nothing but net. 
The Florida Swing long has been known as the road to the Masters, which is three weeks away. Woods already has his game at warp speed, and he's lapping the field. His victory Sunday in the Arnold Palmer Invitational was his fifth in a row on the PGA Tour and his sixth straight worldwide, a streak that spans six months and is the longest overall of his incomparable career. When he won seven straight tour events in 2006-2007, second only to Byron Nelson's 11 in 1945, Woods lost three times over­seas. 
Now, even the purists must wonder if Woods can go an entire season without losing. 
"It's unbelievable, isn't it'?" Steve Stricker said Monday. "You think that one of these times, he's not going to get it done. But he continues to do it. And now you expect it. You just learn with him that nothing is unexpected." 
Woods' latest victim was Bart Bryant, who did everything right and never felt so helpless. 
Bryant twice made birdie to tie Woods for the lead, shot a 6 7 in stifling heat and waited in the scoring trailer to see if Woods could beat him. There was no television in the trailer, and Bryant didn't need one. 
He heard a roar that rattled the trailer, and Bryant forced a smile and slowly shook his head. 
"That's why he's Tiger Woods," he said. 
Stricker felt that way outside Chicago the second week in September, when this winning streak started. He had a one­shot lead in the final round when he got to the 12th hole, looked down toward the green and saw Woods make a 50-foot birdie putt to catch him. Woods went on to a two-shot victory. 


He can sympathize with Bryant. 
"That's all you can do some­times is shake your head and laugh," Stricker said. "That's what it's getting to be -laugh­able." 
Golf is more global than it was a half-century ago, so Woods' win­ning streak is complicated. This is the third time he has won at least five in a row, and he also won on the European Tour last month, shooting a 31 on the back nine to rally from a four-shot deficit. 

And he won the Target World Challenge in December, although that doesn't count because it was a charity event that Woods hosts for 16 top players from the world ranking. For what it's worth, Woods won by seven shots. 
Woods is so dominant that he has won seven of his last eight times on the PGA Tour, the excep­tion being a runner-up finish to Phil Mickelson at the Deutsche Bank Championship on Labor Day. He's an incredible 16 for 25 since the 2006 British Open. 
"What he's doing now, you can't even fathom it," Bryant said. "You just can't explain it. It's just incredible. Just what he did today is more evidence of this weird zone he's in. And he's been in it his whole life." 

Are you in for a difference? Come join us at the Puerto Rico Center for SocialIf you've thought of Concerns. We are receiving applications for tenoffering your talent; volunteering positions in Puerto Rico. The interviews ifyou dream of helping will be held in March 25, 26 and 27 at the CSC. create a better way of To download the application and gather information,living for those in need; visit www.prcsc.org.if you want to challenge yourself, The PRCSC is a non-profit organization committed to improve the quality of life in communities with limitedlearn, economic resources. By matching volunteer interesttravel, and skills with the needs of the community, theand give; PRCSC promotes the well being of the residents while then, we need to talk... providing enriching experiences of volunteer work.  

Tuesday, March 18, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tennessee earns top seed in the vvo111en's NCAA tourney 
Connecticut, Maryland and North Carolina fill out top four spots; rival Lady Vols and Huskies could meet in finals 
Associated Press 
Tennessee. Connecticut. 
Maryland. North Carolina. 
Those No. 1 seeds-all familiar powerhouses to col­lege basketball fans and all previous winners-anchored the NCAA women's tourna­ment bracket, with the Lady Vols opening defense of their championship in the Oklahoma City Regional. 
Connecticut and Tennessee didn't meet this season for the first time in 13 years. That could change April 8 in Tampa with the national championship on the line. 
"It's Tennessee and Connecticut. I think there's always a lot of hype," said Tennessee coach Pat Summitt, whose team led by All­American Candace Parker opens up Sunday against Oral Hoberts. "My mind is not on anything else but getting our team better." 
Before the two could meet, Connecticut must get through n11 w r iv a I Rut ge r s . T h e Huskins are the top seed in Greensboro. and the Scarlet Knights arn No. 2. Rutgers handed Connecticut its only loss this season. 
"With so many teams to choose from it's kind of iron­ic," Connecticut coach Geno Auriemma said. "I guess Hutgers is the No. 8 seed in the country? I find that hard to believe, but I guess they are. If I were them, I'd be questioning a little bit what's going on."· 16 Cornell on Sunday in pus -after they won the four Final Fours. First-year and to our program, just how 
Hutgers coach C. Vivian Bridgeport, Conn. Atlantic Coast Conference coach Van Chancellor hopes hard we worked throughout Stringer stared at the televi­UConn, ranked atop the AP tournament there last week. to continue the streak and the course of the entire sea­sion in disbelief when the poll for 12 of the final 13 Instead, her team might finally win a national champi­son." announcement was made that weeks, is hoping to get to the have to face second-seeded onship for the Lady Tigers. Frese delivered twin boys in the Scarlet Knights would Final Four for the first time LSU in New Orleans for the The only real surprise late February, but is back as have to face Connecticut to since 2004. The Huskies lost right to go to the Final Four. among the top seeds was the Terrapins seek their sec­advance to to LSU in the If that hap-Maryland ond national championship in the Final regional final pens, it getting the three seasons. Four. last season. would be No. 1 in Stanford, behind preseason 
"I didn't Connecticut's the fourth Spokane All-American Candice think there four seniors time in six o v e r Wiggins, has won 18 straight was any have added y e a r s "With so many teams to Stanford, games and is trying to way on "It's Tennessee and motivation: If N o r t h choose from, it's kind ofironic. which was become the first Pac-1 0 team God's earth they don't Carolina No. 2. to make the Final Four in a
Connecticut, I think there I guess Rutgers is the No. 8
that this make it to has had to Maryland decade. 
would hap­is always a lot ofhype. My Tampa, they face a seed in the country?! find that lost in the "I think sometimes it's hard p e n , " mind is not on anythinig would become lower­hard to believe, but I guess semifinals (because) people don't see us Stringer the first seede.d of the ACC play," Stanford coach Tara
else but getting our team they are. IfI were them, I'd be 
said. "I am Huskies' class team play­tourna­VanDerveer said. "If the just stunned better." in 20 to have ing close to questioning a little bit what's ment to world was fair, it would turn a n d never made it home. going on. Duke. the other way. We have a shocked. Pat Summit to the Final "I don't "I tell great team, great leaders. We This is a Four. The really have you, we're have great players. We're
Tennessee coach Julie Schroeder-Biek
mindblower. Huskies are a n y ecstatic," really excited about playing in I just led by fresh­thoughts," Belles coach said Terps the tournament." assumed man star Hatchell c o a c h While the Big East and Big that they Maya Moore, said when Brenda 12 both have eight teams in would ask who became a s k e d Frese of the tournament, there are us to go the first Big about the the No. 1 nine first-timers -Cleveland through East freshman d r a w . seed. "We State, Cornell, East Tennessee North Carolina, they have a to win Player of the Year. "We're just ready to play. obviously feel like you play State, Fresno State, Miami very similar style to our play North Carolina coach Sylvia ''I'm going to wait until the entire season for this (Ohio). Murray State, Texas­and we didn't see them this Hatchell, however, was clear­after the tournament's over to moment. The fact that our San Antonio, UTEP, and year. If I were a betting ly frustrated by her team's say anything." non-conference schedule real­Wyoming. woman I would have lost all draw. She had lobbied for the The Tar Heels open play on ly prepared us for now, to "I want to ·Congratulate our my money today." Tar Heels to be sent to Sunday against Bucknell. play in one of the toughest players," UTEP coach Keitha 
The No. 1 seeded Huskies Greensboro -about an hour LSU and senior Sylvia conferences, to go 30-3. I Adams said. "Young ladies, (32-1) will open against No. west of the Chapel Hill cam-Fowles have made the last think it's a tribute to our team you've made history today." 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 18, 2008 
OLYMPICS 

EU, Australia oppose boycott of Beijing Games over Tibet 
Associated Press 
BIWO I' HI KI{AN.JU, Slovenia-Amid ns<:alating violnnc<' in and around Tibet, tho nwssagn from around the world was dear: "l.nt. th1~ games bngin." 
l·:uropnan nations and Olympir. rommittnns said Monday Llwy opposed a boywtt of tlw Beijing Camns over China's handling of tlw unn•st in Tilwt. And most Pvcryorw nlsn who spoke out. from Hussia to tlw Unit('() StatPs to Australia, nrhond that approach. 
"UndPr no ,·irrumstancP will wn support tlw boycott. Wn are I00 pPrrPnt unanimous," Patrick llirkPy, tlw lwad of tlw l~uropnan Olympir Committnns, told Tlw AssoriatPd l'wss. 
Tlw HJ sports ministers and Olympil" rommittPPS said sports should not Ill' linkPd to surh a political issuP and that prPvious Olympic boyrotls had limited impart. 
"Not one world leader has rom<· out with tlw suggestion of a boycott and no loss a pnrson than tlw Dalai Lama" is against it. llickny said. "A boycott is only a punishnu•nt of thn ath­ldcs." · 
Slownn Sports Ministnr Milan Zvnr. who is chairing a mnnting of top I~U sports ol'lkials from tlw 27 nwmbnr statns and Olympic committ<~ns, said it was no dil'l'nnmt on tlw govPrnnwnt sidn. "I am against a boycott of thn Olympic (;anws in China." Zvnr said. 
Christiane Hohmann. a spokeswoman tiJr the EU's exne­utivn commission. said "such a boycott would not bo thn appro­priate way" to voien concerns of human rights or rights of those in Tibnt. 
World 50-meter butterl'ly champion Holand Schoeman, hownver. supports ealls for the IOC to take a stand. · 
The IOC "should stand up and say, 'Tho way thcsP people are being trnated is not aecept­abln, "' thn South African swim­mnr said. "Either you put an nnd to this or else. The 'or else' could lw extrnme or it could be a snt of conditions." 
From its Colorado headquar­ters, the U.S. Olympic Committnn witnrated its stance that an American boycott is out of the qunstion. 
"Put tognthnr a ranking of the worst idPas ever conceivnd and 'Oiym pic boycott' would bo at the top of that lisi." USOC spokesman Darryl Seibnl said. "Otlwr than unnoe<~ssarily and unfairly punishing athletes. Olympic boycotts accomplish absolutP!y nothing." 
Bussia warnnd against turn­ing tlw lkijing Olympics into a political ganw. 
"Wp would like to underscore that nfTorts to politicize the holding of tlw 200S Sum mnr Olympi!' Camns in China arn unaeceptablo," thn govornment said. 
Added Australian Foreign Minister Stophon Smith: "I very strongly belirwe that we should not in any way bring the Olympics or call the Olympies into question." 
Erica Terpstra, the head of the Dutch Olympic Committee, said it is wrong to burden sports with such problems, and "it really has to be for the politi­cians." 
"There was no call for a boy­cott whatsoever, even though there is great concern about what happens there," Terpstra addnd. "And I have an addition-to do our sport and not get' involved as a tool for politics." 


Australian Olympic Committee president John Coates contends that a boycott would only harm the athletes. 
"It is not the role of the IOC to take the lead in addressing such issues as human rights or politi­cal matters, which are most appropriately addressed by gov­ernments or concerned organi­zations," Coates said. 
On Monday, Tibet's governor promised leniency to anti­Chinese protesters who turned themselves in before the end of the day, as troops fanned out to quell sympathy protests that have spread to three neighbor­ing provinces. 
The fiercest protests against Chinese rule in almost two decades have embarrassed China's communist government and hurt its efforts to have a smooth run-up to the Aug. 8-24 Olympics. 
Europe has never questioned th<~ right for tho Chinese to stage tlw games. On Friday, a summit of' EU leaders critieized China's response to demonstrations in Tibet but did not threaten a boy­cott on human rights grounds. 
Togay Bayatli, prnsident of the Turkish Olympic Committen, strossed it was up to business leaders and politicians to take the initiative. 
"Our countries aro doing busi­ness there," Bayatli said. "Everybody is going thore." 
Economic relations between the 27 -nation EU and China are moving closer. Bilateral trade doubled between 2000-05 and reached $370 billion in 2006. Europe is China's largest export market and China is Europe's prime source of imports. 
Zver has argued that political pressure through sports doesn't work, saying the boycott of the 1980 Moscow Games was large­ly ineffectual at a political level. At the same time, it badly hurt the Olympic movement. 



al concern: 'keep your hands ofT my athletes."' 
That idea was echoed by Claudia Bokel. head of the ath­lete's commission of the European Olympic Committees. 
"We are very concerned as athletes but we have been working on the qualification for the games for a long time. It is our existence," said Bokel, a fencing silver medalist for Germany. "We, as athletes, think we should have the time 
Please join us for cocktails & Hors d'oeuvres to introduce the Notre Dame and Saint Marys Faculty and Staffto 
an Epcon Community
the fastest selling community 
STONEBRIDGE VILLAS
in Michiana 
at Edison lakes 
Ranch Villas starting in the S190s
March 20th and 21h 2008 

5:00pm to 8:00pm 
Beer & Wine will be served Hors d'oeuvres provided br 1 LASALLE illG HILL 
.::t ~•Nt <..ol~l,.,,_., ~ Hto'•"'"'' t\lt ..l'> 
RSVP appreciated 
RSVP by March 12 to be entered in the drawing for a$50 Gift Card jim@g90re.com or 574-247-0770 stonebridgecondos. net 


Tuesday, March 18, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Howard leads Magic past Cavaliers with 23 
Jefferson has double-double in Timberwolves win; Grizzlies snap four-game skid; Bibby drops 23 on Wizards 
then extended it to 16 in the fourth when Miller hit a 3-point­er and followed it with a spin­ning layup with just under 7 minutes to play. 
Memphis eventually pushed its advantage to 21 points down the stretch and sent the Bobcats to their fourth straight loss, and further hurting Charlotte's chances of reaching the eighth spot for the Easter Conference playoffs. 
Charlotte missed all five of their shots outside the arc in the second half, while Memphis con­trolled the middle with a 56-32 advantage in the paint and out­rebounded the Bobcats 49-42. 
Charlotte led 47-42 at the break. 
Memphis shot poorly to start the game, missing seven of its first eight shots. There were dunks blocked and layups missed by the Grizzlies, which con­tributed to Memphis hitting only about a third of its shots before finishing at 38 percent in the half -including shooting just 1-for-7 on 3s. 
Also, the Grizzlies were 5-for­12 from the line in the half. 
Initially, the Bobcats couldn't capitalize on Memphis' poor shooting, allowing the Grizzlies to cut into an early lead. However, Charlotte maintained the advantage through the half, building it to 14, while shooting better than 50 percent until the final 2 minutes of the half. 
Associated Press 
The Orlando Magic found their shooting touch beyond 23 feet. 
Hashard Lewis made three of five 3-pointers in scoring 21 points, Dwight Howard had 23 points and 13 rebounds and the Orlando Magic beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 104-90 Monday night. 
Orlando shot better from 3­point range (43.8 percent) than it did overall (39.5 percent). The Magic won despite getting outscored 22-3 on fastbreak points and 46-34 in the paint. 
"The main focus is to get the ball inside to Dwight," Lewis said. "Obviously he demands so much attention and they can't guard him 1-on-1. They try to clog the paint and _they leave us wide open out on the wing, so we take what they give us." 
LeBron James had 30 points, nim1 rebounds and six assists for Cleveland. Delonte West had 16 points and Sasha Pavlovic added 14. 
Cleveland must have known it wasn't their night when Jameer Nelson. who was 2-for-12 from the field, sank Orlando's 14th 3­pointer on its 32nd attempt. It rimmed out, then bounced off the baekboard and in with 2:30 left. 
"They made shots that they didn't make in the first half," James said. They are a team that shoots the ball very well. They 
Brand ne 


hit a lot of 3-pointers, and when they do that it is tough to come back. We just never recovered from that." 
Redo Turkoglu had 18 points and seven rebounds and Maurice Evans had 10 points for Orlando. Nelson had seven assists but only six points. 
Cleveland led 45-40 at half­time, and by as many as 10 in the third quarter before Orlando made a run. Evans, Turkoglu and Lewis each hit consecutive 3-pointers and Nelson capped it with a 3-point play to give the Magic a 73-72 lead at the end of the third quarter. 
"We had to change our eover­age and they still hit a couple on us," Cleveland coach Mike Brown said. 
James nearly kept Cleveland in the game by himself in the fourth, scoring seven of its first nine points. Four of them were on seemingly effortless dunks. 
But the Cavaliers went more than four minutes without a bucket, missing three straight free throws (one from James and two from Zydrunas Ilgauskas). 
Turkoglu sealed the win with a 3-pointer to put the Magie ahead 89-81 with 5:35left. 
Timberwolves 99, Clippers 90 
Al Jefferson had his 48th dou­ble-double with 22 points and 14 rebounds, Ryan Gomes seored 19 points and the Minnesota Timberwolves beat the Los Angeles Clippers Monday night. 
Minnesota won for the fourth time in six games and moved past Seattle into fourth place in the Northwest Division. Jefferson trails only Orlando's Dwight Howard, who recorded his 60th double-double Monday, among NBA leaders in that category. 
Corey Maggette had 34 points for Los Angeles, which concluded a five-game road trip by losing its fourth straight. Tim Thomas added 22 points. 
Minnesota went on a 13-4 run early in the fourth quarter to take an 81-70 lead. Craig Smith had three quick points to open the period, Rashad McCants hit a 3-pointer and a long jumper before Kirk Snyder made two long-range jumpers. 
McCants scored 16 points, Snyder 14 and Smith 11 for the Timberwolves. Marko Jaric had 10 assists. 
A 3-pointer by Maggette pulled Los Angeles to 95-88 with 2:33 to play, but the Clippers could get no closer. 
Maggette, who also scored 34 points Saturday in Washington, has scored at least 30 points seven times this year. This was the second time in six weeks, and fifth time in his career, that Maggette had back-to-hack games with 30-plus points. 
But he and Thomas got little help, especially with C Chris Kaman missing his fifth straight game with a lower back injury. 
furnished townhomes 
for this Fall Semester, 2008 
2 blocks east of the Notre Dame athletic fields, off Willis Street 
A limited number of new Irish Crossings three and four-bedroom townhornes, specifically geared for today's college student, are now available for lease for this fall semester. 
No more old school housing. 
Larger than an apartment, these tovvnhomes also include a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in fully· furnished family room 

• 
Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser. closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & Cable 

• 
Separate laundry room with washer & dryer included 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
large deck 

• 
Two-car attached.garage, plus three additional parking spaces 



Cuttino Mobley scored just 10 points, shooting 3-for-15, and the Clippers' reserves were 5-for-17 from the field, getting outscored 31-10. 
Minnesota finished the first half making six of seven shots ­including a 3-pointer and layup from Gomes -to take a 4 7-44 lead at intermission. Gomes had 15 in the first half for Minnesota and Snyder 10. Thomas had 13 for the Clippers and Maggette 11. 
Grizzlies 98, Bobcats 80 
Mike Miller had 18 points and 13 rebounds, helping the Memphis Grizzlies snap a four­game losing streak with a victory over the Charlotte Bobcats on Monday night. 
Juan Carlos Navarro led Memphis with 21 points, Hakim Warriek scored 19 and Darko Milicic added 11 points and 1 0 rebounds. 
Derek Anderson had a season­high 17 points for the Bobcats, and Jared Dudley seored 14. The Charlotte starters scored only 36 points in the game 
Bobcats leading scorer Jason Hichardson had eight points ­13 below his average -and Gerald Wallace scored 10 -half of his average. The two were a combined 7 -for-26 from the field, while Raymond Felton was 3-for­14, part of Charlotte shooting 41 percent. 
The Grizzlies built the lead to double digits in the third period, 
NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
ft>Oiball 
.)!.~d;;JI, .• !"""'-·~"-, 
All this for S6501month per bedroom. 
In\
lease today and move into your brand new townhome for fall semester 2008. 
ltJ J 

lAC(
Call Diane at 574.261-3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossings.com. 
........._,/' 
N.DA\Iiklk hdds 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 18, 2008 
NCAA 
continued from page 24 
57, in the Conference USA championship game. They had previously lost their last two games as well, one against 
UTEP, before winning three straight in the conference tour­nament. 
Janielle Dodd leads the Mustangs in scoring with 15 points per game, followed closely by Delisha Willis with 12.3 . .lillian Samuels shoots 
"Our fans should be ableto go to the game. 
Charel Allen Irish guard 
38.2 percent from 3-point again," Allen said. range for SMU. The Mustangs Allen expressed cautious con­had an eight-game winning fidence in her team's abilities streak in the beginning of the to play deep into the tourna­
season  and  a  ment.  
seven-game streak near the  "Right now we are  "We could go on a little six­ 
end. The Irish have faced thmn twice, with each team  just so focused on SMl!, so we will look ahead after we-play  game winning streak and you would never know we lost  
winning oncn. The  them."  two  straight  
last game was in  games,"  she  
the son.  I983-84 sea­ Charel Allen  said. If the  Irish  
The  location,  Irish guard  win, they will  

about an hour and a half away from Notre DamP, will allow loyal fans to travel and see the gamn. 
"I would love to be elose to homo," Irish guard Charel Allen said. "Our fans should be able to go to the ganHl. Our fans are great at the home games and I feel they will make the trip to Purdue and that will be so helpful for us." 
WMU 
continued from page 24 
ment, Gumpf said the team still has work to do on defense. She credited the defensive problems to the 


fact that the team has only been able to practice outside at Notre Dame 
twice this  sea­ 
son.  The  
weather  has  

kept the team inside where they have spent most of their practice time focusing on hit­ting. "We're doing the best we can to get in 
"But once we get on dirt every single day I think we'll get a lot better." 
Deanna Gumpf Irish coach 
reps," Gumpf said. "But once we get on dirt every single day I think we'll get a lot bet­ter." 
One strong spot when the Irish are on the field has been the pitching of junior 
"I really don't know anything except they beat UTEP in the linals and carne in third in their conference," McGraw said. 
The team, McGraw said, was excited about the chance to play, 14 days after their last game. 
"I think we are definitely 
face the win­
ner of No. 4 seed Oklahoma and No. 13 seed Illinois State, but Allen said the team isn't thinking about the second round. 
"Hight now we are just focused on SMU, so we will look ahead after we play them," she said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Brittney Bargar. Bargar has posted an 11-5 record so far this season along with a miniscule 0.89 ERA. 
"She's getting smarter," Gumpf said of Bargar. "She has a very confident air 
about her." Gumpf 
anxious play," she said. "We had some refer­ees come in the other day just to stay in that game shape." 
Allen said the team had been running to keep in shape. "We're really looking forward to playing 
described the Broncos as "scrappy." She pointed to Western Michigan's speed and ability to hit the long ball as two aspects her team would have to shut down in order to be successful. "Playing them at home isn't easy, 
Gumpf said. "Their strength this year is their offense and our pitchers will have to do a good job." 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 

LETS PLAY ITALIAN THIS SUMMER 

LEARN ITALIAN AT NOTRE DAME THIS SUMMER 
ROIT 10115 -INTENSIVE BEGINNING ITALIAN is a 6 week, 6 credit course meeting from June 17th until July 31st MTWRF 8:30-10:30/11:00-12:00 
It is like a double shot of espresso in the morning Ill 

Tuesday, March 18, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
TENNIS 
Nadal, Blake claim victory 
Davenport, Ivanovic dominate women's Pacific Life Open play 
Associated Press 
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. ­Defending champion Rafael Nadal defeated Donald Young in their first meeting, and James Blake evened his record against familiar foe Carlos Moya in third-round matches Monday at the Paeilic Life Open. 
Nadal beat his 18-year-old American opponent 6-1, 6-3. Blah took a methodical 6-3, 6-4 victory over Moya. 
Two-time women's title win­ner Lindsay Davenport bounced back from a second­set loss to defeat Chan Yung­Jan 6-4, 5-7. 6-2. Ana Ivanovic, ranked No. 2 and the top seed since Justine Henin is skipping the tourna­ment, advanced with a 6-3, 6­0 win over Tathiana Garbin. 
The 21-year-old Nadal, sec­ond in the rankings to Roger Federer, benefited from Young's inconsistency. 
Although he was able to match Nadal stroke-for­stroke in some rallies and also hit several hard winners that brought roars from the crowd, Young's inexperience was evident at other times. 
After hitting a routine fore­hand out to end a long rally in the second set, Young slammed his racket to the ground in frustration. 
Soon after, he banged an overhead volley into the net, shaking his head at missing the easy shot. 
Young won just seven of 17 points when he went to the net and Nada! was 6-of-7. Young made 38 unforced errors, 13 more than his Spanish opponent. 
Although just some three ynars older than Young, thren-time French Open 
champion Nadal obviously has a huge edge in experi­ence. 
"Well, I think he's young," Nadal said, describing how the match went. "I think he started very nervous. So I tried to score in the begin­ning, and he had some mis­takes." 
Young agreed. 
"Obviously I was really nervous," he said. "It's not the first time I played in front of a lot of people, but it's the first time I played No. 2 in the world." 
Asked if his nerves had calmed down by the second set, Young said, "Yeah, losing 6-1, I think they go away. But overall, it was pretty decent." 
Young had scored the biggest victory of his career two days earlier at Indian 
Wells, beating No. 32 Feliciano Lopez in three sets. 
The 28-year-old Blake, at No. 9 the highest-ranking 
U.S. player remaining in the tournament since No. 6 Andy Roddick was eliminated a day earlier, won for the sixth time in 12 career meetings against Moya, the former No. 1 now ranked 19th. 
"We know each other's games really well," Blake said. "I've had a lot of tough matches with him. So I was really happy with getting through it in two sets, and either way, just getting the win was something I was proud of." 
Moya, a 31-year-old from Spain, had been the oldest player left in the men's side of the tournament. 

McGraw 
continued from page 24 
there, so we're one in a row, we're undefeated this season, so that's the way we're going to approach it from now on," she said. 
McGraw also said that her team's youth helps slightly because of its inexperience in Mackey since they have not lost in Mackey. 
"I think that gives us a little 


more confidence "Well we won our last guard Charel going back. Plus game there, so we're Allen said. most our players Many Irish
one in a row."
have only played players are there once, so also from the freshmen and Muffet McGraw Midwest, sophomores are Irish coach meaning that 
undefeated at Mackey Arena," she said. 
Irish guard Charel Allen, who lost at Purdue her sophomore year during the NCAA Tournament and during the regular season (65-54 on Dec. 7, 2005), said she feels more confident winning there than before. 
"That's what I was just dis­cussing with [senior guard] Tulyah [Gaines], I was like 'At least we won there so 
"But it's a new
that feels good.' ward Becca But it's a new sea­season, so we'll see Bruszewski, son, so we'll see who hails
how it goes." 
how it goes," she f r o m said. Valparaiso, Even though the Muffet McGraw Ind., said she frish have not had Irish coach received five 
a great deal of
I. 

success at Mackey Arena, it still pres­ents a clear advantage for the Irish. 
They have a very winnable first two games (against No. 12 Southern Methodist and possi­bly No. 4 Oklahoma) before a likely showdown with Tennessee -the top-seed in the region. 
And the location seems ideal. Instead of being shuttled off to Des Moines, Iowa, or Albuquerque, N .M. -two places not known as bastions of Notre Dame women's bas­ketball fans -the Irish are 
playing instate where South Benders can easily support their team in person. 
When they first heard the bracket pairings on ESPN's selection show, Irish coach Muffet McGraw and her play­ers unanimously said they were glad to be close to home because of the support their fans can give. 
"Our fans are great at the home games and I feel they will make the trip to Purdue and that will be so helpful for us," Irish 
their families will be able to see them play. Sophomore guard Ashley Barlow, and Indianapolis native, said she received three 
-' 

or four text messages only minutes after the pairing was announced. 
"I've already gotten a couple phone calls from my family .... It's about a 45 minute drive so they will all be there -all of 
them," she 
said. 
Irish for­
or six texts in 
the first 10 

minutes after the Irish game was set. 
Notre Dame got lucky this time. They limped into the NCAA Tournament with a cou­ple bad losses, but still got pre­cious home-state advantage ­something that could prove to be a big factor in these open­ing rounds. And even with the bad karma they have in the Mackey Arena, the Irish look poised to keep dancing for at least a few more games. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Best Value 1·n Town Com·e See Whv.' 

,.,. 
:~~-InthorI Ou taotJr Tennis ana Basketball 
:~~-Free Tanning 
:~~-Heated Pool 
:~~-HelVIing Jacuzzi 
.:~~-Gated CtJm.munity 

:~~-CtJm.m unity Business Center 
:~~-NtJ ApplicatitJ.n Fees !tJr Students 
:~~-Cl(JSe ttJ everything___ far lrtJm tJrJinary! 
1.801.1. C.leve.land Rd. South Bend_.. IN 46637

~·4fJll f'fllle11 ts Phone: (574) 272-81.1.0 Fax: (574) 272-8114 llflfl. cppj . COli1 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 
ND WoMEN's GoLF 
Fresh111an Con-way leads tea111 at tourney 
Squad fresh offfirst-place finish at Invitational 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 

llot ofT a first-place finish at last week's Hio Verde Invitational, No. 20 Notre Dame coneludPd the first day of competition at the Betsy Hawls Longhorn Invitational in fifth-place with a 29-over­par 317, 14 strokes off the leader, No. 22 New Mexico. Freshman Katie Conway lead the Irish in scoring on the day, finishing up with a 5­over par 77, tied for 11th overall. 
A strong field of 17 com­petes this week at the par 72, 6,344-yard course at The University of Texas Golf Club in Austin. Tex. Close behind New Mexico, No. 5 Florida ended the first round with a 17-over 305. No. 32 Texas 
(308) and No. 6 Arkansas 
(311) fill the gap between the leaders and Notre Dame. 
Coming off her second win of the season at the Rio Verde Invitational, Irish standout So-Hyun Park closely trails fellow freshman Conway, shooting a 6-over 78 on the day. She leads Notre Dame in scoring this season with a 
72.81 average and was named Golf World Player of the Week in light of her recent victory. 
Sophomore Annie Brophy, whose sixth-place effort last week marked her career-best finish, ended the day with an 8-over par 80. Junior captain Lisa Maunu finished with a 10-over par 82, and sopho­more Kristin Wetzel shot a 13-over par 85 to round out the Irish squad. 
The Betsy Rawls Invitational continues throughout the week, with the second round concluding today. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


-
Tuesday, March 18, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS 
BASEBALL 

Weather postpones game 
By LORENZO REYES and FRAN TOLAN Sports Writers 
Back when Notre Dame head coach Dave Schrage spoke at the seventh-annual Opening Night Dinner in February, he spoke of Monday's Opening Day game against Central Michigan as a day that would hopefully be filled with warmth, sun, green grass and most importantly for Irish fans -baseball. 
Unfortunately for all those in attendance, there was only one of these things present at Frank Eck Stadium for the St. Patrick's Day opener -and even that was in short supply. Due to inclement and wintry weather, action was suspended in the middle of the sixth inning with the Chippewas up 3-2 and the bases loaded and two outs. 
A make-up date of May 12 has been announced, but both squads are still awaiting word for the procedure of the restart of the game. 
Several make-up scenarios are on the table. Either the action will be called as a 2-2 tie or the game could be postponed to be completed at the point of the last full inning (also a 2-2 tie) May 12. 
The Irish bats seemed poised to break open the contest and give freshman starting pitcher Brian Dupra the early run support nec­essary to pull otf a victory when senior Brett Lilley ripped a dou­ble past the Chippewa first base­man. Sophomore David Mills then followed with a sacrifice bunt that pushed Lilley to third base. A.J. Pollock then singled up the middle to score Lilley and put Notnl Dame up 1-0. 
Junior first baseman Evan Sharpley's fielder's choice moved Pollock into scoring position, allowing classmate Jeremy Barnes to bring home Pollock, 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
Zamler, and their No. 2 sin­gles, sophomore Michelle Mulder. Both Zamler and Mulder are strong top players for the Brits this season, each going 3-2. The real threat is when they join forees to beeome Albion's No.1 doubles team, going 4-1 this season. Their next challenge will most likely be Saint Mary's No. 1 doubles of Gebert-Hurley. 
"Winning our doubles will give us an advantage," Gebert said. "We need to start off strong in each match, and keep the intensity up through­out. We have a very good chance at beating them, so long as we play to our poten­tial." 
The Belles travel to Albion today to take on the Brits in their conference opener at 3 p.m. 
"Our matches are all going to be tight, so we must stay positive," Gebert said. "Giving up will not bn an option. I beli1we we will rise to the occa­sion." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

giving the Irish a two-run advan­tage. 
Central Michigan would not go away quietly, and followed with a pair of runs of its own in the next inning, nullifying the lead. In a frustrating series of events for Notre Dame, it Central Michigan used infield singles to chip away at Notre Dame's lead. With two runners aboard, Chippewa senior Noah Lankford'a one-out, two­run double knotted the game at two. Dupra promptly retired the next two batters, leaving Lankford stranded. 
Dupra ran into some trouble, but managed to escape without any earned runs until the sixth frame, when he hit senior Jeff Helps with a pitch with the bags juiced bring one in. The ominous clouds began to break open, causing the umpires to suspend the game. 
The Irish will return to the dia­mond tomorrow when they face Xavier at the Frank Eck Stadium at 5 p.m. Freshman Hyan Sharpley will take the mound against the Musketeers in search of his first win of the season. 
Today the Irish were trying to build off of a successful weekend where they won 2 of 3 games. 
Notre Dame was poised to sweep il<> three games in the Irish Baseball Classic in San Antonio this weekend before squandering a seven-run lead against Texas­Pan American Sunday. The Irish beat Buffalo 13-1 Friday and shut out Southern Illinois 4-0 Saturday before falling to Texas­Pan American 10-8. With a 2-1 record for the weekend, Notre Dame improved to 7-7 on the season. 
Junior right-hander David Phelps surrendered just one run on four hits in seven innings of work to pick up his second win of the season against Buffalo. 
The Irish oll'ense gave Phelps plenty of breatlling room, rncord-

ing 12 hil<> in the rout. Fmshman third baseman Greg Sherry led the balanced Irish attack, going 3-for-3 with three runs scored. Sophomore designated hitter David Mills went 2-for-2 with two HBis. Sophomore hurler Steven Mazur and freshman Cole !Judson each tossed a scoreless inning to close out the victory. Senior Wade Korpi, senior Tony Langford and junior Kyle Weiland kept the Salukis at bay as junior second baseman Jeremy Barnes led the Irish to a 4-0 over Southern Illinoi.<;. Barnes pounded out three hil'>, inducting a seventh inning solo home run to put the game out of reach. Korpi and Langford eombined to load the bases in the seventh but Langford struck out the final two Salukis batters of the frame to preserve the lead for Notre Dame. Langford worked a per­fect eight inning and Wei! and closed out the contest. Sophomore centerfielder A.J Pollock went 2-for-4 with a run scored in the win. 
The Broncos ended Irish hopes for a perfect weekend, scoring runs in the seventh inning to come from behind and notch the win. The Irish took a big lead after scoring six runs in the fifth inning. Hoss Brezovsky led off the frame with a home run and the Irish continued to roll, knocking out seven hits before being retired. But Texas-Pan American dawed back, plating six runs of its own in the seventh to cut Notre Dame's edge to 7-6. The Broncos completed their come­back with three runs off of Mazur and Johnson in the eight inning. Johnson took the loss for the Irish in his first deci.<>ion of the season. Barnes went 2-for-4 with an HBI in the losing ell'orL 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu, Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

••·•· ·.... !\;)if:~ii::. +iF ···• )•$iM.. . ()iii·F .:.i!!lilfiiL ••· · 
WriteSports~·confacfChris Hine at chine@nd:edu 

Tuesday, March 18, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLAcK DoG 
. ANI> WITH 


(i.ollol(l. t>CWN 'Tl1E cAAPPE~, Yoo'!tE ALL-P~TTY MI!C.H 
~WED ONCE Y'DV G-ltAI>VATE. 
TIIAT'~ \.MY WE-SRD!J6+1T IN 
AN E:xPIORT TO HELP Vou 
THIUlU6+1 THIS T~S'ITIOI\IAL 
PE:It-loD: CAPTAIN .JG>gt..ESS. 
LOLLERSKATES 
ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 
AV!~. St. 'Vcr\'\>a!5 
lA."IN"'·VI"" Ct 
T\-IANIC.S, F-oLKs:. 
You !(NOw, I've:_ StEJIJT A L..DT I!>F TIME 
IN TAANSITioNAL­
I'BI:IOt>,S. MY' 1..0-"~ST OIJE. WA,S FoVIZ-TEEN YEARS •.. ANI> 
LOVNTIN(,., 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
Al-L RI(,+(T 1 LE-T'S TAtc.E 
A LOD I< AT YouR 
IRAN.SITION I"LAN. 
PHASE 1: 
MOVI 1\lG-­
BAC..KIN 
WITH YouR PARENTS 
DIDIER LEWIS 
LIZ MURPHY & SARAH MUSCARELLA 
57 Business sessions that drag 
63 Seed-to-be 
64 Israel's Abba 
65 French seas 
66 Mythological 
reveler 67 Hair line 68 Zebras, to lions 
Down "Taste that beats 
the others cold" sloganeer, once 2 Morning waker­
upper 3 "Vive_!" 4 "Horrors!" 5 Directives 6 Father 
Sarduccr­longtime "S.N.L." character 
7 Pipe joint 8 Epitome of slipperiness 9 Home of the 
Casbah 1 0 Castle defense 11 Ex-hoopster 
Manute 12 Course for a recent emigre: Abbr. 13 King in un palacio 18 Contestant's mail-in 19 The Oscars of magazine publishing 24 Jean (Marilyn Monroe. 
affectionately) 25 Disrobe 26 Zinger 27 Ding Dongs 
competitor 28 Board members, for short 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Peter A. Collins  
29 Looney Tunes  40 Lake _, outlet  54 Hard on the  
pig  of the Maumee  eyes  
33 Maker of  River  57  Lobos  
introductions  43 Racetrack tout  58 TV's Longoria  
34  Polo  44 Father  59 Kook  
35 Snacks dipped in  47 Father, e.g.  60 Opposite of  
milk  50 Stab  "naw"  
37 Dusting or taking  51 Forty-.  __  61 Wall St. hire  
out the garbage  52 Un gato grande  62 Little  
39 "Yippee!"  53 Girlish boy  troublemaker  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or. with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRlON 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knure
JJIJJWID11JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
LAWRD 
I I I 

©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
r;1;fl 
ROYLOP 


-
A TICKETS MIX'-uP
riJ 
CAN RE5Ul-T IN A--­
www.jumble.com 
tWHYROT I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

] [J I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. Print answer here: rI I ]rI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: LIBEL PIKER UNCURL HANDLE Answer: One result of being riled ­IDLER 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LIST 

-
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Billy Corgan, 41; Rob Lowe, 44; Arye Gross, 48; Kurt Russell, 57 
Happy Birthday: Plunge into unknown waters and learn something new. The more you have to add to your resume or to your life experience, the easier it will be for you to find your way. Children or younger friends will make a difference to the way you view things. Don't pass up an opportunity to advance because you are too afraid to try. Your numbers are 3, 14, 19, 27, 31, 34 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You'll have to take the bad with the good today. Try to remain unbiased and passive when dealing with friends or relatives. Discussing reli­gion, politics or controversial subjects will lead to feuds. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Someone is likely to try lo make you feel guilty for doing something you want to do. Don't let this person ruin your fun. Sometimes you simply have to go it alone. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Rely on someone who has more experience and who can help you see things clearly. If you aren't certain about getting involved in something or about a change at home. take a pass. Don't make a decision without being sure. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put your heart into whatever you do. A change may not be your idea of a good time but, in the end, it will work in your favor. Don't become emotional regarding finances. Money matters will improve. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let your emotions get the better of you. If someone makes you angry, don't retaliate. Focus on making money and gettmg work out of the way rather than wasting time or spending money trying to cheer yourself up. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't be too concerned about what anyone else does. You can meet new people, make plans that .wiJI help you professionally and fmancially, start new partnerships or even pick up a new hobby. Love is in the stars and romance can be yours. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Being successful will stoP. everyone from trying to run your life. Step outside the box and do things a little differently. Someone special wants to get to know you better. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may find it difficult to keep your emotions under control especially when discussing matters that concern someone's honesty. Try not to let this matter slow you down from what's really important. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will easily fool yourself into thinking that you have more than you do. Be careful not to make promises or commitments that will put you in debt. A change of mind or heart may bring serious repercussions. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are pretty much in control, so follow through with your thoughts and actions and your timing will be impeccable. You can undertake with confidence something that means a lot to you. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Pressure may be put on you to help a cause. If it is someone you work with, reconsider your position and donate a little of your time. Don't lend money or accept others' responsibilities. It's one thing to lend a hand and an­other to be left doing everything on your own. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will get far more done working from home today. An opportunity will arise ifyou are in touch with someone you have worked with in the past. An idea you have will spark an interest in someone who is looking to make an investment. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are energetic, enthusiastic and determined to succeed. You are cre­ative, unique and not afraid to take on a challenge. You are serious-minded but love to day­dream. 
Eugenia1s Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
-· 

CROSSWORD 
Across Ashen 5 Decorative 
molding 9 Yellow shade 14 Gen. Rob!. 15 "Look both ways 
before crossing," e.g. 16 Lax 17 In front of a hydrant, say 
20 Notice for late ticket -buyers, maybe 
21 "Waking_ Devine" (1998 film) 
221gnited 23 "Uh-oh" 27 Cool, to a cat 30 They might be 
near I.C.U.'s 31 Hair removal 
product 
32 Tic-tac-toe loser 
33 Atlanta 
university 
Thing$ to so.y  
otter your r'oommcte discovers your  s.rr ~Hw. r H!IIU' ~fll:llti¥ a ,...  Olf my bad dude~ I just rtN:Ik a shl»wtr 4lld must haw: '"~fU!t fi1 Ulfi«:k  Y~ mtm~ r thflfk •fiM d4Kir lfN;k is ''INs:flul f1lf"' SDmt#hifl9"  
doOf" is locked  ffl4t dfx;,r M  
ond you're the.  
only one inside.  

36 Fran of 'The Nanny" 
38 School lady 
39 Things hidden in 17-.23-,49-and 57-Across 
41 Pawn 
42 Loch Ness 
monster, e.g. 44 Dictatorial 45 Umberto who 
wrote "The Name of the Rose" 
46 1998 song by the Goo Goo Dolls that was #1 for 18 weeks 47 Part of m.p.g. 48 Aurora's Greek 
counterpart 49 Publicists 54 Nafta signatory 55 Opposite of 
post­56 Only Super Bowl won by the New York Jets 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-'::'+":+:':+::'-! 


THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, March 18, 2008 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
McGraw sends team to NCAA tourney again 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Wrirer 
Notre Dame will hit the danec lloor for the 13th eon­seeutive year. 
The Irish (23-H) earned a No. 5 send and will play Southern Mflthodist Univf'rsity Sunday at 2::W p.m. in West Lafayette, Ind. 
Last season. the Irish me1~ived a No. 9 seed and lost in tlw seeond round, 60-51 to No. I sP-ed North Carolina after beating No.H seed California 62-59. 
Notre Dame is 23-13 all-time in tlw tournament and won the national ehampionship in 2001. 
The end of tlw season was not kind to the Irish. They 

-droppNI their last two games, including their first-round Big East tournament game -a 64­5:~ loss to Pittsburgh. Notre Dame raced to a 14-2 lead, but went H-for-27 in the half and was up only one at the break. Pittsburgh reboundnd from shooting 25 percent in the first half to hit 14 of their 32 see­ond-half shots, induding three 3-pointers to put it ahead for good. "We want to get away from that Itwo game losing strnakl and start a new streak and get busy at praetien," Irish coach MutTnt M<~Graw said. Tlw Mustangs (24-H) amassed the most wins in pro­gram history this season. They beat Texas-El Paso Sunday, 73­
see NCAA/page 20 

Lucky 13 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Sophomore guard Melissa Lechlitner drives to the hoop during Notre Dame's 70-55 win over Seton Hall on March 1. 
Coach prepared for tough game at Mackey 
Just because Notre Dame is playing in familiar territory does­n't mean that it is eomfortable there. 
The Irish drew the 5-12 game in the Oklahoma City regional, a game that will be played at Mackey Arena in West Lafayette, Ind., on Purdue's eampus. 
At first glanee, this home-state advantage sounds like a huge boon for the Irish. 
But more important than the game being in Indiana, it is being held in Mackey Arena -where the Irish have 

s t r u g g I e d Jay Fitzpatrick mightily in the past. 
Before this Sports Writer season, Notre Dame was winless at Mackey in eight tries, including a previous trip in the NCAA Tournament. The Irish lost 78-61 in the first round of the big dance in West Lafayette two years ago against Boston College, when then-freshman guard Lindsay Schrader netted a career-high 29 points. 
The Irish did get their first win in Purdue this season, a 61-48 victory on Dec. 8. MufTet Mr.Graw said she was happy to get that lirst win in Maekey Arena just to know slw ean go down there and win. 
"Well we won our last game 
see McGRAW/page 21 
SMC TENNIS 

.Belles open conference 
play against Britons 
By MEG HAN VESELIK Sports Wrirer 

Saint Mary's opens their conli.Jr­enee play today as they head to Albion to take on the Britons, who are eurrontly rankod lirst in the MIM. Tho Britons (6-0, 1-0 MIMJ st.artod oil' tlwir confi~nmce season with a win on Feb. 13 when they dPI'eated Adrian 9-0. Tuesday's mateh will be tho first meoting of tho two teams this season. 
Last season the Belles were unsuccessful against the lkiL<>. los­ing H-1 in their only rnfleting. Sophomore Camilln Cnbnrt gave Saint Mary's tlwir only victory of the day when slw dllfeated Albion's Holly lluth h-3. 7-5. The BriL<> nnd!'d last SP<L'>On 15-6, 7-1 ov1~rall, and Wl'rl' the MIAA con­ference co-champions with Kalamazoo. Tlw Bellns Wl'nt I:~­1:~. 5-:~ MIM, finishing in li>urth. 
"Wp am expPcting a vnry tough match," Cobert said. "lfwn want a rhaneo at winning tho conlim~nm titln, WH need to beat Albion. They will likely have a very competitive team, and each match will be cru­eial fi>r a team victory." 
Last Saturday, the Belles went up against the Division II Indiana Wesleyan Wildcats, losing 6-3 and falling to 4-4. Saturday wasn't a complete failure for the Belles, however, as it gave them a chance to gnt baek on the court<> and com­pete once more before Albion. Gebert and freshman Jillian llurley eaeh eontinued their indi­vidual suecess in the singles divi­sion. Gebert won her match 6-2, 6­2, putting her at 4-4, and Hurley went 6-3, 5-7, 6-3, bringing her to 7-1. On the doubles side, the duo of sophomore Lisa Hubino and freshman Betsy Heed were the only victors ti>r the Bolles, winning 8-4 and putting them at 3-3 as a pair. 
Saint Mary's biggest threats from Albion will be their No.1 sin­gles playPr, freshman Shelley 
see BELLES/page 22 

ND WOMEN'S SOFTBALL 
Irish head to Kalamazoo 
By SAM WERNER Spons Writer 
After competing in tourna­ments in Arizona, Florida, California, and South Carolina over the past month, Notre Dame will head to Kalamazoo, Mich., to take on Western Michigan University. 
Irish coach Deanna Gumpf hopes that the switch to a colder climate will do noth­ing to cool off her team's red hot hitting. The Irish scored 46 runs in five games at last weekend's Lowcountry Invitational in Charleston, S.C., including a 16-2 thrashing of Charleston Southern. 
"We've gotten better offen­sively and that showed this past weekend," Gumpf said. "We hit the ball much bet­ter." 
While she was satisfied with the offense's improve-
see WMU/page 20 





