
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 99 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 12,2008 

Breytopia fans hatred from gathering 
DuLac requires students to apply for permission from Student Activities Office to assemble 
THE 


By CHRIS HINE and 
BILL BRINK 
News Writers 
Students and Irish fans who have camped out before basketball games in what some have nick­named "Breytopia," in honor of men's basketball coach Mike Brey, were asked to vacate the area near the Joyce Center on Feb. 22. 
University officials did not say why this occurred, but one official said the practice will probably not be allowed in the future. 
According to du Lac, students wishing to assemble on campus grounds must apply for permission with the Student Activities Office. The members of the camp near gate 11 of the Joyce Center did not apply for this permission. 
In the past, NDSP did not ask the campers to leave, even though it knew about previous gatherings, according to senior Kyle Miller, 
who helped organize the camp. However, two days before Notre Dame's game against Syracuse, an 
· NDSP officer told students to aban­don their camp or face possible disciplinary action from Residence Life, Miller said. Bill Kirk, associate vice president for Residence Life, said the University will likely prohibit stu­dents from forming camps similar to Breytopia in the future. "While I understand and share the desire of students to show their support for the team in advance of important games, I think that there are better and safer ways to do so than 'camping out,"' Kirk said in an e-mail to The Observer. "For some time now, the University has discouraged the practice and for several reasons, primarily related to safety and security. I don't expect that we would be inclined 
see BREYTOPWpage 4 


Simonton condemns media stereotypes 
Former model addresses harmful effects of pop culture on women at University conference 
Simonton, founder and director of "Media Watch: Challenging 
· Media Oppression," a leading organization exposing the devas­tating effects of the media on society, gave up her modeling career in order to dedicate her life to challenging the abusive stereotypes of the commercial media and giving a voice to the marginalized victims of mass media. When she realized that she "was a part of the system which . makes women nothing more than objects and contributes to poor body image, depreciation of females and horrifying acts of violence and abuse," she refused to keep her eyes closed to the problem, Simonton said. 
see SIMONTON/page 3 


By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 
Mter being gang raped, Ann Simonton, a former fashion model who graced the covers of popular magazines and appeared in numerous television commer­cials, condemned the media's objectification and abuse of women Tuesday. 
Simonton, whose lecture, "Sex, Power and the Media" was a part of Notre Dame's "Live As You Are: 2008 Health and Body Image Conference," at McKenna Hall said the media perpetuates objectification of women through the images and messages adver­tisements send out to women which advocate poor body and self image throughout the world. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Sophon1ore sheds light on anoreXIa• 
Gilbride's letter ushers in Eating Disorder Week 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 

Sophomore Tara Gilbride sat nervously in front of her computer for five minutes before she finally hit the "submit" button, sending her Viewpoint letter, "Get the Help You Need," which would announce to her friends and campus community that she had an eating disorder. 
Her Feb. 27 Letter to the Editor may have been the perfect start to student gov­ernment's "Live As You Are: 2008 Health and Body Image Conference" taking place this week in observance of National Eating Disorder Awareness Week. 
"I know a lot of people who are struggling with eating disorders and think this is something they have to hide," Gilbride, who battles anorex­ia, said. "I feel comfortable letting [people] on campus know who don't feel comfort­able that [an eating disorders is] not a shameful thing to be struggling with." 
This week's Health and Body Image Conference is essential to bringing aware­ness of eating disorders and educating the campus com­munity about them, she said. 
"People need to be aware and be in dialogue about issues like this," Gilbride said. • 
She also said this week's events are a reminder that the University cares about tackling eating disorders and recognizes that they are a 
see GILBRIDE/ page 6 

Huerta discusses diversity at College 
Diversity lecture examines role ofwomen iJJ-immigration, social change 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Dolores Huerta, co-founder of the United Farm Workers and one of the leaders of the labor movement of the 20th century, spoke twice at Saint Mary's yes­terday addressing the issues of a woman's role in social change and immigration reform. 
Immigration reform is a hot· issue, especially in this eleetion year, Huerta said. 
"Unless you're Native American. we all came from somewhere," she said, telling everyone in the audience that they are diverse. 
Huerta said there are many important 
jobs that potentially undocu­mented immigrants have in the United States. They pick 


our crops, Huerta watch our children, take care of our elder­ly, cook our food and clean our buildings. They come here to do these jobs, :Pecause there are no opportunities for them in their own countries, Huerta said. 
"Nobody wants to leave their home to come here," she said. "They only do it out of sheer necessity." 
This necessity, Huerta said, is partially America's fault. 
Free trade with Mexico is wreaking havoc on Mexican small business owners in what Huerta called "economic colo­nization." 
For example, America sells government subsidized corn in 
see DIVERSITY/page 4 
COR 

Group discusses Catholic faculty 
faculty to fall below 51 per­By JOSEPH McMAHON cent, but the University has
Assistant News Editor 

yet to institute an official pol­icy on the subject.
The Council of 
"It's not a directive comingRepresentatives met Tuesday 
down," student body presi­
to discuss concerns raised by dent Liz Brown said. "It's an 
students during a February issue that's been floating
town hall meeting about the around for a while." 
University's attitude about 
If the University continues 
hiring a Catholic majority its current hiring practices,
faculty. 

however, it will eventually fall Last summer, Notre Dame below that quota, executive 
said that it would not allow the percentage of Catholic see COR/page 4 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 12, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

QUESTION OF THE ()AY: WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR ST. PATRICK'S DAY? 
Who vvould 
I be? 

IlBO has introduced this generation to two difTerent casts of characters who not only provide audiences with hours of entertainment, but also prnsnnt uniqun personalities to whom viewers can personally nllate. 
In 2004. "Sex and thf1 City" tragi­cally ended its six-snason long era of glory. Nnedlnss to say, I was devastat­nd. It was like I had lost four good 
friends in Carrie,  
Miranda,  Katie Peralta  
Charlotte and  
Samantha.  News  
I was hnsitant a  Production  
few ynars later  Editor  
when I learned  
that a new come- 

dy-drama would ascend the HBO throne on which "Sex and the City" once reigned. My friends all com­pelled me to give it a try, saying it's just like "Sex and the City", only with mnn. and on tlw West Coast instead of New York. 
I have to admit. although it was no replaenment for my beloved urban show, "Entourage" claimed a speeial place in my heart, and I realized that its appeal to men was as strong as "Sex and the City's" appeal to women. 
Mention tlw names Vinnil~. Turtle, t\ri. Drama or E to any male these days and he will not only know about whom you are speaking. but also feel a personal connection to one or some of the eharactnrs of this Sunday night program. Mention Medellin, Dom 's visit. or "Victory!" and audiences will smile nostalgically, as if he himself shared some speeial moment with the boys from Queens. 
Not only will male audiences remember such characters and situa­tions, but they will also compare thmnsnlves to the different charac­ters. 
Too many countless cocky male friends of mine have declared confi­dently. ''I'd totally be Vinnie." Why? Bncause Vinnifl is the smooth one, the one who is charismatic, charming, and obviously a hit with the ladies. 
Similarly, some of my self-assured female friends of mine assert, "Me? Oh. I'd be Carrie," the chic, creative and glamorous narrator of "Sex and tho City." 
It is when I ask a friend the ques­tion seriously of whieh character best describes his or her personality will he or she stop and consider that they might be a little mix of a number of charactnrs. 
For example, I often feel myself eynical like Miranda, the urban attor­ney, while at the same time identify with the romantidsm and emotion of Charlotte. 
Similarly, Bill Brink, to my left, is a self-described Turtle, but I see him as more of the charming, assertive E, taking eharge of the serious affairs that keep us all in line. 
Identifying with these characters gives us rflason to become utterly enthralled with these shows, and gives us reason to kflep coming back for more. 
The views·expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact kperalta@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

"The Vagina Monologues" will run from March 26­28, not March 24-26. Chard Allen had 1,451 points, not 1,437, after a win over South Florida and passed Sheila McMillen, nor Nicle lvey, on the all-rime scoring list. Tina Holland is Senior Vice President, nor the senior Vice President ofStudent Life, at Holy Cross College. The Observer regrets these errors. 





Greg Abbracciamento  Megan Wetekamp  Kate Berkheimer  Michelle Perone  Kelly Timko  
sophomore Morrissey  senior LeMans  sophomore Lewis  sophomore Walsh  freshman Welsh Family  
''J'm too tanned and good-looking to be Irish, so I don 't care. "  "Having brunch ,,with my mom.  "Watching Notre Dame win the Big East tournament."  "Pretending I'm legitimately lrishfor 72 straight ,hours.  "Indulging in adult-oriented ,beverages.  

a:: 
1.&.1 
::I: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 

•• 6 • 
.... 

...
~ 
<( (,) 


.... 0 HIGH 50 HIGH 40 HIGH 50 HIGH 45 HIGH 36 HIGH 40 LOW 35 LOW 25 LOW 38 LOW 28 LOW 28 LOW 35 
Atlanta 68 I 40 Boston 47 I 34 Chicago 48 I 30 Denver 52 I 31 Houston 75 I 48 Los Angeles 72 I 52 Minneapolis 39 1 28 New York 49 I 37 Philadelphia 52 I 34 Phoenix 84 I 54 Seattle 50 I 38 St. Louis 70 I 45 Tampa 75 I 55 Washington 57/ 33 

OFFBEAT 

Urine prank makes students Mark Johnson says the the pool, with her grand­ill at Tenn. high school stunt could result in a van­daughter Dineshia inside. 
CHURCH HILL, Tenn. -dalism charge. The girl can't swim so her Investigators are searching grandmother and an apart­for whomever poured dee1· 11-year-old girl sends ment complex employee urine into an air condition­Grandma's car into pool helped her to safety. No ing unit at a school in east­SHREVEPORT, La. -An injuries were reported. ern Tennessee. About a 11-year-old girl is in some The accident apparently dozen students became ill hot water after she sent her happened as Dineshia was after the prank at grandmother's car plunging trying to turn on the car's Volunteer High School in into a swimming pool at CD player. She accidentally Church Hill. Kingston Village apart­put the car into drive and it 
Firefighters were sent to ments ·in southwest hit some steps. She then the school Monday after the Shreveport. put it in reverse, sending it odor became overpowering Margaret Gober said she across the parking lot, in one classroom, and para· was in her apartment when through a fence and into medics treated students she heard a commotion the pool. who complained of outside. Her grandson headache and nausea. screamed, Gober went to Information compiled by 
Church Hill Police Chief the door and saw her car in the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 

Saint Mary's eampus ministry will host a candlelit Mass tonight at 9 in the Holy Spirit Chapel in LcMans Hall to pray for the issue of immigration and immigrants all over the world. 
Students from Sorin College will be collecting eandy dona­tions at the LaFortune Elevator Lobby tonight from 4 to 7. They will donate the candy to thfl Boys and Girls Club of South Be~d to lwlp ereatn Easter bas­kets. 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team will play Delaware at 3 p.m. Thursday on Moose Krause Field . 
The film ''I'm Not There," which tells the story of leg­endary singer Bob Dylan at dif­fenmt stages of his life and with different actors in the lead role, will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Thursday at 7 p.m. 
There will be Stations of the Cross on Friday at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 
Flipside will host an Easter egg hunt Saturday from 10 p.m. to midnight on Bond Quad. Participants will receive llash­lights and will search for colored plastic Easter eggs containing candy. 
Circle K will host an Ice Cream Social Sunday from 6:30 to 8 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
Wednesday, March 12, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Oba111a victorious in Mississippi 
Illinois senator continues to win black vote in Deep South primary 
Associated Press 
JACKSON, Miss. -Barack Obama coasted to victory in Mississippi's Democratic pri­mary Tuesday, latest in a string of racially polarized presidential contests across the Deep South and a final tune-up before next month's high-stakes race with Hillary Rodham Clinton in Pennsylvania. 
Obama was winning rough­ly 90 percent of the black vote but only about one­quarter of the white vote, extending a pattern that car­ried him to victory in earlier primaries in South Carolina, 
There was little suspense about the Mississippi out­come, and both Clinton and Obama spent part of their day campaigning in Pennsylvania, which has 158 delegates at stake in a pri­mary on April 22. 
The volatile issue of race has been a constant presence in the historic Democratic campaign, and it resurfaced during the day in the form of comments by Geraldine Ferraro, the 1984 Democratic vice presidential candidate and a Clinton sup­porter. 
"If Obama was a white 
man, he 
would not be Committee after they held early primaries in defiance of party rules. But efforts are under way to find a compro­mise that would satisfy party leaders in both states as well as the candidates, possibly through primaries-by-mail. 

Obama has defeated Clinton in primaries in South Carolina, Alabama, Georgia and Louisiana, other states where blacks cast a large share of the ballots. 
Exit polls showed blacks accounted for a majority of the ballots in all but Louisiana, where they repre­sented a plurality. Obama's share of the black vote in those states ranged from 78 
Alabama, in this posi­percent in South Carolina to
'Tm confident that 
Georgia and tion. And if 88 percent in Georgia, while Louisiana. once we get a nominee, he was a Clinton won the white vote 
His triumph the party is going to be woman (of with ease. seemed· unlike­unified.,, any color) he Both Obama and Clinton ly to shorten a would not be campaigned in Mississippi, Democratic in this posi­although the former first marathon Barack Obama tion. He hap­lady seemed to go out of her expected to last Democratic candidate pens to be way to say she did not expect 
at least six more weeks-and possibly far longer ­while Republicans and their nominee-in-waiting, Sen. John McCain, turn their attention to the fall cam­paign. 
"Now we look forward to campaigning in Pennsylvania and around the country," Maggie Williams, Clinton's campaign manager, said in a written statement that con­gratulated Obama on his vic­tory. 
''I'm confident that once we get a nominee, the party is going to be unified," Obama said as he collected his victo­ry. 
But in a race growing more contentious, he took a swipe at the way his rival's cam­paign has conducted itself. 
"We've been very measured in terms of how we talk about Senator Clinton," he said. "I've been careful to say that I think Senator Clinton is a capable person and that should she win the nomination, obviously, I would support her. I'm not sure we've been getting that same approach from the Clinton campaign," he said in on CNN. 
Obama picked up at least six Mississippi delegates to the Democratic National Convention, with 27 more to be awarded. He hoped for a win sizable enough to erase most if not all of Clinton's 11­delegate gain from last week, when she won three primar­ies. 
Obama began the night with 1,5.7.9 delegates, to 1 ,47 3 for Clinton. It takes 2,025 to win the nomination. 
Neither of the two rivals appears able to win enough delegates through primaries and caucuses to prevail in their historic race for the nomination, a development that has elevated the impor­tance of nearly 800 elected officials and party leaders who will attend next sum­mer's national convention as unelected superdelegates. 
Obama leads Clinton among pledged delegates, 1,368-1,226 in The Associated Press count, while the former first lady has an advantage among superdele­gates, 247-211. 
very lucky to to win. 
be who he is. "Some people have said And the country is caught up 'Well Mississippi is very in the concept," she said in much a state that will most an interview with the Daily likely be in favor of Senator Breeze of Torrance, Calif., Obama.'. I said 'Well, that's that was published last fine,' but I want people in Friday. Mississippi to know I'm for 
Clinton expressed disagree­you," she said in Hattiesburg ment with Ferraro's com­before flying to Pennsylvania. ments, and said, "It's regret­Obama made a stop table that any of our sup­Tuesday in Greenville before porters -on both sides, heading to Pennsylvania, too. because we both have this ''I've been praying for you," experience -say things that a man called out. kind of veer off into the per­"I believe in prayer," sonal." Obama replied. 
Obama called Ferraro's After losing 12 straight pri­remarks maries "patently and cau­absurd." "/ don't know how somebody cuses, 
Blacks, in second place is offering Clinton 
who have rebound­
the vice presidency to the
supported e d 
Obama in person who is in first place.,, smartly overwhelm­last week ing numbers with pri­
Barack Obama 
in earlier mary vic­
Democratic candidate 
primaries, accounted for roughly half the ballots 
cast in Mississippi, according 
to interviews with voters leaving polling places. 
About one in six Democratic primary voters were independents, and Clinton and Obama split their support. Another 10 percent of voters were Republican, and they preferred Clinton by a margin of 3-1. 
Six in 10 Obama supporters said he should pick the for­mer first lady as his vice presidential running mate if he wins the presidential nomination. A smaller share of Clinton's voters, four in 10, said she should place him on the ticket. 
The Republican primary provided even less suspense than the Democratic contest. Sen. John McCain or Arizona had already amassed enough delegates to win his party's nomination and was in New York, attending an evening fundraiser that was expected to raise $1 million. 
Adding to the uncertainty in the lengthening race between Obama and Clinton, Democrats from Florida and Michigan are pressing for their delegations to be seated at the summer convention. 
Both states were stripped of their delegates by the Democratic National tories in 
0 hi 0 ' Texas and Rhode Island. Obama won the Ve.rmont pri­mary, led in the Texas cau­cuses, and suffered a loss of only 11 delegates. 
But the damage was deeper than mere numbers -cost­ing him a chance to rally uncommitted party leaders to his side, and depriving him of an opportunity to drive the former first lady from the race. 
Reinvigorated, Clinton immediately began talking about the possibility of hav­ing Obama as her running mate. 
Obama ridiculed the idea, saying, "I don't know how somebody who is in second place is offering the vice presidency to the person who is first place." 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, who has­n't endorsed either candi­date, said a unity ticket was impossible. 
She said the Clinton cam­paign "has fairly ruled that out by proclaiming that Senator McCain would be a better commander in chief than Obama." 
Other than Pennsylvania, Indiana, North Carolina, West Virginia, Kentucky, Oregon, Puerto Rico, Montana and South Dakota have primaries remaining. 
BOG 





College examines chemistry funding 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 

Members of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) considered a co-sponsorship request from the chemistry department at their meeting Tuesday night. 
The co-sponsorship would help fund a trip for five senior chemistry majors to attend the American Chemical Society National Meeting in New Orleans April6-10. 
The conference will include discussions, workshops and other activities for chemistry majors. Students who attend will be given the opportunity to speak to companies and gradu­ate schools in order to help them network before graduat­ing. 
There will also be an awards ceremony for the student affili­ate schools to attend at which accomplishments in chemistry over the past four years will be recognized. 
Senior Christine Herdman presented the co-sponsorship and said that the College has been certified as an American Chemical Society School, which is a rare honor among colleges. 
The group has been fundrais­ing, but still needs more money 
SiiDonton 
continued from page 1 

"My career was based around being masturbatory material for young boys and men," she said. 
Simonton's lecture utilized images of magazine covers, designer advertisements and pornography to facilitate greater 
. understanding and discussion of the ramifications of accepting and allowing commercial media to pervade our perceptions of the physical body, gender, sex, race and violence. "Women are chopped up into pieces instead of looking at the body as a whole being," Simonton said. "Men do this as well, claiming they are 'leg men,' 'butt men,' and 'boob men.' "Women are constantly walk­ing this impossible line. They are too sexy, or not sexy enough, too feminine or not feminine enough, too revealing or not revealing enough." Emphasizing the presence of violence in mass media images, films, television, and video games, Simonton identified the "pandemic of violence against women as a result of the imagery we are bombarded with each day.'' "What these images are really telling us is being a victim is sexy," Simonton said. Showing photographs of mod­els competing for "best corpse" from the reality television show, "America's Next Top Model", Simonton questioned why our culture has chosen to treat women in such a violent way, and what the consequences of this attitude are. As a victim of a brutal gang rape, Simonton hopes to help women and men recognize the disconnect that has formed between sexual abuse and vio­lence and the commercial 
to be able to make the trip. They hope that BOG will be able to co-sponsor their trip. 
"It will be fun to go down with the seniors," Herdman said. 
In other news: 

+There will be a bus trip to Chicago on Saturday. Student Body President Kim Hodges said the trip could be cancelled if there is not enough student interest. 
+Hodges also said there will be a Life Balance Health Forum Thursday at 7 p.m. in Conference Room D. 
+Saint Mary's will be holding their annual "Meet Me at the Avenue" on March 30, Hodges said. This is one of Saint Mary's events to bring perspective stu­dents to campus. 
+Saint Mary's will be wel­coming singer Chad Perrone to campus March 26 at 8 p.m. in Dalloways, Cassie Calion, President of Student Activities Board, said. 
+President of the Residence Hall Association Cassie Quaglia announced that RHA is holding a Prom Dress Drive and asking for student donations in all of the dorms. The dresses will be donated locally. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 

media's portrayals of women. With the staggering but realistic statistic that one out of three women will be beaten, abused, or raped, Simonton wants to change the culture's thinking about the value of women and their bodies, starting with the media. 
In addition, Simonton made direct connections between the images in magazines, on televi­sion, and on the internet to the rising numbers of eating disor­ders, plastic surgery, depression and overall dissatisfaction with body image that plague women and men worldwide. The Dove Global Study of 2005 found that 90 percent of all women ages 15­"64 want to change at least one aspect of their physical appear­ance, with body weight ranking the highest. 
Simonton said because "body image comes together through very early experiences," society needs to examine what types of images and ideals the commer­cial media present to younger generations. 
"The beauty of life is that w_e all look different," Simonton said. "Where is the fun in life ifyou are always worrying about looking a certain way and fitting an ideal? Steer toward the joy and beauty of life." 
Encouraging others to chal­lenge the commercial media through her organization, speeches, and action, Simonton emphasized the importance of educating people about the reali­ties of violence, abuse, body image and the oppressive mass media. 
"We have become spectators rather than participants," Simonton said. "However, we have the opportunity every day to change things and change per­ceptions." 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 12, 2008 

Diversity 
continued from page 1 

Mexico, which is cheaper than the corn being sold and grown by the small Mexiean farmers. The Mexican farmers are then put out of business. They then come to the US to work on our farms, Huerta said. Similarly the Wal-Mart Corporation has nxpanded to Mexico and is hav­ing the same effect on small business owners, Huerta said. 
Huerta said she feels there should be legislation making it easier for the undocumented pnople already in the country to become lngal citiznns. 
Undocumented pnople add billions of dollars to our econo­my, slw said. She does not bnlinvn in deportation, as most of thn people deported are aetive and live like any other eitiznn. 
"Those are people who have bnnn hero liJr fifteen years and their kids are in school, and they get a knock on the door at 2 a.m. and say 'sorry, you have to leave,"' Huerta said. 
As far as the proposed build­ing of a wall on the Mexican 

Breytopia 
continued from page 24 

to grant approval to do so anytime in tho futuro." · 
Miller said NDSP did not explain to the students why they were asknd to leave this time. 
"They've known about it every timn we've donn it," Miller said. "This particular time they decided to nn1brcn the rule." 
Phil Johnson, dirnetor of NDSP. said lw did not know why the campers wenm't asknd to move on otlwr occasions, but said it is NDSP policy to ask studPnL<> who assem­ble on campus ~-,rrounds without a permit to lnavn. 
"If a group donsn't have permis­sion to usn campus grounds, it wouldn't lw uncommon ((Jr us to ask tlwm to discontinun what thny'rn doing," .Johnson said. 
In his P-mail to Thn Obsnrvnr, Kirk did not rnspond to questions rq{arding why studnnts worn askPd to movn on this SJWcifie oet:<L<>ion and not in tlw past. 
MiiiPr said lw IHL'> lwnn camping out l<w b<L<>kntball ganms since lm was a frPshrnan. On prnvious oc:<:asions, lw said NDSP ollknrs havn mmn by tlw camp to "make surn nobody gavn us a hard tim<'." but nnvnr asknd t.hn campers to lnavn. 
This season. Miller said Jw and doznns of otlwr studonts camped out bnforn thn ganws against PitL<>burgh, I>nPaul and Marquette bnl(we NDSP <L<>k<~d them to lmLVe prior to thn Syracuse game. 
Karen J.angley contributed to this story 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu and Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Write News. Call 631..2325 

border, IIuerta also had a nega­tive opinion. 
"We're against walls, right? Didn't we want to bring down the Berlin Wall? We want to put one between our biggest trad­ing partner?" Huerta ques­tioned. 
She is also unhappy with the fact that most of the anti-immi­gration attention is being put on Latinos. 
"There are undocumented Eastern Europeans, but no one cares," Huerta said. "They are white. [People are] against peo­ple who are brown." 
Huerta called on the audience and all people to take a stand and to be proactive. 
She suggested calling or send­ing postcards to state and local representatives asking them to be sensitive on the issue of immigration and to realize that the legislation effects peoples lives. 
"You have to think about your years and what you can do to make this world a better place," Huerta said. "If we don't do it, nobody's going to do it for us. We have to use our power." 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntay1o0 1 @saintmarys.edu 
COR 
continued from page 1 

assistant Sheena Platmoottil said. She added that the topic might be the issue that the Brown administration chooses for its final report to the Board of Trustees. 
Junior class president and student body president elect Bob Reish 
"moderate" representative was "too conservative," and "swayed the conversation to the conservative side." 
Student body vice president Maris Braun agreed, adding that many of the students in attendance were probably in support of hiring a majority of Catholic faculty. 
"When you have events like this, you sort of self-select it," she said. "I don't know if the 
students who are 
thought the passionate about meeting was "You can't really not maintaining very produc­Catholic faculty
learn a lot about your 
tive, and pro­would have
faith when everyone
vided a good shown up." environment around you is the Howard sena­to discuss the tor Erdina
same.
issue. Francillon said 
"An actual town hall  Erdina Francillon  that input from the student body  
meeting was  Howard senator  is important to  
a great idea,"  the  debate  on  
said  Reish,  this topic, adding  

who is also the student body that diverse perspectives are president-elect for next school also important when forming year. "Having a mandatory a faculty. meeting like that once a "We have to live with the semester is a good idea." day-to-day consequences of 
However, there were some this decision," Francillon said. issues with the objectivity of "You can't really learn a lot the debate. Cavanaugh sena­about your faith when every­tor Robin Link said that the one around you is the same." 
Student Union Board treas­urer Kadeja Gaines voiced concerns that instituting a quota for Catholic faculty in addition to quotas already imposed for minority and female faculty hiring may make it difficult to find quality faculty members. 
"It makes it difficult to get the best of the best," Gaines said. 
In other COR news: 

+Gaines sought the support of other COR members to help fund the memorial scholar­ship funds in honor of stu­dents who have passed away. 
She said she hoped to have several funds, including those for recently deceased students Timothy Aher and Connor McGrath, established by the end of the semester, and invit­ed other COR members, specifically the class councils, to help fund tho scholarships. 
Each scholarship requiros a down payment of $25,000, and then pays interest used to help support another Notre Dame student. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
HICKEY FREEMAN 
Factory Outlet Store 6132 Broadway, Merrillville (1-65 At 61st Ave.) Mon-Sat: 9:30 am -5:00 pm Sun: 11:00 am -5:00 pm 
219-884-8444 







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 12, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Britain attempts to build pride 
LONDON -The idea sounds simple: Build British pride with a new pledge of allegiance, a new national holiday and citizenship cere­monies for children and immigrants. 
But the proposal Tuesday from a govern­ment panel calling for the introduction of American-style patriotic rituals raises thorny questions in the sometimes fractious United Kingdom. 
Are people in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland who seek more independence eager to pledge allegiance to a united country? Will republicans who want to end Britain's monar­chy offer undying devotion to queen and coun­try? 
And does Britain really need to embrac_e the American way? This is a country where Americans' flag-waving tendencies are usually lightly ridiculed, not emulated. 
France tries to restore ties with Israel 
PAHIS -His embrace of Israeli President Shimon Peres spoke of more than personal chemistry: Nicolas Sarkozy wants to rebuild France's frayed ties with Israel, notably by echoing its tough stance against Iran. 
Peres' five-day trip to Paris this week is the first state visit the French president has hosted since taking office 10 months ago ­itself a potent message of support at a time of renewed Middle Eastern tensions. 
And during a pomp-filled dinner Monday, Sarkozy lost no opportunity to assure Peres of his friendship, saying France will always work to ensure Israel's sur­vival. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

New study finds STDs in teens on rise 
CHICAGO -At least one in four teenage American girls has a sexually transmitted disease, suggest<> a first-of-its-kind federal study that star­tled some adolescent-health experts. 
Some doctors said the numbers might be a reflec­tion of both abstinence-only sex education and teens' own sense of invulnerabilty. Because some sexually transmitted infections can cause infertility and cancer, U.S. health officials called for better screening, vaccination and prevention. 
Only about half of the girls in the study acknowl­edged having sex. Some teens define sex as only intercourse, yet other types of intimate behavior including oral sex can spread some diseases. 
Woman forgotten in holding cell 
FAYETTEVILLE. Ark. -A woman being held as an illegal immigrant spent four days forgotten in an isolated holding cell at a courthouse with no food, water, or toilet, authorities and the woman said. 
Adriana Torres-Flores, 38, appeared in court Thursday and pleaded not guilty to a charge of selling pirated COs, but a judge ordered her held because she is in the country illegally, Sheriff Tim Helder said. Bailiff Jarrod Hankins put her in the cell to await transport to jail, and she was forgot­ten. Because of heavy snow, few staff members were in the courthouse to hear her cries and pounding later Thursday or on Friday and through the weekend. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Student brings gun to high school 
SOUTH BEND-An 18-year-old high school stu­dent was arrested after police say he came to school with a loaded handgun concealed in his clothing. 
The Washington High School student faced pre­liminary charges of felony possession of a firearm on school pr.operty and was being held <tt the St. Joseph County Jail on Monday night, said South Bend police Sgt. Charles Stokes. 
The student turned the gun over to a teacher Monday after another student reported seeing the teen with the gun, said Hobert L. Zimmerman, superintendent of the South Bend Community School Corporation. 
"There wa<> no altercation," he said. "The teacher asked him for it, and the student gave it to him." 
Stokes said the student did not display the 9 mm gun or threaten any other students, and the teacher got the other students "out of harm's way" before confronting the student with the gun. 
Admiral in charge of wars resigns 
Fallon steps down over press reports portraying him as opposed to Bush's Iran policy 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Navy admiral in charge of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan announced Tuesday that he is resign­ing over press reports por­traying him as opposed to President Bush's Iran poli­cy. 
Adm. William J. Fallon, one of the most experi­enced officers in the U.S. military, said the reports were wrong but had become a distraction ham­pering his efforts in the Middle East. Fallon's area of responsibility includes Iran and stretches from Central Asia across the Middle East to the Horn of Africa. 
"I don't believe there have ever been any differ­ences about the objectives of our policy in the Central Command area of responsi­bility," Fallon said. and he regretted "the simple per­ception that there is." He was in Iraq when he made the statement. 
Defense Secretary Robert Gates told a Pentagon news conference that he accept­ed Fallon's request to resign and retire from the Navy, agreeing that the Iran issue had become a distraction. But Gates said repeatedly that he believed eager to go to war with ior officials, including Fallon 'has favored a faster talk of Fallon opposing Iran. Titled "The Man Gates, chosen by Bush to pullback. Bush on Iran was mistak­Between War and Peace," implement a revised Iraq Petraeus issued a state­en. it described Fallon as a war policy. ment lauding Fallon's serv­
"I don't think that there lone voice against taking Fallon's departure, effec­ice. "Over the past year, he really were differences at military action to stop the tive March 31, is unlikely to and I worked closely all," Gates said, adding that Iranian nuclear program. have an immediate effect together as we charted a Fallon was not pressured Gates said he did not on conducting the wars in new course in Iraq and, to leave. think it was that article Iraq or Afghanistan. His more recently, developed a 
"He told me that, quote, alone that prompted Fallon top deputy at Central shared view on recommen­'The current embarrassing to quit. Hather, Gates Command, Army Lt. Gen. dations for the future," situation, public perception thought it was "a cumula­Martin Dempsey, will take Petraeus said. of differences between my tive kind of thing" that he his place until a permanent Petraeus might be con­views and administration and Fallon had failed to put successor is nominated by sidered a candidate to suc­policy, and the distraction "behind us." the president and con­ceed Fallon, although Gates this causes from the mis­It is highly unusual for a firmed by the Senate. said recently that Bush had sion make this the right senior commander to Gen. David Petraeus, who made it clear to him that thing to do,' unquote," resign in wartime. Fallon runs the Iraq war from he wanted to keep Petraeus Gates told reporters. took the post on March 16, Baghdad but is technically in Iraq until late this year. 
Fallon was the subject of 2007, succeeding Army subordinate to Fallon, was Petraeus is likely to get a an article published last Gen. John Abizaid, who known to have differences second four-star assign­week in Esquire magazine retired after nearly four with Fallon over the timing ment, and some believe it that portrayed him as at years in the job. Fallon was and pace of drawing down might be as the top U.S. odds with a president part of a new team of sen-U.S. troops from Iraq. commander in Europe. 

PAKISTAN 

Explosions create pressure for dialogue 
Associated Press through a police headquarters and a try with military operations against 
business located near a house belong­militants near the Afghan border and 
LAHORE -The spread of terrorism ing to the widower of slain opposition even suggested that rogue forces across Pakistan Tuesday from its leader Benazir Bhutto. were trying to undermine Pakistan's unruly tribal regions to the cultural Musharraf quickly condemned the return to democracy. capital of Lahore has added to pres­"savage" bombings and said in a "He has carried out indiscriminate sure to rethink its U.S.-allied presi­statement the government would con­operations in the tribal areas that dent's approach to countering al­tinue to fight terrorism "with full have opened up new fault lines in Qaida and the Taliban as a new gov­force." Authorities have blamed Pakistani society," said Ahsan Iqbal, a ernment prepares to take oflice. Taliban and al-Qaida militants for a spokesman for the party set to part­
After two deadly suicide bombings recent surge of bombings. ner with Bhutto's in the new govern­in this normally peaceful eastern city, But some enraged Lahore residents ment. "Unless he resigns, there will pressure grew for more dialogue with blamed the Pakistani president, gath­always be a cause for all these groups militants and less punitive military ering in small groups Tuesday on the to carry on these activities." action, which President Pervez city's main Mall Road, chanting Tuesday's blasts happened about 15 Musharraf's opponents say has only "Musharraf is a dog, Musharraf is a minutes apart in different districts of fueled the violence. pimp." Lahore. The first tore the facade from 
At least 24 people were killed and The winners of last month's elec­the seven-story Federal Investigation more than 200 wounded Tuesday tions accused the former army Agency building as staff were begin­when massive explosions ripped strongman of destabilizing the coun-ning their work day. 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-----· 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 12, 2008 

Gilbride 
continued from page 1 
problem on campus. 
"It's definitely not unique to Notre Dame," she said. "It's our general culture that cases the problem." 
Although she was appre­hensive about the reactions she would receive after sub­mitting her letter, Gilbride said she had a great support system ol' l'amily and l'ricnds bnhind her that encouraged lwr to reach out to others in the campus community who may also struggln with eat­ing disordnrs. 
"Tiwrn has been an amaz­ing response," she said. "What surprises mn that it's guys and girls who have bonn contacting nw." 
Cilbridn said she has reC()ived n-mails !'rom both students and alumni thank­ing her for raising awarn­nnss about tlw issue ol' eat­ing disorders. 
"I was hoping for a positiv11 response !'rom thP Notrn Dame l'arnily. but I didn't expp,ct such a large rnsponsn. I thought I would get an e-mail or two, but the amount ol' people who responded surpassed my nxpectations," Gilbride said. "I've had four e-mails from students on campus saying they are struggling with an eating disorder or have a family member or friend struggling with one." 
Cilbride said writing the Iotter has even helped create dialogue among her own cir­ele ol' friends. 
"It has also opened up an avenue for people I thought I knew really well -friends of mine who I had no idea that were struggling [have reached out to me]." she said. 
After submitting her letter, Gilbride said she has encountered two different reactions now that people are aware of her eating dis­order. 
"Either people are extremely supportive or really uncomfortable about it. Even some of my best friends have said nothing to me and don't acknowledge it," she said. "All the responses have either been positive or people are not comfortable with it, which is finn with because it's a sen­sitive topic." 
For Gilbride, one of the grOatest challenges she faces in battling anorexia is the misconceptions that others have of the disease. 
"It's ... a me,ntal health issue. To me, it's a disease like any other and it's not something anyone chooses to have, so it shouldn't be treated as something shame­ful," Gilbride said. 
She also said social influ­ences can make it very diffi­cult to deal with eating dis­orders. 
"Images from media por­tray eating disorders as something shameful. Celebrities go into rehab in private ... and people think you should be able to control it," Gilbride said. "If you look at me you probably couldn't tell. People can hide it real­ly well. It's not just the liter­

ally stick-thin girls who have eating disorders." 
Gilbride said these miscon­
ceptions pose serious health 
risks because many people 
don't understand how grave 
eating disorders can be. 
"I think the biggest mis­conception is that they are not harmful ... you can die from them and they are damaging to your body," she said. "Eating disorders can kill you and people don:t take it seriously as they should." 
Gilbride said her eating disorder was something that she had been dealing with at some level for many years and that it will continue to be an on-going struggle throughout her life. 
"I was runner in high school and I got injured, so I wasn't doing physical activi­ty but I was watching othf)r people do physical activity," she said. "This was coupled with coming to college and the pressures any college freshman faces." 
Gilbride said Notre Dame Health Services and the University Counseling Center have been essential in help­ing her get her eating disor­der under control by provid­ing her with counselors, physicians and nutritionists. 
"Based on my experience, [the University basi enough resources, it's just that not enough people are using them," Gilbride said. "The resources are there and the University would bend over backwards to help students." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 


Harvard prof to speak at University 
Special to The Observer 
Rev. J. Bryan Hehir, an inter­nationally renowned theologian who specializes in Catholic social teaching and internation­al relations, will deliver the 14th annual Hev. Theodore 
M 

Hesburgh, 
c 0 s 0 c 0. 
Lectures in Ethics and Public Policy March 25 and 26 at N o t r e Dame. 
Twenty-live years ago, Hehir was the chief architect of the 
U.S. Catholic bishops' influential statement on nuclear weapons. 'The Challenge of Peace." He is the Parker Gilbert Montgomery Professor of the Practice of Heligion and Public Life at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government. 
Hehir will speak on "Beyond the 'Challenge of Peace': Pastoral Letter for Our Day," March 25 at 4:15 p.m.. in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The lecture will be followed by a reception in the Great Hall. 
He will speak on "The Hardest Case: The Politics and Ethics of 


Proliferation" March 26 at 
12:30 p.m., also in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. David Cortright, an expert on nuclear weapons policy and a research fellow at Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, will respond. 
Both lectures are free and open to the public. 
Hehir previously served as president and CEO of Catholic Charities USA. In the 19HOs. he was policy advisor to the U.S. Catholie Conference of Bishops in Washington, D.C. lie also has served as the Joseph P. Kennedy Professor of Christian Ethics at Georgetown University's Kennedy Institute of Ethics and as a professor in religion and 
society at  Harvard  Divinity  
School.  
Ilehir  is  tlw  recipient  of  

numerous honors, induding a MacArthur Foundation "genius" award (1984) and honorary degrees from more than 25 institutions. lie has written extensively on ethics and for­eign policy. Catholic social ethics and the role of religion in world politics and American society. His publications include "The Moral Measurement of War," "Military Intervention and National Sovereignty," "Catholicism and Democracy," "Social Values and Public Policy," and "The Moral Dimension in the Use of ForcP." 

, 



THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Wednesday, March 12, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  12,151.36  -5.45  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,795  56  574  1,34,116,329  
AMEX  2/299.39  +41.57  

NASDAQ 2,255.76 +86.42 NYSE 8,842.68 +308.31 S&P 500 1,320.65 +47.28 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,658..28 0.00 FTSE 100 (London) 5,690.40 +61.30 
1 COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +3.59 +4.60 132.60 FINANCIAL 5EL SPDR (XLF) +6.56 +1.55 25.18 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +3'.81 +1.57 42.83 CITIGROUP INC (C) +9.14 +1.80 21.49 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +4.60 +0.158 3.596 13-WEEK BILL +10.77 +0.140 1.440 30-YEAR BOND +1.84 +0.082 4.530 5-YEAR NOTE +11.05 +0.260 2.613 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.85 108.75 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.20 976.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.58 81.90 
Exchange Rates YEN 103.3000 EURO 0.6520 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9921 RRmSH POlJND 0.4983 
IN BRIEF 
Fed seeks to ease credit cns1s 
WASHINGTON -The Federal Reserve on Tuesday ramped up eflbrLs to provide more mlief to squeezed financial institutions, a coordinated action with other central banks aimed at easing a global credit crises that threatens to push the U.S. economy into its first recession since 2001. 
The Fed said it will make up to $200 billion in Treasury securities available to big Wall Street investment houses and banks. The new action is designed to ensure that there is an ample supply of Treasury securities. With strains in financial market<>, demand has grown for Treasury securi­ties, considered the safest investment in the world because they are backed by the U.S. government. 
On Wall Street, the Fed's action propelled stocks upward. The Dow Jones industrials jumped more than 180 points in afternoon trading. 
The move comes as banks and other fmancial institutions face cash crunches. 
"Pressures in some of these markets have recently increased again," the Fed said in a state­ment. "We all continue to work together and will take appropriate steps to address those liquidity pressures." The other banks involved are the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the European Central Bank and the Swiss National Bank. 
Military jet costs on the rise 
WASHINGTON -The cost of buying and oper­ating a new fleet of jet fighters for the U.S. mili­tary is nearing $1 trillion, according to a con­gressional audit that found the program dogged by delays, manufacturing inefficiencies and price increases. 
Released Tuesday, the report from the Government Accountability Office offers a sober­ing assessment of the ambitious effort to deliver a modern series of aircraft known as the F-35 Lightning II to the Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps. 
Tasked by Congress to conduct an annual assessment of the program, the GAO said costs have gone up by $23 billion since last year alone. 
Close to $300 billion is needed to acquire 2,458 aircraft for the three services and another $650 billion will be needed to operate and maintain the fighters that are expected to be flying well into the 21st century, the report says. 
Gas prices surge to record high 
Cost ofoil reaches national average of$3.2272 per gallon; challenges consumers 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -The cost of filling up the family car climbed to a record high Tuesday, adding to the challenges consumers already face with falling home values and rising food prices. 
Gas prices at the pump rose overnight to a record national average of $3.2272 a gallon. accord­ing to AAA and the Oil Price Information Service. That's a tad higher than the previous record of $3.2265. sHt last May. 
Soaring gas prices wors­en the financial plight of consumers already suffer­ing through a downturn in the housing market that has sharply reduced home prices in many markets and limited Americans' ability to tap home equity for spending. Food prices are also on the rise, partly due to rising fuel costs. 
"I used to think three bucks a gallon was all I'd pay, but I keep filling up," said Joe Gowans while gassing his Acura SUV in San Francisco one recent afternoon. "You have to use it." 
A year ago, nsmg Truck driver Mike Monnin fills his tank at a truck stop off the New York State Thruway 
demand and a string of near Buffalo on March 3. Gasoline prices hit record rates Tuesday. refinery outages had raised concerns about $108.75 a barrel, a new will rise this spring by a said. supplies. Now, the record record. dime to $3.50 a gallon. Still, because gas is so price of crude oil is the Where gas an_d oil go "''ve got to say, if they expensive, analysts expect culprit, propelling gas from here is anybody's ever go up to $3.50, that demand for fuel will rise higher although supplies guess. Many analys.ts would be the point where more slowly this spring are at 15-year highs. expect prices to moderate, I'd feel angry," said Alex and summer than in pre­
On Tuesday, light sweet while others predict oil Magby, a Morrisville, Pa., vious years. Nationwide crude for April delivery could keep rising to $120 resident who was filling demand for gasoline is off surged to a new trading a barrel, or higher. And up his tank near his New by about 1 percent over record of $109.72 on the with demand for gas Jersey restaurant job one the last 6 weeks, a trend New York Mercantile expected to rise as warm recent afternoon. ''I'd feel analysts expect to acceler­Exchange before retreat­weather arrives, analysts cheated at that point." ate if prices keep rising. ing after the Energy say pump prices could High prices are painful "We don't go visit family Department and spike as high as $3.75 a to New York cab drivers as much," said Steve International Energy gallon, regardless of what like Brandis Younge, who Bagosy, of Pocono. Pa., Agency cut crude con­happens with oil prices. spends $35 to $40 on gas while gassing up a compa­sumption forecasts for The Energy Department each day. ny car in Manhattan this year. Futures settled on Tuesday raised its fore­"Before it skyrocketed, I Tuesday. "Just try to stay 85 cents higher at cast of how high prices used to pay $25," Younge local." 

Google takes control of ad service 
tions from Microsoft and other compa­Australia and Spain. Mountain View­
Associated Press 

nies that argued DoubleClick would based Google employs nearly 17,000 give Google too much control over workers, up from 1,600 just four years 
SAN FRANCISCO -Google Inc.'s online advertising and potentially sensi­ago. long-anticipated acquisition of online ad tive information about consumer Coogle's recently slumping shares service DoubleClick Inc. is expected to behavior on the Internet. soared with the rest of the stock market turn the Internet search leader into an Besides opening up new opportuni­Tuesday, gaining $26.22, or 6.3 per­even more powerful marketing vehicle ties, Coogle's takeover of DoubleClick cent, to $439.84. The company's stock that's fueled by better insights about will create more challenges for a man­price remains down by 36 percent so consumers. agement team already grappling with far this year. 
The $3.1 billion deal, completed concerns about how the slowing U.S. DoubleClick is expected to broaden Tuesday after nearly a year of regulato­economy will affect the company's Coogle's already extensive reach in the ry wrangling, also may intensify the earnings growth this year. $40 billion Internet advertising market. pressure on Microsoft Corp. and Yahoo · Google Chairman Eric Schmidt Google has been the market's most Inc. to resolve their stormy courtship so acknowledged in a statement that the dominant player so far, generating 
• they don't risk further distractions biggest acquisition in the company's 9 more than $16 billion in revenue last while Google tries to sprint further 1!2-year history probably will trigger an year. Most of the money flowed in from ahead in the race for Internet advertis­unspecified number of layoffs after short, written ads that Google places ing. years of relentless hiring. The looming alongside search results and other Web 
Coogle took control of DoubleClick a job cuts will be concentrated in the content. few hours after Europe's antitrust regu" United States, although Schmidt said DoubleClick specializes in placing lators removed the final stumbling offices in other countries could be more dynamic, multimedia ads, a fbrm block by approving a deal that was frrst affected. of marketing that is expected to become announced 11 months ago. New York-based DoubleClick has more important in the next few years 
U.S. regulators cleared the transac­1,500 employees with offices in France, as big companies spend more money tion in December, casting aside objec-England, Germany, Ireland, Spain, promoting their brands online. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, March 12, 2008 
Lawmakers seek to ban salvia 
Hallucinogenic grows in popularity, thought to be the next marijuana 
A..sociated Press 
TALLAHASSEE -On Web sitns touting thn mind-blowing powers of Salvia divinorum, come-ons to buy the hallucino­genic herb are accompanied by warnings: "Time is running out!" and "stock up while you still <:an." 
That's because salvia is being targeted by lawmakers con­corned that the inexpensive and easy-to-obtain plant could become the next marijuana. Eight statfls have 
already placed 
"As soon as we make

restrictions on common orna­salvia, and 16 one drug illegal, kids mental garden others, including start looking around plants known Florida, are con­as Salvia.
for other drugs they 

sidering a ban No known or have previ­can buy legally. " deaths have ously. been attributed "As soon as we to salvia's use,
Mary Brandenburg 

make one drug but it was listed
Florida state rep.

illegal, kids start as a factor in 
looking around for other drugs they ean buy lngally. This is just the next one," said Florida state Hep. Mary Brandenburg, who has introduced a bill to make pos­session of salvia a felony pun­ishable by up to five years in prison. 
Some say legislators are over­reacting to a minor problem, but no one disputes that the plant impairs judgment and the ability to drive. 
Native to Mexico and still grown there, Salvia divinorum is generally smoked but can also be chewed or made into a tea and drunk. 
Called nicknames like Sally­
D. Magic Mint and Diviner's Sage, salvia is a hallucinogen that gives users an out-of-body sense of traveling through time and space or merging with inanimate objects. Unlike hallu­cinogens like LSD or PCP, how­ever, salvia's effects last for a shorter time, generally up to an hour. 
Salvia divinorum is not one of the several varieties of 
one Delaware teen's suicide two years ago. 
"Parents, I would say, are pretty clueless," said Jonathan Appel, an assistant professor of psychology and criminal justice at Tiffin University in Ohio who has studied the emergence of the substance. "It's much more powerful than marijuana." 
Salvia's short-lasting effects and the fact that it is currently legal may make it seem more appealing to teens, lawmakers say. In the Delaware suicide, the boy's mother told reporters that salvia made his mood darker but he justified its use by citing its legality. According to reports, the autopsy found no traces of the drug in his sys­tem, but the medical examiner listed it as a contributing cause. 

Mike Strain, Louisiana's Agriculture and Forestry Commissioner and former leg­islator, helped his state in 2005 become the first to make salvia illegal, along with a number of other plants. He said the response has been largely posi­tive. 
"I got some hostile e-mails from people who sold these products," Strain said. "You don't make everybody happy when you outlaw drugs. You save one child and it's worth it." 
An ounce of salvia leaves sells for around $30 on the Internet. A liquid extract from the plant, salvinorin A, is also sold in vari­ous strengths labeled "5x" through "60x." A gram of the 5x strength, about the weight of a plastic pen cap, is about $12 while 60x strength is around $65. And in some cases the extract comes in flavors includ­ing apple, strawberry and spearmint. 
Web sites such as Salviadragon.com tout the product with images like a waterfall and rainbow and include testimonials like "It might sound far fetched, but I experience immortality." 
ND law prof calls for urgency against terror 
Special to the Observer 
Immediately following the attacks on the United States of Sept. 11,2001, the United Nations developed an interna­tional legal framework to deprive a! Qaeda of funding. 
"Unfortunately, that sense of urgency 
has been diluted... it no longer exists," N o t r e Dame law professor J i m m y Gurule 


said. Last Gurule week, in a BBC interview, Gurule, who was undersecretary for enforcement at the U.S. Department of the Treasury when the Sept. 11 attacks occurred, eriticized U.N. efforts to impede a! Qaeda.'s financial operations. 
"The reality is that the sanctions committee of the 
U.N. is no longer freezing ter­rorist funds," said Gurule, who added that the reasons for the failure vary from nation to nation. Some coun­tries find it cumbersome, and others may not see the value of the terrorist-designation process anymore. "But the duty to freeze the assets of terrorists is not a disere­tioqary one. It is required by a U.N. Security Council reso­lution, which has the effect of international law," he said. 
Gurule said that in the three months following Sept. 11, the United Nations placed approximately 280 names on the U.N. sanctions list. Last year, only eight names were added. 
"Understandably, states want to be sure that they're freezing the accounts of the right individuals, but there are well-recognized senior leaders of the Taliban and al­Qaeda-affiliated groups whose names have not been placed on the list. States need to be held accountable for that," he said. 
Gurule proposed a solution similar to one used to fight money laundering several years ago. Countries that were not in compliance with the international standards on money laundering were placed on a list of non-coop­erative countries and territo­ries. A similar list could be created for countries that are non-compliant with interna­tional standards on terrorist financing. 
"I think states would not want to be placed on such a list, so there would be a real incentive for them to come into compliance with their international obligations," he said. 

tha campus kitchans projact 
+taCk • RtaCk • f tt!> • Lta!> 
welcome to the newest classroom on campus: 
the kitchen. 
Fight hunger in your community! 
Email: info@campuskitchens.org 
''' 

www.campuskitchans.org 



Wednesday, March 12, 2008 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
COLUMBIA 
President leads cross-border raid against insurgents 
Uribe recovers information from rebel laptops, learns of Ecuadorian and Venezuelan alliance with resistance group 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA -A cross-border raid into Ecuador to kill a senior Colombian guerrilla was a calculated risk that paid off for President Alvaro Uribe. 
He survived a high-stakes diplomatic dustup and reaped a rebel's laptop with files indicating Colombia's leftist neighbors conspired with the insurgents against him. The biggest negative has been the anger of rela­tives of rebel hostages who fear the attack will impede more releases. 
For the conservative Uribe, eliminating leftist rebel comandantes is per­sonal. Fighters of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, killed his rancher father in 1983. His two-term presidency has. to a considerable degree, been about payback. 
The popular, U.S.-backed leader set off last week's saber-rattling by the leftist presidents of Venezuela and Ecuador by sending com­mandos 1.2 miles into Ecuador to kill Raul Reyes, a member of the FARC's seven-man ruling secretari­at and its main link to the outside world. 
The March 1 raid eliminat­ed a member of the FARC's ruling junta for the first time in the history of the Western Hemisphere's oldest and most potent insurgency, which has been seeking to overthrow successive Colombian governments since 1964. 
Uribe told news executives at a palace briefing he had carefully calculated the risk. Then, the wonkish worka­holic flew to a summit in the Dominican Republic to defend himself before Latin America's leaders. 
His fellow presidents were upset by Colombia's viola­tion of a neighbor's territo­ry. They unanimously con­
demned the attack despite Uribe's argument that he acted only after repeatedly providing evidence to Presidents Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and Rafael Correa of Ecuador that Colombian rebels shelter on their soil. 
But Uribe's widely broad­cast finger-wagging show­down with Chavez and Correa in Santo Domingo on Friday ended with a mere apology and handshakes, likely due to Uribe's ,stroke of luck in the raid. 
Rushing in after Colombia's air force dropped bombs that killed' two dozen people at the rebel camp, commandos recovered three laptops. Electronic files from one prove Chavez and Correa conspired with the FARC to undermine Uribe, Colombian officials say. 
Colombia quickly made public about 30 

discovered, the Colombians say, FARC chiefs admit to killing the sister of former President Cesar Gaviria and to planting a 2003 car bomb that killed 36 people at a club where Bogota's upper crust gathered for squash and drinks. 
Cocaine sales are dis­cussed in other files, and a plan is floated to borrow money from Libya for the possible purchase of sur­face-to-air missiles, officials say. Uribe interprets several documents as indicating Chavez was planning to give the FARC $300 million. 
Such allegations have deflected attention from Uribe's own record. 
He has been dogged by allegations l,le consorted with drug traffickers in the 1980s as a political up-and­comer. His camp is tainted by close ties with right-wing paramilitary death squads, a scandal that has 

messages apparently  "You can't win by constant  landed 20 congress­ 
s. e n t between Reyes and  fighting. You have to sit down and talk. Believe me."  man, most of them U r i b e  
other rebel  allies,  in  
leaders  - Jo Rosano  jail.  The  
documents t h a t Chavez  Mother of kidnapped U.S. contractor  Colombian army also has a  
and Correa  question­ 
call fakes.  a  b  1  e  

But this may be just the human rights record after beginning: Authorities told dozens of civilian killings. The Associated Press they Chavez, who openly dis­also recovered intact two plays his sympathy for the external hard drives and FARC, has cited all this and three USB memory sticks. more in calling Uribe a They said they are studying "mafia boss" and lackey of those and the other two lap­"the oligarchy" and tops with the help of Washington. Interpol and U.S. computer Given their ideological experts. divide, many thought it odd 
"They are working very when Uribe agreed last carefully in order not to lose August to give Chavez a role information because some in mediating a swap of more files are password-protect­than 40 high-value FARC ed," a Colombian police offi­hostages for hundreds of cial said, insisting on jailed rebels. Uribe soon anonymity because he was tried to push Chavez out, not authorized to be quoted. only to watch the FARC 
In the documents already deliver six hostages into 
Best Value 1·n Town Con1e See Why/ 
,.. In®or/ Outdoor Tennis a:..od Basketball ,.. Free Ta:..oning ,.. Heated Pool ,.. Hela:zing Jacuzzi ,.. Gated Co.mm unity ,.. Co.m.m unity Business Center ,.. N~ Application Fees far Students ,.. cJ~e to everything_--far from artlinary! 
Chavez's hands on live tele­vision. 
When the last four were freed Feb. 27, the rebels reminded Uribe in a commu­nique of their key demand for talks on a broader pris­oner swap: the removal of troops for 45 days from a New York City-sized area of southwestern Colombia. Uribe says the FARC nego­tiators must show up unarmed, a condition the rebels won't accept. 
Four days later, Uribe oversaw the pre-dawn raid that killed Reyes. 
His generals had known Reyes' whereabouts for weeks through human intel­ligence, several senior Colombian officials told AP. 
But it wasn't that difficult to pinpoint Reyes' camp, where journalists, leftist sympathizers and foreign envoys regularly met with the rebels' public face. It was the main point of con­tact for the French govern­ment, which has been des­perately seeking the release of Ingrid Betancourt, a dual French-Colombian national kidnapped while running against Uribe in 2002. 
"This could delay, obstruct negotiations," Betancourt's husband, Juan Carlos Lecompte, told AP in dis­cussing the attack. "It was­n't the moment to do it. Things were going well with the releases." 
On Saturday, Uribe scored another victory when a sec­ond member of the FARC's secretariat, Ivan Rios, was killed by Rios' own chief of security, who is seeking reward money. 
Colombia's military cheered the two killings as crippling for the FARC. 
But former Sen. Luis Eladio Perez, who spent 6 years as a FARC hostage until his release last week, doubts the rebels are seri­ously weakened. He said their movement provides the only economic opportunities for people in Colombia's miserable, forgotten back­waters. 
"The FARC doesn't have trouble recruiting," Perez told AP. "It provides (its troops) with food, assures them clothing, gives them a little something, like a watch." 
Perez was held since July 

with three U.S. military con­tractors-Marc Gonsalves, Keith Stansell and Thomas Howes -who fell into FARC hands in 2003. Gonsalves' mother is at her wit's end with Colombia's leader. 
"Uribe is constantly sabo­taging any kind of release," Jo Rosano told AP by phone from Bristol, Conn. "You can't win by constant fight­ing. You have to sit down and talk. Believe me, I'm not any fan of the FARC. But enough is enough." 


Castle'Point 
~80~~ C2eve2dRd Hd_ South BendF IN 46637_..·4J1lll"'fIlleIJ t~.fi Phone: l574' 272-8~~0 Fax: l574' 272-8~~4 
llfiV _ cppj _com­

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, March 12, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Martin Sheen undeserving of award 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dam<, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGFJt Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 

VmWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Hine 
SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 

SAJNT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kdly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EmTOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PJIOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphom@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the sntdents ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsignt·d editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. • 
Qutstiom ~arding ObsmJl'r policits should b~ dirm~d to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11lC OIMt"rYil't (lJSI'S 5~J l·.fUtiO) ~ publuhal Monday thmu~h Friday exc."Cp( during c~m ,ul&J VOi.~:;nion pcri,Kb. A~ulJ~oCripcion 10 The Oll!ICrver if $1110 fnr llllt' .:ac.adcmk fCit; $55 fufUIICJICnJCIIt('r 
The Ob.crver i~ publi1hcd .ar POSTMASTER 02-4 Suulh Diuing I b.ll Send .uidr~ cnrrc:aiotu to; Norrc Dune, IN •M~n9 ThcOba-rvcr Pr:tiodic:.tl pa1ugc p.:a11l ;u Notre D.une r.o.11o.n9 o&nd add!llun.a.l mo~ilinK offices. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
None Doame.IN 46';')6-0779 

l11e Ohiiervtr Hill member oltht: A.uuctJlC:d Press. All rcpwductiun ngh1s arc 
r~rveJ. 
"The Laetare Medal has been worn only by men and women whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church, and enriched the heritage of humani­ty." Citation for 
Charles Rice
Laetare Medal given to General William Rosecrans in 1896. 

Right or
The 2008 recipi­

Wrong?
ent, Martin Sheen, a self-described "peace and justice activist," has been arrested at least 65 times for nonvio­lent obstructions and trespasses at military installations and other sites. 
Mr. Sheen's many pronouncements on public issues merit discussion, including his views on homosexual rights, his "doubts" about the 9/11 Commission Report, and his personal but guarded opposition to abortion. Hegrettably, his commendable opposi­tion to the intentional killing of the innocent has never led him to appear at an abortuary to offer the sidewalk counseling which can immediately save innocent lives; such would be politically incorrect. 
This column, however, is concerned with Sheen's attitude toward military 
. service. In a 2003 interview with David Kupfer, Sheen denied the accu­sation "of not supporting the mili­tary." 
"Nothing could be further from the truth," Sheen said. "The leaders... make the decisions.... I support the soldiers as human beings." 
One manifesto, however, that Sheen signed on January 5, 2005, described "military training" as "schooling body and spirit in the art of killing ... It is the perpetuation of war spirit. It hin­ders the development of the desire for peace." The manifesto called for "non-violent resistance to the military system," including not only conscien­tious objection "by conscripts and professional soldiers, in war and peace tiQie," but also "Civil Disobedience, War Tax Resistance, Non-Cooperation with military research, military production and arms trade." The Laetare award to Sheen could generate confusion as to whether military service is consistent with "the ideals of the Church." Let's try to set the record straight. 
"All those who enter the military service in loyalty to their country," the Second Vatican Council said, "should look upon themselves as the custodi­ans of the security and freedom of their fellow countrymen; and when they carry out their duty properly, they are contributing to the mainte­
nance of peace." Gaudium et Spes, no. 
79. 

The Catechism affirms that "govern­ments cannot be denied the right of lawful self-defense, once all peace efforts have failed." No. 2308. Such defense must satisfy "just war" analy­sis. The requirements for jus ad bel­lum, justice in going to war, are prop­er authority, just cause and right intention. The Catechism lists further details: "[T]he damage inflicted by the aggressor... must be lasting, grave and certain;" war must be a last resort, with "all other means imprac­tical or ineffective;" "there must be serious prospects of success;" and "the use of arms must not produce evils ... graver than the evil to be elim­inated." "The evaluation of these con­ditions," however, "belongs to the prudential judgment of those who have responsibility for the common good." No. 2309. Citizens are obliged, in effect, to give a benefit of the doubt to the decisions of those in lawful authority. 
Jus in bello, justice in fighting a war, requires proportionality and dis­crimination (non-combatant immunity from intentional attack). What Sheen, and other politicized critics, appear to overlook is the fact that the Uniform Code of Military Justice, the very restrictive Hules of Engagement and other binding military policies effec­tively protect noncombatants and oth­erwise conform to the requirements of jus in bello. Some military personnel violate the law but their record is far better than that of corporate execu­tives. And the armed services are dili­gent, perhaps to the point of excess, in prosecuting putative offenses. 
The universal pacifist refuses to take part in any and all wars. "Those who renounce violence ... and, in order to safeguard human rights, make use of those means of defense available to the weakest, bear witness to evangelical charity, provided they do so without harming t}le rights and obligations of other men and soci­eties. They bear... witness to the... risks of recourse to violence." No. 2306. However, a universal pacifism which denies the right of the state ever to use force in defense, is incon­sistent with the teaching of the Church. 
The selective pacifist refuses to take part in a particular war he regards as unjust. Citizens are obliged to support a just war. "Public authorities, in this case, have the right and duty to impose on citizens the obligations necessary for national defense." No. 
2310. The law of the United States 
allows exemptions from military serv­
ice only for universal, and not for 
selective, pacifists. The Catechism 
urges, but does not require, exemp­
tion for all conscientious objectors. 
No. 2311. It is difficult, however, to 
see how an exemption for selective 
objectors· could be administered with­
out inviting fraudulent evasion. 
Granting the sincerity of universal pacifists, their claim to moral superi­ority is flawed. One can well "bear witness to evangelical charity" by renouncing force in defending him­self. The universal pacifist, who denies that force can ever be used in defense of the common good, would refuse to defend not only himself but others. He would deny to his fellow citizens their right to have the state provide what the Catechism calls "legitimate defense by military force." No. 2309. 
Selective pacifism, on the other hand, is required by the teaching of the Church. We should all be selective pacifists, insisting, with prudence, that any war -or any other act of state-is subject to the higher stan­dard of the natural law and the law of God. A strong presumption of validity attaches to the decisions and acts of those entrusted with the care of the common good. But that presumption is not conclusive. 
All wars are debatable, including the Iraq War. Hostility to President Bush should not be allowed to distort the principles involved. In full disclo­sure, permit me to note my view that, although he has competitors for the honor, George W. Bush, for various reasons foreign and domestic, may be the worst president ever. But, subject to the legitimate authority of Congress, the president has the duty to defend the nation and his decisions are entitled to a strong benefit of the doubt. To participate in that defense is an honorable calling. Those who do so deserve appreciation and respect. They ought not to be subjected to dis­paragement no matter how politically correct that disparagement might be. The Laetare award to Mr. Sheen implicitly and unjustifiably denigrates those who serve in the armed forces, including alumni and present students of Notre Dame. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. He may be reached at 
(574) 633-4415 or rice.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Liz Harter Lorenzo Reyes How far will Men's Basketball go Bill Brink Jared Jedick 
in the Big East tournament? 
-Katie Peralta Meaghan Veselik 
"The gross heathenism of
Emma Driscoll Scene Lose in quarterfinal<> 
civilization has generally 
Graphics ·. Tae .Andrews 
·Lose in se,tpitinals ,~•'·~destrwed nature, and .poetry,Ma:.de11rre Nies i"l Lose in finals · an'aall that is spiritual. • Viewpoint Win it all 
John Muir

John Dailey 
environmentalist
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com ·.6... 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 12, 2008 page 11 
U-WIRE 
Practicing true sustainability 
Every morning in Bangalore, my host father, Prabhakara, awoke at 6 
a.m. to select fruits and vegetables from a freshly stocked sidewalk stand on the main road of Thyagarajanagar, his msidential neigh­borhood. Afterward Diana Jue he stopped by a local restaurant to pick up The Tech warm idli (a white rice cake) or masala dosas that were neatly packaged in one sheet of thin wax paper, newspa­per, and string. After his morning exercises and prayers, he prepared breakfast: sliced apples and carrot sticks, idli and chutney (think Indian salsa), homemade roti (flat bread) and curry, or my favorite -scrambled eggs packed with chopped vegetables and spices. Each morning I was greet­ed with a cup of chai tea and a food­filled circular metal plate with a verti­cal rim that I used to wipe away excess food from my eating hand. 
There were two amazing things about these mornings: the food (obvi­ously) and the ecologically friendly process by which the food was pur­chased, prepared and served. Contrast the Bangalore experience to one that is typical in Boston. If I weren't a stu­dent, I'd drive my car to Shaw's and buy a week's worth of (not so fresh) imported produce and packaged, pre­served foods that have a shelf life of months. I'd purchase restaurant food packaged in non-biodegradable Styrofoam cartons instead of materials that leave minimal waste. Prabhakara's aversion to waste pre­vented him from buying more food than necessary. However, I'm prone to overbuying fruit and other foods. A week after their purchase, I toss out rotten oranges without too much con­
cern. 

This breakfast story is one example that contrasts two lifestyles that have different environmental impacts. "Sustainability," "environmentalism," "going green" -these are buzzwords that are unsparingly sprinkled in aca­demia, retail, and the media. The lat­est Nobel Peace Prize went to people who alerted the public about man­made climate change. At MIT, we're faced with the challenge of creating technologies to address present and near-future energy and environmental needs. Then there is the rise of the "green consum~r," the do-gooder who buys organic or a hybrid vehicle or solar panels in the name of a "green revolution." 
What does sustainability mean, any­way? It is generally agreed to be good, but a complete definition eludes me. I've heard a few attempts to give the word substance: a process that makes ecological systems indefinitely produc­tive, making sure that future genera­tions are as well off as the current generation, and saving the Earth from doomsday because "it's the only one we got." And what does practicing sustainability look like? I feel like I'm waiting for sustainable technologies and items to purchase, but in elemen­tary school I learned to reduce, reuse, and recycle to rescue the environ­ment. This strategy actually equates to having less. · 
My homestay families in India and China practiced sustainability without energy-saving light bulbs and other 
PERSPECTIVE: MAR. 22, 1973 

ceo-friendly products. The only trash­can in my Bangalore house was a 2.5 gallon kitchen canister. Most of our waste could be fed to the outdoor compost bin because it was organic. Ceiling fans and floor to ceiling win­dows provided adequate ventilation without central cooling. With one bucket of water I could shampoo and rinse. We hung our clothes to dry on the porch. In Beijing, I visited a class­mate who lived in her host family's hutong, a type of communal-style housing with shared public bath­rooms. One three-person family lived in two small rooms with a total floor area less than that of my freshman year double at Next House. The hutong was cozy and comfortable. Beijing families were lucky to own one car, but almost everyone had a bicy­cle. 
In both cities, my families had enough and were proud of what they had. Yet interestingly, a wave of con­sumption is bubbling up from within these modest households as the younger generation enters a higher­paid workforce. When my Bangalore host sister, Swetha, wanted new home appliances, I accompanied her to Shopper's Stop, "India's No. 1 Fashion and Lifestyle store for the family." We drove across the city to a shiny new, multi-story, lit up Sears/Macy's department store mash-up. While Swetha was deciding on a juice extractor, I perused the selection of · good, bad, and ugly items in the home furnishings, footwear, and fragrances. For similar prices at the Cambridgeside Galleria, I could have bought many of the items that young Indians were clamoring to own. 
Middle-class aspirations transcend national borders. I have a professor who blames this on satellite television, which globally projects overabundant American lifestyles and extravagant consumption patterns. Instead of influencing the international middle­class living standard, maybe we Americans should aim to imitate lifestyles of our international cohorts in order to truly go green. If everyone lives and buys like Americans do, sus­tainability is dead (if you haven't yet seen it, watch "The Story of Stuff' at storyofstuff.com). But if Americans were to live and buy like my homestay families in India and China, the goals of sustainability might have a chance. 
Of course this is not easy. Sure, sometimes I put my Nalgene to good use, opt for silverware over plas­ticware, refrain from having my gro­ceries bagged, and turn off the lights in an empty dorm lounge. But I don't budge when it comes to my stuff. After traveling around the world with two small bags, I was shocked by how much junk I had in dorm storage and even more shocked by how many items I was unwilling to part with. 
A real commitment to sustainability requires a change in lifestyle. Is it a commitment that we're willing to make? 
This column first appeared in the Mar. 11 issue of The Tech, the daily publication ofMassachusetts Institute of Technology. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
U-WIRE 
Chertoff' s Real ID disturbing and ill-advised 
Michael Chertoff, head of the Department of Homeland Security, is trying to push his Real ID non­sense before he's booted out of office. 
Despite his claims that this won't lead toward a national database, he's essentially just linking smaller databases not calling it a national Ron Solt database. In a post-Sept. 11 Y5 world, it has become far too com­
Daily Kent
mon that the government decides 
Stater
to do something to make it look like they're getting things done when they aren't really getting anything done at all. 
The rationale behind this national system of American citizens is that it might somehow keep ter­rorists from getting on planes. I'm not sure how iden­tification will give the government the kind of creden­tials they will need to separate any ne'er-do-wells in an airport. 
Criminals might have a history of crime, but I seri­ously doubt a suicide bomber will have a record of suicide bombings or terrorism. All the hijackers from Sept. 11 were all legal citizens and carrying legiti­mate identification. 
These Real IDs (as opposed to Fake IDs, clever) basically set up guidelines for states to make "legiti­mate" identification for people to travel throughout the country and enter federal buildings. If your state happens to be one of the many that has rejected the act, then you'll have to pay for a passport to even get on a plane. It's expensive, it's invasive to citizens and, as an open society, it seems unnecessary to imple­ment. 
Proving who you are in some situations is already a mind-numbing task as it is; what is so infallible about this Real ID? They state it will help deter illegal citi­zens from faking identification and that it would keep criminals from being able to commit identity theft. 
Isn't having a national database going to make it a lit­tle easier to commit identity theft ifthey know what they're doing? Shouldn't the government be more worried about how they keep accidentally exposing citizens' data in terms of the security of our identi­ties? 
Passports are expensive and take weeks to get. If you expedite the process, they become ridiculously expensive. This whole Real ID solves nothing-it con­tinues a long trend of stupid and pointless implemen­tations that will make the already arduous task of getting on an airplane that much more of a headache. 
I hope the ACLU drags this through the dirt and, if enough states reject it, they will just have to rebuild from the ground up. 
My wallet is already stuffed with a myriad of identi­fications, each of them being utilized at different checkpoints of necessity. Current licenses might run the risk of being faked, but how long will it take peo­ple to find out a way to fake these new IDs? Ijust honestly get a headache when I read about the latest bits and pieces of nonsense coming out of the Department of Homeland Security. 
America wasn't always such a dreary place, but now it's all Jack Bauer breaking laws to save our lives; what would we do ifit weren't for the caring government? I look forward to being questioned in airports, glanced at suspiciously, "Where are you going? For how long?" 
This column first appeared in the Mar. 11 issue of the Daily Kent Stater, the daily newspaper of Kent State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, March 12, 2008 
By CAITLIN FERRARO 
Scene Writer 

P•~rhaps tho creators behind the sp<~ctado of"10,000 B.C." hopnd li1r ":mo"-type success with this pn~ject by abo using a Mareh rnlnas(J date and colossal special eflhcts. However, tiw film litils to arouse the s<une sentiment'> as tim Spartan epic. The· usually nntertaining direction and writing of Holand Emmerich fall'> short. Not even the nan·ation of the g-mat Omar Sharif ("Lawnmce of Arabia") ean save this work. 
The shaky limndation of the lihn is thn love story bntwmm D'Leh (Steven Strait) and Evolet (Camilla Belle), but the character development is so poor that you never !bel emo­tionally eonrwcted to their saga. Evolet joins IYLeh's tribe allnr hers is massacred beginning "the legend of the child with blue oyes." Emmerich misses the mark witl1 his audi­<mee bemuse those who loved "300" came for the action and 
Photo courtesy of slashfilm.com 
didn't stay lbr a hokey love story. D'Leh (Steven Strait) has a face-to-fangs meeting 
The b<L'iic premise is that "four-legged demons" -pil­with a saber-toothed tiger in "10,000 B.C." lagers on horses-kidnap D'Leh's people including his ladylove Evolet. Armed with the sacred White Spear and his tors D'Leh through his journey. But. overall, tim film fails to 21st century perlcet smile, D'Leh along with Tic'Tic (Cliff showease tim talents of the actors and instead displays tl1e Curtis), the tribe's eommunity elder, must rescue her while creativity of the CGI animators. The mammoth stampede fulfilling a few prophecies along the way. and ilie warlord's grand civilization were speetaeular, but 
In one scem1 D'Leh L'i trapped in a hole with a massive CGI the plot was dreary and underwritten leading ilie warlords sabertooth tiger and instead of killing him he sets him free. to have the most interesting personalities. All of tl1e actors do Later the tiger remembers D'Leh a'i his releaser, which ful­ilieir best wiili weak dialogue, so instead the mammoths, fills yet cmother cheesy prophecy a'i "the one who speaks to saber-tooili tiger, and huge ostrich-like creatures are the sp11ar-tooth." This allows him to garner support from other best characters in ilie film. ransacked tribes to battle the evil empire. D'Leh and the Most audience members are not historians, nor do iliey warriors he rounds up, inspired by overly convenient mind stretching reality to create cinematic wonder, but the prophecies, lead a revolt against a corrupt god-king who has exceptional amount of historical inaccuracies was overbear­been capturing slaves from primitive tribes to build pyra­ing. Viewers can stomach that D'Leh's tribe speaks English, mids. but did iliey have to have such atrocious accents? Not to 
Curtis is by far ilie strongest actor as his character men-mention ilie mascara dripping down Evolet's cheek when 
10,000 B.C. 

Warner Bros. Director. Roland Emmerich Written by: Roland Emmerich and Harlad Klooer Starring: Steven Strait, Camilla Belle and Cliff Curtis 
she shed a tear or the hunters' waxed chests. And how exactly does tl1e climate change from bitter cold and bliz­zards to a tropical forest culminating in a barren desert in what felt like only a week's span of time? 
About an hour and a half into ilie film, ilie elimax arrives, and there is finally some action. Be careful iliough because if you blink you might miss ilie big finale. 
The battle scenes fail to pop off ofilie screen, perhaps due to ilie PG-13 rating. And while ilie film has marvelous land­scapes for its one-dimensional heroes and villains to tra­verse, and ilie best computer effects that money can buy, the rest is simply a recycled combination of adventure cliches. 
This film has so much untapped potential. At times it is entertaining and adventurous. But an abundance of awk­ward dialogue, historical errors and strange prophecies overshadow what should be the intrinsic fun of thL'i type of film. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrarl@nd.edu 
-------.---·----------------------"~=­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, March 12, 2008 
page 13 


By MYCHAL STANLEY Scene Writer 

In a track on their first EP, Welsh newcomers Los Campesinos! proclaimed they were trying to find the per­fect match between pretentious and pop. This venture is nothing now in the genre of indie pop. One of the largest criticisms leveled at indie pop is that it's too cute, too quaint. 
And while tracks with titles like "This is How You Spell 'HAHAHA, We Destroyed the Hopes and Dreams of a Generation of Faux-Romantics"' certainly give the air of pretension, one listen shows exactly how clever and joy­ful the band really is. They've certainly been able to reach that middle ground between the pop of indie pop and the pretentiousness of the genre. 
As soon as the entire seven piece band admonishes the listener in the song "Don't Tell Me to Do the Math(s)" to "give your life to literature, but DON'T READ JANE EYRE," it's impossible not to be sold on the exuberant cleverness of their music. Add on that the band is throw­
Los Campesinos! have made a splash on
ing pop hooks from instr11ments ranging from glocken-. 
scene with their unique brand of indie pop.
spiels to violins, in addition to the usual drums, bass, and guitar and you get a band that's pretty much forcing you relationship," but it is easy to see that they are a group to get out of your chair and dance. of seven people who love and worship music as much as 
It doesn't matter that the band bellows lines like, "the you do. They just decided to pick up instruments and opposite of true love is as follows: REALITY!" in the song make some of their own. "We are All Accelerated Readers". If being miserable The Do-It-Yourself attitude of the music does poke and unlucky in love sounds this much fun, pretty much through. The instruments are played loud and all at anyone can do without love for a little while. But the once. Gareth and Aleksandra Campesinos! trade yelps hilariously clever lyriCs don't end there. until the entire band joins in the shouting. Their love for 
When Gareth sarcastically shouts, "Four sweaty boys the music they're making is immediately apparent with guitars tell me NOTHING about my life," in " ... And because they just seem to be having so much fun in the We Exhale and Roll Our Eyes in Unison" you'll wonder studio. It's the kind of jubilation found in the best songs why you put so much weight in a band's words. The of bands like Architecture in Helsinki, I'm From band may tell you that "this song is not gonna save your Barcelona, and The Polyphonic Spree, except with Los 
Hold On Now, Youngster ... 
Los Campesinos 

Label: Arts & Crafts Recommended Tracks: "Death to Los Campesinos!" and "Sweet Dreams and Sweet Cheeks" and "You! Me! Dancing!" 
Campesinos!, it just seems so effortless. 
A hit against the band and their music, however, is that they have very little subtlety. Their lyrics and word­play are clever, but there's little doubt about what they're singing. The vocals consist of one, two, or all seven band members trading shouts. And while their use of melodic hooks, crescendos, and interludes are won­derfully placed and constructed, they play their instru­ments all at the same time and at the same volume. One could call them busy and unrefined, but they're just hav­ing too much fun to care. 
The hard copy of this album doesn't come out until April 1st, but is already avail~ble digitally. Seriously, go to their MySpace page and try out some of their songs. Consider buying their album, or at least an EP. If you do this, you may have just found your new favorite band. They're that good. · 
Contact Mychal Stanley at wstanley@nd.edu 
' 1 
... ..~:w::'~:·i...·~'P 
-. '· ",;qr 

-
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 12, 2008 
NBA 

Brandon Roy takes charge of Portland in -win over Minnesota 
Rookie Nick Young propels Wizards to victory over Bucks with 22 points; Jamison contributes with 23 
Associated Press 
With the season winding down and his team's playoff hopos dimming with every loss. Portland eoaeh Nate McMillan was looking for a loader. 
Brandon Hoy may only be a 2:~-year-old soeond-year pro. but that didn't stop McMillan from challenging last season's rookie of the year to be that guy. 
Hoy had 27 points and nine assists. playing biggest during a game-deciding 12-2 run in the fourth quarter to lift tho Trai1 Blazers to a l o:PJ6 victory over the Mimwsota Timborwolvns on Tuesday night. 
"1!1~ and I talked a little bit today and just talked about whore we are and what he noods to do," McMillan said. "I thought he n~ a II y came out tonight with that attitude that wo can't lose this. lin kind of willed this game and made plays down the stretch." 
Minnosota eoaeh Handy Wittman eould havo used a play1~r like him down the stretch Ttwsday night. sonwonn who could gnt to the basket for easy buekds or free throws and ern­ate opon perinwtor shots for his te<tm llHlti~S. 
The · thing is, the Timberwolws had him. 
Minnesota drafted Hoy in the lirst round two years ago, but traded him to the Blazers for Handy Foye and cash in a three­way deal with Boston on draft night. Fuye missed the 1irst half of this season with a knee injury and is still getting settled in the league while Hoy has emerged as a star-in-the-rnaking and McMillan's floor general. 
"lie just told me with what I've done my rookie season and so far this season, that this teams needs a leader to start to omerge," Hoy said of his talk with his coach. "lie said, 'The guys aro going to follow you and if you eome to tlw game ready to play, they'll bo roady to play. I know it's tough in your socond year. but you'vo got to start preparing now."' 
AI JeiTerson scored 12 of his 20 points in the fourth and Hash ad MrCants had I H ofl' the lwneh for tlw Timberwolves, who howrPd around 55 pen:ent shooting for most of the game but couldn't wnw up with tlw big shot down thn strnteh. 
Hoy struggiPd with his shot for the first three quartnrs, but got to the baskPt at will in the l'ourth to rally tlw Blazers. l.aMarcus Aldridge added 20 points and James Jones had 13 oil' the bench. 
Jefferson had a tough time with Portland's attacking dou­ble-team, but he scored six points during an 8-2 spurt mid­way through the fourth quarter to give Minnesota a 90-H!i lead. 
"It was the quickest I have seen in a long time," Jefferson said of the double teams. "Man, it was crazy." 
The Blazers came right back with that 12-2 run, with Hoy scoring on a pretty drive and then delivnring a pinpoint pass to Jonl Przybilla for a layup. 
Aftnr Jefferson cut the lead to 97-94 with just over 1 minute to go, Hoy scored on another drive and added a couple of free throws to ice the game. 
Portland improved to 3-1 on their live-game road trip, which wraps up Thursday at Sacramento. 
The Blazers started the night in 1Oth place in the Western Conference, two spots out of the playoffs and six games behind the eighth-place Golden State Warriors. They let one slip away in a loss to Cleveland on Monday night, squandering a 13-point lead to LeBron James, but rebounded with a spirited second-half efl'ort after allowing the Wolves to shoot 59 percent in the first half. 
"We're not out of it, so we're not giving in to the schedule and the big elimb we have ahead of us," McMillan said. "We're really focusing on the next game, trying to win it, and wherever that leads us, we'll deal with it at the end." 
Thoughts of the postseason in Minnesota went bye-bye a long time ago, perhaps as early as July when they traded Kevin Garnett to Boston. 
They have started a slogan of "Let's Build It" and hope to use the final 20 games of the season to gain some momentum head­ing into Y•mr 2 of the rebuilding plan. 
It started with two straight road wins on their most recent West Coast trip, over Sacramento and the Clippers. That's a first. but they weren't able to build on it to get their first three-game winning streak of the season. 
"Wn're just trying to build," Smith said. "Before the snason nnds, hopefully we ean get it." 
Wizards 105, Bucks 97 
An NBA player can only go so far being the flashiest rookie in praetic1~. Sooner or later, it's got 


AP 
Portland's LaMarcus Aldridge drives by Minnesota's AI Jefferson in the first quarter of Tuesday's game. Aldridge and Jefferson both scored 20 points apiece in the Portland win. 
to happen in a game. 
Nick Young had just that kind of night Tuesday, scoring a career-high 22 points to lead the Washington Wizards to a sorely needed win over the Milwaukee Bucks. 
''I'm tired of (teammate) Brendan Haywood calling me a practice dunker and all kinds of stuff," said Young, who shot 9­for-15 and had pair of three­point plays in the decisive fourth quarter. "So it was my way to kind of show them that I belong here -and I can jump a little bit." 
Antawn Jamison had 23 points, eight rebounds and eight turnovers and left in the final minute with a lower· back strain, the latest ailment to hit the injury-riddled Wizards. Ile can hardly afford to take a game ofT, however, given that Gilbert Arenas and Caron Butler are still out. 
Haywood added 15 points and five bloeks for the Wizards, who sliced and diced through the Bucks' defense to shoot 50 per­cent with 66 points in the paint. It was a morale-restoring efl'ort following Saturday's dispiriting home loss to Charlotte. 
"It was a much-needed win," coach Eddie Jordan said. "We needed to make home feel like home again." 
Michael Redel scored 26 points, Andrew Bogut had 23, and Charlie Villanueva had 24 points an'd matched a season high with 16 rebounds for the Bucks, who lost for the sixth time in seven games with another lackluster defensive performance. Milwaukee's opponents are averaging 111 points and shooting better than 50 percent in the last seven games. 
"They got a lot of dunks tonight. That was inexcusable," Hndd said. "We've got to sharp­en it up." 
Bucks coach Larry Krystkowiak wasn't happy that his team didn't do mueh to stop Young, who had two dunks in the first half and had a key three-point play in the 12-2 run that put the Wizards in control after Milwaukee had tied it at 83 with 9 minutes remaining. Young drew contact on a base­line drive between Bogut and Dan Gadzuric, but still found space to put up a shot that tan­talizingly dropped off the rim and into the net. 
"J don't care if it's eighth grade or what league you·re in, if you want to get a guy going and feeling good about himself, you let him dunk his first couple baskets-and then we couldn't stop the bleeding from that point," Krystkowiak said. "It's real important that we didn't let that happen. I would rather that he had to take that jumper or serape himself up otl' the hard­wood rather than going in and dunking it-just reminding him that somebody's in there." 
Young even picked up his first technical foul for going at Bogut after a dunk. Young didn't get his money's worth -the big center knocked the rookie guard aside like a rag doll. 
"lie got the best of nw," Young said. "They say they're going to put me in the weight room." 
The f'irst.-round dral't piek from Southnrn California sur­passed his previous best of 19 points with another three-point play that put the Wizards ahead 103-91 with 1:35 remaining. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3\'.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classilieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifleds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT  HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09  Adopt: Active, young, loving cou- Early one mornin' the sun was  
WANTED  WORK flexible, no experience needed. customer sales/service,  CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. CALL 574­ PERSONAL  pie, teacher and business owner, wish more than anything to raise  shinin', I was layin' in bed Wond'rin' if she'd changed at all  

 conditions apply, ages 18+, 574­ 234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUS- your newborn with care, warmth  If her hair was still red. Her folks  
SUMMER CAMP POSmONS: Make a  273-3835  ES.COM  and love. Expenses paid. Please  they said our lives together Sure  
difference in the lffe of a dlild! Summer therapy camp for dlildren with physical disabilities. Located on shore of lake Superior in Big Bay, MI. Positions avai~  FoR RENT  3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2-car garage, 10x20  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our  call Josette and Tim 1-800-418­0230. If you or someone you care about  was gonna be rough They never did like Mama's homemade dress Papa's bankboo~ wasn't big enough. And I was standin'  
able for Counselors, WaterfronL  deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug.  24 hour confidential hotline at 1­ has been sexually assaulted, visit  on the side of the road Rain  
Instructors for NabJre/Arts &  Blue & Gold Homes Showing for  2008. Call 574-232-4527 or 269­ 800-No Abort or visit our web site at  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape  fallin' on my shoes Heading out  
Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, Therapists,  08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex"  683-5038 or 574-340-1844.  www.lifecall.org  .shtml  for the East Coast Lord knows  
Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be  leases bluegoldrentals.com  I've paid some dues gettin'  
enthusiastic. responsible, and love dli~  5 bedroom house just off Angela  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  I had a job in the great north  through, Tangled up in blue.  
dren. June 8 through August 3. Salary,  HOUSE FOR RENT: 608 NO  & 31. Available now & for next  not go it alone. If you or someone  woods Working as a cook for a  
room & board, and experience of lffetime  Ave., walk to campus. 3  year. 2 baths & laundry. 232­ you love needs confidential support  spell But I never did like it all that  Well Mack the Finger said to  
provided. Call or write for application and  Lg.bed/2bath, sleeps up to 5.  6964.  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  much And one day the ax just fell.  Louie the King I got forty red  
information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, PO. Box 310, Big Bay, Ml 49808, (906) 345­ Central Air, new appl., carpet, WID, off street parking. Totally  Furnished Quiet 4Br house walk  Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our website at:  Look out your window and I'll be  white and blue shoe strings And a thousand telephones that don't  
9314, email BayCiiffHC@aol.com. VISit us at www.baycliff.org That quad's gonna be a rocking this year  Renovated in 07. Free Summer Storage. Email jason@jakesfire­works.net  NO. Security, air. washer/dryer, dishwasher. Basement porch yard. 10-12 mos. 574-309-3105.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  gone You're the reason I'm trav'lin' on Don't think twice, it's all right.  ring Do you know where I can get rid of these things??????????  
- 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­ 

---------------------. 
OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, March 12, 2008 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 

rank team 
1 Northwestern ~ Georgia Tech 3 Florida 4 Stanford 5 Baylor 6 Georgia 7 California 8 usc 9 Vanderbilt 
10 UCLA ::m;:r: 11 North Carolina Wl' 12 Miami {Florida) 13 Duke 14 Arizona State 15 TCU 16 Florida State 11 Fresno State 18 Texas 19 Denver 20 Tennessee 21 LSU 22 Arkansas 23 NOTRE DAME 24 Kentucky 25 Pepperdine 
NCAA Men's Tennis 

rank 
1 2 3 4 
j~:c:dF 
1 
8 9 
:~ 
12 :· ....•. 
13 14 15 16 17 18 
19.;:,;.,.. 20 :.­
t1 
22 23 
24 25 

rank 
3 
4 5 
6 7 
8 
9 

around the 
BIG EAST MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT Pittsburgh vs. Cincinnati 7 p.m., ESPN 
Marquette vs. Seton Hall 
9:30 p.m., ESPN 

NORTHEAST CONFERNECE MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP Mount Saint Mary's vs. Sacred Heart .7 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Associated Press 

TUCSON-A swarm of fans six deep crowded around the screen that separated Ichiro Suzuki from the grandstand. 
"That was amazing!" a teenage boy gasped when Seattle's perennial All-Star finished an impromptu autograph session. 
Suzuki spent 10 minutes exchanging balls and pho­tos through a small open­ing atop a gate one hour before Tuesday's game against Colorado. Eight rows above that scene, in Section N, a senior woman under a large Rockies sun hat turned to a man two seats to her right. 
"He hasn't lost his popu­larity, has he?" she said. 
No, after the most suc­cessful start to a hitting career the major leagues has seen, "Ichiro-san" remains a revered, inter­national superstar. Not even an 0-for-21 start to spring tra.ining can change that. 
He has his own, full-time translator employed by the Mariners, Ken Barron. He's still as fresh as in 2001, when he arrived as Japan's first premier position play­er import. Still as hip as his chic, urban wardrobe of faded jeans, outlandish T­shirts that shrink-wrap his sleek body and shiny gold or silver sneakers. 
A marketing initiative in Asia by San Francisco­based Levi's recently pro­duced a limited line of designer jeans for the 34­year-old Suzuki. The 320 pairs reportedly sold out in six minutes. 
So what's this? Suzuki is 0-for-spring training? 
Yes, Tuesday brought another hitless day. He has the most at-bats without a hit for any player in base­ball this spring. It is three short of his longest regu­lar-season hitless streak, in 2005. 
So what? It's March. 
"I don't understand what I need to be worried about," Suzuki said Tuesday through Barron, after a groundout to the pitcher, two lazy flyouts and a sharp grounder on which sprawling third baseman Ian Stewart robbed him. 

Suzuki's feet were propped onto the chair he was sitting in at his locker. His arms were resting on his knees. The look was decidedly unconcerned. 
But nothing is ever so­what around this icon of Japan, the Pacific Northwest and beyond. 
-
The pack of two dozen Japanese reporters who follow his every move are holding their breath for his first hit -so much so that Suzuki says he is feeling sympathy from others. 
IN BRIEF Landis to make final ap~al
for lost Tour de France fitle 
GENEVA -Floyd Landis will make his final appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport in New York; next week in an effort to regain the 2006 Tour de France title he lost because of a positive doping test. 
The hearing that begins March 19 is expected to last six days. 
"It will be a hearing behind closed doors unlike the previous arbitration hearing," CAS secre­tary-general Matthieu Reeb told The Associated Press on Tuesday. 
Landis went to CAS, world sport's highest appeal body, after losing a public hearing by the American Arbitration Association last year. That panel upheld the' results of a laboratory test that indicated Landis used synthetic testosterone during a comeback win in the 17th stage of the 2006 
. Tour. 

Jarrett SUP.ports Stewart's 
claims against Goodyear 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Dale Jarrett on Tuesday called on Goodyear to listen carefully to Tony Stewart's complaints about the tires the company has pro­duced this season. 
Although some drivers believe Stewart went overboard in his criticism of Goodyear following Sunday's race in Atlanta, Jarrett said the manufacturer needs to start constructing a better tire for Sprint Cup racing. 
"I have no problem with what Tony Stewart said. I'm a huge supporter of Goodyear and all that they have done over the years, but. somebody needs to wake up right· now and listen. to these guys," said Jarrett, the former series champi­on who is retiring following Sunday's race in Bristol, Tenn. 
Goodyear has staunchly defend­ed its product. 
Moss accuser wants 
court order dismissed 
MIAMI -A woman who obtained a restraining order ear­lier this year in a domestic vio­lence case against New England Patriots star Randy Moss wants the case dismissed, court records show. 
Rachelle Washington, 35, filed papers March 3 with the Broward County Circuit Court clerk's office requesting that the order be dis­solved and the case closed. The restraining order had required the All-Pro wide receiver to stay at least 500 feet from Washington. 
Moss, 31, denied he harmed Washington as she cla~med ~--~•.. ·~~. 
Florida home on Jan. ·6, or that·&~ ,,., prevented her from seeking med­ical attention. Moss did acknowl­edge there was an "accident" involving Washington, but w~ml!J not be more specific. ' f 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 12, 2008 



UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
h£n0~MUSIQVE 

GREGORIAN CHANT FROM MEDIEVAL MANUSCRIPTS 
SCHOLA MUSICORUM 
8:30 & 9:30 P.M. \NEDNESDAY. MARCH 12, 2008 
RFYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL 
' 
MARIE I~ i)l:flARTOlC> CtNTH\ HW THE f'J:.!Ul.>RMINC; A!US I'Rr E AND OPfN !0 I' HI· l'lll'o!IC
lJNIVERSITYOI' 

TI,:KI' I' $3 ~DEBARTOlO
NOTRE DAME 

DHP.\RTMEJ\.ct Of .\.1U~fC I'HllNE 574·631·23(}(1 hlR TICI-.HS ~ PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 

server. 

-
NBA 
Alston crucial part of Rocket's w-in streak 


Houston guard Rater Alston drives to the basket against New Orleans on Saturday. The Rockets have won 19 straight games. 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -At half'timc of the llouston HockeL<;' game in Dallas last Thursday. Hafer Alston prom­ised his team that lw would shut down .Jason Terry. The Mavericks' point guard didn't score again and the HockeL'> won 
113-<JR. 
Last Saturday, Alston scored 20 poinL'>, then faced oil' at midcourt with New Orleans big man Tyson Chandler after I Iouston beat the llorneL'> 1 06-96. 
I louston has won 19 consecu­tive games and not coincidentally, Alston is playing the best basket­ball of his career and growing more confident with each victory. The 6-foot-2 point guard has averaged 15 points and seven assisL'i and gone 45-for-115 from 3-point range (39 percent) during the victory streak, the third­longest in NBA history. 

J\lston and the Hockets will go for their 20th straight win in Atlanta on Wednesday. 
"I hope he doesn't turn it ofl'," Tracy McGrady said. "I love the way he's playing. lie's a real fieree competitor right now. I le's knocking down the outside shot, he's penetrating. He's doing it all." 
Alston has come a long way since the preseason, when he wasn't even sure the Hockets wanted to keep him. 
Houston drafted Aaron Brooks, then brought in Steve !-<rands and Mike James, creating a crowded competition. Alston accepted the challenge, quietly believing that he was the best match for coach Rick Adelman's offensive system. 
"Even from the start, I knew it would be a good fit for me," J\lston said. "I can be a playmak­er at times, I can be a scorer at times. It made me more involved. I'm a weapon in it." 
Early in the season, Alston split minutes with James and Francis as Adelman searched for the right man to run the offense. 
Francis eventually suffered a season-ending quadriceps injury, James was traded and Brooks was relegated to a reserve role, leaving the responsibility to Alston. 
"Now, he's playing at a very high level, and that's what we need," Adelman said. "We need him to have a level like this." 
~ 
CHAMBEl< SINGER':> Nancy Menk. conductor 
pre~ent 

Irish Music in Honor ofSt. Patrick's Day 

Special Guests 
Kennedy's Kitchen and the Culver Academy Choir Stacey Warren, director 
Sunday, March 16, 2008 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Moreau Center for the Arts Saint Mary's College 7:30P.M. Call the College Box Office at 284-4626 for tickets. 

1'/Jo (:OU{(rt is Jpt~morcd itJ purt kr R01~~tld emrl ···~--····· ~-············ BclriJtml Rob/Jim, tbt Cornrmwi~y h•tmtfatirm o( S A JN. T 
St../t>.<<fl• Clnwty. and tl•' Sumlq A. and Plor,, P G,trk MARY'S 1\1~morl~d TNnt Foundation.
RH.I\( 1NM I'ML ;; ::_, 
''"·-··~ ' ..
,....·-·'01",....,,...... Visit our Web Site at: C 0 L L E G E
.................. -... . ·­
SouthBendChambcrSingas.org. NOTRf. DAME. IN 


Wednesday, March 12, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
PGA TouR 
John Daly dumped by coach for drunkeness 

Associated Press 
John Daly has been cut loose by swing coach Butch Harmon, who s-aid Tuesday he was not going to waste his time with a two-time major champion who is more inter­ested in drinking than working on his golf game. 
"My whole goal for him was he's got to show me golf is the most important thing in his life," Harmon said from his golf school in Las Vegas. "And the most important thing in his life is getting drunk." 
Harmon said he has worked three times this year with Daly, but he said Daly's behav­ior at the PODS Championship was enough to end the short­lived relationship. 
Daly, playing on a sponsor's exemption because he no longer has his full PGA Tour card, spent a 2?-hour rain delay during the first round in a Hooters corporate tent 

TURTLE CREEK AMENITIES <>Tan for FREE at Fun Tan ¢"*'Heated Pool and ~lot 1\tb <:> Pet Friendlv 
-' 
On Site Security 

S;?,S$5401 
1710 E. Turtle Creel< Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Phone: 574-272-8124 
(112: block east of campus on Vaness Street) Fax: 574-273-69.21 
behind the 17th green at his actions of last weekend, Innisbrook. He was 3 over, we are no longer together," and when play resumed, he Harmon said. "In all honesty, had Tampa Bay Buccaneers I'm a very busy person. I'm 
coach Jon ·Gruden cad­die for him the rest of the day. Daly ended up with a 77. 
He followed that with an 80 in the sec­ond round to miss the cut. 
Daly spent Saturday at the Hooters "Owl's Nest" at the tourna­ment, drink­ing beer, min­gling with fans and sign­ing auto­
graphs, including one on the back of a woman's pants. 
"''ve let him know that after 
"My whole goal for him was he's got to show me golf is the most important thing in his life. And the most important thing in his life is getting drunk." 
Butch Harmon swing coach 

located for comment. 
. Harmon· is regarded as among the best swing coaches in golf, working with Tiger Woods before he turned pro and overhauling Woods swing when the world's No. 1 player won four consecutive majors. He also worked with Greg Norman when he was No. 1, and his current clientele includes Phil Mickelson and Adam Scott. 
Daly was the ninth alternate when he won the PGA Championship in 1991 at Crooked Stick, and he cap­tured the· British Open at St. Andrews four years later. His last victory came four years ago at the Buick Invitational, but his game has been in a tailspin ever since, and his personal life has been as rocky as ever. 
He played last year primari­ly on sponsor exemptions and was plagued by a rib injury when ·he stopped his swing at the Honda Classic upon hear­ing the click of a fan's camera. Daly is contemplating a law­suit against the tournament, which gave him an exemption. 
In seven events this year, he has missed the cut three times and withdrew from the Bob Hope Classic, where he was ­spotted at several after-hour parties. His best finish was a tie for 60th in Mexico, an opposite-field event. 
Harmon said they have worked three times this year. 
"He would work hard and get better, but when things don't go right, it's back to the alcohol stuff," Harmon said. "I love this kid. He's a tremendous talent. But if he's not going to give 100 percent effort, it's a waste of my time." 
But it was his behavior at Innisbrook that set off Harmon. 
"You don't see guys who are any good doing that," he said. "All the guys I work with are working their {tails) off. John didn't have it. I like the kid, but he's got to get his head on straight. The partying and other shenanigans, if that's the way he wants to be, I don't choose to be a part of it." 
willing to help the kid, but until he helps himself and makes golf his No. 1 priori­ty, I'm not his guy. 
"Jon Gruden caddying, I thought was ridiculous. I thought he made a circus out of the whole event." 
Daly, who is playing the Arnold Palmer Invitational on a sponsor's exemption, could not be 


page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 12, 2008 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Defending cha111pion 
Asian Summer 
Language Grant Program 
Perez heading to finals 

Bennett takes down senior captain O'Brien Deadline is f\:'larch 28, 2008.. 
By MATT GAMBER and 
SAM WERNER 
Sports Writers 
149lb. 
Kris Perez def. Matt Posluszny 
l'nrnz. a junior, took advan­tage of' a strong sneond round and nuisPd to a vic:tory by unanimous der-ision over Posluszny, also a junior. 
!\l'ter a quif't first round that saw nnithc•r l'ightnr takP a rlear advantage, l'nrnz took control in thP sncond. gntting in snvnral good body shots against tiH• taiiPr fighter. 
"I had to l'ako up top and just nxploit tlw bottom," I'Pr<1Z said. "That's whern I had nwrn surl'acP arna to hit." 
l'ernz didn't strain himsnll' in tlw final round, and coml'ort­ably movPd on to the l'inals, whern lw will l'ac:n senior l.awrnncn Sullivan. 
"lin's higgnr and stronger and I'm slicknr and quicker," l'on1z said of' his upeorning bout. "Styles makn rights and it's going to be a good ono." 
155-pound 
Alex Gonzalez def. Ryan Frost 
GonzaiPz had waited long onough to throw his first punch -thanks to a f'irst­round byP and a sncmHl-round scheduled opporwnt who was unable to l'ight due to a con­cussion, this semil'inal bout was Gonzalpz's first of the ynar. 
"Speedy" Gonzalez honored his nickname, barrnling into Frost just as the opening bell sounded. 
"I had a lot of frustration bneause of that, a lot of jitters beea usn I hadn't rough t yet, but other than that, it was just lik11 any other fight," Frost said. "Gptting rid of the jitt11rs

-and listening to my corner Iworn definitnly the biggest knysl. Whenever they told me to throw a r,ombo, I'd do it, and it worked out." 
Gonzalp,z maintained his early momentum throughout, avoiding any major blows and landing several of' his own en route to the victory by unani­mous decision. 
Mark Bennett def. Pat O'Brien 

Bennett, a senior, came out swinging and h11ld on to defeat O'Brien, a senior captain, by a split deeision. 
O'Brien seemed to be eaught off-guard when Bennett came out energetieally with a frenzy of jabs. O'Brien sp,emed to regain his composure by the end. but the !1rst round ended with neither elearly in the II\ad. 
"I Bonnett! came out there with a lot of intensity," O'Brien said. "It was a tough fight." 
In the seeond round, the righters traded-jabs, with Bennett landing a few good hooks and what appeared to be a slight lead after two rounds. 
O'Brien came back in the l'inal round, landing a solid right hook, but was knocked 
-
down when he appeared to 
trip after getting hit by 
Bennott. 
!\fter the fight, Bennett said 
that his style matched up well 
with O'Brien's. 
"I knew that Pat was going 
to be really aggressive and 
that's kind of my style as 
well." Bennett said. "I knew 
that I was in roal good shape 
and I was n~ady to go to battle 
with him." 
157-pound 
Jim Devereau def. Jesse Brawer 
AftfH' a rough first round­
and-a-half that culminated in 
l>p,verau getting the wind 
knocked out of him and hav­
ing to retreat to the corner. 
completely hunched over, only 
one thing was running 
through his head. 
"Uh. try not to get hit in tho 
ribs again," Deverau said with 
a laugh following his victory 
by unanimous dec:ision. "lin 
took the wind out of me pretty 
good there." 
The bout saw a senior eap­tain fall for the second straight fight, ~ts Brawer eon­trollnd the fight's first half and looked to have set himself up for an easy victory by the mid­dle of the seeond round, when the l'ight was briefly stopped as Deverau caught his breath. 
From there, though, it was all Deverau, as he landed a bevy of strong jabs and upper­cuts that got the crowd more involved than in any fight bPforP it. 
AftPr battling back to a near deadlock through two rounds, Deverau left no doubt in the third, as Brawer slowed down eonsiderably in the fight's final 30 seconds. Brawer. who began the l'ight with a series of lightning-quick jabs, eould­n't muster mueh of an attack against the lefty. 
"I think the righties have it a little tougher beeause they don't get to see the lefties in practice as mueh," Deverau said. "Lefties are always see­ing righties in practice, so we're used to it." 
Jordan Bucci def. Nathan Rothenberger 
Bueci, a so ph om ore from Alumni, held off a late rally from Rothenberger, a sopho­more from Keough, to win by unanimous decision. 
Both fighters came out strong, trading a flurry of jabs, and the first round ended with no clear leader. 
In the second, Bucci landed some good hooks on Rothenberger and appeared to take a slight lead. 
Hothenberger came back strong in the third round, (lVen managing to get Bucci against the ropes and land several hooks. Bucci coun­tered well though, and did just enough to take the fight. 
"I didn't know I won until they called my shorts," Bucci said. "I thought it was super close." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu and Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

The Center for Asian Studies is sponsoring a competition for undergraduates and graduate students who wish to study an Asian language not currently offered at Notre Dame. The program selected can be either in the U.S. or a foreign country. 
It is expected that such study will contribute to the student's further education at Notre Dame. In most cases, language classes will be counted for academic credit at Notre Dame. The competition is not open to seniors or graduate students completing their degrees. 
Applications at :WWW.JlQ..,?..9.!J!:::.9.?§ 


Essay Prize in Asian Studies 
• 

Deadline is April l L, 2008. 
Two prizes of $100 each will be awarded for the Best Undergraduate and Best Graduate Essay. Essays should focus on Asia or Asian American topics, 
Undergraduate submissions should be no longer than 20 pages. Graduate submissions should be no lon·ger than 30 pages 
Submit four copies (three without author information) to · 
Center for Asian Studies 210 O'Shaughnessy Hall 1-0487 W·NW. nd.edu/-cas 

TOUR GUIDES 
NEEDED 
The ()ffice of Undergraduate Admissions intends to hire new guides for the summer o8~ fall o8 and spring 09 sesstons 
~~ ~~! 




Applications are available for pick up now: 
zzo Main Building 
Pleasereturn 1-,y 5pm. on 1~uesday, ~<\pril L Q~testions? E...mail Beth Giudicessi; egiud ice<!_i)nd.edu 
"f.A 

Wednesday, March 12, l008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
know no boundaries 

WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 

Upcoming World View Events Blood Diamond April 3 Cosponsored with Center for Social Concerns 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
.~~i: D E B A R T 0 L 0 
WNOTREDAME ~~ Jli' PERFORMING ARTS CENTER Office of the President 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 12, 2008 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Hopke rallies from behind to win southpaw battle 
By MATT GAMBER and ANDY ZICCARELLI Sports Writers 
161-pound 
Matt Hopke def. Nick Ponzio 
llopke tripped and hit the can­vas almost immediately, but the lanky lel"t-hander struck back, going on the attack and forcing Ponzio, also a lefty, to keep his dis­tanee a bit. 
Ilopke used his height advan­tage ell"ectively, often following a soft right jab with a big left hook to win by split decision. 
"I knew that since I was going against a shorter guy I'd need to k1~ep him oul<>ide, because I knew hn was going to work the body," llopkn said. "J pradiced for him against my roommate who's 5­foot-6 and in my weight dass, so I got a muple sessions in him with him and all ho dons is go to the body, so I was expecting the same thing from Nkk." 
Dan Rodgers def. Jason Miller 
Both Hodgers and Milh~r were ag1-,rrnssive in thn first round. Each lighter thmw, and landed, a signil~ i1:ant amount of punches in the round. 
Th1~ semnd round W<L'> similarly f<L<>t-paced. with each lighter tak­ing turns being on the o!Tnnsive and on the defensive. 
One has to wonder how much of an ell"e1:t all of the movnment in the first round had on the lighters. In tho third round, which was morn sluggish than the first two, Hodgnrs seemed to take eontrol and land more punches. 
lie won by unanimous decision and will move onto the finals. 
166-pound 
Charlie Gough def. Bryan Grissinger 
Cough showed prowess with both his left and right hands dur­ing an imprnssive victory by unan­imous dndsion. Using a diversified rnportoire eomplete with a series of jabs, hooks and uppercuts, he wa<; abln to keep Crissinger at bay. 
"I like to switeh it up, both left and right and high and low," Gough said. "Not a lot of ~-,ruys in the Boul<> go to the body much. so
-
I try to do that -not <L'> well a<; I would havn liked, but I thought it worked a little bit." Gough landed a few early uppereul<> and hooks that looked like they'd do some damage, but Grissinger didn't show any signs of stumbling back or f.,'I"owing tired in tllfl first round. · Grissinger continued to attack, but Gough's punches continued to overpower him in the second,pre­vnnting Grissinger from landing any signilkant combinations. 
Joseph Meares def. Scott Whalen 
In a matchup of lighters of dif­fnring sizes, Meares was able to overcome his lack of reach and power his way into the finals with a victory in a split decision. The key li>r Meares wa<; being able to land his strong power hand. 
"I was just trying to land my power because he is taller than I am," he said. 
Whalen attempted to use his roaeh advantage to kenp Meares away, and it was noticed by Mearns. 
"lin startl~d to tag me with that jab a little bit," Meares said. 
The fight went back and forth, with each lighting their own style. llownvcr. in the end, Meares was able to slip inside those jabs just enough to pull land his big right hooks. 
170-pound 
Ben O'Brien def. Mike Cimino 
Cimino, ruled out because of a concussion, forfeited the match, allowing O'Brien to advance to the title bout by walkover. 
Bernardo Garcia def. Matt 
Gimlett 
Both Garcia and Gimlett had 
their turns on the oflensive in their 
semifinal mateh. However, a late 
eomebaek of strong right hands 
gave Garcia the win in a unani­
mous decision. 
"It was my right hand [that 
made the difference]," Garcia said. 
"He wa<; dropping his guard every 
time he threw, so when he threw, 
so did I." 
Gimlett took the lead in after a 
very fil.St paced second round. He 
opened with numerous strong 
right hooks, never allowing Garcia 
to establish himself in the second. 
Ilownver, aftnr rngrouping, Garcia 
was able to come up with a game 
plan that would give him the edge, 
however simple it may have 
semned. 
176-pound 
Mike Lee def. Pat Jackson 
Lee, a junior captain, showed 
why he is considered one of the 
field's best, displaying an almost 
alarming out of quickness in a 
nearly llawlnss porl(>rmance. 
"Last year when I fought I got · 
too aggressive and too wild and 
got my hands down," said Lee, a 
reigning champ, "so this year I'm 
trying to li>cus on the fundamen­
tals and really jab more, keep my 
hands up, so it's just more accu­
rate punches iHstead of wild 
punches." 
Lee was aggressive yet patient 
and quick but under control, using 
his vicious left hooks to send 
Jackson to the ropes, where Lee 
would relentlessly pummel his 
opponent's body. Lee's proficiency 
with both hands was simply too 
much for Jackson to counteract. 
Andres Villalba def. Dominic Golab 
The light between Golab and Villalba opened with what was the most ag~-,rressive first round of the night. Both took turns throwing, and botl1 were suceessful in land­ing their punches a<; well. Villalba, who occasionally switehed to fight­ing left handed, was concerned with his technique, above all else. 
"Praetice all you want; once you get hit, everything changes," said Villalba. "I just had to focus on myself and focus on my tech­nique." 
Villalba was able to successfully dodge Golab's punches throughout the match and took control in the seeond. Golab opened up the third round by landing successive right power hands, but time ran out on the freshman, who did not have enough left in the tank to match the junior captain. Villalba will face fellow junior captain Mike Lee in the finals. 
18~und 
Leo Rubinkowski def. John Tchoula 
What a dillerence a minute can make. 
A<> the tina! bell sounded and the lighters retreatl~d to their respec­tive corners, Rubinkowski was stomping his feet against the can-. vas, dearly frustrated at his inabil­ity to put away a light he led hand­ily well into the third round. 
"I wa<> frustrated at the end just because I was trying to get away from his two -he lifts that thing up and just blows right through you," Rub said. "I knew it'd be an interesting fight." 

Rubinkowski, a much taller fighter, was able to force Tchoula to come after him and become over-aggressive in the first two rounds -causing Tchoula to over­expose himself and remain off-bal­ance, of which Rubinkowski was able to take advantage. 
The third was a different story, though, as Tchoula, who finished the second by backing Rubinkowski into the corner with both right and left hooks, sacri­ficed his body and mounted a heavy and successful attack. 
The final round was stopped twice for Tchoula's bloody face, but that was the only thing that slowed him down in the final min­utes. The freshman was able to land consecutive haymakers that brought much of the crowd to its feet and left Hubinkowski stomp­ing his own. 
Still, though, Hubinkowski's early advantagn proved to be just enough. 
Alex Lough def. Thomas Haan 
In an abbreviated light, Lough defeated Hann in a bout stopped in the first round. The referee halted the match after Lough landed a combination that sent llann spinning into the ropes. 
"I don't really know !what I did to end the fight so quickly!," Lough said. 
When asked about his strategy for a final match-up bith Leo Rubinkowski, Lough wa'> straight­f(>rward. 
"Don't get hit," Lough said with a laugh. "The guy I fought in the second round was tall, so hopeful­ly that will translate." 
20&pound 
Andrew Lorenz def. Pat Ryan . 
Lorenz was able to land a couple of big hooks near the dose of each of the first two rounds before tak­ing the third to earn himself a split decision. 
Lorenz landed one of the night's biggest punches when Ryan, a senior captain, tried to grab a hold of him early in the third. Instead of waiting for the official to yell "Break!", as most of the fighters appeared to do throughout the night, Lorenz attacked Hyan's exposed self, landing an enormous uppercut right underneath Ryan's chin. 
That punch proved to be the dif'­ference, as neither of the two visi­bly exhausted lighters mounted any major attacks after that point. 
"I was just reacting-anything I planned on doing I forgot about a<; soon as the fight started," Lorenz said. 
Pat Burns def. Tony Klausing 

Burns prevailnd in thi<> battle of Keenan I-lalJ sophomon)s. 
Burns wa<> named the winner in a split decision, a decision that was fitting for how close the match was. Burns displayed impressivn agility li>r a lighter his size, something that he s1fid made · the difference 
"He definitely hit me harder, but I definitely hit him more often," Burns said. 

The mateh was back and forth lor all thrm) rounds and wa'> very physieal. Both boxers fought very close to one another and landed a significant amount of punches, especially left and right body hooks. Strength was a key factor. 
"I was pushing him around the ring, which probably gave me a couple of extra points on the scorecard," Burns said. 
Heavyweight 
Will Bourroughs def. George Speiss 
In the night's second-to-last fight, the fans finally got what they were waiting for: a true knockout punch. 
Bourroughs, a law student box­ing for the first time, threw a mon­ster haymaker in the fight's third round that knocked Speiss to the canvas, where he laid li>r several seqmds before being helped up. 
"I knew eoming into it Jeff was an experienced and good boxer, and he had the reach," Burroughs said. "In the first round, he really hit me hard, and I was just watch­ing out for that right. Second round, I was able to land some pretty fortunate punches that gave me an advantage that he would kind of duck every once in awhile. Just listening to the guys in my corner.. .I happenod to throw the right punch at the right time." 
Kevin Crepeau def. Pat Mcinerney 
· Those that stuck around li>r the final fight of the night wem treatnd to one that had the look of a lighter weight dass as opposnd to a heavyweight bout. 
"A lot of hnavywnighl'> have one 
big punch,  but he  is  a  great  
boxer,"  Crepeau  said  of  
Mclnereney.  ~  

Both lighters shownd irnpressiv1~ agility and movement throughout all three rounds. After an oven first, Crepnau landed a numbnr of punches to open thn second and take the lead. llownver, Mclnereney opened the third with a big combination to start his eomeback attmnpt. It would prove to be too little, though, a<; Crepeau answernd enough to win in a split decision. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu and Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 

~~AAM>;M>N>N>Mif~'!"-.<./~'f''~-· ;/\VJ..o:VOA.Y.~,~;~ / '' :C,'',;,~~~~~',:,,:;:;.~~'"'Y->~~"""'1~~~1
I .. !
i The Riley Prize 1 
• i·'l 
lll 

Art History and Criticism 
! The Department of Art, Art History and Design is }t ~ pleased to announce its annual cotnpetition for the Riley Ii 
1 
Prize in Art History and Criticism. Current Notre Dame f undergraduate and graduate students are invited to ~f submit essays on any topic in the history of art or art ',~.~. criticism for consideration in the cotnpetition. Essays ~ 
~ 

must deal with the visual arts. They 1nay have been ~ written in coniunction with a course taken at the i~ University, but ~eed not have been. i 
~ 

Rules governing the competition are available m the Art ~ Department Office, 306 Riley Hall. ~ 
~ Two copies of the subn1ission 1nust be delivered to the Art ~ Department Office by 4:00 PI\1, Tuesday, March 25th to be ~ eligible. 
I

I
ff A student nray only submit ONE entry. · ~ 
~ ~ 
~h$,(>:(;:::1~..,t$,.~->;«~~~~~$A~".~A~v;::;.:~~,.~~~~ 
,----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 12, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

Kr EDISON LAKES 



Coffee at ftle ~omo . 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, March 13 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, the1r friends. and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
fveJYone 1s welcome and confiilentialily 1s assured. 

cg~[ CV!.!MC!l FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 


Brey 
continued from page 24 
coaches fritter away talent 
because they can't bring them 
together. Instead, they rely on 
their individual athleticism, 
hoping somebody will make a 
play at .a crucial time. But on a 
true team, like Notre Dame, 
anybody can make that big 
play, and no one person carries 
too much of the load. 
Team building is an underrat­
ed art, but Brey and the Irish 
have found the right groove. 
Part of that has to do with 
Brey's recruiting. At Notre 
Dame, he's probably not going 
to attract the Michael Beasley 
or the Kevin Durant type of 
recruit, but he does get solid, 
smart players who just need 
time to develop. While they 
develop as freshmen and soph­
omores, they develop a rapport 
together. Teams with one-and­
done freshmen don't have as 
much time to develop that 
teamwork. · 
Brey made another pivotal 
move, or should I say non­
move, before the season began. 
After watching his team prac­
tice, he realized they didn't 
really need a set offense and so 
he didn't implement one. To be 
sure, there are basic principles 
to Notre Dame's offense -ball 
screens to start a possession, 
getting the ball to Harangody at 
least once every possession ­
but otherwise the players run 
the show. Thanks to the chem­
i-:try these players developed 
over the past few years, they're 
comfortable playing together 
and don't need a set offense . cramping their style. 
And give Brey a lot of credit 
for staying out of the way. Some. 
coaches have too big of an ~go 
to let their players play. They 
have to prove that they can out­"x-and-o" the opposing coach. But Brey doesn't have that ego problem. He stayed out of the­way, let his players play, and Notre Dame became the best scoring team in the Big East. 
Brey also has a top-notch staff of assistants who have helped the main eight players develop their talents and find their niche in the lineup. Together, the coaching staff has done a remarkable job develop­ing Harangody and helping him handle the pressures of the attention he's been getting on and off the court. 
But all the success on the court would mean nothing if Brey didn't do it the right way. Brey is a consummate class act, gets involved with the commu­nity through his charity work with Coaches vs. Cancer and the military and treats his play­ers, the media, fans and oppo­nents with respect. Oh, and there's never been a whiff of recruiting violations around his program. He practices and preaches the values of his employer. 
CBS basketball analyst Seth Davis said a few weeks ago Indiana has some interest in looking at Brey to fill their vacant coaching position. Indiana bought out former head coach Kelvin Sampson's con­tract after he committed repeated NCAA violations. 
Brey is an awfully attractive candidate for a school looking to rebuild its image as a pro­gram that wins with integrity. Brey is a winner, and he does it with class. 
What more could you ask for of a coach? 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd. edu 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 

Sophomore Cosmina Ciobanu gets ready to serve against Ohio 
State in a 5-2 win Feb. 14. 
Illinois 
continued from page 24 
"Our No. 2 and No. 3 doubles feed off of them, knowing that they probably will get a victory from the 1 spot," Louderback said. "It really takes the pres­sure off of them. Our No. 3 team has played especially well. Cosmina and Colleen have looked comfortable behind Buck and Tefft and stand at 9-1 on the year." 
However, the Illini remain the task at hand, and Notre Dame hasn't honed in on any specific areas of its game, but rather has focused on improving all aspects of play. 
"We mainly just went out there to hit balls," Louderback said. "We didn't stress one thing in particular, we just wanted to focus and work on everything in general." 
Louderback is aware of the Illini efficiency to challenge their opponents on the road and doesn't want to let them live up to their reputation. 
"They compete really well," Louderback said. "This year they've improved even more and they've just been much better overall. One thing that they do well is play on the road. They're used to coming into foreign environments and coming up with wins so it's going to be a challenge but we're looking for­ward to it." 
The Illini are scheduled to bat­tle the Irish at 3:30 today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
-
( page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 12, 2008 
some of the taller defenders 

"I was just trying to figure in the boxing program ­
away from the basket and take 

out what his game plan was, except for a left-handed oppo­
Awards 
Bouts
them off the dribble. 

and once I saw what he was nent. 
continued from page 24 Harangody becomes the last 
continued from page 24 doing, I was able to work "I was fighting a lefty, which 
Irish player to capture the top 

around it, get in there, and I've never done before -I've 
conference honor since. Troy 

few jab-hook combos that counter as much as I could," never really even sparred
both categories with 23.3 
Murphy won the award for his 

caused Powers to stagger Costanzo said. "My strength is against a lefty," Sullivan. "I
points and 11.3 rebounds per 
2000-01 eampaign. 

backward early in the third my movement -I try to stay watehed a lot of film of some 
game. 
Brey beeomes just the third 

round, but Powers was able to pretty quick in the ring -and good pro lighters lighting left­
"This is huge for our pro­
Big East coach to capture 

keep his hands up and block strategy, knowing what my ies, and it took the first round
gram, said Brey of 
coach of the year in consecu­

the devastating puneh Cugliari opponent's doing and being to kind of feel it out before I
Harangody's award in a phone 
tive years. 

needed to land to overcome able to counter it." settled in. There were things I
interview Tuesday. "It's the 
''I'm a little surprised quite 

Powers' early lead. Weber held a slight edge for would have liked to have done
culmination of a great story 
frankly because they are about 

the first two rounds before better, but I was happy to take
not only in our league but in 
live or six guys in the league 

Chris Hartstein def. John Costanzo dosed out the second the win against a lefty."
all of college basketball for 
that are justified in getting it," 

Biddle with a series of sharp hooks Sullivan was able to hand
him and how far he's come. 
Brey said. "But I think anytime 

.In a fight that saw more that sent Weber staggering Mower, a fellow senior, the first 
And then throughout it all is 
your peers select you it's flat­

wrap-ups than big punches back. Costanzo was able to knockdown of his career with a
that he's such a good team-, 
tering and humbling." 

landed, Hartstein defeated drive Weber toward the ropes big right hook early in the sec­
mate as all these awards have 
Biddle by unanimous decision. multiple times in the final ond round. Suilivan displayed
Brey credited his success

been coming in." 
this season in part to the help 

Hartstein, the shorter fighter, minute to secure the victory. the quickness and tenacity that
llarangody's wrecking-ball 

came out more aggressively allowed him to defeat Mike
he has around him.

style of play all season lit right 
"I think as I said last year, 

than Biddle, getting him Tim Thayer def. Phillip Hicks Hennig, a senior captain a year
in with the physical nature of 
you look at guys that won this 

against the ropes a few times "Boston Tea Party" Hicks ago, in last year's title fight,
the Big East and allowed him 
award in the past, and they all 

in the first round. quickly turned into the Boston and a dominating performance 
to take on taller big men like 
"It's hard when a guys taller, Massacre, as Thayer, a sopho­earned him the right to defend
had great senior leadership,"

Louisville's David Padgett, 
Brey said. "Last year I had two 

you've got to get inside," more from Zahm, quickly dis­his crown.
Connecticut's Hasheem 
Hartstein said. "I just dropped posed of the senior from Dillon Sullivan was the only one of
seniors [Russell Carter and

Thabeet and Georgetown's Roy 
Colin Falls] and this year J'ye 

low and tried to come upstairs in a first round knockout. this year's four senior captains 
Hibbert. llarangody netted 32 
and go the distance. He was a Thayer landed a few good to advance to a championship
got Rob Kurz and I've got a

points against Connecticut on 
great coaching staff. It's flat­

tough fighter" jabs to open the round, and fol­bout -a testament, he said, to
Feb. 13, setting a then-career 
tering but I've got a great 

After an uneventful second lowed with a resounding hook the eaptains' ability not only as
high, only to shatter it 15 days 
group to work with on a daily 

round, Hartstein managed to that knocked Hicks to the mat boxers, but as teachers.
later with a 40-point perform­
back Biddle into a corner in and left him visibly dazed. "It's hard because the sen­
basis." 

ance against Louisville. 
Brey led the Irish to a 24-6 

the final round. By the end, Taking advantage of Hicks' iors are working on coaching a
Over the course of the sea­
overall record this season, the 

both fighters were visibly weakness, knocking him to the lot of people, and you can see 
son, llarangody expanded his 
fifth time he has directed 

exhausted, exchanging punch­mat twice more with solid jabs just from the level of fighting
offensive game. Sinee his 
Notre Dame to a 20-win sea­

es for only a few seconds before the referee was forced this year that they did a really
freshman season, Harangody 
before wrapping each other up to stop the fight. good job at hammering in the
son and ties his high mark of

had the ability to score from 
24 wins set by his 2002-03 

again. "He was just a little bit off fundamentals," Sullivan said.
the block. draw contact and 
team. 

balance," Thayer said. "I just "I think maybe they were try­
sink his free throws at a high 
Notre Dame will play the 

146-pound caught him leaning a couple of ing some new, more advaneed
rate. 
winner of Marquette and Seton 

times." stuff, and got away from the
But as this season's Big East 

Mark Costanzo def. Mark
Hall Thursday in the quarterfi­
fundamentals that kids they

slate wore on and llarangody 
Weber
nals of the Big East tourna­

149-pound taught actually beat them with. 
had diffieulty earlier in the 
Costanzo did most of his
ment at approximately 9:30 
It's tough to see since they

year scoring against the taller 
damage in the latter half of the Lawrence Sullivan def. Paul
p.m. at Madison Square 
gave so much."

trees in the conferenee, he 
first two rounds before domi­Mower
Garden.

found other ways to produce 
nating the third against Weber, Heading into last night's 
points. lie developed a consis­
who was visibly tired and semifinal bout, Sullivan, a sen­Contact Matt Gamber at 
tent mid-range jump shot, and Contact Chris Hine at 
struggling to mount any attack ior captain and reigning cham­mgamber@nd.edu and 
used his athleticism to draw chine@nd.edu 
toward the end of the fight. pion, had seen it all in his time Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
THE NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND CULTURE AND THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION PRESENT THE 2JRo ANNUAL J. PHILIP CLARKE FAMILY LECTURE ON MEDICAL ETHICS Is • FRI AY, MARC=H 14, 2008 Daniel P. Sulmasy, O.F.M., M.D., Ph.D. Sisters of Charity Chair in Ethics/ St. Vincent5-Manhattan Professor of Medicine and Director/ Bioethics Institute of New York Medical College McKenna Hall Auditorium 4:00PM Lecture is free and open to the public.  

-
-------------------------. 
Wednesday, March 12, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
' 
BLAcK DoG 
T1-IE R.E..PVBLI c.AI'i PART'( [>OES NOT LOIVDDNc THE. 
USE OF BARAC.I<. HUSSEIN OBAMA.'S FULL NAME IN 
PRES$ JI:.ELE:AS'E5. 
lOLLERSKATES 
NoR. WILL WE RJ-I'(ME-HIS NAME WITH THAT OF AfiJY T£ft.RORIST LE.AI>E:R Nell:. MENTooN \-liS PAST AIJF:> FREGl.UEtJT t>Rll(,.-USE 
SUPPO!t T 5'( Lovl$ FAil-R.AKI-IAN U'-./WILLIN6-NESS To SAY THE' PLE:t>G-E OF ALLEG-IANC£. DR. WEAR. THE U.S. F!..AG-O>J HIS LAPEL 
NOJZ. C.ALL 1'\.TT£/IJTIOI'J To HIS 
BLAC.KNE>S, N"R HI<; WHITENESS. 
fURIHERMoR-r, WE 

WILL NOT C.IRC.VL.ATE­PHoToS oF HIM DR.tSSE:D AS A MVSL.IM SoMALI 
TRII?.IOSMAI'J. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
DIDIER LEWIS 



WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Peter A. Collins 

34 Point just past 11  47 Nancy's pal, in  53 Like some airline  
on a clock: Abbr.  the comics  travel periods  
35 Comparable to a  48 Sour brew  54 Wrinkly fruit  
pig  50 Spooky  56 Actor Montand  
37 Greek salad  51 "__ a Letter to  58 Gangbanger's  
ingredient 39 Long time 42 Castle  My Love" (Simone Signore! film)  gun 60 Dander 61 Follower of "harvard."  
fortification  52 Some mil.  62 Back-to-school  
46 Hungarian  defenses  mo.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytirnes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
JM/WIIDibrE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PYPIN 
j
rJ r I I 


©2008 Tnbune Medoa Servoces, Inc 
r~r~l 
I DOBENYj 

WHAT AIR TRAVE:L-­
rJ r (J 
r=RS Gr=T, E:Vr::N IN 
www.jumble.com 
FIRST CL-ASS,
I CAFEED j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I rr I I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

"r I I I I]" rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: FUDGE MURKY WINNOW JERSEY Answer: The first thing the teen took when he got his driver's license -A "JOY" RIDE 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LIST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Thora Birch, 26; LeToya Luckett, 27; Bobby McFerrin, 58; Sam Donaldson, 74 
Happy Birthday: Avoid letting emotional issues take top priority. Concentrate on your personal, professional or educational advancement. Your contributions will lead you to greater expectations in the future. You can build a solid base from which to launch whatever you want to do. Positive thought will bring good results and few setbacks. Your numbers are 9, 15; 21, 28, 32, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Much can be accomplished if you take the time to dis­cover part time opportunities for making extra cash. A professional move can be made if you aren't happy with your current situation. Avoid anger--it's a waste of time. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Concentrate on doing things on your own. Disappoint­ment is apparent if you rely on promises being made. Deception will cloud your vision. Listen to your common sense, not your emotional urges. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Acting out over something that may not amounlto much will put you in a vulnerable position. You can get what you want tf you are clever and conduct yourself in an orderly fashion. Stability and common sense will win in the end. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Set up a meeting or talk to someone who has experi­ence in an area you want to know more about. Consider a partnership with someone of similar interests or goals. Make some changes to the way you do things if you want to get ahead. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will get unexpected help when you need it. If you live up to the expectations that others have for you, it will prime you for an even greater future. You will become the one everyone looks up to. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You're in the right place at the right time. Travel, moves or getting together with people who can offer you wisdom, clarity or the support you need will lead to your success. Now is the time to push for what you want. 5 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put your heart on the table and confess how you really feel if you are in a relationship. If you are not, get out and mingle and you soon will be. Be creative, get involved in a new hobby or do something to update your look. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It may be difficult to deal with personal matters today. Your time will be better spent with fmancial matters. An investment can change your future and it is apparent that money will come to you from an unusual source. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): If you Jet someone limit you, it will set a standard for future issues. Deal with people who are on the same page as you are. People wlio are too conservative will not be able to relate to your viston. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Do something that will change your financial posi­tion today. Take on a new project, add value to your home, purchase real estate or make an investment that will grow in time. There is a deal to be made that will help you get ahead. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): If you are too vocal about the way you feel, you may need to apologize for something you say that was based on a poor assumption. Give the ones you love space to grow and experience what life has to offer. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Do what you can to help others without doing every­thing for them. Your high energy coupled with know-how and pizzazz will put you in a good position when it comes to partnerships, professional dealmgs and your home en­vironment. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are tough, determined and adaptable. You are channing and en­tertaining, with a strong intuition and relentless willpower. 
Eugenia 1s Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

CROSSWORD 
Across 
1 Choice of colors 8 Charlotte hoopsters 
15 Extreme pains 16 Native New Yorkers 
17 Fraternity parties 18 Ankle-to-waist wear 19 Harpist's progression 
21 F.B.I. worker: Abbr. 22 Pancho and the Cisco Kid. e.g. 25 Prepare. in a way, as beans 
27 Like some treated lawns 
28 Launch of 
29 Some deer 
32 Sugar suffix 33 1960s-'80s Red Sox great, informally 
34 Locale of seven 
C. S. Lewis novels 
36, 38 &40 Grocery purchase ... or what can be found in some other Across answers in this puzzle 
41 Milk snakes 43Moo 44 Global financial 
org. 45 Facts 46 No. before or 
after a colon 47 Yemen's capital 49 "You're .......... One, 
Mr. Grinch" 51 Coolest, in rap slang 52 Kwik-E-Mart owner on "The Simpsons" 55 1957 Buddy Holly hit 57 Extreme poverty 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

59 "Eat your _!" (mom's order) 63 Tropical woe 64 Fighting words 65 Move quickly (over) 66 Save 
Down Nuclear power since 1998: 
Abbr. 2 Turn gray, say 3 Captain's charge 4 Captivate 5 Steering system 
component 6 Univ. of Maryland 
athletes 7 Latin infinitive 8 "The Wizard of 
Oz" scarecrow portrayer 9 "_by land ... " 10 Irish exclamation 
11 It might be bummed, for short 
12" I do beileve 1failed you" (opening of a 1998 hit) 
13 Aftertaste, e.g. 14 Army NCO. 20 Turning gray 22 You might get it 
coming and going 23 Say 2 + 3 =6, e.g. 24 Marcos of the Philippines 26 Days of_ 28 Red leader 30 Driver 31 Summation signs 33 Gridiron slats: Abbr. 
..... 

.,. 
-
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, March 12, 2008 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Bringing home the hardware 
Harangody takes Big East Player ofthe Year 
By CHRIS HINE Spons Writer 
At the beginning of the sea­son, Notre Damn was picked to finish ninth in tlw Big East. and sophomore forward Luke llarangody was absent from thn preseason all-Big East team. llowPver, arter dnfying Pxpectations through a gruel­ing 1X-ganw Big East sched­ule, llarangody was named Big East Playt)r of tho Year and Brey Coach of tlw Year for the sm:ond year in a row artcr lnading tlw Irish to a 14-4 fin­ish in thn conference and a tie for sncond place. 
"It's kind of crazy. llarangody said in a phone intnrview '1\wsday. 'Tvn come this far and to get it in a leagun likn this is pretty crazy. " . 
Arter avnraging 11.2 points per ganw last season, llarangody led the Big East with 21 points pt)r game and was sncond in rebounding at 103 boards per game. lie was 1wen better in conference games, leading the Big East in 
see AWARDS/page 22 

BENGAL BOUTS 
Boxers head to finals Friday 
Favorite Izaguirre battles through a bloody nose to overcome O'Brien 
By MATT GAMBER and SAM WERNER Sports Writers 
130-pound 
Chris Izaguirre def. Patrick O'Brien 
Not evnn a badly bloodied nosn could slow down lzaguirrn, a man on a mission after ·losing by split deeision in last ynar's titln bout, en route to his victory by unanimous dncision in the night's first tight. 
"It's been a lot of hard work, but this is really a dream ­one of the· highlights of my Notre Dame career, aside from graduating of course, lzaguiree S<!-id. "!Last year's loss! really lit the fire under me for this ynar, and I'm looking forward to hopefully taking hornn.", 
-
O'Brien's edge in height turned out to be a disadvan­
tagn, as tlw smaller. quicker Izaguirrn put the freshman on tlw ddnnsive early. O'Brien battlnd back in the second. though, and thn fight was brinfly stoppnd bncause of Izaguirre's bloody nose. 

Brey's coaching style surprises conference 
At the beginning of the last two seasons. the Big East coaches dissed Notre Dame, picking them to finish 11th before last season and ninth before this season. They looked at the Notre Dame roster and asked themselves, "Who do they have that can compete at the top of the eon fer­
?"
ence. 
They did­n't realize the answer was not someone who was on the floor every night. Inst1~ad, the answer was on the side­lines, in his trademark mock­turthmeek garb, quietly going about his business bringing together a basketball team, not just a bunch of talented ath­letes who have no chemistry and no concept of team basket­ball. 
All too often in basketball,

Sophomore power forward Luke Harangody dunks the ball against St. Johns in a 68-55 Irish victory on March 5 at home. Harangody finished with 20 points and six rebounds in the contest. see BREY/page 21 


CASEY CARNEY !The Observer Senior captain Lawrence Sullivan looks to land a left hook against Paul Mower in Sullivan's semi-final victory Tuesday. 
Matthew Conti def. Andrew Mok 
"The Steel Curtain" Conti came down hard on Mok, with Conti winning by unanimous decision. 
In the first round, Conti man­aged to knock Mok to the mat twice, and he stayed on the offensive for the entire round. Mok attempted to evade his opponent. but Conti chased the fellow freshman around the ring, keeping Mok on the defensive for all three rounds. 

nate the fight. 
138-pound 
Bobby Powers def. Chris Cugliari 
Powers won his second straight split decision thanks to an aggressive first two rounds, which gave him the early advantage and, eventually, the victory. 
"I had seen Cugliari fight and he's a really good fighter," Powers said. "I just tried to 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish set to face Illini after 3-gatne road trip 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 

After a three-match road trip in which No. 23 Notre Dame went 1-2 over spring break, the Irish return home to face No. 61 Illinois. 
In the first two matches last week, the Irish dropped eonsee­utive decisions to North Carolina and No. 2 Georgia Tech before handling Hawaii by a score of 7­0. 
The contest against the Rainbow Wahine marked the first time Notre Dame played outdoors all season and the Irish were in top form, never drop­ping a set in the entire match. 
As the new ITA Women's Tennis rankings were released, the prolific doubles pair of sen­ior Brook Buck and junior Kelcy Tefft received the honor of becoming only the second Irish doubles tandem to be ranked No. 1 nationally since Christian and Catrina Thompson aehievnd the feat in 2006. 
Heading into the mateh against Illinois, the pair is riding a seven-game winning streak that helped propel the Irish to win the doubles point for six has had throughout the season. 
Irish head eoach Jay Louderback knows that the duo's work ethie and all-around game has launched them into the national spotlight. 
"They're very solid all around," Louderback said. "They ean both serve and volley really well. They have a lot of variety to their game. If they need to volley more, then they will. If not, they can stay back. They can hit their ground strokes. They can do it all." 
Louderback is also well aware that a certain amount of n~spon­sibility comes with starting ofl' a match from the top spot. 
"Another thing is that when you're playing from the No. 1 spot, you're always going to face some solid competition and play some good teams," he said. "One thing they ean do is play well through tight sets and cre­ate distance between their opponents.... They can adjust well to the adversity that they faee." 
As expected, the top-ranked tandem sets the tone for the entire match, relinving some of the pressurn off of tlw other doubles teams of No. 2 sopho­morn Kali Krisik and freshman 

Tlw senior took his fair share In the final round, Mok made come out strong and not be straight matches during the Kristen Hal'anl and the No. 3 of jabs, hut lw was able to land a few attempts at a comeback, timid, and just work hard." span from Feb. 9-22. Not coinci­group of sophomorns Cosmina a nurnbnr or hooks in thn latter but any move made was eoun­Cugliari was able to land a dentally, the Irish record during Ciobanu and Colleen Hiellt~y. part of l)ach round that provml those six matches was 4-2,
tnred by a snries of blows from to hn thn dill"Pfl)nCI). Conti, who continued to domi-see BOUTS/page 22 showing the value the tag team see ILLINOIS/page 21 
-




