
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 20 TUESDAY, APRIL 15,2008 

Russett delivers Red Smith Lecture 
Moderator of NBC's "Meet the Press" emphasizes importance of interview preparation 
Notre Dame in 1927 and won the Pulitzer Prize in 1976. Hesburgh also attended the lecture. 
Red Smith's son, Terence Smith, introduced Russert, saying that this lecture is relevant to Indiana's current political climate. 
"The timing of this lecture tonight with Tim Russert is pretty extraordinary, right in the heart of the most dramatic primary cam­paign that this country has seen in decades," he said. 
Russert said his mission is to learn as much as he can about the guests' position on issues before­hand and take the opposing side, while maintaining a civil atmos­phere on the show. 
''I'm in a position to call them out and try to bring them back to 
see RUSSERT/page 4 


Africa 1Week events celebrate culture 
Schedule includes ·elements of Brazilian, African American, Latin American customs 

By CLAIRE REISING 
News Writer 
Tim Russert, moderator of "Meet the Press" and Washington Bureau Chief for NBC News, discussed journalists' responsibilities while interviewing political figures and gave the audience an idea of preparation involved for inter­views in his lecture "When Politicians Meet the Press" as the keynote for the 25th Red Smith Lecture Monday in Washington Hall. 
Robert Schmuhl director of Notre Dame's John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy, said Notre Dame President Emeritus Theodore Hesburgh instituted this lecture in 1983 to commemorate Walter W. "Red" Smith, who graduated from 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's annual Africa Week, which is dedi­cated to celebrating the beauty of the continent's culture, began a week of events with a traditional Mass Sunday. 
Sponsored by the African Student Association (ASA). African Faith & Justice Network and African Working Group, Africa Week holds events to showcase the p osi ti ve, cuit ural sid·~ of Africa, ASA member and week organizer Theo 0f:sei-
Anto said. 
"You hear a lot about the bad things in Africa, but there is so much culture and beauty that people overlook all the time," he said. 
The week's theme, "African Roots in Every Garden", contemplates the widespread influence of African culture. The events of the week will show "how African culture has influ­enced many cultures around the world," Ossei-Anto said. 
The activities and events will incorporate elements of Brazilian, African American, and Latin American culture along with elements of African culture to demon-

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Group votes on three task force proposals 
Leaders unanimously approves each report 
By KATIE PERALTA Assistant News Editor 
In one of its final meetings of the year, the Campus Life Council (CLC) voted un wi­mously Monday on three end-of-the year task force proposals to be submitted to Notre Dame Assistant Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman. 
"[These reports] will give Father Poorman an idea of what the task forces did this year," said senior Sheena 
Plamoottil, head of the Task Force on Campus Environment. "They put [the task forces'] work on paper, and are open to [Poorman's] suggestions." 
Plamoottil's task force's proposal addressed two top­ics, Sustainability of the Body and Sustainability of the Earth. 
The Sustainability of the Body portion addresses the force's discussion on improv­
see CLC/ page 4 
strate the African influences in each culture and society, he said. 
Tonight's event, a lecture co-sponsored by ASA and the Kroc Institute entitled "Catholic Peacebuilding in Africa", will feature three Catholic Bishops who have worked in Nigeria, Northern Uganda and Burundi, Ossei­Anto said. The talk will take place at 7:45 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for 
International  Studies  
Auditorium.  
Africa  Week  continues  
Wednesday with  a  "Service  

Day" involving the Robinson Community Learning Center. Children from the center 

will come to Notre Da:me to hear a presentation regard­ing the-theme of Africa Week, emphasizing the mod­ern-day impact of African culture, Ossei-Anto said. 
"Since a lot of kids are African-American, they will hear about how their culture has impacted music, dance and sports," he said. 
Afterwards, the children will play soccer with stu­dents at Stepan fields. 
Thursday's event, "By the Fireside: African Roots in Every Garden," is based on the old African tradition of 
see AFRICNpage 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Festival to celebrate writers 
Three women will read, discuss works 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
The University's first women writers' conference, "A Festival of Our Own," begins today and will continue to cel­ebrate the accomplishments of female authors Wednesday and Thursday. 
The conference, sponsored by the Department of English and the Creative Writing Program, will feature three female writers -Alice McDermott, Katherine Vaz and Lily Hoang. 
Tonight features a public reception and with excerpts from McDermott, followed by a question and answer ses­sion. Wednesday night's high­light is a panel discussion, including all three writers and moderated by Sayers and sen­ior Meghan O'Donoghue. The conference will finish with readings on Thursday night from Vaz and Hoang. 
"We thought it was a natural for Notre Dame. So many stu­dents are of Catholic back­ground and are practicing Catholics," English professor Valerie Sayers said. "We thought it would be really interesting to look at how women depict Catholicism [in their writing(" 
McDermott, who will open tonight's events, is the winner of the National Book Award and the American Book Award for her novel "Charming 
see WRITERS/page 4 

Regina maintenance continues 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Construction resumed on the roofs of Regina Hall, which has had leaky roofs for two years, in the fall semester of this year, said Bill Hambling, Director of Facilities at Saint Mary's. 
"We started this roofing project last year and were unable to com­plete due to inclement weather," Hambling said. 
Hambling issued an e-mail to Regina residents with a schedule for construction, which is set for com­pletion by the end of this month. 
"O'Laughlin is also undergoing similar work and everything from Regina and that work site is said to be cleaned up by May 2," he said. 
Some students have found leaks in 
see REGINNpage 6 



Tuesday, April 15, 2008
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Dining Hall Doldrullls 
I'm usually not prone to rant. When 
I'm frustratnd with something, I try 
to reason it out, think rationally, take 
a deep breath before venting out 
loud. I'll complain, but I try to avoid 
rants. There are 
exeeptions. When 
orw of my teams 
does something I 
don't like, I make 
sure the TV hears 
about it. And I 
absolutely eannot 
tolerate dining 
hall indecision. 
This phenome­
non has hap­
pened to every­
one. On your way 
across the dining 
hall towards your 
next delicious menu item, you run 
into this guy: standing stock-still 
smack in the middle of everyone's 
way, he's slowly turning in eirdes as 
if in awe at the plethora of food at his 
disposal. lie hasn't the foggiest idea 
what his stomaeh desires. When I get 
stuek behind this guy, I have to 
restrain myself from upending his 
tray so his applesaucn splashes in his 
faen. 
I've developed a fool-proof route through the dining hall that ensures I never miss a special dish. (For the purposes of this column, I'm talking about South; North's layout is such a disastrous quagmire that navigating it with any kind of expndienee is a eomplntn shot in the dark.) I enter on the right. II' I see a line by the Chinese food. I know it's General Tso's Chicknn day and my search is over. If not, I swing around thn Chinese and up the stir-fry linn, scan­ning as I go to see what fruits accom­pany the sliced applns on my lel't and who's manning the stir-fry grill on my right. I cut across to the homestyle section, swing left near the grill, and then eut left again towards the pasta, leaning right to make surn I don't miss any mozzarella sticks or cinnabuns by the pizza. After I've passed the Mexican line, I've seen everything there is, I've made my decisions and I proceed to get my food. 
I'm not saying everyone has to fol­low this pattern, but there needs to he premeditation before nntering the dining hall. If your game face isn't on, everyone around you will know it, and you'll essentially be reduced to a traflic cone. 
I'm not perfect. I've done it. I've been the guy who was overwhelmed by the choices and gaped at the dif­ferent options available to me. (I partly blame the convergence of morn than one delicious food on the sanH~ night. You can't serve peppered !lank steak on the same night as General Tso's. It's not fair to ask col­lege-age kids to make that choice.) 
The linalllaw I see most often is that people don't keep their head on a swivel. The dining hall is a criss­crossing, zig-zagging trail map of paths to and from difl'erent food sta­tions. Everyone needs to imagine they're running a crossing route ­keep your eye on the ball, or the food, but use your pP.ripherals as well. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wf>rink@nd.edu 

Bill Brink 
News Editor 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comacr us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE THING ABOUT AFRICA? 








Mike Roscitt Marco Magallon Jason Rodulfa Gabby Tate Jonathan Becker Adebola Giwa 
junior freshman junior freshman sophomore junior Stanford Carroll Alumni Pangborn Morrissey Alumni 
"Matooke-its 'The famous 'Thefood-"Giraffes. I've "The fashion -"/get to wear delicious. " song 'Africa' by especially the just always especially those my Buba 
Toto comes to free food loved them. " mind ... " today." 
Cashier throws cans of tobacco at robber 
DES MOINES, Iowa-A cigarette store cashier has snuffed out a robbery. Police said a masked man flashed a knife at the Cigarette Outlet on Friday and forced one employee to the floor, then demand­ed money from another worker, Ruth Wright. 
Instead of cash, Wright threw two cans of chewing tobacco at the robber, and one hit him in the face. 
Officers said a customer then tackled the man, but the robber broke free and bolted out the door. 
A cashier, Kittie Peacock, 
TODAY 



DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 

Senior Arlene Ortiz-Leytte serves herself free African food at the Coleman Morse Loun~e Monday as part of a program to connect Notre Dame students with refugee fami11es In the South Bend area during Africa Week. 
OFFBEAT 
8 inches, the mwtmum 
diameter, and his mother, 
Wendy Dahl, kept the tally 

At one point he asked, "Does this count as prac­ticing my trumpet?" His mother replied, "Only if you can play that with your nose." 
It was his second try. In February he sent a video­tape of himself inflating 184 balloons, only to learn that it didn't count because he handed them to his father to tie. This time he tied them off him­self. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
said the store had been robbed at least once before. 
13-year-old boy blows up 213 balloons with nose 
BLAINE, Wash. -A 13­year-old boy is claiming the world record for blow­ing balloons with his nose. Using one nostril at a time, Andrew Dahl inflated 213 balloons within an hour Friday in the town's public library. His feat has been submitted for review by Guinness World Records. 
His father, Doug Dahl, measured the balloons to make sure each was at least 20 centimeters, about 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
.... 
ct 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 57
.... 
LOW 49 

HIGH LOW 


67 50 

70 43 

buba's." around campus -and people like it." 
IN BRIEF 
The play "The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus," a Christopher Marlowe play about a professor who sells his soul to the devil. will be performed April 17 and 18 at 7::HJ p.m. in thn Decio Mainstage Theater at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play Toledo today at 6:05 p.m. at the Eck Baseball Stadium. Admission is free for students. 
Archbishop Luis Augusto Castro Quiroga will deliver a lecture entitled "Columbia: The Church as Peacebuilder" Wednesday from 12 p.m. to 1:45 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
"Israel at 60," acelebra­tion of Israel's 60th anniver­sary, will take place Thursday at 6 p.m. in the Eck Visitor's Center. 
"A Festival of our Own: Women Writers at Notre Dame," an event featuring three women writers, will begin tonight at 6:30 p.m. in McKenna Hall. 
"The Shirt" will be unveiled Friday at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Co-host of' Mike and Mike in the Morning and former Notre Dame foot­ball player Mike Golic will be the guest speaker. Festivities begin at 4:30 p.m, and "The Shirt" will be revealed at 6 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 59 I 34 Boston 57 I 35 Chicago 60 I 32 Denver 78 I 41 Houston 7 4 I 44 Los Angeles 67 I 56 Minneapolis 70 139 New York 59 I 38 Philadelphia 55 I 36 Phoenix 56 I 4oO Seattle 52 I 37 St. Louis 64 I 35 Tampa 68 1 48 Washington 58 1 39 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
Tuesday, April 15, 2008 
ND hosts vvorkshop on non-r1ative ani111als 
24 speakers fran~ 14 countries attend event 
Special to The Observer 
Experts from around the globe gathered on the campus of Notre Dame from April 9 to 11 for the first international workshop on ways to reduce the risk from potentially invasive animals. 
Non-native species invasions are a leading cause of the world-wide loss of native biolog­ical diversity and also an· asso­ciated with disease ri!;ks to humans and both domesticated and wild species on which humans depend. The global costs of invasive species reach into the hundreds of billions of dollars each year, with millions of human livelihoods disrupted. 
"Many countries continue to suffer needlessly from the importation of alien anima.ls like the Burmese python in the U.S. that turn out to be harmful to us and our natural ecosystems," David Lodge, director of Notre Dame's ·Center for Aquatic Conservation, said. "If the U.S. would follow the examplm; from many other countries and adopt modern approaches to screen­ing out harmful species, we could solve this problem, pro­tect our native biodiversity, and make international trade. more nconomically beneficial." 
The workshop partici oants will next provide recommenda­tions to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) to help prevent the introduction, through international trade, of non-native species that cause harm. Countries that are mem­bers of the CBD decided in 2006 that more efforts were required to lower the potential risks of organisms used, for example, in aquaculture, as pets, in aquari­ums, and as live bait. 
The workshop featured 24 invited speakers from 14 coun­tries and included experts from government agencies, relevant industries, universities and non­governmental organizations. Sessions focused on science, economics, different countries' practices, tools for sharing information, and international law. 
Results of the workshop will be used by CBD member coun­tries, pertinent international bodies, national policy makers, scientists and stakeholders in the live animal trade. The report, including a Web-based resource, will provide a broad picture of current and develop­ing practices and tools for pre­import risk screening for a range of priorities and nations. 
Organizers included the Global Invasive Species Programme, the IUCN Invasive Species Specialist Group, Defenders of Wildlife, and Notre Dame's Center for Aquatic Conservation. 
April 15 ~~ 16, 2008 McKenna Hall, University of Notre Dame 
Tuesday Apri115, 2008 
7:00 p.m. EveninJ reading with Alice McDermott. McKenna Hall Auditorium. Ouestion & answer session to follow. 
Wednesday April 16, 2008 
2:00p.m. Panel discussion with Lily Hoang, Alice IV cDermott, Katherine Vaz. 100 McKenna Hall. 
7:30p.m. Readin;J with Lily Hoang and Ka:herine Vaz. McKen1a Hall Audito1·ium and Atrium. 

The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Benedict: Smart and savvy 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A theologian recalls the then-cardinal's deep understanding of Protestantism. A former U.S. ambassador to the Vatican was impressed by his interest in all things American. 
Those who have met Pope Benedict XVI say the nation should expect a man who knows and admires much about the U.S., but also sees a culture in need of moral guid­ance. 
Benedict arrives late Tuesday for a six-day visit to Washington and New York filled with high-profile events. He will meet President Bush at the White House, address lead­ers in Roman Gatholic higher education, speak at the U.N., visit ground zero and hold two stadium Masses before leaving Sunday night. 
It will be the first papal visit by Benedict since he was elect­ed in 2005. However, the for­mer Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger -who will celebrate a birthday and the anniversary of his elec­tion to the papacy while in the U.S.-traveled to America five times during his many years as the Vatican's doctrinal watch­dog. 
The Rev. David Wells, a the­ologian at Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary, a promi­nent evangelical school outside Boston, met Ratzinger years ago at a conference. 
During a coffee break, the Roman Catholic cardinal picked up on a point Wells had made, launching into a detailed dis­cussion of the "Institutes of the Christian Religion," the seminal theological book by John Calvin and a key work on the Reformation. 

"I was very impressed by the wide range of his knowledge, his lucidity and the grasp of the issues, both historical and con­temporary," Wells said. 
Benedict, a former theology professor, has made ecumenical outreach a cornerstone of his papacy, although he has upset some Protestants by affirming that the Catholic Church is the only "true" church. The pope is holding a prayer service with Protestant and Orthodox Christian leaders Friday night at a Manhattan parish. 
Ray Flynn, the former Boston mayor who served as U.S. ambassador to the Vatican from 1993 to 1997, recalled Ratzinger walking by a news­stand outside St. Peter's Square where Flynn was looking at papers. Ratzinger stopped and discussed American current events with Flynn for nearly 20 minutes. 
"I was just amazed by his level of curiosity and awareness about all that was taking place in the U.S.," Flynn said. "He kept using the phrase, 'the gen­erosity of the United States."' 
Flynn is among those hosting a birthday party for Benedict on Wednesday night, his 81st birthday, in Washington. It's not clear whether the pope will attend. The party is among sev­eral events related to the visit that aren't on Benedict's official itinerary. He is expected to meet privately with religious representatives and other lead­ers. 
Some Catholics have expressed disappointment that the pope isn't visiting the Archdiocese of Boston. The clergy sex abuse crisis erupted there in 2002 with the case of one predator priest, then spread nationwide and beyond. Abuse-related costs, including massive settlements with vic­tims, have surpassed $2 billion for American dioceses since 1950. 
However, Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone -the Vatican secre­tary of state -told The Associated Press that Benedict will address the scandal during his trip and "will try to open the path of healing and reconcilia­tion." A likely forum could be when Benedict speaks to priests during a Saturday morning Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. 
Archbishop Pietro Sambi, the Vatican's U.S. ambassador, told the National Catholic Reporter that a meeting of the pope and victims is "within the field of possibility." 
Karl Anderson, supreme knight of the Knights of Columbus, the Catholic lay fra­ternal group, said Benedict doesn't get enough credit for his part in instituting reforms in the U.S. church in 2002 and 2003. At the time, he ran the Vatican Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, which reviewed all molestation cases against clergy worldwide. 
The Office of the President The Office of the Provost 

The Office of the Dean of the Colle9e of Arts & Letters 
The Boehnen Fund, Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, College of Arts & Letters The Richard and Catherine Sturtevant Endowment for Excellence in Engl1sh The Department of English 
~UNIVERSITY OF The Creative Wnting Program ~NOTRE DAME 

Tuesday, Aprill5, 2008

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Africa 
continued from page I 
gathering by the fire, Ossei­Anto said. 
"In Africa, when [tribe members) returned at night, they would sit around the fire, and elders would lead the conversation, giving advice or telling a story," he said. 
The talk will take place at 6::~0 around the fireplace in t h e C o M <i I o u n ge . E v e n t organizers invited four mem­bers of faculty. including University vice president John Affleck-Graves, to act as the Alders and mentor the Notre Dame community around the fire, Ossei-Anto said. 
The finale of Africa Week, Africa Night, will take place at 7:30 Saturday in Washington Hall. 
"Africa Night is the embod­iment of what Africa Week is," Ossei-Anto said, "The night is a showcase of 
Afriean culture: drumming, and we want to promote it on singing, dancing and any­campus," Ossei-Anto said. thing that is part of the joy­Tiekets for Afriea Night ean ous and rieh eulture of be purchased for $3 at the Afriea." LaFortune Box 
The show Offiee or at eonsists of dif-the door. The 
ferent per­formanee groups both on and off eampus, including  "The night serves as a reminder that Africa is not just poverty. There is so much  proeeeds from the night, as well as the money raised through sales of Afriea Week  
Afriean dancers and singers, as well as  history and culture, and we want to promote it  t-shirts, will be donated to the Saint J o s e p h  
Brazilian and L a t n  on campus.  County's ehap­ter of Red  
Ameriean groups to  Theo Ossei-Anto  Cross Refugee program,  
demonstrate  Africa Week organizer  Ossei-Anto  
the  Afriea  said. Although  
Week  theme  the  week  is  
of  "Afriean  primarily  
Roots in Every  about  a  cele- 

Garden," Ossei-Anto said. bration of African culture, he 
"For example, Latin said, the money raised from daneers will salsa to some the week will be donated to East Afriean musie," he said. Afriean relief. "The night serves as a reminder that Afriea is not just poverty. There is so Contact Madeline Buckley at much history and eulture, mbuddey@nd.edu 
CLC 
continued from page I 

ing student nutrition by examining campus dining halls. 
The Sustainability of the Earth part examines University environmental eoneerns, namely the Green Summit, which addresses the "green" eoneerns of Notre Dame students and faculty. 
The Student Development Task Foree, headed by out­going vice president junior Maris Braun, who was absent from Monday's meeting, addressed changes to be implemented to the College HAS Issues pro­gram. 
Held during First Year Orientation. the program addresses gender relations issues, sueh as date rape, aleohol abuse and the impaet of aleohol in deci­sion making. 
The major ehange to the 
format of the program is to ehange venues -from the Joyce Center, where all first year students would eon­vene for one large meeting, to the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, where students would meet in three smaller, more per­sonal groups. 
The final proposal, whieh came from the Community Relations Task Foree, head­ed by sophomore Gustavo Gari, discussed improving relations between the Notre Dame earn pus and South Bend eomrnunity. 
The proposal aims to improve town-and-gown relations. through increased dialogue. CLC members approved this proposal as well in a unanimous vote. 
Incoming student body president Bob Reish and viee president Grant Schmidt, who were present at the meeting, will assume responsibility of CLC meet­ings in the fall. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperaka@nd.edu 
Writers 
continued from page 1 
Billy." She is a Whiting 
Writers Award winner and 
author of six novels and the 
Richard A. Macksey Professor 
of English at Johns Hopkins 
University. She has also been 
a finalist for the Pulitzer 
Prize, the Los Angeles Times 
Book Prize and the 
PEN/Faulkner award. 
McDermott's Irish Catholic 
heritage influences her writ­
ing, as much of her works 
focus on Catholics in a chang­
ing world, Sayers said. 
"Her last novel really 
explored what it's like to be 
part of a devout Catholic fami­
ly from end of World War II up 
to the Vietnam War," Sayers 
said. "It is about how faith 
changes through earth shat­
tering events." 
Vaz is a Briggs-Copeland l11cturer in fiction at Harvard University and a former fellow of the Hadcliffe Institute. She is the author of two novels, "Saudade" and "Mariana." 
Sayers said Vaz's writing is "lush and poetic," and is largely influenced by her Portuguese roots. 
Hoang received her Masters of Fine Arts from the University and has taught at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Indiana University-South Bend. She is the author of "Parabola," which won the Chiasmus Press First Book Contest, and ·"Changing," which will be out this fall from Fairy Tale Heview Press. 
Much of Huang's work foeuses on how martyrdom is important to her background, Sayers said. Huang "is a wild­ly experimental writer," Sayers said. 
"I Vaz and Hoang] are so dif­ferent in their approach and style. It will be fun to hear them back-to-baek, each for half an hour," Sayers said. "We're hoping to make a big splash and keep !the confer­ence] going for many years to 
.. 
come. 
Sayers said the challenges that female writers continue to face today sparked the idea for the conference. 
"Men are still taken more seriously as literary figures than women are," she said. "There still is much more of an emphasis on male writers 
in classroom. We hope to eounter balance this. 
"You'd think we'd be past that point by now. One thing we've notieed over the years is that [the University] has invited a lot more male writ­ers than women." 
Sayers said it is natural that more male writers have been invited to the University throughout its history, eonsid­ering that it only started aecepting women in the early 1970s. She said, however, that there seems to continue to be a general trend in hosting sinee there have been approx­imately three times as many male writers invited on cam­pus. 
Sayers said she knew of a number of elasses as well as book groups on and off earn­pus who are planning to attend Tuesday night. 
"We really think of the festi­val as direeted towards under­graduate writers," she said. "The idea was that we would get three writers who would approaeh the theme from dif­ferent plaees." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
Russert 
continued from page 1 

out and try to bring them baek to the point where they're giv­ing an honest answer to an honest question," he said. 
One example of this oeeurred in October 2002, when Russert said 80 percent of the Ameriean population supported going to War in Iraq and two­thirds of both houses of Congress voted to authorize it beeause of a "consensus" that Saddam Hussein possessed weapons of mass destruetion. He debated. however, whether or not leaders considered possi­ble implieations of war. 
"There had been much dis­eussion about the lead-up to the war and whether the appropri­ate questions were asked of our leaders," Russert said. 
He said the Sunday before the war began, Viee President Dick Cheney was a guest on "Meet the Press" and made "a variety of assumptions" about the situ­ation in Iraq, ineluding that Iraqis would greet United States troops as liberators. 
"At that time, I said, 'Mr. Viee President, what if you are not ehallenge them," he said. wrong? What if we are not Russert also addressed some greeted as liberators, but oceu-challenges of interviewing piers, and with a long, protract-politieians, ineluding ed, bloody battle [and] insur-euphemistic rhetoric and their reetion, partieularly in the reluctance to alter their posi­Baghdad area?' He said, 'I dis-tions on issues. agree. That will not happen,"' "I am eontinually surprised Russert said. that more politieians do not say, 
To ask difficult questions, 'I have ehanged my mind. I did Russert stressed that journal-say that four years ago, but let ists must thoroughly prepare me explain what I have learned for their interviews. He said he sinee then and why I will vote reads several publieations to differently next week,"' he said. follow eurrent events. Even though "Meet the Press" 
"It is essential that I do what I gives politieians an hour of pub­didn't do when I was in eo!-lieity, Russert said eandidates lege," he said. "I had been are sometimes reluetant to taught that if I read my lesson -appear on the show because of before elass, show up in elass serutinizing questions. on time ... review my notes "A politieian would mueh pre­after elass, the exam would be fer that you would go to their easy. They were right. I did not website and look at their posi­do [that], but it is what I do tions or look at their 30-second now, each and every day." eommereials than have to 
With the variety of news watch them struggle to answer sources available today, includ-a question on 'Meet the Press,"' ing politically biased pundits he said. "But they also realize and "pamphleteers," Russert that there's sometimes no alter­said the publie, and not only native, that it is part of the job journalists, should listen to ... to go before the American multiple points of view. public and take aecount for !the 
"It is not enough to confirm questions]." your political views by only ------------­aceessing and reading outfits Contact Claire Reising at that reinforce your views but do creisin2@nd.edu 

Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
Colombia: 

The Church as Peacebuilder 
Wednesday, April16 Noon to 1:45 pm Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
Featuring Archbishop Luis Augusto Castro Quiroga, President, Episcopal Conference of Colombia 
Archbishop castro is one of the most important mediators between the Colombian government and the FARC, Colombia's oldest and largest guerrilla group. Join us to hear about the long-running conflict in Colombia, where the depth and scope of the Church's leadership in peacemaking is unmatched around the world. 
Lunch will be served in the Hesburgh Center Great Hall at noon; the lecture will follow at 12:30 p.m. 
Sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Kellogg Institute for International Studies; and the Center for Civil and Human Rights. 
-~-----~~-----------------------------------, 

-ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, Aprill5, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. ally wins Italian primary election 
ROME -Media billionaire Silvio Berlusconi won a decisive victory Monday in Italy's par­liamentary election, settin ~ the colorful con­servative and staunch U.S. ally on course to his third stint as premier. 
The victory in voting Sunday and Monday by parties supporting the 71-year-old Berlusconi avenged his loss two years ago to a center-left coalition. 
''I'm moved. I feel a great responsibility," he said in a phone call to RAJ public television while monitoring election results at his villa outside Milan. Italian news agencies said he had a private dinner with kay aides. 
Berlusconi capitalized on discontent over Italy's stagnating economy and the unpopular­ity of Homano Prodi's government. 
Red Cross criticizes U.S. detainee policy 
ABUL, Afghanistan -The Red Cross criti­cized the way the U.S. handles prisoners at the highly secretive Bagram military base, urging reforms Monday that would allow detainees to introduce testimony in their defense. 
The criticism of the prislln, which few out­siders have seen, goes to the heart of the sys­tem the Bush administration uses to justify holding detainees outside the U.S. 
Jakob Kellenberger, president of the International Committee of the Red Cross, said many of the 600-plus detainees at Bagram complain they do not even know why they are being held. Kellenberger Epent a half day at the prison during a o1e-week visit to Afghanistan that ended Monday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Delta, Northwest Airlines to merge 
ATlANTA-A person famUar with the negotia­tions says Delta Air Unes' and Northwest Airlines' directors have approved a d1ml for Delta to take over Northwest and create the world's biggest carrier. 
The person, who spok~~ on condition of anonymity because an official announcement was expected later Monday, said the boards of both companies gave the deal the go-ahead. _ 
The announcement will come a year after the two carriers emerged from Chapter 11 bankrupt­cy protection. Both carrier;; are losing money again but are in much better shape than the four much-smaller airlines that have filed for bank­ruptcy or gone out of busines~. in recent weeks. 
Polygamist sect face~; custody trials 
SAN ANGELO, Texas -Texas officials who took 416 children from a polygamist retreat into state custody sent many of their mothers away Monday, as a judge md lawyers strug­gled with a legal and logisdcal morass in one of the biggest child-custody cases in U.S. histo­ry. 
Of the 139 women who voluntarily left the compound with their children since an April 3 raid, only those with children 4 or younger were allowed to continue ;;taying with them, said Marissa Gonzales, spokewoman for the state Children's Protective Services agency. She did not know how many women stayed. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana's juvenile detention rates lili!h 
MUNSTEH, Ind. -Just three states jair a higher percentage of their kids than Indiana, an advocacy group says in a report on the well-being of children. 
Indiana's juvenile incarceration rate of 
415.4 per 100,000 juvenile~; ages 10 and older in 2006 trailed only Wyoming (606.1), South Dakota (564.4) and Florida (451.8), the non­profit, nonpartisan Every Child Matters Education Fund reported recently in "Geography Matters: Child Well-Being in the States." 
Vermont, at 72.4 jail tld juveniles per 100,000, had the lowest rate. 
Michael Petit, the group's president, said Indiana's high incarceration rate stemmed at least partially from the state's poor ranking in other areas examined in the report such as child welfare expenditure:;;, infant mortality and births to teen mothers. 
IRAQ 

Iraqi troops free British journalist 
CBS News reporter found and freed after two months of captivity in Basra 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Iraqi troops freed a kidnapped British journalist for CBS News on Monday after finding him hooded and bound in a house during a raid in a Shiite militia stronghold in Basra. 
Richard Butler's rescue after two months in captivity was a welcome success story for the Iraqi military, which has been strongly criticized for its effort to impose order on Iraq's second-largest city, an oil hub 340 miles south­east of Baghdad. 
It came on a day in which nearly 40 people were killed or found dead nationwide ­half of them in bombings near or in the northwestern city of Mosul. 
Roadside bombings killed two U.S. soldiers, one in Baghdad and the other in the northern Salahuddin province, the military said. At least 4,034 members of the American military have died since the war started in March 2003. 
Butler, 47, was thin but in good condition and laughing as he was shown on Iraqi state television hugging well­wishers and greeting beam­ing Iraqi officials. 

"Thank you and I'm look­ing forward to seeing my family and my friends at CBS and thank you again," said When asked by al-Askari interpreter from Basra's undertaken" and said Butler Butler, who was working as on Iraqi television ifthe Iraqi Sultan Palace Hotel. was in the care of the British a producer for "60 Minutes" army was good, Butler said The interpreter was consulate in Basra. when he was kidnapped. it was "brilliant." released within days, but CBS News spokeswoman 
'Tm pretty weak and I've "The Iraqi army stormed Butler remained in captivity Sandy Genelius said the net­lost quite a bit of weight," he the house and overcame my despite claims by radical work was "incredibly grate­said later. ''I'm looking for­guards and they burst Shiite cleric Muqtada al­ful that our colleague ... has ward to a decent meal." through the door," Butler Sadr's office that it was been released and is safe." 
Defense Ministry said. "I had my hood on, negotiating with the kidnap­The gratitude was eagerly spokesman Mohammed al­which I had to have on all pers for his release. accepted by the Iraqi gov­Askari said the troops were the time, and they shouted Harith al-Edhari, a direc­ernment, which has been not in fact looking for Butler. something at me and I tor of al-Sadr's office in­embarrassed by the failure He said an army patrol con­pulled my hood off." Basta, said the kidnappers of a major offensive that ducting a sweep of the area Basra security commander had rejected their efforts began on March 25 to dis­responded after coming H. Gen. Mohan al-Fireji said and threatened him over the lodge militia groups from under fire from the house Butler was sitting on the issue. "The kidnappers have Basra. where he was being held in floor with his head covered nothing to do with .the Iraqi security forces were the Jibiliya neighborhood. by a sack and his hands tied Sadrist movement," he said. surprised by the ferocious 
One of the gunmen was when the troops stumbled In London, British Foreign resistance mounted by the wounded in an exchange of upon him. Secretary David Miliband outnumbered militiamen, fire and another was cap­Butler had been held since thanked the Iraqi security despite artillery and air sup­tured while two men Feb. 10, when masked gun­forces "for the professional­port provided by U.S. and escaped, he said. men seized him and his Iraqi ism of the task they have British forces. 

J.K. Rovvling testifies in copyright case 
NEW YORK -J.K. Rowling testi­Howling claims the book is noth­world of Harry Potter." The small fied before a packed courtroom in a ing more than a rearrangement of publisher is not contesting that the lawsuit to block publication of a her own material and told the judge lexicon infringes upon Howling's Harry Potter lexicon, telling a judge it copied so much of her work that it copyright but argues that it is a fair that the book amounts to a "whole­amounted to plagiarism. use allowable by law for reference sale theft" of nearly 20 years of her "I think it's atrocious. I think it's books. hard work. sloppy. I think there's very little The nonjury trial will be decided 
"We all know I've made enough research," she testified Monday. by U.S. District Judge Robert money. That's absolutely not why "This book constitutes wholesale Patterson Jr_, who must determine I'm here," Howling told the judge in theft of 17 years of my hard work." whether the use of the material is 
U.S. District Court. She also said she has recently legal because Vander Ark added his 
The British author sued Michigan­started work on her own encyclope­own interpretation, creativity and based HDH Books last year to stop dia but does not expect to complete analysis. The testimony and argu­publication of Steven Vander Ark's it for two to three years because she ments could last most of the week. "Harry Potter Lexicon," claiming wants to do it right. Howling will spend her breaks in copyright infringement. Vander Ark RDR's lawyer, Anthony Falzone, the seclusion of a jury room, away runs the popular Harry Potter has defended the lexicon as a refer­from fans of her wildly popular Lexicon Web site, and RDR wants to ence guide, calling it a legitimate series. publish a print version of the site effort "to organize and discuss the The trial comes eight months after and charge $24.95. complicated and very elaborate Howling published her sevfjnth and 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, Aprill5, 2008 
I'm afraid I'm going to wake up in the middle of the night and the bed is just going to be soak­continued from page 1 ing wet," she said. "I stripped my sheets before I went home for thnir dorm rooms. Christmas break because you 
"I know of several students just don't know if the eeiling is that were upset about the leaks going to burst open and flood the but felt better after our room tomorrow." Maintenance Supervisor Timm She said the worst part about Hinger spent time with them and the leak isn't the fact that water explained what was going on," is coming into the room. llambling said. . "It's not just water, it's kind of 
While the construction has not like tar water," she said, describ­impeded much of campus life, ing the thick, brown eolor of the 
Regina 
some students have fi1und leaks in their dorm rooms. Hegina residnnt Sarah Jlorn. a fresh­man, said she and lwr room­mates first noticed a leak in their room whnn they retunwd from fall break in (ktobnr. 
"At first it was just a bubbln like thorn was too much water underneath the paint lin the ceil­ing!," I lorn said. 
liquid. "It falls into our heater "/ know ofseveral so it cooks the 
tar water and
students that were 
our room upset about leaks but smells." Hambling said
felt better after our 
the Facilities
Maintenance 
Department has Supervisor Timm spoken with stu­Ringer spent time dents to make 
sure they feel
with them and 
comfortable in explained what was their rooms. going on. Administrators have benn trying hard to kenp
Bill Hambling 
residents com­Director of Facilities fortable and informed, fresh­man Christine 
"Thnn it hrrew to what it is now." Dits said. A few students, like 
I lorn said the facilities depart­Dits, chose to move from their 
ment triPd to fix the problem by rooms. She moved from her 
painting over the bubblnd ceiling original room on Hegina's fourth 
in thn fall, but the leak persistnd. floor to her current room on the 
"A wm1k later it was bubbling first floor. and the paint started ehipping "The moving process went •ofT on to all of our stuff," she smoothly and I am enjoying my said. new spaeious room," Dits said. 
llorn said she isn't sure what The leaks in her previous 
is going to happtm with the ceil­room were not unlivable, she 
ing but always worries that it said, but Toyin Adeyemi, Hegina 
may get worse when she's asleep I tall Director, gave her the option 
or not in the room. of relocating and she took it. 
"Them havn bmm times when There are plans for further 
work on Regina Hall in the upcoming months, Hambling said in an e-mail. The building's lighting system is going to be upgraded to a more energy-effi­cient model, which will cut down heat emissions from the lights. This will allow for fewer eosts in the heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, he said in the e-mail. 
This fall, there will be a build­ing envelope study, he said. This study, he said, will allow Building Faeilities to discover problems such as faulty insulation. It will also reduce heating and cooling costs and is another tactic to make the building more energy eflicicnt, he said. 
"The information gathered from this study will assist with our deferred maintenance budg­et," Hambling said. 
Another issue students have been voicing concern about is the unused swimming pool adja­cent to Regina Hall's South Lounge. It was drained and dosed when students returned to campus in Auf:,:rust 2006. 
"IThe pool hasl too many leaks and it became very costly to maintain," Hambling said. 
Building Facilities does not intend to renovate the pool, but steps will be taken to remove it. The intention is to remove the pool and the roof over it and widen the already existing court­yard within Hegina. 
''I'm not sure of the timing for this project as we are in the process or securing funding,"? Ilambling said. 
Mandi Stirone and Liz /larter contributed to this article. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO I @saintmacys.edu 

e 

Scientists: Quake to hit California by 203 7 
which sits atop two of Earth's

Associated Press 
major tectonic plates, the LOS ANGELES -California 
Pacific and North American faces an almost certain risk plates. About 10,000 quakes
of being rocked by a strong each year rattle Southern earthquake by 2037, scien­California alone, althoughtists said Monday in the first most of them are too small to 
statewide temblor forecast. 
be felt. New calculations reveal 
there is a 99.7 percent chance a magnitude 6.7 quake or larger will strike in the next 30 years. The odds of such an event are higher in Southern California than Northern California, 97 per­cent versus 93 percent. 
"It basically guarantees it's going to happen," said Ned Field, a geophysicist with the 
U.S. Geological Survey in Pasadena and lead author of the report. 
The 1994 Northridge earth­quake under Los Angeles' San Fernando Valley was magnitude 6. 7. It killed 72 people, injured more than 9,000 and caused $25 billion in damage in the metropoli­tan area. 
The damage ereated by an earthquake depends greatly on where it hits. A 7.1 quake 
much strongnr than Northridge -hit the Mojave Desert in 1999 but causnd only a few injuries and no deaths. 
California is one of the world's most seismically active regions. More than 300 faults crisscross the state, 



join yourfriends atyourfavorite placefor a private, after-hours graduation party! 
*customize your own graduation party *design your own menu *beer and wine licenses available *great location in downtown South Bend 
288 -PEEP (7337) 127 S. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 
Call today for information and to book your after-hours graduation party! 


r------~-------------------------------------------------------------------.__, 
Tuesday, April 15, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stoc 


Dow 12,302.06 -23.36
.Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 724 83 2,617 3,742,597,142 

AMEX ~Aii!ii ~~4~;lij9!1ii l~~Jfg!fi11 NASDAQ 2 275.82 1 -14.42 
. w..w~~m~o:~: :., :=·=·=·=-=-===== ::,-:.:·:::.,:::::: 

NYSE 8;92,2,.84Wr1%1wiFil3J:?,'A:; S&P 500 1,328.32 -4.51 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,917.51!1\!.i< Q;~ FTSE 100 {London) 5,831.60 -63.90 
COMPANY %CiiANGE $GAIN PRICE WACHOVIA CP (WB) -8.13 -2.26 25.55 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.34 -0.45 132.93 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -2.35 -0.59 24.54 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) -0.94 -0.30 31.75 
Treasu 


10-YEAR NOTE +0.92 +0.032 3.503 13-WEEK BILL -7.33 -0.085 1.075 30-YEAR BOND +0.91 +0.039 4.341 5-YEAR NOTE +0.47 +0.012 2.586 
Commod ties LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.62 111.76 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +1.70 928.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +3.00 71.38 
Exchange ates 

YEN 101.0500 EURO 0.6316 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0202 BRmSH POUND 0.5068 
IN BRIEF 
Slight sales increase seen last month 
WASHINGTON -Consumers, beset by a credit crunch, rising energy and food costs a.J1d a pro­longed housing slump, bo•)sted spending only slightly in March 
The gain reflected soaring gasoline costs rather than any real strength in demand, however. 
The Commerce Departm£,nt reported Monday that retail sales edged up 0.2 percent in March after a 0.4 percent decline in February. However, without a 1.1 percent jumr: in sales at gasoline service stations, retail sales would have been flat last month. 
Economists said the March report did nothing to dispel their worries that the country has either toppled into a recession or is very close to a down­turn as households have been battered by a series of blows and now are facing dsing layoffs. 
"Don't expect to see consumers return any time soon." said Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group. "They're going to be hiliernating for the balance of the year, nursing the wounds that stem from 1.he worst job market in five years, the highest drup in home prices in more than half a century, record high gasoline prices and the worst credit lTisis since the Great Depression." 
Rockstar Corp. tentathvely settles suit 
LOS ANGELES-Former Blink-182 drummer Travis Barker has tentativoly settled a lawsuit against the Rockstar energy drink company over the use of his picture to promote the prod­uct. 
Terms of the settlement were not disclosed in court papers liled Friday in Superior Court. 
A eall to Hockstar Beverage Corp.'s attorney was not immediately returned Monday. Barker's lawyer, Gregory Weisman, said both parties were still working out terms. He declined to elaborate until Lhe deal is complet­ed. 
Barker's lawsuit claimed invasion of privacy, unfair competition and m sappropriating his likeness to promote the product. 
The lawsuit said the Rockstar Web site pub­lished a photo of the 32-yec.r-old Barker "hold­ing a can of one of Rockstar's beverages, and identifying him and his endorsement by name" without his consent. ruling is pending. 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

U.S. food prices continue to rise 
Business owners, consumers struggle with the worst food inflation in 17 years 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Steve Tarpin can bake a graham cracker crust in his sleep, but explaining why the price for his Key lime pies went from $20 to $25 required mastering a thornier topic: global eco­nomics. 
He recently wrote a let­ter to his customers and posted it near the cash register listing the factors -dairy prices driven high­er by conglomerates buy­ing up milk supplies, heat waves in Europe and California, demand from emerging markets and the weak dollar. 
The owner of Steve's Authentic Key Lime Pies in Brooklyn said he didn't want customers thinking he was "jacking up prices because I have a unique product." 
"I have to justify it," he said. 
The U.S. is wrestling with the worst food infla­tion in 17 years, and ana­lysts expect new data due on Wednesday to show it's getting worse. That's put­ting the squeeze on poor families and forcing bak­eries, bagel shops and delis to explain price increases to their cus­tomers. 


U.S. food prices rose 4 percent in 2007, compared with an average 2.5 per­cent annual rise for the last 15 years, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. And the agency says 2008 could be worse, with a rise of as much as 4.5 percent. 
Higher prices for food and energy are again expected to play a leading role in pushing the govern­ment's consumer price index higher for March. 
Analysts are forecasting that Wednesday's Department of Labor report will show the Consumer Price Index rose at a 4 percent annual rate in the first three months of the year, up from last year's overall rise of 2.8 percent. 

For the U.S. poor, any increase in food costs sets up an either-or equation: Give something up to pay for food. 
"I was talking to people who make $9 an hour, talking about how they might save $5 a week," said Kathleen DiChiara, president and CEO of the Community FoodBank of 
New Jersey. "They really felt they couldn't. That was before. Now, they have to." 
For some, that means adding an extra cup of water to their soup, water­ing down their milk, or giv­ing their children soda because it's cheaper than milk, DiChiara said. 
U.S. households still spend a smaller chunk of their expenses for foods than in an~ other country -7.2 percent in 2006, according to the USDA. By contrast, the figure was 22 percent in Poland and more than 40 percent in Egypt and Vietnam. 
In Bangladesh, econo­mists estimate 30 million of the country's 150 million people could be going hun­gry. Haiti's prime minister was ousted over the week­end following food riots there. 
Still, the higher U.S. prices seem eye-popping after years of low inflation. Eggs cost 25 percent more in February than they did a year ago, according to the USDA. Milk and other dairy products jumped 13 percent, chicken and other poultry nearly 7 percent. 

Blockbuster bids to takeover Circuit City 
stores would have movie-rental stores "Look what happened to CompUSA
Associated Press 

inside, and Blockbuster locations and Good Guys and Ultimate 
DALLAS -Blockbuster Inc., which would offer a limited selection of elec­Electronics," he said, ticking off the has been busy trying to fix its own tronics. names of chains that failed. He said movie-rental business, is making a News of Blockbuster's bid for Circuit Circuit City could continue losing mar­hostile takeover bid of just over $1 bil­City, valued at up to $1.35 billion, sent ket share to Best Buy. lion for Circuit City Stores Inc. with the struggling retailer's shares up 27 BMO Capital Markets downgraded dreams of creating a huge chain that percent on Monday. Blockbuster shares Blockbuster stock. Analyst Jeffrey would sell electronic gadgets and rent fell. Logsdon said he couldn't understand movies and games. Circuit City, the nation's second the strategic value of a hostile bid for 
The offer is larger than Blockbuster's biggest consumer electronics chain, Circuit City. He warned the fight could entire stock market value, but Chief said it doubted Blockbuster could distract the movie-rental company Executive James Keyes said he was finance the deal and has resisted open­from its own recovery. confident his company can swing the ing its books. Blockbuster has struggled for several deal and that the move has the support Analysts said Blockbuster, which is years to compete with cheap DVDs of one of his board members, fmancier undergoing its own turnaround effort, from retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Carl Icahn, who could help with financ­could be getting more than it can han­Inc., video on demand from cable and ing. dle in Circuit City. The chain has been satellite TV operators, and the by-mail 
Icahn, Blockbuster's largest share­fighting a losing battle against rival rental service of Netflix Inc. holder, did not return calls for com­Best Buy Inc. Since joining Blockbuster last sum­ment. "Blockbuster is not thinking through mer, Keyes has dumped online cus­
Keyes said combining the companies how difficult the big-ticket consumer­tomers who were costing more money would create a 9,300-store chain that electronics business is. It's pretty auda­than they brought in, and bought could sell portable devices and enter­cious ... to the point of potentially reck­Movielink, a digital movie-downloading tainment for them, much like Apple less," said Michael Pachter, an analyst service operated by major Hollywood Inc.'s stores. The larger Circuit City with Wedbush Morgan Securities. studios. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, April 15, 2008 
Threatening n1essages dose 3tnid"West colleges 
St. Xavier University, Malcom X College, Oakland University shut down due to graffiti 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO -A message scrawled in a university bathroom -"Be prepared to din on 4/14" -left not just the college's campus empty Munday, but also those of two adjoining high schools and a pair of nearby elementary schools. 
After the precautions were taken at St. Xavier University on the city's southwest side, Malcolm X College evacuated students and canceled day­time classes Monday after a similar threat was found in a bathroom at the campus west of downtown. And Michigan's Oakland University was elosed Monday because of threatening graffiti mention­ing April 14. 
The closures, two days before the 
also made a reference to "4/14" but didn't specify a type or time of an attack, university spokesman Ted Montgomery said. 
School administrators' decisions about handling threats can be made easier by having a plan in place should a crisis arise, said Larry Consalvos, senior vice president at iXP Corp., a security consulting firm which works with universi­ties on campus safety. Knowing how they'll deal with the chain of command, first responders, communica­tion and alarm systems is vital, Consalvos said, and allows administrators to decide when to monitor a sit­uation and when to shut down a campus. 
"I don't think 
you can be cav­
alier about the 
seriousness of 
anniversary of "[don't think you can any threat," the Virginia be cavalier about Consalvos said. 
Tech killings In the Chicago
the seriousness 
and two area, two ele­months after of any threat." m e n t a r y the deadly schools and two rampage at high schools
Larry Consalvos 
Northern near St. Xavier
senior vice president
I I I i n o i s decided to can-
University, illustrate the challenge such threats pose to school admin­istrators, who have to decide just how seriously to take thorn. 
"I can see why thfly're doing it for the safety of the kids. But I see it as over the top," said Lynn Huggiero, whose daughter is a fresh­man at one of the high schools that shares a campus with Xavier and closed Monday. 
Huggiero said she figures whonvnr wrotn thn threat "is gntting a certain satisfaction" from putting thousands of Chicago students out of' class. Still. she knows school ol'f'i­eials have a hard time pleas­ing nveryone. 
"II' tht~y hadn't closed, peo­ple would have said, '!low comn you didn't'!"' 
St. Xavier and Maleolrn X are located about 15 miles apart, and despite the l'act that thn throats had similar 
cel classes Monday after a Saturday morn­
ing meeting between school officials and city police. 
The fact that the threat mentioned a certain date helped administrators at Evergreen Park Southwest Elementary decide to shut down, district superintendent Craig Fiegel said. Other 
schools  in  the  district  
located  in  the  village  of  
Evergreen  Park,  next  to  

Chicago -canceled outdoor recess and PE classes Monday. 
riegel called such violent grafl'i ti "the new bomb threat." remembering a time in the 1960s when bomb threats were regularly used to close down institutions. And he said he worries that the elosures could encourage other people who get a kick out of causing chaos. "At what p(>int is it serious 
and at what point do you 
have to go on 
with it?" Fiegel 


wording, thern said.
'i1t what point is 
was no indica­Edelena Lee
it serious and
tion they were was one of a related, at what point do number of stu­Chicago police dents arriving
you have to go
spoknswoman for class 
on with it?"
Moniqun Bond Monday after-said. Tlw graf-noon at l'iti at St. Craig Flegel Malcolm X who Xavier was had not heard
district superintendent
wi d td y p u b I i ­cized ovnr the weeknnd, and also eontained in updatns the eullegn placnd on its Web si tn. 
While St. Xavier decided Friday to close until further notice. elasses at Malcolm X resunwd late Monday after­noon after bomb-sniffing dogs swnpt the campus. 
Oakland Univnrsity. an 1 X.OOO-studPnt state school about 20 miles north of Detroit, planned to rnsume elassns Tu1~sday. The graffiti that prompted its shutdown 
of the threat, 
or that the 
school had been locked down. Despite disappointment that she may have wasted a trip to cam­pus, she had no problem with the decision to close the school, particularly so soon after a gunman opened fire and killed five students and himself in February at NIU, about 65 miles west of Chicago. 
"I think people have issues nowadays," said Lee, 30. "You can never be too cau­tious." 

COMMUNITY of SAINT'EGIDIO 


PRAYER FOR PEACE 
TUESDAY APRIL 15 AT 7:00 P.M. LADY CHAPEL, NOTRE DAME BASILICA 
The Community of Sant'Egidio, begun in Rome in 1968, is a catholic Lay Association, a movement of lay people dedicated to prayer, charity, and living the Gospel message. Today there are over 60,000 members in more than 70 countries. In 2001 the Community of Sant'Egidio received the Notre Dame International Award for its work in international peace negotiations, including ending the civil war in Mozambique in 1992, and for its service to the poor around the world. 
THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNilY PRAYS ON WEDNESDAYS AT 6:30P.M. AT THE NOTRE DAME LOG CHAPEL AND ON THURSDAYS AT 8:30P.M. AT ST. AUGUSTINE'S CHURCH. OUR SERVICE TO THE ELDERLY IS AT CARDINAL NURSING HOME IN SOUTH BEND ON THURSDAYS AT 7:00P.M. 
For more information contact Richard_Lasalvia@sbcglobal.net 
Tuesday, Aprill5, 2008 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ZIMBABWE 
Court rejects election appeal 
Opposition party calls national strike, Tsvangirai claims election was rigged 
job," he said. MDC spokesman Nelson 

Associated Press 
Tsvangirai accused the Chamisa said. 
election commission of Past strike calls have been 

HARARE -Zimbabwe's working for the ruling party. met with resistance by High Court rejected an "Now, for the next three or impoverished workers, who appeal Monday for the four weeks, [the commis­can't afford to lose even one immediate release of presi­sion] will drag the time, day's wage in an economi­dential election results, while people cally ravaged dashing hopes for an end to get beaten and country suf­a paralyzing political crisis while a new fering 80 and prompting the opposi­electoral envi­percent
"People are not going

tion to call a nati•Jnwide ronment is unemploy­
to go to work. They

strike. being created," ment. 
Opposition leader 'vforgan he told South are going to be in Meanwhile, Tsvangirai says he won the Africa's inde­opposition
their homes,

March 29 election outright pendent e-tv officials said
expressing their

and has accused President station. violence was Robert Mugabe of holding The opposi­dissatisfaction. ,, spreading. back the results to try to tion and human Looting maintain his 28-year grip in rights groups and arson
Nelson Chamlsa 

power. Independent tallies said ruling attacks since
MDC spokesman

show Tsvangirai won, but party militants Thursday in 
did not receive enough votes have been wag-to prevent a runoff. ing a campaign 
Tsvangirai's Movement for of violence Democratic Change had against opposition support­hoped the court -though ers ahead of a possible sec­stacked with MugabE loyal­ond round of voting. ists -would force the elec­Zimbabwe Lawyers for tion commission to release Human Rights said it had the results after a l6-day documented at least 130 wait. The commission, attacks on opposition or which published results for independent poll monitors. parliamentary and local Two people were killed and elections within several days 29 hospitalized with serious 
of the election, said it can't release the presidential results until it investigates electoral anomalies. 
In rejecting the opposition petition, the court ruled that the com­mission's explanation was "legally valid," and said the elec­toral body "has 
injuries, 
director Irene 
Petras said.
".Vow, for the next 
The MDC thtee or four weeks, called a nationwide
[the commission] will 
strike for
drag the time, while 
Tuesday in 
people get beaten and what would be the first
whUe a new electoral enz,ironment is being major protest
since the 
created.,, election. The police have banned
Morgan Tsvangirai 
all political
opposition leader 
rallies, and opposition officials said 

not strayed from the law." Tuesday's action would be a 
Government spokesman quiet "stayaway," not a rau­Bright Matonga praisnd the cous strike complete with ruling and dismissed street protests. charges the court was "People are not going to go biased. to work. They are going to 
"The electoral commission be in their homes, express­should be allowed to do its ing their dissatisfaction," the north­
eastern 
Mutoko dis­trict -a former ruling party stronghold that voted for the opposition -have forced scores of villagers to flee their homes, the MDC said Monday. 
Armed assailants broke into the home of a woman who had worked as an MDC polling agent and slashed her arms with knives as they interrogated her, the party said in a statement. Another was attacked with an ax, the party said. Medical staff at a Harare clinic said they treated several people from the area for broken bones, cuts and severe bruising. 
State Department spokesman Tom Casey repeated the U.S. call for the Zimbabwean electoral com­mission "to let the votes be counted, to release those results, and to do so imme­diately." 
He said that as long as the electoral commission refus­es to release the results, "the situation is going to remain tense, and their fail­ure to do so only raises more suspicions about what really happened in the process of that vote-count­ing." 

ISRAEL 
Carter offers to n1eet vvith top Han1as-leader 
Former U.S. president claims ostricizing anti-Israel movement is counterproductive 
Associated Press 
AIRPORT CITY -Former President Jimmy Carter defend­ed his plan to meet with the top leader of the violently anti­Israel Hamas movement, saying Monday he hopes to become a conduit between the Islamic militant group and Washington and Israel. 
Isolating Hamas is c-ounter­productive, Carter said. Hamas rules the Gaza Strip but is ostracized by Israel, the U.S. and European Union as a ter­rorist group. 
"I think it is absolutely crucial that in the final and dreamed­about and prayed-for peace agreement for this region that Hamas be involved and Syria will be involved," he told a busi­ness conference outside Tel Aviv. 
"I can't say that they will be amenable to any suggestions, but at least after I meet with them I can go back and relay what they say, as just a commu­nicator, to the leaders of the United States," he said. 
The U.S., EU and Israel have blacklisted Hamas for its history of killing some 250 Israelis with suicide bomber attacks and its refusal to renounce violence and recognize the Jewish state. 
Israel's top leaders are boy­cotting Carter during his nine­day Mideast trip, in part because he plans to meet later in the week in Syria with Hamas' exiled supreme leader, Khaled Mashaal. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman Tom Casey said the U.S. government has "made clear our views that we did not think now is the moment for him or anyone to be talking with Hamas." 
U.S. officials will be "happy to hear" Carter's reflections on his visit with Hamas. but that they aren't likely to change the 

Apply Today 
L. . d S-pace A.· .. ·1-·ble...'''
1m1te .· . va1 a 
*Offering 6, 9 & 12 month leases! *Gated Community with Night Watchmen! *Free Application Fee for Students! *Close to campus! *Indoor/Outdoor Tennis & Basketball Courts! *Free Tanning/Fitness Center! *Community Business Center/Free Internet! 
*Heated Pool! *Now leasing for 2008-2009! *Close to everything .. .far from ordinary! 
administration's views on the militant group, Casey said. 
The Democratic chairman of the House Foreign Relations Committee criticized Carter for meeting with Hamas. Carter "in effect is undermining a current policy which is not just American but held by many others," Rep. Howard Berman of California told The Associated Press. 
Carter also offered to relay Hamas' views to Israel. If the 
U.S. agrees to hear what Hamas says, "I hope then the Israeli government will deign to meet with me -they have so far refused," he said. 
President Shimon Peres, Israel's ceremonial head of state, was the only leader to meet with Carter since he arrived Sunday. Peres, a fellow Nobel Peace Prize laureate, criticized Carter for planning to meet with Mashaal, calling it a "very big mistake," a Peres spokeswoman said. 
A schedule released by Carter's aides showed no plans for talks with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni or Defense Minister Ehud Barak. 
The cold shoulder is a highly unusual brush-off to a former 
U.S. leader -especially one so. closely linked to Mideast peace­making. 
Carter brokered Israel's his­toric peace accord with Egypt in 1979, the first treaty it signed with an Arab country. But his popularity fell in Israel after he published a book two years ago drawing comparisons between Israeli policies in Palestinian areas and apartheid in South Africa. The planned talks with Mashaal only fueled Israeli anger. 
In an interview published Monday in the Israeli newspa­per Haaretz, Carter said he intended to use his meeting with Mashaal to press for return of three Israeli soldiers captured by Hamas and the Lebanese Hezbollah militia. He said he would also try to get Hamas to accept an Arab plan for peace with Israel. 
S
'Or&g&Between Notre oame &
I ....•. ··· ·.. ... ·... ·Airport at the corn~r of
· ·· Mayflower & Edison

space ···•. Ca/1574.247.7806 
Lighted &Paved Free Lock with Every Unit 
5x1 0...$169 +DEP 
10x10...$219 +DEP 


eas~tle 1'oint 

1.801.1. C.leve.la:.nd Rd _ South Bend,. IN 466 3 '1 
"4.. fJ(lf''(/11 e'IJfS Phone: (5'14} 2'12-81.1.0 F.a.."'€.: (5'14} 2'12-81.1.4 "Fifn# _ cppj _com-
ATIENTIQN FACULTY &STAFF 
EARN $500 PROFIT WITH NO INVESTMENT! CALL TODAY FOR DETAILS 
234-5650 
PREFERRED TICKETS 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, April 15, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Let's talk about alcohol, baby 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46SS6 
EDITOR IN CHIEf' l.hris Hine 
MANAGINC; EDITOR BUSINI'-SS MANAGER Jay Firzparrick Kyle West 
Assl: MANA<;ING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
A.~s·r: MANAGIN(; ElliTOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill flrink 
VIEWPOINT EDITOil: Kara King 
SPOIUS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jes.,ica Le<' 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
AOVEiffiSING MANAGt:R: Jessica Cortez 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 6.11-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policit'S of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reservt-s the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurdtcly and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials repre-sent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, A~'istant Managing Editors and dcpanmmt editors. ( :ommt'ntaries. letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Vitwpoinr space is available to all tt'Uders. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lc:tters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions rYgarding Obsa-ver polici~s should be direcud to Editor in CbiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
·n~c t}llM'rwo:r (lJSI'fii ~9"J 2.-41.100) i~ puhltslu:d Mund-.y dmmgh Friduy exc."CJ11 t.luriUJ:: cum .and W"ol\.UUIU Jk'tin..t... A utllk'npfionto ·nlr Uh~rvcr •~ $100 IUr unc aaJt'mi~ y.:.u: S'lSfornn<:~rna,lcr 
The (~rver is puhliJJu:d .ar POSTMASTER 
024 ~outh DinirrK ll.all Send Jddrw corrccrionsto: 
Nmrc D.amc. IN 465'>6-0779 The Oh~ot:rvcr 
l'cnndicaJ ,,..,,,~gc p<ud .u ~rn: Dnnc r.o Box 179 .tml ;~dditinnJI m.ailing o!Tica. Ol<i South Dimng H:all 
Nutre D•me. IN 46';56-0779 
Thi!! Ob.crvcr 11 .1. mcm~r of 1hc AMoci.&led l'l'd\. All rc:prnducuun rlf(hllo .uc rc~rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
I have no problem with drinking per se. On the contrary, it can not only be un-sinful. but positivp,Jy good. Enjoying a beer can make you a humbler, more grateful. better person. Ben Franklin said beer is proof that God loves us and wishes us to be happy. There are surely other proof's, like a baby's smile, but good beer can help one realize that behind all appear­ances in this vale of tears, the ultimate reality is joy. Didn't Housman write that ale does more than Milton can to justify God's ways to man? Catholics can boast, among others, Chesterton and Walker Percy as able apologists for beer and bourbon, respectively. David Allan Coe couldn't have written The Greatest Song Ever("... I was drunk the day my Mom got out of prison ... ") without some liquid inspiration. I trust teetotalers as little as I trust vegetarians (J[itler-was both, by the way), and as C.S. Lewis observed, there's a certain sort of evil man who wishes to deny others the honest delights he's given up himself. We're right to be suspicious about condemna­tions of drinking. 
You'd have to be dumb or dishonest, though, to believe that recent condem­nations of drinking in these pages -or those that appear almost annually ­have been directed toward this sort of drinking, that goes with gladness of heart and bonhomie. Nor is it just the amount of consumption that's been criti­cized. There's all kinds of drunkenness, after all. There's just-lost-my-job drunk, just-got-engaged drunk, serviceman-on­leave/liberty drunk, alcoholic/can't-cope­with-life drunk, etc. The sort of alcohol abuse I saw most often at Notre Dame, though, and the sort people find most annoying, is look-at-me-aren't-I-cool! drunk. And if you wonder how I can tell, I promise you it's not too hard. Plus, I've been there myself. 


The recent criticisms of' alcohol abuse at Notre Dame-it's unhealthy, it's immoral, it's inconsiderate, bad deci­sions often follow-have been some­what amusing. News Jlash, Earth to responsible people: those whose actions you're criticizing don't care. In fact, these criticisms just reinforce their deci­sion to drink. These consnquences of drinking just make it all the more attractive to them. They think they're being quite transgressive, after all. Do you think they really didn't know some­one else has to clean up their messes, and someone else has to listen to their 
. ?
nmse. 

What I'd argue instead is that acting like you've just discovered alcohol and want everyone to see, far from showing the world how cool you are, actually just suggests -strongly -that you were terribly sheltered in high school. Whenever I saw someone at Notre Dame who began half his sentences with "I was soooooo wasted ... ," I thought, "Mommy still tucks him in when he's home." 
I'm not suggesting it's good to go through high school drunk. But better high school than college. The immaturi­ty associated with binge drinking and related behaviors is more age-appropri­ate for high schoolers. High school's largely a waste anyway, needlessly long and hardly challenging (I say this as a high school teacher). 
But college should be different, right? I deeply regret that not every day I spent at Notre Dame was special, the kind I'd remember forever. I wish I'd made more of the opportunities I had there -even academic ones. With no fiber of my being do I wish I'd spent a single night stumbling around drunk at The Linebacker, acting like an ass, full of low-quality beer I didn't even like, only to wake up the next day unable to remember that night or go to class. Yet people even brag about such escapades. 
Besides thinking it's somehow impres­sive, there's another unfortunate reason so many college kids get so drunk so often. They can't think of anything elsn to do, and only large quantities of alco­hol ean make milling around aimlessly in the dark at Turtle Cmek. for instanee, into something morn than a deeply dis­mal experience. I learned long ago that even shop elass eould be fun with a heavy buzz. But shouldn't college stu­dents be able to find activities that don't require inebriation to makli them enjoy­able? 
If you drink heavily Imcause you truly enjoy it-not for your image, or to avoid bon~dom, or because you don't know how to soeializn sober -then cheers, tip a glass for me sometime. The rest of you might want to read C.S. Lewis' "S<:rewtape Letters". Somewhere in there, he explains that the devils will draw us to hell by true pleasures, but they'd rather not. They're much more delighted by the sorrows of those who realize only too late that not only hadn't they done right, they hadn't even done what they really wanted. Make no mis­take, you ean drink your soul dead, and that's sad enough. But how sad, how pitiably sad, it'd be to drink your soul's ruin, only to look back and think, "It wasn't even really that mueh fun. I wish I'd just been bowling instead ... " 
I welcome the inevitable hate mail. But please, when you tell me how many kegs you and your buds havfl "killed", or how much time you spend at whichever dives, explain why I should be impressed. And do try to write without the heavy snarky sarcasm-"You're awesome, I wish I could be like you" ­that lately has seemed like the only method of disagreement in this newspa­per. It's not very clever, or funny. 
Greg Yatarola is a 1999 alumnus. He directs the discriminating drinker to the beer & wine place right next to the gas station on that road that goes out to 
T.G.I. Friday's. It's better than South Bend deserves. lie can be contacted at gregpy@hotmail. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Bill Bink Michael Bryan 
Becky Hogan Meaghan Veselik Nikki Taylor Eugenia Alfonzo What do you prefer? Graphics Scene 

"Any fool can tell the truth, but it 
Mary Cecilia Tae Andrews Blue requzres a man ofsome sense to Mitsch Viewpoint Gold know how to lie well. " 
Stephanie Vossler Pigtostal 
Samuel Butler English satiric author 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April15, 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
T.V. and friendships 
I write in response to Nikki Huiras ("Why stop at alcohol?" April14) and her claim that televi1;ion is detrimental to student academics, health and social lives. Despite the fact that I'd like to point out that she is illegitimizing a large group of people majoring in Film, Television, and Theater, .· would like to refute many of her claims. 
First of all, considering our high graduation rate, Notre Dame stu­dents are hardly failing. [ myself watch television several hours a day, but I am far from failing and that is despite the fact that I watch "America's Next Top Model." I also resent the insinuation that I would be boring because I watch a lot of T.V. I think T.V. has helped me learn more about the. wo ·ld through things like news and the History Channel, therefore becoming better informed and therefore interest­ing. Second, as far as the fact that T.V. is bad for your health by impairing vision and encouraging weight gain. It is true that T.V. can do that, but I would argue that spending hours sitting around reading and doing homework ear do the same thing. I think most students make sure they fit physical activity into their lives. Finally, T.V. has helped my social life in rr.any ways. Often, T.V. is a way for me to instantly connect with soneone I have just met. We discover we like the same show, have long conversation, get together to watch show, bond, become best friends. When I was traveling in Switzerland I made friends with an Aw;tralian girl over conversation that began due to a mutual like of the show "Friends." We still remain great friends a year later. I have connected with my mom as we watched "Gilmore Girls" together, laughed over "The Office" with my dad, bonded with my sisters over "Jon and Kate Plus 8," just as Nikki con­nected with her grandmother with religious T.V. 
I don't make any claim that T.V. is completely good, but it is certain­ly not quite the demon that Nikki makes it out to be. Therefore, I will end my comments as I watch reruns of "Full House" and reminisce about the good times I had watching it with my sisters while growing up. 
Molly Rivard 
sen10r 
Welsh Family Hall Aprill4 
AboJrtion not a HcJlocaust 

First of all, I don't want to discuss pro-life vs. pro-choice in this let­ter but rather the usage (1f the Holocaust in connection with abortion. Coming from a country which was engaged in the mass-killing of Jewish people under Hit!Pr, Austria, I was surprised to what extent the Holocaust is used for pro-life propaganda here in the United States. I was even more surprised when I read the sentence "Though educating everyone about the holocaust of our time is essential [. .. I" on the home page of NotrP Dame Right to Life (http://www.nd.edu/-prolife/legislationll. The Notre Dame pro-life group should consider a few facts before using the term: Abortion is not the result of a centuries old Anti-Semitism whicn cumulated in the industrialized extermination of Jewish women, men and children throughout Europe. Abor:ion is not comparable to the total war launched by the Nazis. Abortion is not comparable to the gas cham­bers of Auschwitz. The singularity of the I Iolocaust is not comparable to any other event in hurr an history. Hence it is disrespectful to the dead and to Jewish peopi:J today to consider abortion as a Holocaust. It is morally wrong and ir. my eyes disgusting to trivialize the suffer­ing and death of millions of people who died during the Nazi terror regime in order to use it lor certain propaganda purposes. I don't know if it is either a lack Jf historical knowledge or simply an intel­lectual shortcoming to connect the Holocaust with abortion, but I know that it is absolutely inappropriate for a group at a high profile academic institution like Notre Dame. 
Florian Plocek 
graduate student 
off-campus 
April!O 
Girls in the Glee Club 

I just listened on iTunes to a great version of our Victory March. Unfortunately, it was by the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. It sounded great because it was co-eel. I LOVE our Glee Club but with women being over 50 percent of the student population, shouldn't it be co­ed? 
Alex Calabrese 
alumnus 
class of 1975 
April? 

GOP misunderstood 
This is a direct response to a letter recently written to The Observer titled, "GOP not pro­life" (April 9). Francisco, I find what you wrote not only appalling but very invalid. You, as so many people interested and involved in politics, make dumb generaliza­tions about Republicans -we only care about whites, upper-middle and upper class people, Catholics, men and ourselves (people exactly like us). Please read clearly-you are wrong. Maybe you should realize that we care about our nation, its status, and the people living in it-all of them. How can you say that "Catholic pro-lifers" do not care about women, those being tortured, the poor, the environment, or those around the world who need our help? That is ridiculous; I guarantee they overlap on more occasions. Do not be so inclined to think that people who feel strongly about not killing babies and are pro-life have no other views. They even care about Liberals like you and only want you to understand their views; they are not just trying to be a "beacon of light and truth" like we all do when we argue our opinions. Overall, what I must say is if we want to talk about generalizing political par­ties, then you, as a liberal, must not care about babies and our nation's security among many other things. I, on the other hand, will simply say your argument is com­pletely flawed; also, you may want to think twice about writing such statements that make not only you look bad but your beloved Democratic party. I am pretty sure even Hilary Clinton wouldn't make such a dumb and untrue statement. Oh, and just so you are aware, my vote goes to John McCain for the 2008 presidency not just because he is pro-life. 
Kevin Kimberly 
freshman 
O'Neill Hall 
April9 

Ticket prices too high 
It's that time again. The ice has thawed, spring is in the air, and student ticket booklets have gone on sale. The Administration has simplified the process by making the switch to an online exchange (for a $5 surcharge), but its policy of taking advantage of student demand remains the same. When the class of 2008 arrived for their first season in 2004, season ticket books were $159. The cost for the upcoming season is $195, nearly a $40 increase in four years. This year's cost is down from last season due to the fact that the Irish only play six games at home in 2008, but the reduction from last year's total of $208 is only thirteen dollars. Watching the home opener last year was certainly worth about $13. Although the student body is grateful for the fact that we have the privilege of guaranteed season tickets, it is disheartening that the University continues to habitually raise prices for a good that they know full well has an inelastic demand, while they continue to raise costs for tuition. Let's hope that Coach Weis and the boys in blue and-gold provide some justification for the University's shameless financial excesses. 
Ryan O'Connor 
JUniOr 
abroad 
Aprill4 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Monday, April 15, 2008 
Scene & Hear 
AN EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW WITH DAVE MATTHEWS 
Dave Matthews, the popular vocalist and gui­tarist best known for fronting his eponymous Grammy-winning rock band, has been actively campaigning for Democratic presidential candi­date Sen. Barack Obama (D-111.). Matthews spoke with The Observer last week about Obama, politics and his band's recent music projeets Bob Costa before taking the stage at Indiana University for a free 
Scene Writer 
acoustic concert promoting 
Obama's campaign, attended by 
over 17,000 students. Guitarist 

Tim Reynolds accompanied Matthews at the 
Indiana concert. Reynolds is Matthews' long-time 
friend and playing partner who has played at 
Notre Dame's Legends club twice in recent years. 
"It's an interesting time," said Matthews about the 2008 presidential race. "It's been about 40 years since we've had a candidate that really inspires young people in a large way." 
Matthews publicly announced his endorsement of Obama in February, via a letter to fans. Matthews' campaign activities for Obama are not his first foray into politics. Dave Matthews Band played on the 2004 "Vote for Change" tour with artists such as H.E.M. and Bruce Springsteen. They also played at President Bill Clinton's Inaugural Ball in January 1997. 
A big part of why Matthews supports Obama's campaign is the Illinois senator's position on the war in Iraq. But Matthews sees more than just an anti-war appeal in Obama. 
"A big part of it, for me, is the dimension of his ideas," Matthews said. "I think he does have real plans, although often the argument against him is that he's all talk in a way. I think his ideas are real and I think his plans are real. 
"But more than that is sort of a philosophy that goes along with what he says. I think what this country needs more than anything is a leader that will inspire us to do our best and to get involved in the political system. I think it's really important that we have someone that raises our stakes, or makes us feel as though we are more than a con­sumer-that we're citizens." 
Matthews and his band have sold 31 million albums in the United States and won a Grammy Award in 1997. Beyond his band's success, Matthews said he feels that it is important for him to speak up on national issues. 
"I believe that everyone should have their own opinion and I believe everyone should act on what they think is right in a democracy," Matthews said. "But, I don't mind standing up and saying what I believe. Hopefully I ean inspire some peo­ple to register to vote and hopefully most of those will register to vote and go for Obama." 
Matthews does not worry about any negative response among conservative fans or supporters of Sen. Hillary Clinton's campaign. 
"I don't think that I inspire a backlash," Matthews said. "I do think that it's important for us to say what we think. I don't think that it'll alienate my fans, they'll probably just cheek their messages while I'm talking, if they really don't want to listen, and just wait for me to start singing." 
The concert in Bloomington was overflowing with college students-the bulk of Matthews' fan base. 
"Young people have been excluded, just unin­spired to a large degree, by the political system here in America for quite a while," Matthews said. "Often, the views that they reflect are the views of their parents." 
Matthews was passionate when speaking to reporters about why the 2008 campaign offers many young people the opportunity to engage in politics. 
"The candidates are really interesting in this race and may well inspire kids to change their minds and get more involved," Matthews said. "I think the young vote, in a sense, is the most important vote because it's the vote for their future. They have the most at stake and they have big ideas. Getting those qualities involved in the political system will improve it." 
Matthews, who spent part of his youth in South Africa under apartheid, was impressed by Obama's March 18 speech in Philadelphia on race in America in the wake of the fracas over videos of sermons given by Hev. Jeremiah Wright, Obama's former pastor from Chieago. 
"I admired his response to the scandalous alle­gations about him being connected to the state­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, Aprill5, 20C8 
page 13 
by Bob Costa 
ments of his pastor," Matthews said. "I thought his response was to make it into an opportunity to discuss race relations, rather to react and start defending himself. It was a beautiful speech. I was surprised by the eloquence of it-in the midst of all that scandal and the sort of fast-edit­ing of news channels -that what he said cut through so beautifully." 
Matthews believes that Obama's eloquence on America's race relations is a major factor in his admiration of the Democratic senator. 
"I Hace I is an issue to me that has been swept under the rug in this country" Matthews said. "Somehow people don't feel it needs to be addressed, we just pretend it's somehow past and that we'll get over it eventually. I think the way !Obama] addressed it was incredible, actually." 
Heynolds publicly supported progressive Ohio Congressman Dennis Kucinich in his 2004 and 2008 campaigns for the Democratic Party's nomi­nation for president. Matthews was quick to point out that he supports Kucinich as well. "Dennis Kucinich is awesome," said Matthews, adding that he and Reynolds "agree on political issues more than disagree." 
Outside of his political acti"ities, Matthews has been busy as of late, including talking with the Dalai Lama in Seattle and recording a new studio album with his band. Reynolds joined Dave Matthews Band in the studio for the first time since 1998.Reynolds has been happy with the recording process so far. "It's really great," Reynolds said. "It's a lot of fun." 
"We [DMBJ are laughing a l·Jt, which I think is important," Matthews said about his band's cur­rent studio work. "We're all writing together." 
Dave Matthews Band, a member of the RCA label, last released a studio album in 2.005, pro­duced by Mark Batson and en titled "Stand Up." Heynolds and Matthews released a live album of their acoustic show at Radio City Music Hall in 2007. Their current recordin!~ sessions are differ­ent than for "Stand Up," Matthews said. 
"It's a change right now," Matthews said. "It's difficult to be in an organizat.on, a group of peo­ple, in a gang that stays the same for so long. There's a lot of crap that comes along with it. This time, for whatever reason, it's really open and we're in each other's faces a lot. It's good." 
Green Day and Goo Goo Dolls producer Rob Cavallo is turning the knobs for DMB this time in the studio. Matthews has been impressed by Cavallo's work. 
"He's just sort of slipped in like one of us," Matthews said. "He's very subtle. I enjoy having him there. He's very involved in the whole process. We're all very calm in there and the music is what seems to be inspired." 
Reynolds, who last played at Legends in February with his band TR3, played a seventeen­song set in front of a capacity crowd at Indiana. The set was highlighted by a lush rendition of the Dave Matthews Band rarity "The Dreaming Tree," Reynolds' solo on his instrumental song "Stream," and a funky take on "Save Me," a track off Matthews' 2003 solo album "Some Devil." 
Reynolds and Matthews, when they're together, bring out the best in each other. Backstage, Reynolds and Matthews were amiable with Obama staffers and other reporters, ribbing each other good-naturedly and laughing in the Hoosiers' locker room under the Assembly Hall bleachers. 
Matthews first met Reynolds in the late-1980s in Charlottesville, Va., where Matthews was a bartender and Reynolds was an older, well-known local musician. Soon after they met, Reynolds and Matthews began to play music together, with Reynolds eventually encouraging Matthews to begin his own band. How does Reynolds explain the unique chemistry between these long-time friends? "It's the Einstein equation," said Reynolds with a laugh. 
Reporter Bob Costa's interview with Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds will air on NDtv on Wednesday, April 16, 2008 at 11:00 PM ET. NDtv is available on channel 53 on the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College campuses, as well as channel 121-8 on Comcast Digital in the South Bend, Ind., area. 
The views expressed in Scene & Heard are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of The Observer. 
Bob Costa can be reached at rcosta1@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 15, 2008 
CLUB SPORTS 
Sailing headed to Pre-Nats 
Special to the Observer 
Salling 
Notre Darnfl placed fourth at the MCSA CO-ED Championships at Minnesota's Columbia Yacht Club this weekend. qualifying for the pre-national competition in Los Angeles in two weeks. 
Other qualifying teams edg­ing out the Irish were Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan. Trailing the Irish were Northwestern, Toledo, Chicago, St. Thomas, Miami, Miehigan State. Iowa and Ohio State. The Irish A team fin­ished third and the B team sixth in their division raols. 
Earlier, the dub qualified for nationals in team raeing, to be held this summer in Newport, ILl. The results are even more impressive given that most of the team's competition consists of varsity programs. 
Men's Volleyball 
Notre Dame finished 21st in the NIRSA Collegiate Volleyball Sport Club Championships over the we-ekend, a drop-off from top-10 finishes the past two seasons. 
In the op1ming round of play in the tournament held in Dallas the Irish made a state­nwnt against Utah. Behind the middle hitting of sophomore Alex Lewis the Irish rolled the Utes in straight sets, 25-18, 25­
21. 
Notre Dame's momentum continued against No. 29 Texas A&M in its seeond match of the day. The offense was clicking as the Irish controlled the first game behind libero John Tibbie. 
The Aggies fought back to take the second game, but Notre Dame was just too strong, and prevailed 25-19, 21-25, 15-9. 
The match of the day matched the Irish up against No. 5 Virginia Tech. The Irish may have been outsized, but tlwy were not out-hustled. The Irish refusml to let a ball drop, making thn llokie o!Tense work for every point. 
The play of Bryan Winther and thn outside hitting of Mark landolo, who led the Irish to a virtory in consecutive games, 25-23 and 25-22, fuelNI Notre Danw's offense. 
The Irish opened play on Saturday by rallying against Buffalo, 20-25,25-10.15-12. Aggressive SfHving and inspired defense by Jason Healy helped the Irish cause. Immediately al'terwards, the Irish were pitted against Long Beach Statn. The outside hit­ting of senior Daniel Zibton was strong, but provnd to be 
not enough against the high­
powered offense of Long 
Beach. 
The Irish loss caused a three­
way tie in pool play. In order to 
achieve a top-H) finish, the 
Irish had to win a one-game 
playo!T against Buffalo. Coming 
off of five straight games, 
Notre Dame took the court for 
the last time on the day. The 
unrelenting schedule took its 
toll as the rested Buffalo squad 
took the tiebreaker, 25-21. 
On the last day of the team's season, Notre Dame had an opening round match against Midwestern foe Grand Valley State. The Irish rushed to an early lead against the Lakers, largely in part to the attacking and blocking of right side, Tim "Sleepy" Goldsmith. 
The lead was never given up as Notre Dame cruised to a first game victory. 
The Lakers were apparently not ready to head home yet and pushed back, taking the second game and forcing the match to a third. Notre Dame refocused and controlled the final game, taking the match, 25-21, 21-25, 15-13. 
In the last match of the sea­son the Irish faced rival Marquette. Marquette jumped to a large early lead that car­ried to the end. Down 24-20 and facing game point, Notre Dame rallied behind strong serving and blocking to send the game into extra points. 
Untimely errors by the Golden Eagles opened the door for the Irish to snatch the game, 28-26. Marquette again gained an early lead in the sec­ond, and prevailed 25-21. After a back and forth affair, Marquette won a close third game, 15-12, as the Irish dosed out their season. 
Bowling 
This past weekend, Notre Dame traveled to Oberlin, Ohio, to participatn in Oberlin College's Unconventional Tournament. Kent State defeated Oberlin in the finals to win the tournament for thn 1Oth consecutive year. 
Under the leadership of dub president and captain Nick Manieri, the bowling club fin­ished fifth in the tournament with a head-to-head record of 2-3. Manieri finished his col­legiatn bowling career with an average of 190 for the wenk­end and a high gamn of 245. 
Niek finished in ninth place individually and had the 2nd highest game of the tourna­ment, second only to Kent State's Knvin Komrnel perfect score of 300. 
The club's top woman bowler this wenkend was Becky Caples 
with a 177 average and a high 
game of 185 for the tourna­
ment. The team was also 
helped by the efforts of fresh­
man Allie Hensley, who had a 
156 average and bowled a high 
game of 180. 
Lindsey Zimmerman, Alex 
Desch and Tracy Welch subbed 
in and out throughout the tour­
nament and contributed to the 
team's performance this week­
end. 
Rugby 
Notre Dame's rugby club fell to the Michiana Men's team, 24-7 this weekend in Elkhart. Andy Mullen registered the lone try for the Irish, with Don Greiwe scoring on the conver­sion. The game was tied at the half, but Michiana dominated the serums in the second half and controlled the pace of the game. 
The Irish will return to action 
at horne this Saturday as they 
host Ohio State at 1 p.m. on the 
West Quad Field. 
Women's Water Polo 
Notre Dame won the Midwest Division Championships this weekend in Dayton, Ohio, and secured a bid to the National Collegiate Club Championships. 
The Irish faced Washington University of St. Louis in the first round, decisively winning 16-1. Maggie Hyde kept the cage clear, and 10 players scored in the game. 
Ali Durkin and Kat Kennifer led with three goals each, and Kelly Horner and Cristina Romano each had 2. Betsy O'Neill, Kristin Harchut, Adeline Dozois, Ali Schilling, Beth Nagel and Bridget O'Neill rounded out the scoring. 
In the second game of the day the Irish went up against host Dayton, and came away with another strong victory, winning 15-1. Horner led the Irish with a hat trick, and Homano, O'Neill, Sehilling and Meghan Pearl eaeh had anoth­er two. 
On Sunday, the Irish faced Grand Valley State in the championship game. The Irish started strong, but the Lakers matehed their intensity, and the first half ended with the Irish leading, 5-4. 
In the seeond half, Notre Dame found the back of the net eight times, and won the divi­sion, 13-6. Horner led the Irish with 5 goals, and O'Neill, Kennifer and Hornano eaeh added two. Harehut and Durkin completed the searing, and Betsy O'Neill made 7 saves in the cage. 
The Irish will head to Portland, Ore., for the National Tournament on May 1. 

MLB 
Orioles get hon1e -win 
Associated Press 
Kevin Millar finally fulfilled 
his role as a cleanup hitter, 
and Matt Albers stepped out of 
the bullpen to 1111 a void in the 
starting rotation. Together, 
they earried the surprising 
Baltimore Orioles to another 
home victory. 
"The team's baek on traek," 
said Millar, who homered and 
had three RBis in Baltimore's 
4-3 win over the Toronto Blue 
Jays on Monday night. 
Millar went 3-for-22 during 
a road trip in which Baltimore 
lost four of six. Serving as the 
No. 4 hitter in the lineup since 
the offseason trade of Miguel 
Tejada, he was batting .227 
with one home run and four 
HBis before hitting cleanup 
against Toronto. 
After tying the game with a 
first-inning RBI single, Millar 
hit a two-run homer off Dustin 
MeGowan (0-1) in the fifth to 
put the Orioles ahead 3-1. 
"The guy had a 96, 97 mph 
fastball," Millar said. "lie was 
pounding me in. I was sitting 
on a breaking ball -it seems 
like with runners in seoring 
position he always went to 
that-and I got one." 
That sent the Orioles to their 
sixth straight home win and 
enabled Baltimore to break a 
first-plaee tie with Toronto in 
the AL East. 
Albers (2-0) allowed one run, five hits and a walk in five innings to earn his first AL win. Obtained in the deal that sent Tejada to Houston, Albers started 18 games last season but began his first sea­son with Baltimore in the bullpen. 
The right-hander pitehed 6 1-3 seoreless innings of relief before reeeiving a spot start because of a doubleheader last week. He was 3-13 life­time as a starter with Houston, including 3-11 last year, but on this night he did precisely what was required. 
"We were satisfied with what he did for us," manager Dave Trembley said. 
Jim Johnson pitched 2 1-3 innings of two-hit relief, Jamie Walker and Chad Bradford each got an out in the eighth and George Sherrill worked the ninth to earn his sixth save in six tries. 
Adam Jones tied a career high with three hits for the Orioles, now 6-1 at Camden Yards. 
"I am here for whatever the team needs," Albers said. 'Til probably be baek in the bullpen the next eouple days and I will be ready to go. I'm just trying to help this team win. That's the main thing." 
Alex Hios had a pinch-hit, 
two-run homer in the ninth ­
the first runs this season 
against Sherrill -and Vernon 
Wells· had two hits and an HBI 
for the Blue Jays, who were 
coming ofT a three-game 
sweep of Texas. 
"They outpitched us, out­
played us and outhit us," 
Toronto manager John 
Gibbons said. "But we hung 
tough. We n~.ade a run, we 
made a seare. 
McGowan gave up three 
runs and 10 hits in six innings. 
Although he worked out of 
several jams, the right-hander 
paid dearly for his poor piteh 
to Millar. 
"I just hung a eurveball. 
That's all you ean say about 
that one," MeGowan said. "lie 
crushed it." 
McGowan is 0-3 in seven 
career appearances against 
Baltimore and owns a 7.45 
ERA at Camden Yards. 
"I guess you could say they hit me pretty well," he said. "I guess everybody's got a team like that." 
After Wells hit a two-out RBI single in the first inning for Toronto, Millar singled in a run in the bottom half. The score remained tied until Millar conneeted in the fifth after a two-out walk to Niek Markakis. 
Hamon Hernandez added a sacrifice fly in the eighth. 
Pirates 6, Dodgers 4 
Nate MeLouth extended his season-opening hitting streak to 13 games with a two-out, three-run horner off eloser Takashi Saito in the ninth inning, and the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the stunned Los Angeles Dodgers 6-4 Monday night for their fourth straight victory. 
Saito (1-1) was trying to save the win for countryman lliroki Kuroda, who made his Dodger Stadium debut. But the right­hander gave up a one-out sin­gle to Jose Bautista and a two­out single to pinch-hitter Adam LaHoehe before McLouth drovn a 1-0 piteh deep into the right-field pavil­ion for his second homer this season. 
McLouth is one of three players to hit safely in each or his tnam's first 13 games this year, along with Kansas City's Billy Butler and the Dodgers' James Loney. Loney's streak is thn Dodgers' third-longest to open a season sinee the team moved from Brooklyn to Los Angeles in 1958. Steve Garvey hit in 21 straight in 1978, one year after Hon Cey opened the season with a 17-game run. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 r.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

New student needs good laptop. Quiet and Private, Furnished or 1 OR 2 Bdrm apt.in historic neigh­PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­Unfurnished apts for rent. 1 & 2 br borhood. One mile to ND. Laundry ONE WHO IS? You do not have to NOTICE 574·993-8733. FoR RENT available. Cable & wifi included. & security. $510/mo. be alone. We want to help. Call our 
One mile from campus. Call574-532-8718. 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­BElGER MANSION in Mishawaka-Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 800-No Abort or visit our web site at 7 rooms available for grad week­FoR SALE 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" Call 773-339-029!l for rates & avail­54717 Terrace Lane, South Bend 3 www.lifecall.org end. All private baths. www.beiger­leases bluegoldrentals.com ability. bedroom 1 bathroom ranch house mansion.com or call 574-255-6300 $74,5001 Updated 2BR, Finished near ND, behind Nicks Patio. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Ron. Lower Levell Large house available for 2009-DUBLIN VILLAGE unit for lease Washer/Dryer,C/A, not go it alone. If you or someone 
Minutes to Campus & UP Mall. 2010. 2008-2009. 4BR, 3.5 bath. Largest t-ear garage, $725/mo. you love needs confidential support Bookcases, Hardwood floors, Full renovations completed 2007. & most private. $250 security deposit. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue WANTED Fenced yd + more! Close to campus. Call Diane 574-261-3338. jimc343@ yahoo.com Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. 
Sweet Home! 4,000+ square feet, 5 bathrooms. For more information, visit our web­SUMMER WORK $14.25 BASE­Bobbie Van Osdal C-21 OFF CAMPUS HOUSING: Nice site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart­APPT. flexible. no exp. nee, cus­Jim Dunfee Realty MacSwain@ gmail.com house for rent 1/2 mile from cam­PERSONAL ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­tomer sales/service. cond. apply, 57 4-235-3075. pus. 3 bedrooms and 2 full baths, weekly ad in The Observer. ages 17+, positions available For rent 4 bdrm house. walk to A/C. If you or someone you care about throughout US & Canada, Subaru 99 Forester/ N.D., student neighborhood, central Must see! has been sexually assaulted, visit Adjectives on the typewriter. 
great condition/ AWD/Ieather/ air, new appliances, very nice. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. He moves his words like a prize www. workforstudents.com CD/121 K/$6,500/234-21 04. 289-4071. Call Darin at 574-631-2721. shtml fighter 


lOUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, April 15, 200E: CoMPI LED FROM THE OBsERVER'S W!RE SERVICES page 15 
NBA 
Eastern Conference 
team record GB 
Boston 64-16 Detroit 57-23 7 Orlando 50-30 14 Cleveland 44-36 20 Washington 42-38 22 Toronto 40-40 24 Philadelphia 40-40 24 Atlanta 37-43 27 Indiana 35-45 29 New Jersey 33-47 31 Chicago 31-49 33 Charlolle 31-49 33 Milwaukee 26-54 38 New York 23-57 41 Miami 14-66 50 
Western Conference 
team record GB 
LA Lakers 56-25 New Orleans 55-25 .5 San Antonio 54-26 1.5 Utah 53-27 2.5 Houston 54-26 1.5 Phoenix 53-27 2.5 Dallas 50-31 6 Denver 49-32 7 Golden State 48-32 7.5 Portland 40-40 15.5 Sacramento 38-42 17.5 LA Clippers 23-57 
32.5 Memphis 22-58 Minnesota 21·59 SeaHie 19-62 
T· 
Nikejlnside Lacrosse Men's Ftankings 
record
team points 
1 Duke 12-1 353 2 Syracuse 10-1 349 3 Virginia 10·2 314 4 Cornell 9-2 272 5 Georgetown 7-3 261 ' 6 UMBC 8-3 228 7 Maryland 7-4 217 8 Navy 9-3 214 9 Army 8-3 192 10 Johns Hopkins 4-5 190 11 Ohio State 8-3 16'7 12 North Carolina .7-4 162 13 NOTRE DAME 7-2 157 14 Brown 8-2 143 15 Bucknell 9-2 142 16 Loyola 6-4 113 17 Denver 9-4 98 18 Drexel 10-3 81 19 Princeton 6-4 79 20 Hofstra 6-4 27 
around the dial 
MOTOICROSS Mota X Championships 3:00 p.m., ESPN2 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALL Team USA •ts. Arizona 7:00 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA 


Associated Press 
MANHATTAN, Kan. _ After putting together one of the best freshman sea­sons ever, Michael Beasley is headed to the NBA. 
Kansas State's All­American freshman announced Monday that he will skip his final three seasons to enter the June 26 NBA draft, where he could be the No. 1 overall pick. 
"It's time to take my game to the next level," Beasley said as his family and several teammates looked on. "I think I proved myself over the course of the season. I just think it's time for new challenges." 

Beasley dominated his lone college season, aver­aging 26.2 points and becoming just the third freshman in NCAA history to lead the nation in rebounds at 12.4 per game. He had the second­most rebounds and third­most points by a freshman in NCAA history, helping Kansas State to its first NCAA tournament victory in 20 years. 
Beasley also was a con­sensus All American, was named Big 12 player of the year and finished ·sec­ond to North Carolina's Tyler Hansbrough for numerous player of the year awards. 
IN BRIEF Nuggets' Anthony charged
witfi (lrunk driving 
DENVER-NBA All-Star Carmelo Anthony was arrested early Monday on suspicion of driving under the influence of alcohol, hours after his worst game of the season. 
The Denver Nuggets forward was arrested on Interstate 25, police said. He was alone in the car and pulled over for weaving and not dimming his lights. 
Detective Sharon Hahn said Anthony failed a series of sobriety tests. He was charged with DUI, then taken to police headquarters before being released to a "sober responsible party," Hahn said. Anthony is due in court May 14. 
Anthony was named an All-Star starter for the first time this year. He's fourth in the NBA in scoring (25.8) and is averag­ing a career-best 7.4 rebounds. In February, Anthony was ticketed in Colorado for driving 25 mph over the posted speed limit. A hearing is set for next month. 

An agile, 6-foot-10 power forward, Beasley is exceptionally versatile, able to power his way inside or step out to the perimeter, shooting 37 percent from beyond the arc. 
NBA officials came out in droves to watch him play at nearly every game and some general man­agers spent three to four days at a time in Manhattan, leading to speculation that Beasley would be the No. 1 overall draft pick if he left school early. 
Millions of dollars awaits Beasley in the NBA, but it still wasn't an easy decision to leave school. 
He spent the weekend debating whether he should stay or go, talking with family, friends and coaches about the NBA. It wasn't until Monday morning, just hours before his self-imposed deadline, that Beasley made his final decision. 
Beasley said at the start of the season that he wanted to play at Kansas State for four years, that he had made a commit­ment and wanted to earn a degree. He started hint­ing that he might not stick around early in the sea­son and ultimately decid­ed the money was just too much to pass up. 

Henrick Motors ends 
drought in Phoenix 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -For the first seven races this season, a car not owned by Hendrick Motorsports went to Victory Lane. 
All seven times, people wondered what was wrong with NASCAR's best team. 
In the eighth race, Jimmie Johnson shut everybody up. 
With a gutsy call from crew chief Chad Knaus to not stop for gas when the rest of the leaders were too scared to stretch their fuel to the finish, the two­time defending series champion finally gave Hendrick his first win of the sea­son Saturday night at Phoenix International Raceway. It was the deep­est into the season owner Rick Hendrick had gone without one of his cars winning since 2003, when Jeff Gordon won the ninth event of the year. 
"We're back," Johnson said from Victory Lane. 
Lei sets new record at the 
London Marathon 
LONDON -Martin Lei set a course record of 2 hours, 5 min­utes, 15 seconds to capture his third London Marathon in four years. His victory came despite wind and rain that hit the field late in the race and a slightly altered route because of a gas leak on a road just over Tower Bridge. 
Irina Mikitenko of Germany captured the women's race in only her second marathon attempt, winning by 25 seconds. 
While the weather ruined prospects for a world record, this was the first time the top three finished under 2:06. It was also the first time in 4 1/2 years any­one other than Haile Gebrselassie broke that mark. Gebrselassie holds the world record at 2:04:26. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 15, 2008 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Allegations against Olympian dismissed 
Associated Press 
Track and field's world gov­erning body dismissed doping allegations against former Olympic sprint champion Maurice Greene, throwing its support behind the man who once held the 100-meter world record. 
Greene also denied the accu­sations, which were made by a witness in a U.S. government investigation into sports dop­ing and reported this past 
weekend  in  the  New York  
Times.  
"None  of  this  is  new,"  

International Association of Athletics Federations spokesman Nick Davies told The Associated Press. "There is no reason to take action against Maurice." 
Davies said the IAAF would continue to use Greene as one of its goodwill ambassadors to promote the sport in the run­up to the Beijing Olympics. 
"With every ambassador we do an immediate check with the doping department," Davies said by telephone from IAAF headquarters in Monaco. "In this case they said, 'No, we don't have anything."' 
The Times reported that the witness, Angel Guillermo lleredia, said he advised and supplied banned substances to track coaeh Trevor Graham and athletes ineluding Greene and Marion Jones. 
"I read about this guy and this rumor four years ago," Davies said. 
Citing court filings, the Times said that Heredia ­identified as Source A in the documents -agreed to be a cooperating witness when investigators confronted him with evidence of his own drug trafficking and money laun­dering. The newspaper said Heredia provided prosecutors with the names of elite ath­letes, including 12 Olympic medal winners, who allegedly used performance-enhancing substances, and also provided documentation. 
Among his clients, the Times said Heredia identified Greene, a two-time Olympic gold medalist and five-time world champion who never previously has been linked to doping. Greene, who retired in February, never failed a dop­ing test. 
Greene told Britain's Daily Telegraph that he had met with Heredia but did not receive or use any drugs. 
"This is a bad situation for me," he was quoted as saying in Monday's editions. "My name's coming up in some­thing and it's not true.... I have met him before and when he was talking to me, I told him I don't believe in this stuff." 
MLB 

2-10 Tigers looking for ans-wers 
Associated Press 
Edgar Renteria joked that he didn't know English when asked if be had a moment to talk about the struggling Detroit Tigers. 
The reporter then replied in broken Spanish: "You said this was like a Dream Team in Lakeland. Why are the Tigers 2-10?" 
In any language, the team with baseball's worst record and second-highest payroll is stumped for answers. 
"I don't know," Renteria said Monday before Detroit hosted the Minnesota Twins. 
The Tigers were a popular pick during spring training not only to play in the postseason, but to win their first World Series title since 1984. 
History is not on their side. 
No team that started 2-10, as Detroit did, has won a World Series and just three rallied from such a rough start to even be in the playoffs: the 1951 New York Giants, 1974 Pittsburgh Pirates and 2001 Oakland Athletics. 
"All of baseball is surprised and alarmed at what's going on with the Tigers," Twins outfielder Michael Cuddyer said. "But nobody in this club­house and nobody in this league is writing them off. 
"When you know the type of players they have, you know they're not going to stay down for long." 
That's the Tigers are hoping 

because their payroll is nearly $139 million. 
Detroit's top acquisition ­Miguel Cabrera -is not the only one off to a poor start, but his lack of production stands out because the team decided to pay him $152 mil­lion-plus over the next eight seasons. 
Cabrera averaged 32 homers, 115 RBis while hitting .318 the previous four seasons in Florida, sensational statis­tics that just Albert Pujols and Vladimir Guerrero matched in those categories since 2004. 
But entering Monday's game, the third baseman was hitting just .1 7 5 with a homer -on opening day -with only one RBI since his Detroit debut. 
Cabrera declined comment before facing the Twins, but told reporters Sunday he was embarrassed and felt like everybody was laughing at him. 
Detroit manager Jim Leyland said he told Cabrera to just be himself and not to worry. 
"He's obviously pressing," Leyland said. "A lot of times, not just Miguel Cabrera, but anybody that signs a big con­tract and gets off to a slow start people get on them." 
"But we haven't hit as a team. Miguel Cabrera isn't the one that hasn't hit." 
Leyland's right. 

Reigning AL batting champi­on Magglio Ordonez is hitting .234. Placido Polanco, Gary Sheffield and Ivan Rodriguez all had sub-.200 batting aver­ages through Sunday. 
Entering Monday, despite a lineup with seven All-Stars, Detroit ranked last in the majors in runs, hits, slugging percentage. The Tigers tied for the most double-play groundouts and were next to last in batting average and extra-base hits. 
The pitching has been bad, too. 
Detroit has the worst ERA in the majors -about six runs a game -and had matched the baseball high for walks going into the series opener against the Twins. 
Ace Justin Verlander is 0-2 with a 6.52 ERA, a stunning start for the only pitcher in baseball history to throw a no­hitter, start a World Series game, be a Rookie of the Year and an All-Star in his first two full seasons. 
Three other starters ­Kenny Rogers, Nate Robertson and Dontrelle Willis -are a combined 0-4 with ERAs rang­ing from 6.52 to 7.84 after a combined seven starts. 
The Tigers' defense has been average, ranking in the middle of the pack in errors, but a miscue Sunday seemed symbolic as Cabrera tripped on the third-base umpire's foot to foil his shot at an easy catch. 
"That tells you bow bad it's been going for us," Leyland said Sunday after the Chicago White Sox shut out Detroit for the second straight game. 

You may not care about the answers to these questions ... 
. .. unless you're an Office 2003 user who tries to open an 
Office 2007 document and receives a file compatibility error. 
Then these differences in file extensions can drive you and 
your Windows computer nuts. 
Office 2007 file extensions end in the letter X; Office 2003 
files don't. You can open and save an Office 2003 file using 
Office 2007, but you can't open and save an Office 2007 file 
using Office 2003. 
Office 2003 users can get around this problem, though. 
Go to oit.nd.edu/office, select Office 2007 Windows, and click on the link to the Compatibility Pack. From there you. can download the latest version of a patch that enables users of Office 2003 to open and save Office 2007 documents. 
Find out more information about Office 2007 for Windows on the OIT's website at oit.nd.edu/office/, as well as infor­mation on the recently-released Microsoft Office 2008 for Macintosh. The new version of Office for Mac has similar file compatibility issues that Mac users will want to learn how to resolve. 
Please feel free to contact your departmental computer support representative or call the OIT Help Desk at 631-8111 if you have further questions. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Office of Information Technologies 
Tuesday, Aprill5, 2038 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Rond~o leads Celtics to 99-93 win over Knicks 
Brown lifts Cavaliers 91-90 over Sixers; Wizard's backups knock Pacers out of playoffs; Bulls beat out Bucks 
Associated Press 
With his three All-Star team­mates resting, Rajon Hondo had 23 points and 10 rebounds, lead­ing the Boston Celtics to a 99-93 victory over the New York Knicks on Monday night in what may have been Isiah Tho 11as' final home game as Knicks eoach. 
Boston improved to 65-16 despite giving Kevin Garnett, Paul Pierce and Ray Allen the night off. Sam Cassell added 22 points for the Celtics, who learned during the game they will face the Atlanta Hawks in the first round of the playoffs. 
Nate Robinson S(:ored 26 points, and David Lee had 12 points and 16 rebounds for the Knicks, who fell to 23-58 and need a win in their sea.son finale at Indiana to avoid tying the franchise record for losses, last matched two years ago during Larry Brown's lone seamn. 
Donnie Walsh, who replaced Thomas as team president earli­er this month, has said Thomas will finish the season as coach before he decides on next sea­son. Walsh said he has no timetable, other than wanting the situation settled before the draft. but realizes the specula­tion involved means he probably needs to announce hi~: decision much sooner. 
Thomas, who was booed dur­ing pregame introductions and in the final minute, wouldn't say if he even wanted to be the coach next season, only that he's always done whatf:ver the Knicks have asked of him. He added before the ~:arne he wouldn't be thinking that this could be the end. 
"I haven't really let my mind 
St.e 
J~hRSI~ 
go to that place," he said. "Whatever Donnie wants of me and whatever he wants me to do, I'll do." 
Boston coach Doc Rivers said before the game he wanted his Big Three to play just one of the final two games and instead opted for the home finale Wednesday against New Jersey. 
Allen and Pierce watched the early action from the bench before joining Garnett, who stayed in the locker room throughout. They missed an impressive performance from their point guards. 
Rondo made the first basket of the fourth quarter to wipe out the Knicks' last lead, and later in the period converted a difficult three-point play, knocking in a jumper while being hit in the face by Renaldo Balkman to make it 84-79. 
Cassell buried two 3-pointers in the fmal 3:41, the last extend­ing Boston's lead to 95-88 with 56 seconds to play. The Celtics beat the Knicks for the sixth straight time, sweeping the series for the first time since the 2002-03 season. 
Knicks rookie Wilson Chandler, who had been playing well lately, sprained his left knee in the third quarter. X-rays were negative. 
Cavaliers 91, Sixers 90 
Devin Brown sank two free throws with 0.2 seconds left after Philadelphia was brought back from the locker room and the game seemingly over to lift the Cleveland Cavaliers to a 91­90 win over the 76ers on Monday night. 
The Sixers appeared to have won after Lou Williams hit a fadeaway jumper with 5.1 sec­onds left -his second go-ahead basket in the final minute. 
Instead, Brown was fouled by Samuel Dalembert with only a couple of ticks left. The Sixers thought the game was over and ran off the court, while the refs huddled at midcourt to look at the replay. The Cavaliers stayed on the bench, with some peeking over and hoping to hear the deci­sion. 
After the play was reviewed for a few minutes, Dalembert was hit with his sixth foul. The Sixers had to come back and watch Brown stun them for the controversial win. 
Sixers coach Maurice Cheeks argued with the refs and guard Andre Miller punted the ball in frustration. 
LeBron James scored 27 points, Zydrunas Ilgauskas had 22 and the Cavaliers clinched home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs 
The defending Eastern Conference champs and No. 4 seed Cavaliers get to start their title defense at home against the Washington Wizards. The Cavs and Wizards will play in the first round for the third straight year. 
Miller scored 26 points and Williams had 21 for the strug­gling Sixers, who have lost all the momentum built during a torrid 11-4 March that shot them up the East standings. Philadelphia (40-41) has lost three straight and dropped under .500 for the first time since they were 34-35 on March. 21. 
While the 76ers already secured a playoff spot, they were trying to stay out the seventh seed and avoid a first-round matchup with Detroit. They also need a win Wednesday at 
An American MASTER'S DEGREE 
in Rome? 

It's possible at St. John's University-the only American university that offers this unique opportunity for graduate study in Rome. Whether you are interested in pursuing an M.B.A. in Finance, International Business or Marketing Management, or an M.A. in Government and Politics with a specialization in International Relations, our expErt professors and the Eternal City itself will help you prepare for the global arena. 

Charlotte in the season finale to reach the .500 mark for the first time since 2004-05. 
Williams scored 11 points in the fourth, hitting one big shot after another to rally the Sixers back from 12 down early in the quarter. 
James fired an overhead pass to Ilgauskas, who easily spun around Dalembert for an uncon­tested layup and an 87-86lead. 
Williams and Brown exchanged layups and the Sixers trailed by one. Then Williams buried a 19-footer from the right side and the Fan Appreciation Crowd erupted in cheers one fmal time in the regular season. 
In a flash, the win was gone. 
So was any shot of the Sixers finishing with the sixth seed in the East. The Raptors earned that with a win over Miami and Philadelphia will play Detroit in a first-round series. 
The Cavaliers lost guard Sasha Pavlovic to a sprained left ankle in the third quarter. Pavlovic, who averaged 7.5 points, was fouled on a baseline jumper and badly twisted his ankle on an awkward landing. 
Miller scored 14 straight points for Philadelphia from 3:24 of the second quarter to 3:27 of the third when he finally got some scoring help from his team­mates. 
The Sixers pulled as close as three points in the third quarter, but James hit a 3 in the fmal sec­onds for a 67-59 lead heading into the fourth. 
Wizards 117, Pacers 110 
The Washington Wizards' backups were more than enough to eliminate the very sub-.500 Indiana Pacers from the playoff race, 117-110 Monday. 
Coach Eddie Jordan went to his bench early and often, get­ting 31 points from Roger Mason, 14 from rookie Nick Young and little resistance from the Pacers' defense. 
The Wizards, who have won five of six, entered the game with a chance to gain home-court advantage in their upcoming first-round playoff series against Cleveland. Even so, Washington gave Gilbert Arenas the night off and gave Caron Butler another night to recover from a bruised knee. 
And the Cavaliers won in Philadelphia to guarantee finish­ing ahead of Washington in the Eastern Conference. 
Once the game was under way, the starters frequently gave way to the reserves, creating a remarkably casual feel given its playoff implications. Before a crowd that mostly sat on its hands, the Wizards' reserves outscored the starters 70-47. The disparity was even greater after DeShawn Stevenson left early in the second half with a sore back. 
The Pacers needed to win their last two games and have Atlanta lose two straight to make the playoffs. They didn't put up much of a fight until the very end. The Wizards never trailed, led by 17 in the second quarter, by 22 in the third and by 18 ­101-83-early in the fourth. They didn't let Indiana within double digits again until Danny Granger hit a 3-pointer to make the score 112-105 with 1:11 to play. 
David Harrison's dunk cut the lead to six with 29 seconds left, and an 8-second violation by the Wizards was converted into a· 3­pointer by Marquis Daniels with 18 seconds to go. But the Wizards made four free throws in the final 20 seconds to hold on. 
Then again, the Pacers had to feel lucky to be in the postseason running considering the loss dropped them 11 games below .500 in the mediocre East. They worked themselves into con­tention by winning four straight earlier this month, but couldn't beat lottery-bound Charlotte on Saturday or Washington's sec­ond-team Monday. 
Indiana finishes the regular season Wednesday at home against New York, while Washington wraps up the same night at Orlando. 
Arenas, playing limited min­utes as a reserve since returning from knee surgery, was given a precautionary rest day. Butler missed his second consecutive game with the sore knee. 
They weren't missed. Mason was 7 -for-9 on 3-pointers, and Andray Blatche grabbed 11 rebounds as Washington domi­nated the boards 58-31. 
Granger had 35 points and nine rebounds to lead the Pacers. Indiana played without center Jeff Foster, who bruised his right knee in the loss to Charlotte. 
Bulls 151, Bucks 135 
Luol Deng scored 32 points on 15-of-20 shooting and Ben Gordon added 29 points as the Chicago Bulls fell just short of a franchise record for points and shooting percentage with a 151­135 victory over the Milwaukee Bucks on Monday night. 
The Bulls also got 22 points and 15 assists from Chris Duhon, and three other players finished in double digits as Chicago fell four points short of the franchise regulation record set in 1990. 
The Bulls shot 67 percent from the field, just off a franchise high set in 1981, but the highest ever allowed by the Bucks. 
Milwaukee, which lost its sev­enth straight, showed just how little it has improved. The defense has declined under coaches Terry Stotts and Larry Krystkowiak, marking a new low in front of general manager John Hammond, who was hired on Friday. 
The lone bright spot for the Bucks was rookie Ramon Sessions, who set a franchise record with 24 assists. three more than Guy Rodgers had in Milwaukee's sixth game as a franchise on Oct. 31, 1968 against Detroit. Sessions also scored 20 points -the first 20­
. 20 with points and assists in franchise history. 
Andrew Bogut scored 25 points, while Michael Redd and Charlie Villanueva each had 22 points. Villanueva scored 18 of his points in the first quarter as the Bucks took an early 12-point lead. 
Milwaukee, which lost for the 12th time after leading by double digits, gave up 42 points in the second quarter as Chicago took an 81-71 halftime lead. That was 13 more points than the Bulls scored in a half this season and 14 more than they scored in a game in a loss at Minnesota on Jan. 30. 
The Bulls kept extending the lead, hitting the century mark with 6:52 to go in the third quar­ter off Tyrus Thomas' jumper, and holding a 120-101 lead going into the fourth quarter. 
r--------------------------------~­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April IS, 2008 
MLB 

Johnson makes season debut in Giants 5-4 win 
Associated Press 
Handy Johnson had a hard 
limo finding the strike zono in 
his season dobut, eight months 
aftor baek surgery. 
Still, tho San Franciseo 
(;iants didn't get many good 
swings against him. 
The Big Unit did not allow an 
earnod run in five innings, set­
tling down to finish with seven 
strikeouts and four walks 
bofore San Franeiseo rallied 
against Arizona's bullpon for a 
!i-4 vidory over the 
l>iarnondbaeks on Monday 
night. 
Tho Giants loaded tho bases 
in tho snvnnth with no outs 
against rnliovor Chad Qualls 
(0-1 ), who allowed Hay 
Durham's tying HBI groundout 
followed by Bongio Molina's 
go-ahoad saerifien f1y. 
Koiichi Yabu (1-1 ), who 
pitehod aflnr undnrgoing den­
tal surgnry oarlier in tho day, 
worked two scondess innings 
for his first win in nearly throe 
years. lin beat the (;iants on 
May 20, 2005, with the 
Oakland Athleties. 
Conor Jaekson drove in three 
runs for the I>iamondbaeks, 
who had their night-game win­
ning streak snapped Sunday 
against Colorado and lost con­
secutive games for only the 
seeond time this year. 
Johnson walked slowly to th1~ 
mound, head down and 
alrnady holding a 2-0 lnad 
al'tnr .Jaekson's two-run homer 
in tho first. lie was onn of only 
a few players to wear short 
sloovos on a blustery Bay Area 
night, when the first-pitch 
temperature was 52 dngrees. 
Jaekson also added an HBI 
double in the third and Justin 
Upton had a run-seoring single 
that inning. 
Arizona got a scare in the 
bottom of tlw eighth when 
third basoman Mark Heynolds 
fell over the railing of' a photo 
well while trying to catch 
Eugenio Velez's foul ball and 
banged his faee on a lower 
rail. liis toammates ran to him 
and callod for the trainer. 
Heynolds was slow getting up 
but stayod in the game. 
Brian Wilson finished for his 
fourth savo in five chanees. 
Johnson gave up three hits and three unearned runs. It took him live pitehes to throw his l'irst strike after a four­piteh leadoff walk to Randy Winn. lie struek out Aaron Howand on an 83 mph slider, then gave up another four­pitch walk to Durham before retiring Hich Aurilia on a called third strike. Johnson got out of the inning on 18 pitches, eight for strikes. 
The Giants tied the game on Winn's two-run bloop single with two outs in the second, then Howand followed with an HBI double to left and Johnson received a mound visit from pitching eoach Bryan Prien ­Johnson's piteh count already at 43. 
IIn had not pitched in the big leagues sinee a 9-5 loss to the Los Angeles Dodgers last June 28, before his August opera­tion. 
Tlw 44-yoar-old left-hander topped out at 93 mph with his fastball. Manager Bob Melvin said beforehand he didn't have a pitch count for Johnson, who went 4-3 with a 3.81 EHA last season. lie finished at 90 pitches with 49 strikes. 
Johnson underwent surgery 
to repair a herniated disk each 
of the past two seasons. Last 
year, he had only 3.5 months 
to reeover before spring train­
ing and believes he rushed 
baek too soon. He also had 
back surgery in 1996. 
San Franeisco starter 
Jonathan Sanehez allowed four 
runs -three earned -and six 
hits in live innings. 
Royals 5, Mariners 1 
Two years ago, Zack Greinke 
left spring training determined 
never to play baseball again. 
Now, the Kansas City right­
hander looks like one or the 
best young pitchers in base­
ball. 
Croinke was dominant again 
Monday night, tossing a five­
hitter as the Royals opened a 
seven-game road trip with a!i­
1 win over the Seattle 
Mariners. 
The 24-year-old Greinke (3­
0) was efficient throughout, changing speeds and locations with all his pitches while inducing Seattle's batters into weak groundouts and flailing swings. Only one ball was hit hard all night, a drive from Yuniesky Bentancourt that Mark Teahen made a leaping catch on against the wall to end the eighth. 
Otherwise, Seattle never 
threatened against Greinke. 
"Just letting them put the 
ball in play for the most part," 
he said. "As long as they aren't 
getting in scoring position, I 
ean be aggressive for the most 
part. ... It's been working out 
so far." 
Greinke left the Royals dur­
ing spring training in 2006 for 
what the team said was per­
sonal reasons. He returned to 
the team in September of that 
season after being diagnosed 
by a psychologist with "soeial 
anxiety," and learning that it 
wasn't baseball he disliked. 
Since that personal break­through, Greinke has contin­ued to develop into the pitcher Kansas City expected when it selected him in the first-round of the 2002 draft. 
Greinke followed up team­mate Brian Bannister's eom­plete game on Sunday with a gem of his own on a chilly night in Seattle. lie struck out four and got three double plays while facing only three batters more than the mini­mum. 
Though his ERA rose from 
0.60 to 0.75, Greinke matched Bannister with his third win and barely stayed ahead of him in their friendly challenge to have the lowest ERA. 
"That's one thing we're kind of going at each other with," Greinke said. "At least I am." 
Greinke threw 107 pitehes and walked one, working at least eight innings for the sec­ond eonsecutive start. lie shut down the New York Yankees in his previous outing. It was his third career complete game and the sixth in the American League this season. 
Just one Seattle baserunner advanced past first base against Greinke, who retired 18 of his final 20 batters. 
"You never knew what was earning and he threw them all for strikes," Seattle's Hiehie Sexson said. 
Greinke got all the runs he needed in the second inning, thanks to a pair of longballs from an offense that entered the night with just five homers, the fnwest in the AL. 

Billy Butler homered into the Wilkerson to score from third. on and he throws strikes. Kansas City bullpen leading off That's a good combination." the second to extend his Athletics 2, White Sox 1 Kurt Suzuki went 4-for-4 for career-best hitting streak to B Greg Smith's pitches gave the the A's, who are 6-1 on their games. Former Mariner Jose Chicago White Sox plenty of first road trip of the season. Guillen followed with a double trouble. The rookie's move to They improved to 9-5 overall to deep right-center and two first had them leaning the for their best start through 14 batters later Miguel Olivo, wrong way, too. games since opening 10-4 in another former Seattle player, ''I've been able to use it a lot, 1992. homered to left-center on a 2-2 really. I don't try to piek a guy They closed out their latest pitch. It was Olivo's first homer off. If he gets pieked off. fan­win when lluston Street got sinee Sept. 12 with Florida. tastie," Smith said Monday through a shaky ninth to pick 
"You feel so good playing night after earning his first up his fourth save in five behind our pitching staff right major league win by pitching chances. now you want to do everything the Oakland Athletics to a 2-1 lie allowed a onn-out single you can for them," Butler said. victory. to Dye and threw a wild piteh 
The Hoyals added another "When I was with the that allowed pineh-runner run in the seventh as Seattle's Diamondbaeks, they were real­Brian Anderson to move to bullpen continued to struggle. ly big on shutting down the second. Street hit A.J. Scan Green took over for running game," said the Ieft­l'icrzynski with a pitch before starter Jarrod Washburn start­handor, who came to Oakland striking out Carlos Quentin and ing the seventh and allowed in the deal that sent Dan getting Joe Crede on a eomn­two singles and a walk to load llaren to Arizona. "That's what baeker to end it. the bases. Hyan Howland­I've incorporated and every so Swisher, traded to the Whitn Smith took over and gave up a often I'll piek a guy off." Sox from the A's in January, sacrifiee fly to David DeJesus, Making his second big league had two singles and a walk but escaped the inning without appearance, Smith (1-0) gave against Smith while playing further damage. up one run and six hits over against his former team for the 
Kansas City scored again in seven innings on another cold first time. the eighth off Roy Corcoran. night at U.S. Cellular Field, After Swisher's one-out sin­Second baseman Jose Lopez where the gametime tempera­gle in the sixth, Orlando dropped the transfer of a ture was 42 degrees. And he Cabrera followed with a single potential inning-ending double outpitched Mark Buehrle to get to left and Swisher dashed to play, and Olivo and John Buck the win. third, just beating Emil had eonsecutive singles to Smith was able to thwart for­Brown's throw with a Iwadlirst plate another run. mer Athletic Nick Swisher's slide. Jim Thome's HBI 
Washburn's only problems third-inning steal attempt by grounder cut Oakland's lead to came in the second, when the making a quick throw to nrst 2-1. Hoyals forced the left-bander and catehing him leaving early. "It was fun seeing some of to throw 30 pitches. Washburn And in the seventh, he eaught the guys," Swisher said. "It (1-2) allowed three runs and Jermaine Dye leaning at l'irst was a little different to go out six hits, striking out six. after Dye started the inning and play against them." 
"Just one bad pitch, the with a single. Chicago entered the game ehangeup to Olivo," Washburn "It wouldn't appear that was with the highest-seoring said. "I don't like seeond his second time out in a major offense in the AL and had put guessing myself, but I wish I league uniform on the mound .up 11 runs against Detroit on wouldn't have thrown a like that," Oakland manager Sunday with bases-loaded changeup in that situation." Bob Geren said. "He does a homers by Paul Konerko and 
Seattle's only run came in niee job controlling the run­Crede. the third when Ichiro Suzuki ning game. We saw that a lot "They've been swinging barely beat out a double-play in Arizona. That's part of his good. I saw the two grand attempt, allowing Brad total game. lie's difficult to run slams yesterday," Smith said. 
PLS ?

• Pondering Life's Significance? 

Our students say: "Some people go to college to get a degree. I go to college to save my soul.'' 
THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES Small Classes. Great Books. Curious? Stop by the Office 215 O'Shaughnessy Hall Visit the website http://pls.nd.edu 

Tuesday, April15, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
A-Rod h_its ho111er No. 521 in Yankees' 8-7 vvin over Rays 
Associated Press 
Alex Rodriguez reached another milestone. Robinson Cano made sure it came in a victory. 
Cano's pinch-hit homer snapped an eighth-inning tie, and Rodriguez hit No. 521 to match Hall of Famers Ted Williams and Willie M•3Covey on the career list during the New York Yankees' 8-7 victory over the Tampa Bay Rays on Monday night. 
"It definitely humbleH you," Rodriguez said. ''I'm at a point in my career where ~'OU do some things and you start touching some of these Hames. It's hard to believe." 
With shortstop Derek Jeter back in the lineup, Yankees starter Ian Kennedy cruised into the seventh inning with a 7-2 lead before he was hit on the right hip by Jason Bartlett's line drive. 
The infield single knocked a hobbling Kennedy out of the game, and Tampa Bay hit three quick homers off New York's bullpen befoee the inning was over to tie the score at 7. 
Carl Crawford hit a two-run homer off left-bander Billy Traber. ILl. Upton added a two-run drive off winner Brian Bruney, then rookie Evan Longoria connected against Bruney (1-0) for his first major league home run. 
But Cano, who entered hit­
ting .170 and was rested by manager Joe Girardi, came off the bench to put the Yankees back in front with a long homer to right off AI Reyes (1­2). 
"I think the team needed it a lot more than Robby," Rodriguez said. "Robby is going to. be fine. Robby is a great hitter. He's going to hit well over .300, and probably make the All-Star game." 
It was Cano's second career pinch-hit shot. "I hope to start from here," he said. 
Mariano Rivera got four outs for his fourth save in four opportunities. 
Kennedy said he was sore in the muscle area just below the hip bone, but expects to make his next start. 
Rodriguez connected in the first inning against Andy Sonnanstine and finished with four hits. A-Rod tied Williams and McCovey for 15th place on the career home run list. 
The homer also was A-Rod's 176th with the Yankees, mov­ing him past Bobby Murcer for 19th on the franchise list. The slugger, who went 4-for-5, also scored his SOOth run with New York on the homer. 
Rodriguez has 36 games with four or more hits. 
Johnny Damon and Morgan Ensberg also homered for the Yankees, who scored more than six runs for the first time this season. 
"A good character game," Girardi said. 
Jeter returned to the lineup after missing the previous six games with a strained left quadriceps and went 2-for-5 with two RBis. 
"Everything feels fine," he said. 
"I didn't run as hard as I could. It's probably more men­tal than anything." 
Kennedy allowed three runs and eight hits in six-plus innings. 
Damon put the Yankees ahead with a leadoff homer in the first. 
Rodriguez made it 2-0 later in the inning on his third homer of the season. The 448­foot drive to left stopped an 0­for-9 slide. 
Ensberg extended the advantage to 3-0 with a sec­ond-inning homer. 
Damon drove in two more runs with a double and Jeter hit a two-run single as the Yankees took a 7-1 lead in the fourth. 
Sonnanstine gave up seven runs and nine hits in 3 1-3 innings. 
''I'd like to have the A-Rod one back because up until tonight he hadn't gotten me before," Sonnanstine said. "But he's one of the best hit­ters in baseball." 
Crawford got the Rays to 3-1 on a sacrifice fly in the third. Eric Hinske hit a run-scoring double one inning later. 

"I love the fight," Rays man­ager Joe Maddon said. "We've got to stop making the mental mistakes that prevent us from winning games like tonight." 
Tigers 11, Twins 9 
Finally, the Detroit Tigers lived up to the hype at the plate. 
Ivan Rodriguez hit a tying two-run triple in a six-run eighth inning then scored the go-ahead run on a sacrifice fly to lift the high-priced Tigers to an 11-9 victory over the Minnesota Twins on Monday night for their first win at home. 
"That's what everybody expected from this lineup," said Carlos Guillen, who drove in three of Detroit's 10 runs in the sixth and eighth innings. "But we have to be more con­sistent because it's a long sea­son." 
The Tigers, whose payroll is nearly $139 million and trails only the New York Ya·nkees, won for the first time in seven games at home and improved to 3-10 overall. 
They scored a season-high in runs and had a season-high 16 hits. 
"You saw a little of what the Tigers can do when you don't make pitches," Minnesota manager Ron Gardenhire said. "We couldn't stop them." 
Detroit still has the worst record in baseball, but that didn't stunt its feel-good night. 
Rodriguez pumped his right fist and screamed with joy when he hit his clutch triple and clenched his throwing hand again as he slid home just ahead of the tag on Jacque Jones' liner to left. 
The Tigers sold 32,000 tick­ets on the crisp, cool night and many fans booed early and often as errors and weak at-bats helped Minnesota take a 9-4 lead after hitting in the seventh. 
But for the several thousand supporters that stuck around, they had a chance to cheer wildly as Detroit won for the first time after trailing follow­ing the sixth, seventh or eighth inning. 
Justin Morneau -one of four Twins to drive in two runs -hit a two-run single to help the Twins score four in the seventh to take a five-run lead. 
It wasn't enough. 

Rodriguez hit a solo homer in the home half off right fielder Denard Span's glove. 
In the eighth, Magglio Ordonez hit an RBI double and Guillen had an RBI single before Rodriguez hit his two­run triple. 
"The most glaring point of the game was the fact that a club was 2-10, gets within one then gives up four and battles like they did," Detroit manag­er Jim Leyland said. "I think that says a lot about this team. 
~rhe (Un)holyTrinity:
_EntolLrage, Media a11d Men 
Featuring: A screening of the Entourage episode "Three's Company" 
Master of Ceremonies: Matt Storin -Former Editor of the Boston Globe and Adjunct Professor of American Studies and Journalism 
Faculty and Student Panel: Dr. Eileen Botting-Director, Gender Studies Program Dr. Agustin Fuentes-Associate Professor of Anthropology Dr. Cathy Kaveny-Professor of Law and Theology Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S.C.-Vice President of Student Affairs Maggie Moliter-First Year Studies Michael Redding-Political Science and Philosophy major 
Jiou' dfJ JneJtrelate to e£1cl1 ofl1er? u'01ne1l to eac·h other? IIo11.., are intimate relation.tthliJlJ }JoJ•fraged po.~ifil,e(lJ? negati~Je(lJ? Jf/'11£Lf.fiJIWI.~ U.~ £1.~ /Hell? ll'OJ'nen? 
JJ ,., I . -1r: .,., t ,.,., . .-1· l" ..,., 11 -~-.· • • •.,. 11 
i il£1. IT(1 dtenlY!.~ tile l~ons ,l.,ll~t'lon q1 rna.~l~lt ,lJllt!J· •1 ern.nu1Utl/· 
ediu~sday., April16 7:00pm· DeBartolo 101 
Sponsored by: Offic·= of the President, Gender Relations Center, Men Against Violence, Student Government, Gender Studies Program, Department of Anthropology, Department of Sociology, Department ofTheology, Feminist Voice, Identity Project of Notre Dame, Pro ressive Student Alliance 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 15, 2008 
NCAA FooTBALL 
McFadden ready for life in the pros 
Associated Press 
LITTLE HOCK, Ark. -From the outside, it looks like an ordi­nary home. A small one-story building on a side strnet near the Arkansa'> State Fair Grounds. 
It's a bright, sunny Saturday in this low-inconw community. The neighborhood is quiet. 
Step inside the front door, and enter a diflimmt world. 
This is the world of Darren MeFaddnn -or morn speeilically, thn world of Mini Muhammad. From a eomfortablr. seal in her eramped living room, she tells the story of hnr superstar son -the biggest name in this year's NFL draft. 
"We're all having fun. We're all happy for I>arn~n. lie done brought a little bit of excitement," Muhammad says. "We normally have excitement. but he's brought some good exdtmnent." 
Muhammad's lifi.~ has had morn than iL'i sham of bad excitement. She speaks openly of her past drug usn -and the obstacles McFadden facnd hrrowing up sur­rounded by gang violence. In a eouple weeks, though, McFadden will realize a football player's dnmm. The star running back out of Arkansas is expected to be one of the first players drafted. 
Muhammad plans to be there in New York when that happens, but right now she's seated across from a fancy television set. That, her seat and a couple small couches are about all that can lit in the living room. On the wall behind her is a picture of McFadden in action, a couple defensive players cha'iing in futili­
ty. 
"Darren is in Tampa," she says. "He was just in Boston -I keep getting them mixed up. He was just in Boston Tuesday, and he was somewhere else Friday." 
In a couple weeks, McFadden will know where he'll start his pro earner. Then he'll sign his first pro contract. 
"Everybody probably thinks that we're like, 'Oh, we're going to buy this, we're going to buy this.' That has not even occurred to us," Muhammad says. "We're eoneentrating on Darren. We want him to get out there and be the best in what he's doing out there.... Heally, it hasn't even dawned on us about Darren going to the draft. It won't dawn on me until I'm there at the thing." 
Mike Conley Sr., who represents McFadden, stands outside the house a short while later. Muhammad wants the agent around when she's talking about her son, but Conley is mostly an observer as the running back's talkative mother tells the family's story. 
"Mini tells you like it is," Conley says. "There's no seripts, no cen­soring." 
Conley is familiar with the changes families face as they pre­pare f()r the financial benefits of athletic stardom. 
"Thny really don't have a eon­ceptual idea of the money Darren can make, which is not a bad thing," Conley says. "To be honest with you, none of us would, com­ing fro';? most of our back­grounds. 
McFadden's family is used to the limelight. 
MLB 

Manny's blast gives Red Sox vvin 
Associated Press 

CLEVELAND Manny Ramirez wasn't sure if Indians closer Joe Borowski threw him a fastball or a changeup. 
He was certain of one thing, however. "It was right there," he said. 
Then, it was over there. 
Hamirez hit a two-run homer -No. 493 of his career -and Boston, down one entering the ninth inning, rallied for three runs against Borowski for a 6-4 win Monday night over Cleveland in a stunning rerun of last Oetober's AL championship series. 
Ramirez's shot to left off Borowski (0-2) was just the latest Red Sox eomeback against the Indians. Last fall, Boston rallied from a 3-1 ALCS deficit to beat Cleveland and advance to the World Series. The stakes weren't nearly as high this time, but the Hed Sox came through again. 
And so did Hamirez, who hit his 132nd career home run at Progressive Field, which was known as Jacobs Field during the eight-plus seasons he played in Cleveland. 
"Manny took such a pretty swing," Red Sox manager Terry Francona said. 
With the Indians leading 4­3, Borowski, whose every appearance is an adventure, came in to try to dose it out. 
But the right-hander, who led the AL with 45 saves in 2007, gave up a leadoff dou­ble in the ninth to Julio Lugo, snapping the shortstop's 0­for-16 slump. Coco Crisp sac­rificed on a bang-bang play at first and Dustin Pedroia fol­lowed with a sacrifice fly to deep left, searing Lugo to tie it 4-all. 

With the Indians shifted to the right, David Ortiz dropped a bloop single into left -his second hit. Hamirez then belted Borowski's first pitch into the left-field seats, a place he frequently visited with long balls while a mem­ber of the Indians. 
The homer -his 16th against his former team ­tied the long-haired hitting machine with Hall of Farner Lou Gehrig and Fred McGriff for 24th on the career list. 
Borowski has blown two 

NBA 
Struggling Spurs edge out Sacra111ento 101-98 
Associared Press 
SACHAMENTO, Calif. Heading into the playoffs hop­ing to defend their title, the San Antonio Spurs will clearly need to step up their game if they want to repeat. 
Tony Parker tied his season high with 32 points and added 11 assists as the struggling Spurs managed to pull out a 101-98 vietory Monday night against the depleted Sacramento Kings. 
The victory, coupled with Houston's loss to Utah, put the Spurs in position to clinch third place in the eonference for a seeond straight season. The Spurs, who dP.feated Cleveland in the NBA finals a year ago, play Utah at home Wednesday to conelude the regular season. 
San Antonio has lost three of its last six games, including a humbling 90-64 defeat on April 4 in Utah. The Spurs lost to the Lakers by 21 points on Sunday and were embarrassed last week in a 96-79 loss at home to Phoenix. 
"It's been the way we have lost lately, games have been getting away from us," Spurs reserve forward lme Udoka said. "We've gone through some scoring droughts, so it was good to get over 100 points tonight." 
Still, the victory left no one in the Spurs' locker room giddy. Tim Dunean left for the team bus almost immediately after the game and didn't talk to the media, and Spurs coaeh Gregg Popovieh was brief in his eom­ments, talking about the Kings and not his team. 
"We had a tough loss against the Lakers, so we needed this," said Parker, who scored eight points in the fourth quarter, when the Spurs were outscored 22-18. "We got Utah next. The West is so hard that we need to get as high a seed as possible." 
Trailing by four points in the closing minute, John Salmons scored inside and was hacked by Tim Duncan, who fouled out. Salmons made the free throw, pulling the Kings to 99-98 with 
14.3 seconds left. 
Then Michael Finley made two free throws with 11.8 sec­onds left. Looking to send the game into overtime, both Franeisco Garcia and Quincy Douby missed 3-point attempts and San Antonio held on. 
"I thought Francisco got fouled at the end there. A lot of times the refs just not going to give you that," said Kings coach Heggie Theus, who was playing without three starters. 
saves in a row, and is so eon­eerned about a loss in veloci­ty that he's going to have his arm examined. 
''I'm grasping at straws. I think we're going to get it checked. Maybe it's nothing, maybe it is. It's driving me crazy, too," he said. 
Mike Timlin (1-1) pitched a perfect eighth and Jonathan Papelbon worked the ninth for his fifth save. But Boston middle reliever Julian Tavarez was the unsung star. He worked out of a bases­loaded jam in the fifth by striking out Ryan Garko and Jason Michaels to keep the Red Sox down 4-1. 
"Tavarez gave us a chance," Francona said. "That's not going to happen all the time." 
• 


Brand new, furnished townhomes for lease for Fall Semester '08 
Hurry. You won't want to miss oneof the limited number of Irish CrO§Sings Towlfunes availalJie for lease this fall. Just two blocks east ofthe NO athletic fields. offWilis Street. these tfwee aid four..bedrocm townhomes come furnished, indtdng a 42 • flat panel tmv. 
Geared for today's rollege student,. and larger than an apartment. these IOWitlomes indudea ful, private bath in eadl bedroom, Each t.owmome featwes; 
• 42 • flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 
• Furnished bedrocms with ook-in desk, ful-size bed, drf!§SE!f, doset and full bath 
• 
free Internet & cable 


• 
Separate laundry room with washer &dryer 

• 
large dec.k 


• 
Two-car attathed garage, plus three additional parking~ 

• 
fully-equipped kikhen with separate pantry 

• 
Alarm system on front and garage eo1tance doors 


Strict rovenants enforced, 

lease today and move into )'Ota' brand new townt.ome fOJ Fatl Semester 2008. Call DI<W! at 574.261.3338 or email us at dianeOiristlaos.sings..wrn. 
-· 
Tuesday, Aprill5, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
BookstoJre 
continued from page 24 
was able to work the ins1de and score solid baskets in the post. 
One reason for the solid inside game was the play of Winiarski, who nailed clutch jumpers and acrobatic shots. 
"Although he looks like Baloo, I still love him," said Wakim, ref­erencing the bear from Disney's classic "The Jungle Book. ' 
Blue Steel's Goliath was con­sistently out of position a.t both ends of the court, campin:~ out in the high post on defense and waited from beyond the arch offensively. 
Wakim'ole took chargE of the baseline in the second half, using it for drives and baseline~ to pull away late. 
Defensively, Wakim'o.e took advantage of sloppy passing and ill-advised drives to force turnovers throughout the game. Guard Pat Riebel alone a~count­ed for double-digit steals. 
Wakim'ole -comprised entirely of Dillon residents ­will take on Nunc Dominitus, a team· comprised of mostly priests, including former Dillon assistant rector Fr. Pete McCormick. 
"We're not worried. God does­n't take sides," Wakim said. "We're all His children." 
No. 3 Castle Point 21, Western Conference 19 
In one of the best game:> of the tournament so far, Castle Point, the third ranked team in the tournament and defending champion, pulled out a close vic­tory against the determined Western Conference. 
The game was close through­out, but Castle Point was able to pull it out in the end, despite a valiant comeback attemp·1 head­lined by Western Conference freshman Grayson Petersen­Pitts, who made two field goals to bring it within two points before Castle Point was a.ble to put the game away, and come out with a win. 
Castle Point was lead by junior Hichard Jackson who had 6 points in the first half alone to propel his team to an early 11-9 lead. 
The defense of the \\!estern Conference kept them in it, and they were led on that end by freshman Buchi Offodile who had four blocks to keep his team in the game. 
In the end, turnovers prevent­ed the Western Coilferenc e from pulling off the upset, a.nd let Castle Point keep their dnams of repeating as tournament cham­pions alive. 
What was perhaps most upset­ting for the Western Conlerence was the loss that ended their seniors' hopes for a Boc·kstore crown. 
"It is tough for the seniors to go out with a loss, but thi:; game exemplified what Bookstore Basketball is all a bout." 
Your~Stun 
over th1e Sammerl 
Call or stop on by & re54!rve today! 
866-232-:!169 

6482 Brick Road,Soutl1 Bend Located at Cleveland Rd.& US 20 Bypas!, 7 minutes from campus 

Petersen-Fitts said. 
No. 1 Kramer Properties 21, Clients No. 10-14 5 
Clients No. 10-14 lost a hard­fought matchup to top-seeded Kramer Properties last night in front of several dozen rabid fans at the Bookstore Courts. 
"I wetted two three balls," leading scorer Tae Andrews said in a post-game interview. "We pretty much all bought into the team concept. We all drank the Kool-Aid before the game, if you know what I mean." 
Andrews went 2-6 from the field, including a missed dunk and two would-be three-point­ers. However, due to Bookstore Rules, the long jumpers only counted for a pair of points. 
Andrews' teammate Chris McGrady contributed another basket en route to the loss. "I knew that taking it to the basket wouldn't work against the taller defenders and I was too far away to dunk," McGrady said, "So while I was in transition I pulled up and made it splish­splash. What can I say? My jumpshot smells like pancakes." 
Team captain Sean McGarvey contributed another would-be three-pointer. "I hit my shot early on," he said, "and then they switched up to six foot two Chris Devitt to block my shot." 
Teammate Matt Bold agreed that the Clients found themselves outmatched. "While we were athletically superior, they had the luck of the Irish on their side," he said of his opponents. Ballhandler Joe Hunde agreed that the Clients suffered from an off shooting night. "Our offense stank like a turtle cage," he said. 
A Bit Underrated 21, Discount Cash Row 18 
No. 27 A Bit Underrated 
proved their name was accurate last night as they defeated No. 18 Discount Cash Flow. 
Starting off the game with a 3­0 lead, A Bit Underrated showed their skills from the start. With strong passing and sharp shots, Discount Cash Flow couldn't keep up in the beginning. They tried calling out plays and taking multiple shots, few of which were making it into the basket or even on the boards. What the Cash Flow boys could do well in the first half was foul, which they did often in the start of the game. 
"It was harder than we expected," A Bit Underrated's captain David Pope-Davis said. "It was a great team effort, and everybody was hitting their shots." 
While Discount Cash Flow struggled getting the ball into the basket, A Bit Underrated had no trouble. Making shot after shot, they kept the ball moving up and down the bookstore court as they kept a three point lead for most of the first half. 
The baskets continued for the Underrated players against the feeble Cash Flow defense. Key to Underrated's lead was their con­stant rebounding. Discount Cash Flow struggled to box out the Underrated players, and towards the end of the half, stopped attempting to rebound altogether. 
At the half, A Bit Underrated led Discount Cash Flow 11-6, but the Cash Flow players weren't ready to give up entirely just yet. 
Discount Cash Flow started the second half off strong, scoring twice before A Bit Underrated had a chance to score once. They stepped up their defense as well, forcing the Underrated players to work harder for their shots. The game began to be one ofwho wanted to win more. 
Cash Flow tied the game at 15, but was unable to hold on for long. A Bit Underrated took back their lead, scoring four more points before Discount Cash Flow got another basket. However, the Underrated's lead soon was in jeopardy as the Cash Flow players moved the score to 19-18, Underrated. However, A Bit Underrated pulled out the win with two back-to-hack baskets, beating Discount Cash Flow 21-18. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu, Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu, Meaghan Veselik at mveselO1 @saintmarys.edu, Pete Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu 

C~ptain 
continued from page 24 
the No. 1 lacrosse high school in the nation. There, Kemp competed in lacrosse, hockey, and football, and lettered in all three sports. 
Upon graduation,. Kemp had a tough decision to make ­Notre Dame, Johns Hopkins, the University of Maryland, Georgetown and Loyola University all served as quali­ty education and lacrosse options for the nationally recruited goaltender. 
"Since as long as I can remember, a family friend always told me that I would be a great fit at Notre Dame," Kemp said. "He said I would fit in academically, athletical­ly, and socially. That immedi­ately got me interested in the school." 
Kemp also said that he chose Notre Dame because of the sincerity and integrity of the coaching staff and aca­demic support staff. 
As a finance major graduat­ing in May, Kemp faces anoth­er crucial decision point in his life. Despite several job offers, Kemp remains undecided about his career. 
"I have had several offers for a job next year but have not accepted one yet. would have had to relocate if I were to accept any of the offers and I am attempting to stay in the DC area," he said. "I also do plan to continue playing lacrosse. The MLL is a great opportunity that I believe I will be lucky enough to be granted." 
The Major Lacrosse league began play in 2001. There are now 10 teams nationwide-six of which are located in the east coast area. 
As for now, Kemp remains focused on the rest of the sea­son. The Irish hope to per­form well enough in the remainder of their games this year to earn a bid into NCAA Tournament. 
"We expect to win the national championship, it is a mindset that we have taken on," Kemp said. "We know that we are going to have to work hard for it and a cham­pionship won't be handed to us, yet we as a team believe that a national championship is a realistic goal." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
NHL 
Wild top Avalanche on Bouchard's clutch goal 
Associated Press 
DENVER -The Minnesota Wild and Colorado Avalanche are so evenly matched that nei­ther team can win in regulation and what keeps separating them in overtime is a funny bounce. 
Pierre-Marc Bouchard took the pass from Brian Rolston from behind the net and sent it past Jose Theodore 11:58 into overtime to give the Wild a 3-2 win over the Avalanche on Monday night. . 
It was the third straight over­time game in this first-round series, with the Wild winning two of them. 
Going back to 2003, the teams have played five straight over­time games in the playoffs, all of which ended in 3-2 scores. 
The Wild, which snapped a five-game road losing streak in the playoffs, were outshot 40-30 in regulation but controlled the extra period with most of the action in the Colorado zone, out­shooting the Avalanche 11-7. 
· Theodore made great save after great save and the Avs caught all kinds of breaks. But just like in the two games that the teams split at the Xcel Energy Center, when the game­winners glanced off skates, there was a flukey ending to this one. It looked like there was going to be an icing call but the puck took a strange carom off the backboards and bounced off the side of the net. Rolston beat Avs defenseman Jeff Finger to it, then passed it into the slot for Bouchard's first career playoff game-winner. "It was an icing call, I guess it took a weird bounce and our defenseman went the wrong way so they were able to get the puck," Theodore said. "Then they attack right away with a couple of guys. It was more of a bad bounce then anything." Rolston said he was "a little 
surprised myself, it came out and I had about two or three guys to give the puck to." 
In these games, between these teams, the go-figure finishes have been the norm. 
"We liked the fact it was going to be icing," Colorado coach Joel Quenneville said. "It took a funny hop." 
"We were fortunate on the last goal," Wild coach Jacques Lemaire said. "I guess he thought there was an icing. The puck never got across the other side of the net, so Ralston could get it and make that play to Bouchard. It's strange the way it happened, but sometimes you need a break to win, and we got it." 
Still, the Avs were kicking themselves for getting outplayed in overtime again. 
"What I expect of myself is to make big saves, especially in overtime. Then again, anything can happen, and we saw anoth­er kind of weird bounce," Theodore said. "That's pretty much how the series has been played so far. We've got to turn the page and bounce back." 
The teams return Tuesday night for Game 4, a rare back­to-hack in the playoffs that was necessitated by the NBA's Denver Nuggets having the court Wednesday night for their regular-season finale. 
That could hinder Avs left wing Peter Forsberg, who's still dealing with a balky ankle and sore groin after rushing his return to the ice following his reunion with the Avalanche at the trade deadline. 
Forsberg, 34, has been roughed up in this series, too, getting held and grabbed and thrown to the ice as he was in the second period, when Sean Hill wrapped him up for a take­down that resulted in a match­ing minor. 
Of equal concern for the Avalanche is their third-period letdowns, including Theodore's. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April15, 2008 
Wildcats 
continued from page 24 
The pitching staff will have to be at its best against a Wildcat offense led by junior shortstop Tammy Williams. Williams is leading the nation with an astounding .525 aver­age on tiHl season to go along with seven home runs and 26 HBl. 
The Irish have gotten most of their offense on the season from senior second baseman Katie Laing. Laing is hitting .361 on the year with six home runs and 41 RBI. 
Notre Dame will try to become the first team to beat Northwestern in Evanston this year, where the Wildcats are undefeated. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles to battle Bethel in conference rnatch 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Wrirer 
Saint Mary's will take on the Bethel College today in a cross­town rivalry match for their sec­ond of four home matches in a row. 
The Bolles (6-9, 2-3 MIM) are coming off a conference win against Tri-State this Saturday where they beat the Thunder 8-1. The Lady Pilots have played two matches since opening their spring season, going 1-1 and moving their ovnrall record to 10­
4. 
Against Tri-State Saturday the Belles managed to show the con­sistrmcy they have been lacking this season. Winning two of the thmo doubles and sweeping the singhls, Saint Mary's managed to grab the sncond conference win tlwy had bonn looking for sincn beating Olivet IJ-0 on April I . 
"Tri-State was a good win for us. and l think we can got a lilw mom in a row this week," sopho­more co-captain Usa Hubino said. 
tain Camille Gebert and freshman Jillian Hurley, who won their sev­enth match this season with an 8­1 win over Tri-State's Amanda Waidely and Dana Dunham. 
The No. 2 duo of Rubino and freshman Betsy Reed fought back against Kara Kauffman and Amanda Steiner after struggling early in the match, but were unable to make a full recovery, losing 8-5. Freshmen Franca Peluso and Jessica Kosinski defeated Stephanie Steiner and Jen Wall 8-5 to win the doubles division for the Belles. 
In singles, Saint Mary's success continued with each mateh. No. 1 singles Gebert defeated her oppo­nent 6-1, 6-1 for her seventh win this spring. Hurley, at the No. 2 spot, earried on her strong season with thirteenth win, improving her record to 13-2 on the year. 
The Belles will play the Lady Pilots at 4:00" this afternoon at Saint Mary's for the Belles' third home match this season. 
"I hope our team stays healthy and foeused," Gebert said. "There's a lot of tennis left, and a 
NBA 

Boozer, Jazz defeat Rockets 
Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY -The Utah Jazz avenged losing their home opener by running away with the finale and putting them­selves in position for home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs. 
The Jazz beat Houston 105-96 on Monday, pulling even with the Rockets in the muddled Western Conference standings with one game to go in the regu­lar season. 
Houston was the first team to visit Utah during the regular season and also the last. The Rockets won here Nov. 1, spoil­ing Utah's home opener, but the Jazz ended up clinching the sea­son series 2-1 by winning Monday. The Jazz went 37-4 at home, where they hope to be playing this weekend in the first round of the playoffs. 
"It changes every day, so we'll see what happens," said Carlos Boozer, who had 21 points and 11 rebounds in his 51st double­double of the season Monday. "The competition is phenomenal in the Western Conference." 
Both the Jazz and Rockel<> are 54-.27, but Utah would hold the tiebreaker if the records are still identical after Wednesday. Utah can clinch home-court advan­tage for at least the opening round with just one more win. Unfortunately for the Jazz, that game is in San Antonio, where Utah has lost 17 straight regu­lar-season games. 
"It's good to be in a prediea­ment where you hold your own destiny," said Utah's Honnie Brewer, who scored 12 fi)r Utah. "That's what I like. I don't like depending on other people." 


The Jazz and Rockets could end up meeting in the first round of the playoffs for the sec­ond straight year. Houston closes the regular season at home Wednesday against the Clippers. If the Rockets win Wednesday and the Jazz lose to the Spurs, Houston would host the first two games of a series against Utah. 
The Jazz would prefer to make just one trip to Texas this week. 
"Somewhere along the line, we're going to have to learn how to win on the road some way," Utah coach Jerry Sloan said. 
Utah could tie San Antonio with a win on Wednesday and own the tiebreaker by winning three of four against the Spurs. 
The Rockets, who have lost two straight after winning five in a row, never recovered after Utah's 35-point second quarter. 
Mehmet Okur added 12 points and 13 rebounds and Deron Williams finished with 17 points and nine assists for the Jazz, who won for the sixth time in seven games and finished with their best home record sinee winning 38 games in 1996-97. 
Tracy McGrady and Luis Scola scon~d 22 each for Houston, which fell short with a late rally after trailing by 17 at the end of the third quarter. The Hockets madn six 3-pointnrs in the li)llrth quarter to make it eloser, but couldn't overeome Utah's huge lead. 
"We hopo to keep our momentum big chance for us to surprise going right up to the confnnlnce some teams." tournanwnt." 
Leading the doubles was the Contact Meaghan Veselik at No. I pair of sophomore eo-cap-mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Toledo 
continued from page 24 
horneruns to go with his .346 average and 23 HBl. However, the power comes with a priee -Sharpley leads all Notre Dame batters with 27 strikeouts, 12 morn than the next closest player. 
Leading the Hockets at the plate are junior third baseman Jake Onster and freshman right fiP!der Dan Sherwood. 
Onster lnads is tied for the team high with five homeruns and leads the squad in batting aver­age with a mark of .371 in addi­tion to his 21 HBI, good for sec­ond plaen. 
Sherwood is right behind his tnammate, hitting .370 with three homeruns and 11 RBI. 
Toledo's pitching has been its weak point so far this season, allowing an average of 11.1 hits per eontest to go with il<> 8.5 runs per game. In addition, Hockets opponents are batting a com­bined .314, making it tough for the offense to keep the squad in games. 
Following the contest, Notre Dame will travel to U.S. Cellular Field, home of the Chicago White Sox, to face Northern Illinois in a non-eonference game Wednesday. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 



Could you use $30,000 to attend graduate or professional school to help prepare for a career in public service? 
RISING JUNIORS (current sophomores) who 
• 
have extensive records of public and community servtce, 

• 
are committed to careers as "change agents" in government or other public service, and 

• 
have outstanding leadership potential and communication skills 


Come to an Information Session on the 
TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP 
Wednesday, April 16 at Spm 118 DeBartolo Hall 
Or visit \V\\1"\V. tnunan.gov and the 
Office of Undergraduate and Post-Baccalaureate Fellowships 
1OS O'Shaughnessy Hall fellows({/)nd.edu 
Tuesday, Aprill5, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 


SARAH MUSCARELLA & LIZ MURPHY 

ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


JJ&Mill~lE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
FALEY 
1 
rJ 

@2006 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
i;i~~l I I 
HEAlTH 

[X] In
www.jumble.com 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
$10,000! 
That's twice the estimate. I'm not paying 
WHAT HAPPE:NE:D WHE:N HE GOT THE: Bil-l-FOR THE: ROOF? 

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 


CROSSWORD 
Across 30 Throat condition It's full of holes 31 Parisian streets and traps 

32 Tiptor 5 Gastric juices, 
35 DrainHd of color e.g. 

38"Whal the 10 Remnant of a 
odds!" tattoo removal, 
39 Dum~s (on)
maybe 41 Guita:·ist's guitar

14 Zone 42 Succued in life
15 Herb popular in 44 It fills barrels
Indian food 45 Freshly

16 Staff note 46 Make believe
17 Glam rocker's accessory 48 Espy 
19 Jessica of 50 Like trees on a "Fantastic Four" prairio films 
52 Hoom 20 The "F" in the 
54 "Mr. risin"' equa!ion "F = 
(clas~.ic Doors rna" 

lyric) 21 Pat on the back, 
55 One always on as a baby 

the lookout for a 22 Sleigh deal 
23 Get up 57 Hotel room 25 Loathes posting 27 Usurer's victim 61 Wife :>f Osiris 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

62 Director's cry ... or a statement about 17-Across and 11-and 29­Down 
64 Longtime Yugoslav chief 65 Flood preventer 66 Surrounding glow 67 List ender 68 Play to the back of the audience 69 Longings 
Down 
Sailor's hook 2 Nabisco cookie 3 King who was 
the father of Cordelia 4 Moneybags types 5 Starting pitcher 6 Places to park 7 Saturate 8 New Look designer 9 Answer in anger 1 0 Overhead shots 
11 Transparent packaging material 
12 Color meaning "caution" on 13­Down 
13 See 12-Down 18 Guitar _ (hit video game 
series) 24 Oil-rich land 26 They're upliftinq 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Kevin Donovan 
27 Bummer 37 Former speaker 52 "Wonderful!" Gingrich 
53 Wedding band, 2002 39 "Exodus" author maybe 40 Long-gone bird 56 Polite way to 
28 Money since 
29 Taco alternative 43 Kind of can 
interrupt 30 Coal bed someone
45 Eroded 33 Extended family 58 loyal
47 Like caresses 59 Pull in
34 Stereotypical 49 Writer Pound tattoo 
50 Beat, biblically 60 Watering holes 36 Company V.I.P. 51 Take as a given 63 "Get it?" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learninq/xwords. 

~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, April 15, 2008 
page 24 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Four-year starter Ke111p stars, provides leadership in net 
As thn season rapidly comes said. "The camaraderie that Kemp has been a crucial in front of nearly 10,000 in 2nd grade. My older broth­to a elosn, snnior captain Joey we share can't be replaced." member of the Irish squad fans," he said. "The atmos­er played goalie so like Knmp ref'lnets on his experi­A two-time All-America hon­since his freshman year when phere was incredible. We any other younger brother I enel~ as a four-year starting oree, Kemp was named the he relieved senior goaltender won the game 9-7 and to get imitated my older brother," goaltnnder 2007 Great Western Lacrosse Stewart Crosland in Notre your first career victory Kemp said. "Lacrosse is very for thn Ellyn Michalak League player of the year. He Dame's narrow loss to against a team with such rich popular in Maryland, espe­Irish and currently ranks first in Notre Cornell. The Potomac, lacrosse tradition as North cially the area that., live in. 10 0 k s l'o r-Sports writer Dame program history in Maryland native appeared in Carolina is something I won't It is very common to see kids ward to thn career goals-against average all 11 games that season, and forget." throwing the ball in the front opportuni-and holds a .618 save per­with nine starts. Kemp was Kemp cites both his brother yard or shooting on a goal ties available in the future. centage and 26-11 overall named the Great Western C.J .. the 2002 GWLL player of after school." 
"My experinnc1~ with my record. This season Kemp's Lacrosse League rookie of the the year for Fairlield, and his After discovering his natural team has been grnat. Thorn effective goaltending skills year. hometown as strong inf'lu­ability for laerossc, Kemp is nothing like playing the have allowed his team to "My favorite Notre Dame ences on why he began to attended Georg1~town Prep, sport you love with forty-five maintain a 7-2 record and a memory would have to be my explore the sport. of your bnst frinnds," Knmp No.l1 national ranking. first start. We were playing "I started playirig lacrosse see CAPTAIN/page 21 
BASEBALL 
Rockets come to Eck to face streaking ND 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Wri rer 
Notre Dame's early season struggles seem like ag1~s ago. 
For the Irish (21-9-1, 10-2), poised pitching and streaking bats hav1~ made tlw differnnee. I leaded into today's game against Toledo (9-19, 3-6), the Irish arn making an imprnssive run near the midpoint of the snason. riding an night-game winning strnak to tlw top of the Big f\w;t standings. 
The Ho('ket-;, on the otlwr hand, arn hanging around the cellar in the West Division of tho Mid­Anwriean Conference. First pitch is set for 6:05 p.m. at Franek Eek Stadium. 
The Irish winning streak has bnnn lnd by sophomore outfielder A..l. Pollock and junior pitdwr David Phelps. Both players swept the Big East honors this past week earning player of the wnek and pitcher of the week, respec­tively. 
For Pollock, it marked the sec-

Ready for liftoff 
ond week in a row that he had taken the award for his recent play. In the live games this past week the outfielder hit an impres­sive .579 in addition to a pair of doubles and triples, a homen,m, five HBI and eight runs scornd. 
Pollock leads the Irish in batting average, hits, HBI, stolen bases, triples and multi-hit games thus far in the season. 
Fortunately for Notre Dame, the sophomore shook oil' his early season slump, in which he hit .176. Since then, he has erupted for 4 7 -of-105, helping spark the offensive production that has helped the Irish win 14 of their last 16. 
A-; well as his success from the plate, l>ollock has llashnd his tal­ents with his glove. During the live-game span, the sophomore recorded 10 out'i without commit­ting an error. 
Phelps picked up his award thanks to his solid efl'ort against the Wildcats Friday. In the 2-1 victory, the junior was one out away from his sixth complete run in the second inning, Phelps game of his career tallying eight didn't lose focus, inducing 12 strikeouts to go with only two groundball outs and five hits en walks and no earned runs. route to his fourth win of the sea­
After giving up an unearned son. 


In addition to Polloek's offensive prowess, senior outfielder Hoss Brezovsky has excelled with the bat, going .373 with 24 RBI and three homeruns. 
The power threat in the Irish lineup is junior Evan Sharpley who leads the squad with seven 
see TOLEDO/page 22 
NO SOFTBALL 
Irish travel to take on No. 14 Northwestern 
By SAM WERNER Sports Wri1cr 
he Irish travel to Evanston, Ill., tonight to take on No. 14 Northwestern in a challnnging break from Big East play. 
The Wildcats are currently second in the Big Tnn with a !J-1-eonfnrence record and a 2:l-1 0 mark overall. Notre Damn, meanwhile, is unranknd in either major poll,

'­
but are tied for third in its eonfornnee with a 7-3 Big East record. 
Both teams are playing their best coming into the matehup, with Northwestern having won 10 of its last 11 games 
and Notre Dame taking 10 of its last 12 tilts. 
A great deal of Notre Dame's success can be attrib­uted to junior pitcher Brittany Bargar. The right-hander sports a 20-7 record on the season to go along with a miniscule 0. 78 ERA. Bargar and freshman Jody Valdivia have shut down opposition bats this season, combining for all the Irish wins and striking out a total ol' 265 bat­ters on the year. In Notre Dame's last series against Hutgers, Bargar pitched a complete-game one-hitter for a 1-0 Irish win. 
see WILDCATS/page 22 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Wakim'ole edges Blue Steel 
Underdog uses defense to overcome height disadvantage, net upset win 
By JAY FITZPATRICK, 
MICHAEL BRYAN, 
MEAGHAN VESELIK, & 
PETE REISENAUER 
Sports Writers 
Wakim'ole took down No. 14 seed Blue Steel 21-16 in one of the few upsets in the round of 64. 
The game was never in doubt as Wakim'ole built a quiek lead and never let Blue Steel back in the game. 
Wakim'ole pulled out the win despite having a distinct height disadvantage. Blue Steel had a near 7 -footer who towered over the rest of the players. But dur­ing the second half, Wakim' ole used a swarming defense to shut down the colossus -and the rest of their opponents. 

"!Center Chad Krause] did a good job manning up the whole game," guard Pat Hichel said. 
In the second half, Krause made a courageous play, taking a charge from the gargantuan Blue Steel center. 
Even though Krause manned up against Blue Seel's center most of the game, forward Mark Witte blocked a layup attempt in the 11rst hall'. After the swat, Witte let out a primordial scream, energizing his team and the crowd. 
"I saw him coming, I lined up, and I jacked it," Witte said of the block. 
Point guard Michael Wakim had a different approach on the play. 
"[The block] gave us the stnmhrth to slay giant-;," he said. 
Blue Steel pieked up a lot of unnecessary fouls throughout the game, costing them points and possessions. In fact, the final shot of the game was a free throw made by forward Hyan Winiarski, who banked thf~ shot oil' the glass. 
"Hyan proved to all of South Bend that banks aro, in fact, open on Monday night-;," Hiehel said. 
Even with a leviathan on their opponents' roster, Wakim'ole 
see BOOKSTORE/page 21 





