
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 90 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19,2008 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Friends remember students' personalities 
University to celebrate memorial Mass for Law School student Timothy Aher, sophomore Connor McGrath 
By KAREN LANGLEY News Editor 
Friends on Monday remem­bered Timothy R. Aher, the second-year Notre Damfl Law School student who died Sunday in a London suburb. 
The University released Aher's name Monday morn­ing, a day after both Aher and sophomore Connor McGrath died in separato and unrelat­ed incidents. 
Aher, who was enrolled in the Law School's London Law Programme, died at his resi­dence in the town of Ilford. He lived there with another Law School student. 
The University did not release information about the circumstances of Aher's death. 
Aher, from Brookfield, Conn., had been in London since the beginning of the fall semester. 
Second-year law students Artie Merschat and Adam Zayed, both close friends of Aher, said he had spoken about studying in London since the beginning of their first year at the Law School. The program is open to all law students who apply, and it 
see AHER/page 4 

By KAREN LANGLEY and MARCELA BERRIOS News Writers 
Diabetes may have factored in Connor McGrath's death this weekend, police investigators said Monday. 
An autopsy was scheduled for Monday afternoon, but The Observer was unable to contact other officials in the St. Joseph County coroner's office. 
McGrath, a sophomore from Oklahoma City, died Sunday in Dillon Hall. He was 20 years old. 
McGrath died in the residence hall, where he spent the night with friends. He was a resident 
Students debate faculty hiring policy 
Senate holds town hall meeting; retention rate of Catholic professors on the decline 
By CLAIRE REISING News Writer 
Three students debated conflict­ing opinions on the importance of hiring and retaining Catholic fac­ulty at a town hall meeting con­vened by the Student Senate Monday. 
Senior Brian Boyd and sopho­more Kathleen Donahue argued in favor of increasing Catholic fac­ulty. but senior Amy Meyers cau­tioned of the negative conse­quences of preferential hiring. 
Student input has been lacking so far in the discussion about pref­erential hiring of Catholic faculty, said Carol Hendrickson, chair of the Student Senate Academic Affairs Committee. 
Boyd said about two-thirds of retiring professors are Catholic. If current trends continue, he said, the University will lose its Catholic majority of faculty for the first time in its history. 
He added that a lack of Catholic professors would quickly impact students' experiences and forma­tion at Notre Dame. In addition to being effective teachers, Boyd said, professors should be "models of lived faith" and should present some disciplines, especially humanities, from a Catholic per­spective. 
"We have to have people who we genuinely look up to, not just as scholars, but as people who know how to integrate their aca­demics with their faith life," Boyd said. 
see FACULTY/page 4 


Elllmy-winner Manheilll speaks at College 
"There were things that I wanted that no one was ever going to hand to me," she said. "In fact, people actively tried to keep them from me." 
Manheim has constantly faced pressure from the acting community because of her weight, she said. When she attended New York University for her master's of fine arts degree, she was told that she would have to lose weight or she would not be invited back for her final year at school. 
"I took a form of diet pills ­it was called Speed -and I lost . about 80 pounds over the next year," Manheim said. 
Even though she thought she should be helping others by joining service organizations like the Peace Corps, she said she could make a social contri­bution through the arts by being a role model for younger 
see ACTRESS/page 4 


By LIZ HARTER Assistant News Editor 
Emmy-winning actress and best-selling author Camryn Manheim urged an audience at Saint Mary's to stop living pas­sively Monday night. 
Her talk, entitled "Breaking the Rules: Don't Take 'No' for an Answer," brought together students, faculty and members of the South Bend community in the Little Theater on cam­pus. 
"You have to make [life) hap­pen for you," said Manheim, who starred as Ellenor Frutt on the former ABC series "The Practice." "All my life, I had been waiting for my life to begin as though my life were way up in front of me, and I would eventually arrive at it." 
Manheim said her life would have been much different had she not taken charge of it. 
of Siegfried Hall this semester but had lived in Dillon during his freshman year and had attended the University of Central Oklahoma this past fall. 
Friends discovered his body at approximately 1:40 p.m., University officials said Monday. A South Bend Fire Department ambulance responded at 1:53 p.m., a spokesperson from the fire department said. 
Father Peter McCormick, the rector of Keough Hall and for­mer assistant rector in Dillon, called McGrath a "very person­able, very social young man." 
"If you were to say one thing 
see MCGRATH/page 4 
•

CCAC IS finally undervvay 
Group will hold its inaugural meeting 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
The Community Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC), which was created more than five months ago as a forum for city and college represen­tatives to discuss community relations, will meet for the first time Wednesday. 
"While there's not an agen­da at this moment, I'm antici­pating that it's going to be more of a meet-and-greet for everyone that's involved so that we can establish our agenda for CCAC as a commit­tee in the sense of what issues it is going to tackle," student body president Liz Brown said. 
The coalition was originally formed in late September after South Bend Common Council members decided not to implement regulations requiring residents to pre­register large gatherings with the city. 
The ordinance, which Council members said was in response to raucous student partying ofT campus, eventu­ally passed with rules to require party permits that could be enacted in the future -an option the Council could pursue if it chooses. 
In the meantime, however, the ordinance also laid out a plan for the CCAC, desig11ed to increase dialogue about prob­lems between South Bend res­idents and students off cam­pus. 
see 0 RDINANCE/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Of the things I've lost 
Thoro is an infamous bumpor stickor that reads, "Of all the things I've lost, I miss my mind the most." 
Well, in my case, Laura Myers
that's not 

true. I miss my flash .)'ports H1re Editor drive the most. 
Since I first came to Notre Dame 
this fall. I have lost many things. 
Some have been valuable, some 
trivial. 

At first, I thought this was God's 
way of tolling me to depend less on 
material possessions. If that were 
true, though, why would lie cause 
me to lose my theology course 
reader'? (Which, at $86, set me 

back a few material possessions by 
itself-but that's the topic of a dif­
fnrnnt column.) 

What sin was I committing that 
caused mn to lose my Downy 

Wrinkle Helease Spray? I know I'm 
supposed to give to the poor, but an 
unintentional donation of my Social 
Seeurity Card'? 

I soon discovnred, via Blogspot 
quiz, that being a loser is just my 
personality. I didn't like how that 
sounded. though, so I elected not to 
put the result on MySpaee. Instead, 
I moved on in the Blogspot circuit 
to discover that-of all the 

Starbueks drinks-I am a caramel 
Jirappueeino. 
My next guess was that losing 

things was my way of discovering 
how gn~at other students really 

are.' Al'tnr losing my II> card (the 
first timn). the girl who found it e­
mailed me. When I lost my cell 
phone (the first timd, the girl 
eallnd my mom and rnspond<HI to 
my roommate's text. When I lost my 
hys (only once, thankl'ully). I found 
tlwrn safely nestled in tho corner of 
Debartolo's lost and found shell'. I 
am etnrnally grateful to every per­
son who has found something of' 
mine and r11turrwd it to me. 
Since then. I have become 

increasingly aware of others' pos­
sessions. I guess I have made it my 
personal mission to make sure that 
no other person has to spend an 
hour walking around Flanner and 
Grace Halls with a flashlight at 1 
a.m. trying to find his or her cell phone. I hope that 11veryone read­ing this feels the same way, because, baby, it's cold outside. 
So if you find an object that looks like something someone might need, please do what you can to help. If it's a cell phone, you can eall and have a nice ehat with some random parents. If it has a name on it, you ean reach out and make a new Faeebook friend. If nothing else, you can at least l'ind the lost and found location of the building you're in and drop ofT the objeet for some lucky loser to find. UnlflSS you l'ind a 1c;B Sandisk Cruzer f'lash drive; a fuzzy pink, brown, tan and white sear!'; a pair of gray and white gym shorts; or my[[) eard. You can bring those to me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsert1er. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2f.sllnd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a proti:ssional publication and strives li:>r the highest standard' of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, rccogni11: that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact tts at 631-4541 so we can corrt"Ct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 19, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT NOTRE DAME 'INDUSTRY' SHOULD GO ON STRIKE? 






Alex Riney  Jonah Baustista  Paul Leuck  Laura Kirchner  Dorian Mirchandani  
freshman Alumni  junior offcampus  sophomore O'Neill  junior Welsh Family  junior Keough  
"The teaching industry at Notre Dame should go on  "Not the canned cheese ..industry.  ''The recycling industry."  "Probably all of Notre Dame should go on ..strike.  "The Question ofthe Day."  

strike. ,, 


BRITT BURGESONfThe Observer . 
Among the residents of McGlinn Hall section 4A is a tropical fish named '~Moaning Myrtle." Du Lac: A Guide to Student Life states that students may not keep pets -but non-carnivorous fish in aquariums of less than 30 gallons are allowed. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 

Television writer Jeffrey Stepakol'f will deliver a lec­ture entitled "The Rise of the Writer in Hollywood" today at 7 p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Free tickets are available by call­ing the !WAC Ticket Office. 
As part of' the f'ircside ehat series "Telling HEHstory," theology professor Catherine Hilkert will speak Wednesday at noon in the Coleman-Morse Center lounge. 
The men's basketball team will play against No. 22 Pittsburgh Thursday at 7 
p.m. in the Joyce Center. 

As part of the Ten Years Hence lecture series, profes­sor Karen Hunt Ahmed from the department of finance at DePaul University will speak at 10:40 a.m. Friday in tlw Jordan Auditorium of tho Mendoza College of Business. 
There will be Stations of the Cross Friday at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 
The 50th Annual Collegiate Jazz Festival will begin Friday at 7 p.m. with a con­cert featuring at least four different bands. The festival will conclude Saturday with an afternoon concert at 1 
p.m. and an evening concert at 7 p.m. All events will be in Washington Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY  SATURDAY  
~?J}~ p_ :;j ~~(/-,..J HIGH 40 LOW 23  ~~~ e~:J HIGH 37 LOW 21  
Atlanta 54 I 34 Boston 41 I 30 Chicago 17 I 4 Denver 53 I 26 Houston 70 I 40 Los Angeles 62 I 51 Minneapolis 9 I 6 New York 40 I 33 Philadelphia 43 I 31 Phoenix 73 I 50 Seattle 50 I 38 St. Louis 34 I 13 Tampa 70 I 54 Washington 43 I 35 


Cat flees fire, ends up 240 miles away 
ALBUQUEHQUE, N.M.­A cat that fled a house fire is back home in Albuquerque, N.M., after turning up some 240 miles away. The black and white eat named Miko dis­appeared in December, on the night of the fire. 
About two weeks ago, Miko's owner got a call from an animal shelter in Pueblo, Colo., saying her cat was safe. 
Officials at the shelter speculate that the cat, try­ing to keep warm, hopped a tractor-trailer and rode it to Colorado. 
When they found her, her collar was missing. But shelter officials scanned the microchip in her neck and carne up with her owner's name. 
No sweets for New York City's jailed population 
NEW YOHK -Spending time behind bars in New York City might turn out to be good for your health. 
The overhauled menu at the city's jails includes no sweets, no butter and only skim milk. The Department of Corrections wants healthy alternatives 
to traditional jailhouse grub. 
A breakfast might include fresh fruit, whole wheat bread and wheat flakes. A sample dinner: pepper steak, riee and steamed carrots. 
"These people are in our custody, and they don't get to make their own choices," said Department of Correction Commissioner Martin Horn. "We have a moral obligation to make sound choices for them." 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
D:: 1.&.1 
:J: 
-~lS!fl
!ct 
1.&.1 
~ ~
3: 
...... 
~~ 
<C 

~(\(r1 
~~$
' lAJ 
(.) 
0 

HIGH 18 HIGH 12 HIGH 20 HIGH 25
.... 

LOW 12 LOW 8 LOW 12 LOW 20 
Tuesday, February 19, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Rentals removed from Huddle Mart 
By KATE McCLELLAND 
News Writer 
The Huddle Mart returned the DVDs formerly available for rent to the student government over winter break, Huddle general manager Jim LaBella said, a move that has surprised students attempting to rent movies. 
"I actually noticed about a week and half ago when my friends and I tried to rent a movie and we were told that they were no longer avail­able." sophomore Matt Hire said. 
Sophomore Gail Cech had a simi­lar experience. 
"I realized that the DVDs were gone a couple of weeks ago when the new stands of Valentine's Day candy were set up in their place," Cech said. 
Student body president-elect Bob Reish took note of the missing DVDs and decided to make free DVD rentals through student govern­ment a part of hi<> platform. 
"I saw offering free DVDs as an awesome opportunity to do some­thing great for the student body, as well as providing a way to get stu­dents to the second floor of LaFortune by renting them from the student government office," Reish said. 
He said he hopes to have the free DVD rental system up and running at the beginning of next school year. 
The student government, Reish said, owns the DVDs because 2004­05 student body president Adam Istvan wanted DVD rentals in the Huddle. The DVDs became avail­able in 2004. 
LaBella said the DVDs were no longer a profitable venture for the Huddle. 
"We ended up taking them out because interest has gone down since new cable television options became available in the dorms and students began using Netflix," he said. 
The decline in rentals was steep -before other rental options became prevalent among students, the Huddle rented about 200 DVDs a week, but by the end of the fall semester rentals were down to only 1 0 to 20 per week. 
"The DVDs weren't worthwhile compared to the space we were dedicating to them," LaBella said. "Since we have such limited space, . every last bit of square footage is important." 
Now that the space has been made available, the Huddle plans to institute some big changes. 
"We are interested in replacing the DVD section with a selection of health foods," LaBella said. "I have been talking to a distributor, and we will begin experimenting with the sale of different products. 
"We especially want to include gluten-free products, because the availability of gluten-free items has become a major concern for some students on campus. If the health foods don't work out, we will try something else." 
Contact Kate McClelland at mmcclell@nd.edu 
Profs discuss Baptists, Catholics 
Christian 'Exchange' compares Catholicism and Protestantism 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
A Baptist and a Catholic came together Monday night to talk about the differences between their two faiths ­and far from a dispute, their meeting resulted in an intel­lectual discussion that hoped to encourage further conversations between the denominations. 
Lawrence Cunningham, a Catholic in the theology department, argued that the theological gap between Catholics and Evangelical Protestants has narrowed since the Second Vatican Council, from 1962-65. 
Cunningham's comments came in a discussion with Mark Noll, a Baptist in the history department, as part of the Catholic-Protestant Exchange. 
Noll agreed that the two faiths are not so different ­because believers are simi­larly called to do the work of God. 
"[And] all who trust in God are praying for salvation," Noll said, reminding the audience of the similar goal both Protestants and Catholics have. 
Cunningham began the event by discussing the term "Protestant" and current misunderstandings about the denomination. 
"Protestant is a very vague term," he said. "There are 22 different types of Baptists in this country alone." 
Cunningham then said one of the main differences he sees between the two faiths is that Protestantism is highly "congregational­ized," placing a great deal of importance on the local church community. This stands in contrast, he said, to the highly institutional­ized Catholic Church, which places the most authority on the papacy in Rome. 
Noll expanded on Cunningham's notion of the Catholic institution. 
"In the Roman Catholic Church, the Church makes the Christians. For Protestants, Christians make the Church," Noll said. 
Cunningham described Protestantism as more of "a priesthood of believers," whereas Catholicism is structured in a more hierar­chal way. 
But ever since the Second Vatican Council in the 1960s -which helped to educate non-Catholics about Catholicism -understand­ings have changed. 
"Protestants were able to learn from Catholics about leadership," he said. 
Nonetheless, Cunningham and Noll said they didn't think having different Christian denominations is a bad thing. 
Cunningham said he wouldn't recommend having one big "super-church." Denominationalism, he said, exists because people have individual needs and prefer­ences when it comes to pick­ing out a religion. 
"In the Catholic Church, however, expression of faith is in the devotional," Cunningham said. 
The event also explored other tensions between the faiths, including over role of Mary. 
Brett Perkins, director of student resources at Campus Ministry, described the event as a follow-up to the Protestant-Catholic prayer service that Campus Ministry held at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on Jan. 23. 
Senior Everett Chu, presi­dent of Baptist Collegiate Ministry (BCM). began the event with a prayer. 
Timothy Matovina, the theology professor who moderated the discussion, closed the event with a prayer advocating under­standing and unity between all faiths. 
Campus Ministry and BCM co-sponsored the event. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 


Looking for solid business and accounting experience to put on your resume? 
The Observer is accepting applications for a 2008-09 Business Manager and Controller. Responsibilities include preparing a yearly budget and handling payroll for a 200-person staff. 
Since the Controller will take over as the 2009-10 Business Manager, Controller applicants should be sophomores, or juniors staying for a fifth year. .. 
Both positions are salaried, about six to 10 hours a week. Please contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna1@nd.edu or Kyle West at kwestl@nd.edu if interested. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 19,2008 

Ordinance 
continued from page 1 
Brown, who n~presented the stud(~nt body during discus­sion of' the ordinance last summer and f'all. said the meeting would be a good opportunity f'or people on both sides to voice their concerns. 
"The first and foremost goal is to establish a body for con­tinued communication between tlw community and the area universities," Brown said. "From tlwre, the second­ary goals would be for us to have a eandid discussion about the issues that are af'fncting us the most. I know those aren't very tangible goals. but at this point, my goals are just to bring every­one to the table to see where 
McGrath 
continued from page 1 
about Connor, it would have to be that he loved people," said McCormick, who lived next door to McGrath during his freshman year. 
lin said most of' Dillon's sopho­more residents knew MeGrath because he was easygoing and willing to strike up a ('.onversation with anyone. 
McCormick said that when he lirst met McGrath, during the stu­dent's f'reshman year, Md;rath was like other f'reshmen going through a eoming-of'-age period. 
"lin was in the process of' trying to lind out what it means to be an adult in this world, amidst suc­cesses and failures," MeCorrniek said. 
That induded learning to deal with his diabetes, McCormick said. 


Faculty 
continued from page 1 
While Boyd demned Catholic professors necessary lilr studenL<;' moral lilrmation. Meyers said she roars preferential hiring could have "unintendt~d consequenees." 
Meyers argued that University Prnsident Fathnr John Jenkins' goal of' maintaining Notre Dame's Catholic identity might conflict with his othnr goals of being an "excellent underh'l'aduate univer­sity" and an "outstanding rosnareh institute." 
"My fnar is that this particular initiative will actually underminn our status both IL'i a research insti­tute and an undergraduate uni­versity," she said. 

She said that hiring a Catholie­rm~jority f'aeulty may be dillkult bonwsn only about six percent of' f'aculty from tlw nation's leading univ«}rsities are Catholic. In today's globaliznd world, she said, universities may draw profi1ssors f'rom regions with traditionally low Catholie populations, sueh as A'iia and thn Middle EIL'it. 
"By actively privileging pnople who are Catholic, you risk bning labdml as unfriendly or unwel­come to pnopln f'rom these rich applicant pools," shn said. "I think that labnl would be very un­Catholic, and it wouldn't show our valuos of' inclusion and respect of' divorsity at Notrn Dame." 
Additionally, l'aculty who list thmnsnlves as Catholic may not pradieo thPir Iilith. she said. 
I>onahun. however, said that a Catholic-majority faculty would nnhanm-not inhibit-studenl'i' we can go." 
The first meeting of the CCAC, which will take place at 3 p.m. at the South Bend County-City Building, was planned two weeks ago. 
"This was a long time com­ing, so I'm finally glad that it's coming to f'ruition," Brown said. 
Although she was an inte­gral part in lobbying for the group, Brown said her most important goal for the meeting was introducing incoming stu­dent body president Bob Heish to the Common Couneil. 
"Reish is going to be coming to the meeting with me on Wednesday and he will be able to take over the job and con­tinue with the relationships that we've established over the last seven or eight months," Brown said. ''I'm happy that it's meeting, if 
McGrath last visited McCormick in Keough at the beginning of the spring semester to "chat and catch up and see how things were going." 
Several Dillon residents declined to comment Monday. McGrath's elosest friends from Dillon had left for Chicago to mourn his death in privacy. 
McGrath moved into Siegfried in .January but spent many nights at Dillon, Siegfried Hall rector Father .John Conley said. As a result, Conley said, he and many Siegfried residents didn't have many opportunities to get to know McGrath in the five weeks he spent in the hall. 
But that didn't stop students in Siegfried from placing a basket of cards in the lobby, encouraging residents to write words of encouragement for McGrath's family. 
"It's like I told the guys at Mass [Sunday!: 'lie was a Siegfried guy. It doesn't matter if you lived in this dorm four days or four weeks 
academic experiences, educating "not only the minds, but the hearts of students." She asserted that the l~tculty is more important for the University's identity than the eampus's religious symbols. 
"Even if you tore down Touchdown Jesus tomorrow, our Catholic identity would still remain," she said. "Because this is an institute of higher education, we must look first and foremost to the classroom, and by extension, to the faculty." 
The faculty ean shape the University's Catholic character, Donahue said, by influencing the curriculum, giving academie lec­tures and advising students. 
She eited the removal of' the COHE proh'l'am as an example of a loss of courses with a Catholic tra­dition. 
"The secularization of religious universities in the past, whether they are Catholic, Baptist or Lutheran, has all begun with the f~tculty losing interest in the reli­gious identity of their institution," Donahue said. "This is precisely the current ease at Notre Dame." 
Students showed mixed opin­ions about the issue, both through answers to Hendrickson's ques­tions and msponses to straw polls. Nthough most studenL'i supported the maintenance of Notre Dame's Catholic identity, they disagrned on whether the prelimmtial hiring of Catholic l~u:ulty was necessary to aehievn this goal. 
Frnshman Sonnm Palumbo said Notre Dame's Catholic history and tradition are too strong f'or the composition of' the faculty to have a large impaet. 
"I don't think a university like Notre Dame is ever going to lose nothing else just so that I can give Bob some pointers before I leave office." 
Reish said he was looking forward to the meeting, but would attend simply as an observer. 
"Basically, I'm going to be there tomorrow in an observ­ing role to help ease the tran­sition between this year and next year," Reish said. ''I'm just going to be taking more of a second role to see how this meeting can help for future meetings next year." 
Council member AI "Buddy" Kirsits, one of the sponsors of the original ordinance, did not return phone calls Monday. Council president Tim House said Monday that he did not wish to comment. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

or four years. This was his home,"' Conley said. 
University officials said Monday they believed McGrath was the first student to die on campus since Feb. 8, 1998, when Justin Brumbaugh, a senior from Bolingbrook, Ill., died after suffer­ing from a heart disease. 
McGrath intended to major in business at Notre Dame. 
A memorial Mass for McGrath and Timothy Aher, a second-year law student who died in an unre­lated incident Sunday, will be cel­ebrated Tuesday at 10 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
University President Father John .Jenkins will preside over the Mass. Father Mark Poorman, University vice president for stu­dent affairs, will deliver the homi­ly. and McCormick will offer words of remembrance for McGrath. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu and Karen Langley at klangle1@nd.edu 

that Catholic character that is so 
engrained in the school," he said. 

When Ilendrickson asked how having Catholic faculty would impact both their academics and faith, the audience gave a variety of responses. Several sdence stu­dents said their professor's reli­gion does not matter, and some students said they could not even identify their professors' religion. Others, however, emphasized the importance ofintegrating different components of one's life, such as faith and academies. 
"I think we fall into a very grave error when we try to compart­mentalize our lives and ourselves so much. Our academic life and our faith life have a lot to do with each other," senior Mary Elizabeth Walter said. "Your faith ill{) should influence, in some way, the way you perceive your thought and your academics." 
Donahue added that one's years at Notre Dame are important preparation for building a faith foundation for life after college. 
Hendrickson said the Senate will summarize the meeting's result into a report and send it to the Faculty Senate and administra­tors. She added that the faculty are interested in students' opin­ions and that a polarized student opinion may have inlluence. 
"Thn kind of questions we asked about the impact in the ehL'isroom really are something that !the administration! wouldn't be able to measure unless they <L'iked us, ver­sus the professors," Hendrickson said. "So I think those rnsponses will be important." 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 



Aher 

continued from page 1 
usually includes between 20 and 30 students, they said. 
Students and faculty in London said a rosary for Aher Monday night, and a memorial Mass will be cele­brated there Thursday. 
Aher, 25, was a music' lover with eccentric interests and a warm personality, his friends said. 
"He was a beautiful and rare and amazing person," Zayed said. 
A memorial Mass was cele­brated Monday afternoon in the Alumni Hall chapel. Father .John Coughlin, a law professor, presided. 
trated in Hussian, Zayed and Merschat said. 
Aher had a broad apprecia­tion of music, film and litera­ture from various cultures, Merschat said. 
"Tim was pretty mueh into anything that was obscure," he said. "lie was hyper-intel­lectual." 
One time when Aher was in Chicago, he was preparing to play in a show with a death metal band, Merschat said, when the other band mem­bers told Aher he "wasn't metal enough." 
So, he went to the closest Wai-Mart and bought a black felt patch with a red, five­pointed star and attached it to a black, hooded sweat­shirt. 
"'He wore that every day the 
Approximately 100 people, mostly stu­

"People from all
dents and fac­

ulty from the walks and cliques in 
Law School, the Law School were attended the 
there today. He 
Mass. 

brought the Law 
"People from all walks School together." and cliques in the Law 
Artie Merchat 
School were 

law student 
there today," Merschat said. "He brought 

the Law School together." 
Aher had planned to work for Legal Aid, assisting low­income residents, al'ter receivmg his degree, Merschat said. Aher spent the summer after his first year working for the Legal Aid clinic in Waterbury, Conn. During the winter break of his first year, Merschat said, Aher worked in Brooklyn helping AIDS patients remain in their apartments. 
"He was never interested in the corporate stuff," Merschat said. 
Aher received his Bachelor's degree in linguis­tics from the University of Chicago, where he coneen-

Actress 
continued from page l 
girls. 

After completing graduate school, Manheim used her knowledge of sign language to pay the bills working as an interpreter when she strug­gled to find parts. 
"There wasn't just a place for me," Manheim said. "I was tired of being invisible. I was tired of being passed over. I was tired of being told to change who I was to be successful." 
Manheim caught the eye of casting directors when she wrote, directed and starred in a one-woman play called 'Wake up: I'm Fat!' That role led her to the o11iee of David 
E. Kelley, the creator of shows like "Ally McBeal," "Chicago !lope," "Boston Public," and, most important for Manheim, "The Praetiee." 
"I was told they were look­ing for a streetwise and sassy woman for the role of Ellenor Frutt," she said. 
After meeting with Kelley, she got the seript and tlw description of the character Ellenor had changed. 
"It no longer said streetwise and sassy," she said. "It now said big, bossy woman walks in and takes over the room." 
Manheim said that after getting the role of Ellenor she fought against the stereo­types of being a big woman first year of law school," Merschat said. "lie referred to it as his hipster subjugation of death metal culture." 
Aher enjoyed studying at Lula's Cafe on Edison Road, his friends said, adding that he was one of only a 
few vegetarians in the Law School. 
"We were looking forward to seeing Tim next year and spending '3L' with him," Zayed S<tid. "lie was well­liked among everyone." 
A group of law students will drive to Connecticut to attend the funeral service to be held Saturday, Merschat said. 
A memorial Mass for Aher and McGrath will take place Tuesday at 10 p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred I!earl. 
Father Coughlin, of the Law School, will offer words of remembrance for Aher. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle 1 @nd.edu 

on television. She related a story of her first day on set where she was handed a cof­fee and a donut to introduce her character. "I freaked," she said. 
She couldn't imagine being a role model for bigger women whihl the series promulgated the stereotype that a bigger woman would­n't be able to go about her morning without eating a donut. 
"I turned to leo-star! Dylan [McDermott! and said, sup­pose I am your right-hand woman, don't you think I'd be holding your Iiles, your donut and your coffee," Manheim said. "So if you ever get a chance to look back at that episode of 'The Practice' you'll see me stuffing a donut into his mouth as we discuss a case walking up the steps. They're small battles but big rewards." 
Manheim said she has learned during her life not to take 'no' for an answer. 
"Somewh«we it dawned on me that people were putting limitations on me, maybe beeause they were putting so many on tlwmselves. I'm a lighter, a passionate and ern­alive artist., a force of naturP," she said. "When I deeidnd I had something to say, I deelared it, loud and dear and people took notice and the tablns turnBd." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @sain tmarys.ed u 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 19, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE ()ssERVER'S WIRE SERViCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
More militant bombings in Afghanistan 
ANDAHAR, Afghanistan -A suicide car bomber killed 38 Afghans at a crowded mar­ket Monday, pushing the death toll from two days of militant bombings to about 140. 
The marketplace blast, which targeted a Canadian army convoy, came a day after the country's deadliest insurgent attack since a 
U.S. invasion defeated the Taliban regime in late 2001. The toll from that bombing in a crowd watching a dog fight rose to more than 100. 
The baek-to-back blasts in the southern province of Kandahar could be a sign insur­gents are now willing to risk high civilian casualties while attacking security forces. Though their attacks occasionally have killed dozens. militants in Afghanistan have general­ly sought to avoid targeting civilians, unlike insurgents in Iraq's war. 
Paris police detain 35 in raids 
LUERS-LE-BEL, France-More than 1,000 police oflicers swooped in on housing projects outside of Paris Monday, detaining 35 people in pre-dawn raids meant to flush out those who took part in violent riots late last year. ollieials said. 
The raids were denounced by critics as gov­ernmental theater to boost support before next month's municipal elections. 
President Nicolas Sarkozy recently vowed to better police the neglected neighborhoods, populated largely by families of immigrant background, that previously exploded in nationwide riots in 2005. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Texas oil refinery explosion injures 4 
BIG SPHING, Texas -A thunderous explosion rocked an oil refinery Monday, injuring four workers and shaking buildings miles away. 
One employee was hospitalized for burns, while the others were treated and released, said Blake Lewis, a spokesman for refinery owner Alon USA. 
All workers were accounted for about an hour after the explosion, he said. The refinery employs about 170 people. 
Fires caused by the blast were under control but still burning in the afternoon, Lewis said. The Dallas-based company was waiting for access to the site to investigate the cause of the explosion. 
The blast sent black smoke billowing into the sky, and forced the closure of schools and an interstate. 

Space shuttle Atlantis coming home 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -Atlantis and its seven-man crew were homeward bound after leaving the international space station and check­ing the thermal casing of their ship Monday for the fiery ride back to Earth. 
The space shuttle is due back Wednesday. Good weather is expected at Cape Canaveral, but if that changes. NASA will guide Atlantis to the backup touchdown site in California to give the military time enough time to shoot down a damaged spy satellite without endangering the shuttle. 
With pilot Alan Poindexter at the controls, Atlantis undocked from the space station after nine days of linked flight. The shuttle circled the orbiting complex with its newest science lab, allowing both crews to take pictures, before van­ishing into the blackness of space. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Planned Parenthood methods criticized 
MISHAWAKA, Ind. -A free giveaway of emergency contraception doses at Planned Parenthood health centers in Indiana cities with large college populations has angered an anti-abortion group, whose leader calls it "irresponsible." 
The giveaways are timed to remind young adults of the importance of responsible sexual behavior as spring break nears for many col­leges and universities. said Steve Carr, a spokesman for Planned Parenthood of Indiana. 
lie stressed that emergency contraception should not be relied on as a main source of birth control, just for emergency situations to prevent an unint<mded pregm\ncy. 
BELGIUM 

U.S., EU powers recognize Kosovo 
Russia, China contest newly declared independence; Serbia rules out military response 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS-The U.S. and the European Union's biggest powers quickly rec­ognized Kosovo as an inde­pendent nation Monday, widening a split with Russia, China and some EU members strongly opposed to letting the territory break away from Serbia. 
The rift was on view for a second day at the U.N. Security Council, which was holding an emergency session to discuss the dec­laration of independence issued Sunday by Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority. 
Ethnic Serbs rallying in northern Kosovo angrily denounced the United States and urged Russia to help Serbia hold on to the territory that Serbs consid­er the birthplace of their civilization. Protesters also marched in Serbia's capital, and that nation recalled its ambassador to the U.S. to protest American recogni­tion for an independent Kosovo. 
Despite clamoring of Serbs to retake Kosovo, Serbia's government has ruled out a military response. 
But the· dispute is likely to worsen already strained relations between the West Washington formally recog­the end against any U.N. Ban opened Monday'sand Russia, which is a tra­nized Kosovo as an inde­recognition. Security Council session byditional ally of Serbia and pendent country soon after­"The so-called Kosovo citing the many peacefulseeks to restore its influ­ward. Germany, Britain and state will never be a mem­celebrations that accompa­ence in former Soviet bloc France also gave their ber of the United Nations. nied Kosovo's declaration states. The Kremlin could heavyweight backing, say­Serbia will use all diplo­but also noting scattered become less likely to help ing they planned to issue matic means at its disposal violence. 

in international efforts 

formal recognitions. to block Kosovo's recogni­He said the United 
important to the U.S. and 

But Russia, Serbia's key tion," said Serbian Foreign Nations had achieved its allies, such as pressur­ally, and emerging global Minister Vuk Jeremic. "peace consolidation and 
ing Iran to rein in its 

power China remained The Kremlin was already the establishment of func­nuclear program. 
adamantly opposed to working diplomatic levers tional self-government" in Still, for Washington the Kosovo's independence, to help Serbia achieve that Kosovo, including five suc­
declaration of independ­

warning of the danger of aim. cessful elections. "Kosovo ence by Kosovo vindicated 
inspiring separatist move­Alexander Botsan-has made considerable 
years of dogged effort to ments around the world, Kharchenko, Russia's spe­progress through the 

help a land achieve its 

including in their own cial envoy to the Balkans, years," he said. 
dream of self-determina­

sprawling territories. was quoted by the Interfax Serbian President Boris 
tion after years of ethnic 

As veto-wielding Security news agency as saying Tadic, who attended theconflict and repression by Council members, Russia Moscow expected U.N. U.N. meeting, urged the Serbia. 
and China both have the Secretary-General Ban Ki­council to oppose Kosovo's 
Speaking in Tanzania, 

power to block any attempt moon to abide by a Security move. "This act annuls 
President Bush declared: 

by Kosovo to gain a seat on Council resolution that rec­international law, tramples 
"The Kosovars are now 

the international body. ognized Kosovo as part of upon justice and enthrones 
independent" and 

Serbia vowed to fight to Serbia. injustice," he said. 

Illinois gun legislation not yet in effect 
tion and was said to have spent time The measure, when it takes effect,
Associated Press in a psychiatric center as a teen in will require health professionals to CHICAGO -Illinois lawmakers the late 1990s. inform state authorities about moved swiftly after last year's mas­But state Sen. Dan Kotowski, a patients who display violent, suicidal sacre at Virginia Tech to make it sponsor of the law that will require or threatening behavior. Right now, harder for anyone with a history of more detailed reporting to state offi­such information is reported to state mental illness to buy guns, fortifying cials about those who have received officials only on people who have what were already some of the mental health treatment, said the been institutionalized. not on those nation's toughest weapons laws. sketchy information about who receive only outpatient treat­But the new measure does not take Kazmierczak's medical history makes ment. effect until June. And whether it it impossible to know if he would Illinois adopted the law last June, would have prevented last week's have fallen under the law. and the governor signed it in August. bloodbath at Northern Illinois "This law is more comprehensive Virginia lawmakers, meanwhile, University is far from clear. than most," the Democrat said still are considering a package of bills Steven Kazmierczak, the 27 -year­Monday. "But everything needs to be to reform that state's mental health old grad student who bought an arse­evaluated and reviewed to address system in the wake of the Virginia nal of guns in recent months and the problem so that something like Tech tragedy, including one that used them to kill five people and this never happens again. This is the would make it easier to have people commit suicide, had been on medica-promise we have to make." involuntarily committed. 
page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 19, 2008 
Recovery starts in 'Barna 
Homeowners, crews clear away wreckage after winter tornado 
Associated Press 
PHATTVILLE. Ala. llomnowrwrs. utility crews and others worked Monday to clear away wreckage and restore services after the lat­nst round of winter torna­does to smash through the South. 
Alabama Gov. Bob Hiley tournd part of Prattville and said he was impressed by the eomrnunity's response to the twistnr that struck the town. 
"One of the great things about living in Alabama ­and I say this aftnr every major mnergeney we have ­it truly is amazing to see what's happening out there with all thn farnilins in this statn." Hilny said. 
At least 50 people were injured, and about 200 homes and 40 businesses worn damaged in the Prattville area, aceording to the National Weather Service. No deaths were rnported. Two people who were eritically injured were u pgradnd to serious on Monday. said Todd Stacy, a spok1~sman for the governor. 
At least 11,000 homes and 
businesses  in  Prattville  
lacked  power  after  the  
storm.  

Tho tornado was part of a system that swept across the Southeast on Sunday. damag­ing homes elsewhere in Alabama and in parts of Georgia and the Florida Panhandle. 
The violent weather contin­ued into early Monday, when a tornado ripped apart a house in Hookerton, N.C., slightly injuring three people. 
"It sounded like a train eame through my window," said Shannon Edwards, 19, who was trapped under debris for about an hour at hnr family's home. "My whole bed just rtipped up. I didn't know whnre I was going to nnd up. I didn't know what was going on." 
Scatternd damagn to build­ings and tnH1S was reported 


Please recycle The Observer. 

elsewhere in North Carolina. 
The tornado that struck Prattville tore up a path about a quarter-mile wide and had winds of 140 to 150 mph, said meteorologist Jim Ste fkovich at the N a tiona! Weather Service's Birmingham office. 
"God was watching over our city last night," Mayor Jim Byard said, adding that if the storm had hit in the mid­dle of the night as happened in northern Alabama earlier this month, it could have been fatal. 
The death toll from those storms, part of a tornado outbreak that ripped across several Southern states Feb. 5 and 6, rose by one to 57 on Monday after a Tennessee man died of his injuries, emergerH:y management ofl1­cials said. 
Hepair crews also were at work Monday in western and central Georgia, where the storms destroyed or damaged more than 50 homes Sunday, according to the Georgia Emergency Management Agency. Ten people were injured, two of them critical­ly, the agency said. 
While tornadoes were bat­tering the Southeast on Sunday, parts of the Upper Midwest had to deal with ice and snow. 
Dozens of schools in central and eastern Iowa were closed or had delayed open­ings Monday and travel was not recommended on some highways because Sunday's storm dumped as much as 6 inches of snow, accompanied by wind gusting to 50 mph. 
According to the weather service, a total of 18.5 inches of snow has fallen so far this month at the Des Moines International Airport, com­pared with the average 5 inches. So far this season, Iowa has gotten 48 inches compared with the normal 26 inches. 


Rejoice! Mass 

February 24, 1 Op.m. 
Celebrate Black History Month with Mass in the African-American tradition 
Pasquerilla West Chapel 
! 
C-M 
C3rnpus MinisLry 
For infonnation, contact Judy Madden 631-8508 or jmadden2@nd.edu 


JFK m_urder articles, docum_ents revealed 
Items include transcript, leather gun holster 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Long-hidden items and documents related to the 1963 assassination of President John F. Kennedy were revealed for the first time Monday, after spending nearly two decades locked inside a courthouse sale. 
Dallas County District Attorney Craig Watkins presented the arti­cles at a Presidents' Day news conference while standing next to brown and white file boxes stacked in a pyramid. 
The items include a purported transcript between Kennedy assassin Lee Harvoy Oswald and Oswald's killer, nightdub owner Jack Huby; a leather gun holstor that held the weapon Huby used to shoot Oswald; brass knuckles found on Huby when he was arrestod; and a movie contract signed by then-Dallas District Attorney Henry Wade. 
Watkins said investigators told him about the contents of the blue, two-door safe shortly aftor he took office in 2007. 
"And every DA up until the new administration decided that they wanted to keep it secret," he said. But he decided "this information was too important to keep secret." 
One of the most intriguing items was the typed transcript of an alleged conversation between Oswald and Huby. The transcript -which hasn't been examined by experts and has already been called farfetched by some ­includes talk of killing the presi­dent at the behest of the Mafia. 
"Now we don't know if this is an actual conversation or not," Watkins said. "But what we do know is that as a result of this find, it will open up the debate as to whether there was a conspira­cy to assassinate the president." 
Huby killed Oswald on Nov. 24, 1963, two days after Oswald was 
arrested in the assassination of 
President Kennedy. Huby was 
convi(:ted and sentenced to death 
the following year. Huby won an 
appeal of his convietion but dind 
of cancer before he was retried. 
The two-pagn transcript resem­
bles one published by the Warren 
Commission, which investigatnd 
Kennedy's assassination and 
determined Oswald was the lone 
gunman. 
In the report. the FBI concludod that transeript of an allegnd con­versation betweon Oswald and Huby was fak1~, and that it had been "re-created" for authorities by a now-deceased Dallas attor­ney who daimed he recognized Oswald in a newspaper photo as the man he saw talking to Huby. 
The transcript unveiled Monday is dated Oct. 4, 1%3, and alleged­ly happoned at the Carousel Club, a Dallas nightdub. It begins with a discussion of how the "boys in Chicago" want to "get rid of' U.S. Attorney General Hobert Kennedy, JFK's brother. 
"There is a way to get rid of him without killing him," Oswald says. 
"How's that?" Huby responds. "I can shoot his brother," Oswald says. 
After a discussion of the logis­tics of shooting the president, Huby says the money for the operation's coming from the Mafia. 
"Are you with the Mafia?" Oswald asked. "You're asking too many ques­tions," Huby responds. 
Later, Huby gives a lengthy warning that Oswald must not get caught or say anything, noting that "if you do talk, then tho boys will· make me lollow you, wherev­er you go, and kill you." 
The Dallas Morning News first reported the transcript and other details of the find in an exdusivn story published Sunday. 

PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the inter areas of political philosophy. political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about 16 motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check. it out Ill see ifit is for vou. M our students go on to caret:rs and top graduate programs in law. public policy, phii(Jwphy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 

(1) 
no integrated approach to politics andjusdcc, without all the requirements of u sec major. and 

(2) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, then PPE wants you! 


FOR MORE JNFORMA TION Professor John Roos, Political Science Department, 424 I·7556, Roos.l@nd.cdu 
PPE INFORMATION MEETING 
Wednesday February 20 
204 DeBartolo 5:00-6:00 
*STUDENT DISCOUNT 

Atria Salon 2 
Specializing in color 574.271.8804 
HAIRCUT, HIGHLIGHT& STYLE $79.00 
EXPIRES MARCH IOTH, 2008 Must present ad to receptionist before services are performed. 2039 south bend ave south bend in 46637 t.271.8804 
Certain restrictions apply. www.AtriaSalon2.com 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Tuesday, February 19, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  12,348.21  -28.77  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
751  67  2,590  3,654,373,246  
AMEX  2,244~!>~  ;;ls.~g;J  

NASDAQ 2 321.80 -10.74 NYSE .···+c .........s:ezo.~~ lii;ll[~~~~~-~1:: S&P 500 1,349.99 +1.13 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13,711,10 +75:70 FTSE 100 (London) 5.946.60 +159.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.02 -0,03 135.14 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +1.59 +0.42 26.83 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.34 -0.15 43.82 LEVEL 3 COMM INC (LVLT) -6.42 -0.17 2.48 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -1.00 -0.038 3.780 13-WEEK BILL -4.05 -0.090 2.130 30-YEAR BOND -1.25 -0.058 4.595 5-YEAR NOTE -0.22 -0.006 2.764 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.04 95.50 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -4.70 906.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.90 94.30 
Exchange Rates YEN 108.1800 EURO 0.6820 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0070 BRffiSH POUND 0.5129 

IN BRIEF 
Spokesman says cattle treated hmnanely 
DENVER -Despite a secretly taped video showing workers at a Southern California slaugh­terhouse abusing sick or crippled animals, nearly all cattle bound for American dinner tables are treated humanely, a cattle industry spokesman said Monday. 
The undercover video taken at the Westland/Hallmark Meat Co. of Chino, Calif., by the Humane Society of the United States shows workers shocking, kicking and shoving debilitated cattle with forklifts, and has led to the largest recall of beef in U.S. history. 
Bo Reagan, vice president of research for the Colorado-based National Cattleman's Beef A'isociation, said the videotaped incident was not indicative of how most slaughterhouses operate. 
"The welfare of our animals -that's the heart and soul of our operations," Reagan said. 
U.S. Department of Agriculture guidelines man­date that an inspector must review sick or injured animals, called "downer" cattle, before they can be slaughtered, and that the 1958 Humane Slaughter Act sets strict rules for the humane treatment of animals. 
Campbell's Soup to cut sodium levels 
MOUNT LAUREL, N.J. -The Campbell Soup Co.'s kid-orientnd soups, which feature characters such as Dora the Explorer and Batman on the cans, are getting their second sodium reduction in three years, the company announced Monday. 
This time, the 12 soups for kids will have 480 milligrams per serving, which means the company can legally labnl them as healthy foods for the first time. 
"Your kids can enjoy Dora the Explorer even more.'' said Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's presi­dent and chief executive, said in an interview. "They'll bn down to heart-healthy levels." 
For Camden-b<L'>nd Campb11ll's, high sodium lev­ds have been a big health concern for decades for product<; that arn otherwise generally healthy. 
Two years ago, the company began using sea salt -whern it comes from is kept secret -to rnducc sodium in a number of its produets. The soa salt is being used in a growing number of soups. as well as SpaghettiO's pasta. The company has also rnducPd sodium in V8 vegetable juice. 
UNITED KINGDOM 

Mortgage lender goes public 
Government under scrutiny for mismanagement as company nationalized 
Associated Press 
LONDON Prime Minister Gordon Brown's government faced accusa­tions of mismanagement Monday as it began national­izing stricken mortgage lender Northern Rock PLC ­the first time in 20 years that a private company has been taken into public ownership. 
The government repeated­ly insisted a private sale was its preferred option. But after five months of intense speculation about the future of Britain's most public casu­alty of the global credit crunch, Brown said that nationalization was the best choice until market condi­tions improve. 
"We will, and always have, put the interests of taxpayers first," he said. 
The opposition Conservative Party said Britain's reputation as a major financial services cen­ter had been dealt a serious blow. 
"The nationalization of Northern Rock is a disaster for the British taxpayer, a disaster for this government and a disaster for our coun­try," said Conservative Party leader David Cameron. 

The government's troubles were compounded by the threat of a drawn-out legal battle with unhappy share­tation has been tarnished. als from Richard Branson's ment could last years as holders and the potential of "What we don't accept is Virgin Group and an in­Northern Rock's new man­hundreds, or thousands, of that London or Britain has house bid from the bank's agement seeks to pay back workers losing their jobs. been uniquely affected by management team because around 55 billion pounds 
Brown's reputation as a world events," Brown said, they involved too many risks ($107 billion) via loans from guardian of fmancial stability referring to the credit trou­for taxpayers and a very sig­the Bank of England and in Britain has been dented, bles that swept global mar­nificant government subsidy. deposit guarantees. eroding some of the plaudits kets in the late summer and Brown said Northern Rock Ron Sandler, who brought he received for presiding led Northern Rock to seek will be run "at arm's length back lloyd's of London from over an unprecedented emergency funding from the from the government under the edge of bankruptcy in the stretch of economic growth Bank of England, triggering professional management • late 1990s and has been as treasury chief before Britain's first bank run in until adverse market condi­appointed by the govern­becoming prime minister. 150 years. tions change and then the ment to run Northern Rock, 
On the defensive Monday, London would remain the bank can be returned to the declined to comment on job Brown and his successor in world's "pre-eminent fman­private sector." losses, amid suggestions the treasury office, Alistair cial center," Darling added. However, critics said that from analysts that as many Darling, disputed that The government had the temporary nationaliza­as half the company's 6,250 Britain's international repu-rejected two private propos-tion proposed by the govern-positions could be cut. 


Air Force asks for budget increase 
already a geriatric Air Force," Selva it absolutely needs," said Dov

Associated Press said, "and we drive it for another 20 Zakheim, a former Pentagon comp­WASHINGTON -Air Force officials years into an area of uncertainty." troller. "It's going to force us to are· warning that unless their budget An extra $20 billion each year over rethink, yet again, what is the strate­is increased dramatically, and soon, the next five -beginning with an Air gy we want? What can we give up?" the military's high-flying branch won't Force budget of about $137 billion in The Air Force's distress is partly dominate the skies as it has for 2009 instead of the $117 billion pro­self-inflicted, says Steve Kosiak of the decades. posed by the Bush administration -Center for Strategic and Budgetary After more than seven years of war would solve that problem, according Assessments in Washington. The F-22 in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Air to Selva and other senior Air Force Raptor and F-35 Lightning, the new Force's aging jet fighters, bombers, officers. jet fighters that will supplant the F-15 cargo aircraft and gunships are at the Yet the prospects for huge infusions Eagle and F-16 Falcon, have drasti­breaking point, they say, and expen­of cash seem dim. Congress is expect­cally higher price tags than their sive, ultramodern replacements are ed to boost the 2009 budget, but not predecessors and require a bigger needed fast. to the level urged by the Air Force. In chunk of the defense budget. "What we've done is put the the years that follow, a possible reces­"One of the reasons their equipment requirement on the table that says, 'If sion, a rising federal deficit and a dis­has aged so much is because they we're going to do the missions you're taste for higher taxes all portend a continue to move ahead with the going to ask us to do, it will require decline in. defense spending regard­development and presumed acquisi­this kind of investment,"' Maj. Gen. less of which party wins the White tion of new weapon systems that cost Paul Selva, the Air Force's director of House in November. two to three times as much as the sys­strategic planning, said in an inter­"The Air Force is going to be con­tems they are replaeing," Kosiak said. view with The Associated Press. fronting a major procurement crisis "It's like replaeing a Toyota with a "Failing that, we take what is because it can't buy all the things that Mercedes." 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, February 19, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Questioning quotas 
P.O. Box n9, Notr< Dam<, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notr< Dam<. IN 46S56 
EmTOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 

AsST. MANACaNG EDITOR: Mary Kare Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
Vn:wr•orNT EmToR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey 
Chris I line 
ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennell.t 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVFI!TISING MANA<;ER: jessica Cortez 

All DFSIGN MANA@R: Kelly Cronli CoNTROI.I.ER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS AIIMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 6.~1-7471 FAX ('i74) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(S74) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
('574) 631-4541 obsme(i1°nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 vicwpoim.1@nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prinr and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accitrately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
Qumions "Karding Obm·verpolici~s should be dirmed to Editor in C'hiefMaddU Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'll~e Obw:n~~·r (USPS ~IJ'J l-4000) is puhJiJhcd Monday rhwuP, Friday except during cum ~nJ va..·atiOII pcrWitb. Awl.:riptiunro lhc Obw:rvcr iJ$100 rur nne aQJcmic )'tar. $S'j foruncKmatcr 
"Ilw: l>b.c:rvt'r is puhJihd .u POSTMASTER 

0.24 S<tUrh Dining 1-lilll Send addi'G$ corrroiom to: None £hn1c. tN 4MS6-0n9 ThcObierwr r•er.odial posr..lgl! patod ,1( Nutn: (.).m\c P.O.Ilox779 ;~nd llddir.. uul mo~ilmg officn. 024 Soorh Dimng Hall 
Nurre Dame, IN 46'S'S6·0n9 
Th Olw:rvcr 15 1 nu:mhcr uf rhc: AIMK.1•.ated Pmos. All reproducrio11 nglm Arc ruerwd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Bill Brink Chris Khorey 
Karen Langley Matt Gamber Becky Hogan Alex Barker Nikki Taylor Scene Graphics Mark Witte Matt Hudson Viewpoint Maria Stohler 
The hiring of Catholic faculty here at Notre Dame has become quite a touchy subject, tied as it is to the larger issue of the University's ongoing self-definition. Father .Jnnkins, some students, and hl'foups of' alumni like "Project Sycamorn" have called for hiring standards where self-identified Catholic faculty would comprise at least half' of' new hires. Somn call for higher numbers. 
I believe most of these groups do in fad have honest intentions: They want to preserve the uniqun charactnr of Notre Dame, a place defined by its Catholk !~thos. Many students find this an environment where they can for once express their faith freely, and the school should proudly continue its unique tradi­tion. Father .Jenkins want to maintain that heritago not at the exclusion of non­Catholics, but to the benelit of all. 
The thinking of Sycamore, Jenkins and other concernod individuals has a fault. however, in its approach to what they sec as a "problem" -the dedine in Catholic faculty members in recent decades. I commend efforts to maintain religious identity, but stressing a 50 percent quota of Catholic professors ensures nothing. We should shy away from judging our progress by artificial and largely mean­ingless statistics and instead focus on real (and yes, less quantifiable) meas­ures. 
Regulatory quotas send the wrong message to professors and students. An absolute majority limit basically tells potential faculty, "If we drop below this, you (distinguished professor) may not be hired here in favor of somebody who checked a box on his application." Forgive me for making it so glib, but that is the tone many students get from the quota. 
Many teachers believe departments should hire based solely on academic achievement. Supporters of the hiring 

James Dechant 
Foregone Conclusion 

measures (and advocates for stricter ones) argue -in turn that this attitude sac­rifices the spiritual side of student life in pursuit of some kind of gratifying recog­nition by peer institutions and society at large. 
Both sides make valid points. One of Notre Dame's strengths is its focus on the complete student life, from faith to sPrv­ice to schoolwork, and we should not sacrifice that just to be among the nation's elite institutions. We should avoid the numbers game with regard to academics, yet we hesitate to compro­mise academic quality or standards for the sake of religious alliliation by quota. Go too far in either direction and we run into hard questions about the nature or our mission. 
Although the school's mission statn­ment does call for "a prndominant num­bnr of Catholic intellectuals," it also care­fully stipulates that the school "asks or all its scholars and students ... not a particu­lar creedal afliliation, but a respect for the objectives of Notre Dame and a will­ingness to enter into the conversation that gives it life and character." Even tho source document for all this concern places a greater emphasis on an open attitude to the University's atmosphere of inquiry than on artilkial percentages. 
Advocates of the quota often reach their opinions by over-emphasizing the role faculty play in students' faith lives. Here we must be cautious: There should be no dualism between faith and voca­tion. I allow that teachers can have a huge impact outside the classroom, and I gladly acknowledge· the significant role faculty can play in students' spiritual inquiries. Nevertheless, such impact should not be a necessary condition of their presence here. 
I hate to break it to you, administra­tion, but the core of faith at Notre Dame does not come from the faculty, and never has. They play an important role, but the heart comes from the student body itself, from the dorms, from the rec­tors and other religious on campus, from the works of faith organizations like Campus Ministry. I reiterate that the classroom ought not turn into a compart­mentalized and secularized environment, but we need to look elsewhere to fmd the essence of Notre Dame's Catholic identi­
ty. 
This clamoring for quotas also rnin­
forces the University's tendency, nur­
tured by the "over-protective parent" 
attitude of alumni. to infantilize the stu­
dent body. We are not childnm who neml 
to be constantly monitored and guided 
every step of thn way. Would it not be 
better for us, as adults, to stumble and 
question our faith here on campus, 
where support structures am plentiful, 
rather than do so for the first time out in 
the "real world," where such support is 
hard to lind? This is not an argument for 
hiring non-Catholic faculty, just a 
mminder of tlw mission statomnnt's spir­
it and an enjoinment to look bnyond the 
classroom for tho totality of faith lili~. 
Thn administration should not empha­size artificial pnrenntages, but instnad cultivate the school's Catholic spirit by more productive, less rigid means. For example, focus faeulty-rneruiting ell'orts on graduates from other Catholic institu­tions, stress the University's religious character in hiring intnrviews, bolster the alrnady-strong theology departm!mt, and encourage Catholic thinkers and intellectuals to givn lnetures hem. Tlw University should sn!~k more organic means of caring !(H· its rnligious identity, while at the same time understanding that things like the "Catholicity" of Notrn Dame cannot be mnasured. We must look more holistically at both the sourcns of our faith life and the means of main­taining it. 
Nevertheless, we should applaud recent efforts by student government and the administration to involve students in this discussion. Forums and informal talks are good signs that Father Jenkins and others understand the concerns of the community, will treat students as mature intellectuals, and are willing to involve them in a very pertinent discus­sion: the nature of Notre Dame's mission. 
James Dechant is a senior English and theology major. Questions. comments, and rude remarks can be sent to him at jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
What is your favorite local pizzeria at Notre Dame? Bruno's Rocco's Polito's Barnaby's Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"In theory, there is no difference between theory and practtce. But in practlce, there is. " 
Yogi Berra Baseball player 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 19, 2008 page 9 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Support Catholic bishops' decision 
Dear Editors, regarding the decision of the Catholic bishops to remove their pastoral conference away from the Notre Dame campus to avoid association with "The Vagina Monologues," you recently wrote "Notre Dame can be Catholic and still host 'The Vagina Monologues' ("Relocation a bad idea," Feb. 15)." That begs the question of what it means to be a Catholic university, and leaves aside the question of whether hosting the event is in Notre Dame's best interest. Holding this production on campus is detrimental on at least three levels. 
First, your editorial referred to the "complex dynamic" and "creative tension" between Catholic morality and academic freedom. You are correct that there should be give and take between the two. However, they cannot co-exist amorphously. In the real world, decisions have to be made and lines have to be drawn somewhere. University President Father John Jenkins attempted to do so in a way that would accommodate both sides by not banning the "Monologues," but placing it in a classroom setting con­ducive to an academic discussion rather than a circus atmosphere. However, that was akin to trying to place the genie back in the bottle, because it failed to address the need for a standard and core principles that apply both now and in the future. 
Second, Jenkins' solution seems to have unfortunately overlooked the broader issue of the far-reaching impact of hosting "The Vagina Monologues" at Notre Dame. "The Vagina Monologues" is not simply a textual program that can be a basis for discussion; it is like a street theater with a social or political agenda that is aimed at the general public. One of its stated goals is to have its messages woven into the fabric of public consciousness. Through acceptance at Notre Dame, it succeeds in doing exactly that. As the primary symbol of Catholic achievement, culture and academic success in the United States, Notre Dame has a vast moral constituency around the world which it necessarily affects. By hosting "The Vagina Monologues," Notre Dame, perhaps unwit­tingly, is helping Eve Ensler advance her secularist, materialist, anti-religious agenda globally. 
Finally, and most importantly, accommodation without clear standards conflicts with Notre Dame's most fundamental mission: the search for truth. ''The Vagina Monologues" abjures the truth. An exercise in Orwellian doublespeak, it puts forth reductionism as expansive for women, espousing a singular focus on one's pubic area as if it were the center of one's mind and soul. Duplicity reigns throughout. 
For example, how is the stated goal of decreasing violence toward women advanced by celebrating the alcohol-fed seduction and rape of a female minor by an older woman? Is that not an unfair use of power to control and dominate a susceptible per­son for one's own pleasure? Most "Catholic" colleges have followed Jenkins' lead in questioning the value of the play in examining current women's issues, eventually con­cluding in favor of serious dialogue. 
I am sad to say that on this issue, Notre Dame now fmds itself increasingly isolated with a small number of mostly Jesuit universities. The Catholic Bishops, often criticized for failing to lead their flock on social moral issues, were correct to distance them­selves from this morally deprived event. Jenkins would be wise to do the same. 
John Moore Wtlbraham, Mass. Feb. 18 


End juvenile cheer 
I apologize for being a wet blan­ket, but Notre Dame students need to hold themselves to a higher stan­dard when it comes to cheering for the Irish. The "suck it" segment of the drum cadence is simply unbe­coming of a Domer. It has destroyed both a great tradition and a great cheer. It is awful, crude and, frankly, just plain juvenile. 
I suggest that the students take it upon themselves to find a substitute word or words to fill the gap left by this rude and disgusting element. The word "destroy" comes to mind, but I am sure we can do better than that. Heck, even "pray for" works better in my opinion. 
I am sure the talented Notre Dame students and cheerleading squads could lead a simple and yet effective campaign to make this negative ele­ment a thing of the past. Let's raise the bar back to where it belongs. V\lho's with me? 
Michael Lenahan graduate student off campus Feb. 18 

Engage in the Church's thinking 
Ms. Holmstrom ('"Monologues' encourage mistreatment of women," Feb. 11) raises an inter­esting point: she claims that dis­cussing "The Vagina Monologues" as an issue of academic freedom is to "woefully miss the mark." In this, I believe Holmstrom to be cor­rect. 
I would, however come to a vast­ly different conclusion regarding the fate of the "Monologues." "The Vagina Monologues" seeks to reclaim the sense of what it means to be a woman, to stop women from being ashamed of their sexu­ality and to raise awareness regarding violence perpetrated against women. 
These goals are perfectly in keep­ing with the Catholic Church's teaching on sex and sexuality. The Church does not speak of sex as evil or morally wrong provided it is exercised in the right way. Rather, the Church teaches that "sexuality is a source of joy and pleasure" (Catechism, 2362). 
Do the "Monologues" present an inappropriate use of sexuality? The answer may well be yes. The play presents acts that are not well ordered to good relationships with God and others. The general ethos of the "Monologues" is, however, edifying to those who attend the play, provided they understand something about the feminist movement and approach the play with a critical eye. 
Further, and this point is clear, the "Monologues" raise important questions: How do we reclaim our sexuality? What is the correct way to express that sexuality? When sexual violence has been perpetrat­ed against a woman (or a man), how do we heal? 
Our esteemed President Emeritus Father Hesburgh once said that "the University is where the Church does its thinking." While our theol­ogy department is grounded in this philosophy, I would argue that it is not simply academic theologians who are to do the thinking of the Church. 
Rather, we are all called to engage in this discussion. The pres­ence of ''The Vagina Monologues" on campus is not a question of aca­demic freedom. It is, however, nec­essarily tied to our Catholic charac­ter. As the premier Catholic univer­sity in this country, it is our duty to perform these monologues. 
Where else, ifnot at Notre Dame can we have this discussion? VVhere else can the Church do this thinking? I urge Dean Roche, Father Jenkins and you, the stu­dents, to join me in this dialogue: to approach the "Monologues" with a critical eye and to engage in the thinking of the Church. 
Meli Barber 
senior 

McGlinn Hall 
Feb. 12 

'Monologues' antithetical to women's liberation 
I will admit that prior to a few days before writing this, I had not actually read any of "The Vagina Monologues." Instead, I relied what others told me to shape my understanding of the issue. Last Tuesday, I finally read part of the script -never, in my entire life, have I felt as degraded as I did that night. 
The word "liberation" needs to be reclaimed. There is nothing liberating about being reduced from a woman with a soul and body -with the ability to reason and create, the ability to nurture and love -to a body, much less a singular body part. To have all the expansive qualities of a woman and to choose to subject them to the sensation of a single body part is not liberation, but a soul-killing and anti-femi­nine form of slavery. 
Further, not only is it soul-killing to the person who identifies her liberation in that way, but it does not challenge young men to treat women in accord with authentic femininity. If women are willing to be identified with their vagina, to in fact celebrate their womanhood in light of their sexual organ, men get every impre·s· sion that they too should celebrate in that facet of womanhood alone -which frees them from having to love the whole woman. 
Face it: A body part is much easier to love than a person. If men learn to love only a piece of a woman, then it is not hard to deal her spiritual, emotional and even physical violence. 
What I propose is that we stop the vio­lence against women and liberate them by promoting authentic femininity -a femi­ninity that properly integrates body, mind and soul; a femininity that is personal; a femininity that was much cherished by the late Pope John Paul II. 
Concurrently, we must promote an authentic masculinity. Sexuality is not the act alone, but the very reality of being male or female. A number of groups on campus promote this authentic treatment of sexuality: ND Right to Life has a dinner study group on theology of the body, and the Edith Stein Conference addresses fem­ininity every year (this year coinciding with "The Vagina Monologues"). 
We need a dialogue approached in the proper light: a medium that demonstrates correct views and espouses the Truth. Any play that portrays sexuality and femininity in such an enslaved state is not worth any woman or man's time-or soul. 
Kim Stoddard junior McGlinn Hall Feb. 18 



EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, February 19, 2008 

As;istant Scene Eqiror 
Film and television writer Jeffrey StnpakofT always knnw he wanted to write, but he didn't always know llollywood was in his future. 
On tho phone on Monday, Stepnkoff says he studied theater in school, but when producer John Wells ("ER," "Thn West Wing") vis­ited his graduate school, Carnegie Mellon University, hn told StllpakofT that llollywood was looking for writers likn him. 
Although Stepakol'f' says going to Hollywood was considered a "wacky and eccentric thing to do." he made the move that so many other aspiring film and tele­vision writers had done before and after him. 
Stepakoff will be at the Browning Cinema tonight at 7 to give his lec­tu rn "Thn Rise of the Writer in Hollywood." Stepakoff's appear­ance is a continuation of the FTT Talks series, which most recently brought NBC development execu­tive Katie O'Connell to campus in Novombor. StepakolT says his talk wiII be "a history of writers, that is writers in Jlollywood, specifically during the last 20 to 25 years, told from a porsonal perspective." 
The man who went on to write for shows such as "Thn Wonder Years" and "Dawson's Crook" start­ed his career in Hollywood during tho last writers' strike. 
"In 19H8, I kind of stumbled toward Hollywood and realized thnrn was a way to use my skill sPt," he says. 
However, the strike prevented StnpakoiT from working right away. 
"The Rise ofthe. Writer in Hollywood, Tonight at 7 Browning Cinema Hlh"'h' but ticketed event 
Although he was offered a job as a s1:ab writer for CBS's "Charles in Chargo," produced by Univorsal Television, he turned it down. When the strike ended. he was offered another job by Universal to write for "Simon & Simon." 
Stepakol'f' says his theater back­ground helped him because he had experience working with directors 
, as both a writer and producer. "Theater, I bcllovc, is a really good training gro~md ~or scroen­wnters, he says. 
Stepakoff was a writer and co­executive producer for "Dawson's Creek" on the WB. Although the show was immensely popular with young p1wple, he says he wasn't always aware of the influ­ence of the show. 
"It was very exciting," he says. "You know, when you're working on a TV show, you're so busy writing the show and producing the show that you don't have a full awareness of the cultural impact 

Stepakoff doesn't have a prefer­ence for !'ilm or television eitlwr. He says he loves "all media that allows writers to be writers," whether that be film or television writing, l'iction writing or writing for the Internet. 
However, Stepakol'f does make a strong case for television. 
"Television writing in particular is arguably the most satis f'y in g medium for a writer to work in because he or she ultimately gets total control," ho says. 
During this past writers' strike, Stcpakoft' says he wrote a novel ­a love story in which he drew from his experience working on "Dawson's Creek." Other writers he knew created new content for tlw Internet. 
"The legacy of the 198H strike was that the studios learned how to make entertainment without writers,'' he says. 
The film and tlllevision writM has three pieces of' advice f'or students who aspire to write in film, televi­sion or theater. "Number one," he says, "master the craft, which real­ly isn't difficult." He says to take courses in writing to get to that 
point. "Number 
of the show. two," he says, Occasionally you'll Stepakoffsays his "which is probably think about it." theater background more important Ultimately, than number one,
helped him because he 
Stepakol'f' says, the write constantly." success of a series had experience working His third piece of comes down to with directors as both a advice is to "put finding a good yourself' out there"
writer and producer.
story. in order to meet 
"Whether you're working on a popu­lar show or a struggling show, you always start at the same place, which is crafting good story," he says. 
Stepakoff has written for 14 dif­ferent television series and says he has enjoyed working for each of them. 
"There's something special about all of them," he says. 

people to help with 
tlw job search. 
And just because you start in one field doesn't mean you can't switch to film and television. Stepakoff worked in advortising after under­grad, hut knew that what he really wanted to do was write creatively. 
"I just set out to write cool stuff'," he says. 
JARRED WAFER I Observer Graphic 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Tuesday, February 19, 2008 
page 11 


SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
She's Got Moves 
11 Wondergirl Carly" breaks some ankles in an all-boys flog fooballleague. 
World Record Belly Flop 
Darren "Professor Splash" Taylor belly dives from 35' into 12" of water. Ouch. 



Apoliceman gets aggresive with o few Baltimore skateboarders. Calm down officer. 
JARRED WAFER I Observer Graphic 

By JAMES COSTA 
Assistant Scene Editor 
A suceinctly emotive portrait of heart­break and euphoria, Glen Hansard's record "Once," soundtrack to the film of the same title, is at once enthralling and saddening. It falls into the listener's ear with a pulsing admonition to hold close to those you care lor or risk watching them fade into the gray and dreary landscape of the inell"aceable beyond. 
With titles such as "Falling Slowly," "Lies," "Leave," "Fallen From the Sky," and "When Your Mind's Made Up," the album fnels like a long look backwards. It allows the listener to conjure feelings experienced in fractured moments follow­ing the rupture of something beautiful. 
One of the truly arresting tracks on the record is "Leave," a glimpse straight into the gut of Hansard's despair-a woman telling him that he's no longer the man she loves. Starting ofT slow, just above a whisper, Hansard sings, "Hope you feel better now that it's out I What took you so long? I The truth has a habit of falling out of your mouth I Well now that it's come I You've said what you came to I Let go of my hand I If you don't mind, leave." lie then repeats the lyrics with increasing intensity until his voice hits the point of a tormented holler. It's an honest and aban­doned moment. resonating more truly than most any other music made these days. 
Before his starring turn in the film, you 
Once 

Glen Hansard Label: Columbia Recommended Tracks: "Falling Slowly," "Lies," "Leave" and "Fallen From the Sky'' 

might remember Hansard from his gig as front man of the band The Frames. His partner on five tracks is the less famous, but supremely talented Czech pianist and songwriter Marketa lrglova. The sound­track is a perfect reminder that while the two star in the very well received film, they are musicians first and actors sec­ond. Their vocal skills, both delicate and on occasion pounding, communicate an emotion that is intimate and lingering. 
The opening track of the record "Falling Slowly" is perhaps the most powerful col­laboration between Hansard and Irglova. Featured in the film's trailer, the song is quite simplistic on first listen. However, upon closer examination it grips the lis­tener with the rare and moving sensation that heartbreak and sadness, and their dreadful ability to control one's mind, are never more than a whisper of rejection away. Hansard and Irglova sing together, "Words fall through me I And always fool me I And I can't react I And games that never amount I To more than they're meant I Will play themselves out." In straightforward lyrics delivered in a straightforward manner, Hansard and Irglova have concocted a tune that will likely be played for years to come by those feeling the rush of sadness in the heart, or those who just like listening to really good sad songs. 
It's tough not to compare Hansard and Irglova to the rather iconic auet pair of Damien Rice and Usa Hannigan. Singing similar songs in a nearly identical genre, Hansard and Irglova differ from the 
Rice!Hannigan duo in that they seem more weathered and affected by their songs. Indeed, they sing as if only to each other, with the inti­mate exchanges magically recorded onto CD so that the listening public can glimpse a couple's most per­sonal moments. 
If the movie's anything like the songs that propel it, it's surely a hell of a flick. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 19, 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Louisville outlasts Syracuse at Freedom Hall 
Georgetown keeps pace in Big East race with win over Providence; Xavier holds off Rhode Island's upset bid 
swiped the ball on Syracuse's Island on Monday night. 
Associated Press 

next possession. The win was Xavier's eighth 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Terrence The Cardinals missed a shot, straight and the 14th in its last Williams scored all 12 of his but Williams ran it down, even­15 games, helping the points in the second half and tually leading to McGee's fourth Musketeers maintain their grip No. 18 Louisville held ofT 3-pointer that pushed the lead on first place in the Atlantic 10 Syran1sn 61-50 on Monday to 57-50 with 53 seconds to go conference. It was the night. as Louisville ended the game on Musketeers' fifth straight win 
Andrn MeGee added 12 points a 9-0 run. on the road. and Louisville 121-6, 11-3 Big Louisville dominated the Rhode Island opened the sec­Hast) limited tlw Orange (17 -10, glass, outrebounding Syracuse ond-half on a 26-14 run al'ter 7-71 to 29 pereent shooting to 53-35. That total ineluded 19 trailing by 10 at halftime. The keep pace with No. 12 offensive rebounds that led to Musketeers (22-4, 10-1 A-1 0) Georgetown atop tlw Big East. 1Y second-chance points. pre­fell behind by 3 at one point in 
Louisville won its season-high venting the Orange from upset­the second half, before taking sixth straight showing it can ting a ranked-opponent for the the load for good on a long­survive without senior eenter second straight game. range jumper by Stanley Burrell David Padgett, who was played Syraeuse attacked Louisville's with 5:47 left to play. A 3-point­just 17 minutes with foul trou­zone relentlessly in the first er by Will Daniels with four sec­ble. half, gntting the Cardinals in onds left put Hhode Island with­
Arinze Onuaku led Syracuse serious foul trouble. Padgett in 3, but Drew Lavender hit one with 16 points and Paul Harris played just over four minutes in of two free throws with 1.7 sec­added 13. but the Orange found the half after picking up two onds on the clock to put the few openings in Louisville's fouls, and Derrick Caracter game out of reach. tough 2-3 defense. Syracuse wasted little time collecting Duncan had a perfect shoot­entered the game tied with three. ing night, hitting 8 of 8 field Georgetown in field goal per­Still, the Orange couldn't take goals and all three 3-pointers c~nntage, making 49 percent of advantage. thanks to horren­he attempted. its shots from the field. The dous shooting and an inability Parfait Bitee scored 25 points Orange managed barnly half to keep Louisville of'f the ofl'en­and Will Daniels added 23 for that against Louisville. sive glass. Syracuse shot just 24 Rhode Island (20-6, 6-5). The 
The Cardinals appeared to percent from the floor in the loss snapped the Hams' 11­break open a dose game when first half and allowed the game home winning streak. The Williams finished a spectacular Cardinals eight second-chance Rams fell to 6-5 in the confer­dunk over Donte Greene that points as the teams limped into ence and 20-6 overall. gave Louisville a 50-40 lead the locker room tied at 26. Xavier used a 19-9 run late in with 8:20 to go. the first half to take a 44-34 The Hoyas (21-4, 11-3 Big 47 and you just can't give them 
Syracuse managed to get Xavier 81, Rhode Island 77 lead into halftime after being up East) struggled against that many more opportunities. within one possession, cutting it Josh Duncan scored 23 by as many as 14 at the 3:42 Providence's 2-3 zone for the When we got the lead we were to 52-50 on a putback by points, B.J. Raymond added 14 mark. opening half and first 5 minutes rebounding. You can't run if Onuaku with 2:20 remaining. and No. 10 Xavier overcame a Rhode Island last defeated a of the second half. you're not rebounding the ball." Williams, however, hit a jumper furious second-half run to hold ranked opponent on Dec. 2, Then came the 3-point bar­Providence came in allowing from the corner and Earl Clark on for an 81-77 win over Hhode 1998, when the Rams beat rage led by Wallace as opponents to shoot 45 percent then-No. 25 Utah 70-63. Rhode Georgetown hit five from from the field, the 15th-worst Island defeated Xavier the last behind the arc in a 17-2 run figure in the 16-team confer­time the teams played, a 79-71 that gave the Hoyas a 52-43 ence. But the zone did its job win in the seminfinals of last lead. for most of the game except for season's A-10 conference cham­Wallace, who missed three of thfl run when Crawford and pionship. his first four 3-point attempts, Jeremiah Hivers hit the two 3s 
hit three 3s in the run, includ­in addition to Wallace's three Georgetown 65 ing two from almost the exact long jumpers. Providence 58 same spot on the court just to The Friars led 41-35 before 
Georgetown was trailing the left of the head of the key. the big run started but they Providence by six points in the The net barely moved on both went almost 8 minutes with one second half and the Hoyas were baskets. field goal. Brian McKenzie's 3­facing a third loss in four "We are aware of the situa­pointer ended Georgetown's run games. Coach John Thomps.on tion and knew what we had to and made it 52-46 with 8:04 Ill turned to his seniors and do," Wallace said. "Those two left. they turned things around in a 3s I hit came ofT screens set by Providence was within 54-49 hurry. teammates who knew where on a 3 by Efejuku but the Jloyas 
"I felt we came out flat in the they had to be for the play to scored six straight points, the second half and that we needed get me open. That was a collec­last two on a fastbreak dunk a boost of energy and that came tive effort for what we needed after a steal by Ewing with 4:50 from Patrick and Tyler," to do." to go. Thompson said after the 12th­Weyinmi Efejuku had 25 "We stress ofl'ensive rebound­ranked lloyas rallied for a vic­points for the Friars (13-13, 4-ing a lot in practice," Ewing tory over Providence on 10), who have lost four straight said of the lloyas' 23 offensive Monday. "There was no sense of -the last three to ranked rebounds. "The shots weren't panic since we've been there teams -and eight of nine. falling but when we get second before. We started getting stops Providence came into the game shots like that it doesn't mat­and started making plays." tied for 13th in the Big East and ter." 
Patrick Ewing Jr. and Tyler only the top 12 teams advance Hibbert had eight rebounds Crawford joined fellow seniors to next month's conference for the 1-loyas, who finished Roy Hibbert, who had 18 points tournament. with a 43-26 advantage on the inside, and Jonathan Wallace, "We battled and played very, boards. who added 14 from the outside, very good defense but they Wallace finished 4-for-8 from 
AP on the court as Georgetown make you work so hard," 3-point range and the Hoyas went on a 17-2 run to take con­Providence coach Tim Welsh were 8-for-21 after starting 3­trol. said. "They had 65 shots to our for-14. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
Oakhill Condo for Sale. Students will love living here and parents will love knowing their child is looked after and safe! Secure. upstairs, two-level fur­nished two-bedroom, two-bath condo unit with loft area. One thousand twenty-two square feet of beautifully redecorated living space -includes 42" HD flat screen TV and parking spaces in front of 

condo. Garages are available at an additional cost. Parking lot surveil­lance cameras, pool. clubhouse, water and rubbish removal included as part of the ownership package. Only $180 per month exterior main­tenance fees. Five minute walk or less to the Notre Dame campus, shopping and restaurants. Less than ten minutes to other hot spots and mall by car. $200.000. Only serious offers considered. 562-733-5166. 

FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" leases 
bluegoldrentals.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. CALL 574-234-2436 OR KRAMER­HOUSES.COM 

Furnished 4-bdrm house, walk NO, ADT, air, washer/dryer, dishwasher, basement for storage. 574-287­4961. 

WANTED 

$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT WORK flexible. no experience needed, customer sales/service, conditions apply. ages 18+, 574-273-3835, 
www. workforstudents.com 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. 
For more information. visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? 
You do not have to be alone. We want to help. 
Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 

-------------------------------------------------------------. 



OUND THE NATION 


CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S wmE SERVICES 
Tuesday, February 19, 2008 
ESPN/USA Today Top 25 Men's Basketball Poll 
. 

rank team record points 
1 Memphis (31) 25·0 775 2 Tennessee 23·2 724 3 North Carolina 24-2 685 4 Duke 22·2 668 5 Kansas 24·2 664 6 UCLA 22-3 647 7 Texas 21-4 562 8 Butler 24·2 539 9 Stanford 21-4 486 10 Wisconsin 21·4 452 11 Georgetown 20·4 447 12 Xavier 21·4 446 13 Conneclicul 20·5 390 14 Indiana 21-4 369 15 Purdue 21-5 293 16 Vanderbilt 22-4 285 17 Michigan Stale 20·5 268 18 Drake 23-2 243 19 Washington Stale 20·5 235 20 Saint Mary's 22·3 204 21 NOTRE DAME 19-5 186 22 Texas A&M 20·5 142 23 Louisville 20-6 132 24 Marquette 18·6 108 25 Kansas State 18-6 57 
APTop25 Women's Basketball Poll 
rank team record points 
1 Connecticut (38) 24-1 1230 2 North Carollna(2) 24~2 1167 3 Tennessee(1) 23-2 1106 4 Maryland 27-2 1089: 5 Rutgers{8) 20·4 1071 .­6 LSU(1) 22"3 1028 7 Stanford 24·3 1003 8 California 23-3 886 9 Baylor 22,3 846 
\)6
10 Old Dominion 22•3 730 11 Oklahoma 12 Duke 13 West Virginia 
14 NOTRE DAME 15 Kansas Slate 16 Oktahoma State 11 George Washington 18 utah 19 UTEP 20 Ohio State 21 TexasA&M 22 Syracuse 23 Pittsburgh 24 Georgia 25 Vanderbilt 
Women's Basketball.-Bil Ealit A.: 
::::::r,,... 
Conference Standings 
.::::•:•:•:::•:•::-:::::-.• ::•:-:til: 
rank team conj 
1 Connecticut 11·1 2 Rutgers 1&·1 3 West Virginia <}~~::~ .:' •z 4 NOTRE DAME 8-3 5 Pittsburgh 8-4 6 Syracuse 7-4 7 Louisville 7-5 8 DePaul 6-5 9 Marquette 6-6 10 Villanow $-1 

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Purdue at Indiana 7 p.m., ESPN 

Georgia at Kentucky 9 p.m., ESPN 

MLB 
Associated Press 
TAMPA -Andy Pettitte repeated his apologies over and over again, say­ing he had embarrassed himself and set a terrible example. 
Whether he upset Roger Clemens is anyone's guess. They haven't spoken in more than a month. 
"Obviously it's put a strain, I think, on our friendship," Pettitte said Monday. 
On the day he reported to spring training with the New York Yankees, Pettitte spent nearly an hour explaining why he used human growth hor­mone and his role in cor­
roborating HGH allega­tions against Clemens. 
"I felt like I need to come out, be forward with this," Pettitte said. "Whatever circumstances or repercussions come with it, I'll take and I'll take like a man and I'll try to do my job." 
Other baseball players have ducked tough ques­tions about allegations of drug use, using evasions and nonspecific replies. Pettitte admitted his mis­takes and several times patiently asked reporters "did I answer your ques­tion?" 
Wearing a polo shirt and jeans, and flanked by manager Joe Girardi and general manager Brian Cashman, Pettitte had a hint of the shadow on his face that he's shown on the mound during so many postseason games. He seemed nervous at the start as he read from notes. 
"I want to apologize to the New York Yankees' and to the Houston Astros' organizations and to their fans and to all my team­mates and to all of base­ball fans for the embar­rassment I have caused them," he said. "I also want to tell anyone that is an Andy Pettitte fan I am sorry, especially any kids that might look up to me." 
He relaxed after a few 
IN BRIEF Sc~ hopes rehab will fix 
hurt shoUlder 
FORT MYERS, Fla. -Curt Schilling finally faced reporters on Monday -and an uncertain future. If the shoulder rehabilita· tion he reluctantly agreed to fails, he knows his brilliant career could be over. 
The one-time Red Sox ace also denied that he was hurt when he signed an $8 million contract last November. 
Speaking publicly for the first time about his preference for sur­gery, Boston's 41-year-old right­hander said he had to follow the team's insistence on rehab because he is under contract. 
"I don't have any choice. If their course of action doesn't work I don't pitch this year, and I may never pitch again," Schilling said. "I have to mentally get behind it and do everything I can do to make it work." 
Rodriguez, Angels failing to 
reach agreement 
TEMPE, Ariz. -Los Angeles Angels closer Francisco Rodriguez is going to arbitration and could be heading out the door at the end of the season. 
The 26-year-old Rodriguez, who has a major-league leading 132 saves over the past three years, is unhappy that he doesn't have a long-term con­tract and said he may leave as a free agent after this season. 
"If they would have wanted me here, they would have done some­thing a long time ago," Rodriguez said Sunday. "There is still a long time before the season starts. We still have a month and a half. By then, when the season starts, I'll have my decision made." 
He then softened his statement, saying, "It's just something I can't control. My priority right now is to go through the year and see what's going to happen at the end of the year. We'll see." 
page 1. 
minutes and went into fa greater detail than mos accused athletes hav about their transgres sions. 
Off to his right, sitting iJ a row, were Yankee teammates Derek Jete• Mariano Rivera and Jorg· Posada. When it was ove Jeter and Pettitte wrappe1 their arms around in eacl other in a hug. 

"I know that once I hav• this press conference an1 talk to everybody abou .,. this and share everythin with you, I think the trutl will set you free," Pettitt said. "I think I'm going t· be able to sleep a lot bet ter at night once all thi gets by." 
Crosby looks good in prac
tice, but return Still uncei1:ah 

PITTSBURGH -Sidney Crosb enjoyed his best and most demand ing practice since injuring his rigi­ankle, skating at full spee Monday and spinning off several 1 -.,. the gee-whiz passes that only a elite few NHL playmakers ca make. 
Crosby was without the yellov no-contact jersey he first wor when he resumed practicing wit the Pittsburgh Penguins last weel There was no sign that linemate Ryan Malone and Colby Armstron were slowing down to accommc date their still-healing teammate. 
For now, though, it was only tease. 

While Crosby looked to be i ­game shape, last season's NH scoring champion and MVP cat tioned that he isn't ready to retur from his high ankle sprain -an he isn't certain when he will be. 
r--------------------~-­
page 14 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, February 19, 2008 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY IS INVITED TO ATTEND A MEMORIAL MASS ASWE MOURNTHE LOSS OF 

TIMOTHY AHER 
2ndYear Law Student 

CONNOR McGRATH 
Sophomore 
BASILICA OFTHE SACRED HEART 
Tuesday, February 19, 2008 
10:00 p.m. 

Rev.Joh_p !.jenkins, C.S. C., Presider Rev. Mark L. Poorman, C.S. C., Homilist 





Tuesday, February 19, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 


B
ecome a Jesuit Volunteer for a one year 
commitment in the U.S. Have the opportunity to: work and live among those who are poor and marginalized; live simply and in community with other Jesuit Volunteers; examine the causes of social injustice; integrate Christian Faith. 
APPLY ONLINE TODAY! 
www. jesuitvolunteers.org 

PGKidd shipped to Mavs 
New Jersey acquires two draft picks, five players in blockbuster 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Jason Kidd is headed to the Dallas Mavericks after all, although in a trade that's slightly different than orig­inally arranged. 
The new deal -as reported by various media outlets Sunday night, all citing anonymous sources -has Kidd and forward Malik Allen going to Dallas for point guard Devin Harris, center DeSagana Diop and swingman Maurice Ager, plus a few new pieces: retired forward Keith Van Horn and Trenton Hassell. 
New Jersey also will get two first-round draft picks and $3 million. 
Van Horn and Hassell replace Jerry Stackhouse and Devean George. Stackhouse's presence in the deal was muddled by plans to get him back to Dallas -within the rules, although in a way the league frowned upon ­and George used his veto power to block his involvement. 
The reconfigured proposal is expected to be offered for league approval Monday. If all goes as planned, Kidd could make his return to the team that drafted him when the Mavericks play in New Orleans on Wednesday night. 
"There's a lot of talk that the deal is done," Kidd said after Sunday's All-Star game in New Orleans, where word of the trade broke. ''I've heard that before. Until I get a call from Rod [Thorn] or Mark [Cuban], then it will be official." 
A spokesman for the New Jersey Nets declined comment at the game. 
If all goes as planned, Kidd will be back in the Western Conference by the time the All­Star break ends. 
Kidd spent the first 2-plus sea­sons of his career in Dallas. The Mavs drafted him third overall in 1994 and he was the NBA's co­rookie of the year in '94-95. He was traded to Phoenix in December 1996, then went from the Suns to New Jersey prior to the 2001-02 season. He helped the Nets reach the NBA finals his first two seasons, but they haven't made a long playoff run since . 
The Mavericks have been among the NBA's top teams the last few years, but have fallen short of a title. They're trading Harris' promising future in hopes that Kidd, who turns 35 next month, has enough tenacity and leadership to push them over the top. 
Dallas has been eyeing Kidd for a while. Team owner Mark Cuban may have sped up the process after seeing other top Western Conference teams make pivotal additions. 
This deal seemed done earlier last week until George whacked it. Stackhouse's talk of being bought out and re-signing with the Mavs also didn't sit well with league officials. 
The big winner in this is Van Horn, who has been out of the league the last 1 1/2 seasons. 

Announcing the Year 2008 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gin: fi·om the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2008 annual competition ft:>r travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover aU expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a fonTtal progran1 of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have co1npleted at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study ofltalian language, literature, and culture; and· must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended prograrns for foreign study include, but are not limited to: l...t!yo1a University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy HalL 
. 

Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1)  an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals;  
3)  a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved;  
5)  two letters ofrecommendation  
6)  a transcript showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list of other sources of tlmding (being sought or confirmed) for the stu11e project  
(i.e. Office oflntemational Studies, Nanovic Institute, etc.)  

Application Deadline: \Vednesday, Februat·y 27~ 2008 Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notre Dame 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 19, 2008 
CLUB SPORTS 

Equestrian captures crown at Purdue Invite 
Skiing finishes second at MCSA Regionals; Bowling struggles at Hoosier Classic; Men's volleyball goes 3-2 
Special to The Observer 
Equestrian 

Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
registered its first IHSA high 
point performance this wcek­
fmd at the Purdue Invitational, 
with a first-place total of 31 
points. 

Krista .Jorws, Heather LaDue 
and .Jennifer Cilardi swept 1­
2-:{ in tlw intermPdiatP flats 
as .Jon11s qualilil'd for region­
als with her performancn. 

Kelly Daniels rode to a lirst­
place standing in novieo 
fnncns, with tPammates Sarah 
Bakor (third), Andrna Kodwrt 
(fourth), .Jones (firth) and 
Maryellen l'rzyblinski (sixth), 
in t.lw ewnt. DaniPis also took 
second in novice nat. leading 
tnammali'S Kochnrt (third), 
Baker, Courtrwy Klostnrnwn 
and Laura Hale tied for fifth, 
and Maria Cardoso in sixth. 

The otlrnr Irish ridor to gar­
nnr a first place was (;ina 
Camarata in advanced walk­
trot-canter. Laura Divnl and 
Nicole Obersdunied finishnd 
fourth and sixth, respectively. 
In walk-trot. Katrina Stewart 
and Laura Tirhe linishnd sec­
ond and third, respectively, for 
the Irish. 

LaDue led the club with a 
second placl) in intormndiate 
fences as (;ilardi and Brittany 
Gragg tied for fifth. snd1ring 
valuable points for the dub. 
Tiffany Olinr competed in 
bPginner walk-trot-canter to 
complete the Irish showing 
Skiing 

A pair of freshmen led the Irish at the MCSA Hegionals at Marquette, Mich .. this week­end. 
Christopher Knoedler led the men's squad to a sevtHJth­place finish among 19 teams, and Justine Nurnane's sixth­place finish led the women to a matching seventh-place showing. Kevin Dacey and captain Steve Feutz were the other top finishers for the men. 
Sarah Hauenhorst completed lwr carenr in flnp, style with a top-25 finish. while Stephanie Vossler also placed high enough to secure the Irish standing. The snowboarding squad compPted on a chal­lenging giant slalom course. The men worn paced by Oliver Short, .Jdf Kroon and Tim O'Brian, and the women's top finisher was freshman Erin 
M(~Neill. 

This was the final event of the season for the club. 
Bowling 

Notre Dame finished 52nd in the lloosi11r Classic this week­end. The closely bunched team was led by captain Niek Manicri with a 148 average, while Jam11s Breen and Becky Caplns wore just a pin behind at 14 7. Allie llnnslcy rolled a 137 avnragn and teammatns 
C.J Kaltenbach and Lindsey Zimmerman also contributed to the seoring. 
Lindenwood and Saginaw, tlw No. I and 2 teams in the country, tied for first in the strong lield. 
Men's volleyball 

Notre Damn travnl11d to AIIPndaiP, Mirh .. this weekend for a tournanwnt that includ­ed tPams from all over Michigan and Ohio. 
After dropping the first game 17-25 to Baldwin­Wallaee, the Irish stormed back to grab the seeond and third games, dosing out the match 25-22, Hi-14. 
In the second match of the 
day, the Irish took on 
Miehigan-B and struggled for 
most of the game before 
pulling out a win 29-27, 25­
21. 
In a non-pool play match with no ramifications on the tournament, the Irish strug­gfml to find their rhythm early against Purdue. Despite an early lead. tlw Irish couldn't stave off a game point at 24­2:{, and Purdue took over, win­ning tlw mateh 23-25, 19-25. 
As the quarterfinals of thn gold bracket began, the Irish had the No. :{ send owing to their two victories in the morning matches. Thny took on sixth-sended Michigan-A, and ran out to a big lead in game one with outstanding play from middle hitter Mike Nnjedly and outside Ted Grossestreuer. 
The Wolverines would not be denied in the second game, storming back to win 19-25. In the third gamP., right side Daniel Hinzler stepped up and cracked multiple kills down the line and sophomore setter Bryan Winther ran the offense to perfection, leading to an Irish victory in the match, 25­18, 19-25, 15-11. 
Western Michigan was up next in the semifinals, match­ing two 3-1 teams. It became obvious quickly the Irish had all of the momentum after their third-game victory over Michigan, and they used that to their advantage in a big 25­19 win in game one on the backs of the two Jasons: jun­ior middle Jason Gott and freshman outside Jason Healy. Both had timely blocks and h ugc kills in both the first game and the second game, as tlHl Irish again pulled away, winning and moving on to the finals, 25-19, 25-20. 
The finals pitted rival and host Grand Valley Statp, against the young Irish squad. 
The Irish jumped out to an early lead, but the Lakers clawed their way back in to tie it at B. 
In a back-and-forth match, the play of both middles, Gott and Nejedly, as well as libero Peter Balestracci, was crucial, and all three stepped up to thP. task. Balestracci dug ball after ball, frustrating the Laker hit­ters, and the two middles boomed blocks. 
After tying the gamP. at 22, the Lakers went on a small run to eek out a first-game victory 2~-23. 
The second game was much of the same. The Irish again pulled out to an early lead only to sec the Lakers chip away at it. In the middle of game two, the Irish defense had its only P.xtended laps11 of the match and struggled to side out the strong Grand Valley jump servers, giving the Lakers a 22-161ead. 
This would· not be the end of the Irish, however, as they stormed baek to dose the gap to 23-22. Arter trading sidP.­outs, the Lakers finished the game with a big kill, sending tlw Irish home in defeat 25­23, 25-23. 

fl~ ~~ 8reo.~ 'fJill 
~\ eJ  · .~ ~r.S: ~ore 'IOU~ rt'  
Make your Appointment Today  
?J.~o~~~o~  


Minut\\?:5. fro-m campus at 
1639 N.ironwood Or. 
I 

SYMPOSIUM 
Vice Presidents of Sales and Directors (all DOMERS) from Google, YouTube, MySpoce, 
both sides of media markets
and Starcom 
companies using the media agencies selling them
Room 122, Mendoza College of Business 
Wednesday, Feb. 20 5-7pm, ·· incredible interview talking points PIZZA DINNER INCLUDED!!! general business knowledge 
Media communications are ever-changing and of 
increasing importance in the separate good interviews from great ones! business world, and YOU need to be kept in the loop. 
Tuesday, February 19, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Invite 
continued from page 20 
par for the day, tied in 12th overall. 
Junior Lisa Maunu birdied her final hole to shoot a team­low 7 4 in the second round. Along with her first-round 77, she finished at 7-over-par and ed for 16th overall. 
Freshman Katie Conway contributed scores of 79 and 
76. finishing at 11-over-par for the tournament. 
After shooting an 84 in the first round. sophomore Annie Brophy cleaned up her game, shooting a 75 in the second round. Brophy finished the day 15-over-par. 
Sophomore Kristin Wetzel rounded out the Irish squad, finishing 19-over-par on the day. After struggling in the first round with a team-worst 
85. she bounced back with a 78. 
The Invitational concludes today, with the third and final round starting at 8 a.m. 
Contact Mike Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
Rutgers 
continued from page 20 
The Scarlet Knights' (20-4, 10-1 Big East) offense, which McGraw said is "slower than you'd guess," is second-to-last in the conference and aver­ages only 61.1 points per game. They make up for it 
with their defense, how­ever -ranking No. 2 in the Big East in scoring defense with 
51.1 points allowed per game. 
Despite its low scoring totals, Rutgers has offensive 
bench perform­ance. In a 71­

"We're going into this so defeat of game as an South Florida Saturday, the
underdog. We can just 
Scarlet Knights'

play hard and see 
r e s e r v e s 
what happens." outscored the Bulls' bench 31-3. No oppos­
Muffet McGraw 
ing bench has
Irish coach 
outscored Notre 

firepower at the guard posi­tion. Sportswriters recently voted senior Matee Ajavon, who scores 12.5 points per game, a finalist for the Nancy Lieberman Award, given to the nation's top point guard. Sophomore Epiphanny Prince leads the team in scoring with 
14.2 points per game. "I think Matee is just sensa-
li£J!!ID 
Graduate Students 
The Nanovic lnslilule for European Studies provides grants and fellowships for graduate students studying contemporary Europe. 
Research & Travel Grants up to $5,000 
Dissertation Fellowships up to $15,000 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 29, 2008 

For more information, call 631-5253 or visit wwvv.nd.edui~nanovic. · 
Dame's bench this season, and McGraw said she expects the back-ups to be strong again tonight. 
"Our bench has done a great job all year," she said. "And that's been our strength, so we're really counting on our bench to step up in this game." 
The reserves proved crucial in Notre Dame's 79-67 win 


VANESSA GEMPISfThe Observer Sophomore point guard Melissa Lechlitner dribbles up the court during Notre Dame's 81-66 victory over Pittsburgh on Feb. 10. 
tional. She's going to be a first-round draft pick," McGraw said. "And Epiphanny Prince is having an incredible year. If she hadn't been in foul trouble that first half of the Tennessee game, that would have been a whole different game." 
Rutgers will challenge Notre Dame (20-5, 8-3) in an area the Irish usually dominate ­over Syracuse Saturday. Sophomore guard Melissa Lechlitner came off the bench and hit two shots in succes­sion in the final three minutes to help the Irish break a 64-64 tie and pull away for the win. 

"Those two field goals she had [were] really, really big, and I thought [freshman for­ward] Becca [Bruszewski] had a couple of big ones too, and [freshman guard] Brittany [Mallory] in the first half," McGraw said. "I think the bench is really doing their job." 
McGraw sounded pleased both with her team's perform­ance during its five-game win streak and with the opportuni­ty to play another top-five team. 
"We're playing with a lot of confidence, and we have absolutely nothing to lose," she said. "We're going into this game as an underdog. We can just play hard and see what happens." 
Although she didn't discuss the issue at length with her team, McGraw said the play­ers felt the same way. 
"I think they're thinking the same thing," she said. "We're the underdog, they're a great team. I think we know how good they are, we certainly respect their talent, but we also feel like we've had a chance to play some other Final Four teams, so we're not going to be intimidated." 
Note: 
+ McGraw said senior guard Tulyah Gaines is probable for tonight's game after injuring her left shoulder against Syracuse. 
"We'll have to see how she gets through practice [Monday]." McGraw said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 






Tuesday, February 19, 2008 


VANESSA GEMPISfThe Observer 
Senior catcher Sean Gaston makes contact during Notre Dame's annual Blue-Gold game on Oct. 17, 2007. 
Spring 
continued from page 20 
bring them back. Our work 
ethic this ofT-season has been 
excellent. There's a sense of 
purpose around here." 
With the new season comes 
a group of fresh faces, and 
many of the Irish coaches are 
excited about the incoming 
freshman class. Several 
recruiting Web sites labeled 
the dass one of the top-five in 
the nation. 
Freshman Influence 
"We got a little bit of every­thing in this group," Schrage said. "We needed to improve our team rathnr quickly and this class is going to help us do that. We got some power pitching with !Brian! Dupra, some speed with !Golden] Tate, and some powflr with [Matti Scioscia." 
Schrage said several fresh­men could play early in the season. One of the names he mentiom~d was that of infield­er Mick Doyle, who could spell some Of the V!lterans because of his solid defensive tech­nique and his ability to hit for contact. 
Freshman catcher Cameron McConnell probably will con­tribute early becausn of the nend to have a rotation of backstops. lin looks to fill in for fifth-ynar snnior Sean Gaston. 
But with youth comes a pric1~: Thn Irish count only seven seniors on the roster. 
"We're very innxperienced," Schrage said. "Any time you have to pitch four freshmen, who knows what will happen. This group is very talented though, and has been fea­tun~d in national showcases in high school. We're just exeited to see how they do out there." 
The group of seniors has taken it upon themselves to turn this youth and inexperi­ence into something that can lw harnessed as a positive on the field, Schrage said. In particular, Schrage credited his three captains.-Gaston, outfielder Hoss Brezovsky and !'atcher Chris Soriano -with providing strong leadership for the freshmen. 
Pitching 
While much of the roster is young, the Irish pitching staff is deep with n~turning starters. Junior David Phelps returns af'ter a breakout sea­son in which he became only the second Irish hurler to record 100 strikeouts (102) and post an EHA undPr 2.00 

(1.88) in the same season. 
Paired with Phelps is senior ace Wade Korpi, who brings a change of pace to the mound as a southpaw. Although Korpi struggled with his con­sistency last season, his fall workouts showed promise. 
"We're a balanced team," Schrage said. "Last year we didn't have a lot of depth, but this year we do. It helps our team get better because there's always someone push­ing you to perform your best. Our pitching is pretty deep. I'd say that's definitely our strength." 
Notre Dame also returns junior closer Kyle Weiland. The junior made some mechanics adjustments to minimize throwing across his body. lie features a fastball that ranges in the low-90s, but fools opposing batters with his biting breaking ball. 
Schrage is pleased where Notre Dame stands heading into the season. 
"We're a little under the radar now," Schrage said. "All of the coaches in the Big East picked us to finish fifth. I think that's just fine, because I know that we have the determination and pride to bring the trophy back to South Bend where it belongs." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at 
lreyes@nd.edu 
C.l.e~.l..a.nd Rd.. South Bend, IN 466 3 7 l574' 272-81...1...0 Fax: l574' 272-81...1...4 
HmT _ cppj _cOli't 
Bogeys 
continued from page 20 

are just trying to get the rust out of their games. We have had a couple of high rounds that have hurt us, but I have overall been impressed with how they have performed so far." 
When asked what his team needs to do to improve over the long run, Kubinski said Notre Dame needs more tournament experience. 
"I think it is just a matter of getting a few rounds under our belts," Kubinski said. "With one or two tourna-
The Program of Liberal Studies 

TAlhy a Great Books Education? 
PLS Alums & S~uden~s Speak Ou~ Tuesday,Feb. 19~h 7:00-9:00 PM Co-Mo Lounge 
Featuring: 
Kevin Becker (Duff Capital Advisors. Partner & Chief" Investment: St:rat:egist:) 
TJ & Emmeline (Schoen) D'Agost:ino (Inst:it:ut:e Cor Educational Init:iat:ives, Programs Coordinator; ACE Leadership Program, Assistant: Director) 
Jay Dunlap (Author, Raising Kids in t:he Media Age; Sacred Heart: Apostolic School, Teacher) Erin Flynn (ND Web Group. Content: Strategist:) 
Sean O'Brien (Not:re Dame La-w School, Assistant: ProCessor; Center f'or Civil and Human Rights. Assistant: Director) 
Margaret: Culhane (PLS I Biology) 
Anna Curt:is (PLS I ALPP) 
Julia Vogelheim (PLS Senior) 
ReCresh:rn.ents & Conversation 
Best Value 1n To,vn Collle See Why.' 
,... Incho.r/ Out-cho.r Tennis a:.nJ Ba..s.ket-ha:ll 
,... Free Ta:.nning 
,... Heat-ed Pmn 
,... Hela.:zing Jacuzzi 
,... Gat-ed Ctun.m unil'y 
,... Ctun.m unil'y Business Cenl'er 
,... N~ Applical'io.n Fees for St-udenl's 
,... Cl~se l'~ everyt-hing___ far frtun ~rtlinary! 
ments, I think we will be ready to compete at a high level after spring break, in Arizona [at the National Invitational Tournament March 23-25] and Georgia [Schenkel E-Z Go Invitational March 14-16]." 
Sophomore Doug Fortner, who leads the Irish this sea­son with a 72.77 stroke aver­age, also shot a 73, with two eagles on the day. He is at 3­over for the tournament. The leader, Georgia State's Joel Sjoholm, is currently five­under par. 
The Irish have faced some tough competition at the tournament, where 10 of the nation's top 50 teams are 
competing. Notre Dame has held its own and is in a posi­tion to overtake Florida tomorrow, with some strong rounds from the entire team. 
"We need to have all five guys in play, making sure they play solidly. It would be an accomplishment to finish above a top-1 0 team such as Florida in February in warm climate," Kubinski said. 
The tournament finishes today. The Irish do not have another tournament for two weeks, when they travel to California to compete in the USC Collegiate Invitational. 
Contact Pete Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu 

Tuesday, February 19, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 



MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

LIZ MURPHY and SARAH MUSCARELLA 
WILLSHORTZ 

BLAcK DoG 
LOLLERSKATES 
People at a party 
(that you don't ever want to be) 
ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 First secretary of 62 Economy-_ 
homeland 63 Don't exist Desktop folder. 
e.g. security 64 Sidewalk stand 33 _ Lingus drinks
5 John Candy's old comedy 34 Quito's land: 65 Raison d'_ 
show Abbr. 66 Sheriff's symbol 35 Co. that owns
9 Williamof_, 67 Abominable Parlophone
known for his Snowman records 68 Circus barker 
"razor'' 36Z's

14 Bay of Pigs Down 
40 Tolkien locale Minuteman, e.g.: 

humanoid

15 Rock's Motley Abbr. 41 Many want-ad 
2 Make perfect 
offerings: Abbr. 

16 He didn't give a again
43 Play for a sap

damn 3 End piece?44 "I amused!"
17 Fedora feature 4 "Hello" sticker 46 What you really
18 Boot from office 5 Burn with an iron
saw? 19 Angora and 
6 Defoe castaway 50 "Super!"
merino 7 Keister 
51 N.R.A. part: 20 What you really 8 Challenge to
Abbr. saw? 

Congress52 What you 9 Big Brother's
23 Sonora snack thought you saw creator
24 Pass by 58 Tiny hairs 10 Bach work 
28 What you really 61 "Scarface" star, 11 Corp. V.I.P.
saw? 1932 12 Turner Field 
locale: Abbr. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

13 See 25-Down 21 Hall's singing partner 
22 Pooped 
25 With 13-Down, Pa. range 26 Grow sick of 27 Make into law 28 Part of a nun's 
habit 29 Blue-pencil wielder . 30 Judge of sex and violence in films 
DIDIER LEWIS 

Puzzle by MALIA JACKSON AND NOAH SNYDER 
31 Swarm member 45 Grade lowerers 32 Flinch, say 47 Get wider 
37 Peeved and 48 Refrigerator showing it 
adornment 38 Grp. helping 
49 St. Francis's 

those on shore homeleave 
53 "If be so 39 hole in 
bold ... " (corrodes) 
54 Pantyhose 42 Web recreation shade 
55 Summon to court 56 Poet Pound 
57 Fiddler's tune 58 It may have a medallion 
59 Roth 
60 Had charge of 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.corn/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

Jlf!JJW&T1LE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LUFEK 

rJ b
1 
@2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
~~~f;~_..t I J 
tBEWOLB t
IJ I J 
www.jumble.com 

C.AN BE= HE=ARD 
AT A SNOOTY 
GARDE=N PARTY. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: "(liiiI I J" CII I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: CRAWL FOAMY VORTEX MYRIAD Answer: What the college student faced when he went to the dentist -AN "ORAL" EXAM 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Joseph Gordon-Levitt, 27; Paris Hilton, 27; Bryan White, 34; Billie Joe Armstrong, 36 
Happy Birthday: There should be lots of changes this year. Once you accept the in­evitable, yon will excel. Look for new beginnings and show your worth and you will find peace in your new direction. This is a year to move on. Yoirr numbers are 12, 17. 28,29,37,46 
ARIES (March 2l-April19): Emotional matters will surface if you aren't careful what you say at home. Take the day to pamper yourself and play with friends. Work­ing on something that will benefit you professionally will help occupy your mind. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The more receptive you are to what others say and do, the further ahead you will get. A project or hobby that interests you can be taken a step closer to whereJou see it gomg. A serious look at a relationship you are in or considering will lea to a decision. 4 slars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Attend a conference or trade show or engage in con­versation with someone who has great ideas or similar interests. Don't let an older in­dividual discourage you from pursuing your dreams. Follow your heart. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): Change is in the works and, like it or not, you must carry on and follow through. Once you have put things behind you, you will benefit from the alterations made. You will learn something new about yourself and your habits. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Ang. 22): A risk is evident so protect your interests if you want to come out unscathed. Don't be fooled by someone's boasting. Take a wait-and-see atti­tude about putting your own money or reputation on the line. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Set the standard and speak of your fmdings. ideas and intentions. It won't be long before someone joins your fight to make reforms or to get things done. You will have an open invitation that you should act upon quickly. 4 stars 
LfflRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let your emotions get the better of you. Stick to your beliefs without making a big deal out of what you want to do. As soon as you are too open or accommodating, others will take advantage of you. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Follow your heart, your dreams and your desires and refuse to lei any negative influences take hold. Now is not the time to give in. You have too much to lose and so much to gain. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be able to fool most people but some­one will be on to what you are doing. Be careful not to stretch the truth or to take ad­vantage of someone who is in a vulnerable position. Act fairly and honestly. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll be pulled in different directions. Your emo­tions will cause you to waffle; give in to someone who wants your undivided atten­tion. Think about your relationships with others and which are worth keeping. 3 
stars 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): You must take action, set the stage and be the one to make the plans and follow through. You will get what you want and make a lasting impression with your friends, colleagues and loved ones. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If you let your jealousy or temper take over, you will miss out on something good. Love is in the picture, so take a passionate approach 
and you will get altogelher different results than if you are demanding. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are emotional yet steadfast and true to the people and the be­liefs you care about. You are clever, ingenious and emotional. You are strong and 
loyal. 

Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comjor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 


-
-
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, February 19, 2008 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
1}ust stingy' 
Rutgers another foe poised for deep run in NCAA Tournanzent 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Notre Damn has aln~ady faced thnw pott~ntial Final Four teams this season in No. 4 Maryland, No. I Connecticut and No. :{ Tnnnessen. 
Tonight, they face a fourth. 
The No. 14 Irish, who left for Piscataway, N.J., aftPr practice Monday, will. play a No. 5 Butgers team that beat previ­ously undefeated Connecticut on Feb. 5 and might have knocked ofT then-No. 1 Tennessee on Feb. 11 if' not for a eontroversial clock malfunc­tion. 
Despite the difficult games earlier in the season, coaeh MuiTet McGraw said this will be Notre Dame's toughest yet. 
"One, it's on.the road; and two, tlwy're, I think, a hotter team than Tennessee," McCraw said. 
Md;raw said the key to suc­cess against the Scarlet Knights is simple. 
"We have to shoot the ball well," she said. "They're just stingy, darn it, they really don't likn to give up a lot or points. 
"W1~'vn got to take earn of tlw ball. wn'w got to got good shots, and we've gotta make them. We have to shoot tho hall well because wn're not going to gnt a Jot of sncond­chancn opportunities." 
see RUTGERS/Page 17 


ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

-
Irish start slow, enter final round in seventh 
Freshman Park is 12th overall, now leads team 
By MIKE BLASCO Sports Writer 
Early struggles landod No. 20 Notre Dame in a tie for snvonth in a field of 15 at tho Central Distriet Invitational in Parrish, Fla. 
The Irish stumblnd out of the gatP, post­ing a team srore of 315 in the first round Saturday, 
h u t 

Park
rPspondt~d 
with a socorHI-round :wo to 

-
finish with a rombirwd st:oro of (Jl 5. :~ 1)-ovPr-par. !lost No. 
2] Miehigan State loads with a comf'ortabln 14-stroke lead, finishing with a 13-ovnr-par 589. 

Tho lield tightens up consid­erably behind the Spartans, with the socond through sixth teams separated by only nine strokes. 
No. 14 Kent State is in sec­ond, nnding the day with a 27­over-par 603. No. 25 Texas A&M and No. 37 Ohio Stato are tied one stroke behind that; Ohio State's 296 was the lowest team round of the day. No. 31 Texas rounded out the top five with a 31-over-par 607. 
First-round shortcomings f'ollownd by seeond-round improvPnwnts werP the order of tlw day for Notre Dame, with each golfer either match­ing or improving her l'irst­round scorns. 
F1'1' s h rn a n S o -II y u n P a r k , who loads the Irish with a 
72.53 scoring average. shot 75-75 and l'inished at 6-over­
see INVITE/Page 17 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish putts lipping out in Florida 
By PETE REISENAUER Sporrs Writer 
Josh Sandman was five inches away from moving his team four spots up in the standings Monday at the John Hayt Collegiate Invitational in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. 
But the junior shot a 73 on tho day with a few tantaliz­ingly dose bogeys. 
Those bogeys, according to coach Jim Kubinski, would have given Sandman a 68 on tho day and catapulted his team up in the standings from its current No. 15 position. 
Sandman's 73 was "better than the av1~rage on the day," Kubinski said. The junior's close misses gavo his coach hope for Tuesday's final­round action. 
"We are within six shots of a half-dozen teams," Kubinski said. 
Kubinski was impressed with how his team performed this weekend -its first tour­nament of the spring season -after having limited prac­ticfl at home dufl to weather conditions. lie noted that there was only one other northorn team at the tourna­ment this wnnkend Indiana. 
"Given where we are at this point in the season, I think we are doing a nice job," Kubinski said. "The guys are eompeting against all warm elimate teams down here, and 
see BOGEYS/Page 18 
BASEBALL 

New faces bring optimism 
Improving on 28-28 record remains focus 
By LORENZO REYES Sporrs Writer 
In baseball, each spring represents a chance at redemption. 
For Notre Dame, the upcoming season will be just that -an opportunity to reelaim its position as one of the Big East's elite squads. Coming oft' of a middling 28-28 season in his first year with the Irish, coach Dave Sehrage said thero is an emerging sentiment of renewal and resolve in the locker room. 
"I think thoro's a lot of pride in tho clubhouse," Schrage said. "Thcr·e are somn players here who have won Big East champi­onships and they want to 
see SPRING/Page 18 






