
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 68 FRIDAY, JANUARY 18,2008 

College's five-year plan propagated 
President Mooney's 'strategic plan' underway after unanimous Board of Trustees vote 
By KATIE KOHLER Sainr Mary's Ediror 
After a unanimous approval at the Board of Trustees' meeting in October, Saint Mary's College President Carol Ann Mooney's "Strategic Plan" for the College has now been finalized, published and distributed to students, facul­ty and alumnae through the quarterly College magazine The Courier and on the College Website. 
The five-year plan, which includes a series of goals and rec­ommendations for the College, is now underway, executive assis­tant to the president Susan Dam peer said. 
The document, entitled "Plan to Leadership 2012," is Mooney's five-year strategic initiative for the College to enhance Saint Mary's national reputation and academic credentials. The Board of Trustees approved it after their first meeting of the academic year, in October. 
"The trustees approved the plan unanimously and were very pleased with the way it turned out," Dampeer said. 
Mooney announced plans for the initiative in her College Forum address in August 2006 and held 12 one-hour sessions throughout the fall to explain the plan to the College community. 
A committee was later formed, which included the President's Cabinet, four faculty members, a trustee, the director of institution­al research, the chief information officer, a staff representative and a student representative. Within the committee, there were sub­committees including Academic Initiatives, Student Initiatives and Resource Planning. 
Since their October meeting, Mooney made some changes to the plan, as suggested by the trustees. Most of these changes, however, were minor. 
"Dr. Mooney took the board's suggestions, but most were with the format, not with the content," Dampeer said. 
Mooney pitched the finalized plan to California alumnae between Thanksgiving and Christmas and received more positive feedback, Dam peer said. 
"The plan is clear and easy to understand. There isn't a lot of fluff and it's all things we can realistically accomplish," she said. 
While Mooney customized her plan for the College's present sit­uation, she is not the first College president to enact a five-year plan. Former College President Marilou Eldred created a similar plan during her administration. 
"It was in the natural progres­sion to do [a plan] again," Dampeer said. 
Some of the goals of the plan include making Saint Mary's more nationally recognized as one of the best colleges in the nation, diversifying the campus, stabilizing and growing enroll­ment and increasing financial resources. Each of the goals is followed by Mooney's recommen­dations to fulfill them. 
While some of the goals are lengthier than others, they all have similar priorities, Dampeer said. 
"Several of the goals will be happening simultaneously," Dampeer said. "There are certain people responsible for each goal -when it will happen, how long it should take and how much it will cost. This way we can make sure things happen." 
The plan is tailored to fit in the five-year window, but many things, such as financial aspects, 
see PLAN/page 3 



SMC students return from abroad 
Women experience fall semester academic programs in a trio of European countries 
By KRISTEN EDELEN 
News Writer 
Forty-two students have returned from a semester abroad in Italy, Ireland and Spain, while 29 of their class­mates who are studying abroad for the full academic year remain overseas. 
The Saint Mary's Rome pro­gram had a fall 2007 enroll­ment of 51 students, with 12 of them staying for the academic year, and 4 7 students joining them putting enrollment at 59 for the spring semester. 
"For the past 37 years, 
returnees have invariably remarked that studying in Rome is indeed a life-changing experience," Peter Checca, Italian professor and director of the Rome Program said. 
He believes the program's strengths are the interdiscipli­nary aspect of classroom instruction and on-site visits, as well as the connection between courses and Italian culture. 
Lisa Anderson, a junior who returned to the College from Rome, agrees with Checca and says she especially enjoyed her Italian cinema class. 
see SMC/page 4 



MLK Day sees increase in student enthusiasiTI 
Saint Mary's students plan celebration of leader's life, 40 years after assassination 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
In March 2007, then-Saint Mary's student body presi­dent-elect Kim Hodges shared her dream for the future of the College, while talking about her hopes for the Diverse Students Leadership Conference. 
"I have a dream about the way campus should be, how it should look, and how students should be educated. I'm proud to be a Saint Mary's woman," she said. 
One major thing that is working into Hodges' vision is the increasing enthusiasm with which the birthday of the Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. is being celebrated this year, she said. 
"It's just amazing to see how things are working into that vision," Hodges said. "I really feel like God is moving things forward the way that they should be and the College is moving forward in leaps and bounds." 
April 4 marks the 40th anniversary of King's assassi­nation. 
This year, instead of a series of various scattered events held by different groups on campus, these groups will be uniting under the newly­formed Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday Steering Committee. 
The committee -led by the director of the Office of Multicultural Affairs, Larisa Olin Ortiz -is comprised of various faculty and staff on campus. 
"In the past what we had, our office had a program and campus ministry had the memorial service. This year we're coordinating all of that," Ortiz said. 
Activities will stretch over Monday, the national holiday, 
see KING/page 3 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

One club sport not squashed 
~[)students engage in squash events, matches 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
When most people hear the word "squash," they think of a dish passed around the table at Thanksgiving. For a growing number of Notre Dame students, however, squash is a sport that has grown into a passion. 
"People think it's a veg­etable," said Randy Rainosek, a member of the Notre Dame Squash Club. "It's such a great sport though." 
Squash Club treasurer Pedro Gochicoa agreed, say­ing that squash players get to travel, meet a lot of people and get exercise in an excit­ing way. 
Squash is a sport similar to racquetball and is somewhat popular in the northeastern United States. At the college level, nine players compose a squash team, with each play­er engaging in a one-on-one match with a player from the opposing team until one team has won five matches. Professionally, squash is an individual sport like tennis. 
Many Ivy League schools have varsity squash teams, leading to a belief that play­ing squash gives competitive edge to college applicants at top-tier schools. 
"We do field a lot of e-mails from high school applicants wanting to play squash here," said Javier Palomo, the club's vice president. "They'll send us their resumes, and we have to tell them we can't help them get in; ~e're not a varsity sport yet. 
The Notre Dame Squash Club has been around since the 1980s, Rainosek said, but "it disappeared for a while." In 2003, the club made a major comeback under the leadership of past president James Zhang. 
"The club was pretty weak for a while; James Zhang and Geoff McCuen really brought it back," Gochicoa said. "James Zhang started infor­mally recruiting his friends to join in his sophomore year." 
That style of attraction remains. The club does not formally recruit, nor does it hold try-outs to join. 
"You're not required to have any level of skill to join the club," Palomo said. "We 
see SQUASH/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, January 18, 2008 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Dude, vvhere' s tny bike? 
Fortunately, my Clover Hidge apartment was spared during the barrage of burglaries over winter break. 
My beloved pink bike, however, was not. 
The ultra­Mary Kate Malone bright two­wheeler was Assistant stolrm some­
Managing Editor 
time between 

Dee. 18 and .Jan. 15 from a bike rack outside 
llesburgh Library. 

You might call me careless for leaving the Pink Lady outside the library for such a long period of time. But who would have thought someone would take what wasn't theirs with Touchdown .Jesus watching'? 
The saddest part of my story hap­pened Wednesday, when I spotted my bike leaning against a construc­tion fenee near Stonehenge. I ran to it, hopped on board, and rode ofT. With a full day of classes ahead and no lock for the bike, I decided to "hide" it behind a fence post near Alumni llall. When I returned a few hours latcH". it was gone. 
It's only mildly 11attering that my bike is sueh a coveted item. Though rusty and old, it boasts an extra large seat, giant handlebars, and even an odometer. I broke the news to my mother, who loaned me the bikn, ynsterday. She's upset (it was a spedal present from my always well-intentioned father when she turned 40). and I'm in a lot of trou­ble. 
So please, whoever took my bike, bring it back. I work (some would say live), at the Observer office in the basement of South Dining Ilall. Park the bike outside and turn yourself in. l promise l won't put a mug shot of you on the front page. 
This might be a futile plea, but I've had good luck in the past when my belongings have been lost or stolen. For example, when I was 14, l unknowingly dropped my wal­let in our local mall's parking lot. I had been saving up my babysitting money for months and had jour­neyed to downtown Columbus for a big day of spending at City Center Mall. I didn't realize my wallet was missing until a few hours later, and when I returned to the parking lot to look for it, the blue and black wallet was nowhere in sight. I was teary-eyed the whole way home from the mall. 
But, as it turns out, very nice peo­ple had found my wallet. Noticing my high school ID card inside, they kindly mailed it to Bishop Watterson Iligh School the very next day. I was called to the front office, and there was my wallet in a manila envelope with a note from "Some Friends" who had wanted to be sure it got back to me. 
So here's the deal, bike-snatcher. Be a good friend and give the Pink Lady back. Pretty please? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives lor the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE jjFAMILY Guy" MOMENT AND WHY? 







Andrea Jacobson  Cory Hakanen  John Fullard  Liz Lefebvre  Richie Davidson  
sophomore PW  sophomore Sarin  sophomore Knott  junior Badin  sophomore Knott  
"The FCC song.  "When Stewie  'VVhen Mayor  "When Stewie  "The chicken  
It goes to every  says: 'Imagine  West rolls around  practices for the  fights, because  
outrageous  the dance I'm  in nuclear waste  Olympics and  they reference  
Family Guy  going to have to  to get special  crashes into the  great movie  
moment in about a minute  do to get our insurance  powers like the Griffins.' It's silly  glass case.... Uh-oh!"  fights like ,Indiana Jones.  
and a half"  deposit back."'  because it's  
realistic out of  
nowhere."  

IN BRIEF 
The film "Miss Navajo" will be shown tonight at 7 and 10 in Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Preforming Arts Center as a part of the Worldview Series. Direetor Billy Luther will be present. Ticket<> are $6, $5 lor faculty/stall', $4 lor seniors, and for $:1 all students. 
Men's and women's indoor track will host the ND Indoor Opener tonight at 5 at the Loftus Sporl<> Center. Admission is free. 

Men's swimmimg will host Louisville Friday tonight at 5 in Rolfs Aquatic Center. Admission is free. 
The Student Activities Office and the Freshman and Sophomore Class Councils will host a Retro Video Dam~e Party tonight from 9 to midnight in the LaFortune Ballroom. Admission is free. 

The Student Aetivities Offiee is hosting free ice skating in the Joyce Center this Saturday from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. The free skating will be followed by a showing of the Will Ferrel film 'Blades of 
Third time Isn't a charm case, both Warren and boomerang arrived in the Glory' in the Montgomery LYNDONVILLE, Vt. -her second husband were post. Along with it was a 
Auditorium of LaFortune at Stacie Warren wasn't sat­charged with bigamy note from a guilt-ridden 
11:30 p.m. isfied with one husband, because the man also was American who said he so police say she married already married to some­stole it years earlier from 
The men's tennis team will play again and again. Warren, one else, police said. a museum in the mining 
matches against Toledo Sunday at 33, was cited last week on Warren apparently mar­town of Mount Isa, and 
6 p.m. in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. a second charge of ried one man, then moved now felt rotten about it. 
Admission is free. bigamy for having three out, and married another "I removed this back in husbands. State police without getting divorced, 1983 when I was younger 
The film "All About Eve" will said Warren married Field said. He said pre­and dumber," said the 
be shown in Browning Cinema in Frank Gray last year scription drug abuse may note, according to Mount 
the DeBartolo Preforming Arts while she already was be a factor in the case. Isa Mayor Ron 
Center Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets married to two other McCullough. "It was the 
are $6, $5 for faculty/staff, $4 for men. Boomerangs really do return wrong thing to do, I'm 
seniors, and $3 for all students. Vermont State Police BRISBANE, Australia -sorry, and I'm going to Trooper Callie Field said Boomerangs really do send it back," said the 
To submit information to be 


WU YUE!The Observer 
Junior David Seibel plays a video game as part of the "Family Guy" trivia con­test in the LaFortune Ballroom Thursday night. 
OFFBEAT 

Warren married a third come back -even after note. included in this section of The time two months after 25 years. Officials in an Obseruer. e-mail detailed informa­being charged with Australian Outback town Information compiled tion about an event to bigamy in 2007. In that were surprised when a from the Associated Press. obsnews@nd.edu. 
TODAY TONlGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
a:: 
UJ 
:::c 
~ 
UJ 
3: 
..... 
cs: 
(.) 



0 

HIGH 25 HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH 20 22
.... 

LOW 3 LOW LOW LOW LOW 10 13 






Atlanta 53 I 36 Boston 44 I 30 Chicago 30 I 17 Denver 29 I 6 Houston 50 I 41 Los Angeles 69 I 44 Minneapolis 7 I 3 New York 45 I 34 Philadelphia 45 I 37 Phoenix 60 I 36 Seattle 43 I 35 St. Louis 36 I 23 Tampa 73 I 60 Washington 47 I 34 
--------------------------------------------------------,_,. 
Friday, January 18, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
the march. She is expecting 20-25 students, faculty and
King 
staff to attend. she said. "I just encourage the stu­continued from page 1 
dent body to come out and see and Tuesday -and involve a what's going on and to become variety of faculty, staff, stu­involved in the experience," dents and student organiza­she said. tions. Included on Monday are Hodges, who is currently a a Martin Luther King, Jr. and member of the Sisters of civil rights movement display Nefertiti and served both as to be held at secre­noon in the tary in Student h e r Center fresh­
"!just encourage the student 
Atrium fol­m a n
body to come out and see
lowed later year and by a what's going on and to become presi­Memorial dent her
involved in the experience. ·• 
March for sop ho­Peace. m o r e The dis­Stephanie Steward-Bridges y e a r, 
play will advisor was very include support­
Sisters of Nefertiti 
give-a-ways. bookmarks and quizzes that are designed "just to cre­ate more awareness" and to be interactive, Ortiz said. 
The march. which is organ­ized by the Sisters of Nefertiti. will commence from the Student Center Atrium at 6 p.m. 
Participants will hold can­dles and listen to Martin Luther King, Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech, to be read by various people, including President Carol Ann Mooney and several students. 
The idea for doing the march came from the advisor to the Sisters of Nefertiti, Stephanie Steward-Bridges, who is also on the Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday Steering Committee, Boone said. 
Boone has high hopes for ive of 
Boone, 

whom she says is like a little sister to her. 
On Tuesday, there will be another Martin Lither King, Jr. and civil rights movement dis­play in the Student Center, fol­lowed by "Martin Luther King, Jr.: Past, Present and Future" in the lower level, an Interfaith prayer service in the Student Center Lounge. The event will feature videos, round-table discussions, and a choral reading of his "Letter From a Birmingham Jail." 
The Interfaith Prayer Service for Justice and Peace is not a new event to the Martin Luther King, Jr. Day celebrations on campus, said Regina Wilson, assistant direc­tor of Campus Ministry. Wilson is heading up the planning of the prayer service and is assisted by religious studies professor Stacy Davis. 
"For a number of years, Campus Ministry has been responsible for coordinating the annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Interfaith Service for Justice and Peace which is something that the planning committee very much wanted to continue," Wilson said. 
"Our interfaith prayer serv­ice has been and will continue to be an important part of the campus commemoration of Dr. King." 
The prayer service seeks to bring together persons of vari­pus, certain classes will be studying Martin Luther King, Jr. themed lessons on Monday or Tuesday and will open their doors to the entire campus. 
In an 11-mail s~mt out to Saint Mary's students on, political science professor Marc Belanger announced that six classes would be made available to the student body on those days. 
The events and activities ar-e something Hodges expressPs pride in. 
"Specifically here I am a minority and [Martin Luther King, Jr. Day] being celebrated 
ous faiths and creeds in order to pray "When you plant seeds together, she 
into individuals and
said. 

into an institution, it 
"We have felt that, can do nothing but toward the 
grow and I'm really, 
end of his 
really proud ofthat.,
life, Dr. King really grew to see the call to Kim Hodges unity, peace 

Saint Mary's 

and non-vio­

Student body president 
lence as a universal call -I feel very proud about that," said Hodges, who is black. 
Her vision for Saint Mary's is b e i n g expressed vividly in the planning and effort that went into next week's celebra­tions, she said. 
"Even more 

which transcends race, creed or nationality," she said. 
The service, which includes different religions, will have several different prayer lead­ers this time around. 
"This year we are pleased and honored that community representatives from the Baha'i, Muslim, Jewish and Christian faiths will be leading prayer and we will have a Buddhist student and Jewish faculty member also leading parts of the service," she said. 
In addition to the various events to be held around cam-
so with the dream that I had about the college, knowing that actual events and actual concrete plants are already here I feel like I've planted a seed in someone here in the college so that when I leave ... it will continue," she said. "When you plant seeds into individuals and into an institu­tion, it can do nothing but grow and I'm really, really proud of that." 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Plan 
continued from page 1 
retention and beautifying the campus arc ongoing. Dampeer said. 
Although a chosen body reviewed the plan this year, it will also be reviewed every year in order to kePp it as a "living docu­ment," as Mooney described in the plan. 
"The committee will be fresh each year by virtue of the fact that people leave their positions, we hire new people, and the students change," Dampeer said, 
Currently, the committee has more than 20 members -includ­ing administration, faculty, stafi and senior Maggie Siefert. 
Several initiatives are already underway. The College is current­ly working to increase enrollment, and a committee has been formed to change the general education requirements of the College. 
"Nothing happens that fast, and there certainly hasn't been any­thing dramatic since October," Dampeer said. "But things are starting and some are clearly moving." 
Dampeer, along with other members on the planning com­mittee, are optimistic about the success of the plan. 
"Sometimes you work really hard, but things just sit on the shelf," she said. "But this is a liv­ing document that is already mov­ing forward." 
The full text of the Strategic Plan can be found on the Saint Mary's Web site. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO1@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 18, 2008 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
Rome Program said. 
He believes the program's strengths are the interdisciplinary aspeet of classroom instruction and on-site visits, as well as the eonneetion between courses and Italian culture. 
Lisa Anderson, a junior who returned to the College from Rome, agreed 

style living experience oflered by the Rome program, Healy lived in mmplete cultural immersion with a host family. 
"I loved living with my host fami­ly and was able to greatly improve my Spanish because of it," Healy said. "Since all of my classes were taught in Spanish, I am now able to understand fluent Spanish and have much more confidence in speaking it." 
The idea of a language barrier was not a problem for sophomore Katie Ineich, who 
with Checca and returned to cam­
"/ loved living with 
said she especial­pus from a semes­
ly enjoyed her my host family and ter abroad in Italian einema was able to greatly Ireland. 
dass. "I picked Ireland 
improve my Spanish
"I saw the because of the fact 
because ofit. '' that they speak
effects of World War II on Italy English and I've [through film and always wanted to
Maureen Healy 
lectureI and that go to Ireland,"

SMC sophomore 
was a Ineich said. 
new per­speetive for me," Anderson said. She eredits her family roots in Italy with sparking her decision to participate in the Rome program. 
Sophomore Maureen Healy's deeision to study in Spain was made with a more academie pur­pose in mind. 
"I chose the Spain program because one of my majors is Spanish," said Healy, who is also majoring in business. 
Four Saint Mary's students stud­ied in in Spain for the fall semester, said Gerald Gingras, eoordinator of the Spanish section of the Department of Modern Languages. One returned and three will remain for the spring semester as well. Also, 18 more students joined the program for the spring semester. The students study in Seville. 
Different from the four-star hotel 

Without a lan­guage barrier, students can partici­pate fully in student life at the National University Maynooth, where Saint Mary's students live and attend classes, said Karen Chambers, Saint Mary's Ireland program director. 
Nineteen students participated in the 2007 fall semester, 14 are staying the entire year, and on January 29, eight more students will arrive in Maynooth for the spring 2008 semester, Chambers said. 
Ineich says her experience at the large university, located 20 miles outside of Dublin, led her to a greater appreciation for the small­er atmosphere of Saint Mary's. 
But, she said, ''I'd go back in a heartbeat. 
Contact Kristen Edelen at kedeleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Squash 
continued from page 1 

definitely encourage people to join no matter what their skill level at Squash." 
Squash, although similar to racquetball, is tougher to master, Palomo said. 
"One thing about squash that makes it different from racquetball is that the ball doesn't bounce as much," said Palomo. "You have to practice a little more to start really having fun with it." 
The squash team will be competing in the West Coast Round Robin from Feb. 1-3 at the University of Southern California. The squad will also compete at the national championships at Harvard from Feb. 15­17. 
Recently, the Squash Club has gained prestige both on and off campus. It won best club of the year in 2007, and past president James Zhang won best president in 2007, as well. The club won the "emerging teams" competition at Princeton in 2006. 
"I never played squash before I got here," Rainosek said. "I played tennis, and once it got too cold to play outside, I start­ed playing squash." 
"It's a great sport; we definitely encourage people to join," Palomo said. 
Contact Theresa Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
Special to the Observer 

Stephen A Perla, superintendent of schools for the Catholic Diocese of Worcester, Mass., has been appointed the first director of Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) Consulting Initiative. His appointment becomes effective in June. 
"ACE is committed to strengthen­ing and sustaining under-resourced Catholic schools," said ACE founder Rev. 11mothy R. Scully, C.S.C., direc­tor of the Institute for Educational Initiatives at Notre Dame. "This new consulting initiative is one more effort to ensure that our Church's educational ministry remains strong and vibrant. With Steve's experience and passion for Catholic education, ACE Consulting will address many of the most pressing needs in Catholic schools from coast to coast. I am very grateful to the diocese of Worcester for the gift that they are making to our efforts to strengthen and sus­tain Catholic schools nationally." 
Before becoming the superin­tendent of Catholic schools in Worcester in 2004, Perla served for more than 10 years as the founding executive director of the Parents Allianee for Catholie Education, a Massachusetts group which advo­cates on behalf of students and Catholie schools. He also has served in a variety of admini<>trative positions in higher education and as mayor of Leominster, Mass., from 1988 to 1992. As a member 
ACE consulting group names its first director 
of Notre Dame's national Task Foree on Catholie Education, he contributed to the report it pub­lished in December 2006, "Making God Known, Loved, and Served: The Future of Catholic Primary and Seeondary Schools in the United States." 
Emphasizing the challenges fu.c­ing contemporary Catholic educa­tion, the report recommended that Notre Dame undertake 12 "strate­gic initiatives," among them the establishment of ACE Consulting to provide admini'it.rators and Catholic school advocates with "high-quality, affordable consultative guidance in marketing, strategic planning, investing and other areas essential to school success." 
Founded in 1994, the Alliance for Catholie Education supports a vari­ety of programs serving Catholic schools in the United States and abroad. Central to its mission is the preparation of teaehers and leaders for service in Catholic schools. While earning a master in education degree, approximately 180 college graduates serve annu­ally in schools in 32 communities. The ACE Leadership Program was begun in the summer of 2002 to train qualified and faithful prinei­pals for Catholic schools. Notre Dame trains more Catholic school teachers and leaders than any other institution of higher educa­tion. With the publieation of "Making God Known, Loved, and Served," ACE hopes to expand its commitment to serve the Catholic Church's educational rnini<>try. 
Rttjidvv.Now! 
Mt3C;R 60? 1 0 8AUG-C~021 0 

This one credit-hour course will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society during the next decade. A series of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts. business.nd.edu/tenyearshence 
SeNe;v /2eNo€ufw~ 
Erik Peterson, Senior Vice ProsirJont anci Director. GidJal Strateqy institutr~, 
geo&~Jio~ cuui 7~: 7he-7~ o6 :J~ 7~ ~ 411/ ff1ucd :Jtw~ 
t-<aror, Hunt ArYno(J, Department ot Finance, DePaul University 
7h& fconotvt~ o6 :JI'VtJVU.tj~~ cuui :JI'VtJVU.tj~~ Po~ 
C3cor~.K3 Bo8as, !-<.or1r·1t::dy ~:)cr·K>Oi of c:>~iV()rnrnont, H·::.~rvarU Unrvermty 
Co~weJ'Iiio~ o~ tJu-geolu.i Cofvtlno~ 
.JiJmes Cui!li~:y::ln, ~v4anaQin<J 1:)11ector. Coritro for Global ~~O(:JOtiations ~.'or·y:.\f''g SJt'r~ n.-(.-:<'·ir.Jr.:.)r·yj· •:l·l·v·i c-'C:::() ll C)' r-··h;.::>rr·,hcy lrl<:;it'·t, Jlr:.~ ·li->r •) 1-:·:tl
'\...:Jt;, . .-I~1!LA.! \.. I·\.. --.../!!\..,\,;! r! .A.. .''~ ....J~.,. .... :•, f •• I••. A •.JL... 1. •• : ••-: ...... \.•./: !..,.,;., k./~..J. .............. .\..1 \..,.> ••••• 1...1 
gw.tv ~ tJu-"MMJ G€c,4 ", bul wd£ if~ iJt, ~&? 
Ar,:-Y· Thompson, Cr·ticf r.:~nvironrfK)nlr!i C:\~lrrespr:r(·t.;r,i, f'JF~C >Jews 
7eJWJJU,iin: Looki.~uj .Afu.a.J., 7hMWJ~ P~ o~ ~ PMt 
(~E·.)nltJr.' F:norov 
'·· ..... i Y ....... •::J.1 
Rev Edvv.::u-d (fVlorJI-<,) f\.:1c=J.iioy, C S C:., P!e:::Jr:Jr-::r·lt Emeritus, Univer-sity of [\Jotr-e Darno 
'Ten Years Hence" is listed as BAUG-3021 0 and MBGR-6021 0, and is open to all Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students, and Saint Mary's students. There are no prerequisites to enroll. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. You are expected to attend all lectures and be prepared to engage speakers. No unexcused absences. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course. This course requires no textbook purchases, examinations or term papers. Use an add form to register; registration is not available online. 

ORLD & NATION 
Friday, January 18, 2008 CoMPILED FROlvt TI--lE 0BSERVEitS WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Islamic extremists seize Pakistani fort 
DERA ISMAIL KHAN, Pakistan-In an embarrassing battlefield defeat for Pakistan's army, Islamic extremists attacked and seized a small fort near the Afghan border, leaving at least 22 soldiers dead or missing. 
The insurgents later abandoned the fort and melted away into the hills, said military spokesman Maj. Gen. Athar Abbas. "There is no occupation of the Sararogha Fort. Militants have gone from there," he said. 
The militants did not gain significant ground, but they did further erode .confidence in the U.S.-allied government's ability to con­trol the frontier area where the Taliban and al-Qaida flourish. 
At least 9 dead in suicide bombing 
BAGHDAD -A female suicide bomber struck black-clad worshippers preparing for Shiite Islam's holiest day, killing at least nine Wednesday in an attack that highlighted insur­gents' widening array of tactics against a U.S.­Jed offensive in key areas on Baghdad's doorstep. 
A witness said people shouted slogans against al-Qaida in Iraq as they carried the dead and wounded from the blast scene near a market­place in Diyala province -a region of farmland and palm groves northeast of Baghdad that holds strategic havens for extremists. 
Diyala remains one of Iraq's most violent regions and is a main battleground for U.S. and Iraqi troops trying to overwhelm al-Qaida strongholds in the capital and elsewhere around the country. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
listeria outbreak linked to dairy plant 
BOSTON-Investigators probing the source of a listeria outbreak said Thursday the strain that killed three people was found at a dairy process­ing plant in central Massachusetts. 
But officials have not yet determined exactly where the milk was contaminated. 
"We know that there's a problem in that plant and we have connected the patients to the prod­ucts to the plant, now it would be nice to know exactly how that happened, but that is part of the ongoing investigation," said Dr. Alfred DeMaria, state director of communicable disease control. 
Three elderly men have died since June after drinking bacteria-contaminated milk from the Whittier Farms plant in Shrewsbury, about 35 miles west of Boston. The same strain of listeria sickened a pregnant woman, who then miscar­ried. A second woman also was sickened after drinking milk from the plant. 
Man charged for killing police officer 
DECATUR, Ga. -A second man was arrested in the apparent ambush slaying of two officers at a crime-ridden apartment complex, and police were searching for at least one more suspect, authorities said Thursday. 
Deanthius Jamal Johnson, 28, of Decatur, was taken to the DeKalb County jail and charged with two counts of murder, county Police Chief Terrell Bolton said. Herbie Deshawn Durham, 32, was charged with two counts of murder Wednesday night after a massive search that involved SWAT teams, police dogs and a helicopter. 
Bolton made another appeal to the public Thursday for information about the officers' slayings, and issued a warning to those still at large. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Bill to keep Great Lakes water supply 
INDIANAPOLIS -The state Senate unani­mously passed a bill Thursday calling for Indiana to join a regional compact intended to prevent water-thirsty states from tapping into the Great Lakes' water supply. 
The bill, which passed the Senate 47-0, now heads to the Indiana House for consideration. 
Sen. Beverly Gard, R-Greenfield, said both the state's business community and environ­mentalists have expressed "overwhelming support" for her bill. 
She said drought-stricken states are already seeking to purchase water from the Great Lakes, which between them hold about 20 percent of the world's supply of surface fresh water. 
UNITED KINGDOM 
19 injured during crash-landing 
British Ainvays plane was arrivingfrom Beijing at Heathrow Airport; investigation continues 
Associated Press 

LONDON -A British Airways jet from Beijing car­rying 152 people crash-land­ed Thursday, injuring 19 peo­ple and causing more than 200 flights to be canceled at Europe's busiest airport. 
Investigators will speak to the pilots and study the plane's flight data recorder and maintenance records to determine what caused the crash-landing at Heathrow 
. airport, tearing the plane's underbelly and damaging its wings. Nothing suggested it was terror-related, Scotland Yard said. Timothy Crowch, an avia­tion analyst with 35 years of experience as a commercial pilot, said the landing gear punched through both wings, indicating a "massive vertical impact." That suggests a total loss of engine power may have been the cause, he said. Robert Cullemore of Aviation Economics, a London-based aviation con­sultancy, said the pilot kept the plane in the air long enough to prevent a disaster. "If it had landed 200 meters (656 feet) shorter than it did, it may have hit perimeter fence and obvious­ly some other buildings and the car park, clearly we would be dealing with fatali­ties and obvious damage," runway, witness John canceled -nearly a fifth of The Boeing 777 was rela­Cullemore said. Rowland told the British the day's flights, airport oper­tively new at six years old, Fire trucks surrounded the Broadcasting Corp. ator BAA said. Planes were Walsh said, adding the pilot Boeing 777 after it landed, "It crashed into the run­able to take off and land on was one of BA's most experi­spraying fire retardant foam way, debris was flying every­Heathrow's northern runway, enced having worked for the around the aircraft. Two of where, there was an enor­air traffic control company company for nearly 20 years. the plane's giant wheel units mous bang and it skidded Nats said. Some flights were Passenger Jerome Ensinck were ripped from the craft sideways," he said. diverted to other airports. told the BBC that he at first during the landing and could Hillingdon Hospital said it The Air · Accident thought the plane had made be seen on grass near the was treating 13 injured, and Investigation Branch was a hard landing. runway. six went to other hospitals. investigating, British Airways "There was no indication Passenger Paul Venter said British Airways said one per­Chief Executive Willie Walsh that we were going to have a the trouble started as the air­son suffered a broken leg. told reporters, adding the air­bad landing," he said. "When craft was about to land. The accident on one of line didn't want to speculate we hit the ground it was "The wheels came out and Heathrow's two runways on the cause. The U.S. extremely rough." went for touchdown, and the occurred just before a plane National Transportation "Then the emergency exits next moment we just carrying British Prime Safety Board also said it was were opened and we were all dropped. I couldn't tell you Minister Gordon Brown and a sending a team of investiga­told we should go through as how far," he said. delegation of business lead­tors to help. quickly as possible, and the "I didn't speak to the pilot, ers, including Virgin It was the first accident moment I was away from the but I saw him, and he looked Chairman Richard Branson, involving the Boeing 777, a plane I started to realize that very pale," Venter said. was about to depart for mainstay of many carriers' the undercarriage was away, The plane's wheels China. The prime minister's fleets, since the plane entered and we had missed the run­appeared to collapse as it plane was about a half mile service in 1995, said Boeing way, Ensinck said. came down in the grass in away. spokeswoman Liz Verdier in "Now I realize I've had a front of the airport's southern More than 200 flights were Seattle. close call," he said. 

10 nurses face child endangerment charges 
what defense lawyers say is an come true.
Associated Press unprecedented use of criminal law in a "Coming to the United States is like labor dispute. If convicted of the misde­the fulfillment of your nursing career," RIVERHEAD, N.Y. -For months, the meanor offenses, they face up to a year said Maria Theresa Ramos, who nurses complained that they were sub­in jail on each of 13 counts, and could arrived on Long Island in 2004. ject to demeaning and unfair working lose their nursing licenses and be The nurses are backed by several conditions -not what they were deported. Filipino organizations in the U.S., as promised when they came to America The case has unfolded against the well as both the New York· and from the Philippines in search of a bet­backdrop of a chronic nursing shortage California state nurses associations, ter life. So they abruptly quit. in the United States. All of the defen­which fear prosecuting nurses who But in doing so, they put more than dants were from the Philippines, which quit their jobs could set a bad prece­their careers at risk: Prosecutors hit exported 120,000 nurses last year. dent. them with criminal charges for alleged­One defendant was a doctor back Prosecutors say the nurses' resigna­ly jeopardizing the lives of terminally ill home and a top scorer on the country's tions -without notice -on April 7, children they were in charge of watch­medical board exams, but decided it 2006, jeopardized the lives of children ing. was more lucrative to be a nurse in the at Avalon Gardens in Smithtown, The 10 nurses and the attorney who United States. Others had respectable where some of the patients are on ven­advised them were charged with con­medical jobs back home and viewed tilators and required constant monitor­spiracy and child endangerment in their work in New York as a dream ing. 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 18, 2008 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Friday, January 18, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow .Jones  12,159.21  -306.95  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
493  71  2,853  1,303,935,041  
AMEX  2;24.6:~6 ·· · ~42:721  

NASDAQ 2,346.90 -47.69 NYSE 8.818.95 ,.254.48. S&P 500 l ,333.25 -39.9,A.. NIKKEI (Tokyo) .l$.i7$:a;45 ··• Q,QQ 
FTSE 100 (London) 5,902.40 -40.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -2.59 -3.55 133.43 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -1.39 -0.64 45.41 CITIGROUP INC (C) -4.88 -1.28 24.96 INTEL CP (INTC) -2.77 -0.55 19.33 
Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE -1.94 -0.072 3.640 13-WEEK BILL -1.97 -0.060 2.980 30-YEAR BOND -1.55 -0.067 4.253 5-YEAR NOTE -2.58 -0.077 2.902 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.71 90.13 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.50 880.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.73 84.20 
Exchange Rates YEN 106.4600 EURO 0.6830 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0298 BRillSH POUND 0.5072 
IN BRIEF 
Construction down 24.8% since 2006 
WASHINGTON -The steep slump in housing intensified at the end of last year, pushing home construction down by the biggest amount in nearly three decades. 
Analysts forecast more bad news in the months ahead with the big question remaining whether the housing slump will be severe enough to push the country into a recession. 
The Commerce Department reported Thursday that construction was started on 
1.353 million new homes and apartments last year, down 24.8 percent from 2006. It was the second biggest annual decline on record, exceeded only by a 26 percent plunge in 1980. 
The year ended on a weak note with con­struction dropping by 14.2 percent in December and applications for new building permits, a good indicator of future activity, falling for a seventh consecutive month, indi­cating that activity will be weak at least through the spring of this year. 
Directors reach contract with studios 
LOS ANGELES -Hollywood directors reached a tentative contract deal Thursday with studios, a development that could turn up the pressure on striking writers to settle their 2-month-old walkout that has idled production on dozens of TV shows. 
"Two words describe this agreement ­groundbreaking and substantial," said Gil Cates, chairman of the Directors Guild of America's negotiations committee. "There are no rollbacks of any kind." 
Among other things, the three-year agreement establishes key provisions involving compensa­tion for programs offered on the Internet. 
That issue has also been a key sticking point between striking writers and the studios, which broke off talks on Dec. 7. 
In announcing the deal with directors, the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, which represents studios, expressed hope that it would help end what it called an extremely difficult period for the industry. 
It also called on the writers guild to engage in informal discussions to determine if there was a reasonable basis for returning to the bargaining table. 
House contemplates tax rebate 
Federal leaders hope money will increase consumer spending, stave off recession 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -You could find hundreds of extra dollars in your pocket later this year, and the govern­ment is hoping you'll go right out and spend it. 
Tax rebates are emerging as a key element of a plan to stave off recession, endorsed by President Bush, congres­sional leaders and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke on Thursday. 
The idea is that if people spend more it will pump up the economy, which has been showing dire signs of falling into the first national recession since 2001. Democratic and Republican leaders in the House are eyeing rebates in the range of $300 to $800 a person. 
All the talk of rescue efforts failed to soothe Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrials plunged 306.95 points Thursday, underscor­ing deepening concern about the country's econom­ic health. 
The sudden scramble to take action came as fears mounted that a severe hous­ing slump and a painful credit crisis could cause peo­ple to clamp down on their spending and businesses to put a lid on hiring. 
President Bush told con­gressional leaders privately couples a possibility. Bernanke voiced his sup­it right away, he said, he favors income tax rebates The president did not push port for a stimulus package though he added that for people and tax breaks for a permanent extension in an appearance before the research shows affiuent peo­for businesses, officials said. of his 2001 and 2003 tax House Budget Committee. ple also spend some of their Bush spoke with congres­cuts, many of which are due He stressed that it must be rebates. sional leaders as House to expire in 2010, one offi­temporary and must be He declined to endorse aides worked behind the cial said. That would elimi­implemented quickly -so any particular approach, but scenes on an emergency nate a potential stumbling that its economic effects he did say he preferred one package that could also block to swift action by could be felt as much as pos­that would not have a long­include more money for food Congress, since most sible within the next 12 term adverse impact on the stamp recipients and the Democrats oppose making months. "Putting money into government's budget deficit. unemployed. the tax cuts permanent. the hands of households and Bush and congressional 
Lawmakers and aides Bush planned to lay out firms that would spend it in leaders from both parties involved in the talks said his position Friday, but he the near term" is a priority, consulted via conference call participants were discussing wasn't expected to go into he said. Thursday for about 30 min­options including tax rebates specifics. Press secretary Especially important is utes. Both sides basically of at least $300 for individu­Dana Perino said he would making sure a plan can put were in agreement that they als and likely more -with demand that any package be cash into the hands of poor needed to cooperate to do rebates of $800 for individu­effective, simple and tempo­people and the middle class, something quickly, Perino als and $1,600 for married rary. who are most likely to spend said. 

NYSE buys Amex, ending old rivalries 
options and other financial products. ness, and will meld the Amex's floor
Associated Press 

The Amex, which once hosted the into its own. Electronic trading of 
likes of big-name stocks such as The Amex-listed options and ETFs would 
NEW YORK -The New York Stock New York Times Co. and The be done on the NYSE's Archipelago Exchange on Thursday agreed to buy Washington Post Co., now trades gen­platform. the American Stock Exchange, end­erally smaller companies that are Shares of NYSE Euronext rose ing a once intense rivalry that began often too illiquid to meet the stan­$2.33, or 3.3 percent, to $73.40 in in colonial times when brokers trad­dards of bigger rivals. after-hours trading after it closed ed in outdoor markets. NYSE Euronext said it would pay Thursday at $71.07. 
Both exchanges have battled for Amex's seatholders, who are general­Though many had long expected corporate listings and bragging rights ly members that trade at the the Amex to be swallowed up by a since the early 1900s, with their trad­exchange, $260 million in stock. In larger rival, traders who have ing floors just a short walk away from addition, they would receive more worked on Wall Street for decades one another in Lower Manhattan. stock after the sale of the Amex's were still stunned. It marked the lat­Newspapers around the country all landmark building on 86 Trinity est exchange to go silent in the past listed the stock swings on the nation's Place -an art deco building it few years, following the lead of two dominant markets, until moved into in 1921 that sits only names like the West Coast's Pacific investors began paying more atten­blocks away from the World Trade Exchange. tion in the 1990s to technology issues Center site. "You have such a heritage that's on the upstart Nasdaq Stock Market. The deal will give NYSE Euronext a involved in this. In a time of need, I 
Their evolution took a very differ­second U.S. license for an option think all that heritage -people are ent path -with the Big Board form­exchange. It would make the NYSE willing to throw the books into the ing NYSE Euronext to become the the nation's third-largest player in fire," said Robert Smith, chairman world's first trans-Atlantic exchange. the $1.3 trillion options marketplace. and chief executive of Smith Affiliated The Amex, unable to compete like it The NYSE has been looking to Capital in New York, who has worked once did, began to focus on trading move further into the options busi-on Wall Street for 50 years. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 18, 2008 
Babysitler charged intoddler's murder 
Police report one-year-old was found with bruises, other injuries after his death last week 
Associated Press 
ELLINGTON. Conn. -Julie 
Adkins-Gasque nev1~r worried 
when her 1-ymtr-old son sport­
nd a fr~~sh bruise. lie just 
played rough with the baby 
sitter's son, she thought. 
Yet there was the working mom on Thursday, burying her boy, Elijah Gasque, in a freez­ing graveyard and trying to understand how he wound up with a fractured skull in the care of tho 25-year-old sitter, Yalines Torres. 
"What. did he cry too mueh for her'? I don't know why she would do it," Adkins-(;asque said after the funnral. ''I'm angry. I'm confused. I'm blank sometimes. I miss my son." 
A judge in Hartford arraigned Torres on a murder charge Thursday and set her bail at $1 million. Authorities allogn tho ehild died last week­nnd after his head smacked a door frame as she ran around with him slung over her shoul­der in a slnoping bag. 
A family friend, Mayra Velazquez, said she was stunned by tho arrest. 
"She's a good mother," Velazquez said through an intnrpretnr. "She takes care of her kids." 
Adkins-Gasque said she met Torres two months ago through a friend and asked her to watch her son as much as rive days a week. She noticed fresh bruises on him four or live times, but Torres I'Xplairwd that Elij<Lh fought with her son over a toy. 
"I thought she was lotting her son got out of eontrol," Adkins-(;asque said. "I thought that's just the way it was." 
Last Thursday, Elijah came home with a fresh bruise on his forehead. his mother said. But she ldt her son with at Torres' apartnwnt in Ilartford again Friday because she had to work and couldn't find or afford a different sitter. 
Aceording to a poliee report, Torres called Adkins-Gasque at work that night and told her that Elijah had a snizurn and collapsed during a game of ring-around-the-rosy. 
When officers arrived, Torres made eonllicting state­ments to them about the injury, saying her 2-ynar-old son struek him in the head with a toy xylophone, and that Elijah may have been hurt when he fell after shn twirled him in tho air and set him down, the report states. 
After morn questioning, Torres said the child was injured in a game in which she 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
2.5 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

bundled him in a sleeping bag 
and jogged through her apart­
ment with the bag slung over 
her shoulder, acc1irding to the 
report. 
Going through one doorway, Torres lost her balance and the bag struck the door frame twiee, police said. When she opened the bag, the boy was pale and not breathing, the report states. 
The child died at a hospital the next day. The police report noted Elijah had a skull frac­ture and bleeding in the brain, and the medieal examiner's ollice ruled the death a homi­cide. 
Torres admitted she had ini­tially lied about the boy's injuries because she was afraid people would think she intentionally hurt the boy if she told the truth, police said. 
She was initially charged with risk of injury to a minor and reckless endangerment and was released on bond Tuesday. Officers re-arrested her late Wednesday and charged her with capitol felony, a murder charge that carries a possible death penal­ty or life in prison without parole if she is convicted. 
On Thursday, Hartford Sup1~rior Judge Carl Taylor granted defense attorney Claudia Jones' request to keep Torres on suicide watch at the jail. 
Jones declined comment after the hearing. 
Torres, who was shackled and dressed in jeans and a black hooded sweatshirt. did­n't speak during her court appearance, but was over­come with emotion and had to sit down. 

REO SPEEDWAGOtt 
Friday Fvbrwry Z9, ZOOS Morris Performing Arts Centczr 
Ort SALE NOW! 

Fugitives take refuge in Mexico 
Wanted criminals flee to the border, hope to avoid prosecution 
Associated Press 

SAN ANTONIO -A metham­phetamine dealer who gunned down a deputy during a traffic stop in Southern California. A man in Arizona who killed his ex-girlfriend's parents and brother and snatched his chil­dren. A man who suffocated his baby daughter and left her body in a toolbag on an expressway overpass near Chicago. 
Ordinarily, these would be death penalty cases. But these men fled to Mexico, thereby escaping the possibility of exe­cution. 
The reason: Mexico refuses to send anyone back to the United States unless the U.S. gives assurances it won't seek the death penalty -a 30-year-old policy that rankles some American prosecutors and enrages victims' families. 
"We find it extremely disturb­ing that the Mexican govern­ment would dictate to us, in Arizona, how we would enforce our laws at the same time they are complaining about our immigration laws," said Barnett Lotstein, special assistant to the prosecutor in Maricopa County, Ariz., which includes Phoenix. 
"Even in the most egregious cases, the Mexican authorities say, 'No way,' and that's not jus­tice. That's an interference of Mexican authorities in our judi­cial process in Arizona." 
It may be about to happen again: A Marine accused of murdering a pregnant comrade in North Carolina and burning her remains in his backyard is believed to have f1ed to Mexico. Prosecutors said they have not decided whether to seek the death penalty. But if the Marine Consulate in Houston, said is captured in Mexico, capital Mexico opposes eapital punish­punishment will be off the table. ment on human rights grounds 

Fugitives trying to escape the and has a partieular obligation long arm of the law have been to protect the rights of people of making a run for the border Mexiean deseent who faee pros­ever since frontier days, a prac­ecution in the U.S. tice romanticized in countless The U.S. government typieally Hollywood Westerns. pays more attention to those 
Mexico routinely returns fugi­entering the country from tives to the U.S. to face justice. Mexieo than it does to those try­But under a 1978 treaty with ing to leave the U.S. But Texas 
the U.S., Mexico,  authorities  
which has no death penalty, will not extradite any­ "If you can get to Mexico-ifyou have  have begun making cheeks of vehicles and  
one facing possi­ the means  -it's a  drivers head­ 
ble execution. To get their hands on a fugitive, U.S.  way of escaping the death penalty. "  ing south on the 25 inter­national  
prosecutors must  bridges  that  
agree to seek no more than life in prison. Other countries,  Issac Unah University of North Carolina  connect the state to Mexieo. The initia­ 
including France  political science professor  l  i  v  e  .  

and Canada, also demand such "death assurances." But the problem is more common with Mexico, since it is often a quick drive from the crime scene for a large portion of the United States. 
"If you can get to Mexico -if you have the means -it's a way of escaping the death penalty," said Issac Unah, a University of North Carolina political science professor. 
The Justice Department said death assuranees from foreign countries are fairly common, but it had no immediate num­bers. State Department offieials said Mexico extradited 73 sus­pects to the U.S. in 2007. Most were wanted on drug or murder charges. 
Lolita Parkinson, a spokes­woman for the Mexican announced in 
October, was originally intended to eatch drug smugglers taking cash or stolen ears into Mexico, but "we would hope it would be a deter­rent for fugitives" as well, said Allison Castle, a spokeswoman for Gov. Hick Perry. 
In the North Carolina case, local authorities and the FBI are working with Mexican law enforcement to hunt down Cpl. Cesar Armando Laurean, a 21­year-old naturalized U.S. citizen born in Mexico. Ilo is ace used of killing 20-year-old Lance Cpl. Maria Lauterbach in mid­December, months after she accused him of rape. 
Wanted posters and informa­tion on Laurean have been dis­tributed to the Mexiean media. 
Also recently, proseeutors in Dallas pledged not to seek the 


Friday, January 18, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Omar Bin Laden aspires to peace 
Associated Press Osama bin Laden's son, Omar, 26, and his wife ride hors­es in Claro. The son supports peaceful Islam. 

Associated Press 
CAIRO -Omar Osama bin Laden bears a striking resem­blance to his notorious father -except for the dreadlocks that dangle halfway down his back. Then there's the black leather biker jacket. 
The 26-year-old does not renounce his father, al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden, but in an interview with The Associated Press, he said there is better way to defend Islam tlian militancy: Omar wants to be an "ambassador for peace" between Muslims and the West. 
Omar -one of bin Laden's 19 children -raised a tabloid storm last year when he mar­ried a 52-year-old British woman, Jane Felix-Browne, who took the name Zaina Alsabah. Now the couple say they want to be advocates, planning a 3,000-mile horse race across North Africa to draw attention to the cause of peace. 
"It's about changing the ideas of the Western mind. A lot of people think Arabs ­especially the bin Ladens, especially the sons of Osama ­are all terrorists. This is not the truth," Omar told the AP last week at a cafe in a Cairo shopping mall. 
Of course, many may have a hard time getting their mind around the idea of "bin Laden: peacenik." 
"Omar thinks he can be a negotiator," said Alsabah, who is trying to bring her husband to Britain. "He's one of the only people who can do this in the world." 
Omar lived with the al-Qaida leader in Sudan, then moved with him to Afghanistan in 1996. 
There, Omar says he trained at an al-Qaida camp but in 2000 he decided there must be another way and he left his father, returning to his home­land of Saudi Arabia. 
"I don't want to be in that sit­uation to just fight. I like to find another way and this other way may be like we do now, talking," he said in English. 
He suggested his father did not oppose his leaving -and Alsabah interjected that Omar was courageous in breaking away, but neither elaborated. 
Although there is no way to confirm the details he describes of his childhood and upbringing, the strong family resemblance and Omar's knowledge of Osama's family life have convinced many of his lineage. 
"Omar Bin Laden is the son of Osama bin Laden and his first wife, Najwa," a U.S. intel­ligence official said Thursday, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to the media. The official confirmed Omar was raised in Sudan and Afghanistan after his father was forced out of Saudi Arabia. 
Omar and his wife insist they have not been bothered by Egyptian officials, who said Thursday that the terror leader's son did not pose a threat. 
"He comes and goes just like any other tourist," said a secu­rity official, also speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the media. "He is taking a line that is totally dif­ferent from him father." 
Omar said he hasn't seen or been in contact with his father since leaving Afghanistan. "He doesn't have e-mail,"Omar said. "He doesn't take a tele­phone ... if he had something like this, they will find him through satellites." 
Omar doesn't criticize his father and says Osama bin Laden is just trying to defend the Islamic world. 
"My father thinks he will be good for defending the Arab people and stop anyone from hurting the Arab or Muslim people any place in the world," he said, noting that the West didn't have a problem with his father when he was fighting the Russians in Afghanistan in the 1980s. 
Omar is convinced a truce between the West and al-Qaida is possible. 
"My father is asking for a truce but I don't think there is any government (that) respects him. At the same time they do not respect him, why every­where in the world, they want to fight him? There is a contra­diction," he said. 
Osama bin Laden, believed to be in hiding in the Pakistan­Afghan border region, offered a truce to Europe in a 2004 audiotape and a conditional truce to the United States in a 2006 message. In November, he called on European nations to pull out of Afghanistan in a message seen· by some experts as an effort to reach out to Europe. 
But in a series of messages since last fall, he also has been calling for Muslims to rally around jihad, or "holy war,"encouraging fighters in Iraq in particular to continue their battles with U.S. and Iraqi forces. 
At least two of Osama bin Laden's sons, Hamza and Saad, are believed to have an active role in al-Qaida -with Hamza believed to be in the Pakistan-Afghan border zone and Saad thought to be in Iran, perhaps in Iranian custody. 
Conservatives resurrect state law-
Policy allows public to launch grand jury investigations against citizens 
Associated Press 
WICHITA, Kan. -Religious conservatives have dusted off a largely forgotten 1887 state law that allows citizens to launch grand jury investiga­tions, and they are using it to help turn Kansas into one of the nation's biggest abortion battlegrounds. 
A grand jury that was impaneled Jan. 8 by way of a citizen petition drive is inves­tigating Dr. George Tiller, a Wichita clinic operator abhorred by anti-abortion activists because he is one of the nation's few physicians who perform late-term abor­tions. This is the second such citizen investigation of Tiller since 2006. 
Phillip Jauregui, counsel for the anti­abortion Life ing to a Tiller attorney. 
One of the most publicized grand juries convened by citi­zen petition was formed in Oklahoma after the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, which killed 168 people. The investigation was prompted by suspicions that Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols had help in the bombing. But the grand jury found no evi­dence of a wider conspiracy or a government cover-up. 
So far, no other state appears to have used the process to pursue a social and moral agenda as extensively as Kansas, which is attacking not just abortion, but pornog­raphy. 
Since 2005, citizen petitions have forced several grand juries in Kansas to investigate whether adult bookstores should be charged 
L e g a I Defense Foundation,  "We see in Kansas a perfect example ofa system which  w i t h obscenity. Twenty  
s a i d Kansans are invoking the  has virtually become active vigilantism.''  stores were indicted, said Phillip  
19th-century law because  Lee Thompson  Cosby, exec­utive direc­ 
prosecutors are too soft  Attorney  tor of the Nat"ional  
on abortion.  Coalition for  

"This is a right the people of Protection of Children and Kansas have given them­Families. Most of the cases selves," he said. have not been resolved. 
But others say the law is a The strategy? "To strength­dangerous tool. en the prosecutor's hand" and 
"This is a witch hunt -let authorities know that "they plain and simple," said Vicki are not alone -that we the Saporta, president of the people feel there is a very big National Abortion Federation, problem," Cosby said. an abortion rights group. "It The anti-abortion movement clearly demonstrates the rediscovered inherent danger of empower­the law when ing biased advocacy groups to D a v i d 
impanel a grand jury." Gittrich used "[The situation] clearly Tiller, accus­Normally, prosecutors it in 2006 to demonstrates the inherent ing him of 
decide whether to convene a force an not getting
danger ofempowering
grand jury to investigate investigation the signature something and bring charges. into the biased advocacy groups to of a second 
Under the Kansas law, death of a impanel a grand jury." doctor enacted during the Gilded Age Texas woman before per­and the nation's great railroad who had an forming late­
Vicki Saporta 
boom to curb political corrup­abortion at term abor­tion, the people can force an Tiller's clinic. President tions. investigation if they collect Though the National Abortion Federation Abortion wrongdoing. 
Tiller has long been at the very center of the nation's abortion battle. His clinic was bombed in 1985, and eight years later, a woman shot him in both arms. 
"We see in Kansas a perfect example of a system which has virtually become active vigilantism," said Lee Thompson, an attorney for Tiller. "A very small minority number of people who have a specific agenda can force a criminal investigation -and I think that is a usurpation of the executive power of gov­ernment.'~ 
Forcing a grand jury investi­gation requires signatures from 2 percent of the number of people who voted in the last governor's election in the county, plus 100 more names. In Tiller's county, activists gathered nearly 8,000, or twice as many as required. 
Similarly, in December, a cit­izen-impaneled grand jury began investigating a Planned Parenthood clinic in the Kansas City suburb of Overland Park. 
Then-Kansas Attorney General Phill Kline filed charges against Tiller in 2006, accusing him of performing 15 late-term abortions without the required medical justifica­tion and failing to report details to state health authori­ties. But a judge threw out the case in a jurisdictional dispute involving the district attorney in Wichita. 
Then in June, Kline's suc­cessor, Paul Morrison, 
brought new 
charges 
against 

signatures from a certain per­centage of voters in a county. In small counties, that can be a few hundred signatures; in Wichita's Sedgwick County, about 4,000. 
Five other states provide for citizen-petitioned grand juries: Oklahoma, New Mexico, North Dakota, Nebraska and Nevada, accord-grand jury failed to return an indictment, people noticed. 
Said Gittrich: "I was inspired by God to use the grand jury." 
This time, Tiller is under investigation on suspicion of violating a 1998 state law restricting late-term abor­tions. He has denied any 
opponents 
complained 

that the charges did not go far enough, and took matters into their own hands by pressing for a grand jury. 
"I am still looking for jus­tice," Gittrich said. "I am going to figure some way to get justice." 
A truly unique dining and drinking experience, 
featuring a creative blend of fusion style culinary delights with a delicate touch of Asian flavors in an exciting yet intimate setting. 
Plus, a stylish and contemporary fusion martini bar. 
CLUB NOMA 
119 North Michigan Street, Downtown South Bend. 
Reservations recommended, Go to www.clubNOMA.com. Or call: 233.4959. 
club 
NQMA 
dine drinl< + be stylish 

Directors, studios put pressure on writers 
'Groundbreaking' three-year agreement offers compensation for programs on the internet, among other things 
page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 18, 2008 

Associated Press  "extremely difficult period for our industry."  enced by the writers strike," said Jonathan Handel, an entertain­ new media over the next decade and held a series of meetings  Distributor's gross represents the amount received by the com­ 
LOS ANGELES -Hollywood  They called on the writers guild  ment lawyer in Los Angeles and a  with key studio heads to establish  pany responsible for distributing  
directors reached a tentative con­ to join in the kind of informal  former counsel to the writers  a basis for the formal talks.  the film or TV program on the  
tract deal Thursday with studios,  talks with industry leaders that  guild. "It shows all the earmarks  Gil Cates, who's been involved  Internet.  
a development that could turn up  preceded the directors' negotia­ of the improvements the writers  in union contract negotiations for  Companies are also contractu­ 
the pressure on striking writers  tions, and said the deal with  were looking for ­ but it doesn't  three decades, served as lead  ally obligated to provide the guild  
to settle their 2-month-old walk­ directors established a precedent  achieve them by any means."  negotiator for directors.  "unfettered access to their deals  
out that has crippled the enter­ for the industry's creative talent  In  the  significant  area  of  He is also producing this year's  and data," the directors guild  
tainment industry.  to "participate financially in every  streaming media, the deal falls  Academy Awards, which are  said, calling that unprecedented  
"Two  words  describe  this  emerging area of new media."  short of "fundamental fairness,"  imperiled by the writers' standoff.  transparency.  
agreement -groundbreaking  The Writers Guild of America  Handel said.  Last Sunday's Golden Globes  In their talks, the writers guild  
and substantial," said Gil Cates,  said it would evaluate the terms  However, he considers it unlike­ show was reduced to a news con­ and studios clashed over using a  
chair  of  the  of the directors'  ly the writers can get a better  ference after actors refused to  percentage of gross receipts to  
Directors Guild of  proposed con­ agreement.  cross writers' threatened picket  determine Internet compensa­ 
America's negotia­tions committee. "There are no roll­backs of any kind." Among other things, the three­ "We've been making independent deals, so we're in a negotiating mood."  tract. The guild also reiterated that it has been calling on the studios to resume negoti­ The deal with directors gives their union jurisdiction over pro­grams produced for distribution on the Internet and sets a new residuals formula for some paid Internet downloads that essen­ lines. NBC lost mil­lions of dollars in ad revenue, and award winners were deprived of  'Tm very pleased with the new agreement and I hope it helps  tion. The guild said it sought that approach but was told by the alliance it was  
year agreement establishes key pro­visions involving  Patrie Verrone Writers Guild of  ations. "We've been making inde­ tially doubles the rate currently paid by employers, the guild said. In addition, it sets residual  instant publicity that could have provided a box­ speed up the negotiations. "  an unworkable and unaccept­able formula.  
compensation for  America West  pendent deals,  rates for ad-supported streaming  office bump.  Instead, the stu­ 
programs offered on the Internet.  president  so we're in a negotiating  and use of clips on the Internet. The deal was welcomed by oth­ New media issues also were  George Clooney actor  dios offered, for example, a flat  
That issue  has  mood,"  said  ers in Hollywood.  expected to domi­ $250 payment  
been a key sticking point between  Writers Guild of America, West,  ''I'm very pleased with the new  nate negotiations  for a year's use  
striking writers and the studios,  President Patrie Verrone, refer­ agreement and I hope it helps  with the Screen  of an hourlong  
which broke off talks on Dec. 7.  ring to interim agreements the  speed up the negotiations" with  Actors Guild, whose contract  TV show on the Web.  
The writers walkout has halted  guild has reached with compa­ the writers guild, George Clooney  expires in June.  The guild balked, citing the  
work on dozens of TV shows, dis­ nies such as United Artists and  said in a statement.  The directors guild said late  $20,000-plus residual that writ­ 
rupted movie production, turned  The Weinstein Co.  Clooney has often commented  last year that it would delay the  ers now earn for a single network  
the glitzy Golden Globes show  Verrone declined to comment  on the need to resolve the strike  start of talks to give writers a  rerun of a TV episode.  
into  a  news  conference and  on specifics of the deal by direc­ to put thousands of people back  chance to come to an agreement  Also at issue for the writers  
threatened  the  upcoming  tors or compare it to what the  to work in Hollywood.  with studios.  guild is unionization of reality  
Academy Awards ceremony.  writers are seeking until he saw a  Roberta Reardon, president of  But  the  guild clearly  lost  and animation writers.  
The deal between directors and  copy of the proposed contract,  the American Federation of  patience  after  negotiations  Talks broke down after the  
the Alliance of Motion Picture and  which he expected to receive  Television and Radio Artists,  between the writers and studios  alliance demanded the guild take  
Television Producers, which rep­ from the directors guild.  which represents actors, singers,  broke off last month and the  that and other issues off the  
resents studios, was lauded by  Writers previously said direc­ dancers, announcers and others,  strike dragged on.  table, claiming there had been an  
top executives from eight major  tors do not represent their inter­ called the deal encouraging and  Among other things, the stu­ agreement to drop it.  
companies,  including  Fox,  ests.  said her guild was optimistic the  dios' deal with directors says pro­ The guild's next move may be  
Paramount Pictures Corp., The  Alliance President Nick Counter  writers guild would resume nego­ grams produced for the Internet  influenced by history.  
Walt Disney Co., CBS Corp., Sony  said in a statement that the direc­ tiations. soon.  will be directed by guild mem­ There's a lingering resentment  
Pictures Entertainment, Warner  tors' talks focused on key issues,  The directors guild was well­ bers, with the exception of low­ among members over what they  
Bros., MGM and NBC Universal.  and the result was a ground­ prepared when it started negotia­ budget shows, and payments for  considered raw deals in the  
In a joint statement, the execu­ breaking agreement for  the  tions Jan. 12.  downloaded TV programs and  1980s involving what eventually  
tives said they hoped the agree­ industry at large.  It  had  spent  $2  million  movies will be based on a distrib­ became lucrative home-video and  
ment would signal the end of an  "This deal was strongly influ­ researching the potential value of  utor's gross.  DVD markets.  

Amtrak may strike for first time ever 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Commute.rs stranded from Virginia to Massachusetts. Train service shut down at major terminals in New York, Chicago and Boston. A f1ood of extra ears on congested high­ways around Washington and San Francisco. 
Come Jan. 30, that night­mare could become a reality unless a long-standing labor dispute between Amtrak and nine unions is resolved. 
There has never been a strike in Amtrak's 36-year his­tory, and it's still likely that one will be averted, either through a last-minute deal or intervention by Congress. 
But if workers do walk out, the 71,000 people who take Amtrak every day won't be the only ones who'll suffer. Hundreds of thousands of peo­ple who ride commuter trains will join them. since many such services depend on Amtrak employees or infra­structure, particularly in the Northeast. 
The dispute involves about 10,000 employees whose last contract ended Dec. 31, 1999. After years of unsuccessful mediation, a presidential 

emergency board issued a report on the dispute Dec. 30, triggering a 30-day count­down until a strike becomes legal. 
Siding with the unions, the board recommended that wage increases be made retroactive. Amtrak, which relies on federal subsidies, is worried about whether it can afford the back pay. 
Under the Railway Labor Act, most disputes that get to this point end with a contract based on the emergency board's report. ln cases when that doesn't happen, Congress usually imposes the board's recommendations. 
Still, transportation officials across the country are bracing for the worst. 
The biggest impact of a strike would be felt around New York City, where two major services, New Jersey Transit and the Long Island Rail Road, would be disrupted. 
Just over half of NJ Transit's 740 weekday trains travel for all or part of their routes on lines owned by Amtrak; if Amtrak employees aren't at work, trains can't run on those tracks. Some 218,000 daily trips are taken on the affected lines. 
A Great Cloud ofWitnesses: Saints in the Catholic Tradition January 18-19, McKenna Hall 
On the occasion of the first feast day celebration of Blessed Basil Moreau, founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, this conference will explore the development of the canonization process and the significance of the saints in Catholic life and devotion. 
Friday, January 18 
4:00p.m. Thinking .S'erious(y about the .S'aints Lawrence Cunningham, University of Notre Dame 
7:30 p.m. J'\;faking S'aints Kenneth Woodward, Former Religion Editor, Newsweek 
Saturday, Januarv 19 
9:00a.m. All Saints: The Universal Call to Holiness Ann Astell, University of Notre Dame 
10:30 a.m. A Great Cloud ofT.Vitnesses Msgr. Kevin Kostelnik, Rector, Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels, Los Angeles 
2:00p.m. Blessed Basil Aforeau Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, Archbishop Emeritus of Washington, D.C. 
3:30p.m. Saints in Everyda_v LUe Robert Ellsberg, Editor, Orbis Books 
On Sunday, January 20, Cardinal McCarrick will preside at the Eucharistic liturgy at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 10:00 a.m. 
--By canonizing some ofthe faithful, i.e., by solemnly proclaiming that they practiced heroic virtue and lived in fidelity to God's grace, the Church recognizes the pm.\'er ofthe Spirit of holiness within her and sustains the hope ofbelievers by proposing the saints to them as models and intercessors." (Catechism ofthe Catholic Church, #828) 
Friday, January 18, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 
know no boundaries 

WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 

Upcoming World View Events  10 questions for the Dalai Lama February 1 Director Rick Ray will discuss his film Cosponsored with Kroc Institute for Peace, Center for Ethical Education, and DeBartolo Performing Arts Center  Desert Bayou February 22 DirectorAlex LeMay will discuss his film  The Kite Runner March 14  Blood Diamond AprilS Cosponsored with Center tor Social Concerns  
~UNIVERSITY OF WNOTREDAME Office of the President  /l?'lli: D E B A R T 0 l 0 '~,f!) PERFORMINGARTSCENTER  

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, January 18, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Our unappreciated democracy 
1~0. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: 'Ete Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGEit: Jessica Cortez 

An DF$1GN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLU\R: 'l'im Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sar;ardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6<)27 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 ohservad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6J 1-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@lnd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 vicwpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 
PouctEs 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudems ofrhc University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial content, including advcrrisemcms, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on coment. 
The nt-ws is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, Assistam M:maging Editors and department editors. Commenraric'S, leners and columns presem the vit-ws of the authors and not neo:ssarily those ofThe Observc·r. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.crrers to tht· Editor must be signed and must include mmact information. 
QumimiS rrgardiug Obsrruer policirs should be directed to /:!ditor in ChiefMaddie !Ianna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11''" Oh'>l'rvrr (ll.\11:"1 "')1) 1-411110) "l'uhh"IICII.'vlonJ,,y thru~h l•n.\.1}' l~~cpt tlurw~ ..-~;\Ill and Y':ll>l!i•lii)WIItltl~ A \llh~-rlplitll\111 rr .... (J!'tjjt•rvc:r ~~ ~IHfl hot Ill\(' oll.olll~·rnic 
yt>~r;$)') l(u nlll'M'IIICI!Cf 
nu: ()lno.:rver i~ ruhli~nl .1{. P<._lS'I'MN:Il'Eil. 

!ll4 '\uuth Dmut~ H.tll Send Jddrcl! cnti'C('1iml) w. 
Ntlltc O.unc. IN 4f,"!'i(l-0n') 'llu:Obscrvcr 
Pctuw.ii~.d pcllt~c p.ud ,u Nnrrt' D~mc 
.md .:~dditl<ma.lmailmg utlkc\, Dl'l South Oinin~ H.dl 

Notre Damc.IN 4M%·On9 
The o~~r ·~ .I ntcmbc:r uf the 1\uoci.ucd Pr~'-All n:pnKiULdtlll nKhl.. .arc rncrvtd. 
On Dec. 27, Benazir Bhutto was tragi­eally assassinated outside a political rally in Hawalpindi, Pakistan. Later that day, I embarked ti·om my parent's house in Northbrook, Ill. for the state of Iowa, where I would learn more about politics Bob Kessler in a few days then I 
Guest
have in any poli sci 
Columnist
elass yet. II all' a world away from 

Pakistan, I set out to film a documen­
tary about the Iowa eaueuses, but what 
I found was real. untarnished democra­cy that is seemingly taken for granted. 
Across southeastern Iowa I met with normal people who were far more involved with the politieal process than average people from other states. People like Gregory Monroe, a democrat who I spoke with at an Obama rally in Muscatine. lie had personally seen many of the candidatPs, and was strug­gling to determine who to eaueus for. I le felt that there were a Jot of great eandidates to choose from this year and was using his personal meetings with the eandidates to help him determine which person was the most honest and qualified to lead this eountry. While he felt privileged to be able to personally see all of the eandidates in Iowa, he might not have fully recognized how fortunate he was. 
Benazir Bhutto's death was hanging over my trip to Iowa. She was a former Prime Minister of Pakistan who was the first woman to lead a Muslim country. When she died, she was the leader of the opposition party, and a strong voice in bringing Pakistan back toward democracy. She died in a suicide attack while leaving a campaign rally in preparation for elections that have now been postponed due to her death. 
At campaign events in Iowa, similar to the one where Bhutto was killed, I saw leaders of what could be considered our opposition party talk about the need for change. John Edwards told a group of supporters in Tipton that he was here to fight for the working class. Barack Obama told a crowd in Muscatine that he knew how to bring change because he had been bringing it his entire life. Both men criticized the ruling party, but their lives were not in danger. 
In fact, Iowans seemed very receptive to these ideas of change as Senator Obama and former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee won the eaucuses using honest tactics to spread their ideas about change. Huge crowds turned out to their events as the candidates wore able to shake hands with hundreds of Iowans in the weeks leading up to the caucuses. People were not concerned about what might happen if they sup­ported opposition candidates, and they were free to participate in real democ­racy. Their ehoiees wern not influenced by the state or oven thn media. but by their opinions after personal encounters with the candidates. 
In most of the United States the media and advertisers dominate the political landscape, but in Iowa, dcmocraey is what it was meant to be. Candidates are truly chosen by the peopln, and retail politics is the way they make their deci­sion. Candidates are able to develop personal relationships with voters, and the voters are able to gain trust in the candidates. This is not only made possi­ble by Iowa's first-in-the-nation status. but also by the strong democratic tradi­tions of the United States. 
In Pakistan, a woman was killed for trying to restore democracy to the coun­try, and she was killed at a rally similar in intent to the ones I attended in Iowa. It is not as if this attack came as a sur­prise either. Earlier in 2007, Bhutto had also been the target of an assassination attempt, but she soldiered on in an attempt to bring democracy back to the troubled nation. 
When I was in Iowa, I eame within feet of' several of our presidential candi­dates. John Edwards, Baraek Obama, Hon Paul, and Mike lluckabee were all close enough that I might have shaken their hands if I was not prnoecupied with lilming them shake other people's hands. Yet, I JHwer felt I was in danger. In the United States we sometimes get so caught up in our own political differ­enees and we sometimes become so enamored with criticizing eertain candi­dates that we forget how lucky we arn to be able to safely participate in our demoeracy. 
In Iowa, citizens are even luckier as they are able to personally meet our political candidates, and discuss their merits through a eaueus proeess. Nobody gives any thought to the fact that it might bP unsafe to go to events where the opposition candidates are speaking and presenting thnir views. let alone opposition candidatos who are mainly arguing for demoeraey in gener­al. 
So as our presidential nominating process continues, and much of the country votes on Super Tuesday. I urge everybody to go out and vote. People rarely contemplate thn luxuries we are granted by being born into this country and we must not forget the millions of people in our world who do not have the same rights that we have. While Iowans are particularly lucky. we must remember how privileged we are as Americans living in our United States. 
Bob Kessler is a junior majoring in political science and economics. lie is also a writer for the Web site SaltyStix.com. 1/e can be contacted at rkessler@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Liz llarter Deirdre Krasula Katie Peralta Lorennzo Heyes Madeline Buckley Matt Gamber 
Sui:Jmlt a'Letter 
Graphics Laura Myers "There are some defeats more triumphant than
Mary Jesse Scene 
victories. " 
to the Editor at 
Viewpoint Cassie Belek Kara King Michel de Montaigne 
www.~dsmcob~eNer.com
French essayist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Don't be afraid to take a big step if 
one is indicated. You can't cross a 
chasm in two small jumps. " 
David Lloyd George British politician 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, January 18, 2008 page 13 
Stumping in Iowa for Hillary 
Legions of friends and former employ­ees from President Bill Clinton's adminis­tration flocked to Iowa to assist his wife, Democratic presidential candidate and New York Senator Hillary Clinton. This writer was among an army of volun­teers character­ized by one staff person as "every­body but the Third Marine Division out here." The importance of a solid showing in the first presiden­tial contest is vital Capitol for any candidate to Comments remain viable well into the primary season. 
During her concession speech on cau­cus night, it was evident that the Clintons certainly are the embodiment of the Democratic party's establishment. The likes of former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and retired Army General Wesley Clark stood on stage behind the Clinton family. Those surro­gates were among many stumping throughout Iowa, lending great credibili­ty to their candidate. Despite our intense personal door-to-door and telephone campaigning, Clinton placed third, just one percentage point behind runner-up and second-time caucus candidate John Edwards. 
The political caucus process is a folksy, quirky, community-based social gather-ing that was created for neighbors to publicly discuss and stand up for the candidate of their choice. Unfortunately, the caucus process has evolved over the years with two significant flaws -its short and specific time period limits par­ticipation while its casual social setting can lessen the intensity of a campaign. Consequently, Iowans reject pietism, harsh rhetoric and negative television commercials during their first-in-the­nation selection process. 


Iowans also demand a personal, up­close style of campaigning that lends to both excitement and exhaustion for the candidates and their staffs. While most caucus goers expect candidates to court them, some actually keep track of how many times each candidate contacts them through mailers, telephone calls and door-to-door visits. By caucus week, many casual Iowans were annoyed by last-minute campaigning and refused any contact from the campaigns. Some even changed their support on a whim, like one college student who abandoned Edwards for Clinton after the Secret Service kept him isolated in 2004 for arriving late at an Edwards event. Interestingly, though, a great number of Iowans remain undecided as they enter the caucus room. 
For the Clinton campaign, Hillary enlisted the former president to stump across Iowa-two mega-speakers in one campaign. The president's stump speech laced humor with serious pronunciations as he captivated Democrats in an hour-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

long session. He is fond of relaying the story of how a year ago a good friend asked him, as a former president, to arrange tee time on an exclusive golf course near the Clinton home. The crowd chuckles as Clinton quotes his reply to the friend, "You used the operative word, 'former,' but I'll try." 
The story continues with how Clinton, as part of a foursome on the golf course, is the last to putt on the green. As he turns to leave, already trailing behind his golf party, Clinton's caddy stops him to admit that he is not a caddy but had to try to speak with the former president. Clinton elicits another chuckle from the audience, "So I think to myself that this guy is either a journalist or a terrorist." 
It turns out, Clinton says, that the man is a firefighter from New York City. He tells the president that he needed to relay his thanks for Hillary's work after 9/11 since she was the only official to recognize that the air would harm the recovery workers after the towers col­lapsed. The firefighter admits that he has the best health insurance available ­that is not his issue. He watched his com­rades die during 9/11 and as a result of the air afterward. Clinton says that the two of them are standing alone on the green, tears streaming from their eyes, as the firefighter tells the president that he just had to come personally to say his thank you. 
At this point in Clinton's speech, the Iowa audience is hanging on his every word. It is absolutely quiet in the hall. 
Clinton concludes by saying that when people asked him, who for nearly 40 years best knew Hillary, to tell why she is the best candidate, he did not know how to best put it into words until he met that firefighter a year ago. He tells of Hillary's compassion, intelligence and common sense especially demonstrated in being the first to recognize and act on assis­tance for the recovery workers. 
After the Burlington speech, Clinton staff documented while going door-to­door, that nearly five percent of caucus goers they contacted enthusiastically admitted that they changed their minds to support Hillary after hearing the for­mer president speak. Although icy condi­tions kept many of her older supporters away from their caucus precincts, it was evident that she had great support despite a one percent deficit from second place. Do not underestimate how pro­found of an asset her husband can be for her in tomorrow's Nevada caucus and next week's South Carolina primary. The Democratic nomination may just be decided by who has an articulate former president in their campaign camp. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
U-WIRE 

Creating early brand loyalty in kids unethical 
An old boss of mine shared with me an anecdote about her young nephew. The boy had overheard his parents arguing over finances and naturally he wanted them to stop. He opened the door to the room in which they . 
were arguing and N1cole Green profoundly stated he University of had the answer to Cincinnati their problems: debt The News consolidation. Record Be not fooled; this boy was no seven-year old financial prodi­gy. His knowledge was derived solely from a 30 second commercial that probably interrupted his after-school cartoons. I wondered about the way this commer­cial had stuck in the memory of the child. He may not have known what debt consol­idation was, but he knew that whatever it was, it fixed money problems. I was reminded of this story when I read about "pester power." The term is used to describe the ways marketers endorse their products through the relentless way chil­dren nag their parents for goods. Not only do marketers recognize this behavior in children, they target and thrive from it. The goal is to appeal to a child so intensely that a child will whine and beg to receive a certain product. "Fast Food Nation," by Eric Schlosser, discusses "pester power" and other mar­keting initiatives directed at children. According to the book, the synergy of mar­keting executives and psychologists is becoming increasingly common. The goal is to explore and understand the psyche of children and direct products to children based on the results. The research includes observation, dream interpreta­tions, interviews and the creation of kids' clubs. There is an ethical defect in this market­ing trend. Not only is it invasive, it is manipulative and far too noticeably resembles brainwashing to be ethically 
acceptable. 
Marketers are manipulating the inno­cence and newness of a child's mind to create brand loyalty. 
The irony is that I am a declared mar­keting major. 
Excavating the minds of children for the purpose of controlling their behavior as consumers is unethical. I wonder how dif­ficult is it to remain loyal to my ethics and still make a living. When I am not the boss and someone else is calling the shots, are ethics the opportunity cost of a paycheck? 
"In studies where consumers are asked about ethics in different professions, advertising executives are ranked low," said Elaine Hollensbe, assistant professor in the Department of Management in the College of Business. 
"In the last decade, businesses have become aware of their social responsibility to give back and behave ethically," said Hollensbe. "Companies are starting to realize that it is not profitable to be uneth­ical. There are a lot of watchdogs out there now." 
The American Marketing Association has a code of ethics that ambiguously addresses their responsibility in marketing toward children. It states, "We will recog­nize our special commitments to economi­cally vulnerable segments of the market such as children, the elderly and others who may be substantially disadvantaged." 
Diction makes the intentions of this statement rather cryptic. The statement would better address the manipulation of child consumers if"mentally" was substi­tuted for "economically." A deceitful code of ethics? How ironic. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 17 edition ofThe News Record, the daily publication at the University ofCincinnati. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Since taking over as president of bas­ketball operations for the New York !<nicks in 2003 and then assuming the role of head coach in 2006, Thomas the Tank Engine has run the Knicks into the ground. The Knickerbockers T. Edward have remained the 
Andrews

little blue and 
orange engine that 
Scene &

couldn't, due in 
Heard

large part to Isiah Thomas' lavish spending, terrible trade decisions and inept leadership. 
He has spent more money than the gross domestic product of some third­world countries, assembled a crack squad of washed-up has-beens, never­we res and never-will-bes and made the Knicks into a running joke in the sports world. To quote Ozzy Ozbourne, the Knicks have been "going off the rails on a crazy train" for the past four years, and Thomas is the conductor. It's time to cut this ride short. 
These days Thomas finds himself serenaded by boos and jeering every time the Knicks take the court at Madison Square Garden, turning what 
l
. should be a home game into a decided­ly hostile environment. Chants of "Fire Isiah" from the Garden faithful have the hoops fanatics of New York calling for his head. The vox populi have spo­
ken and they want Thomas out. It's 
time to give the people what they want. 
Of course. Madison Square Garden isn't the Coliseum of ancient Rome, and thumbs-up or thumbs-down yay-or-nay vocalism from the fans shouldn't deter­mine decisions at the management 
, level. However, in Isiah's case there are plenty of reasons to doubt Thomas. The numbers speak for themselves. 
6-14: the Knicks' record thls season. 33-49: the Knicks' record last year, Isiah's first as coach. 
$11.5 million: the amount the Knicks and Thomas had to cough up in a sexu­al harassment settlement to one Anucha Browne Sanders, a former Knicks employee. A civil jury found Thomas guilty of sexual harassment. 
$15 million: the price Thoma~ paid to acquire guard Steve Francis, a virtual clone ofStephon Marbury-an under­sized me-first, shoot-first point guard who has contributed virtually nothing to the team. 
3-12-2007: the date Knicks owner James Dolan extended Thomas' con­tract by multiple years, citing "signifi­cant and evident progress" as the motive for the extension. 
4-14: Thomas' record to close out the season after Dolan extended his deal. 
101-61: the score of the Knicks' Oct. 17 loss to the Boston Celtics, in which the C's powerwashed the floor clean of any tising their malcontent to the sports world. 
Then, of course, you have The Brawl with the Denver Nuggets on Dec. 16 of last year, one of the most vicious on­court altercations in recent memory. Even here, Thomas may have played a (mis)guiding role: the fight erupted after he allegedly told one of his play­ers to intentionally commit a hard foul. 
The Knicks have had a reputation (and some might even say a tradition) for thuggery dating back to the 1990s and teams featuring Patrick Ewing, John Starks, Anthony Mason and Charles Oakley. However, those Pat Riley-coached teams did something 
semblance of the To quote Ozzy Osbourne, 
Knicks or profession­
the Knicks have been 
al basketball with an 
absolute drubbing. "going offthe rails on a In the offseason, crazy train ,,for the past 
Thomas' teams don't: they won basketball games. 
Even worse, Thomas may now be blaming the fans for causing the team to 
the Celtics made lose. According to a
four years, and Thomas is 
bold moves to New York Daily News 
the conductor. 
acquire All-Stars story, during yet 
Kevin Garnett and Ray Allen. Perhaps Thomas should have taken notes. Unlike his many moves which have blown up in his face, the Celtics' two new stars, combined with incumbent superstar Paul Pierce, have created a new-look power triad which has set fire to the league, leading the C's to an 18-2 start. 
Using his carte blanche powers as executive and then coach, Thomas has put together a squad of overpaid underachievers who don't play team ball, whine, moan and create a media circus even in a city nicknamed Zoo York. They've made headlines for all the wrong reasons. 
Thomas' trade for Stephon Marbury, his prized point guard, has worked out horribly for all involved. Marbury has failed to provide any semblance of leadership, his numbers are down and even worse, he and his coach have taken their feuding public, as highlight­ed by a slew of recent headlines adver­another recent loss, 
Thomas was over­heard saying the Knicks' fans were "a bad sixth man." Season ticket holders also allegedly overheard Thomas say "it's your fault" to the fans for the mounting losses. They boo because they want to cheer, Isiah. 
It's time for Isiah Thomas to stop making excuses and start packing his bags. It's time to give the fans what they want, since it's been abundantly clear that the product on the court can't. Thomas has taken this once­proud franchise and run it into the ground, ensuring that the Knicks will · remain terrible for the remainder of this decade and possibly well into the next. It's time for Isiah Thomas to go. 
Contact T. Edward Andrews at tan drew 1 @nd. edu 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, January 18, 2008 
page 15 
By T. EDWARD ANDREWS Scene Editor 
You might say Brother Ali stands out in the hip-hop crowd. In an industry domi­nated by black artists and performers, white rappers such as Eminem and Vanilla Ice have always been novelty acts, but Brother Ali goes beyond the pale. He's an albino. 
Born Jason Newman in Madison, Wise., Brother Ali moved to another frigid city in a frigid state. After arriving on the Minneapolis, Minn. hip-hop scene, the fair-skinned MC's career began heating up. Brother Ali, who will be performing at Legends Saturda~ eventually managed to prove naysayers and doubters wrong by signing a deal with music label Rhymesayers Entertainment. 
As you might imagine, growing up albino made for a difficult childhood for Mr. Ali. As he matured Ali learned to grow a thick skin and worked on his lyrical rhyme schemes. Today, what he lacks in melanin he makes up for with colorful rhymes. 
Unlike many of the hip-hop artists clut­tering up FM airwaves with trash talk of drive-by shootings and strip club jaunts, Brother Ali's music offers a return to hip­hop's roots in political and social commen­tary. On his most recent album, "The Undisputed Truth," Ali recorded a song entitled "Uncle Sam Goddamn," in which he vents his frustrations about the American government and the drug-and crime-infested streets of the nation's inner cities. 
"Welcome to the united snakes I land of the thief I home of the slave I grand impe­rial guard I where the dollar is sacred I and power is God. 
"Pioneered so many ways to degrade a human being I that it can't be changed to this day I legacy so ingrained in the way that we think I we no longer need chains to be slaves." 
Brother Ali has an interesting, laid-back 
delivery: His voice makes for smooth lis­tening, and yet it's laced with soul and drips with biting satire. Brother Ali's music features a vari­ety of colorful influ­ences, including some blues, folk and soul aceom panying his beats. 
Prior to "The 
Undisputed Truth," Brother Ali released an album entitled "Champion" in 2004. Between albums, Brother Ali suffered a fall from grace, including separating from his wife of 10 years, living as a homeless person and bat­tling for custody of his son. His hunger and pain make their way through his voice to the ears of his listeners. 
Of his latest album, Ali has said, "I want­ed to make an album that gives you no choice but to feel what I'm feeling at the time. I made choices that sent me through a lot of struggle in the past few years and [producer] ANT and I have made music that really communicates the feeling of those situations." 
Ali counts among his friends under­ground rapper Slug from the hip-hop group Atmosphere. The group is also signed under the Rhymesayers Entertainment music label, and Atmosphere member ANT produced Brother Ali's first album, "Shadows on the Sun" in 2003. 
Given that he's legally blind, Brother Ali may actually not see color, which is fitting considering his status as an aberration in the rap world. His MySpace page describes Ali as a "modern urban Normal Rockwell" and "a cross between John Gotti and Mahatma Gandhi." That's fitting praise for a man whose professional career contin­ues to straddle lines of color and conven­tion. 
With the release of "The Undisputed Truth" in April of last year, 2007 saw Brother Ali continue to push toward devel­oping a national audience. Hip-hop maga­zine The Source gave Ali an interview in October of last year, while Rolling Stone magazine named him a "New Artist to Watch." Brother Ali also appeared on "The Late Late Show" and "Late Night with Conan O'Brien," performing his songs "Uncle Same Goddamn" and "Take Me Home." 
Brother Ali has made no bones about his future aspirations, saying that he is "trying to be one of the greatest of all time." Much like Muhammed Ali, the greatest boxer of all time and whose image graces the cover of his CD "Champion," Brother Ali has the mouth to talk the talk, and the skills to back it up. After the successes of 2007, Brother Ali kicks off 2008 and continues his push to the top tonight at Legends. The future looks bright for this up and coming hip-hopper. 
Contact T. Edward Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu Photo courtesy of rhymesayers.com 
Brother Ali has an interesting, laid back delivery: His voice makes for smooth listening, and yet it's laced with soul and drips with biting satire. 
SCENE AND HEARD 
Comic book supercouple splits, fans cry collective tear 
The unthinkable has occurred. As the Associated Press reported in a story Wednesday, longtime comic book heart­throbs and celebrity couple Peter Parker 
(a.k.a Spider Man, if you have no knowl­
edge of superheroes,  
movie theaters or life  
whatsoever) and his  T. Edward  
wife of 21 years, Mary  Andrews  
Jane Watson, have  
made like a wishbone  Scene Editor  
and split.  
This is bad. Really  

bad. This is worse than the collapse of Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman, the collapse of Bennifer or the inevitable collapse of Brangelina. 
And, much like the collapse of the Soviet Union, no one saw this coming. 
Well, perhaps one man did. Joe Quesada, the editor-in-chief of Marvel Comics, invented the storyline that tore asunder America's number one celebrity comic book couple, in order to inject new life into the Spider Man mythos. 
Who, you ask, is this man to play God with both the heart of Peter Parker and the hearts and minds of his millions of fans? 
Well, as it turns out, God has nothing to do with it. On the contrary, in fact, the Peter-MJ split has much more to do with a less-than-desirable cretin from the opposite end of the theological spectrum, an unsa­vory character named Mephisto who essentially plays the role of the Devil in the Marvel comics universe. 
In the current Spidey storyline, entitled "Brand New Day," Peter Parker's beloved Aunt May suffers grave injury during an attack. In order to save her, Peter makes a deal with Mephisto in which the Satanic character will restore Aunt May's health in exchange for splitting up Peter and MJ, and even worse, erasing everyone in the uni­verse's memory of it (except, of course, for the wall crawler's fans, who are up in arms over this latest little plot twist). 
It would appear that Peter Parker isn't the only one striking deals with the Devil. Mr. Quesada, in a blatant ploy to boost comic book sales, has sold out the fans in the interest of selling them more products. 
I've said it before and I'll say it again: Peter and MJ, as he calls her, have stood as the best celebrity couple in comics for as long as I've been alive. "Pem-Jay," as I like to call them, stood for the best of comics: attractive do-gooders with personalities as beautiful as their artificially drawn, inked and colored exteriors. An entire generation of comic book readers has always been able to count on Pem-Jay being there for them. 
Comic book aficionados have always wanted to be Peter: smart, nerdy without being too nerdy, ability to stick to walls, sling webs, proportionate strength and speed of a spider, and of course, that Spider-sense. And comic book readers have always wanted MJ to be their girlfriend: hot, redhead bombshell, calls Peter "Tiger," improbably ended up dating a high school nerd (sound appealing to a comic book reader?); very hot. 

Abandon hope, all ye seniors who date here at Notre Dame and must make impor­tant relationship decisions in the coming months, for it has left these snow-covered parts. If Spider Man, with his tactile ability to climb walls and hyper-adhesive web­bing, can't make a relationship stick, what hope do the rest of us have? 
Contact T. Edward Andrews at 
tandrewl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in Scene and 
Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Friday, January 18, 2008 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Cardinals take down 13th-ranked Marquette 
Cleveland State stuns No. 12 Butler for first regular season win over an AP top-25 team in program history 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE. Ky.-Suddenly, Louisville's early SNtson struggles snnm a long time ago. 
Tnrr!lnee Williams scored 20 points and David Padgett had 17 points and 10 rebounds to help the Cardinals roll past No. 13 Marquette 71-51 on Thursday night. 
Derrick Caracter added 11 points as Louisville (13-4, 3-1 Big East) dominated the Golden Eagles (B-3, 3-2), shutting down one of the Big East's most dynamic oll"enses with a suffocat­ing zone defense that choked on· passing lanes and controlled the lane. 
.Jerel McNeal led the Golden Eagles with 16 poinl'i and Wesley Matthews had 14, but Marquette shot just 30 percent from the field and got almost nothing from star guard Dominic .James. 
James scored a season-low three points before leaving with just over six minutes remaining aller being fouled by Padgett. Ile held his right wrist before being helped to the bnnch. It's unclear whether he'II be able to play on Sunday when Marquette travels to Connecticut. 
The rivalry has been marked by thrillers over the last decade, with 14 of the last 22 meetings being decided by five points or less or in overtime. 

Not this time. Louisville took the lead two minutes in. using its size to power past Marquette's guard-heavy lineup. Looking inside to Padgett and Caraeter on offense and extending the zone on defense, Louisville played with the kind of ellicieney coach Riek Pitino has preached would come once the Cardinals finally got healthy. 
Padgett, eight weeks removed from a fractured kneecap, contin­ued to key Louisville's surge. He made 8 of 9 field goals, many of them tip-ins after he manuevered his way between bodies in the lane. 
The Golden Eagles simply had no answer. They missed all 12 3­pointers and were overwhelmed in the lane. Louisville outre­bounded Marquette 43-30 and contested nearly every Marquette shot. 
Louisville broke it open with a 12-0 run early in the second half after Marquette cut it to 30-26. Padgett started it with a hook shot, the followed with a layup off a nifty pass from Edgar Sosa. .Jerry Smith then harassed .James into airballing a 3-pointer. Padgett tipped in a miss by Williams, who added an 18-foot­er on Louisville's next possession. Seldom-used guard Preston Knowles ended the run with a pullup jumper as Marquette coach Tom Crean glared at the officials for a no-call at the other end of the floor. 


Marquette managed to make it 50-40 with just over eight min­utes left. but an 11-2 Louisville run, capped by a 3-pointer from Williams, sealed Louisville's eighth win in nine games. 
Louisville squandered an opportunity to bury the Golden Eagles early. Despite holding Marquette without a basket for nearly seven minutes and forcing the Golden Eagles into 25 percent shooting, Louisville only led 27­19 at the half. 
Marquette managed to stay in it by forcing 11 Louisville turnovers, as the Golden Eagles got their hands into passing lanes, allowing them keep within striking distance despite their lowest scoring half of the season. 
Things didn't get any better for Marquette after the break. Though the Golden Eagles were brietly able to get the defieit to four, Louisville withstood the onslaught and pulled away. 
Vikings 56, Bulldogs 52 
Cedric Jackson scored 14 points as Cleveland State, a pro­gram in disarray for most of the past 20 years, stunned No. 12 Butler on Thursday night for the Vikings' first regular-season win over an AP top-25 team. 
J'Nathan Bullock added 14 points, the last one coming on a free throw with 2.6 seconds left for Cleveland State (13-5, 6-0 Horizon League), whose students stormed the floor after the final horn. 

The Vikings came in 1-26 in games against ranked opponents, with their only win coming on March 14, 1986, against No. 16 Indiana in the NCAA tournament under coach Kevin Mackey. 
Freshman Matt Howard scored 16 points to lead Butler (16-2, 5­2), which missed a barrage of 3­pointers in the final seconds as they tried to tie it. Mike Green, the Bulldogs' leading scored had 12 points of 4-of-11 shooting before fouling out and senior A..J. Graves had 5 and went only 2-of:­11 from the floor. 
It was Cleveland State's night from the start and the win vali­dated second-year coach Gary Waters' turnaround with the Vikings, who were only 10-21 last season and haven't had a win­ning season since 2000-01. 
Last season, Butler made a school and conference record 20 3-pointers in a 92-50 thumping of Cleveland State. But the Bulldogs were just 6-of-23 from behind the arc and they couldn't buy a 3 when they needed one down the stretch. 
Green's two free throws pulled within 50-48 with 3:21 left, but Jackson, a transfer from St. .John's, was left open on the right wing and drilled a 3-pointer to put the Vikings ahead by five. 
Cleveland State's fans, who have seen so many potential upsets slip away in the past, began sensing the upset before Graves drove through the lane and dropped in a high-arching shot that went 20 feet in the air. 
But with a chance to pull Butler closer after a turnover, Graves, an 89-percent free throw shooter, missed the front end of a 1-and-1 with 2:23 to go. George Tandy then scored inside for Cleveland State and Campbell, Graves and .Juilan Betko misfired on 3s in the last minute as Butler lost for the first time in nine games. 
Cleveland State has been a mess for years. I lowever, Waters, who built Kent State into a perennial 20-win team, is slowly turning around the Vikings, who were only 3-13 in the Horizon last year. 
It's been 21 years since Cleveland State made its memo­rable NCAA tourney run when guard Kenny "Mouse" McFadden and cast of unknowns upset Bobby Knight's Hoosiers and Saint .Joseph's before losing in a regional semifinal to David Robinson and Navy. 
All Waters needed was a signa­ture win to make everyone believe the small school could do big things again-and now he's got it. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to 1 or 2 bdrm. apt. Executive House available for out· Nice Rental Home UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, Quiet historic neighborhood. of-town guests of wedding, special within a block of not go it alone. If you or someone fireplace, 2·car garage, 1 mi.toND. events,and graduation. NO & Med School. 718 you love needs confidential support
FoR SALE 

10x20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Recent renovations & laundry. Walking distance to campus. Napoleon,3bdrm,attached or assistance, please call Sr. Sue N1ssan 98 Sentra.164,000 Aug. 2008. $500/mo. 4 bedrooms garage,basement,large lot, new Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more miles.Great car,new clutch & Call 574-232-4527 or 574-532-8718. 4 baths. upgrades/appliances. 57 4-339-information, visit our website at: brakes.Biue Book 269·683-5038 or Sleeps 10-14 easily. 0275. http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslpreg­$3,100;asking $2,900.574-299· 574-340-1844. 4 bedroom, Irish pub/basement with pool nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad 0351. 2 bath, table,bar,pub table, and game in The Observer. 
Large house 1900 sq. ft. tri-level house, 2 car tables. High·end home. Gourmet 
PERSONAL 

available for 2009-2010. garage, kitchen appliances, smoke kitchen with granite counters. PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME· FoR RENT Full renovations completed 2007. and security system. Very tasteful house. All brick exteri-If you or someone you care about ONE WHO IS? You do not have to 
Close to campus. Three miles to NO, move in clean or. has been be alone. We want to help. Call our 705 NO Ave. 3 Bedroom 4,000+ square feet, condition. $1600/mo during the Built 1935. sexually assaulted, visit 24 hour confidential hotline at 1· $1 ,000.00. 273-4889 Available 5 bathrooms. school year+ utilities. See website: www.irishhearth· http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. 800-No Abort or visit our web site at 
08/09 MacSwain@ gmail.com 574·272-5453. manor.com shtml www.lifecall.org 



OUND THE NATION 
Friday, January 18, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE ()nsrRVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
AP 

O.J. Simpson waves to bystanders at Miami Airport Thursday on his way home from his bail revocation in Las Vegas. Simpson was allowed to return home to await trial for armed robbery, despite the judge doubling his bail. 
Simpson returns to Miami, awaiting trial 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Att;:tntic Division 
team record pts; last 10 
New Jersey 26•16-3 55 7"3~0 PIHsburgh 26-16~3 55 9·0·1 Philadelphia 24•15-5 53 8+1 NY Islanders 23-18·5 51 5·N NY Rangers 22-20-5 49 4"5~1 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record pts. .last 10 
Eastern Conference, Southeast. Division 
team record ·pts. lastiO 
Atlanta 23-22-4 48 5·4·1 Carolina 22-22-4 48 3·6·1 Florida 20-23-4 29 2·7·1 Washington 19-21-5 27 6·2·2 Tampa Bay 17-24-5 22 2·6·.2 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Detroit 33·10·4 70 6·3·1 St. Louis 22-16·6 50 4~3-3 Columbus 22·18-6 50 64~0 Nashville 22-19-4 48 6·2·2 Chicago 21·21·4 46 2~6~2 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. last.JO 
Minnesota 26-17-3 55 6·3•1 Vancouver 25-17~4 54 5·5·0 Calgary 23c17~8 54 6"3~1 Colorado 25-18c3 53 H~1 Edmonton 2H2·4 46 5·4+· 
Western Conference,. Pacific· Division 
team record pts. last10 
San Jose 25·13-7 57 7"1"2 Anaheim 25•17·6 56 7"2'1 Dallas 25-18·5 55 <~6"1 Phoenix 24-2M 49 7"3·0 Los Angeles 18•27·2 3.8 6~4"0 
NCAA Women's Basketball AP Poll 
team record p:rt:uious 
1 Connecticut 15·0 1 2 Tennessee 14•1 2 3 Nortb Carolina 16•1 .3 4 Maryland 19·1 4 5 Rutgers 13·2 5 6 Baylor 14·1 8 7 Stanford 14·3 7 8 California 15~2 g 
g 

LSU 13·3 11 10 Duke 13·3 12 11 Oklahoma 10•3 6 12 Georgia 14,2 10 13 Genrge Washington 13·3 17 14 West Virginia 12-3 1i 15 Old Dominion 12-3 18 16 Ohio State 13·3 19 17 NOTRE DAME 13-3 14 18 Oklahnma State 14·1 25 19 Texas A&M 12-4 13 20 Wyoming 14·1 21 21 Auburn 13-4 22 22 Pittsburgh 13·3 NR 23 DePaul 12·3 24 24 Texas 12~4 15 25 Colorado 12-3 23 
around the dial 
NBA 
Trailblazers at Heat 7:00p.m., ESPN 
Warriors at Bulls 
9:30 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


IN BRIEF Commissioner receives 
three-year extension 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -Major League Baseball owners gave com­missioner Bud Selig a three-year contract extension through 2012 on Thursday, a move made two days after some congressmen were criti­cal of his leadership is responding to the sport's drug problem. 
Selig, who has been in charge of MLB since 1992, had repeatedly said since December 2006 that he would retire at the end of 2009 and that his mind couldn't be changed. 
"This is clearly it," he said after the latest extension was approved in a unanimous vote on the final day of a two-day owners' meeting. "I could say this without equivocation." 
Earlier this week, Selig and union head Donald Fehr testified before a congressional committee that both criticized baseball for its steroids problem and praised the sport for strides made during the past three years. 
Iverson donates to gun
buyback program 
NEWPORT NEWS, Va. -Allen Iverson donated $100,000 to a pro­gram to keep guns off the streets where he grew up. 
The Denver Nuggets guard donated the money to the Peninsula Community Foundation to help the Newport News Police Department continue its gun buyback program, 
U.S. Rep. Robert Scott, D-Va., announced in a statement Wednesday. 
"I can remember growing up in Newport News and Hampton and if we can prevent one more child from being killed and another family from crying and mourning the death of another loved one, then it is more than worth it," Iverson said in a state­ment released by Scott's office. 
The program offers money or gift cards to residents who turn in guns to police, no questions asked. Residents turned in about 400 guns within hours after the program was launched Dec. 15. 
after he was freed on bail in September on charges of orchestrating the armed robbery of two sports memorabilia deal­ers at a hotel room. 
But he found himself before a judge again Wednesday because he mentioned co-defendant Clarence "C.J." Stewart while leaving a sputter­ing, foul-mouthed phone message two months ago for his bail bondsman, Miguel Pereira of You Ring We Spring. 
"I don't know, Mr. Simpson, what the heck you were thinking, or maybe that's the problem -you weren't," Clark County District Judge 
World track champion 
wants to race amputee 
World 100-meter champion Tyson Gay says he'd have no problem racing against Oscar Pistorius, the double amputee sprinter who was recently barred from the Olympics. 
"I don't see any problems with it," the American sprinter said Thursday. "If you want to go compete and put your heart into it, I see no problem whatsoever." 
Qn Monday, track and field's gov­erning body said Pistorius is ineligible to compete at the Beijing Olympics this summer because his "Cheetah" racing blades are technical aids that give him a clear advantage. 
Pistorius finished second in the 400 meters at the South African national championships last year against able­bodied runners. 
He is hoping that independent tests will show he doesn't gain an unfair advantage from the racing blades and that that might change the IAAF's stance. 
Jackie Glass said. 
In the message, Simpson asked Pereira to tell Stewart how frustrated he was about testimony dur­ing a preliminary hearing several days earlier. 
"I just want, want C.J. to know that ... I'm tired of this (expletive)," Simpson said, according to a transcript. "Fed up with (expletives) changing what they told me. All right?" 
Though there was no indication Stewart received the message, prosecutor Chris Owens suggested it was threaten­ing. The judge merely said she didn't like the tone. 
"I don't know ifit's just arro-
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS -O.J. Simpson returned home to Miami on Thursday, a day after an angry Las Vegas judge doubled his bail but allowed him to stay out of jail while he awaits trial on armed rob­bery. 
Tom Scotto, who coordi­nated with four other friends to raise Simpson's bail, greeted Simpson after his arrival at Miami International Airport and escorted him to a waiting sport utility vehicle. Neither man spoke to reporters before the vehi­cle departed from the air­port. 
When Scotto talked to Simpson the night before the bail revocation hear­ing, "He said, 'Pray for me.' That's a first. He was really nervous she wasn't going to let him out.'' 
Simpson, 60, posted bond and was released from jail just after 11 p.m. Wednesday. He walked out by himself, got into a white Mercedes, and was driven away without speaking to the media. 
The former football star was picked up last Friday in Florida by a bail bonds­man and taken back to Nevada for violating terms of his release. 
He had been ordered to have no contact with co­defendants or witnesses 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, January 18, 2008 
NFL 

Pair of Patriots returns home 
Seau, Harrison to face Chargers for first time as teammates in career 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGII. Mass. -The last time Junior Seau played in an AFC championship game, his team was given little chance to beat the top seed. 
In January 1995, the Steelers won their first playofl' game in a rout, while the Chargers eked out a orw-point victory that set up the matchup between those toams the following weekend. 
"Sitting in my hotel room in Pittsburgh and hearing all the cheers and pep rallies that were going around and all the Super Bowl videos that were being taped, everything was against us," the Patriots linebacker said. "The yellow towels were flying around. It was definitely a time when we thought wo were against the world." 
But San Diego won 17-B in Pittsburgh then went on to one of the toughest losses in Seau's 18-year career, a 49-26 rout by San Francisco in the Super Bowl. 
Thirteen years later, the Chargers aren't given much of a chance against the perfect Patriots on Sunday, the day after Seau's 39th birthday. 
But he knows expectations can fall short. Didn't the Patriots squander a 21-3 lead in last y1~ar's AFC titln game and lose to Indianapolis, 38-34'? 
So Seau and safety Hodney !Iarrison. a rookie on that 1994 Chargnrs tnam, are working hard to avoid an upset that can stop New England's unbeaten season one game short of anoth­er Super Bowl appearance. 

"I tell the young guys, 'Don't take anything for granted because at any point in time it can be over with, whether it's a season, whether it's a game, whether it's your career,"' the 35-year-old Harrison said Thursday. "I think I have a greater appreciation now that I'm older." 
Seau sees many comparisons between this year's San Diego team and the one in 1994 -the last two Chargers clubs to reach the AFC championship game. 
"The major comparison is that they're confident," he said. "We look forward to moving on, growing every day to the day it comes we have to go out and perform." 
Seau and Harrison will play against the Chargers as team­mates for the first time in their long careers. Both missed last season's 24-21 upset playoff win at San Diego with injuries. 
Sunday's game, then. should have some special emotions for them, especially since Seau is a native of San Diego. 
Right'? 
"I try not to get too Oprah with it and know that it's just another game and know that I'm so happy for the city of San Diego, my hometown," he said, but "it's going to be a challenge of the game of football, nothing more." 
Harrison, a fiery, hard-hitter like Seau, also prefers to show his emotions on the field. 
"It's just special to be in the AFC Championship," Harrison said. "I don't know necessarily facing the Chargers makes it any mon1 special." 
The Patriots have spent the week building up the Chargers 
as the best team in the NFL 
since Thanksgiving. They were 
5-5 before the holiday but 8-0 
since then. 
New England coach Bill Belichick likes to point out that his team has won fewer games in that stretch. But that's because they had a playoff bye and are 7-0 after Thanksgiving -but 17-0 overall. 
San Diego coach Norv Turner isn't surprised that Belichick fawned over the Chargers. 
"Everyone knows that New England right now is playing the best football in the league and it's going to be a real challenge for us," Turner said. 
Tom Brady's 50 touchdown passes and Randy Moss' 23 scoring catches are NFL single­season record. So are the 589 points the Patriots scored. 
But the advanced age of their defense may be catching up. They allowed three scoring drives of at least 80 yards in last Saturday night's 31-20 playoff win over Jacksonville after giv­ing up four touchdowns in a 38­35 win over the New York Giants in the regular-season finale. 
The Chargers' defense is younger with a knack for creat­ing turnovers. They led the NFL with 30 interceptions and 48 takeaways then added two interceptions and one fumble recovery in last Sunday's 28-24 playofl' win at Indianapolis. All­Pro cornerback Antonio Cromartie's 10 interceptions led the league. 

"It's remarkable the things we've done defensively," Turner said. "It seems like one guy tips (the ball) and it goes up in the air and one of our guys finds a way to get it." 

2008 SPRING EXHIBITION'S 
IIEIIDA_.. .....ARI W ......._.•• IIOUA­
J.anu;.u-y· 4 -~ry 20~ 2006 
._..~-~·~-"' •~as 
~-...._..........
-.-.....­

...,..-.~~_. ....._.....ltao......_,...._ 
a~·ltH s•awA.•rn•......a Ho-F'rm.m. ~ IRAp.r~'l: ;,;rH.I-Tnt~~~~sform (I490 -J.005) 
Janu:3If'}' t.l -Han:h 9',. 20C'.WJ 
....._._ OL!t".H'"l)
........._--.,_.........., 
.F ........_ WJDZI--..~.fUI.• ~~ 

~-........ ........ -~......... .:u.--sa-......~~-• ., . ...-.,. 
R.;::-.:: ern: Pa Wtt11lg'S by M;i11Jta 10rna:sul.a 
january .J3-March 2..2008 
...-....-.-. 
..::."e~

.............. •....
~ 
Openiac lleceptian: SunclaJr,. January 20,. 2-~ 
iFIItlBEAII'-iliD Of'!EN '!TOT!HIE: !P!UIIIUIC i~l'li,..,G iR)IIIt. 1l'lHIIE lflt!.B::~ .~JJ..ABLIE :INI1PHtE ll.OT SOVlTH OIF1PHIIE S1Mlf:.)lfUIM 
Friday, January 18, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
fENCING 
Hurley in Budapest for Olyn1pic drean1s 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Kelley Hurley is in Budapest, in pursuit of gold. The sophomore will fence in the women's epee World Cup 
-Grand Prix event there today and tomorrow. Hurley is No. 2 in the n.ation in women's epee, behind only her sister, Courtney. Both are fighting for spots on the U.S. Olympic team for this summer's Beijing Games, where the International Olympic Committee is imposing a limit of two women's epeeists per country. 
The international event offers twice the rankings points as the domestic event this weekend, and thus gives the sophomore a chance to solidify her strong position in the U.S. standings before Beijing. 
Meanwhile, 14 other Notre Dame fencers and one future member of the Irish -top American foilist Gerek Meinhardt -will travel to Atlanta to compete for spots on the U.S. national team. The fencers in Atlanta will battle to qualify for this season's World Championships. 
The USFA North American Cup -which will include fencers from the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and Mexico -has flights for the junior (under-20) and senior competitors. The 11 Irish fencers under 20 years of age can compete for national team 
Irish in Atlanta 
Men's Sabre: Freshman Avery Zuck Freshman Barron Nydam 
Women's Sabre: Freshman Sarah Borrmann Freshman Eileen Hassett 
Men's Epee: Freshman Andrew Seroff Junior Karol Kostka spots in both divisions. 

The Notre Dame women dominated the Western Invite at the Air Force Academy last week, while the men went 4-1 and captured a narrow overalL victory over Stanford, despite losing to the Cardinal in the head-to-head competition. 
"It will be interesting to see how well they compete," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. "They fenced well [against] Stanford, but it's another step, another class. It's not that they're just fencing against college-aged kids. They're fencing against everyone." 
Though the event in Atlanta is not an NCAA-sanctioned competition, assistant coach Gia Kvaratskhelia, who trains the Irish foilists, will accompa­ny the team to Georgia. Bednarski probably will make some of the competition, but he was unsure when he would arrive in Atlanta. 
Of the 14 Irish fencers com­peting, nine are freshman and one is a sophomore. Still, Bednarski is confident that they will not face additional obstacles against older fencers. 
"The kids are rather well experienced, who are going," he said. "I doubt that they will have an experience problem. It will be how they work and how well they fence." 
Notre Dame returns to team action Jan. 26 in New York for the NYU Duals. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Women's Epee: Freshman Ewa Nelip Junior Kim Montoya 
Men's Foil: Freshman Steve Kubik Freshman Zach Schirtz Sophomore Teddy Hodges Junior Mark Kubik Senior Jakub Jedrkowiak 
Women's Foil: Freshman Hayley Reese 
LINING UP 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer The Irish hockey squad lines up for pre-game ceremonies before 2-1 Notre Dame victory over Bowling Green Nov. 20. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Saint Mary's to face Tri-State 
Belles look to improve record behind Kessler's offensive prowess 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
After another conference win and a record-breaking night on Wednesday, the Belles are back on the court Saturday as they take on MIAA foe Tri-State in their second home game. Saint Mary's steps on the court after a 72-69 win over Kalamazoo, bringing both its conference (3­
3) and overall (7 -7) records to .500. 
Alison Kessler led Saint Mary's in its win at Kalamazoo Wednesday night, scoring 41 points, breaking the school's previous record, set in the 1998-99 season by Julie Norman. Kessler's record is just one point off the MIAA record of points in a single game. Her 41 points are also the most points scored in a game by a Division III player this season. 
The Belles managed to score the first six points of the game, the biggest lead either team would have in the first half. Kalamazoo led 37-33 at inter­mission, and Saint Mary's would not manage to regain the lead until Kessler's lay-up made the score 70-69 with 34 seconds to go in the game. Two free throws by Kessler and a missed three pointer by Kalamazoo's Kelsey Bailey solidified the win for the Belles. 
Saturday will be the first time the Belles play a game at home since their conference opener on Dec. 5, when they lost to rival Calvin 67-52. The Belles' last took on Tri-State when they defeated the Thunder 82-68 on Dec. 8. 
"We are really looking for­ward to having another home game Saturday," Kessler said. "We are really focusing on our defense. Tri-State is a good team, so we will need to rebound well and play solid defense to win." 
Saturday's game begins at 3 
p.m. at Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Center. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselOl @saintmarys.edu 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame to take on Louisville 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
Under coach Jay Louderback, Notre Dame has become a national power, consistently ranked in the national top 10 and a threat each year to make a run in the NCAA Tournament. 
On Sunday, No. 9 Notre Dame heads to Louisville to take part in its first dual match of the season. 
But this spring, the Irish will be without Catrina and Christian Thompson, one of the most successful doubles teams in Notre Dame history. To replace the Thompsons, Notre Dame has another formidable duo -senior Brook Buck and junior Kelcy Tefft, who captured the ITA National Indoor Championship in November and are ranked No. 3 to begin the season. 
On the singles side, the Irish have significant talent, with five netters ranked in the top-100 to begin the season. Only three other teams in the country can claim this accomplishment. Sophomore Cosmina Ciobanu, at No. 62, is the highest ranked of the group and is coming off a freshman campaign in which she went 36-5 -including an astounding 26-1 record in dual meets, mostly playing from the No. 5 slot. 
Buck sits just behind Ciobanu at No. 64. Buck had an impres­sive 14-1 dual match record but was sidelined with an injury for a portion of last season. Rounding out Notre Dame's representation in the rankings are No. 82 junior Katie Potts, No. 88 sophomore Colleen Rielley and No. 89 Kali Krisik. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 



Lafayette Square Townhomes 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 18, 2008 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Team prepares for Big East 
Louisville, an important Big East Irish's second meeting with theBy JARED )EDICK player. Rockets, and the first since 
Sports Writer 

The swimmers seem well pre­1996. The Irish won that meet­
pared to gear up for the run ing, and they bring a great deal 
The Irish will have their hands down the stretch. of confidence for Nixon's first full this weekend as they take on "The team chemistry the girls meeting with the team. Louisville at the Rolfs Aquatic have right now is the best I have "They also have very fast Center and then travel to Toledo ever seen," White said. "They swimmers, but we are hopeful in preparation for February's are happier than ever before." for another win," White said of Big East Championships. Notre Dame brings a 3-0 all-Toledo. 
Only weeks time record Leading the way for the Irish removed from a against the is a strong group of young swim­grueling train­Cardinals to the mers, including freshman Sam
''They also have very 
ing trip in pool, including Maxwell, freshman Amywren Miami, the Irish fast swimmers, but two wins during Miller and sophomore Megan hope to build off we are hopeful for head coach Farrell. of their strong Carrie Nixon's Junior Casey Wagner is com­
another win. " 
finish in the tenure. This is ing off a shoulder injury and is Irish Invitational the second and coming on strong for the Irish last Saturday Joel White last Big East late in the season, providing a against Irish assistant coach team the Irish big boost, especially for the 800­Michigan, will face this yard freestyle relay. She led the Indiana and season before Irish relay to victory in the Irish Illinois and the conference Invitational. shake ofl' a bit more of the rust meet on Feb. 28. The Irish are young but talent­they were suffering from. "They have one really fast ed, and that creates a high level 
"I think the girls have dealt swimmer in each event," White of uncertainty as to what to with the fatigue really well, but said. "We are going to have to expect down the stretch. we are definitely not ready for put someone who can come up "A young bunch like this is the Big East Conference finals with the victory in every event if hard to predict," White said. right now," assistant coach Joel we want to win the meet." "But they are definitely not too White said. Immediately following the far off." 
The Irish Invitational was an event with Louisville, the Irish important stepping stone for the will travel to Toledo, Ohio, to Contact Jared Jedick at 
Irish before they take on face the Rockets. This will be the jjedick@nd.edu 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

SwiiTIIners ready to challenge Cardinals 
John Lytle, sophomore RossBy ELLYN MICHALAK Moore, and junior Michael Bulfin 
Sports Writer 
-each with two victories. 
Lytle snagged top honors in the 

With a 1-1 record in 2008 and 200-and 100-yard freestyle a 3-4 record on the season, No. races with times of 1 :41.08 and 22 Notre Dame will 46.27, respective­host Louisville ly. Moore dominat­tonight at 5 and ed the 200 and then hit the road to "The meets this 100 butterfly races Evanston, Ill., weekend are really with times of where they will 1:51.51) and 50.44,
important. " 
take on No. 18 respectively. Northwestern Mwanwhile, Saturday. Tim Welsh Bulfin controlled 
"The meets this Irish coach the diving boards, weekend are really winning both the important. The three-meter and meet against one-meter events. Louisville is an especially big In the second meet of the one," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. weekend, the Irish will face 
Though the Irish lost their first Wildcats senior Kyle Bubolz, who match of the New Year against is the reigning Big Ten swimmer LSU 167-95, they rebounded and of the week. won their first home match of the The Irish met with both of this season last weekend against weekend's opponents in the Oakland. The Irish dominated the 2006-07 season. Notre Dame lost Golden Grizzlies and snatched to the Wildcats 167-131 but beat first place in 10 events, resulting the Cardinals 146-94. in a fmal score of 17 4-126. 
Leading the Irish to the victory Contact Ellyn Michalak at against Oakland were sophomore emichala@nd.edu 
NHL 

Modano, Stars win third straight visit in San Jose 
Hasek comes up big in goaltenders battle to secure Red Wings 3-2 overtime victory against Vancouver 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Just how much do Sharks fans dislike Dallas'? Enough to boo the word "star" both times it's sung in the pregame national anthem. 
Ynt home ice is no advantage for the San Jose Sharks in this livnly rivalry. Mike Modano madfJ himself at home away from horne again Thursday night, and the Paeific Division race got another bit tighter. 
Modano scored his second goal with 7:06 left, and the Stars improbably won in San Jose for the sixth straight timn. 4-2 OVf1r tlw slumping Sharks. 
Marty Turco made 28 saves, Niklas Hagman also scored and Jeff Halpern added an insurance goal with 2:09 remaining for the Stars, who won for just tho third timn in I0 ganws overall. 
Though coach Dave Tippett still is trying to figurn out what makes his club so incon­sistent. Dallas' -slumps are no match for a trip at thn Shark Tank, when1 the Stars havn won in all three visits this sea­son -dnspite being winless in three games against the Sharks back home in Big D. 
"Just call us the San Jose Stars," Modano said jokingly. "I don't know why wn play so well (bern). It's a great crowd. Thny'rn really supportive. and tlwy nJally get into the game. Thny'rn fun to play in front of'. It's usually a fun and revved­up ganw." 
Modano became the NIIL's leading Ameriean·born scorer with another two-goal game at the Shark Tank on Nov. 7. The veteran has just three multi­goal games all season, but he's plenty comfortable on San .Jose's rutted ice. 

"Our first couple of shifts, we weren't playing hard, and then it kicked in," Turco said. "When certain players begin to play hard, it's inspiring. It was a treat to watch us play." ­
The win pulled the Stars even with the Sharks in the division standings, just one point behind first-place Anaheim. Dallas finished up a five-game road trip with just two victories, but has a four­game homestand before next weekend's All-Star break. 
"It's weird how this series has gone," Tippett said. "I hope we can break the streak someday at home. It's a log­jam at the top (of the division), and we're in the middle. It's going to continue to be a bat­tle for spots." 
Joe Thornton and Milan Michalek scored for the Sharks, who have lost three straight-all to division rivals -after winning seven of their previous eight. Evgeni Nabokov stopped 27 shots, but only Montreal has fewer home 
vietori11s  than  the Sharks'  
eight.  
"Again,  we're  struggling  
with  our  style  of  play  at  

home," defenseman Craig Hivet said. "Right now, it's a bit lackadaisical. ... They worked harder, and they deserved it." 
San Jose has three more homo games before the All­Star break, and several play­ers cit11d this meeting with Dallas and Saturday night's visit from NHL-leading Detroit as an important measure of their progress. 
"If we keep playing this way, we'll get the same results," Thornton said. 
After Michalek and Hagman each scored their 16th goals in the first period, Modano put the Stars ahead late in the second on a fine pass from Loui Eriksson from behind the net. The goal snapped a nine­game drought for Modano. 

Thornton tied it early in the third period when his attempt at a pass to Steve Bernier ric­ocheted off defenseman Matt Niskanen's stick and landed behind TurC!). The goal was Thornton's second in two games after going 14 games without a goal. 
Both teams had good scoring chances before Modano ripped his 14th goal of the season through traffic. 
"A team like that, that's been on the road a while, you want to squeeze the life out of them, and we didn't get it done," Sharks coach Ron Wilson said. "You want to have a better performance, considering they're a little road-weary and probably a lit­tle desperate, and we didn't match it." 
Red Wings 3, Canucks 2 
Two of the NIIL's best goal­tenders squared off for 65 minutes, and then some. • 
Henrik Zetterberg scored the only goal of the shootout to lift the Detroit Red Wings to a win over the Vancouver Canucks on Thursday night. 
Dan Cleary scored twiee for Detroit in regulation and Dominik Hasek made 26 
·saves. The NHL-leading Red Wings snapped a three-game losing streak. 
Henrik Serlin had a goal and 
an assist for Vancouver and 
Markus Naslund also scored. 
Roberto Luongo made 4 7 
saves for the Canucks. 

"We threw a lot of shots at 
Luongo. He's a great goalie, so 
that's what you have to do," 
Cleary said. "Dom shut them 
down. He was great for us." 
Zetterberg scored the win­
ning goal in the shootout by 
slipping a backhander 
between Luongo's pads after a 
fake. 

"I could have gone high, but 
he opened up the five-hole," 
Zetterberg said. "Luongo 
played a great game." 

The Canucks' goaltender 
praised Zetterberg's move. 

"It was a simple, yet bril­liant play," Luongo said. "He carried from his forehand to his backhand, waited for the 
opening and put it five-hole." 
Luongo was voted in as a starter for the NHL All-Star game on Jan. 27 in Atlanta but has elected to spend time with his pregnant wife during the break instead. Detroit's other goalie, Chris Osgood, was chosen for the team, and Red Wings coach Mike Babcock said that he would start him if the decision is his. 
San Jose's Evgeni Nabokov and St. Louis' Manny Legaee are the other two Western Conference All-Star goal­tenders. 
Vancouver scored twice in the last four minutes of the seeond period to tie it at 2. 
"He [Luongo] gave us a chance to tie up the game and we did it," Canucks eoach Alain Vigneault said. 
Serlin made it 2-1 with 4:39 left when he put a rebound into an open net for his ninth goal. Naslund tied it with 1:52 remaining when his attempted pass from the right circle deflected in off the skate of Detroit defenseman Brian Rafalski. It was Naslund's 16th goal. 
Less than two minutes earli­er. during a Red Wings power play, Hafalski had the puek in the slot and Luongo was down and out. But Rafalski's shot hit the crossbar. 
"I almost had to laugh," Hasek said. "His shot hits the crossbar on one end and the puck goes in off his skate at the other end." 
Cleary's second goal, his 18th of the season, made it 2­
0. He tipped in Valtteri Filppula's pass, whieh came to him through his legs at 1:51 of the second period. 
Filppula won a battle for the puck along the right boards, skated across the top of the right eircle and made the pass to Cleary. 
"Fil made a real headsy play," Cleary said. "Dn~w a lot of guys to him. l just went to the net. I just tried to get a stick on it as mueh as I could." 
Vancouver dido 't have a shot from the eight-minute mark of the first period until 7:32 of the second period, a total of 19:32. 
"Obviously, in the l'irst 30 minutes they gave us a lesson in how to generate offense," Vigneault said. 
Cleary opened the scoring with 1:16 left in the first w~ri­od when he tipped Andreas Lilja's shot from the left point out of the air and past Luongo. 

Friday, January 18, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

Learn about summer internship opportunities. 
Firmwide Information Session 
Tuesday, January 22, 2008 
6:00 pm -7:30 pm The Morris Inn 
Application deadline: Wednesday, January 30, 2008 Apply online at gs.com/careers. Contact your career center for further details. 
© Goldrnan. Sact1s & Co. 2008. All rights reserved Go!drnan Sachs <San equal opportunity employer. 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, January 18, 2008 
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Squad looks to build on earlier successes 
Indoor Opener starts spring season in Loftus 

By PAT STYNES Sports Writer 
After winning 2 4 of 3 I events at the Blue and Gold Invitational in December, the men's team looks to start out strong in 2008. At the Invitational, both old and new members stepped up, with rn ultiple freshmen earning Big East qualifications and senior Kurt Benninger blaz­ing through the 3,000-rneter race to the second-fastest time in the nation this sea­son. 
Notre Dame will host the Indoor Opener tonight at 5:30 in the Loftus Center. 
Irish coach Joe Piane said he is very pleased with how the younger players are doing well to fill the gaps left by last year's seniors. 
"It's tough to come back and perform on a high level when you lose players of that high a caliber," Piane said. "But the underclassmen are stepping up in a big way, and this year's upperclassmen haven't missed a beat." 
The Irish will look to fresh­man Miklos Szebeny in the short distance events. An international student who hails from Hungary, he came to Notre Dame already a very accomplished sprinter. lie eaptured the national title for his age group multiple times in both the 100-and ZOO­meter events. He also is co­owner of the record for the 4x400 relay. When Szebeny ran in his first event back in December, he settled in with ease as he took first place in the 200-meter dash. 

The long distance events will be an opportunity for vet­erans to continue to improve. Senior Kurt Benninger will look to dominate in the 3,000-meter race. Meanwhile, sophomore Jake Walker will look to keep improving after an impressive debut at the invitational when he outran the competi­tion in the 5,000-meter raee. 
The team will also look to freshman thrower Greg Davis, who showed potential with a first place finish at last month's qualifier. 
Contact Pat Stynes at pstynes@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish kick off regular season 
Connelly looking for freshmen, veterans to compete in event 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Spans Writer 

The Irish will heed the gun of their regular season at 5 
p.m. today with the 13-team Notre Dame Indoor Opener. 
"We will use Friday night's competition to see where we are after the long break," Irish coaeh Tim Connelly said. "Most of our team has only been together since Monday." 
Though the Indoor Opener officially starts the regular season, Notre Dame has already eompeted in the Blue-Gold Invitational. which took place on Dec. 7. Some top performers from that meet included Anna Weber, whose mark of 17.54 meters in the weight throw qualified her for the Big East Championship, and freshman runner Cora Dayon, who won the 500-meter run with a time of 1:14:37. Both are expected to contribute Friday. 
The meet will also be an opportunity for new runners to get a chance to compete. 
"Most of the people who competed in December will compete again on Friday, but we will have some additions who are now training and should be ready to run," Connelly said. 
Among others, the Irish will we lcom e b a c k r11 t u r n i ng cross county All-American Sunni Olding who was out part of the fall because of an injury. Additionally, Notre Dame will welcome back freshman standout Marissa Treece, who had been side­lined with illness. Both will run distance /'or the Irish. 
Notre Dame will look to carry the success it had more than a month ago into Friday's meet. 
"Although there will be sev­eral more teams here, the level of competition will be similar to the first meet," said Connelly. 
The meet will start with the long jump, and the running events will start with the 60­meter dash at 6:30 pn1. 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Henin extends vvinning streak to 31 
Associated Press 

MELBOURNE, Australia ­Justine Henin ran her winning streak to 31 matches Friday, overcoming serving troubles to hold off 25th-seeded Francesca Schiavone 7-5, 6-4 in the third round of the Australian Open. 
The top-ranked Belgian star will face Aravene Rezai or Hsieh Su-wei in the fourth round, and a quarterfinal against Maria Sharapova looms. 
"I hate to look too far," Henin said. "I just want to get ready, improve my game and be in my best shape. I know the draw, but I like to stay concentrated on myself." 
After retiring from the 2006 Australian final against Amelie Mauresmo because of a stom­ach illness, Henin skipped the event last year because she was going through a divorce. 
She has dominated the women's tour since returning, finishing 63-4, including two majors and the season-ending championship, in 2007. She added the Sydney International title last week to build up for Melbourne Park. 
She got only 48 percent of her first serves into play and was lucky it didn't cost her more against Schiavone, who has a similar style. 
"It was really exciting. I'm glad to win in two," Henin said. "She's always given me trouble in the past, so it was a tough third round for me." 
Henin controlled the crucial points better than Schiavone, who frequently screamed or covered her face after mis­takes. 
After the two players exchanged four service breaks in the first set, Schiavone served at 5-5. The Italian dou­ble-faulted on the first point, then came a foot fault as she served at break point. 
In the second, Henin was down 0-1 and 15-30 before 
Live, learn, and work in Washington, DC, during Fall2008 or Spring 2009 with Notre Dame's 
WASHIN 
N RAM 

Deadline for applications: January 23, 2008. www.nd.edu/"'wp 
Sophomore and First Year Students of all majors may apply. 

winning 15 of 16 points in four straight games. Schiavone hit back, and had the ideal chance to get back on serve with double break point as Henin served for the match, but over-hit a forehand when she returned a second serve. Henin won the last three points to close. 
Nikolay Davydenko, seeded fourth, advanced to the fourth round of the men's draw, beat­ing France's Marc Gicquel 6-3, 6-2, 6-3. 
Marcos Baghdatis downed 2005 champion Marat Safin 6­4, 6-4, 2-6, 3-6, 6-2 in a momentum-swinging match that started Thursday and stretched into Friday morning and completed the second round. 
Safin was the last player to beat top-ranked Roger Federer in Melbourne, break­ing up the Swiss star's four Australian titles with a semifi­nal upset three years ago. 
Baghdatis is one of three los­ing Australian Open finalists still in contention -a list that will certainly be reduced in the third round. He will play 2005 runner-up Lleyton Hewitt next. Fernando Gonzalez, who lost last year's championship match, beat South Korean Lee Hyung-taik 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, 6-4. 
Video of Baghdatis, a Greek Cypriot, holding a flare and apparently yelling "Turks Out," emerged in the Australian media on Friday, 1 0 months after it was posted on a video sharing Web site. 
The 2006 runner-up did not apologize for the video in a statement released Friday in response to criticism from Melbourne's Turkish-Cypriot community, but said he want­ed to concentrate only on the tennis. 
Cyprus has been divided along ethnic lines since 197 4. 
The International Tennis Federation and Tennis Australia both said they would not be making any comment. 
Federer has reached the finals of the last 10 Grand Slam tournaments and won eight of them, losing twice to Rafael Nadal at the French Open. 


Friday, January 18, 2008 
Close by campus, Martin's has what 
you want. 
Starbuck's Coffee® beverages WiFi free in Side Door Deli area 70+ item Salad Bar New Sandwich Express made-to-order subs Sushi selections made fresh daily Hot Deli Fried Chicken, egg rolls, sides and more Panini bar featuring meat and veggie varieties Party trays custom made Donuts made fresh daily in store College logo cakes, balloons and more Kitchen Fresh entrees, just like homemade ATM, stamps and package shipping services Party supplies 

loll Road 


marfinr 
Count On Us! 
www.martins-supermarkets.com 
Friday, January 18, 2008 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC SWIMMING 

Team to look for fresh start in doubleheader 
By PETER REISENAUER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's hopes to get back on the winning track this week­end when it faces Olivet and llillsdale, after dropping its last meet to nationally ranked Hope. 
"Hope is one of the best teams in our conference and we defi­nitely put up a good right against them," Belles captain Melissa Gerbeth said. 

Saint Mary's is fresh off its post-Christmas training in Deerfield Beach, Fla., where the team practiced twice a day in what Gerbeth called the "most intense training we have had all year." 
Coach Ryan Dombkowski hopes that team bonding through this training will carry over to the last five weeks of the season -and especially in the meets against Olivet and Hillsdale. 
"This weekend we have two of our most competitive meets of the season," Dombkowski said. 
Dombkowski noted the impor­tance of his entire team step­ping up this weekend but high­lighted a couple of key perform­ers he hopes will carry them to victory. 
"We will need huge individual contributions from our return­ing conference distance cham­pion, [Gerbeth]. to talented stroke specialists Casey Niezer, Caroline Arness, and Maggie Williams, to our sprinters Lauren Hartman and Meredith Lierz, all the way to anyone just swimming in a single event." 
Dombkowski said. 

He also made special mention of sophomore Lindsey Nelis, who swam to a time of 18:59.01 in the 1,650-yard freestyle against Hope and was named the Saint Mary's college athlete of the week for her perform­ance. 
Contact Peter Reisenaur at preisena@nd.edu 
Hoyas 
continued from page 28 
true road game the Irish have played was the loss to the Golden Eagles. 
But even though the I loyas are unbeaten at home, Notre Dame sophomore forward Luke llarangody said the Irish are ready to play well away from South Bend. 
"We're going to get it right one of these times," he said. "We have to have confidence like we do when we're at home." 
Notre Dame isn't alone in its road woes. So far in tho Big East stmson, home teams are 26-7 ­and with only one surprise among the road vietories. 
"Other than Cincinnati over Louisville. the other road wins probably should have hap­pened." Irish coach Mike Brey said. "There hasn't been one wlwre you'd say. 'That was a steal.' 
"Maybe we can change that this weekend." 
In order to buek that trend, the Irish will need to contend with Georgetown center Hoy llibbcrt. Hibbert, who stands at 7-foot-2 and is averaging 12.5 points and 5.7 rebounds per game. 
Georgetown runs a "Princeton" style ofl'ense, which usually includes the eenter mak­ing passes to cutters from the free throw line. However, Hoyas coach John Thompson Ill has 
Kuntz 
continued from page 28 
have one more year to play and I'm going to graduate from Notre Dame," Kuntz told AP. "The time is the o~ly thing that's not 100 pereent. 
Kuntz started the first 10 

modified the style to get Hibbert more touches closer to the. bas­ket. 
"Early [in their offense I the ball goes to the low post," Brey said. "Throwing it in to Hibbert early in the possession is some­thing they'll do, because he's a very good passer if you double him." 
But it's on the defensive end where Hibbert really makes his mark. lie has 29 blocks on the season. 
Notre Dame's starting for­wards, senior Rob Kurz and sophomore Luke Harangody, have been very productive ofl'en­sively, averaging 13.8 and 19.3 points per game this season, respectively. However, neither is taller than 6-foot-9. 
The last time the Irish played against a 7 -footer, Connecticut's Jlasheem Thabeet, both Kurz and llarangody scored 14 points, but they did it on a combined 1 0-for-35 shooting from the field -and two of Kurz's baskets came on three pointers. Thabeet also had 10 blocks in the game. 
llarangody said he has studied tape of that game in preparation for matching up with Hibbert ­focusing mainly on the positives of his performance. 
"I watched tape on Connecticut and I saw where I was suecessful," Harangody said. "I can be physical and get into him, or take him away from the basket and use my speed." 
Kurz, whose stellar outside shooting makes him difficult for other big men to guard, said he 
games at nose tackle for the Irish before suffering torn ligaments in his left knee against Air Force on Nov. 10. Kuntz also cracked a bone in his spine against Navy on Nov. 3. These injuries forced Kuntz to miss Notre Dame's wins over Duke and Stanford to end the season. 
Kuntz finished 2007 with 42 tackles and a team-high nine may try to draw Hibbert out of the paint to free it up for other Irish players driving to the hoop. 
"There are times when he's going to be matched up on me and I'll try to take him away from the basket," Kurz said. 
Brey is confident his forwards will be able to score despite Hibbert's presence. In fact, he said he's more worried about his team controlling the ball and having good possessions. 
"The biggest key to start is us taking care of the ball early," Brey said. "Turnovers hurt us last year there and turnovers hurt us last Saturday in Milwaukee." 
In addition to Hibbert, Georgetown has two other play­ers, forward DeJuan Summers and guard Jonathan Wallace, that average more than 10 points per game, while Austin Freeman averages 9.9. 
Notre Dame left Thursday night for Washington, D.C. The team will visit Walter Reed Army Medical Center this morning. 
"It's just a powerful personal experience," Brey said of the visit. "Anything we can do to thank our troops, our fighting men and women." 
The contest with the Hoyas will tip off at noon Saturday. It will be televised on WMYS, a local South Bend station that is not available in Comcast's on­campus package for Notre Dame. · 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

pass break-ups before the injury. His back-up, freshman Ian Williams, started in place of Kuntz in Notre Dame's,Jast two games and finished the 'S,eason with 45 tackles en route to 'b,eing named a freshman All­American. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 


$ $ 
:t,~ i1ucr
41111 ~ • $ ~ne Per Visit $ 
, Exp1res May 2008 

.--------··----------------,
Gourmet Sandwiches, Salads &Soups 
:s s: 
Plus Fantastic FAIR TRADE Coffees 
I Just aWalk from Campus ~: 
Support local indie establishments 
Open Every Doy! 
BUCKl
Edison Plaza, 1631 Edison Rd, 273-6216 One Per Visit $ : I We Have Wi-Fi! $ Expires May 2008 1 
____________ .J 

Ca Out Available 
Fropdetors Warren & Linda 



:/.irs/ Ori7J'.nal :Az.za r'.n ':7anm / 
Since 1951 
Spocializing in IMii:m Entrees 
T\Jt!i, • Thurs.: 5;00 PM -11:00 PM Fri.-Sat: 5:00PM· 1;00 AM 537 North St. louis • South Bend, lN 
t;74-233-24u4 
$2 coupon; dine-in only; limit 1 per table; expires 2/29 
Thursday, January 24 
7:30 P.M., O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Traditional dance and music play a very 
imporram role in the 
lives of Rwandans. Berwa, 
meaning "be proud," is 
a Rwandan dance group 
comprised ofmostly 
first-generation Americans 
ofRwandan decent that 
suives to promore rtr~:ir 
culture by providing moral, 
spiritual, and physical 
support to irs members. 


Plug in to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
Campus Ministry  
Free iTunes subscription for reflective listeuing 011 your iPod.  
A'''>>)))) ) M www.ndprayercast.org  Type ''ndprayercast" on the iTuues searclt e11gine,-or -log o11to www.ndprayercast.org Hear it here this week: Rev. Joe Carey, c.s.c. Songs of the NO Folk Choir • psalms • homilies • prayers • meditative music  


Friday, January 18, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
LEGACY VILLAGE 
BECAUSE YOU DESERVE IT (AVAILABLE FOR RENT STARTING JUNE 1, 2009) 
IF YOU ARE PLANNING ON UVING IN A HOUSE OFF CAMPUS AND YOU 00NOT CONTACT US FIRST. YOU~RE NOT SMART ENOUGH TO BE A NOTRE DAME S'IUDENf! 
WHY UVE IN AN OLD, SMALL AND WORN-DOWN HOUSE WHEN YOU CAN UVE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE TO CAMPUS THAT ONLY CONfAINS NEW, SPACIOUS HOUSES SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS? WHY UVE IN AN APARTMENT WHEN YOU CAN UVE IN A HOUSE WITH A BIG YARD? WHY PAY DEPOSITS 15-17 MONfHS IN ADVANCE ? 
New 2,400 square feet (4 Bedroo~ 2 Yz Bathrooms) and 3,000 square feet (6 Bedrooms, 3 ~ Bathrooms) brick homes close to campus with Dens, Kitchen, Family Room, Dining Room, Mud Room and Back Poi'Ch/P4tith Each home has the following main features; 
1.. Fully equipped Kitchen with new refrigerator, range, QVen, dishwasher, microwave~ cooking PQtsl pans,. pla~ cooking utens~ and dinnetwareJ 2.. Dining Room; 
3. 
Family Room with fireplace; 

4. 
Mud Room with laundry center,. including a washer and dryer; 5.. Hardwood flooring on entire main floor (except Mud Room)~ 


6. Each Bedroom area is approximately 10' x 16' and has the following design featu~ 
• Fully carpeted 

* 
Vanity cabinet with sink and mirror "' Walk·in closet 

* 
Wired for cable televisi<m and internet service 


7.. Each two students will share a PQrcelain-tiled bathroom 'private toilet room and a steam shower with seat} and a small den with kitchenette (sink, bar refrigerator, cook top and mkrowave) having hardwood flooring; 
8. 
Gas barbeque grill on Back P-orch/Patio; 

9. 
Wireless internet service ready; 

10. 
Fire/Security Alarm System and locks with deadoolts for all exterior doors and all ®on from staircase to bedroom areas;: 

11. 
Top-of..tbe..Jine hea~ air cooditiQJi\ing and othe·r mechanical sy.ste·ms tthe ~Mechanical Svstems"')l 

12. 
The fl~ ceilings and walls surrounding each bedroom and bathroom are completely insulated to redu~ ~ 13.. Reduced utility oosts because of the Mechanical Systems and the tact the homes are atremelv welHnsulated; 


14. 
Spacious yards; and 

15. 
Substantial parking available. 



HURRY AND RESERVE YOUR HOUSE BEFORE IT IS TOO lATE! 
page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, January 18, 2008 

VANESSA GEMPIS!fhe Observer Senior Sheeva Parbhu looks to return a volley during Notre Dame's 7-0 win over Kentucky on April 11. 
Toledo 
continued from page 28 
ior Andrnw Hoth. 
Penn State will provide some stoep eompntition for the Irish, especially in doubles, Baylliss said. 
"Penn State plays good dou­bles, and they will challenge us there," Bayliss said. "They are the 'Boast of The East."' 
Penn State's coaeh, Todd Doobler, was an assistant undnr Bayliss from 2003-06. 
"They have eome a long way under Doebler," Bayliss said. "They have a very talentod fresh­man IEddie Bourehierl from Australia, and their No. 1, Michm~l James. hits a very big ball. Brott IHelgesonl will have a tough mateh against him." 
llelgeson and Parbhu make a very strong doubles tandem for thn Irish. The duo returns as wnll as anyone but they tnnd to bn~ak down at net. Bayliss eom­parod playing doubles to a mar-
Big East 
continued from page 28 
said. "You  have  to  go  into  
ovnry game expec ting a  bat­ 
tln."  

Pacing the charge for the lloyas will likely be senior for­ward Kieraah Marlow, who leads the team with 15.2 points per game Georgetown's only seorer in double f'igures. She also has 
6.S boards per game. 
"Marlow is a tough mateh-up for us," MeG raw said. "She will be able to face up our big guys and post up our guards." 
McGraw also said her squad will have to mateh up well with (;eorgetown's big women, espeeially 6-l'oot-5 center Arninata Diop. MeGraw said she will likely give more min­utos to eenters Erica Williamson (6-foot-4) and Melissa D'Amieo (6-foot-5). In Notre Dame's 69-58 win over Villanova Wednesday, Williamson played only eight minutes and D'Amico never eame ofT the bench. 
"IVillanoval is a small team and they took advantage of' Mnl defensively last year." McGraw said. "Eriea looked bntter in practice last week guarding on the perimeter so she got the start. Mel, Eriea and Ifreshman forward I Becea IBruszewskil should all get more minutes against their bigs." 
McGraw said she will not tin­ker with her lineup from Wednesday night's win, choos­ing to keep freshman forward Devereaux Peters on the beneh -at least at tip-off'. 
Peters had a strong game at riage. Like a married couple, a doubles relationship can go south if' not everything goes right, he said, and the pair spends much time together. However Parbhu and llelgeson are good friends both on and off the court. 

"Unfortunately with those two, neither likes to take charge," Bayliss said. 
While the Irish lost good play­ers to graduation last season, Bayliss feels his team is deeper than the 2006-2007 squad. Sophomore Sean Corrigan and Montoya were both on the team last year, but didn't see much playing time. This year, however, both are in the hunt for open positions. They are less experi­fmced than last year, but Bayliss feels the freshmen will grow from their experiences. 
After the Irish host Penn State on Sunday, they will also host Toledo at 6 p.m. No. 1 Virginia will come to South Bend to take on the Irish on Jan. 27. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 
both ends of' the court against the Wildcats, tallying 15 points, six boards, seven steals and three bloeks in 28 min­utes. McGraw said she would like to see Peters get more minutes, something that eould be difficult sinee Peters has fouled out of all but one of conference game this season. 
Another big faetor for Notre Dame's offense against the lloyas will be junior guard Lindsay Schrader, who hit all five tield goal attempts against Villanova despite giving McGraw her biggest scare of thn season. 
Schrader went down hard on the court grabbing her Je!'t knee, bringing memories to the Irish eoach of when Sehrader tore the ACL on her right knee last preseason. Schrader said after Wednesday night's game that she knew it was not the same kind of pain as when she tore her ACL, but McGraw said that it was still a "personal seary moment" for her. 
The lloyas do not present the same 3-point threat that Villanova did, having hit only 
31.7 percent of their shots from beyond the are. Against Notre Dame, Villanova was 9­of-16 from three-point land ­something that has been McGraw's biggest eoneern for the last two seasons. 
"They had a kid last year who made five, but she gradu­ated," McGraw said. "But we still have to guard them tight out there. I think most of Villanova's were in transition and not against the man-to­man." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
percent of power plays defensive pairs is going to against them this season -have to be aceountable,"
Michigan 

fourth best in  Jaekson said.  
continued from page 28  the country.  "That line  is  
The Irish have reason to be  "We just need to get baek to  "We're going to have  going to gilt their opportu­ 
confident heading into this  basies," junior  to score a couple of  nities,  we just  
match-up, having beaten the Wolverines in all three of  forward Condra  Erik said.  goals to win. "  have to make sure they don't  
their meetings last season,  "You ean't think  get too many."  
including a  7-3 thrashing at  about  it  too  Jeff Jackson  Notre Dame  
Yost Arena and  a  2-1  victory  much because  Irish coach  currently sits  

in the 2007 CCIIA then you start Championship. not scoring and 
"The faet that we have had the streak eon-success against them might tinues." give us a little more confi­Jackson eehoed Condra, dence heading in there," saying that breaking out of Jackson said. "But that was their power-play slump would then and this be erueial to get­is now and ting points this 
we're going "You can't think weekend. 
to have to about it too much "We're going to make sure have to seore a
because then you 
we do the eouple of goals to
start not scoring and
things that win," Jackson are neces­the streak continues." said. "Because sary to have there's no ques­success." tion that they're
Erik Condra
The Irish going to get a lot 
Irish toward
will need to of scoring add life to ehanees." their power In addition to play that has looked weak putting pucks in the net, the sinee the beginning of winter Irish will need to shut down break. Notre Dame has failed Michigan teammates Kevin to seore in its last 30 chances Porter and Chad Kolarik. with the man advantage. Porter and Kolarik make up Breaking out of their slump the highest-scoring duo in against Michigan won't be an college hoekey, combinin.g for easy task for the Irish: The 68 points on the season. Wolverines have killed 89.5 "Each one of our lines and in third in the 
CCIIA stand­

ings, three points behind Miehigan, though the Wolverines have played two fewer games than the Irish. A good showing this weekend would improve Notre Dame's chances of receiving a top send in the conference tournament. 
"It's like playoff hockey," Condra said. "They're in the top four in our division and we're l'ighting for playoff' spots." 
While these will be two of Notre Dame's toughest games of' the season, Jackson is more excited about the opportunity than concerned about the opposition. 
"Hopefully these games will help make us better," Jaekson said. "But at the same time, we'll have to be at our best and try to steal some points." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

2007-08 SEASON NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
A(tit(lJ-·s F~·r· ·>1/·1-1 Tl·1 )T'll/l()(·)l'l s·'11-~lg·-~<)
.. j ) . .. k ... . . (_ . . . ...... {; A_ .... _ . . . . . k Ur:__ _./ 
TheTaming ofthe Shrew 
Washington Hall, University of Notre Dame 
General Public $18 • Faculty/Staff/Senior Citizens $16 • Students $12 
Tickets are available through the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts ticket office. Visa, MasterCard, and American Express orders accepted. Call574-631-2800 or purchase online at http://performingarts.nd.edu 
The Actors From The London Stage residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
f:±,lUNlVERSITY OF 
,"'f~~ D E B A R T 0 l 0 
WNOTREDAME '~~ /]; PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 

IN LOVING MEMORY OF 

LUCY BLANDFORD PILKINTON A.B., M.A., PH.D. 
27 FEB 1943--19 JAN 1994 

Friday, January 18, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
BLACK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 


CROSSWORD 
Across 27 Fair diversion Confectioner's 28 Time off offering 29 First major­league team to

8 Affecting the 
sign Satchel
heart 
Paige

15 Item in a 1­
331992 New
Across 
Hampshire

16 Two-character 
primary winner
Mamet play 
351ntimidate

17 Cause of 
36 Frequent Styne
overreactions? 
collaborator 

18 Matching 
37 Speaks with a 
accessory for a 
pleasing rhythm
slicker 
38 Bundle up

19 Traditional 
39 Jimi Hendrix's
Monday meal in 
style
Creole cuisine 
43 Reese's "Legally

21 "Oh! Susanna" 
Blonde" role 
closer 
44 Synagogue

22 World Cup 
cabinets highlight 45 Timer sound 23 Podiatric 
46 He said "How 
problem, for 
can anyone

some govern a nation 24 Urges 
that has 246 25 Grand Lodge kinds of Convention cheese?" attendees 50 Underground 26 Big tier? nesters 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

51 Required reading for 007 
52 Offering just the right amount of resistance 
53 Wire, at times 
54 Give a whirl 
55 They hold at 
least two cups 
each 
Down 
Radar's radio contact on "M*A*S*H" 
2 Longtime "What's My Line?" name 
3 Brande's "On the Waterfront" co­star 
4 First-year men 
5 Money replaced 
by euros 6 Practice 7 Noted English 
portraitist 8 Beach shop souvenirs 9 Playwright Ayckbourn 10 Frist's successor as majority leader 11 TV host who told viewers "Look that up in your Funk & Wagnalls!" 
12 Lying low 
13 Montana county seat named for a nonnative creature 
14 Hosts' hirees 
20 Purpose 
26 1982 film and arcade game 
WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by Patrick Berry 

27 "I hate it when 341976 Hall & 42 Palais Garnier that happens!" Oates hit offerings 29 Cocktail party 36 Funny fellow 47 Celebrity who exchanges testified at the
38 Dog breed 
30 Board opening? 2005 Michael
whose name

31 Intellectuals' Jackson trial
literally means
opposites 48 Some famous"rather low" 

last words 39 Wrongs 32 Site site 
33 Had a one-sided 49 Four-legged conversation 40 Ocelot, for one Hammett with 41 Come around character 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JUMBLE 

JllJJM&IbJ! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
OSOME 

(IJ I I 
©2008 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
{~~~f~j 

tFLYDON j [] 
IJ ( I I 
www.jumble.com 
GATHIL 

riJ rJ 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT SHE: DID WHE:N THE: RE:PAIR­MAN GOT DIRT ON HE:R C.ARPE:T. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans:[I I I JrI IJ "(I I]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: PIPER TOPAZ GENDER POWDER Answer: Why his pals were like ice cubes ­THEY "DROPPED" IN 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

.-, CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Zooey Deschanel, 28: Kid Rock, 37; Jim Carrey, 46: Susanna Hoffs, 4\J 
Happy Birthday: You will have to dig deep to get the proper information, especially when it pertains to friends and relatives. Do what's best for yourself not the people who are trying to get you to do them favors. Your numbers are 14, 20, 28, 40, 43, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Nothing is impossible and the people who try to tell you otherwise must be ignored. You are a driving force and, once you set your course, it isn't likely anyone can stop you. Start today. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Someone may pressure you to do something you don't want to do. Don't give in. Your time will be better spent learning something new that will help you engage in a professional challenge. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't waste time. The more proactive and productive you are, the easier it will be to interest others to get involved. A conversation with an expert will lead to an interesting proposal. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can get things organized today. Tend to your per­sonal paperwork and banking so you are fully aware of how much you have to invest or put into something that you've been wanting to do for some time. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make sure you are clear about what you are doing and what you expect everyone else to take care of. Love is in the stars but don't leave yourself in a vulnerable position. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): An opportunity to get away should be taken advantage of. On the road, work or just enjoy a little fun --both will be informative from many different perspectives. Avoid a family feud. 5 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): If you don't need it, don't buy it. You will be tempted by what others have. Don't be silly when it comes to cash. Overreacting will not get you ahead or get you what you want. Love is in the picture. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 21): Do as much as you can by phone, mail or visiting someone with whom you can close a deal. Be secretive until you have everything in place. The end result will help to sway the skeptics. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Allow yourself space to do things and room to expand. Someone may question what you are doing but, if he or she can't see your 
vision, perhaps you shouldn't involve him or her. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You should be able to make money, come into 
money or collect money today. Real estate, investments and taking care of your per­sonal assets will pay off. A change at home will make your life easier and more re­
warding. 5 stars 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Upset will hit hard if you let your emotions take over and leave you in a vulnerable position when discussing future plans with a loved one. Be direct. Use reverse psychology and you will stand a better chance of getting your way. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Someone may play emotional mind games with you or be completely secretive regarding what he or she is up to. Investigate in order to put your mind at ease. Keep things to yourself and observe what others say and do. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have stamina and courage. You are not afraid of the unknown or 
what you must do to reach your goals. You are a Good Samaritan, always searching for how you can better the world around you. 
Eugenia1s Web sites: astroadvice.comjor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

.. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Friday, January 18, 2008 page 28 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Second chance 
Notre Dame will look for a big win against the Hoyas in D.C. 
By CHRIS KHOREY SportS Editor 
One week ago, Notre Dame was crushed on the road against a ranked opponent. 
On Saturday. the Irish will get a chance to rfldeem themselves. 
Aftnr bouncing back from the ugly 92-66 loss to Marquette last Saturday with a 91-74 win over Cincinnati Tunsday, Notre Dame travels to Washington, D.C. to take on No. 5 Georgetown at the Verizon Center. 
The lloyas and the Irish are tind with two other teams atop the Big East at 3-1. Georgetown is f:oming on· a 69-60 loss on the road at Pittsburgh Monday. Its only other loss this season came at No.2 Memphis on Dee. 22. 
Notrn Dame is 11-0 at home this season. but just 2-3 away from the Joyce Center. The only 
see HOYAS/page 24 


Senior forward Rob Kurz scrambes for the ball in Notre Dame's 91-74 victory over Cincinnati Tuesday. The Irish travel to Washington, D.C. to take on Georgetown Saturday. 
FOOTBALL 

Kuntz not in school 
for spring 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 

Defensive tackle Pat Kuntz is not enrolled at the University this semester for what he told the Associated Press was "per­sonal reasons." 
Kuntz did not elaborate when contacted by AP at his Indianapolis home, and Director of Football Media Relations Brian Hardin said the University would have no fur­ther comment -other than that Kuntz is not enrolled ­due to federal education priva­cy laws. 
The 6-foot-3, 285-pound jun­ior told AP that he hopes to return to Notre Dame as early as this summer and still hopes to play football for the Irish in the fall. 
"No matter what I'm going to be back there. I'm going to 
see KUNTZ/page 24 
HOCKEY 

leers lace up for two 
against Wolverines 

By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will take on the top team in the country for the second time this sea­son when it faees No. 1 Michigan in a two-game series this weekend. The Irish hope to pull another upset, having already beaten then-No. 1 Miami (Ohio) on Nov. 9. 
The Irish will play both games in front of a mostly hostile crowd. Tonight's opening game will be played at Michigan's Yost Arena, dubbed by Notre Dame coach Jeff Jaekson as "without a doubt the most difficult, chal­lenging place to play in col­lege hockey." The second game. technically a horne contest for Notre Dame, will take place at The Palace of Auburn Hills, Mich. 

"It's a little bit more chal­lenging knowing that we'll be on the road for both games," Jackson said. "But knowing that we'll have last change and having our fans and our band there will go a long way towards helping us." 
see MICHIGAN/page 26 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Team set for doubleheader 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame, ranked No. 12 in the Intercollegiate Tennis Association preseason poll, will open its spring season Sunday with a doubleheader against Penn State and Toledo. 
"We are very untested, and we will see how the young team han­dles the pressure of the ranking," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Their perception might change, so we will see how they handle it, and hopefully they will learn from it." 
The team returned to South Bend a week early and started two-a-day practices on Jan. 7. Also, the Irish took part in the Mary Davis Memorial Shootout at the Eck Tennis Pavilion on Jan. 13. 
Despite the rigorous practice schedule, the team is fairly healthy. 
"We have a few bumps and bruises. but no major injuries," Bayliss said. "[Freshman Matt] Johnson is the only one who, if we played tomorrow, couldn't go. He hasn't been able to serve for a week. but we're hoping he can get back on court soon." 
The top two singles spots are filled by junior Brett Helgeson, and senior Sheeva Parbhu, but the other four spots are still up for grabs. Bayliss said five fresh­men -Johnson, Stephen Havens, David Anderson. Daniel Stahl and Tyler Davis-are com­peting for the spots along with junior Santiago Montoya and sen-
see TOLEDO/page 26 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish to test press against Hoyas 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame will face anoth­er tough Big East road test this weekend when it travels to Washington to play Georgetown Sunday at 2 p.m. 
The Hoyas are next to last in the Big East at 0-3. but still hold an overall winning record (1 0-6) like every other team in the conference. Georgetown has done a good job of secur­ing its home court ·so far this season, with its only loss in the MCI Center a 57-4 7 defeat at the hands of No. 5 Rutgers Tuesday. 
"There are no easy confer­ence games, even at home," Irish coach Muffet McGraw 
see BIG EAST/page 26 


Irish junior guard Lindsay Schrader drives to the basket In Notre Dame's 77-46 win over Michigan on Dec. 2. 




