
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 125 TUESDAY, APRIL 22,2008 
ND female reports rape on campus 
Incident is third assault, second rape at University in past month according to NDSP 
By BILL BRINK News Editor 
A Notre Dame student reported a sexual assault to the Notre Dame Security/ Police (NDSP) on April 16, the third sexual assault reported on campus in the past month. 
According to an e-mail sent to the Notre Dame student body, the student said an acquaintance committed the assault on April 12. 
The NDSP police blotter 

classified the offense as ·"rape" and said it occurred between 8 and 11:15 p.m. on 
April 12. 
The alleged assault 
occurred in a residence hall. 
and the victim was not physi­
cally injured, NDSP Assistant 
Director Dave Chapman said. 
"The case is still under 
investigation," he said. 
This alleged assault is the 
second reported rape and the 
third sexual assault case this 
semester. A student reported 
being sexually assaulted by 
an acquaintance in a resi­dence hall on March 23, and a student reported being assaulted, but not raped, between Pasquerilla West and Siegfried Halls on March 30. 
Uhder the Clery Act, which requires disclosure of campus security information, Chapman said, NDSP is required by law to publish information about reported crimes. In 2004, there were two "forcible sex offenses" on campus reported to NDSP, 

according to Chapman and NDSP's Safety Information pamphlet. In 2005, there was one, and in 2006 there were 
five. . Chapman did not know the number of previous assaults that were allegedly commit­ted by someone the victim knew. He also said the pres­ence or absence of drugs or alcohol during the incident was still under investigation. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Local students travel to see pope 
Group of 13 makes trip to New York for Youth Rally and papal mass at Yankee Stadium 
ing the bright sunny day until the pope got there, and as soon as he arrived everyone was just drawn into his pres­ence," freshman Brittani Russell said. 
When the pope arrived, he drove through the crowds in a bulletproof "pope-mobile" mounted on the back of a pick-up truck. 
"Only in the USA would the pope-mobile be on a pick-up truck," senior Bridget Higgins said. 
The entire crowd treated the pope to a rendition of "Happy Birthday" in German, using a pronunciation guide in the program, as the Holy Father listened from the stage. 
"I wish to acknowledge your singing to me 'Happy Birthday,"' the pope said. 
see POPE/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

•

registers voters 
Rhodenbaugh signs up out-of-state students 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Spurred by one of the most competitive primary elections in recent history, freshman Chris Rhodenbaugh has been helping out-of-state Notre Dame students register to vote in the May 6 Indiana primary. 
"Before [this election) youth votes were not taken as seriously, but this year, students are making a difference by voting and active­ly participating in campaigns," Rhodenbaugh said. "I wanted to get students involved. Apathetic campuses are really frustrating." 
About two weeks before April 7, the state's registration dead­line, Rhodenbaugh organized a group of volunteers to encourage students who didn't vote in their own state's primary election to instead cast their vote in the Indiana primary. Rhodenbaugh said the group is non-partisan, and unaffiliated with other cam­pus political groups. 
"We just wanted to give stu­dents a chance to be politically active on campus," he said. "It is rare that Indiana plays a role in primary politics, and students wanted to be a part of it." 
Rhodenbaugh said many stu­dents usually choose to vote in their home states. However, many missed the deadline, and registering in Indiana allows stu­dents to still cast their vote and 
see ELECTION/page 4 

Political science faculty debatesElectoralCollege 
By BRIAN McKENZIE 
News Writer 
Five political science faculty members weighed the pros and cons of the Electoral College and discussed how the current system is practical but not dem­ocratic at the LaFortune Student Center Monday. 
Professor Peri Arnold criti­cized the Electoral College, say­ing that it encourage Democrats and Republicans to simply ignore some states. 
"What it also does is suppress the vote by excluding Republicans in Oregon and New York and Democrats in Idaho and Utah," he said. 
Professor Joshua Kaplan said the current electoral system shifts power toward the South, encoJlraging candidates to con­ceive more conservative plat­forms. 
"It bothers me the most is that the Electoral College has given the South influence dis­proportionate to its numbers," he said. "The Electoral College has been the vehicle through which the South has exerted its int1uence." 
However, Kaplan said finding a replacement for the College would not be simple, and there was no guarantee that it would fix the current system's prob­lems. 
"Procedures aren't neutral," 
see DEBATE/page 6 


By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
NEW YORK -A group of 13 students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's trekked to New York this weekend to attend the Youth Rally with Pope Benedict XVI on Saturday and the Papal Mass on Sunday at Yankee Staduim. 
The students left the Inn at Saint Mary's Friday evening and drove through the night until they arrived at St. Joseph's Seminary in Dunwoodie, N.Y., on Saturday morning, joining a crowd of over 25,000 people. 
While waiting, the students heard brief performances by Kelly Clarkson, Three Graces and Father Stan, the rapping priest. 
"It was amazing how people were just relaxing and enjoy-

College remembers Miller 
Math professor taught at SMC for 40 years, chaired department for 10 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's community is paying tribute to former chair of the department of mathematics and professor Donald E. Miller who died Sunday. April 13, in his home after a six-month battle with cancer. 
Miller, 6 7, taught mathemat­ics at the College since 1967 and chaired the department since 1997. He was assistant coach of the Belles softball team, a position he took over in the 2000-2001 year. He also 
see MILLER/page 4 


INSIDE COLUMN 
On being a Cubs fan 
Trust nw: you don't understand how 
it fnnls. 
I don't want to hear a thing from 
tlws<~ Hnd Sox fans that nndurnd IJO­
plus years without winning a Series 
bPI'orn tlw lloodgatns opened with two 
in tho last fi~w years. 
Not a p<~ep from tlw Bufl'alo Bills sup­
porters that saw Jim Kf~lly lead them to 
four straight Supnr Bowl appearances 
before watching the likns of' Scott 
Norwood kiek it all away wide right. 
And not a 
Matt Gamber
word !'rom any 
rooter of' any 
NBA team that 
Associate Sports 
hasn't won in 
Editor
awhile-it is 
the post-Jordan 
NBA. aftnr all. whieh means it's not 
nvnn worth dis<~ussing. 
llonnstly, I don't earn who you are, whern you'rn !'rom, or what your tnam has (or bnttnr yet, hasn't) done since <;od-knows-wlwn. You don't w~t it­you can't possibly get it-the way I do. 
I'm a Cubs f'an. Din-hard. Bleed 
Cubby bhw. All that junk. 
And fin· all tlw ovnrpaid players I've worshippnd. thn ov<~rpricnd ti<~kets l'vn bought. and tlw over-worn apparnll'vn outgrown, I havnn 't s<~nn a singh~ World Serins. Not ewn orw World Snries ganw. 
Bul tlw Cubs wPrP closn, you'll say, back in ;wo:~ lyns, that Bartman ganw you may haw lward o[). Take it !'rom ~onwb<;dy who knows-coming so dosn only makPs it worsP. 
TakP it from sonwbody who may or mav not havP slu•d a tPar wlwn thnn­piH;nom Mark Prior gave up tlw lnad with lnss than a handful of' outs to go bnfiwn a Wriglnyville nruption and a World Snries berth. 
TakP it from somebody who may or may not have broken tlw back door or his lwusl' by throwing a baseball after Kerry Wood gave up a run in the first inning of that fatnful Game 7 loss to tho Marlins -those sanw Marlins who didn't ewn exist li1r the first S5 years of tlw now l 00-ynar Cubs' champi­onship drought and have now won two titles since IIJIJ7. 
And y<)t, lwrn I sit, watching anxious­ly as the immortal Honny Cedeno and Fnlix Pin !ill the Cubs to a mid-April vidory that I can only see as another step toward a distant October cnlebra­tion that cynics {hard to bnlieve I'm not one, right?) don't believe can ever come to Chicago's North Side. But why? 
Because there's nothing bntter than blasting "Go, Cubs <;o" before a playolf game. 
Because there's nothing as nostalgic as sitting in tho stands for a vintage Cubbie comebaek (or more likely, col­lapse). 
Becausn thor's nothing more exdting than watching tlw autumn loaves fall but Uw ivy on Wriglny's walls remain intad fi1r significant baseball well past thn dog days of summer. 
Bneausn there's nothing more heart­warming than watehing your wheel­ehair-ridden grandmother eheer on her tnam the way you do yours. 
And most importantly, it's bocause I know that nvnry lOO years, like dock­work, things dkk into placo.for the Cubs. This ynar's tho year. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those q( The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at 
mgamlwr@lnd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
In the April 21, 200H article "Clubs dispute in cross­lire debates," all quotes attributed to Mike Poyear should have lwen attributed to Ben Linskey, The Obst•rver rq~rets this error. 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, April 22, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COUW GIVE A NICKNAME TO A FOOTB4LL PLAYER, WHO AND WHAT WOUW IT BE? 






Joe O'Brien 
sophomore Fisher 
"That Clausen character ... El Jimador." 
Tim LaBarge 
sophomore Fisher 
"Quarterback No.7, James Clausen. El Jimador Clausen. 

Joe Mancuso 
junior Fisher 

"Picture this ... as Jimmy Clausen leads the Irish into thefield, a brilliant sign exclaims simply, 'El Jimador. '" 

Matt Gelchion Andrew Lorenz 
junior junior Fisher Fisher 
"Cotta say 'Tm not James Richard ambidextrous, Clausen -El so I'll keep it 
Jimador." simple. JC-the Jimador." 

Senior Garrett Flynn of Team Mean Girls fights for the ball in final game against Saltines Monday. The Saltines defeated Mean Girls for the 2008 Bookstore Basketball 
championship. 
OFFBEAT 
Cop battles 12-foot python to save pet store owner 
EUGENE, Ore. -A pet store owner is calling a police sergeant a hero for saving her from the coils of a 12-foot Burmese python doing its best to turn her into a meal. 
Teresa Rossiter had reached into a cage Thursday to show the huge snake to a customer when it bit her right hand and coiled around her left arm to throw her to the tloor. 
A friend who happened to be at the store kept the snake on· her neck and body while police were called. And when Sgt. Ryan Nelson rushed into the store, he was ready to kill the snake with his knife. 
But Rossiter asked him to spare the expensive python, so Nelson put on gloves and pried open the snake's mouth to free Hossiter's hand. 
New church holds service in bar to reach people 
SIDNEY, Ohio-Another round and amen! Beer was on tap and a mechanical bull inspired the sermon as a new church held its inaugural service in a western Ohio bar. 
The Country Rock Church drew about 100 people to Sunday night's meeting at the Pub Lounge in Sidney, 35 miles north of Dayton. 
The barroom church is an offshoot of Sidney United First Methodist Church, whose head pastor says he's been looking for creative ways to reach people in unconventional places. 
The church's Web site for its new branch advertises "Top regional bands, pizza, wings, rowdy fllll & a short message." 
The Rev. Chris Heckaman says people really seemed to enjoy themselves so he expects the Country Rock Church will meet weekly. 
Information compiledfrom the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

Thn Frank Cahill Lecture in Business Ethics entitled "Social Entrepreneurship and Ethics in Banking" will be hnld today at 4::W p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium ol' thP Mendoza College of Business. 
Thn Notre Damn basPiwll team will play Chieago State tonight at (!:1)5 p.m. at Eek Stadium. 
Tlw Studnnt Union Board will show "Bark to thP Future" tonight on Nol'th Quad at IJ p.m. Frn<' burgnrs and brats will be s<~rvnd. 
Studm1ts l'or Environmnntal Action will hold a Vegetarian No Wast.c Dinner in the Coleman-Morse Lounge at 5 
p.m. on Wednesday. 

The Kroc Institute l'or International Peace Studies will host a lecture Thursday entitled "Sharpening Sanctions' Effectiveness" at 12::{0 p.m. in the Heshurgh Center. 
Women's Laerosse: Big East. Semifinals will be held Friday at 7:45 p.m. against Georgetown in the Not.re Dame Foot.hall Stadium. 
The band "The Starting Line" will perl'orm Friday in Legends at 10 p.m as part ol' the Student Union Board's AnTostal festivities. 
The Notre Dame Bat.t.le of t.he Bands will be at Legends Saturday at 8 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI ::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
-I 
<t 
(.) 








0 
HIGH 80 HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH
.... 60 
LOW 68 LOW LOW LOW LOW 
40 
67 53 
70 
45 
70 
48 
65 50 
HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 73 I 50 Boston 55 I 45 Chicago 72 I 44 Denver 75 I 47 Houston 81 I 51 Los Angeles 65 I 51 Minneapolis 71 141 New York 64 I 49 Philadelphia 77 I 54 Phoenix 84 I 62 Seattle 48 I 34 St. Louis 74 I 51 Tampa 82 I 69 Washington 64 162 

Tuesday, April 22, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
This Sunday, April 27, the follo\ving candidates will co1nplete their initiation into the Catholic Church by receiving the Sacrament of Confirrrmtion at the 11:45 a.1n. Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Please keep then1 in your prayers and join us in congratulating the1n. 


Institute launches onlinepoehyjoumal 
Latinas Letras has only literary publication zn United States dedicated to Latino poets 
Special to the Observer 
Letras Latinas, the literary program of the University of Notre Dame's Institute for Latino Studies (ILS). recently launched its online publica­tion Latino Poetry Heview (LPH), the only literary jour­nal in the United States dedi­cated to Latino poetry. 
Designed to spur inquiry and dialogue in Latino poetry and poetics (an often-over­looked area of literary stud­ies), the LPR will be published twice a year at http ://www.latinopoetryre­view.com/. 
"Certainly we want to draw critical attention to Latino poetry," said founding editor and Lctras Latinas director Francisco Aragon. "But Notre Dame also has one of the strongest poetics programs around, and I'd like LPR to eventually play a pedagogical rule in this program by pro­viding a venue for graduate students in the English department." 
"In a time when there is very little reviewing of poetry, Latino Poetry Heview per­forms a great service, bring­ing the work of established and emerging poets to a larg­er, and now more informed, reading audience," said Notre Dame poetry scholar Stephen Fredman, professor of English. 
In its first week, LPH attracted significant attention in the online poetry communi­ty. Poet and critic Hon Silliman, who runs Silliman's Blog, one of the most well­known and visited poetry Web logs, linked several LPR pieces to his March 31 blog and concluded that day's post by writing "A big tip of the hat to Latino Poetry Review." 
Letras Latinas seeks to enhance the visibility, appre­ciation and study of Latino lit­erature, both on and off the Notre Dame campus, with a focus on projects that identify and support emerging Latino writers. 
Founded in 1999, the ILS rosters understanding of the 
U.S. Latino experience by advancing research, expand­ing knowledge and strength­ening community. It supports interdisciplinary initiatives in Latino studies as a key com­ponent of the University's aca­demic mission. 
Rep. forced to leave House podium 
Colorado legislator called Mexican immigrants 'illiterate peasants' 
Associated Pre.s 

DENVER -A Colorado legislator known for kicking a photographer was ordered to leave the podium of the state House of Hepresentatives on Monday because he called Mexican workers ''illiterate peas­ants." 
State Rep. Douglas Bruce, who has a history of provok­ing controversy, made the comment during debate on a bill that would allow the state to :1 e l p i m m i g r a n t workers get temporary fed­eral visas. The measure is intended to ease a shortage of farm workers in the state. 
"I would like to have the opportunity to state at the micropho:1e why I don't think we need 5,000 more illiterate peasants in Colorado," Bruce said. 
His outburst drew an audi­ble gasp from the House. 
"How dare you," said state Rep. Ka t:1leen Curry, a Democrat who was serving as chairwoman during the debate. She told the Hepublican lawmaker he was no longer recognized to speak. 
House Minority Leader Mike May, head of the GOP caucus, said legislative lead­ers were trying to determine what actio rr to take against Bruce. should pave the way for 

Rep. Terrance Carroll, a more aliens to come here," Democrat, said the remark he said. could result in a formal Eduardo Arnal, the Consul ethics complaint that would General of Mexico in Denver, require a hearing and possi­called Bruce's remarks ble suspension, censure or "unfortunate" and "offen­expulsion. sive." 
Bruce later defended his "I believe these types of remarks. comments do not contribute "I looked up 'illiterate' in to the discussion on immi­

· the diction­ary and it m e a n s somebody who is lack­ing in for­mal educa­tion or is unable to read and write," he said. "I don't think these peo­ple who are planning to come over here and pick pota­
toes or peaches are likely to have much of a formal edu­cation. I looked up the word 'peasant.' The word 'peas­ant' means a person who works in agricultural fields. 
"These people, most of them, don't speak English. Most of them haven't had any formal education, that's why they're coming over here. I don't blame them for trying, but I don't think we gration b e t w e e n
"/ believe these types 
Mexico and ofcomments do not the United States nor in
contribute to the 
the search of
discussion on 
solutions immigration between regarding this topic,"
Mexico and the 
Arnal said in
United States nor in 
a statement. the search of solutions B r u c e 
regarding this topic." became the 
first Colorado lawmaker 

Eduardo Arnal 
censured by consul general of Mexico the House 
after he 
kicked a newspaper photographer for taking his picture during a prayer. 
Republicans later removed him from the powerful State, Veterans and Military Affairs Committee because he refused to co-sponsor a resolution honoring military veterans. Bruce said he believed resolutions were a waste of time because they have no legal effect. 

Universitv of Notre Dame Jacqueline Margaret Acuna Ellen ·Margaret Becker Chanlelle Alicia Bryant Douglas Patrick Cannon Er[n Cloelia Connor Andrew Deters 
Mary Elizabeth Edwards Ericka Francis Erickson :Marie Forney 
Nathaniel Giovanni Grams Nicolas Jude Guzman 
Christopher Francis Hynes Sherry Michaela Kim Matthew Anthony Lynch Michelle Margaret Maloney 
John Christopher Maltese Sean Cosmas McGarvey Robert McKeon Elizabeth Beatrice M.itchdl Emily Nicole O'Malley Heejeong Veronica Son \Villiam Thomas Staruk Courtnev Flora Sullivan 
•' 

Andrea Vergara Bernal Kristen Rose Zepeda Javi Frantzisko Xabierkoa Zubizarreta 
RCIA Universitv of Notre Datne James Anthony Buffi Stewart Patrick Carlin Christiaan Patrick Minella Sarah Cecilia Skillen 
Holv Cross College Kevin Cecilia McGuigan-Jones 

Campus t1inlstry 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 22, 2008 


Pope 
continued from page 1 
"Thank you for this moving gesture. I give you all an 'A plus' for your German pronun­eiation." 
The pope spoke of his own youth under the "sinister reginw" of Nazism and encour­aged young people to seek "the truth about what is good" and to be "guiding stars" for others by walking in tlw way of Christ. 
"What matters most is that you develop your personal relationship with (;od," he said. "Take couragt~." 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students in attendance rea1:ted favorably to the pope's speech. 
"I really liked that the Iloly Father didn't say that we an~ thn future of tlw Church. lie said that we are the Church. That's an tmcouraging message to hear," Higgins said. 
The next morning, the stu­dents travnled to Yankee Stadium to hear the pope say mass. Over 60,000 people attonded the coremony. 
"It really showed the 
strength and unity of the Church to see so many people united like that," Hussell said. "Not only that, but it was incredible to hear Mass from the Vicar of Christ, the direct successor to St. Peter. I love being Catholic." 
Following the Mass, the Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­dents boarded their bus and travelnd back to Indiana. 
"It was the best weekend over," Higgins said. 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 


Election 
continued from page 1 
have a voice in the eleetoral proeess. 
"Thn racn is heating up and getting a lot of attlmtion, and stu­dlmts want thnir voiens heard," Hhodenbaugh said. 
J\eeording to Indiana law, if a resident has livt~d in the state for mon~ than 30 days prior to the eleetion, they am eligible to regis­h~r to vote in lndi<ma, even if thp,y havn a permanent address in anothnr state, as long as the resi­dent has not voted in their homn state's primary already. 
After voting in the Indiana pri­mary, tho students have the option of switching thnir registra­tion baek to their home stat1~ in order to participate in future eleetions there, Hhodenbaugh said. 
Thn volunteers visited as many dorms as possible in addition to having a booth in both dining halls to distribute registration forms, Hhodenbaugh said. Although no ollidal n~cords wern kept, Hhodenbaugh estimated that they aided the registration of over 100 stud1n1l'>. 
"We had a really good group of 

• volunteers to do the work," he said. 
Hhodenbaugh said he hoped helping studnnl<> rngistor to vote would inspire them to become morn aetivnly engagnd in polities, espeeially the upeoming presi­dnntial ell~etion. Civen the dose Dernoeratie raee, Indiana has the ran~ chance to be competitivfl in tlw primaries. and this election in particular sees a mon~ aetivn stu­dent internst than in past years, lw said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
Miller's family joined the His enduring legacy will be suit and transformed into group, leaving notes of sym­the students whose lives he Santa Claus during the holi­

Miller 

pathy and memories of Miller changed." day season and many stu­
continued from page 1 on the group wall. She said many students and dents have written on the 
"As a teacher, he was alumnae attended Miller's memory board "everyone served as the faculty advisor always doing something funeral, which was held already misses you dearly, for the team, hp,Jping them to crazy," sophomore Theresa Thursday at Little Flower Santa." kep,p up with their majors, Earle said. "lie called tests Catholic Church. He also served as the mar­grades and other scholastic celebrations and he made "His record of service to the shal at Commencement cere­matters. sure that everyone talked in College is extensive, but his monies for more than two 
Shortly after the news was every class. He often said that real legacy will be the stu­decades. released to a day in which dents whose lives he "Don was the ideal College the College, you did not con­changed," Connolly said. "The marshal," Commencement
"Don was the
Hesident tribute to class number of stu-Committee Chair Advisors (HAl consummate teacher. was a day wast­dents who found Susan DamptHH sent e-mails to llis students would ed." his course tough said in a state­
''As a teacher. he

their residents Associate pro­as nails and ment. "[The
all say that he 
to inform fessor of mathe­ended up loving was always doing event) is consis­them. challenged them and matics Mary him is astound­something crazy." tently beautiful, "If" you led them to levels Connolly agreed ing." dignified. and would please with Earle. She said the flawless because
never thought Theresa Earle 
pray for his "Don was the department has of his attention soul as well as possible." consummate been getting sophomore to detail. Don pray family teacher," notes of sympa-loved the cere­and loved Mary Connolly Connolly said. thy from every-mony and under­ones, I'm sure "His students one imaginable. There is a stood its significance in the
professor
they would would all say bulletin board in the mathe­lives of our stud1mts and their apprp,ciate it," that he chal­matics hallway where stu­familifls. It is hard to imagine LeMans B.A. Christina Werner lenged them and led them to dents and members of the Commencement without him." said in an e-mail. levels they never thought pos­community can write remem­MiJJp,r's family asks any A Facebook group, 'Donald sible. Students were always brances of Miller. The math donations be made to the 
E. Miller Memorial (and fan his first priority, whether professors have been adding Donald E. Miller Memorial elub!)', was also created to working with them in class, in notes they have received from Fund at the College. honor him. the office, on the softball field alumnae and faculty at other 
Over 200 Saint Mary's stu­or in developing new or local colleges. Contact Liz Harter at dents, alumnae and friends of enhanced programs of study. Miller often donned a red eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
An Eveningof Prayer from Around the Wortd 
"21'' Auction 
7pm LaFortune Ballroom 

April22nd 
Come bid on a night at the movies with your favorite guys on campus. All proceeds are going to a charity for underprivileged children. 

.. . . . _ Sponsored btj: . . . <:..~"'~mpus M1msl:r~, r<.x.• (.raduate R<"-...de.n<.:<"-'1, <.•r.,.du • ..,te. Studentt.lr11on, lnternabonal StudentServ1ces @, Acbvitie.s, lnte•·faith F ellow,.hip '""~ ND Muslim Stud<">ne As.'iO<'Jation 
CM 
ere 




TurtleCreek 
APARTMENTS So clost to campus yoN cats ~~~~~, the shouts and s~te the I hts 
I'urnished Studio Apartments One Bedroom Apartments Two Bedroom One Bath Apartments
I::::::o~::~: ::::~1:a:h Apa:~:::~~~::~:::: i::::o~ 
I ,<>Tan for FREE at Fun Tan South Bend, IN 46637 ' Phone: 574-272-8124 
~ '. I-Iealed Pool and 1-Iot Tub 
(1/2 block east of campus on Vaness Street) 
Pet Friendly 
Fax:574-273-6921 A On Site Security 

\V\V,~,. L.iY~:r!-u::ll e!:x~ ~l,~t..(;Jilll 
52555401 
~6. 




ORLD &l NATION 
Tuesday, April 22, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THr OBsERVER's wrRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
France tries to~ torch protest tension 
PARIS -France's government scrambled Monday to tamp down tensions with Beijing and calm anti-French sentiment that has swelled in China since pro-Tibet protesters disrupted the Olympic torch relay in Paris. 
President Nicolas Sarkozy dispatched his top diplomatic adviser to China, where a French retail giant has become a boycott target, and he sent an emotional letter to a disabled Chinese athlete who struggled against a Paris protester trying to wrench the Olympic torch from her. 
In his letter to "Mademoiselle Jin Jing," Sarkozy noted the "bitterness" felt in China over the incident and insisted that several such attacks by protesters during the April 7 Paris torch stopover "do not reflect the feelings of my countrymen toward the Chinese people." 
Leftist trend continues with Paraguay 
ASUNCION, Paraguay -The victory of the "bishop of the poor" in Paraguay's presidential election expands a wave of leftist leadership across Latin America and further isolates the few remaining conservative governments. 
Once Fernando Lugo is inaugurated on Aug. 15, the only right-leaning governments in Latin America will be Colombia, El Salvador and Mexico -and arguably Peru, where a left-leaning populist party has gradually edged to the right. 
"The triumph of comrade Fernando Lugo is ... yet another stone in the foundation of this new Latin America that is just, sovereign, independent-and why not, socialist," Ecuadorean President Rafael Correa gushed during a visit from Argentina's new leftist President Cristina Fernandez. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

EKG screening helpful before Ritalin 
NEW YORK -Children should be screened for heart problems with an electrocardiogram before getting drugs like Ritalin to treat hyperactivity and attention-deficit disorder, the American Heart A<>sociation recommended Monday. 
Stimulant drugs can increase blood pressure and heart rate. For most children, that isn't a problem. But in those with heart conditions, it could make them more vulnerable to sudden car­diac arrest -an erratic heartbeat that causes the heart to stop pumping blood through the body ­and other heart problems. 

Elderly woman convicted of murder 
LOS ANGELES -A Los Angeles jury has con­victed an elderly woman of two more counts in a scheme to kill homeless men to collect insurance payoffs. 
Jurors convicted 75-year-old Olga Rutterschmidt on Monday of first-degree murder in the 1999 death of 73-year-old Paul Vados. She also was convicted of conspiracy to murder him for financial gain. 
She and co-defendant Helen Golay were con­victed of other counts last week. 
Prosecutors said the two women collected $2.8 million before their sc.heme was uncovered. Authorities said Vados and 50-year-old Kenneth McDavid were run over in murders staged to look like hit-and-run accidents. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Obama and Ointon to return to Indiana 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Barack Obama and Hillary Hodham Clinton expect to waste little time before bringing their campaigns back to Indiana. 
Obama will travel Tuesday to Evansville, where he plans to speak during a rally that night at Hoberts Stadium, his campaign announced. Rocker John Mellencamp will also perform during the event. 
The rally will draw national attention as it will happen as votes are being totaled from that day's Pennsylvania primary. 
Clinton plans to start a new Indiana cam­paign swing on Wednesday as both candidates start a two-week dash to the state's primary on May 6. Clinton will appear in Indianapolis on Wednesday. She is scheduled to visit East Chicago, South Bend and Fort Wayne on Friday and Saturday. Details were not imme­diately announced. 
ISRAEL 


Hamas sends conflicting messages 
Carter said Islamic group is willing to be peaceful but their actions speak otherwise 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Former President Carter said Monday that the Islamic group Barnas was willing to accept the Jewish state as a "neighbor next door," but the militants did not match their upbeat words with concrete steps to halt violence. 
Barnas, which advocates Israel's destruction, instead recycled previous offers, including a 10-year truce if Israel takes the unlikely step of withdrawing from the West Bank and Jerusalem first. 
Barnas has repeatedly con­founded observers with its conflicting messages. Actions on the ground-seven rock­ets were fired on Israel from l-lamas-ruled Gaza Monday, including one that wounded a 4-year-old boy -contra­dicted the Islamic militant group's positive ~ords about coexistence and a truce. 
And a leader of the Barnas military wing, which carried out a twin suicide bombing on the Gaza border Saturday, said his group would step up attacks against Israel in com­ing days. 

The salvo of rockets came despite a last-minute phone call from Carter, urging a one-month halt to attacks on Israel, to gain some interna­tional goodwill and defuse meaning alongside Israel, the peace talks. border crossings. tensions. group would never outright "The present strategy of Over the weekend, Carter 
"I did the best I could," recognize the Jewish state. excluding Barnas and met twice with Barnas' five­Carter said of his conversa­The Bush administration excluding Syria is just not member politburo, headed tion with Barnas supreme and Israel, which shun working," said Carter, who by Mashaal. Carter said he leader, Khaled Mashaal, Barnas as a terrorist group, brokered a historic 1979 won a written pledge from pressing him to declare a have criticized the Carter peace treaty between Israel Hamas to accept any peace one-month truce. "They mission as misguided. In and Egypt. deal with Israel, even if turned me down, and I think Washington, a State Analysts said Hamas Hamas disagrees with some they're wrong." Department official said apparently decided to send of the terms, as long as it's 
Carter, who delivered a Monday that it does not Carter off largely empty­approved in a Palestinian speech in Jerusalem Monday appear Barnas has changed handed, despite the possibili­referendum. summing up his visit, said its positions. ty he might have paved an Carter said Barnas leaders top Hamas leaders told him In Jerusalem, Carter opening to a hostile West, told him they're also ready to during seven hours of talks defended his trip, saying because it prefers doing busi­accept the Jewish state's in Damascus over the week­peace in the region will be ness with le.aders in the right to "live as a neighbor end that they are willing to pm;sible only ifIsrael and the region who can deliver con­next door in peace" one day. live next to Israel. U.S. start talking to Barnas crete achievements. Egypt Since its founding 21 years 
Hours later, however, and Syria, which supports has been shuttling between ago, Barnas has carried out Mashaal sent mixed mes­several militant groups. He Israel and Hamas for nearly scores of suicide attacks in sages. He stressed that while abo called on the Bush two years trying to broker a Israel and has fired hun­the militants would accept a administration to push hard­cease-fire, a prisoner swap dreds of rockets from Gaza state in the 1967 borders, er to renew Israeli-Syrian and an opening of Gaza's at Israeli border towns. 

Arm_y, Marines felony recruits on the rise 
Associated Press fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 2007. But grown in recent years, as well as those they highlight a trend that has raised needing medical or aptitude waivers. WASHINGTON -Under pressure to concerns both within the military and House Oversight and Government 
•

meet combat needs, the Army and on Capitol Hill. Reform Committee Chairman Henry Marine Corps brought in signific:mtly The bulk of the crimes involved were Waxman, who released the data, noted more recruits with felony convictions burglaries, other thefts, and drug that there may be valid reasons for last year than in 2006, including 1;ome offenses, but nine involved sex crimes granting the waivers and giving indi­with manslaughter and sex crime con­and six involved manslaughter or viduals a second chance. victions. vehicular homicide convictions. Several But he added, "Concerns have been 
Data released by a congressional dozen Army and Marine recruits had raised that the significant increase in committee shows the number of sol­aggravated assault or robbery convic­the recruitment of persons with crimi­diers admitted to the Army with fi~lony tions, including incidents involving nal records is a result of the strain put records jumped from 249 in 2006 to weapons. on the military by the Iraq war and 511 in 2007. And the number of Both the Army and Marine Corps may be undermining military readi­Marines with felonies rose from 208 to have been struggling to increase their ness." 
350. numbers as part of a broader effort to The services use a waiver process to 
Those numbers represent a fraction meet the combat needs of a military let in recruits with felony convictions, of the more than 180,000 rec:uits fighting wars on two fronts. As a result, and many of the crimes were commit­brought in by the active duty Army, the number of recruits needing waivers ted when the service members were Navy, Air Force and Marines during the for crimes or other bad conduct has juveniles. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, April 22, 2008 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
he said. "The Electoral 
College has built-in biasns and 
any potm1tial replacmnent will 
have biases." 
Arnold said the elimination 
of the Hlectoral College would 
lead to disorganized elections. 
"In this messy political sys­tnm, there's no other way to produce a n~al-winner," he said. "lnstnad of just Florida I in the 2000 election I. we would havn benn fighting in half thn states if there was no Elnetoral College." 
Professor Louis Ayala made the din~ prediction that if the Electoral College was eliminat­ed, the cost of campaigning would drastically increase. 
"Thn cost of eampaigning would incrnase significantly," he said. "[Eliminating the College would I lead candidates to campaign in previously uncontestnd states." 
Senior analyst for Notre Dame Institutional Hesearch .John Mueller said while there arn problems with the Elnctoral College, the American public's apathy is one of the greatest obstacles to rnform. 
"It's something we've lived with for 200 years," he said. "There isn't a political will to oliminate it." 
Mueller said one major prob­lem with the Electoral College was that it "creates a sense of false mandate for radical poli­cy change." lie dted the exam­ples of President Clinton, who failed to win an outright majority in either of his elec­tions, and President Bush, who failed to win even a plurality in 2000, both elaiming they had received mandates. 
Jlowever. instead of abolish­ing the College, Mueller said it could be reformed to reflect the popular vote. lie said some states likn Nebraska and Maine already award some electoral votes to the runner-up based on the outcomes of individual congressional districts. 
Doctoral candidate in politi­cal science Patrick Kaplan said eliminating the Electoral College might have unintend­ed, harmful consequences such as incrnased voter fraud. 
"As opposed to competing for swing-states, eliminating it would create an incentive to run up the vote in states that are deeply Republican or Democratic," he said. "There's less oversight in those states, so you're bound to see more unsavory practices." 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi@nd.edu 



US, France draft resolution to battle pirates 
U.N. document is response to series of attacks off Somalian coast, Spanish boat hijacking 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -The United States and France are drafting a U.N. resolution that would allow countries to chase and arrest pirates off Somalia's coast, responding to a spate of attacks including this week's hijacking of a Spanish tuna boat, 
U.N. diplomats said Monday. 
France's U.N. Ambassador Jean-Maurice Hipert said the resolution would authorize for­nign governments to pursue pirate vessels into territorial waters, make arrests, and pros­ecute suspects. 
"We want to do it fast, but it could take one or two weeks because it has to bn by consen­sus -it's not confrontational," he told the AssociatPd Press. 
The push by key U.N. Security Council nations to tackle the issue follows an alarming increase in piracy by well-armed bandits. prompting international demands for better protection of the world's shipping lanes. 
Pirates in the lawless Gulf of Aden off Somalia fired on a Japanese oil tanker Monday, unleashing hundreds of gallons of fuel into the sea, a day after a Spanish tuna boat was hijacked using rocket-propelled grenades. Earlier this month, a French luxury yacht was hijacked. 
The tanker attack helped send crude oil prices to a new record, spiking above $117 a barrel Monday before falling back slightly. 
"The issue of piracy is an important issue, and within that framework we're focusing in particular on the threat of pira­cy off the coast of Somalia," U.S. Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad told The Associated Press. 
In Sunday's attack in the Gulf of Aden, pirates approached the Spanish Playa de Bakio and opened fire with rocket-pro­pelled grenades, striking it but causing no serious damage, said an oflicial in Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero's oflice. 
Spain sent a frigate to the site of the hijacking about 200 miJp,s off the coast of Somalia. Twnnty­six crew were aboard the 250­foot vessel when the pirates forced their way on the ship. 
The Spanish prime minister's office said efforts were under way to secure the sailors' release, and that aid was being sought fr:om NATO, the African Union, France and Britain. Spain does not have an embassy in Somalia, which has not had an effective government since 1991. 
The hijackers are demanding money but have not specified how much, Rosa Maria Alvarez, the daughter of the ship's skip­per, Amadeo Alvarez Gomez, told Spanish National Hadio. The government declined to com­ment on her remarks. 
Last week, French judges filed preliminary charges against six Somali pirates accused of hold­ing 30 hostages aboard a French luxury yacht for a week in the Gulf of Aden. A French military helicopter captured them after the April 11 release of the yacht's crew. The ship's owners reportedly paid a ransom. 

According to a report from the International Maritimn Bureau, piracy is on thn rise, with sea­farers suffering 49 attacks between January and March _ up 20 percent from the period last year. 
Pirates boarded 36 vessels and hijacked one, the report said. Seven crew members were taken hostage, six were kid­napped, three were killed and one went missing. Most of the attackers were heavily armed with guns or knives, the report said. 
Nigeria ranked as the No. 1 trouble spot. India and the Gulf of Aden tied for second, with each reporting five incidents. Nearly two dozen piracy inci-· dents were recorded off the coast of Somalia since January 2007, according to Andrew Mwangura of the Kenya-based Seafarers Assistance Program. 

NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND RELIGIOUS VALUES IN BUSINESS 
& 
. • • ~ 

INSTITUTE FOR ETHICAL BUSINESS WORLDWIDE 
. 
-

HONOR & PRESENT 

RONALD GRZYWINSKI 
Chairman and Co-Founder 
and 

MARY HOUGHTON 
President and Co-Founder 
ShoreBank Corporation 
with the 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Award for Business Ethics 
& 
the 2008 Frank Cahill Lecture 
&&Social Entrepreneurship and Ethics in Banking,, 
Tuesday, April 22, 2008 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 4:30 p.m. -5:30 p.m. 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS

Tuesday, April 22, 2008 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  12,825.02  -24.34  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,469  88  1,870  3,422,844,284  
AMEX  2,367.08  -0.83  

NASDAQ 2,~08.04 +5.07 NYSE 9,312.29 x' ,11;05'1 S&P 500 1,388.17 -2.16 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13,585.91 -110.64 FTSE 100 (London) 6.053.00 -3.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NATL CITY CP (NCC) -27.61 -2.30 6.03 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.05 +0.07 138.55 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.71 +0.33 47.04 FORD MOTOR CO (F) +3.76 +0.28 7.73 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -0.83 -0.031 3.712 13-WEEK BILL -3.79 -0.05 1.270 30-YEAR BOND -0.91 -0.041 4.476 5-YEAR NOTE -0.75 -0.022 2.926 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.79 117.48 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.40 917.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.45 75.50 


Exchange Rates 
YEN 103.1500 EURO 0.6288 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0065 BRillSHPOUND 0.5046 

IN BRIEF Bush defends free trade in North Amerirn 
NEW OHLEANS -President Bush and Mexican President Felipe Calderon strongly defended free trade across North America on Monday, fending ofl' anti-trade remarks that Democrats running for the White !louse arc using to lure working class voters. 
Opening a two-day summit with Calderon and Canadian Prime Ministm Stephen Harper, Bush hailed the bcnefiLs of cross-border trade despite a rising protectionist sentiment on Capitol Hill. The president said that when he and Calderon were growing up, the border was poor, but today it's prospering. 
"Our trade has tripled, and our economies have grown," said Bush, who decided to host the sum­mit in New Orleans to showcase its rebirth follow­ing Hurricane Katrina. "This has been a very posi­tive aspect for both our countries." 
Calderon was more specific, saying the North American Free Trade Agreement is misunder­stood. Launched in 1994, the accord eliminated trade barriers among the United States, Mexico and Canada. 

Midwest crop prices drop after rainfall 
NEW YOHK -Corn and soybean prices plunged Monday as investors set aside their sup­ply worries and bet that dry weather in the U.S. corn belt will allow growers to speed up planting. 
Other commodities traded mostly lower, with crude oil falling from a record above $117 and sil­ver and copper also retreating. 
Dry. warm weather is expected this week across the U.S. corn belt after days of heavy rainfall that have soaked fields and slowed spring planting. The favorable forec~ast raised hopes that planting could resume at a faster pace, touching ofT a broad agrieulture sell-oil' in everything from corn to wheat to oats. 
"Planting is still going to be very slow, but we have a drior outlook f(w this week, so you've got prices dropping back," said Jason Ward, analyst with North Star Commodity in Minneapolis. 
Soyboans for May delivery fell 46 cents to settle at $13.155 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, after earlier dropping as low as $12.915, its lowest level in two weeks. Corn f(n· May .deliv­ery lost 19.25 cents to settle at $5.8025 a bushel on the CBOT after earlier falling as low as $5.695. 
Average gas prices hit $3.50 a gallon 
Attack on Japanese oil tanker sends crude oil prices up over $117 a barrel 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Hising gaso­line prices tightened the squeeze on drivers Monday, jumping for the first time to an average $3.50 a gallon at filling stations across the country with no sign of relief. 
Crude oil set a record for the sixth day in a row -this time closing above $117 a barrel -after an attack on a Japanese oil tanker in the Middle East rattled investors. 
"It's killing us," said Jean Beuns, a New York cab driv­er who estimated he now makes $125 to $150 less per month than in the fall because of costlier gas. "And it was so quick. Every day you see the price go up 5, 6, 10 cents more." 
Diesel prices at the pump also struck a record high of $4.20 a gallon, according to AAA and the Oil Price Information Service. That's sure to add to truckers' costs and drive up the price of food, clothing and other goods shipped by truck. 
"You and I are going to pay more," said Bob Costello, chief economist of American Trucking Associations. "Exactly how much ... I can't tell you, but it's got to show up." 

Gasoline and diesel prices are expected to keep climb­ing as they trace the path of most, $3.86 a gallon for reg­York, Elvis Ragbir and tJ her, although she too is crude. Oil prices are charg­ular unleaded. Anthony Winckler said they changing her habits and buy­ing ahead along with a host The Energy Department are driving less and taking ing a bike to commute to of commodities that are predicted earlier this month the subway more. work. enticing speculators seeking that monthly average gaso­''I'm spending my gas Energy Department data hedges against a weakening line price will peak at more money on MetroCards," show Americans used about dollar. than $3.60 per gallon in Winckler said in the waiting 1 percent less gas in the four 
Light, sweet crude for May June and could even reach room of a vehicle inspection weeks ended April 11 than delivery rose to a record $4. station in Manhattan. Ragbir, they did a year earlier. $117.76 a barrel on the New "It's uncharted territory," a delivery truck driver, said That change, while not York Mercantile Exchange said Tom Kloza of the Oil he is looking to trade in his drastic, is significant, before settling at $117.48, up Price Information Service, Lexus LS 400 for a smaller Mariano Gurfinkel, project 79 cents from Friday's close. Wall, N.J. "I don't think we're car. manager at the Center for 
Gas jumped more than a done, but I have to bfllieve In downtown Chicago, Energy Economics at the nickel over the weekend and we're in the eighth or ninth Sharon Cooper spent $52 to University of Texas at Austin, is up 23 percent from a year inning" of price increases. fill up three-quarters of the who expects per-capita ago. Drivers in New Jersey The higher prices are tank in her Toyota demand to drop further this are paying the least, while already prompting some Highlander SUV She said she summer unless gas prices drivers in California pay the drivers to cut back. In New tries not to let the prices get fall. 


Cause of heparin reactions unknown 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -China and the United States traded charges Monday about whether a contami­nant in the blood thinner heparin caused severe allergic reactions linked to as many as 81 deaths. 
Federal health officials said new tests indicated a solid link. China said the contaminant could 11ot be the "root cause" of the problem. 
Chinese officials suggested at an embassy news conference that the problem with the drug could have occurred in the United States. They plan to visit a Baxter International plant in Cherry llill, N.J., to get a better picture of how the finished product is manufactured. 
Haw heparin is derived from pig intestines, often processed by small, unregistered workshops in China. The raw ingredient for Baxter's recalled heparin came from Wisconsin-based Scientific Protein Laboratories, which in turn owns a Chinese factory -Changzhou SPL ­and buys additional raw heparin from other Chinese suppliers. 

The Food and Drug Administration warned Changzhou SPL on Monday that the company does not have ade­quate systems for ensuring that the raw materials it uses are safe and that any impurities are removed. The FDA noted that as many as 12 companies in China are involved in the supply chain for heparin. Agency of'ficials don't know at what point the contaminant was introduced. 
Hundreds of patients have suffered severe allergic reactions to large doses of the blood thinner. The FDA said it suspects the problems stem from a contaminant that the agency discovered in supplies of raw heparin coming from China -a compound derived from animal car­tilage that so closely mimics heparin that routine purity tests can't detect it. 
"We have data in the test tube as well as animal data that shows this contaminant can trigger events that would lead to these type of reac­tions," said Janet Woodcock, director of the Food and Drug Administration's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. "That doesn't tell us the whole story. But it establishes a link." 
Chinese officials claimed that adverse events were reported in patients who got heparin even when the blood thinner did not contain the contaminant -over-sulfated chon­droitin. But FDA officials said that premise is incorrect. 
The Chinese said they hope to get some samples from Baxter for their own investigation. 
"When you see it, then you believe it," said Jin Shaohong, the deputy director general for the National Institute for the Control of Pharmaceutical and Biological Products in China. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, April22, 2008 
Authoritiesatlemptto match parents, kids 
Judge ordered DNA tests to determine familial relations in West Texas polygamist compound 
Associated Press 
SAN ANGELO. Texas ­
Using cotton swabs and cam­
eras, lab technieians began 
taking DNA samples Monday 
from hundreds of children 
and mothnrs -wearing long. 
pioneer-style dresses -in 
hopes of sorting out the tan­
gled family relationships with­
in the West Texas polygamist 
sect. 
A judge ordered last week 
that the genetic material be 
taken to help determine which 
children belong to which par­
ents. 
Authorities need to figure 
that out before they begin 

custody hearings to determine 
which children may have been 
abused and need to be perma­
nently removed from the sect 

compound in Eldorado, and 
which ones can be safely 
returned to the fold. 
State social workers have 

complained that over the past 
few weeks, sect members 
have offered different names 

and ages. Also. the children 
refer to all of their fathflrs' 

wives as their "mothers," and 
all men in the community as 
"uncles." 
The testing went on behind closed doors at the crowded coliseum where the children seized in the raid earlier this month on the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints compound are staying. 
The collecting of DNA is likely to take 10 technicians most of thn wnek, and it will be a month or more before the results arn available, said .Janiecn Holfe, a spokeswoman for the Texas attorney gener­al's office. 
Hod Parker. an FLDS attor­ney, acknowledged that family names within the sect can be confusing. but said: "No one is trying to dnceive anyon1~ .... It's not sinister." Instead, he said that bncause many of the sect's marriages are not legal, adults and their ehildren may legally have one name but use another within the eommuni­ty. 
Thn April 3 nighttime raid on the 1.700-acre compound probably frightcnnd the chil­dren. said Knn Driggs, who has studind the snct exten­sively. "If somebody had taken the timn to approach them in a way that was rcspnctful, they probably would have got­ten the information they need­ed," Driggs said. 
Thn children will be placed in group homes or other quar­ters until individual eustody hnarings can b1~ completed by narly Junn. Oflkials said they will try to knep siblings togethnr when possible. though sonw polygamous fam­ilies may have dozens of sib­lings. 
The tnsting will involve 437 children and possibly hun­dreds of adults. State authori­tins rnvised their count of the children from 416 as they devnlopnd better lists and dis­eovnred that not all the femaln mnmbnrs who elaimed to be adults were over 1S. 
The testing will be more far complicated than that of the 
typical custody or support case. 
In a typical custody case, "maternity is already estab­lished," Rolfe said, but in this case, researchers will have to determine the identity of both parents. 
UNITED KINGDOM 

Shakira praises British PM Brovvn 
Associated Press 

LONDON -George Clooney. Angelina Julie. Shakira. 
Not a red carpet lineup, but a roll call of celebrities the sometimes dour British Prime Minister Gordon Brown has recruited to inject glamour into his appeals to help the developing world. 
Brown joined a telephone conference Monday with Shakira, praising the Colombian pop sensation for 
taking an inspirational role in work to provide a basic edu­cation for every child in the world. 
The Grammy-winning singer, famed for her hit "Hips Don't Lie," is support­ing a week of events to high­light the cause of education advocacy group the Global Campaign for Education. 
She said the group is press­ing world leaders to provide funding for primary educa­tion for 72 million young chi!­
dren who now miss out on schooling as a result of pover­ty. 
The group also aims to gen­erate support for some 226 million older children who miss out on classes because of a lack of access to schools, or because of truancy. 
Brown is the world's "No. 1 champion of education," said the group's chairman, Gene Sperling, an ex-White House economic adviser to former President Clinton. 


U.S. 
Cellular* gives you FREE Incoming Text & Pix on all plans plus FREE Incoming Calls on select plans. We think you'll find this to be fair and decent. And that's a combination that works for everyone. 

U.S. 
Cellular is wireless where you !\latter most!" 


~US. Cellular 

getusc.com 1-888-BUY-USCC LG UX260 
---~--------------------------. 
Tuesday, April 22, 2008 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
IRAQ 



leadercallsfor supportfrotnArabstates 
PM urges neighboring nations to forgive Iraqi debts, open embassies 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Iraq's prime minister appealed Monday for support from his Arab neighbors, urging them to open embassies and forgive Iraqi debts as his govern­ment tries to crack down on Shiite militias in a crucial power struggle. 
But the government plea came as militia leaders warned more violence could await. 
Followers of Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr, leader of the biggest militia, said they could widen the battles with the government -even ask­ing supporters for blood donations to aid fighters injured during weeks of urban clashes. 
With tension rising, Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki flew to Kuwait for a meeting Tuesday of Iraq's neighbors to discuss ways they can help Iraq's Shiite-led govern­ment as it confronts both Shiite militias and Sunni extremists including al­Qaida in Iraq. 
AI-Maliki said he will be looking for tangible support, including relief from Iraq's $67 billion foreign debt ­most of it owed to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar. 
"There are countries that support the political process and are opening embassies here. We need the others to open embassies here, too," al-Maliki told reporters. 
The direct appeal to Arab heavyweights highlights the regional dilemma posed by Iraq. 
Sunni Arabs have a strong stake in keeping Iraq ­which is majority Shiite ­firmly in the Arab orbit as a buffer against expanding influence by Iran, the largest Shiite nation. But Arab neighbors are still leery of al-Maliki's government and the deep Iranian ties of its main backers. 
Al-Maliki is hoping that the ongoing crackdown against Shiite militants will allay their fears of Iranian lean­ings and a bias against his own Sunni population ­which long held a privileged position under Saddam Hussein. 
But he also pointed the fin­ger at "some nations" he claimed were supporting extremist groups and "incit­ing strife through the media" -an apparent reference to Arab satellite TV stations based in the Gulf which the leadership here considers hostile to the government. 
"I am a bewildered by the position of these nations," al-Maliki added, without specifically naming a coun­try. "Do they want to support Iraq? Iraq has emerged from a crisis and needs to be sup­ported." 
U.S. officials have accused Iran -which will attend the Kuwait conference -of sup­porting Shiite extremists in Iraq, an allegation the Iranians deny. 
The United States, too, has pressed Arab governments to respond to security improve­ments and political advances in Iraq with financial and political support. Secretary of State Condoleeza Hice, who visited Baghdad on Sunday, is scheduled to be at the Kuwait meeting to lend support to Iraq. 
In Najaf, a top Sadrist spokesman, Salah al-Obeidi, warned that open warfare was a "strong possibility" if the government did not ease the pressure on al-Sadr's Mahdi Army militia. 
The government has demanded that al-Sadr dis­band the Mahdi Army or else the Sadrists will not be allowed to run in provincial elections this fall. 
Al-Obeidi complained that government officials and Shiite intermediaries had offered "no serious propos­als" for ending the con­frontation and "we are ready for all possibilities." 
Last weekend, al-Sadr, who is believed to be in Iran, threatened in a Web site statement to declare full­scale war on th€ U.S.-backed government if attacks on his followers continue. 
The crisis began nearly a month ago when al-Maliki launched a military offensive against the Mahdi Army and other Shiite militias in the southern port ci1:y of Basra. 
Militiamen responded by shelling Baghdad's U.S.-pro­tected Green Zone, which houses the U.S. Embassy and offices of the Ieaqi govern­ment. U.S. and Iraqi forces then laid si{:ge to the Baghdad militia stronghold of Sadr City. 
The daily clashes have raised fears that al-Sadr may formally scrap the unilateral truce he declared last August -a move that American officials credit with helping dramatically reduce violence. 
In Sadr City --a sprawling slum of 2.5 million people ­mosques broadcast appeals Monday for peoule to donate blood to help the hundreds who had been illjured in the fighting. Hesidents contacted by telephone said many donors showed up at two hospitals in response to the call. 
No major fighting was reported in S adr City on Monday. 
But U.S. military spokesman Lt. Col. Steve Stover said an unmanned 
U.S. 
aircraft fired a Hellfire missile at a group of gunmen late Sunday, killing all three. 

In Basra, a roadside bomb exploded near a U.S. convoy in the central part of the city, setting a Humvee ablaze and causing casualties, the 

U.S. 
military said. No further details were released. 


Elsewhere, ~:unni insur­gents struck twice Monday against U.S. troJps and their new Sunni allies, who have turned against al-Qaida in Iraq. 

SOUTH AFRICA 

Mother honored for reconciliation efforts 
Daughter was stabbed, stoned to death during apartheid; parents forgive attackers, found charity 
Associated Press 
PRETORIA -South Africa is honoring her for helping it overcome the legacy of apartheid, but Linda Biehl says she has simply done what any parent would after the death of a child: tried to find meaning in loss. 
Amy Biehl was stabbed and stoned to death in the waning days of apartheid in a town­ship near Cape Town, where she was studying how women were contributing to change in South Africa. Her black assailants claimed the attack on the 26-year-old American, who was white, was part of the war on white rule. 
"People don't want a death to be in vain or senseless," Linda Biehl told The Associated Press Monday ­her 65th birthday and the eve of a ceremony at which President Thabo Mbeki is to grant her one of his nation's highest honors. 
Biehl and her husband Peter, who died in 2002, forgave the four men convicted in their daughter's 1993 slaying, and embraced the truth and recon­ciliation process on which South Africa embarked after white rule ended in 1994. 
Amy Biehl's attackers were granted amnesty after con­fessing before the Truth and Reconciliation Commission headed by former Cape Town Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu. Two of them now work for a charity the Biehls found­ed that has provided training in arts, sports and other areas to young South Africans. 
"If it weren't for the institu­tionalized process that we went through, we would not be connected in a personal reconciliation," said Biehl, who divides her time between Newport Beach, Calif., and Cape Town. ''I'm just interest­ed in finding the humanity in all of us, which I thought was the essence of' the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. 


Biehl said she sees her daughter's attackers as vic­tims, too caught up in the struggle against apartheid to value life or consider personal responsibility. And now they and many like them are unequipped to prosper in post­apartheid South Africa. 
"They had the skills to make the bombs, to strategize in guerrilla warfare," Biehl said, noting many slipped into crime after apartheid ended. She hopes working with her foundation will mean a better future for at least some of the generation that embraced the call for liberation before edu­cation. 
"These are committed peo­ple ... they should also be part of the change," she said. 
Composed under a sweep of blonde hair. Linda Biehl looks like an art gallery owner or manager of an upscale cloth­ing store -both jobs she once held. In the years since her daughter's death, she has devoted most of her time to the Amy Biehl Foundation, and to speaking about forgive­ness to audiences ranging from high school students in urban America to forums bringing together Palestinians and Israelis. 
In announcing she was being awarded the Order of the Companion of O.R. Tambo, the president's office cited Linda Biehl's "outstanding spirit of forgiveness in the wake of the murder of her daughter and contributing to the promotion of non-racism in post­apartheid South Africa." 
The award, named for the late African National Congress hero Oliver Tambo, has previ­ously been granted to former 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and, posthumously, to India's independence leader Mohandas Gandhi. Musician and civil rights activist Harry Belafonte was a fellow hon­oree this year. 
Many people don't under­stand her decision to trans­form grief into commitment to racial reconciliation, Biehl said. Even in South Africa, some are baffled or suspi­cious, she said, adding with a rueful laugh that she has the hate mail to prove it. But she also has been embraced. 
Last June, officials at a Johannesburg high school asked her to speak at anniver­sary celebrations for the school, where crime and vio­lence had touched many stu­dents and their families. Biehl said she found herself facing a mostly white audience. Afterward, a woman told her of her brother's murder dur­ing a robbery, and how she was now working for gun con­trol. 
South Africans are "trying to understand the forgiveness and reconciliation process," Biehl said. "If an example can be helpful to people, if a story can be helpful to people, I'm happy to share my story." 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, April22, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
I~O. llox 779. Nurre Oame, IN 46556 024 South Dining f I.1lt, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris !line 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick • Kyl~ West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWI'OINT Eui'IOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Hine 
SCENE EDITOR: ·1;1<. Andrews 

SAINT MARY's Eu!TOR: Liz llartcr 
!'IIOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'I!ICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVEI{r!SING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(174) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 6J 1-6900 obscrvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4'i42 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ohsme(.Vnd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
ViEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 
('i74) 631-4543 sports.I@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 ohsphow@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONUN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhc students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverriscmenrs, is not gowrncd by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
.!.he news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned t•ditorials represent the opinion of 
Dear Graduating Business Majors, 
It has been a long four years for all of you. Graduation approaches, and l know this light at the end or the tunnel means a relief from ages of toil and struggles. It's not easy to wake up at noon, skip two classes, visit the LaFortune duster and grab six chairs around one com­puter to work on a group PowerPoint presentation, then still get out or there in time to visit Noma. I applaud you for your hard work and eongratu­late you on surviv­ing. 
But this letter is not a laudatory paean praising your prestigious efforts. No, I write you today, Minions of Mendoza, with a need far more press­ing and urgent. The impending gradua­tion may signify to you but a stepping­stone on the way to a promising future -a destiny of upward mobility, 401 (k)'s, and linaneial prosperity shin­ing brighter than a newly polished elass ring. Yet for some of your less fortunate elassmates, next month's celebration of Notre Dame's 163rd Commencement exercises signals not the start of suc­eess, but the dawn of destitution. 
I speak on behalf of the great mass of the tired, the poor, the huddled masses of the College of Arts and Letters. You see, kind business majors, students like myself are not prepared for the modern globalized eeonomy. We lack mar­ketable entrepreneurial skills, sueh as making slideshows and balaneing our checkbooks. While you lounge on leather thrones and feast on sueeulent grap~s like Roman senators, we face the prospect of homelessness next year. 
Por us, there are no chairs being kept warm at Goldman Saehs or Berkshire Hathaway. There are no five-thousand 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Largesse 
dollar signing bonuses for joining PrieewaterhouseCoopers. There are no dynamic opportunities for energetic, synergetic, motivated young people to put their summer internship experience (of which we have none) to use at Procter & Gamble. 
Instead, we have our parents' eouch­es and houses in the projects. We have exeluded healtheare coverage, a shrinking job market, and a monthly stipend on which to support ourselves. We have freeganism and rusty bikes and buying used clothes. 
This is where you come in, business majors. You see, the majority of you are going to be making ridiculous, scan­dalous, obscene amounts of money within a year. You will buy new cars and take ski trips to Aspen and donate to our University to be entered in the football ticket lottery. I write to ask a very simple thing of you today: share the wealth. 
Imagine the following scenario: the scene is one year from today. You, Sally Mendoza, park your car outside the ele­gant new downtown restaurant. It has been a long day at the offices of Consulters International, getting paid lots of money to tell people at other companies how to spend their money, but you are looking forward to the meal. You are meeting up with several fellow Domers who were in your mar­keting class and now live near you in the Chicago suburbs. 
On the way into the restaurant, you hear a rustling from the alleyway next to the main entrance. The sound star­tles you, but you shake it off. You were listening to Bon Jovi on your iPhone anyway, and you couldn't hear clearly. 
But upon leaving the restaurant some time later an even louder noise disturbs you. You carefully peek around the cor­ner of the restaurant, seeing there a plain white dumpster. You start to turn away but then freeze as a shadowy fig­ure emerges from the rubbish. A scream catches in your throat and you can only stare in shock and horror at the disheveled man crawling out of the 
dumpster 
Then recognition begins to dawn. The 
unkempt figure, bent under the weight 
of a bindle and elutching a half-eaten 
banana, resembles somebody from your 
college days. Suddenly, you realize the 
rabid-eyed, frizzy-haired hobo standing 
before you is Joe Humanities, that one 
guy who lived next door to you in Turtle 
Creek and graduated with a degree in 
Philosophy and Peaee Studies. lin took 
a position with AmeriCorps in the eity 
and was nevnr heard from again. 
Approaching you with a limp, he speaks with a raspy inllection. "llello, Sally". Those two words are enough. You scream and run down the street to your double-parked Lnxus. 
If this seene frightens you, well. it should. The solution? Give. There arn hundreds of Joe Humanities preparing to leave college and enter a world of indigence next year. You businnss majors. with your investment portfolios and knowledge of upward revenue stream dynamics. hold the power to give them another ehance. I implore you to donate to their eause. Snt up a trust fund, establish a grant program for graduating Arts & Letters students, or just buy them lunch at the Huddle. 
Graduating business majors, the need is tremendous, but so are your bank accounts. Somewhere out there, a lib­eral arts student is crouched in the fetal position, frightened to death of the future. You can lift that student out of despondency and show him the happy side of American capitalism. Don't wait another minute -give today. 
James Dechant is willing to accept any donations, whether out ofpity, malice, spite, or generosity. He main­tains a "blog" at www. creedthoughts.gov. www\creedthou ghts and can be contacted at 
jdechant@nd. edu. 
The IJiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Joseph McMahon Fran Tolan What is your favorite Becky Hogan Alex Barker 
Antostal Event? 

Nikki Taylor Genie Alfonzo 
"Ifwe had no winter, thel;ring

Graphics Scene would not be so pleasant: i we ilid
Krispy Kremes on the Quad 

Andrea Archer Chris McGrady not sometimes taste ofa versity,
Quarter dog eating eontest 
prosperity would not be so wel­

Viewpoint 
Tie-dye shirts come."
Stephanie Vossler 
Other 
Anne Bradstreet American Poet
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE ()BSERVER



lEW-POINT
Tuesday, April 22, 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Thank you for 'Finish on the Fifty' 

On behalf of Hannah and Friends, we would like to thank the students of Notre Dame, St. Mary's, and Holy Cross for making the inaugural "Finish on the Fifty" charity run on Saturday a resounding success. We were extremely impressed and pleased to see such a strong turnout despite the rain and early morning start on a weekend filled with campus fes­tivities. We were inspired by the enthusiasm of the hundreds of students who helped raise awareness and compassion for children and adults with special needs. 
We extend our appreciation to Alumni Hall for sponsoring the run, along with the committee chaired by Clint Bergstrom with fellow members Eric llarvan, Kyle Nickoderm, Patrick Schenkel, Mike Streit, and Maribeth Ymgling for their leader­ship and countless hours spent organizing the event. Additionally, we would like to thank Circle K and ROTC from Notre Dame and St. Mary's for providing volunteers and resources for the run. Special thanks to Cappy Gagnon and fellow stadJ urn ushers, Mike Danch and the stadium facilities ~;taff, Molly Anderson from Adidas, RecSports, Women's Running Club, Student Activities Office, and to all other students,faculty, and administration that con­tributed to the success of this event. 
We find ourselves blessed to be part of a commu­nity that continually supports the mission of Hannah and Friends. 
MauraWeis 
Charlie Weis 
Fow1ders, Hannah and Friends 
Sharon Bui Green Executive Di1ector, Hannah and Friends April21 

Bring Matthevvs to Notre I)arne 
After reading Bob Costa's interview with Dave Matthews prior to his concert in support of Barack Obama at Indiana University (April 15th), and recalling Tim Staub's request to "Revive the con­cert" and bring more high-profile performers to campus (March 30th), I asked myself why an artist of Matthews' caliber has not played at Notre Dame since U2 in 2001. U2 is without question one of the most successful bands of all-time. They have won more Grammy Awards than any other band, and their ticket prices reflect this success. The average U2 ticket costs over $100. On the other hand, Matthews is arguably the most popular touring artist among young adults today, and tickets to his shows are much easier on the wallets of college students than any U2 show. Matthews is a musician who has always been more about the music than the money. In this age of music piracy and illegal file sharing, he allows fans to record live shows and share them with others online. During both his acoustic shows with Tim Reynolds, as well as dur­ing full band performances, Matthews' setlists eclipse the two-hour mark, certainly giving loyal fans their money's worth. Even though such a per­formance would cost more than either Lupe Fiasco or Ok Go, the length and quality of this duo's set would mean that only one act would need to be booked, rather than two. In addition, I think if given the opportunity to the see the likes of Matthews and Reynolds in the friendly confmes of the .Joyce Center, many students would gladly pay more than the $10 or $15 cover of other Notre Dame concerts. In his article, Bob Costa mentioned how Tim Reynolds has played at Legends on Notre Dame's campus twice in recent years. However, few people probably know that the Dave Matthews Band played at the .Joyce Center n 1996. Both Matthews and Reynolds have some history with the university. Given this relationship, as well as the relative ease of production for just two acoustic guitarists, getting this duo to pia} at ND would cer­tainly be easier than bringing Matthews' entire band back to the JACC. While the concert at IU had political undertones, Matthews and Reynolds con­sistently play regular tour concerts on campuses across the country, at schools botli larger and smaller than Notre Dame, so it is not as ifthey have become too large of an act t•J play college shows. According to the Notre Dame athletics web­site, "Recent performers to perform in the Joyce Center in the past five years include Elton .John, Rod Stewart, Garth Brooks, Neil Diamond, James Taylor and U2." Before I graduate, I hope that we can once again bring A-list performers such as Matthews & Reynolds to Notre Dame. The universi­ty is clearly one of the nation's premier, and I think that students should again be able to enjoy some of their generation's premier performers on campus. 
Josh Flynt 
freshman 
Keenan Hall 
Aprill5 


Discrimination policy too narrovv 
It is unacceptable that the University of Notre Dame refuses to include sexual orientation in the discrimination clause. We pride ourselves on the unbreakable bonds of the "Notre Dame family" but Notre Dame seems to think this doesn't apply with sexual orienta­tion. Opposing discrimination towards homosexuals does not con­done their lifestyle or compromise our Catholic character; it affirms that we oppose hate and welcome all as equal human beings. Notre Dame officials worry about the legal conseguences of this act. But shouldn't our principles of humanity hold more weight than the threat of a lawsuit? The day that Notre Dame values the popular opinion of her alumni and their pocketbooks more than her morals is the day I transfer. Let's hope that Notre Dame acts faster on this issue than the Catholic Church did with Galileo. 
Casey Cockerham 
freshman 
Stanford Hall 
Aprill9 


Parietals not an issue 
Mr. Meehan, I do not find humor in your sarcastic article about extending the hours of parietals. As an upstanding member of the Notre Dame community, I will tell you right now that the only times I have sex are during the week, between the hours of 9:00 AM and 12:00 AM. I find it appalling and frankly, frustrating that you would even consider restricting my hours of commingling with others. Parietals simply do not affect me because, like you actually pointed out in your essay (effectively refuting your point, if I might add), "students either ignore parietals, or they merely work around them, committing the sin earlier in the evening instead". 
Now, you have simply put me in a tough position, as a Catholic citizen, who drinks too much, has premarital sex with countless women, supports gay rights, abortion and social interaction with the opposite sex, I cannot possibly attend this school any longer. You can expect my letter requesting the release of my transcripts on your desk, hopefully to be forwarded to the Pope for my con­demnation to hell. 
But before I leave, I would like to let you know, I have never made fun of someone for going to mass -not because the stu­dent population attends mass, but rather because I am mature enough to realize people, at some point in their lives should have the right to make their own decisions about how to lead their lives. I hope at some time, you understand that. America pro­motes freedom and general autonomy. Stop listening to your mother and make decisions for yourself. And by the way, when you do get there, wrap it up. 
Sincerely, 
Progressive Society 
Robby Schoder 
sophomore 
Keough Hall 
April21 


Celebrating Earth Day 
A summary of university efforts 
Dear Members of the Notre Dame Community, 
The University of Notre Dame is committed to incorporating energy conservation and environ­mental stewardship in its institutional goals. The Energy and E£Ivironmental Issues Committee has been a driving force behind many of these green initiatives at Notre Dame. 
Undoubtedly, the biggest environmental news or" this year is the creation of the Office of Sustainability. The oflice was established the first of the year and its director, James Mazurek, is scheduled to start May 1. Mr. Mazurek joins Notre Dame from Accenturn, where he served as a part­ner in the Corporate Strategy Group for Utilities, Energy and Government Practices. He brings valu­able experience in developing and executing sound sustainability strategies. 
The Oflice of Sustainability will build institution­allearning capacities to support continuous improvement in building design and operations, landscaping, procurement, energy and water con­servation. wast1~ disposal, recycling and service provision. The University has generously provided the ollice with a $2 million green loan fund to pro­vide capital for environmental improvements in both campus buildings and operadons, illustrating a long-term commitment to sustainability efforts. 
Sustained collaboration between many groups within the Notre Dame community has demon­strated the University's dedication to energy and environmental issues. It is our hope that this inter­est will gather momentum in the wake of the upcoming Presidential Forum on Sustainable Energy. 
Throughout the year, we have sponsored initia­tives such as Game Day Recycling the Green Summit and RecycleMania in ordu to spread awareness and inspire change. In1;titutional changes are most effective when coupled with per­sonal conservation measures. We encourage all members of the Notre Dame comnunity to exam­ine current practices and not to underestimate the importance of simple actions such as turning off the lights, powering down computers, and recy­cling bottles, cans and paper. 
Happy Earth Day. 
Lourdes Long 
Colleen Kelly 
Energy & Environmental Issues Committee 
April21 


Not a joke 
What's up with all you so-called serious politicians and politically active "educated" people who think the environ­ment is not worth your time? You think that you're too cool for school, but I have a newsflash for you, Walter Cronkite ... you aren't. Seriously though, the environment is a pressing political issue with real consequences. (got money for gas?) So why is it routinely swept under the carpet while several flavor-of-the-week political issues are debated incessantly? It's a joke! We are talking about the survival of our planet! Not a game, our planet! Honestly ... if you like going outside, breathing air, using your paycheck for things other than gas, not living underwater, or the color green... you should proba­bly try to wake up. 
Daniel Colt Collins 
sophomore 
Alumni Hall 
April 20 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, April22, 2008 
Scene & Hear 

AN EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW WITH CHAD STOKES-FORMERLY OF DISPATCH 
Somewhern outside Albany, Chad Stokes is frustrated. Stokes, 
32, is the outspoken and shaggy-haired lead singer and guitarist 
for State Hadio. an independent roots-rock band with reggae 
inlluences based in Boston. · 
Stokes is bnst-known for his many years as one of the vocalists and guitarists for college-rock band Dispatch. who still enjoy a Grateful Dead-like cult fol­
Bob Costa
lowing. Stokes spoke with The Observer last 
w1wk about Statn Hadio's music, his some­
times controversial political views and the 

Scene Writer 
bmak-up of Dispatch. 

What was Strokes frustrated about last woek during our interview? Zimbabwe. For Stokes, being a rock musician is more than just a trade, it's a call­ing. Stokes lived in Zimbabwe during his 18th year and the expe­rience has dneply influenced both his songs and his commitment to community service and the peace movement. 
When Stokes spoke with The Observer, State Hadio (a trio also featuring bassist Chuck Fay and drummer Mike Najarian) had just finished a short community-service tour supporting Tom Morello of Audioslave and Hage Against The Machine. 
"We just got off a short run with Tom Morello in California," said Stokes via phone from New York. "None of the artists were getting paid. It was about community service. Besides playing, we went to a homeless shelter and washed some dishes with Tom and friends." 
In early April, Zimbabwe held national elections. although the country's current president, Robert Mugabe, widely-considered to be a ruthlnss dictator. reportedly has influenced his re-election vietory through threats and terror. 
"Hight now, with the elections, it's a crucial time," said Stokes, passionately. "It's a country of empty bellies." Stokes is worried about the future of Zimbabwe and what Mugabe may do to his people. 
"If Mugabn stays in, through some of his strong-arm tactics and intimidation, I don't know what that country will do. It's at a very critical point in its history. I have some friends over there who I'm worried about." 
Although Dispatch's tenure ended officially in 2002. its mem­bers have reunitnd for philanthropic causes. In July 2007, Stokes and former band-matns Pete Francis and Brad Corrigan hosted an epic, sold-out three-night stand at Madison Square Garden in New York to benefit the plight in Zimbabwe and raise awareness about the plethora of political and economic problems there. 
"It was cool to play with those kids," reflected Stokes about playing with a Zimbabwe youth choir during the Madison Square Garden shows. "We were pretty psyched. I was just glad when it was over and we hadn't !messed! up royally," said Stokes, laugh­ing. 
State Radio is much more overtly political than Dispatch -and plays an intense live show. If yol.J haven't heard their music, think Michael Franti meets John Butler Trio. State Radio released its first EP in 2002 but gained a higher prolile after their first full­length studio album "Us Against the Crown" was released in 2006. In September 2007. State Radio released its second studio album. "Year of the Crow." 
"In State Hadio, we're all along the same lines," Stokes said. "We feel unfettered and like that we can let it roll, no matter what. 
With Dispatch, Stokes said he was often frustrated with his band's disinterest in playing politically-tinged songs. 
"With Dispatch, I knew certain things. (Francis and Corrigan) wouldn't be pleased with my lyrics. That was hard. It was hard to feel that when I knew there was an audience (for politically-mind­ed music) -where we could make some change and contribute to the peace movement. That was a little bit lost with Dispatch." 
Dispatch disbanded in 2002, before the United States invaded Iraq a year later. Before breaking-up tlw band, Stokes recalled that members of Dispatch "didn't really got into it" when it came to polities, but admits that if tlw group was active during the Iraq invasion, Dispatch may have changed. 
"If Dispateh was a working band wlwn the invasion occurred, we would had to have had a serious convnrsation about what we should do, such as partnering with Iraq Veterans Against the War," Stokes said. 
Stokes said in our interview that politks played a "small part" in Dispatch's break-up. "Personalities wen~ divnrging," Stokns said. "It wasn't totally political. Most of it was that we had stoppnd creating with each othor. It was getting to be too tricky to write and play new songs together. For years, we kept playing old (songs) that had been recorded years ago." 
The disconneet between the members of Dispatch from 1999 to 2002 was ultimately insurmountable said Stokes. "I think we all were writing new songs. but somehow they didn't lit in," Stokes said. "No one was bringing them to the table. No one would com­plain. I don't think anyone wanted nnw songs." 
In a scene in director Ilelmut Schleppi's 2005 lilm "The Last Dispatch," which doeuments Dispatch's (at the time) last eoneert in 2004, Stokes is seen tersely talking politics with Dispatch drummer and vocalist Brad Corrigan. I mentioned the senne to Stokes and asked him about his relationship with Corrigan and their politics. 
"Brad said to me, tell me why you don't like George Bush," remembered Stokes. "I said (Bush) was out of touch. in with big business, making wrong decisions for the people. Since then, Brad has been more open-minded to that. Pete has always just been pretty separate from polities. 
When he started State Hadio, Stokes says it was like "uncapping a bottle of new (stuf"D" since he was able to develop his own songs. regardless of how controversial their message could be to some listeners. 
State Hadio's current live set mixes tracks from both of their studio albums and the band's various EP and live releases. "It's good for us to break it up," said Stokes of his band's philosophy on their live show. "We play a lot of the new tunes, with two or three of the older tunes. People have been really receptive and shouting back at us. It's been cool." 
For their most-recent studio album "Year of the Crow," State Radio was aiming for a more live sounding record to capture the energy of their on-stage heroics. They enlisted producer Tchad Blake. well-known for his work with artists such as Phish. Pearl Jam and Peter Gabriel, to turn the knobs. They recorded "Year of the Crow" in Blake's studio outside London. 
The lyrics on "Year of the Crow" are unforgiving and yearning, ~ailing agai~~.t per.~eive.?. inju~.tices on tracks such as Guantanamo, C.I.A. and Sudan. 
"We live in such a wild time in this country," Stokes said. "Wn have so much to be upset about. Upset about the war, the cutting of funding of different groups -not just veterans but for people 
with disabilities, housing shortages, this 'Every Child Left Behind' type thing." Hegarding the war in Iraq, which shades many State Hadio songs, Stokes said he has "always been against it." 
"Saddam Hussein was a bad man. but so is Kim .long-it," Stokes said. "There are bad places out them, for sure, but a lot of this is channeling our anger from 9/11 to Iraq. It seems really see­through to me. Such a volatile region, but going in and disturbing it with our myopic, Amerieanized policy was a disaster ... we've ruined our international reputation." 
Even though Stokes is politically active, he declined making a 


THE C~BSERVER 




CJENE
Tuesday, April 22, 2008 
page 13 
by Bob Costa 
presidential endorsement during our interview. 
''I'm supporting the Democratic nominee," Stokes said. "I like Obama and Hillary, but I'm not enamored by either. I'm excited by change, what I think it could bring. If I had to be pushed in one direction. I'd lean towards Obama." 
Stokes knows that some of his fans are not always pleased with his band's overt political tone. At times, Stokes said fans young and old. and some veterans, havp, given him their own opinions about State Hadio's lyrics. 
"I don't mind if people show up just for the music," Stokes said. "Ultimately, we're just a band. It's cool if they just want to come for the music, haVP a good time." 
This summer, State Hadio has landed a handful of coveted opening slots on the Dave Matthews Band's summer tour. Instead of playing to packed clubs, State Hadio will be warming up thou­sands or fans in open-air amphitheaters across America. 
"''m sure we'll be pretty nervous," Stokes said. "It's a huge show. We've played some big shows and festivals, but we haven't bnen the sole opener for a band on a tour like this." 
StokP.s is adamant that music can play a vital role in getting citi­zens interested in their country and important issues. For Stokes, the activism of other bands in 2008 is refreshing. 
"I think you sec every election people coming out or the wood­work. more bands popping up," Stokes said. "Bands are a good counterweight to the media, especially Fox News. Playing in places like the Midwest, you can represent a different viewpoint." 
Stokes describes State Radio's politics as "liberal, with leftist tendencies." The band is active in raising money and awareness for veterans' causes, Zimbabwe and the genocide in Darfur through Stokes' Elias Fund, the Dispatch Foundation and other groups. Stokes also has an obvious passion in supporting people with disabilities, which came through in our interview. Stokes was involved with the 2003 IIBO film "How's Your News?" featuring people with disabilities reporting across the country. 
"[State Radiol believes in nationalizing healthcare and having government take a larger role ·in taking on poverty," Stokes said. "There are some socialistic tendencies. We just want to stay away from the trend of corporations taking over, the corporate welfare state. Anything the [Bush administration] does, it does with the onus of keeping the CEOs happy." 
Stokes is happy with the independent, grassroots route State Hadio has taken. 
"I'd say things are pretty good in the van right now," Stokes said. "The momentum of the band seems to be going at a nice pace. You bring a bunch of suits into it, it waters it down. It's not such a enol thing." 
Stokes said that State Hadio's path is similar to Dispatch's in some ways. But, Stokes now clearly wants to avoid even enter­taining the idea of signing with a record label run by a major cor­poration. 
"With Dispatch, we had some big dinners and lunches and met the big guns of the record labels in New York," Stokes said. "IDispatchl was sort of open to it, but [the labels] never saw our vision completely. They said 'recut this album' or 'redo this album.' They never got us," Stokes said. "Besides, when the record companies came to Dispatch, we were already almost done with it. We were like you guys are coming at us way too late." 
Stokes was at first hesitant to go into detail about Dispatch's break-up, but recalled that it was around 1999 that the band began to go downhill. 
"Probably the recording of "Who Are We Living For?" was when it started," Stokes said. "There were some arguments over what songs to pick. Lyrically, we weren't on the same page. Everyone started to be pissed with each other in 1999." 
Stokes said it was the arguments over lyrics during the record­ing for Dispatch's fourth, and last, studio album that caused increasing friction within the band. 
"People would say this is too racy, too risky," Stokes said. "People would come to the table and say here's a song. Then someone would say 'I'm not comfortable with that.' Then, some­one would say 'what the [heck] are you talking about?"' Stokes said. "Artists are sensitive people. When they come to the table with a song that can be damaging it makes you less excited. Then you become a legacy act playing old tunes." 
"[Dispatch] was three difierent guys," Stokes said. "J was politi­cal, Brad was spiritual and coming into his religion. Pete was more of the romantic and the poet. Pete wanted to push the enve­lope in terms of lyrics. I wanted to be edgier politically; Bn:d was honed in with his faith. It was a democracy. with people putting everything out there." 
"I think the United States is in a tough place and it's our responsibility, and lega,~y of our forefathers, to speak out about what we think is wrong," Stokes said. "Like the bumper sticker says, dissent is patriotic. We should let our voices be heard." 
As Stokes has become more politically active over the years, he said he still understands why some fans are not interested in his message. 
"I don't blame people who aren't involved," Stokes said. "But, I think it's great when they are. When people come up to us after shows and tell us they've been affected by our music, or started a Save Darfur Club, an Elias Fund ... it's rewarding for us." 
With State Radio, Stokes is confident that "we're in it for life." Even after the tense Dispatch break-up, Stokes said he wanted to continue to make music. 
"I thought I'd give it one more try, to see if the same problems had to exist," Stokes said. "You put eight years into a band, you can finally afford a bus, you feel like all of your work has come to fruition," said Stokes on Dispatch. 
The reality of starting State Radio from scratch was a major change for Stokes. "A year later, I'm back in a van, playing to forty people, if that," Stokes said. "It's pretty humbling trying to start again. We hit the road hard; we built it organically. It's been tough. I felt like I've done this before, he we are again-driving at 
4:00 a.m., loading the van." 

Now, State Radio is normally playing to 500 fans or more. "Once you get in the 500 range, it feels pretty big," Stokes said. "The weirdness is playing Madison Square Garden or the Hatch Shell in Boston with Dispatch when we didn't have any real new songs, playing the same tunes we'd been playing for years in the base­ment of a dorm. That's the weird thing that's hard to process." 
State Radio is looking to record their third studio album after the 2008 presidential election is over, probably in January 2009. Besides this summer's tour and planning future studio albums, Stokes said the band plans to release a "four or five song EP, spin­off type thing, more acoustic, like 2004's 'Simmer Kane' EP." 
What will the next State Radio album sound like? 
"Some of the tunes we're working on now are epic, more rock based," Stokes said. "''d like to get more experimental, add more riffs. I'm not sure where it's going. Sometimes, we visualize our next record as rock-based, a 'big world' sound with (John) Bonham-sounding drums ... more of an airy, big sound." 
Will Dispatch ever reu11ite? 

"There might be a show or two in a few years," Stokes said. "I don't think we'll be a working band. I don't know. Not at the moment. Breaking up was the best thing for our friendships." 
The views expressed in Scene & Heard are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of The Observer. Contact Bob Costa at rcosta1@nd.edu 
··"'!!'' ·' 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 22, 2008 
CLUB SPORTS 
Rugby puts up tough fight against OSU 
Irish cycling qualifies for Collegiate Road Nationals; crew splits races at Northwestern 
Special to The Observer 
Rugby 
Hughy stopped up in dass this weekend as the dub host­nd No. 25 Ohio State. A nationally-ranked pownr matelwd with a lirst-ynar dub is the proverbial recipe for disaster but the Irish hung tough throughout the game before falling 36-22 to the Buckeyes. Ohio State camn out strong, dominating the first tw11nty minutes to the tune of a 21-0 lead. 
But once the Irish settled 

down and moved play into the 
Buekeyns end of the field, the 
momentum swung to thn 
home standing squad. 
Don Creiwe was the first to crack the scoreboard for tlw Irish. kkking a drop goal. A quiek drive off a lineout from Ohio State's five-meter line n~sulted in a score by David Bray. Chris Harrington then intercepted a pass deep in Notre Damn territory and returned it 70 meters for the seore. Down 28-15, the Irish were near the Ohio State goal line once again when the half ended. 
Tho seeond half was evenly playnd. Ohio State managed a score ofT a scru m and also kieked a drop goal but llarrington scored once more for the Irish. The Irish will next travel to another tradi­tional Midwest power, Bowling Green, this Saturday. 
Notre Dame's B-side pre­vailed 12-3 over Ohio State's B-side. Andy Mullen and Kar un Ah u ij a each scored tries, and Sean Mitchell added two points on a conversion. 

Cycling 
Notre Dame's cyeling team trave.led to Sheboygan and Madison this weekend to eom­pl~tn in the eonference cham­pionship road racn, team time trial, and criterium. For the seeond consecutive year, the Irish qualified for the Collegiate Hoad Nationals, to be held next month in Fort Collins, Colo. 
Irish rider Mike Lavery was crowned Division I I Confernne11 Champion, with 
Tim Campbell finishing a 
close second. This is the sec­
ond consecutive year that the 
Irish have boasted the confer­
once champion. Notre Dame 
finished third overall among 
the Division I I teams. 
John Dailey was the first Irish rider Saturday in the men's D road race, placing 13th in the hilly 20-mile race. John McDonough and Kirk Post represented the Irish in the men's Crace. 
Meghan Johnson and Jenn Perricone rode in the women's A race, which start­ed out at a slow clip. Perrieone stayed with the sec­ond group of women and sprinted to finish second in her group and 11th overall. Johnson out-sprinted her partner for a top-20 finish. 
On Sunday, the Irish raced a team time trial and a criteri­um around the capitol build­ing in Madison. Lavery, Campbell, and Post rode well in the men's A team time trial to finish seventh overall. 
Men's rowing 
The Notre Dame Men's Crew team raced Northwestern and Wheaton College on the nar­row Northwestern home course this Saturday. The eights focused mainly on Northwestern, while the !'our­man boats took on Wheaton. 
The day started ofT with the men's varsity 8-plus between Notre Dame and Northwestern. The Irish crew gained a lead early and held on to win the race and the Alumni Blade, a trophy given to the winner of the race each year. 
The Irish novice crew also jumped out to an early lead on the Northwestern boat in their race. Coming into the sprint, the Northwestern crew made a strong effort to pull ahead, but the Irish proved too much and held onto for the victory 
A compilation boat of novice and varsity rowers took on the Wheaton top varsity 8­plus and dominated the entire race to keep the Irish winning streak alive. 
Notre Dame also raced two 4-plus boats against Wheaton. The first crew went out strong but could not keep up with the dominant Whnaton boat and crossed the finish line second. The other boat dominated in a wire-to-wire win. 


Ultimate 
The men's and women's 
dubs traveled to Naperville, 
Ill. to compete in College 
Sectionals, the first round of 
the UPA College Series. 
Fourteen women's teams 
competed in the tournament, 
and only eight qualified for 
Hegionals. Notre Dame came 
in as the No. 3 seed in the tal­
ented group of teams looking 
to improve upon its seed for 
Hegionals. Only six of twenty­
three men's teams qualified. 
Notre Dame's women opened up Saturday with four pool play games. Their first game was against Knox College, who they took care of quickly 15-0. The second game proved to be thn hard­est of the day against a strong Indiana team. Notre Dame was able to overcome a deficit late in the game and pull out an 11-10 victory thanks in part to the strong offensive play of senior Shields Duss. The Irish then put away DePaul and the University of Illinois-Chicago by identical 13-6 scores. 
On Sunday, the Irish pre­vailed 10-8 over Loyola­Chicago and defeated North Park 10-5. 
With these victories, Notre Dame finished first in their pool and earned the right to play in the championship game against Northwestern, a team with a very similar offensive style. Notre Dame came out with intensity and controlled the pace of the game. Sophomores Erin Maxwell and Jenna Adsit impacted the game on both sides of the disc, and junior Jean Whitney helped the han­dlers move the disc consis­tently down field. The game was close, with the teams trading leads twice. Notre Dame pulled it out in the end, winning the game 11-9 and 

taking the Central Plains 
Sectional title. 
Notre Dame heads into its 
Regionals matchup next week­
end in Detroit, Mich. as the 
top seed from its section. The 
top two Regional teams will 
advance to the National 
Championship tournament. 
The No. 2-seeded men's squad opened pool play on Saturday against Western Illinois, and rolled to an easy 11-5 victory with solid play from sophomore Bill Carson. The Irish then routed Knox College 11-1. The next game of pool play was against Illinois State and strong cutting from Andrew Schroeder led the team to an 11-5 victory. Thn final game of pool play contest was against a strong Chicago team. Notre Dame played its best game of the day and con­trolled the game from begin­ning to end. With Andy Crutchfield patrolling the skies, the team won 11-5. 
The undefeated finish in pool play put Notre Dame into the semifinals on Sunday against an upstart North Park team. North Park came out playing hard and Notre Dame could not respond early. Arter falling behind, the team tried to claw their way back but was unable to recover in a 15-11 loss. In a backdoor bracket matchup against Northwestern, Notre Dame prevailed, 15-10. The next game was a rematch with Chi"cago, and this time Notre Dame would won even more convincingly by a tally of 15-7. This victory led to a rematch with North Park for the 2nd­place game. North Park had just dropped a hard-fought loss to Illinois in the finals and was not ready for the energy that Notre Dame brought to the beginning of the game. Notre Dame jumped out early and led at the half by a score of 8-0 en route to a 15-1 win. 
Notre Dame qualified for the Great Lakes Hegionals next weekend in Detroit, Mich. Senior captains Nick Chambers and Mike Florack will lead the team as it competes for a spot at the UPA College National Championships in Boulder, Colo., on May 16-18. 


Cavs get 
•


Win over Wizards 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND Maybe Gilbert Arenas was talking about some other Cavalinrs. 
The Cleveland team hn and 
the Washington Wizards 
faced Monday night doesn't 
look so heatable. 
LeBron James scored 30 
points, Zydrunas llgauskas 
added 16, and the Cavaliers 
played their best game in 
months, blowing out Arenas 
and Co. 116-86 to take a 2-0 
lead in an opening-round 
playoff series oozing with bad 
blood. 
The 30-point margin of vic­tory was the largest in Cleveland's postseason histo­ry. The Cavs were playing in their 112th playoll' game. 
James scored 14 points in the third quarter when the Cavs opened a 25-point lead over the Wizards, whose defensive scheme coming into their third series in as many years with Cleveland was to slow James by roughing him up with hard, clean fouls. 
It may be time for Plan B. 
The Wizards hardly both­ered James, who finished with 12 assists and nine rPbounds to barely missed his third career postseason triple-double. James went to the bench with 6:12 left. At that point, the Cavaliers were leading by 24 points and coach Mike Brown inserted seldom-used reserves Dwayne Jones and Damon Jones. 
Wally Szczerbiak added 15 points for the defending Eastern Conference champi­ons, who have struggled since a big trade in February changed their roster. As the playoffs neared, Arenas called the Cavs out, saying "I think everybody wants Cleveland in that first round" and "We don't think they can beat us in the playoffs three years straight." 
With their blowout win Monday, the Cavs took only their fourth 2-0 series lead in franchise history. That may not be the best look for thn Wizards, as the Cavs won all of those previous series. 

The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classilieds for comem without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE FoR RENT 

DIRECTOR OF MUSIC AND WOR-54717 Terrace Lane. South Bend 3 SHIP St. Mary Catholic Church, bedroom 1 bathroom ranch house 
WANTED Defiance. Ohio, a welcoming commu· near NO, behind Nicks Patio. PERSONAL nity of worship and service, dedicated Washer/Dryer,C/A, 1-car garage, to the faith formation of all its mem· 
SUMMER WORK $14.25 BASE· bers, seeks a Director of Music and Blue & Gold Homes Showing for $725/mo. $250 security deposit. PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME· APPT. Worship. As a member of Pastoral $74,500! Updated 2BR, Finished 08/09,09/10 ONE WHO IS? You do not have to flexible, no exp. nee, customer staff. the applicant must desire to Lower Level! Now offering "flex" leases bluegol-jimc343@yahoo.com be alone. We want to help. Call our sales/service. con d. apply, ages work in a model of collaborative lead-Minutes to Campus & UP Mall, drentals.com 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­17+. positions available throughout ership and provide direction of an Bookcases, Hardwood floors, SUMMER HOUSING. 800-No Abort or visit our web site at US & Canada. active and well formed parish liturgical Fenced yd + more! Sweet Home! www.lifecall.org www. workforstudents.com ministry commission. The applicant For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to 6 bdrm house Next 2 Clover Ridge. 
must be self-motivated. flexible. Bobbie Van Osdal C-21 N.D., student neighborhood, central Big back yard. hrocha@nd.edu UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do New student needs gooo laptop. knowledgeable of Catholic Liturgy, Jim Dunfee Realty air, new appliances, very nice. 289-not go it alone. If you or someone 574-993-8733. skilled in organ and keyboard accom· 574·235·30?.5. 4071. Staying in South Bend this sum· you love needs confidential support 
paniment and able to provide direction mer? or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Need reasonable. dependable to choirs, cantors. musicians and litur-Need a place to live? Dunn. OP, at 1·7819. For more lawncare person. Call Sue 233· gical ministry teams. Salary competi-Condo For Sale. 1 OR 2 Bdrm apt. in historic neigh-information, visit our website at: 7719 or lv. message. live and commensurate with educa-Close to NO. Quiet community-borhood. One mile to NO. Laundry 1017 E. Washington St. (cross http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg· 
lion/experience. Position open begin· beautifully cared for. & security. $510/mo. street Eddy St.) Great Location· nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad Summer daycare in my home for ning July 1, 2008. Send Resume and Contact Paul @ 574·993-5858. Call574-532·8718. Less than 5 mins from campus. 6 in The Observer. 
children ages 5 & 8. Need dependable. energetic stu· dent available M·F. 7:30-5:30, $250/wk. 
247-1258 or jkerwin@ memori­alsb.org 
3 References to: Rev. Timothy M. Kummerer 715 Jefferson Ave .. Defiance. OH 43512 Phone: 419-782· 2776 Fax: 419·782·1958 email: tmkst· mary@defnet.com Web Page: www.stmarydefiance.org 
Subaru 99 Forester/great condi­tion/AWD/Ieather/CD/121 K/$6,500. 234·2104. 

3 bdrm homes & 1 bdrm apts. Close to NO. Call Jose 574-514-0900 or email: greatlakespg@ gmail.com 
spacious rooms available & 2.5 bathrooms. 
Contact Shannon at straeger@nd.edu for details on subleasing. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 


OUND Tl-IE NATION 
Tuesday, April22, 2008 COMP!LFD FROM THE ()HSERVFJfS WJRF SERVICES page 15 
NBA 

NCAA Men's Tennis ITA Collegiate Rankings 
team average 

1 Virginia 84.38 2 Ohio State 79.75 3 Georgia 72.89 4 usc 67.35 5 UCLA 65.56 6 Mississippi 64.12 7 Texas 62.16 8 Tennessee 59.64 9 Tulsa 52.44 10 Florida State 51.40 11 UNC 51.12 12 Florida 50.79 13 Baylor 50.00 14 Pepperdine 46.94 15 Michigan 44.53 16 Texas Tech 43.62 17 Illinois 43.16 18 Lousiana State 40.79 19 Alabama 39.65 20 Oklahoma State 35.71 21 Arizona State 35.10 22 Rice 33.70 23 Texas A&M 32.55 24 Stanford 32.47 25 Miami (Florida) 31.73 
MLB 

American League, East Division 
team record perc. RF RA 
Boston 14·7 .667 112 100 Baltimore 11-8 .579 84 84 NY Yankees 10-10 .500 85 93 Toronto 10-10 .500 95 81 Tampa Bay 8·11 .421 92 86 
American League, Central Division 
team record perc. RF RA 
Chicago Sox 11·7 .611 98 66 Kansas City 9·10 .474 63 77 Minnesota 9-10 .474 71 78 Cleveland 7·12 .368 79 90 Detroit 7·13 .350 82 118 
American League; West Division 
team record perc. RF RA 
LA Angels 12·8 •600 97 87 Oakland 12·8 .600 91 75 Seattle 10-10 .500 94 85 Texas 7·13 .350 82 105 
National League, East Division 
team record perc. RF RA 
Florida 12·7 .632 92 99 NY Mets 10-8 .556 87 69 
10-9. .526 103 68

Atlanta Philadelphia 9·10 .474 85 83 Washington 5-15 .250 70 107 
National League, Central Division 
team record perc. RF RA Chicago Cubs 13·6 .684 118 87 St. Louis 12-7 .632 87 68 Milwaukee 11-7 .611 87 74 Houston 8·12 .400 83 91 Cincinnati 8·12 .400 81 96 Pittsburgh 7·12 .368 85 127 
National League, West Division 
team record perc. RF RA 
Arizona 13·5 .722 116 65 Colorado 9·9 .500 76 87 San Diego 9·11 .450 65 92 LA Dodgers 8·11 .421 82 71 San Francisco 8·11 .421 61 94 



around the dial 
NBA PLAYOFFS Mavericks vs. Hornets 7:00 p.m., TNT 
Suns vs. Spurs 
9:30 p.m., TNT 


Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO -San Antonio Spurs guard Manu Ginobili -good enough to be a starter on about any team -won the NBA's sixth man award given to the league's best reserve on Monday . 
Ginobili led the Spurs in scoring, averaging a career­high 19.5 points to go with 
4.8 rebounds and 4.5 assists. Ginobili came off the bench in 51 of the 74 games he played this season. 
"I really don't care about corning from the bench if that helps the team to win a championship," Ginobili said. 
The Spurs have a 1-0 lead O'rer the Phoenix Suns in their best-of-seven first­round playoff series. Suns guard Leandro Barbosa won the award last year and Ginobili carne in sec­ond. 

"He's one of the better players in the NBA, who just happens to come off the bench," said Spurs starting guard Michael Finley. "Any other team in the league, he'd probably be starting, but for hlm to come off the bench and put his ego aside it just shows what kind of team we have, and more importantly what kind of player and All-Star he is." 
Ginobili got 123 of 124 first-place votes for 615 points. Barbosa carne in 
IN BRIEF Bens;tals' Thurman back 
with'"Cincy after suspem;ion 
CINCINNATI -Linebacker Odell Thurman was reinstated from art NFL suspension after sitting out the last two seasons. 
The Cincinnati Bengals said Monday they were informed by commissioner Roger Goodell that Thurman is eligible to play. He was suspended the la.Et two seasons because of violations of the NFL's substance abuse policy . 
He had been cleared in January by the NFL to resume working out with the Bengals pending word on his sta­tus. 
A second-round draft pick from Georgia in 2005, Thurman started 15 games at middle linebacker, led the team in tackles and tied the team rookie record with five interceptions. 
His reinstatement comes less than three weeks after the Bengals cut wide receiver Chris Henry following Jlli; fifth arrest since 2005. Henry was suspend­ed by Goodell for the first half cf the 2007 season for misconduct. 

second with 283 points and the Dallas Mavericks' Jason Terry was third with 44. 
"It was no race. Just like, when (is it) going to hap­pen," said Spurs point guard Tony Parker. "He was our best player all year long." 
The 6-foot-6 guard who gives the team a boost of energy off the bench. He was drafted by the Spurs in 1999 in the second round with the 57th overall pick. The Argentinian has been with the team for three of its four title runs. 
"That is what I'm going to remember when I retire, the rings I have," Ginobili said. "Not the fact l played 28 minutes or 33 or my name being called in the starting lineup. That's not going to make the differ­ence in 10 to 15 years." 
Ginobili enters the game, usually about midway through the first quarter, to huge roars from the crowd when the Spurs announcer yells "Here comes Manu!" 
"I just consider myself a player,· a team player," Ginobili said. "So this year he (Spurs coach Gregg Popovich) thought it was more important for me to come from the bench, so I just try to do it the best way I can." 
Popovich gave all the eredit to Ginobili, who is the first Spurs player to win the award. 

Haywood's foul against
James sparks controversy 
illNEIAND -Washington Wi7_ard'i mn­ter Brendan Haywood was ejected in the third quarter of Monday night's Game 2 against Oeveland for a hard foul on LeBron James, the most flagrant foul in a series already full of them. 
With 6:59 left. James was driving to the basket when Haywood carne across the lane and shoved the All-Star with both hands without going for the ball. The offi­cials called a flagrant 2 foul, leading to Haywood's automatic ejection The play can be reviewed and Haywood could face a ~le suspension. 
Tensions have been high between the team'> for weeks, fueled by oornments from DeShawn Stevenson and Gilbert Arenas of the Wizards. Game 1, which Oeveland won 93-86, was ehippy from the start and Haywood and James had an altercation just before half­time. In the first half of Game 2, Arenas was called for a technical foul and Cavaliers for­ward Anderson Varejao was given a fla­grantfouL 
Colts RB Keith arrested for 
multiple misdemeanors 
INDIANAPOLIS--Colts running back Kenton Keith was out of jail Monday after being arrested for refusing to leave a nightclub parking lot and yelling at officers that he was a Coll'i 'player who had done nothing wrong, police said. 
Officers working security tried to clear a crowd from the parking lot of the Cloud 9 club after it closed. The 27 -year-old Keith and several others refused to leave and were laughing, dancing and joking, police said. 
Keith was charged with misde­meanor counts of disorderly conduct, resisting law enforcement, public intoxication and contributing to the delinquency of a minor, because a man he brought to the club with hlm was 19, police said. He was released from jail later Sunday on his own recognizance. 
Keith has been with the Colts for one season after playing in the Canadian Football League. 

.-----------­
page 16 The Observer +PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, April22, 2008 
-

c ~ 1\

J c_ T A I f\l E) L E 
,,)\,___ ..._) 1\],i---\,) -­


A NOTRE DAME FORUM ENLIGHTEN ENGAGE EMPOWER 



BEE 
LIGHTENED 
Notre Dame Forum 

JACC 

September 24, 3:00 p.m. 
enlighten.nd.edu 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 

•
I I 
I 
I 
Tuesday, April 22, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
ND WoMEN's GoLF 
Irish sit atop Big 
East leaderboard 

By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
After a torrid start, No. 25 Notre Dame holds a nine­stroke lead over the rest of the field heading into the final day of competition at the Big East championship tournament at the Elks Run Golf Club in Batavia, Ohio. 
The Irish (597) shot the two lowest rounds of the tournament, carding a 296 and 301, to stake out a comfortable lead over 
want to keep that going. The only thing that will beat us is ourselves." 
The entire Irish squad turned in solid performanc­es, with no golfer ending Monday lower than 16th overall. Behind leader Brophy, junior captain Lisa Maunu added a 76 to her first-round best 73 to finish the five-over par day tied for fourth overall, a single stroke behind the leaders. Also tied for fourth overall, freshman standout So-Hyun 

second-place "Our goal all year has No. 28 been winning the Big . 
Louisville 
East championship. 

(606). Notre 
Dame sopho­That's what we expect to more Annie do, and we deserve to 
B r o p h y 
have that happen." 

recorded . back-to-hack 74s to head Susan Holt into the final Irish coach 
round tied for first. Three other Irish golfers played their way into the top-10. 
Before play Sunday, Notre Dame head coach Susan Holt expressed confidence in her team.· 
"Our goal all year has been winning the Big East championship," Holt said. "That's what we expect to do, and we deserve to have that happen. We've been playing good golf. We're hit­ting the ball well and we Park fired a 75 on top of her first round 7 4 to finish five­over par. Kristin Wetzel shot 75-76, seven­over par, to end up tied for seventh as the fourth Notre Dame golfer in the 
top 10. Completing the Irish squad, freshman Katie Conway contributed a 79 and a 77 to head into the final round tied for 16th at 12-over par. 
The Big East champi­onship tournament con­cludes today, with the third and final round beginning with a staggered start at 8:00a.m. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu.edu 
NHL 

Price, Montreal send Bruins hotne 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL -Carey Price put a couple of tough losses behind him to save the Montreal Canadiens' playoff run and dash the Boston Bruins' hopes of an improbable come­back. 
Price got his second shutout and Andrei Kostitsyn scored twice to lead Montreal to a 5-0 win over Boswn on Monday night in the deciding game of their first-round playoff series. 
The 20-year-old rookie stopped 25 shots overall, includ­ing 11 shots in the opening peri­od. Price had allowed 10 goals overall in a pa.ir of Canadiens losses after he :~ot his first play­off shutout in a 1-0 win in Game 4. 
"It was a rough couple of games and we ]mew it just was­n't going our way," Price said. "I knew it was going to turn around eventually, and tonight it did." 
Mike Komisa.rek opened the scoring 3:31 in amid one of the first of countless roars from the raucous Bell C€,ntre crowd over the course of the evening. 
The Canadiens took control of the game in the second, out­shooting the Bruins 17-6 while building a thm3-goal lead on a superb goal by Mark Streit mid­way through the period and Kostitsyn's second goal of the series at 15:13. 
Kostitsyn punctuated the win with his second of the game, a power-play goal with 2:02 remaining in tb.e third. Sergei Kostitsyn scored with 7.3 sec­onds remaining. 
Top-seeded Montreal will face Philadelphia in the second round, if the Flyers win their Eastern Conference quarterfinal against Washington. Otherwise, the Canadiens will face the New York Rangers. 

Tim Thomas stopped 30 shots for Boston, which fell short in its bid to overcome both 2-0 and 3-1 series deficits for the first time in team history. 
"The character of this team can't be overemphasized, I don't think, for what we battled through all year and even in this seven-game series," Thomas said. 
Bruins coach Claude Julien was behind the Canadiens' bench in 2004 when Montreal won three straight to overcome a 3-1 deficit in a first-round win over Boston. 
"You've got to give them cred­it," said Alex Kovalev, who assisted on the Canadiens' first two goals. "They battled back and even down 3-1 and coming back to our building they were able to regroup and get a cou­ple of wins, but the mistakes we made, we didn't compete like we did today. If we had played the way we played tonight I think we could have done it ear­lier." 
Montreal coach Guy Carbonneau moved Kovalev to a line with Saku Koivu and Chris Higgins. 
The move allowed rookie Sergei Kostitsyn to play on another line alongside his brother, Andrei, and center Tomas Plekanec as Carbonneau spread out the Canadiens' offense. · 
"We were trying to give some space to them, to be able to move around and control the puck," Kovalev said. 
Komisarek got credit for his first career playoff goal as his point shot struck Bruins center Petteri Nokelainen's stick, caus­ing a deflection that left Thomas no chance to recover and stop. 
Streit made it a 2-0 lead 10:45 into the second as he slipped past Bruins captain Zdeno Chara to fmish off a sensational passing play. Kovalev passed the puck back to Komisarek in the Canadiens' zone and waited on the right boards at center ice for the return pass. 
The high-scoring Russian fed a cross ice pass to Maxim Lapierre as the Canadiens cen­ter entered the Bruins zone, and Lapierre dished off to Streit, who pushed the puck past Chara before driving the net to put a backhand between Thomas' pads for his first play­off goaL 
"My mouth was wide open seeing that goal," Komisarek said. "The patience and poise that he had with the puck, and to bury it was pretty speciaL" 

lftrageaetween Notre Dame &
SlU_•·•. I_I•_( · ; _:. •· Airport at the corn~r of
space ··-·--·ca~r;~~;.,~.E;;;; 
Lighted &Paved Free Lock with Every Unit 
5x1 0...$169 +DEP 10x10...$219 +DEP 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 22, 2008 
MLB 

Rookie Galarraga, Tigers take down Blue Jays 
Arnzando Galarraga has sparked Detroit to two victories since being called up; Ortiz leads Red Sox over Rangers 
Associated Press 
TOHONTO -t\n unlikely rookil~ is lt>ading tlw Detroit Tig<~rs in wins. 
Armando c;alarraga won his secoml straight start. Edgar Ht>nleria honwrnd and the Tigers lwat tlw Toronto Bltw .lays 5-1 Monday. 
Ivan Hodrigunz had four hits and lkntPria srorPd twice for the Tigm·s. 
c;alarraga 12-0) has won b;u:k-to-back starts since bning called up from Triple-t\ Toledo last week to. rPplaee Dontrelln Willis, sidPiirwd by a hyperex­lnndod kr11w. 
t\equirod in an oiTsoason trade with Texas, Galarraga won't face tlw Hangors when tlwy visit l>otroil this Wl~nk, but still had a rnossagn for his for­nwr learn. 
"They made a mistake," he said. laughing. 
No otlwr Tigors pitdwr has morn than orw win. and the quintnt of Jprpmy Bonderman, Nate Holwrtson. Kenny Hogers, .Justin Vorlander and Willis have just two virtori1~s between thmn so l'ar. 
The 26-yPar-old Galarraga blank<~d tho Blue .Jays on three singles l'or 5 1-:{ innings. lie struek out four and walked four. 
"lie had a lot or late move­nwnt," Bluo .Jays seeond base­man Aaron llill said. "He was running pilehes in. he was doing woll with his slider." 
c;alcirraga, who beat Clevnland last week. lowered his EHt\ to 1.50. lin has not allowed a hit to a right-hander in 21 at-bats since joining llw Tignrs. 
"lie's got a good sinker, a good slider," Hodrigunz said. "lin was able to usn tlwm today and mako tho right-handnd hit­tors hit tlw ball on thn ground." 
The Blue Jays loaded the bases against (;alarraga in both tho third and fourth innings, but fail1~d to score eaeh time. 
"I was trying to lw more aggressivo when I had runners on base," Galarraga said. "When tho bases were loaded, I tried to be aggressive in that moment." 
"llis eontrol wasn't as good today. but he dodged a eouple of bullets." Tigers manager Jim Leyland said. 
Toronto finished 0-for-R with 
runners in scoring position 
Monday and went 7-for-56 
1.125) with runrwrs in scoring position on this six-game honwstand, winning just twice. 
Tigers rnliever Clay Bapada got ono out in tho sixth, Aquilino Lop~~z worked l 1-3 innings and Denny Bautista pitch1)d tlw eighth. 
Gregg Zaun hit a lnadofT homer in the ninth Toronto off Todd .lonns. Zaun shook his !wad af'lPr fouling ofT a high, 3­2 pitch, tlwn hit the nnxt deliv­ery over the right-field wall for his first home run of the sea­
SOIL 
The Tigers gave Galarraga all the support he nneded with a !'our-run second ofT Shaun Marcum 12-1 ). Hyan Haburn hit a two-run single. Brandon Inge f'ollowed with a sacrifice fly and Hodriguez capped the burst with an HB! single. 
"We got some big hits today and took advantage of our opportunities," Leyland said. "That's huge, that's what you've got to do." 
Henteria led off the sixth with his third homer of the season and second or this series. 
Marcum lost for the first time in four starts, allowing five runs in 5 2-3 innings, his short­est outing this season. lie walked a season-high four and struck out two. 
"Obviously wo didn't bring anything to the table today," llill said. "Marcum didn't have his best day, we didn't hit, did­n't play defense. It's one of those games that's going to be easy to forget." 
Red Sox 8, Rangers 3 
Two of Boston's leading hit­ters got the holiday off. t\nd the Heel Sox kept on win­
$10haircuts 1/2off
all color (reg $47-$80) foils too! 
'Schedule your appointment today with one ofour licensed apprentice stylists for this great price. Offer good with apprentice stylists only, all other stylists will be full price. 
Not good with any other discount. Convcaient, close to campus. 
258-5080 




[SALOH RO U 6 El 
620 W. Edison, Suite 126 Mishawaka, IN. 46545 salonrougeinc.com 
ning. 

They beat the Texas Hangers Monday on Patriots Day and swept the four-game series while Manny Hamirez and Sean Casey watched from the dugout. 
Clay Buchholz pitched six shutout innings, David Ortiz continued his surge from a hor­rible slump with two doubles and three HBis and .Julio Lugo went 4-for-4. 
Four Hed Sox batters had at least two of Boston's 12 hits. 
"They rely on everybody and it seems like everybody seems to contribute," Texas manager Hon Washington said. "! think I ill you ask any manager if it's nice not to see Manny in the lineup and they'll tell you, 'yes.' I'm no different. These guys, they scored runs." 
Boston scored at lnast five runs for the ninth straight game. The Heel Sox have won nine of 10 overall. 
"That's the key for us," lead­off man .Jacoby Ellsbury said, "getting on base and allowing our great batters in our lineup to get up. As long as we get runners on, we know we're going to score some runs." 
Hamirez. who was ejected for arguing a third strike in the sncond inning Sunday, is bat­ting .338 and got the day ofT. Lefty hitter Casey, with a .349 average, rested against lefty Kason Gabbard. 
Gabbard pitched a perfect first inning then hurt his back when he slipped pitching to Kevin Youkilis, leading off the second. lie walked three bat-Cers but allowed no runs in the inning. But after throwing his warmups before the third, he left with a stiff back. 

"That doesn't help them," Boston manager Terry Francona said. "We got into their bullpen and they got into situations where they had to 
leave lpitchersl out there, but we took advantage of it." 
Boston rallied late to win its previous two games but didn't need a comnbaek this time as it scored five runs in a wild fourth inning and three in the fifth, all off Dustin Nippert 11­2). 


-----------------------,------------­
Tuesday, April 22, 2008 page 19
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
COMMUNITY IS INVITED 1r0 ATTEND A MEMOR~IAL MASS ASWE MOURl\JTHE LOSS OF 



ANDREW M. BUNIKIS 
Junior, College of Business Zahm Hall 

BASILICA OFTH-E SACRED HEART 
Tuesday, April 22, 2008 

10:00 p.m. 

Rev.John /.jenkins, C.S.C., Presider Rev. Daniel]. Parrish, C. S.C., Homilist Mr. Corry Colonna, Words ifRemembrance 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 22, 2008 
BOSTON MARATHON 
Cheruiyot wins third consecutive Marathon 
Kenya~s Robert Cheruiyqt cruises to a 27-second victory; Ethiopia's Dire Tune takes women's race by historic margin 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Hobert Cheruiyot is 

well-versed in the Boston 
Marathon eourse, with li:IUr vie­
tories in five trips from 
llopkinton to thn Ba<:k Bay. 
i\bderrahirne Bouramdane vis­

itml for the first time on Monday, 
learning what thousands beforn 
him have <~orne to und1wstand as 
they reached Heartbreak Hill, 20 
miles in. 
"Up," lw said, "is the prob­

lnrn." 
Choruiyot pulled away from Bouramdano as they entered the Newton I I ills, reaching tlw ernst of I leartbreak IIill with a 27 -soe­ond lead and coasting to the sixth-fastest time in Boston Marathon history. 
l>irn Tune outkicked i\levtina Biktimirova after a back-and­forth last mile to win by 2 sec­onds in the elosest finish in the history of the women's raeo. Cheruiyot. of Knnya, and Tune, of Ethiopia, eaeh earned a reenntly enhanced prize of $150,000 -the biggest in m<~jor marathon history. 
Cheruiyot won in 2 hours, 7 minutes, 46 seconds to become the fourth man to win the raee li1ur timns. i\llnr erossing the lin­ish linn, lw dropped to his knees to kiss the ground beforn stand­ing up and counting otr his four vietories with an upraisnd arm. 
"This was the hardest," Cheruiyot said. "Boston is not a very easy course, it's very dilli­eult. (But) I enjoy running the hills." 
Although he repeatedly eheckod his watch as he ran alone for the last miles, Cheruiyot did not challenge the course reeord of 2:07:14 he set two years ago. 
llis problem: No one to race with. 
"It's very dilTicult when you're running alone here in Boston," he said. "You need eompany." 
Tune, who finished in 2:25:25, was the first Ethiopian woman to win sinee Fatuma Hoba won thrne straight from 1997-99. She ran side-by-side with Biktimirova into Kenmore 
Square, and appeared to give up 
an edge when she nearly missed 
one of the final turns. 
Tune quiekly eomposed herself and took the lead bofore the last turn, but Biktimirova eaught her and regained the lead briefly. Tune pulled ahead for the good on Boylston Street in the last few dty bloeks and beat the Hussian to the line. 
"I was lighting until the end," Biktimirova said. "And in the end I just didn't have enough speed." 
The previous elosest women's finish eame two years ago, when Hita Jcptoo beat Jelena Prokopeuka by 10 seconds. Jeptoo finished third this year, 69 second behind Tune. 
Cheruiyot's third straight vieto­ry gave Kenya its 15th men's title in 17 years; Kenyans also fin­ished sixth through ninth. But Cheruiyot's countrymen strug­gled more than usual overall, with just the one man in the top five -the fewest sinee 1992 ­and one woman in the top 10. 
Cheruiyot eouldn't say whether the performanee was related to the postelection violence back home, in which some of his country's top runners have been killed and thrnatened. Cheruiyot missed two months of training beeause of the unrnst before his eoaeh moved their camp to Namibia. 
"My training has been going well despite the problems in Kenya," he said. "When some­thing happens, you have to for­get and train." 
Bouramdane finished 1:18 back and fellow Moroccan Khalid El Boumlili eame in third, another 1:31 back. Nicholas Arciniaga, of Rochester Hills, Mich., was 10th to give the Amerieans a top-1 0 finish for the fourth straight year. 
Cheruiyot pulled away from a pack of four at the base of the Newton Hills, running the 19th mile in 4:37. He passed defend­ing women's champion Lidiya Grigoryeva, with the two No. 1 bibs running side-by-side, just before the 24-mile mark. 
Cheruiyot remained on a 

IN CONCERT GRAMMY & STELLAR AWARD NOMINEE 
ChicagoMa.ssCho·it­
..JUST HAVING CHURCH LtVe. 
DATE:  Saturday. Apri I 26, 2008  TIME:  7:00p.m.  
PLACE:  Second Baptist Church 24828 Fillmore Road. P.O. Box 3895 South Bend. Indiana 46619  
TICKETS:  $25 in advance  $30 at the door  

$7 Dollar.'i O((EAC/1 Ticket Purchased JJ1th A Notre Dame J.D. 
Reserve your tickets hy contacting Second Baptist Church hy phone at (574) 287-3000 Church/(574) 876-9462 Secretary: OR. hy visiting the l'ollowing local husincsses: Cutragcous Barhcr Shop: The Look Hair Salon; WUBS, Betty's Cleaners (Benton 


record paee as he approaehed Kenmore Square before slowing over the last mile. Although his eourse record remained intact, he still beat his winning time of 
2:14:13 in last year's monsoon­like conditions. 
"Myself, I tried to push," he said. "Last year, I wanted the raee to be faster." 
The race eame a day after the 
U.S. trials featured the top American women running for a berth in the Olympics. Deena Kastor, Magdalena Lewy Boulet and Blake Russell finished in the top three to make the U.S. team that will go to Beijing. 
With the throe new Olympians serving as grand marshals, more than 25,000 runners left Hopkinton under a cloudy but ealm sky and temperatures in the 50s -a major improvement over last year's rain and wind that threatened to seuttle the raee. 
Among those in the event's seeond-largest field: eyelist Lance Armstrong and astronaut Sunita Williams, who ran a sim­ulated Boston Marathon last year while in orbit on the International Space Station. 
Armstrong won the Tour de France seven times on the strength of his work in the mountains. When he started preparing for Boston, his third marathon, some race veterans told him the hills weren't as dilTI­cult as their reputation made them out to be. 
"They were wrong," said Armstrong, who finished 496th in 2:50:58. "They are harder, and they do eome at a difficult time in the raee." 

LETS PLAY ITALIAN THIS· SUMMER 

LEARN ITALIAN AT NOTRE DAME THIS SUMMER 
ROIT 10115 -INTENSIVE BEGINNING ITAUAN 
is a 6 week, 6 credit course meeting from June 17th until July 31 s MTWRF 8:30-10:30/11:00-12:00 
It is like a double shot of espresso in the morning Ill 
Tuesday, April22, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MLB 
Hudson shines, Braves 'Win 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Tim Hudson pitched six scoreless innings before tiring and drove in two runs, leading the Braves past the Washington Nationals 7-3 on Monday night for Atlanta's fifth straight win. 
The Braves have allowed only six runs during their win­ning streak, which pushed them above .500 for the first time this season at 10-9. 
Washington keeps falling far­ther and farther back in the NL East race. The Nationals lost their third in a row and have dropped 15 of 17 since starting the season with three straight wins. 
Matt Chico (0-4) lasted only four innings, giving up six runs and eight hits. 
Hudson (3-1) went to the sev­enth with a 7-0 lead, but the Nationals touched him for a couple of runs. He might have gotten though it if not for an error by first baseman Mark Teixeira, who dropped a rou­tine throw and gave Washington an unearned run. 
Cubs 7, Mets 1 
CHICAGO Carlos Zambrano pitched seven strong innings, and Aramis Ramirez and Felix Pie home­red as the surging Chicago Cubs won for the 12th time in 15 games. 
Zambrano (3-1) allowed five hits and a run with two walks and four strikeouts. Chicago's ace was backed by four double plays, including one in the sixth started by shortstop Honny Cedeno that doused a big inning for the New York Mets. 
Ramirez homered to left-cen­
ter after Derrek Lee led off the 
fourth with a single off John 
Maine (1-2). The Cubs added 
live runs in the eighth, includ­
ing three on Pie's first homer 
ofT Jorge Sosa. 
Astros 10, Padres 3 
HOUSTON -Hoy Oswalt won consecutive starts for the first time since August, and Miguel Tejada and Lance Berkman drove in three runs each to lead Houston over San Diego. 
Oswalt (2-3) allowed three runs and six hits in seven innings as the Astros won their second straight following a three-game losing streak. Oswalt was 6-0 over eight starts from July 20 to Sept. 3, then went 0-4 in six starts before winning at Philadelphia on April 16. 
Justin Germano (0-2) allowed a career-high 10 runs in 3 1-3 innings, and the 10 hits he gave up matched the most off him in 39 major league appearances. He also walked three, and his ERA for the sea­son rose from 1.35 to 5.01. 
San Diego's Jim Edmonds hit 
a solo home run in the second, 
his first homer since Sept. 14. 
Dodgers 9, Reds 3 
CINCINNATI Nomar 
Garciaparra hit his first home 
run since Sept. 14 and drove in 
three runs, Brad Penny stayed 
perfect at Great American Ball 
Park and Los Angeles beat 
\:incinnati. 
Hafael Furcal also homered, 
and James Loney added three 
RBI for the Dodgers, who 
equaliPd their season high with 
1 5 hits after scoring one run in 
each of their three losses at Atlanta last weekend. 
Andruw Jones was dropped to eighth in the starting batting order for the first time since Aug. 22, 1998. He went 0-for­4, lowering the five-time All­Star's average to .159. 
Penny (3-2) allowed a run and six hits while improving to 5-0 in five career starts at Great American. Chan Ho Park pitched three innings for his first save in 330 career pitch­ing appearances. 
Matt Belisle (0-1}, in his first start after opening the season on the disabled list due to a sore right forearm, gave up 12 hits and seven runs in four innings. 
Marlins 10, Pirates 4 
PITTSBURGH -Hanley Ramirez, Josh Willingham and Dan Uggla homered and Mark Hendrickson, normally one of the majors' worst hitters, had two hits while pitching eight innings in Florida's win over slumping Pittsburgh. 
Ramirez hit a two-run homer during a four-run second inning against Matt Morris (0­3), giving him three homers in two games. Willingham added a two-run drive as Florida scored three more times in the third to make it 7-2. 
The Pirates lost their sixth in a row and gave up double-digit runs for the third consecutive game. They hadn't done that since Montreal scored a com­bined 35 runs against them during three games in June 1994. 
Hendrickson (4-1) gave up four runs, three earned, and eight hits. He doubled and scored in the fourth inning before hitting a run-scoring single an inning later. Hendrickson came in to the game 1-for-46 the last two sea­sons. 
Phillies 9, Rockies 5 
DENVER-Now that there's no playoff pressure, the Philadelphia Phillies beat the Colorado Rockies with relative ease. 
Chase Utley homered for the fifth straight game, Jayson Werth hit an inside-the-park home run and Philadelphia ral­lied for a win over Colorado on Monday night in the first meet­ing between the teams since the Rockies' first-round sweep last October. 
Utley hit his major league­leading ninth home run --his sixth in five games. He became the fourth player in Philadelphia frar•chise history to homer in fi.ve straight games. Bobby Abreu was the last to do it on May 8-12, 2005. 
The All-Star second baseman became the first major leaguer to homer in five straight games since the New York Yankees' Alex Rodriguez from Sept. 4-9 last year, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. 
Garrett Atkins and Yorvit Torrealba homl1red for the Rockies, who blew an eighth­inning lead for the second straight day. 
The Phillies mounted the winning rally off Taylor Buchholz (1-1) \<\-ith two outs and no one on. Hyan Howard and Pat Burrell .>ingled, and Pedro Feliz walked. Brian Fuentes came on in relief, and Carlos Ruiz doubled down the right-field line to drive in two runs. 
Philadelphia added three runs in the top of the ninth off Micah Bowie on doubles by Werth and T.J. Bohn. Rudy Seanez (2-1) got the win in relief. 
Cardinals 4, Brewers 3 
MILWAUKEE Skip Schumaker doubl£'d in the go­ahead run in the II inth and the St. Louis Cardinals overcame a fielding blunder in the eighth to beat the Milwaukee Brewers on Monday night in the opener of a two-game set. 
Brian Barton, who pinch hit for reliever Ryan Franklin, doubled off embat1.led Brewers reliever Derrick Turnbow (0-1) to start the inning and Schumaker drove him in with a double to the wall after a sacri­fice bunt. 
Turnbow, frustrated since he's no longer the setup man, has failed to inspire confidence for the Brewers, who lost for the 10th time in 13 games against the Cardinals. 
Franklin (1-1) got the win despite giving up an unearned run by limiting the damage in the eighth, and Jason Isringhausen earned his sev­enth save in eight chances with a perfect ninth. 
It appeared the Brewers had all the momentum before Franklin stopped them cold. 
With St. Louis leading 3-2, Ryan Braun doubled to start the eighth inning and right fielder Ryan Ludwick charged hard on a fly ball from Corey Hart, but slipped and lost the ball in the lights. 

NBA 
Kobe says he vvants to finish career vvith L.A. 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Kobe Bryant made clear Monday what's been, at the very least, a bit ambigu­ous for nearly a year: He wants to stay with the Los Angeles Lakers and is open to finishing his career with them. 
"Absolutely," Bryant said the day after the Lakers beat the Denver Nuggets 128-114 in their playoff series opener. "I've always wanted to be here. I just felt like I was in a position where I didn't really have a choice. They wanted to go in an opposite direction. My legs aren't as young as they used to be. Just let me know. 
"I love the weather. I love my '63 drop-top Impala. I love the 405 [freeway]. I love my guys." 
Bryant acknowledged he wouldn't have imagined things would have turned out this way late last May, when he publicly called the Lakers' front office a mess and demanded a trade, feeling he had been misled when he signed a seven-year, $136.4 million contract in July 2004. The Lakers haven't won a play­off series since. 
"I've been sitting on this for four years now," he said. "After three or four years of not getting anything done, to see it today, it feels pretty damn good. It's been a hell of a ride." 
Bryant and Lakers owner 
Jerry Buss met in Barcelona a few weeks after his trade demand, and he again told Buss he wanted out. Then, under­standing the difficulty of trading someone of his ability, Bryant said all the right things entering training camp in October, but the peace was broken a few weeks later when Buss said he would "certainly listen to trade offers." 
The situation was tenuous at best when the season began, and stories circulated through­out November concerning poten­tial trade possibilities. The spec­ulation stopped, Bryant stayed and the Lakers flourished, going 57-25 to earn the No. 1 seed in the Western Conference. 
The 29-year-old Bryant, a leading candidate to win his first MVP award, has stated on sever­al occasions that his 12th NBA season has been the most enjoy­able, and did so again Monday. 
He said he hasn't necessarily changed his mind about wanting to stay instead of wanting to leave. 
"No, I just don't talk about it," Bryant said. "These are answers I've given all year long. I love this team. If they want to win right now, I'm all for them. That's all I've said the whole time. We have a job to do here, so it's important to focus on what we're doing and not get distracted from that." 

Store our Stun
theSummerl 
Call or stop on by & reserve today! 
866-232-2169 
6482 Brick Road, South Bend Located at Cleveland Rd. & US 20 Bypass. 7 minutes from campus 

LIFEGUARDS WANTIED 
RecSports is hiring energetic, responsible and qualified Lifeguards and Water Safety ln.Btructor~. Applicants must be at least eighteen years old w1th a valid WSI and/or Lifeguard certificate with up-to­date CPR for the Professional Rescuer and First Aid certifications is required. 
Positions are open at Rolfs Aquatics Center, RocknE! Memorial and St. Joseph Be)ach 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 22, 2008 
SOFTBALL 
Irish to play two at Purdue 
By SAM WERNER Sporrs Wrircr 
Notre Damn (29-15. 9-5 Big EasO looks to rebound from two crudal Big East losses ov1~r the wneknnd against South Florida when it travPls to Wnst Lafaynttn fiw a non-mnfilrHncn doublehead­nr against Purdun (:~0-16, 6-6 Big Tim). 
Thn Irish an• looking to solidify 
tlwir position fill' post'inason play. 
"We're two Wl)nks away from thn Big East championship," Notrn Dame mach Doanna Gumpf said. "It's time filr us to got some consistency in playing good son­ball." 
Thn BoilermakPrs an~ lind for fourth place in tho Big Tnn but have strugglnd rnenntly -going :{-6 over th1)ir last ninn games. PurdLw has droppnd ganws against Ohio State, Valparaiso. Ball State. Mkhigan State, and Northwestern in that span. 
Bnfi1m being swPpt by tho Bulls. the Irish worn one of thn hottnst t1~arns in tlw Big East. sporting a 13-3 record in their 16 games before Sunday's losses. Notrn Damn is lnd by tho pitching of jun­ior Brittrwy Bargar. who h<L'> a 22­

1) rncord and a miniscule 1.03 EBA Freshman Jody Valdivia ha'i also been big in the drdn, going 7-6 on thn ynar and striking out 11 Hhatters. 
"They both know what it takes to bP grnat." (;umpf said of her pitching duo. "They have it in them and tlwy're capable of throwing )-.'Teat softball." 
Bargar and Valdivia will be l'aend with thn task of shutting down a Purdue oflimsn that tim­turns four players hitting ovnr .:mo on the sn<L'>on. Junior short­stop Candacn Curtis leads the Boilermaker otlimse with a .357 averag11. nine home runs, and 34 

Cha01ps 
continued from page 24 
semifinals victory. The strat­egy paid dividends early, as Andersen's touches were limited on the Saltines' first few possessions, allowing Mean Girls to build an early 3-1 lead befonl Saltines sen­ior Steve Joyce scored the f'irst of his five points on a pull-up jump•1r to cut the lead to one. 
"They were playing Carl pretty tight early," Joyce said. "We were just trying to move the ball arou·nd and get everyone else better looks." 
But even with Gilette and the rest of the Mean Girls defense zoning in on Andersen, it was as if every­one in attendance expected him to eventually take over. Needless to say, he didn't disappoint, finding some spaee and hitting a mid­range jumper on his first attempt. 
"It took us a while to get some movement," Andersen said. "But when we did, I got some openings and was able to get some shots and find some other people, too." 
After senior forward Chris Lund madH a nifty jump-stop in the lane to give the Saltines a 4-3 lead, Andersen picked up a loose ball at the defensive end and beat everyone down the floor, showing ofT his leaping ability with a eoast-to-coast HBis. Junior Katie Mitchell and sophomore Kelsey Haupert have eaeh added seven home runs of thPir own. 
'ThP;y'rn the .?e~t-hitt.in~ Purdue llmm Ive seen. <~umpf smd. 
For the Irish offense, senior out­fielder Sarah Smith leads the team with a 349 average. Senior second baseman Katie Laing is Notre Dame's biggest run produc­er. with 41 HBis on the season, good for second-best in the Big Ea'it. 
If the Irish want to win today, they will have to avoid the errors that cost them against South Florida. In Tampa, the Irish gave up a combined 13 runs in two games, only live of which were earned. 
"We hit pretty well in that 
lay-up before hitting another jumper in traffic on the next possession. 
"Early on he was just get­ting his jumper off and that's tough to guard," Gillete said. "I don't think he got too many lay-ups early, but he's definitely one of the best guys out here." 
Mean Girls senior forward Garret Flynn made a pull-up jumper to break the drought and make it a 6-4 game, but Andersen immediately responded by soaring over three players for a tip-in basket that brought the Saltines' lead to three. Mean Girls never got closer than that. 
By the time the first half was over, the Saltines owned an 11-6 lead, Andersen made five of his seven shots in the period. The Mean Girls' sharpshooting guard Alex Klupchak was held to just one first-half point and was visibly frustrated as he watched several of his jump shots rim in-and-out. 
With the Mean Girls mainly in a 2-3 zone for the second half, Andersen found space under the hoop on multiple occasions, scoring twice on wide-open lay-ups before posting up and banking in a shot with his left hand. 
Though Flynn got hot at the right time, scoring four of his six points in the sec­ond half. Andersen and Joyce proved to be too much, as Joyce scored three of the Saltines' final five points, including the game-winner 
series," Gumpf said. "But our hit­ting wasn't enough." 
Gumpf added that, even though her squad is going up against a Big Ten team instead of a Big Eao:;t foe, their preparation will be exactly the same. 
"We don't change anything," she said. "We're there to win the game, no matter what the name is on their jersey." 
Notre Dame leads the all-time series against Purdue 11-H, but the Boilermakers won the last matehup 7-4 on April 26, 2006. The first pitch is set to leave the drde at 3 p.m. in game one, with the second game scheduled to start at 5 p.m. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
on a runner through traffic in the lane to bury the Mean Girls, who had to pull off multiple upsets to even reach the title game. 
"It was a real good run," said Klupchak, who was named "Mr. Bookstore" fol­lowing the game. "We were the No. 7 seed, but I don't want to say we were happy to be here because we really wanted to win. But they played a great game and they deserved it." 
And while it was Andersen who got much of the atten­tion throughout the whole tournament, there's a cer­tain piece of facial hair that won't soon be forgotten along the Saltines' champi­onship run. 
Senior Dan Ott scored three points in the game, but he'll probably be remem­bered most for the bushy black moustache he sported throughout the Saltines' run to the title. 
"It's been something I thought I'd keep through the whole tournament. It's kind of like my finals beard -it's my playoff moustache," said Ott, who will sadly be shav­ing the moustache soon now that the tournament has ended. "It's just a part of the team -it's got a lot of sweat in here over the last couple of weeks. We're just really glad we could pull [the win] off, but a lot of people are going to be missing this." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Kessler 
continued from page 24 
also adding six poinl'i of her own. 
"Ilaving a really big presence in the post really helped us win the game," Kessler said. "We passed very well and were able to set up a lot of easy lay-ups and shots." Picking up the Sportsmanship award for Supreme Court was sophomore Alena Christiansen, who knocked down three deep shot.:;, including two in the waning moments. 
Anthony Travel made sure it was clear they were honoring longtime friend McAdams, who works in the Main Building for the Office of Information Technology. McAdams was seriously injured in a car accident in West Virginia three months ago while attending a Notre Dame women's ba'ikHtball game. 
"Patricia has always been our biggest fan," forward and assis­tant women's basketball coach Angie Potthoff said. "The whole point of this run was to raise money for Patricia and have fun." 
Fans were able to pledge for the points that Anthony Travel scored, and Potthoff said the team was able to raise almost $33,000 for McAdams. 
Potthoff was dominant for Anthony Travel, controlling the boards on both sides of the ball and adding a team-high eight points, including the game-win­ning free-throw. 
"Everyone was really great," Potthoff said. "Supreme Court came out and played very well, and we were able to raise money for a worthy cause." 
Potthoff made a beautiful 
behind-the-back pass in the first 
half to sophomore Ma,ja I Janson 
to give Anthony Travel an H-4 
lead. 
Supremn Court relied on the deep ball all game and when those attempts stopped falling, Anthony Travel was ablp, to extP.nd the lead to 11-6 at half­time. 
The second half began with more of the same, with Anthony Travel continuing to drive to the basket and Supreme Court relying on deep jumpers. 
Supreme Court juniors Erin Newson and Meghan Conaty turned it on in thn second period, combining for five second-half points. But that was not enough as Anthony Travel continued to make tough baskets in tho paint. 
Frustration started to Silt in for Supreme Court, with the scorn at 14-8, when Supmme Court soph­omore MHrodith Perks grabbed the jersey of Director of Athletic Advancem1mt Sarah Liebsheer. Things quiekly cooled down, how­ever, thanks to qui<:k calls from the ollkials. 
Kessll~r split the Supreme Court defense several times in the sec­ond half, earning some tough point'> on fast breaks. 
Anthony Travel stalled at 16 and 18 points, and it looked like Supreme Court might stage a comeback, but those hopes were dashed by one of Kessler's strong drives to the hoop and some dom­inant post-ups from Potthoff. 
The game ended with Potthofl' going to the free-throw line alter a fiml and nailing the shot. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

Ranking 
continued from page 24 
that make the difference." 
Mills and his teammates will attempt to build on their recent success when they take on Chicago State today. 
Freshman right-hander Brian Dupra will take the mound against the Cougars and look to improve on his 1-2 record. 
Dupra's ERA stands at 6.83 as he has given up 22 earned runs over his seven appear­ances. But his numbers do not reflect recent improvement on his early-season struggles. 
For Schrage, Chicago State is not a team to be taken light­ly, especially since the Cougars are Notre Dame's first oppo-· nent since the team cracked the rankings. 
"Well, the game scares me-a little bit," Schrage said. "They played on our field last week, so they know the park. Their record still isn't very good but they beat Cincinnati earlier this year. We stiII can't take them lightly because they're very capable of coming in and taking this game from us." 
Now that the Irish are finally ranked, Schrage knows that there is only one place his squad wants to go: higher in the rankings. 
"It's a goal for us to keep moving up," he said. "We're taking it each game as it comes. We have a pair of non­conference games this week before our big series against St. John's. I just don't want our guys looking ahead of the task at hand." 
The first pitch between the Irish and Chicago State is scheduled for 6:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

Lnd('rgraduatc Female of tht~ Year Undergraduate Male of the \'e11.r Caroline Nally-PE · Ryan Bove ·-Sorin Megan Bcschcr -· Pangborn l\1att Hamel ... Keenan Cynthia Curley-PW Max Young··· Sicgthed  
(;rad/Fac/Staff Female of the \'e>tr Gr11.d/Fac/Staff Male of the Year Jenny Borg Scan Walsh Cheryl Ramsey DaviJ Standa Jacqueline Puncntei-Gannon Rob Schenkcnteldcr  
Game of the Year SicgJi'icd vs. Keenan (JH Men's Soccer Championship) $81.000 Cash vs Law Dawgs (GFS Flag Football Charnptonship) Dillon vs Stanford (Ill Football Playoffs)  
Team of thr \'car Morrissey Basketball Zahm kc llockey Cavanaugh Football  hws of the Yt~ar t\lumnJ Hockey PW Jlall Keenan Football  

Tuesday, April22, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
LOLLERSKATES 

ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 
SARAH MUSCARELLA & LIZ MURPHY 


CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Hellenic H's Where to tie the 38 Is optimistic knot 
41 Eliot of the 6 "Bearded" bloom Untouchables 10 Captain Hook's 42 Taj Mahal site henchman 
43 Hobby knife 14 Exotic jelly flavor brand 15"-a deal!" 44 Bearded grazer 16 Boston suburb 45 Springing 17 Is pessimistic bounce in tall grasses. as by
20 Waterborne 
an animal, to

youth group 
view the 

member 
surroundings

21 "I agree 
46 Garbage 

completely'' 50 A dwarf planet, 
22 Follows orders 
now

24 Ballpark worker 
53 Makes use of

25 Stuffed mouse, 
55 Singing

maybe 29 Diving bird 
60 Is apathetic 

62 March plaything traveler 63 "Hurry!" 32 shui 64 Frolics 
31 Intergalactic 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

65 Sapphic verses 66 Attack, as with eggs 67 Attack with rocks 
Down 1 Dark 2 Elegance 3 Bite-size 
appetizer 4 Forum greetings 5 Masked 
scavengers 6 One Time? 7 Like a bad dirt 
road 8 " bin ein Berliner" 9 Tom Jones's 
"_a Lady" 10 Job openings 11 Gift of the Magi 12 Come after 13 Key in 18 Shakespeare's 
Sir Belch 19 Captain Queeg's 
creator 23 Year-end temp 25 "love and 
Marriage" lyricist 
Sammy 26 Natural emollient 27 A lot of a car 
valet's income 28 Buttonless shirts, informally 30 "Disgusting!" 32 Get all steamy 33 Flub 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Eugene W. Sard  
34 24/7 auction site  45 Walk of Fame  52 Not suitable  
35 PC whiz  embedment  54 Start of a play to  
36 Regarding  46 Screwy  the quarterback  
37Halt  47 Steer clear of  56 Storyline  
39 "Go, team!"  48 Cook in a wok.  57 San _,Italy  
screamer  maybe  
40 Whistle-blowers  49 Scrabble piec,~s  58 Nascar airer  
44 Neuter. as a  51 Opposite of  591n _(actually)  
horse  express  61 China's lao- 

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: H:88-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswordE; ($39.95 a ·year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JUMBLE 
Jl1JJMriD11JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
I SNAIB j 
1 

rx I I 
©2008 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
I SCEHS I [] I
b

tLIMNAR 
J I I bI 
www.jumble.com
tTUSHIA j
J r I I
1 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Yesterday's  I Jumbles: Answer:  ABIDE SYNOD ABDUCT GUNNER When Mom sewed the hole in his sock, she  
considered it a ­ "DARN" NUISANCE  
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  


HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
Danny Dreamboat just slan;_med into Harry H~ndsome 
~lJ~~t/l­
~-~;;A I"'~-~ 
~;A .. 1£
0 _, 
~~:y~ 
Ql~l1o o
d~r-----­
ONE: MIGHT SAY THAT THE MOVIE: STARS TURNED THE: DEMOL.ITION DE:RBY INTO A--­
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer here: "[IIIIJ" [XI] 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Andie Macdowell, 50; Tony Danza, 57; Iggy Pop, 61; Charles Grodin, 73 
Happy Birthday: You have so much to gain this year by staying focused and working toward your goals. If someone is trying to u!'set you, rethink the rela­
tionship. You have drive, stamina and know-how. Stnve to improve your home, your business and your personal relationships. Your numbers are 12~ 18, 21, 27, 
33.42 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): A blow-up is likely if you refuse to listen to good 
advice. A cause you think is worthy of a donation will not be what it appears. If you can't make a good decision, don't make one at all. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Emotional matters will leave you feeling vulner­able, especially when you have to make a fast decision. Look at the bright side of 
any situation you face and you wi11 win over some important support. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't change your mind too often today or you will be labeled irresponsible. Be upfront regarding any work-related plans. If you de­
viate from what you are supposed to be doing or what's been approved, you will be held responsible for the outcome. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): The more you combine work with pleasure, the 
further you will go today. Do some networking or get in touch with people in your industry. S slars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Whatever you do don't sit around home. Get out and 
have fun or book a romantic and adventuresome vacation to an exotic destination. If you opt to do nothing. you can expect to face complaints. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You should have everythinl! in order today. Don't 
stop because someone else isn't sure what he or she is go1ng to do. Proceed with 
your plans and you'll get what you want. A talk with someone will pay off big 
time. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): There is no room for laziness, so don't even think 
about it. Take note of what others say but don't let their comments set you back. You need to give yourself a bit of space to review your next move and implement 
it. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Let your thoughts be known but not at the expense of looking silly. Be sure you have all the facts before you take a position. A prob­
lem with someone you care about will develop if someone hasn't been honest about what's going on. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): There is probably something going on behind your back or you are trying to withhold information from someone. Get 
things out in the open if you don•t want matters to get worse. Stand up for your 
rights but do so With integrity. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can tie up loose ends and take a stance 
that will have everyone talking today. You can make, reclaim and come into money through investments, debts owed or even your own good luck. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): Don't be fooled by a story. Get the facts or you will end up being taken advantage of emotionally and possibly financially. Delays can be expected if you are trying to get from one place to another. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get ready for a good time. You can mix and mingle with all sorts of people today. A little primping will make you feel great, 
look great and give you added confidence. Put your money into something you 
really believe in. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, caring, a little possessive, serious and deter­mined. You respond quickly and with good common sense. You are passionate, 
loving and a great friend and companion. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
-· 
._ 
... 
-
THE OBSERVER 







PORTS
Tuesday, April 22, 2008 
page 24 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Closing the book 
Saltines take men's championship behind steady play ofAndersen 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 
Call it clkh1i, but it's the truth -Carl And1~rsen did just about evnrything for the Saltines last night. 
The junior guard was named the tournament MVP after scor­ing a game-best nine points, grabbing several offensive rebounds, taking two charges and adding a few blocks and steals to lnad the Saltines to a 21-14 rout of Mean Girls. 
"We came so close my fresh­man year and these otlwr guys' sophomore ynar," Andersen said of a championship gamP defeat two years ago. "It's just good to end on a winning noh•."
·­
Mean (1irls opened the gamp, in a box-and-one defense with senior guard Justin Cillette given tlw undesirable assign­ment of shadowing Andnrsen, who also scored 10 points in 
see CHAMPS/page 22 


Anthony Travel wins women's tournament, raises moneyfor friend 
By JARED )EDICK Sports Writer 
They won it for tlwir biggest fan. 
Anthony Travel dominated the boards to cruise to a hard-fimght 21-14 victory over Supreme Court in the Women's Bookstore Ba..'iketball championship Monday. 
The team dedicated il'i win to friend Patricia McAdams, who attended the game eourl'iide in a wheelchair after suffering a terri­ble ear accident three months ago. 
Saint Mary's senior ~lison Kessler of Anthony Travel came away with the tournament MVP award. 
"The MVP award is really a great honor for me, but I am more happy that we wern able to win it all," Kessler said. 
Kessler ran tho point elliciently l()f Anthony Traw1l, setting up her teammates in the low post while 
see KESSLER/page 22 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Laxers travel to face Air Force in Colorado Springs 
of an 11-10 overtirnP. loss to out the season. Wharton leads the squad in Corrigan said. "Not only didBy ELLYN MICHALAK 
Quinnipac, hold an overall "We're playing good assists after earning his 22nd he win it, but he seored a goal
Sports Wrirer 
reeord of 3-7 ( 1-2). defense, winning faceoffs, and against Lehigh. Senior goal­and allowed us to score four "lAir Foree! plays like most getting good goal tending," tender Joey Kemp reeordnd goals after that. It was make 
Coming ofT a 14-7 win over [SIHvice I academy teams," Corrigan said. "Those are his ninth win of the season in it-take it at that time and he Lehigh, the No. 9 Irish travel Irish coach Kevin Corrigan pretty reliable things. When the same game. allowed us to advance the to Colorado to take on Air said. "They are disciplined, you can do those things well Despite close competition score and snparate from Foree in their penultimate they play hard, they are well­and consistently, you beeome and a tied first quarter score Lehigh." conference game. conditioned, and you have to a very hard team to beat. Our of 2-2 in the Lehigh eontest, The Irish hope to carry their 
The rnateh-up was originally be ready for tough competi­offense has been less effective Notre Dame's senior midfield­suceess into the f'inal two sclwdulnd for earlier this Sfla­tion beeause they play hard but when you have those er Taylor Clagett ignited thn GWLL contests of the season son, hut indement weather in for a full 60 minu.tes." three things, you have a very Irish offense, scoring the sec­against Air Foree and Ohio the Chieago area prevented Despite the Lehigh game tough team." ond goal of a 9-0 Irish run. State. the Irish from traveling. being the seventh time this The Irish are led by junior "The biggest thing that was Tomorrow's contest against 
Thn Irish eurn1ntly boast an year his squad has recorded attack Ryan Hoff, whose four a turning point in the game the Falcons begins at 4 p.m. overall record of 9-2 (2-1 14 goals, Corrigan attributes goals in the Lehigh game for us was when Taylor GWLL), while the No. 43 Notre Dame's success to effec­moved his team-leading tally Claggett won the face off lin Contact Ellyn Michalak at Falcons, recently coming ofT tive defensive tactics through-to 30. Senior attack Alex the second quarter]." emichala@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 
Irish garner top-25 recognition for first time 
By LORENZO REYES 
-
Sporrs Writer 
For the f'irst time this sea­son, No. 24 Notre Damn knows t.hat thP nation is aware of its I'IH~ 11 n t s u e c n s s . T h e el u b cracked the top-25 for thn first timo whnn the nnwest Collegiate BasPball national poll was r11lnasnd Monday, thanks in part to an ll-ganw win streak and vidorills in 12 of its last 13. 
After struggling to open the season, going 5-6, the Irish (25-10-1, 12-3 Big East) havn hit their stride and takPn 20 of their last 25 contests en route to their f'irst top-25 ranking. For Notre Damn eoaeh DavP Schrage, it's been a season­long goal for his squad -but now, he says the team cannot afford to slip up and lose focus. 
"It's a goal that we'vn been shooting for all season," Schrage said. "We talked about it last week when we were ranked 29th. We've been playing well recently, but now it puts a target on our backs. When teams come in and face us, they're going to want to knock out a top-25 team. so we have to match their emo­tions." 
Part of the recent success is due to sophomore pitcher/des­ignated hitter David Mills, who was named Big East player of the week Monday, marking the 
third straight time a Notre Dame player has taken the award. 
Mills hit .385 over this past weekend's conference series against West Virginia with seven HB Is, and the first two horne runs of his career. 
Schrage said Mills has been an integral eng in his club's recent success. 
"He's been a real key to our hot streak," Schrage said. "lie's enabled the rest of our lineup to fall into place from the No. 2-hole. lie's just done an outstanding job of getting on base. lie's also a team play­er. He has 13 sacrif'ice bunts, and just does the little things 
see RANKING/page 22 







