
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 65 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10,2008 . 

Five student interns to teach for ACE 
Seniqrs committed to program after graduation express passion for Catholic education 
By NORA KENNEY News Writer 
This year, the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) program is working with five student interns who have all committed to teach for ACE after graduation. Each of the students expressed a love for the work they are doi'ng with ACE, and seemed excited to extend their internship into teaching jobs in new locations next year. 
Senior Laura Wilczek, a resident advisor from Howard Hall is one such stu­dent. She is majoring ·in 
English with a minor in Education, Schooling and Society and hopes to teach English in Seoul after she finishes her work with ACE. 
Wilczek hadn't attended a Catholic school until high school. When she started attending a Catholic school though, she said she began to feel passionate about her faith. 
She said she thinks her teachers at her Catholic high school taught from a differ­ent perspective than those she had encountered in pub­lic schools because they viewed their students as children of God rather than 
numbers. 

"Essentially, what I am trying to convey is my own positive experience at a Catholic school, and the belief I have in the Catholic school system is really why I want to dedicate my future to teaching at a Catholic school," \Vilcze.k said. 
Not only will Wilczek be using the education she received at Notre Dame to serve a cause she believes in, but she also thinks her work will bolster her educa­tion in ways that would not have been possible just through learning in a college classroom. 

"I know that working in the ACE program I will not only be the teacher but the student as well sometimes," she said. 
Kevin Veselik is a former resident of Zahm who now lives off-campus. Like Wilczek, he is passionate apout Catholic education. 
"Catholic schools are so important to our Church and our world, and ACE offers ·an opportunity to bring some energy and life to · schools that might need it," 
he said. Veselik is a member of 
see ACE/page 3 

Kristol speaks onnew era of American politics 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistan News Editor 
Founding editor of the conservative periodical "The Weekly Standard" William Kristol said President-elect Barack Obama's leadership, if deemed successful by the American people, could lead to a new era in American politics in a lecture Tuesday at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Kristol's speech entitled "American Politics: A New Era?" assessed the current political situation and pre­dicted where Obama's lead­ership would take the coun­try in the future. 
Kristol, who is also a regu­lar contributor to Fox News and the editorial page of the "New York Times," said the November election results were "not so surprising" due to a war in Iraq "judged by a majority of Americans as a mistake" and the current economic crisis. 
"In some sense, you could argue it was no big sur­prise," he said. 
Kristol said the results, however, did not demon­strate an ideological shift for the country. 
. "Americans remain more moderate than anything else and more conservative than 
see KRISTOL/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


NDSPsays 
thefts rise with finals 
Stress contributes to student property loss 
By KARA COYLE News Wrirer 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) said there is an increase in thefts before student<; go on break. 
Students' stress levels generally increase at this time and they are less prone to pay attention to their belongings, Keri Kei Shibata, an NDSP officer said. 
"The bad guys in town know that students at this time are dis­tracted," she said. "Keep an eye on your property and make sure you are keeping it with you." 
Shibata discussed the different safety measures that students should be aware of during Christmas vacation at a Winter Break Safety Forwn sponsored by Student Government on Tuesday. 
The University is offering a prop­erty storage facility for off-campus students in Hammes-Mowbray Hall, a winter vehicle storage unit and a bike storage unit. 
"These are simple things that anyone can do that won't take a lot of time," she said. "Be prepared. Do the little things." 
Shibata also advised students to register their property. This enables police officers to recover student's property and return it with greater ease. 
Her main concern, however, is for student's personal safety. 
see NDSP/page 3 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Off-campus discounts proposed 
ByJOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) discussed the ordering and distribution discount booklets for off-cam­pus eateries for students at their meeting Tuesday. The booklets are expected to be available in early January. 
An off-campus company will produce the cards and sell them to student government. Student government will then resell the books to students for $10. 
The booklets will contain pop­ular re~taurants including Buffalo Wild Wings, Domino's, Papa John's, Chik-fil-A, Studebagels, Nick's Patio, Krispy Kreme, Taco Bell, Star of India and Tippecanoe Place. 
see -CO Rlpage 3 


T-shirts raise awareness for gender problems 
By SARAH MERVOSH News Writer 

In an effort to raise aware­ness about sexual assault, Student Government's Gender Issues Committee handed out T-shirts to be worn today by 1,000 Notre Dame students. 
Gt'nder Issues paired the dis­tribution of T-shirts with their attempt to pass a resolution to review the University's sexual assault and rape policy, Gender Issues co-chairman and junior Patrick Tighe said. 
The T-shirts, which are teal for the color of sexual assault awareness month, list the fact that one in four women are survivors of attempted sexual assault or rape, Tighe said. 
The committee found the one in four statistic in multiple sources including duLac and the U.S. Department of Justice, he said. 
"That's why we are getting a thousand T-shirts -because there are roughly 4,000 under­graduate women here at Notre Dame," said Gender Issues co­chairman Lauren Cummings. 
"Just take the number of girls that you know and divide that by four," she said. "It's really an alarming number." 
The T-shirts are free to stu­dents who signed up to wear one, and were paid for by the Gender Issues committee. Each dorm had a sign-up sheet for the T-shirts and the committee targeted specific interest groups to wear them, Cummings said. 
Both men and women have 
see GENDER/page 4 

page 2 The Observer + PAGE 2 Wednesday, December I 0, 2008 
INSIDE CoLUMN 
Non-sequiturs for finals 
I am currently sitting in the library, "working on" the second of four papers I have due this week. Thus, the chance that I will put together a cohesive 40() words for you people is equivalent to the chance that anyone will be running through Stonehenge after the Hawaii Bowl. 
Tricked you-that wasn't a Laura Myers 
prediction that we'll lose, but a fact because no one Sports Writer 
will be on campus! Of course, we prob­ably are going to lose. A college football team can't win without emotion, and we don't have any. (Bulletin board?) 
Anyway, I have spent long hours in the 'Burgh, as I fondly refer to this lovely building, and have had some meandering thoughts that I've decided to share with you. 
+My roommate officially got together with her boyfriend over Thanksgiving. (They are now "in a relationship" on Facebook-what's more official than that?) That's great for her and all, but if she had waited a month that would be one less Christmas present she has to buy. 
+I hate movies in which a character says "There's a storm coming," and then it starts raining and something bad happens, like someone dying or someone getting attacked by Voldemort. I mean, seriously, did the writer pop out his "Symbolism 101" book and throw that in there? Did he also add some blue so it would be sad and some red to show anger? 
+Every time I fear that I'll never get married, I head to North Dining Hall. I firmly believe that no one who makes an omelette as well as I do will stay sin­gle 'forever. I think that's sexist. 
+My bottle of apple juice says it con­tains apple juice concentrate from eight different countries on four different continents. I guess Australian apples just aren't good enough for Minute. Maid. 
+My best friend bought her dad an iPod Nano for Christmas, and a pair of running shoes from Dick's. I bought my dad a Notre Dame napkin holder from a craft show for $10. I think I should feel bad about that. Of course, I work at the Observer for roughly $12 a week while pursuing my Arts and Letters degree, and my friend works full time as a wait­ress while studying to become a chemi­cal engineer. 
+Shoot, my dad's probably going to read this. 
+My eyes are three different colors at all times. It makes me wonder what I'm going to pass on to mychildren. Is · there a freak-of-nature gene? Is it dom­inant? 
+Apparently, bananas lose their nutritional value when refrigerated. However, they do not regain said nutri­ents if allowed to return to room tem­perature. 
+ Wiccans -Witchcraft -Feminism -The United States -George W. Bush. Five steps! Beat that! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due ro a rechriological error, the picture on page 5 of the Dec. 9 edition cifThe Observer was incorrect. Also, due to an editing error, Associate Dean Stuart Greene's name was misspelled. The headline ofGreene's viewpoint also contained a grammatical error. · The Observer regrets these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU WANT MOST FOR CHRISTMAS THIS YEAR? 



Bridget Cullen Carli Fernandez Maureen Bauer Mychal Stanley Rachel Wiehoff 
senior freshman JUlllOr junior senior Lyons Badin McGlinn Alumni Welsh Pam 
..Rachel ..Notre Dame ..Warm ..Syrupy "A spaceship to Wiehoff.'' Men's weather." flapjacks with a go with my 

Basketball to have a better season than football.·· 


OFFBEAT 
Officials find monkey carcasses In suitcase 
CHANTILLY, Va. -U.S. Customs officials at Dulles International Airport dis­covered the charred car­casses of three monkeys in the luggage of a travel­er arriving from Central Mrica. The monkeys have been confiscated are being examined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Customs spokesman Steve Sapp said a trained dog alerted authorities to the man's bag on Friday. The luggage also con­tained deer meat and dried beef, which has 
TODAY 
a:: 
1&.1 
X 
!ci 
1&.1 
3: 
.....
cr: 
(..) 0 

HIGH 28
.... 
LOW 21 
.. 
been destroyed. 

Sapp said it's not unusual for foreign visi­tors to bring exotic foods to the U.S., but he says the discoveries were "a first." After the confisca­tions, the man was allowed to enter the U.S. 
Man stopped for stealing own van 
BLOOMFIELD TOWN­SHIP, Mich. -A Detroit motorist was stopped and handcuffed by police on suspicion of stealing what turned out to be his own van. Bloomfield Township Police Chief Kirt Bowden said he witnessed the traf-
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
31 HIGH 39 23 LOW 33 






side ofroast astronaut beef" costume. , 
IN BRIEF 
The 6th annual Christmas at the CoMo featuring the NO Celebration Choir and Instrumentalists will be held on tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Center. The event will feature reflections on Christmas traditions by ND international students. A freewill offering will support the Holy Cross Missions in Haiti. 
SIBC will host a Cambodian dinner Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center. The club will sell food to benefit Cambodian dinner. The donation is $5 and all are welcome to attend. 
The special lecture "What and When was the Christmas Star? An astrophysics per­spective.. will be given by Grant Mathews, professor of physics, in the Jordan Hall of Science Digital Visualization Theater. The event, held on Friday from 7 to 8:·30 p.m. is sponsored by Department of Physics. 
Glee Club will perform its annual Christmas Concert Saturday at 6 p.m. at the Leighton Concert Hall of Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for stu-. dents and proceeds will benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
Saint Mary's will host the annual Finals Week Late Night Breakfast Monday from 10 to 11 p.m. in the Noble Family Dining Hall. All Saint Mary's College students are invited. No meal plan is needed to attend and guests are welcome. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mailed detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 45 HIGH LOW 37 LOW 


fie stop Monday from his office window and wor­ried something was amiss when he noticed the van wasn't new and the driver appeared to be in his 70s. 
W JBK-TV in Detroit reported the motorist recently had spotted the van he reported stolen and was told by Detroit police he could take it back. 
A Detroit police spokesman said the department is looking into the incident. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Atlanta 59 I 53 Boston 45 I 42 Chicago 38 I 20 Denver 32 I 23 Houston 73 I 39 Los Angeles 71 1 46 Minneapolis 19 I 2 New York 49 I 46 Philadelphia 50147 Phoenix 67 I 44 SeaUie 49 I 43 St. Louis 50 I 26 Tampa 81 164 Washington 53 I 48 
__j 
Wednesday, Decemebr 10, 2008 The Observer u CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
resident of Alumni with a dual degree in mathematics

ACE 
and theology, "his experience continued from page 1 as an ACE intern thus far 
has been very enjoyable. Notre Dame's cross country He said his favorite part of and track teams. his current work "has defi­
He said he hopes to make nitely been talking up the a difference in the lives of program and simply being a the students he teaches. 'face for ACE' at recruit­
''I'm hoping to meet great ment events." people, learn about and live "There is a wonderful in a new part of country, feeling that comes along and grow in ~ith describ­my faith ing the mis­through ACE," sion and he said. '"J get to share a piece opportunities 
Since he 
ofwhat I love and of ACE both 

plans to teach with those
have a passion for 

high school who have
with others. ,,

Theology after never heard ACE, he thinks of the pro-ACE will allow gram and
Geoffrey Mooney 

him to confirm those who
ACE intern

that this pro­have wanted fession is right to be a part of for him. it for several 
Jessica Stouffer, a chemi­years, Mooney said. cal engineering major from "Whether I'm speaking to a Howard, also hopes to gain class, at extracurricular discernment from her expe­group events, or during a rience in the ACE program. career fair, I get to share a 
She said she has "no idea piece of what I love and what I want to do long­have a passion for with oth­
. term, so this gives me a lit­ers." tle more time to discern and Mooney said he thinks he plan." will be teaching math next "I don't want to pretend year, but is open to teaching 
that I can predict the ways other subjects as well in which ACE will help because he hopes to chal­and/or change me," she lenge himself. said. "I think I just need to He said he is not sure do it, and assess my experi­what city he will be teach­
ence afterwards, to see ing in but that he has "total what I have gained." confidence that the Holy For Geoffrey Mooney, a Spirit will help make that 
NDSP 
continued from page 1 
"The Jollost important thing I can say is to always be alert of your surroundings," she said. 
Patlick Hechlinski, a crime pre­vention specialist for the South Bend Police Department, also spoke about what precautions off­campus students can do to stay alert. 
Hechlinski advised students to always report a crime, even if it's minor. 
"If you are a victim of a crime, be sure to report it," he said. Doing so enables the police department to be more aware of areas where extra security is needed. 
Hechlinski also recommended that students be aware of automo­bile and advi~ed that anything of value, such as iPods and phone chargers be removed from cars. 
"Put yourself in the shoes of the bali guys;" he said. If the object is of value and visible in a car, there is a higher rate oflarceny. 
Hechlinski also stressed the importance of being alert and proactive about safety. 
"Very importantly, even if you are at home, keep your doors locked," he said. 
He said students should be alert even when putting trash in out­door trashcans. Putting a televi­sion box in a visable waste con­tainer indicates that there are items of value within the house, he said. 
The South Bend Police Department also offers two free programs to increase safety, 
decision next semester." 

Like many of the other interns, Julie Garcia, a for­mer resident of Lewis who now lives off-campus, has been involved with tutoring programs and service proj,. ects on campus and around South Ben.d throughout her career at Notre Dame. She is majoring in African Studies with a minor in gen­der studies. She expressed an excitement for her work that started when she dropped engineering as a freshman and came to the realization that she had always wanted to teach. She says she has "seen how great an impact one good mentor can make on a child's life, and I'd love to be able to do that for a liv­ing," and she also appreci­ates the communal lifestyle fostered by the ACE pro­gram. " 
Garcia's advice for stu­dents interested in the ACE program is to stop by the ACE office and express interest. 
"They are so friendly and love getting to know who you are, even if you don't have any specific ques­tions," she said. "Ask previ­ous ACErs for advice, too. They can really tell you what it will be like. It's never too early to get a foot in the door." 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 
Hechlinski said. The Student Watch Program is an alert system made exclusively for Notre Dame students. Through it, students are alerted via e-mail about any crime that can affect .tlJem within the area. The South Bend Police Department also offers free home security surveys where security recommendations are made for off campus homes. 
Dominic Zultanski, a represen­tative from Gargoyle Preferred Investigative Services, discussed crime on the Northea~t side of the city specifically. 
He advised that students place everything of value in a room with closed blinds so that it is out of sight while the house is empty over Christmas break. 
Contact Kara Coyle at kcoyle@nd.edu 
cerned about off-campus stu­dents' ability to buy booklets if
COR 
they were sold on-campus. Off­campus students would have
continued from page 1 

an especially difficult time They will also contain discounts securing a booklet if they were to local restaurants that are not only sold through the dorms. as often frequented by stu­· "You don't have to make it dents. preferred for off-campus, just 
"We want to integrate stu­give them a fair chance," dents in a lot of restaurants Lyman said. they already know, as well as Junior class president Kim restaurants that they maybe Kyrouac stressed the impor­aren't familiar with," student tance of advertising the book­
body vice presi­ lets.  
dent  Grant  "As long as it's  
Schmidt said.  "'We did our personal  a d v e r t i s e d  
The discount booklet idea originated as a  survey on our campaign site when  enough and off­campus students know enough,  
campaign prom­ we were runnzng.  ,,  they're going to  
ise Schmidt and  have  an  equal  
student president  body Bob  Bob Reish  chance," she said. "As long as  
Reish made last  Student body president  the  only  way  

spring. 

Reish said he thinks student interest in the booklets will be high. 
"We did our own personal survey on our campaign site when we were running," he said. 
When Reish presented the 
-discount idea at Tuesday's COR meeting, he initially proposed buying 300 booklets. However, COR members said that student government should order more booklets because reordering would not be feasible. 
Schmidt, however, said he was concerned that the book­lets would go unused. 
"We didn't want to way over­purchase them and have them sitting there and then expire," he said. 
Student government will sell the booklets for $10. The price will allow student government 
' to make a $5 profit on the books. They will only need to sell half of the books that they order and still break even. COR members were also con­cerned about the distribution of the booklets. OfT-campus presi­dent Billy Lyman was con-
you're spreading the news isn't through the dorms, then you're 
OK." 
In other COR news: 
. uReish took time at the end of the meeting to congratulate Lyman for completing the off­campus listserv project. He said that the listserv has already sent two emails. 
u Reish also delivered COR members a memo that asked for suggested topics for next semester's agenda. Members were· told to offer the sugges­tions in writing before the · beginning of next semester. 
uSchmidt also reminded COR members that the dining halls will be available as study space during exam week. He asked them to make sure that stu­dents are aware of this new program. 
uReish announced that will send a copy of last week's COR minutes to Student Senate and to Bill Kirk, who spoke at the meeting. 
ContactJohn Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edu 



N'C>T~E J:>.A.ME RIGHT TC> LIFE 
MARCH FOR LIFE 2009 
Join us in the nation's capital to proclaim the dignity of every human life, from natural conception to natural death. 
Janua.ry 22nd, 2009 
Regist:er 9nline at:: vvvvvv.nd.edu/rvproli"fe 

Dec. 19th deadline 
Trip cost is subsidized for ND/SMC/HCC students 
and financial aid is available in case of need. Questions? E-mail proli'fe@nd.edu 
,I 

page 4 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 10, 2008 

StudY~Break lunch at the'CoMo 
Lunch 8 Conversation for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual Slluestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Friday, December 12 Noon to 1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesbian. bisexual fi questioning members of the Notre Dame family, along with their friends and allys, to an informal luncheon at the Co-
Everyone is Welcome and ConfidentiaUtv is Assured.. 
Lunch Mil Be Served 





Gender 

continued from page 1 
signed up to wear the T-shirts, and both Tighe and Cummings said there was a significant response from the male dorms to wear them. 
"I think it's going to say a lot to women that men are taking a stand and we're saying that we don't want to let this happen," said Tighe, who added that men commit 90 to 95 percent of all rapes. "We're the ones that are perpetrating it and we're not going to let it happen again." 
Tighe said men don't intend to be rapists, and emphasized that not all men are rapists, but that it is important to be aware of what defines rape and sexual assault, and to be aware of what it takes to avoid commit­ting it. 
In order to avoid it, men need to change their habits, "espe­cially our drinking habits, the way we party, the way we view women. We really have to start changing our habits," he said. 
Tighe sees the men who choose to wear the shirt as "a sign of solidarity and a sign of accountability." 
"[A man wearing the shirt is saying,] 'I'm wearing this shirt and you can hold me account­able and I will hold other men accountable,"' Tighe said. 
The resolution that Gender Issues committee hopes to pass tonight will revise rape and sexual assault policies in order to strengthen the effectiveness of the policies and strengthen resources for victims. The reso­lution cites that of more than 3,000 students surveyed, 61 percent listed sexual assault/rape as one of their top three issues and 18 percent list it as their top issue. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

Kristol 

continued from page 1 
liberal," he said. 

Kristol said arguments could be made "that [the Republican Party] really stepped back not a great deal, or you could say this was the end of an era." 
Kristol called Obama "the first liberal Democrat to be elected in modern times," and cited the fact that ·the preisdent-elect is the first Democrat since 1964 to receive more than 51 per­cent of the popular vote. 
He also said Republicans would have to face being the minority in both the House of Representatives and the Senate after backlash against the Bush adminis­tration both in 2006 and 2008 resulted in a Democraticaliy-contro lied Congress. 
"This is two elections in a row where a comfortable majority has voted Democrat," he said. "It could be the beginning of a new era." 
Kristol said furthermore it is highly unlikely that the Republican Party would be able to retake Congress in 2010. 
"Obama has at least four years with a Democratic Congress," he said. 
However, Kristol said the future would mostly depend on "how Obama governs." He cited the example of Franklin RooseveIt beating Herbert Hoover in the midst of the Great Depression, comparing it to how Obama is taking over for President George W. Bush in the midst of the current recession. 
Any Democrat would have beaten Hoover, Kristol said, but Hoosevelt was able to govern successfully and thus changed American politics. 
"Obama has to change American politics if he gov­erns successfully," he said. 
Kristol said Obama is lucky to take over in the middle of a recession, because strategically he cannot receive any blame for having caused the crisis. 
"Objectively, honestly, he has a very good hand to play," Kristol said. 
Instead. many Americans ~ill blame Bush and the 
Republican leadership in Congress, which Kristol said would damage the public perception that Republicans know how to run the econo­my. 
"Voters right now think this is a problem that hap­pened ... due to Republican negligence," he said. • 
Kristol said after Bush's victory over Sen. John Kerry in 2004, the Republican Party re.ached its "high water mark." 
Bush's failure to deliver on his campaign promises of Social Security privatization and immigration reform, as well as the unpopularity of the Iraq War and the gross mismanagement of the Hurricane Katrina disaster, led to Democratic victories in the past two elections, Kristol said. 
"The voters punished Bush and the Republican Congress in 2006," he said. "At the end of the day, this happened during the Bush administration." -
Kristol said Obama's biggest challenges lie in for­eign policy, particularly when it comes to controlling nuclear proliferation in Iran and ending the Iraq War. 
Kristol cautioned it is often hard to predict what will happen in the future, and any failure by Obama could result in the Republicans regaining con­trol. 
"It's amazing how quickly things can reverse," he said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
2009-2010 
Assistant Rector Applications 
for 
Undergraduate Residence Halls and Fischer O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
For more information call the 
Office of Student Affairs at 631-6144 
or go to 
http://osa.nd.edu for eligibility requirements and to download the application 
Completed applications must be submitted by February 13, 2009 




Please recycle The Observer. 


Wednesday, December 10, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Greeks still rioting over shooting 
!\THEN -Masked youths and looters marauded through (ireek cities for a fourth night Tuesday, in an explosion of rage trig­gered by the police shooting of a teenager that has unleashed the most violent riots in a quar­ter century. 
The nightly scenes of burning street barri­cades, looted stores and overturned ears have threatened to topple the country's increasingly unpopular conservative government, which faces mounting calls for Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis to resign. 
Police fired tear gas at protesters following the funeral of 15-year-old Alexandros Grigoropoulos, who was laid to rest in an Athens burial attended by about 6,000 people. 
Reactions to Mugabe worsen 
JOHANNESBUHG -Renewed criticism against Zimbabwe's President Hobert Mugabe amid a cholera outbreak shows growing interna­tional outrage at the su1fering there, but action to oust his regime will be harder to come by. 
U.S. President George W. Bush, British Prime Minister Gordon Brown and French President Nieolas Sarkozy have called in the last week for Zimbabwe's 84-year-old leader to go. 
Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter told National Public Radio that humanitarian condi­tions are "horrifying" in the southern African country, and that "the Mugabe government is so corrupt" only material goods -not cash ­should be sent to help the country's people, according to an interview posted Tuesday on NPR's Web site. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
School attack plot thwarted 
PHILADELPIIV\ -A 15-year-old boy stole his father's guns to use in a suicidal attack against <'nemies at his suburban Philadelphia high school but was thwarted when a friend threw the weapons in a river, authorities said. 
The alleged plot wac.; uncovered after the father reported the three weapons missing, prompting a police investigation that led to an attempted mur­der charge filed Tuesday against his son. 
The Pottstown High School freshman was being held in a secure facility, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman told The Ao;;sociated Press. He does not yet have a lawyer, and no court dates are sclwduled, she said. 
Palin's office receives white powder 
JUNEAU -A spokeswoman for Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin says a letter containing a suspi­cious white powder was intercepted in the state capital of Juneau. 
Palin spokeswoman Sharon Leighow says the letter was addressed to Palin's predeces­sor, Gov. Frank Murkowski. 
Similar suspicious mailings were addressed to seven other governors this week. 
Leighow says the letter received in Juneau had a Texas postmark, but couldn't say whether it came from Dallas, as the other let­ters did. 
An FBI spokesman in Alaska says the pow­der is being tested. 
Letters containing white powder have also been sent this week to governors' offices in Alabama, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana and Hhode Island. 
In those sev(m cases, tests showed the pow­der wasn't dangerous. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Norovirus outbreak affects Butler 
INDIANAPOI.IS -An outbreak of norovirus has sickrned more than 200 student<>, faculty and staff at Butler University, health officials say. 
The norovirus, one of a family of viruses that are spread person-to-person and cause flu-like systems, was first reported Nov. 22, said Marion County llealth Department spokesman John T. Althardt. 
"It started before the Thanksgiving holiday, then peopln camn back and it just took off," he said. 
Tests confirmed that patients had the norovirus. whose symptoms include nausea. vomiting, diarrht'a and fPver.. Similar outbreaks have occurrNl on campuses in Illinois, Michigan, Ohio and Owgon, Althardt said. 
Obama faces Blagojevich scandal 
President-elect claims he had no contact with Illinois governor concerning open senate seat 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Though 
Barack Obama isn't accused 
of anything, the charges 
against his home-state gov­
ernor concerning 
Obama's own Senate seat 
no less -are an unwel­
come distraction. And the 
ultimate fallout is unclear. 
As Obama works to set up his new administration and deal with a national eco­nomic crisis, suddenly he also is spending time and attention trying to distance himself from Illinois Gov. Hod Blagojcvich and charges that the governor was trying to sell the now­vacant Senate post. 
The president-elect was blunt and brief in address­ing the case on Tuesday: "I had no contact with the governor or his office, and so I was not aware of what was happening" concerning any possible dealing about Blagojevich's appointment of a successor. 
It's Obama's first big headache since his election last month, and Republicans were anything but eager to let it go away. 
Said Rep. Eric Cantor of Virginia, the new GOP House whip: "The serious nature of the crimes listed by federal prosecutors rais­

es questions about the helpful to him. Even if the Ch.icago politics, an image Obama friend Valerie interaction with Gov. governor was to appoint a Obama has tried to distance Jarrett, an incoming senior Blagojevich, President-elect candidate favored by the himself from during his White House adviser, is the 
Obama and other high Obama team, Blagojevich career. person referred to repeat­ranking officials who will be said, "they're not willing to There were signs the con­edly in court documents as working for the future pres­give me anything except tinuing investigation could "Candidate 1." That individ­
ident." appreciation." still involve him. ual is described as a female 
Added Robert M. "Mike" The two Illinois politicians His statement that he did­who is "an adviser to the Duncan, chairman of the have never been especially n't have contact with president-elect" and as the Hepublican National close and have largely oper­Blagojevich about the person Obama wanted Committee: "Americans ated in different Democratic Senate scat seems to con­appointed to the Senate expect strong leadership, Party camps in the state. flict with that of top adviser scat. Court papers say that but President-elect Baraek Blagojevich 's disdain for David Axelrod, who told "Candidate 1" eventually Obama's comments on the Obama was clear in court Fox News Chicago on Nov. removed "herself" from matter are insufficient at documents; he is quoted as 23: "I know he's talked to consideration for the Senate best." calling the president-elect a the governor, and there are scat. 
In Chicago, U.S. Attorney vulgar term in one phone a whole range of names, In a Nov. 11 phone con­Patrick Fitzgerald said conversation recorded by many of which have sur­versation with an aide, prosecutors were making the FBI. faced, and r think he has a Blagojevich talked at length "no allegations" that Still, at the very least, the fondness for a lot of them." about "Candidate 1" and Obama was aware of any episode amounts to a dis­On Tuesday, Axelrod said he knew that Obama scheming. traction for Obama at an issued a statement saying: wanted her for the open 
And Blagojevieh himself, inopportune time just six "I was mistaken.... They seat but "they're not willing 
in taped conversations cited weeks before he's sworn did not then or at any time to give me anything except by prosecutors, suggested into oflice. It also raises the discuss the subject." appreciation. (Expletive) that Obama wouldn't be specter of notorious It also appears that them." 

CONGO 

Red Cross reunites families in East Congo 
Messages are being broadcast on four interested in raw power and Congo's
Associated Press radio stations in viol<'nce-struck 'o.reas mineral wealth. GOM!\-The Bed Cross said Tuesday and the Hcd Cross will begin posting Both government and rebel lighters it has begun reuniting children and photographs of lost children in areas have been accusPd of raping, mutilating parent-; separatPd in eastern Congo as where displaecd people are gathered. and killing civilians. more than a quarter of a million people Fifteen families have bf'en reunited The current force of 17,000 U.N. fled their homes during clashes over the past week, the Rf'd Cross said peacekeepers-the largest U.N. peace­between rebels and government troops. in a statement. keeping force in the world -is expect­Some 134 youngsters without Rebels supporting breakaway G8n. ed to be reinforced with an additional guardians have been register,Pd since Laurent Nkunda launched an ofl'ensive 3,000 soldiers, but they may take sever­the end of October, but thP Red Cross in castPrn Congo on Aug. 28. The fight­al months to deploy. said the real number could be much ing is tlw latest round in years of con­U.N.-backed peace talks an~ under higher. flict that began wlwn Hwanda's g(mod­way in Nairobi, Kenya, led by special "There was panic wh<'n the guns dal llutu fighters fh~d over the border U.N. envoy Olusegun Obasanjo, who startPd to lire," said ProspPr Sebuhire, and into thP Congolese forest after hopes the talks can establish a lasting thP Coma-based manager of the tww killing ovt>r 500,000 Tuto;;is in 1994. cease-fire and allow aid deliveries into campaign. "People fled in every din~c­Nkunda says he is fighting to proteet the troublPd region. Hut neither tion. In the confusion, many pe<;ple lost Congo's minorities, especially f'thnic Nkunda nor Congolese president sight of their childr<'n." Tut'>is. But critics say Nkunda is more Joseph Kabila is attending. 
page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, December 10, 2008 
Blagojevich conversations shock officials 
AN ABSOLUTE MUST-SEE TV: WEDNESDAYS, ABC, 10:00 P.M. EST. 
WITH ASTELLAR CAST OF ACCLAIMED, AND SEXY, ACTORS: WILLIAM BALDWIN [OF "BACKDRAFT" FAME & A GREAT NOTRE DAME FAN], PETER KRAUSE, DONALD SUTHERLAND [OF "MASH" the Movie & KIEFER SUTHERLAND FAME], JILL CLAYBURGH & BLAIR UNDERWOOD. 
TUNE IN AND GET "SEDUCED" BY THE FILTHY AND WEALTHY "DARLING" FAMILY OF MANHATTAN. 
[FICTION, OF COURSE,-OR, IS IT???©$©$©$©$©] 
This Message Approved By the Newly-Elected New York Senator Patrick Darling-or, is it???©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©© 
Wednesday, December 10, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
I 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  8,691.33  -242.85  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,266  76  2,581  2,198,722,679  

~~~-litlliWI«.I111~~~ild91QIIt~l!l 
NASDAQ 1 547.34 -24.40 

rm.£~i;JIJrWrr&•s:·l''l!s~216J·111rt!tl1ir 
S&P 500 888.67 -21.03 
!MKK!!trolfofliJA71f.ll~s9\ll111~flfi2I. 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -1.65 -1.50 89.50 CmGROUP INC (C) +0.83 +0.07 8.54 FIN SELECT SPDR (XLF) -4.02 -0.55 13.12 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.23 -0.07 30.01 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -2.38 -0.065 2.669 13-WEEK BILL +100.00 +0.005 0.010 30-YEAR BOND -2.44 -0.077 3.075 5-YEAR NOTE -6.42 -0.111 1.619 
Commodities 
LlGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.64 42.07 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) +4.90 774.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.95 87.50 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 92.5400 EURO 0.7741 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2601 BRmSH POUND 0.6779 
IN BRIEF 
Car Czar is possible figure in bailout 
WASHINGTON {AP) -Detroit's automakers may soon be answering to a powerful "car czar," who would dole out short-term emergency loans like a kid's allowance, put them on a restructur­ing diet and hold veto power over any transac­tion of more than $100 million. 
An overseer for the auto industry was a central part of an agreement in principle reached late Tuesday to provide $15 billion in government loans to the companies. Congressional aides and a senior administration oflicial said the car czar would be named by President George W. Bush and tasked with overhauling the auto industry. 

Negotiators reached a compromise to require the czar to revoke the loans and deny any fur­ther federal aid to automakers that failed to wring concessions from labor unions, creditors and others to ensure their survival by next ' spring -essentially pushing them into bank­ruptcy. 
"If they don't meet the conditions of restructur­ing, there is not going to be an endless flow of money to this industry," warned House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., before the conceptual agreement was reaehed. 
North Korea and nuclear envoys meet 
BEIJING -Envoys to talks on North Korea's nuclear program began a third day of meetings Wednesday to hammer out details of a proposal on verifying the eountry's accounting of its past atomic activities, a major step in the disarma­ment process. 
Host China distributed a draft-agreement to teams from the five other countries involved in the talks-Japan, North Korea, South Korea, the United States and Russia -and delegates were to go over the details in meetings, U.S. envoy Christopher Hill said. 
"If we can get through this, this would be an important milestone on that road but with the understanding that we have a long way to go," Hill told reporters. 
Veriliration is the focus of the latf'st round of nuclear talks, which opened Monday in Beijing with North Korea refusing to let out-;ide inspec­tors take samples -a key method of ensuring that the communist regime is being truthful ­from it<; main nudear t:ompleX" at Yongbyon. 


THE OBSERVER 



I page? 
Sony to cut 4°/o of work force 
Japanese company takes steps to brace itself in the face ofrecessing world economy 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -The words on the recording sound as if they were uttered by a mob boss. Instead, the feds say, it is the governor of Illinois speaking. 
"I've got this thing and it's [expletive] golden, and I'm just not giving it up for [expletive] nothing. I'm not gonna do it," Democratic Gov. Rod Blagojevich says in a conversation intercept­ed by the FBI. 
Federal prosecutors Tuesday accused the 51-year-oldJ Blagojevich of scheming to enrich himself by selling Barack Obama's vacant Senate seat for
I cash or a lucrative job for him­self. In excerpts released by prosecutors, Blagojevich snarls profanities, makes threats and demands and allegedly concocts a rich variety of schemes for 
profiting from his appointment of a new senator. 
"I want to make money," he declares, according to court papers. Blagojevich allegedly had a salary in mind: $250,000 to $300,00 a year. (He earns $177,412 a year.) 
Even in this city inured to political chicanery -three other governors have been convicted in the past 35 years and numer­ous officeholders from Chicago have gone to prison for graft -· the latest charges were stun­
ning. And not just for the vulgar­ity, but for the naked greed, the recklessness and the self-delu­sion tlwy suggest. 
What is mystifying is why Blagojevich spoke so openly and so brazenly. lie knew the feds were looking into his adminis­tration for the past three years for alleged hiring fraud; one of his top fundraisers has been convicted, another is awaiting trial. lie even warned some associates not to use the phone because "everybody's listening ... You hear me?" 
Blagojevich also is no neo­phyte. lie was baptized in the nitty gritty of Chicago Machine politics and confirmed in back­room bargaining and big money deals. He spent years climbing the ladder, first as a state repre­sentative, then a congressman and finally governor. He was boosted to power by his father­in-law, Alderman Dick Mell, a veteran Democratic ward boss and longtime stalwart of the once mighty Machine. 

And yet, in conversations recorded from late October to last week, Blagojevich seemed almost oblivious as he vented his frustrations about being "stuck" as governor, complained of "struggling" financially, and allegedly talked of using the Senate appointment to land a lucrative job in the private sec­tor, or even an ambassadorship or a Cabinet post. 
"It's about greed," said Don Rose, a longtime political strate­gist in Chicago. "He's got to be completely off his rocker to be talking like that at a time when he knows the feds are looking at him.... He's out there like he's talking to his wife in bed." 
He added: "I think this is beyond ordinary sanity. We're talking about something clinical here. This is beyond logic. It's beyond greed as we know it." 
He also scoffed at the notion that Blagojevich had any chance of obtaining a post in Obama's Cabinet. 
"I consider myself a student of corruption, but I've never heard of this kind of thing going on," Rose said. "The way he's talking about it is lunacy.... 'Maybe they'll make me secretary of health and human services.' Who's going to hire this guy?" 
Paul Green, a political scientist at Roosevelt University, said: "If you're under so much scrutiny by an unbelievably dedicated 
U.S. attorney's oflice, why would you risk it all? This is a case less about politics and more about social psychology.... A hard­nosed Illinois politician wouldn't even dream ol' doing this, con­sidering the situation." 
One of the most intriguing aspects of the story was that Blagojevich was elected as Mr. Clean, promising to clean up state government. His predeces­sor, Republican Gov. George Ryan. is behind bars for graft. 
Blagojevich "had everything going for him," Green said. "He could have been the Serbian Obama. lie was young, hand­some, articulate." 
In court papers, prosecutors said Blagojevich also tried to strong-arm political contribu­tions in exchange for jobs and contracts, and tried to use his authority to get editorial writers from the Chicago Tribune who criticized him fired. 

He also discussed getting his wife, Patti, who has been in the real estate business, on corpo­rate boards where she could earn up to $150,000 a year. 
Some of the most shocking conversations came in the days before and after Obama's victo­ry, when Blagojevich seemed intent on capitalizing on his role in choosing the president-elect's successor in the Senate. 
According to court papers, on Nov. 3, the day before the elec­tion, Blagojevich talked with someone identified only as Deputy Governor A about the Senate seat, and said: "If ... they're not going to offer any­thing of any value, then I might just take it" -that is, make himself senator. 
That same day, he talked tough, and said he intended to "drive a hard bargain." 
Later, he noted the seat is a "[expletive] valuable thing, you just don't give it away for noth­ing." 
On Election Day, as crowds were gathering in Grant Park to celebrate Obama's victory, 
Former housing chiefs questioned 
Blagojevich spoke with John Harris, his chief of staff, who also has been charged in the case. The governor likened him­self to a sports agent shopping a free agent to teams, and said, "How much arc you offering, [president-elect]?" 
Days later, according to the documents, Blagojevich said he was willing to "trade" that Senate seat for the position of the secretary of health and human Services in Obama's Cabinet. There is no indication that Obama ever considered him. 





Pam11ering and Pre11aring 
'"Promoting Equity through Int.dleetual Exploration and Cultural Celebration,. (;.,.SJ>Onsored by the Alliance for Catholic Education and tltc Office of Muhimdtural Stud.,nt Prograrns and St,rvices 


ATTENTION: DON'T MISS OUT: DIRTY SEXY MONEY 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -Sony Corp. is slashing 4 percent of its worldwide work force, reining in spending and shutting plants as it tries to ride out a looming worldwide recession that is battering Japan's export-reliant manufac­turers. 
Tokyo-based Sony, which is cutting 8,000 of its 185,000 jobs, said Tuesday it will shut five or six plants-about 10 per­cent of its 57 factories. Sony also plans to reduce its electronics investments by about one-third by the end of March 2010, although it did not give specific numbers. 
The job cuts are the most drastic here since the U.S. credit crunch hit over the summer. They are a bad twist for Sony, which has been recovering from internal problems in recent years under cost­cutting reforms led by Chief Executive Howard Stringer. 
"This may mean that Sony is now back at square one," said Kazuharu Miura, electron­ics analyst at Daiwa Institute of Research in · Tokyo. "Japanese compa­nies are all in trouble because of this unexpect­ed worldwide slowdown." 
Miura also warned that Sony's measures might not be enough to offset its sliding profits. 
Sony's U.S. shares were up 87 cents, 4.3 percent, at $20.91 in afternoon trading. 
Sony said a plant in Dax, France, which makes tapes and other recording media will be among the plants to close, but it declined to list the others. The moves will deliver more than 100 billion yen 

In this Dec. 11, 2007 file photo, Sony Corp. Chief EKecutive Howard Stringer gives a speech during a press conference at Sony's headquarters In Tokyo. 
($1.1 billion) in savings a nerable to the strong yen inventories, but tough year by March 2010, the since about 80 percent of times demand more dras­company said. its sales come from over­tic efforts, it contends. 
"Now we are all facing a seas. The dollar has The cost-cutting plan recession together," said dropped to about 93 yen includes postponing an Senior Vice President from 117 yen last year, investment to boost pro­Naofumi Hara. "It is eroding with it Sony's for­duction of liquid crystal impossible to predict how eign income. display TVs in Slovakia much longer the situation Hara said the ·ways the because of a plunge in will last." job cuts will be carried out European demand for flat­
Sony's announcement will vary by country, but panel TVs. comes amid similar news he did not provide a Sony will also trim from other Japanese man-· breakdown. Sony's elec­spending in semiconduc­
ufacturers, which face tronics business employs tors, and will outsource a plunging demand at home about 160,000 workers. portion of the production and abroad, as well as The company also has it had planned for image falling gadget prices and movie, video game and sensors for mobile phones. unfavorable currency fluc­financial businesses. Apart from the 8,000 tuations. Sony has adjusted pro­electronics job losses, Sony is particularly vul-duction and lowered Ilara said Sony would cut 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Four very rich former housing chiefs lined up before a House panel Thursday for a fresh spanking over the nation's economic crisis, but one -former Fannie Mae chief executive Daniel Mudd -captured the attention of Rep. Bruce Braley. 
"You are one of those rare people who can say, 'My name is Mud' with a straight face." 
It was one of the low points during a five-hour session of lame duck oversight, a special kind of hearing in which members of an expiring Congress lob questions and vent with litile blowback. ' 
There's no more crucial matter before this Congress or the next than the nation's worsening reces­sion and the role that the giant mortgage lenders may have played in it. But in the waning weeks of the 11 Oth Congress, Thursday's session . of the watchdog !louse Oversight Committee was as much about the politicians on the panel as it was about the meltdown affecting mil­lions of Americans. 
Signs of political transition were everywhere. 
After months of putting off Republican demands for the hear­ing, Chairman Henry Waxman chose to hold it this week as his own swan song before he departs to head the Energy and Commerce Committee. 
Waxman bade farewell by releas­ing 400,000 documents showing that the CEOs arrayed before the panel ignored warnings that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were taking on too many dicey mortgages years before they collapsed and the gov­ernment took them over. 
Waxman did not bother to stay for the whole hearing. And his counter­part, ranking Hepublican Tom Davis of Virginia, was absent; he already has retired from Congress. 
The man likely to replace Davis, Hep. Darrell lssa of California, made his first foray as ranking Republican with a public flogging of the CEOs. 
"You're not accepting any blame for this at all," he said. "You're either standing behind the mandate of the Congress or the mandate of your stockholders, perhaps, the mandate of your bonus packages. And you're telling us that, in fact, everyone was doing it." 
It didn't seem to matter what Mudd and his colleagues had to say in their own defense. From the Democratic end of the dais to the Republican side, lawmakers asked impossible-to-answer questions or just plain ranted against the CEOs' willingness to lower lending stan­dards to match those of Wall Street banks backing the subprime lending industry. 
For good measure, Rep. Lynn Westmoreland, R-Ga., asked the assembled former CEOs to state, out loud, their annual salaries and pen­sions collectPd while oversf~eing the doomed mortgage companies. 


p

page 8 Wednesday, December 10, 200~ 


THE OBSERVER And fall ~os went...where? 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MA.Rv's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF . 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporcs.I@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu · 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrent. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is enco~ed. Lerters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions ~arding Observerpolicies shouldbe directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Qh,ccvcr (USI'S 599 Z·4000) ;. puhlr.hcd Munday through Friday <XU:f~ during cum .md vacuion pcrkKi.s. A subw-iption co~ Ob..Qef'Vt'r is $100 tOr nne audemic year; S5S for om: .semc:.Jlcr. 
·The Oboerv« is publiohcd •" POSTMA5TER 
024 South Dining HaD Send addrus cotreaiom to; 
Notre D>m<. 11" 46556-0779 Th~ Ot:w:("Y(:r 
Periodical posr>gc paid at Notre Dame P.O.&x779 
and addition21 mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notte Dame, IN 4655&-0779 

The Observer k a member nf the ksoci.oted ?,.... Allr"''roductoon ~" arc rcK"rvc:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Liz Haste Matt Gamber Madeline Buckley Sam Werner Nora Kenney Douglas Farmer Graphics Viewpoint Madeline Nies Patricia Scene Fernandez Michelle Fordice 
It's become more and more notice­able recently, and it continues to be a little frightening that, for me at least, and likely for many of you, a year is just not as long 
Katherine
as it used to be. Events that Khorey used to entail a 
Both Sides
hugely long peri­
Now
od of waiting now race up and slip .by before we can so much as touch them. Once one's birthday was a day whose imminence was worth dancing over and whose passing was the source of momentous disappoint­ment. Now it's, "What? Seriously, I'm no longer a teenager? When did this happen?" 
Christmas, too, or its season cele­bratory parallel, came around only once in a very great while. The one (or eight, or 12) day celebration itself seemed almost an impossibly, and the other 364, an eternity. Now, it's "Wow. Is it really a whole year that I've had my iPod? Since Uncle Moe was 'clean­ing' Grandpa's liquor cabinet and found that unopened bottle of mint gin from Nixon's first term? Since sis­ter Maeve broke down sobbing at the end of Mass during '0 Holy Night', and said she believed it, she really did, and she could only hope she'd be half that happy when the baby came in summer? And is baby Zooks really six months old already?" 
Of course, the answer is "yes," though it may not feel that way. Because almost a year has gone by since last Christmas. 
And likewise, almost a semester has gone by since, er, the beginning of last semester. Which is, in its own way, pretty huge~ 
Focusing on the passage of a semes­ter could very well involve the harm­ful sustaining of the ageist, classist, 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

intellectualist "college" mindset. Still, there's no denying that while one is involved with any kind of educational program, on the giving or receiving end, the semester is a significant unit of time. 
So here we are (again, only quicker) at the end of one. For some of you at Notre Dame, this may signify the beginning of the end, or, for you early (or late) graduates, the end (more accurately: an end). For others, it~ the time to leave the new place they've only just managed to adjust to, and for those abroad in the spring, it'll soon be time to start adjusting (those of us in year-long programs will have our own adjustment issues come next fall). 
Freshman, on the other hand, whether you've had the kind of semester about which an outraged, aging journalist could write the Very Long Novel, or whether your most shocking escapade was stumbling upon the taxidermy display in Galvin (hint: second floor, next to the service elevator), you've still reached a major milestone in your life, and it's defi­nitely something to be proud of. Even if you wind up transferring, or even if your life plans change drastically and you wind up, as did my friend Penelope, taking a year off to teach orphans in Uganda, you will never again live through a first semester of college. Congratulations. 
And I, too, have now finished a first semester of my own. I hope I've learned enough from the first half of my time at Trinity to make the most of the second. 
It's not necessarily easy, though, to know which direction to turn once our semester driven life comes to an abrupt pause and what the rest of the world knows as "real" life starts up for us again. So, once the semester's 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The thing to remember is that that the future COf!Zes,,one day at a tzme. 
Dean Acheson, Former Secretary of State 



Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
truly ended -once exams are over, once you've consumed your last 2 
a.m. breakfast of a grande iced Americano and fully condimented quarter dog, once the Irish Studies major down the hall has stopped screaming "There's no more painkiller, only turnips! Today will be a happy day!" at random intervals, and once you can safely declare that you need never think about math, French, English, or philosophy ever again-be sure that you're mind doesn't shut down completely. 
The Christmas season is after all a time for birth and rebirth, or at least a time to reboot. Much of the world will be taking a day off "normal" life, but it's never a bad thing to be ready for normal life when it gets back on course. Especially as, once it is on course, it'll only start racing faster. 
Enjoy your break, and use it well. Because before you know it, it'll be Christmas again, little Zooks will be walking, Uncle Moe will be pouring you a legal shot of mint gin this time, you'll think of Nyquil, and, believe you me, you'll find yourself a whole lot older than you were. · 
Good luck. I'll see you in 2009. And let me be the first to ask: how was your break? 
Katherine Khorey is a junior English major and Russian minor about to fin­ish her first term at Trinity College, Dublin. Before signing offfor the month, she'd like to first state that she believes there is some value in "intellectualism", and then to advi.<;e that those who have had first semes-. ters worthy of Charlotte Simmons should seek counsel far from the vitri­ol of Viewpoint. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Strive for excellence, not perfec­tion". 
H. Jackson Brown Jr. 
U.S. author 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


The best women's soccer 
When your team loses a tight game, it can be atough pill to swallow. But when you are the best team and you lose the one game you thought mat­tered, it can be almost impossible to believe. 
This weekend, Notre Dame's women's soccer team lost a game that could have easily gone their way with one more break or one more call. Even though they lost, I cannot express how great of a team they are and how proud they make me to be a Domer. When Hockey won its first CCJIA Championship, when Football went to two straight BCS Bowls, even when Women's Succer appeared in the Finals two years ago -none of these com­pare•to what this team has done. 
This is a team that trailed less than five minutes the whole season featur­ing a starting lineup balanced between freshman, sophomores, juniors, and seniors. When North Carolina scored the winning goal, these players did not give up. They worked hard until the last seconds -even apparently draw­ing a free kick that was never called. 
On the sidelines after the game as a 
couple of the players periodieally 
returned to the benches you could see_ 
on their faces how much they had 
wanted that game, but they did not 
hang their heads. Nor should they. 
The 2008 women's'soccer team is easily the greatest team in any sport that I have seen in my four years at Notre Dame and they are a legend for this university. They have represented us well this year, not only by their play, but by their character and class. The best team does not always win and that was the case on Sunday. Even so, this team was just as great in defeat as they have been in victory. 
Congratulations to Kerri, Brittany, Carrie, Elise, Rebecca, and Kerry for leading the 2008 Fighting Irish to a truly great season! 
Justin Qut!en semor Keenan Hall Dec. 8 

A new student goverment 
I ran for student senate my sopho­more year. My platform in a nutshell was this: "the only reason to run for senate is to pad your resume, and I need that the most." 
While I was disappointed in not win­ning, I felt better after reading story after story about the Senate in The Observer: It seemed like all they could do was pass resolutions suggesting the University to do one thing or another. My favorite story is one that a would­be colleague told me: Apparently, the senate once spent a good chunk of time discussing the different options the University could take on a particu­lar issue, despite the fact that the University had already decided and acted on it. I think it's time we call the senate what it really is: a democrati­cally elected suggestion box. 
So before we let yet another fresh group of people claim they had leader­ship positions in their job interviews 
because they managed to get 15 peo­
ple to vote for them in their dorm, I suggest that we restructure student 
government by simply eliminating the 
middleman and create an online cam­pus-wide suggestion box. Just abolish the senate, and set up a Web site simi­lar to the Facebook causes page where students can create an join groups that support the issues they care about. To increase awareness, The Observer can publish a list of the top­ics that generate most support on the Web site, and get the remainder of the Student Government to create issue­based committees to do any student­side work if there needs to be. • 
Jose Duarte senoir Knon Hall Dec. 9 



What are we fighting for? 
What are we fighting for ... To be 
hated again? I have read with interest 
the various articles; blogs, viewpoint<; 
over the past several weeks with great 
fervor. Articles about snowballs. coaches 
and bowl games have captivated my 
attention even as an alum many miles 
from the university. I, like many, have 
had my moments of angst and frustration 
with the recent event<> surrounding the 
football program. Why so passionate, 
why so interested? Whether we like it or 
not, the football program gives America 
a glimpse of what Notre Dame is all 
about. • 
Football does not define the University to those of us who know it and love it. But for good or bad, college football is a passion that brings us together and chal­lenges us on how we examine many aspects ofour university. The national media also love to hate Notre Dame which only fuels our passion too. 
Notre Dame football is a window to the world, on what Notre Dames stands for. And right now. with these recent events. the media coverage and our own nega­tivity filling the airwaves, I think NO should take a step back to see what we are fighting for. Is it really all about wins and losses or being in contention for the BCS? 
Snowballs, humiliating losses, bowl game choices and the reaction of the Notre Dame community all make me wonder where humility and wisdom have gone among us who love Notre Dame. Maybe we should take this opportunity to learn from those wbo dislike this pro­gram so much, the Notre Dame haters. 
Notre Dame football has many haters. Notre Dame is hated and often perceived as arrogant because, in the past the foot­ball program won despite having high academic standards, turned down bowl games because they interfered with finals or Christmas, never failed to recog­nize those who came before and under­stood that The Lady on the Dome is what they "were fighting for." This was humili­ty and not arrogance. Humility would put away our 5 star status, our super bowl rings, our snowballs, and our own inter­
ests and helped us realize that only 
together can Notre Dame achieve some­
thing bigger than ourselves. 
So where is ND football today, how do 
we regain the humility? ND haters are 
upset by Notre Dame's wisdom. The wis­
dom that allowed Notre Dame to not 
compromise on high academic stan­
dards, accept bowl bids with a mediocre 
record, or compromise Christmas. ND 
had the wisdom to see the impact of our 
decisions before we made them. Wisdom 
that comes from experience and cannot 
be expected from college students sitting 
on a pile of snow or players asked to plan 
a bowl destination. 
I do not totally fault the students for throwing snow which should have been shoveled or football players choosing a bowl destination based on sunshine, "beautiful women", or their desire to return so to get ready for NFL scouts in senior bowl gam(ls. 
However. wisdom should come from there coach and administrators. The wis­dom to see the difficulty of leaving behind their classmates (especially the band) and their own families who will not be able to attend; to not consider the past history of not playing on Christmas Eve or Christmas; the need to practice during final exams; picking a later bowl game that would allow more practice which was the reason for accepting a bowl bid at 6-6; playing on another team's home field when there is a huge need for a win for this program which hasn't won a bowl game since many of the players were in kindergarten. Where is the wis­dom in this bowl decision? 
BCS consideration is important but not nearly important as Notre Dame seeking the humility and vvisdom which has sepa­rated us from every other football pro­gram in the country. What are we fight­ing for? To be hated again. 
Mick Connors alumnus Dec. 8 




Question of the day 
Our campus is in the midst of a cri­sis. The crisis I speak of is worse than the steady replacement of pants by leggings. Worse than the disappear­ance of cheese fries from Reekers. And yes, even worse than Dave Cavadini's offensive and vulgar excuse for a comic. Notre Dame is in the grip of a monster. And this monster's name is discrimination. 
Allow me to explain. I love the ques­tion of the day. ln fact, unless some:­body has recently insulted a SMC chick or the Vagina Monologues are coming up (meaning a bitter and pointless · viewpoint war is raging) the question of the day is pretty much the only thing I read. Each morning, I eagerly grab my copy of The Observer, throw out the middle section, ignore the front page and turn to see which lucky students were selected to rise to the throne of campus fame and glory. Who knew Notre Dame students could be so clever? Question: "What do you think of the snow?" Answer: "It's cold!" These two small words are a simple truth sprinkled with a hint of sarcastic genius. 
After reading such intriguing answers, I stroll to my classes, hoping 
' to be approached by the miracle work­er responsiblt> for the question of the day. And yet after 4 years of such aimless wandering, I still have not been featured in the hallowed boxes on top of page 2. I paid my $160,000 dues to the University. Each semester my $6 Observer fee is collected just like everyone else's. (Check your stu­dent account bill ... it's there.) Still, nothing! I can think of no possible reason behind this depressing occur­rence except that "the Man" behind the question of the day is a discrimina­tor. He discriminates on the basis of attractiveness. 
I am not what one would call photo­genic. ("Not photogenic" being a euphemism for ugly). My own mother makes me stay in the back of family photos. Behind my 6-foot brother. She also makes me sit down. I inspire a sentiment similar to Buzz's girlfriend in Home Alone. Woof. Reader, have vou ever been featured in the question of the day? If the answer is no, take a look in the mirror. There's a 99.9% chance that you too have a face only a mother could love. This discrimina­tion must end. Those of us with asym­metric features, buckteeth, unibr:ows, and moles the size of Texas must band together. We must demand equal question of the day opportunity. We must fight: We must win. 
Annie Porter Senior off-campus D~o-c. 8 


page 10 Wednesday, December 10, 2008 

Have yourself arecessionista Christmas 
It's the most wonderful time of the year, right? Yet, a lot of us are finding ourselves backed into a corner this season with too many people to send gifts to and not enough money to Adriana Pratt live up to retailers' standards. This per­spective makes for Scene Writer a dismal outlook on what is supposed to be a season of endless cheeriness and love that will soothe the soul like a nice cup of hot chocolate, so Scene has come up with a way to keep that hap­piness at an all-time high by eliminat­ing the monetary pressures giving the gifts usually come with. There's no need to stress this season, here are gift ideas that will fit into a minimal budget: 
For the easy-going significant other: A mixed CD 
This gift costs virtually nothing but at the same time can be truly touch­ing. Load a CD with songs that remind you of your significant other and your blossoming relationship, and you'll be sure to get a loving thank-you in response. Also be comforted by the fact that every time your boyfriend or girlfriend hears one of those songs on the radio, tliey'll forever be reminded of you. 
For the green gal: Organic aloe vera peace soaps 
If your girl is hippie-chic, she'll love this gift. Made with organic aloe vera juice, these soaps will emanate a soothing fresh mint and herbal scent and come in a cute lime green shape with the word "Peace" printed on one side and a peace sign on the other and cost only $8. Visit midnightfarm.net for details. 
For the Budding Fashionist~: A Magazine Subscription 
Sometimes it's easy to lose touch with the fashion world as a Notre Dame student, especially when so much time is devoted to schoolwork and virtually the only place to get a magazine is the Bookstore. Make life easy for your fashion frenzied friends-:> by buying them a subscription to a fashion magazine. lnStyle has a going rate of two subscriptions fur the low price of $29.95. For the smartypants: "100 Words to Make You Sound Smart" 
This book, costing only $5.95 and provided by Urban Outfitters, promises to enrich people's vocabulary by pro­viding them with words that will fill those awkward gaps, entertain avid listeners, and impress that pinchy boss. Useful words ofjust one syllable (ex: glib), popular catch phrases from modern-day culture (Catch-22), classi­cal terms (stoic), and words derived from the names of influential people (Machiavellian) are all defined and showed in context in this golden piece. For the TV-Junkie: TV Show T-Shirts 
Falling around the $17.95 price range, the T-shirts provided by TVstoreonline.com capture funny quotes, memorable images, and famous phrases of the best shows around that will ensure "fan status" to anyone who wears them. Buy one of these shirts for the Dwight-lover or Serena-wannabe in your life and gain a fan of your gift-giving skills for life. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd. edu 
---·-----------------------~-­

·  }i'  
~ .... A...  
uarcus" ­ Britney Spears  
In Britney's second comeback album the pop  

princess returns with on attitude. No doubt titled after her antics, which portrayed endlessly in the medio, the album seems to be her latest break­through hit. The single 11Womonizeru has reached No. 1on the Billboard Hot 100 and the second single '''circus" will no doubt share much of the success of it's predecessor. For the tweens on your Christmas list, and perhaps some older fans, it seems she has done it again. 


"The Dark Knight" Claimed to be the greatest film of the decode, "The Dark Knight" isdefinitely not adisappointment. Any film buff, film ap­preciator or critic will be hard pressed to find problems in this sequel to the popular "Batman Begins." W"lth odisarming story and brilliant performances, the film is an epic, memorable, must-have addition to your collection. Very few would not appreci­ate such an obvious DYD gift. 
Spike the Ultra Dinosaur' Spike the Uhra Dinosaur is worth atrip to Target or Wai-Mort to meek out his display. He wolks, stands on his hind legs, grunts, growls,. and even eats o rock. \ Spike is one of those kid's toys you're dying to ploy wi1h yourself. $129.99 


}l[6ums 


I 






cro s 


ad£ ets .-. 
., 
ErHI 
Ey&fi is an SO memory card that 
makes your camera wireless, re­
moving the need to ever plug it 

into your computer. The card also 
locates nearby vr..Fi spots while 
you toke pictures and records your 
IO<afion, recording the data and 
togging if to your pidures. $79.99­
$99.99 





Wednesday, December 10, 2008 page 11 

JVDs, t.oys and gadgets 

~­
,.,.,, "lOis and Heartbreak" -Kany• West Kanye returns in his fourth album, titled after the Roland TR-808 drum machine he uses in various
lit tracks and the heartbreak be experienced after the death of his mother and his break up with his fian­
cee. Trying for a more pop oriented sound, the 
album concentrates on West's emotions and lyrics 
using simplistic beats and AutcrTune. Though it 
might not thrill the hip-hop lovers on your list, n 
will no doubt appeal to many others. 


''Kung Fu Panda" Acute animated film by DreamWorks on~ motion studios, 11 Kung Fu Pando" presents the story of, well, a panda that learns Kung Fu. Many other valuable lessons ore learned in the course of the film, which features great voice ading, including Jack Black. With enough slapstick and gags to keep othree-year-old's attention and enough humor for everyone else, 11Kung Fu Panda" is agreat buy for any age. 
20Q 
Initially on experiment in artificial intelligence, the 200 games play 20 questions with the player until n guesses what the player is thinking, guessing cor­rectly 80 percent of the time (98 percent of the time if it is given 25 questions). The 200 line continues to grow as nreleases games that specialize in certain topics. This year's releases include a Harry Potter Edi­tion (shaped like the Golden Snitch, including remov­-able wings) and oSimpson's edition (shaped like a donut). Best yet, of www.20q.net, you mn help train the next line of 200 by playing for free. $24.99 




Ganaln 405 
Nike+ has gotten more attention in recent memory, but serious runners know where to turn for the best in running watches: Garmin. Gormin's Foreunner series offers speed-and-distance trackers with increas­ingly sensitive GPS systems that ore exceptionally ac­curate. Furthermore, Garmin doesn't force you to re­place your running shoes with a new pair of running shoes with aspecial slot for their device, like Nike. Better yet, the 405 is Garmin's sleekest model yet. Garmin 405 $299.99 

"Chinese Democracy" -Guns I' Rona 
For those who enjoyed Guns N' Roses' most recent 
this latest attempt will probably not be their last. For 
a work surrounded by controversies, several low­
suits, and on inflated budget, the final product has 
been received relatively favorably. Though Guns N' 
Roses fans are less prominent these days, there are 
likely some hard rock fans in your family that will · make this an excellent investment. 


"Tropic thunder" One of the most publicized comedies of recent memory, '1ropic Thunder" made many laugh and offended a great many more. Finely oded by odors on the upswing (and ofew on the down), including Ben Stiller, Jack Black and Robert Downey, Jr., the movie quickly finds its chemistry and simply works. The cameos ore fantastic and a treat for Stiller's fans. Agreat buy for the viewpoint writer in your family. 
llfncl Hitchcock's 
"1he Birds" BariHe Dol 
Introduced to Mattei's Barbie CoUec­
• "Day and Age" -The Killen The third album by the Los Vegas bond, 
-. -' ... "Day and Age" is the Killer's entry into the pop-rock realm of music. Filled with songs that taste like a mouthful of candy, the 

fans will no doubt be thrilled by the catchy hooks on the album. Though few songs stand out and remain memorable, there ore plenty of die hard fans who will toke whatever they con get from the captivating Brandon Flowers. 
tor Block Lobel tine for 2008, this 
way to exercise, but the board will ~on Barbie features, yes, the iconic be reincorporated straight back into the scene from Alfred Hitchcock's "The gaming side. Rayman, Donkey Kong, Birds* when the heroine is attacked Barbie, Tetris and many more figures by vicious birds. his a great gift for are appearing in games buih for the anyone on your list with aquirky board (or will be in the coming months). sense of humor. $40 $128.99 (without console) 

Amazon Kindle 
Flip Mino 

The Amazon Kindle is an e-book reader that 

Pure Digital Technology's iPod for the 

can hold about 200 non-illustrated titles. 
world of camcorders, Flip Video features 

Users can download books from nearly any­
the smallest camcorders that can record 

where with its high-speed EVDO antenna that 
in HD. Flip Video's family of camcorders 

does not even require aWH=i hotspot. Because 
use USB connectors, instead of video­

it does not need a backlight it only draws 
topes and memory cords, to relay their 

power when the reader loads a new poge, o~ 
lowing it to lost for hours, and its display tech­nology, called electronic paper, is very <risp for reading. The device includes alimited web-browser, the ability to ploy MP3s, and a didionary. $359.99 
"Wanted" . The film with bullets inscribed with sossy say­ings, looms of fate, and Morgan Freeman turned into one of the big nction surprises of the yeor. Based on a comic book series, "Wanted* stors Angelina Jolie as ofemale as· sossin and James McAvoy as on overage Joe who is a bit too buff to oduolly be overage. Together they keep the audience enthralled throughout. Bullets curve, bloody violence reigns and adion fans leave entertained. 
Wii Fit Board The Wii Fn crmcept is great in itseK, turn­ing the fun of the Wii's mobility into a 
data directly to the computer; charge through the compu1er, removing the need for batteries; con be uniquely de­signed; and ore simple to use. Flip Mino HD $229.99, Flip Mino $179.99 
MADELINE NIES I Observer G;aphic 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, December 10, 2008 
NBA 

Butler's 33 leads struggling Wizards over Pistons 
Timberwolves lose McHale's debut with poor free-throw shooting; Cavs continue to roll with blowout of Raptors 
give in to it," coach Michael Curry 
Associated Press 
said. "We unravel a little bit. We 
WASHINGTON -Surely there lose our composure. We can't be was no way this was happening a team like that. We have to be again. The Washington Wizards, .mentally tough." mired at the bottom of the Curry's new lineup features Eastern Conference, were down Stuckey at the point, with Ive~son 17 in. the second quarter at home moved to No. 2 guard, Hamilton and showing no life what.,oever. moved to small forward, 
It was enough to make a coach Tayshaun Prince moved to power start pacing the bench. forward and Wallace moved to 
"I just walked down and said center. Center Kwame Brown 'We're better than we're play­was demoted to the bench and ing,"' coach Ed Tapscott said. didn't even play. "And, 'We need to bring more The moves were designed to energy to everything we're jump-start a Pistons attack that doing.' You can't expect to walk had fallen to 22nd in the NBA in between possessions, walk during scoring. They appeared to pay timeout'i, and then all of a sudden immediate dividends, with Detroit 'fire up.' We've just got to get racing to leads of 9-0 and 27-12. ourselves moving." Wallace scored nine of the 
So Tapscott turned to his subs,. Pistons' first 11 points, followed and they responded. Caron by 14 of 16 from Hamilton, and Butler's 33 points were supple­the arena became as dormant as mented by a season-high 16 from the Wizards' defense. Juan Dixon and 15 from Darius Washington trailed by 36-19 in Songaila as the Wizards rallied the second quarter, but Butler for a 107-94 victory Tuesday and Songaila led a 15-3 nm that night over the redesigned lineup cut the deficit to 46-43 at the half. of the Detroit Pistons. Tapscott rewarded Songaila and 
Songaila, Dixon (seven assists), Dixon by starting them in the sec­Dominic McGuire (3-for-3, six ond half in place of J a Vale McGee points), Andray Blatche (eight and Dee Brown. points, five rebounds), and Nick Young (nine points) all provided Jazz 99, Timberwolves 96 inspired play off the bench, a Kevin McHale instilled some necessity given · that the much-needed energy and heart Washington starters not named into his down-and-out Butler combined to score only 15 . Timberwolves in his first game as points. coach. 

"Sometimes the five guys who Next on his agenda should be dent of basketball operations previous two games. unbelievable for our franchise to come out and start can't do it by teaching them how to shoot free duties and installed the Hall of Love finished with eight points accomplish something like that." themselves," said Songaila, throws. Farner as coach. and 15 rebounds, but went 2-for-And the way they're playing, it whose biggest play might have Mehmet Okur hit the go-ahead It was the 223rd coaching 9 from the free throw line. doesn't look like the Cavs have been a momentum--swinging shot with 1. 7 seconds to play and change in the NBA since Sloan any intention of slowing down. backdoor layup when the Pistons the Utah Jazz capitalized on 16 became coach of the Jazz on Dec. Cavaliers 114, Raptors 94 They've won the nine games in were trying to make a late run. missed free throws by Minnesota 9, 1988. Since that time, Sloan The NBA has never seen any­their streak by an average of 21.5 "And I think today was a perfect to rally for a victory on Tuesday has enjoyed an unprecedented thing like these Cleveland points. example of guys coming off the night. level of job security in a league Cavaliers. "We treat everybody the same," bench, bringing some energy, AI Jefferson led Minnesota with where the last four winners of the On a night when their top two Ilgauskas said. "We respect knocking down shots, making 21 points. The Timberwolves led coach of the year award have players set franchise records, the everybody, but we fear nobody." hustle plays. It was an opportuni­by seven with 2:45 to play, but been either fired or pushed out Cavs broke a league mark with a James hit a 3-pointer at the ty for us and we took it." rookie Kevin Love missed four the door. romp over the Toronto Raptors halftime horn as the Cavs, who 
The Wizards improved to 3-5 straight free throws to allow the The matchup provided quite on Tuesday. · were assessed three technicals in under interim coach Tapscott, Jazz to hang around. the organizational juxtaposition LeBron James scored 31 points the second quarter, went to the while the Pistons have lost four of Kyle Korver buried a 3-pointer for McHale's first game as coach and became Cleveland's career locker room leading only 59-51. five and dropped to 7-9 since the from the elbow to give Utah a 95-against a franchise that is the steals leader and Zydrunas It was still a game -then it trade for Allen Iverson. Iverson 94 lead with 54 seconds to go. very definition of stability. 11gauskas moved atop the wasn't. started at shooting guard After two free throws from Randy Sloan celebrated the unprece­Cavaliers' rebounding chart as Cleveland opened the third Tuesday night but he wasn't Foye gave the Wolves the lead dented achievement the way he Cleveland improved to 12-0 at quarter with a 23-2 run, high­much of a factor, scoring 13 again with 7.8 seconds left, Okur celebrates most of his accom­home with its latest rout. lighted by two breakaway dunks points. swished a fallaway jumper from plishments, with a humble shrug In winning their ninth straight from James, who threw one 
"It doesn't have anything to do 11 feet to put the Jazz on top for and a dismissive wave. by at least 12 points, the down left-handed in the first half with one player. It has to do with good. · "Anybody could be in this posi­Cavaliers, now 17-1 since Nov. 3, and added some style points by all of the players," Iverson said. "I Ronnie Brewer scored ·25 tion," Sloan said before the game. are the first team in league histo­posing with his left hand behind don't think one player has to do points for the Jazz on the 20th "I've had good players." ry to win nine consecutive games on his neck on another right­with having a 17 -point lead, and anniversary of Jerry Sloan's pro­McHale has actually been the in cl single season so handily. handed smash in the third quar­then it dissolves like that." motion to the team's head coach. coach of the Timberwolves twice Cleveland came in tied with ter. 
Richard llamilton scored a sea­After watching his team, which now during Sloan's tenure in Portland (1990-91), Chicago In opening minute, James son-high 29 points, Rasheed was expected to show some Utah. He took over for the fired (1996-97), Detroit (2003-04) and passed Mark Price (734) for the Wallace added 19, and new start­improvement after a 22-60 sea­Flip Saunders in 2005 and led the Houston (2007 -08). club's steals mark. He added five ing point guard Rodney Stuckey son, get off to a 4-15 start and Wolves to a 19-12 fmish. Nine wins. Nine routs. rebounds, four assists and three had 10 points and 11 assists for lose to the dysfunctional Clippers He spent most of his time "That's unbelievable," James steals in just 30 minutes. The the Pistons. Hamilton and by 23 points at home on Saturday encouraging and prodding a said. "Knowing the history of superstar sat out the fourth quar­Wallace each were called for night, owner Glen Taylor had young team that he said looked some of the great teams, the ter for the sixth time in seven technicals for fussing at the refs. seen enough. "beaten down" with a "black Chicago Bulls team that went 72-games, rest that will only help 
"Right now, we're a team when He fired Randy Wittman, cloud hanging over it" after losing 10, the Celtics teams, the Lakers him later this season and into the things are not going good, we relieved McHale of his vice presi-by a combined 52 points in the teams and the Pistons teams, it's postseason. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds fot content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 

FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LE,A.SE 09-10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
Furnished 2-bdrm. house. Living room, kitchen, dining room, full bath. 6.5 blks to ND. $795/mo. Avail Jan. 1 . Call 605-397-8135 or 574­234-3007 or 574-261-4444. 
' 
andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCAST! 
3 & 4 bedroom 3 full bath homes close to campus. Safe Neighborhood, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2 car garage, 10x20 decks. Call 574-232-4527 or 269­683-5038. From $1 ,700/mo 
House of recent alums for Rent: 706 N Jacob St. 4 br, 2 ba 7 blocks from campus $1800/month, most util.inc. househousesllc@gmail.com 

(M)GRAD STUDENT looking to share upscale home during spring semester. Fully furnished, 2 blocks from cat1"pUS. NS, No Pets. $62s.tno inc. utilities. 330­565-5979 (John). 
Historic gem 5 mins. to ND. 2-3 bdrms. Totally furnished. $790/mo. 269-782-9921. 
Enormous 1-bdrm apt. in historic house. 10 mins. to ND. Niles. 5 large formal rooms, woodburning fireplaces. $490/mo. plus utilities. 269· 782-9921 . 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn. OP. at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574­631-2685. For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap/ 
THURSDAY. DEC. 11, IS THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER FOR THE SEMESTER. HAVE A SAFE AND HAPPY HOLIDAY SEASON. MERRY CHRISTMAS. 
Thanks to the men of the Twyck for letting The Observer use their house this weekend. You will most likely regret it

,__ ______________ 
See page 18: "I thought they were long and athletic, and they got their hands on a lot of balls." That's what she (could have) said about Boobie­who. even though he already has a date to New Year's, has a buyout dause in the contract he signed with his date. It involves several golf tees. a toaster oven, and four pounds of ice cubes. For details, call (847)924-3832. 
Pool party baby, it was a cool party, cool pool party, Ia Ia Ia Ia ... HOLY GUACAMOLE! We've got chips. 






OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Wednesday, December 10, 2008 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVE~S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
MLB 

Final NCAA Women's  
Soccer Rankings  
team  previous  record  
1  North Carolina {31)  4  25-1-2  
2  NOTRE DAME  1  26-1-0  
3  UClA  2  22·1-2  
4  Stanford  5  23·2·1  
5  Portland  3  20·2·0  
6  Florida State  6  17·4-2  
7  TexasA&M  14  17·5-1  
8  usc  8  17·5-1  
9  Duke·  18  15·6·3  
10  Florida  9  19·4·1  
11  Boston College  10  15·6-2  
12  Virginia  11  15·6-2  
13  Oklahoma State  ',.,, 1  18•3-2  
14  West Virginia  12  14·4·5  
15  Minnesota  22  22·4·0  
16  San Diego  11  14·6·1  
17  Missouri  13  17·6·0  
18  Texas  19  12·5·4  
19  JMU  NR  +  14·7-2  
20  BVU  21  18-6·0  
21  Rutgers  NR  15-7-1  
22  Colorado  15  15·5·3  
23  Illinois  NR  13·10  
24  UW-Mitwaukee  16  18·3·2  
25  Wake Forest  23  13·8·0  

NCAA Men's Hockey USA Today Top 20 
team points 
1 NOTRE DAME (33) 508 
:~.: 2 Minnesota (1) 447 3 Boston College 420 4 Miami (Ohio) 380 "'5 Boston University 342 6 Colorado College 318 7 Denver 
306 8 Northeastern 
298 9 Princeton 
256 10 Air Force 
209 11 Millflesota State 
188 12 Vermont 
181 
13 Cornell 

105. 14 Michigan 72 15 New Hampshire 16 16 Mass Lowell 
10 17 Alaska-Anchorage 9 18 Nebraska Omaha 
6 19 Dartmouth 
6 20 St. Cloud 4 
CCHA Hockey Conference Standings 
team record points 
1 Miami 10-2-2 23 2 NOTRE DAME 8-2·2 20 3 Alaska 6-3-3 17 4 Nebraska-Omaha 5-4-3 15 5 Michigan 7-5-0 14 6 Ohio State 6-5·1 14 7 Ferris State 6-6-2 14 8 Lake Superior 3-4·5 12 9 Bowling Green 4·5·1 9 10 N. Michigan 2-9-3 9 11 Michigan State 2-8-2 8 12 W. Michigan 1·7·4 7 
around the dial 
NBA 

Phoenix at LA Lakers 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 

Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -Record­
·setting closer Francisco Rodriguez and the New York Mets reached a prelim­inary agreement Tuesday on a $37 million, three-year contract. 
The sides still have to work out a written agree­ment and the pitcher must pass a physical, two people familiar with the negotia­tions said Tuesday. They spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the con­tract had not yet been com­pleted. 
K-Rod recorded 62 saves for the Los Angeles Angels this year, five more than the previous big league mark set by Bobby Thigpen of the Chicago White Sox in 1990, and then filed for free agency. His agent, Paul Kinzer, had hoped to get a five-year contract, possibly equaling the $15 million average salary Mariano Rivera is earning from the New York Yankees. 

But with baseball execu­tives worried about the national recession, Kinzer accepted a more modest deal. 
With the agreement, the Mets are ceasing negotia­tions with Brian Fuentes and career saves leader Trevor Hoflinan, two other free-agent closers, one of the people said. Rodriguez's contract will contain an option for 2012 that could become guaranteed based on his performance, the person said. 
A three-time All-Star who turns 27 next month, Rodriguez was regarded as the top closer on the mar­ket. While some teams were worried about his violent pitching motion and drop in velocity last season, he developed an outstanding curveball to go along with his other pitches. 
Hodriguez and Kinzer arrived in Las Vegas last weekend and dined Sunday night with general manager Omar Minaya, chief operat­ing oflicer Jeff Wilpon and other team officials at a steakhouse. 

In a slow free-agent mar­ket, Rodriguez was the first of the top-tier free agents to reach an agreement. Pitchers CC Sabathia and 
A.J. Burnett, first baseman Mark Teixeira and outfield­er Manny Ramirez are among the high-profile play­ers still searching for deals. 
The Mets were seeking a closer to replace Billy Wagner, who is likely will miss all of next season fol­lowing elbow ligament­replacement surgery. Rodriguez's market value was depressed because sev­eral closers were free agent" and most big-market teams were set with the back end of their bullpens. 
IN BRIEF NFL cuts 150 leaf,!ue jobs
due to economic slruggles 
NEW YORK -'Ib~ NFL pays its play­ers billions of dollars a year and fa.n..<> pack its stadiums every week. But even the deep-p<x::keted league is shedding jobs. 
Commissioner Roger Goodell said Tuesday that the league is cutting more than 10 perr,ent of its staff in response .to­the dmvnturn in the nation's economy that could put a dent in ticket sales for next season. 
Goodell announced tho cuts in a memo to league employees. The Nl''L is eliminat­ing about 150 of its staff" of 1,100 in New York, Ni-L Films in New Jersey and televi­sion and Internet production facilities in Los Angeles. 
'These are difficult and ptinful ~ieps," he wrote in the memo. "But they arc nce­e&'Kl.fY in the current economic environ­ment. I would like to bP able to report that we are irnmw1e to the troubles ar.oWid us. but we are not. Properly managed, I am confident the NFL \!\<ill emerge stronger. more eflicient and poi'i<~ to pursue long­term gmwth opJXlrtunitil':S." 

NFLPA files f,!rievance 
on behalf ofiJurress 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.-The NFL Players Association filed a grievance on Tuesday challenging the suspension and fine given to Plaxico Burress by the New York Giants after the receiver accidental­ly shot himself in a nightclub more than a week ago. 
The union said that the team vio­lated the collective bargaining agreement last week when it placed Burress on the reserve-non football injury list, suspended him for the final four games of the regular sea­son and fined him an additional week's salary for conduct detrimen­tal to the team. 
Placing Burress on the non-foot­ball injury list also will keep him out of the playoffs. The Giants (11­
2) won the NFC East title on Sunday. 
Union spokesman Carl Francis said the grievance will be heard by an arbitrator after the season ends. 
O.J. SimP.son affiliates 
receive re(luced sentences 
lAS VEGA'>-Four men who pleadt,>d guilty to reduced charges in exchange for testifying against OJ. 'Simpson at his rob­bery-kidnapping trial were sentenced Tuesday to probation, drawing a loud protest from a sports memorabilia dealer they held at gunpoint in a Las Vegas hotel room. 
"You've got to be kidding me!" Bruce Fromong exclaimed after Clark County District Court Judge Jackie Glass sen­tenced Michael McClinton tO eight years' probation. McOinton, 50, testified that he supplied two guns and brandi.,hed one during the Sept. 13, 2007, confrontation. 
"Get him out of the building," Glass said of Fromong. She did not let Fromong address the court before sen­tencing. 
Gla'iS lectured the four defendant" but accepted a state recommendation that they serve no pri.'i()n time. She handed probation tcrrns of six years to Charles Ehrlich, four years to Walter Alexander and lhree years to Charles Cashmore. 
page 14 
SMC SWIMMING 

Underclassmen helping lead the way for Belles 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 

Underclassmen have shined so far this year for Saint Mary's, and freshmen Audrey Dalrymple and Eva Cavadini have led that movement. 
The two have combined for 13 first-place finishes through six meets and have recorded impressive times throughout the year. But according to Belles coach Ran Dombkowski, neither swim­mer has reached her full potential, which gives hope to the Belles for both this season and the next three years. 
Dalrymple has also put on a strong showing so far this season, with six first-place finishes, including two firsts in the 200-yd medley relay and two firsts in the 100-yd breaststroke. 
Because of the timing of the Thanksgiving holiday, Dombkowski says, he hasn't had a chance to rest his swimmers as much as he would like. Dalrymple's strong performances, espe­cially at the end of this semester, give the Belles coach hope of great things to come. 
"Audrey's performances [at 
t h e 
Carth age/TYR 

"Both of these "Individually. I am invitational] in two first year the 100 and
pleased where I am
swimmers come 200 breast­
at so far this season.
in with times stroke were that would be at but I have set my both less than a or near some second off our
goals high and will
NCAA qualify­school records
continue to work
ing standards," and just a con­Dombkowski toward them. ·• pie of seconds said. "[Theyl from NCAA have been get­consideration,"
Audrey Dalrymple 
ting used to the Dombkowski
Belles freshman 
balance of col­said. "To be at 
lege academics 
and athletics, but we are 

starting to figure out that bal­.ance a little." 
Dombkowski attributes 
Cavadini's success to her 
excellent work ethic. 
"Eva is probably one of the 
hardest workers on the team 
from the start until the finish 

of practice," Dombkowski 
said. "She hasn't been quite 
as fast as I think both she and 
I would like, but...once she 
settles into a little more com­
fort level with balancing her 
schedule ... we'll see some 

impressive time drops next 
semester." 

Times drops would be impressive for Cavadini, who has recorded seven first-place times so far this semester, in a combination of freestyle individual and relay events, along with two first-place fin­ishes in the 200-yd butterfly. 
those times at an unrested invite only halfway through the season is very encouraging. I look for big things from Audrey next semester." 
Dalrymple herself agrees with Dombkowski, believing that more success is still to come. 
"Individually I am pleased where I am at so far this sea­son, but I have set my goals high and will continue to work toward them," she said. 
The Belles will take a win­ter training trip to Florida over break, and will restart competition on Jan. 10. When that time comes, look for both Eva Cavadini and Audrey Dalrymple to be at the top of their game and ready to suc­ceed. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


Serving Lunch & Dinner 
Come Dine With 
Our Fami~ And Be Our Friendr 
Tues-Sat 11-2; 4-9 Closed Sun & Mon 
Our Specialties Include Exquisite Meat Entrees & Healthy Vegetarian Dishes 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts Dine In • Take Out • Catering Reservations Accepted 
I 
I 


Wednesday, December 10, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS 



DeBartolo Hall STUDY DATES AND TIMES: December 12, 13, 14:7am to 3:00am Midnight Snacks! Exam Dates: December 15-18: Rooms available except when scheduled by the Registrar's office. December 19: DeBartolo Hall closes at 5:30pm. 


See Building Support Personnel ifyou have specific needs: Room 103 or 104. 



Coleman-Morse: December 12-18: 
Finals Week! Rooms a•,ailahle except when .'il'heduled by the Registrar's offiu. 
December 19_: Coleman-Morse closes at 5:30 pm 1st Floor: 7:00am-4:00am 2"d floor: 7:{)0am-3:00am 3rd Floor: 7:00am-12am 
See Building Support Person Room 101 ifyou have a specific need. 
O'Sha~ghnessy: December 12, 13, 14: 7am to 3:00am *Finals Week: December 15-18: 7am to 3:00am 204,206,207,208,209, 242,338, and 345: Rooms available except when scheduled by the Registrar's office. 
t~' Good Luck with Finals ;!lr 
Special thatth to Auxiliary a11d FaL"ili~v Operatiolts, Campus Ministry a11d the Student Union Board• 
Head Football Coach Charlie Weis Autograph Session (Limit 2 Items*) Thursday, Dec. 11 (Must arrive by 8 a.m.) Guglielmino Athletics Complex Auditorium Available to Students} Faculty and Staff of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross** 
* Coach Weis will autograph up to two items. Due to time restrictions, personalized messages will not be available. 
**All students or employees must have valid identification verifying their affiliation with Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross and enter through the west door of the Guglielmi no Athletics Complex by 8:00a.m. on Thursday morning. 
•~~~­
Wednesday, December 10, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
PGA 
Ballesteros released after surgery on tumor 
Associated Press  his Web site. "There is a long recovery time ahead and I  Ballesteros was released from intensive care last  come across. Our mind is stronger than we imagine,"  formed European golf. Perhaps his most memorable  
MADRID,  Spain  - Seve  s h all  k e e p  fight i n g  with  Wednesday ­ the first time he  Ballesteros said. "Just  as I  shot came from  a  parking lot  
Ballesteros thanked doctors  patience and determination  had been out of danger since  always did in my professional  next to the 16th fairway at  
and staff for giving him the  against the brain tumor that  his initial operation Oct. 15.  life, visualizing success helps  Royal Lytham &  St. Annes in  
chance to play the "mulligan  was detected at the beginning  "Occasionally I  was a rebel  achieve ones targets however  the  1979  British  Open.  
of my life" on Tuesday when  of October."  patient  and  impossible they seem."  Leading by two shots in the  
he was released from the hos­ Ballesteros,  therefore I  ask  Ballesteros  did  not  say  final round, he drove into the  
pital more than two months after brain surgery to remove  one of Spain's best known  "Thanks to them I  them to forgive me and thank  whether he would continue his recuperation at a residence in  car park, had a car removed to get his free drop, then fired  
a malignant tumor.  sports personal­ will be able to play  everyone for all  Madrid, but said he was confi­ his second shot into 15 feet  
The 51-year-old Spanish golfing great will continue to be treated as an outpatient,  ities, was admit­ted Oct. 6 after fainting at  the mulligan ofmylife.,,  the cares received," Ballesteros  dent he could recover -both mentally and physically. "I am a believer and will  and made birdie on his way to his first major. After lobbying to have the  
Madrid's La Paz hospital said  Madrid's inter­ said.  continue thinking positively to  Ryder  Cup  expanded  to  
in a statement. Ballesteros thanked not only the neuro­surgeons who performed the  national airport before boarding a flight to  Seve Ballesteros PGA Golfer  A five-time major champi­on, Ballesteros  defeat the illness I suffer and encourage those who are going through something simi­ include continental Europe in 1979, Ballesteros helped beat the United States in 1985 to  
operations, but also the staff  Germany. Since  is  known  for  lar to  do it with the  same  begin two  decades of domi­ 
and well-wishers who showed  then,  he  has  spectacular  determination  as  myself,"  nance.  He  also  captained  
support since he was hospital­ undergone four separate oper­ shots and fearless play, but  Ballesteros said.  Europe to victory in 1997 at  
ized 66 days ago.  ations, including a  61f2-hour  still called his current ordeal  Ballesteros  won  three  Valderrama, Spain.  
"Thanks to them I will be  procedure Oct. 24 to  remove  the "hardest challenge of my  British Opens and two Masters  Ballesteros retired in 2007  
able to  play the mulligan of  the brain tumor and reduce  life."  titles. He also recorded 50  because of a  long history of  
my  life,  which I expect to  swelling around the brain.  "When you fight with faith  career  victories  on  the  back pain and has since con­ 
enjoy at my best," Ballesteros  That was his third operation  and persistency you can over­ European Tour and is widely  centrated  on  golf  course  
said in a statement posted on  in eight days.  come whichever drawback you  recognized as having trans,.  design.  

25% off Atria Solon 2 25% off 
specializing in color 
574. 271.8804 

Present this add on your next hair services and receive 25 %off plus afree eyebrow with any service. EXPIRES 12/19/08 Atria Solon 2 2027 South Bend Avenue 46637 (inside the Martin's shopping center) 

RING IN 2009 WITH #1IRISH HOCKEYI 
JAN. 2: Mn·lNESOTA-DUlUTH vs.. UMAss-LoVVEu (5:0& P.M. CT) NOTRE DAME vs. UNION (8:05 P.M. CT) 
JAN. 3: UNION vs. UMD oR UMAss-LOWELL (4:05P.M. CT) NoTRE DAME vs. UMD OR UMAss-LowELL 
(7:05 P.M. CT) 

page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, December 10, 2008 


Wednesday, December 10, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Red-hot Curryleads Davidson pastWest Virginia 

Associated Press 
. NEW YORK -Stephen Curry kept missing. His teammates kept telling him to shoot. 
Not a bad idea. 
Curry, the nation's leading scorer and one of the most popular college basketball players of this generation, fought off a terrible shooting start and took over the final 5 minutes to lead No. 23 Davidson to a 68-65 victory over West Virginia on Tuesday night in the Jimmy V Classic. 
"I was frustrated but my teammates kept telling me to keep shooting," said Curry, who missed 12 of his first 13 3-point attempts before mak­ing the last three and scoring 13 of the \Vildcats' last 15 points of the game. "I was trying to get some motion,~ but their defense with their long arms took that away." 
That didn't matter to Andrew Lovedale, whose 15 points were second to Curry's
27. . "We knew he had a dry peri.pd where he couldn't make any shots," Lovedale said, "but I walked up to him at a timeout and said 'Keep shooting. We'll get you the ball."' Curry got his teammates the ball as well, finishing with 10 assists, although he did have eight turnovers. He was 9-of-27 from the .field, including 4-of-16 from 3­point range, but finished 4.3 points below his average. 
Curry entered the game shooting 50.4 percent from 
the field and 40.9 percent from behind the arc. 
"It doesn't happen a lot," Curry said, when asked about the tough shooting night. "I got a little down on myself early in the second half because I had a fresh start and continued to go bad. 
"We all had our heads hanging a little bit because we couldn't get defensive rebounds, but as a whole, we energized and pulled togeth­er down the stretch, which is what we have learned to do over the last two years." 
The last of Curry's late 3s gave the Wildcats (7-1) the lead for good at 64-62 with 39 seconds to play. 
"He made two incredibly hard shots at the end," West Virginia coach Bob Huggins said. "The first one was a really, really hard shot where he was fading and got his feet down and we guarded that well. I hoped our length would bother him and we kept running guys at him so he couldn't get settled with one guy on him." 
The crowd at Madison Square Garden was oohing on every shot Curry let go, many of them from behind the NBA 3-point line, which is 2 feet, 3 inches deeper than college basketball's line. 
"It's cool to have that, but I don't really notice during the game," Curry said, "but it is special in a place of this magnitude. It's something I'll remember." 
John Flowers spent the most time covering Curry, but most of the Mountaineers 
(6-2} got a chance -espe­cially because West Virginia did an excellent job· of switching when Curry tried to use a teammate as a screen, forcing him farther away from the basket. 
When Curry connected with just under 5 minutes to play, he turned his back at mid­court and let his shoulders slump. The crowd was back on his side and he didh't let them down. 
"He is never flustered or frustrated by any adversity that faces him," Davidson coach Bob McKillop said. "I don't know how he does it, but that prevents him from having many shooting nights like he did tonight." 
D a ' S e a n B u t i.e r h ad a career-high 24 points and grabbed 14 rebounds for West Virginia, while fresh­man Devin Ebanks had 13 points and 17 rebounds. 
The Mountaineers finished with a 58-32 rebound advan­tage, 29-12 on the offensive end. 
West Virginia didn't have second-leading scorer Alex Ruoff, who injured his shoul­der in its win over Cleveland State last week, and Joe Mazzulla, the other starting guard, reinjured his shoulder early against Davidson and played only six minutes. 
"Take any team and take away its two starting guards and see how they do against Davidson, and we had a chance to win the game," Hu~ins said. "If we get something that goes the other way, I don't know. We had a hard time scoring at 

the end of the game." 
Davidson played without senior guard Max Paulhus Gosselin, the team's best defender, who was suspend­ed for one game by the Southern Conference after he was charged with a flagrant foul in a weekend victory over North Carolina State. 
That meant Curry had to play all 40 minutes. "We missed Max because with him in the rotation I 
usually don't play 40 min­utes," Curry said. "This was a special situation, but worked on my endurance over the summer." 
Curry had 44 points in that win over the Wolfpack, which followed his scoreless game against the junk defense of Loyola (Md). 
This was Davidson's first appearance in Madison Square Garden since the 1972 NIT. 

Own a Piece of ND History Commemorating the 35th Anniversary of ND Coeducation 
Available at Amazon (www.amazon.com), Barnes and Noble (www.bn.com), and on campus at The Notre Dame Bookstore 
Thanking
Father· Ted 

Thrity-Five Years ofNotre Dame Coeducation. 
Thanking hHh<'t Tt~ol Foundation 
'rl 

Ann Therese Darin Palmer. Editor 
From Andrews McMeel Publishing 
ND alumnae and ND celebrities thank Father 1edfor the gift of coeducation and discuss the impact oftheir ND educations. 
Profits benefit The Tbtmking Father Jed Scho!.zrship .fund 
The Thanking Father Ted Foundation 
For more information, go to 'W'W'W.1'hankingFatherTed.com 
Notre Dame \fbmen --Connect 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, December 10, 2008 
Boxers 
continued from page 20 
we had a lot of young guys, myself included. A lot of our blue-liners were freshmen and sophomores. I think this year guys have a lot more confi­dence and experience." 
Jackson agreed that the biggest change in Pearce's game since taking over the starting duties at the start of last season has been his confi­dence. He spent his first two years at Notre Dame backing up the program's statistical leader in almost every catego­ry, Dave Brown. 
"I think the ability has always been there," Jackson said. "I think once he knew Brown was leaving... mentally he said, 'This is my chance' and I think he took a hold of it. I give him a lot of credit for that because some kids would have packed it in." 
Pearce said watching Brown play for two years taught him he had to be more consistent with his game. He also said that he has improved a lot from 
Michigan 
continued from page 20 
three days later 50-42. 
"They're record is a little deceiving because they've played a really tough sched­ule .... I think they're a much-improved team over last year," McGraw said. 
If the Irish are going to break Michigan's defense, McGraw said, they will have to be patient. 
"If we can be patient with our shot selection, work the ball a little bit, see if we his work with Jackson, who played in net for Michigan State during his coltege days. 

Jackson and the team's three goaltenders have at least one session a week where they show up early and work on very specific technical weak­nesses for each goalie. The group also watches film every week to see where they need work. 
"[Jackson] knows a lot about goaltending. You might not expect that from him being such a great head coach. He is really good at pointing out a lot of subtle details and working on those things," Pearce said. 
That extra work has Pearce climbing in the Irish record books. Saturday night's shutout was the sixth of his career, tying him with Morgan Cey for the second most in program history. 
His first chance to move ahead of Cey comes .Friday night at Bowling Green. Pearce said he still hasn't decided which undies he will be pack­ing. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
turnover-to-assist ratio. Currently, the Irish have only 10 more helpers than giveaways (122 to 112), including a 14 assist, 18 turnover game against Purdue. McGraw said the Boilermaker defense deserves credit for that number. 
"I thought they were long and athletic, and they got their hands on a lot of balls," McGraw said. 
McGraw said that her team is continuing to improve its ball control, mentioning guard Brittany Mallory in particular as 
can score in "'/ thought {the doing a good the post, find job taking
Boilermakers] were 
out who's care of the 
going to be long and athletic, and ball. Mallory 
hot for the they got their hands has 17 assists game and try and seven
on a lot ofballs. ,,
to get them turnovers this the ball a lit­season. tle bit more. I Muffet McGraw Defensively, think we have Belles coach the Irish will 
to be smart and just see how the game's going and use our heads a little bit more in terms of our shot selection," McGraw said. 
Notre Dame will also need to keep rebounding like it has most of this season. After being outrebounded in the opener against Evansville, McGraw made hitting the boards the No. 1 priority for her team. McGraw reemphasized that priority after Michigan State beat her team on the boards. 
"[Rebounding is] some­thing we're really empha­sizing at practice. We've been watching it real close­ly in the games," McGraw said. 
Against the Boilermakers, the Irish did win on the glass, grabbing 4 7 rebounds to Purdue's 35. 
"When I watched the film I saw a concerted effort to box out a lot better. It was a just a team effort to keep them off the boards. And then I thought our post 
players did  an  outstanding  
job  getting  the  ball,"  
McGraw added.  

Another offensive problem McGraw said she hopes her team can correct against the Wolverines is the 
continue their 

quest to defend the 3-point line this season. The Irish have given up only a 23.2 shooting per­centage this season, a vast improvement from a 35.5 percentage last season from 3-point land. 
"Look at their 3-point attempts, they've shot 203, and we've only shot 88. They're shooting an awful lot of 3s," McGraw said. "[Guard Carly] Benson in particular has a quick 
-release; she's big. So she's going to create a lot of matchup problems. But when you look at their stats, they all shoot 3s." 
Notes: 
+Ashley Barlow, who suf­fered a concussion against Michigan State on No. 29, is currently day-to-day. Barlow had a meeting with the trainer on Tuesday to see if she is ready for the Michigan game, but McGraw was still unsure of her availability. 
+The game will appear on the Big Ten Network, which is channel 74 on Notre Dame and South Bend area Comeast, at 7 p.m. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Newsom said. "Especially with the addition of a large
Belles 

freshman class. I don't continued from page 20 even think the two seasons 
are comparable. We defi­the Belles freshmen. Also nitely miss having her, but in the game at least nine we have learned other ways different Belies all totaled to be a successful team." at least five points. Henley also noted that 
"We are a completely dif­Manchester will be a tough ferent team this season," team for the Belles. The 
Recruits 
continued from page 20 
expect because there will be plenty of negative recruiting from now until February." 
To combat these negative pitches aimed at the Irish pro­gram, Weis and his staff have focused on giving recruits per­sonal attention with in-home visits. 
"Coach Weis has never been a guy to stand on the sidelines when it comes to recruiting," Frank said. "He works extremely hard. He's probably the hardest working coach I've ever seen at Notre Dame. When 
Defense 
continued from page 20 
As a team, Notre Dame shot 3 7 -percent from behind the arc and 38-percent overall from the field -well below the team's season averages of 42-and 46-percent, respec­tively. The team's 62 points were also well short of the team's season average of 84 points-per-game. 
"We weren't ourselves," McAlarney said. "I was f.dlk­ing to some of the guys, and we were saying it just didn't feel right." 
On Saturday, Ohio State combined a three-quarter­court press with a 1-2-2 half­court zone. That approach slowed Notre Dame's tempo down forcing the Irish into a half-court game where the Buckeyes expanded their defense towards the three­point line paying razor-sharp attention to the Irish's shoot­ers, especially McAlarney. 
"They were talking really well," McAlarney said. "If I ran the baseline, they were [saying] here comes the shooter. Their big guys extended really well out with their length, and it was tough for a short guy like me to get a shot off." 
It didn't help that Notre Dame lost the rebounding battle to Ohio State 43-36. Failing to get defensive rebounds prevented the Irish 
~from running in transition forcing the team to bring the ball up against the Buckeyes' press. That full-court pres­sure also gave the Irish trou­ble as they committed several turnovers including two cru­cial ones midway through the first half. "We had a couple of spurts where they really got to us," Brey said. "After that stretch where we turned it over a few times in the first half, we never attacked the rest of the game whether it was the press or their zone in the half-court. "It was a little bit of appre­hension overall after the turnovers. We have the two turnovers in a row, and the whole atmosphere changed. Your will was broken a little bit, and I was a little disap­

it comes to recruiting, I think his motto is 'Hey, I wouldn't ask anybody to do something that I wasn't willing to do,' and I think that it really speaks vol­umes about him. The fact that he has this bum knee and he packs his things up and flies across the country to see just one guy." 
Although the 2008 Notre Dame season certainly won't be labeled as anything near ideal status, there is one thing the Irish can do to make at least a small stride on the recruiting trail-a bowl win. 
"I think it's really important," Frank said. "For the 2009 kids to see Notre Dame bounce back from a rough stretch and get 
Belles will need to come out with a lot of intensity and .~ their game faces on the road in hopes of keeping their winning streak alive. 
The Belles will head to Olivet Saturday for their third MIAA contest. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
things back in order. I don't think it will make or break any­thing but for the 2010 kids, they were off to a tremendous start with the 2010 kids. They're in really god position with some of the elite guys and I'm not sure what kind of dam­age a 6-6 season can do. I know one thing -a win will certainly help. What they can't have is to see 'Notre Dame keeps its bowl losing streak alive' all over ESPN and that's the kind of thing you need to avoid, so it's very important for the future of the program to win this game." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

., 
Senior guard Kyle McAiarney drives the lane during Notre Dame's 102-76 win over South Dakota on Dec. 2. 
pointed in that because we need to be more mentally tough." 
Given Ohio State's success in slowing down the Notre Dame offense, a lingering question is if other teams will emulate the Buckeyes sup­posed blue-print for defen­sive success against the Irish. Brey said that it wasn't lost on him that other teams may now try to zone-press Notre Dame more than they have in the past. 
Still, would other teams have the personnel to suc­cessfully play such a defense against Notre Dame? It's not every team that has Dallas Lauderdale -a forward with a 7-5 wingspan capable of defending out on the three­
" point line. Yet the Big-East will surely have teams with similar length and athletic ability on the defensive end. Louisville and Georgetown are both currently ranked top-10 nationally in defensive field goal percentage -both ahead of th~ Buckeyes, who are 11th in the nation. ''I'm sure other teams will be capable because in the Big East other teams will have similar bodies as Ohio State," 
forward Ryan Ayers said. "It will be a challenge for us if other teams go to that zone." 
Whether or not future Irish opponents ~re capable of playing the same caliber of defense as Ohio State, Notre Dame feels they will be pre­pared for it. Several players emphasized the blame for Saturday's disappointing offensive performance laid more with the Irish than the Buckeyes' defense. 
McAlarney talked about ' how the Irish would approach the same style of defense should they see it again, and his remarks echoed Brey's comments about how his team was taken out of their attacking mindset Saturday. 
"Our mentality will be dif­ferent. No [change in] strate­gy really. We know how to play so well that we'll figure out how to get to open areas. It was a matter of that night it was really us," he said. "Our energy level wasn't there, and I think we learned from that game that we have to bring it every night. When we didn't bring it, we're a normal team." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogast@nd.edu 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
Across  33 Prefix with ­ 56 Preacher's sky­ 
1 Started a  hedron  high f~eling?  
cigarette  36 Is false to the  60 Twistable cookie  
6 Sail supporter 10 Rooters 14 Left one's seat 15 Gumbo vegetable 16 Track shape 17 Allotment of heredity units? 19 Parks who pioneered in civil rights  world 37 Get from (progress slightly) 38 Battle of the (men vs. women) 39 Stadium section 40 Studied primarily, at college 42 Holder of 88 keys  61 Turn at roulette 62 Decaf brand 63 Give an alert 64 Direction of sunup 65 Sticky problem Down Hearty brew 2 Jim Carrey comedy "Me, Myself&_"  
20 Our language:  43 Caveman's era  3  Kingdom east of  
Abbr.  44 Vintage  Fiji  
21 Took the blue  automotive inits.  4  Milk tor all it's  
ribbon  45 Tennis great  worth  
Arthur22 Room to 46 Mediums' maneuver meetings24 Nuclear power 50 Stewed to the apparatus gills 27 Top 10 tunes 53 King Kong, e.g. 28 Hole-punching 54 Lacto-­tool vegetarian 29 Slender cigar 55 Sitarist Shankar ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  5 Pay-_-view 6 Travel by car 7 Closely related (to) 8 Sign at a sellout 9 Bikini wearers' markings 1 0 TV channel tor golfers? 11 State frankly 12 Shuttle­launching org. 13 Murder 18 Delinquent G.l. 23 Greek H's  Puzzle by Fred Piscop 32 Prefix with dynamic 33 Scots' caps 34 Coup d'_________ 35 Japanese P.M. during W. W. II 36 Mantel 38 Equine-looking  42 Split _ soup 44 Fishing line winder 46 Paid out 47 Nickels and dimes 48 Call to mind 49 Sunken ship finder  51 Dr. Zhivago 's love 52 1964 Dave Clark Five song "Glad All " 53 Hertz rival 57 Mileage rating org.  
25 Pasta-and­ fish  50 Furrowed part of  58 Cleopatra's biter  
potato-loving  41 Take a siesta  the head  59 Eastern "way"  
country?  
26 Former rival of  


Wednesday, December 10, 2008 
The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

THE DOME PIECE 
i Oh heavy bag Santa.
ITry carrying a cross! 

!Cool hat. NOT! ~~ilii&~ 
'-------r-~---­

····--·········-························ rve have enough  =  / .  
of your *&$@1  
Bring it, Jesus.  
This is my holiday!  

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJIJJMIDI1J! 

Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, 
.. to form four ordinary words. 
ABOOT jrJ r II 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
f 
~~~f~f-t I J 

....
tPYSEDE I 
OFT!:N FOl-l-OWS
J [] II 
WHt:N A BUSIN~S
www.Jumble.com 
FALLS INTO 1"1-l: r<a::?
tKOOPHU t 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J I I J I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: rI I JrI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: MAGIC BASIC DECENT SEXTONSaturday's 
Answer: What the single women did when they took a cruise -"MISSED" THE BOAT 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with aPan Am 
credit card. 1-800-814-5554. · 27 Safe place 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday29 Mischievous 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. sprite 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 ~f-=-t-=-=-f-:--t-:-.f...:.:~:~+.:..f 30 Director Kazan past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 31 Claim on Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young property solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is· a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete· the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
, 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ________________________________________ 
City __________ State ____ Zip________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TinS DAY: Jakob· Dylan, 39; Allison Smith. 39; John 
Mal.kovich, 55; Beau Bridges, 67 

Happy Birthday: Move forward in areas of your life that re-ally matt.:r fo y,1u. Taking 
on something altogelher out of the ord.inar:y will he inspiring and refreshing and will 
give you back your z~st for life. Look forward with optimism and the belief that dream.-; 
can come true. Your number.<. are 1, 3. 10. 23, ':.7, 3::!. 46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Jum1> at any chance 10 take a trip or to learn something 
new. Don't hesitate to pick up a new hobby or get involved in a group you believe in. 
There is so much to gain by inte-racting with others. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): If you lt>t your personallif~ or someone you work with 
get to you. nothing will be gained. Put your heart and soul into your work and push your 
taknts 10 the limit. Now is the time to position yourself for the future. 3 stars 
GEMII'II1 (May 21-June 20): Love will take a front seat but don't let your jealousy or in­
security cause troublt: for you. Upfront, honest intcra.:tion will he thc key to happiness 
and Iong~vity. Think before you act and you will avoid gri<'f. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't overspend on someone who may or may not he in 
your lif~ in the new yt>ar. Be practical in your dealings with people. Be open to propos­
als. You can't Jet fear lead you to pass by a ch:tnce to get ahead.~ stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let your emotions Jr.>ad th<' way or you \Vill find you arl' 
traveling down the wrong path. There are plenty of opportuniti~s avail:tble through 
friends and colleagues. Network all you can and you will get results. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Thc more you get to see (X'Ople from your past, tho:: more 
you will discover about yourself and where you are heading. Stressed out family mem­
bers may push you. Do not give in to emotional blackmail or ultimatums. 5 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Make your plans now for any off-lime you get during the 
holiday season. Trawl should be takrn can• of in advance, so do so m1w. Cormecting 
with someone you haven't seen in a while ·will be ditlkult emotionally but will bring 
some surprisingly good resuhs. 3 stars 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't believe everything you bear. Someone v.'ill s.:nd you on a wild goose chase that will wasle your time and possibly cost you a chance to 
advance. Hook up with people who are u11ique. different and inspiring. 3 stars· 
SAGil'fARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec-21 ); Don't k:ll your secrets to anyone who may use them against you. Yon can expect the worst to .:orne out in people when competition ari~s. Be powerful in your actions and you will d..-ter anyone from messing with you 
now or in the future. 3 stars 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. t9): Make adjusllnents at home that will suit your holi­day n~-eds. Ifyou plan on having guests or visiting SOID<.."'ne else. be sure to be prepared. A property or financial deal can set you up for future benefits. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let your emotions get in the way of an important decision. Ik dear about what you want and how thi11gs have to be for you to make a move. Do nol deviate from the rules, even if someone i.~ persuasive. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Macch 20}: You'll be walking a fine line between your position and ? your standing in the community. Don't ask for too much if vou really want to work with someone. It's always tempting to take advantage but it rarefy turns out favorably. ~ stars 
Birthday Baby: You are uniqu.:, outgoing and have your own 5et of rules. You are care­frl!'e and energetic and adapt, adjust and outmaneuver most. 
Eug~nia's ffi·b sit~l·: mgeuinlast.com for confidential consultafiOIU, my.fpace.coml~ltgeuinlastfor Eugenia's blog. nstmath·ice.comforftm 

Wednesday, December 10, 2008 page 20 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Recruits happy to learn that Weis will continue to coach ND 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Among the chaos and confu­sion that a potential coaching change brings, one thing was made certain about Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis dur­ing perhaps his moment of greatest adversity in his four­year career -despite his struggles on the field, Weis can recruit. . 
After the disappointing Irish loss at the hands of Southern California, Weis and the rest of the coaching staff hit the recruiting trail to attempt and convince potential commits that the program was in sure hands. 
With the uncertainty sur­rounding the head coaching position, most of the high­school prospects currently com­mitted to Notre Dame were hearing recruiting pitches from rival programs. Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame foot­ball for Scout.com, knows that Irish commits were bombarded with these sorts of comments. 
"I think, originally, they were hearing a bunch of things," Frank said. "·Stuff like, 'Coach Weis is not going to be back, he's not going to be coaching them,' and I think the big thing was when Notre Dame finally came out and said something, it made a lot of people more com­fortable with their situation." 
Frank said he feels that this is the nature of high school recruiting -especially when a season doesn't quite live up to expectations. 
"Well kids are going to be hearing things from other schools whether you have a 6-6 record or a 9-3 record or even a 11-0 record," Frank said. "That's the nature of the beast. I can't remember too many recruiting classes that have gone by where Notre Dame did­n't lose one of their committed players at one point, but they usually gain some guy that nobody knows about as well." 

Despite all the other pro­grams attempts to get in the committed players' ears, the Irish coaching staff can restore 
HOCKEY 
Lucky charms 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Team hopes to regain scoring touch vs. UM 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 

Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will look to find

' I 
its jumpshot after shooting
I 
/c 
only 34.4 percent its last time out in Ann Arbor, Mich., when they take on Michigan tonight. 
After the offensive struggles against the Boilermakers on Sunday, the Irish face anoth­er tough test immediately in the Wolverines. Michigan has
r
1: given up only 58.1 points per game on a 38.3 shooting per­centage this season. 

"They're a really good defensive team. If you look at what they're doing defensive­
ly, holding teams down, they kind of pack it in and kind of force you to shoot jumpers," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Michigan has surrendered more than 66 points only once this season -an· 81-53 loss at USC on Dec. 2. 
The points per game is even more impressive considering M i chigan 's s c h e d u Ie so far this season. Notre Dame will be the fourth top-15 team the Wolverines have played. and they have gone 1-2 in those games. Michigan lost to then­No. 12 Texas A&M 59-56 and beat then-No. 13 Vanderbilt 
see MICHIGAN/page 18 


WU YUEffhe Observer Senior goalie Jordan Pearce makes a save during Notre Dame's Oct. 25 game against Miami (Ohio). 
the 

"The big thing is, I think you have to battle it from the word 'go' and say, ·~ook, here's what people are going to be saying about us and what's happening here and here's why what they're saying is not true,' so I think you have to battle it head on and let people know what is coming," Frank said. "The big . thing is staying on top of recruits that they have commit­ted and let them know what to 
see RECRUITS/page 18 

Senior netminder earns CCHA honors in wins over Ferris St. 
. By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
When Notre Dame arrived at Ferris State for a pair of games last weekend goaltender Jordan Pearce realized that he forgot a key piece of equipment -his lucky boxers. 
"I forgot the boxers this week­end so I was like, 'Oh, darn,' but I didn't really let it bother me," Pearce said. 
Apparently it didn't. Pearce stopped 55 of the Bulldogs' 56 shots to pick up two more wins and his second shutout of the season on Saturday night -so much for the luck of the Irish. 
"If I was really superstitious I would have been so worried about that I might not have got­ten ready the same way," he said. · 
Pearce was named the CCHA Goaltender of the Week for his performance at Ferris State. According to Irish coach Jeff Jackson, the award is a good recognition of how well the sen­ior netminder has been playing all year. Pearce is currently sec­ond in the CCHA in both goals against average (1.66) and save percentage (.937). Only Alaska's Chad Johnson has slightly better numbers. 

"Right now he's playing really well," Jackson said. "I just don't want him to get distracted by the awards or attention, but he's a pretty humble kid." 
The Alaska native had a red hot month of November. His 1.36 goals against average helped the No. 1 Irish a 12-game win streak, which is currently the longest in the country. The streak includes two shootout victories featuring game-saving stops from Pearce. For his efforts, he was named the RBC Financial Group's CCHA player of the month. 
"You get confidence the more you play," Pearce said. "Last year 
see BOXERS/page 18 

BASKETBALL 
Ohio State tough'vs. Irish attack 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
With under 10 seconds to play Saturday against Ohio State and Notre Dame need­ing a three-pointer to tie the game, Kyle McAlarney fired away from at least six feet behind the 3-point line. 
It was probably the best shot he was going to get. 
The Buckeyes stifled Notre Dame's high-powered ()ffense, especially McAlarney and the Irish's 3-point shoot­ing, like no other Irish oppo­nent this season. McAlarney, who entered Saturday's game having hit 10, nine and seven treys in his previous three games, missed all six of his 3-point attempts on Saturday. 
see DEFENSE/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles set to face Manchester 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

Coming off. a pair of home wins, the Belles trav­el to Manchester tonight a 7 p.m. looking for a non­conference victory. 
"I think we are making progress as a team." Belles coach Jen Henley said. "We need to continue to focus on the defensive end of the game and develop overall consistency." 
The Belles are turning to some veteran leadership this season, including sen­ior Erin Newsom. 
Newsom, a South Bend native, is the co-athlete of the week at Saint Mary's this week, after racking up 39 points last week. 
The Belles' victory over Calvin last week was the first time they had beaten Calvin in 29 attempts. 
"I think that we see all the conference teams as rivals," Newsom said. "Some schools arc seen as tougher to beat like Hope and Calvin, but we try to go into every game with the attitude that we need to play our best in order to win, regardless of the team we're put up against." 
Along with Newsom, the Belles will turn to seniors Nicole Beier, Meghan Conaty and Katie Rashid to help improve on their fourth place finish in the conference from last year. 
The Belles took a big step in the right direction with their two MIAA wins last week. 
The Belles freshmen are also getting plenty of play­ing time early this season to help replace the loss of Alison Kessler to gradua­tion. 
"I think our freshmen class is adjusting well," Henley said. "Our return­ing players have done an outstanding job in welcom­ing them to our team and making sure they don't get lost along the way." 
Freshman Patsy Mahoney was able to rack up 10 points in the win over Calvin on Saturday leading 
see BELLES/page 18 



