-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
CCAC convenes for first meeting 
Combined student, university-administrator, city-official group discusses student-town relations 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 

Formed in late September as a forum for students, university administrators and city repre­sentatives to discuss community relations. the Community Campus Ar.tion Coalition {CCAC) met for the first time Wednesday afternoon at the County-City Building in downtown South Bend. 
''I'm grateful for our relation­ships with the universities and the opportunity to come together in this forum," South Bend mayor Stephen Luecke said. 
The CCAC was created five months ago after the South Bend Common Council members decided not to implement regula­tions requiring residents to pre­register large gatherings within the city. An ordinance eventually passed with provisions to that would require party permits, if the Council voted to activate them. 

The coalition, in the meantime, will serve as a forum that will facilitate discussion about issues important to community mem­bers. 
"To quote [University President] Father John Jenkins, Notre Dame thrives when South Bend thrives, and South Bend thrives when Notre Dame thrives," local lawyer and mem­ber of the Notre Dame Board of 
see CCAC/page 6 

STUDENT SENATE 

Resolution passed to boost local products 
University encourages Food Services to support farming industry in nearby Midwestern states 
tion, said it includes foods from Wisconsin and from all states bordering Indiana. According to the resolution, Notre Dame Food Services (NDFS) will raise its local produce budget from three percent to seven percent over the next three years. 
Karen Koski, Social Concerns Committee chair, said the Senate has discussed the percentage with NDFS, which believes it is a reasonable goal. 
'These numbers are specific numbers that we talked to them about," she said. "They know 
see SENATE/page 4 By CLAIRE REISING 


News Writer 

The Student Senate passed a resolution Wednesday support­ing an increase in Food Services' budget for locally-grown pro­duce in the dining halls. The resolution states that the University should buy fi·om local farms to support the farming industry in the Midwest econo­my and to avoid the environ­mental effects of transporting goods over long distances. 
Morrissey senator Tom Bacsik, who drafted the resolu-


SUB reps pick up new 
lessons at conference 
By LINDSAY SENA 
News Writer 
The Student Union Board {SUB) sent live student represen­tatives and three Student Activities Office {SAO) represen­tatives to St. Louis, Mo., to par­ticipate in an annual convention hosted by the National A<>sociation for Campus Activities last weekend. 
The eonv1~ntion primarily foeused on showcasing up-and­coming artists, but also hosted several educational sessions to benefit both student leaders and university stall'. 
Sessions covered topies rang­ing from "'llow to plan a suc­cessfullflcture' to 'How to recruit and retain volunteers,"' said SUB Board Manager Phillip Ross. 
"Although much of the confer­ence focused on showcasing novel talent, each day we went to one or two educational sessions," Ross said. "Some of them focused on leadership, but others offered guidance on the actual logistics of planning events. 
"Learning to plan further in advance, communicate effective­ly, and organize a team to work in harmony with purpose all should not only help plan the best events but also can help strengthen the members of [Notre Dame's] delegation to become better leaders all over campus." 
The sessions were led by stu­dent activities' advisors, gradu­ate assistants, talent agency staff and administrators "from schools all over the country," Ross said. 
Ross attended a lecture by an advisor of Xavier University's Student Activities Council and 
see SUB/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Trustees to host spring 111eeting 
Preliminary topics of hearings confidential 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's Board of Trustees will convene today for their second official meeting of the year. While hearings are confidential, senior and outgoing student trustee, Cate Cetta, said much of the content will include evaluating events that happened this year as well as pertinent issues that are not open to the public until after the proceedings. 
"As with every meeting, we will have Standing Committee meetings on Thursday and the full Board business meeting Friday," Cetta said. "With exception of the summer retreat, no meeting has one particular focus. A wide range of topics are always discussed, how­ever, I can't enclose that information before the meet­ings." 
The meetings in October centered around the revi­sions and acceptance of College President Carol Mooney's "Strategic Plan" for the College. 
"I am excited to discuss all of the events we have had on campus since the last meet­ing in October," Cetta said. 
As student trustee this 
see BOT/page 4 




Waste project yields surprise 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 

Between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. Wednesday, the 708 people who ate in Saint Mary's dining hall wasted 226 pounds of food, according to the Saint Mary's Environmental Action Coalition's "Weigh Your Waste" project. 
"This is an incredible amount of food waste considering it was only collected for three hours out of one day," said head of public relations for SMEAC Ashley Cook. "Considering Saint Mary's is a small school, I expected the food waste to be much less." 
According to the results. 0.32 pounds of food was wasted for every person that entered the dining hall for lunch. The group weighed the waste in the middle of the dining hall. 
Cook hopes the "Weigh Your Waste" project will have an impact on Saint Mary's students. 
"I think that weighing out all of the food waste today and making it visible to everyone could really have an effect on how much is wasted." Cook said. 
While this is the first year the SMEAC has done the "Weigh Your Waste" project, they have been doing events all year to make Saint Mary's students more environmentally conscious. 
On National Recycling Day, they dug through bags of trash separating the recyclables from the non-recyclables. Afterwards they set the actual trash out in front of the Student Center to prove that if students recycled, trash accumulation would be much less. 
Also, SMEAC writes "mirror memos," where facts about the environment are written on mir­rors throughout campus. This week's faet is "Americans repre­sent only 5 percent of the world's population, but generate 30 per­cent of the world's garbage." 
Later in the year, they hope to do another "Weigh Your Waste" in hopes that student waste lev­els have gone down. 
If the waste does not go down, Cook says that the club will "think of alternative options to really get the point across." 
Cook said Sodexho. the food service on campus, was extremely cooperative. 
"They thought it was a great idea and were very willing to let us do what we asked because they also know that food waste is a problem." 
Students should be on the lookout for posters with results of "Weigh Your Waste." Cook hopes this will have an effect on students 
"Since our dining hall has such an abundance of food there will always be some waste, but it is good to get the facts out there so students can realize that it is a problem that they could do something about." 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO1@saintmarys.edu 
Thursday, February 21, 2008 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Passing the torch 
So, I'm sitting in Observer headquar­ters in the basement of South Dining I tall at 1:43 a.m., and I nmlize there's no Inside Column. (This is one of the many joys of being an editor). 
And, unfortu­
nately, I am not very creative. So, I'd like to take this opportunity first, to apologize for wast­ing space, and sec­ond, to discourage people from read­ing on. 

I guess this is as Katie Kohler 
good a time as any 
to talk about a rel­
evant issue in my Saint Mary's 
life and many oth­Editor 
ers who work for 
The Observer. 
Tonight is our annual 'Turnover Dinner." What this means is that the Editor-in-Chief turns in her nameplate and, thus, all her executive responsibili­ties at the paper. And next week, all the remaining editors will do the same. 
Tonight, at 6 p.m., Maddie Hanna will get her life back as a college senior and. hopefully, enjoy her newfound freedom. 
It's almost like a mini-graduation­moving forward from something you've invested so much time and energy in for tho past four years. It is emotional. It is sad. It is exciting. 
Our turnover dinner is one of the few times a year the majority of the stall" gets together. The sports writers get to know tlw news writers. The photogra­phers share a drink with the graphic designers. We say a few speeches, have some pizza and look on to the next two months where the incoming editors have to come into thnir own. 
Tlw year doesn't start in August for The Observer. It begins in March (or February for some). We have to train a new stall", recruit writers and do all the grunt work you never imagine it takes to give you a daily newspaper. We like to do it, don't get me wrong. But tonight, we get to pat ourselves on the back and reflect on our 42nd successful year as the "Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." 
From scandal to lfleture, from Big East win to devastating football loss, Thfl Observer is there to cover it. Some days, we strugglfl. Other days, we are one of the top-read college newspapers in the nation. We strive to be that for you tweryday, but we know that's not possible. 
So, tonight I want to hail the outgoing senior editors for all their hard work and dedication to the 2007-2008 Observer and also let the student body know that there is a new set of editors in town who will be striving to make an already great newspaper better. 
To Maddie, Ken, Kyle, Mary Kate, Karen, Chris, Tae, Dusty and Joey, good luck and thanks for your help and dedi­cation to The 0. Have some fun tonight. 
(And P.S. It has been the greatest honor and privilege to work for Kyle Cassily for the past three years and learn from arguably the greatest hock­ey writer in Observer history.) 
Cheers. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necf~ssarily those ofThe Obsen,er. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO I @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The l )bserver regards irselfas a professional puhlicuion and srrives filr rhe highesr standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, re-cognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a rnisrake, ple-.JSe contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE BOOK YOU'VE HAD TO READ FOR SCHOOL? 



Angela Carothers Brad Rathe 
junior freshman Pasquerilla East Dillon 
'"Dante's Divine "'To Kill a Comedy.' It's got Mockingbird.' It politics, addresses a lot 
forbidden love, ofrelevant suicide and issues. .. retribution. .. 

Bizabeth Peterson 
junior Welsh Family 
"School? I don't readfor school." 
Francisco Fernandez 
sophomore Fisher 
"'Beyond Good and Evil,' because I'm in a dark mood today. .. 

OFFBEAT 
Meatloaf the cat heads home after trek 
PHOENIX-A cat named Meatloaf who took a 3-week cross-country ride locked in a storage container is head­ed home to Florida. Arizona Humane Society officials say the 2-year-old gray cat apparently crawled into the large locker in Pompano Beach, Fla. as a man loaded it for a move to Phoenix. 
The container spent time in a Florida warehouse and on a semitrailer before being delivered to a company's Phoenix facility. 
A worker heard a cat meowing inside the contain­er late Tuesday and found him hungry and thirsty but unharmed. The man who was moving remembered a similar cat near his old apartment. 
Meatloafs owners had put up posters around their neighborhood and the apart­ment manager recalled them when Humane Society called. 
Man drives stolen car to police station 
ANDERSON, S.C. Authorities say a man drove a stolen car to the Anderson County Sheriff's Office to demand the return of nearly $2,000 officers seized from him during a drug arrest last June. 
Deputies said after they told Charles Chambers, 36, to leave Tuesday afternoon, an officer noticed he got into a car that matched the description of a vehicle stolen about three hours earlier. 
Another officer pulled the man over and told him to stop the car. The officer said Chambers stuck a screwdriv­er in the ignition to shut it oil" because the vehicle's key switch had been removed. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

....... c:t 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 19
.... 
LOW 9 

HIGH LOW 


22 13 



Jenny Lewis Kyle Ubi 
junior sophomore 
Badin Fisher 

"My favorite '"The Great 
book is Gatsby.' The 
'Harmony and lessons ofthe 
Voice Leading,' story transcend 
because music generations. .. 
theory is provocative and inspiring. .. 
IN BRIEF 

'The Call of the Entrepreneur' will be shown today at 5 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business. 
The men's basketball team will play against No. 22 Pittsburgh tonight at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
As part of the Ten Years Hence lecture series, professor Karen Hunt Ahmed from the department of finance at DePaul University will speak at 
10:40 a.m. Friday in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
Mass will be celebrated for the Feast of the Chair of St. Peter Friday at 5 p.m. in Alumni Hall Chapel. Father Brian Daley will preside and the Notre Dame Gregorian Schola will perform. 
There will be Stations of the Cross Friday at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 
The 50th Annual Collegiate Jazz Festival will begin Friday at 7 p.m. with a concert featur­ing at least four different bands. The festival will eon­elude Saturday with an after­noon concert at 1 p.m. and an evening concert at 7 p.m. All events will be in Washington Hall. 
Notre Dame hockey will play Ohio State Friday and Saturday at 7:35p.m. and 7:05 
p.m. in the Joyce Center. 

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 27 HIGH 31 LOW 21 LOW 22 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, February 21, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Aragon given national Latino poetry grant 
Special to The Observer 
Francisco Aragon, director of Letras Latinas, the literary program of the Institute for Latino Studies (ILS) at Notre Dame, has been awarded a grant from the San Antonio­based National Association of Latino Art and Culture (NALAC) to organize "The Wind Shifts: New Latino Poetry ON TOUR." 
Named after the anthology Aragon edited last year with the University of Arizona Press, the tour features 25 poets and will kick off Saturday (Feb. 23) at the Society of the Four Arts in Palm Beach, Fla. It will travel to five other cities in the next two years, including May 31 at The Loft Literary Center in Minneapolis, and Sept. 25 at the Richard Hugo House in Seattle. 
With the exception of the first reading, which will fea­ture three poets, each subse­quent stop on the tour will showcase no fewer than four poets from "The Wind Shifts." 
In addition to initial support from the NALAC Fund for the Arts, the tour is supported by The Guild Complex, a commu­nity-based literary organiza­tion in Chicago, as well as pri­vate donors. 
"The Guild Complex was a natural partner for a project like this because Letras Latinas already collaborates with them to produce 'Palabra Pura,' a bilingual poetry read­ing series in Chicago," said Aragon, who recently joined the Guild Complex board. 
Letras Latinas seeks to enhance the visibility, appreci­ation and study of Latino liter­ature, both on and off the Notre Dame campus, with a focus on projects that identify and support emerging Latino writers. 
The NALAC Fund for the Arts is a pilot grant program designed to help Latinos devel­op their creative talents and make lasting contributions to Latino communities and socie­ty as a whole. Launched in 2005 with major support from the Ford Foundation, the fund provides financial resources to strengthen Latino arts organi­zations and to support Latino artists in the creation of their work. 
Founded in 1999, the ILS fosters understanding of the 
U.S. Latino experience by advancing research, expand­ing knowledge and strengthen­ing community. Building on the intellectual legacy of Julian Samora, a pioneering Latino scholar and professor of-sociology at Notre Dame, the institute supports interdis­ciplinary initiatives in Latino studies as a key component of the University's academic mis­sion. 
Satellite to be shot down 
Navy plans to hit failing spy device once weather conditions are right 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON The Pentagon said Wednesday that the window of opportunity is now open for it to try to shoot down a failing spy satellite. 
The Navy is planning to hit the satellite with a heat-seek­ing missile as early as Wednesday night. But officials had been waiting for the space shuttle Atlantis to return to Earth so it would not be hit by falling debris. 
"We're now into the win­dow," a senior defense official told a Pentagon press confer­ence minutes after the shuttle landed at 9:07 a.m. EST. 
He said it will remain open until Feb. 29 or 30 and that the decision to attempt a shot will depend on conditions in the atmosphere, such as sea levels, winds and other vari­ables. 
"We're watching weather today,'' he said. The ground rules of the news conference were that the official could not be quoted by name. 
The military will be making decisions each day on whether to proceed with an attempt or not -and criteria could change several times each day, he said. 
The opportunity to attempt a shot will be available only sec­onds each day, the official said. 
The attempted shootdown 
was approved by President Bush out of concern that toxic fuel on board the satellite could crash to earth, the Defense Department has said. 
Officials will know nearly immediately whether the mis­sile has hit the satellite, but it will take a day or two to know whether the fuel tank has been destroyed, officials said. 
The military has readied a three-stage Navy missile, des­ignated the SM-3, which has chalked up a high rate of suc­cess in a series of missile defense tests since 2002. In each case it targeted a short­or medium-range ballistic missile, never a satellite. A hurry-up program to adapt the missile for this anti-satel­lite mission was completed in a matter of weeks; Navy offi­cials say the changes will be reversed once this satellite is down. 
The government issued notices to aviators and mariners to remain clear of a section of the Pacific Ocean beginning at 10:30 p.m. EST Wednesday, indicating the first window of opportunity to launch an SM-3 missile from a Navy cruiser, the USS Lake Erie, in an effort to hit the wayward satellite. 
Having lost power shortly after it reached orbit in late 2006, the satellite is out of control and well below the altitude of a normal satellite. 
The Pentagon wants to hit it with an SM-3 missile just before it re-enters Earth's atmosphere, in that way mini­mizing the amount of debris that would remain in space. 
Left alone, the satellite would be expected to hit Earth during the first week of March. About half of the 5,000-pound spacecraft would be·expected to survive its blazing descent through the atmosphere and would scatter debris over several hundred miles. 
Adding to the difficulty of the shootdown mission, the missile will have to do better than just hit the bus-sized satellite, a Navy official said Tuesday. It needs to strike the relatively small fuel tank aboard the spacecraft in order to accomplish the main goal, which is to eliminate the toxic fuel that could injure or even kill people if it reached Earth. The Navy official described technical aspects of the mis­sile's capabilities on condition that he not be identified. 
Also complicating the effort will be the fact that the satel­lite has no heat-generating propulsion system on board. That makes it more difficult for the Navy missile's heat­seeking system to work, although the official said soft­ware changes had been made to compensate for the lack of heat. 


Looking for solid business and accounting experience to put on your resume? 
The Observer is accepting applications for a 2008-09 Business Manager and Controller. Responsibilities include preparing a yearly budget and handling payroll for a 200-person staff. 
Since the Controller will take over as the 2009-10 Business Manager, Controller applicants should be sophomores, or juniors staying for a fifth year. 
Both positions are salaried, about six to 10 hours a week. Please contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna1@nd.edu or Kyle West at kwest1@nd.edu if interested. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------------­
page 4 Thursday, February 21, 2008 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
exactly what this resolution says, and they lind the jump from three to seven percent challenging, but l(lasibh\ whieh is what we're look­ing for." 
The rnsolution passed 18-3, with one abstention, but a few senators voiced concerns about how to fund the initiative. Farley senator Victoria Perez said some members of her Hall Council were not in favor of the budget raise because they feared other components of the budget would sulfer. 

"What arP we taking money from? I know they're already com­plaining about not having enough money to pay for silverware and Ithings] like that," she said. 
llowover, Bacsik said NDFS would not have to increase the funds it spends, but would just divert funds it already has. 
"If they're getting apples from California, now they're going to spond that same money and get apples from Michigan," he said. "It's diverting funds from things that you're alrnady getting from other long-distance sources to more local sources and supporting the local economy." 
BOT 
continued from page 1 
year, the student body has used Cetta as a liaison between the Board and the students, she said. 
"The students have been very vocal in discussing con­cerns with me," she said. "Some have approached me, but I get most of my feed­back from attending all the student government board meetings in the weeks before the Trustees are here." 
Cotta will usher in the new student trustee in April, although there is not any official training, she said. "Just like all student govern­ment positions, there will be turnover in April." 
The role of the trustee is to communicate student views to the Board, Cetta said. 
"I attend [Board of Governance), BOT meetings and events and prepare reports when necessary," she said. "However, my most important role is bringing a student voice to the Board." 
The application process for the next Student Trustee began a few weeks ago and required a letter of intent, resume and recommenda­tions. Only current juniors may apply. 
Within the Board, each Trustee committee has a chair and a vice chair who lead the meeting. The full Board meeting is headed by John O'Connor, the current Chair of the Board. 
Since the trustees come to campus infrequently, Cotta hopos they will be pleased by tho construction land­scapo and other campus changes. 
"I know [the trustees! will be pleased to see the great progress that has been made to Spes Unica Ilall," she said, referring to the College's new academic building, scheduled to be eompleted this fall. 
Mentings will continue into tomorrow and information will bn available Monday. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Bacsik added that locally-grown Health and Body Image foods may be more expensive Conference, which will be held since they come from mostly March 11-13. Brenna Doyle and 
small,  family-run  Patrick Tighe,  
farms. However, he  the  Gender  
said Notre Dame and other universi­ "We,re hoping anyone  Issues Committee co­ 
ties in Indiana will  can see any part of  chairs, summa­ 
invest in the future by building a lasting relationship with  presentation that fits into their schedule. ,,  rized the con­ference's itiner­ary and gave  
these farms.  background  
"By banding those together and by get­ting out into the local  Brenna Doyle Gender Issues  information about some of the speakers.  
sources, they're try­ Committee co-chair  The confer­ 
ing to get a  long­ ence's keynote  
standing relationship  speaker, Aim J.  

so they can get a quality product Simonton, will present "Sex, at a decreasing cost," he said. Power and the Media" on March 
Welsh Family senator Tara 11 from 5-6 p.m. Simonton, a for­Sehimpf raised another objection mer fashion model and current to the resolution, asking if NDFS media activist, will discuss the will sacrifice food quality or selec­consequences of corporate media. tion. Other speakers will give presen­
"Does that mean that when tations on topics such as the mod­we're going locally, when it's a bad eling profession, pro-eating disor­season for that !product] here, der Web sites, the effects of eating !we're] not going to have that disorders and treatment of eating item? Are we saerifieing quality?" disorders. The conference will she said. also show ''Thin," an HBO docu­
Bacsik said that seasonality will mentary about an eating disorder affect local foods available, but treatment center. NDFS will remain committed to Tighe said registration for the buying fresh produce. conference is free for Notre Dame 
In addition to passing the reso­students and faculty, and Doyle lution, the Senate previewed the said students do not need to stay for the entire conference if they choose to attend. Senators will be posting sign-up sheets in dorms during the coming weeks. 

"We're hoping anyone can see any part of presentation that fits into their schedule," she said. 
In other Senate News: 
+ Carol Hendrickson, Academic Affairs Committee chair, said she was pleased with the turnout at Monday's town hall meeting dis­cussing the hiring of Catholic fac­ulty. The Senate also discussed more results from their dorm ses­sions on the issue. 
Fisher Senator Stephan Bant said although students agreed on the importance of Catholic charac­ter at Notre Dame, they debated whether a Catholic-majority facul­ty was essential to maintaining it. 
"It seemed like the general con­sensus I got was that people thought that if it was pertinent to keeping the Catholic character at Notre Dame, they supported hav­ing a majority Catholic faculty, but they just didn't seem to think that having Catholic professors really affected what happened in the classroom," he said. 
+ Karen Koski, Social Concerns Committee chair, will meet with Food Services next week to dis­cuss the possibility of students using Domer Dollars to donate to service clubs. She said when dubs are collecting for charities or serv­ice projects, students do not always have money with them. However, this initiative would allow students to swipe their ID cards to donate money. 
+ 
Multicultural Affairs Committee Chair Ninny Wan dis­cussed the possibility of a cultural competency requirement in the undergraduate currieulum. She said there are three proposals for integrating culture into students' experience: a r11quirement to take one class that is related to culture, a requirement to take a class or participate in an activity related to culture, or a Web site that lists cultural opportunities at Notre Dame. 

+ 
Callie Pogge, University Affairs Committee Chair, said a student-faculty debate on John McCain's and Barack Obama's health care plans will take plaee next Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Hoom or LaFortune. The event will feature Economics Professor Bill Evans and Dr. Hudolph Navari, director of the Indiana University School of Medicine in South Bond. 


Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 

Lt\.nnouncing the Year 2008 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2008 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a fbm1al program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year ofltalian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Reconnnended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department ofRomance Languages, 343 0 1Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a Jetter which should include: 
1)  an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study wi11 enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-tem1 goals;  
3)  a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved;  
5)  two letters of recommendation  
6)  a transcript showing aU grades and courses completed  
7)  a list ofother sources of funding (being sought or confinncd) tt.x the same project  
(i.e. Office of Intemational Studies, Nanovic Institute, etc.)  
Application Deadline: \Vednesday, February 27, 2008  
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Tt·avel Scholarship  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University of Notre name  






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 21, 2008 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
US denies stalemate with N. Korea 
SEOUL -The main U.S. envoy to North Korea denied that nuclear talks were at a stalemate Wednesday, a day after he met with the North's top negotiator for the first time in two months. 
Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill said North Korea insisted during talks in Beijing aimed at ridding the communist nation of nuclear weapons that it is not currently cooperating with any other countries on nuclear technology. 
North Korean nuclear envoy Kim Kye Gwan "wanted to make very clear that they are not at present having any nuclear cooperation with any other country and they will not in the future have any nuclear cooperation with any other country," Hill said. 
Powerful earthquake strikes Indonesia 
.JAKARTA -A powerful earthquake struck western Indonesia on Wednesday, alarming resi­denl<> and prompting a l<>unami warning, official agencies and witnesses said. There were no immediate reporl<> of injuries. 
The quake, which had a preliminary magnitude of 7.6, struck ofT the western coast of Sumatra island close to Simeulue island, the U.S. Geological Survey said in a posting on its Web site. 
There was an immediate tsunami warning issued, possibly because the quake was deep under the sea bed. 
Several callers told local radio station el-Shinta that the quake was felt strongly on Sumatra, but there was no immediate reports of damage or injuries. 
A magnitude-9 quake off Sumatra's coast in 2004 triggered a tsunami that killed more than 230,000 people in a dozen countries, most of them in Indonesia. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Man indicted for foiled Super Bowl plan 
WASHINGTON -A man accused of planning to shoot people at the Super Bowl was indicted on six counts of sending threatening communications, according to court documents filed Tuesday in federal courl 
Kurt William Havelock, 35, turned himself in to authorities Feb. 3 after driving within sight of University of Phoenix Stadium during the Super Bowl with a rifle and 200 rounds of ammunition. He said he changed his mind. 
Havelock told authorities he was upset that the city of Tempe denied him a liquor license application for a Halloween-themed bar. 
Before the planned attack, the indictment said, Havelock sent several letters to Web sites and news organizations. Havelock's writings included an eight­page manifesto in which he warned ofan "econopoliti­cal confrontation," according to the FBI. 

Supreme Court rejects Katrina case 
NEW ORLEANS-The nation's highest court dealt a blow Tuesday to property owners who want insur­ance companies to pay for damage from levee breach­es after Hurricane Katrina, but the Louisiana Supreme Court is poised to tackle the issue later this month. 
The U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear appeals from Xavier University and dozens of other Louisiana policyholders who sued several insurers for refusing to cover water damage from the levee breaches that flooded 80 percent of New Orleans following the August 2005 hurricane. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana Beach park sold by founders 
MONTICELLO -The family that owned the Indiana Beach amusement park for more than 80 years has sold it to a company that operates campgrmmds across much of the country. 
The new owners plan few immediate changes at the park, although future expansion projects are anticipated, said Tom Spackman Jr., whose grandfather founded Indiana Beach in 1926. 
Terms of the deal between the Spackman family and Morgan HV Hesorl<> of Queensbury, N.Y., were not released. The sale had been in the works since December, when representatives of Morgan contacted the family, Spackman said Tuesday. 
Morgan co-owner Bob Moser said he was thrilled to acquire the park. 
"Guests of Indiana Beach will continue to take pleasure in the quality experience they have come to love over the past eight decades and enjoy an ongoing commitment to improving the destination year after year," Moser said in a statement. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wuu: SERvrcr:s page 5 


CUBA 

Raul Cashu inspires hope for change 
Acting President promises 'structural changes' and 'big decisions;' will take over Sunday 
Associated Press 
HAVANA-After a 19­month tryout by acting presi­dent Raul Castro, Cubans seem ready to focus on what his government will bring once Fidel Castro formally steps down as Cuba's all­powerful leader on Sunday. 
Their expectations, already raised by Raul Castro's talk of "structural changes" and "big decisions" to come, couldn't be higher. Many Cubans hope he will let more people open businesses, own homes and even travel abroad. 
But given that Raul is already 76, it could fall to a new generation of leaders to fulfill or frustrate Cubans' dreams of prosperity. 
As acting president, Raul Castro has only hinted at reforms, a reticence many see as a sign of respect for his more doctrinaire older brother. Ap.d while hoping that Raul and his likely No. 2, Carlos Lage, will advocate for change, Cubans wonder how that will fly with 81­year-old Fidel, who made it clear Tuesday that he isn't going away, even though he's stepping down as president. 
"There has to be some change, more freedom with Raul," said Andres, 63, who like many Cubans wouldn't give his last name for fear of reprisal when talking about the Castro brothers. "The other one always nipped that off at the bud." 
The resignation, announced Tuesday, should give Raul Castro more auton­omy than he's had as the government's caretaker since Fidel was sidelined by intestinal surgery in July 2006. 
The younger Castro raised expectations of openings in the state-controlled economy with his reported fascination with Chinese-style capital­ism, calls for unspecified, "structural changes," and acknowledgment that gov­ernment wages averaging $19 a month do not satisfy basic needs. He also encour­aged Cubans to open a fear­less and critical debate, as long as they remember that the final decisions will be made by the island's Communist leaders. 


"That way we reach deci­sions, and I'm talking about big decisions," he told stu­dent leaders in December 2006. 
Many Cubans want to hear more such talk from their next leader. Inspired by Raul, some leading Cuban cultural figures have called recently for dropping onerous visa requirements and other lim­its on their freedoms, a mes­sage that resonates with ordinary Cubans. 
"This is what we needed. I hope to God people have more freedom -the free­dom to have opinions and always speak their minds," 37 -year-old Lydis Perez said after dropping her son off at school. "People talk in the hallways or the back rooms. ... There's a lot of fear." 
Fidel Castro, however, insisted in his resignation let­ter Tuesday that he won't disappear -or stay quiet if he sees his revolution going astray. 
"This is not my farewell to you," he wrote. "My only wish is to fight as a soldier in the battle of ideas. I shall continue to write under the title, 'Reflections of Comrade Fidel.' It will be another weapon you can count on. Perhaps my voice will be heard." 
As the Council of State's first vice president, Raul Castro has been his brother's constitutionally designated successor for decades, so the big question is who will take his place as No. 2 on Sunday when the National Assembly selects Cuba's new leader­ship. 

A leading candidate is Lage, the de-facto prime minister, who at 56 is a full generation younger than the Castros. He's among the most experienced leaders in a power structure dominated by septuagenarian former rebels, and he has built a reputation as a reformer. 
A less likely possibility could emerge from a handful of leaders in their 30s and 40s, such as Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque, whose Communist fervor earned them the collective nickname of "Young Talibans." 
Cancer deaths rise after dovvnvvard trend 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -U.S. cancer deaths rose by more than 5,000 in 2005, a some­what disappointing reversal of a two­year downward trend, the American Cancer Society said in a report issued Wednesday. 
The group counted 559,312 people who died from cancer. 
The cancer death rate among the overall population continued to fall, but only slightly, after a couple of years of more dramatic decline. 
In 2005, there were just under 184 cancer deaths per 100,000 people, down from nearly 186 the previous year. Experts said it wasn't surprising that the rate would stabilize. 

The cancer death rate has been dropping since the early 1990s, and early in this decade was declining by about 1 percent a year. The actual number of cancer deaths kept rising, however, because of the growing popu­lation. 
So it was big news when the rate dropped by 2 percent in both 2003 and 2004, enough to cause the total num­ber of cancer deaths to .fall for the first time since 1930, 
President Bush and others hailed that as a sign that federally funded research was making strides against the disease. 
But now the death rate decline is back to 1 percent. And the 2005 num­bers show annual cancer deaths are no longer falling, but are up more than 5,400 since 2004. 
"The declining rate was no longer great enough to overcome the increase in population," said Elizabeth Ward, a co-author of the cancer society report 
Officials with the organization say they don't know why the decline in the death rate eased. 
It may be that cancer screenings are not having as big an effect as they were a few years ago, said Dr. Peter Ravdin, a research professor in biostatistics at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. 
· One possible example: In 2004. the largest drop in deaths among the major cancers was in colorectal cancer. Experts gave much of the credit to colonoscopy screenings that detect polyps and allow doctors to remove them before they turn cancerous. ,,I 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 21, 2008 


CCAC 
continued from page 1 
Trustnns Hichard Nussbaum 
said. 
Students. University adminis­
trators and South Bnnd rnpre­
sentativns all stressed the 
importancP of' continuing the 
dialoguP that began when the 
ordinanc.n was first proposnd. 
''I'm just concnrrwd that wn 
should talk and bn abln to see 
things l'rom othnr points of' 
vinw," said Couneilmnmbnr Ann 
J>uzznllo, whos,~~ district 
indudns thn University c:ampus. 
"I think dialogun is the most 
important thing." 
llownvPr. thn coalition is far 
f'rom c:omplc>tn. Only 15 of' the 
21 total seats had bnen filled as 
of' Wednesday. Monwver, 
Indiana Uniw~rsity South Bend 
was tlw only loc:al school to 
snnd a rc•prPsnntativn bnsides 
Notrn Damn, as both Saint 
Mary's Collngn and lloly Cross 
Collngn did not respond to thn 
Council's nwssages, said 
Councilnwmbnr. and nnwly­
appointPd chair of' thn CCAC, AI 
"Buddy" Kirsits. Kirsits asked 
Not.rn Danw Vicn J>n~sidnnt of' 
StudPnt Af'f'airs Fat.lwr Mark 
Poorman and tlw Associate 
VirP J>rPsidPnt of' Studnnt 
All'airs Bill Kirk to contact both 
srhools bPf'orl' tlw nnxt mnPI.­
ing. 
"Wn'd likP to gPt tlwm on 
hoard." Kirsits said. 
OnP dl'vPiopmPnt notl'd by 
SPVI'ral Council mPmbPrs was a 
rPduction in thP numlwr of' 
complaints tlwy n•cpivPd duP to 
loud studPnt par·tins. Krisits 
also not.Pd a dPrrc•asn in tht• 
numiH'r ol' studt>nts takPn to 
local hospitals l'or alcohol poi­
soning. 
"Informally. and I can't quoll~ 
any slats, I saw tlwrP was a 
dn;~lirw in tht• alcohol toxicity 
rnsponsP ralls," Kirsits said. 
Kirk attributPd this trc>rHI to 
intTnasPd Univnrsity pn~ssure 
on oll'-rampus studPnls. 
"Tiw ol'licPs I supervise arn n~sponsibln for maintaining dis­ciplinary standards," Kirk said. "Last fall. it lwcamn clear that studPnts· of'f'-cam pus bnhavior would not bP something that is dosPly scrutinized. Wn did let it lw known that tolnrance by the University for that behavior would bn vnry low." 
Mnmbnrs of' the Common 
Council also attributnd the 
dncrnasn in out-of-control par­
tins to tlw work of student body 
prnsidc•nt l.iz Brown. 
"Wn (TPated a Good Neighbor (;uidn and an oll'-campus semi­nar," Brown said. "Wn'rn hop­ing tlwsn will bn printnd in mid­Mardi." 
II ownvn r. a I tho ugh tlwsn improvnnwnts arn snnn as stnps in thn right dirnction. Luncke said it's important to pnrma­nnnt.ly nstablish a rnspnctf'ul <ttrnclspht>rn. 
"Wt> f'pp( positivn with tlw way t.lw fall wt>nt. somn of it perhaps bncaust' ol' Pnhanc:nd publicity," lw said. "I hopP that onc:n you nstahlish a C'Ulturc~ of studnnts' rt>spPt'tf'ul IH'havior to rwigh­hors that it c~arriPs ovnr." 
Tim HtHISP. Coomon Council prPsidPnt and ('o-sponsor lalong with Kirsitsl of tlw original ordi­II<LIH'P, agrPPd with LuPckn, adding that all pat'lins involvPd must rontimu• to usn tlw lilrUIII providPd by thP CCAC. 
"It's an ongoing dialogw~. wn IIC'Pcf to knPp tllf' lliOIIIPntUill among t.lw whol!' group." lw said. 
OnP of thP kPy aspncts of Pstahlishing a rnspPctf'ul nnvi­rorHru•nt is simply gntting stu­dnnts and nnighbors togntlwr, said local landlord Mark Kramer. For the past seven years, Kramer has thrown block parties at the beginning of the year to bring students and South Bend residents together. 
"It's hard to disturb their neighbor if' you've met them and you know their daughter and their son," local landlord Mark Kramer said. 
Brown. however, said studnnt partying was not the only issue the CCAC needs to addrnss, and that security is very important as wnll. 
"As far as student bnhavior goes, I think thern's benn some big improvements, but saf'nty and sncurity arn big issues," slm said. "That's thn issue that's been prioritized by students over the past year." 
Kramer said despite tho fact that he has two private seeurity vnhiclns patrolling his propnr­ties, there was a break-in last wonk at one of his properties on St. Peter's Street. 
"Wn do whatever W(~ can to prevent break-ins," Kramer said. "My concern is to protect student tenants and f'or the nnighbors to have a bettor mla­tionship with one another." 
This, coupled with the rash of break-ins at Clover Hidgn Apartnwnts and Stadium Club Condos over Christmas break, has sparked student fears about break-ins. "At this point our main issue is break-ins," said !SUB student government asso­ciation president Ivan Blount. 
Kramer, however, is already spending about $3,600 a month on security, leading Rouse to say, "I think that shows !Kramer's! commitment to stu­dent safety." 
The CCAC did not discuss any specilie plan for tempering the break-ins during last night's meeting. 
Brown also said many stu­dents are complaining about taxicab fares being too high, and she said the cab companies should let students know about postnd rates. 
'This is a big concern to stu­dcmts," she said. "For some rea­son students are having more and more problnms with taxi­cab drivers over the past year." 
Kirsits concluded the meeting by setting the date for the next forum -Thursday, March 13, at 3 p.m. "If we approach this in thn proper way, we can make this a win-win situation," he said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho@nd.edu 
SUB 
continued from page 1 
from a member of' the University of Delaware's student activities oflice. 
'The workshops on program­
ming concerts wnre often lead by pro-f'essional agents," Ross said. 
While represen­tatives f'rom many universities were at the conference, Notre Dame's pro­gramming seemed to be "very compet­itive," Hoss said. 
"Them were very few times when we thought, 'Wow, why can't we do that?' Our line-up seemed like some of the best out there." 
SUB left the eon-

weekend in Washington IIall. 
"ISUBI
"There were very few hopns to have 
times when we a couple of' concerts and
thought. 'Wow, why 
eomcdians
can't we do that?' 
both in Our line-up seemed Lngends and in othnr venues
like some ofthe best 
on campus.

out there." 
"We'rn work­ing on a Philip Ross Chieago trip to snn a
SUB board manager 
Broadway musical or a baseball ganHl, and possibly a 
ference with "many new ideas St. l'atriek's Day enlnbration. Our and ways to improve our pro­scmwstcw will end with a bang gramming and publicity," Hoss with AnTostal, the spring festi­said. val, during the last week of' 
"Sonw of our favorites indudn April," Hoss said. mini-contests to attraet pnopln to events and to make bettnr Contact Lindsay Sena at alliances with campus media in lsena@nd.edu 
cture (Room 105), Verge ..Brothef' '-'""....""" 'ty, founder ofthe Association of ...Underground Railroad"" 
(Room 105), Bishop Gideon chemistry. founder ofCry 
ordnr to promote our events. One school eovernd their basket­ball arena with tarp and held a food fight for charity. Several schools also had tips on artist hospitality and ways to improve the inner organization of' SUB." 
SUB will host the 50th annual Collegiate Jazz Festival this 
l. Robinson, 
. . Law and Cnticat Theory, Howard Law School Reawakening the Great 

Thursday, February 21, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,427.26 +90.04
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 751 67 2,590 3,654,373,246 

AMEX NASDAQ NYSE 


S&P 500 1,360.03 +11.25 NIKKEI (Tokyo) FTSE 100 (London) 5.893.60 -73.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.30 +0.40 135.92 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.46 +0.46 43.94 AT&T INC. (T) -4.26 -1.53 34.36 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +1.16 +0.31 27.10 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE + 1.08 +0.042 3.917 13-WEEK BILL +0.23 +0.005 2.175 30-YEAR BOND -0.24 -0.011 4.644 5-YEAR NOTE +3.21 +0.093 2.993 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.73 100.74 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +8.00 937.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.65 96.18 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 108.1100 EURO 0.6792 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0124 BRITISH POUND 0.5148 
IN BRIEF 
Amtrak amps up security measures 
WASHINGTON -Amtrak will start randomly screening passengers' carry-on bags this week in a new security push that includes officers with automatic weapons and bomb-sniffmg dogs patrolling platforms and trains. 
The initiative, to be announced by the railroad on Tuesday, is a significant shift for Amtrak. Unlike the airlines, it has had relatively little vis­ible increase in security since the 2001 terrorist attacks, a distinction that has enabled it to attract passengers eager to avoid airport has­sles. 
Amtrak officials insist their new procedures won't hold up the flow of passengers. 
"On-time performance is a key element of Amtrak service. We are fully mindful of that. This is not about train delays," Bill Rooney, the railroad's vice president for security strategy and special operations, told The Associated Press. 
Nor will the moves require passengers to arrive at stations far in advance, officials said. Passengers who are selected randomly for the screening will be delayed no more than a couple of minutes, Amtrak chief executive Alex Kummant said. 
Critics question FCC Chairman's plan 
WASHINGTON -A Federal Communications Commission plan to help owners of rural televi­sion stations survive the transition to digital broadcasting is great for station owners, bad for cable companies and of questionable value to viewers, according to critics. 
FCC Chairman Kevin Martin's plan is meant to help thousands of low-power television stations across the U.S. that operate in rural and under­served communities hold onto their viewers during the digital shift. 
Owners of these stations have been upset because they say they have been largely left out of government efforts to educate the public about the change. 
Beginning Feb. 18, 2009, all full-power televi­sion stations in the U.S. will broadcast a digital­only si1:,tnal. Anyone who gets programming via an antenna and does not have a newer-model digital set will need to buy a box that will "down-convert" the digital signal to analog. 



THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Stimuluspackagetobenefitbusinesses 
Plan contains huge tax deducation increase, bonus depreciation allowanceforsmall companies 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The eco­nomic stimulus package that became law earlier this month contains two provi­sions aimed at helping small businesses increase their capital spending -a huge increase in the Section 179 tax deduction and a bonus depreciation allowance. 
The Section 179 deduc­tion, which allows small businesses to deduct up front rather than depreci­ate over time the cost of certain kinds of equipment, has nearly doubled for 2008, rising to $250,000 from a previously planned $128,000. The bonus depreciation provisiOn allows businesses of any size to depreciate 50 per­cent of the cost of equip­ment, with the balance to be depreciated according to IRS rules. 
It's possible for a compa­ny to take advantage of both provisions, which could mean a huge tax sav­ings for 2008. 

The Section 179 deduc­tion is limited to companies that buy less than $800,000 in capital equipment during the year; that ceiling is the government's way of restricting the deduction to small businesses. whether the Section 179 Keep in mind: The It's possible to take a 
It's a pretty easy deduc­deduction will be as lucra­$250,000 figure is an Section 179 deduction for tion to take, but there are a tive in future years as it is aggregate -you can buy equipment that's used part­few pitfalls to look out for. now. any number of pieces of ly for business-for exam­
Foremost, according to Another caveat: Not all .equipment to take the ple, a car -but more than tax attorney Barbara kinds of equipment can be deduction, but once you go half its usage must be for Weltman, is that a business deducted under Section above that amount, depre­company purposes. can't use the Section 179 179. Typically, computers, ciation sets in. Weltman noted that equip­deduction if it's operating at vehicles, manufacturing Equipment must be ment must actually be a loss. "You don't get a ben­equipment and office furni­bought -but not necessar­bought for the business and efit unless you're prof­ture qualify for the deduc­ily paid for -and placed cannot be something that itable," she said. tion. Air conditioning or into service by Dec. 31 to was just converted to com­
A business might be able heating units, or structural qualify for the deduction. pany use. So if you've just to carry forward some of parts of a building like So the PC you put on your created a home office and the costs of the equipment replacement windows can­charge card in December are using the PC you into future years, and in the not be deducted under needs to be in use by the bought two years ago, the process still benefit from Section 179 -but they can end of the year, even computer cannot be the deduction. However, be deducted under depreci­though the bill won't arrive deducted under Section there's no way to know now ation rules. until January. 179. 

Oil prices close above $100 for first time 
higher prices," said Richard Sparks, and the Nasdaq composite fell 15.60,
Associated Press 

senior equities analyst at Schaeffer's or 0.67, 2,306.20. 
NEW YORK -Wall Street gave up Investment Research in Cincinnati. But advancing issues were ahead a big early advance and closed mixed Investors likely were positioning of decliners on the New York Stock Tuesday after oil prices closed above themselves ahead of a half-dozen Exchange by about 9 to 7, while on $100 for the first time and stoked economic reports that could give the the Nasdaq Stock Market, decliners fears that inflation will stymie an market further direction. Paramount had a modest lead. Consolidated vol­already troubled economy. will be Wednesday's Labor ume on the NYSE came to about 3.50 
Soaring oil prices could bring more Department report on consumer billion shares, compared to 3.36 bil­problems for consumers, having prices for January, which is a closely lion on Friday. already made many Americans shy watched gauge for inflation. The Fed Government bonds dipped as about spending in recent months. will also release minutes from its last stocks gained. The yield on the 10­Consumer spending, a key driver of meeting. year Treasury note, which moves 
U.S. economic growth, has also been Meanwhile, new concerns that opposite its price, jumped to 3.87 shaken by falling home prices and banks are facing more financial percent from 3. 77 percent late the volatile stock market. problems this year dragged the sec­Friday. It rose to 3. 90 percent in 
The market was also concerned tor sharply lower -and reminded after-hours trading. that rising inflation might make the investors that the credit crisis The dollar was mixed against most Federal Reserve reconsider its bias appears far from a resolution. major currencies. toward lowering interest rates to The Dow Jones industrial average Light, sweet crude for March deliv­help the economy. The central bank, fell 10.99, or 0.09 percent, to ery rose $4.51 to settle at a record which next meets March 18, last 12,337.22 after being up more than $100.01 a barrel on the New York month slashed rates by 1.25 percent. 150 points earlier in the session. Mercantile Exchange after earlier 
"I think there are still a lot of wor­Broader indexes also moved lower. rising to $100.10, a new trading ries in the market that we have this The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell record. It was the first time since stagnant growth in the economy and 1.21, or 0.09 percent, to 1,348.78; Jan. 3 that oil had been above $100. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 21, 2008 
U.S. will not build new military bases in Africa 
Associated Press 
ACCHA, Ghana -President Bush said Wndnnsday that talk of thn United States building new military basns in Africa to nxpand iL<> influence is "baloney." 
Thn I>nlimsn Dnpartment crnat­nd Africa Command last October to consolidate opnrations that had benn split among three other regional commands, none of which had Africa as a primary 
liu~us. 
Snvnral African eountries, ineluding Libya, Nignria and South Africa, have expressed <llwp rnsnrvations, fearing thn plan signals an unwantnd nxpan­sion of American power on the mntirwnt or is a cover for protect­ing Africa's vast oil rnsourcns on thn Unitnd Statns' behalf. 
<;hana's Pn~sident, John Kufuor, raisnd the issue with Bush during tlwir mentings at Osu Castln, a centurins-old building that was OJH:e a hub of slavn-trading and now is the seat of government. "You're not going to build any b<L<>ns," lw told Bush-according to Bush. 
"I know thnn~·s rumors in Ghana 'All Bush is eoming to do is try to convincn you to put a big military bm:;e here,' Bush said at a news confnrence with Kufuor. "That's baloney. As they say in Tnxas. that's bull." 
Instnad, he said the new com­mand -unique to the Pentagon's structuro -was aimed at morn ell'edivnly reorganizing U.S. mili­tary nfli>rL<> in Nrica to strenhrthen Afriean nations' peacekneping, traflkking and anti-terror efli>rts. 
"The whole purpose of Nricom is to help African leaders deal with African problems," Bush said. 
Bush sought to dispel the notion about militarization of Africa even befom giving reporters a chance to ask him about it. Kufuour said he was satisfied with Bush's explanatiol}, and thanked him fi>r announeing it "so that the rela­tionship between us and the United States will grow stronger." 
For now, the administration has decided to continue operating Afrkom out of existing U.S. bases on the continent with a headquar­ters in Stuttgart, Germany. War­wrecked Liberia is the only African nation that has publidy offered to host a headquarters. Bush said before the trip that "if' a headquarters for Africom is ever established on the continent, he would "seriously consider" Liberia as the host. 
Sweat was pouring off Bush's !'ace during the news conference, set outdoors in Ghana's equatorial heat. Both loaders were in good sprits, showing off their cama­raderie and signing the cast of a 
U.S. reporter who broke her hand during the trip. 
Neither leader offered public complaint about China's rising influence in Africa. With near $1 00-a-barrel oil, and one-fifth of America's oil coming just from Nigeria, the issue is on U.S. ofTI­dals' radar. But Bush and Kufuor took care not to be openly critical of China, which has gained favor in Africa by significantly increas­ing its investment in transporta­tion and communications and other infrastructure while such funding has generally declined from the West. 
"I don't view Africa as zero-sum for China and the United States," Bush said. "We can pursue agen­das without creating an inherent sense of competition." 
Kufuor said China is "coming not as a colonial power as far as we can see. It's coming ... as a guest on our terms." 
Before the trip, U.S. officials offered veiled critieism of China, suggesting it looked at Nriea as solely a commercial opportunity while the U.S. is interested in helping the continent's people. 
'Too many nations continue to follow either the paternalistic notion that treats African coun­tries as charity cases, or a model of exploitation that socks only to buy up their resources," Bush said in a pre-trip speech. 
Bush also announeed an ell'ort to combat neglected tropical dis­eases, with $350 million to be made available over five years to target seven major diseases: ele­phantiasis, snail fever, eye infec­tions, river blindness, hookworm, roundworm, and whipworm. The initiative aims to help more than 300 million people in Africa, A<;ia, and Latin America. The White I louse said it amounts to nearly five times the spending in the cur­rent year. 
About one billion people suffer from one or more of the neglected tropical diseases. 
Ghana is the kind of story Bush likes to promote: a stable democ­racy that has largely avoided eth­nic clashes and played a busy peacekeeping role on the conti­nent. Ghana also has boosted its agriculture-based, resource-rich economy and cut iL<; still-pnrsist­ent poverty. 

Kufuor is an Oxford-cducatnd leader who came into power about the same time Bush did and is given credit here for economic reforms, open government and regional leadership. Ghana, work­ing through the United Nations, has sent peacekeepers to Lebanon, Afghanistan, Hwanda, Pakistan and the Balkans. 

Ghana reenivnd more than $55 million in development aid from the United States in 2007. It won approval in 2006 fi>r a five-year, $547 million aid package aimed at expanding markets for its crops. 
Several thousand children in their school uniforms lined the humid, sweltnring streets of coastal Accra to weleome Bush, waving tiny Ghanian flags. Bush also has visited Benin, Tanzania and Rwanda. lie will rnturn to Washington on Thursday after stopping in Liberia. 

Okla. attorney general goes after poultry companies 
unless the court grants the tion is expected to last several Tyson Foods, Inc., responded ria, antibiotics, growth hor­
Associated Press 

request by the spring, the fecal days and is part of an that the injunction seeks to dis­mones and harmful metals, is 
TULSA, Okla. ---' More than a bacteria found in the waste Oklahoma lawsuit that accuses rupt an industry that has oper­killing Oklahoma's scenic dozen Arkansas-based poultry could pose a health threat to Arkansas-based poultry com­ated successfully in the water­lakes. companies have violated state hundreds of people who visit panies of polluting the water­shed for decades. He also Edmondson sued the poultry and fed1~ral laws limiting the the river valley each year. shed with chicken litter. accused tho state of creating companies in 2005, saying lit­disposal of animal waste in the Edmondson told a federal "Our evidence will show that the science to suit its case. ter pollution rendered Lake Illinois Hiver watershed, judge Tuesday that waste from these persistent and pervasive "There is nothing more going Tenkiller in northeastern argues Oklahoma's attorney the birds is measured in tons violations of state and fnderal on in this watershed than the Oklahoma 70 percent oxygen general. and is not processed, treated law have infested the rivers rest of the state," Hyan said. dead and aceusod poultry com­
Oklahoma is requesting a or diluted but dumped on the and springs and wells of the More than 576,000 acres of panics of treating Oklahoma's preliminary injunction to stop land "ostensibly as fertilizer Illinois Hiver Watershed with the watershed are located in rivers like opnn sewers. poultry companies from drop­but far in excess of agronomic biologieal pathogens that have Oklahoma. lie also said the amount of ping animal waste in tlw 1 mil­needs, in the most environ­created an imminent and sub­State and environmental of'li­phosphorous dumped on the lion-acre watershed. State mentally and ecologically sen­stantial threat to human cials contend that years of ille­ground in the watershed each Attorn1~y General Drew sitive watersheti in Oklahoma." health," Edmondson said. gal spreading of the poultry year is equivalent to the waste I~dmondson maintains that The hearing on the injunc-Patrick Hyan, an attorney for waste, which eontains bacte-of 10.7 million peopln. 
Write for 'News. Call Karen at 


Best Value in ToJ.vn Come See Whv.' 
&,.; 

,.. Indoor/ Outchor Tennis a:..n d Basketball 
,.. Free Ta:..nning 
,.. Heated Ptwl 
,.. Helazing Jacuzzi 
,.. Gated Co.mm unity 
,.. Co.mm unity Business Center. 
,.. No Application Fees for Students 
,.. Close to everything___ far from ordinary! 
631--5323 

Castle1'oint 


1.801.1. C.le~.l.a.nd Rd_ South Bend,. IN 46637 Phone: (574' 272-81.1.0 Fax: (574' 272-81.1.4 """_ cppj _com­
Thursday, February 21, 2008 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Kosovo 
Nation embraces laid-back version of Islam 
Associated Press 
GNJILANE -Kastriot Sadiku has a confession: Like a good Muslim, he was near a mosque when Kosovo declared independ­ence. But like a good Kosovar, he was just around the corner, sipping suds at his favorite pub. 
As minaret loudspeakers broad­cast afternoon prayers, "I was hav­ing a beer," said Sadiku, 25. "ln the entire Muslim world, I think that's probably something that can only happen here, where our religion doesn't interfere with the rest of our lives." 
Much has been made ofKosovo's status as the world's newest mostly Muslim nation. But its secular gov­ernment, religious leaders and faithful have carefully distanced themselves from the slightest hint ofextremism. 
The Republic of Kosovo, they insist, embraces a decidedly laid­back version of Islam. 
"Our Islam is 'lite' -like Coke Ute or Marlboro light cigarettes," said Ilmi Krasniqi, an imam at one of five mosques in the eastern town of Gnjilane. "This is not Baghdad, and what goes on in Saudi Arabia cannot happen here." 
That is not to suggest that radi­cal Islam has not impacted Kosovo's Muslim ethnic Albanians. 
Last October, Agron Abdullahu -a 25-year-old Kosovo native liv­ing in the U.S. -pleaded guilty to charges of conspiring to provide weapons to five other Muslims who allegedly plotted an attack on the 
U.S. Army's Fort Dix military base in New Jersey. No attack was 
Rejoice! Mass 

February 24, lOp.m. 
Celebrate Black History Month with Mass in the African-American tradition 
Pasquerilla West Chapel 
! 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
For information, contact Judy Madden 631-8508 or jmadden2@nd.edu 

staged on the base, which is used largely to train reservists bound for Iraq. 
Agim Hyseni, the chief imam in Gnjilane, said Muslims in feverishly pro-America Kosovo have dis­tanced themselves from extremist ideology or acts. 
Abdullahu "was an isolated indi­vidual," Hyseni said in an interview with The Associated Press in his office, decorated with a small globe and the flags of Turkey and Saudi Arabia, where he said he was schooled in the tenets oflslam. 
"The people here feel no empa­thy for those kind of acts," he said. "They know very well what terror­ism is because they've suffered through so many terrorist acts." 
"Terrorism" is an emotionally charged term in the Balkans, where an estimat­ed 10,000 people were killed in Kosovo's 1998-99 war between eth­nic Albanian sepa­ratist rebels and forces loyal to the late Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic. 
Albanians long have accused Serbs of terrorist acts against their ethnic kin, and Serbs victims of 
"I don't think there's any other Muslim country in the world where there's so much Christian missionary activity that goes on undisturbed." 
Stephen Schwartz executive director Center for Islamic Pluralism 
Europe. 
"Albanians, although Muslim in their majority, are fanatics only about their appreciation for America. Albanian Islam is moderate, and constitutes a bulwark against radical­ization of 

revenge attacks have done the same. But ifterroriSm is a relative term in Kosovo, so is "Muslim." 
The Ottoman Turks imported Islam centuries ago, but it hasn't saturated this society. Kosovo was Christian before, about 7 percent of its ethnic Albanians are Catholics, and a cathedral is being built in the heart of Pristina, the capital. 
The late President Ibrahim Rugova was fascinated with Roman Catholicism, and there were even unconfirmed reports after his death in 2006 that he had converted. 
Kosovo Lc;; not the only place with a Muslim population and secular traditions -strong secular lifestyles exist in Turkey and Lebanon, but they are exceptions. 
Although the conflict here pitted Albanian Muslims against Christian Orthodox Serbs, who consider Kosovo the cradle of their religion and national identity, it was a battle for turf -not a holy war. 
"We've never had a Christian­Muslim conflict here," said Albulena Hoti, 20, strolling in Gnjilane beneath the flags of the U.S., Britain and Germany-all among the first nations to welcome Kosovo after it declared independ­ence Sunday. 
"We're Muslims, but we're not terrorists," added Linda Kastrati, an 18-year-old student. 
Stephen Schwartz, executive director of the Center for Islamic Pluralism, a Washington-based think tank, contends Kosovo will become a model of religious plu­ralism in 
European 
Muslims," he 
said. 

"I don't think there's any other Muslim country in the world where there's so much Christian mission­ary activity that goes on undis­turbed," Schwartz added. 
Kosovo's conflict drew only a smattering of mujahedeen ­Islamic fighters from the Arab world -unlike the 1992-95 Bosnian war, where they came by the thousands to aid their Muslim brothers. 
There has been speculation that Kosovo, which has always enjoyed staunch backing from Washington, might give the U.S. a rare Muslim friend and some leverage in its effort to contain Islamic extrem­ism. But intense U.S. engagement in Bosnia did little to endear America to the wider Arab world. 
"America is not necessarily going to get a lot out of the Muslim world with this," Schwartz said. 
Outside Gnjilane's main mosque, the crowd of young men includes some with long, wiry beards and short trousers. But they are quick to eschew the strict WaW1abi inter­pretation of Islam followed by al­Qaida leader Osama bin Laden. 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, February 21, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Souih Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIF.F Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A<iST. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VUWI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hinc ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGF.R: Jessica Cortez 
An DF.'iiGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Univt·rsiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not govwwd by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to rditsc advertisements based on content. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possibk·. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edimr in Chic!; Managing Editor, A~sistam Managing Editors and depanment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThc ()bscrver. 
Vitwpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lt•tters is encouraged. l.t·rtcrs m rhc Editor musr be signed and must include comact information. 
Questions rrgarding Obs~mer policies should be dim·ted to Editor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'lh: l>llW'm'l (lJSi•S ~·}'J l-40011) n puhhallcd Mumlay il•rnugh Frido~y except dunn~ cum olllll YJ401UUII pc:riuJ•. A 1UI""4·np11111110 ·n,~ Ulhcrvcr ·~ SHKJ fur um: AU\Icmi\ yco&r; SS5 fur uuc.cml:-'h:r 
The Ohaervcr I\ puhh~lu:d J.r POSTMASTER 014 ~ULIIh Di11111K 11•11 Send Jddrt.5!i corrtctiom tn: Nnrrt D.1mc. IN -465~,.on9 ThcOb~~trvtr l'eri•HII\·;al pn•r.•w: p;~id .1:t Nom: DJJut 1~0. Box rn .mJ .uWu•unJim.ulmg utTit'ft. Ul4 South Dining H.l!l 
Nnrn: IJanlt', IN 46';'lt',..Qn9 
The Oh~oerv.:r i• • mc:mhcr ot 1hc A.umJJ!c1l Pn:til>. All rcpwdmaiun u~liS .ur 
TCM'IVCd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Katie Kohler Bill Brink Mandi Stirone Michael Bryan Gene Noone Laura Meyers Graphics Scene Matt Hudson Ryan Raflin Viewpoint .J. Michael Dailey 

Juicin' on Capitol Hill 
Last week, the circus came to 
Washington. And I was invited. 
I watched from a House oflice building 
press room as Hoger Clemens and his for­
mer trainer, Brian McNamee, paraded 
onto Capitol Hill to 
testify about 
Clemens' alleged 
steroid use before 
the I louse Oversight 
Committee. 
Circus is the only 
word for it. Fans 
lined the halls of the 
building, hoping to 
catch a glimpso of 
tand maybe an auto­
graph from) the 
Rocket. Hundreds of 
journalists packed 
into the hearing 
room and an over­
flow room. 
The hearing, in the end, proved deeply 
embarrassing to both Clemens and 
McNamee. McNamee was torn into on 
national television. Congressmen called 
him a liar and a criminal and brought up · a sexual assault charge in his past. But 
Clemens may have had it worse, as the 
committee detailed friend and former 
teammate Andy Pettitte's deposition indi­
cating that he believed Hoger had used 
human growth hormone. 
The day alter the hearing, though, 
Committee Chairman Henry Waxman 
wished it never happened. Waxman told 
reporters, ''I'm sorry we had the hearing. 
I regret that we had the hearing. And the 
only reason we had the hearing was 
because Roger Clemens and his lawyers 
insisted on it." 
Waxman had good reason to regret the 
hearings. While the hearings did, of 
course, embarrass Clemens and 
McNamee, the childishness of the repre­
sentatives may have been the most 
shameful of all. Member by clueless 
member, the House Oversight Committee 
embarrassed ilc;;elf. 
It was embarrassing that 
Representative William Clay of Missouri 
used part of his five minutes of question­
ing to ask Clemens which team he was going to represent in the Hall of Fame. Even Clemens had the good sense to real­ize how silly the question was, and told Clay he'd pretend it was never asked. 


Another Congressperson told Clemens that she was "sure" he was going some­where considerably more prestigious than Cooperstown: Heaven. 
Still another showed four pictures of Clemens, suggested that she did not see a diiTerence in his size over the years, and asked him about his workout regimen. 
If that doesn't cut to the truth of the issue at hand, I don't know what does. 
It was embarrassing that Rep. Tom Davis claimed that a medical question for Clemens resembled "a new definition of lynching." Sure, some Congressmen were unfairly harsh, but lynching? I'd guess there might be a lynching victim or two who questions whether a white man who is practically asked for his autograph on his way to join the Great Almighty shares their pain. 
But worst of all, it was embarrassing to watch the frivolous idiocy into which the hearing devolved. 
The committee seemed to break down along party lines. Republicans seemed to believe Clemens, Democrats sided with McNamee. Many analysts immediately suggested that this could stem from Hoger's Republicanism. Clemens did, after all, prominently note that Bush 41 contacted him before the hearing to ofl'er his support. 
But watching the hearing progress, another explanation seems more likely. Rep. Henry Waxman, the Democratic chairman of the committee, and Rep. Elijah Cummings, another senior Democrat, both indicated their anti­Clemens beliefs early in the hearing. In doing so, Waxman and Cummings sound­ed remarkably arrogant and self-impor­tant. 
Cummings, for one, scolded Roger in a tone normally reserved for misbehaving kindergarteners. And in the House office building halls, I overheard Waxman mak­ing a joke about Clemens ability to pay for his HGH using insurance before the hearing began. 
Republicans, then, fell into line as anti-Waxman and anti-Cummings. And, as such, they were almost all anti-McNamce and pro-Clemens. ILc;; not that Republicans were predisposed to believe a Texan telling half-truths (at least, not in this case ... ), its that they needed to stand against Democrats no matter the issue, especially when the Demoerats seem as Napoleonic-ly arrogant as Waxman did. 
It is an embarrassing display of the divisive partisanship that plagues Washington today. Even hearings about the credibility of witnesses and the role of steroids in baseball run along an appar­ently immutable fault line. Whether the topic is immigration, healtheare, tax cuL'> or, yes, baseball players, silly partisanship in Washington has overwhelmed any rea­sonable discussion. 
But the fact that this sort of partisan­ship about Clemens only exists in Washington -while I don't have any hard numbers, I tend to doubt that a vast majority of Hepubliean voters believe Clemens while a vast majority of Democratic voters don't -suggests that partisanship on many issues isn't endem­ic of our eountry, but of our government. The pettiness of Washington has created the bitter, inellicient polities that domi­nates today. 
We learned something from this hear­ing: Our politics are more divided and divisive than we are. At a certain point, we can blame petty politicians for the partisan state of our politics. If they dis­agree about baseball. they'll disagree about anything, no matter how much citi­zens outside Washington are willing to cross party lines. 
Yes, Hoger Clemens and Brian McNamee brought the circus to Washington. And they exposed a whole lot of clowns along the way. 
Andrew Nesi is a junior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. He hopes everybody ignores this column and continues to kick and scream about "The Vagina Monologues. "lie can be reached at anesi@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
What is your favorite local pizzeria at Notre Dame? Bruno's Rocco's Polito's Barnaby's Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Tu_q on anything at all and you'll find~it connectecfto everything else in the universe. " 
John Muir environmentalist 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 21, 2008 page 11 
Tragedy: a time of God's absence or presence? 
There are times that a Christian commu­nity gathers-as the Notre Dame commu­nity gathered Tuesday night in the Basilica for the Memorial Mass for our recently deceased classmates Timothy Aher and Connor McGrath ­
Father Lou

when I become aware of the silence. DeiFra It creeps in between the hymns and 
Faithpoint

prayers, seeps through the cracks of our words of condolence. When every­one stops their faithful assurances ofGod's presence and closeness and protectiveness, there is always just silence. And out ofthe silence, a near inevitable question: God, are you really here? 
There are times in life when I do not stop to ask that question. I have no need to. My niece was born, and my brother and his wife invited me into the delivery room for her birth. No questions about God's pres­ence there -a little queasiness on my part, but it was assuredly non-theological in nature. A young man who has been wrestling with a vocational decision about the priesthood says to me, "I feel like I've been given the grace to give it a shot." OK, God is here, has drawn close. One of the seniors down the hall rushes down to my room with an acceptance letter from his long-shot first-choice graduate school. No more natural time to say a prayer of thanksgiving. A married man asks for a meeting, and for the first time in his life, is able to talk about his growing addiction to pornography. Clearly, the Holy Spirit is at work. 
There are, hopefully, many moments like these when God's real presence comes breaking through. It comes with such force ofjoy or healing that there is little room left for doubt. Scripturally, I think of the time Jesus leads Peter, James, and John up a mountain and is transfigured before them. His clothes begin to glow with intense and divine light. Great figures ofthe Hebrew tradition appear next to him. A voice peals from the sky, 'This is my beloved Son." Yes, give me that, Lord, and I will be your true believer! Or, as Peter said as the Transfiguration faded, "This is awesome, Lord, let me put up a few tents, and we'll just kick our feet up and soak this in a bit!" (Loosely translated.) Sometimes, God draws quite close indeed. God's Presence is unmistakable. 
And then, there are times like Tuesday night. God was surely there. In the liturgy, in the Eucharist, in the community. But, for me, it becomes much more a matter of faith, less of certainty. I find the hard evi­dence sometimes wanting. Behind all the ceremony, words, and people, this terrible silence lingers. Is it a void, that threatens to suck us in, like a vacuum in space, ifwe allow ourselves to let up on the talking and singing? 
In the silence, yes, perhaps doubt creeps in, the possibility ofthe absence of God, the possibility that in the end, we sit alone with our tragedies and just have to make the best ofthem. Yet I also believe, the void is not entirely empty. From deep within, a something whispers in the void. It is hardly a quick-fix, or an all-problem-solving erllbrace. One catches the barest hint ofit in a familiar story from the Gospels. 

The scene is the seeming antithesis-to the Transfiguration, that moment of pure and certain joy at the presence of God. Again, Jesus ascends a mount, again taking aside just Peter, James, and John. It is the Mount of Olives, immediately after the Last Supper. Judas had left the table to set Jesus' arrest in motion. An unspeakable tragedy awaits. And Jesus, knowing this, and perhaps remembering the intimate closeness of his Father at the Mount of the Transfiguration, attempts to recreate the experience, ascending the hill alone with the same three disciples. He needs to feel that intimate presence again, for the mean­ing ofhis life and ministry is about to be questioned, then ended. The void beckons. 
As the eeremony of his Passover meal with the diseiples ends, as the talking and the hymn-singing recede, Jesus hears the silence. It calls for him. And he ascends the Mount ofOlives to meet it. He begins to pray, alone, but desperate for God's Presence to break the silence. 
What can we say happens next? He leaves us no step-by-step instruction of how to find God in this silence. In fact, he seems to feel the Absence in the silence at a most intense depth. He weeps and sweats. He pleads for relief. But nothing glows white. No heroic figures appear. Perhaps most painfully, no voice of his Father is heard. 
And Peter, so willing to abide in the place of the transfigured Jesus, is found asleep. Peter senses no possibility ofGod's Presence here. 
"And then Jesus said to them, 'Behold, the hour is at hand. Get up, let us go. Behold, my betrayer is at hand." 
Experientially, the sequence does not seem to make sense. Enter the silence. Experience the absence ofGod. Feel the screw turn. Experience the silence and absence at an even greater depth. Leave tenaciously resolved to place your life in the hands of God. "Get up. Let us go." Stride boldly out ofthe silence into the melee of life with a renewed sense that God is not absent, but everywhere. 
I suppose ifwe needed to know what happened on the Mount ofOlives, we would have been told, in as much detail as we are told ofwhat happened on the Mount ofthe Transfiguration. But perhaps the Mount of Olives, the tragedies oflife, cannot simply be "filled in" with words and certain signs of God's Presence. Perhaps the silence is real. Surely tragedy is. Perhaps all we have is the example of One who walked into it all ...and diseovered God's Presence. 
Perhaps this is what we celebrated Tuesday night. 
Father Lou DelFra is the director ofBible studies in the Office ofCampus Ministry. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Domer dating 

In my third year of being a part of the Notre Dame community, I have been fortunate enough to go on dates with several different types of Notre Dame and Holy Cross boys. living with three roommates, and having close friends at all three of the schools, as well 
Maureen Seus 

as a former Alumni Hall "dawg" as a brother and a senior Saint 
Guest 

Mary's sister, I have 
Columnist 

observed and experi­enced many different situations and viewpoints on dating. Unfortunately, it seems that the general con­sensus is that recreational dating is some­thing of a lost art form within our wonderful community. 
At the age of 21, I feel I am too old to be drunkenly making out with my beer pong partner at a party, I also feel that I am cer­tainly too young to be perusing the Tiffany's Web site for an engagement ring. And yet these seem to be my collegiate choices. This year in particular I have heard, ''I'm just not looking for a girlfriend"; friends have also told me, "He said he's just not looking for anything serious", sentiments to which three things come to my mind in response. First, do not flatter yourself. Second, what makes you think I am looking for a boyfriend, and that you are him? And third, buying me a slice of Sbarro does not exactly evoke the sound of wedding bells, nor does it make me want to cut to the chase and go get busy in your dorm room. 
So in this awkward in-between known as junior, or dare I even say senior year, it seems that I, along with many others, am left to feel somewhat eliminated from the dating "scene" here, since I am looking for neither a hus­band nor a hook-up. 
While I realize many girls are indeed mak­ing out as if it were going out of style, and others outwardly and unabashedly express their desire for an "MRS." degree, there are some who feel that we are living among edu­cated young adults similar in age and with many shared beliefs for a short four years. I leaven forbid we get together and talk about it, or at the very least meet each other's roommates. 
Luekily, my type happens to be awkward Irish boys, a plentiful group here to which I would like to offer this advice: Instead of masking your personality behind a case of Natty Light, attempting to be smooth, and just generally sounding like a ereep when you ask for my number, only to return to your alter­ego 'awkward boy' the next morning and then shoot me a shamefully bold text the next time you are drinking, embrace your awk­wardness and approaeh a girl sober in the student center or library. If you don't over­think it, ehances are that she won't either. Honestly that whole ''I'm not sure what to do" thing will most likely come off as eute and aetually work for you. 
The boys are not the only ones at fault here. There seem to be the girls who always reek of Popov and end up aeeidentally mak­ing out with their crush's best friend. The resulting question of "do you think he will eall?" generates a depressingly eonsistent and unequivoeal answer: no. There are also the girls who do not date, but hunt. The eloek for them is ticking and they are setting their inse­eure trap on some unsuspeeting griffin, zalunbi or juggernaut, until the boy has reaehed the point of no return. For everyone else, help these boys out by aetually smiling and seeming approaehable. And when they eall you for the third time, ifyou are thinking about what you will name his first ehild, at the very least keep it to yourself and just let the poor boy ask you to the Fisher SYR. You are making the rest ofus look as psyeho as you are. 
While I am aware the dating scene in South Bend is diffieult when you have no ear, no money, and no game, walks to the Grotto, video games, and dorm room movies are completely aceeptable substitutes. You should take advantage of this beeause after we grad­uate we might aetually expect you to buy us dinner. Let me aet my age and I will let you aet yours. 
Feel free to call me old-fashioned. It's when you call me at 2 a.m., or eall me to meet your parents that I might hesitate to answer. 
Maureen Seus is a Saint Mary's junior majoring in communications and public relations. She can be contacted at mseusO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Unity at the Memorial mass 
Thank You, Notre Dame 
The question of Notre Dame's "Catholic identity" has once again come to the fore with a reemergence of the "Monologues" debate. 
I have nothing to say about that debate, but I do think that Notre Dame's true Catholie colors have become apparent. And they did so at Tuesday night's Memorial Mass for Timothy Aher and Connor McGrath. At the Mass, there were countless priests and so many people that the entire basilica was filled. People stood behind the altar and all around the baptismal fount, as persons far outnumbered seats. All came together around the Eucharistic Saerifice and Banquet to pray for the repose of Timothy and Connor's souls. 
The Notre Dame family once again proved its uniting, Christ-like love cen­tered on and in the Church. Through the tragic and heart-rending deaths of two of her own, Notre Dame was certainly tried "as gold is tested through fire." What emerged was a truly striking, beautiful, and elegant example of Catholic identity in a university. Pope Benedict once called Notre Dame "a great Catholic University." How could anyone disagree after recent events? 
Therefore, let's set aside our critical spirit once in a while and be grateful for just how great a place this is. And so let me be the first to say: thank you to all my fellow students. Thank you to all the faculty, staff, and priests. Thank you, Notre Dame. 
Simon Carian junior Morrissey Hall Feb. 20 

Of all the Notre Dame Tradition songs, the Alma Mater is by far the best -it's not overplayed, it inspires a sense of union, and it elicits the best reaction from the listeners. 
On the evening of the 19th of February, I attended the memorial serv­ice for Timothy Aher and Connor McGrath in the Basilica. I was not there just beeause Connor died on the floor above me, but because as a mem­ber of the Notre Dame family, I felt compelled to attend. 
As we sang the Alma Mater, and I put my arms around two strangers and swayed, I realized just how much it means to be part of the Notre Dame family-for that song, the Alma Mater, represents just that. And this is Notre Dame in distress -two students dying, and the rest of the student body stepping in to show how much they care. 
It was a powerful experience, and though it's definitely a cliche and contrite way to finish this letter, I've never been prouder to be a Notre Dame student than I am right now. 
Daniel Tostado freshman Dillon Hall Feb. 19 


By RYAN RAFFIN 
Assisram Scene Editor 
A song that can make you smile Pvery time you hear it is worth its weight in gold. Whether as a result of nostalgic associa­tions or the simple giddy nature of the song, those are the ones that get remem­bered. that transeend the realm of merely "good" to become dassics. 
''I'm Not (;onna Teach Your Boyfriend I low to Danee with You" by Jacksonville. Florida's Blac~k Kids is one of thos!~ songs. From the bouncy keyboards to the Hobert 
Wizard of Ahhs 
Black Kids 
Released by:Almost Gold Recordings Recommended Tracks: "Hit the Heartbreaks" and "I've Underestimated My Charm (Again)" 



By MYCHAL STANLEY 
Scene Writer 
It's decidedly rare for a band to relnasn a debut album with a fully­rnalized sound, and newcomers Vampirn Weekend have done exactly thal. lnstnad of sounding like a new hand struggling through growing pains, Vampire Weekend feels it knows exactly what its doing. 
Tlw hand has mixed togetlwr such disparatP genres as punk, ska, eham­lwr pop and African rhythm into an acc:nssibln, fun, and unpretentious 
Smith-like vocals, this is a song that won't send a shiver down your spine when the term "1980s throwback" is used to describe it. Normally female backing vocals and use of the "doo doo doo doo doo doo" onomatopoeia is a rock-and-roll cliehe, but not here. Not when they're used in such a sincere manner. 
That's really what makes the debut EP by Blaek Kids so eflilctive: Their wide-eyed sincerity and idealism shine in a world jaded by the constant barrage of media announcing the "next big thing." Ironically, it's that very na'ivetc1 and enthusiasm that made Black Kids a "next big thing," at 
least on the Internet, any­way. Hegardless of whether they satisfy the hype machine when their full-length album finally arrives, we'll always be lucky to have the "Wizard of Ahhhs" EP. It doesn't overstay its welcome; instead. the group leaves you wanting more. The four songs the album con­tains range from 3:32 to 
4:26 in length, so no over­indulgent drum solos or filler is to be found here. The songs arrive, make their point, and leave. It's 
Recommended Tracks: "Mansard Roof," "A-Punk" and 'Walcott" 


Vampire Weekend 
Vampire Weekend 
Released by: XL 
package. The band is having fun mix­ing and matching these styles. What has resulted is the most listenable indie rock record in a long time. 
Each song on the album has a dif­ferent feel, but they all fit into the established style that Vampire Weekend has created. The track "Mansard Hoof" sustains an atypical rhythm for the entire song while string samples and guitar interludes flow in and out of the mix and the lead singer provides the singing style much akin to that of' a Jamaican pop artist. 
The song "M79" bngins with a harp­
sichord and strings seg­ment that sound much more l'itting for a Wes Anderson film than any­thing elsn. "A-Punk" sounds like a song an accomplished Ska band would put out at the height of their powers. 
In "Walcott," perhaps tlw most impressive song of the album, the band combines every­thing they know into a sonic crescPndo that leaves the listener absolutely breathless. The band already 

over before you know it. 
The EP opens with "Hit the Heartbrakes", showing that in addition to writing music that's catchy as hell, the group can also pun. The song has an explosive instrumental introduction that subsides to showcase call and response vocals between lead singer/guitarist Reggie Youngblood and backup 
MATT HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

ones that contain "the Moment", that mag­ical portion of the song that grabs you and ref'ust~s to let go, forc~ing you to be a fan of the band forever. No. it's in the last 80 sec­onds of "I've Underestimated My Charm (Again)" where the song jumps back yet another 20 years to the 1960s, transform­ing into the kind of sublime pop gem that Brian Wilson could only 
singers/keyboardists dream of writing. The
Their wide-eyed sincerity 
Dawn Watley and Ali music ends there, leav­
and idealism shine in a
Youngblood. The small ing the listener wonder­details on this song are worldjaded by the ing what exactly this what make it great, from band would be capable
constant barrage ofmedia 
the cowbell in the chorus of if they recorded a full­
announcing the "next big 
to the tasteful keyboard length album. line in the song's bridge. thing." Please download the 
"Hurricane Jane" is the song that is both the longest and most obviously influenced by the Cure, or at least the more pop-esque moments. The verses are subdued and mellow when compared to the other songs, with a jumpy bass line. Basically, it sounds a lot like "The Lovecats." Of course, the band returns to full pop form in the chorus, with lyrics telling of a lonely, drug-fueled Friday night. This is typical of the group's lyrics, which generally discuss topics vastly incongruous with their shiny pop music. 
For all that has been said about the other songs on this album, they are not the 
sounds like they've been making pop songs for years. 
The lyrics could be called a weak point, but to be honest, it is not their goal to be deep lyricists. They have catchy lyrics that ultimately don't mean much, but they fit well within the sound that the band has created. 
"Vampire Weekend" sounds like the future of pop music but is also a prod­uct of the present. As the world gets smaller and more connected, it is only natural that our music will become more of an amalgamation of interna­tional styles. 
Other countries have been influ­enced by popular American music for years. Hopefully Vampire Weekend will lead a new generation of applying world music genres to American pop­ular rock. 
But where Vampire Weekend suc­ceeds the most is that the band used its innovation to make a fun, listen­able record. Other innovators in the genre arc almost too experimental and only appeal to avid audiophiles, but Vampire Weekend has a ereated a new sound that's accessible to every­one. 
This is the first release of the year that I can see myself listening to and enjoying months down the linn. It's the kind of music in which the 1OOth 
"Wizard of Ahhhs" EP. 

The whole thing is free on the bands MySpace, and the songs are just too good to pass up. Black Kids show off a youthful exuberance in the music they play, something not seen very often. The music is pure pop, with a heavy '80s influence, but without the stigma normally attached. Their popularity is only going to increasf~. so if you start listening now, you can look cool in front or all your friends. Thn music is both fantastic and free, so there's no reason to ignorn Black Kids for another seeond. 
Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of flid<r.com 

Vampire Weekend's Ezra Koenig performs in 
Columbus, Ohio on Valentine's Day. 
listen retains thn nov1~lty and enPrgy or thn first. 
II' you are at all interc~sted in the futurn of inrlPpnndnnt pop music or just the l'uturn of' good music in gener­al, you own it to yoursnlf to give~ this album a try. Plus, you can tnll your friends that you were a f'an bnf'ore they got big. 
Contact Mychal Stanley at wstanley@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, February 21, 2008 
page 13 
By CAITLIN FERRARO Scene Writer 
Billed as just another romantic come­dy with a silly title, "Definitely, Maybe" was definitely a pleasant surprise. 
A great ensemble cast, smart dia­logue and a creative storyline make "Definitely, Maybe" a worthwhile film. It's a watch-able romantic comedy that avoids the usual cliches. There are no overly sentimental moments that ruin so many other films of the same genre. 
After his daughter Maya (Abigail Breslin) has an impromptu sex ed class, she wants to know if she was an acci­dent, and soon-to-be-divorcee Will Hayes (Ryan Reynolds) obliges Maya with a mostly true version of how he met her mother. Will decides to change all of the names of the women in his narrative, which creates a "mystery love story" (as Maya dubs it) for her to uncover. But more than the story of how he found and lost love, it is the story of Will's life. As the story evolves so do its characters. Will moves from a youthful liberal fresh out of college to a rueful adult contemplating his past. 
Breslin charms as always (though she handles her parents' divorce surpris­ingly well), and Reynolds holds his own. 
It is his best performance to date as he captures the essence of an idealistic kid working on the '92 Clinton campaign. He has a great combination of charis­ma, comedic timing and good looks. But the true heart of this film are the three contenders to be Will's wife. Possibilities range from Emily (Elizabeth Banks), the blonde college sweetheart who worries the big city will change her man, to Summer Hartley (Rachel Weisz). the sultry brunette writer who has an unconventional rela­tionship with 

scene-stealer as the drunken, womaniz­ing Professor Hampton Roth. 
While entirely enjoyable, this film is not going to join the ranks of classic romantic comedies like "Love Actually" or "When Harry Met Sally" anytime soon. Actor Derek Luke is grossly underused as Will's best friend and business partner, and you never quite know why Will and his wife are getting a divorce. 
But the movie was filmed in New York City, which is a refreshing change com­pared to most 
her much sen­The film could not have come out at a NYC-based ior professor f i I m s .
better time because in addition to a

(Kevin Kline) to Writer/Director 
April (Isla Valentine's Day release, it is also a Adam Brooks 
Fisher), the whiffofnostalgia of the Clinton days. creates the '90s apolitical red­ambience with
Will and his coworkers must navigate
headed copy care, remem­
the rocky waters ofBill's affair with 

girl who quick­bering the over­ly becomes Gennifer Flowers and his unsuccessful sized cell Will's friend. phones, the
definition of "is. " 
With most romantic come­dies, the path to the film's conclusion is apparent and predictable, but the case is not so with "Definitely, Maybe." All three women have merits, but also flaws, allowing them to be worthy can­didates as Maya's mother. 
It also helps that Banks, Weisz, and Fisher's characters are not 


stale imitations of women. Instead, they are interest­ing and independent which makes Will's choice and the viewers even harder. Heynolds acts as the per­fect foil for these spunky women. 
Fisher particularly shines and is able to create a character distinct from her in famous portrayal of Gloria in "Wedding Crashers." Her quirky, talk­ative, free-spirited April is a wonderful offset to Reynolds' one-track-mind­ed Will. Also, Kline is a 

grunge of Kurt Cobain and truly crappy New York apartments. 
The film could not have come out at a better time because in addition to a Valentine's Day release, it is also a whiff of nostalgia of the Clinton days. Will and his coworkers must navigate the rocky waters of Bill's affair with Gennifer Flowers and his unsuccessful definition of "is." 
Will tells the story of his love life in chronological order with a few inter­ruptions by an inquisitive Maya in the present day. The relationships are rela­tively realistic interpretations as they show all of the imperfections that come along with love. But, the most engaging love story is that between father and daughter. The two have a wonderful rapport on screen and their love for each other shows. Reynolds is actually a believable dad, Breslin is the heart of the story, and because she cares, we care. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of koat.com Will Hayes (Reynolds) reminisces of his love life with his daughter Maya (Breslin). 



Rachel Weisz plays the intellectual, Isla Fisher plays April, a red-head who yet precarious Summer Hartley. wants Will to be more than just friends. 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 21, 2008 
NBA 

Paul leads Hornets over Mavs in Kidd's debut 
LeBron tallies second straight triple-double as Cavs beat Pacers; new point guard Williams shines in Nets victory over Bulls 
Associated Press 
NEW OHLEANS -Chris Paul had 31 points, 11 assist and a earner-high nine steals, spoiling Jason Kidd's debut with Dallas and lifting the New Orleans llornets to a 1 04-93 victory over the MavPricks on Wednesday night. 
Kidd, acquirPd Tuesday from New Jersey, looked out of sorts at times, committing six turnovers. 
Meanwhile, Paul's dazzling performance on both ends of the floor had the enraptured crowd on its fp.nt, raining down chants of "M-V-P!" for tlwir own All­Star point guard while a banner offering similar sentiments flapped from the upper deek. 
Kidd, who had praetiend only twice with his new team. fin­ished with night points and five assists. 
While Paul dribbled surgically through Dallas' defense, Peja Stojakovic and Bobby Jackson shot with precision from the perimeter, combining for eight of the Hornets' 10 3-pointers as the llornets won their fifth straight. 
Stojakovk made three 3-point­nrs and finished with 18 points, while Jackson hit five and wound up with 17 points. David West also scored 18 for New Orleans, despite playing with foul trouble in the second half. 
Dirk Nowitzki led Dallas with 31 points. Heserve Jason Terry scored 14 points and Erick Dampier added 11. 
Paul, whose nine steals tied a franchise high, scored 19 points in the third quarter, when he hit all seven of his shots, induding a pair of 3-pointers, to help New Orleans surge to an 11-point lead. 
New Orleans began to pull away when Stojakovie hit a jumper and Paul followed with an open 3 after Kidd got tangled up with two other players and fell. Soon after, Paul fed Hilton Armstrong inside for a three­point play, then Paul capped a I 0-2 run with a pull-up jumper with just over a second left in the third quarter to give New Orleans a 75-64 lead heading into the final period. 
New Orleans widened its lead to 17 in the fourth quarter, when Jackson made two of his 3-point­ers and Dallas began to look tired and miss shots. 
Neither team led by more than six during an intense but some­times sloppy first half during which both teams turned the ball over 11 times. 
Nowitzki and West each scored 14 points during the first two periods, but both also were called for three fouls. 


Kidd made an immediate con­
tribution on Dallas' first posses­
sion, feeding Josh Howard for a 
basket inside. However, he 
sometimes looked out of synch 
with his new teammates, who 
sometimes pulled him aside 
after unfruitful possessions and 
pointed out instructions. 
Some of Kidd's problems had morn to do with Paul, who set a franchise record for steals in a half with seven. 
Cavaliers 106, Pacers 97 
With all due respect to the league's top talent, Cleveland coach Mike Brown considers the MVP race over. 
LeBron James had his second consecutive triple-double, with 31 points, 14 rebounds and 12 assists, and the Cavaliers beat the Indiana Pacers on Wednesday night. 

Brown was most impressed that James got the triple-doubles on back-to-hack nights on the road. He had 26 points, 13 rebounds and 11 assists in ball," James said. "I attract so time after his hamstring Tuesday's loss at Houston. much attention that a lot of guys cramped up. By then, Williams 
"LeBron -what can I say? get some open looks. The biggest and Jefferson had dominated the l-Ie's the MVP. He's the MVP this look of the night was Larry hit­extra period on both ends of the year. I don't care how many ting the dagger in the corner. floor, helping the Nets to their games are left or what not," That was a big shot." 13th straight home vietory over Brown said. "This guy is terrific. the Bulls. lie just does everything out on Nets 110, Bulls 102 The Nets traded Kidd, who led the floor." Jason Kidd is gone and Devin them to two NBA finals appear­
James said he takes pride in Harris isn't ready. So now comes ances, along with Antoine doing it all. Marcus Williams' big chance, Wright and Malik Allen to Dallas 
"I just go out and try to play and he looks ready to capitalize for five players, two first-round my game," he said. "My game is on it. picks and eash. With llarris, the not just go out and score, it's Williams, in his first game as centerpiece of the deal from about getting others involved Kidd's temporary replacement at New Jersey's end, unavailable and helping each other on the point guard, combined with for perhaps two more weeks defensive end." Richard Jefferson for New with a sprained left ankle, 
James had 10 points, seven Jersey's first 10 points of over­Williams will get a chance to run rebounds and two assists in the time, and the Nets beat the the team for a while. final 12 minutes. Chicago Bulls on Wednesday "It felt good to go out there 
The fourth quarter was virtu­night. and not have to look over your ally even until James went up Williams scored a season-best shoulder after every mistake you for a rebound and landed on 25 points and had a key steal in make," Williams said. "With Indiana's Travis Diener. Diener overtime. JefTerson finished with Jason there, you makn a mistake was called for a foul, and 24 points and added a big and you probably come out. You Indiana coach Jim O'Brien got a blocked shot in the extra ses­know now that the coaches and technical for disagreeing with sion. Both players had six points your teammates have eonfidence the call. Cleveland made two of in overtime. in you." three free throws to take a 99-"There has never been anyone Trenton Hassell, DeSagana 94 lead. in the locker room who did not Diop and Maurice Agnr all made 
Larry Hughes followed with a have confidence in Marcus," their Nets debuts, with llassnll 3-pointer to make it 102-94 with Jefferson said. "You look at who coming up with a key steal with 
1:39 to go. Granger responded he played behind and the tough just over a minute left in rngula­with a 3 of his own, but Indiana spot he's been in. No one was tion. Keith Van !lorn, who hasn't got no closer. surprised. He did a good job on played since the end of the 
''I'm going to get us in the best the defensive end, too." 2005-06 season, met with coach position to make plays in the Vince Carter led the Nets with Lawrence Frank earlier fourth quarter, either if I'm han­a season-high 33 points, then Wednesday but may not play at dling the ball or playing ofT the left with 6.6 seconds left in over-all for the Nets. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Happy Birthday Richie! Forget your lust for the rich mans There's a place I know about, where goldAII that you need is in your the dirt road runs out 
WANTED FoR SALE PERSONAL (for real this time) soul, We can try out the four-wheel drive 
And you can do this if you try. Come on now whata' ya say? Girl I Oakhill Condo for Sale. Students will $14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-Mama told me when I was young All that I want for you my son, can hardly wait-love living here and parents will love WORK flexible, no experience ONE WHO IS? You do not have to Come sit beside me, my only son Is to be satisfied. To get a little mud on the tires knowing their child is looked after and needed, customer sales/service, be alone. We want to help. And listen closely to what I say. Cause its a good night, to be out sale! Secure, upstairs. two-level fur-conditions apply, ages 18+, 574-Call our 24 hour confidential hotline And if you do this Boy, doni you worry_ .. youII find there soakin' up the moonlight nished two-bedroom, two-bath condo 273-3835, at 1-800-No Abort It will help you some sunny day. yourself. Steak out a little piece of shoreline, I unit with loft area. One thousand twen-www.workforstudents.com or visit our web site at Follow you heart and nothing else. got the perfect place in mind ty-two square feet of beautifully redec-www.lifecall.org Take your time ... doni live too fast, And you can do this if you try. It's in the middle of nowhere, only one orated living space -includes 42' HD Troubles will come and they will All I want for you my son, way to get there flat screen TV and parking spaces in FoR RENT UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do pass. Is to be satisfied. Golla get a little mud on the tires front of condo_ Garages are available not go it alone. If you or someone Go find a woman and youll find at an additional cost. Parking lot sur-Blue & Gold Homes Showing for you love needs confidential support love, The MB room is open for reser-Sun sets about nine, this time of year veillance cameras. pool. clubhouse. 08/09,09/10 or assistance, please call Sr. Sue And dont forget son, vatins, KC can take the couch. We can throw a blanket down, crick-water and rubbish removal included as Dunn. OP, at 1-7819. For more There is someone up above. ets singing in the background part of the ownership package. Only Now offering "flex" leases bluegol-information, visit our website at: I've got some big news, the bank And more stars than you can count $180 per month exterior maintenance drentals.com http://osa_nd.edu/departments/preg-And be a simple kind of man. finally came through, on a night this clear fees. Five minute walk or less to the nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad Be something you love and under-And I'm holding the keys to the Tell ya what we need to do, grab a Notre Dame campus. shopping and HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 in The Observer. stand. brand new Chevrolet sleepin' bag or two restaurants. Less than ten minutes to CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING If you or someone you care about Have you been outside? It sure is a And build us a little campfire other hot spots and mall by car. FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. CALL 574-has been sexually assaulted, visit Be a simple kind of man. nice night Then with a little luck, we might just $200,000. Only serious offers consid-234-2436 OR http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. Wont you do this for me son, How about a little test-drive, down get stuck, Lets get a little mud on ered. 562-733-5166. KRAMERHOUSES.COM shtml If you can by the lake? the tires 


OUND THE NATION 
CoMPI LED FROl-v1 THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
Thursday, February 21, 2008 page 15 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
New Jersey 34-21-5 73 161 143 Pittsburgh 34-21-5 73 177 161 NY Rangers 30-24-8 68 157 155 Philadelphia 30-24-6 66 186 174 NY Islanders 28-25-7 53 150 174 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Div!sion 
team record pts. GF GA 
Ottawa 35-20-5 75 204 177 Montreal 33-19-9 75 192 172 Boston 30·23·6 66 155 160 Buffalo 28-23·8 64 173 166 Toronto 25-27-9 59 168 194 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
Carolina 30·28·5 65 183 201 Washington 28-26·6 62 171 185 Atlanta 29-28·4 62 165 195 Florida 27-29-6 60 169 178 Tampa Bay 25-28-6 56 171 193 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
Detroit 42-15-5 89 199 136 Nashville 32·23·7 71 181 172 St. Louis 28·22·9 65 157 164 Columbus 27-26·9 63 150 164 Chicago 27-26·6 60 166 169 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
Minnesota 34·21-5 73 169 163 Vancouver 30·22-8 68 160 154 Calgary 30·22·8 68 174 175 Colorado 30·25·5 65 165 166 Edmonton 27-29·5 59 164 1.83 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
Dallas 37-21-5 79 183 155 Anaheim 33-23·7 73 156 •157 San Jose 31-20·8 70 154 146 Phoenix 31-26·4 66 169 168 Los Angeles 25-34-3 53 176 285 
NCAA Men's Hockey USCHO Poll 

rank team record previow; 
1 Michigan 25-3·4 1 2 North Dakota 19·8·2 3 3 New Hampshire 19·7-2 4 4 Colorado College 21-8·1 5 5 Miami 25·6·1 2 6 Michigan State 20-8·5 3 7 Boston College 16·1·7 7 8 Denver 19-10·1 6 9 NOTRE OAME 21-10·3 9 10 Wisconsin 14·12·6 10 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 7 p.m., ESPN 
Michigan at Minnesota 9 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Associated Press 
FORT MYERS ~ Coco Crisp, who lost his center field job to rookie Jacoby Ellsbury in the postseason, said Wednesday he'd proba­bly talk to the Boston Red Sox about trading him if it appears he won't get his starting job back. 
"Honestly, I think so because I want to play," Crisp said before his spring train­ing workout. "I wouldn't be happy sitting on the bench." 
He's not even certain he'll get an equal chance in the competition for the job. Manager Terry Francona said Wednesday it would be. 
''I'm not sure," Crisp said calmly when asked if the bat­tle for the job with the prized prospect will be fair. "''m not sure how everything's going to break down. I'm really unsure of a lot of things this year." 

The 28-year-old Crisp start­ed 145 games last year and played outstanding defense. But he batted only .268 in his second season with Boston after being obtained from Cleveland to replace Johnny Damon, who signed as a free agent with the New York Yankees. 
The 24-year-old Ellsbury started the season at Double­A Portland. After being recalled Sept. 1, he played in 26 games, hitting safely in 23 of them and finishing the sea­son with a .353 average with 
IN BRIEF Clemens will not appear at 
Disney celebrity weekend 
Roger Clemens has pulled out of an ESPN sports personality weekend at Disney Hollywood Studios. The deci­sion comes a week after Clemens gave testimony to a congressional committee about his alleged use of performance enhancing drugs. 
Clemens says in a statement Wednesday, "I believe my current participation could be a distraction." 
ESPN spokesman Josh Krulewitz says ESPN "made the point that him being involved would be a newswor­thy event," and his decision to with­draw was made in the past 24 hours. 
Clemens had agreed to participate in "ESPN the Weekend" before the release of the Mitchell Report. 
The withdrawal came after Clemens and his former trainer, Brian McNamee, offered widely con­tradictory testimony to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on Feb. 13. 
nine stolen bases in 33 games. 
But after Crisp hit .182 in the first eight postseason games, Ellsbury became the starter in Game 6 of the AL championship series and hit .375 in the remaining six games~two wins against Cleveland and a four-game World Series sweep against Colorado. 
"He was hot and I was struggling at that time," Crisp said, "so you got to put who's hot and who's doing the best out there offensively. So I understood it." 
In the ofl:season, Crisp said, he heard trade rumors involving Minnesota, Texas and the Chicago Cubs. He and Ellsbury were mentioned in reports about talks with the Twins involving pitcher Johan Santana, who went to the New York Mets. 
"I would honestly rather be somewhere else and play than be on the bench," he said. "But I'll take whatever comes and deal with it and no knock against Boston. I love the fans. They treated me well." 
The possibility of having a disgruntled player is one of the few clouds hanging over the World Series champions. Nearly the entire team that swept Colorado for the title is back. Aside from a shoulder injury that figures to keep Curt Schilling out at least to the All-Star break, the Red Sox are healthy. 

Raiders cornerbackarrested 
at home on battery charges 
BRADENTON, Fla.~ Oakland Raiders cornerback Fabian Washington was released on bond after being arrested at the Florida home he shares with his girl­friend and charged with domestic bat­tery. 
The Manatee County sheriff's depart­ment said Washington, 24, was arrested late Tuesday following what the girlfriend described as an argument that turned physical. The athlete was freed Wednesday after posting $2,000 bail. 
According to a police report, Washington said he and his girlfriend were arguing about the former first­round draft pick "hanging out with other girls." Washington told a sheriffs deputy that the argument did not tum physical. 
The woman, however, said Washington grabbed her from behind and "backpedaled" her away from the cou­ple's baby. The deputy said he observed "slight red marks" on the victim's neck and that Washington was arrested. 
Rodriguez says he was tested 
9 or 10 times in 2007 
TAMPA, Fla. -Alex Rodriguez sat in the first-base dugout at Legends Field, surrounded by the usual circle of cam­eras, microphones and reporters. He knows the scrutiny will only increase as he approaches Barry Bonds' career home-run record, especially in an era when all top athletes must prove they haven't juiced up on performance­enhancing drugs. 
In his first session with reporters during spring training, Rodriguez talked about baseball's drug-testing program and made a curious state­ment. 
"Last year, I got tested 9-to-10 times," Rodriguez said. "We have a very, very strict policy, and I think the game is making tremendous strides." 
Rodriguez could have been exagger­ating about the amount of tests, he could have been selected for an unusu­ally high number of checks or he might have dropped a clue to something else. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 21, 2008 
NHL 
Vanek's OT goal gives Sabres win 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -Aftor vowing the BuiTalo Sabres would make the playoffs, Thomas Vanek ba1:ked it up with a clutch per­formance. 
Vanek scored three consocutive goals, inducting the winner 2:25 into overtime, in rallying the Sabres to a 4-3 win over the stunned Tampa Bay Lightning on Wednesday night. 
"We need points and we got two points, that's the most impor­tant part," said Vanek. "It's good to stop the losing streak at two and hopefully putting a streak the other way." 
Vanek was the star three days after he all but guaranteed the Sabres would make the playoffs following a dreadful weekend in which Buffalo lost back-to-back games: 4-1 against Pitt•;burgh on Sunday and 5-1 to the New York Hangers on Saturday. 
Buffalo improved to 9-2-2 in it'i past 13 games and into a three­way tie with Boston and Philadelphia for seventh in the Eastern Conference. 
"It feels great," said Vanek, who has scored 12 goals ­including four game-winners ­in 11 games after he managed just 13 in his first 50 of the sea­son. "It's finally coming and hopefully I can stay on my game from here on out." 
Vanek scored twice in a span of 36 seconds, forcing overtime when he stuffed in Tim Connolly's feed with 1 :45 left in regulation. 
Not done yet, Vanek capped a nifty tic-tac-toe play in overtime with Tampa Bay's Dan Boyle in the penalty box for hooking. 
Jason Pominville started the play from the left point by feeding Jaroslav Spacek in the right cir­cle. Spacek then immediately sent a pass through the crease to Vanek, who stuffed it inside the left post. 
Derek Hoy had a goal and assist while Connolly had three assists for Buffalo, which improved to 10-1 in its past 11 meetings against the Lightning. 
Brad Richards, Vaclav Prospal and Chris Gratton scored for the Lightning, who fell to 4-1-2 in their past six, and remain in last place in the East. 
The loss incensed Lightning coach John Tortorella, who erupted briefly in the team's lock­er room with reporters present. "You better get it figured out, because I'm not going to be around it," Tortorella yelled. 
The coach was a little more subdued a few minutes later when meeting with reporters oul'iide the locker room. 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tar Heels cruise past Wolfpack 
Associated Press 
HALEIGH, N.C. -Tyler Hansbrough never forgot the sinking feeling he had when North Carolina State's fans stormed the court to celebrate the Wolfpack's upset of highly ranked North Carolina last year. 
"That moment last year was very, very disappointing," he said. "It was in the back of my mind, but I didn't say anything to anybody." 
He almost single-handedly wouldn't let the Tar Heels expe­rience that again. 
The junior All-American had 32 points -including 16 dur­ing the decisive 11-minute run -to help No. 3 North Carolina beat rival N.C. State 84-70 on Wednesday night, continuing his recent surge that has helped the Tar Heels stay afloat without injured point guard Ty Lawson. 
Wayne Ellington added 21 points for the Tar Heels (25-2, 10-2 Atlantic Coast Conference), who led by 20 points to easily avenge last year's 83-79 loss here. 
North Carolina played its fifth straight game without Lawson, the speedy sophomore who sprained his left ankle in the early minutes of an overtime win at Florida State earlier this month. Yet the 6-foot-9 Hansbrough came through with another big day, finishing 11­for-19 from the field while tally­ing 12 rebounds and five steals against the Wolfpack (15-11, 4­
8). 
"He gives you the same thing every night," North Carolina coach Hoy Williams said, "and that's absolutely the best that he can give you." 
Hansbrough is averaging 27.8 points and 13.3 rebounds in the six-game stretch that began with the Florida State win, keeping him atop the ACC in both scoring and rebounding. 
On Wednesday night, he did a little of everything. He passed out of double teams. He made tough shots inside against N.C. State freshman star J.J. Hickson. He outfought and out­hustled N.C. State's players to rebounds while being the prime target for boos from frustrated home fans. 
At one point, Hansbrough had 24 of North Carolina's 50 points. 
"Everybody talks about Tyler Hansbrough as a player-of-the­year candidate, and the game like tonight is exactly why," said Marcus Ginyard, who had 13 points for the Tar Heels. "The guy's going to battle throughout the whole game. He's going to get banged up, but he's still going to finish." 
Ellington also came through, scoring 12 points after the break and finishing with three 3-pointers for the game ­including one just before half­time that capped a 9-0 spurt and gave North Carolina a 34­31 lead at the break. 
The Tar Heels didn't let up in the second half, extending that modest push into a 31-7 run that silenced a once-rowdy crowd and took all drama out of this one. 
Before the run, N.C. State led 31-25 on a one-handed alley­oop dunk by Courtney Fells off a pass from Gavin Grant with 
4:50 left in the half-a high­light-reel play that had the Wolfpack dreaming of another upset. By the time Hansbrough ended the run with a slam off a halfcourt steal, North Carolina led 56-38 with about 14 min­utes to go. 
"In the second half, they came out and turned it up again and we didn't respond," said N.C. State coach Sidney Lowe, who again donned a bright red blazer for the rivalry game. "Our defense wasn't there as it was in the first half, and obviously against a team like that you have to stay solid and focused. We weren't, and they took advantage of that." 
North Carolina shot 53 per­cent for the game and got another capable performance from senior Quentin Thomas, who matched his career high of 10 points to go with seven assists in Lawson's place. 
Grant scored 17 points to lead N.C. State, which has lost four straight games. 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Hurricanes defeat No.5 Duke for first ti111e in 45 years 
to win 96-95. the first time since the first game 
Associated Press 
Hanked No. 2 just last week, the in the series Dec. 21, 1962. The 
COHAL GABLES, Fla. -Blue Devils (22-3 overall, 10-2 Blue Devils had won all 10 games Looking to bounce back from Atlantic Coast Conference) lost for since. their 11rst conference loss, the the second time in f(mr days. "I had a feeling," said Jack Duke Blun Devils instead stum­"Our team -there's something McClinton, who scored 22 points bled again. missing this week," coach Mike for the Hurricanes. "Something 
The Miami Hurricanes beat Krzyzewski said. "We are not the inside of me felt good about our Duke (No. 4 ESPN/USA Today, No. same team these last two ball­team. I just felt something great 5 AP) lin· the lirst time in 45 years games. It's almost like someone was going to happen." Wednesday, scoring 15 consecu­has come in and invaded their Miami made six of eight free tive point.<; to build a big [pad oarly bodies." throws in the final 41 seconds to in the second half and holding on Miami (1R-7, 5-6) beat Duke for preserve the upset. Duke's 
DeMarcus Nelson sank a layup with 2 seconds left to make the score 94-92, but McClinton sank two clinching frne throws before Nelson hit a mmtningless 3-point­er at the buzzer. 
"We're going to turn this thing back around," Nelson said. "We've been too good all year to have whatever it is holding us b<u:k as a tfmm. We're definitely going to lind out what it is and address it. Our season is not going on a downward spiral." 

Senior Dwayne Collins scored a career-high 26 points to help the llurrieanes win tlwir third ACC game in a row. They beat a top­five team for the first time since a victory at No. 2 Connecticut on Feb. 20, 1999. from the perimeter against missed sevp,n shots and commit­
"It's a special win," Hurricanes Miami's zone, and when DukP ted four turnovers during tlw coach Frank Ilaith said. "The tried to force the ball inside, the drought, which left them trailing atmosphere we had out there was Hurricanes often tipped it away 59-39. terrific. But we can't stop. We're and repeatedly showed more hus­Duke struggled from the start still trying to build a resume to tle chasing loose balls.· against Miami's zone, failing to make the NCAA tournament. "We did not play very well," seore on eight consecutive posses­There's no question this helps." Krzyzewski said. "Obviously they sions. The Blun Dovils committnd 
Sophomore Jon Scheyer scored had a lot to do with that." eight turnovP.rs in the first R min­a career-high 27 points for the Miami's Jimmy Graham leaped utes, missed seven shots in a row Blue Devils, who nearly rallied out of bounds to make one save, and fell behind 17-11. from a 20-point second-half hitting a teammatP. with a pass Duko twice liPd the seorB later deficit. that bounced between a Duke in the half, but the llurrieanns 
The Blue Devils had a season­player's legs. scored on their last fimr posses­high turnover total for the second The Blue Devils also gave up a sions, and Collins' reverse layup game in a row, losing the ball 23 season-high point total for the in the linal seconds put them up times. They struggled shooting second successive game. They 41-36 at halftimo. 


.-------~----~-~~-·-------~--~~----------------. 
Thursday, February 21, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Goodell hopes to meet with Walsh 
PGA TouR 
Woods rallies for vvin in match play 
Associated Press  Fourth-seeded Ernie Els made a run to the airport,  him, Woods hammered a 5­wood that stopped 35 feet  
MARANA,  Ariz.  -Tiger  losing in the first round for  from  the  hole  for  eagle.  
Woods  was  running out of  the fourth straight time at  Holmes had 45 feet and left it  
holes. but not hope.  this  World  Golf  short, and Woods only want­ 
He had  never fallen three  Championship. He shot 40 on  ed to make sure he didn't hit  
holes behind and come hack  the front nine to fall 6-down,  it too hard.  
to win in match  play as ·a  and suffered his worst defeat  It was perfect.  
professional, and his predica­ in 15 matches, 6 and 5 to  ·  "It was just one  of those  
ment looked particularly dire  Jonathan Byrd.  things where everything kind  
Wednesday when he took  a  The  other  top  seeds  of turned my way," Woods  
penalty drop in the desert to  advanced, but not by much.  ~  said.  
lose another hole against J.B.  Phil Mickelson, fresh off his  Holmes missed  an  8-foot  
Holmes with five to play.  victory at Riviera, withstood  birdie putt on the 18th ­ the  
What  followed  was  a  back-to-hack birdie putts of  same distance he had when  
charge  that  had  Woods  40 feet by Pat Perez by mak­ he  beat  Mickelson  three  
pumping his fists and Holmes  ing a  4-foot par putt on the  weeks ago in Phoenix  -that  
shaking his head.  18th for a 1-up victory. Steve  would  have  extended the  
"You're playing the best  Stricker got a small measure  match.  
player in the world, 3 up with  of revenge against Daniel  "He struggled  a  little bit  
live to play," Holmes said. "I  Chopra. After losing to him in  early in the round, and then  
just said, 'Don't do anything  a four-hole playoff last month  made every putt he looked at  
stupid. Make him beat you.'  at  the  Mercedes-Benz  when he needed to," Holmes  
And he did. What do you do?"  Championship,  Stricker  said. "That's why he's the  
Woods  won  four straight  defeated him in 20 holes with  best."  
holes with three birdies and a  an 8-footer for birdie.  Four of the top eight seeds  
35-footer for eagle to pro­ Woods started his match by  were gone after the first day  
duce another stunning rally  hitting a  tee shot into the  of the Match  Play, one of the  
in the desert, this. one allow­ desert and out of bounds.  most chaotic days in golf. Jim  
ing him to escape in the first  "One of the worst shots I've  Furyk (No. 6) continued to sti  
round of the Accenture Match  hit in  a  long time," Woods  ruggle with his game, losing  
Play Championship.  said.  to Colin Montgomerie, 3 and  
The last time Woods played,  It looked as though it might  2; Justin Rose (7) fell to Rod  
he shot 31  on the back nine  end  early until  a  15-foot  Pampling, 2 and 1; and Rory  
of the Dubai Desert Classic to  birdie on the 14th hole, fol­ Sabbatini, who played college  
rally from  a four-shot deficit  lowed  by  a  meaningless  golf  at  Arizona,  lost  to  
to  win. In the high desert  birdie putt from 18 feet  on  Bradley Dredge, 4 and 3.  
north of Tucson, he played  the 15th after Holmes' three­ "You can never really fancy  
the back nine in 30 for a 1-up  putt. Woods' foot slipped on  your chances in this format,"  
victory.  his downswing at the par-3  Lee  Westwood  said  after  
"For some reason, momen­ 16th, and he found  a  foot­ making eight birdies in  a  3­ 
tum just goes  your way,"  print in his line when he  and-2 victory over  Brandt  
Woods said. "You just get on  arrived on the green, but he  Snedeker. "This is the kind of  
a run. Sometimes the run is  rolled in  a  third straight  week where you unpack, but  
early in the round, sometimes  birdie putt  to  square the  you don't move stuff too far  
middle or late. It just so hap­ match.  away from your suitcase."  
pened the last two rounds, it  That led to the kind of the­ Woods appeared to have his  
was late. But at least it hap­ ater this format always deliv­ bags packed.  
pened today. At least I had a  ers, and Woods came through  He had said ·Tuesday that  
run.  I wasn't playing good  again.  when players fall behind two  
enough  to  win the  match  From  28 7  yards  in  the  or three holes, they generally  
unless I had a run."  rough,  a  crisp breeze behind  lose.  

South Bend  Larry the Cable·  Dierks Bentley  
Symphony  Guy Comedian. ·.··•  with Luke Brya ···  
"Tried &True"  2 Shows!  &Bucky Covingt  
Saturday, Feb. 23  Sunday, Feb. 24  ·ihursday, Feb~?  



Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -NFL com­missioner Roger Goodell hopes the NFL is close to an agree­ment that will allow former New England Patriots employee Matt Walsh to tell the league about the tapes he is said to have made of the St. Louis Rams' walkthrough before the 2002 Super Bowl. 
"The lawyers are still talking and we're anxious to speak to him. We're anxious to get an agreement to get him to come forth." Goodell told the Associated Press on Wednesday before the start of the NFL com­bine. 
"We hope to be able to talk to him shortly." 
Walsh, now a golf pro in Maui, did video work for the Patriots when they won the first of their three Super Bowls after the 2001 season. Three weeks ago, the Boston Herald reported that Walsh claimed he had taped the practice before the Patriots' 20-17 upset of the Rams, who were two-touch­down favorites. 
NFL lawyers have been meet­ing with Michael Levy, Walsh's Washington-based lawyer, who is seeking further protection for his client if he tells what he knows. 
Levy said last week that the NFL's offer of protection "is highly conditional and still leaves Mr. Walsh vulnerable. I have asked the NFL to provide Mr. Walsh with the necessary legal protections so that he can come forward with the truth without fear of retaliation and litigation." 
Goodell has said that Walsh was· not interviewed as part of the NFL's investigation into "Spygate," which involved the NFL confiscating tapes from a Patriots employee who record­ed the New York Jets' defensive signals from the sideline during the opening game of the 2007 season. 
As a result of that investiga­tion, New England coach Bill Belichick was fined $500,000 and the team was fined $250,000 and forfeited its 2008 first-round draft choice. 
Six confiscated tapes and other documents pertaining to the Patriots' taping were subse­quently destroyed by the league. 

The Nanovic Institute for European Studies provides grants and fellowships for graduate students studying contemporary Europe. 
Research & Travel Grants up to $5,000 
Dissertation Fellowships up to $15,000 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 29, 2008 

For more information, call 631-5253 or visit www.nd.edu/~nanovic. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, February 21, 2008 
HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL 
Despite tragedy, La. team prevails 
Associated Press 
BATON HOUGE, La. -Lnss than 24 hours al'tnr star point guard Shannon Veal collapsed on thn court and dind. her team­mains at Ginn Oaks High School linislwd what slw started -win­ning a playoiT game amid omo­tional support from the LSU wornnn's basketball team, among otlwrs. 
"It was hard. it was hard not snning that No. 25," Ginn Oaks lligh School !'oach Harold Boudreaux said. rt-ferring to Veal's jt-rsny number. "But I giw it to my kids. Thny came out. They lwld tlwir composurn. They playnd undnr control. What morn can you ask for'!'' 
Glen Oaks boat opporwnt llnlen Cox 6 7-40 in tlw regional playoiT game that had lwnn sus­pt-nded the night bnforn wlwn Vnal. 17, collapst~d just bnfore halllirnn. An autopsy on Ttwsday i nd icatnd Veal's dPath was the rnsult of hypertrophic cardiomy­<qiathy -a thickening of tho !wart musde -according to tho 1\ast Baton Houge Parish coro­ner's o!li!'.<'. 
Veal had just hit two frne throws . when she signaled slw nendnd a brnathnr. Before Boudreaux could n~plar:n hnr, the talented point guard col­lapsed and died. 

"It's the kind of thing I'll always look bar:k on, but it was just seconds." Boudreaux said earlinr Tuesday. "She was guarding a player and just keeled over. You could hear lwr head hit the floor." 
Paramedies arrived in minutes Monday night. They began CPH and used a defibrillator as the crowd of about 200 watehed. Among those at the gym was an LSU scout and Veal's father. Gilbert, who was recording the playoll' game. 
On Tuesday, the lobby ai the Glen Oaks gym that holds sever­al state and district champi­onship trophies, featured a large, red horizontal sign that read. "We love U Shannon," posted on a wall. It was filled with signaturns and wPll-wishns 
IRL 

Open-vvheeled leagues near deal 
for Veal's family. 
Among those in the stands offering support was the LSU women's basketball team and assistant coaches Bob Starkey, Travis Mays and Yolanda Wells­Broughton. 
"We just went in there and congratulated them and let them know to keep their heads up," LSU center Sylvia Fowles said after the ganw. "It'll be hard to gnt over. but they've got to keep looking forward because that's what (Shannon) would want thmn to do." 
Fowles said she remembers Veal attending basketball camps, and LSU guard Quianna Chaney said she remembers Veal as an avid fan of LSU basketball. 
"Shn canw to all tbe LSU games and she and lwr mom used to be out there getting autographs," Chaney said. "The least we could do is come out here and show our support." 
Starkey and Mays were at Monday's game to scout Veal. 
"She wasn't just a good player. Shn was an outstanding young lady," Starkey said. "She was going to play college basketball somnwhore. She was that good. You hate to lose anybody that young, with so much potential." 
Veal, a 5-foot-8 junior, was the district MVI'. She was averaging 14 points, 5.5 assists and two steals. 
Ilypertrophic cardiomyopathy is the most common cause of sudden, unexpected death among young athletes, according to Dr. Kim Edward LeBlanc said. The condition makes it difficult for blood to leave the heart, but it is dillicult to discern. 
"It is rare enough that there is no recommendation to screen for it," LeBlanc said. 
Veal was diabetic and Don Moreau, chief of operations for the coroner's ollice, said the con­dition may have been related to the disnase. 
LeBlanc, chairman of the Department of Family Medicine at the LSU Medical Center and a specialist in sports medicine, said diabetes should not prevent an athlete from playing. 
Come explore the life ofzeal of the 
Congregation of Holy Cross 

Is God
with an evening of prayer and conversation 
with Holy Cross religious and 

men. calling
other discerning 

you? 
Feb22 
COMMUNITY 

Blessed Brother 
with Fr. PeterJarret. C.S.C. Fr. Austin Collins, C.S.C.. 

Andre Bessette, c.s.c. 
Fr. Gary Chamberland, CSC. 
Dinners 
s:3o-7:3op.m. beginningatLog Chapel 
Have questions·? 
with dinnerto follow atthe 
Call (574) 631-6385 or 
Coleman--Morse Center 
e--mail vocation.1(ii)nd.edu 
C 0 N C, R l" (i A 1 I 0 
N 0 f 
HOLYCROSS
~I '"·""''''"'""'''"".,,.,. 
Associated Press 
The possible unification of America's two open-wheel rac­ing series was in the hands of the lawyers Wednesday, work­ing out the final details of a deal that could re-energize the struggling sport. 
Rather than a merger, the proposed deal, which could be announced as soon as Friday, would see some teams from the Champ Car World Series blended into the Indy Racing League's IndyCar Series, with immediate gains in car count and races. 
"It is still not done, but still moving," IHL spokesman Fn~d Nation told The Associated Press Wednesday. 
"The lawyers are still lawyering and we are still trading drafts and whittling away at the issues. We're opti­mistic the issues can be resolved." · 
Meanwhile, Champ Car spokesman David Iligdon said series co-owner Kevin Kalkhoven, a key person in the negotiations was still in England on family business and would not return ·to the 
U.S. until sometime late Thursday. 
Since the IHL began compet­ing with what was then the established CAHT series in 1996, the two have gone head to head for drivers, teams, fans, sponsors and TV ratings, generally losing out on all counts. 
Things have only gotten worse for both sides in the face of the current U.S. economic woes. 
Before the proposed agree­ment, Champ Car was set to begin its season April 29 at Long Beach, Calif., with no more than 17 cars, while the IndyCar Series was in danger of starting its season March 29 at Homestead, Fla., with as few as 16. 
With the deal apparently nearing completion, it appeared Wednesday that between six and 10 cars from the Champ Car side would take the offer from IRL founder and Indianapolis Motor Speedway president Tony George of a free Honda engine lease pro­gram, free Dallara chassis and $1.2 million in team incen­tives. 
Several Champ Car teams arc not expected to tak<~ George's offer because, even with the engines, cars and incentives, it would take an additional $2 million or more to compete in the IHL. The teams that don't have the sponsorship or backing to con­tinue will either dose down or move to sports car racing, which is less costly. 
Obviously, those who would take the deal see it as a win­ning proposition. 
"I believe it would be a stronger series again with a lot of solid events," said Eric Bachelart, a former open­wheel driver and now owner of Conquest Hacing in the Champ Car series. 

"What the IHL has is a good package, with the Indianapolis 500 and some other things that will help attract sponsors. There will be lots of cars, lots of teams. A good show." 
Like everyone else involved, though, Bachelart was waiting anxiously to hear a confirma­tion that the deal is done. 
''I'm ready to move any time soon and enter two cars in the IHL," Baehelart said. "I believe this is the best option to go that way. And, with Champ Car, it has lost a lot of credibil­ity at this point." 
CAHT went into bankruptcy in January 2004 and was bought by Kalkhoven, Gerald Forsythe and Paul Gentilozzi, all team owners in what is now Champ Car. They have since added Dan Pettit, another team owner, as a partner. 
Led by Kalkhoven and Forsythe, Champ Car decided to go away from tho traditional open-wheel ovals and focus its efforts on city street races, hoping the carnival atmos­phere surrounding those <wents would assure success, and on racing outside tho U.S., away from the 11\L. 
It worked. to a point. Champ Car's most succnssful nvents are the street, airport or road races in Long Beach. Edmonton, Toronto, Australia and Mexico City. And most of the races outsido tho U.S., including several events in Europe, did make monny. 
Overall, the serins made little impaet in America, its home base. 

The impending deal is expected to indudn Long Beach, Edmonton and Australia in 200S, with negoti­ations for several other cur­rent Champ Car events to be added to the IHL schedule in 2009, likely including Toronto and Mexico City. 
George's initial concept for the IHL was to concentrate on taking open-wheel racing back to its roots on oval tracks. Eventually, eventually began adding the better-attended road and street circuits to the schedule. 

SaLH~cd filarLa, ~hnmr and Koma Tomatoes over Ang~l Hair Pasta 
with Whll~ Win~ & l.t'mon Dill Buller Smtc~; S~rvt'd WLth Cr~hmcat-Stufkd Mushmr1ms 
Other Seafood Celebration Items: Mus,,c·l,. m Salfron • Sc,tmr' Aglit' • Salnllme alia Griglia Capdlln1 & (.rabmcaL • Shrimp & :':callor Scampi • Shrimp R:wwli .. 

5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574-271-1692 
Unmistakably Italian •1.,Unbelievably Good www. PapaViews ItalianKitchcn.com 

-------------------------------------------------..., 
Thursday, February 21, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Bosh scores 40 in win over Magic 
Associated Press 
TOHONTO -The Toronto Raptors want to fine-tune their aggressive approach in the sec­ond half of the season. They sure looked pretty good Wednesday night against the Orlando Magic. 
Chris Bosh had 40 points ­going 14-for-16 from the field and 11-for-11 from the foul line -and Jose Calderon had 19 points and 13 assists as the Haptors won 127-110. 
"We have to set the tone for the rest of this year," Bosh said. "It's going to be a big year for us. I think. We're in a position to do some good things." 
Toronto set a season high in points and narrowly miss-ed matching the franchise high of 
129. set Jan. 15, 2006. against New York. 
It was Bosh's fourth 40-point game this season, tying Vince Carter's tnam record. 
Bosh made 11 of his first 12 shots and even had a rare 3­pointnr in the third quarter, struggling to contain a smile as he rntrnatnd back down court. Bosh is 3-for-6 from 3-point range this season. 
"TiwrP was not one thing they did that we could guard," Magic coach Stan Van Gundy said. "Chris Bosh. we could not guard. Wn'rp going to have to think about double-teaming him next time." 
Van Cundy said Bosh "destroyPd" Orlando center Dwight lloward. 
Anticipating that Bosh would struggle trying to post-up Howard, Haptors coach Sam MitrhPll urged him to face Howard up instead. With Bosh making shots, the strategy worked. 
"Whnn Chris is making his jump shot, he is just too hard to guard," Mitchell said. "lie can go around, left and right, and he can shoot it. I told the coaches at half'time when we went into the locker room to just leave him alonn, don't coach him because he doesn't need our help right now." 

Carlos Delfino came off the bench to score 23 for Toronto, ineluding five 3-pointers. Jamario Moon had 17 points and 12 rebounds, and Anthony Parker scored 10. 
lloward led Orlando with 37 points and 15 rebounds, going 13-f(>r-16 lhnn the field and 11­for-15 from the free-throw line. Hashard Lewis and Hedo Turkoglu each finishnd with 16, Jameer Nelson had 13 and Maurice Evans 12. 
A jumper by Juan Dixon with 30 seconds left in the third gave the Haptors 100 points. Jason Kapono added two more with a baseline jumper as Toronto took a 102-82 lead into the fourth. 
Bosh and Calderon returned after Orlando opened the final quarter with a 10-2 run, dosing to 104-92, but the Magic were 
never able to get the deficit below 10 points. Van Gundy was unimpressed with the attemptnd comeback. 
"Those kinds of runs happen all the time in the NBA." he said. "All (Mitchell) did was put Calderon and Bosh back in and game over." 
Calderon helped ice the game with back-to-bar.k 3·pointers and an alley-oop pass to Moon. giving the Raptors a 16-point lead. 
Van Gundy showed his frus­tration as Toronto pulled away. 
"I didn't like our level of com­petitiveness," he said. "I thought we were hanging our heads and stuff." 
Howard agreed that the Magic appeared beaten. 
"We missed a couple of shots, they come down and hit two 3s in a row and we hung our heads a little bit," Howard said. "We can't do that." 


Large Pizza 
Cheese & 2 Toppings 
$ 99 
Free Delivery
ONLY On Campus 

Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas & 
charges may vary by location. Excludes other 
offers. Good at participating locations only. 
SOUTH BEND 
52750 IN 933 (N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
(Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 

• 
574-243-1122
PIZZa ® 
Visit us on the Web at www.marcos.com @2007 Marco's Franchising, LLC 5724ND-1007 

MLB 
Lasorda to manage Dodgers exhibition 
Associated Press 
A dozen years after he retired, Tom Lasorda is coming back to manage the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
In spring training, that is. 
The 80-year-old Hall of Farner will guide a split squad of Dodgers for eight games in March while Joe Torre takes the other half to China for a two­game exhibition series. 
"There is no one else in the game of baseball like Tommy Lasorda," Torre said Wednesday. "He's excited about it. I thought it was a great idea. He's such a fan favorite. Knowing his enthusiasm for the game, I know he'll embrace it." 
Lasorda is ready to go. 
"What a thrill this will be, not just to manage the games, but the thought behind it," he said. "This really is a very, very spe­cial honor." 
This is the Dodgers' final spring training in Vero Beach, Fla.. and Lasorda has long been a fixture at the camp. lie usual­ly rides around Dodgertown in a golf cart, chatting with fans and signing autographs, and his arrival at tiny Holman Stadium is often accompanied by "Hail to the Chief" playing on the sound system. 
Lasorda managed thn Dodgers for nearly 20 years beforn a heart attack hastened his retire~ ment in 1996. He is now a spe­cial adviser to Dodgers chair­man Frank McCourt. 
Lasorda last managed in 2000, when he led the United States to a gold medal in the Sydney Olympics, beating the heavily favored Cuban national team in the championship game. 
"I can't think of a more fitting tribute to a man who embodies the Dodger organization than to have him lead the team during our final week of games here in Vero Beach," Torre said. 
Lasorda will manage the Dodgers from March 11-18 and work the team's final home game at Dodgertown. The team will move its spring training 
. headquarters next year to Glendale, Ariz. This is Lasorda's 59th season in the Dodgers organization, including time as a player, scout, minor league manager and major league coach. As the Dodgers manager, his teams were 1,599-1,493 and won two World Series, four NL pennants and eight division titles. At Fort Myers, Fla., Red Sox center fielder Coco Crisp is pre­pared to talk to Boston manage­ment about a trade if it appears he will not win back his starting job taken by rookie Jacoby Ellsbury in the postseason. The 28-year-old Crisp started 145 games last year and played outstanding defense in his sec­ond season with Boston. But after hitting .182 in the first eight postseason games, he was replaced by the 24-year-old Ellsbury, who started the season at Double-A Portland. "I would honestly rathE~r be somewhere else and play than be on the bench," Crisp said. "But I'll take whatever comes and dPal with it and no knock against Boston. I love tlw fans. They treated me well." At Tampa, Fla.. New York Yankees senior vice president llank Steinbrnnner wouldn't mind seeing some unrest in Boston's camp. lie's not happy the Yankees an~ chasing the World Series champions. "We'd rather be Darth Vader. Let them be the underdog," Steinbrenner said while watch­ing his team work out. The Yankees had their first full-squad workout under man­ager Joe Girardi. The Yankees have not had a manager other 
·than Joe Torre since Buck Showalter in 1995. "I missed him when we were running," Yankees captain Derek Jeter said. "We didn't run that much before, so I missed him a little bit." At Viera, Fla., troubled prospect Elijah Dukes reported to Washington Nationals spring training and took questions dur­ing a hastily arranged and limit­ed-in-scope news conference. 

.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-----·--­
Thursday, February 21, 2008 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Teatn in second after first day of Big East 

length in that la<>t leg to take sec­ond place," White said. "She was really impressive and nearly caught the leader." 
The diving team earned three spots in the finals during the pre­liminary round. Sophomore Natalie Stitt took first place in the 1"-meter diving prelims, but dropped to third by the end of the finals. Senior Tara Hyer finished in fifth place and freshman Heidi Grossman rounded out the scor­ing for the Irish in eighth place. 
The four-day Big East champi­onship continues tomorrow at 10 
a.m. for preliminaries in 500­yard freestyle. 200 yard individ­ual medley. 50-yard frnestyle, and the 200-yard freestyle relay before finishing up with the finals at 6 p.m. The championship will continue until Saturday evening. The Irish are going for their 12th consecutive Big Ea<>t title. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
THA TO METANIOSSIS 
(7hinic, i:C Over) 

By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
Notrn Dame finds itself in stH:ond place after one day of competition in tlw Big East tournamnnt at the Nassau County Aquatic CPntnr in East Mnadow. N.Y. 
Aft11r finishing last ytHtr's championships only 4.5 points 
bnhind w i nrw r Wnst Virginia. thn Irish wnnt into today's mnPt looking to takn back tht~ titln tlwy havP won thr11n of tlw last four ynars. 
Sitting in snc­ond plac11 out of PillVOn lPams with (,S points. only LouisvillP 
gntting big ton in the water. and wn are now looking forward to rest of tho ovents. I thought they swam grnat, with the lead ofT race setting a university rncord." 
The Irish cap­tured first place 6:32.45 and also earned an NCAA B-eut time. 
During the race, the Irish were trailing first-place Louisville, but eventually pulled ahead to place first in the race. Two members of the above quartet. Lylte and Hoffman, lwlped set the previ­ous school record during the 2007 Big l•:ast meet. Along with nrrrent sonior Tnd Brown and 
"/ thought we got off to a great start. and I thought the guys swam vc>ry well tonight." 
Tim Welsh Irish coach 

rPmains in front of tlw Irish with a point total of 74. 
Irish coach Tim Wtdsh said hn was vnry plt>asPd with the day's rnsults. 
"I thought wn got ofT to a groat start. and I thought the guys swam vnry wPII tonight," lw said. "Today we w•~n~ just 
"One ofthe beautiful things about swimming is you don 't win by making someone else lose." 
Tim Welsh Irish coach 

in the XOO-yard free relay. The team, comprised of sophomore John Lytle. freshman Joshua Nosal. sophomore Andrew llof'fan and sophomore MacKenzie LeBlanc, set a sehool reeord with a time of 
Write Sports. Email Chris at chine@ nd.edu 
Sam Pendergast. and sopho­more Hoss Moore earned a limn of I ::~0.87 in the race. 
Tomorrow's qualifying matches begin at 10 a.m. Thosn who meet the qualifying times will compete for points in tlw final heats at 6 p.m. 
Coach Welsh hopes his tmtm 
as they can. 
current junior JolT Wood, they achieved a time of 6:32.67. 
The Irish also claimed fifth place in tho 200 yard mod­ley rfllay. gain­ing 2S points in the process. HolTman. son­ior Andrew Mt:Kay. junior 
performs just as 
well tomorrow. 
"One of the beautiful things about swimming is you don't win by making someone else lose," he said. "You win by swimming fast. The emphasis is on having every person go as fast We aim to swim 
our raees as fast as we can and think that we swam them right." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish lead conference meet 
By JARED JEDICK 
Spom Writer 
The women's swimming team jumped out to a roaring start on Wednesday at the Big East cham­pionship, finishing in first place after day one of eompetition with an overall score of 111 points at the Nassau County Aquatics Center in East Meadow, N.Y. 
"It was a great overall team effort," assistant coach .Jo11l White said. "Every single person focused and did their part." 
Close on their heels was Pittsburgh, with a combined score of 97. Pittsburgh was the only Big East team to defeat the Irish this season in a dual meet. Connoetieut 180). Louisville (78) and Wost Virginia (77) rounded out tlw top five altnr throe events. 
The Irish perfiwmed well in the relays. which are crucial to win­ning the overall title for the championship because they are worth double the points of indi­vidual events in the final stand­ings. 
The 200-yard medley relay team of senior Caroline Johnson, freshman Sam Maxwell. fresh­man Amywren Miller, and junior Christa Higgins set a new Notre Dame school record with a time of 1:40.84. This was only good enough li>r second plaee, howev­er, as they were nudged out by West Virginia by a mere four­hundredths of a second. 
"It was a little di<>appointing to not win the race with that time," White said. "But any time you are breaking a record on this team, you know you are doing some­thing pretty special." 
The 800-yard freestyle relay team of sophomore Megan Farrell, freshman Lauren Sylvester, junior Claire Hutchinson and Riggins came in second place with a time of 
7:17.35. The Irish were beaten out by Louisville by just 1.21 sec­onds after an impressive final leg surge by Riggins. 
"Christa made up a half-pool 



Thursday, February 21, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 


Buck 
continued from page 24 
come back strong, and I'd say today she's back to 100 percent," Louderback said. 
In singles, Tefft played 

from the No. 1 slpt twice this past weekend and won both matches. Her 9-1 singles record is tied for best on the team, and the move up appears to be permanent. 
" S h e ' s 


Irish sophomore Cosmina Ciobanu prepares to serve during Notre Dame's 5-2 win over Ohio State on Feb. 14. 
Hear the CoOl sounds of 
"After playing three last week where we were favorites, we're happy to be underdogs again." 
Jay Louderback Irish coach 
"Kristin's playing better and better. She looked really good in practice today," Louderback said. "She's been playing great doubles, and we're looking to her into some singles." 
Although the Irish did not take their last three oppo­
nents lightly, Louderback said the last weekend had a different level of competition. 
"After playing three last week where we were favorites, we're happy to be underdogs a g a i n , " 
Kessler 
continued from page 24 
four teams in the MIAA will gt~L home-court advantage in the first round of next week's con­ference playoffs. 
Luckily for Saint Mary's, it began the game on a 15-3 run and never surrendered the lead. The Bulldogs did manage to bring the score to 19-14 with 
7:26 left in the first half, only to see the margin swell back to 10 points with 1:25 left. The Belles entered the locker room with a 35-29 lead. 
The second half saw much of the same, with Saint Mary's getting the usual solid contri-

Festival Schedule Wednesday, February 20 
8-10:00 CJF Coffeehouse LaFortune Ballroom Featuring ND jazz Band II 
Thursday, February 21 
8-1 1:00 CJF Swing Night LaFortune Ballroom 8-9:00 Free swing lessons with ND Swing Club 
9-11:00 Open swing dancing with live music Featuring M.O.B.B. and the AAJCIHBCU All-star Big Band 
Friday, February 22 
7-I Opm Evening concert block Located in Washington Hall 
butions from their starters. Kessler, who went 4-for-16 from the field but scored 22 of her game-high 31 points from the free-throw line, was backed up by junior forward Erin Newsom's 20 points and 14 rebounds. 
The Bulldogs got within four on their first possession of the second half, but again the Belles rallied for a 14-point lead with six minutes to go in the game. Despite a late Adrian rally to get back within six point, Saint Mary's held on for the important win. 
''I'm just happy to be a part of it. I've only been here for 
two years and Alison started this her freshman year," Henley said. "It's not something 
Saturday, February 23 
10-11:00 am Judges' jazz Clinic Ricci Band Building Open to the public 
1-!0pm Afternoon/Evening concerts Located in Washington Hall 
For an extended schedule, visit 
www3.nd.edu/-sub/cjf/ 


we really talk about, it being an individual honor in a team sport, but this team really ral­lies around her and we're proud of her. We were espe­cially glad she could get it in front of her home fans." 
The record broken, the game won, Kessler and the Belles now have to look ahead to their next game. 
"We really needed this win and Saturday is a must-win for us because then we'll play the first round of conference at horne," Kessler said. "At this point we control our own des­tiny, and we are focused on beating Olivet." 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 
earned the spot, and we're planning on playing her at No. 1," Louderback said. 
Another bright spot over tlw weekend was freshman Kristin Rafael, who won her season debut in singles play. 
Louderback said. 
All three of Duke's wins in the dual season were over ranked opponents. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 21, 2008 
Panthers 
continued from page 24 
we haven't played in a while, but we've seen them on TV, so we know them pretty well," Kurz said. 
The last meeting between the two squads at the Joyce Center was on March 5, 2005. The Panthers won 85-77 and domi­nated inside, scoring 56 points in the paint. 
Kurz was a little-used fresh­man at the time. 
"I watched that whole game from the bench," he said. "They just murdered us on the back­board." 
Cleaning the glass will be key in the 2008 edition as well, but Notre Dame matches up better this time. The Irish and Panthers are No. 1 and No. 2 in the conference respectively in rebounding margin. 
"They pride themselves on defense and rebounding," Kurz said. "It will be key for us to rebound as a 
team." "They'll be ready to and national 
Injuries have play. They're a advancement. beset this year's The Panthers
proud program." 
Panther squad. dropped out of Small forward the Top 25 after Mikn Cook is out Mike Brey their blowout for the season Irish coach loss to the 
In the absence of Cook and Fields, the Panthers will be led by forwards Sam Young and DeJuan Blair, who combine for nearly 30 points per game. 
"If you're going to beat Pitt, you have to defend your paint," Kurz said. 
After Connecticut's 65-60 win over DePaul Tuesday, Notre Dame fell into fourth place in the Big East, half a game behind the 10-3 Huskies. The top four teams get a bye in the conference tournament next month. 
If the Irish can beat Pittsburgh, they will draw even with Connecticut and be half a game behind Big East co-lead­ers Georgetown and Louisville. 
But Brey said the regular sea­son championship hasn't entered the team's mindset yet. 
"We want to be in position for a bye in the Big East tourna­ment," he said. "That's about as deep as we've gotten as far as big pieture." 
For Pittsburgh, tonight's game 
represents an 
opportunity for 
both conference 
because of a knen injury he sufl'ernd in a 65­64 win ovnr Dukn on Dec. 20. 
Kurz, who grew up near Cook, said it will be strange to play the Panthers without his friend in their lineup. 
"I've known him since sev­enth grade," Kurz said. "I've played against him many times." 

Point guard Levance Fields has also been slowed because of an injury for Pittsburgh. lie played 20 minutes on Friday in a 72-54 loss to Marquette, his first action since a Dec. 29 loss to Dayton. 
Irish coaeh Mike Brey said he expects Fields to be near 100 percent fi1r tonight's game. 
''I'm sure Fields is going to be a lot healthier than he was last Friday," Brey said. 
Golden Eagles 
on Feb. 15. 
The loss also dropped Pittsburgh to seventh in the Big East. 
"They'll be ready to play," Brey said. "They're a proud program." 
Note: 
+ Irish great Austin Carr will be honored at halftime of tonight's game for his induction into the College Basketball Hall of Fame. 
Carr played at Notre Dame from 1966 to 1971 and aver­aged 34.5 points per game dur­ing his varsity career. He set the NCAA Tournament reeord for most points in a game with 61 against Ohio University in 1970. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Guilder 
continued from page 24 
have persevered and are four­year players that have made the commitment to becoming great people on and off the ice," said Jackson, who inherited the Notre Dame program following Van Guilder's freshman season. 'Tie's the kind of guy who does things the right way. He's a eommitted athlete, a committed student, he represents himself and our program with a lot of class, and he's just a very mature young man -the kind of guy you feel comfortable with being in the public arena or rep­resenting us on campus in every aspect of how he behaves and represents himself." 
When Van Guilder reflects on his Notre Dame experience, the dramatic goals or big-game wins aren't the only things that come to mind. He has become actively involved in community service, thanks in part to a lighter course load because of his summer sehool enrollment, but mostly due to an inner drive to give back. 
"We've got all this free time, so we might as well go out there and help a kid," said Van Guilder, whose 23 points is good for second-best on the Irish squad. "My favorite part is that we each have a kid we read to every Wednesday, and to see the little guy's progress . . . he loves seeing us there, and it's fun when you actually see the impact you make on someone's life." 
Junior right wing Erik Condra, who lived with Van Guilder as a freshman when Van Guilder's roommate left after first semester, praised not only the senior's natural leader­ship ability, but also his willing­ness to bestow it on his team­mates. 
"Guilder's been like a big brother to me," Condra said. "He took me under his wing a little bit by showing me the ropes of college. We had a great time, and we've become great friends -he's just a great guy to have. He sets a standard as the moralist, a very religious guy, a guy that Irish hockey can really build around." 
And that they have, ever since Notre Dame's abysmal showing in Van Guilder's rookie cam­paign that brought on Jackson to lead a program then on the decline. 
"That's the thing I'm most proud of; where we've come since my freshman year," Van Guilder said. "Coming from five wins and maybe five or six fans to an NCAA appearance, a con­ference championship and a full building -that's one thing I can definitely look back on. 
"We got comfortable losing freshman year-you'd come to the rink wondering how much are we going to lose by or when are we are going to blow our lead this weekend. That atti­tude's so long gone that it's real­ly cool seeing the progress the program's made." 

Van Guilder played a large role in that transition, playing in every game -150 straight -in his Notre Dame career. lie is just three games shy of break­ing the mark set by 2006 grad Tim Wallace, who also played in every game during his four-year career with the Irish. 
'That tells you about his dura­bility, his conditioning, and his mental toughness," Jackson said. "He plays every situation, and he's relied upon not just to be one of our better offensive players, but also defensively." 

Though being called upon to fulfill duties on the defensive side of the puck and in penalty killing may have had a negative impact on Van Guilder's goal­scoring capabilities, the attitude with which he approaches the game reflects his willingness to do what it takes for the team to maximize its potential. 
"His passion for the game is second to none. His whole life is hockey," Condra said. "His work ethic kind of rubs off on the other guys. He came in here and wasn't the highly-touted recruit, but he ended up making his way and doing very well for himself, becoming one of the top guys on the team. It just shows his char­acter and the standards he's helped set for the program." 
Van Guilder, a three-time 
monogram winner who was 
honored after .his sophomore 
season as the team's most 
improved player, brings what he 
calls "a calming presence" to his 
role as the team's captain and 
recognized leader. 
"I don't show much emotion 
when I'm really excited or really 
down; I try not to get too 
extreme either way," Van 
Guilder said. 'Td like to be the 
calming influence on my team­
mates when things are getting 
crazy and you're on the road 
and it's not going your way." 
That role has been one of Notre Dame's most important during this up-and-down year, especially following a campaign in which the Irish were ranked No. 1 for much of the regular season. 
"It is a lot different than last year, when it was a smooth ride all the way through and all the bounces seemed to be going our way," Van Guilder said. "This year's only going to make us a better team, better players and better people for it, but it's defi­nitely been a bigger challenge this year when you're not as sharp as you'd like to be and you have to rngroup in the lock­er room to get back on track." 

As rewarding as his experi­ences off the ice have been as a Notre Dame student, Van Guilder still defines himself based on his identity as an Irish hockey player-a,nd a good one at that. Much like that of many of his veteran teammates, his greatest memory comes from last year's conference champi­onship victory over rival Michigan that gave Notre Dame its first CCJIA title in school his­tory. 
"That summarizes my whole career here," Van Guilder said. "We just got hammered by those guys my freshman year, and coming back and beating them for the third time in a row [last season!. and for the champi­onship, was just awesome. That was the highlight of my eareer -so far. Hopefully I'll replace that this season." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
THIS WEEK IN 

EARLY ARRIVInG FAns WILL RECEIVE lRISI I HocKEY S·J'RITI' Sicns on FRIDAY AnD lRISI I HocKEY IcE ScRAPERS on SKIURDAY 
s8ltlletn the ·uuns 
SPORTS BAR 
AND GRILL 



-

---------------------·-----------------------------------. Thursday, February 21, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 


BLAcK DoG 
Yt'S I K/JD\.oJ. n/E 
SITVATtDJJ 1$ !:>IRE, 1-.I!>EEI:>. I"'ELTitJCr I"DLAFl lc.E CAPS 
C..OuL..t;. JI:.AISE. SE.A L.E.v£1..S ~I: SUI..Tii'Jfr 
IN CAT"S~f'Htc..­

LOLLERSKATES 
Loto l'oint.s in one's life:  Bankruptcy.  Divm·ce.  Dancing in tbe cage at Club Fever.  

LIZ MURPHY AND SARAH MUSCARELLA

ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 
l was ~\n\::\n~ o\1cvf wh:t+, you 
~\cla~ yoJ're. r\j\4-\-, H•navy CrtV\toYl \~ rVV\hiYl':) 
fov J>Ye.s~t .. vJOV'v\eVl a.v-e ~}.suV3eons1 &tut\1~s.; -pV\ysic.iS~.s -w 
r-eo.tly CO-~ do a.V\y+ht~t 
66 With 46-Down, Ohio State's Memorial Stadium 
Down Mailing label 
abbr. 2 String_ 3 Director 
Wertmuller 4 Old cross 5 Dates 6 Prefix with 
fluoride 7 Edible mushroom 8 In whatever quantity 9 Museum 
specialist 1 0 Ranch wear 11 Outdoor market 12 Corp. budget 
item 13 Like some calls 18 Snitch 22 Burglarized 24 Oglers' looks 25 Californian's 
vacation destination, maybe 
26 Sources of hurt 
feelings 27 Turkish title 28 Spigot site 
29 Lobby 32 Rub, rub, rub 33 Choreographer Lubovitch 34 Get into some hot water? 
WILLSHORTZ 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
DIDIER LEWIS 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
JltlJW®11rE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
You played as good
one letter to each square, 
as you look 
to form four ordinary words. 
TEBER 
1 
rJ 

©2008 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
PAMCH 
± 


'1\'1-W N WINNING 
~FN<TNER5
J 1 r [] 
Wr:::>r<E-N SAME: 
www.jumble.com 

OUTFITS, IT VVA.s-­
tCOSMAT I 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
IIJ I I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: r x I I J, rI I J, ..rI I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: HUSKY SMACK MARKUP POLICY Answer: Another name for a lullaby ­"ROCK" MUSIC 
EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Elizabeth C. Gorski 
35 Actress Skye 45 It was split into 53 Key of two parts by the Pachelbel's 
36 Start of many an 1899 Treaty of Canon: Abbr. 
accident Berlin 
54 Townshend of 46 See 66-Across the Who
38 Departures 47 Stays 55 Actress Meyers39 Burlesque show 48 Charles _, and others wear 
"Gaslight" star, 56 Square dance 43 Subject of a partners
1944 1940 biopic 57 City near Padua
49 Footnote abbr.
starring Spencer Tracy 50 House call? 60Anti anti 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

CROSSWORD 
Across 

Country store? 6 Wrench (from) 10 Jeanne 14 Father, Son and 
Holy Ghost 15 Feminine suffix 16 Even, to Yves 17 Constructing 
things 19 Don't 20 Couples cruise 
vessel? 21 '50s two-seaters 23 Custom 25 Some flames 30 Piccadilly Circus 
statue 31 Annoyance, in 
British slang 32 Streamlined 34 Cheer start 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
37 Theme of this puzzle, as hinted at by 17-, 23-, 45-and 59­Across 
40 Hard-rock filler 
41 Sikorsky and Stravinsky 
42 Citizen of Shiraz 
43 Hosiery hue 44 Stripped 
45 1962 #1 hit by the Shirelles 
51 Stands ready for 52 It's made up of columns 58 Part of a camp schedule 59 Means of remote 
monitoring 61 Hang 62"... saw 
Elba" 63 Slanted 
64 Org. 
65 Nature 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, February 21, 2008 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Steel curtain 
N 0 has not beaten Pittsburgh since 2003 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
No. 21 Notn~ Damn has won 34 straight games at home, but Llw Irish haven't beatnn Pittsburgh anywhere since 2003. 
One of those streaks will end 1tmight at 7 p.m. wlwn thn Irish host the Panthnrs at the Joyce Center. 
Thn last time Notre Dame heat Pittsburgh was on Feb. CJ, 2003, wlwn all of the eurrnnt Irish starters wore still in high school. Tlw No. 10 Irish took down thn No. 4 Pantlwrs 6(J-64 in the final seconds. 
Notre Dame (I <J-5, <J-3 Big Hast) has not faced Pittsburgh ( 19-(J, 7-5) since Jan. 4, 2006, a I 00-97 Panther victory at the Pntersen Events Cooter in Pittsburgh. 
Irish senior captain Hob Kurz said he and his teammates have followed the Panthers closely despite not facing them on the court. 
"It's the only [Big East! team 
see PANTHERS/page 22 


ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish face three top-20 teams on Tobacco Road 
Tennis Center in Durham, coach Jay Louderback said. the decisive three-sot mateh top pair of Brook Buck and 
By DAN MASTERTON 
N.C. The Irish play No. 19 Though the Irish have won to complete the upset for Kelcy Tefft, No.3 in the 
Sports Writer 
Wakn Forest (2-1 I Saturday the last two matches, both Duke. The Blue Devils' sin­nation. 
and No. 5 North Carolina (6-on neutral courts, Duke gles attack is deep. also fea­Buck had a minor ankle 
The No. 15 Irish (6-41 )wad 3) Sunday. leads the all-time series 12-turing No. 16 Ellah Nze, who sprain last week and sat out lo North Carolina to see if The Irish have never beat­2. The Blue Devils are hot is 3-0 in singles play for the the 7-0 win over Wisconsin Tobacco Hoad can play morn en the Blue Devils at the right now, coming off a 4-3 dual season and No. 13 Heka on Feb. 15, but she is than just baskntball. Shoffield Tennis Center in upset vietory over No. 6 Zslinszka. healthy again, Louderbaek 
The stretch of three four tries. Florida. Duke also boasts a top-1 0 said. straight top-20 oppononts "We know we're going to Heigning ACC Player of the doubles pair in No. 6 "We didn't need to play her starts today at 5 p.m. when have a tough match. They're Week and No. 38 singles Amanda Granson and [against Wisconsin). She's Notre Dame takes on No. S real good. and I feel like player in the country, sopho­Melissa Zang. They will 
I> u k e (3-0) at t h n Sheffi e I d they're a top-5 team," Irish more Elizabeth Potkin, won square off with Notre Dame's see BUCK/page 21 
HOCKEY 
Van Guilder shows class on ice 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
Coadws and tnammates rneog­niznd long ago thn class with which snnior captain Mark Van Guilder handles himself on the ice, in the dassroom and in the community. 
Now. so is tlw rest of the coun­try. 
Van Guilder, a right wing from Hosnvilln, Minn., has bonn nanwd orw of 10 national linal­ists li1r thn Lown's Sm1ior ClASS (Cnlnbrating Loyalty and Arhinvenwnt for Staying in 
·-School) award -a tnstanwnt to li1ur ynars of dndication to 11 pro­gram h~~ has helpPd rndnfine, Irish coach .JP!l' .Jarkson said. "That award is about guys who 
see GUILDER/page 22 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Kessler sets all-time point record in win 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI Sports Writer 

Alison Kessler only shot 25 percent from the field in Wednesday's 74-63 win over Adrian, and yet with 4:33 left in the first half, coach Jennifer Henley called a timeout so Kessler could get a standing ovation from the home crowd. 
That's beeause Kessler had just sunk a free-throw for her 13th point, giving her 1,534 points for her earner and brnaking the Saint Mary's all­time record previously held by Jennie Taubnnheim. 
After the game, Kessler said the record had be1~n on her mind coming into the game, but it wasn't the only thing. 
"I was just thinking that I wanted to get it over with so I could move on and not have it hanging over my head any­more," she said. "It was really great that they took the time­out to recognize it, but at the same time I was more worried about winning the gamn." 
Modesty aside, Kessler was right to be eoncnrned with the team's performance. Coming into Wndnesday's eontnst, the Belles ( 11-12, 7-H MIA;\) were in a four-way tin fi1r fourth in the MIAA along with Alma, Olivet and Adrian. The top 
see KESSLER/page 21 







