
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Lugar calls for urgent action on energy policy 

Indiana senator says next president must make issue a top priority 
. 

cles and societal inertia to scarce supplies of energy,"
By AARON STEINER 

address the growing energy Lugar said. 
News Writer 

supply problems. As a nation, he· said, the 
Lugar spoke to students, United States must put high 
The United States' current faculty and administrators emphasis on the energy 
energy dilemmas will at Washington Hall during a issue, whiGh is tied to a mul­
require "game-changing daylong visit to Notre titude of other issues includ­
policies," Sen. Richard Dame's campus. ing foreign policy and the 
Lugar, R-Ind., said "America's voracious economic crisis. 
Wednesday. He added that appetite for energy exists in But with the challenge 
the country must work to a world of unpredictable 
overcome technical obsta-competition for increasingly see LUGAR/ page 4 
Vzsit includes time with students, Jenkins and atrip to ND Energy Center 
make a difference everyday," he Energy Patriot Award after his By AARON STEINER said during opening remarks at speech. Lugar cited the group's 
News Writer a speech at Washington Hall, work on game day recycling ini­
after visiting with University tiatives, nominating dorm sus­
Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind. got President Fr. John Jenkins, tainability commissioners and an inside look at Notre Dame's speaking with student leaders installing over 1,400 energy work -both on-campus initia­and visiting Notre Dame's efficient light bulbs. tives and academic research -Energy Center, a research insti­GreeND president Lourdes on energy issues Wednesday, tution on campus. Long and vice president Colleen and he praised the University Lugar formally recognized the Kelly accepted the award on for that work. student group GreeND by pre­
"This University continues to senting the group with a Lugar see VISIT/page 6 
ELECTION 2008 
Professors debate role of abortion in election 
Catholic committee members for McCain, Obama argue about role of moral responsibility 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame law professors Gerard Bradley, a member of the Catholics for McCain National Steering Committee, and Vincent Rougeau, a member of Democratic presidential can­didate Sen. Barack Obama's Catholic National Advisory Council steering committee, debated the role the abortion issue should play in the voting decision of a Catholic citizen in a packed auditorium in McKenna Hall Wednesday. 
Bradley, a supporter of Republican candidate Sen. John McCain, spoke first, representing the pro-life side of the issue. He said the pro-life stance is based on two beliefs -human life begins at conception, so aborting a fetus is killing a person, and it is morally wrong to kill an inno­cent person. 
"You can figure out that killing is wrong by reflecting on the natural law ... or any society's legal code," Bradley said. 
The moral responsibility for the injustice of abortion is not limited to the pregnant woman and those immediately involved in the action, he said. The responsibility extends to the society that allows the act to happen and the voter that puts pro-choice candidates in office, Bradley said. 
"It is wrong, in my opinion, to support a political candidate that approves or supports these [abortion] policies," he said. "It is wrong to support this sinful structure." 
In order to determine if, as a Catholic, a person should consid­er voting for a pro-choice candi­date, Bradley said the person should apply the Golden Rule ­to treat others as you would like to be treated -to the situation. He said this rule makes people walk in others' shoes. 
"We have the tendency to dis-
see ABORTION/page 6 


Community celebrates Yom Kippur 
Jewish students, faculty observe holiday 
By ROBERT SINGER 
News Wrirer 
Starting at sunset Wednesday, members of Notre Dame's Jewish community will officially begin obser­vance of Yom Kippur, also known as the "Day of Atonement," onn of' the most important holidays in the Jewish faith. 
Traditionally. Jews observe Yom Kippur by spending time in prayer, abstaining from work and fasting for the day. 
Notre Dame junior Damian Sharratt, who is Jewish, said he will be observing the holy day by fasting and praying at a synagogue in South Bend with the local Jewish commu­nity. 
Sharratt explained that today's holiday marks the conclusion of the "10 Days of Repentance," which began last Tuesday with Rosh Hashanah. 
"Hosh Hashanah is the Day of Judgment -the Jewish New Year," he said. "It means that for Jews, the entire year is evaluated on that day to see how they did." 
On Rosh Hashanah, Sharratt said, the first of the 
see HOLIDAY/page 4 


BoARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Budget 111otion fails to pass 
By LIZ HARTER and ASHLEY 
CHARNLEY 
News Writers 

The Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) voted Wednesday against passing the Student Government Association's (SGA) budget, a motion discussed last week at its meeting. 
The motion, which needed 16 votes to receive the two­thirds majority, did not carry with a 15-9 vote. Gruscinski said the motion will be pre­sented to BOG again next week. 
The vote took place because it was brought to the Executive Board's attention that BOG might be required to give final approval to the budget as directed by the SGA Constitution, student body president Mickey Gruscinski said. 
"There's a discrepancy in the Constitution," student body vice president Sarah Falvey said. "In some places it says the execs approve it as the budgeting committee and in some it says that Board of Governance has a say." 
Gruscinski read the section of the Constitution about the 
see BOG/page 4 
. .
~ 

page 2 
Thursday, October 9, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 


A girl's guide to footall 
Qunstion: What's tlw one place in Notrn Damn Stadium whnrn, at halftime, tlw nwn's room has a linn and the wonwn's room is dnsertnd? 
Answer: Thn pn~ss box. 

I usually get some friendly jabs from my fnliow sports writers in The Observer oflien dun to my gender, mainly center­ing on how the sports guys must not have bnen paying attention when they knpt me on stall' rather than sending me to News or Senne. 
For the most 

Laura Myers
part, though, I don't think my presence in the .. 
Sports Writer 
press box on foot­ball Saturdays is very dillimmt from that of any other writer. Granted, I don't think Bill Brink would prodaim a desire 
t.o marry Michanl Floyd, but that's his loss. (By the way, Mike, the oll'er stands.) 
I'll admit, my knowledge of football isn't nearly as complete as that of most boys. I compan~ it to a foreign language -1wnn though I've studind it. for years, I will never be at tlw level of a natural­born speaker. 
llownver, I have plenty of female friends who know a lot less than I do. I don't blame thmn: I'm pretty sure I'm one of' fin1r girls at ND who didn't eome f'rom an all-girls Catholic school. 
Cirls ask me all the tinw to explain something to them, to give them a talk­ing point or even to explain who the players are. So here's my attempt to put a few necessary Irish football faets into laywoman's terms. 
First. the ofl(msive line. This little tout­nd group is the most important part of' the football team. An efTeetive line blocks the other team's dof'ense from getting to the playmakers. Thus, the quarterback doesn't get sacked (our line is doing well on this so far) and the run­ning hacks havn a place to run (not quite as well. but still better than last year). Without the offensive line, Jimmy Clausen would be getting knocked over morn than Charlie Weis. 
Second, USC. The Trojans are our biggest rivalry, and yes, that does mat­tor. We've hated them since the days of Knuln HIH~kne, which is why today we cheer nvnry year when they got pum­melnd by Oregon Stale and why we refusn to speak to people wearing their gear. As a reeent historieal refernnce point, you ean bring up the Bush Push (look it up. I ~~an't get into it without cry­ing likn a Cubs fan). If that awful nvnnt is evnr mentioned, you must shake your hnad and give a long, sad sigh, showing that you know what happened just a few years b1~fore you matriculated and, most importantly, that you loathe USC. 
Sadly, I'm only two points in and I'm fairly sure I've gone ovnr my word munt. I lnavn you with somn good con­versation starters sure to impress any guy: 
"Check out that great blocking! Jimmy had all tlw tinw in the world to get oil' that Tl> pass!" 
"%*&.# USC!" Yes, you can start a eon­versation with that. I do frequently. 
It's vPry probable I'm going to have to write another one of those, bncause I've barnly scratdwd the surface hern. I lock, I didn't evPn mPntion Mark May. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact. Laura Myers at lmyers2(illnd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and srrives for the highest smndards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, plea.~c contact lL~ ar 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

Adam Miller 
junior 
Carroll 

"Special K with berries, because it's berry-licious!" 
WHAT IS YOUR 

Keith Hetrick 
freshman Keenan 
"Honey Bunches ofOats for its goldeny goodness ... and its tremendous health benefits . " blueberries. 
FAVORITE CEREAL?  
Kelly Jones  Tommy Osberger  
sophomore  senior  
Howard  Zahm  
"Morning  "Cookie Crisp. I  
Harvest ...  know everyone  
because ofthe  who reads this  


TOM'LA!The Observer 

Keenan Resident Assistant Jim Nugent awards sophomore Paul Hotovy with the "Hoodrat of the Fortnight" trophy, given to the most valuable resident every two weeks. 
OFFBEAT 
posed the political poly­graphs for Democratic Rep. Baron Hill, GOP challenger Mike Sodrel and Libertarian candidate Erie Schansbnrg. The three are scheduled to debate Oct. 21, but an olli­cial with a debate eo-spon­sor said lie detnctors won't be inducted. 
"Our planning committen worked up the format and rules, and we are not invit­ing negotiations from the candidates," Alan Johnson, dean of Vincennns Univnrsity's Jasper Campus, told The Herald of Jasper. 
Information compiledfrom the Associated Press. 

Skinny-dipping tallgater accused of kneeing cop 
AMHERST, Mass. -A tail­gater skinny dipping inside a truck bed at a University of Massachusetts football game has been charged with assault for allegedly knening a campus police oflicnr in the groin. 
Dnputy Chief Patrick Archbald said a 21-year-old man was among several fans splashing around in the back of a pickup truck bnl'ore Saturday's game against the University of Delaware. 
When police told them to stop, the man refused to get out. lie then approached an oflicer and kneed him twice in the groin, Archbald said. 
The officer, whom Archbald did not name, was given morphine at a hospi­tal. He could miss up to two weeks of work. 
Polygraphs proposed for Ind. congressional debate 
JASPEH, Ind. -Two challengers for an Indiana congressional seat have agreed to be hooked up to lie deteetors during a debate, but an ollicial with the incumbent's party dis­misses the idea as "bizarre." 
Ninth District Hepublican Party Chairman Larry Shickles on Wednesday pro-
TODAY TONIGHT • FRIDAY GAME DAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::z::: 
!ci 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
<C 
(.) 


0 HIGH 70 HIGH 59 HIGH 75 HIGH 80
...I LOW 60 LOW 48 LOW 55 LOW 60 
" 
will think it's not funny. " 
IN BRIEF 

Free flu shots will be provid1~d by University llealth snrvices today from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Joyce Center to Notrn Dame students, staff, faeulty, retirees and spouses of retirees. 
Notre Dame Law School will host a leeture by Columbia Law School professor Kent Greenwalt called "Heligion and the Constitution: Volume: 2: Establishment and Fairness" today at 4 p.m. in tho Eck Visitors' Center Auditorium. 
"Bach's Lunch: A Noontime Concert," a short dassical con­cnrt featuring advancnd studenl'i from the Department of Music will takn plaee Friday at 12:10 
p.m. in Penote Perf(lrmer's Hall in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The audience is wekome to bring their luneh to this eVfmt. 
The Institute for Latino Studies will host the "Celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month: Fiesta del Sol" Friday at 7 p.m. There will be musie, dancing and food available at Fieldhouse Mall for all studnnts. 
The Keough-Naughton Institutn for Irish Studies will host a lncture called "The Formation of the Irish Historical Consciousness" Friday at 3 p.m. in DeBartolo 11R. 
Thern will bn a walk of solidar­ity called the "Gulu Walk" Sunday from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. to raise awareness for ehild sol­diers in Uganda. transportation will be provided at Main Circle starting at 12:30. Donations are encouraged. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
e 

HIGH 80 HIGH 75 LOW 62 LOW 55 
Atlanta 82 158 Boston 66 I 47 Chicago 78 I 52 Denver 70 I 35 Houston 85 I 60 Los Angeles 97 I 63 Minneapolis 61 I 58 New York 63 I 44 Philadelphia 71 I 47 Phoenix 95 I 67 Seattle 54 I 44 St. Louis 69 I 66 Tampa 85 I 73 Washington 67 I 50 
----------------------------------------------------, 
Thursday, October 9, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 

Group discusses registration 
Senators consider ifscheduling times should be arranged around classes 

By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Assisstam News Editor 
Student Senate discussed Wednesday whether or not registration times for classes each semester should be moved to before or after stu­dents have classes rather during class. 
Senate Academic Affairs committee chair Ryan Brellenthin said representa­tives from the University Hegistrar's office had recent­ly asked him to gauge the response for moving the reg­istration times. As it current­ly stands, registration times are on two days for each class year and between the hours of 8 a.m. and 12 p.m. 
"The status quo is you wouldn't register outside of 8 to noon," Brellenthin said. 
However, because many students have classes during these times, Brellenthin said the Hegistrar's office was considering moving registra­tion times to either in the early morning, between the hours of 6 and 8 a.m., or late at night, between the hours of 8 p.m. and midnight. 
While registration times are scheduled around a stu­dent's classes, Brellenthin said students with early morning classes were less likely to get a good registra­tion time and thus could lose a competitive advantage in registering for classes. The process of deciding whether students register on the first or second day would still be decided based on the last digit of the student's ID num­ber (odd numbers register on the first day for spring semester classes, even num­bers register on the first day for fall semester classes). 
Senate Technology commit­tee chair Devin Fee said problems could arise with students who have difficul­ties registering, as help desks would not be open both early in the morning and late at night. 
Student body president Bob Reish and vice president Grant Schmidt consider changing class registration times Wednesday. 
"You'd be pushed essential­ly to the next business day and would lose your advan­tage if you had an early time," Fee said. 
Lewis Senator Robin Brown said the early morning regis­tration times would be better because people would be too busy with activities in the evening. 
"I think it should be in the morning before all the class­es," Brown said. "People are going to have clubs or proj­ects late at night." 
Siegfried senator Hyan Hawley said students would be furious if they were forced to wake up in the wee hours of the morning or stay up until midnight just to register for classes. 
"I think you're going to have a ton of angry people," Hawley said. 
Overall, student body vice president Grant Schmidt said most people seemed to be happy with the registration times the way they are cur­rently administered, and he said he would most likely recommend they don't change them. 
"There doesn't seem to be an overwhelming response for change," Schmidt said. 
In other senate news: 
+ By a vote of 26-1, the 

Senate amended the constitu­tion to include a new stipula­tion for those appealing for funding from the Council of Representatives' (COR) Collaboration Fund. 
Senate Oversight Committee chair Ian Secviar introduced the amendment, which does not requires that representatives of clubs seeking money from COR be present at the meetings where the resolution is dis­cussed. The amendment also requires the clubs' presidents to give COR one week of advance notice that they will be appealing for funds. 
"If there is no one there to answer questions to help alleviate apprehension, it could put a lot of pressure on the vote," Secviar said. 
+ Brellenthin was elected by a vote of 26 to 1 as the student representative to the Advisory Committee on Academic and Student Life (ACASL), with Brellenthin being the only nay vote. University President Fr. John Jenkins had requested the Senate elect a student repre­sentative for the council, which seeks to integrate aca­demics better into student life. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

Professor lectures on racial color blindness 
Speaker addresses American misconceptions of race, ethnicity held by white society 
ward," he said. There is a
By EMILY DABISH hands-off approach to racism 
News Writer 
now and government has no 
involvement. This is known 

White American society as laissez-faire racism, he experiences "color blind­said. ness," in that white society "Fundamentally, Americans commonly believes that know opportunity structure racism no longer accounts is not the same," he said. for the hardships experi­"Since [racism] is below the enced by surface they black society, get to keep said professor their privi­
"Colorblindness creates
Charles leges. 
Gallagher, the an illusion, even though Power is 
chair of the we know race still concentrat­Sociology, ed within a
shapes life." 
Social Work very tight and Criminal window in Justice Charles Gallagher Am e r i c a n Department LaSalle University professor society." 
at LaSalle University, during a lec­ture Wednesday at Saint Mary's. 
"Color blindness creates an illusion, even though we know race still shapes life," he said. "What people say and do are unbelievably dif­ferent things.... If you're in a minority the playing field isn't level." 
W h i t e Americans think "a level playing field now exists," 
"People 
live in bub­
b l e s , " Gallagher said. "They are segregated." 
Whites do not know ethnic­Hies through personal inter­action but through examples shown on the television, he said. People explain racism by talking about something else. 
Gallagher said people con­
Gallagher 

"Success, like failure, is
said. 

a choice. You can run a
"Success, 

like failure, prison or you can be a 
is a choice," 

prisoner.
Gallagher 
said. "You 

can run a Charles Gallagher 
prison or you LaSalle University professor 
can be a 
prisoner." Gallagher 
explained 
that race has 

become something not talked his work 
vince them­selves that "everyone has equal opportunity, [and ask] 'why do we need to talk about race?"' 
"Whites have unbe­lievably rosy view of racial structure," he said. 
Gallagher has received various awards for 
including the 
about but something that lives under the surface. This under-the-surface racism can be thought of as "inci­dental racism," he said. 
"We aren't moving for­ward; we're moving back-
Martin Luther King, Jr. Torch of Peace award. He has pub­lished multiple articles about race theory. 
Contact Emily Dabish at edabisOl@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 9, 2008 

Lugar 
continued from page 1 

comes opportunities, Lugar said, and the United States should recognize that addressing the energy prob­lem could in fact inelude "pro-growth" solutions. 
With that in mind, the next president must make "energy innovation that brings jobs and economic growth, and that also saves Americans money" a top priority. 
"The next president must be more than thoughtful and attentive," Lugar said. "The president must be relentless. 
"lie must be willing to have his administra­

''The U.S.
tion judged on problem is how suceessful government can complex, it is on this Lugar said, but
use its purchasing 
issue." working
power to jumpstart
Future energy towards ener­
policy will new energy gy independ­require invest­technologies." ence should ment by the take priority. government, "Our first 
Richard Lugar priority to
L~~:Lr said_. lhe U.S. gov­U.S. senator should be 
in China over 80 percent of the energy is supplied by fos­sil fuels. 
"Countries rich in oil gain staggering amounts of wealth," Lugar said. The wealth flowing to many of these countries -including Hussia, Iran and Venezuela ­is used to finance objectives that hurt American foreign policy objectives, Lugar said. 
"We try to foster global respect," Lugar said, but the money flowing from oil pur­chases often goes to foster corrupt practices. Likewise, the United States tries to fight poverty, but energy­poor countries are becoming impoverished by the high cost 
of importing 
energy. 

The energy 
ernment ean use its pu rchas­ing power to jumpstart new energy technologies," he said. 
In addition, the costs of research and development must bo decreased. and unfortunately, the market hasn't driven down these costs, Lugar said. In this situ­ation, he would resort to mandates to improve research and infrastructure dnvelopment. 
"I suggest with some reser­vations. that these are areas that need to be mandated," he said. 
Lugar said that he feels there is now enough under­standing within Congress that practieal action can be taken. 
"It just seems to me that we arn at a threshold point," he said, ealling the energy crisis "fertile ground" and an opportunity for the United States. 
The solutions though. will be complex, as the problnms arn complnx, he said. 
Lugar said at the eurrent rate, global demand for ener­gy would incrnase 50 percent by the year 2030. Much of the dnmand eomes from fossil fuels, Lugar said, noting that 
reducing 
dependence on foreign oil," he said, calling that dependence our "most intense short-term vulnera­bility... 
The next president, he said, should set "a national goal of making competitively priced biofuels available to all motorists in America" as one way to combat dependence on oil. 
Cars should be equipped to be flex-fuel capable, Lugar said, and manufacturers must address the poor fuel efficiency of American pro­duced vehicles. 
Lugar said that all forms of alternative energy -biofu­els, wind, solar, nuclear, clean carbon and others ­must be a part of developing energy independence. 
It will take serious action on the part of leadership and society, he said. 
"Making meaningful progress requires dogged devotion," Lugar said, and the country has to work fast. 
"All of this has got to be done with some degree of urgency," he said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

""alk.-Listera.Learra.Act.:<toos. 

OCTOBER "1 2, 2008 "1 :00 p"m­lndlana University South Bend 
dol•• the South De•11d c:o~~:~rti1111:11uralit:;:y in a 2 .uJie .....,alk. ira solidarity ""it:h the children oft Northern Uganda,. 
Pre.se...-ta'tion.s ·-..o Wollo~ at IUSD~"' ca....,.pus. 
Cars trroan Main Circle9 12.:30. 
Spona<>red by A-Frica Faith and Justice Network. For more in.-oriTlation. contact gdupuis@nd.edu. 
WhereWillYC)TJWalk 
Holiday 
continued from page I 
10 holy days, a person's fate is "inscribed" based on God's evaluation of their life over the past year. The next eight days, "days of awe," serve as a period of prayer and reflection for Jews. Then on the final day, Yom Kippur, God "seals" their fate for the earning year. 
Jewish Club president Jenna Zigman, a praetir.ing Catholic but half-Jew by heritage, host­ed a dinner at South Dining Hall Wednesday night to cele­brate the holiday. She explained the signifieanee of Yom Kippur. 
"It sets the tone for the whole year," Jenna said. "That's why people take the 10 days so seriously, because it eould afl'eet the kind of year they're going to have." 
BOG 

continued from page 1 
authority and responsibility of BOG in question. 
"Once approved by the Exeeutive Board, provide final approval for the distri­bution of funds by approving the Exeeutive Treasurer's Student Government Assoeiation Budget," she read. 
The meeting was then open to diseussion on the budget, during which executive treas­urer Mo Weaver said that no clubs, organizations or stu­dents asking for co-sponsor­ships would receive any money until the budget is passed. 
"Just to let you know, there are a lot of proeesses that go into getting money," she said. "If this doesn't go through, 
Professor Curtis Franks, a practicing Jew and member of the Hebrew Orthodox Congregation in South Bend, further explained the holiday's importance. 
"It's not just a time of prayer, but it's also a time of coming to reconciliation with people we're close to," he said. 
Franks translated the mean­ing of one of the Hebrew greetings that is commonly used on the holiday: "Leshana tova tikosevu." 
The phrase means, "May you be inscribed for a good and enjoyable New Year." 
"The idea behind that saying is that our fate is being inscribed in a book by God,;, Franks said. "It's a moment when free will and predeter­minism realign annually." 
Sharratt explained the bibli­cal significance of Yom Kippur, specifying the origin of its 
the soonest money can get to you students is November." 
Falvey announced that next week's BOG meeting will not be an open forum as original­ly planned. 
"In light of the f'aet that the budget didn't pass, we need to be able to conduct busi­ness," Falvey said. "We'll be meeting at 9 to go over busi­ness." 
The Board then discussed the faet that posters advertis­ing events the Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA) has planned for National Coming Out Week are being torn down and vandalized around campus. 
"This is vandalism, this is against student's rights, against the first amendment, it goes against Dr. Martin Luther King's quote that 'a threat to justice anywhere is a threat to justice every­where,"' Gruscinski said. 

themes of penance and redemption. 
"During Yom Kippur. the sin of the golden calf happened," he said. "The basic idea is we have these 10 days to make resolutions and try to correct what we've done wrong in the past and continue to grow." 
It is traditional for Jews to avoid wearing jewelry on Yom Kippur, Sharratt said, so as to not remind God of the golden calf. 
Although there are few Jewish Notre Dame students, Sharratt said he usually feels comfortable practicing his faith on a predominately Catholie eampus. 
"It is hard at times, but that's natural wherever you go when you're a minority," he said. "People are very respect­ful here." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 

Women's Issues commis­sioner Beeki Faunce said the vandalism is oceurring pri­marily in LeMans Ilall, with people writing negative com­ments on the posters. 
Gruseinski said the Executive Board will be draft­ing a resolution stating the student govnrnment's opinion on the topic, whieh will be presented to BOG next week to vote on. 
In other BOG news: 

+As a part of Saint Mary's National Coming Out Week, there will bn a panel diseus­sion at Dalloways at 6 p.m.. Faunce said. Faculty, stu­dents and alumni will be speaking at the event hosted by SAGA. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 




STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 9, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsFRVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
NATO defense ministers set to meet 
LONDON -When NATO defense ministers meet in Budapest on Thursday, they will face a worsening situation in Afghanistan and vexing qunstions about whether the war can bn won. 
Increasingly, military commanders and politi­cal leaders are asking: Is it time to talk to the Taliban? 
With U.S. and NATO forces suffering their deadliest year so far in Afghanistan, a rising chorus of voices, including Defense Secretary Robert Gatns and the incoming head of U.S. Central Command, have endorsed efforts to reach out to members of the Taliban considered willing to seek an accommodation with President I !amid Karzai's government. 
'That is one of the key long-term solutions in Afghanistan, just a.<; it has been in Iraq," Gates told reporters Monday. "Part of the solution is mconciliation with pnople who are willing to work with the Afghan government going for­ward." 
Gen. David Petraeus, who will become respon­sible for U.S. military operations in Afghanistan as head of U.S. Central Command on Oct. 31, agreed. 
Security agreement still not in place 
BAGHDAD-A U.S.-Iraqi security agreement spelling out how American troops and contrac­tors operate was supposed to be in place over the summer, but the thorniest issues remain unsettled and neither side is budging. 
Time is running out. The deal must be finished and ratifind by Iraq's parliament before Dec. 31, when the U.N. mandate authorizing the U.S. mil­itary mission expires. Otherwise, there will be no legal basis for the U.S. presence in Iraq. 
For President Bush, some of the pressure to get a fa..qt deal has faded since Iraq is no longer a dominant issue in the presidential campaign. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Ike damages beaches, homes 
GALVESTON. Texas-The coast here doesn't have the whitest sand or the clearest water, but to millions of Houstonians and other Texans, this is the beach. And thanks to Hurricane Ike, it's also a mess. The remains of houses, rotting cattle carcass­r,s and othr-r dr-bris are scattered along Galveston Island. In some spots, all the sand was sucked back out to the Gulf of Mexico, leaving only rocks. 
Galveston-area officials are scrambling to clean up the sand, which draws throngs of out-of-towners who spend millions on food, rental housing and shopping. They say they're relieved that the most popular beach spot along the seawall is largely intact, but they've asked Congress for $100 million to help them bring the beach back to life. 
McCain, Obama talk about trust 
WASHINGTON-With the deepening U.S. eco­nomic crisis rippling around the globe, Democrat Barack Obama and Republican John McCain seem to agree the question facing anxious voters is: Who do you trust? 
"All we heard from Sen. McCain was more of the same Bush economics that led us into this mess," Obama said in Indianapoli'i the day after their sec­ond debate. "lie thinks we won't notice" downsides of his health care proposals, but "we're not going to be hoodwinkr,d. We're not going to be bamboozled. We're not going to let him get away with it." 
In Bethlehr-m, Pa., McCain shot back: "I don't need lessons about telling the truth to American people." And. McCain said, if hr, ever did. he "probably wouldn't seek advice from a Chicago politician." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Governor candidate hits the road 
INDIANAPOLIS -Democratic gubernatori­al candidate Jill Long Thompson is spending the week touting her economic plan to vot­ers around the state -trying to draw atten­tion to hnr campaign after about a month without television advertising. 
If Long Thompson can't afford to hit the airwaves, it makes sense for her to hit the road in hopes of earning news coverage from local newspapers and television sta­tions, said political analyst Brian Vargus. 
"She has to go out and just do what she can," Vargus said. "What else can she do?" 
SWEDEN 

U.S.-based scientists win Nobel Prize 
Team discovers, develops green fluorescent protein to win Chemistry Prize 
Associated Press 

Three U.S.-based scientists won a Nobel Prize on Wednesday for turning a glow­ing green protein from jellyfish into a revolutionary way to watch the tiniest details of life within cells and living crea­tures. 
Osamu Shimomura, a Japanese citizen who works in the United States, and Americans Martin Chalfie and Roger Tsien shared the chem­istry prize for discovering and developing green fluorescent protein, or GFP. 
When exposed to ultraviolet light, the protein glows green. It can act as a marker on oth­erwise invisible proteins within cells to trace them as they go about their business. It can tag individual cells in tissue. And it can show when and where particular genes turn on and off. 
Researchers worldwide now use GFP to track development of brain cells, the growth of tumors and the spread of can­cer cells. It has let them study nerve cell damage from Alzheimer's disease and see how insulin-producing beta cells arise in the pancreas of a growing embryo, for example. 
In awarding the prize, the Royal Swedish Academy com­pared the impact of GFP on sci­ence to the invention of the technique is called "Brainbow." reporters. blue, but you never know when microscope. For the past GFP was first discovered by Shimomura, 80, now works it's going to come or if it's going decade, the academy said, the Shimomura at Princeton at the Marine Biological to come, so it's always a big protein has been "a guiding University. He'd been seeking Laboratory in Woods Hole, surprise when it actually hap­star" for scientists. the protein that lets a certain Mass., and the Boston pens," Chaille said. 
GFP's chemical cousins pro­kind of jellyfish glow green University Medical School. Shimomura told reporters duce other colors, which let around its edge. In the summer Chalfie, 61, is a professor at that he, too, was surprised. scientists follow multiple cells of 1961, he and a colleague Columbia University in New "My accomplishment was or proteins simultaneously. processed tissue from about York, while Tsien, 56, is a pro­just the discovery of a protein. 
"This is a technology that 10,000 jellyfish they'd collected fessor at the University of ... But I am happy," he said. has literally transformed med­near the island town of Friday California, San Diego, and an Speaking to reporters by ical research," said Dr. John Harbor, Wash. The next year, investigator with the Howard telephone, Tsien thanked sci­Frangioni, an associate profes­they reported the finding of Hughes Medical Institute. entists worldwide. When they sor of medicine and radiology GFP. The trio will split the $1.4 do "good things with GFP and at Harvard Medical School. Some 30 years later, Chalfle million award. its progeny," Tsien said he can "For the first time, scientists showed that the GFP gene Chalfle said he slept through "bask in the warmth of that could study both genes and could make individual nerve the Nobel committee's phone glow a little bit too." proteins in living cells and in cells in a tiny worm glow calls early Wednesday because Gunnar von Heijne, the living animals." bright green. he'd accidentally adjusted his chairman of the chemistry 
Last yeqr, in what the Nobel Tsien's work provided GFP­telephone to ring very softly. prize committee, demonstrated citation called a "spectacular like proteins that extended the He found out about the prize the award-winning research to experiment," Harvard scientific palette to a variety of only when he checked the reporters by shining ultraviolet researchers announced that colors. Tsien "really made it a Nobel Web site to see who had light on a tube with E. coli bac­they had tagged brain cells in tool that was extremely useful won. teria containing GFP. The tube mice with some 90 colors. The to lots of people," Chaille told "It's not something out of the glowed green. 

Chinese Muslims to stayatGuantanamo 
Associated Press  Urbina said it would be wrong for the  The government says the detainees at  
Bush administration to continue holding  the U.S. naval base in Cuba had admitted  
WASHINGTON -A federal appeals  ·the detainees, known  as Uighurs (pro­ receiving weapons training in Afghanistan  
court on Wednesday temporarily blocked  nounced WEE'gurz), since they are no  and were a national security risk.  
a judge's decision to immediately free 17  longer considered enemy combatants.  Earlier Wednesday, lawyers for 17  
Chinese Muslims at Guantanamo Bay into  "We  are pleased that the Court of  Chinese Muslim detainees urged the  
the U.S.  Appeals granted our request for a tempo­ appeals court in filings not to interfere  
In a one-page order, the U.S. Court of  rary stay, and we look forward to present­ with Urbina's decision, which is the first  
Appeals for the D.C. Circuit issued the  ing  our  case,"  Justice  Department  court-ordered release of Guantanamo  
emergency stay at the request of the Bush  spokesman Brian Roehrkasse said in  detainees. The detainees said they have  
administration. The three-judge panel said  response to the appeals court decision.  been cleared of wrongdoing and have  
it would postpone release of the detainees  The Bush administration had asked the  waited long enough for their freedom after  
for at least another week to give the gov­ appeals court to block Urbina's order no  being held at Guantanamo for nearly  
ernment more time to make arguments in  later than Wednesday. The detainees were  seven years.  
the case.  scheduled to arrive in Washington early  ·"The government would prolong by  
It  comes  after U.S. District Judge  Friday and appear in Urbina's courtroom  months, and perhaps years, an imprison­ 
Ricardo M. Urbina on Tuesday made a  for release to local Uighur families who  ment whose legal justification it has con­ 
dramatic decision ordering the govern­ have agreed to help them settle into the  ceded away," the detainees' lawyers wrote  
ment to free the detainees by Friday.  United States.  in filings.  

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 9, 2008 
dentllnaders," Long said. like Notre Dame. As a Republican, Lugar has Hegardlnss of who is electnd, l.ugar said during his speech "I want to eneourage this. endorsed Sen . .John MeCain, but Lugar said the nnxt president
Visit 
continued from page 1 
bPhalf of the group. 

"Wo'rt> n~ally nxeitod to have had SPn. Lugar just with us today, and also for him to have takon tho time to learn about what the Univnrsity's doing," Long said. 
l.ong said the group was hon­on~d to rnePive tlw award and said it spokn to the University's commitmnnt to nnorgy issuos and sustainability. 
Kolly, who worknd as an intorn lilr Lugar last summer, agrned. 
"ISnn. l.ugarl corning hern, and nH~ognizing the lworkl that's going on with the Univnrsity is a hugo thing," slw said. 
Knlly ~~allml him the Snnate's fornmost nxpPrt on nnergy issuns. 
Tlw pair, along with a dozen otlwr Notrn Damn students and a fpw faculty nwmbers, had the ehancP to talk with Lugar in dPpth about the issue ovor luneh Wednosday. 
"lie could havo had lunch with whoovor lw wantPd, but lthat shows! his eornmitnwnt to hav­ing an opon dialogue with lstu-
Abortion 
continued from page 1 

eount tlw harms we visit on other 
people by what wn do," Bradley 
said. "ITho (;olden HulP) is essen­
tial if justice is to bP done." 

Bradley then om~red counter­poinL-; to several common asser­tions by voters that it is "fair and just" to vote filr a pro-choien ean­didate. 
Bradley said many believe they are justilif~d in voting for a pro­choke eandidate if they think the candidate is superior in other positions. But Bradlny said if the voter would not support a candi­date who put two million inno­eent immil{ranL-; in prison, nvnn if they agnH~d with the eandidatn on otlwr issues. tlw voter is just morally justified in voting for a pro-lili~ candidate. 
Bradh~y also said many people support abortion b1wause they bnlinvn it furthers women's abili­ty to parti1~ipatP Pqually in sodn­ty. 
"Would wn say that it is fair and just to obtain or requim that equality at such a !{mat. !'.ost'?" hn asked. "I don't think we would." 
Hougnau disagreed with Bradley's views on voting morals, but lw said lw bPiinvns tlwy both hopn for a time in whid1 abor­tions don't happPn. 
But Hougeau said Catholic: vot­ers should not be lwld back sim­ply by a party's or candidate's stann~ on abortion. 
"No Anwrican Catholic should li~el t.lwy must vote lilr a particu­lar party," Houwmu said. "That is not l{ood lilr d!'mo!Taey." 
In tlw current eleetion, Obama has exprossed pro-choice views. Hougeau said. llowevnr, Obama rt~alizes abortion is a serious moral issue, he said. 
"Cioarly Sen. Obarna supports a lngal rogimn that supports abortion hut lw has polides that I think will lownr abortion rates," Houi{Pau said. 
Tlw wonwn most liknly t.o seek abortions are poor African Amori1:an or llispank wonHm, hn said, who will bPnnfit from Obama's plan for inrrnased pub­lic spending. 
HougPau said lw fl'lt that other issuPs should also hP addrnssnd whnn a Catholic votPr dwosns a candidatP. 

"I do not bPiilwn I have to vote for candidatP whosn policies I don't .support. simply lwcause he that through his visits with vari­ous group on campus he got a bottor idna of the work going on at Notrn Dame. 
"I had a wonderful opportunity to catch up on what was occur­ring at N.D., talk about what's occurring in our country," he said. 
Lugar told The Observer after his prnsentation that he was especially impressed with the l!wel of coordination among uni­versities in Indiana and across thn country. 
"Not only is there an active rnsearch program Iat Notre Dame I ... but cooperation with PurduP, cooperation with !Indiana Universityl. and that this has bnen encouraged by all partins," he said. "That's really important, and that's reassuring to notP that this is not an exclu~ sivo problem, but this knowledge ... is widely shared, and so are some of the professors." 
Lugar has visited colleges across Indiana and seen first­hand the work they do on energy issues. lie said his work in Congress has at times been related to gaining support for research projects at institutions 
shares my view that abortion is wrong," he said. 
lie said Catholic voters should consider other polides that affect people's quality of life. Although the Hepubliean Party often takes a pro-life stance, they have a pat­tern of treating the weakest rnnmbers of our society, namely immigrants and migrant workers badly, while often stepping in and assisting big corporations, he said. 
Hougeau also said Hepublicans often support capital punish­ment, a practice which also opposes the Catholic respect for life. 
"I found the Demoeratie Party's positions Ion other issues] much more eonsistnnt with my idea of Catholic Soeial Teaching," Boul{eau said. 
Hougeau said Amnricans need to move ((,rward on the issue of abortion while realizing that the country will never rnach perfec­tion. 
"We are living in a morally flawed and complnx world," he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckey@nd.edu 

When: Fall Break 
We're trying to get appropria­tions from Congress that are applicable to these projects," he said. "I think the possibilities at Notre Dame are huge -this University has an international reputation, it has a national con­stituency," Lugar said. "People love Notre Dame, but they're surprised, I think, to understand how much is occurring in these laboratories, how many people right here are now devoted to this, how many giftnd professors [are here]." 
In addition to speaking about Notre Dame, Lugar also com­mented on the presidential elec­tion in comments to the media following his speeeh. 
he said he has had good rela­tionships with both candidates. "''ve had a very good associa­tion with Senator McCain in tho 
U.S. Senate for over two decades," Lugar said. ''I've seen him almost every day at the Senate sessions for all of these years." 
Sen. Barack Obama is a more reeent figure in the U.S. Congress, but Lugar said he quickly made a positive impres­sion. 
"He has been a very good member of the Foreign Relations Committee, and we've intro­duced legislation together to help with arms control," Lugar said. 
and his administration would face signilkant ~~hallnng!$, relat­ed first to thn economic crisis. 
"I think this is a point in per­haps which thnrn nneds to be a bn~akthrough in terms of addressing thn neonomy of this country," Lugar said. 
Economic issues, as wnll as a number of otlwr urgent issues, ineluding energy, will require some sens1~ of urgency from tlw next president "to prepare the public for chanl{es that are going to have to be made, in our coun­try, in our livns and in our world," hn said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 


Tyler Perry's The  The Backyardigans  Broadway Theatre  Comedian  
Marriage Counselor  Tale ofthe  League Presents  Carlos Mencia  
Urban Musical  Mighty Knights  Forever Tango  At Close Range Tour  
Tuesday, Oct.14  Thursday, Oct.16  Fri-Sat, Oct. 17-18  Sunday, Oct. 19  

UPC()minU ~h()W§ 
Thursday, Nov. 13 Brian Wilson Pop Rock Concert 
Mannheim Steamroller Christmas Concertt 

Friday; Nov. 28 Willie Nelson Tickets On Sale Saturday, Oct. 18 
Mon.~ Thurs. Oct, 20' to :23 
Price: $300 -include-s tr:ari&portati throo nlghts todgio admission to Niag Roek and Ron Hall of 
Thursday, October 9, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9,258.10 -189.01
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 827 34 2,701 336,990,790 
AMEX ··nto;oo•····.~~~~~ NASDAQ 
1,740.33 ... =!~.5~ NY~E .6t.306:35 1~l~~~-~~il S&P 500 984.94 -11.29 
NIKKEI (TolcYol ... 9;19·1:s1•!.!~illlflli 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,366.69 -238.53 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -2.52 -2.52 97.51 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.80 -0.26 32.39 Select Sector SPDR (XLF) -4.02 -0.64 15.28 BK OF AMERICA CP (BAC) -7.03 -1.67 22.10 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +5.96 +0.209 3.715 13-WEEK BILL -18.47 -0.145 0.640 30-YEAR BOND +0.89 +0.036 4.063 5-YEAR NOTE +9.16 +0.227 2.706 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.11 88.95 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +24.50 906.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.10 91.25 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 100.0800 EURO 0.7342 
IN BRIEF 
Federal Reserve loans $37.8 billion 
CHARLOTTE -The Federal Reserve on Wednesday agreed to provide insurance giant American International Group Inc. with a loan of up to $37.8 billion, on top of one made to the troubled company last month. 
Under the new program, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York will borrow up to $37.8 billion in investment-grade, fixed income securities from AIG in return for cash collateral. These securities were previously lent by AIG's insurance company subsidiaries to third parties. 
The arrangement will help AIG secure funds on an as-neednd basis, the New York-based insurer said in a statement. 
As of Monday, about $37.2 billion of securities were available for loans under AIG's securities lending program. 
On the brink of failure last month, AIG was bailed out when the government offered it an $85 billion loan during the ongoing credit crisis that saw Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. file for bank­ruptcy protection and the sale of Merrill Lynch & Co. to Bank of America Corp. In return for the two-year loan, the government received war­rants to purchase up to 79.9 percent of AIG. 
Experts skeptical of mortgage plan 
WASHINGTON -Ordering the govern­ment to buy up bad mortgages to cut home­owners' monthly payments might sound good, but experts are skeptical. They say the plan John McCain is promoting is unlikely to solve the housing crisis that's pushing the economy toward recession. 
One big problem: The vast majority of the toxic home loans that are clogging financial markets and freezing up credit have been sliced, diced and repackaged into complex investments that the government would be hard-pressed to unravel and buy. 
Even if the government did gain access to the mortgages, it would have to pay far more than they would ever be worth, hous­ing specialists said Wednesday. That would effectively bail out banks and lenders with taxpayer money to a greater degree than Congress and the Bush administration are already doing through the $700 billion financial industry rescue enacted last week. 


THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Wall Street bounces between extremes 
Federal Reserve drops funds rate to 1.5 percent; Dow Jones loses 189 points 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Wall 
Street bounced higher and 
lower Wednesday trying to 
make up its mind about an 
unprecedented coordinated 
interest rate cut by central 
banks around the world. In 
the end it settled on a famil­
iar feeling -fear -and 
plunged again. 

The Federal Reserve, des­
perately trying to jump-start 
the lending that keeps the 
U.S. economy moving, dropped its closely watched federal funds rate to 1. 5 percent. The cut from 2 per­cent took the rate to its low­est level in more than four years. 
Central banks in England, 
China, Canada, Sweden and 
Switzerland and the 
European Central Bank also 
cut rates after a series of 
high-stakes phone calls over 
several days between Fed 
Chairman Ben Bernanke 
and his counterparts. 
But the Dow Jones indus­
trial average lost another 
189 points, or 2 percent, to 
close at 9,258. It was the 
sixth straight day of losses 
for the Dow. The index has 
shed more than a third of its 
value, nearly 5,000 points, 
since its all-time high, set 
one year ago Thursday. 
The Dow opened down 
more than 200 points. 
Within an hour, it was up 
almost as much. A late 
morning sell-off gave way to 
an afternoon rally, and the were unprecedented with further when it meets later crisis as global. 
Dow was ahead for the day the number of nations that this month, and perhaps The White House wel­
in the last half-hour of trad­participated, the Fed said. again in December, in hopes comed the cooperation 
ing -then took a dive at For millions of Americans, of cushioning the blow if the among central banks to bat­
the close. the Fed's cut means bor­United States falls into tle the crisis. "It's important 
The day's losses were rowing money becomes recession. and helpful that central 
lighter for the Nasdaq com­cheaper. Home equity loans, "Even if the financial cri­banks are working in a 
posite index and the credit cards and other float­sis was put to bed today, coordinated way to deal 
Standard & Poor's 500. And ing-rate loans all fluctuate that would still leave the with stress in the financial 
Wall Street as a whole fared depending on what the Fed economy in a probable system," spokesman Tony 
far better than Asia, where does. recession," said economist Fratto said. 
some stock exchanges were Bank of America, Wells Ken Mayland, president of But even that may not 
down 9 percent, and Fargo and other banks cut ClearView Economics. break the panicky mindset 
Europe, where some lost 5 their prime rate by half a One day after a presiden­that has gripped investors 
percent. point to 4.5 percent, also tial debate that focused across the world as jobs 
The Fed acted in concert the lowest in more than four heavily on the economy, evaporate and retirement with the European Central years, after the Fed both major candidates savings dry up. Banks may Bank to make emergency announced its decision early embraced the Fed's action. still be inclined to hoard interest rate cuts after the Wednesday. Both Democrat Barack cash, and until they decide Sept. 11 terror attacks in Fed watchers believe the Obama and Republican to lend again the crisis is 2001. But Wednesday's cuts central bank might cut rates John McCain described the not likely to let up. 

Retailers' sales dismal in September 
Associated Press largest retailer, said sales of discre­sight, retailers are navigating in the 
tionary items were weak as it posted dark about how much to cut their 
NEW YORK -American consumers solid results that were nevertheless a spring orders and store expansions to went into hiding in September, leaving bit below expectations. Target Corp. address the dramatic changes in con­retailers with dismal sales and an fared far worse, reporting a bigger­sumer behavior that are expected to uncertain future well beyond the holi­than-expected drop and said it is cut­persist at least until next year -if not day season as the fallout from the ting its profit outlook as it expects longer. financial meltdown pushes spending problems with its credit card business "We rarely eat out, and even gro­even lower. to last through the rest of the year as ceries have become a big-ticket item," 
As retailers reported their monthly customers have trouble making pay­said Cincinnati resident Victoria sales figures Wednesday, even dis­ments. Gentry, 41, a single mother of a 15­counters weren't immune to shoppers' Luxury stores such as Neiman year-old daughter, who now worries mounting worries about their fmancial Marcus Group Inc. and Saks Inc. suf­about her job at a bank's merchant security. fered sharp drops as well-heeled shop­service division. "No more payday piz­
"Discretionary spending has come to pers held off on buying $600 stilettos zas now." a trickle," said Ken Perkins, president and other luxuries. Many mall-based Before the fmancial meltdown began of research company RetailMetrics apparel stores and department stores in the middle of last month, customers 
LLC. "Consumers are the most worried including J.C. Penney Co. and had already been switching to lower­I have seen since at least the 1991 American Eagle Outfitters Inc. find price brands and stores, cutting back recession. There are so many factors themselves mired in a deep sales on essentials and making other laying on their psyche." slump. changes like mending their clothes 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's With no clear spending recovery in instead of buying new ones. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, October 9, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Judging the performances 
1~0. !lox 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VI!iWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 

SroRTs EmmRS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz llaner 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 

(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsmc@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 News DESK (574) 631-5323 obsncws.J@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scenc.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 

PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
PoLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adveniscments, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institUtion. The Observer reserves the right ro reli.1se advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsignd editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A.,sistant Managing Editon. and dcparrmem editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor ncccs;arily those ofThe ()bserver. 
Viewpoim space is availablt· to all readers. The !Tee expression ofall opinion; through letters is encouraged. Lwcrs to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions n:garding Obsm1a policies should be directed to Editor in (,'biefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'll1c ()hurv\1 fllSI'S ~1) 1) 2400U) ~ pnhhshc:d Muml•y lhH'Ligh Frid.-.y CXt.t:jll during cx.un ,uulv.u,.IIIUJI pcriuo.h A mlikt~ptmu w 't1•C" {l!~Ctllcr ~ $100 li:•r mu: lll-.ult:mi.; yc.u; $11), fut !IUl" •cllle'lh:r. 
rhr Obttrvrr IJ pubhllhcd ~r l'(ll'\1"MA.STER 

024 Suuth Om inK IIJil Scml.uldrc!>\Cturcctioruro: 
Notre ll.um, IN 1MSb-On9 TheOhKrvcr 
~nudiul fHN.It-'t' po11J ,11 Sum: Do~mc P.O Uux"/7'> 

~nd ~ddui••nJ.I m.ailtnK ••llica.. 014 South Dining 11~1 
Nurre l>;amr. IN 4(,'S~6--0n9 
TI1c Ol""rvcr t• • mcmhcr of rhc Awll..t.ucd Prcu.. AJI rcpwductlnn nghu. .ue 
rcttPI~. 

As the debate wrapped up, I was imme­diately bombarded with about four hun­dred analysts ready to tell me all about what had just happened. I immediately turned the T.V. ofT and walked over to my 
computer to write. 
I turned otT the TV. not because I didn't care, but precisely because I was afraid that I myself would be too influenced in an attempt to 


make an honest Jason Coleman judgment of what 
had happened. This would be difli-Man at Large 
cult with the "point" scoring and instant replay analy­sis so common to the major news network follow-ups. As an amateur journalist, my stab at this, of course, will be amateur, but it will be my own honest reaction. 
To begin, I think it is necessary to out­line what each candidate needed to achieve in the debate. 
Since the beginning of the finaneial cri­sis, Obama has slowly been pulling away in a number of important battle ground states. Beeause of this Obama's goals were not, nor needed to be, quite as lofty, so we will start with him. 
Obama only truly needed to hold steady, as he had in the first debate. lie had to keep to the issues that he does well on, the economy and healthcare, and show fluency in the issues that he hasn't done as well on, sueh as foreign policy. 
Conversely, John MeCain needed to turn in an excellent performance. The election was (and is) still dose enough not to necessitate any sort of Hail Mary-type of tactic, but he would have to hit a few runs to slow Obama's momentum. McCain also needed to distance himself from Bush, and eontinue to push the "naivete" but­ton, as he had done fairly successfully in the first debate. Of eourse, neither eandi­date eould afford to make any major mis­
takes. 

While I wouldn't declare either candi­date the winner, it seems that Obama achieved his goals a little bit more dearly than did McCain. A<> soon as the topic turned to the economy, Obama wasted no time in taking the first jab, repeating McCain's oft-repeated statement on the fundamentals of the economy. This works towards Obama's advantage. 
McCain swung back with an awkward eomment on Obama and his "cronies," in regards to some sort of FanniP/Freddie regulation. It was a bit unclear, but it seemed that the cronies to whom he was ref(~rring would have been his fellow sen­ators. If this is the ease, this line worked against McCain's general argument that he is the greater steward of bi-partisan­ship. If it's not the ease, McCain's argu­ment came out a bit convoluted. 
One of the few weak points for Obama came soon thereafter, however, when the discussion turned toward government spending and taxing. When pressed, Obama made a fairly large claim -that all of his proposed spending would be covered by increased revenue-without oflering much in the way of support. Regardless of whether this is true or not, I felt the statement was too large to end the question. 
While I wouldn't consider it a misstep, MeCain failed to press this issue at all, and turned instead to earmarks, a favorite topic of his. In both debates so far, this topic has seemed to completely flat line McCain on the CNN viewer reac­tion graph. I'm just not sure that Americans see this as an issue essential to the state of the economy. 
One of the more interesting sequences occurred later, with McCain chastising Obama for being too hawkish on attack­ing terrorists within Pakistan's borders. He had invoked Teddy Roosevelt's famous adage, "Speak softly and carry a big stick," in respect to Obama's policy. 
Obama promptly turned the situation around, calling to mind far more bellicose statements made by McCain on bombing Iran and annihilating North Korea. If there was any sort of serious headshot in the debate, this was it. McCain was unable to respond effectively, nor made a serious attempt to explain what he meant. 
In regards to how they 1:arried them­selves, I thought Obama did a little better in looking and acting presidential. McCain's few attempts at humor fell flat (in part because the audience was not permitted to respond) and a lew of his comment<> seemed reminiscent of the kid who sits in the back making wise cracks -"We never heard the size of the fine?" While Obama did not make too many seri­ous attempt<> at wit, he seemnd more presidential and in control. I'm not sun~ how much this sort of perception plays into voter prnfimmce, but I think it is important to note. 
Honestly, I don't think either one blew the lid off this debate. Obama was able to foeus the topie back to the economy on a number of questions, which could only help. He also held his own within the town hall fi.1rmat that many believe favored MeCain. 
MeCain also did all right. Although he was unable to really hit any home runs, he did seem to have a clearer plan for the economy and pushed it a little bit morn efl'ectively than in the first dnbate. I le also left out a lot of the gimmicks from his campaign (the suspension last week. for instance) that seemed to bn holding him down. 
My prediction: little movement in the polls. We'll move on to next Wednesday and domestic policy issues. 
Jason Coleman is a junior majoring in management. 1/e can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
News Sports Who would you rather spend a nightKaitlynn Riely Fran Tolan on the town with? 
Becky Hogan Jared Jedick Emma Driscoll Scene 
Sarah Palin 
Viewpoint Mark Witte Kara King Graphics Cindy McCain Blair Chemidlin Michelle Obama Mrs. Biden 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


Submit a Letter toi~rne Etlitor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The shortest distance between two 
points is under construction. " 
Noelie Altito 
author 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 9, 2008 page 9 
Frozen bubbles and the mysteries of God 
Being a Notre Dame or St. Mary's stu­dent means having to wrestle with two competing realities. The first of these realities is that. in the person of Jesus Christ, we seek to know the Logos, the 
Divine Word. or as  
so beautifully pre- Fr. Tim Scully  
figured in Jewish  
Wisdom Literature,  
Sophia, the Divine  Faithpoint  
Craftsperson, who  

sat beside the Creator as the world was birthed into being. It is this Jesus, as St. Paul writes, through whom and for whom our world was created, who ordered the world and to whom the world is ordered. So that, as Gerard Manley Hopkins inimitably poeticized: "The world is charged with the grandeur of God." 
So, on the one hand, our world is Incarnational-God dwells within it; ·which means that, by delving into its depths -through natural and social sciences. through theology and philoso­phy, art and literature -we come to know God, and come to love God, and God's creation. There is a wonderful image from the diaries of Hopkins, jn which the Jesuit poet spends pages and pages describing the formation of air bubbles frozen in the lake outside his rectory. He sat on the ice and just stared, mesmerized by their frozen for­mation, and was convinced -perhaps as only a poet can be! -that these for­mations of suspended bubbles, if per­ceived with enough reason, imagination, and faith, would unlock mysteries about the God who created them. I find it a helpful image some days, as I sift through seemingly endless iterations of regression analyses derived from recent survey data for my current research on religion and politics in Latin America. Maybe, just maybe, if I stare and ponder and imagine enough, I can come to know creation -and thereby the Creator -in beautiful ways. 
On the other hand, and at the same time, we in pursuit of a "Catholic educa­tion" must contend with the stubborn reality that, as St. Paul writes, "The wis­dom of God is foolishness to the wise." 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Respect Life -week 
Dear Observer Reader, 

The week of October 5-11 the Notre Dame Campus, in union with the United States Council for Catholic Bishops, will observing Respect Life Week. The aim of the week is to promote prayer for an end to abortion and all issues that offend the dignity of human life, to educate campus on the essential facts of these life issues and to promote practical ways in which students can help to address these issues. 
I can imagine that you, Observer reader, might fall into one of three camps. You might be avidly pro-choice, and with the best of intentions might believe that while abortion is a truly tragic thing, a woman ought to have a right to make a choice about her future and her body. In that case, in the true spirit of a university-which comes from the Latin uni­versitas. meaning "the whole, the total, the universe, the world"-I invite you to come and hear "the whole;" I invite you to hear what we have to say. Your claim is that you care for women-and I believe you do -but we daim to care as well. Thus I invite you to come and see exactly how it is that we claim to care for the dignity of women. 
Pardon if I'm entirely misrepresenting you, Observer reader, and the above might not be you at all. You might be joyfully pro-life, and very much in line with the cause for life. With that in mind, you might won­der, "I know what they're going to talk about, why ought I to go?" True, you might know exactly all that we'll be addressing, but you might have a friend who does not. Further, you might not have heard this or that particular point of view. Finally, as a one who truly cares about promot­ing a culture of life, it is your responsibility to form yourself in the best way to uphold and defend this culture, and a huge part of this week is meant to be just that: formational. 
Finally, Observer reader, you might be neither A nor B above, but rather C: "it's not really that big of an issue, people get too worked up about it." Maybe that's not quite it either: "''m personally opposed, but I think women ought to have a right to choose," or maybe just simply, "I don't really know what I think, and I don't really care." Granted, A and B above are much more defined, but C is the very broad middle ground of the life debate. 
If that be the case, then I'll leave you with this: thousands of people around the world claim that this is a huge issue -one way or the other -and this University is giving you the chance to find out why. And ulti­mately, a university education is about finding out the 'why.' I invite you to come see for yourself. 
If you've made it this far in this letter, I commend you; you've already been far too generous with your time. That's exactly what I want to fin­ish with: time. You are all tremendously busy, and busy with many good things: friends, service, studying, etc. But this year's Respect Life Week I want to challenge you to seriously think about these life issues. Think seriously-whether you fall into A, B, C, above or even none of the above -if you could do something for yourself by attending one of our events this Respect Life Week. 
Will everything entirely collapse, will you not get into law school, will your girlfriend or boyfriend dump you or will you flunk out of college if you spend between an hour or an hour and a half one day of this week to seriously engage life issues? Probably not, but you might end up doing something, quite literally life-changing [no pun intended] for yourself or a friend. 
For more information, please visit www.ndrighttolife.org or e-mail us at prolife@nd.edu A message from: Notre Dame Right to Life. 
Mary Kate Daly president Notre Dame Right to Life Oct. 3 
Or, again more poetically, as Pascal said; "There are reasons of the heart of which reason is unaware." The human person is much more than intellect alone. As educators and learners in the tradition of the Congregation of Holy Cross, we consciously seek to be formed in the heart as well as the mind, and to invite and persuade the heart and the mind mutually to form and inform one another. As Holy Cross' founder, Blessed Basil Moreau, wrote, "We shall always place education side by side with instruction; the mind will not be culti­vated at the expense of the heart. While we prepare useful citizens for society, we shall likewise do our utmost to pre­pare citizens for heaven." 
Even more, as we seek to uncover the fingerprints of our Creator throughout creation, we never lose sight of that other Way -the Way of the Beatitudes and the Cross -revealed to us by our Creator's Son, in which creation also becomes known through paradox. In Christ's new creation, which is in no way opposed to God's C~;eation and mys­teriously enlivens it even as it disrupts it, the poor are rich, those who mourn laugh, and the ones who give their lives away in love gain the fullness of exis­tence. 
As seekers of the truth within a dis­tinctively Catholic context, we live and learn in the tension of these two com­peting realities, simultaneously and boldly. We do so full of hope that this tension will reveal, not a more confused understanding of creation, but a fuller one. We do so fully aware that the jour­ney of faith and reason -as well as our common destiny -is infinitely richer than what either our hearts or minds alone could conceive. 
This week's column is written by Fr. Tim Scully, CSC, Professor ofPolitical Science and Chair ofNotre Dame's Institute for Educational Initiatives and Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE). He can be reached at scully.l@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Faithpoint are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Correct pronunciation 
As an enthusiastic Irish fan aHd a mem­ber of the Band of the Fighting Irish. 1 love playing and hearing the Victory Clog, "Damhsa Bua," at Concert on the Steps. 
As a student of the Irish language, I cringe every time it's mispronounced. I know it's a confusing language, but mispro­nouncing Irish week after week at one of the only schools in the country with an Irish language department is truly a shame on the University. Repeated requests for this to be fixed have come to naught. 
The correct pronunciation of the word "Damhsa" is "Dow-sa," wherein the first syllable rhymes with "cow." That "mh" combination is foreign, I know, but just think of it as a "w." Each time it's said "Dam-sha," some sort of strange dyslexic abomination comes through that speaker and makes me wish the school had more pride in our excellent Irish language department. 
JT, I love everything you do for the band and the fans, but PLEASE pronounce it cor­rectly. It's "Dow-sa" Bua! Thank you so much for having enough respect for the lan­guage and the department to say the word correctly. 
Go Irish! 
Kelsey Robertson junior Regina Hall Oct. 5 

Attire isn't everytlting 
While I agree with a majority of Mr. Mooney's letter ("Of colors and T-shirts," Oct. 7), I must object strongly to the unfair stab he took at students who choose to deviate from the normal student attire. 
Going into this season, I knew that I had precious few games left as a student to enjoy. I thought long and hard about how I could best celebrate and enjoy those games. Without a doubt, Notre Dame football is a spectacle. What better way to celebrate that that to make a spectacle out of my appear-· ance? 
I proudly admit that I am one of those stu­dents who thinks it is "really cool or funny" to wear something other than The Shirt. For the Michigan game I donned a set of overalls with rolled up pant legs over a bright green Irish shirt and a sweet bandanna. You may have spotted me during the Purdue game sporting a referee shirt complete with cutoff jean shorts (a.k.a "jorts") and argyle socks. 
I'd also like to point out that a number of students in the seats surrounding me have taken up this noble practice, and there is a mutual respect and admiration between those who dress outside the box. I don't do this to call attention to myself or to separate myself from the student body. I am merely celebrating and supporting the football team in a different manner than the rest of the stu­dent section. 
I am just as much a fanatic and supporter of our team and University as everyone else. The last time I checked, this is America, where a fan can support his team any way he pleases. 
On a final note, the next home game against Pittsburgh falls on the day after Halloween. I can only hope that a large part of the student body decides to wear a cre­ative costume in order to celebrate Notre Dame, Halloween, and our First Amendment rights. 
Go Irish! 
Dan Fanuele 
senior 
offcampus Oct. 7 



THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 10 Thursday, October 9, 2008 
Bringing Radio Back 

the moments when no other On Friday, Saturday and distraction is available, or a L.A. Theatre Works Sunday a six member group o last resort when you've run out Present cable and television veterans will of music of your own. take the stage at the DeBartolo
"War ofthe Worlds" 

But it wasn't always that way. Performing Arts Center to pres­
and

The birth of radio meant mass ent "War of the Worlds," along communication in real-time. It "The Lost World" with their version of Arthur meant that everyone across Conan Doyle's "The Lost World."
Decio Mainstage 

America could tune in and lis­It will be true to the radio style,
Theatre

ten to a program together. with limited sets and an empha­There was a sense of unity in Friday, 7 p.m. sis on telling the story through listoning to the radio, a comfort sound. The performance will star
Saturday, 2 p.m. and 
in knowing that by listening to Jerry Hardin ("The X-Files,"
7:JO p.m.

it you were connecting to otlwr "Star Trek: The Nex people in far away plaeos. One Sunday, 2 p.m. Generation"), Josh Clark of the biggest draws of early ("Heroes," "Star Trek Voyagnr"), 
L.A. Theatre Works Comi 
By STEPHANIE DePREZ Assistant Scene Editor 

For most members of our generation, the "radio" is what is used when the iPod is out of battery, you can't find a good CD on the floor of your ear or you're taking shower late at night. It is a music provider for 
radio was that it was per­formed live in front of an audience, so the lis­tener could hear a crowd laughing, clapping and being actively involved in the perform­ance. 
This weekend, L.A. Theatre Works seeks to bring back that early radio feel with their presentations of "War of the Worlds" and "The Lost World." "War of thn Worlds" is well known for its phenomnnal first reception, when Orson Welles fpre-"Citizen Kane") broadcast the adaptation of ll.G. Wells's story and caused widespread panic. 6 million peo­ple heard it, and 1.7 million believed it. Many wont to ask their neighbors about it during the broadcast, spreading a word-of-mouth rumor that aliens from Mars were attacking thi1 world Peo wh n turned on ir 
Kenneth Alan Williams ("Will and Grace"), Jen Dede ("Entourage," "Gilmore Girls"), Peter McDonald ("Lois and Clark: The New Adventures of Superman") and Kyle Colerider-Krugh. 
This is a unique opportunity for anyone to experience what it is like to be part of a live radio audience. This theatrical offering once again demonstrates the DeBartolo Performing · Arts Center's commitment to bringing the Notre Dame community performances that are culturally relevant and yet unique in their once-in-a-lifetime appeal. 
Tickets are $45 for the public, $36 for facul­ty and staff, $34 for seniors and $15 for stu­dents. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
r a se s o news 11 es, un rupted by radio commercials, and were vinced they were all going to die. 
L.A. Theatre Works was founded in 1974 to preserve great dramatic works through audio presentation. They broadcast weekly on the Internet and have many troupes traversing the country in different forms bringing old-
fashioned radio theatre to life. 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
THE OBSERVER 
c·ENE
Thursday, October 9, 2008 
page 11 

Thursday: Gary Cosay FTT Talk. 5 p.m. Browning Cinema 
Gary Cosay will speak at the latest in a series of talks presented by the Film, Television and Theater Department at the Browning Cinema. Cosay, a veteran of the industry with over fifty years of experience in media entertainment, will discuss his life as an agent, beginning with his first job at William Morris as an agent trainee. During his career he has represented a variety of ente.rtainment figures, including producer David E. Kelley. The event is free but ticketed; call the ticket office at (574) 631-2800 to reserve tickets. 
Saturday: "The Butler Did It." 7:30p.m. Everest-Rohrer Chapel at Bethel College 
Whodunnit? Students at Bethel College are asking audiences to figure out the mystery in their performance of "The Butler Did It," a spoof play by Tim Kelly. In "The Butler Did It," a society dowager named Miss Maple stages a murder mystery party with a group of detective writers, only to find the mystery turned real when a real murder takes place. 
Tickets are $12 for the public and $10 for seniors and students. For tick­et information, call (574) 807-.7763 or visit www.artseverywhere.com. 
Friday: College Humor Live Tour with Neal Brennan and TJ Miller. 10 p.m. Legends 
Are you a fan of the videos, pictures and articles at collegehumor.com? Check out the best College Humor has to offer at Legends on Friday night. The College Humor Live Tour will fea­ture a group of stand-up comedians. Neal Brennan has written for "Chapelle's Show" and you may recog­nize TJ Miller as the cameraman from the movie "Cloverfield." 
In the past the tour has included the likes of Dan Levy, Aziz Ansari and oth­ers, and also has permanent shows in New York and Los Angeles. 
Sunday: "Maxim Kantor: Selections from the Wasteland and Metropolis Print Suites" at the Snite Museum of Art. 
Lazy Sunday afternoons got you down? Get yourself some culture by visiting the Snite to check out their fall exhibit on the etchings of Russian artist Maxim Kantor. Kantor's "Wasteland" print suite examines the late Soviet era and the chaos of the new Russian state, while "Metropolis" is a blend of images inspired by art, print and photog­raphy and encompassing a powerful blend of mythology, society, history and geogra­phy. The exhibition will run until Nov. 23. 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Editor 
This week, we're aiming for a healthy bent. Sometimes it's hard to stick to the food pyramid when you're surrounded by some or the less-than-optimal­but-so-addicting foods you can lind in the dining hall, whether it's the French fries, the oh-so­buttery grilled cheese or the s'mores (just to name some of my weaknesses). These recipes at least send you in the right dirnction, without loosing any taste, of course. We can't have that. 
This week's recipes: 

Pasta with Feta, Wine Vinegar and Broccoli 
This dish is a lighter and 
healthier alternative to the cream pasta sauces provided by the dining hall, using lemon and wine vinegar to flavor instead of a thick pasta sauce. But don't think that means the flavors have to be any less strong, the feta, vinegar and lemon give this pasta a good zing. 
1. 
Fill a bowl with whole grain pasta (or any short pasta if that is not available). 

2. 
Add feta, red onion and broccoli to the pasta. 

3. 
Drizzle with a good dosage of red wine vinegar and spritz with a lemon wedge. 

4. 
Mix and make sure the feta is crumbled and the ingredients arB evenly distributed. . 

5. 
Heat in the microwave for about 45 seconds. 

6. 
Top with lots of pepper and takn a bitn. Feel free to experi­ment with other vegetablns; both 


edamame and bell peppers would pair nicely with this dish as well. 
Hummus Nosh 
I love that the dining hall always has hummus. If I am completely at a loss for what to eat, it is usually what I turn to. Not only is it delicious, but it also ensures that I eat some of those pesky vegetables, and the hum­oms itself is pretty good for you. Even better, this is beyond easy. 
1. Fill a bowl with hummus. 
2. 
Gather up your favorite things to dip into hummus. Some of my favorites include: pita bread, olives, and bell peppers of any color. Other popular options are carrots, celery, and cucum­ber. Also pick up a lemon. 

3. 
Squeeze the lemon into your hummus and give a good dash of 


pepper. Mix. 

4. Dip away! Didn't I tell you that was easy? 
Quick Tip 

Try this challenge: make a salad without using dressing. Dressing is usually the least healthy part of the salad, and the best thing about a dining hall is that there are so many options that would normally take consid­erable effort to slice and dice. And don't limit yourself to the salad bar. Exp1ore the dining hall for fruits, vegetables, beans, cheeses and meats (got t.o have that protein) to make your salad explode with flavor without drowning in dressing. 
Have your own dining half recipe? We would love to .feature it! E-mail m.fordice@nd.edu. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October, 9, 2008 
NFL 

Green Bay QB commits to play 
Associated Press 

GHEEN BAY, Wis. -Barring some sort of min or medical mir­adn, Grnen Bay Packers quar­tnrback Aaron Hodgers will onc11 again be playing through thn pain of a sprained right shouldnr on Sunday. 
At least now hn knows hn can do it, 1!1aving "no doubt" that lw'll bn on the field in Seattln. 
With his effort in a loss to Atlanta last Sunday, H(Jdgers rnmovnd any lingering doubts in his own mind about his ability to shrug ofl' a significant injury. 
"Being able to play, and real­izing the pain that I went through last week and pushing through it told me I can play with it," Hodgers said Wndnesday. ''I'm very confident I can play this wnek. I'm hoping thn pain and the soreness will bn lnss, but eithPr way I'm going to go." 
A wnek af'tnr spraining his right shoulder in a game against Tampa Bay, Hodgers played against tho Falcons -and played well. The Packnrs lost the game, but Hodgers won more rnspeet in the locker room. 
Hodgers said he felt a "duty" to play as onfl of the team's leaders. But he was quick to point out that linebacker A.J. llawk, cornerback Charles Woodson and others also are playing through significant injuries. 
"I don't want to single myself out as the only guy playing with pain, because we all are," Hodgers said. "A.J. didn't prac­tice all week and played, Wood's bonn doing it for a number of weeks now. But. as one of the leaders of this football team, I felt like it was my duty to be on the lield as long as I could play dose to the level of efl'eetiveness I fmlll'm capabln of playing at." 
Thn decision to let Hodgers play against the Faleons wasn't made until a few hours before game time. after Hodgers proved to Packers coach Mike McCarthy that he could make all the throws he needed to in a dosed-door warmup session at an indoor praetiee facility across the stnwt from Lambnau Field. 
And whiln Hodgers' participa­tion in practice will be signifi­cantly restricted again this week, he doesn't expect to be a game-time decision against Seattle. 
''I'm going to play. No doubt about that," Hodgers said. "But I'm hoping I can be a little bet­ter for Friday and maybe do a little bit more. But that still remains to be seen." 
Rodgers made only a cameo appearance in the portion of Packers practice that was open to the media on Wednesday. He didn't throw a pass during a jog­through period, then left before full-speed team drills began. 
McCarthy's plan going into the week was to have Rodgers begin throwing on a limited basis Thursday, but the Packers want to see how he responds to reha­bilitation exercises. 
"lie was sore yesterday so they backed off him, and then they were going to rehab him hard again today," McCarthy said. "We'll see where he is in the morning." 
Either way, Rodgers said the injury is better than it was a week ago. 
"The shoulder's doing better than it was last week at this point," Rodgers said. "But we're just going day-by-day. The guys in the training room are doing a great job, spending time with me. We've been working on strength and flexibility, just try­ing to maintain and feel better each day and go from there." 
Rodgers barely practiced at all last week, but still managed to go 25-for-37 for 313 yards with three touchdowns against Atlanta -and nearly led the Packers to a late comeback. 
lie did make one major mis­take, a fourth-quarter intercep­tion deep in Packers territory that set up a Falcons touch­down. But McCarthy said earlier this week that coaches gave Hodgers' overall performance high marks. 
"I think I proved to the staff and really to myself -although you don't want this to be a precedent -that I can play effectively without practicing all week," Rodgers said. "Now, I don't want to set that as a precedent for the season. I want to be out there as much as I can. but you have to be realistic with the .~tate of my body at the moment. 
For Hodgers, the biggest con­cern about missing practice is not having a handle on what his distance and accuracy might be likeuntil the game starts. · 
But he figures that's how it's going to be until the Packers' off week Oct. 26. 
"That's kind of what I have to deal with at the moment," Rodgers said. "Hopefully my shoulder will be feeling a little bit better this Sunday, but I think until I have a couple good weeks to not do anything, which will be the bye week, that's kind of the pain I'll be in. I think my pain threshold is such that I can deal with that." 
NFL 

Ovechkin focused on Stanley Cup 
Associated Press 

SPRINGFIELD, Va. -Alex Ovechkin is hardly the first professional athlete to empha­size winning percentage above personal statistics, to maintain he's all about team, to insist he won't rest until he's earned a championship. 
"I want to wiri the Stanley Cup; that's why we play hockey in the NHL," he said during an interview at the Washington Capitals' charity golf event this week. "''m always that way. I want to do everything for the victory." 
Standard stuff, right? Here, then, is what separates Ovechkin: He isn't just talk. 
This is an MVP who skates with the rookies, a $124 mil­lion man who thinks nothing of a two-hour drive on his night off to catch a little exhibition hockey, a league-leading scor­er who keeps close tabs on what the club is up to during free agency. 
All with a singular aim. 
"Uitimate"ly," teammate Brooks Laich said, "I don't think Alex will go to sleep at nigh!. until he's won a Stanley Cup. 
Ovechkin took it upon him­self to lace up his skates and get out on the ice at the Capitals' rookie camp in September, a week before the defending Southeast Division champions opened training camp for veterans. 
"I just want to support all the guys on my team," Ovechkin said. "It doesn't matter if they 
play  in  the  NHL  or  the  
minors."  
Coach  Bruce  Boudreau  

appreciated the effort. 
"When I blew the whistle, he was the first one to get over to me, the first one in line," Boudreau said. "And I'm sure -because he's this smart ­he knew players would see that and they would say, 'Well, if that's how Alex Ovechkin operates, that's how I want to operate.' He never wanted any applause or anything. He just knew this was a good thing to do for the kids." 
Ovechkin, who just turned 23, is basically a kid himself, one whose energy, enthusiasm and will to win are infectious. 
That's the case whether he's slamming his body into the boards to celebrate one of his goals or tackling a teammate to celebrate one of theirs. Or trying to beat linemate Nicklas Backstrom at pingpong. Or showing off during a pickup basketball game at a team din­ner last weekend (Ovechkin's mother won two Olympic gold medals in that sport; his hock~ ey jersey bears her No. 8). Or playing poker ("When he 


...:-··· 

AP Washington left winger Alex Ovechkin passes the puck during their 5-1 preseason win Friday against Philadelphia. 
bluffs," goalie Jose Theodore said, "he's going to show you his cards -just to let you know.''). 
Or carrying on during a charity golf outing. 
Ovechkin dished fist bumps on the green of the first hole, then slapped high-fives between yells of "Whooo!" and "Yes!" after his next tee shot. He prepared for a par-3 by bouncing a ball on the head of an iron and jokingly referring to himself as "Tiger." He plopped his first effort there into the water, then took a mulligan and put his second try right on the green, turning to anyone who would listen to shout, "Told you! Told you!" 
So much for country club manners, eh? 
"Guys like that -you know why they're always on top. It's because they try to be the best at whatever they do," veteran enforcer Donald Brashear said. "They always try to win, and they always find a way to." 
To that end, Ovechkin's actions speak loudly. 
Teammates take note of what might seem like little ges­tures, such as when he hopped in his car and went to Philadelphia during the pre­season to watch the Capitals play a game from which he was scratched. Did the same thing last year. 
The Hussian is no prima donna on skates, either. He ranked in the league's top 10 in hits last season and helped kill penalties this preseason ­doing the latter, Ovechkin said, because then "the whole team trusts you" -even though those aren't the skills that prompted the Capitals to rebuild around him. 
They, of course, were fasci­nated by the talent that allowed him to break the NHL record for goals by a left wing with 65 last season, the first player at any position to top 60 in a dozen years. Add in his 4 7 assists, and Ovechkin led the league in total points. Not only are his 163 goals so far 17 more than anyone else has scored since the start of 2005­06, but his total ranks No. 3 in history for a player's first three NHL seasons, behind only Wayne Gretzky and Mike Bossy. 
Boudreau acknowledges he was nervous when he was introduced to Ovechkin while still coaching W~shington's AI-IL affiliate. 
"Well, you know," Boudreau explained, "it's like when I first met Gretzky." 
Boudreau is far from the only person associated with the Capitals who speaks about Ovechkin in reverential tones. 
"He's a remarkable human being. lie's very self-actualized at a very young age," owner Ted Leonsis said. 
The fawning is the sort that might lead to resentment among teammates. 
"You know why it's not an issue? Because Alex isn't like that. If Alex was like that and just craved the spotlight and just talked about himself, then maybe it would rub guys the wrong way," Laich said. "We haven't heard Alex say one word about himself being the star and himself winning these awards and himself earning all this money. We haven't heard one word of that." 
Instead, they hear about how Ovechkin called a Capitals spokesman over and over from Russia on July 1, the first day of free agency, and checked in with general manager George McPhee, too, intent on getting the latest news. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
Gorgeous Completely Rehabbed House. 4 bedrooms, 3 full baths. washer dryer, dishwasher, new stainless steel appliances, 3 car garage, central air, beautiful light fixtures, deck and front porch. Marble entryway. All new. 2 miles to ND. Available immediately, fourth month free or flat screen TV installed. $1180 per month. Call Harold 574-315-7781. 

HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS 
AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER 
PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
NOTICES 
DC area students-ND,SMC & HCC: ND Club of DC has contract­ed for bus transportation to & from the DC area for all breaks this year. Safe & affordable! Contact Ann Rimkus, arimkus1 @verizon.net 
FoR SALE 
CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO ND. PLEASE CONTACT TED @ 574-233-6191 MSL #231736 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Gold and black necklace charm lost Saturday night at Legends. Not expensive but irreplaceable to owner. If found, please call 716-816-5669. 
WANTED 
STUDENT WORK, $14.25 base­appt., flexible schedules, no experi­ence needed, customer sales/serv­ice, conditions apply, ages 18+, 574­273-3835, www.workforstudents.com 
TICKETS 
Wanted: ND football tix for family. 574­251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 574-232­0964. 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http:!losa. nd. edu/departments/cs ap/ 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 
If you or someone you love 
needs confidential 
support or 
assistance, 
please call 
Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 
at (574)631-7819 or 
Ann Firth at 574-631-2685. 
For more information, 
visit our 
website at: 

http ://osa. nd. ed u/depa rtments/pr 
egnant.shtml 


OUND THE NATION 
COsi>v\PlLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Thursday, October 9, 2008 page 13 

Football ESPN/USA Today coaches' poll 
team points previous 
1 Oklahoma 1524 1 2 Missouri 1404 3 3 LSU 1398 2 4 Alabama 1339 4 5 Texas 1305 5 6 Penn State 1203 6 7 Texas Tech 1101 8 paperwork with the U.S. tion to his global cam­ratory to establish a base­
8 Brigham Young 1086 7 Associated Press Anti-Doping Agency. paign to fight cancer, a line. Fluctuations from
9 usc 1055 9 
GENEVA -Cycling's But the UCI said disease he survived those readings afterward
10 Georgia 937 10 
governing body is relax­Wednesday that before winning seven could indicate doping. 
11 Ohio State 893 12 
ing its rules to allow Armstrong could return straight Tours from 1999-Armstrong said last
12 Florida 883 13 
Lance Armstrong to make early because its drug­2005. month he was tested in
13 Utah 793 15 
his comeback at a road testing standards have It is also a defiant stand late August, and has
14 Vanderbilt 704 19 
15 Kansas 667 16 race in Australia in improved since the rule against critics who doubt enlisted personal anti­16 Boise State January. was drawn up four years he could have achieved doping expert Don Catlin,
624 18 
17 Oklahoma State 523 22 The International ago. those victories without who will make his test 18 Virginia Tech 393 24 Cycling Union said the "Riders are now subject the use of performance­results available to the 19 Michigan State 273 NR seven-time Tour de to a much-reinforced sys­enhancing drugs. public. 20 South Florida 267 10 France champion can tem of monitoring com­Now he is liable to be Catlin, who ran the first 21 Wake Forest 247 25 compete in the Jan. 20-25 pared to that of the past," tested at any time without anti-doping lab in the 22 Northwestern 231 NR Tour Down Under, his the governing body said notice and will have his United States at UCLA for 23 Auburn 121 14 first race since coming in a statement. "Lance own biological passport 25 years, will freeze and 24 Wisconsin 105 17 out of retirement after Armstrong has and will as part of a UCI-backed keep samples of 25 California 98 NR three years. be the subject of very initiative to monitor possi­Armstrong's blood to be 
A strict application of strict monitoring through­ble doping offenses. analyzed in the future. testing rules would not out the period running up Riders must give a Armstrong will not be have allowed the 37 -year­to his return to the pelo­series of blood and urine paid for returning to the old Texan to compete ton." samples that allow a saddle and the testing
NSCAA/Adidas Division I 
until Feb. 1, 2009, six Armstrong's comeback World Anti-Doping costs will be covered bySoccer Rankings months after he filed is meant to draw atten-Agency-accredited !abo-his Kazakhstan-based 
Men's  Women's  
team  team  
1  Wake Forest  NOTRE  1  
2  Northwestern  OAME  2  
3  Creighton  North Carolina  3  
4  Akron  Portland  4  
5  St. John's  UCLA  5  
6  California  usc  6  
7  Illinois-Chicago  Stanford  7  
8  louisville  Texas A&M  8  
9  St. louis  Virginia  9  
10  Maryland  Florida State  10  

around the 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Clemson at Wake Forest 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
IN BRIEF 

Tuberville fires coordinator 
after seven games on offense 
AUBURN -Auburn coach Tommy Tuberville fired offensive coordina­tor Tony Franklin on Wednesday just seven games into his tenure, pulling the plug after the Tigers' rocky attempt to adapt to his spread offense. 
The 20th-ranked Tigers have struggled offensively all season after entering as the favorites to win the Southeastern Conference Western Division. They have dropped Southeastern Conference games to LSU and Vanderbilt after beating Mississippi State by a score of 3-2. 
"After evaluating where we are at this point of the season offensively, I felt it was in the best interest of the Auburn football program to make this change," Tuberville said. ''I'm not satisfied with where we are and I am personally going to take a larg­er role with the offense the remain­der of the season. 
Utley and Howard lacking 
any production in playoffs 
PHILADELPHIA -For all their big hits and long homers during the regular season, Chase Utley and Ryan Howard have to provide the Philadelphia Phillies with more offense in October. 
The slumping stars were a com­bined 4-for-26 in the first round of the playoffs against Milwaukee, but strong pitching and timely hitting from other Phillies carried the team into the NL championship series against Los Angeles. Utley and Howard also had troubles in their postseason debuts last year, and Philadelphia was swept out of the first round by Colorado. 
If the Phillies are going to beat the Dodgers and advance to the World Series for the first time since 1993, they'll need their 3-4 hitters to break out of their funks. Game 1 of the NLCS is Thursday night at Citizens Bank Park. 
QB Brady has succesful 
surgery on his left knee 
BOSTON -New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady underwent surgery on his left knee this week, a month after he was sidelined with the season-ending injury, The Boston Globe said. 
The paper reported Wednesday that the operation was performed Monday in Los Angeles. Brady's replacement, Matt Cassel, said he tried calling him. 
"I haven't gotten a return phone call yet," he said. ''I'm sure he's just resting." 
Patriots spokesman Stacey James declined comment. Coach Bill Belichick refused comment during his regular news conference Wednesday at San Jose State, where the team is practicing for Sunday's game at the San Diego Chargers. 
"We're not going to comment on anybody's situation," he said. "We're not going to get into a daily update." 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 9, 2008 
MLB 

Daisuke tagged to start game one of cha111pionship series 
Playoff stud Beckett, still Red Sox ace, set to start game two in Tampa Bay; Lester to get first toss in Boston 
ing," and some thought they match their knuckleballer with after the team's workout at injury to third baseman Mike 
Associated Press 

would falter down the stretch. Kevin Cash, his regular catcher Fenway on Wednesday. Lowell and the need for an 
BOSTON Daisuke 
Matsuzaka will be on the 
mound for the Hod Sox when 
the AL championship series 
b1~gins Friday night against the 
Tampa Bay Hays. 

That doesn't make him 
Boston's aco. 

Josh Beckett is still No. 1 in 
the Hed Sox rotation -espe­
cially during the playoffs ­

even though he had the worst 
outing of the three Boston 
starters who faced the Los 
Angeles Angels in the first 
round. Beckett, coming ofT a 
strained side muscle, is sched­
uled to pitch Game 2 in the 
best-of-seven series against the 
Hays. 

"Before Beckett's last start, he was the best postseason pitcher maybe in the history of the game," Hed Sox manager Terry Francona said Wednesday after announcing his rotation. "lie had the audacity to be a little rusty after two weeks. We don't need to run away from Beckett, we need to get him on a run." 
l<rancona chose Matsuzaka to start against the Hays in Game 1 not because of Bnekett's injury, and certainly not because the team lost any faith in a guy who won five straight postseason outings bel"ore Boston's Game 3 loss to the Angels. Even with his off night versus L.A., Beekett is 6­2 with a 2.09 EHA in his post­season career. 
Instead, l<rancona said, the Hed Sox schnduled Beckett for the second game because it would give him, Matsuzaka and Game 3 starter Jon Lester essentially the same amount of rest. Tim Wakefield will start Game 4, with Matsuzaka, Beckett and Lester ready to piteh again in Games 5-7 if necessary. 
"Nobody's going to throw three," Francona said. "So hav­ing those three twice is really what's important, regardless of how it's lined up." 
Matsuzaka was 18-3 with a 
2.90 EHA this season, best among the Boston starters in both categories. But he also led the rotation with 94 walks, raising his pitch count and lim­iting him to 16 7 2-3 innings. 
"We're going to have to wait him out and see how he's throwing," Hays rookie Evan Longoria said. "It's a little bit different when you're playing in a playoff game. Walks are so important. and if he's going to come out and do what hP. nor­mally does, he usually walks a ton of guys and throws a lot of pitches early. If we can get him on the ropes early, we've really got to take advantage of that." 
In the NL, Philadelphia and the Los Angeles Dodgers begin their series Thursday night, with Cole llamels facing Derek Lowe in Game 1. The Phillies haven't made it to the World Series since losing to Toronto in 1993, and thP. Dodgers haven't been there sincP. thP.ir victory over Oakland in 1988. 
The Hed Sox have gone twiee since 2004, sweeping the Series both times. But the Hays had never finished above .500 bP.fore this year, posting the worst record in the majors in '07. 
All season long, the Hays were describfJd as "surpris-But with the AL East lead on during the season. Byrd also The rest of the 25-man ros­extra reliever, will be discussed the line in SP.ptember, they ral­was more easily moved to the ter, which could change from after Thursday's workout at lied against Boston closer bullpen, the manager said the first round because of an Tampa Bay. 
.Jonathan Papelbon at Fenway Park one night and then took the series finale the next in 14 innings to turn back the Hed 

Sox charge. 

The Hays again took two of three from Boston a week later at home to cement their hold on the division lead, going on to win by two games and leave the Hed Sox as the wild card. Tampa Bay then dispatched the Chicago White Sox 3-1 in the best-of-live first round. 
And they no longer qualify as surprising. 
"It shouldn't be a surprise 162 games and a playoff series that they're good," Francona said. "I understand some of the story behind this. They haven't had any success going into this year and all of a sudden they went from the bottom to the top. It's a great story for base­ball. It made our lifp, a little bit more miserable this year. 
"They have a real good thing going. Our job will be to derail that." 
Matsuzaka will face James Shields (14-8) in the opener, with BeckP.tt (12-10) going against Scott Kazmir (12-8) on Saturday night. Lester (16-6) will face Matt Garza (11-9) back at Fenway Park in Game 3 and Wakefield (1 0-11) will pitch against Andy Sonnanstine (13-9) in the fourth game. 
Beckett would have six days off before starting a second 
~-------------------~ 
time in Game 6, if necessary. I Boston catcher Jason Varitek This Thursday I 
I
isn't worried about the 28­year-old right-hander being I
FREE Cover!! I 
able to rebound from a rough I 
CLUB LANDING I
start against the Angels, when 
Bring th1s coupon with you for FREE Cover I
he allowed four runs in five 
=ith Student ID I innings and got no decision. eJpuMto• on: 1D.09.f015 I 
"The strength in Josh's pitch­------------------_... ing was there," Varitek said. "He hadn't been on the mound in a while and it just led to a little sharpness issue." 
Francona said the decision to go with Wakefield over midsea­son acquisition Paul Byrd in Game 4 allows the Hed Sox to 


PENNSTATE 
~ The Dickinson ~ School of' Law 
St:udy wit:h renowned scholars~ pursue joint: degrees wit:h t:op Penr1 St:at:e graduate depart:rnent:s 
including Per1n St:at:e,s new School o£ Int:ernat:ional A££airs --enjoy new and enhanced programs of st:udy~ and much more_ 
.M:E.ET OUR REPRESENTATIVES Oct:ober 10 11:00 -3:00 p.rn.­J\...fcKenna Hall 
More than $125 million in new facilities and programs www-.dsl.psu.ed.u 1-800-840-1122 • dsladmh@psu.edu 
Thursday, October 9, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
McNabb calls llleeting after losses 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Donovan McNabb decided it was time to speak up. 
After a pair of disheartening losses dropped the Eagles to 2­3 and the bottom of the com­petitive NFC East, the veteran quarterback called a team meeting earlier this week. 
"I tried to let them know that it's easy for us to sit and say we could be undefeated right now or we should be 4-1, whatever it may be, but we're not," McNabb said. "So, in order for us to correct that and put these four or five games behind us, we have to do it right now." 
Against Washington last 
week, the Eagles 
'Tm better than this
jumped to a 14-than this and 0 lead but were and I'll prove it." I'll prove it," dominated on he wrote. "I both sides of the know my team
Donovan McNabb
ball the rest of is too. Now we
Eagles quarterback 
the game. In the have to prove 
competitive and I hate losing, and especially hate losing in that fashion." 
On his blog, McNabb wrote Tuesday that he was "embar­rassed" by the team's perform­ance. 
"''m embarrassed with the way we played the past two weeks," McNabb wrote. "I believe that we lost to teams we should have beaten. Not because I think they are not good-they are. But I still believe we are better; we just didn't show it." 
McNabb did not single out any teammates for criticism, saying only that he didn't do enough to win, and added it's 
not too late to 
turn the sea­
son around. 
''I'm better 

fourth quarter they had to set­tle for a field goal after driving to the Washington 2-yard line and eventually lost, 23-17. · 
Against the Bears the previ­ous week, the Eagles snapped out of a second-half offensive lull long enough to drive inside the Bears' 5-yard line in the closing minutes. But Philadelphia failed to score the go-ahead touchdown on three runs from the 1 in a 24-20 defeat. 
"There is no reason for us to come out the way we did early in the season and to be where we are at right now," McNabb said. "People take it hard. I'm one of the guys who are very it." 
McNabb was 

impressive the first two weeks but has been unspectacular the last three games. He's completed 64 per­cent of his passes for 1,296 yards and six touchdowns with two interceptions and a quar­terback rating of 92.9. 
There was plenty he could have done better against Washington, he said. 
''I'm very hard on myself. If it's a throw that I missed that I know I can make, that's some­thing that I have to correct," McNabb said. "If it's a sudden movement in the pocket to buy a little time, that's something that I also see." 
McNabb and the Eagles 

could be missing a big offen­sive weapon if running back Brian Westbrook is unable to play against the 49ers. 
After sitting out the Bears game with an ankle injury, Westbrook broke two ribs early in the game against Washington. He was able to return after an injection of 
painkillers,  but  sat  out  
Wednesday's practice.  
"I  am  just trying  to  get  

healthy enough to play and get to the point where the pain is not as strong and try to get out there on the field," Westbrook said. 
"You try to go out there, you want to be as healthy as possi­ble and produce for your team. When you're out there and you keep getting injured and keep getting nicked up, it's tough to handle that type of thing." 
Coach Andy Reid praised Westbrook's toughness but did not know if he could play this week. 
"He was a warrior in that game, being able to play," Reid said. "We've just got to get it calmed down there. We'll see how things go as the week progresses." 
Westbrook finished with 84 total yards and a touchdown against Washington, but the Eagles offense was stuck in neutral for much of the rest of the game after he was hurt. 
"Everyone has to understand what situation we are in," McNabb said. "It's a one­game-at-a-time approach, but you have to have a sense of urgency to go out and change that. And in order for us to change that, we all, collective­ly, have to do it at the same time." 
MLB 

Rays ready and full of confidence 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. ­Young, eager and brimming with confidence. 
The surprising Tampa Bay Rays spent the entire season dispelling the notion that they were too inexperienced to compete with the Boston Red Sox, and the AL East champi­ons aren't about to stop believing in themselves now that they're four wins from the World Series. 
"We don't want to get ahead of ourselves," left fielder Carl Crawford said, "but we defi­nitely feel good about our chances." 
With good reason. 
The Rays won the season series between the division rivals 10-8, tak­ing eight of 
at The Trop, where the Rays compiled the best home record in baseball (57 -24) and won the first two games of their first-round playoff series against the Chicago White Sox. 
"We're excited. This is how we envisioned it from Day 1. The two best teams playing for the American League championship," Rays rookie Evan Longoria said. 
Tampa Bay isn't discounting Boston's experience. The Red Sox won two of the past four World Series titles, while the Rays -in the playoffs for the first time -are just four games into their postseason history. 
"Although we did well against them here, the time of 
year it is, I 
don't see an 

nine meetings at Tropicana Field, where the best-of­ "We don't want to get ahead ofourselves, but we definitely feel  overt advantage (at home)," Rays manager Joe Maddon  
seven ALCS begins Friday night. The man­ good about our chances"  said. "They under­stand how this  
agers set their  part of the year  
pitching rota­ Carl Crawford  works.  After  
t i o n s Wednesday,  Rays outfielder  that you look at their personnel.  
with  Tampa  Their starting  
Bay's  James  pitching is very  

Shields facing 18-game win­good and they match up well ner Daisuke Matsuzaka in the with us. We have to equally opener. pitch with them in order to 
"I just have to go out there have a chance to stay in these and pitch my game. I'm one games." not to change anything," said Designated hitter Cliff Floyd 
Shields, who matched a Rays record with 14 regular-season wins. ''I've had a lot of success this year doing what I do. I feel pretty good right now. I feel alive. I'm ready to go." 


The defend­ing World Series champi­on Red Sox won seven of nine between the clubs at Fenway Park, but both of Tampa Bay's wins there came in mid­September while the Rays were taking four of six from the Red Sox in a 10-day span. 
After spending the last two months of the season chasing the Rays, the Red Sox would be the last to call Tampa Bay's success a fluke. 
is one of the veterans the Rays signed last winter to bring leadership and stability to a clubhouse loaded with young talent. He's one of eight players on the team with previous playoff experience. 
Floyd, who 

"/just have to go out there and pitch my game. I'm one not to change anything." 
James Shields Rays pitcher 
sudden they went from the bottom to the top. It's a great story for baseball. It made our life a little bit more mis­erable this year," Boston manager Terry Francona said. 
"If you look at their team from top to bottom, there really shouldn't be. a sur­prise," he added. "They have a real good thing going. Our job will be to derail that." 
That won't be easy, espe­cially with the series starting 
won a World Series ring with the Florida Marlins in 1997, sees no reason why inexperi­ence should hold Tampa Bay back. 
After all, most people expected the Rays' youth to be a hindrance in holding off the Red Sox in the division. 
"It's been a treat to come here every day and watch these guys grow up over the course 

"I understand "It's a great story for of the season," some of the Floyd said,
baseball. It made our 
story behind adding the club
life a little bit more 
this. They has prospered haven't had any miserable this year. " because every success going one puts the into this year team before
Terry Francona 
and all of a themselves.
Boston head coach 
"I've been on 
some teams 
that were very 
young and inex­perienced and you could see it because everybody wanted to win 20 games, everybody wanted to hit .300 with 30 home runs. You don't have that here.... We do things the right way on the field. We hustle, we catch the ball, we pitch the ball, we get timely hitting. If you ask anybody in baseball what you need to win, I hope they tell you that." 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 9, 2008 
MLB
NFL 

Cubs exercise Harden's option
Orton coming on 
Associated Press

as Bears starter 
CHICAGO -Rich Harden's 
Associated Press 

LAKE FOHEST, Ill. Suddenly, Kyle Orton's play is as dif'l'icult to ignore as his board. 
Quarterbacks who throw for :n4 yards as he did for the Chicago Bears in a 34-7 win at Detroit last week tend to attract attention, and he cer­tainly turned a few heads with that performance. 
That jittnry rookie who left fans elarnoring for Hex Grossman throe years ago? II e 's all grown up now. 
"This is how I expnet to play," hn said. "I expnct to got bntter. 
"This is how I expect 
llopefully, this Grossman's bro­
arthrogram Tuesday that 
revealed no tears in his rotator
w1wk that con­to play. I expect to get ken ankle thrust 
tinues." him into the 
cuff or labrum, general man­
better. Hopefully this 
lle'Il have a starting role in 
ager Jim Hendry said. 

week that continues" 
Hendry said Harden has
hard time top­2005. 
ping what he A fourth-
been bothered by rotator ten­
dinitis and some subtle insta­
did against the Kyle Orton round pick out 
Lions. of Purdue, he 
bility in the shoulder. Harden
Bears quarterback
W h i I e Atlanta's del'nnse ranks just 23rd, Orton will have to kenp an eye on John Abraham, who leads the league with seven sacks. There worn no such issues with Dntroit. 
The Lions fired general manager Matt Millen two wneks ago, but turning around tho franchise will takn time. Orton was brilliant even if he was matched against the lnague's worst defense, eom­pleting 24 or 34 passes (70.6 percent) for an average of 
13.9 yards. lie threw two touchdowns and no intercep­tions and did not fumble thn ball. 
No onn passed for more yards last week than Orton, who sot a earner-high for the second time in three wonks, and only Eli Manning had a higher rating than his 121.4. 
This is Kyle Orton? 

A few years ago, photos of Orton at bars and parties cir­culated on the Internet and it's still not hard to find pie­turns or him holding a bot­
Lions cornerback Travis Fisher. 
lie showed poise under pressure and offensive coordi­nator Hon Turner showed his faith in the quarterback by calling for passes on 14 of 30 first downs before Grossman came in at the end. 
"We're not going to do it if we don't feel confident that we can have success doing it, but also it's a rel'lection or what they were trying to do defensively," Turner said. 
The days of simply manag­ing the offense are over. 
Which is exactly what 
Orton's role was 
three years ago 
w h e n 
went 10-5 run­
ning a scaled­
down offense. 

llis job was to hand the ball ofT and not turn it over. He completed just 190 of 368 passes (51.6 percent) for 1,869 yards and threw more interceptions (13) than touch­down passes (nine). 
Even so, the Bears won eight straight following a 1-3 start. But fans couldn't wait for Grossman after a loss at Pittsburgh in December, and when they got their wish in the second half against Atlanta a week later, the crowd at Soldier Field erupt­
tle of .I ack "At the beginning of He then beat Daniels. But out Grossman in
the year, he was 
latnly, his the preseason
relying on his
exploits on the and has been field are running game and his opening eyes the attracting defense.,, past few weeks. attention, Orton threw which is onH for 268 yards
Keith Brooking 
rnason tlw against Tampa Boars arn 3-2 Atlanta linebacker Bay on Sept. 21, 
and lead th1~ 
NFC North. 

"You son him progressing nvnry wnnk," Atlanta line­backer Keith Brooking said. "At the beginning of the year, lw was rnlying on his running garnn and his dnfnnse. This past wonk he was really throwing the ball ovnr thP field." 
Orton's passes sailed on a couple deep attempts, but morn often than not, hn shownd pinpoint accuracy against the Lions -likn on this onn to Hashind Davis in the second quarter. lie dropped it between two defenders for a 34-yard gain. 
There was also a 30-yard completion in the third quar­ter to Marty Booker, who picked thn ball away from 
which was a 
career-high until the Detroit game, and his three touchdown passes against Philadelphia two weeks ago are the most he's ever thrown. The Bears rarely asked him to throw long in the past, but now, he's looking down field. 
He already has 18 comple­tions for 20 or more yards, after managing 26 coming into this season. 
"I think he's getting better at it," Turner said. "lie needs reps, he needs to play. He needs to get the timing and get in sync with the receivers. ... It takes time to get that feeling, but we're very confi­dent with Kyle. lie has the ability to throw it and he has improved it over the years." 
der Sean Gallagher, outfielder­over 4 1-3 innings and the infielder Erie Patterson and Cubs wern ousted quicker than catcher Josh Donaldson. any team in the playoffs after 
"If Rich Harden had no having the NL's best regular­issues at all from a medical season record. standpoint, you would have After that loss .at Dodger never even come close to being Stadium ended the short play­able to acquire him," Hendry ofT run, a pipe in the Cubs' said. "Seven million is an dugout was broken, rlooding investment -it's a lot of the walkway to the locker money -but in this day and room, the Chicago Sun-Times $7 million option for next year was exercised Wednesday by the Chicago Cubs, one day after a test showed the hard­throwing right-hander had no structural damage in his pitch­ing shoulder. 
age  if  Rich  reported  
Harden gives us  Thursday.  
...  and maybe  "If Rich Harden had  Hendry  
he'll do more, maybe he'll have better  no issues at all from a medical standpoint,  acknowledged that an incident occurrPd,  
sueeess after the offseason program." The Cubs brought Harden  you would have never even come close to being able to acquire him. "  though he didn't witness it first­hand. "I guess it was just a nozzle  
in to solidify an  knocked off the  
already capable rotation f(latur­ing Carlos  Jim Hendry Cubs general manager  piping of the wall and it's probably in a  

The Cubs acquired Harden from Oakland on July 8. He was the losing pitcher in Game 3 of the NL division series Saturday night as the Cubs were swept in three games by the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
The 26-year-old Harden went a combined 10-2 with a 2.07 ERA in 25 starts for the Athletics and Cubs this season. Harden, who has battled arm problems throughout his career, was 5-1 with a 1.77 ERA in 12 starts with the Cubs. 
J-Je underwent an MRI 
Zambrano, Ryan Dempster and Ted Lilly. Harden had five double-figure strikeout games for Chicago. 
When they acquired him, the Cubs knew they would have to be prudent with Harden because of his history of injuries. 
Harden reportedly had a cor­tisone injection in early September. Chicago gave him extra rest in the final month when he made only three starts, throwing 17 innings but averaging nearly 100 pitches per outing. 
"He's had to take eare of this for a long time," Hendry said, adding he appreciated Harden's effort late in the sea­son. "I'm sure there were times he pitched with some discomfort." 
Against the Dodgers in Game 3, Harden allowed three runs 
convenient spot when you're leaving the dugout to smack it," Hendry said, adding that he told Dodgers management the Cubs would pay for anything that needed to be fixed. 
"There was no permanent damage done to the facility," Hendry added. "Honestly, major leagues players that won a division and lost the way we played and then we're three and out, I certainly would have been disappointed if some peo­ple, if they weren't angry either at themselves or angry at the results." 
Hendry said he doesn't know who broke the nozzle. 
"No idea and I don't have any interest in finding out," he added. "To me it's not even an issue. Believe me, if I'd been in uniform, it might have been me." 
will undergo an offseason con­ditioning and rehabilitation program to strengthen the shoulder and should be ready for the start of next season. 
"If you told me today we are going to get 24, 25 good starts out of Rich next year and we're going to have to push him back or miss a start or two here or there, I'd do that in a heart­beat," Hendry said. 
Harden, who broke in with the A's in 2003, has made six trips to the disabled list in his career. He was acquired with reliever Chad Gaudin for out­fielder Matt Murton, right-han­
ed. 

Orton played in the final game of the 2005 regular sea­son but stayed stuck on the sideline until the final three games last season, when a 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME left knee injury knocked out 
COJ.LEG.E OF SCIENCE 

Grossman. Orton completed 
' 43 of 80 passes for 478 yards with three touchdowns and two interceptions as Chicago won two of the final three games, and that was enough to persuade the Bears to open 
up the competi­
tion. 


Thursday, October 9, 2008 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 

2008 Law Fair  
October 10, 2008 11 a.m. -3 p.m. I I JACC Concourse I I I I 1::::: ............................. :.:.1 The following schools will be :::..::..:::::::;:::::,1 represented: American University Saint Louis University Boston College University of St. Thomas Boston University University of San Diego Brooklyn Law University of San Francisco Catholic Univ. of America Santa Clara Law Chapman University Seton Hall University of Chicago SMU Dedman University of Cincinnati Southwestern Columbia Law School Stanford University of Dayton Syracuse DePaul University Temple Univ. Beasley Duke Tulane Law Duquesne University Univ. of Cal -Hastings Emory University Univ. of Cal -Davis Fordham UCLA George Washington Univ. of Detroit Mercy Georgetown Univ. of Miami Hofstra Univ. of Minnesota Indiana U -Bloomington Univ. of Pacific McGeorge Indiana U-Indianapolis University of Pittsburgh John Marshall Univ. of Tennessee Loyola -Los Angeles Univ. of Texas Loyola ­Chicago Texas Tech University Marquette University Texas Wesleyan University University of Michigan Univ. of Toledo Michigan State Tulane University Northwestern Valparaiso Notre Dame Vanderbilt Univ. of North Carolina Villanova Ohio State -Moritz Washington University Penn State Dickinson William & Mary Roger Williams University William Mitchell St. John's University Univ. of WisconsinI I I I I I I I I Representatives from 70 law schools will be available in an informal setting to answer questions and provide information to applying seniors and other interested students about their law schools.  

Interhall 
continued from page 20 
"We hope to finish the regular season strong," sophomore cap­tain Kathy Poploski said. "And establish momentum for the playoffs." 
This game will defmitely affect seeding in the women's playoffs. But each team is more focused on setting a pattern for the play­offs and building momentum. 
The teams kick off tonight at 7 at the Riehle Fields. 
Lewis vs. Breen-Phillips 
Though a win is a win, no matter when it comes, a team's first win can set the tone for the rest of the season. 
Tonight at 8 at Riehle Field, Lewis (0-4-0) and Breen-Philips (0-2-2) will face off to determine which team gets its first taste of success. 
Chicks captain Katie Sushinsky believes her team is close to breaking through. 
"We have improved a lot in the last few games," Sushinsky said. "In practice we've focused a lot on scrimmaging and trying to improve on our consistency. If we are able to come out and play two good halves of football like we know we can, we're going to be successful. We feel confident going into this game." 
Although the Chicks will not be able to make the playoffs, they are still motivated to finish the season strong. 
"We are always excited to play, no matter the outcome," Sushinsky said. "It's really important for us to end the sea­son on a high note and gain some momentum heading into next year." 
Meanwhile, the Babes are also looking to rebound, coming off a tough loss to Walsh in which they led 21-7 at halftime but ended up losing on a touchdown pass on the last play of the game. 
"In several of our games, we just haven't been able to fmish," Babes captain Melissa Meagher said. "We've come as close as you possibly can to winning 
without actually winning.  We  
are  definitely right  on  the  
brink."  

Still, Meagher has her team working hard, and she recog­nizes that it still has a lot to play 
Fallon 
continued from page 20 
nine players who have shown, at times, that they are very capable of winning in the lower lineup slots." 
The Irish are coming off an impressive showing at the Wolverine Invitational, where they took five of the seven singles matches from a Michigan team that advanced to the Sweet 16 a year ago. Even more impressive about the five victories over the Wolverines was that none of those victories came from Helgeson who was out with an injury. 
Bayliss also noted that the team's showing against Miami was a good sign of things to come, and a testament to the potential the team has. 
This weekend the team, minus Helgeson will host the Tom Fallon Invitational. The tournament field includes Harvard, Wisconsin, Michigan State, Western Michigan and Ball State. 
"We approach this tourna­ment on two fronts," Bayliss said. "One, to see how we 

for. 
"Our practices have been intense this week," Meagher said. "We've run through our offensive playbook, and we've focused on new kinds of offense to give our defense a chance to see some different looks. We may still have a chance to make the playoffs if we win out, so the time to step up is now." 
Welsh Family vs. Badin 
After an emotionally charged comeback win last week against Farley, Welsh Family fmds itself positioned for a potential "trap game" against Badin at 9 tonight night at Riehle Fields. 
Despite having a standout quarterback in Jenni Gargula and a defense which supple­ments its tenacious pass rush with a ball-hawking secondary, Welsh Family (4-0) hopes to avoid tripping up in a game against the Bullfrogs 
"Even with the big win over Farley, we're just going to try and stay focused and concen­trate on winning tomorrow," Gargula said. 
Badin (1-2-1) is hungry to keep its playoff aspirations alive after a scrappy 7-6 victory over Lewis last week. With only one win, Badin cannot afford to drop another game, and with Welsh Family on the horizon, the Bullfrogs will need to pull out all the stops if they want to topple the powerhouse Whirlwinds. 
The Bullfrogs played stingy defense against Lewis but the Whirlwinds, even with a few miscues against Farley, will pro­vide a stiffer test. The onus will be on Badin senior Katie Rose Hackney not only to motivate her team, but also to pick apart the Whirlwinds' opportunistic defense. 
"The things we've worked on in practice this week have been the same as the previous weeks. This consistency has really helped us put together such a good season thus far," Gargula said. 
Relying mostly on young play­ers, Badin will have to play like veterans tomorrow if it wishes to take down the Goliath that is Welsh Family. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer 1 @nd.edu, Christopher Wyncoop at cwyncoop@nd.edu and Timothy Lang at tlang1 @nd.edu 
stack up against the other teams. And two, to give each individual the opportunity to garner some good wins. We will move our players up and down the lineup to see what each might be able to achieve. The field will give us some indication of how far we need to go before January when we open with Pepperdine." 
Bayliss said he has a lot of confidence in his freshman class, which has been led by 
Casey  Watt  and  Niall  
Fitzgerald.  
"Casey  Watt  can  be  an  

impact freshman, and Niall Fitzgerald is improving by leaps and bounds," Bayliss said. "[Freshman] Sam Keeton has his arm in a cast, but has taken that opportuni­ty to add better net play and a slice backhand to his reper­toire." 
The Irish will look to show the rest of the teams at the Tom Fallon Invitational how dangerous they can be, with the tournament opening on Friday. Helgeson will open today at the All-American Championships. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· page 18 Thursday, October 9, 2008
The Observer + SPORTS 
Midpoint 
continued from page 20 

two-week stint on the sidelines 
with an ankle injury. Mueh of 
thn rest of the team has been 
ban!{nd up as well. 

"We've had the injury bug alrnady," Brown said. "llop11fully we will be able to come baek stron!{. but injuries happen sometimes. Luckily we have lmen able to eomp11nsate for it so far." 
With the Irish sitting atop the Bi!{ East despite all these injuries, there should be a n~newnd ennq.,ry when the t11am finally starts to get healthier. 
"We've moved things around to dna! with injuries more than we would have liked to," Brown said. "But we liJUnd a way to win by playing dill"en~nt positions." 
The brightest spot for the team has been its oll"ense. Notre Dame has the highest hitting percnnt­age in the eonferenee at a .301 dip. The Irish also lead the Big East in assists pt~r game at 14.43 and kills per game at 15. 
"I am pretty pleased with how the offense has played so far," Brown sai?,. "We have really progressed. 
Lmtdin!{ the Irish oll'ense so far have been junior outside hitter Christina Kaelin with 3.25 kills per set, sophomore outside hit­ter Kellie Sciacca with 2.59 kills per set, and freshman outside hitter Kristen Dealy with 2.67 kills per set. 
Dealy has been a pleasant sur­prise for the Irish so far this ynar. 
"Dealy is doing a really, really !{ood job," Brown said. "Whether its passing, defense, or serving, she is playing evcrythin!{ very well. She has really steppnd in." 
What worries Brown, however, is the state of the defense and the laek of opportunities that are bning gennrated for their potent oll"ense. 
"Our hitting percentage is very good, but our defense is not so good," Brown said. "We've stru!{gled with our serves, our blocks and our defense in gener­al. We need to practice our serves morn." 
The Irish will look to improve thoir overall defense and contin­ue their initial dominance of the Bi!{ East this weekend at home when they play West Virginia and Pitt'ibur!{h. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Please recycle The Observer. 
Spartans 
continued from page 20 

his confidence each game. As his confidence grows, he'll become a bigger and bigger threat." 
After taking their one-goal lead into halftime, the Irish doubled their advantage in the 67th minute. Junior mid­fielder Justin Morrow thread­ed a ball through to sopho­more forward Jeb Brovsky whose angling run put him behind the defense. Brovsky made no mistake, !'iring past Michigan State goalkeeper Avery Steinlage low to the near post. 
Junior midfielder Michael 
Thomas finished off the scor­held him to only one shot on ing in the 86th minute when the evening. he headed home a Dike cross. "DeMartin is one of the best 
Notre Dame's offensive out­strikers in the country in my burst was accompanied by an opinion, and we held him to equally only one shot," impressive Clark said. "I 
defensive per­formance.  "We kept the game in  thought (Aaron] Maund, [Matti  
The  Irish  their half It was a  Besler  and  
did an cially  espe­good  good bounce back. "  [ M a t t Armstrong did  I a  
job shutting  great  job  
d  o  w  n  Bobby Clark  because  three  
Spartans for­ Irish coach  guys  cover  the  
ward  Doug  area  that  
DeMartin,  DeMartin works  
who entered  in.  

the game ranked second in "We talked about playing the nation in averaging 1.11 smartly and not getting goals per game. DeMartin caught in transition because had no chance of reaching that was what killed us that total as the Irish defense against Michigan. We kept 


getusc. com 

the game in their half. It was a good bounce back." 
The Irish defense shut down not only DeMartin but the entire Spartans offense, holding Michigan State to only six shots on the evening. Notre Dame keeper Andrew Quinn was up to the chal­lenge of stopping the few Spartan chances in the game. The senior goalie made four saves to register the shutout and improve his record to 7­
2-1. 

Notre Dame will be in action again at Alumni Field this Saturday evening at 7 
p.m. when they welcome Big East rival Pittsburgh. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

~US. Cellulm: 
©2008 U.S. Cellular. believe in something better­
Thursday, October 9, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 
BICY'CLE COMICS 6-0ES To THE MOVIES 
PAT GARTLAND
THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT JUMBLE 

lfft1f~@fl ~ 
~ \!;;!) ~ u IL!j~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
TUINY 
I [J b

©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SOSBA 

I rr_j I I 
RECLEY _ 

1--..,..,r,..........,I,..,.......J,...-----;.,."''II!J.,.......I 
THE: ~~~;~~:tE:~IYE:D 

'-wW1-w-.ju-"m""'bl-e.'co"-'m.......,""--.W.."""'-''----' 
DEGREE BECAUSE 
t 
LEMITY jt 
HE WAS A--­

1 V I 1 1 Now arrange the circled lettersA l to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: r I I JOF" r I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: YACHT IDIOT FLABBY PERMIT Answer: When they met on horseback, she was on the -"BRIDAL:' PATH 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
He's been studying 

~~ __:-·~~
r;'l,, 1--··~1 ~ 
~~ 

CROSSWORD 
Across 36 Life, liberty and 66 They're usually Feature of an the pursuit of washed happiness separately
acacia tree 37 Married 67 Medical flow
6 1986 showbiz enhancer
autobiography 38 & 39 Instant 11 W.W. II hero, for 40 Nod, say short 41 Sped (by) 
Down 

"The Sound of biography that generally: Abbr. 
14 Historical 43 G.R.E. takers, 
Music" name won a 1935 2 Soixante
44 Locale for four 

Pulitzer minutes
World Series 15 & 16 Boxing 3 "Wait till you're
45 The last 1 0% of result, often _" (parent's
110% 17 Certain feed 
reply)

46 Three-wheeled 18 Slow Indian taxi 
4 Bing Crosby's "White20 Delphic quality 48 & 50 Christmas,"

Grammatical

22 Hawaii's annual again and again 
infelicities
Bowl
---······· 
5 Hawk, maybe 
54 Quiet cough 

23 & 24 Curious 6 Lay off 
case in 57 From southern 7 Pubescent, say
psychology Spain 26 Free 59 Patent holder's 
8 Makeshift income 
dagger

28 Watch brand 61 Total 
9 American-born32 Where Nixon Japanese

62 & 63 Go Dutch 10 The Sun Devils. 
went to law 
school 64 Comparatively for short 

considerate 11 Diable battler 35 Much of central 
Eur., once 65 Seed alternative 12 Sweetie 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 131rish singer with eight platinum S T 0 W E S E A T B I N S U.S. albums T A C 0 S P I L E U N I T I 19 Trample, for A C E R S E G E R T C B YI example 
I T A L B E H E M 0 T H-21 Proceeded R ~ .!:!. _Q_ E D T • S H E E N A slowlyRR N D 0 G S 0 R D E R2SFo~ocE.P.A. 
E E L • 0 A T • F U S E 
c H A E L P H E 
'B

H E R 0 • M E D • E L Y S N 0 R E E M B 0 S ..§_ ,E_ ~ T U N D R A • E U R T R 0 D 
-S T A T E D L Y R 0 L E E L 0 1 E L A L S 0 D 0 1 B A U M I S L E S K E E T IB IY T E N E S T T IE D D Y 
chief Christine 
Wh;tm,o 

27 It's produced by a Tesla coil 
29 Singly 30 Affix 31 Where Melville's 
Billy Budd went 32 Not be alert 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Nick Canuon, 28; Matt Damon. 38; Sigourney Weaver, 59; Chevy Chase, 65 
Happy Birthday: Take control and you can put the things that have been hovering over you tlle past few years to rest. If yon continue to wait for someone else to do the dirty work. it will tum out to be a disappointin!! year. You have what it takes to get what you want if you believe in yom abilities and put fear of failure aside. Your numbers are 8, 12, 16, 19. 28, 39 . .;s 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't act on impulse or alone. A partnership will help you gain momentum and can be crucial in any choice you are being asked to make. Don1t let your emotions S\vay your opinions or decisions. **** 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Make a statement that will give yon an edge and set yon apart from everyone else. Your past experience and the skills you've perfected will be all you need as backup. You can count on your ability to make thin!!s happen. ** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Everything will fall into place and sudden but unexpected changes will be a pleasant surprise. A business or pleasure trip "'ill help ease your mind about things that have been botherin!! you lately. You will command attelllion with your verbal expertise. ***** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let negativity get the better of you. Enjoy the moment by spending time with someone you love. Take action and be proud of yonr accomplish· ments and ability to follow tbrougb. Socialize, network and update your look. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be prepared to put money behind your ideas. Move ahead alone, if necessary. Once you show everyone how your idea can work, there will be a change of attitude. Your straighl talk and production will pay off. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep moving. The less idle time you have, t11e better. De­velop a skill or update np your wardrobe or image. Don't be afraid to let go of the people in your life who are draggiug you down. It's time for upbeat, positive peers. ***** 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll get caught in the middle of a mess if you take situa­tions or people for granted. Someone "ill complain and make a fuss if you don't live up to your promises. It will be hard to please everyone so do as much as you can on your own. 
** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Set up a game plan and stick to it if you want to succeed. 
Your future is in your hands. Perfection is a work in progress. so prepare to launch even if 
thiugs aren't perfect or 100 percent finished. **** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Say \vhat you mean and you will gain respect among your peers. Precision, courage and diplomacy will win you favors. Be honest about what yon can offer--don't stretch the tmth about ymu kiwwledge or skills. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't get drawn into someone else's emotional mad­
ness. Keep a clear head and refrain from voicing: your opinion. Arguments will leave you at odds about what to do next. Focus ou ymu own project> and plans. * * * 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Start the ball rolling by approaching someone who suits your needs regarding a money matter or business venntre. Be straightforward and give \Vhoever you are trying to interest the pros and cons so he or she can contribute whafs re­quired.*** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Secrets will lead to questions and misunderstandings. Be open about ymrr undettakings so there are no surprises. Remain conservative in your ac­tions as well as your contributions. A renev.·ed partnership is an alternative. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are changeable. emotionally sensitive and passionnte nbout what you do. You are open, well-meaning, generous and intense. 
Eugenia's \Veb sites: eugenia/ast.comjor confidential col!su/tation,, m_vspace.comleugenialrLSt for Eug!wia's blog, asrroadvice.comfor ftm 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Puzzle by Matt Ginsberg 
33 Operating system developed at Bell Labs 
34 Stayed fresh 
36 Impart gradually: Var. 
38 Grammy-winning reggae artist _ Paul 
39 TV planet 42 facie 43 Tanner's locale 44 Attire that often 
includes a hood 
46 More minute 47 Flip-flops 49 Jazz's Earl 
Hines, familiarly 51 Wrestling promoter McMahon 

52 Gone, in a way 53 Bar belt 54 Wiles 55 Twinkie 
alternative 56 Assessed 
visually 58 Poses posers 60 Plasma 
alternative. briefly 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, October 9, 2008 
page 20 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish tied for first in conference at midpoint of season 
Coach says squad must inzprove defense 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Wri[cr 

After reaching the midpoint of their season, the Irish lind them­selves tied atop the Big East standings with St. John's, ·Pittsburgh and Ceorgetown and in position to have a very good second halt'. 
"You ~~an ask anyone on the team, and they would all say that they would like to have a better record," head coach Debbie Brown said. "But we are defi­nitely going in the right direc­tion." 
According to Brown, the Irish (8-8; 3-1 Big East) set three pri­mary goals at the beginning of the season -to go undefeated at horne, win two of their non-con­ference tournaments, and win the regular season title in the Big East. Although the first two goals were not achieved, the third and most important goal -winning the Big East regular season title -is right within their grasp. 
"It's still pretty early," Brown said. "But to have your lirst four Big East games on the road and come out 3-1 puts us in pretty good position." 
The Irish have already defeat­ed two of the Big East favorites in convincing fashion on the road this season -South Florida ( 11­7; 2-2 Big East) and Louisville (6­8; 2-2 Big East). Louisville was picked by the Big East eoaches to win the conference this year. 
"Although it was great to beat them, we can't rest on the past," Brown said. "Against [South Florida! we played very well with a lot of intensity, and against Louisville I didn't think we played as well, but we still found a way to win. Going forward it is not going to be easy." 
Adding significance t~ these victories is the fact that they have all been on the road in hos­tile environments. The Irish will finally get a travel break this weekend and play West Virginia (5-10; 0-4 Big East) and Pittsburgh (1 0-8; 3-1 Big East) in front of their home fans for the first time in three weeks. 
"It's not really easier to play at home," Brown said. "But it does give you a lot more control over everything. Everything is more familiar and you don't have to travel, s~. you hopB you play well at home. 
The first half of the season has been partly characterized by a severe case of the injury bug. Junior outside hitter Serenity Phillips has just returned from a 
see MIDPOINT/page 18 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Return to Bright skies 
Dike puts team ahead for good with tally in first period 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Wri[cr 

For a coach and a team that have never faced a two-game losing streak, Bobby Clark and his No. 14 Irish were very composed heading into Wednesday night's game against Miehigan State. 
Cood thing. 

Notre Dame turned in a con­fident and dominating per­formance, downing the Spartans 3-0 at Alumni Field to got back into the winner's cirdn. 
"We didn't talk a lot about setting the record straight Ihnl'ore Wednesday's game I." Clark said. "We talked about what. we normally talked about -playing with tempo, playing quickly and getting our fullbacks involved in tlw attack. 
"I felt we played well in the other two games, but you can sometimes start doubting yourself. You've got to hold to your beliefs, and I think we did that." 
After being outscored 5-2 in their past two games, the Irish dominated the Spartans on both ends of the field. Forward Bright Dike jump­started the offense once again. The senior has quickly turned himself into one of the most dangerous strikers in the country. 
Dike opened the scoring for Notre Dame in the 39th minute when he received a ball near the top of the box from midfielder Michael Thomas, turned on his defender and fired home from 12 yards out. It was Dike's team-leading eighth goal of the season and the fifth straight game that the senior has found the back of the net. 
"lie's just such a handful for any tPam to try and handle," Clark said of Dike. "l think the good thing is that, after not playing last year, he's finding 
see SPARTANS/page 18 

MEN'S TENNIS 

Young squad vvill host Tom Fallon Invitational 
• Helgeson heads to ITA Championships 
By KATE GRABAREK Spons Writer 

Senior Brntt llnlgnson will hnad to t.hn ITA All-Arnnriean Championships this wnnknrul, whiln tlw rnst of thn tnarn will stay in South BPnd to host the Torn Fallon Invitational. 
"Wn arn snnding Brott llnlgnson to tlw All-i\rnnrican Championships," hnad coach Bobby Bayliss said. "lin was rankod highly enough nation­ally to gnt into the main draw of thn top h4 collegiate tennis · players in the country. lie has worked hard this fall and has improved on his transition skills and his ability to get to net and finish there." 
Bayliss also noted that this year's squad is very young and irwxperienced. The Irish hav£i four rn~shrnan and six sophomores currently on the roster. 
"There are two words to describe our team: young and deep," Bayliss said. "Wn arn lacking in experienced upper lineup players. Our depth is strong. It is difficult to know who will start this year in sin­gles bncause we have eight or 
see FALLON/page 17 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Phoxes, Finest square off 
Breen-Phillips and Lewis each looks for first win of the season 
By DOUGLAS FARMER, 
MATT WILSEY and 
RYAN O'CONNELL 
Sports Writers 

After putting up 74 points in its last three games, Pangborn is not short on confidence. 
That confidence will be put to the test Thursday, as the Phoxes will take on Farley (4­1), who is coming oil' of its first loss or the season. 
Both teams are already focus­ing on life artBr f<ill break. A win Thursday for Pangborn (3­
2) will assure it a playoff berth.. Farley is already in great posi­tion for the playoff.<>. but wants more. 
Last Sunday, Farley lost 15-7 to Welsh Family in a tough defensive battle. If not for two deflected interceptions going in Welsh Family's favor, Farley could still be undefeated. 
"It is definitely a goal of ours to make it to the playoffs," Farley senior captain Jenny Holts said. "And lwe would like to] get a chance to play Welsh Family again." 
Boll's herself is especially hungry for a win. Sunday was her first game back from a rib injury. While not at full strength, she will play tho rest of the season. A second matehup against Wnlsh Family. next time in the playoffs, is inspiring, Holfs said. 
Farley will collide with a team stronger than its 3-2 reeord indicates in Pangborn. The Phoxes began the season 0-2, but have since reeled off thwn dominating victories. 
In the past three games, the Pangborn defense has seven interceptions, inducting four by safety Kaitlin Furrey. Sophomore quartnrbaek Gabby Tate has had four rushing touchdowns and four morn passing in the past two games alone. 
Appreciating their recnnt string of vietorins, the Phoxes arc intent on knoping the sea­son rolling. 
see INTERHALL!page 17 





