
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 54 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17,2008 

Energy audits increase efficiency 
Nearly 3,000fluorescent light bulbs distributed around campus as part ofNBC's Green Week 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Over 75 student volunteers can­vassed Notre Dame's campus Sunday in attempts to increase energy efficiency and decrease energy consumption. 
As part of the program, the vol­unteers distributed about 3,000 compact fluorescent light buJbs in dorms. 
Lourdes Long, president of GreeNO, said GreeNO and the Office of Sustainability coordinated the energy audits and light bulb exchange, with help from sustain­ability commissioners from dorms. 
"We probably got around 3,000 light bulbs out there ... and we went to about 1,000 rooms," Long said. Long said that each dorm had about three or four volunteers participate, and students visited 29 of Notre Dame's 30 residence halls. 
The event comes at the begin­ning of NBC Universal's Green Week, which will feature sustain­ability initiatives at Notre Dame and Syracuse during the television broadcast of the football game Saturday. 
Sunday, volunteers exchanged light buJbs and performed energy audits in dorms on campus. Long said one of the primary parts of the audit was to check if thermo­stats were functioning properly. 
see ENERGYIpage 4 

Fans excited as Irish become bowl eligible 
the field," Desrosiers said. "We sat with some band members who led us in cheers and we even made it onto the Jumbotron," she said. 
Desrosiers, whose father served in the Navy until she was 1 7, admired the respect both teams and their fans expressed for each other. 
"At the end of the game, it was silent when both teams stood for each other's alma mater. The mutual respect between Notre Dame and Navy is really impressive," Desrosiers said. 
Saint Mary's senior and Notre Dame cheerleader, Jenny Antonelli traveled to Baltimore with the squad to 
see GAME/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Two bands entertain students 
By SARAH MERVOSH News Writer 
Two distinct sounds blared from Stepan Center on Friday night as Cartel and Citizen Cope took the stage. 
Cartel performed first fol­lowed by Citizen Cope at the Student Union Board (SUB) sponsored concert. 
The atmosphere of the audi­ence seemed to be dictated by the energy of the band per­forming. When Cartel was on stage, the crowd standing in front of the stage was more rowdy, energetically jumping up and down in tandem with the fast-paced strums of elec­tric guitars. 
The crowd's atmosphere changed dramatically when Citizen Cope took the stage as the audience took more to head-bobbing and foot-tapping rather than crowd surfing. 
"The crowd for Cartel was definitely way more rambunc­tious. We go pushed around so much. Everyone was moshing," said freshman Caitlin Alii. 
Freshman Andrew Bolka described Cartel's music as more "energetic" and "upbeat," while Citizen Cope's music was more "chill" and "laid back." 
However, Bolka said that the audience was into both types of music and knew the words to the songs of both bands. 
Bolka saw Cartel as having "the rock star image of playing onstage and being flashy," while he said Citizen Cope was "more about the music." 
see SUB/page 4 


By KATIE KOTARAK 
News Writer 
After two straight losses, Notre Dame fans got a much-needed win when the Irish downed Navy 27-21 in front of over 70,000 at M&T Bank Stadium in Baltimore, Md., Saturday. 
Senior Lauren Desrosiers made the 11-hour drive to Baltimore with some friends for the game. Desrosiers described the atmosphere in the stadium as "electric" and had fun cheering on the Irish. 
"It was really exciting. We were in the highest row in the end zone and later when some people left because of the rain, we moved down to be closer to 


FCC conducts project for homeless 
Freshmen make peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, package meals 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Freshman Class Council (FCC) held their second event of the year Sunday afternoon, and made peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and packaged meals for the homeless, FCC president Malcolm Phelan said. 
"We thought this was a good combination of a child­hood favorite activity and service toward community," Phelan said. 
FCC bought supplies to make peanut butter and jelly sandwiches from their budg­et. and FCC members used meals at Grab N' Go to buy chips and juice boxes. Freshmen then made meals of a sandwich. chips and a juice box, said Phelan. 
Freshman Catherine Soler, head of the FCC service com­mittee that organized the event, said that around 315 sandwiches were made. 
The meals were given to Hope's Shelter Men's Center and The Center for the Homeless, Soler said. 
Both Soler and Phelan said that the event was a success and that the freshmen who attended were enthusiastic. 
"The event was supposed to be two hours long and it ended up we got so many enthusiastic and efficient people that we finished all the supplies within 45 min­utes," Phelan said. "We had to basically turn people away at some point because we didn't have anything else left to do." 
"I think it was a good amount considering that it was a Sunday afternoon," Soler said. "Everyone there seemed to have a· good time so we're thinking that it's an indicator for future events." 
Phelan said that because the sandwiches were perish­able, FCC was limited with how many they could make. 
"In the future, we'd like to have more events where we aren't limited by supplies because we definitely have the manpower we need in the student body," he said. 
Soler said that the FCC service committee has come up with ideas for future events. including a charity concert, an event that fresh­man athletes play games 
see FCC/page 4 

College holds SK run 

for children's hospital 
By SARAH MAYER 
Sports Writer 

In an effort to raise money for their annual Dance Marathon to be held April 4 Saint Mary's College held a SK run/1 mile fun walk called "Trot for Tots". 
The event kicked off Saturday at 9 a.m. with about 60 participant<>. special events committee chair Caitlin Murphy said. Students, fac­ulty, and members of the South Bend community all took part, Murphy said. 
The walk, which was held on Saint Mary's campus and on trails northwest of campus, raised over $500 and long-sleeve T-shirts will be on sale this week for $10, Murphy said. According to Murphy, the real reward was the community involvement. 
"Looking at the monetary amount is a great indicator," Murphy said. "But also as I looked through the registration forms people had indicated various ways in which they heard about it. There was quite a bit of communi­ty involvement." 
The event was held to help raise awareness for Dance Marathon in the community and it accom­plished it<> goal. she said. 
Some may have wondered why the event was not held earlier in the year when the weather was warmer, Murphy said. However, the event was held in the spirit of thanksgiving, and so held just before the holiday, she said. 
"In my home town, we have huge turnouts for turkey trots and so that is how we angled the date 
see RUN/page 4 
()f\nr -r -•-----fA _ l _ J. ~ 

page 2 
Monday, November 17, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Should I stay 

or should I go? 
As soon as I stepped onto campus for a visit during my senior year of high school, I immediately knew I wanted to attend Notre Dame. The school where my grandfather had graduated from 60 years earlier, this University seemed 

like a magical  
place to me ­place where I  the  Joseph McMahon  
wanted to spend  
my next four years.  Assistant News  
I'll always remem­ Editor  
ber the first time I  
saw the Golden  

Dome, and how I thought it was truly 
the most beautiful building I had ever seen. But soon I will be leaving. 
It now appears I will only actually spend three and a half years at Notre Dame, as I prepare to study abroad next semester in Innsbruck, Austria. The seven weeks I spent in Germany during the summer of 2006 were the best weeks of my life, and I absolutely cannot wait to leave icy South Bend behind in favor of the snowcapped Alps. 
However, my decision to study abroad has led me to reflect on my first year and a half at Notre Dame. For the most part, I have loved it. The friends I have made are some of the best people I will ever know, and I will miss them terri­bly. 
But aside from that, I feel that break­ing from routine and traveling halfway across the world will help me treasure my time at the University even more. 
But even some of the things I love most about Notre Dame. from my classes to my job at The Observer to dorm life, have gotten a little stale. The excitement with which I approached everything and anything that had to do with Notre Dame when I was a freshman has been numbed by malaise. 
There are aspects of the University that I absolutely despise. While I watched news coverage of other schools around the nation during elec­tion night and saw students dancing in the streets with joy, South and North Quads were filled with eerie silence. After growing up in New York City, the utter lack of diversity (this year's freshman class was only three percent black) can sometimes make me incredi­bly uncomfortable. The relationship between the University and the South Bend community has grown so bad that students even make jokes about how local police officers are more con­cerned about busting parties than pro­tecting their safety. 
It's sad for me to admit, but I have become a little jaded about Notre Dame. Please don't misunderstand me. Every time I look at the Golden Dome I am still filled with the same sense of awe I felt the first time I laid eyes on it. I still love this school and I am thankful to my parents and incredibly appreciative of this amazing opportu­nity that has been given to me. I would not trade going here to going to any other university in the world. 
However, I feel going abroad will help me appreciate the great things about Notre Dame even more when I return home. For all its faults, I'm sure I will miss this place, but for right now I think it's time for a break. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily Ihose ofThe Obserl!er. 

Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of jounalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE YouTUBE CLIP? 







Jasmine Reed  Ben Frost  Molly Oelerich  Kris Kast  Julie Hull  
sophomore Lyons  junior Dillon  sophomore P.W.  sophomore Carroll  sophomore Lewis  
"Soulja Boy, Barney Remix. ,  ''The one with the dude dancing."  "Charlie bit my finger-it's pretty hilarious. "  ''The grape lady falls-the sounds she makes are  "Gunther-Crazy Summer Love because of all the fruit. "  

hilarious. " 

OFFBEAT 
Boy allegedly hits mom with saw, offers her $5 
FORT PIERCE, Fla. ­Authorities say an 11­year-old boy hit his mother in the head with a saw and then offered her $5 not to call police. The St. Lucie County Sheriff's Office reported that the boy and his 41­year-old mother got into an argument Wednesday when she was trying to get him to take his med­ication. 
The boy left and went to another home, where he began hitting a tree with a saw. When the mother finally caught up with the boy, authorities say he hit her in the head with the saw, caus­ing a minor laceration. A sheriff's report said that's when the boy began pleading with his mother not to call police and offered her a $5 bill. 
The boy is facing an aggravated battery charge. 
Man accused of urinat­ing on arresting officer 
SHEBOYGAN, Wis. ­A 35-year-old man faces charges after allegedly driving drunk and then urinating in the back of a squad car and on the arresting officer. A crim­inal complaint said the man was pulled over early Wednesday after an officer saw him driv­ing erratically and strik­ing a pole at a gas sta­tion. 
The complaint said the man failed field sobriety tests and when he was being taken to the police station, urinated in the back of the squad car and sprayed the officer, hitting him in the back of the head. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

0
0
....I 
*&.* *
*&·* * 
e.

<( 
* *~** 
*·..
* *~** 

(,) 
0 
HIGH 34 HIGH 35 HIGH 39
..... 
LOW 24 LOW 26 LOW 30 

HIGH LOW 
IN BRIEF 
Zhigang Suo, professor of engineering and applied sci­ences at Harvard University, will present a seminar on the thermodynamics of large deformation in soft active materials Tuesday at 3:30 
p.m. The topic has applica­tions in medical devices, robotics, energy harvesting, microfuidics, and oil wells. 
G.F. Michelsen will read from his latest novel, Mettle, at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Tuesday at 7::H) 
p.m. The event is sponsored by the Creative Writing Program and is open to the public. 
Estampas Portenas, a tango group from Argentina, will dance at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Wednesday at 7 p.m. Tickets are $15 for students and can be purchased online or at the Ticket Office. 
This month's Evenings of Prayer from Around the World will feature Muslim prayer. The service will be held at 7 p.m. Wednesday in 330 Coleman-Morse. Students of all faith traditions (J.re wel­come to the Campus Ministry­sponsored event. 
The Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show the film "Boy A" at 6:30 p.m. and 9::10 
p.m. Thursday. In the film. a man who committed a terrible crime as a child is released from jail as an adult into a world he has never been part of. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mailed detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 36 HIGH 36 LOW 24 LOW 27 

.----------------------------------------------------------., 
Monday, November 17, 2008 The Observer +--CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Nagle: Supre111e Court follovvs Roosevelt's path 
Special to The Observer 
The Supreme Court ruled Wednesday (Nov.12) in favor of the U.S. Navy regarding the use of sonar in training exercises even when it risked harming whales and other mammals. 
In doing so, according to .John C. Nagle, .John N. Matthews Professor of Law in the Notre Dame Law School, the court invoked the memory of President Theodore Roosevelt in a novel and significant way. 
"We are accustomed to hearing Theodore Hoosevelt being quoted in favor of environmental conserva­tion," Nagle said. "We for­get that T.R. also served as assistant secretary of the Navy. Chief Justice John G. Hoberts invoked that experi­ence in this week's Supreme Court case. 
"Hoberts quoted T.R.'s statement that 'the only way in which a navy can ever be made efficient is by practice at sea. under all the condi­tions which would have to be met if war existed. The court thus overturned a pre­liminary injunction that a Los Angeles federal trial judge had issued against naval training exercises off the coast of Southern California pending the com­pletion of further studies of the impact of the training on nearby whales." 
According to Nagle, "The case reached the Supreme Court in an unusual posture. The court presumed that the Navy had acted illegally by conducting its exercises 
before completing the envi­ronmental studies required by federal law. The remaining question was what to do about it. 
"Federal courts issue injunctions only if, among other things, the harm resulting from the contested action outweighs the benefit of continuing it. Normally that supports injunctive relief in environmental cases because the harm that could occur by, for example, building a dam or paving a road is irreversible and far greater than the economic consequences of a tempo­rary delay. 
"But the Navy insisted that its exercises were an essen­tial component of its anti­terrorism efforts," Nagle said, "and the court faulted the trial judge for overlook­ing those national security interests. So the exercises and the environmental stud­ies will both proceed, and other courts will work to implement the court's guid­ance in the increasingly fre­quent conflicts between mil­itary operations and envi­ronmental law." 
Nagle, the author of "Law's Environment: How Environmental Law Affects the Environment," teaches, speaks and writes on numerous issues related to environmental law and leg­islation. He also has received Fulbright Awards to teach environmental law and property law at the Tsinghua University Law School in Beijing and at Fudan University in Shanghai. 

ACE study focuses on U.S. pastors 
Research is a response to ND's 2005-06 report on Catholic education 
Special to The Observer 

Three members of the University of Notre Dame faculty have completed a national research study titled "Faith, Finances and the Future: The Notre Dame Study of U.S. Pastors," to be published by Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) Press. 
Authored by Hev. Ronald Nuzzi, director of the ACE Leadership Program, and ACE faculty members James Frabutt and Anthony Holter, the report presents findings from a 2008 nationwide study of pastors with respon­sibility for Catholic schools, as well as recommendations for addressing the most pressing issues those pastors identified. Only the third such study in the history of American Catholic educa­tion, and the first 'fft nearly 10 years, the Notre Dame Study of U.S. Pastors is a systematic analysis of pas­tors' needs and perceptions regarding Catholic schools and Catholic education. 
More than 2,000 pastors from nearly every diocese in the country were contacted to participate in the study, the findings of which indi­cate that "regardless of loca­tion of the parish school, pastors consistently identify Catholic identity and finances as the two most important needs facing their schools." 
Findings also show that pastors who believe the mis­sion of their parish school is valued and supported by Catholic institutions of high­er education tend to value the school more significantly than those pastors who do not perceive such external support for their schools. 
The authors of the study offer several recommenda­tions to address the needs illuminated by their findings. In the area of finances, they propose that Catholic school systems decrease expenses by establishing regional or national cooperatives to cut health care and energy costs, as a few dioceses have already successfully accom­plished. At the same time, the authors suggest, Catholic schools can increase rev­enues by better accessing federal and state funds available to them, becoming more active in the school choice arena, and taking a more sophisticated approach to pooled investments. 
In regard to the Catholic identity needs the pastors expressed, the research team recommends that the school community be more consciously integrated into the overall life of the parish, so that schools might be seen "as an integral part of the parish's larger pastoral services framework." Increasing efforts to sustain and strengthen the spiritual growth of faculty and staff also is proposed as a means of enhancing the Catholicity of schools. 
Workshops about the study, its findings, and sub­sequent recommendations are available to diocesan leaders and Catholic school system administrators upon request. 
The Notre Dame Study of 
U.S. 
Pastors is just one of many recent undertakings of the ACE program in response to the final report of the 2005-06 Notre Dame Task Force on Catholic Education, titled "Making God Known, Loved, and Served." The task force, con­vened by Notre Dame's pres­ident, Hev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., was composed of 50 leaders from throughout the country, including Catholic educators, diocesan repre­sentatives, philanthropists, investment specialists and Notre Dame faculty and staff, and was chaired by Rev. Timothy R. Scully, C.S.C., co-founder of the ACE program. 

The task force's report out­lined 12 strategic objectives for Notre Dame to address the most pressing needs of 

U.S. 
elementary and second­ary Catholic schools; to date more than 10,000 copies have been distributed to dio­ceses and Catholic school systems across the nation. Among many recommenda­tions and action steps for the renewal of Catholic educa­tion, the report recognized the uniquely important role of pastors and that no effort to serve Catholic schools can succeed without them. 


"Identifying and then responding to the needs of pastors with schools is an important step in the ongo­ing revitalization of Catholic education and continues the ACE mission to sustain. strengthen, and transform our Catholic schools," Father Nuzzi said. 



Turning Your Passion Into Profit! 



"Here Come the Irish" producers (ND Grads!) Tim & Ryan O'Neill have sold nearly 2 million CDs. Their music is at the top ofthe Billboard Charts. They've done all this without the help ofa major music label using justwhat they learned here at ND. 
Hear Tim share how he has combined his passion for music with his love ofbusiness. Tim will share encouraging and inspirational stories about how to transform your passion into profits! 
Tuesday, Nov. 18 • s-6 pm 

Sponsored by the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 17, 2008 
cert and senior Clint Simkins 
ting," she said. Syracuse's "Be Orange Think said that SUB wanted to host a 
She also a<>ked students if their Green" team with 394 members.
SUB 

Energy

concert that would appeal to 
windows closed properly and if The team with the most members continued from page 1 the majority of the student 
continued from page 1 they had recycling bins, which all wins $10,!Xl0. body. 
resident<> did, Matasd said. Long said studenl<> can sign up Cartf~l played songs from both "llaving two different acts 
working, it needs to be reported," Matasci said studenl<> were con­on the Oflke of Sustainability's of their albums. plus a eover of was the best way to do this," he 
Long said. cerned about energy consump­Web site. Oasis' "Wonderwall," which the said. "These two acts explore 
Senior Carol Matasci volun­tion, "but they haven't necessarily NBC will also be sponsoring an crowd sang along with. They genres that are fairly separate, 
teered to help check dorm rooms taken the steps yet, or a lot people ad competition between Notre dosed with their hit single but maintain a common fan­
Sunday night. Matasci said that didn't know how to change the Dame and Syracuse. Students "Jlonestly." base for the most part." 
between her and a few other power settings on their computer," from both school<> can create 30­Citiz1m Cope played a versa­A major difference from past 
Farley residents, they knocked on she said. second lilms about sustainability tile range of music, said Bulka, concerts is that the floor of 
every door in Farley to offer light The light bulbs used in the L'iSues, and the winning ad will be pnrfonning both with a band Stepan Center was set up as 
bulbs and perform an energy exchange were purchased by the broadca<>t during the Notn~ Dame­and without. with an electric standing room only with chairs 
audit. Office of Sustalnability with money Syracuse football game. guitar and then an acoustic gui­on the sides. In the past, chairs 
Matasci said students were from a $2 million green loan fund. Also a<> a part of Green Week. tar have been placed throughout 
receptive to the light bulbs and Long said the investment would the game itself will be carbon m~u­The vnrsatility of Citizen the main area in Stepan Center, 
receiving tips on saving energy. see savings that exceeded the cost tral-a first for the University. Cope's music is "genre break­said Simkins. 
"Some people already had [the within a year. Long said emissions from fan ing," said Bulka. Alii liked this new set up 
fluorescent light bulbs], but the "That's a pretty quick return on travel, team travel and any activi­Towards thn end of his per­because while the Stepan 
people who didn't were happy to an investment," Long said. ties at the stadium on game the formance, the om~-man-act of Center is spacious, it is also 
take the new ones," she said. NBC challenged both Notre day will all bn taken into account Citizen Cope, Clarence possible to get up close to the 
Matasci said she asked resident<> Dame and Syracuse to get as in determining how much carbon c;nwnwood, and his band. left band. 
about their thermostats, and many people as possible to reduce needs to b1~ off.<>nt in ordnr to have the stage, then carne back out "It's a big space so there's 
reported that she alone had been earbon using the Web site Carbon a carbon neutral game. again to perform his eneore room to spread out but you can 
to 10 rooms with thermostat Hally, by joining and taking chal­solo. lin ended with his hits get pretty elose to the stage," 
issues that needed to be reported. lenges to reduce carbon emis­Emma Driscoll contributed to "Son's Gonna Hisc" and said Alii. "You are right there 
"We also asked about the com­sions. this article. "Sideways." with the band." 
puter power settings, because a As of Sunday evening, the Sophomore Dylan Fernandez, Currently. SUB has no plans 
lot of people don't have their com­"Fighting Irish" team had 1,034 Contact Aaron Steiner at who was a bigger fan of Citizen for another major concert at 
puters on the energy saving set-members, far exceeding asteiner@nd.edu Cope, said that seeing Stepan Center this year, but is Greenwood perform was a good planning two shows at Legends way to start the weekend. in the spring, said Casey 
"I really like the way my man McNeill, co-programmer of the about these kind of things; we are ran the 5k race with a friend who doing it for the kids at Hiley is not on the committee. 
Clarence grooves. I le hits you in concert. 
Run 

I lospital, for Children who may not I was involved with the danee
the face with a real chill vibe," said Fernandez. Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
continued from page 1 be able to take advantage of these marathon at my high school ... I events so we can't complain about just think it's a really important
Co-programmer of the con-smervosh@nd.edu first annual 5K to benefit Riley the cold weather," Murphy said. cause," Ciresi said. Hospital for Children," Murphy Senior Emily Bernath participat­So far, Dance Marathon ha<> held "The people who receive 
said." ed in the race. their signature "Charity Denim" the most candy grams are 
The weather may have been "I ran Trot for Tots because I event, as well as a date auction,
FCC 
cold, but the participants were love 5K races I think they're a lot and recently had members travel upbeat, Murphy said. offun," she said. to see Indiana University's Dance 
going to be visited by the car­
continued from page 1 olers," he added. Phelan also said that stu­
"Everyone was really excited to She said that this fundraiser was Maratl10n to see how Indiana ran with children with disabili­dents who were involved in 
be there," Murphy said. "It was a better than some other Dance il<> event. ties. and a St. Baldriek's Day, student government in high 
bit chilly and windy, but everyone Marathon fundraisers because Trot for Tots added to the in which people volunteer to school will have an opportu­
was ready to go with lots of people got to do something in fundraising success. shave their heads to support nity to be involved. FCC is 
smiles." addition to giving money. "I tl1ink it wa<> a great success," children with cancer. planning to form a committee 
Keeping with the theme of "You weren't just donating Murphy said. Phelan said that students comprised of freshmen who 
Dance Marathon, everything is money you were doing something have non-service events to want to volunteer to help out 
done "for the kids." The children that benefits yourself and others," Mandi Stirone contributed to look forward to as well. with events. 
of Riley Hospital were in every­she said. this article. These include caroling 
one's thoughts the morning of the Katie Ciresi, a freshman mem­around campus and candy Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
race. ber of the Dance Marathon com­Contact Sarah Mayer at grams. smervosh@nd.edu 
"It's hard to not to get excited munity marketing committee al<>o smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
GaiDe 
continued from page 1 

cheer on the Irish. Antonelli was also impressed with Navy's friendly fans and 
agrees that "respect"  was an  
important  clement  in  
Saturday's matchup.  

"!Navy] fans are so friendly and respectful and you could tell they really wanted a win." Antonelli said. "!Notre Dame! luckily pulled through, but Navy had their hearts in it until the end and didn't give up; they're tough boys," she said. 
Desrosiers was happy with how Notre Dame played, although she did admit to being a little nervous when Navy started to come back. 
"It could have gone down­hill. but the offense decided to show leadership and get the job done," she said. "But for a second, it was a little nerve-wracking," Desrosiers said. 
Saint Mary's senior Katie Danko watched the game on TV. Danko was also nervous during the fourth quarter. 
"Overall. l have to say, !Notre Darnel kind of' gave me a heart attack in tho last 20 minutes of the game," said Danko. 
Sophomores Matt DeStefani and Ty DeBoer watched tlw game from their dorm room and were dissatisfied with the close win. 
"It was an ugly way to win. At least we didn't lose, but we barely got by," DeStefani said. 
DeBoer thought things started off really well and was happy with how the team played, but be blamed the tight score on the coaching. 
"The first half looked great, we shut down !Navy's! rush­ing ofl'ense," DeBoer said. "The second half should havn made a statement, instead !coach! Charlie !Weisl put in the seeond string ... Overall I was pretty disgusted to bn honest. It is just another example of terrible coach­ing." 
Contact Katie Kotarak at kkotarO I @saintmarys.edu 

r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 





ORLD & NATION 
Monday, Novemeber 17, 2008 CoMrrLED FROM THE ()BsERVERs WlRF. SFRVJCES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Indonesia under tsunami warning 
JAKARTA, Indonesia -A powerful earth­quake struck waters off eastern Indonesia early Monday, generating tsunami warn­ings for coastlines within 600 miles of the epicenter. 
The U.S. Geological Survey put the quake's preliminary magnitude at 7.5 and said it struck 13 miles beneath the sea. It was centered 54 miles from Gorantalo, a coastal town on Sulawesi island. 
Fauzi, an official with the local geological agency who goes by only one name, put the magnitude at 7. 7. lie did not have any immediate reports of damage or injuries. 
The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said the quake had the potential to generate a destructive tsunami along coasts within 600 miles of the epicenter. 
Four killed in Gaza City airstrike 
GA7A CITY, Gaza Strip -An airstrike killed limr Palestinians as they were firing mortars at lsranl Sunday, the latest in a surge of dashes that have rocked a 5-month-old truce between lsranl and Gaza's militant llamas rulers. 
In a separate incident, Palestinian rocket fire injumd one Israeli. 
Both sides say they would like to preserve the truce, which expires next month. But with vio­lcnee esealating over the past two weeks, the eease-lire appears to be unraveling. 
The militants killed in the airstrike were from a small I lamas-allied group known as the Popular Resistance Committees. Abu Attaya, a spokesman for the group, said the four were fir­ing mortars when they were killed. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Man rides across US on horseback 
SEATTLE -More than halfWay through his 2,000-mile horsebaek journey across the West, Mark Ryan stopped at Zeb Bell's ranch outside a tiny town in southern Idaho. 
"He just showed up at my back door, all of the sudden there he was," recalled Bell. a pro rodeo announcer. "He introduced himself, and asked to just stay here for the night. It's not the first time we've had someone like him." 
Bell, 61, described Ryan as a long rider ­someone who rides horseback for hundreds or thousands of miles, echoes an era long gone. 
for Ryan, riding across the West on his horse -Mister Doodles -to visit a friend was a ehanee to see the country in a way not many other people do. 

Burlington named healthiest city 
BURLINGTON, Vt. -What's the healthiest city in America? It appears to be Burlington, Vt. 
Vermont's largest city is tops among U.S. met­ropolitan areas by having the largest proportion of people -92 percent -who say they are in good or great health. 
It's also among the best in exercise and among the lowest in obesity, diabetes and other measures of ill health, according to a recent report from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
LOCAL NEWS 
LaPorte to cut back on Christmas lights 
LAPOHTE, Ind. -The eity of LaPorte says it won't hang Christmas lights downtown this year because it doesn't have money on hand to fix damaged electrical outlets. 
An ongoing property tax reassessment in LaPorte County has caused delays in tax receipts. The city has had to borrow money to get by, and can't afford the $3,000 it would take to fix 20 to 30 in-ground electri­cal outlets needed to operate the Christmas lights. 
CALIFORNIA 


Los Angeles battles three wildfires 
500 homes in Orange County, San Fernando Valley totally destroyed 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES Metropolitan Los Angeles was seemingly surround­ed by flames Saturday, with three wildfires con­suming spacious man­sions and tiny mobile homes at the edges where bone-dry wilder­ness meets burgeoning development. 
Notorious Santa Ana winds topping 7 5 mph carried flying embers on an erratic path, some­times picking off just a house here and there on otherwise untouched Orange County streets of big, expensive homes and manicured lawns. The destruction was near total in other' areas: Some 500 mobile homes in Los Angeles' San Fernando Valley were transformed into a smok­ing wasteland. 
"I can't even read the street names because the street signs are melting," Los Angeles Fire Capt. Steve Huda said at Oakridge Mobile Home Park. 
Tens of thousands of residents have evacuated their homes in the valley, Santa Barbara County and along the Orange­Riverside county line. other side of the heavily was in serious condition, afternoon. For millions of others, populated Los Angeles and four firefighters "We still have another major freeways were area. were treated for minor 15 hours of red flag con­shut down and the A blaze that ravaged injuries. ditions," Robert Balfour, prospect of blackouts the Sylmar community in Gov. Arnold a senior meteorologist hung in the air like the the hillsides above Los Schwarzenegger with the National smoke. Angeles' San Fernando declared a state of emer­Weather Service in San 
No deaths were report­Valley grew to more than gency in Los Angeles and Diego, warned fire offi­ed, but the Los Angeles 12 square miles and was Orange and Riverside cials at a briefing police chief said he only 20 percent con­counties. Fire officials Saturday night. feared authorities might tained Saturday. estimated that its peak, Many heat records find bodies in the devas­It sent residents fleeing 10,000 people were were set as the region tated mobile home park, in the dark Saturday under orders to evacu­withered under the Santa which housed many sen­morning as it torched ate. Anas. Downtown Los ior citizens. Crews were cars, bone-dry brush and Extreme fire conditions Angeles was 20 degrees waiting for the ground to much of the mobile home were expected to contin­above normal at a record cool before bringing in park. ue into Sunday morning, 93 degrees. search dogs. The blaze, whose cause with humidity at just 10 Lucretia Homero said 
The series of fires have was under investigation, percent to 15 percent she saw smoke above the injured at least 20 people threatened at least 1,000 and winds gusting to 45 hills beyond the front and destroyed hundreds structures, city Fire mph through canyons. door and then, within an of homes from coastal Department spokes­Winds, however, could hour, saw that a canyon Santa Barbara to inland woman Melissa Kelley reverse direction and dip across from her home Riverside County, on the said. A burned resident to 5-mph breezes Sunday was red with flame. 


BLM auctions off drilling platforms 
Associated Press The National Park Service's top offi­Top aides to Interior Secretary Dirk 
cial in the state calls it "shocking and Kempthorne stepped into the fray, 
SALT LAKE CITY -The view of disturbing" and says his agency wasn't ordering the sister agencies to make Delicate Arch natural bridge -an properly notified. Environmentalists amends. His press secretary, Shane unspoiled landmark so iconic it's on call it a "fire sale" for the oil and gas Wolfe, told The Assoeiated Press that Utah's license plates -tould one day industry by a departing administration. deputy Interior Secretary Lynn Scarlett include a drilling platform under a Officials of the BLM, which oversees "resolved the dispute within 24 hours" proposal that environmentalists call a millions of acres of public land in the last week. Bush administration "fire sale" for the West, say the sale is nothing unusual, A compromise ordered by the oil and gas industry. and one is "puzzled" that the Park Interior Department requires the BLM 
Late on Election Day, the U.S. Service is upset. to "take quite seriously" the Park Bureau of Land Management "We find it shocking and disturbing," Service's objections, said Wolfe. announeed a Dec. 19 auction of more said Cordell Roy, the chief Park Service However, the BLM didn"t promise to than 50,000 acres of oil and gas administrator in Utah. "They added pull any parcels from the sale, and in parcels alongside or within view of 51,000 acres of tracts near Arches, an interview after the supposed truce, Arches National Park and two other Dinosaur and Canyonlands without BLM state director Selma Sierra was redrock national parks in Utah: telling us about it. That's 40 tracts defiant, saying she saw nothing wrong Dinosaur and Canyonlands. within four miles of these parks." with drilling near national parks. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November I 7, 2008 


Chinese students on the rise in U.S. 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS -Chinnsn stu­
dnnts are enrollin~ in U.S. 
univPrsities in rneord num­
bers, nneoura~ed by a~~res­
sive rncruitin~ combined 
with China's boomin~ econo­
my and growing middle 
elass. 
Thnir enrollnwnt ~row by 8 
percent in the fall of 2006 
and by 20 percent last year, 
according to Institute of 
lntnrnational Education fig­
urns bning released Monday. 
Individual universities sur­
vnynd by The Associated 
Press also an~ rnportin~ high 
~rowth this year. 
Chinese enrollment 
increased 300 percnnt this 
year at Lnhi~h Univnrsity in 
Pennsylvania. Gnor~e Fox 
Univnrsity in Nowber~. Ore., 
accnpted 65 students from 
China, more than double its 
2007 figure. 
Purdue University in West Lafayette, Ind., already boastin~ a stron~ interna­tional student pro~ram, is nnrollin~ 290 Chinese stu­dents, up from 127. The s pi k~~ was morn than 4 0 0 pnrennt at Ohio State Univnrsity, the nation's I a r g ~~ s t cam pus , w i t h 1 15 undnr~raduatns from China romparnd with 20 last ynar. 
Xiaoli Liu, an Ohio State freshman from Beijing, said Chinnse universitins of'l"er solid academics hut ean't romJH1te with the overall nxpPrinncn of an Amorican 
1: o II 11 ~ e, in elu din~ rn ore opportunities for out-of-elass activities. an opnn lnarning nnvironmnnt and divnrsity. 
"In China you can snldom find peopln from tho U.S., hut in tlw U.S. you find peo­pln from all over tlw world," Xiaoli said. 

Thn influx is part of a solid a n d w n Ico nu1 d r n b o u n d i n thn number of intnrnational students comin~ to the Unitnd States, with its ~iant pool of 4,000 colln~ns and univnrsitins. 
NumbfHS of intnrnational st.udnnts had droppnd alarm­ingly due to eompntition from othnr countrins and ti~hter visa proeedures after t.he S11ptnmbnr 200 I tnrrorist attacks. But the latnst liE report finds 7 pnrcent more studnnts at U.S. univnrsities than a year a~o. at an all­time hi~h of 624.000. 
India a~ain sent t.he most students, l'ollownd by China and South Korna. Enrollment from Saudi Arabia jumped 25 pnrcent, puttin~ t.hn coun­try back into tlw top I 0 for thr1 first time sincn 19H2, thanks to a nPW Saudi ~ov­nrnmnnt scholarship pro­
~ram. 
A snapshot survny the institute did or campuses this fall found that 55 pnr­cnnt reportnd incrnasns in studnnts from China, the most from any country. 
"Tiw rnispPrrl'ptions have finally lwt'n laid to rnst ­thatt it's impossibll' to ~nt a visa," said PP~~y BlumPnthaf. liE's rhil'f OJWr­ating oiTi1·nr. StudPnts rhoos­in~ schools "arP lookin~ strictly at aradPmir issul's, hPrausP tlwn•s no rPason to hPJiPVI' tJwy'JJ haVP any 11101'1' trouhiP gPtting to tlw Statns than gl'llin~ to Australia." 
Kansas State enrolled 199 
ChinPse undergraduates, up 
from 65 last fall. 
"There is a whole emerg­
ing middle class of Chinese, 
well over 300 million, many 
or them with one-child fami­
lies who are interested in 
snndin~ their son or daugh­
ter abroad with higher edu­
cational experience," said 
Kansas State provost Duane 
Nellis. "We're trying to eapi­
talize on that and also 
enrich our campus communi­
ty... 

International students and 
thnir families contribute 
more than $15 billion annu­
ally to the U.S. economy, 
according to a separate sur­
vey by NAFSA, the 
Association of International 
Educators, also being 
released Monday. And they 
typieally pay higher out-of­
state tuition, so they're an 
important revenue source 
for colleges at a time when 
the supply of college-age 
American students is· begin­
ning to crest. 
Out-of-state students pay an average $515 more per credit hour at Michigan State University, where the num­ber of' new undergraduate Chinese students soared from 95 last year to 327 this YIHtr. 
Universities also like the 
international students' eos­
mopolitan flair. 
"We're thrilled about the cultural benefits, the educa­tional benefits it brings to our resident students," said Mikn Brzezinski, Purdue's associate dean of' interna­tional programs. "It gives them a study abroad expnri­tmce right here on eampus." 
The number of Americans studyin~ abroad is also at a rncord high, the Institute of International Edueation reports. inereasing 8 percent to 242,000 in 2006-2007 ­the latnst year l'igures are available. Students eontin­ued tho trend toward more untraditional destinations, with increases of' more than 20 percent each to China, Argentina, South Africa, Ecuador and India. 
Next year's inereases may slow as a ref'leetion of the stru~~ling economy and weak dollar. but Blumenthal says U.S. colleges are com­mitted to study abroad and keeping it no less expensive than college in the United States. 
The number of new Chin11se students still repre­sents a fraction of overall nnrollnwnt: just 2 percent of the Ohio State freshman elass, for example. They must meet tho same entrance requirements as anyone else, includin~ pass­in~ an English-language test. 
Siyi Chen, a freshman from Chan~sha in China's central llunan province planning to study finance, was especially impressed by Ohio State's array of 32 libraries. 
But like Xiaoli, slw has no interest in staying on al'tnr 
~radua!ion. 
"I probably will ~o baek to China to work tlwrn and rind morP opportunity thorn," shP said. ''I didn't know any n~a­son for Ill!' to stay lwrP than staying with my family. That's mor«' important." 
Home's sale causes concern 
Associated Press 
IWSWELL, Ga. -Like all 
illegal immigrants, Lorenzo 
Jimenez knew the knock on 
the door from immigration 
agents could come at any time. 
Still, he had enough faith in the American dream to buy a house in this Atlanta suburb, even though signing tlH1 papers meant raising the risk: He put his 2-year-old, American-born daughter's name and Social Seeurity number on the title. 
And it worked, for a while. Jimenez and his family lived happily enough for several years alongside "regular" citi­zens. 
Nicole Griffin's mom lived a 
few doors away, and when 
Griffin visited, she said, her 
kids played with the Jimenez 
children. When Jimenez put 
his four-bedroom, two-bath­
room home up for sale last 
spring, wanting more spaee, 
Griflin was immediately inter­
ested. 
A contract was negotiated but when the sale appeared to go sour, Gril'tin raised a new issue: that she was a citizen and Jimen1~z wasn't. She told local media, immigration of'li­cials, his boss and others that he was here illegally. She even put signs in the yard of the house exposing his residency status. 
As a result, agents came knocking last month, and now Jimenez is fighting to keep from being deported. He also lost his job. 
"I'm very sad and very wor­ried," said Jimenez, 32. "I ean't sleep because I'm think­ing about my family. What's going to happen? I don't know." 
Griflin insists her intent was to buy the house, nothing else. The 28-year-old single mother of two maintains she was wronged first, so she acted to protect her interests. She has no regrets. 
"At the end, do I feel bad the family got in trouble? No, not at all," she said. 
Those who enter the U.S. illegally ol'ten say they're just striving for the same things that most American citizens want out of life -a good job. home ownership, maybe a chance to get a little bit ahead. But the ambitions of' eitizens and non-citizens can collide and, as the painful entangle­ment between Jimenez and Grifl'in shows, both sides can wind up feding like vietims. 
Jimenez, who is Mexican, has been in the U.S. for about a decade. When be bought the house four years ago, the real estate agent handling the sale told him he could get a better interest rate using his daugh­ter's information on the clos­ing documents than he could using the federal tax identili­cation number he uses to pay income tax here. 
Jimenez later filed papers to 
have his own name added to 
the title, and that's how it 
stayed until Gril'lin spotted the 
"for sale" si~n and $164,500 
list price this spring. 
With both sides enthusiastic 

about the sale, a deal was 
reached and the closing was 
set for May 15. 
Griffin, a payroll clerk and first-time homnbuyer, asked to postpone the dosin~ until June 1 because she had problems locking in her interost rate. Jimenez agreed but asked that she move into the house as planned and pay rent until the closing. 
Shortly after Gril'fin moved in, her attorney said there was a problem with the title on the house, namely that Jimenez's young daughter's name was on the title but her signature was­n't on the sale documents. Attorneys said some extra paperwork -establishing a conservatorship to watch out for the child's interest, the first step in gettin~ the title trans­ferred solely to her father ­would clear the title, and everyone agreed to postpone again. 
Griffin didn't pay the rent, however, claiming she was promised three months free since the delay was Jimenez's fault. She has an e-mail from his real estate a~ent, Alina Carbonell, saying he'd made the offer. 
Jimenez's lawyer, Erik Meder, told her that oll'er was never firm and insisted she pay rent or vaeatn the house. 
Locked in a letter war with Meder, Grifl'in escalated her actions. She contacted the FBI, t.he Boswell Poliee Department, local media, the state attorney ~eneral's office and the governor's ofl'ice, among others. She asked her eongressman, U.S. Hep. Tom Price, for help. saying she felt Jimenez and Meder had deceived her. Price's orfice, in turn, eontaeted U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said Brendan Buck, a Prien spokesman. 
"I am a law-abiding Ameriean merely trying to purchase a home," Griffin wrote in mid-July in a letter to American llomebuyers, a non­profit that helps low-to mod­erate-income families buy homes. "An illegal family fraudulently obtained a mort­gage using a 1 yr old SSN, and appear to have all the rights in this situation -llow can this be when they shouldn't even be in Ameriea?" 
She said she contacted any­one she could think of who might be able to help the sale go through. 
Jimenez said she started making his life a nightmare. lie claims she caused eosmetie damage to the house and intentionally clogged the plumbing, both of which she denies. 
Grifl'in also went after Carbonell, the real estate 
agent. She contacted the 
(;eor~ia State Heal Estat.n 
Commission to try to ~et lwr 
license revoknd. Carbonell said 
the threat to her reputation 
and to her career causnd lwr 
so much stress she had to take 
a leave of absenee. 
Griffin said shn reported 

Carbonell beeausn the agent 
knew .Jimenez's dau~htnr's 
name was on the title from thn 
beginning but didn't toll her 
ri~ht away. (Carbonell was not 
the real estate agent who orig­
inally advised Jimenez to usn 
his daughter's name.) 
In September, Meder got a jud~e to order Griffin to pay retroactive rent and gHt out of t.lw house within a wonk. 
Griffin then went to the 

upscale Atlanta restaurant 
where Jimenez worked as a 
cook and told his boss he was 
undoeumented, which Jimenez 
said resulted in his firing. 
"It was my last resort," Grif'l1n said, "but once I real­ized my family had seven days to get out of a house that a family's not even legally sup­posed to own, I did go to his employer and I did let his employer know." 
She also put bri~ht rnd signs in the yard reading, "This house is owned by an illn~al alien." When Jimonnz tore them down, she put up new ones. 
Gril'lin said she wanted the nni~hbors to share her outrage over what was happening. 
"I don't feel bad for anything that happens to the Jimnnez family at this point," Griffin said recently, "beeausn no one feels bad that all I tried to do was buy a house, and I ended up living back with my moth­er." 
In early October. plain­clothes ICE agents shownd up at Jimenez's apartmnnt. They asknd him about his rosideney status and his purehasn of the housn, then handcul'fnd him and took him away. lin was rnleased a few hours later and is due before a jud~e in January and eould faeH even­tual deportation. 
llis lawyers plan to apply to knnp Jimmwz in thn country pnrmanently, a proeess that could last snveral y«mrs. While it's pnnding, he will be oligible for a work permit. But even if he gets one, Jimenez will be livin~ in limbo. llis application to stay eould be rejected, which means he still eould be ordnred to leave the country. 
Jimnnez has takfm the house off tlw market but. doesn't want to move his family baek in amid the uncnrtainty, so they'ro still in the apartment that was supposnd to be a transitional stop until thoy bou~ht a bigger place. 
Griffin hasn't tried to buy another home, in part because slw ean'I. afford to, so she and her kids are still staying with her mother. 
Down the street, the .Jimenez housn sits empty. 

THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Monday, November 17, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,497.31 -337.94 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
645 68 2,531 1,589,192,559 
AMEX t;~o~~·~$: l~lt:~is~lm;:l NASDAQ 1 516.85 -79.85 NYSE s~4sa~ss· :z63l:lr·~~l S&P 500 873.29 -38.00 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,296;20 ·:'1"78:83, FTSE 100 (London) 4,232.97 +63.76 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -4.99  -4.55  86.62  
CITIGROUP INC (C)  +0.74  +0.07  9.52  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -4.86  -1.48  28.98  
FINANCIAL SEL (XLF)  -5.07  -0.68  12.73  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -1.78  -O.Q7  3.75  
13-WEEK BILL  -31.58  ·0.06  0.13  
30-YEAR BOND  -2.38  -0.10  4.23  
5-YEAR NOTE  ·1.68  -0.0400  2.3470  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.20  57.04  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +37.50  742.50  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.05  85.30  
Exchange Rates  

YEN 96.1950 EURO 0.7937 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2400 BRITISH POUND 0.6779 

IN BRIEF 
law profeB>r challenges music industry 
BOSTON -The music industry's courtroom eampaign against people who share songs online is eoming under counterattack. 
A I larvard Law School professor has launched a constitutional assault against a federal copy­right law at the heart of the industry's aggres­sive strategy, which has wrung payments from thousands of song-swappers since 2003. 
The professor, Charles Nesson, has come to the defense of a Boston University graduate stu­dent targeted in one of the music industry's law­suits. By taking on the case, Nesson hopes to challenge the basis for the suit, and all others like it. 
Nesson argues that the Digital Theft Deterrence and Copyright Damages Improvement Act of 1999 is unconstitutional because it effectively lets a private group -the Hocording Industry Association of America, or HIAA -earry out civil enforcement of a crimi­nal law. lie also says the music industry group abused the legal process by brandishing the prospects of lengthy and costly lawsuits in an elfort to intimidate people into settling cases out of eourt. 
Tunes Square to put up "green" billboard 
NEW YOHK-This winter, New Year's Eve rev­elers will have a close-up view of Times Square's first environmentally friendly billboard powered entin~ly by wind and sun. 
But thn billboard might not be quite as dazzling as some of il'i high-powered neighbors along the Great White Way. 
Construction on the 35,000-pound sign advertis­ing Hicoh Americas Corp. is to begin this month aeross the avenue from the building where the ball drops on New Year's Eve.Body copy the rest of the way Body copy the rest of the way Body copy tho rnst of the way 
Powered by 16 wind turbines and 64 solar pan­els, the sign is expected to save $12,000 to $15,000 per month in electricity eosts. Ricoh, an ollice equipment and document storage supplier, nstimatns the sign will also keep 18 tons of carbon out of the environment. 
Auto bailout showdown imminent 
Democrats pledge to help struggling companies, but need GOP support to pass bill 
Associated Press 
WA._'iHINGTON -Hardline opponents of an auto indus­try bailout branded the industry a "dinosaur" whose "day of reckoning" is near, while Democrats pledged Sunday to do their best to get Detroit a slice of the $700 bil­lion Wall Street rescue in this week's lame-duek session of Congress. 
The companies are seeking $25 billion from the financial industry bailout for emer­gency loans, though support­ers of the aid for General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler LLC have offered to reduce the size of the rescue to win backing in Congress. 
Senate Democrats intend­ed to introduce legislation Monday attaching an auto bailout to a House-pa..<;sed bill extending unemployment benefit<;; a vote was expected as early as Wednesday. 
A White House alternative would let the car companies take $25 billion in loans pre­viously approved to develop fuel-efficient vehicles and use the money for more immedi­ate needs. Congressional Democrats oppose the White House plan as shortsighted. 
Majority Democrats will need at least a dozen GOP votes in the Senate to pre­vent opponents from block­

ing their measure -assum­Wall Street rescue money to so the day of reckoning." automakers develop fuel-effi­ing all Senate Democrats prop up the automakers House Speaker Nancy cient vehicles and have that support it. Senate Republican because a bailout would only Pelosi, D-Calif., said over the money go toward more Leader Mitch McConnell of postpone the industry's weekend the House would urgent purposes as the com­Kentucky questioned demise. aid the ailing industry, panies struggle to stay afloat. whether there wa..<; sufficient "Companies fail everyday though she did not put a The loan program was Democratic support for an and others take their place. I price on her plan. "The approved by Congress last auto bailout in a statement think thls is a road we should House is ready to do it," said year, but more legislation relea..<;ed Sunday. not go down," said Shelby, Democratic Rep. Barney would be necessary to 
"The silence from the the senior Republican on the Frank of Massachusetts, change il'> purpose. Democrat rank and file on Senate Banking, Housing chairman of the House "That should be done thls thls matter has been deafen­and Urban Affairs Financial Services week," Commerce Secretary ing," McConnell said. Committee. "They're not Committee. "There's no Carlos Gutierrez said. He 
So far two Republicans building the right products," downside to trying." said reopening the Wall publicly have voiced support he said. "They've got good Frank's committee has Street bailout and including for the idea. Several others, workers but I don't believe scheduled a Wednesday automakers could attract including Minnesota Sen. they've got good manage­hearing on an auto bailout. other industries looking for Norm Coleman on Sunday, ment. They don't innovate. It is a more difficult fight in bailouts. have indicated they might They're a dinosaur in a the Senate, given the "If you start that, where do accept a rescue under strict sense." Democrats' slim edge and you stop?" he asked. 
conditions. Added Kyl, the Senate's President George W. Bush's "There's a line of companies 
Sens. Richard Shelby of second-ranking Republican: opposition. Bush wants to of industries waiting at Alabama and Jon Kyl of "Just giving them $25 billion speed the release of $25 bil­Treasury just to see if they Arizona said it would be a doesn't change anything. It lion from a separate loan can get their hands on those mistake to use any of the just puts off for six months or program intended to help the $700 billion. 

Obama plans for financial overhaul 
Associated Press years working at the International products, in the United States and Monetary Fund, the world's financial abroad, and nailing down the crucial 
WASHINGTON -Barack Obama firefighter. details. isn't president yet, but his must-do "He has a lot of things he has to do "Obama has an incredible moun­list just got longer. quickly in a number of areas and tain to climb in the way of the eco­
The newest addition to the lengthy doesn't have a lot of time to think nomic and financial situation," said list of tasks after taking oflice: help­about them," Goldstein said in an Richard Yamarone, economist at ing oversee the overhaul of the interview Sunday Argus Research. world's financial regulatory system. That will put a lot of pressure on President George W. Bush hosted That is one of the assignments to the Obama. He did not participate in the the summit, where nearly two dozen president-elect from current global emergency two-day summit that con­foreign leaders endorsed broad goals leaders after their weekend summit, cluded Saturday, instead sending to fend off any future calamities and where they pledged action to avoid a representatives to meet with leaders to revive the global economy. repeat of the financial mess that has on the sidelines It will be up to finance ministers to caused worldwide economic chaos. After taking the oath of office Jan. flesh out the details to put such 
"Obama has a tall order," said 20, Obama will have to figure out in changes in plaee by the end of Morris Goldstein, a senior fellow at short order how far his administra­March. Leaders plan to hold the next the Peterson Institute for tion is willing to go in revamping summit by April 30 -just months International Economics who spent oversight of financial companies and into Obama's term. 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, November 17, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Goodbye, book leamin' 
I~O. !lox 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Smuh Dining Hall. Norre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIH Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EIJITOR: Jenn Metz 
VmwrOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SroRTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScF.NF. EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAriiiC.~ EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVI'RTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
All 0F$1GN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER! Stacey Gill SYSTEMS At>MINISTRAfOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 obst·rvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-~323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 vit-wpoint.I@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 

0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Noue Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ediwrial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possibk·. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing l'Aiirors and department editors. Commentaries, letter.. and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThc ( )bscrver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include contact informarion. 
Qutstions rrgarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in G"'hiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'l11e Oha.:mr (LJ.!WS ~1)9 l-41100) ~ puhliHhc(l Mnnd;ay through friday t'XCCjtl tluru~g ,·urn o~ml v.IUIIIIII pcri,,J\. A mhr.~:ripuonwTh~ Oh~oCrvcr 15$\IJO for nne JC:II.kmk yco~~:Sii~ ruroucJCmClller 
The Observer i• published .u PO~TMASTER 0.2<4 Suu1h Dining H.1.ll ~nd add~ cotrtctiom ro: Nn1re D.uuc, IN i6S16-0779 11u.•Oimrver l~riudi~•l po'ugr p.uJ .u Nom: OJ.mc 1'.0. (!u)( 779 .tud olddu•unJI m~ilint~: officn. 014 S(luth Dining Hall 
Nvttt' Dame, IN 46'5'S6--0779 
TI1e Ohk-1vcr 11 a member o£ the A.uouoato:d Press. All n:pmJm:lmn rif,h~ arc resc::rvcd. 

When I received my B.A. in 2006, I was told by the president of my univer­sity that my degree was a ticket to "the fellowship of educated men and women," and similar sentiments are n~plicatnd in corn­mnncement cere­monies across the country. 
Yet these cele­brations of learn­ing and education­al accomplishment also mark an end for many of these newly-minted bachelors of arts and sciences. After they earn their degrees, nearly half of all college graduates in the United States-42 percent, according to the National Endowment for the Arts -never read another book in their lifetime. And even such a dismal rate pales in comparison to the American population as a whole, in which 70 percent of adults have never bnen in a bookstore in the last five years, 80 percent of families have not read or purchased a book in the last year and about 60 percent of adults never read a book after high school. Such rates arc probably lower among Notre Dame graduates, but still, there are probably those among you who, once you linish up that last paper for your last class of your undergraduate career, will do the same. 
Such a bookless existence is almost unthinkable to me. As a graduate stu­dent, of course, my intended career depends in large part on constant reading and books play such a central role in my life that I cannot imagine doing without them. But the part of me that is an aspiring teacher feels some­thing much more visceral: confusion, outrage and fear that the problem is 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
nearly insurmountable -the same feelings, in fact, that the last two years of Irish football, or the last two months of economic news, have inspired. Unless you are in the fields of publish­ing or library science, the big problem is not that people are reading no books at all. Instead, these dismal reading habits indicate something deeper: that, despite the completion of their under­graduate programs and despite a bachelor's degree ostensibly being the entrance requirement to the "fellow­ship of educated men and women," just under half of those educated men and women will knowingly and willf'ul­ly shut themselves off from the single best (but, admittedly, most demanding of thought and effort) source of infor­mation, entertainment and intellectual expansion -or, put another way, the communication medium with the best signal-to-noise ratio (take that, Internet). 
So is it the students' fault for being so apathetic to books? Is it the teach­ers' fault for failing to make students appreciate reading, let alone learning in general? Or is it that undergraduate education is so muddled and inconsis­tent that students don't know what to do when goals and philosophies -if at all stated-vary from department to department, class to class, instructor to instructor? The answer probably lies somewhere between these three extremes; yes, there are uninterested students and bad teachers and vague pedagogical goals, but neither one accounts for the staggering failure of a college education to reach nearly half of its recipients. Without a clear way forward, in the face of apparently overwhelming indifference, and with an apparently disappointing return on the investment of time, energy and passion, teaching can sometimes feel as futile and self-defeating as trying to fill a shot glass with a fire hose. After all, between trying to teach critical and abstract thought, drawing up lesson plans, grading, ensuring that students are prepa.-nd li1r exams, making surn that everyone has donn the week's rnading and generally competing with all the othnr demands on students' time and onergy, my job as a teaching assistant leaves little timn to instill a love of reading books for the sake of intellectual -not nwn~ly academic­rnward; I assurnP this is true of more than just history TAs. But without a concertnd effort by everyone-stu­dents, .toachers, and full-time peda­gogues-there is probably not much to do excopt beat on, boats against the curnmt, borne ceaselessly not into past but into an indil'l'erencn towards read­ing and the sustained, nuanced intel­lectual exertion that it demands. 
But what do you, dnar reader, think about this? There is, after all, nothing worse than being nothing but a critic and utTering no constructive sugges­tions, but in this case I can think of no solution except a profound shift in everyone's attitude toward rnading, books and h~arning in general, which one sole teaching assistani/Observer columnist simply cannot do. Do you think that this rejection of books is a symptom of a larger rejection of com­plex thought and mnntal ongagement'? Or has my own academic: upbringing made me oblivious to the ability of tel­evision, radio and the Internet to do exactly the same thing as books while being cheaper, more cftieient and more accessible? And for those who are alrnady looking forward to never read­ing another book for as long as you live -where did we, the teachers, go wrong? 
Darryl Campbell is a second-year Ph.D. student in 1/istory. 1/e can be contacted at dcampbe6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Mandi Stirone Bill Brink John Tierney Laura Myers What are your plans 
Irena Zajickova Doug Farmer for Thanksgiving? Graphics Insider Andrea Archer Dan Murphy Stay on campus Viewpoint Matt Gamber Stay home and have relatives over l.ianna Scene Visit family 
.com

Brauweiler Analise Lipari Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Tolerance is a very dull virtue. It is 
boring. Unlike love, it has always
had abad press. It is negative. It 
merely means putting up with 
people, being able to stand things. " 
E. M. Forster author 



THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Monday, November 17, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Learn to love 
This summer, Ben Stiller's "Tropic Thunder," which satirizes actors who take themselves too seriously, sparked a nation-wide controversy for its jokes about people with special needs. Just prior to the movie's release, many groups, including Special Olympics, American Association for People with Disabilities and the National Down Syndrome Congress, organized a national boycott of the film because of its casual and repeated used of the r-word and callous imitations of people with intellectual disabilities. The creators of the movie predicted that they might be into hot water with the character of Robert Downey Jr., so they previewed the movie with members of the NAACP and other test audiences. It did not even occur to them to screen the movie before groups advocating for the massive -as well as massively ignored ­population of people with special needs. In fact, they were entirely surprised by the above groups' adverse reaction. This lack of foresight epitomizes the ignorance on display throughout this film. The satire fails and people who love and respect their friends with special needs feel violently offended and terrified that the ones they love will suffer these "jokes." And it is not because we lack a sense of humor. It is because we have a sense of human dignity. 
In Colin Keeler's Nov. 12 Letter to the Editor ("Learning to laugh"), he claims that he does "not mean to downgrade any of the great challenges those with disabilities encounter." Well, you do, and saying "no offense" doesn't make it OK. Asking people to put the lines like, "Never go full retard!" and "Once upon a time ... there was a retard ... " into context does not remove the painful sting of such a crude insult. Parallels cannot be drawn between the way "Tropic Thunder" abuses people with special needs and the way "Legally Blonde" pokes fun at a stereotypical dumb blonde because when you make a joke at the expense of a little girl with Downs Syndrome, she is not laughing with you; you are laughing directly at her. People with special needs do not participate in these jokes and they aren't given the opportunity to defend themselves. These jokes feed our very seri­ous social problem of an entirely restricted view of people with special needs, seeing only their handicaps while ignoring their extraordinary bless­ings, like a capaeity to love wholly and purely, by which they far surpass you and me. 
As Soeren Palumbo pointed out in his letter on Nov. 7 ("Lessons from a beloved sister"), "our treatment of people with intellectual disabilities" is "one of the greatest remaining barriers of ignorance and hatred left in our society." Tropic Thunder's hurtful representation of "Simple Jack" is not a noble or productive satire; it only reinforces the social acceptance of casually mocking those with disabilities. The group fighting to change this is small; their calls for respect are barely heard and hardly register with the general population. At times the struggle may seem futile, but then I see Theresa laugh. Our only recourse is to pray as the Special Olympians do: "Let me win, but if I cannot win, let me be brave in the attempt." Love your neighbor. 
Mary Pat Brogan sophomore Pasquerilla West Hall Nov. 13 

'Tropic Thunder' a satire 
In the Nov. 14 issue of The Observer, two Letters to the Editor by Lindsey McMahon ("Still not laughing") and Meghan Kaler ("Learn where to draw line") discuss the issue of insensitivity towards the mentally handicapped in the movie "Tropic Thunder," highlighting the inability of the handicapped to defend themselves and the use of hate words respec­tively as reasons for the censorship of the film. I personally respect their strong conviction, as the intent behind their words shows a desire for jus­tice and equality. However, I cannot help but disagree on their methods. 
Whenever controversy overcomes a piece of media, whether it be litera­ture, television or film. it is often a good idea to consider the overall intent and theme of the work. In "Tropic Thunder," the purpose of the tilm is not, as Kaler and McMahon suggest, to denigrate and disparage the mentally handicapped, but to lampoon the outrageousness of the film industry. The portrayal of the mentally handicapped is used mainly in the context of the faux film "Simple Jack," ridiculing such stars as Tom Ilanks and Dustin Hoffman for using roles portraying mentally handicapped characters as fodder for acclaim. Therefore, if it wasn't obvious before, "Tropic Thunder" is, without a doubt, a satire. The production of a satire is generally used as an attack on something which the creator disagrees strongly with; in this case, that something is the film industry and, more specifically, the use of roles by big name actors which inspire compassion simply as a medium for praise. Satire uses exaggeration and parody as two of its main weapons to confront the inherent ridiculousness of its subject. 
The portrayal of the mentally handicapped within the context of the movie industry is exaggerated and parodied to an enormous extent; so much so. in fact, that it inspires the outrage of many like Kaler and McMahon. Hut it has a purpose and it performs its purpose well. The attack of "Tropic Thunder" on the established methods of the film indus­try is well crafted, unique in its main concept and, if it matters, hilarious. Even if you completely disagree with all that it stands for and cannot see the brillianee. humor and elegance of its satire, the very least you ought to do is familiarize yourself with opposing viewpoints. Only by confronting that with which you disagree ean you confirm that which you believe. Censorship, boycotts and rhetoric only serve to turn well-intended sup­port into blind belief. 
Brendan Keeler freshman Siegfried Hall Nov. 14 


Lack of acceptance an issue of ignorance 
Yesterday, I was shoeked and sad­dened by Colin Keeler's gross misjudg­ment ("Learning to laugh," Nov. 12) of what is considered an acceptable subject to "poke fun at." Colin, acceptable topics to poke fun at are that you are "elated" when SUB is showing a certain movie or that you actually use the phrase, "I hate to break the news." You see, Colin, I can make fun of you, because -even though you are just a freshman -you can choose to respond and defend your­self. In addition to your capability of responding, no matter how weakly, you can also understand the humor that I am aiming at you. People with special needs can neither defend themselves, nor even understand the jokes being told at their expense. That is the difference between "poking fun" at the mentally handi­capped and doing so at any ethnic, reli­gious or sexually oriented group; regardless of whether your jokes are offensive, those groups of people have the opportunity to either protest or laugh along with you. Persons with spe­cial needs are never laughing with us, we are laughing at them. That is why it is degrading. 
Of course, Colin, your ignorance is not completely your fault. I have noticed in Viewpoint that the advocates of develop­mentally disabled persons are almost exclusively siblings or family members of someone with special needs (this being no exception-my younger broth­er has autism and Downs Syndrome). This is probably due to a past tradition of segregating the mentally handicapped from the rest of society. Most Catholic schools cannot or choose not to afford a special education program, while public schools, until recently, have kept the children with special needs in a class­room together, apart from the "normal" children. This separation leads to a loss of respect, dignity and understanding of a whole segment of our society. And, equally as important, a lost opportunity to discover gifts of our own and of others who are "differently labeled." It's no wonder family members are the main advocates of persons with special needs -no one else has gotten a chance to experience these amazing people! 
Fortunately, children of more recent years will not be denied this chance, at least not in the public schools. (The Catholic schools, regardless of funding, still only take "normal" children, because Christ loves the bright, beautiful and talented students the most). Inclusion programs are becoming a norm in public education, and are immensely benefitting both the mentally handicapped and regular education chil­dren. Our country's public school set­ting, without any intention of living out Christian values, offers all its students the opportunity to learn to accept others and appreciate each others' gifts. Hopefully someday schools that do boast Christian values will at least attempt to live up to this standard as well. 
Anyway, Colin, I understand that you are just naive. I honestly encourage you, and anyone else who has not had a rela­tionship with someone who is develop­mentally disabled, to overcome your ignorance and get involved in some of the many programs on and off campus that give you the chance to interact with them. I promise, doing so will change your perspective and possibly your life. My younger brother's unassuming les­sons of patience and love have inspired me more than anyone else ever can; like the siblings of other recent Viewpoint writers, he is an angel on earth who we all can benefit and learn from, not laugh at. 
Liz Froehlke senior offcampus Nov. 12 


Support wom.en' s soccer 
Students of Notre Dame: You come out in the thousands for our football; you pack the seats and bleachers behind the basket at the JACC; and last year, you extended your fandom to include the increasingly exciting Frozen Four hockey team. Well, Notre Dame, now I invite you to expand your fandom once more to include our No. 1 Women's Soccer team -before this amazing season ends. The Irish have not only been No. 1 for a large part of the season, they also have not lost and have not tied. They are dominating. They are 23-0-0. 
I am only a casual soccer fan. I get excited for the World Cup and the European Championship, but otherwise, I don't follow soccer too closely or know all that much. However, you need not know much to get excited for and enjoy the dominant play of this team. The Irish control every game they play pretty much from the start, and there is a dominance about them that is entertaining to any sports fan. The most recent example of this was Friday night in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. As the No. 1 seed, they faced a Toledo team who came in as a heavy underdog despite having just four losses. "C'mon, girls, we've got nothing to lose!" I heard one of the Toledo players say. Well, the only thing the Rockets lost that night was their season, and their hopes were crushed early as the Irish went up 3-0 just 17 minutes into the game and hit 22 shots while allowing just four in the first half. But sadly, there were maybe as many Toledo fans there as Irish fans and that is unacceptable. 
So as the Irish make their run, throw your support behind them. Even if they do not get another game on campus, they still need our support. The reign of terror of the North Carolina Tar Heels over NCAA Women's Soccer needs to come to an end and the Irish are making it happen. Even if you don't like soccer or standing outside on cold Friday nights, these talented student-athletes wear Irish on their jerseys, so regardless of which sports you like or don't like, they deserve the passion and excitement of the Notre Dame student body. 
Dan Masterton 
sophomore 
Zahm Hall 
Nov. 16 



THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 10 
Monday, November 17, 2008 
00 
0 0 N 
ANALISE LIPARI Scene Editor 
In a year that has inducted artists rang­ing from a magazine journalist to the writer of a genre-defying novel, Bosnian­llerztlgovinian journalist and fiction writer Aleksandar Hernon will close the 42nd Literary Festival with three different events today. 
IIemon's work in English began in 1995, when he first published articles in a vari­ety of English-language magazines, includ­ing "The Paris Heview" and "The New Yorker." IIis first book, the critically acclaimed story collection "The Question of Bruno," was published in 2000. It was fol­lowed two years later by a novel, "Nowhere Man." In subsequent years, Ilemon has become an esteemed favorite of literary critics, receiving a MacArthur "genius" grant four years ago. 
Currently. Hernon is riding the critical waves of his latest release, a novel entitled "Tiw Lazarus Project." The novel, a finalist for the National book Award, describes the life of Lazarus Averbuch, an eastern European immigrant who was shot by the Chieago police in 1908. Averbuch's narra­tive is contrasted in the novel with a pres­ent-day writer named Brik who is researching his life. 
"What l like about literature are the transt'ormative possi­bilities," Hernon told the Los Angeles Times in a May 25 interview. "The great books teach you how to read them. Joyce, Sebald -not that I count myself in that group -but those writers cause you to have to drop your habits and expecta­tions and give your­self to the book." 
TlHl Literary Festival is presented by Student Union Board (SUHJ and the University's Creative Writing Program. In its more than four decades of history, the fnstival has attracted its fair share of famous authors, including McSweeney's engineer Dave Eggars ("A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Geniuf) and the late Norman Mailer. 
In keeping with changes made for last year's festival. SUB has staggered the invit­nd authors over a period of several weeks. Ilemon is the last or this year's four writ­ers, a group whose variety has hallmarked l.he fostival's events. 
On Nov. 6 the Observer reported that Bon Nugont was the Jirst of the Festival's 



image courtesy of stopsmilingonline.com 
Aleksandar Hernon Is the final author to appear at the 2008 ND Literary Festival. 
invited authors to appear on campus on Nov. 4. Nugent is a journalist and essayist whose work has appeared in Time, GQ and New York Times magazine, ·among others. His best-known book, "American Nerd: The Story of My People." 
Nugent told the Observer that "It's a combo of memoir, history and cultural crit­icism. It has stories of my nerdy childhood and also a history of nerdy people." 
Nugent has also written a biography of late musician Elliott Smith. 
The festival's second writer, Galchen, is a Canadian-American author who currently teaches at Columbia University. Galchen received an M.D. from Mount Sinai before 
switching profession and sides of the brain; she later completed an M.F.A. at Columbia. 
She has also been pub­lished in the New York Times and The New Yorker, among other publications. 
Galchen is best known for her novel "Atmospheric Disturbances." As of last month, the novel had been named as a finalist for sever­al prizes, including the Governor General's Award, a prestigious Canadian prize. Galchen spoke at Notre Dame on Nov. 6. 
Marisa Silver, the third speaker, is an author, director and screenplay writer. While still in college, Silver directed her first film, "Old Enough," which won the Grand Jury Prize at the 1984 Sundance Film Festival. She has published several short stories in "The New Yorker," as well as a short story collection, 2001's "Babe in Paradise." Silver's most recent novel is "The God of War," which was published this past spring. Silver spoke at Notre Dame on Nov. 12. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

.RWIM G4lchm 
Gakhen is a Canadian~American author who currently teaches at Columbia Uni"·ersity. An English major as an undergrad, Galchen fim: rea:ived an M.D. from Mount Sinai before completing an M.FA at Columbia. In .2006, she received the Rona Jaffe Foundation Writers' Award for women writers. She's best known for her nol•d Almb­sphnit.: l>ist~Jrbanas, the story ofa pro~sor at a fictional university with the same name as her father, Tzvi Gal-Chen. As oflast month, the novel had been named as a finalist fur several prizes. including the Governor Generars Award. She has 2lso been published in the NnP }'~ imm and 1kMu· Ymhr. 

&nNugent 
Nug~nt, a native of Amherst, Massachus~tts, is a journalist and essayist. His work has app~ared in 
Tim~, GQ and New York Tim~s magazine, among others. His rec.ent work, Ammcan Ntrd: 11J~ Story of My People, was "one of the season's most talked-about cultural studies"' according to the Los Angeles limes. He has also written a biography of late musician Elliott Smith, and was the original keyboardist for a Brooklyn-based indi~ band call~d The Cloud Room. Nugent spok~ at th~ Festival on November 4th. 

Mllris4 Silver 
Silver is.! native ofShaker Heights, Ohio, the daughra ofa pair of 6lm directors. She i> an aurhor, dirc:cror and screenplay writer. Whi!e a smdent ar Harvard. Sflver rurt.;:tcd her fu:sl film, '"Old Er/ough," whit~ ':;'!'OD the Grand Jury Pri7;e at the 
1984 Sundance FHm fes'ti'·a: Having since switched profession;. Si.hrer ha:: published several :;hon stories in 7h~ N~w Yori~r. Her 2001 short scory collc:crion, Bah.: in Paradiu, was named a New York Times Notable Book of the Year. Silvers mosr recenr novd is 7k & ! of'X'izr, published in April 2008. 

MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic. All photos courtesy of nd.edu/-sub 



NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, November 17, 2008 BSERVER Notre Dame 27, Navy 21 
Stotnping ground 
Irish run all over Navy, hang on to lead for a 27-21 victory in Baltimore 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
BALTIMORE-Just in case the combination of the pouring rain and the dull offensive schemes of both Notre Dame and Navy caused fans to lose interest, the teams spiced it up at the end. 
A couple onside kick recoveries, a long pass and some touchdowns, and everyone watched with rapt attention. 
Navy almost mustered its sec­ond comeback in two years, but couldn't finish the job, and Notre Dame hung on to win 27-21 in Baltimore Saturday. With memo­ries of last year's triple-overtime defeat that ended a 43-year Irish winning streak still fresh, the last few minutes got tense, but the Irish stuck it out. 
Navy recovered two consecutive onside kicks in the fmal two min­utes and had a shot at the win until the Irish defense forced a turnover on downs with 22 sec­onds left. 
''I'm looking to sec if anyone wants to be on my hands team next week," Irish coach Charlie Weis joked during his post-game press conference. "Any volun­teers?" 
Navy got the ball with 2:30 left in the game after a Notre Dame three-and-out and slot back Shun White broke a 24-yard touchdown run to make the score 27-13. On the ensuing onside kick, Notre Dame wide receiver Robby Parris knocked the ball out of bounds, but the referees called an illegal batting penalty and ordered a re­kick. On the second kick, Navy's Corey Johnson came down with it. 
On Navy's first play from scrim­mage, quarterback Ricky Dobbs, The game defied expectations -a Navy punt. The ball ricocheted Weis said part of his decision Then it was James Aldridge's who replaced starter Jarod Bryant the Irish held Navy, who ranked upwards and fell into the hands of was based on the look of Navy's turn, who moved the ball to the midway through the game, com­second in the nation with 308 Toryan Smith, who returned it 14 defense, a soft Cover-2 zone Navy 21-yard line, but a pass to pleted a 40-yard pass to receiver yards per game rushing, to 178 yards for a touchdown. where the safeties played far off Aldridge resulted in a loss of seven Tyree Barnes, setting up first-and­yards on the ground. Notre Dame, Navy didn't get an offensive first the line of scrimmage and the yards. Clausen completed a pass goal on the 1-yard line. Two plays by contrast, rushed for 230 yards. down until midway through the defense only rushed three men at over the middle to receiver Robby later, he leaped over a pile into the Receiver Michael Floyd left the second quarter, and for the most times. Parris to set up a 36-yard field end zone to bring the Midshipmen game during the first possession part, stalled against Notre Dame's "We went to dink and dunk and goal from Walker, and the Irish led within six. because of a knee injury, and line­defense. Starting quarterback ran the ball," said Weis, who 27-7 with 5:02 remaining in the 
Another onside kick, another backer Brian Smith left when a Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku-Enhada resumed play-calling duties this game. Aldridge rushed for 30 recovery by Johnson. Navy lineman chop-blocked him, missed the game because of a week. "That was a little bit dictat­yards on the drive. 
"Usually you don't spend a injuring his knee as well. hamstring injury, and Bryant had ed by the soft cover two that they After a turnover on downs, whole bunch of times on hands Cornerback Terrail Lambert trouble running the triple-option were playing with." freshman running back Jonas team," Weis said. "You practice it missed the game as well because offense. Navy punted nine times in Notre Dame dominated the third Gray got a chance to run the ball. a couple times a week. But obvi­he rolled his ankle in practice the game and converted one third quarter. The defense forced three He helped the Irish get a first-and­ously we'II give it a lot more time Thursday, Weis said. down in 13 attempts. punts and the offense put together goal on the Midshipmen two-yard this week." When one Smith left, another "We had to play fast, we had to two touchdown drives and started line, but fumbled, and Navy recov­
The Midshipmen moved the ball took his place in a seamless tran­beat them up because we oversize another that led to a field goal. ered. The Irish forced a Navy to the Irish 31-yard line, but nose sition -Toryan Smith led the them," Toryan Smith said. "Those The rushing game caught fire in punt, but turned the ball over on tackle Pat Kuntz' sack forced a defense with 10 tackles. guys are tough. They took it down the quarter, and Armando Allen downs themselves, leading to third-and-13 for Navy, and two Clausen completed 15 of his 19 to the end, but it was a good win." ran for 31 yards on the first drive, Navy's near-comeback. incomplete passes later, Notre passes for 110 yards with two Navy eventually evened the including an 11-yard touchdown "For [Gray's] sake I wish that's Dame became bowl-eligible. Weis interceptions and a fumble, pass­score on a 22-yard touchdown run that gave the Irish a 17-7 lead. not the way it turned out," Weis said he didn't mention the eligibili­ing efficiently but failing to drive from slot back Cory Finnerty with On Notre Dame's next drive, said. "It made the game a lot more ty that came with Notre Dame's the offense. 2:39left in the half. Robert Hughes rushed six times exciting than it needed to be." (6-4) sixth win, but quarterback The offense struggled early, but Near the end of the second for 48 yards and scored on a Jimmy Clausen said the team the Irish scored first when special quarter, Notre Dame adopted a seven-yard touchdown run with Contact Bill Brink at talked about it. teams player Mike Anello blocked run-first offensive philosophy. 4:03 left in the quarter. wbrink@nd.edu 

player of the game play of the gamestat of the game 

quote of the game 
"I know they say act like you've been 
Toryan Smith's touchdown on a
Toryan Smith 1-for-13 

there, but I act like I'm never going back." 

blocked punt
Irish linebacker 

Navy's third down conversion Smith led Notre Dame with 10 tackles 
The score gave the Irish a 7-0 first­total. 
Toryan Smith
and scored the game's first quarter lead with the offense 

Irish linebacker on his touchdown 
touchdown on a blocked punt. 

struggling. 
page 2 


report card 


C+ A 
B 
B+ A 
A B 
C+ 

ovnrshadowed <Ul otherwise solid perlimnance by the lrL<>h in
3.15 
a must-win gmne that qualified Notre DmneJbr a bowl gmne. 
adding up the nuinbers 

Notre Dame's turnover margin In games 
16 

away from home this season. The Irish have ­turned it over 18 times in those five games. 
51 
The number of times Notre Dame rushed the 
ball Saturday, its highest total of the season. The Irish gained 240 yards on the day. 

The number of completions and 
15-19 

attempts by Irish quarterbacks Saturday, the lowest under Weis. 
3 5 
The number of consecutive starts Irish junior right tackle Sam Young has made. He has started every game of his Notre Dame career. 
The number of consecutive times Notre 
2 4 

Dame has beaten Navy either on the road or at a neutral site, a streak that dates to 1960. 
1 
The number of first downs Navy gained during 
the first quarter. The Midshipmen totaled 21 yards on 12 plays in the period. 

Navy's time of possession Saturday, 
2 4 • 2 7 

its lowest number since Oct. 22, • 2005, against Rice. 
9 
Jimmy Clausen's rank among Notre Dame's 
passing yardage leaders. He has now thrown for 3,651 yards in his career. 
quarterbacks: Clausen's stats were unimpressive and he had three turnovers, but he wasn't needed as much as usual, thanks to tho running game's success. 
running backs: Tho Irish rushed lilr 240 
ym·ds. <md the trio of Allen, Aldridge and 
llughes each rm1 for at lea<>t 60 yards. 
Allen wa<> al<i~J tim team's hmding recniv­
Hr with seven catches lbr (,()yards. 
receivers: Thn tmun's two best remivers, 
(;olden Tate and Mkhad Floyd (knee 
injury), wero both hPid without a catch. 
Tim remivers did a niee job blocking 
downliPid. 
offensive line: Two of Notre Dame's turnovers wero the unit's fault, but tho line also opened up huge holes for the running backs to skate through. 
defensive line: The men up front helped hold down the Navy rushing attack all day, and Pat Kuntz's sack on the final drive proved eritieal in thwarting the rally. 
linebackers: Toryan Smith stepped up when Brian Smith went out with an injury, making 10 tackles. and the unit held Navy in eheek. 
defensive backs: Navy completed just three pa<>ses lor 64 yards, but the 40-yard completion in the limrth quarter set up the score that made tho game interest­ing. 
special teams: The good -two Brandon 
Walker fidd goaJs and a bloeked punt fbr 
a touchdown. Tho bad -Navy reeov­
ornd a pair of critic:al onside kicks. 
coaching: ·nm defense lookcxl great and thP olltmse made solid adjustments in the nm game, but Charlie WnL<> may have aid«xi Navy by pulling the starters a bit early. 
overall: !\ tumultuous ending 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 17, 2008 
BALTIMORE -For those of you too busy saying Hosaries thanking the Virgin Mother for not letting her school lose to Navy again, here's a quick recap of a game you may have missed. 
With only sec­onds remaining on the clock and his team losing to rival Southern Cal 45-17, Stanford coach Jim Harbaugh sends out his field goal unit on fourth down ­an apparent act of "gamesman­ship." 
Not to be outdone, Trojans coach Pete Carroll uses one of his remain­ing time outs to ice the Cardinal kicker. 
Harbaugh takes offense -not at the act itself, but at Carroll's attempt to out-class him -and sends back out the offense. Harbaugh runs a play for the end zone, and tight end Austin Gunder catches an 18-yard touchdown pass, cutting the Trojan lead to only 22 points with triple zeroes on the scoreboard. 
Now I told you that story to tell you this one. 
With 9:07 left in Saturday's game against Navy, Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis sends in his second­string offense to try to run some time off the clock. That works pret­ty well, until freshman running back Jonas Gray fumbles at the Navy 5-yard line. After a Navy punt and a failed fourth-and-three for the Irish, Navy drives 53 yards for the touchdown, cutting the lead to 27-14. 
Weis said after the game that he felt his tnarn should have been able 

Jay Fitzpatrick 
Managing Editor 

to score with first-and-goal on the 
two, but the fact of the matter is 
they couldn't. 
But even if you think you can get those two yards, wouldn't it be bet­ter to just go out and actually get them? 
In hindsight, that fumble was the biggest play of the game because it let Navy think it had a chance. And if that didn't, the touchdown sure did. And if that didn't, the onside kick did, too. 
On the other hand, a touchdown -or even a field goal -would have made it a four-score game and really put things out of reach. 
Now, this isn't to say Weis and the Irish should engage in the kind of gamesmanship men­tioned above, run­rowed time, like a dead man walk­ing, as he watched his hands team fail to grab two onside kicks and his defense give up two quick touch­downs. 
But when Midshipmen quarter­back lUcky Dobbs' fourth-and-13 pass to slot back Cory Finnerty fell incomplete, Charlie Weis, Jr., had one immediate reaction. 
"I think that he said two words and it was like Thank God' or something like that," the elder Weis said at his press conference Sunday. 
But if the Irish want to get back on track to being an elite school, they are going to need to win this kind of game without divine inter­vention. Schools like Florida, 
Southern Cal and 
Texas routinely 

ning up the score for  "/think that !Charlie  pound on lesser  
the sheer joy of scor­ Jr./ said two words  opponents, putting  
ing or padding stats. But with representa­tives from bowl  and it was like 'Thank God' or  the game away early and keeping it out of reach late.  
games in attendance  something like that. "  After the game,  
and a reputation that  Notre Dame quarter­ 
his team plays soft in the second half with  Charlie Weis  back Jimmy Clausen said that it didn't  
the lead, Weis need­ Irish coach  matter what the  

ed to go for the kill. 
This win was even more important with all of the rumors swirling on ESPN and vari­ous other news outlets about Weis being on the "hot seat." These rumors might not have meant any­thing-they could have been time­or space-fillers used to incite debate-but the rumors were seri­ous enough for Notre Dame athletic director Jack Swarbrick to com­ment that Weis has been doing a good job and is moving the program in the right direction. 
But the look on Weis' face during the last 1:39 of the game did not exude the same kind of confidence that his boss had during the week. 
Weis looked like a man on bur-
score was, as long as the Irish won he was happy. 
"A win is a win. It doesn't matter if you win 3-0 or you win 60-0," he said. 
Well it might not matter to the team in the locker room after the game, but it is going to matter in the future. If the Irish can't develop a killer instinct-instead keeping their complacency-God will con­tinue to be very busy on Saturday afternoons. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not neccessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitz­pa.5@nd.edu. 
Check out The Observer's sports blog at observersportsblog.21cr.info. 
Monday, November 17, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Ground game keys Irish victory 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
This game featured bizarro football. 
Navy, statistically the second-best rushing team in the nation coming into the game, sputtered on the ground. The Midshipmen only rushed for 178 yards, 130 yards below their season average. Neither Jarod Bryant or Ricky Dobbs led the option offense effectively at quarterback. 
Notre Dame, on the other hand, rushed for 230 yards (114 more than its average), averaged 4.5 yards per carry and spread those yards between its three running backs. 
Irish coach Charlie Weis decided at halftime that the offense, which had not accomplished much in the first half, needed a change. He said he watched Navy's previous games and thought Navy would use a coverage similar to when Navy played Rutgers -a soft Cover-2 zone that took away deep pass­es and left the rush and short passes open. 
"That's basically what we ended up getting. In the first half, we were trying to throw the ball down the field, but they were playing a soft shell and drop­ping eight a lot of times and there weren't very many windows," Weis said. "I came in at halftime and told them we were going to spread it out and we were going to run the ball until I get sick of running it." 
Weis never got tired of running it. The Irish gained 147 yards on the ground in the second half. 
"It was great," said running back Armando Allen, who finished with eight carries for 60 yards and a touchdown. "We practice with each other every day so we know that we can do it, but to go out there and perform was just amaz­yards and played a large role in the "dink-and-dunk" passing game Weis ran in the second half. The offense ran short passes in the flat, over the middle or behind a screen, and Allen took a couple of those screen passes for first 
ing." 
Allen got his share of the carries in the begin­ning of the third quarter, accounting for 44 yards of Notre Dame's l'irst drive, including an 11-yard touchdown run through a huge hole on the right side of the field. 
"You just come from halftime and the coaches say we're going to run the ball," Allen said. "We haven't had an opportuni­
"We practice with each other every day so we know that we can do it, but to go out there and perform was just amazing." 
Armando Allen Irish running back 
downs. 
"When they talk about throwing the ball, the first thing on my mind is pass protection," he said. "I got to block. But just to go out the back­field and be able to catch the ball is also a plus for me." 
On the next drive, Weis gave running back Robert Hughes a turn. Hughes rushed six straight times, the last 

ty to run the ball as good as we know resulting in a seven-yard touchdown we can so to go out there and run the run. Hughes finished with 64 yards and ball and be on the same page is great." a touchdown on 13 carries. 
Allen also caught seven passes for 60 "It felt good," Hughes said. "Whenever you can get everybody in the rotation and get going in the run game is great." 
James Aldridge, who led the team in carries and yards (16 for 86) rushed six times for 30 yards on Notre Dame's final scoring drive. 
Near the end of the game, Weis decid­ed to give freshman running back Jonas Gray a chance to carry the ball. Gray rushed for 16 yards on seven carries and had a chance to punch the ball in from the two-yard line but fumbled. 
"It's 27-7, we got the ball on the two­yard line, first and goal, I think we should expect to score," Weis said. "When you don't get some guys an opportunity to carry the ball in pressure situations, you can't make a judgment on where you are with them. I think that in that situation right there I would have liked to see us run it in with the guys we had in there." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  7  3  14  3  27  
Navy  0  7  0  14  21  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, Navy 0 
Toryan Smith 14-yd blocked punt return (Brandon Walker kick) with 6:03 remaining. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Navy 7 
Cory Finnerty 22-yd run (Matt Harmon kick) 
with 2:39 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 58 yards, 
2:00 elapsed. 

Notre Dame 10, Navy 7 
Walker 28-yd field goal with 0:00 remaining. 
Drive: 8 plays, 44 yards, 1:09 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 17, Navy 7 
Armando Allen 11-yd run (Walker kick) with 
9:31 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 54 yards, 2:51 remaining. 
Notre Dame 24, Navy 7 
Robert Hughes 7-yd run (Walker kick) with 3:29 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 61 yards, 4:03 remaining. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 27, Navy 7 
Walker 36-yd field goal with 11:17 remaining. 
Drive: 10 plays, 46 yards, 5:02 remaining. Notre Dame 27, Navy 14 
Shun While 24-yd run (Harmon kick) with 1:39 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 57 yards, :51 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 27, Navy 21 
Ricky Dobbs 1-yd run (Harmon kick) with 1:21 remaining. Drive: 3 plays, 41 yards, :15 elapsed. 
statistics 
total yards 


rushing yards 

passing yards 


Floyd, Smith ruled out until bowl game 
return yards 
either on Saturday after injur­career in the first quarter. The Dame's 27-9 win that season. 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
ing his ankle on Thursday. block led to a Toryan Smith Notre Dame ran 247 plays
Managing Editor 
Weis said the fifth-year senior touchdown, also the first of his against Navy in between is "50-50" for Notre Dame's career. punts. 

Notre Dame coach Charlie game against Syracuse on "It was just something (spe­
time of possession 
Weis said that wide receiver Saturday and should be ready cial teams) coach (Brian) Offensive changeup Michael Floyd and linebacker by Nov. 29 when Polian and Notre Dame ran 51 times Brian Smith will miss the the Irish play coach Weis against Navy-a season high. remaining two regular season usc. "It was just some­set up for Also, Irish quarterback Jimmy games because of knee thing coach Polian me," Anello Clausen only threw the ball 18 injuries suffered Saturday Fresh faces said. "I was times against the Midshipmen. 
and coach Weis set

against Navy. Freshman 1 u c k y As a team, the Irish were 15­
Floyd injured his knee on Robert Blanton up for me. I was lucky enough to of-19 with 110 yards and two the first drive of the game. started the first enough to get a hand get a hand picks-record lows for Weis' Smith injured his because of game of his Irish on it." time at the University for
on it.,, 

an illegal chop block. Although career in place of This was attempts and completions. both will miss the next two the injured N o t r e weeks, Weis said they should Lambert. Blanton Mike Anello Dame's sec­Shoring up the defense passingbe healthy by the middle of is the sixth fresh­Irish special teamer ond blocked Navy ran for only 178 yards December. meaning they will man to start for punt of the Saturday, its lowest total in the 
Clausen 15-18·2 Dobbs 2-8-0 
likely be active if the Irish go Notre Dame this season. series since 2001, when it to a bowl game. season, joining Floyd, tight Cornerback Sergio Brown had managed 177 yards. Coming rushing 
"They are both looking at a end Kyle Rudolph, defensive the first in the season opener into this game, the four week period, and fortu­end Ethan Johnson, linebacker against San Diego State. Midshipmen were averaging Aldridge 16-80 Kettani 11-42 nately for us, that would take Darius Fleming and offensive 308 yards per game on the Hughes 13-64 Bryant 10·41 
Allen 8-60 White 5·39
us to the middle of December. guard Trevor Robinson. Speaking of punts ... ground. 
Gray 7-16 Dobbs 13·27
and still giving you over a cou­Eric Maust's second quarter Saturday also marked the 
Grimes 1-10 Finnerty 1-22
ple of weeks to get their car­Very special teams punt Saturday marked the first time all season Navy did diovascular up and be ready to Senior Mike Anello contin­first time since 2004 that Navy not score on its opening drive. receiving go," Weis said. ued his impressive season on forced the Irish to punt, when 
Notre Dame cornerback special teams for Notre Dame, D. J. Fitzpatrick did so in the Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at Allen 7-60 Barnes 2-54 Terrail Lambert did not play blocking the first punt of his fourth quarter of Notre jfitzpa5@nd.edu Grimes 3-22 Washington 1-10 




page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 17, 2008 





Tinte to exhale 
Navy was supposed to be the team with the dominating rushing attack, but somebody must have fi>rgotten to tell Notre Dame. The Irish rushed for 240 
yard-; while holding the Midshipmen to 178, 130 yards under their season aver­age. Notn~ Dame never tra.ilnd despite a lackluster perform<mce from quarter­back Jimmy Clausen that included three of the team's five turnovers. The Irish struck first wlwn Mike Annllo blocked a first-qwu1er punt and Toryan Smith scooped it up filr a touchdown. After Navy tied the game 7-7, Brandon Walker gave thnlrish a I0-7lead with a finld goal as time expired in the first half. Then the Notre Damn running back trio of Armando Allen, Robert Hughes and James Aldridgn took ovnr, as Allen and Hughes punched in scores on consecutive third-quarter drives to give Notre Dame a 24-7lr~ad. Walker added a field goal to make it 27-7 with fivn minutes to play, <md with most of the Irish starters on the sidleline, the game looknd to be well in hand. But Navy scored a pa.ir of touch­downs to cut the lead to 27-21, and Notre Drune needed a last-minute defensive stand to stop what would have been a shocking comeback by the Midshipmen. 
4
, ••.
~-' ~-· __.-.·· )(. 
.... ,.:· ·:"' 
HY PHAM/The Observer 
HY PHAM/The Observer 

Clockwise from top, Jimmy Clausen points out the middle linebacker for his offensive lineman; Jonas Gray looks for a hole after taking a handoff; Robert Blanton (12) leads Notre Dame's celebration of Toryan Smith's touchdown; Armando Allen gets ready to make a move; Harrison Smith defends a Navy option play. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, November 17, 2008 
page 11 

who, with one exception, versal critical acclaim. 
There are many

have no special powers. From a film perspective, Surprisingly, they are reasons why this "Watchmen" has another completely human. film has potential; thing going for it -it's 
The story is filled with not unlike another comic
being called the 

betrayals, hubris, book film that came out
"Citizen Kane, of

omnipotent cynics, good. this summer, one that was evil and the confusion in comic books is a based on a popular graph­between. Taking place ic novel.
good place to start. 
Though the other film 

Many of you have, no doubt, seen trailers for a new superhero movie. The trailer looks fairly generic, filled with 300 style effects and a plethora of unknown actors. Though the marketing teams seem con­fused with the film's Szymon Ryzner direction, the many fans of its source 
Scene Writer 

material are count­ing down the days until it appears at the local Cineplex. 
"Watchmen" has been a hit with all types ol' nerds, geeks and dorks. and like everything they have come to love, it will soon be as mainstream as every other superhero has become in these last few summers. The story centers on costumed crime fighters 
during the Cold War, the story of "Watchmen" begins with the murder of a former caped crusader and doesn't slow down. 
The film is based on a graphic novel, originally 12 comic book size chapters -yes, 12, like a watch, there's plenty of symbolism for you. Filled with quotes and quotable moments, refer­ences and allusions, it is a virtual time capsule of the 1980s. The characters, too, are worth mention, with most por­trayed as morally ambiguous and all being character studies of quality. 
Alan Moore, the creator of "Watchmen," has also written the orig­inal works on which films such as "V for Vendetta," and "From Hell" have been based. He has often been a critic of the movie industry's take on graphic novels, firmly believing that since he created "Watchmen" as a comic, then it should remain as one. Never has he given a green light to make film ver­sions of his creations, but he has said that the screenplay for the upcoming "Watchmen" film is the closest he could imagine a screenplay adaptation could come. 
With its captivating and memorable visuals, the graphic novel has often been called a cinematic work, yet most have considered the text to be "unfilmable." 
Directors such as David Hayter and Darren Aronofsky have been trying since 1986 to cinematically interpret the novel, and the ultimate product is set to emerge this March. 
There are many reasons why this film has potential; being called the "Citizen Kane" of comic books is a good place to start. 
"Watchmen" is the only comic book to be on Time magazine's list of the 100 best English language novels (from 1923 onwards). It has won the Hugo 
award and garnered uni­
had an all-star cast and 
much more name recogni­tion, "Watchmen" and "The Dark Knight" both spring from the same creative vein. 
There are only so many ways to inspire interest in a film that's not due to be released until next spring, and it would be difficult to mention more without giving valuable information away. Rewatch the trailer, read the graphic novel, convince your friends, and go see the movie. One of those four will no doubt be enlightening to some degree, and might even be fun. 
Moore's graphic novel has been around for over twenty years, and will no doubt be influential in various media for decades to come. 
The original text may be called a seminal work, but it will only matter in March of 2009 when we find out who actually watches the "Watchmen." 
The view expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Contact Szymon Ryzner at sryzner@gmail. com. 

SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
You 
Stupid Cots 

Yep. Stupid cots. 
Swedish Chef -Making Donuts 
How do you like them donuts? 
The Wiggles -Fruit Solod 

Fruit Salad? 
Yummy yummy. 
Demetri Morfin -Rode, Poper, Scissors 

Your rock is not stru(furolly damaged. 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 17, 2008 
NFL 

Eagles-Bengals contest ends in NFL's first tie since 2002 
Grant rushes for 146 yards in Packers' rout of Bears; Titans remain undefeated with win over Jaguars 
enough to try a field goal.
Assodate<l Press 
They missed it, leaving them 
C I N C I N NAT I -Donovan with only their second tied M1: Na h b e x p IH: t n d lo kn e p gamn in franchise history. playing until someone scored, They played Houston to a 31­no matter how long it look. 31 tie in 1969, their second Mnreifully. the NFL's rules snt snason. a limn limit on terribln play. "We didn't win. We didn't 
Eagles 13. Bengals 13. It lose, either," said Graham, could not have ended any who had been 6-for-6 from 40­other way. 49 yards. "But sometimes, 
McNabb fumbled and threw tying stings a little more." three intnrceptions in regula­Philadelphia had not fin­lion Sunday, and the Bengals ished with a tie since a 10-10 bo l elw d t he o n Iy s co r i n g game against Baltimore in ehancn in overtime, lnaving 1997. The Eagles' defense had tho equally inept teams with eight sacks and compensated tho NI·'L's first tied game in six for Mc:Nabb's fumble by years. pulling off a goal-line stand 
Cincinnati's Shayne Graham from the 1 in the first half. missed a 47-yard field goal The game soon settled in that with 7 seconds left in over­pattern-a blitzing defense lime, falling to the ground as trying to erase the offense's the ball sailed a few inches mishaps. wide to the right. It was a fit­It onded in a draw. ting finish to a game played McNabb, who had only five like the very d1~finition of a tie. interceptions coming in, went Despite all the shanked punts 2H-of-58 for 339 yards. lie and trick plays, this one went repeatedly missed open nowhorn. receivers in an offense that 
"Tnrrihle," Bengals quarter­has come to rely on him back Hyan Fitzpatri<:k said. almost entirely because it 
No one was more surprised can't run. than McNabb that it ended so Stunning stat: Philadelphia soon -:~ hours, 46 minutes tried to pass on all of its 18 of after the opening kickoff. The its third-down plays, ineluding 1Oth-year quarterback three third-and-1 plays. The thought it would keep going Eaglns converted only three of until someone scored, just like their third-down plays as they a playoff game. got away from their ineffective 
Wrong. running game. 

"I didn't know that," said "It makes you look at differ­McNabb, who played a leading ent options," said Brian role in keeping it tied. "I've Westbrook, who ran for only Grant said, "until somebody Urlacher said. "They did season road game. never been part of a tie. I 60 yards. "Today we tried a takes it to us." whatever they wanted to do." The Jaguars (4-6) lost for never even knew it was in the couple of different things, and Sunday's win also was the Grant and Hodgers both ben­the fourth time in six games, rule book. I was looking for­we weren't successful." Packers' first victory over the efited from much-improved fell six games behind AFC ward to getting the opportuni­Philadelphia Eagles defen­Bears at Lambeau Field since play by the Packers' offensive South leader Tennessee and ty to get out tlwre and try to sive end Darren Howard (90) Lovie Smith took over as line, which pushed around a probably ended any chance drive to win thn game. But recovers a fumble against the Chicago's head coach in 2004. Bears defense that had been they had of returning to the unfortunately with the rules, Cincinnati Bengals in the sec­That's important, but Packers strong against the run but vul­postseason. we settled with a tie." ond half of an NFL football coach Mike McCarthy was nerable to the pass. Collins was at his best when 
It was the first tied game in game Sunday, Nov. 16, 2008, more interested in what hap­the team needed him most, the NFL since Nov. 10, 2002, in Cincinnati. The Eagles and pens next. Tennessee 24, directing consecutive touch­when the Falcons and Stcclers Bengals played to a 13-13 tie, "Is it going to feel good Jacksonville 14 down drives in the third quar­finished 34-34 with Michael the Nr'L's first in six years. when you walk through the JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -ter that turned an 11-point Vick and Tommy Maddox door? Absolutely," McCarthy Behind, ahead. Home, away. deficit into a three-point lead. matching nach other pass for Green Bay 37, Chicago 3 said. "But it was a game that Backups, starters. No matter He sealed the vietory with a pass. In this one, the teams Ilello, Ryan Grant. was important for our season. the situation, the Tennessee perfect 38-yard TD pass to matched each other gaffe for Goodbye, "Soldier Field To get to 5-5 and tied with Titans keep l'inding ways to Justin Gage with 3:57 remain­gaffe. North." Minnesota and Chicago, that's win. ing. Collins and Gage also 
The Eagles (5-4-1) have yet Grant finally hit his stride -where we wanted to be today." And stay unbeaten. hooked up for a 56-yard seore to win a elose game this sea­and justified his big contract Chicago, meanwhile, didn't Kerry Collins threw three in the third period-the only son, going 0-4 with a tin in -for the Green Bay Packers look much like a playoff con­touchdown passes, Albert third-down conversation of games decided by less than a on Sunday, rushing for 145 tender on either side of the Haynesworth dominated the day for the Titans. Thny touchdown. McNabb had a big yards and a touchdown in a ball Sunday. defensively again and the finished 1-of-12 on third hand in this one, matching his dominant victory over the Kyle Orton started at quar­Titans improved to 10-0 with down. career high with three intnr­Chicago Bears. terback for the Bears after sit­a victory over the Tennessee Titans wide CI\ptions and setting up 10 of The win boosts the Packers ting out last Sunday's game Jacksonville Jaguars on receiver Brandon Jones, ean­Cincinnati's points. (5-5) into a three-way tie with with a sprained right ankle. Sunday. not make the fingertip catch 
lie nnarly had anothnr pass the Bears and Minnesota But Orton was outplayed by Tennessee overcame a 14-3 during the second quarter of pieknd off in ovnrtime, but Vikings atop the muddled NFC Packers quarterback Aaron halftime deficit, got solid play an NFL football game against .Johnathan Josnph dropped a North. It has been an up-and­Rodgers, who completed 23 of from third-string cornerback the Jacksonvilln Jaguars, poton lia I in l I' r c e p t ion IW a r down season for the post-Brett 30 passes for 227 yards with Chris Carr and extended its Sunday, Nov. 16, 2008, in midlinld. Each loam had three Favre Packers, but Sunday's two touchdowns and an inter­franchise-record winning Jacksonville, Fla. c ha n c n s i n tlw o x t r a 1 5 -win puts them in position to ception. streak in the regular season to Collins was 13-of-23 for 230 minuto quartnr, but only the win tho division again. "They ran it, they threw it," 13. The Titans also won their yards. Gage eaught four pass­Bengals ( 1-H-1) got eloso "We're the champions," Bears linebacker Brian seventh consecutive regular-es for 14 7 yards. 

The Observer acceprs classitieds every business day lrom 8 a.m. to 3\'.111. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

A 3-bedroom fully furnished house If you or someone you care about for rent from mid December 2008 has been sexually assaulted, visit WANTED FoR SALE FoR RENT through July 2009. PERSONAL http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
I 

3-bdrm,2.5 bath Condo. Two bathrooms+ renovated base­Babysitter needed for Notre Dame HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-1 0 ment (potential additional bed­UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Two teachers ready to adopt new· family. Close to NO, SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS room). 10 minute walk from not go it alone born and provide a wonderful life for 
AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER University of Notre Dame. $1000 him/her. Confidential. Expenses Occasional afternoons from 3-6 Master bdrm on main floor w/bth. PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR not including utilities. Call 574-233-If you or someone you love needs paid. Stephenandliz@aol.com or 
p.m. KRAMERHOUSES.COM 2618 or 631-8213 confidential support or assistance, call us toll free 1-888-760­Catwalk between bdrm upstairs. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at BABYADOPTION ­Should have own car. Furnished 2-bdrm, house. Living Student rentals 2009/2010. St. (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574­
1896 sq. ft. room, kitchen, dining room, full Peter/S.B. Ave. homes. $1300-631-2685. Loving Domer couple looking to Pay: bath. 6.5 blks to NO. $1960/mo. 5-7 bdrms adopt a baby (babies). tell us what works for you. 1330 Bridgewater Way, $795/mo. Avail Jan. 1. Call 605-For more information, visit our please call Marie and James 
Mishawaka. $179,900. Call574-397-8135 or 574-234-3007 or 574-1st & 2nd floors. Contact Bruce website at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­(301)977-5069 or (866) 202-1424 913-426-3838. 247-1567. 261-4444. Gordon 574-876-3537. ments/pregnant.shtml PIN 5448. 
OUND THE NATION 
Monday, November 17, 2008 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 13 

NBA 
NCAA BCS Football Rankings 
team ave . previous 
1 Alabama .9787 1 2 Texas Tech .9698 2 3 Texas .8911 3 4 Florida .8755 4 5 Oklahoma .8388 5 6 usc .7873 6 7 Utah .7643 7 8 Penn State .6957 8 9 Boise State .6559 9 10 Ohio State .6154 11 11 Georgia .6129 10 12 Oklahoma State .5672 13 13 Missouri .5600 12 14 BYU .4393 17 15 Michigan State .4021 15 16 TCU .3858 18 17 Ball State .3673 14 18 LSU .2727 20 19 Cincinnati .2594 22 20 Pitt .2171 21 21 Oregon State .2027 NR 22 North Carolina .1329 16 23 Miami .1023 NR 24 Oregon .0630 NR 25 Maryland .0550 NR 
Associated Press NCAA Football Top 25 
team points record 
1 Alabama (42) 1601 11·0 2 Texas Tech (21) 1574 10·0 2 Florida (2) 1476 9·1 4 Texas 1437 10·1 5 Oklahoma 1369 9-1 6 usc 1310 9·1 7 Penn State 1178 10-1 8 Utah 1158 11·0 
g 
Boise State 1098 10-0 10 Ohio State 1017 9-2 11 Oklahoma State 987 9-2 12 Missouri 913 9·2 13 Georgia 864 9-2 14 Ball State 714 10-0 15 TCU 659 9-2 16 BYU 656 11}-1 17 Michigan State 612 9-2 18 LSU 526 7-3 19 Cincinnati 413 8-2 20 Pittsburgh 406 H 21 Oregon State 369 7-3 22 Maryland 161 7-3 23 Miami (FL) 139 7-3 24 Oregon 126 8-3 25 North Carolina 115 7-3 
CCHA Men's Hockey Standings 
Team Record 
league points 
1 Miami 
6·2·2 15 
2 Ferris State 
4·2·2 10 3 Michigan 5-3-0 10 4 Bowling Green 
4-3"1 9 5 Lake Superior 3~3-2 9 6 Nebraska-Omaha 
H·1 8 
7 NOTRE DAME 
3-2·1 8 
8 Michigan State 2-4-2 8 9 Ohio State 3-4·1 8 10 Alaska 
3-3·0 6 11 Western Michigan 1-4-3 6 12 Northern Michigan 1-6-1 3 
around the dial 
NFL 
Browns at Bills 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Amare Stoudemire had 29 points and 11 rebounds on his 26th birthday and the Phoenix Suns overcame Shaquille O'Neal's second­quarter ejection to beat the Detroit Pistons 104-86. 
Steve Nash, back from a one-game suspension for his part in a skirmish with several Houston Rockets on Wednesday night, added 17 points and seven assists for the Suns, who already were without two players before O'Neal was tossed for a fla­grant foul with 5:19 left in the first half. Boris Diaw had 13 points for Phoenix. 
Richard Hamilton scored 19 for the Pistons, who entered the game 3-0 on a four-game western swing that began Tuesday. In their previous stop, they handed the Lakers their first loss of the season Friday night in Los Angeles. 

Detroit's Allen Iverson scored nine points on 4-for­17 shooting. 
The Suns made 14 of their first 19 shots and never trailed again. 
O'Neal had 10 of his 12 points in the second quar­ter before his night came to an early end. 
The call was made with 
5:19 left in the half when Rodney Stuckey went up for a layup and O'Neal sent the Pistons' player crashing chest-first to the court. The flagrant foul two, which is an automatic ejection, was upheld after a review by referee Ken Mauer. 
O'Neal stayed on the court to argue vehemently as Mauer ignored him before the Suns' big man finally leaving as US Airways Center echoed with boos. 
Stuckey made both free throws to cut Phoenix's lead to 48-35. 
But the Suns scored the next six to take their biggest lead of the half, 54­35, on two free throws by Robin Lopez with 3:19 left in the half. A 9-1 Detroit spurt cut the lead to 55-44 but Nash made two 3­
IN BRIEF Armstrong meets with 
Tour de France officials 
MILAN, Italy-Seven-time Tour de France winner Lance Armstrong plans to meet with Tour officials before deciding to compete in the 2009 race. 
The Gazzetta dello Sport reported Sunday that Johan Bruyneel, Armstrong's team director at Astana, said the pair had asked for a meeting. 
"The decision will be made down the road, after having talked with the organizers. We have asked for a meeting," Bruyneel told the Italian newspaper. 
Armstrong announced his come­back from a three-year retirement in September and joined the Astana team. Bruyneel teamed with Armstrong for all seven Tour de France wins from 1999-2005. 
Armstrong has feuded for years with Tour officials over drug-testing issues, but Tour director Christian Prudhomme has said the Astana team will be allowed to race next year. 

Miller finishes second in 
slalom World Cup event 
LEVI, Finland-Bode Miller hadn't stepped on the podium after a World Cup slalom event since winning in 2004. 
On Sunday, Miller was edged by Jean-Baptiste Grange of France in the slalom opener by 0.79 seconds, fin­ishing second in 1 minute, 45.28 sec­onds on Levi's Black Course north of the Arctic Circle. 
Miller used an aggressive second run to post his best slalom finish since a victory four years ago in Sestriere, Italy. 
"It's been a while, but it's been a lot of times when I felt good and com­fortable but couldn't put it together in a race," Miller said. "So it was impor­tant today for me to get to the finish line." 
Miller nearly pulled off an American double on the weekend. Lindsey Vonn won the World Cup slalom on Saturday, her first victory in the event. 
pointers in the final 29 sec­onds to put Phoenix ahead 61-46 at the break behind 70 percent first-half shoot­ing. 
The Suns led 81-67 after three, then Detroit scored the first five points on the fourth quarter to cut it to 81-72 when Will Bynum stole the ball from Nash for a layup with 10:26 to play. After a timeout, Nash sank a 20-footer, and Detroit never cut it to single digits again. 
Diaw sank a 3-pointer, then made an inside hook, and Stoudemire scored on a drive, then followed with a dunk on a three-point play, putting Phoenix ahead 93-75 with 7:43 remaining. 
Johnson wins his third 
straight Cup championship 
HOMESTEAD, Fla. -Jimmie Johnson and Chad Knaus never slowed down enough to consider what a record-tying third consecutive championship would mean to their legacy. 
Don't count on them doing it now. 
After tying Cale Yarborough's 30­year mark as the only driver with three straight championships, Johnson and his crew chief were already thinking about going after No.4. 
"I could go race again next week and start the season and go for four," Johnson said after Sunday's fmale at Homestead-Miami Speedway. "It's on our minds. It's not that we're chasing a number, we just know what we're capable of. We know we can do bet­ter. It's a search to do the best we can." 
Knaus, the first crew chief in series history to win three straight, even offered to report to work Monday. 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, November 17, 2008 
NFL 
Steelers win bizarre game 
Associated Press 
PITTSBUHGII -There has 
1wvnr been a game like this 
in NFL history. 
The bizarre 11-10 final score was fitting because the Chargers still haven't had the regular-season finish they want in Pittsburgh: a winning one. 
Bnn Hoethlisberger stayed away from the mistakes that cost the Steelers their previ­ous two home games, Willie Parker ran for 115 yards and .Jol'f' Heed's third field goal won it-a 32-yarder with 11 seconds rnmaining -as Pittsburgh rallied to beat the Chargers on a snowy Sunday. 
Thn first such score in 12.S37 NFL games was in jeopardy when Troy l'olamalu returned an nrrant lateral 12 yards for an apparent touehdown on thn final play. The play was over­turnnd on revinw -it was called an illegal forward pass -and the 11-10 final was 
reston~d. 
Arter the game, referee Scott Groen said the officials rnalized af'terward the touch­down should have counted, though it wouldn't have alTneted thn result. 
"It was weird," Stl~elers receiver llinns Ward said. "Wn dnfinitely have to work on our of'f'ensn. But this game is about wins and losses, and wn won." 
The only thing perfect on a snowy, frigid day when the weather and the offenses were equally awful was San Diego's regular-season record in Pittsburgh. Make it 0-13. 
"I like playing on grass, mud, anything that slows down an offense," said line­backer James !Iarrison, who made a series of key plays. 
Nate Kaeding put San Diego (4-6) up 10-8 with a 22-yard field goal with 6:41 to play, al'ter missing from the 41 in the third quarter with the Steelers (7-3) leading 8-7. 
Kaeding's miss came at Ileinz Field's open end, where breezes blowing off tlw nearby three rivers cause tricky kicking conditions. Heed made his decisive kick at the same end following a 
13-play, 73-yard  drive  in  
whieh Hocthlisberger was  6­ 
of'-(> for 49 yards.  

"I hit that one the best, and I knew it right away," Heed said. 
The Steelers outgained the Chargers 410-213, and most teams with a 300-yard pass­e~ a 115-yard rusher and a 124-yard receiver (Ward) normally have plenty of offense. 
But the Steelers couldn't get into the end zone even as Honthlisberger went 31-ol'-41 for 308 yards against the NFL's worst passing defense, partly because they had 13 
penalties for 115 yards to San Diego's two for 5 yards. Also, Mewelde Moore was stopped from a foot out on a fourth-and-goal play late in the first quarter. 
A snow squall about 45 minutes before the late­afternoon kickoff coated Heinz's grass surface on a breezy, 35-degere day that began with a wind chill of 
26. The mid-November con­ditions were a visible reminder of the warm­weather Chargers' struggles in Pittsburgh, where they have never won a regular­season game, although they are 2-0 there in the playoffs. 
''I'm not going to say that snow didn't help us. It did," safety Ryan Clark said. 
Roethlisberger was not intercepted after being picked off eight times, with only one touchdown pass, in his previous three games, including seven interceptions in successive home-field loss­es to the Colts (24-20) and Giants (21-14). Still, the Steelers' only scoring drives ended with Heed's field goals of' 21, 41 and 32 . 
"We've gotten into some close games and we haven't found a way to win. It was important for us to get into a close game like this and find a way to win," Aaron Smith said after Pittsburgh regained first place in the AFC North. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Robinson out at 'Cuse with dislllal record 
Associated Press 
SYHACUSE, N.Y. -Greg Robinson's career as Syracuse coach started poorly and never got bet­ter. When he was fired with two games left in a fourth straight dismal sea­son, even he figured it was coming. 
"I don't think it really comes as a surprise to anyone. It doesn't come as a surprise to me," Robinson said at a news conference Sunday. "I ran out of time. I still see improvement. As always, I'm optimistic, I think with more time I could do bet­ter. Obviously, I didn't get it done. That's the bottom line. I understand why the decision was made, so I go from there" 
Robinson, who will coach the final two games of this season, is 9-36 overall and 3-25 in the Big East in three-plus seasons. lin had another year left on a con­tract that pays $1.1 million per season. 
He said it was important to him to finish the season. 
"I wanted to make sure under no uncertain terms I was the football coach," Hobinson said. "I've seen it become chaotic. This will not be chaotic." 
Syracuse (2-8, 1-5) lost to Connecticut 39-14 on Saturday night and is try­ing to avoid a third 10-loss campaign under Robinson. The Orange had never reached double-digit losses in a season before Robinson was hired by ath­letic director Daryl Gross in January 2005 to replace Paul Pasqualoni. 
"Last week we fell out of bowl contention and this week was senior week. We just thought at this point the community could relax," Gross said. explain­ing why he waited until Sunday to make a decision. "He's a guy who wanted to live here the rest of his life. A guy like that you give a chance." 
After Syracuse went 2-10 last season, Gross decided to retain Hobinson despite calls for change from both alumni and fans. But Gross said he needed to see "tan­gible improvement" in the program and that never happened. 

Syracuse stayed close to Pittsburgh and West Virginia in its first two Big East games this season, but were blown out 45-13 at South Florida on Oct. 18, accumulating 9 yards of offense and no first downs in the second half. 
Saint Mary's College 2008 International Education and l\1odern Languages Week November 17-21, 2008 
Sunday-November 16 Foreign Language Film LES CHORISSTES (J<rench) 7:00 pm, 228 Moreau Centt:r ~'londay -November 17 . Spanish Popular Music under the Late Franco Regime (1965-1975) by Pro£ Daniel Part 12:00-1:00 pm, 114 Moreau Center French Dinner 4:30-7:30 pm Modern Languages Recital: Music ;;wd Dance Around the ll'lorld 7:30pm, Little Theater Tuesday-November·18 Leadership Lunch/CW'IL Colloquium \Vith CW'IL Fellow Naida Lehmann: "Restoration of Degraded Habitats in a Multicultural Context: Case Sntdy: Little Com Island., Nicaragua." 12::00-1:00 pm Student Center Conference Room A & B German Dinner 4:30-7:30 pm Passport Photo Day 5:30-6:30 pm Stapleton Conference Room, Le lAans  lntercuhur.tl. Learning Sho\vc•tse 7:00-9:00 prn, Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Study abroad returnees presentation on their interna­tional and intercultural learning experience. All students are welcome to attend the event and find out more about CWIL student travel grants for study abroad. lv1andatory attendance for al12008-09 grant recipients and students wishing to apply for the 2009-10 C'iX/IL student travel grants. Foreign Language Film "IM JULI" (German) 7:00 pm, 152 Regina Hall Wednesday-Novembet·l9 China summer Program Info Session 4:00-5:00 pm, Student Center Conference Room A/B/C I talian Dinnet' 4:30-7:3(1 pm Foreign Language Film RESPIRO (Italian) 7:00 plY'~ 152 Regina Hal!  Tlmrsday-November 20 Spanish Lunch noon Smdy Abroad Pre-departure Orientation 6:00-8:00 prn, Haggar Pador Foreign Language Film EL ESPIRITU DE LA COLMENA (Spanish) 7:00 prn, Vander Vennet Theater Friday-November 21 Foreign Language Films CARAMEL (Arabic) 7:00pm, 152 Regina Hall THE SOONG SISTERS (Chinese) 7:00 prn, Vander Vennet Theater  

Co-Sponsors qfthe events: Center for 'iii/omen's Intercultural Leadership and Modem Languages Department 

/  Monday, November 17, 2008  
_j'  
MEN'S SWIMMING  

Irish get sweep in Ohio tri-meet 
second-place 400-medley
By MIKE GOTIMER 
relay, which consisted of 
Sports Writer 
Sullivan, Lyttle, senior Daniel Rave, and sopho­

Notre Dame swept a tri­more Patrick Augustyn. meet against Cleveland Irish junior Andrew State and Miami (Ohio) Hoffman claimed Notre Saturday at Cleveland Dame's fifth first-place fin­State's Busbey Natatorium. ish with his performance in The Irish beat the Vikings the 200-freestyle. 132-109 and raced past the lloffman's time of 1:41.89 Hedhawks 143-100. was about a second and a 
Saturday to run  one  more  
race.  
Both  the  men's  and  


In total. the Irish won five half faster than that of sec­of 13 events on the day. ond-place finisher Chris Irish junior John Lyttle was Gunnels from Miami. one of two Irish swimmers The Irish put forth a to win a pair of races. strong effort on the diving Lyttle took the 50-yard board, and finished with freestyle by just over one three of the top five scorers tenth of a second, out­in both the 1-meter and 3­touching Cleveland State's meter diving events. Senior Stephen Grove with a time Michael Bulfin finished in of 20.83 compared to second in the 1-meter and Grove's 20.94. Lyttle also fifth in the 3-meter event. took first in the 100-Sophomores Eric Lex, freestyle with a time of Wesley Villafor and Nathan 
45.60. Geary combined for the rest 
Irish sophomore Michael of Notre Dame's top five Sullivan continued his finishes. Lex took third in strong season, earning two both the 1-meter and 3­first-place finishes just meter events while Villafor days after being named the took fifth in the 1-meter Big East swimming and div­event and Geary took ing athlete of the week. fourth in the 3-meter event. Sullivan dominated the With the wins, the Irish 200-individual medley with improved to 3-2 on the sea­a time of 1:55.11, which son. The Irish are now 22-2 was nearly two seconds against Cleveland State ahead of the next closest under coach Tim Welsh. f"inisher. lie was equally as The Irish return to action dominant in the 200-back­when they head to stroke, taking first place Columbus for the Ohio honors with a time of State Invitational on Dec. 5. 1:51.60. 
Sullivan also swam back­Contact Mike Gotimer at stroke on Notre Dame's mgotimer@nd.edu 

Irish Studies at Notre Dame 
Dance -Film -History -Language -Literature 
Beginning Irish I Irish & American Tap Tara MacLeod 
Dance 
IRST 10101:01 
James McKenna 
MWF 10:40-11:30 IRST21601:01 
T 9:30-10:20 MW 4:30-5:45 MW 11:45-12:35 
Beginning Irish I Irish Folk Custom & 
Tara MacLeod 
Belief
IRST 10101:02 
Diarmuid 6 Giollain
MWF 11:45-121:35 IRST 30105:01T II :00-11:50 
TR 12:30-1:45 Beginning Irish II 
Migration & Identity
Mary O'Callaghan IRST 10102:01 in the New Ireland MWF 11:45-12:35 Sean O'Brien R 9:30-10:20 IRST 30109:01 TR 11:00-12:15 Beginning Irish II Mary O'Callaghan Violence in Late 1RST 10102:02 Medieval & MWF I 0:40-11 :30 
Renaissance Europe
T II :00-11:50 Rory Rapple IRST 30274:01
Intermediate Irish 
TR 3:30-4:45 
Anne Corbett IRST 20103:01 
Introduction to Irish
MWF 10:40-11:30 
Writers Celtic Heroic B.-ian 6 Conchubhair IRST 30372:01
Literature 
MWF 11:45-12:35 
Hugh Fogarty IRST 20109:01 
British History,
TR 9:30-10:45 
1660-1800 
Advanced Readings in .James Smyth IRST 30413:01
Irish Culture 
MWF 9:35-10:25 
Brian 6 Conchubhair IRST 20203:01 
Early l\-lodern Ireland
MWF 9:35-10:20 Rory Rapple IRST 30434:01
British & Irish Gothic 
TR 12:30-1:45 
Heather Edwards IRST 20539:01 TR 3:30-4:45 
Keough-Naughton lnstilute for Irish Studies-422 Flanner Hall 

The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Sn1yth vvins second straight title 
Men, womenfinish fourth at regionals, advance to NCAA championships 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Wri rer 
The Irish ran well enough 
women's teams earned at­large bids to the NCAA Championships with fourth­place finishes at the Great Lakes Regional at Purdue University. 
"We're very happy to have made the championships, no doubt about it," men's head coach Joe Piane said. "Everything went according to plan." 
The top two teams in the region gained automatic entries to nationals, but the Irish had to wait a day and a half to find out if they made it. 
Senior Patrick Smyth won the regional for the second straight year, finishing the men's 10-kilometer race in 31:06. 
"[Smyth] is one of the best runners in the country, I think he proved that Saturday," Piane said. ''I'm very anxious to see how he runs at nationals. Of course we want him be an All-
Folklore, Literature & 
Irish National Culture Diarmuid 6 Giollain IRST 40316:01 TR 9:30-10:45 
Contemporary British & Irish Fiction Mary Smyth IRST 40515:01 MW 11:45-1:00 
Film, Literature & Irish Culture Luke Gibbons IRST 40605:01 TR 11:00-12:15 
Folklore, Literature & 
Irish National Culture Diarmuid 6 Giollain IRST 50316 TR 9:30-10:45 
The Feminine in Irish Literary & Oral­Vernacular Tradition 
Gearoid 6 Crualaoich IRST 50318:01 TR 3:30-4:45 
The Minor in Irish Studies helps students develop their understanding of Irish society. culture and politics: students complete three semesters of Irish Language. four classes in other fields such as English. History or Anthropology and a senior-year capstone cssa~ 
-631-3555-iri.~l_l$1UI(i).!ld.edu 

American again, but I think right behind her in 34th he can be pretty high in the with a time of 22:06. rankings, too." Michigan won the women's 
Smyth, a four-time All­race with 72 points, with American (two in track and Wisconsin in second with 80. field), finished 15th out of Michigan State placed third the 250 runners at the 2007 with 83 points. The Irish nationals. totaled 125 points. 
Following Smyth in the Piane said the team will men's race were scale back in freshman Joe training this Miller, who fin-week to pre­ished 20th, pare for sophomore Dan "Everything went nationals. 
Jackson in 28th "You're not
according to plan. " 
and senior going to get Daniel Clark in in better
Joe Piane 
30th. shape at this The men Irish coach point, you'll 
Wisconsin won the meet with 39 points, fol­lowed by Michigan with 62 points and Butler with 104 points. Notre Dame had 124 points. 
Junior Lindsey Ferguson led the Irish and finished 10th overall in the women's 6K race in 21:29. Ferguson has paced the Irish consis­tently this season, leading in all but one race. 
Sophomore Marissa Treece came in 14th with a time of 
21:40. Senior Heidi Hocha finished 31st in 22:04, with freshman Rachel Velarde 
only injure 
yourself," he 
said. "We 'II 

do short things, maybe two workouts this week, then head out on Friday." 
This will be Piane 's 19th time leading a team to the national championships, and 21st bringing at least one runner. 
Indiana State University will host the championships on Nov. 24 in Terre Haute, Ind. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

Experience an evening ofA-fuslim prayer and meditation as the third in a series exploring the beliefs andpractices ofthe ·world:~ great faith Traditions: 
Sponsored hy: Campus Afinistry JSSA. GSU, FOG graduate residences. University VillagE' & ,'vfuslim Studf!nl Association 
CM 


' I 

\... 
N D VOLLEYBALL 

Irish lose to St. John's, beat UConn in five sets 
By SAM WERNER Spons Writer  In the !'ifth, the Irish rallied from bnhind to force a 14-14 tie, but two kills by St. John's senior  room, [Kristen] was really the only positive offensive weapon that we had," Brown said. "We  encourage them and just reminded them that there was nothing Connecticut was doing  make some adjustments with our blocking and defense a little bit," she said. "But I think more  
outside hitter Valeria Kovaleva  really needed to find  a way to  that was taking us by surprise.  than that was our ofl'ense, and  
Two days after a dose live-set  swung the match in favor of the  get  some  other  people  It was just a matter of us pick­ we just weren't really ellieient."  
loss  to  Big  East  leader St.  Hed Storm.  involved."  ing up the execution a little bit."  Stremick  said  the  team  
.John's, th11  Irish pulled ofT a  Kovaleva also had seven aces  Stremick certainly stepped up  The Irish bolted out of the  expects nothing less than a con­ 
nail-biting win of their own,  in the match to pace the Hed  to the call. The Langdon, N.D.  timeout  and,  led  by  two  ference tournament title next  
downing Connecticut 3-2.  Storm, who had nine as a team.  native posted 12  Stremick kills,  weekend.  
Friday night against the Hed  The Irish were determined to  kills in the third,  claimed 10 of  "Every game that we've lost,  
Storm (21-S, 12-2 Big East), the  rebound  Sunday  afternoon  fourth, and fifth  the  next  12  we've been competitive, and I'd  
Irish (14-13, 9-5) received a bal­anc!~d oll'nnsive ell'ort in the 25­17, 1S-25, 16-25. 25-19, HJ-14 defeat, with four players tallying  against the lluskies (21-8, 10­4), who came in one spot ahead of Notre Dame in the Big East standings. Notre Dame won the  sets. The Irish strug­gled offensively in the third set, post­ "To win a match and hit I3 percent, that's some ugly volleyball. "  points to take the match. "We just had this 'Do not let  say the teams we did lose to in the Big East, we didn't have our best matches," Stremick said. "I think if we bring our 'A' game  
more  than  I 0 kills. Junior out­ match 26-28, 25-21, 20-25, 25­ ing a paltry .026  anything  hit  we ean compete against anyone.  
side hitter Christina Kaelin paeed the Irish with 14 kills. and senior middle blocker  23, 15-11. Stremick and freshman Kristen Dealy led the way over  hitting percentage, but rebounded to edge the Huskies  Debbie Brown Irish coach  the ground' mentality," Stremick said.  Obviously there are some good teams out there and there are going to be some good matches,  
.I ustine Stremick lnd the team  Connecticut, with the duo post­ in  the  fourth  "We  were  but I'm excited for it."  
with a .455 hitting percentage.  ing 17 and 16 kills, respectively.  game.  With  the  scrapping.  It  Brown echoed Stremick's sen­ 
Artnr St. John's won  the first  After Connecticut elaimed a  score tied 21-21,  wasn't pretty.  timents, and said the win  was  
set. courtesy of a  10-0 run at  baek-and-forth first game, the  Stremick shouldered the load  That's what separates a good  big to give the team momentum  
one  point, the Irish rebounded  Irish responded with a strong  and posted two kills and two  team  from  a  great team.  If  going into the eonferenee tour­ 
in the second set  defensive show­ blocks to force a deciding set.  you're in  a tight crunch, you  nament.  
with a 9-0 run of their own. Notrn Damn held the  "Every game that we've lost, we've been  ing the second game, posting five team  "I think Justine absolutely picked it up in the fourth game, and was the difference in the  need to find a way to win. It doesn't matter how pretty it is." After the match, Brown said  "I think it's huge, just going into the Big East tournament." Brown said. "We felt good about  
Hed Storm to .029 avnrage in sncond set, and a .030 hitting pnrcnntage  competitive, and I'd say the teams we did lose to in the Rig  blocks. "Just that heart and that desire to not let  fourth game," Brown said. "And then we carried that momentum into the fifth game, so that was really good to see."  she was happy with the win, even though her team didn't play up to potential. "To win a match and hit 13  how we played on Friday, obvi­ously not happy with the loss. but we know that we played really hard and to come baek  
in the third. Thn Irish took advantage of a  East, we didn't have our best matches. "  anything hit the floor is really important,"  In the fifth, the Huskies jumped out to a 9-5 lead when Brown called her final timeout  percent, that's some ugly volley­ball," she said. The win sets up a rematch  and not play as well but lind a way to win is important. We have momentum going into the  
strong defensive  Notre  Dame  of the game. Brown said she  with the lluskies next weekend  Big East tournament, and it's  
showing, tallying  Debbie Brown  coach  Debbie  doesn't remember exactly what  in the first round of the Big East  our goal to win that. I mean we  
a season-high 19 bloeks on the  Irish coach  Brown said. Dealy led the  she told the team during that break.  tournament Brown said  in as  Pittsburgh. long as the  will not be happy with anything less than that. We've got a  
night.  Stn~mick  Irish offensively  "We were just trying to stay  offense played  as  well  as it  tough week ahead of us, but  
lnd Notre Damn with 10 stufl's.  in the first two games, notching  calm," she said. "It was a strug­ could, she was confident the  we're excited for the challenge."  
The fourth set was tied 16-16  11  kills for a .500 hitting per­ gle for us today. We  were not  team could beat Connecticut  
before St. .John's pulled away to  centage.  playing real well and I just tried  again.  Contact Sam Werner at  
foree a firth game.  "Arter game two in the locker  to stay positive with them and  "I think  we  can  obviously  swerner@nd.edu  

Rtt]~ .NotV! 
BAUG-802·1 0 

This one credit-hour course will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society during the next decade. A series of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts. business.nd.edu/tenyearshence 
PuJWvj ~ f:tu gltR~ 'Jr~: 'Jfu~ 'JitR~ a.Jul ?l'lwwdion!y 'Io!ttJ ilvj a.Jt,.AlwYtlA.ni Soc:,utJ ~ B~-wJh Na.iuJt£> 
.Josh Dortrr~an. i:ounder 8. CEO. \t1vavi 

'JoltR~ht Dvv~ptvtt11f iJ1, ~ Wo~tU o~ .Acuie~ Ciw,1~: 'Jtwutj~ ~JwfVt, ~ fvo D~vo 'J~ 
John Smart. President, Acceleration Studies Foundation 

S~Ua; Pa.d, P\eM)\t, a.Jt.£ 'Jrk~tf, ~!t,ofVt, ~ Co~tp-o~t~ Vi.tw Jean Sweeney, Vice President, 3M-Environmental, Health 8. Safely Operations 
~UfWJ~g!t.RAt David M. Walker. Pre-Sident,~ CEO. Peter G Peterson Foundation 
S~bUa a.Jt.£ Co!tf<>~ ~nMh~J: 'Jiu, _AMJ)ondti'&, Sto~t11 Jack Daty, Sooior \lice !:'resident, Caporate Relations, McDonald's Corporation 
'Juiwt£76-k: How to Put ~~ ~ PeMfutw~ a.Jt.£ Su, _M.oltR-CieMta WM i&, c~fvU)\IJ 
Edie Weiner, F'resident, Weiner. Edrich, Brown, Inc. 
'JI3D 
Seventh speaker to be determined 

"Ten Years Hence" is listed as BAUG-3021 0, and is open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and employees. There are no prerequisites 
to enrolL See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detaiL You are expected to attend all lectures and be prepared to engage speakers. No unexcused absences. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course. This course requires no textbook purchases, examinations or term papers. Registration is available online. 
----------------., 
MdHWiy, Noverhber 1/, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

celebrate 

Nati 
I 
r r 
I 
t 

> 

E!l ERNST&YOUNG
accenture 
QualityIn Everything We Do 
High performance. Delivered. 
ENER L ILLS 
,···.·r
{JRIC 
.p. ':e_ 

nt 
• 
Attend employer information sessions 


• 
Research company and industry information 

• 
Review intern and full time opportunities on Go IRISH 

• 
Attend the Winter Career & Internship Fair on January 28 

• 
Schedule an appointment with The Career Center for assistance 


e Career Cex1ter 
IJ NPi':!HI:>'llTY lH NOTRJJ DAME 
!itandout. 
careercenter.nd.edu I (574) 631-5200 I ndcps@nd.edu 



page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, November 17, 2008 
them. We were close to manag­
ing it tonight, but we didn't quite get a hold of it." continued from page 20 The game looked good for 
the Irish early on. Notre Dame Tournament seeding, which dominated the first 25 minutes will be released today. of play, repeatedly winning the 
"If we'd won both games ball in midfield and counterat­down here. I think we had a tacking down the flanks with fair shot at a top-four INCAA crosses. The early pressure TournamentI seed." Irish coach nearly resulted in the opening Bobby Clark said, referring to goal in the 12th minute when the semifinals and finals of the senior defender Matt Besler Big East tournament. "If we'd saw his header ricochet back won one game, I think we had ofT the left post. a chance at being a top eight The Irish would find the back send. Now, I of the net seven think we have minutes later. to hope for a "It was a Sophomore for­top 16 seed ward Jeb 
Big East 
psychological thing, 
which is where Brovsky fed a
not a tactical thing. 
we've been for ball into the the last two They were a goal path of fellow years." striker Bright
down, and they had 
Should Notre Dike, who
to get in the game
l>ame receive a ripped a shot top 16 seed, it so they upped the into the lower will receive a tempo." right corner of first-round bye the goal from 15 and second-yards out. The 
Bobby Clark 
round home goal was Dike's game, but the Irish coach 12th of the sea-Irish would son tops need to win two amongst Big subsequent road games to East players. reach the Final Four. Knowing "The opening 25 minutes the tournament path that most were as good as we've played likely awaits his team, Clark all season," Clark said. "I felt said he saw Friday night's road the game for us slowed down contest at South Florida as a laf'ter that!. Somehow in the positive despite the loss. second period we never found 
"I look at it as a great test for our rhythm. We didn't connect us," Clark said. "Hopefully as well as we had in the first later in the season, we're going hall'." to have some similar games, South Florida was only too and we've got to go and win happy to take advantage. 
Spartans 
continued from page 20 
Waldrum said. " ... Every minute you see tick down, you go, 'It's getting closer and elos~lr.' l.uekily I don't think we panicked at all on the field but I think there was some anxiety on the sideline." 
The win kept Notre Dame's undef(lated season alive and brought the team's overall record to 23-0-0. 
"Good teams find a way to win, whether it's in the first five minutes or the last sec­ond of the game," Irish senior forward Kerri Hanks said. 
Notre Dame will play Minnesota at home in thn next round of the tournament. Minnesota beat South Dakota 2-0 to advance. 
Augustin's goal was her third of the weekend af'ter she nntted a pair in Notre Dame 5-2 win over Toledo Friday. 
Hanks made history in that game as she notched two assists to become the third player in NCAA history with 70 career goals and 70 assists. Hanks added another assist when she set up Augustin's goal Sunday. 
"Obviously the 70-70 on Friday was nice to get but the most important thing was get­ting that win," Hanks said. "And coming into lthe Michigan StateI game it didn't really matter if I got 70-70 or not because what's more important is winning the national championship." 
The Irish outshot the Spartans 29-3 Sunday but were constantly stymied by Fliestra and the Spartans defense. 
"We should have finished it way before [Augustin's goall but that's how it goes," Hanks said. "Give credit to Michigan State. The goalie did well in saving a bunch of shots, their back line held us." 
Hanks played the first half with a massive knee brace as a result of an MCL injury she sustained on Nov. 2 against Cincinnati. But she took the brace off during the second period before helping to break the scoreless tie. 
After not putting a shot on goal the entire first half, the Bulls managed to tie the game in the 69th minute when mid­fielder Francisco Aristeguieta took a pass from forward Zak Boggs and fired past Irish keeper Phillip Tuttle from the left side of 18-yard box. Thirteen minutes later, Aristeguieta scored the deci­sive goal when he rocketed a shot past Tuttle from just out­side the 18-yard box. 
The Irish also had their chances in the second half. Forward Steven Perry's shot new just over the crossbar in the 58th minute, and midf1eld­er Justin Morrow nearly tied in the game in the 85th minute when he put a low shot just wide of the far post. Both teams registered six shots in the second half. 
"It was a psychological thing, not a tactical thing," Clark said of South Florida's comeback in the second half. "They were a goal down, and they had to get in the game so they upped the tempo. 
"A good thing was I felt we matched that energy, and then we got caught again on a freak [second] goal. It was a great goal, but it wasn't a classic buildup or anything." 
The Irish now return home to await their NCAA Tournament pairing. The pairings will be released live on ESPNews tonight between 6 and 6:30. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
"I was more moving [the brace] than I was focused on how I played so I was just like, 'You know what, take it off,"' Hanks said. "This could potentially be my last game and I don't want it to. I knew that I did my rehab earlier in the week so [the knee] should be strong whether I played with [the brace] or without 
it... Augustin had one of Notre Dame's best chances in the second half, minutes before scoring the game-winner. She carried the ball on a break­away before shooting it off a sliding Fliestra. Despite the miss, Augustin said she had hoped to get another chance. "When I missed it I knew we would have more opportuni­ties," she said. "I knew I'd get another one so I just tried to forget about it." When Augustin took a pass from Hanks in front of the net, her level-headedness paid off as she extended Notre Dame's season. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Jackson 
continued from page 20 
him have success." 
Minella added another goal in Saturday's win to bring his season total to three through 11 games. 
After a slow start to the first period on Saturday, Notre Dame finished the weekend series with a little more authority, with three unan­swered goals in the final two stanzas. 
"To be able to bounce back tonight, especially after the mediocre first period we had, was just huge for us," senior center Christian Hanson said. 
Hanson assisted on two of the three late goals, including Ridderwall's goal, which sealed the game with about three minutes remaining. 
Irish defenseman Brett Blatchford, working with a 5­
Zeller 
continued from page 20 
Zeller chipped in 18 points. 
"With our group, it's kinda like, 'How are they gonna play us?"' Brey said. "Because we obviously do have a lot of ollfm­sive weapons." 
Harangody picked up 18 points before halftime but the game was dose for much of the first stanza. Notre Dame began to pull away right before the break. Harangody highlighted the spurt when he took a pass from Zeller on a fast break and made a layup while getting fouled. He knocked down the ensuing free throw to give the Irish a 39-31 edge. 
On USC Upstate's last posses­sion of the first half, Notre Dame's man defense forced Spartans guard Josh Chavis to travel and the Irish got the ball back with 5. 7 seconds on the clock. After Brey called a time­out, Irish point guard Tory Jackson streaked up the left side of the court before finding Zeller for an open 3-point attempt. Zeller knocked down on-3 advantage, started the play with a shot towards the net, which llanson deflected to Ridderwall to finish. 
"I saw Hanson's stick, he's a big body in front, so I was just shooting for his stick trying to get a tip. lie didn't tip it on goal but he made a real nice play to tip it to Calle back door," Blatchford said. 
Senior captain Erik Condra, sophomore Teddy Huth and Maday also scored on the night to round out an impres­sive 5-2 win. 
"It was a good night all around and hopefully we can have a good week of practice and come out and do the same thing next Friday night," Jackson. 
Next Friday, the Irish wel­come Bowling Green to the Joyce Center for another CCHA matchup. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
the trey as the buzzer sounded to give Notre Dame a 44-33 edge at halftime. 
"That's just huge at the end of the half, that's just big right there," Brey said. "We did a real good job -Tory did a good job -of getting in there and finding him and to go in at [halftimeI like that Iis impor­tant]." 
And the Irish didn't let up after the break. The team came out of the gates by scoring the first seven points of' the period. Harangody made a layup before senior eo-captain Ryan Ayers picked up a steal and fin­ished the play with a dunk. Ayers hit a contested jump shot on Notre Dame's next posses­sion to give the Irish a 51-33 lead with 19:16 left in the game. 
To the delight of' the Joyce Center crowd, Notre Dame had a slew of' dunks in the second half. Ayers, Harangody, senior Zach Ilillesland and sophomore Carleton Scott eaeh threw down at least one as the Irish sealed the victory. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


Peters 
continued from page 24 
the defense and displaynd a good deal of versatility. 
"When she came in we were able to press," McGraw said. "She rnboundnd, blocked shots, got some stmtls. sh(l did a little bit of everything. I thought she changed the game whnn she came in. 
The Irish held the Tigers seondnss from 3-point rangn; I.SU went 0-for-4 from behind the arc. 
"I couldn't be happier with that," Mc<;raw said. "That's what we needed to do." 
After Barlow helped pull the team ahead, the Irish led for the rest of the second half. Another Solomon free throw gave Notre Dame a 39-30 lead with 15:04 remaining. Courtney Jones made a layup, and then Allison Hightower stole the ball from Barlow and made another layup to pull the score within 43-40. But a Schrader layup, a Peters jump shot and a free throw from for­ward Becca Bruzsewski started a 10-point run to put Notre Dame ahead 53-40 with 6:30 left. 
Andrea Kelly led the Tigers with 10 points. and Katherine Graham pulled down nine rebounds. 
McGraw said she knew the game would be a defensive bat­tle based on LSU's lineup, and she wasn't disappointed. The first half started slow for both teams; Notre Dame led 11-6 with 10:50 left in the first half. 
"LSU was very good defen­sively," McGraw said. "Their guards on the perimeter are good and they're big and strong inside." 
A free throw from freshman forward Erica Solomon put the Irish ahead 18-10, but the Tigers went on a 10-point run to take a 20-18 lead with 4:46 left. Schrader's lay-up tied the score at 20, and the teams traded free throws to end the first half tied at 24. 
Notre Dame shot 44 percent from field-goal range in the game, but only hit 36 percent in the first hall'. In the second half. it made 52 percent of its shots. The Tigers only hit 33 percent of their shots, but had a better free throw percentage 
(81) than Notre Dame (67). 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

or\nr, ......... r rJr 
Monday, November 17, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 

THE DOME PIECE 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJ&Mrn11J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 

Thos•• knots should
one letter to each square, 
be gone
to form four ordinary words. 

'" 
REMIC 
1 

rJ 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
{Rffj. I I 

I BASHUMj 
WHAT THf: MOB B055 ALLOWED TI-l£:
1 
ri (] 

www.jumble.com MA55E:U5E: TD 00. 
I URQUOM I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
CIJ I I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer:"[ I I J' [IIJ rI I J 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: POUND TARFIY PUNDIT SOCKET Yesterday's Answer: What the echo was to the banker ­A "SOUND" RETURN 

CROSSWORD 
Across 27 States 58 Noted Art Deco building in the 
Blockbuster 29 Org. with a alternative Big Apple, with

Council on 8 Material for Ethical and 
"the" drainage lines Judicial Affairs 60 Dinar spender 15 Just as anyone 62 Some 
30 Pitch problems? can be 63 1962 hit with the
31 May day events, 

16What some perhaps lyric "Like the bombs release samba sound, 
33 Big name in 
my heart begins17 Early filmmaking coffee makers to pound"brothers Auguste 35 Ruffles 

and Louis 64 Shop tool with 
37 "Oh, I give up!" 
pulleys

18 What a cause might turn into 41 Rot 65 Has at a spread 43 Minus sign 
19 Noted 1915 
equivalent
West Point grad. Down 44 Fractional 

20 Bond type Annual sports
currency 
event with seven 47 A sucker, for rounds whose first 
purchaser was short 
2 BrandyF.D.R. 
49 Layered dessert 
3 Mountain, e.g.

22 Atkins diet no-no 50 Reunion 4 What many23 "No god but gatherers workers look God" author 
forward to: Abbr. Asian 51 Apollo's 
birthplace 5 Refuse 25 _ Malloy, bully 6 "The East

53 Be reminiscent
in Harry Potter of (1960s Chinese books anthem)
54 Part of "the 

26 German city 
7 Nissan model 
many," in Greek
where Napoleon defeated the 55 Scull part 
8 Track warm-up leaders
Prussians 57 Printed 9 Back of a leaf 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

1o"Red, White & _. (2005 rock album) 11 On the plus side?: Abbr. 
12 Deadly 2003 hurricane that hit North Carolina 
1311's far from a metropolis 
14 Figure skater Sokolova and others 
24 Totally covered by 26 Miss No-Name 
28 Relative of a cutter 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

30 Black, say 40 Paper that calls 51 Friend of Porky itself "America's 
32 Hub NW of LAX 52 "Pardon me " in
Finest News 
Parma ' 
Source"
34 Buddy, in slang 42 Dialectal 55 Dropping sound 36 Plant used as an , contraction herbal remedy 56 Tae do
44 Brokerage giant 
for headaches 45 Zoological cavity 59 Bomb not 38 Rallying slogans bursting in air?
46 Criticize harshly and repeatedly
39 "Who'd a thunk 61 Bart Simpson's it?!" 48 Like some books grandpa 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning!xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Maggk Gyllenhaal, 31; Trevor Penick. 29; Oksana Baiul, 31: Dwight Gooden, 44 Happy Birthday: You can come out on top if you are precise and moderate in your appeal to others. Stability will result if you throw your gains into sometlring solid and secure for the future. You can profit ifyou can separate your compassion from your shrewdness. Keep tlrings in perspective.. Your numbers are 6, 9. 19. 24, 32, 39,47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't look back or waste your time lamenting over past mistakes. It's what's ahead of you that counts. Rid yourself ofnegative people and imple­ment the positive changes you need in your life. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Open up your heart and your mind to the people offering you friendship, oppot1unity and guidance. Talks will lead to solutions and a general feel­ing that you are on the right track. A short trip or visit will do you good. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): With a little patience and thought you will come up with a moneymaking idea. A new business you can operate from home will help raise your earn­ing potential. Keep things small, efficient and within your budget. 3 stars 
C.-Ll'!CER (June 21-July 22): A responsibility you have to someone older will pay off in the end. Love is looking good and the opportunity to spend some quality time with some­one special should be put into play. Use your imagination and good things will happen. 3 stars 
LEO (July 2.,·Aug. 22): Get involved in activities that take your mind off wotTies and keep you busy and out of trouble. Don't argue with someone you live with or care abnut. Children may play a key role in your outlook and attitude. 3 stars 
VffiGO (Aug. 2J-Sept. 22): A change of location and scenery will give. you a new out­look on your life and some insight into how you can make adjustments to suit your needs. Love is looking good and an opportunity to form a close bond with someone special is apparent. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't give in to bullying. You have to feel comfortable in order to accomplish. Use your owrn creative ideas and consider ways that you can change your position by putting some of your talents to work for you. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Things are opening up for you. Ask questions, follow through with your plans and don't fear taking a unique approach. It's following your dreams that will make you happy and help you get abead in the end. Love will teach you a lesson. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Let your heart guide you but don't give in to emo­tional blackmail. You have to be true to yourself before you can let go of your inhibitions. Research abnut the way yon earn your living will point you in a new direction. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): Make the person you care about most realize how much tbe relationship means to you. '.Vhether it's a new relationship or old. now is the perfect time to nmture it and talk about future plans. Express your desires and expecta­tions. 3 stars 
AQUARflJS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Think about where vou would like to live that is condu­cive to educational or professional pursuits. A residelltial move or even just changing your decor will alter your outlook, bringing you closer to reaching your life goals. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can put together contracts or sort through pending legal matters with success and the realization that yon can get what you want if you push hard. Love is opening up. so reinforce your feelings to someone who means a lot to you. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a masterful solutions-finder, an original who recognizes the po­tential of what you observe. You are a collector of information. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenialast.com for confidential consultations, m.vspace .com/eugenia/nsf for Eugenia~s blog, astromfvice.com for fuu 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________ , ____ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS

Monday, November 17, 2008 page 20 
HOCKEY 

It takes a shootout, but Notre Dame sweeps Lakers at home 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
No. 9 Notre Dame won its first ever sudden death shootout Friday night and finished a sweep of Lake Superior State with a 5-2 win the next day to nxtend its winning streak to six games. 
"Since we lost to Miami a few weeks ago, we really wanted to bounce back and get some points in the league hnre. That really matters," sophomore Calle Ridderwall said. 
The Irish dropped a pair of 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Augustin puts home game-winning goal, sends team to Sweet 16 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's dream season seemed to hang in the bal­ance for much of the team's NCAA Tournament second­round game against Michigan State Sunday. But Hose Augustin ended the susp1mse with just under 1 H minutes left in the contest. 
The sophomore midfielder beat Miehigan State goalie Jill Fliestra and deposited a low shot in the right corner of the net in the 73rd minute of play, giving the Irish a 1-0 win. The Notre Dame sideline eruptnd as the team was able to 1: o n v e r t a n o p p o r t u n i t y aftnr a slew of near misses. 
"That was great that we were able to get that one, I think that's why you saw the emotion," Irish coach Handy 
see SPARTANS/ page I 8 
games to Miami on Oct. 24 and 25, the last time they were in South Bend, but they haven't lost a game since. 
Ridderwall was played a large part in keeping that streak going with the game-winning goal in sudden death Friday night and a goal and two assists on Saturday. 
True freshman Billy Maday scored Notre Dame's only goal in the regular shootout, but Irish goalkeeper Jordan Pearce stopped two out of three as well, sending the game to sud­den death. 
Hidderwall was first to shoot for the Irish. He deked to his backhand, weaved across the crease and flipped a shot over Lake Superior's Brian Mahoney­Wilson. 
"I pretty much had the whole move planned out and luckily it worked out. I've been practicing that move for a long time," he said. 
Junior wing Nathan Perkovich had a chance to force another round for Lake Superior, but Pearce was up to the challenge and made the save. 
"[Pearce] handled it very well. He made a couple of big saves for us and won the game," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 

Pearce had 40 saves when all was said and done, including several big stops late in the game. 
"They definitely put a lot of heat on me and had a lot of chances," Pearce said. 
Notre Dame pushed the game to overtime on a goal from sophomore Ryan Guentzel with just under 10 minutes left to tie the game 3-3. Guentzel's first goal of the year came on a rebound off of a Justin White shot from the point. 
"[That line] probably generat­ed as many scoring chances as 
Sweet victory 


VANESSA GEMPIS!fhe Observer Senior forward Kerri Hanks dribbles between two Michigan State defenders during Notre Dame's 1-0 win over the Spartans Sunday in the NCAA Tournament second round. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Zeller has career high in victory 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 
No. 9 Notre Dame bookended halftime with two big runs and used those spurts to secure a 94­58 victory over USC Upstate Sunday. 
The Irish went on a 10-2 run to end the first half then came out of the locker room with seven unanswered points on the way to the blowout win. 
"How we ended the half and how we started the second half were big as far as breaking the )game] open," Irish coach Mike Brey said. 
In its first regular-season game of the season, the Irish offense showed no signs of rust as the team made 50.7 percent of its field goals. Irish forward Luke Harangody led all scorers with 30 points on 12-of-21 shooting and senior co-captain Luke 
see ZELLER/ page 18 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Barlovv, Peters succeed against LSU defense 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
Ashley Barlow scorod 19 points, Lindsay Schrader scornd 13 and No. 16 Notrfl Dame boat No. 24 LSU 62-53 in Baton Houge, I.a. Sunday. 
Barlow. a junior guard, hit two 3-pointnrs and two free throws in tho first four minutes of the sncond half to give Notre Damn a :~(J-28 lead. The tnams were tied at 24 at thn half whnn Notn1 Dame wnnt on a 13-4 run. 
"In thn l'irst half we were rnluctant to shoot," Irish coach MuiTet Mdiraw said in a tele­phone intnrview. "Wn needed to stretch the defense. We talked about shooting more in the seeond half. She took adviee well. She came out and looked for her shot." 
Sophomore forward Devp,reaux Peters, in her first game back since tearing her anterior crueiate ligament (ACL) in l'ebruary, shot 6-for-7 from the field and scored 12 points. She also had six rnbounds, three steals and threp, blocks. 
"She played a great game," McGraw said. "I thought she was the key to the game for us." 
McGraw said Peters helped 
see PETERS/page 18 any of our lines tonight because they executed the game plan," Jackson said. 

Guentzel's goal came just over a minute after Lake Superior had taken the lead on a shot from senior Josh Sim. 
Ben Ryan and Christiaan Minella also added goals for the Irish earlier in the game. 
"[Minella)'s playing with a lot of confidence right now. He's big and strong along the walls. He can be an effective player for us," Jackson said. ''I'm happy for him, it's good to see 
see JACKSON/page 18 
MEN's SOCCER 

Squad falls in quarterfinals 
No. 9 Notre Dame waits today for seed in NCAA Tournament 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
If No. 9 Notre Dame wants to advance to the program's first ever Final Four, it's going to have to do it the hard way. 
Two second-half goals propelled No. 8 South Florida to a 2-1 win over thn Irish in the Big East tournament semifinals played this weekend, at the Bulls' home field in Tampa. The loss left Notre Dame wondering what it might have lost in terms of NCAA 
see BIG EAST/page 18 





