
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 105 THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 2008 
Ticket not punished for election violation 
Freshman Zach Reuvers failed to get each campaign poster approved by Judicial Council 
By STEVE SANTAY 
News Writer 
The Judicial Council decided not to reprimand Zach Heuvers' sophomore class council ticket on accusations involving the misuse of funds and campaign materials because the accusations did not change or affect the outcome of the election. 
Reuvers' ticket lost to Cynthia Weber's ticket, the Judicial Council announced on March 12, nearly two weeks after the run-off election between the two tickets took place on Feb. 
28. The Council delayed the release of the results until their investigation of Reuvers' ticket was finished. 
An anonymous source origi­
nally told the Judicial Council 
Reuvers had broken campaign­
ing regulations by spending too 
much money on flyers and by 
distributing posters that had 
not been approved. Judicial 

Council vice president Daniel Smith would neither confirm ·nor deny whether Reuvers' 
competition, the Weber or 
Hannah Ha tickets, were 
involved in bringing forth these 
allegations. 
"The Council did meet and 
determined that one of the two 
allegations brought forward 
was valid," Smith said. 
"However, the committee 
determined that the outcome of 
the election was not changed, so no formal punishment was handed out." 

Strict rules that govern stu­dent government campaigns allow only $75 to be spent on flyers. The accusation made against Heuvers' ticket by an anonymous source claimed that they went over this amount. 
After reviewing the Reuvers ticket's records, the Judicial Council determined only $67 were spent in this manner. The allegation was subsequently dismissed. 
The ticket was also accused of using unapproved campaign materials, a claim that turned out to be true according to the Council's investigation. 
After the primary elections on Feb. 25, the ticket changed the voting date on its posters to read Feb. 28, in order to encourage sophomores to vote the run-off election. The Reuvers ticket, however, did not get approval from the Judicial Council to make this change to its posters. 

A similar issue had been raised earlier in the campaign. 
The day before the primary elections, a complaint was raised against Reuvers for handing out unapproved cam­paign materials. While most of the posters his ticket used car­ried the approval stamp from the Judicial Council, a few were overlooked. Some of the 
see CAMPAIGN/page 4 

STUDENT SENATE 
Anti-discrimination resolution debated 
Senators disagree over proposal to add sexual orientation to University's equal opportunity clause 
discrimination of homosexu­al persons. The resolution further claims that other American Catholic Colleges, such as Georgetown and Kings College have added sexual orientation to their non-discrimination clauses. 
Although the senators did not vote yesterday, several controversies arose in the discussion, such as possible ramifications of a non-dis­crimination elause and the necessity of Student Senate's involvement in the issue. 
Fisher senator Stephen Bant and Keenan senator Gus Gari debated over the 
see SENATE/page 3 


By CLAIRE REISING 
News Writer 
Student Senate resumed discussion on a resolution that proposes to add sexual orientation to Notre Dame's non-discrimination clause. 
The Senate, however, could not vote on the resolu­tion at yesterday's meeting because not enough mem­bers were present for quo­rum. 
The proposed resolution supports this change in the non-discrimination clause for several reasons. It states that the Catechism of the Catholic Church opposes 

Mendoza reclaims No. 3 Business Week ranking 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
The Mendoza College of Business has reclaimed its No. 3 ranking of the nation's top busi­rwss schools for undergraduates according to BusinessWeek mag­azine's Mar. 10 issue, jumping finrr spots from its 2007 ranking. 
Notre Dame's College of Business previously held the No.:1 spot in 200(J, its highest ranking to date. 
Mendoza is exceeded only by the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School and the University of Virginia's Mcintire School of Commerce, who occu­pied the top two spots, respec­tively. 
" I would say we've actually been performing this way before there was a ranking, and we haven't tried to change anything to get a higher ranking," said Carolyn Y. Woo, Martin J. Gillen Dean of Business. "We are always trying to improve, but it's not because of rankings ... whenever we see new opportu­nities or weak spots we try to attend to these." 
Woo said that Mendoza's high national ranking can be attrib­uted to several factors including rigorous academics, job place­ment suceess after graduation. thP strong alumni network and the College's emphasis on ethics. 
"The ranking isn't important 
see MENDOZA/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
NASAuses NDdesigns on shuttle 
Experiments by Dennis Jacobs aboard EndeaZ?or 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
Science research enthusi­asm at Notre Dame has recently intensified as the NASA space shuttle Endeavor -launched Mar. 11 -car­ried with it a set of experi­ments designed by one of Notre Dame's own profes­sors. 
Dennis Jacobs, University vice president and associate Provost, designed the experi­ments for outer space testing purposes. Jacobs is also a professor of chemistry and biochemistry at Notre Dame. 
"We are placing one hun­dred or so materials outside the international space sta­tion for a period of a year to learn under different envi­ronments how different materials will either hold up or be damaged to the point where they no longer func­tion," Jacobs said. 
The experiments are part of the Materials International Space Statio'n Experim en t (MISSEl. a collaboration that aims to explore how materi­als degrade in the low-earth orbit spacecraft environment. 
Jacobs said the experi­ments will test materials such as Teflon in order to aid in the development of next­generation light-weight poly­mers that could be used in designing satellites. 
"The goal of the experi­ments is to understand better 
see SHUTTLE/page 6 

Huddle Mart sells healthy snacks 
LaFortune store stocks up on gluten-free, organic, soy-based products 
By MEG MIRSHAK 
News Writer 

The Huddle Mart in the LaFortune Student Center, recently added a shelf of gluten-free, dairy-free, organic and soy food products the first week of March. 
The products were added in response to requests from stu­dents with food allergies and· other special dietary needs. 
The new products occupy a rack where DVD and movie rentals were displayed before being removed over winter break. According to lluddle Mart stafl', the movie nmtals did not bring in enough rev-
see HUDDLE/page 3 

...-----------------~~­
Thursday, March 20, 2008

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Franchise 
Sam wandered out of bod, awaken to the 
fourth straight day of shouting. 
"I am too taking thn car tomorrow," 
scrnamod Clain\ Sam's oldor daughter. 
"No, you're not, and you know you'ro 
not," snickered Claim's brothnr, Howie, the 
youngost of Sam's thrnn kids. "That's Ethie 's 
time." 

Claire was tall and full and green, and 
she used to take thn family ear almost every 
weekend afternoon 

and brought back Ken Fowler 
seal<; full of friends 
Senior
home at night. She 

w<L'> a good daughter. staffwriter 
Ethie wa<; meek and 
shy and brown, sitting 

home with her broad in front of the TV 
every night. She was a dospondent girl. 
Things had been like that fi1r a while, and Sam knew he was part of a problem. After years of favoring his morn industrious daughter, he began to pity Ethie and her jealousy. But what to do'? Then it came to him. 
llowin had just turnod 14, Ethie wa'> 16 
and just got her license, and Claire was 18. 
"No nend tiJr me to mako the decision," 
Sam thought. "Howie's fairer than I could 
ever be. Why don't lint him decide'?" 
"ElL'>y, Dad," Howie said. "You work late on Fridays. Let Ethin have the ear on Saturday and Claire have the car on Sunday. No swaps, no trades, no nothing. Everyone can plan a1:cordingly." 
Sam immediately accnpted and propnrly promulgatod the law. Quickly, Ethie grew. She wont to the mall, she fillmd friends, she minglod, sho drove pooplo places, she had a Iif(~-and people carnd about hor. Sho took tho car to the ga<; station, had it W<L'>Iwd and chanw~d the oil. 
Clairn changod. Sho )()light with lmr par­onL<;, fillJght with Ethio and, most of all, fi1ught with llowio. lie put tho rules in phu:n, and now she had a spnck of the sodallifi~ that she usod to. 
That's tlw way it wa<; until Ttwsday, when a delngation of Clain~ 's frionds <L'>ked if she could driw thnm on early Saturday morn­ing to the big hall an hour away to watch a spedal showing of"The Day ofHnckoning." It was a once-in-a-lifi~time type thing. Claire penkod to see if anyone was around. She said sum: She would just wake up early, bn~ak the rules and take thn car bofbre anyono got up. 
When she hung up, she turnnd and saw 
llowie's face: "No you won't." 
For thrne days, the shoul<; went back and fbrtl1. Ethie didn't like what Clairn wa'> doing-it wa<; a threat to her newfound soda) status-but she didn't say much; the scrooehes came from llowie and Claire. By Friday night, Claire figured she would sim­ply quiet down and call Howie's blun·. 
Shn tiptoed to the kitchen Saturday morn­ing, snatched the keys oil" the counter and slowly turned the door to avoid the squeaks. She opened thn driver's door, and it snemnd like no one wa'> watching and no one eared. 
Claire inserted the key into the ignition <md waited for the turn to start the ear. She eouldn 't make a full rotation. 
Shn tried again. Nothing. When she quiet­ly lillnd the hood, she knew something WIL'i missing. 
"Dad!" she screamed. "Someone stole the ear battery!" 
Out came Howie. 

'That would be me," he said llatly. "You knew the rules and you tried to break them. I low would it be fair to Ethie ifI let you break the rules you both have to live by?" 
Claire found a certain sanctimony with whkh to respond. "The rules weren't fhlr to begin with." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at lifowlerl@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives lor the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS WINNING IN YOUR MARCH MADNESS BRACKET? 


Mark Flannigan Kayla Bateman 
sophomore junior Keough Breen Phillips 
"St. Mary's "Pitt, Mountaineers. because because they P/7T is IT." can't win anything else. .. 

JESS LEEfThe Observer 
From left, sophomores Caroline Hawes, Chelsea Slaggert and Beth Neiman protest the Iraq War on Fieldhouse Mall Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 
from eBay saying the state­shaped cereal was in viola­tion of the site's food policy. 
But the flake is back. The sisters say the Land of lincoln twin they discovered in a box of Kellogg's Frosted Flakes is still available after all. 
Mcintire and her 15-year­old sister Emily said they've relisted the flake on eBay, but this time they're auctioning a coupon redeemable for it, instead of the cereal itself. Bidding on Wednesday was at $255.00. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
Japan appoints cartoon ambassador 
TOKYO-Japan has cre­ated an unusual government post to promote animation, and named a perfect figure Wednesday to the position: a popular cartoon robot cat named Doraemon. 
Foreign Minister Masahiko Komura appointed the cat an "anime ambassador," hand­ing a human-sized Doraemon doll an official certificate at an inauguration ceremony, along with dozens of "dorayaki" red bean pan­cakes -his favorite dessert -piled on a huge plate. 
Komura told the doll, with an unidentified person inside, that he hoped he would widely promote Japanese animated cartoons, or 
''anirne.'' 

Sisters: eBay pulled corn flake auction 
CHICAGO -Two sisters from Vtrginia who are selling a corn flake shaped like the state of Illinois on eBay say the online auction Web site canceled their listing. 
"Something really dramatic just happened with our com flake," Melissa Mcintire, 23, of Chesapeake, Va., said Tuesday, explaining that the sisters received an e-mail 

Ted Kratschmer 
sophomore Zahm 
"Memphis. My formidable gut tells me this. .. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a: 
LLI 
:1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
cs: 
(.) 




0 

HIGH 42 HIGH 37 HIGH 37
..... 
35 29 
HIGH LOW 

Megan Savage 
junior Breen Phillips 
"Clemson. because my bracket makes a lot of racket ... kind of like tennis. WHACK!" 
IN BRIEF 
There will be Confession at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart today at 11 a.m. and at 7 p.m. 
Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper will be celebrated today at 5 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
There will be sernenings of the film "Persepolis" tonight at 7 and 10 in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. 
There will be Confession at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart tomorrow at 1O::m a.m. and at 6:30p.m. 

A procession to follow the Way of the Cross will depart from the Alumni Hall chapel tomorrow at 10:45 a.m. The proeession will pass through the Grotto and will continuos along the banks of St. Joseph Lake. 
The celebration of the Lord's Passion will begin tomorrow at 3 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
There will be Confession at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Saturday at noon and at 3 p.m. 
The women's lacrosse team will play Loyola-Maryland Saturday at 1 p.m. at the Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Paschal Vigil will begin Saturday at 9 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Easter Mass will be celebrated Sunday at 8 a.m., 10 a.m. and noon in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
EASTER MONDAY 



HIGH 48 LOW 30 

Atlanta 64 I 38 Boston 48 I 40 Chicago 45 I 28 Denver 61 I 33 Houston 71 I 44 Los Angeles 69 I 52 Minneapolis 28 I 22 New York 52 I 45 Philadelphia 54 I 46 Phoenix 83 I 54 Seattle 50 I 39 St. Louis 59 I 35 Tampa 74 I 66 Washington 57 I 47 
--------------------------------------, 
Thursday, March 20, 2008 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
legitimacy of the resolution. 
Bant disagreed with the resolution, arguing that it may be seen as an endorse­ment of homosexual activity and cause the Church and donors to criticize the University. 
"The University enacting this kind of policy has a lot of unforeseen ... negative reper­cussions that we can't even 
begin to imag­
"The University 
ine," he said. "We want to "It's going to enacting this kind of be able to take 
upset people, policy has a lot of to [the ~dmin­
whether we like istration] a
unforeseen . . . negative
it or not." recently­
Gari argued repercussions that we passed resolu­
back, saying can't even begin to tion to say that that senators we still care
imagine. It's going to
should not let about this," he 
donors' opin­upset people, whether said. ions control we like it or not. , Bant said their actions. that passing "As far as another reso­
Stephen Bant
bishops [or lution is a alumni donors[ Fisher Hall senator "complete 
Molloy. 
Molloy, who co-drafted the resolution with Pangborn senator Denise Baron, said that the issue first arose in 1998 when both the Faculty and Student Senates passed a similar resolution. The administration did riot change the non-discrimination clause. 
Although the Student Senate already had passed resolutions about the non"dis­crimination clause, Molloy said that the current senate 
must show that 
it still supports 
the issue. 

getting mad at 
us, I don't think 
that should be taken into con­sideration," he said. "I think that as student leaders, we should be exercising our own independent thought and judgment." 
Additionally, Bant feared that a nondiscrimination clause would open the University to liability, increasing the possibility of a lawsuit against Notre Dame for diseriminating someone based on sexual orientation. 
"I don't think that the University is actually is going to· be sued for aetively dis­criminating against people, but I think people can use loopholes and use things given to them to make cases out of things that were not the issue," he said. "It's unfortunate, it's the way the Ameriean legal system works, but it's true, and it can hap­pen." 
Some members did not want liability to be the Senate's main concern. 
Outgoing chief executive assistant Sheena Plamoottil said she believed that sup­porting the Church's teach­ings on tolerance and fighting for minorities on campus are more important goals. 
"I think it's dangerous to think that liability should be the most important issue here," she said. "Even more than liability, tolerance should be thought about." 
Currently, Notre Dame abides by "The Spirit of Inclusion," which was set forth by du Lac and is not legally binding, according to Molloy. This clause, according to O'Neill senator Matt Molloy, condemns harassment of any kind. 
The proposed resolution states that adding sexual ori­entation to the non-discrimi­nation clause would give legal protection against dis­crimination based on sexual orientation, according to 
waste of [the 
Senate's] time" and did not believe that the Senate would have much influence. 
"We did it last year and it was also done in 1998, and nothing happened," he said. "I think that it's a little naive to believe that passing a simi­lar resolution today will have any different effect than it did last year." 
Howard senator Erdina Francillon said that despite the administration's lack of support, the Senate has the responsibility to support Notre Dame's minorities and to fight for this resolution until its goal is fulfilled. 
"I think that the strongest act that we as a Senate ean take is to pass this every year... until we get the atten­tion of the administration, get the attention of the Church, so people in higher positions than we are can realize that this is an issue we care about," she said. "We should take that rejection as a chal­lenge." 
Francillon also said she was disappointed that the Senate did not vote on the resolution when Molloy and Baron intro­duced in at the February 27 meeting. The Senate had voted to amend the resolution after Bant said he found that Holy Cross College does not include sexual orientation in its non-discrimination clause as the amendment says. 
Molloy said that after fur­ther research was inconclu­sive, the Senate replaced Holy Cross College with Georgetown University. However, Baron said that the amended clause "was not the crux of the resolution." 
The Senate plans to vote on this resolution at next week's meeting, which will be the last meeting of the current term. 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 



Huddle 
continued from page 1 

enue for the space they occu­pied. 
Jim LaBella, General Manager of the Huddle Mart who helped implement the changes, said that there has been an increase in the num­ber of students requesting gluten-free and natural gro­cery products. 
Jocie Antonelli, the manager of nutrition and safety for Notre Dame Food Services, made suggestions to LaBella based on comments from stu­dents with vegan, dairy-free and gluten-free diets. 
Antonelli assists students with special dietary needs in the campus dining halls ­adding special products in the Huddle Mart is the first attempt of Food Services to accommodate needs at the multiple food locations across campus. 
"So many students with gluten-free diets had trouble finding things on campus they could snack on. The new prod­ucts give them more options on campus to eat," Antonelli said. 
If students did not have a car to shop for food off-campus, they had to seek alternatives like care-packages sent from home, ordering food online or personal shopping by Antonelli, she said. 
LaBella spoke with a distrib­utor of natural foods, and the distributor also made recom­mendations on what products would sell and meet the stu­dents' needs at Notre Dame. 
The response to the new products has been "very good," and he will continue to order health food and natural grocery items that cater to stu­dents' needs but added that the Huddle Mart cannot have products so specific that they will not sell. 

"I am asking people who have allergies to let me know if there are other items missing. I think having a variety of products that serve everyone is a positive all the way around," LaBella said. 
Among the new items for sale, pita chips, microwavable noodle and rice bowls and snack bars have been popular, LaBella said. 
One student who benefits from this improvement is freshman, Michelle Gaseor who has an autoimmune disor­der called Celiac Disease, whieh limits her diet to gluten­free foods. She cannot 'eat products containing wheat, barley, oats or rye. 
If a person suffering from Celiac Disease, also known as eliac sprue, or gluten sensitive enteropathy (GSE), consumes food containing gluten, the villi in the small intestine are dam­aged, preventing them from properly absorbing nutrients, according to the Celiac Disease Foundation's website. This can lead to more long-term health problems such as osteoporosis and lactose intolerance, among other health issues according to the website. 

"I wasn't able to use [my Flex Points] on anything healthy. I'm pretty happy with the new products," said Gaseor, referring to the money allotted with her Student Meal Plan. 
Before the Huddle Mart began carrying the new prod­ucts, Gaseor was forced to store a large supply of gluten­free snack bars that she brought from her home in her dorm room. Gaseor is now able to buy snack bars, pasta meals, and cookies in the Huddle Mart. 
She added that the prices at The Huddle Mart are also helpful to her. While shopping for foods that will accommo­date a gluten-free diet, Gaseor has learned to compare prices and said that she will continue to shop at the Huddle Mart where the prices on gluten­free foods are not significantly higher than other stores. 
"The Huddle Mart prices are pretty competitive, which is nice," Gaseor said. 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 






Plug in to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
Campus Ministry  
Free iTunes subscription for reflective listening on your iPod.  
A_•>>l))))) ) M www.ndprayercast.org  Type "ndprayercast" 011 the iTunes search engine, -or -log o11to www.ndprayercast.org Hear it here this week: Rev. Lou delFra, c.s.c. Songs of the NO Folk Choir • psalms • homilies • prayers • meditative music  

r--------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 20, 2008 

Mendoza 
continued from page 1 
us in the sense that it. ehanges our aetions or the way that we look at oursPlves. But if you ask whether a lot more people know how good we am the answer is 'yes,"' Woo said. 
"This year we paid more ittten­tion to eompanies that rneruit our students so tlwy know to expoct that a survey will be eom-, ing to them," Woo said. "We are always looking at reasons to improve, but not in response to rankings." 
Aecording to the BusinessWeek ranking, the median annual starting salaries for Mendoza graduates rose to $53,500, a nearly I 0 percent inernase from the previous year. 
The survey also said that stu­dents eommented that Notre Dame's "die-hard alums and an Pmphasis on ethies separated Mendoza from the pack." 
"Whm1 students commented on ethics, that means more to me than being No. 3," Woo said. 
The BusinessWeek ranking 


CaiDpaign 
continued from page 1 
postnrs that eirculated the cam­pus -though the Couneil had approved their content -were prohibited beeause they had not been individually stamped. 
The Judicial Council eould not 
say if the soun:e of this particular allegation is the same one as tho two latnr claims. 
Houvers and Steven Ouyang, who ran togetlwr for president and vice president mspnctively. said that while they tritHI to focus thnir campaign on tlw issues that matter to tht) also plaees Mendoza as the top Business currently enrolls 1,626 Despite its strengths, Junior Catholie business sehool in the undergraduate students in the Hajime Sargent believes that nation. It is followed by Boston departments of accountancy, Mendoza still has room for College's Carroll School of Jinance, managenwnt and mar-improvement. Management at keting. "One weakness that I think No. 14 and BusinessWeek Mendoza has is just being in Ceorgetown "We are always based its ranking South Bend. I would like to see University's on nine sources more opportunities in the com­

looking at reasons to

McDonough including median munity to gain practical experi­
improve. but not in

Sehoul of starting salaries ence," he said. Business at No. response to rankings. " for graduates, Sargent said he thinks the 
19. the number of BusinessWeek ranking is "ulti­"Our motto is graduates admit­mately its just a number."
Carolyn Woo 

that we will be ted to top MBA "I think the rank gives us more
Dean of the Mendoza

faithful to programs, facul­opportunity to be recruited, but Catholie teaeh­College of Business ty-student ratios, on the day to day level, as Long 
ings, integrity, ethics, responsi­bility to society and the common good," Woo said. "We have always stood on a dual mission of academic excellence and faith. We want our students to exceed but to exceed in the right way," Woo said. 
Although enrollment usually fluctuates from year to year in the College of Business, Woo said that enrollment has continued to increase in the past three years, although she was not sure that this could be attributed to the rankings. 
The Mendoza College of 
the class and not about minute details that do not affect the voters." 
Heuvers echoed his words, adding that he was surprised to see the degree to which some people went to damage his cam­paign. 
"When it comes down to it, this is a sophomore class coun­cil election and I am surprised 
"The spirit of the elections is about what in the end gets done for the class and iwt about minute details that do not affect the voters. " 
Steven Ouyang freshman 
some people took this as far as they did," he said. 
lie also said that the timing of the accusa­tions led him to believe they wtm) planned to hurt his chanct~s of winning. 
"It was a funny coinei­dence that the first allegation 
t-leetorate. tlwy lost valuable r.ampaign time answering to the allegations against them. 

"It is unfortunate that some people felt it was neeessary to bring such negativity into this eleetion," Ouyang said. "The spirit of the elections is about what in the end gets done for came right before the primary and tiHl second the day of th1~ run-ofl'," he said. 
Many freshmen said the accu­sations influenced their choice of ticket. 
Contact Steve Santay at ssantay@nd.edu 

demieally for several business fields. 
"They ofrer a lot of opportuni­ties for interdisciplinary advaneement ... I'm a marketing major, but I am also-edueated in wide baekground of aeeounting," Saergont said. 
Senior Brian Cavers said that he feels Mendoza has prepared him for the business world once he graduates. 
"We praetiee real world exam­ples with ease studies...and we analyze a eompany just as you would be doing in a job," Cavers said. "I feel confident that once I get a job ... Mendoza will have prepared me." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 


average class as you're engaged in challenging 
size, the percent­program, I think there would still age of students with internships be a way to stand out [regardless and the number of hours stu­of ranking)" Sargent said. dents spend weekly on class Sargent said that he feels work. Mendoza has prepared him aea­
c;c 



TurtleCreek 
APARTMENTS 

So close to c••I'NS you can hear the shouts an4 see the lights 
~ 
Furnished Studio Apartments One Bedroom Apartments Two Bedroom One Bath Apartments Two Bedroom One and a Half Bath Apartments "\.Vith Fenced in Patio 
TURTLE CREEK AMENITIES 1710 E.. Turtle Creek Drive 
/) Tan for FREE at Ft.tn Tan ·f~ Heated Pool and I-Iot Tub <~'Pet Friendly <)On Site Security 

52SSS40t 
South Bend, IN 46637 Phone: 574-272-8124 

(112 block east of campus on Vaness Street) 
Fax:574-273-6921 
l~J::~~\~!.ld.~iY-~I!t~~r.t1g.C:rg.~.k.~~qill 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 20, 2008 CcvvtPILED FROM THr OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVtCFS page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bin Laden to release new messaue 
CAIRO, Egypt -Al-Qaida leader Osama oin Laden will be issuing a new message timed to the filth anniversary of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq, a militant Web site with close connections to the group said Wednesday. 
"Urgent, very soon by the will of God," read the announcement of the new message "the response is what you see and not what you hear. by the warrior sheik, Osama bin Laden." 
Iraq marked the fifth anniversary of the war on Wednesday. The announcement was text only and showed no pictures of the elusive militant leader. 
The message would be bin Laden's first for 2008 and follows up an hour-long, late December audio missive in which he warned Iraq's Sunni Arabs against fighting al-Qaida in Iraq and vowed new attacks on Israel. 
Iraq to hold provincial elections in fall 
BAGHDAD-Under strong U.S. pressure, Iraq's presidential council signed off Wednesday on a measure paving the way for provincial elections by the fall, a major step toward easing sectarian rills as the nation marks the fifth anniversary of the war. 
The decision by the council, made up of the country's president and two vice presidents, lays the 1-,>Toundwork for voters to choose new leaders of Iraq's 18 provinces. The elections open the door to greater Sunni representation in regional administrations. 
Many Sunnis boycotted the last election for provincial oflirials in January 2005, enabling Shiitns and Kurds to win a disproportionate share of power at the expense of the Sunnis -even in areas with substantial Sunni populations. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Ointon calls on Obama for new elections 
DETROIT -Sen. Hillary Hodham Clinton bluntly challenged Barack Obama to agree to new primaries in Michigan and Florida on Wednesday and said it was "wrong, and frankly un-American" not to have the two delegations seated at the Democratic National Convention. 
"Senator Obama speaks passionately on the campaign trail about empowering the American people," said the former first lady, who trails her rival in delegates won to date. "Today I am ask­ing him to match those words with actions." 
Obama ha'i yet to declare his support or oppo­sition, although his campaign has raised a num­ber of procedural and legal questions about the most recent proposal for an early June primary in Michigan. 

13 killed by record floods in Mid West 
PIEDMONT. Mo. -Residents of low-lying towns stacked sandbags or grabbed belongings and evacuated Wednesday after a foot of rain pushed rivers and creeks out of their banks in the nation's midsection. At least 13 deaths had been linked to the weather, and three people were missing. 
Hecord or ncar-record flood crests were fore­cast at several towns in Missouri. Flooding was reported in large areas of Arkansas and parts of southern Illinois, southern Indiana and south­wostern Ohio, and schools were closed in parts of western Kentucky because of flooded roads. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Gambling now legal in taverns, bars 
INDIANAPOLIS -Gov. Mitch Daniels has signed a bill that will allow taverns and bars to offer pull tabs and other low-stakes gambling. 
Proponents of the bill say it could help bar and tavern owners retain jobs and stay in business, while opponents claim it is another sign that Indiana is addicted to gambling. Daniels had considered letting the bill become law without his signature, but ultimately decided to sign it Wednesday. 
"Hoosiers believe in freedom, but also in personal responsibility in the exercise of our liberties," he said in a statement Wednesday. "I sign this bill with misgivings and caution. and the hope that any Hoosiers who choose to risk their money in these games will do so responsibly and with extreme care." 
Bush urges U.S. to stay course in Iraq 
President won't orderfurther troop withdrawls, praises military success in past year 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Five years after launching the invasion of Iraq. President Bush strongly signaled Wednesday that he won't order troop withdrawals beyond those already planned because he refuses to "jeopardize the hard­fought gains" of the past year. 
As anti-war activists demonstrated around downtown Washington, the president spoke at the Pentagon to mark the anniversary of a war that" has cost nearly 4,000 U.S. lives and roughly $500 bil­lion. The president's address was part of a series of events the White House planned around the anniversary and next month's report from the top 
U.S. figures in Iraq, Gen. David Petraeus and Ambassador Hyan Crocker. That report will be the basis for Bush's first troop-level decision in seven months. 
"The battle in Iraq has been longer and harder and more costly than we antici­pated," Bush said. 

But, he added, before an audience of Pentagon brass, soldiers and diplomats: "The battle in Iraq is noble, it is necessary, and it is just. And with your courage, the battle in Iraq will end in vic­And he made some of his referring to recent coopera­force larger and faster with­tory." most expansive claims of tion by local Iraqis with the drawals, said they could 
Democrats took issue with success. He said the U.S. military against the unravel recent progress. Bush's stay-the-course sug­increase of 30,000 troops group known as al-Qaida in "Having come so far and gestion. that he ordered to Iraq last Iraq, a mostly homegrown, achieved so much, we are 
"With the war in Iraq year has turned "the situa­though foreign-led, Sunni­not going to let this hap­entering its sixth year, tion in Iraq around." He also based insurgency. Experts pen," he said. Americans are rightly con­said that "Iraq has become question how closely -or He criticized those who cerned about how much the place where Arabs even whether -the group "still call for retreat" in the longer our nation must con­joined with Americans to is connected to the interna­face of what he called unde­tinue to sacrifice our securi­drive a! Qaida out." tional al-Qaida network. As niable successes. ty for the sake of an Iraqi "The surge ... has opened for bin Laden, he is rarely "The challenge in the government that is unwill­the door to a major strategic heard from and is believed period ahead is to consoli­ing or unable to secure its victory in the broader war to be hiding in Pakistan. date the gains we have own future," House Speaker on terror," the president The U.S. has about made and seal the extrem­Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. said. "We are witnessing the 158,000 troops in Iraq. That ists' defeat," he said. "We "Democrats will continue to first large-scale Arab upris­number is expected to drop have learned through hard push for an end to the war ing against Osama bin to 140,000 by summer in experience what happens in Iraq and increased over­Laden, his grim ideology, drawdowns meant to erase when we pull our forces sight of that war." and his terror network. And all but about 8,000 troops back too fast -the terror­
Bush repeatedly and the significance of this from last year's increase. ists and extremists step in, directly linked the Iraq fight development cannot be Bush, who has successful­fill the vacuum, establish to the global battle against overstated." ly defied efforts by the safe havens and use them to the a! Qaida terror network. Bush appeared to be Democratic-led Congress to spread chaos and carnage." 



ISRAEL 

Security alert, West Bank closed for holiday 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM -Israel declared a heightened security alert Wednesday and barred Palestinians from the West Bank and Gaza Strip from entering the country, fearing I-lezbollah guerrillas might try to carry out a major attack during holi­day celebrations this week. 
The Purim holiday coincides with the end of a 40-day mourning period for I-lezbollah commander Imad Mughniyeh, who was killed in a car bombing in Syria last month. Israel denied involvement, but the Lebanese guerrilla group blamed Israel and vowed revenge. 
The alert came amid new signs that Israel is moving closer to a 
cease-fire with l-lamas militants in the Gaza Strip. Israeli defense offi­cials said Amos Gilad, a senior Defense Ministry official, traveled to Cairo on Tuesday for talks with Egyptian mediators. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity due to the sensitive nature of the talks. 
The army said the closure would remain in effect through Sunday night, preventing thousands of Palestinian workers and merchants from entering Israel. Most come from the West Bank, but small num­bers of merchants from the Hamas­controlled Gaza Strip are allowed in. 
The closure won't affect Palestinians needing treatment at Israeli hospitals, and cargo cross­ings will keep operating, a military spokesman said on condition of anonymity, citing policy. 
While Israel typically imposes clo­sures during major holidays, when schools are closed and public areas are crowded with travelers, security officials are warier since the Mughniyeh killing. Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said police canceled vacations for officers and brought in extra forces to guard festivities, which started at schools Wednesday. 
The Islamic mourning period for Mughniyeh ends this weekend. Hezbollah is believed to have close ties with Palestinian militants in the West Bank, who in the past have carried out attacks during Purim, a holiday when young children dress up in costumes. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 20, 2008 
collect and record informa­Dame that we think simulate Montana State University and "Experiments like this are tion about the samples every the space environment," Utah State University. wholly consistent with the
Shuttle 
continued from page 1 
how materials are eroded or degraded in the lower-earth orbit spacecraft environ­ment," he said. 
Tlw MlSSE-6 experiments will give researchers a better understanding of the condi­tions in the lower-earth orbit, as well as clarify misconcep­tions about outer space. 
"Most people think of space as a vacuum -that there's nothing there ... But the lower-earth orbit is 250 miles above the surface of the earth and it's actually a very hostile environment," Jacobs said. "The kinds of collisions that happen when a shuttle moves at 1,500 miles per hour are so energetic that a material exposed to this environment is often under attack by the elements." 
Jacobs also said that this hostile environment is not protected by an ozone layer, causing intense ultraviolet light to affect the space sta­tion, an occurrence that could be potentially harmful to the various materials used in making satellites. 
To test these factors, mate­rials arc exposed to different elements by placing modified controls on the materials, according Jacobs. 
Additionally, Jacobs said that small data recorders have been installed which 20 minutes throughout the yearlong period. 

Not only will the space experiments help to identify environmental effects on materials, but they will also determine whether space environment simulations that have been taking place in Jacob's lab are accurate. 
"We've been doing experi­ments in our lab at Notre 
Jacobs said. "This experiment will be an opportunity to compare our simulation of the space environment with the reality of space." 
Jacobs' research team has been working with six other universities on the MISSE-6 experiment, including the University of Chicago, the University of Illinois, the University of Pittsburgh, 
"We were invited as a team to see if we would like to launch the MISSE-6 experi­ment," Jacobs said. "Notre Dame stepped up in a big way to spearhead the effort." 
After approximately one year, the materials will be retrieved and examined to assess the cumulative effects of the lower-earth orbit envi­ronment. 

University's mission to eon­tribute to the advancement of knowledge," Jacobs said. "We hope that out contributions have an impact and that those advancements lead to an increased understanding of materials in the space environment." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 



tfi~l:~.tl~~ ENT 

THERE. LITERALLY. 
With Your Navigator from U.S. Cellular~ you get a 
voice-guided GPS system with a local search 
function built right into your phone. So you'll 
always have clarity and direction. 
U.S. Cellular is wireless where you matter most:"' 

f< US.Cellular 
. 
l " 
getusc.com 1-888-BUY-USCC ; 
r w ~ ---" 
. -.. '· --­

~2008 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 
-.-' 
-.... ... -t-.. ,_ 

-______________________________________________________j 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS

Thursday, March 20, 2008 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  12,099.66  -293.00  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
962  83  2,386  1,204,261,107  
AMEX  2/186.41 .  .:sz.40  

NASDAQ 2,209.96 -58.30 NYSE 8,549.50 -276.94 S&P 500 1,298.42 -32.32 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,260.44 +296.28 FTSE 100 (London) 5,545.60 -60.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  2.48  -3.31  130.32  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -2.64  -0.67  24.75  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -2.47  -1.07  42.26  
VISA Inc. (V)  0.00  0.00  56.50  

Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -2.58 -0.089 3.362 13-WEEK BILL -27.78 -0.250 0.650 30-YEAR BOND -2.47 -0.107 4.222 5-YEAR NOTE -2.62 -0.063 2.343 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -4.94 104.48 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -59.00 9453) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.98 74.55 


Exchange Rates 
YEN 98.8200 EURO 0.6401 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0121 BRITISH POUND 0.5039 

IN BRIEF Blood thinner contaminant indentified 
WASIIINGTON -U.S. health officials have identified a contaminant in batches of the blood thinner heparin associated with 19 deaths and are trying to determine how the chemical got into the drug. 
The lots of heparin, whose key ingredient was importnd from China, were recalled Feb. 28, and food and Drug Administration offi­cials said Wednesr;lay that no new deaths have been reported since that time. 
Dr. Janet Woodcock. head of the FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said the contaminant is oversulfated condroftin sul­fate, a chemical that does not occur naturally. 
Condroitin sulfate is a natural compound that occurs widely and is used as a dietary supplement but the oversulfated version has not been widely studied. 
"We cannot rule in or out whether this was accidentally or deliberately introduced into the product," Woodcock said, "We are investigat­ing how it got in." 
The FDA has also initiated testing of import­ed heparin entering this country and Woodcock said the agency feels "doctors and patients now can be confident that the product on the market has been tested and is safe." 

Market erases most of Tuesday's gains 
NEW YOHK -Stocks pulled back sharply Wednesday, erasing most of the previous ses­sion's big gairis as investors grew concerned about the possibility that banks remain vul­nerable to further problems from soured debt. The Dow Jones industrial average fell nearly 300 points aftnr rising 420 on Tuesday. 
Some retrenchment was to be expected after the previous day's huge advance. But the decline also reflects investors' continuing uneasiness about the world's financial system and the U.S. nconomy. 
Talk swirled about whether further write­downs are in the ol'ling aftnr Merrill Lynch & Co. filed a lawsuit against a company involved in a debt transaction with the investment bank. Merrill elaimed in the litigation that Security Capital Assurance Inc. owed it up to $3.1 billion after backing out of f'inancial transactions. 

Limits on mortgage firms loosened 
Mandatory cash cushion for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac to be reduced by one-third 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -By making it easie~:. for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to raise funds and back nearly $2 trillion in home loans this year, the government is making its role in steadying the economy decidedly more hands on. 
That strategy is moving the Bush administration toward activist government solutions and away from its traditional free-market leanings. Behind the push: a housing crisis and credit­market calamity that have spread fear through global fmancial markets and made it tough for consumers and businesses to borrow. 
Analysts worry that the opening for Fannie and Freddie could put too much financial risk on the backs of the mortgage-finance companies, which have taken multibillion-dollar hits from the foreclosure wave and have been hun­gry for capital. 
Until a few months ago, administration officials voiced similar concern. They said that allowing the companies to take on more debt could threaten the global financial system, cit­ing the pair's recent mas­sive accounting scandals. 
Although an independent about the move, as he did homeowners refinance into lize the mortgage market regulatory agency put the in the rescue buyout of more affordable mortgages. given the current environ­plan in place, it wasn't investment firm· Bear The loosening of the ment." without some significant Stearns by rival JPMorgan mandated capital collars, Glaser was a federal stage setting by top-level Chase -which was orches­which had been hinted at in housing official in the Bush officials. trated and backed up by late February, is a policy Clinton administration. 
It was the Office of the independent Federal turnabout for the govern­Sen. Charles Schumer, D­Federal Housing Enterprise Reserve. ment. N.Y.. who has long been Oversight that announced Under the plan, the "Everything is now on the critical of the administra­Wednesday the plan to mandatory cash cushion for table. Actions that would tion's response to the hous­quickly inject an additional Fannie and Freddie -now have been inconceivable ing crisis, saw recent moves $200 billion of financing for nearly $20 billion for the from the administration's as tardy and tepid. mortgages, which will two -will be reduced by a point of view just weeks "They're beginning to put require Fannie and Freddie third. OFIIEO, which over­ago are mainstream today," their toe in the water," he to raise substantial new sees the government-spon­said mortgage industry said in an interview funds. But President Bush's sored companies, said the consultant Howard Glaser. Wednesday. "They're still a Treasury secretary, Henry goal is to free up money to "The administration is not day late and a dollar short, Paulson, was said to have help new home buyers take going to shoot anything but at least they're looking played a role in bringing out loans and existing down that might help stabi-at it." 

Government doinglittle to help economy 
and has really taken very strong kets. It invoked Depression-vintage
Associated Press 
action, primarily to get the credit mar­authority over the weekend to engineer WASHINGTON -Any present opti­kets functioning again. And that's the fire-sale takeover of Bear Stearns mism may be premature. good." to keep the 85-year old investment 
The sagging economy could keep But she said it may take more action house from going under. slumping, despite one-day stock mar­by the administration and Congress More than 130 million households ket rallies, aggressive intervention by and there may be "a need to put more soon will begin receiving rebate checks the Federal Reserve and efforts by public money into this." under a $168 billion economic aid Congress and the White House to put Former Fed Chairman Alan plan. more money in consumers' pockets. Greenspan calls today's financial prob­On Wednesday, the administration 
Economic fundamentals are dreary lems "the most wrenching since the relaxed restrictions on mortgage­and there is only so much the govern­end of the second World War." finance giant<; Fannie Mae and Freddie ment can do to make things better The economy is replacing Iraq as the Mac, allowing them to make up to before making things worse. main worry of election-year voters. $200 billion more in loans. The White 
Even those applauding the recent This shift has put the administration in House also is negotiating with moves by the Fed and the administra­crisis management mode and led to Democrats. who run Congress, on tion say the economy has taken hits increasing calls to action by the presi­plans to head ofT hundreds of thou­from which it will be hard to recover. dential contenders. sands of home foreclosures. 
"This is a serious combination of The Fed has cut its key short-term But there are risks. events, the housing slump and the rate six times since September. That Too much government intervention, credit crunch, at the same time," said includes a three-quarter percentage some economists suggest, may prolong Alice Rivlin, founding director of the point reduction Tuesday, to 2.25 per­the day of reckoning when housing and Congressional Budget Office and for­cent. Policymakers hinted that more credit markets hit bottom, while mer vice chairman of'the Fed. cuts may be in store. · adding hundreds of billions to the 
Still, she is guardedly hopeful. "The The central bank has shoveled tens national debt. now edging closer to $10 Fed is very aggressive and imaginative of billions of dollars into credit mar-trillion. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMNT Thursday, March 20, 2008 

Cl.ose by campus, Martin's has what you want. 

Starbuck's Coffee® beverages WiFi free in Side Door Deli area 70+ item Salad Bar New Sandwich Express made-to-order subs Sushi selections made fresh daily Hot Deli Fried Chicken, egg rolls, sides and more Panini bar featuring meat and veggie varieties Party trays custom made Donuts made fresh daily in store College logo cakes, balloons and more Kitchen Fresh entrees, just like homemade ATM, stamps and package shipping services Party supplies 

Toll Road 


martinr 
Saint Mary's 
Coll<>ge 
HolyCross 
coll<>g~ 
Count On Us! 
www.martins-supermarkets.com 


Thursday, March 20, 2008 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

In vvrecks, sturdy cars delay victi111s' rescue 
Study reveals emergency crews struggle to cut through modern autos' reinforced steel frames 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Capt. Clint 
Roberts makes his living cut­
ting accident victims out of 
hideously mangled vehicles, 
but even he could hardly 
believe it when two people in a 
2007 midsize car survived a 
head-on crash with a full-sized 
pickup last year. 
The Ford Fusion's reinforced 
steel construction probably 
saved the lives of the 18-year­
old driver and his 16-year-old 
passenger. But Roberts said it 
gave his Hillsborough County 
Fire Rescue crew fits as they 
tried to free them last 
November. 
Because hydraulic cutters 
couldn't shear the roof posts, 
rescue workers had to turn to 
heavy-duty electric saws, 
replacing blade after blade as 
they dulled on the rugged 
material. 
"It was just beating the soot 
out of the tools," adding min­
utes and delaying medical 
treatment, Roberts said. 
There is no question that 
today's cars save lives by 
cocooning motorists in rein­
forced alloys, impact-absorbing 
crumple zones and as many as 
a dozen air bags. 

But in interviews with The Associated Press, rescue offi­cials and experts from around the United States said the new technology is also hindering extrication of injured people, increasingly forcing crews to work deeper into the critical "golden hour" between acci­. dent and treatment by emer­gency room doctors. On many 2005 and later cars, an extri­cation that once took 10 or 15 minutes can now take twice 
that or longer. 
To catch up, counties and 
cities are spending tens of 
thousands of dollars -if they 
can afford it -to buy more 
powerful equipment that can 
cut through newer cars' rein­
forced steel and the lighter, 
tougher exotic metals used in 
roofs, posts and doors. 
Then there are obstacles that 
endanger rescuers' safety. 
Pressurized gas canisters that 
inf1ate air bags can explode if 
pierced by cutting tools. 
Rescuers can be blown from 
cars when air bags suddenly 
in11ate. Hidden battery cables 
in hybrid cars can deliver a 
powerful shock. 
To protect themselves, work­
ers now have to peel away the 
ceiling and interior plastic to 
see what's underneath before 
they can even start cutting. 
Experts cannot say for cer­
tain whether the delays in get­
ting these victims to the hospi­
tal have resulted in people 
dying. But that's the fear. 
"We build more fire stations, 
we make faster fire trucks, 
we've got helicopters to get you 
to the hospital," said Roberts, 
an expert who teaches extrica­
tion to colleagues around 
Florida. "But what's slowing us 
down are these vehicles that 
are harder for us to get into." 
The problem has rescue 
workers scrambling to update 
their tools and explore differ­
ent ways to attack cars with 
their cutters, spreaders and 
saws. Some agencies with 
equipment more than a few 
years old are arriving at acci­dent scenes and finding out that it will no longer do the job. 

"Because their shearing materials had been so success­ful for so many years, some agencies hadn't developed a Plan B," said Tom Hollenstain, who works to educate rescuers about new auto technology at the State Farm Insurance vehi­cle research center. · 
Leading hydraulic-tool mak­ers such as Hurst Jaws of Life -whose namesake George Hurst introduced the first hydraulic extrication tools for auto racing in the early 1970s -must keep putting more oomph into their equipment, making it heavier and more expensive. A single Hurst cut­ter and power unit runs about $25,000. Add hydraulic spreaders and other tools anc~ the price rises quickly. 
A fire crew in Bonita Springs, Fla., discovered the problem last year when it rolled up on a 2007 Lexus that had over­turned. Hydraulic cutters only a few years old wouldn't shear the strengthened steel roof posts, so the crew had to move quickly to cut other parts of the car. A job that should have taken a few minutes required 20 minutes of cutting and saw­ing to remove the driver. 
Assistant Chief Ken Craft said the incident led the depart­ment to buy new heavy rescue tools costing $54,000 -a siz­able expense for a city of around 40,000. 
"If the automakers roll out something new next year, we could be right back where we were at," Craft said. "That's the problem we're confronted with." 
Mike Ader, a volunteer fire­fighter in Rockville, Md., recalled the layered-steel roof post from a 2008 Toyota Camry that wouldn't budge under the blades of a hydraulic cutter after a broadside crash Jan. 2. The patient, whose injuries were serious but not life­threatening, nnally had to be maneuvered around the post. 
Ader used two types of saws and numerous blades to remove the post after the patient was removed. The department quickly decided to buy a new, more powerful cut­ter. 
The flip side, of course, is that more people are surviving horrific crashes that would have killed them just a few years ago. 
The Fusion's passenger, for example, was hurt but con­scious and joking with Roberts as the crew worked to get him out. The driver of the other vehicle -a 2001 Ford F-150 pickup -was dead at the scene. 
With about three people hurt in car crashes every minute in the United States, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration spokesman Rae Tyson said he is comfortable with the trade-off. Rescue workers, he said, will have to work harder to keep up with technology, just like everybody else. 
"The fatality rate for passen­ger vehicles is the lowest in history," Tyson said. "That, to me, is a pretty good news story." 


Father faces 4 years inprison 
Bogus postingfueled racial conflict between victim and shooter's son 
Associated Press 
RIVERHEAD, N.Y.-A black father was sentenced to two to four years in prison Wednesday for fatally shooting an intoxicated white teenager during a racially charged con­frontation with two carloads of young people at the end of his driveway. 
The parents of victim Daniel Cicciaro Jr., 17, were irate after learning that John White did not receive the maximum sentence of 15 years in prison. 
White, 54, was convicted in December of second-degree manslaughter and a weapons charge. 
"Nice message it sends to society that as long as you're black and there's a problem at the end of your driveway you can grab an illegal handgun and shoot someone in the face and get away with it," an infu­riated Daniel Cicciaro Sr. told reporters while dozens of sup­porters sobbed nearby. 
"Well, let's see what hap­pens when Aaron White gets shot, and see how the laws are," Cicciaro said, referring to White's 19-year-old son. 
Defense attorney Frederick Brewington said Cicciaro's remarks appeared to be a threat and demanded an investigation. Prosecutor Thomas Spota said the matter was referred to police, and the Whites were assigned extra protection at their home. 
''I've always remained remorseful about this inci­dent," White told the judge. 
White was led away in handcuffs, but his attorneys immediately filed an appeal and bail was set at $200,000 

Teach In Florida! 
You are Invited to Attend a Teacher Recruitment Seminar 
Coming to a Citv NearYou 
March 26-28 
If you would like to meet representatives from the Florida Department of Education and a team of school district recruiters from around the state,we encourage you to accept this unique invitation. Each seminar will last approximately 90 minutes and will cover topics of importance to anyone considering moving to Florida to live and'teach. Florida accepts out-of-state qualifications and has numerous paths to certification. 

Spaces are limited and pre-registration is required at: 
www.TeachinFiorida.com 

late Wednesday, said attorney Paul Gianelli. He was expected to remain jailed overnight. 
At the trial, the defense invoked the nation's violent racist past in arguing the shooting was justified, refer­ring to the teenagers as a "lynch mob." 
White testified that he was trying to protect his family on a hot August night in 2006 when he gDt an unregistered pistol from his garage after a group of angry white teenagers turned up at his house to fight his son. He claimed the hand­gun discharged accidentally, killing Cicciaro. 
The conflict was fueled by a bogus Internet posting claim­ing Aaron White wanted to rape a female friend of one of the white teens. 
Cicciaro, who had a blood­alcohol reading above the legal limit for driving, was just 3 inches from the pistol when he was shot in the face, a medical examiner testified. 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page I 0 Thursday, March 20, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining !Iall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris I line 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay l'it7patrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: K.nic Kohler 

AWl~ MANAt;ING EDITOR: I )eirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EmTOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
ScENE EDITOR: 'lac AnJrt,ws 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: J.iz llarrcr 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: jessica Cortez 

An OF.SIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRA'JUR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 ohscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-531J 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5j03 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to rdi.tse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lcrters and columns present the views of the authors and not nect'SSarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vit"Wpoint space is available to all readers. The free t·xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact inf(>rmation. 
QuMion.r rrgardit~g Obrrrver policies should be directed to Editor in ChiifChrir Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11u: Oh'>t'rYl'l (USPS '\'JtJ 2-40UO)I, puhl..IK"d Mumlay thwugh Friday t"tet"J't durin~ nt.lm .md v.•~-'tmn pcriud•. A '"'"'•:npdun lu Thr Oh'fl:rvt"f •• $100 lOr one ;u::ulcmk V(,',u;$'i'i/iJr!llll''U.'III'-"'ICf. 
fhc Oh~rvcr i~ puhlishc<l Jt: POS'I'MAS'J'ER 021 South llimnf( Ho~ll S<nd JdJn:ss com:cdom to: 
NtltK thmc. IN 46S~r..on9 11•c0b~rw;r 

l'crindko11 p<"-"l.igl." po~iJ ,If Norn: o~mc r.o Boxn9 and addltlunJim.ulmg utJiccJo. 014 South Dining H.tll 
Nom: D:unc, IN 465%-0771) 
Tit.: Otn..:rvc:r th" mcmhc:r ,,r du: AutiC!oilcd ['~~.All rcprod.m.tiun rigln~ otrc rncrved. 
Garden variety scandals 
Being !'rom New Jersey, state pride has never really been my thing. Don't get me wrong, I love my state, and if I can ever afford to live there in a place other than my parents' house I'd cer­tainly love to. But 
John Everett
for all the things to 
love about New 
Jersey, from Bruce 

Kids These 
Springsteen to the 
Days

three-time StanJp,y Cup winning New Jersey Devils to din­ers at nearly every mile mark on every major highway, it just never occurred to me to think ol' New Jersey as better than any other state. The school system is only, as the state's commercials tell me, "one ol' the top two in the nation." 
I think the Jack of enthusiasm might have to do with the fact that the Garden State is ratlwr dominated by the lurking giant right above, New York. All my life I've watehed sitcoms on New York tele­vision affiliates, I've listened to New York radio stations and read New York newspapers. I've even rooted for New York sports teams, like the Giants and Mets (I'm not much of a hockey fan). 
I Iowever, there has always been one area in which I have always considerp,d New Jersey vastly superior to the Empire State, and though rp,cent head­linp,s might make some reconsider the rankings, I for one refuse to relinquish New Jersey's claim as the home of the most corrupt and scandalous state politicians in the country. 
The immoral acts engaged in by Eliot Spitzer at the Emperor's Club, the details of which are fresh enough in the public conscious as to spare their retelling here, are appalling. A rising star in the Democratic Party has crashed, and a life's work spent prose­cuting those who broke the law is irre­deemably tarnished. In addition to all this, the Spitzer case has once again shown how we in America, in the words of Daniel Patrick Moynihan, are "defin­ing deviancy down." Here is a man who commits adultery with a prostitute, vio­lating the sacred trust of marriage, and the only thing anyone seems to want to talk about is whether or not Spitzer should have paid the extra few thou­sand to move up from a four-diamond hooker to a seven. 
Coupled with the Spitzer scandal is the news which broke just a few hours after David Paterson's inauguration as the new governor. Aftp,r a scandal on the magnitude of the Spitzer affair, New Yorkers may understandably have been looking for a ealm transition, and for promises of a cleaner and more respon­sible government. So of course, nearly the first thing Gov. Paterson does is tPil tlw first reporter he can find that he spent almost three years in relation­ships with women other than his wife. Presumably, the fact that money was not exchanged makes Paterson a cham­pion of the people. 
However, I fear that the media and you, the media-influenced public, might be too caught up in the here-and-now, and be somewhat forgetful of the not­so-far-from-here-and-now. After all, it has only been four years since the gov­ernor of my proud state resigned in order to get in front of the story about how he hired his completely unqualified gay lover to be his Homeland Security adviser at a yearly salary of $110,000 a year, despite the fact that Louis Freeh, the former head of the FBI, volunteered to do the job for free. Gov. McGreevy apparently thought that the fact that Golan Cipel was from Israel would be enough to satisfy everyone in the state that he was qualified to advise the gov­ernor in the event of a terrorist attack. Like in the Spitzer case, there was the pathetic spectacle of McGreevy and his wife standing together at a podium, refusing to directly answer questions or fully admit wrongdoing. But here's when~ New Jersey's expertise in all matters salacious eornes into play: Hather than just resigning efTective shortly thereafter, McGreevy announced that his rnsignation would not take place for three whole months. Why'! Why, to deny the voters of New Jersey the d1anee to choosn his replacmnent in a speeial election, of coursn! You sen in New Jersey, wn only let thp, voters decide who should be in ofliee when all other alternatives have been exhausted. 
I don't think I've ever been prouder of' my home state than I was the othN day when former Gov. McGreevy, now of' all things a divinity student in an Episcopal seminary, in an effort to keep the scan­dal-crown in New .lers•~y. said not so fast New York. You sen, he wasn't just cheating on his wife with a state employee, no. lin was having wild sex parties whkh involved his wife. 
llonestly, it's like MeGrenvy was standing up and saying, just try and top that, Paterson. Or maybn he was just trying to publiely embarrass his wife before the upcoming custody hearing over their daughter .Jacqueline, whiln also trying to depmss sales of her book. Either way, it makes my heart stir with pride to be from Nnw Jersey, where we have perfected career-ending scandal. 
John Everett is a senior English major. lie is thought to be somewhere between 21 and 45 years ofage. 1Je is armed only with a sharp wit and is considered cantankerous. If you have any information regarding his whereabouts, please contact jeverett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Marcela Berrios Matt Gamb~1r ~lbo will go further in the Katie Peralta Michael Bryan 
NCAA basketball toumatnent?
Mandi Stirone Scene John Tierney Ryan Raffin Graphics Viewpoint 
e Men"s Basketball -60%
Blair Chemidlin Kara King 
e \Vomen•s Basketball -40% 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It's never too late to be who 
you might have been. " 
George Eliot English novelist 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 20, 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Protesters out of line 
Yesterday I was walking to class with they risk their lives for is absurd. my boyfriend, who was wearing his So, I would like to challenge all of Army uniform, when we came upon a those who make similar claims of "sup­protest against the Iraq War on port" to put down your signs and actu­Fieldhouse Mall near Lafortune. My ally do something worthwhile for a boyfriend stood tall, looked forward and change. If you truly support the troops, walked past the protesters without spend the time you waste idly standing uttering a word. We were immediately with a sign preparing a care package followed by a young man holding a sign for a soldier. Get a name and address that said "Support the Troops, Not the on Anysoldier.com and send a card or War" who "thanked" him for his service an e-mail thanking them. It is, after all, and yelled at him to come join the soldiers who have fought and died to protest later in the day. guarantee your right to stand in protest 
It was a slap in the face to my and ridicule the very causes that they boyfriend, since some of the other pro­risk their lives for. If any of you would testers held signs complaining of Iraqi like to put your words of support into deaths brought about by American sol­action I would be happy to pass along diers and demeaning the administration the addresses of my boyfriend, and all that has supported the troops through­other junior cadets in Army HOTC, who out the war. At this point, my blood will be spending most of this summer boiled, and I began to wonder whether training in Fort Lewis, Washington this so-called supporter of the troops away from their friends and families. I really knew what it meant to show sup­know they would prefer you to show port? your appreciation with letters and pack­
Members of ROTC and those in the ages as opposed to your distorted ver­armed forces today made a choice to sion of "support" that is, in fact, a join the service. They were not drafted. mockery. To believe that they would stand in protest of something that they have cho­Meghan Sweeney sen to dedicate their lives to is insulting senior and ignorant. To claim that you support Farley Hall people while standing in protest of what March 19 

Yatarola shows the way 
Ed Keenan is clearly a lost soul If Barack Obama is the Antichrist, careening down a path of corruption. which I have no doubt he is, then In his article "Obama most likely not Yatarola is clearly the second coming the Antichrist" {March 19), Keenan of our Savior. His battles against the bashes Greg Yatarola, the final bas­insanity of change in Washington, tion of faith and reason here in The hopes for healthcare and disgusting Observer, for having nothing "origi­views about abortion which Obama nal" or "relevant" to say about the may or may not hold is valiant, and destructive monstrosity that is Barack yet we crucify this great man all over Obama, calling Yatarola's words again. "absurd." The time has come. The Evil One 
Need I remind you all that this is has emerged from his lair in the just the sort of derision endured by United States Senate to devour us all. the Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, for Yet our last light and hope shines his defense of the poor, diseased, and through the Viewpoint section of the Republican. In fact, one notices that Notre Dame Observer, a beacon for all the inane idol worship that follows pious men to follow. You unbelievers Obama everywhere he goes is just the have only death to look forward to. opposite of what the brilliant Yatarola The Yatarapture will soon descend faces on this campus. The insightful upon us. You will be left behind, only commentaries of this modern prophet to be slaughtered in the great Obama­are dismissed by nearly all students in Yatarola battle in the valley of the same way as by Keenan. Megiddo. May God have mercy on 
Yet though he is inevitably respond­your fascist souls, if you can even ed to with great hostility by the Notre claim to have them. The Word of Dame student body, Greg the Great Yatarola. (You say: Thanks be to trucks on, writing article after article Greg). to The Observer, taking time out of his real-world day to try to lead the stu­Andy Gray dents of his alma mater to the light. sophomore Thank God for alumni who are so Siegfried Hall involved. March 19 
Catholicism vs. nationalism 
I believe Jay Howley ("Sheen doesn't deserve Laetare Medal," March 
17) is confusing two areas of an American Catholic's life: Rationalism and Catholicism. 
The war in Iraq was called unjust by the Vatican under John Paul II, and Benedict XVI reiterated a call for the end of the war on Sunday. Is the end of this war not the major goal of Not In My Name and ANSWEH'? Sheen may not be acting in ways that seem supportive to the United States, but that may be because supporting U.S. policy may not be the most Catholic thing to do. 
At the beginning of Mass on Sunday we heard of the day when every­one thought that the militant Messiah had come, riding into Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives. But later that same Mass we heard this Messiah say, "for all who take the sword will perish by the sword." 
I eommend Notre Dame for choosing Martin Sheen as a recipient of the Laotere Medal for his inspiring story of rediscovering his faith, his voicn against "the sword" and in support of the weak and poor. And perhaps it is in spite of the fact that he doesn't place the same impor­
tan<~e on all three parts of our motto, but I'm guessing not. 
PERSPECTIVE: MARCH 24, 1980 
Matt Rissler grad student off campus March 17 





Deeper issue must be addressed 
The recent Health and Body Image Conference held at Notre Dame may have succeeded in raising awareness of eating dis­orders, but it hardly succeeded in pinpointing the issues underlying them. 
A distorted body image is not the funda­mental problem, but only a manifestation of the true issue. At their root. eating disorders are a mechanism for coping with extreme anxiety and self-hatred. Our societal fixation on a certain (unrealistic) standard of physical perfection may give the anxiety a vehicle to inhabit. but in absence of a deeper psycho­logical pathology, this ideal will not develop into the obsessive behavior that characterizes an eating disorder. (It is well worth recalling, here, the elinical name-anorexia nervosa -loss of appetite due to nerves). 
Addressing eating disorders, then, involves not merely asking, as Valerie Staples did, "What situations here have contributed to your view of food, weight and body image?'" Rather, it involves asking instead, "What situ­ations have cultivated in you feelings of defi­ciency or self-doubt?" This line of question­ing reveals that eating disorders arise not in a society that prizes merely physical perfec­tion, but one that judges the individual on scholarly, financial, athletic and personal success -to the point of reducing the human 
person to a resume of these accomplish­ments. ' 
The anxiety of never feeling good enough -in any realm -contributes to the develop­ment of an eating disorder. If the University truly wishes to address eating disorders, the solution is not to hold a conference highlight­ing a supermodel as the keynote speaker. 
Ultimately, the University must reevaluate the kind of mental health that is fostered on this campus. More immediately, the University must prioritize making high quali­ty counselling more available to·the student body. 
While it is possible to find this at the coun­selling center, it is also true that the center is chronically unable to meet student demand, consigning some to their waiting list and churning others through at a rushed pace or in a limited number of sessions. Hiring more counselors to supplement the doctoral interns won't eradicate eating disorders on campus, but it will increase the possibility that those who wrestle with them will receive adequate care. 
Emily Stetler grad student offcampus March 19 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 Thursday, March 20, 2008 


By JAMES COSTA Scene Writer 

At the age of only 19, Zach Condon, a.k.a. "Beirut", craf'ted one of the most precocious debut records of any American artist in recent memory. Defined by Eastern European and Balkan influences, the album "Gulag Orkestar" weaves a decidedly mature tale of hope, loss and the constant renewal of life as is found when one appreciates the dueling roles of new influences 
amidst the permanence of mmnory. 
Considered part of the indie scene. Beirut has f1own under the radar of many casual indie fans. llis rich and emo­tive voice carries most of the songs, with various instru­ments including the ukulele and the trumpet augmenting the many textures and feel­ings that he brings to each tune. 
A minor problem with the record is the fact that it is 
laced amidst a concord o
His rich and emotive voice 
horns, drums and the ever­
carries most ofthe songs, with 
present ukulelP, the trac various instruments including creates a subtly stunning por­trait of the expectations tha
the ukulele and the trumpet 
lovers invest in their loves
augmenting the many textures 
all to watch them fall, stil and feelings that he brings to evp,r-hoping for the love t risP again in a· yet to be see
each tune. 


written with such heartfelt 1~nthusiasm for the lives and Pxperiences of those in Eastern Europe, the Balkans and Hussia. It's a sound tnehniqun and Condon succeeds in conveying a snnsn of the experience faced by those whose stories color his songs. But, since he grew up in the western United States and spent most of his timn making the record in Western Europe, it is unlikely that many of the stories he tells are so much from lived expnrienees as they are from 
Gulag Orkestar 
Beirut Label: Ba Da Bing Recommended Tracks: "Postcards from Italy," "Scenic Wor1d' and "After the Curtain" 
meticulous and thorough research on his su jects. The songs are not particularly bad or su fer from lack of actual influential experiencp, but they seem to stretch-a bit too far at som points. 
One of the major triumphs of the album i "Postcards From Italy." Quite similar at points t the vocal fluctuations and flows of Hufu Wainwright, it is a fully developed tune of life love and death. Beirut sings: "The times we h I Oh, when the wind would blow with rain snow I Were not all bad I We put our feet ju 
where they had, had to go 
Nnver to go." With vocal ·#' 
day. 

One of Beirut's most obvi ous strengths is his ability write lyrics that are not over 
ly involved and sprawling. Unlike many indi artists who construct songs that n~ly on vast sto ries weaved within each individual track Condon allows the words equal footing with th music. Yet he also manages the balance the tw elements of words and music so they suppor each other as individual yet superbly integrated elements of each track. This effect is best s1~en on tracks like "The Canals of Our City," "Moun Wroclai" and "Postcards From Italy." Indeed. h 
astute and measured use of each element o the song allows for the best songs to stand ou as absolute gems while letting the more aver­age ones still achieve their own power and effect in a manner that is usually only seen in the best songs on other artists' records. 
The track "Scenic World" offers perhaps the most prettily pop sound on the record. Ami the onset of horns and layered vocals, Condo sings: "I try to imagine a careless life I A sceni world where the sunsets are all breathtaking. It's a beautiful moment on a wholly beautifu record from a young man who is fast becomin one of the most magical and affecting artis making music today. 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

Thursday, March 20, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 2 
COMMENTARY 

Irish poised for deep NCAA run 
It's limn to gfJt back to work. 
Aftnr dispatching most of their 
Big East regular-sna">on opponent<; 
in businnss-like fashion. tho Irish 
should gnt the job done this wonk­
end in thn NCAA Tournament. 
But that doesn't mnan Notrn Damn has an oasy road alw ad (If it. After the Irish linishnd in a tin lhr snmnd placn in the conlimmcn. tlwy were "mwardnd" with a trip to a dty two time zones away to take on a Gnorgn Mason tmlll1 that knows a lew things about winning in March Madness. II' they take 1:arn of' tho Patriots, the Irish will thon likely take on either Washin).,rton State or Winthrop. 
Thn players know they ean't mention where the Irish would lwad if' tlwy could noteh two wins in Denver, but Notre Damo f~tns can spneulate. If the team is still on il"> li.mt li1r the Swnet Sixtenn, the Irish would earn <ulOther eross­muntry trip, this time to tako on North Carolina in il"> backyard in Charlotte, N.C. 
ThP potential match up with the Tar llflels might not really seem liko a mward for tho playnrs but that would bn plenty of' l'un f(Jr tims. Can't you just imagine a sweaty. wid11-eyed Dick Vitale going hoarsn while talking about a llarangody-llansbrough rnatdmp? "It's the Swo11t Sixteen. It's tho two best big men in the country, baby!" 
I'm giddy just thinking about it. lfthn Irish takn earn of' business this Wmlkond. thoy will lind them­selves in one of thn biggest games in program history. 


I know I'm getting alwad of 
myself. But not as ahead as you 
might think -expPct the Irish to 
come out on lire this weekend. 
The Colorado air might not help 
Notre Dame's oflimse like it does 
baseball hitters but that doesn't 

matter. Luke Harangody has had a 
wmJk to think about his early tim.l 
trouble and a 13-point finish in 
the tnam 's early exit in the Big 
East tournament. That's in addi­

tion to the meager lour poinl'i and 
onp, mbound he postPd in last 
year's one-and-done in the Big 
Dance. 
"I wish the game eould come a 
lot sooner than Thursday," 
llarangody said. 
So despite sleeping in an unfa­
miliar bed f{Jr a few night'i, the 

Irish big man should be even more 
intfmse than usual in the first 

round. George Mason is a physical 
squad but il<; frontcourt won't be 

able to hang with Notre Dame's. A 
potential second-round matchup 
with Washington State or even 
Winthrop would be a bigger test 

for the Irish but it would also be a 
good warm-up for a contest with 
you-know-who. 
The Irish know what's at stake 
this year. They are no longer the 
wide-eyed Tournament rookies 
they admitted to being last year. 

"Wp'rn here to do a lot more than wn did last year," Harangody said. 
The Irish haven't played since their early exit from the Big East tournament. 
They're eag11r to get back to work. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd. edu. 


IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 
Irish senior forward Rob Kurz goes up for a dunk in Notre Dame's 68-55 win over Saint John's March 10. 

2008 NCAA East Regional 
1 
Fri .m. 
16 


Sunday
~ 
8 

.m. 9 
5 
.m. 
12 
Saturday 
4 
.m. 
13 6 
.m. 
11 
Sunday 
3 

14 7 10 
Sunday 
2 

Frid 



15 

Crunching the numbers 
SEASON STATISTICS 

Points per game Opp. points per game Field-goal shooting .CiU£~:/~

--~'~ 
Nl> 15.9 

---'"""" 


,. 
___, -'!h_
3-point shooting am 
ND ·li.O 

Free-throw shooting Rebound margin per game 

Thursday, March 20, 2008 Th£? Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 


Facing Cinderella 
George Mason, a Final Four team two years ago, commands respect as afirst-round opponent 
--, 
George Mason" by defeating
By CHRIS KHOREY this year's George Mason. 
Senior Staff Writer 
"You get there and you settle in and you go to practice and For the second straight year, then you're playing and you Notre Dame suffers a severe lose and its over," Irish forward deficit of Tournament experi­Zach llillesland said of the loss ence relative to its first-round to Winthrop. "That was not a NCM Tournament opponent. good feeling, especially because 
The No. 5 seed Irish, who lost you play your whole season to the only game they played in build that resume and get to the Big Dance in the last four the tournament." years, take on No. 12 seed George Mason in the Pepsi This year's George Mason Center in Denver, Colo., today The Patriots followed up their in the lirst round of the NCAA's national semifinal appearance East Hegional. by missing the 2007 NCAA 
In 2006, as a No. 11 seed, the Tournament. Patriots made a surprising run This season, they went 23-10 all the way to the Final Four. and won the Colonial Athletic Their Cinderella run created a Association championship with new college basketball tradi­a 68-59 win over William & tion -pundits now start Mary on March 10. searching for "This Year's George Mason still features George Mason" as early as seven players with Final Four December. experience and is still coached 
According to many, last year's by Jim Larranga, who is now in "This Year's George Mason" his 11th season with the was Winthrop, the small South school. Carolina college that has been "We know the run that they a perennial favorite in the Big made a couple years ago," Irish As a sophomore, Thomas was think that's a big key for us." practices in Colorado. South conference. guard Kyle McAlarney said. second in rebounding and Although seven current Notre Hillesland dismissed the 
The Eagles, a No. 11 seed, "This is the NCAA Tournament. fourth in scoring on the Final Dame players saw time in the notion that the altitude will also happened to be Notre We have to look at them like a Four team. This season, he is Winthrop game last year, one affe,ct the game. Dame's first round opponent. Big East team." George Mason's leading who didn't was guard Kyle "Everyone has to adjust to it," They beat the Irish 74-64 The Patriots are led by senior rebounder with 10.5 per game McAlarney. McAlarney was sus­he said. "It's not going to be a before losing in the second forward Will Thomas, who, at and second leading scorer with pended for the spring semester factor." round. 6-foot-7, 230 pounds, will prob­15.8 points per game. last season for possession of Jackson, however, said he 
One year later, the Irish are ably match up with Big East The leading scorer for the marijuana. has heard horror stories about determined to erase the memo­player of the year Luke Patriots this season is senior McAlarney said while the playing at altitude. ries of losing to "This Year's Harangody in the low post. guard Folarin Campbell, who NCAA Tournament might be "I heard that if you run up 
pours in 15.9 points per game. old hat for his teammates, he and down the court a couple At 6-foot-4, Campbell presents will try to enjoy his first Big times, you'll pass out," he said. match-up problems for Notre Dance. ''I'm kind of scared." Dame's shorter guards, so ''I'm just going to go out there The sophomore point guard Hillesland or junior guard Hyan and have fun and go for it," added that he hopes Notre Ayers will probably guard him. McAlarney said. "That's all I Dame is in better shape, so that 
George Mason shoots just 35 really can do." George Mason passes out percent from 3-point range as Another thing that's new for before the Irish. a team, but they make up for it the Irish this season is the "I feel like it might an advan­by getting the ball inside to emergence of Harangody, who tage because they might pass Thomas inside or by Campbell scored just four points against out before we do," he said. getting into the lane off the the Eagles last season. This dribble. year, the sophomore is averag­Looking ahead 
The Patriots have played ing 20.8 points and 10.2 The winner of Notre Dame three "power" conference rebounds per game. and George Mason will take on teams this season. They defeat­For much of the season, the winner of Washington State ed Kansas State and South Notre Dame was among the top and Winthrop on Saturday. Carolina and lost to Villanova. teams in the nation in rebound­The Cougars are a slow­
ing margin, but the Irish have paced, defensive team that fin­This year's Notre Dame struggled on the boards of late, ished third in the Pac-1 0, and 
One year ago, Notre Dame even getting out-rebounded 40-averaged 67.1 points per game ­was walking off the court in 34 by guard-heavy Marquette offensively and only gave up Spokane, Wash., having just in their loss in the Big East 57.1 points per game. By con­seen its seas.on end abruptly quarterfinals. trast, the Irish score 80.6 after the loss to Winthrop. "We have to get back to what points per game and give up 
"We had to think about it all we've been doing on the 70.5 points. offseason and it's something boards," sophomore point The Eagles won their fourth that has driven us all season guard Tory Jackson said. "In straight Big South title and will long," senior captain Hob Kurz January we dominated on the try to pick off their second said. boards. We have to get back to straight higher seed in the first 
None of the players on the doing that again." round of the NCAAs. If they do, Notre Dame roster had played Notre Dame will get a shot at in the NCAA Tournament prior Rocky Mountain High revenge from last year. to last season. This season, In addition to each other, But according to Kurz, Notre Kurz said, the Irish are much Notre Dame and George Mason Dame is only focusing on the more prepared for the atmos­will also have to contend with Patriots. phere. the altitude in Denver, where "We have to play fearlessly 
"We learned a lot from last the thin air makes strenuous like we've been playing all year, like how to prepare men­exercise difficult on the lungs. year," he said. 
AP tally better," Kurz said. "Having To try to get used to the gone through the experience, mountain air, the Irish left Contact Chris Khorey at we know what to expect now. I Monday night to try to get two ckhorey@nd.edu 




All year long. Mike Brey has Notre Dame handles its first two 
George Mason is a good mid­been telling his team to "dream big opponents. Thanks to a huge upset major team, but that Final Four dreams." Now is Notre Dame's real (Indiana over North Carolina in was two years ago. Winthrop will chance to do that. After winning a the Hound of 32), the Irish get the upset Washington State, giving the close second-round game, the Irish Hoosiers on an off day and Irish a chance at revenge -and will not have enough magic left to advance to the Elite Eight, where they will take advantage. Notre knock out North Carolina in the they fall for a second time this Dame's run will come to an end in Sweet 16. Notre Dame will be in year to Louisville. Note: My brack­the Sweet 16 in a de-facto road the game until the end against et, where money may or may not game against North Carolina that UNC but the Irish will have to be at stake, does not reflect this will feature a classic match-up
Fran Tolan Chris Khorey 
shoot the lights out to pull off the prediction. between Hansbrough and upset. First Round: W, George Mason Harangody. Associate First Round: W, George Mason Sports Writer Second Round: W, Wash. State Senior Staff First Round: W, George Mason Sports Editor Second Round: W, Wash. State Sweet Sixteen: W, Indiana Writer Second Round: W, Winthrop Sweet Sixteen: L, North Carolina Elite Eight: L, Louisville Sweet Sixteen: L, North Carolina 
Thursday, March 20, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 4 
Brey's 'high-strung child' keeps teammates loose 
Hillesland steps into starting role with unique style of play 
By CHRIS HINE SportS Writer 

Don't ask DePaul center Mac Koshwal what happens when Zaeh llillesland gel'i angry. 
In Notre Dame's 89-80 over t>d>aul on Feb. 2, Irish eoaeh Mike Brey lit into llillesland. saying the junior forward eould be playing better delimse on Koshwal. 
On one particular play in the seeond hall'. Koshwal musded his way past llillesland filr a bueket, prompting Brey to let llillesland have il as he came down on ollimse. 
"I thought Koshwal dropped step and wrmt through his ehest a little too easy them. So, I just kind of eomnwnted on that," Bmy said with a laugh before practice Monday. 
<lnly Brey's re-telling of the story laeked a fi1w other choiee words he had for llillesland. What1wer else Bmy scnmmnd at llillesland had il'i desired lllli1ct -a li1w sec­onds lat<1r, llillesland took Koshwal to the hoop and slammed it home. 
"It fired me up, so next time down tho floor, I wa'i just ready to boil over and I knew next time I get the ball. I'm going to go to the rack to try to finish," llillesland said. " ... Koshwol was guarding me and I knew he wa<.;n't as quiek as I wa'i, so I gave him a little fake went baseline. help came, went to dunk it and it turned out well. Thnn, I kind of let some frustration out afterwards." 
llillesland turned to Notre Damn's bench and yelled some­thing. though nobody on the team wa'i oxaetly sure what he was say­ing as he ran down the !loor like a man possessed. 
"1 don't know what he yelled, and I don't know if it was English, quito frankly," Brey said. "And if it was, if you had a delay on it, like they do on radio shows, there would've been a lot or delays." 
Interactions like this happen occasionally between Brey and Hillelsand. 
"Zach is my high-strung child," Brey said. "So, with him, every now and then, we can light each other up a little bit. That's one of the reasons he gives us great energy." 
llillesland 's energy is one of many attributes he brings to the floor on a nightly ba<>is -the abil­ity to guard anyone on the floor, to rebound, handlfl the ball, and ev1m a little creativity on the limm­sivn end. 
"lie's a trieky player. as athletic as he is, sometimes he gets stoppnd in his dribble and he'll kind of go under the defender and hit a weird, tough shot," Irish guard Kyle McAlarney said. "That's just the way he plays and he's a lot of fun to play with and watch play." 
Hillesland does a little bit of everything, and his stats re!lect that. Ileaded into Notre Dame's NCAA Tournament first-round matchup against George Mason, I-Iillesland is averaging 6.2 points, 
5.1 rebounds, and a little over 2.4 assists per game. But Hillelsand's teammates said his biggest contri­butions can't be measured with numbers. 
'There's just so many things he does well," McAlarney said. "There are times when I'll be a lit­tle winded and I'll just be like Zach, 'Take the ball up.' He can handle the ball, he's guarding the other team's most athletic guy, rebounds, he'll come down and dunk on you. 
"He's not the best shooter, but you've got to give him a lot of credit, he's improved his mid­range game a lot and on top of that his basketlJalllQ is really high and he fil<> into our system really well." 
Hillesland and one of his best friends off the court, junior for­ward Ryan Ayers. also helped keep Notre Dame's team chem­istry intact when Hillesland took over Ayers' spot in the starting lineup before Notre Dame's game against Villanova on Jan. 26. 
"Certainly, at lirst, it was kind of an adjustment. There's a certain aspect for him of 'Oh. coach took me out of the starting lineup,' but it wasn't like a demotion or any­thing. [Coach] was just trying to shuflle it up a little bit," Hillesland said. 
After the switch, the Irish won seven of their next eight, and those initial questions Hillesland and Ayers had with the switch dis­appeared. 
"I didn't want his psyche to go down at all," Hillesland said. 

'That was my first concern. But afler the first couple of games we played pretty well it kind of faded away and it was going to work out for both of us and the team." 
In the end. the switch didn't afl'ect either's playing time signill­cantly. Ayers averaged 26 minutes in conference play while llillesland averaged 22.7, both fig­ures up slightly from non-confer­ence play, when Ayers started. 
As the Irish get ready to play George Mason in the pressure­packed atmosphere of the Tournament, they can count on Hillesland to provide them with a little laughter, especially if he's angry whnn playing FIFA on Xbox 360. 
"If he loses in a FIFA game, he blames it on thn 'stupid glitches in the game,"' McAlarney said. "He'll throw chairs, throw a little temper tantrum." 
George Mason might want to make surn llillesland wins at FIFA before he hits the floor Thursday night -beeause there's no telling what an angry Zach Hillesland is going to do. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Brand new, furnished townhomes for this Fall Semester, 2008 
2 blocks east of the Notre Dame athletic fields, off Willis Street A limited number of new Irish CrO!>sings three and four-bedroom townhomes. specifically 
geared for today's college student, are now available for lease for this tall semester. 
-

No more old school housing. 
Larger than an apartment, these townhomes also include a full, private bath 
in e>ach bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 

• 
Furnished bedrooms wrth built-In desk, full-size> bed, dresser; closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & Cable 

• 
Separate laundry room with washer & dryer included 

• 
fully·r.quipped kitd11m with ;eparate pantry 

• 
large deck 


• 
Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 


All this for $650/month per bedroom. Strict covenants enforced. 
lease today and move into your brand new townhome for fall semester 2008. Call Diane .1t 574.261·3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossingu:om. 

"::U\.) I .,,,_11, ...Jh 

Bulla Rd. 
NOTRE DAME 
Dunn Rd.
CAMPUS 

;, J_l~lff.j;l ~ 
,,,.., ··' =-town/1om"' 
ful "'"'"

([--:-.. 
iACC

i I . 
....___ 
~-) 

N.D. A,;)!~!k_ fL~\ 
~di$on Rd. ­



political handcuffs prevented them from doing. 
Likewise, it appeared that the number-crunching business executives who took over "The Baltimore Sun" would axe Gus, but in the end poor Alma lost her job while the lying con artist Templeton won a 
the way through to its 
T. Edward Andrews
conclusion in the series finale -the show never 
Scene & Heard
insulted its fans' intelli­gence. 
Even in a city as defmed in as black-and-white terms as Baltimore, the world of 'The Wire" painted itself in shades of gray, and that shadowy moral characterization combined with creator David Simon's unwavering commitment to presenting a realistic and gritty street-level view of his city made the show one of the best ever. 
Fans following the series wire-to-wire no doubt left the final frame feeling bittersweet. The good guys won some and lost some, as did the bad guys. In the end, while the names changed and the time slipped by, nothing really changed, and that is Simon's message. For every fall of an Avon Barksdale there's the rise of a Marlo Stanfield. For every Wee Bey Bryce you lock up, there are two Chris Partlows and Felicia "Snoop" Pearsons wait­ing to take his place. And for every Cedric Daniels who sits on the cusp of police commissioner, city politics will see to it that Stanley Valcheks get the job instead. 
As Simon said in a letter written to fans of the show and posted on hbo.com: "We tried to be enter­taining, but in no way did we want to be mistaken for entertainment. We tried to provoke, to critique and debate and rant a bit. We wanted an argument. We think a few good arguments are needed still, that there is much more to be said and it is entirely likely that there are better ideas than the ones we offered. But nothing happens unless the !expletive] is stirred." 
That's the central strand of "The Wire" in as many words -the show withheld making judg­ments or observations and simply presented things as they are on the streets and back alleys of America's inner cities. 
As far as the final episode itself, the conclusion no doubt left the audience surprised and satisfied. Fans of Stringer Bell no doubt must have felt pangs of grief upon seeing the Machiavellian drug kingpin Marlo Stanfield achieve in retirement what Bell dreamed of doing in life -leaving the street behind in favor of a clean career as a legitimate business­man. But Simon knew better than to domesticate his uber-lion into a house cat. Even with an embar­rassment of riches earned through dealing death and drugs, Stanfield couldn't resist the allure of the streets and so for him, "giving up the crown" as the king of the streets was a fate worse than death. 
Given Simon's somewhat pessimistic if not cynical views on life, fans must have felt surprised to see him spare McNulty and Freamon from prison time, leaving them with only the loss of their jobs instead of their freedom for cooking up a fake serial killer in order to do the real police work budgetary and Pulitzer Prize. 
Without a doubt, the most satisfying moment of the fmal episode was Slim Charles' point-blank say­onara to backstabbing thug Cheese. 
Watching Michael rob Marlo's mentor Vinson of his riches at shotgun point must have brought a smile to Omar fans grieving the loss of their erst­while hero. Although Michael put in work as part of a trio with cold-blooded murderers Chris Partlow and Felicia "Snoop" Pearson, just as Pearson says before Michael kills her, "[he] was never one of [them]." Watching him become his generation's ver­sion of Omar made sense -both men dealt in death, but both had a code. 
On the flip side, Omar little's death earlier in the season made little sense. The man who had a code died in an act of violence, laid low by the vicious street rat Cunard. Fans of Little no doubt took the death of the gay gunslinger hard. Watching the vir­tuous vigilante get gunned down in cold blood while purchasing a pack of his favorite Newport smokes was tough to watch, but made for poetic justice. 
Similarly, watching Duquan descend into drug abuse and homelessness was hard to watch. Of all his friends, Duquan showed the most promise dur­ing his brief time in school and the most compas­sion. 
Over the course of seasons four and five, we saw one of his friends, Namond Bryce, make it out of the self-fulfilling prophecy for black youth lhing in the drug-infested crime-and war-zone of America's inner cities. We also saw one of his friends, Randy Wagstaff, who didn't. 
We saw the rise of a promising young politician in Tommy Carcetti, only to see him fall into the muck of the politics of governance and its half-truths and storytelling even as his star continued to rise all the way to the governor's chair. 
We saw Wee Bey again, linked up with Chris Partlow in the chain-linked confines of Jessup's Prison yards. We saw two murderers, one charis­matic, one cold-blooded, both locked up for all of eternity for his crimes. 
The audience had the privilege of meeting white people, black people, gay people, straight people, gangsters with good hearts and policemen with bad ones. Most importantly, it all looked, felt, smelled, tasted and talked like the real deal. 
David Simon built the city from the street up, put all the pieces together and showed us how they work. He built a fictitious Baltimore that looks, feels and breathes like a real city. In the end, fans will remember that they were sad to say goodbye not because they didn't like how things turned out, but that they ran out of time to stay and visit his world. 
The views expressed in Scene & Heard are those ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect those of The Observer. 
Contact T. Edward Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLI)>J I Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 20, 2008 
NBA 

LeBron scores 30 to lead Cavs over Pistons 
Wizards shut down Howard, ride Jamison to win over Magic; Nets beat Hawks to tie for final East playoff spot 
built a healthy rivalry, will meet dunking and Supermanning and
Associated Press 
again sometime this spring. all that stuff". We really wanted 
CLEVElAND-LeBron James James examined a boxscore to prevent as many points in the scon~d 30 points, moving eloser as he walked out of the locker paint as possible and have them to becoming Cleveland's top room bnfore the start of the beat us from outside." career scorer. and the Cavaliers third quarter. He must have It was I-ledo Turkoglu's birth­reminded Detroit that they're noticed that he had only tried day, and the forward scored a still the team to beat in the East 1 0 shots, but that he was get­career-high 39 points. He even with an 89-7:~ win over the ting help from llgauskas, who had a chance to win the game: Pistons on Wednesday night. missed seven games with a Turkoglu took an inbound pass 
James came in needing :~5 back injury. as well as with 5 seconds left, but his driv­points to pass Brad Daugherty Szczerbiak. Ben Wallace and ing layup was short and oflicials as the Cavs' scoring Iead11r. The Delonte West -all acquired in didn't call a foul. NBA's leading scorer will likely an 11-player trade last month. "It was kind of a tough angle break the mark on Friday when Szczerbiak, who has struggled for me," Turkoglu said. "I didn't CIPveland hosts the Toronto with his shot since coming over, want to settle for a jumper, Haptors in a potential first­scored two baskets early in the because right before that they round playoll" preview. fourth to help the Cavs open a fouled me." 
Zydrunas llgauskas added 20 10-point lead and Ilgauskas Howard sat much of the game points and Wally Szczerbiak I 0 made consecutive jumpers as in foul trouble, finishing with for the Cavaliers, the defending Cleveland eventually pushed its three points and 14 rebounds. Eastern Conference champions. lead to 16. The All-Star turned the ball Ilowcver, despite its trip to the In the dosing seconds, the over four times and shot 1-for-NBA finals last season. crowd chanted "MVP" before 6, failing to score from the field Cleveland is viewed by many as James capped the win with a until the fourth quarter. lie had longshot behind Boston and jumper with four seconds left. 10 rebounds before halftime, Detroit. but picked up his lifth foul with and swatted Butler's floater. crowd how hot he was, hit 17 of 
James, though, may eventual­Wizards 87, Magic 86 about 9:30 left in the fourth. It set off a scramble for the 26 shots from the field and ly have something to say about The Washington Wizards did­"I was on the bench -that ball. during which the clock ran added eight assists in more that. · n't like the idea of Dwight was their defensive stop right out. than 43 minutes of action. 
Hasheed Wallace scored 16 Howard getting two of his NBA­there," Howard said. "People Orlando got two chances to "That was vintage Vince points and Hkhard Hamilton 14 leading 60 double-doubles can beat up on me and nothing inbound with 9 seconds left. Carter," Nets coach Lawrence for the Pistons. who were held against them this season. They happens. But when I touch Turkoglu caught the first, but Frank said. "He was phenome­to 63 fewer points than they weren't crazy about all his somebody I get calls." had the ball knocked out of nal." scored in a 136-120 win over dunks, either. Wizards coach Eddie Jordan bounds. The next time, with 5 Hichard Jefferson added 33 Denver on Tuesday. So, Washington keyed on credited 7-foot Brendan seconds left, Turkoglu was points and Devin llarris had a 
It was Detroit's 11rst visit to Howard on Wednesday night, Haywood with shutting Howard swarmed by Washington career-high 26 points and nine Clnveland since losing Game 6 and it worked. down. Haywood finished with defenders and threw up a assists despite playing on a of last season's Eastern Antawn Jamison had 31 10 points and 11 rebounds. prayer that didn't go. sprained ankle as the Nets had Conference finals, a series points and 11 rebounds and "We have Brendan. who can "I thought we got it to him in a season-high point total in win­defined by James' 48-point Orlando's All-Star center was match him eye-to-eye, which is a good spot, and I thought he ning for eighth time in the last tour-de-force in Game 5 at limited to three points and 14 pretty rare in this league when was just going to get space, 10 home games. Auburn llills. Mich. Detroit has rebounds in the Wizards' win. you have a veteran center who which he had, and raise up and "Vince-had a great game," already clinc:hed a spot in this "Our big guys really took the can meet Dwight eye-to-eye and shoot it," Magic coach Stan Van Hawks coach Mike Woodson year's playoffs, the Cavs are ehallenge to make it dillicult for knows how to really play him," Gundy said. "But he tried to be said. "You can't take anything dosing in on a berth and it's him," Jamison said. "Not to get Jordan said. real aggressive and go to the away. lie played at a high level. possible thP teams, who have him bouncing around and Washington trailed most of basket, and just didn't get a JeiTerson played at a high level, 
the first half, but crept out of a good shot. It's disappointing, as well as Harris. They had seven-point deficit in the third but I don't really second-guess three key guys that really made quarter. The team took its first going to him at the end. lie was shots." lead since the opening minutes about the only guy that had New Jersey also won the sea­on Jamison's 9-foot hook, and anything going tonight." son-series with Atlanta 3-1. extended it to 57-52 on another which means it has the of the All-Star's hooks 2 min­Nets 125, Hawks 117 tiebreaknr should they finish utes later. Whatever it takes, Vince tied. Both teams (29-:{9} have 
The Wizards kept it until 3:05 Carter has decided to take the 14 games ld"t. left in the fourth quarter, when New Jersey Nets to the playoffs. "These last games, there are Keith Bogans put Orlando Facing a must-win game with no excuses," said Jefferson, ahead 81-80 with a 3-pointer. Atlanta on Wednesday night, who was 10 of 17 from the field. The teams stayed within three Carter had a season-high 39 "We need evHrybody mentally the rest of the way. points and 10 rebounds and focused and n~ady. This was an 
DeShawn Stevenson. who carried the Nets into a tie with amazing game in terms of what played 2 1/2 seasons for the Hawks for the final playoff was at stakll. There was the Orlando, scored 14. while Caron spot in the Eastern Conference tiebwaker and all that stufl". Butler had 11 points and nine with a victory. · Both teams fought hard." rebounds. "We laid an egg last night, as Joe Johnson had 24 points to 
The Wizards gave Orlando a far as energy and eiTort," Carter lead six Hawks in double fig­good chance to win after being said, referring to a bad loss in ures. Bookie AI llorford added called for a shot-dock violation Chicago. "I just wanted to put 20 points and 15 rebounds, on their last possession. With a my mark on the game in the while Josh Smith had 20 points. one-point lead, Butler took the beginning tonight, whatever "We have to tighten up," said ball at the top of the key and that meant. I wanted to be Johnson, who was in foul trou­waited as the clock ticked. aggressive and make plays." ble in the second half. "I think When he finally made his move, Carter, who blew on his fin­they wanted it more than we Howard met him in the lane gers after shots to show the did in the second half." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifleds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 5 bedroom house just off Angela & If you or someone you The Goon Squad is coming for you, CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING 31. Available now & for next year_ 2 care about has been Jaaaaaaaaaaay.
WANTED 
FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. CALL 574-baths & laundry. 232-6964. PERSONAL sexually assaulted, visit 
234-2436 OR Happy birthday Jon. $14.25 BASE·APPT. STUDENT KRAMERHOUSES.COM For rent: Two story house ready for Pregnant or know someone who is? http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. God, you're good looking .. WORK flexible, no experience immediate occupancy or next You do not have to be alone. We shtml Love, your Gonzaga Bros needed. customer sales/service. 3-4 bdrm. 3 bath home close to school year. Off street parking want to help. Call our 24 hour confi­conditions apply. ages 18+, campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, includes motion sensor light for dential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or Summer In Maine: Males and It was the accepted practice in 
fireplace, 2-car garage, 1Ox20 deck, security. Four individually locked visit our web site at www.lifecall.org females. Meet new friends! Babylon 4,000 years ago 574-273-3835. deluxe appl. bedrooms, central station monitored Travel! Teach your favorite activity. that for a month after the www. workforstudents_com Avail. for Aug. 2008. security system, six blocks from Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it *Tennis*Canoe*Water wedding, the bride's father 
Call 57 4-232-4527 .or Notre Dame, bus stop in front of alone_ If you or someone you love Ski'Swim'Saii'Kayak*Theatre'Vide would supply his son-in-law 269-683-5038 or house, Laundromat next door, needs confidential support or assis-o*Ropes'Office*Pottery*English with all the mead he could drink. FoR RENT 574-340-1844. basement available for storage, lance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, Riding'Landsports and more. June Mead is a honey beer and 
new fumace and central air. new OP. at 1-7819. For mere informa-to August. Residential. because their calendar Blue & Gold Homes Showing for Newly remodeled 3 bed 1 bth home kitchen including appliances, large lion, visit our website at: Enjoy our website. Apply on-line. was lunar based, this period 08/09.09/10 Now offering "flex" for rent walking distance to college. living room, free trash removal. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-TRIPP LAKE CAMP for Girls: 1-was called the honey month leases Garage available for car-extra. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad 800-997-4347, www. tripplake-or what we know today as bluegoldrentals.com Call 847-507-7444_ Call 289-4071 . in The Observer. camp_com the honeymoon. 
.----------------~--­





OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, March 20, 2008 
CO,\tPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVlCES page 15 
MLB

NCAA Women's Tennis ITA Rankings 
rank team last wk. 
1  Georgia Tech  
2  Northwestern  
3  Stanford  
4  Georgia  
5  North Carolina  
6  Florida  
7  Miami  
8  UCLA  
9  California  
10  Baylor  
11  usc  
12  Vanderbilt  
13  Fresno State  
14  NOTRE DAME  
15  Duke  
16  William & Mary  
17  Pepperdine  
18  Clemson  
19  Arizona State  
20  Wake Forest  
21  Tennessee  
22  Florida State  
23  vcu  
24  Arkansas  
25  Michigan  
NCAA Men's Tennis  

4 3 1 
6 14 
5 g 2 7 
11 
8 
10 12 19 15 13 
17 
16 
18 
20 21 22 23 
NR 
24 
ITA Rankings 

rank team 
1 Virginia 
2 Ohio State 
3 Georgia 
4 Mississippi 
5 Texas 
6 UCLA 
7 usc 
8 North Carolina 
9 Baylor 
10 Duke 
11 Florida 
12 NOTRE DAME 
13 Illinois 
14 Tennessee 
15 Oklahoma State 
16 Florida State 
17 Wake Forest 
18 LSU 
19 Michigan 
20 Alabama 
21 vcu 
22 Pepperdine 
23 Tulsa 
24 Rice 
25 TexasA&M 

last wk. 
1 
2 3 
4 5 
6 
7 
B 
11 
10 
14 
1t 9 
13 
15 16 
17 
18 
19 20 21 
22 23 24 
25 


around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBAU TOURNAMENT 
Georgia vs. Xavier 
12:20 p.m., CBS 

Temple vs. Michigan State 
12:30 p.m., CBS 

Kentucky vs. Marquette 
2:30 p.m., CBS 
Baylor vs. Purdue 
2:50 p.m., CBS 

Kansas State vs. USC 7:10p.m., CBS 
Winthrop vs. Washington State 
7:20 p.m., CBS 

Arizona vs. West Virginia 
9:40 p.m., CBS 
Associated Press 

FORT MYERS, Fla. ­Fans at City of Palms Park were ready for Boston's final spring training game in Florida. The Red Sox weren't. 
In an extraordinary move, Boston players voted to boycott a nation­ally televised exhibition and Wednesday after­noon's flight to Japan for next week's season-open­ing series against Oakland, upset that coaches weren't going to receive the same $40,000 payments negoti­ated for. players by their union. 
A couple of hours later, all was resolved, and the Red Sox took the field one hour late for a 4-3 loss to Toronto before a crowd of 7,868. 
Across the country in Phoenix, Athletics players also considered a boycott. They didn't take batting practice and held five team meetings before fol­lowing Boston's lead and deciding to play. An Oakland split squad lost 6­1 to the Los Angeles Angels in front of 7,940 fans before leaving for Tokyo. 
"The players just stepped up and they did what I think was right," Boston bench coach Brad Mills said. 
Major League Baseball agreed to pay the man­agers, coaches and train­ers on the trip $20,000 each from management's proceeds, a person famil­iar with the agreement said, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity because details weren't announced. The Red Sox agreed to make up the difference to make the amount equal, and to pay some of the other team personnel making the trip, the per­son said. 
"It was a misunder­standing of what agree­ment was reached between MLB and the MLBPA," Red Sox presi­dent Larry Lucchino said. "We said we would step up and make sure a second pool was created and would seek contributions from all parties." 
It had not yet been determined whether Oakland would make addi·· tional payments to its staff. 
"Everyone connected with the trip will be fairly compensated," baseball spokesman Rich Levin said. 
Cancellation of the March 25-26 series at the Tokyo Dome would have been a publicity nightmare for Major League Baseball, which already has had enough bad news during an offseason dominated bv performance-enhancing drugs. 

IN BRIEF Virginia Tech's leading
rusffer_ Ore kicked off team 
Virginia Tech running back Branden Ore, the Hokies' leading rusher in their charge toward the 2008 FedEx Orange Bowl, has been dismissed from the team. 
"During recent meetings with Branden Ore, we have decided that it would be best for Branden to pursue other opportunities," coach Frank Beamer said in a statement released by the school Wednesday. "Branden has had many great moments here at Virginia Tech, and we wish him well in the future." 
Beamer did not offer details for Ore's removal, but according to peo­ple with knowledge of the situation, the coaching staff simply grew impa­tient with Ore's lackadaisical attitude and lack of commitment to the team. The Hokies waited for Ore to mature for more than two seasons and gave up after he failed to reach what once seemed to be enormous potential. 
Yankees' Chamberlain will 
open season as reliever_ 
TAMPA, Fla. Joba Chamberlain will begin the sea­son in the New York Yankees' bullpen. 
"We think that's where he fits best right now," manager Joe Girardi said Wednesday. 
For much of spring training, Chamberlain was a contender for a spot in the starting rotation. He was a starter in college and the minors before New York switched him to a relief role last year and called him up in August to boost its shaky bullpen. 
When asked if Chamberlain would go back to the setup role he thrived in as a rookie last sea­son, Girardi refused to be specif­
ic. But he did say Chamberlain would pitch late in games. 
"l-Ie's a back-end guy. That's how I'm going to classify him," Girardi said. 
Dodaers' Garciapar_r_a out 
withoroken hand 
PHOENIX-Nomar Garciaparra has a broken bone in his right hand, and the Los Angeles Dodgers' third baseman might not be ready for Opening Day. 
Garciaparra had an MRI on Wednesday in Los Angeles that revealed a microfracture. The Dodgers do not consider the injury to be as serious as a complete fracture of a bone, and expect to know more once the 34-year-old is examined Thursday by the team's med­ical staff in Arizona. 
A two-time AL batting champion, Garciaparra was hit by a pitch March 7 and has had pain in hi<> hand ever since, making it dillicult to swing a bat. He's had two X-rays and two MRis, neither of which showed any structural damage in the area where he was struck. 
"We'll see where Nomar's at in anoth­er week or so. and in the meantime, we'll continue to see if we can figure out [a replacement] from within or outside," general manager Ned Colletti said. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 20, 2008 
NHL 


Vanek nets hat trick as Sabres top Lightning 
Dawes, Rangers beat Devils 2-1 in shootout; Blackhawks' Khabibulin shuts out Caps in first start of month 
go-ahead goal five minutes
Associated Press 
later. 

BUFFALO. N.Y. -Stung by Hoy, who finished with 
tho cascade of boos that three assists. set it up, beat­
rainnd from tlw crowd at the ing defender Shane O'Brien 
nnd of thn sncond pnriod, to the puck in the right cor­
Sabros forward Thomas ner, and fed Vanek in the 
VanPk gave Bufralo fans high slot. Vanek sidestepped 
something big to dwnr about Lessard, and snapped a low 
in the third. shot that sneaked inside the 
Vanok scored thrne consnc­right post past screened 
utivn goals in lnss than R goalie Karri Ham<>. 
minutPs, including the win­"By far, tonight was the 
nor with 6:46 remaining, as best comeback, given the 
Buffalo scorod six third-peri­timl1 or year and how impor­
od goals in a a 7-4 win over tant this game was," 
tho Tampa Bay Lightning on Pominville said. "This was 
Wndnnsday night. the best comeback I've ever 
"It's a good thing thny stuck been a part of." 
around," Vanek said, refer­It was Pominville who start­
ring to the fans after !wiping ed the rally, scoring 5:03 into 
tho Sabres rally from a 4-1 the third when he poked in 
dol'ieit. "We didn't make it Paul Gaustad's centering feed 
«)asy for us, but it's good to after Gaustad won a faceoff 
know we can come back." to the left of the Lightning 
Bnsidns winning their third net. Hecht scored 16 seconds 
straight and overcoming a later with a snap shot from 
thrnn-goal deficit for the first the right eirele after eluding 
time since a 5-4 win against Lecavalier in the corner. 
Toronto last March 23. the "Everything just went their 
Sabres also stayed firmly in way," said Hamo, who made 
playoff contention. Buffalo 25 saves, but received little 
inched to within a point of support in the third period 
idln Philadelphia. which when the Lightning were out­
holds the Eastern shot 16-4. "Everything just 
Conf'ernncn's eighth and final went in the net." 
playoff spot. Jeff Halpern, extending his 
The Sabres also jumped point streak to five games 
hack into ninth place, a point (four goals, four assists). also 
ahoad of Washington af'ter scored for the Lightning, who 
tho Capitals' 5-0 loss at had a three~game winning 
Chicago latnr in the nvnning. streak snapped. 
.Jason Pominville had two goals and two assists and Rangers 2, Devils 1 (shootout) .lochen Hecht also scored For so long, the New York twice in the third period of a Rangers had no answers for game the Sabres initially had Martin Brodeur and the New no business winning after Jersey Devils. mustering just 16 shots Now, even late def'ieits on through 40 minutns. the road don't rattle these 
"Thnsn games arn always Hangers. fun." l'orninville said. "I think Chris Drury scored the wn nnjoyed it. I'm sure the tying goal with 4:46 left in fans enjoyed it. but it's not regulation. and Nignl Dawes performance the Hall of midway through the third. "Right now in our playoff tho way WP wantnd to win." beat Brodeur in the shootout Farner could appreciate. Khabibulin made a spectac­race, it's a erueial time." 
It's not tlw first limn to give thn Hangers a victory Khabibulin made 25 saves ular diving glove save on Chicago outshot Buffalo ovnrcamn a dPfkit in over the Devils on Wednesday in his first start in nearly a Alexander Semin with just Washington 1 R-6 in the first swooping tlw f'our-garnn sea­night. month to earn his second under three minutes left in period and jumped ahead 4­son sPries against the Now York improved to 6-0 shutout this season, and the tho third. 0. Lightning. Tlw SahrPs twice on the snason against the Blackhawks defeated the "That was a big save, one Williams was credited with rallied from two-goal dnficits Devils and closed within four Washington Capitals on or the best I've seen all year," the opening goal 1:27 in, to lwat Tampa Bay. including points of New Jersey, the Wednesday night. Chicago rookie Patrick Kane after apparently deflecting t h ni r Ia s t nw n t i n g . a 4 -3 leader in the Atlantic Division Esposito, the Blackhawks' said. James Wisniewski's shot from ovnrtinw decision on FPh. 20. and Eastern Conference. career shutout leader with "It was a great pPrf'orm­the point. The goal withstood wlwn Vannk also scored throe "Wn'rn going to have to 74, was honored and cheered ance by llabby," Blackhawks a video review. ti nws. beat them sooner or later," in pre-game ceremonies. As coach Denis Savard said. Toews made it 2-0 only 
No nned to rnmind thP said Devils forward Zach the game wound down, the "The guys were ready to play 1:52 later when he went from Lightning. who are in last Parise, who missed on the sellout crowd chanted for and we got the bounces too." the side to the front of the place in the East in part final shot of the shootout. Khabibulin, who posted his Jason Williams, Jonathan net and swatted in his own be«:ausn of their difTiculty to "Tiwy'vn gotten a little closer 38th career shutout. Toews, Yanic Perreault and rebound. finish games. Tampa Bay has than we'd like them to be. Khabibulin made his first Patrick Sharp scored in the Perreault fired a high shot now been outscored 104-67 They really played well and start since Feb. 20, when he first period for Chicago, past Kolzig's glove at 9:14 to in the third period, and lost limited our chances." blanked Minnesota 3-0. which ended Washington's extend Chicago's lead to 3-0. 19 games when leading or The Hangers appeared to Following that game, he four-game winning streak. Sharp fired in a rebound with tied entering the f'inal frame. have no chance to dent missed 12 games with back Rene Bourque also scored 2:06 left in the first to stretch 
"You can write the same Brodeur, who was sharp in spasms before relieving ·for the Blaekhawks, who it to 4-0 after Kolzig made a story as the last time we making 20 saves and was in Patrick Lalime on Sunday. snapped a four-game home pad save on Andrew Ladd. were here: Third-poriod col­line for his 97th NHL shutout. "When we have a ceremony losing slide (0-3-1). Bourque converted a break­lapsn," said Martin St. Louis, lie faced only mild pressure like this, it's nice to win a The Capitals remained two away at 10:19 of the second who had a goal and assist. from the Hangers, who rarely game," Khabibulin said. points behind idle to make it 5-0. "It's a bad feeling." , got quality scoring chances. "Even better that it was Tony Philadelphia in eighth place Esposito, who played in R73 
Vincent Lncavalier scored Many drives came from sharp and even better that it was a in the Eastern Conference. games for the Blackhawks twice, ineluding his 39th, and angles or were blocked well shutout. Washington's Olaf Kolzig from 1969 to 1984, posted a appoarnd to put the Lightning before they could get in on "The guys in front of me did made 37 saves team-record 418 wins. llis in full control-up 4-1 -goal. a good job," he added. "When "We had a gear missing and jersey number, 35, is one of Jato in the second period Just 1 R seconds after the (NHL scoring leader they played well," Capitals five retired by Chicago. whnn hn capped a 2-on-1 Hangnrs' fourth failed power Alexander) Ovechkin is on coach Bruce Boudreau said. Esposito, selected an rush. converting Junior play expired, Drury tied it. the ice, obviously he's a force "I just think we had a real "ambassador" by the Lessard's pass. Hyan Callahan swooped out out there. Usually he has stinker. We stunk in the first Blackhawks earlier this sea­
Back came the Sabres, who from behind the net and fed a five, six, seven shots and period. son, was joined by his older scored six times on their final pretty left-to-right pass that tonight he only had two." "I can't say it any more brother and Hall of Fame for­10 shots, including Hecht's Drury buried behind Brodeur Khabibulin wasn't heavily clearly: We were all horrible ward, Phil. during the pre­empty-net goal in the waning with 4:46 left. tested, but made a handful of together." game ceremony. sneonds. tough stops. Fedorov said the Capitals "It's an honor to be here 
Vanek tied the game at 4 at Blackhawks 5, Capitals 0 He made a point-blank pad just need to shake off the with the nnw, young vibrant thn R:25 mark of the third. On a night when the save on Sergei Fedorov in the loss. Hawks," Tony Esposito said. wlwn hn deflected in Dero k Chicago Blackhawks saluted final seconds of the first peri­"We just have to put it "I know they're going to get Hoy's shot from th11 loft cir­goalie Tony Esposito, Nikolai od and a glove save on a behind us and hopefully we'll better and we're all going to cln. Vanek then scored the Khabibulin came up with a rebound by Brooks Laich bounce back," Fedorov said. fill this building." 


Thursday, March 20, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Top-rated QB Pryor commits to Ohio State 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Firstround features duel of freshman stars Beasley, Mayo 
Associated Press 
OMAHA, Neb. -Michael Beasley was standing in a nar­row hallway outside the Kansas State locker room. Suddenly, 
O.J. Mayo appeared at the end 
of the corridor. "Yo, Michael!" Mayo yelled. "Juice!" Beasley screamed 
back. 
They shook hands and embraced, these two freshman stars, both of them stopping by the NCAA tournament on their inevitable journey to the NBA. 
Don't expect things to be so cordial Thursday when Mayo's Southern California Trojans face Beasley's Kansas State Wildcats in a game oozing with star power, the kind better suited for the Final Four rather than the opening round of the tourna­ment. 
They've been friends since their early teens -unless they're on opposite teams. That's when things get serious. It doesn't matter if it's a pickup game in a deserted high school gym or a pressure-packed NCAA game in a sold-out arena. 
"I have no friends on the each other," Beasley said. court," Beasley said. "We're the same kind of guys. Mayo confirmed the intensity We like the same kind of things. of their rivalry. We pretty much clicked right 
"Hopefully we're going to fin­away." ish this game," he said, Mayo is even better friends "because usually when we play with another Kansas State fresh­one-on-one games there's a lot man, Bill Walker. They're both of arguing and fighting. We from Huntington, W.Va., and hardly ever get to finish the have known each other since games." preschool. 
If not for a change in draft "We used to sneak up under 
rules,  the  two  our cots at nap  
freshmen surely would have been  "Usually when we  time," Walker remembered,  
NBA rookies this season. But they were required to spend at least a  play one-on-one games there's a lot of arguing and  breaking into a grin. "We got in trouble together and,  
year in college, time spent honing  fighting."  after that, we just bonded."  
their games and quickly establish­ O.J. Mayo  S o thought  m e they  
ing themselves as  Trojans guard  would  be  a  

two of the coun­try's best players -even if it's for one season only, as everyone expects. 
Mayo led the sixth-seeded Trojans (21-11) in scoring at 
20.8 points a game, as well as assists, steals and 3-point shoot­ing. Beasley had an even better season at Kansas State, averag­ing 26.5 points and 12.4 rebounds to contend with North Carolina's Tyler Hansbrough for player of the year honors. 
Beasley vs. Mayo. 

Now that's a matchup every­one can get excited about, even if you're on another team. 
''Mayo and Beasley, you've got to give it to them," said Darnell Jackson of top-seeded Kansas, which had its own game to play Thursday against Portland State. "The guys are great players." 
Considering their superb skills, it was inevitable Beasley and Mayo would hook up on the AAU and high school all-star cir­cuit. They met whim they were 13 or 14 and quickly hit it off. 
"After games, we got to meet 
package deal 

coming out of high schooL But, when it came time to choose a college, they couldn't have taken two more divergent paths: Mayo chose the glitz and glamor of Los Angeles, while Walker settled for Manhattan -Kansas, that is. 
Just imagine if they both had chosen the Wildcats, and joined with Beasley to form the Fab Three. 
"We talked before we made our decisions," Walker said. "He told me that USC was best for his career, and I understood that. Kansas State was best for my career." 
USC is the higher-seeded team, but Kansas State should feel right at home. Omaha is only about a three-hour drive from the Wildcats' campus, which should ensure plenty of purple at the Qwest Center. 
Trojans coach Tim Floyd clearly is not happy with the selection committee for match­ing his team against one from a neighboring state. 
Associated Press 
JEANNETTE, Pa. -Oregon was too far away. Penn State was too rural. Michig\J,n was a close second. 
Terrelle Pryor, the highly tout­ed western Pennsylvania prep quarterback, announced Wednesday that he will play for Ohio State next season. 
The 6-foot-6, two-sport star ­flanked by his parents, two younger siblings and some of his coaches -made the announce­ment on the auditorium stage at Jeannette Senior High School near Pittsburgh, where Pryor had one of the greatest prep careers in Pennsylvania history. 
"If everyone's here," Pryor said to start the news confer­ence, "University of Ohio State." He then unzipped his wind­breaker to reveal an Ohio State T-shirt and donned an OSU hat. His parents, Craig and Thomasina, also revealed Ohio State shirts. 
Pryor, considered by many scouts to be the top-rated unsigned high school recruit in the country, said he couldn't go wrong with any of the four schools he considered. 
But he said the car trip for his family to games in Columbus, Ohio, is shorter than the flights they would have to take to Oregon. Penn State was too "countryside." And, despite a last-minute push by new Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez, Pryor decided Ohio State is best for him, even though senior Todd Boeckman is the entrenched· starter and Pryor felt he would have a chance to start as a freshman at Michigan. 
"I can learn from a senior," Pryor said. "And whenever I can get in on some plays, I can make something happen." 
Pryor said he didn't make a final choice until Wednesday morning. 
When he told Jim Tressel, the coach said, "Welcome to the family." 
As for his final call with Rodriguez: "He was still recruit­ing ·me, giving me lines," Pryor said. "Coach Rod did his job. He's gonna be a great coach; he is a great coach. He'll make stuff happen [at Michigan]." 
Pryor called a Feb. 6 news conference to announce his choice, but then said he hadn't chosen a school after all. 
Tressel said he was impressed by that, given that Pryor was trying to help his high school basketball team to a state cham­simply, ''I'm an 18-year-old kid and I feel like a man. I gotta make choices for myself." 
One person noticeably absent Wednesday was Charlie Batch, the backup Steelers quarterback and family friend who advised Pryor. 
pionship and was mulling con­flicting advice from his friends and family. 
Tressel said Pryor felt like "there's a whole bunch of people that are very important in my life who think I should give this some more thought. He respect-

MARCO'S 
Sub 
99 

EACH


Free Delivery On Campus 
Minimum Order $8:00 For Delivery 
Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas & charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 
P1zza 


SOUTH BEND 
52750 IN 933 (N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
(Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 



574-243·1122 
Choose From 
• 
Italian 

• 
Steak & Cheese 

• 
Ham & Cheese 

• 
Chicken Club 

• 
Veggie 

• 
Pizza Melt 


ed them and he loves them. So I think he's grossly misunder­stood." 
Pryor's advice to other recruits: "Pick early, you don't want to go through it." 
Asked about advice from his father and others, Pryor said 
Thursday, March 20, 2008
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
TENNIS 

~adalavengeslossto 
Tsonga at Pacific Life 
Associated Press 
INDIAN WELLS, Calif'. -Hafael Nadal came back to win the f'inal f'ive games and beat .Jo-Wilfrind Tsonga on Wednesday in an intnnso, crowd-plnasing rnmatch of thoir Australian Open semif'i­nal. 
Nadal, tlw defending Indian Wells champion. avenged his lopsided loss in MPlbourno with a scrappy (J-7 (41, 7-6 (31 7-5 vietory in tho fourth round of tho Pacific Life OpPn. 

After Tsonga, a hard-hitting Frnnchman. went up 5-2 in the third set. Nadal lwld serve the rest of tlw way and broke Tsonga's servE~ in tlw ninth and 11th games to take a 6-5 lead. 
With Uw cTowd beginning to cheer even as hn set up for thn shot, tho Spaniard cappnd thn rnatch by slamming an over­lwad past Tsonga. 
The 22-ynar-old Tsonga, who has vaulted from 212 in the rankings in 2006 to No. 17, upsnt No. 2 Nadal 6-2, 6-3, 6-2 in thn Australian Open semis hnfore losing to Novak l>jokovic in the final. 
Tsonga played brilliantly at timns in the rematch against tlw 21-year-old Nadal, but mis­takes cost him at other times. 
After ending a long rally wlwn both hit several outstand­ing shots, Tsonga ended it with a drop shot that Nadal some­how managed to hit back, then a bang-bang volley that left Nadal lying on the ground. at tlw end of the point. That brought Tsonga back from a 15-40 de!'ieit to deuce in the 11th game. but hf1 quickly fol­lowed that with a double-fault, tlwn hit a forPhand long to lose the game. 
Driving powerful forehands down the lines, Tsonga had 4 7 winners OVf~rall -but made 56 unforced ~~rrors. The far more consistent Nadal linished with 27 winners and 27 unforced errors. Tsonga, who had 18 aees when he stunned Nadal in Australia, had 11 against him at Indian Wells, but also dou­ble-faulted seven times. 
The match lasted 3 hours, 3 minutos. and the erowd seemed rapt, reacting loudly to practi­cally every point. Some fans yelled "Go, i\li!" a Tsonga niek­narnn alluding to his resem­blance to boxing great Muhammad Ali, and others sernaming, "You can do it, Hafa!" 
In otlwr matches, Djokovic advanced with a 6-2, 6-3 vieto­ry ovnr Guillermo Canas; Tommy llaas edged Andy Murray 2-6, 7-5, 6-3; and David Nalbandian bflat Juan Carlos Fnrrnro 6-2, 6-2. 
PGA TouR 

Tiger looks for sixth straight 
Associated Press 
DOHAL, Fla. -There are 78 playnrs at this World Golf Championship, and one guy playing out of this world. 
Tiger Woods is winning at a rate not seen in more than a half-century. Bay llill was his sixth straight victory around the world among official tourna­ments. and he is the three-time defending champion this week at the CA Championship. 
"lie inhales so many wins that there's not mueh breathing room for the rest of us," Stnwart Cink said. 
Even a player lined up to get his autograph Wednesday. 
Boo Weekley stood behind the 18th green as Woods and Jim Furyk finished an abbreviated practice round at Dora! in 30 mph wind. He was holding two flags, from the Arnold Palmer Invitational, whieh Woods won with a 25-foot birdie on the last hole; and from the Aceenture Match Play Championship, which Woods won by a record 8-and-7 margin in the final round. 
It was for charity, although the scene spoke volumes. 
There is a sense of awe among Woods' peers during a streteh of golf that rivals Byron Nelson's golden season of 1945, wlwn he won 11 straight events and 18 out of 30. And there is determination not to let this domination continue. 

"It's a great time to be play­ing," Adam Scott said. "It's awfully hard to beat him, but he doesn't play every week. I know he's winning all the time, but hn doesn't win every week, either." 
Then the 27-year-old Australian paused long enough that he eouldn 't eontain a wry smile. 
"There's no proof of that," Scott said. "But we'll try to change it this week." 
The bookmakers don't like the chances of the other 78 guys on the Blue Monster at Dural. Woods was listed as a 2-3 favorite on orw Web site, stag­gering odds for a sport in whieh players have no control ovnr the eompntition and thn twin is only 4 1/2 inches in diameter. 
Next in line is Phil Mickelson at 15-1. 
Thnre's a reason for that. Woods has won at Dora! the last three years, the first two when it was a full-lield PGA Tour 1went. 
lin has won this World Golf Championship six of eight ynars. tho first live when it was eallnd the Amnriean Express Championship and played around the world. 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Wildcats continue tourney streak 
Arizona to face Mountaineers in first round in 24th straight appearance 
-One streak 

opponent Thursday night in the West Regional. The Mountaineers, after all, are working on a streak of one. 
"Obviously, it's a very impressive record," Wnst Virginia center Jamie Smalligan said of Arizona's run, which began in 1985 and includes four Final Four appearances. 
A victory by the underdog Wildcats (19-14) would enable Arizona to stretch to 21 its run of successive 20-win seasons, yet another streak unmatched in men's college basketball today. 
"That would mean a lot, of course, but more than that, if we win 20 games that means we're on to the next round," guard Jawann McClellan said Wednesday. 
Although winning 20 games and reaching the NCM tour­nament has become common­plaee for Arizona, this has not been a typical year for the Wildcats. Their 14 defeats equals the most by an at-large team since 1985, and their scv­flnth-place finish in the Pac-1 0 was hardly a source of pride. 
Then again, it's hard to imagine Arizona doing mueh bntter after all it endured this season. Hall of Fame coach Lute Olson took a leave of absnnee on Nov. 4, and injuries to Jerryd Bayless and guard Nie Wisn foreed interim eoach Kevin O'Neill to scramble for depth. 
"I think it showed the char­acter of our team. how well we handled it," said Bayless, whose ailing baek no longer is an issue. 
Bneause the Wildcats endured, here they arc again in the NCAA tournamPnt. 
"It was vnry important to us. It put a lot of prnssure on us, the thought that we weren't going to make it this year," for­ward Jordan Hill said. "We've been through a lot of ups and downs, with the coaching changes and our key players being injurnd, so we just had to keep our heads up and keep lighting. Once we found out we made it, a weight lifted ofT our shoulders. Now it's time to get to business." 
Even if they had to travel across the country as a No. 10 seed. 
"We're just happy to be in the tournament," McClellan said. "Every year, with the seholarships spread out throughout the sehools, other schools are getting better. The Pac-1 0 conference is getting better. So it's not as easy just to make it to the NCAA tourna­ment now. To keep that streak alive. to knep the party going and to keep playing is a great accomplishment for us." 
West Virginia (24-1 01 is not as tournament tested as the Wildcats, but thn Mountainners ~tre eonvinced their run to the NIT championship last year will prove equally bmwlicial. 
"Winning live games back to baek and the last two on a neutral court, we've got enough nxperienee to mateh what they have," Smalligan insistnd. 
-----------------------, 
Thursday, March 20, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 

With streak over, Rockets lose second straight 
Hornets' Wells scores 25 as Houston commits 19 turnovers; Sixers top Nuggets in Iverson's return to Philly 
Tracy McGrady, who scored halftime. the way those guys were received a hero's welcome
Associated Press 
only eight points in a 94-74 After New Orleans took a going to guard me .... The from the sellout crowd of 
NEW ORLEANS -The term loss to Boston a night earlier, 50-47 lead in the third quar­coaching staff did an excellent 20,674 at the Wachovia "losing streak" suddenly scored 15 against New ter, Houston countered with job putting me in position. I'm Center. applies to the Houston Orleans, still well below his an 8-0 run, and Mutombo's just happy I finished and did All eyes were on the former Rockets, thanks in large part nearly 22-point-per-game dunk put the Rockets up 55-my thing today. It was just a 76ers star when he trotted out to a player they got rid of at average. 50. The Hornets suddenly team victory. If it wasn't for for pregame warm-ups. The the trading deadline. "We've got to make it easier couldn't make a basket, get­the rest of the guys getting me ovation grew louder, and then 
Bonzi Wells helped New on him," Houston coach Rick ting only one free throw from in my spots I wouldn't have Iverson made his way to cen­Orleans hand the Rockets Adelman said. "They are dou­West during a six-minute been able to do what I did ter court, where he dropped their second straight loss bling him so hard. They're span. today and I'm just happy we down and kissed the 76ers after a 22-game winning coming at him all the time. If New Orleans did not let up got a victory." logo. streak, scoring 20 of his 25 he gives it up, we have to be on defense, however, and put The affection between the points in the fourth quarter in able to finish it." together an 8-2 run during 76ers 115, Nuggets 113 2001 NBA MVP and the fans the Hornets' 90-69 victory But Houston, which shot 41 the last 2:30 of the third quar­Allen Iverson had the ball in intensified throughout the Wednesday night. percent against Boston, was ter to tie it at 59 heading into his hands and the game on pregame. 
Wells denied the trade -even worse in New Orleans, the fourth quarter. the line, yet couldn't produce When Iverson was intro­which sent him and Mike finishing at 34 percent in set­"We just knew it was a mat­the ending he'd hoped for. duced, the fans showered him James to New Orleans for ting a season low for points ter of time," Hornets coach Iverson, playing in with raucous applause and a Bobby Jackson -had any­while tying a season low with Byron Scott said. "The thing I Philadelphia for the first time lengthy standing ovation. He thing to do with his effort to only 28 field goals. am proud of is that the guys since being traded to Denver worked the crowd by putting take over a game that was "We've got to get ourselves just kept focus on the defen­in December 2006, led all his hand to his ear and turn­tied at 59 after three quar­together, but it is getting sive end. We got more aggres­scorers with 32 points ing to each corner of the ters. harder every game," McGrady sive. We got tougher. We Wednesday night. But it was arena as the roar grew loud­
"I've been on five different said. started to get loose balls, the 76ers who made the big er. The applause was only cut teams so it doesn't really mat­Luis Scola had 14 points and deflections, steals, everything plays down the stretch and short by the introduction of ter," Wells said after helping nine rebounds before fouling ... and I think it kind of ignit­spoiled their former MVP's the rest of the Denver lineup. New Orleans (46-21) pull even out with 3 minutes left. Shane ed us on the other end." return with a victory over the "It almost got to me," with the Los Angeles Lakers Battier also scored 14, while Houston turned the ball over Nuggets. Iverson acknowledged. "It atop the Western Conference. Dikembe Mutombo and Rafer 19 times, leading to 22 "I dreamed it up a certain made me feel good. It made "We're really fighting for Alston each scored 10. Hornets points. way, and it was better than me feel appreciated." something here and if you Battier noted that Houston's Wells, meanwhile, opened that," Iverson said. Just before the game start­can't get motivated every sudden slide may have some­the fourth quarter by scoring "Everything was perfect but ed, Iverson trotted down the night you shouldn't be in this thing to do with the level of nine points on a fast-break one thing, and that was not sideline to the Sixers' bench ~. league." competition. dunk as he was fouled, a driv­winning the game." and embraced former coach 
David West, returning from "We played the best team in ing layup and a pair of Iverson misfired on a 20-Maurice Cheeks, the first time a right ankle sprain that side­the league, Boston, at home, jumpers during a 13-2 run foot jumper and Marcus the two got together since he lined him for two games, had then we played the team that that gave New Orleans a 72-Camby missed a put-back in was traded 15 months before. 23 points and 11 rebounds as has been leading the confer­61lead. the final seconds as the "It felt great for him to do New Orleans also pulled a ence for the majority of the He went on to hit six free Nuggets lost their second that," said Cheeks, the Sixers half-game ahead of the year," Battier said. "We just throws during the quarter and straight and failed to pick up coach. "We didn't want to Rockets for the Southwest did not have enough to get added a 3-pointer while turn­any ground in their bid for a make a scene. I thought Division lead. over the top the last two ing the game into a blowout. playoff spot in the tough everyone was excited about it 
Chris Paul had 21 points games." "I had the luxury of knowing Western Conference. when it happened." and 10 assists for the Hornets, Tyson Chandler grabbed 15 those guys a little bit, practic­"I almost had a perfect trip Cheeks couldn't help but who extended their home win­rebounds for the Hornets, ing with them the last couple at my home away from notice the reception for his ning streak to eight while who were down by 14 in the years," Wells said of the home," Iverson said. former star. ending the Rockets 12-game · second quarter before cutting Rockets. "We played one-on­Samuel Dalembert scored "I got to watching him and winning streak on the road. Houston's lead to 44-39 at one so much I kind of knew the decisive basket with 3 2. 9 got a little touched by it," 
seconds remaining. When Cheeks said. Andre Iguodala lost posses­While Iverson got the recep­sion of the ball as he fell, tion he had hoped for, the Dalembert was there to grab Sixers got the win. it and turned for a lay-in. "We knew it would be emo­
Andre Miller, acquired by tional," Nuggets forward the Sixers in the Iverson Kenyon Martin said. "They trade, scored 28 points on his didn't want to have a player 32nd birthday and the 76ers come in and get the love, but reached the .500 mark (34-lose the game." 
34) for the first time since Iguodala scored 21 points opening the season at 2-2. and Dalembert added 17 
Even in defeat, the night points, 12 rebounds and five belonged to Iverson, who blocked shots. 


page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, March 20, 2008 
BASEBALL 

Irish open conference play 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Af'tl~r Motlwr Naturn spoilod a two-gamo opening home stand fiJr Notrn Damn. tho squad trav­
oIs to tlw nast coast to f'ac:e Coorget.own in il<> Big East opnn­er on Thursday. 
Tho Irish will f'ac:o tlw lloyas in a t.hrnn-ganw sPt at Shirlny l'ovi<~h Field in BPtlwsda, Md., with tlw sorios f'inalo on Saturday. 
Notrr> Damn will send junior right-handnr David l'lwlps to the mound to start th1~ first contest of tho snrins, as he snarr.hos fiJr his third win of' tlw sea.son. Sporting a 4.01 EHA, opposing batt<~rs haw had tlwir struggles against him, hitting .2:{1) against thn jun­ior. 
Whon thn Irish hal<> step up to tho plate. tlwy will f'a<~o right­handnd sophomorn Tim Adlmnan, who sporl<> a porfi~et :{­() rewrd roupiPd with a :{.IUJ Im.i\. Adlmnan USPS his tall f'ramP at h-foot-5 to owrpownr oppos­ing battnrs. 
In thP sorond game of' tlw seriPs, tlw Irish will hand tho ball owr to sonior pitrlwr Wadn Korpi <L'> lw !wads to thP mound with a 2-1 romrd. Tlw fpf'ty is looking for his third straight win on Friday, and a t"han<'P to improw his 5.0 I I·:HA. 
Battling Korpi will likPiy be fpf'ty sonior MiclwPI Caggiolo. who is in snan:h of his first win all soason. Although lw hasn't madn his way into tlw win col­umn. Gaggiolo h<L<>n't rnado very many mistakes, as evidoncod by his 1.12 lmA. 
In the sPries finalo, sophomore Erie Maust will take the mound, as the Irish attnmpt to dosn out 

I 
I 
f 
ND WoMEN's TENNIS 
Team travels to Texas in search of road vvins 

the series with a win. The· righty started his lirst game of the sea­son against Tnxas Pan-American, going over six innings and allow­ing two runs on nine hil<>. 
Fadng the Irish will be senior righty l·:rik Chandlnr. who has struggled this smL<>on with an 0-2 rm:ord and an EHA ofS.53. 
Sophomore A.J. Pollock is building off' his solid freshman c:ampaif.,TJl, leading the Irish with 20 hil<> this se<L<>on. I lis night HBis an~ tim! fiJr fiJurth higlwst on the tl'am. but it is his bas<' running that has bnen helpful in ernating nms li1r the Irish. Pollo1:k is pnr­fi~rt on all S!WPn of his stolPn base aUPmpl<> this sn<L<>on. 
Brl'tt Li llny has also bnnn a solid run-producer this season. The senior is sneond on lho tnam in hits with Ifl. but loads all Irish batters with 12 HBis on the year. Lilley has donn some run seoring of his own, crossing the plate f(Jr a team-high 15 times, six morn than the elosest Notre Dame player. 
Junior Jeremy Barnes com­

pletns the thrm~-headnd oJl'nnsivn monster for the Irish with his team-high .333 avorago that has seen him pick up 15 hil<>, and 11 HBis, which arn sneond best on thn squad. 
Thn Irish had a frustrating past eouple of days this wnnk that saw two games suspended, including the home opener on St. Patrick's Day. Although thn second game against Xavier was not even started. thn first contPst was six innings through bnfhre the wintry wnather forced umpires to stop play. 
Both Central Miehigan and the Irish am still awaiting word from t.he NCAA as to the propnr ruling from tlw suspended eontest, but the makeup day of May 12 has been schnduled. Allor llw series against the lloyas. Notre Dame returns home to Frank Eek Stadium Tuesday fhr a six-game home stand that starl<> off against Ball State. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
By DAN MASTERTON Sports Writer 

The Irish leave their homn eourt for a two-mateh road trip to Texas, starting Saturday in College Station. Tex., against the Texas A&M Aggies. 
The No. 27 Aggies (8-4) nntnr the match on a two-game win streak, having mowed down Oklahoma State and Oklahoma in eonvincing fashion last week. 
The Aggies dropped just one match point over the two meet­ings, but like the No. 24 Irish, Texas A&M has been dominat­ing inferior competition of late. 
The three-game win streak Notre Dame (10-7) brings to the match comes from victories against teams boasting solid programs but not top-50 rank­ings. 
Texas A&M poses the tough­est tnst for the Irish sinee their Mareh 1 5-2 loss to Georgia Tech. the nation's c:urrent No. 2 team. 
The Aggies' attack is led by Elze Potginter, ranked as the No. 76 singles player in the eountry. Tlw sophomore from South Afriea does not have an impressive record but faeed six straight ranked opponents to start the s<mson. 
She went 2-4 over the streteh highlighted by a win over then­No. 11 M(~lanie Gloria of Fresno State. 
Though the Aggies have no other ranked single players or any ranked doubles pairs, they hold the home-court advantage and have lost just once in four home matches for the dual sea­son. 
Notre Dame's streak has been a result of solid team play up and down the lineup, and the impressive play by the Irish is being nationally recognized. 
Senior Brook Buck and junior Kelcy Tefft remained in the top spot or the national doubles rankings this week while the sophomore combo of Colleen Hielley and Cosmina Ciobanu entered the poll at No. 50. 
Hiclley and Ciobanu are an impressive 11-1 for the dual season as a doubles pair and have won four consecutive matches. 
On the singles side, Tefft moved up one spot to No. 38, and sophomore Kali Krisik remained in the rankings at No. 
114. Ciobanu joined Tefft and Krisik in the rankings this week at No. 105 to give the strong Notre Dame singles attack three nationally ranked play­ers. 
Going on thn road against a ranked opponent gives the Irish a chance to improve on some apparent weaknessns with respeet to their performance so far. 
Though three games over .500 for the dual season, the Irish are sub-.500 on the road at just 3-4. Some of the strug­gles ean be attributed to their 1-3 rerord on a three-game road-trip to start the ynar against all ranked opponents. but thn trip to College Station of'f'ers a chanee for the Irish to even their road rncord. 
As the NCAA Tournament inelws onto the horizon, tlw Irish will have to start playing bettnr against their toughPr competition. Though they beat teams like llawaii and Western Michigan the way thny should have, the Irish are just 2-6 against nationally ranked teams thus far. 
Notre Dame looks to improve upon that this Saturday. First serve is scheduled for 1:30 p.m. at the Mitchell Tennis Center. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 

challenge ahead of us." Notre Dame will be playing
CCHA 

for more than just the CCIIA continued from page 24 tournament title this weekend, 
as the Irish sit squarely on the seed. Van Guilder said he NCAA tournament bubble. A thought that being the under­win this weekend would most dog could actually help the likely put them into the field of Irish. 16. Jackson, though, said that 
"We're going in there entirely his team's focus had to be in different than Detroit. last year," he "I try to con­said. "!Being "We're going in there vince our team to the top seed I quit worrying
entirely different 
carries with it a about that," lot of pressure than last year. [Being Jackson said. and this year the top seed] carries "Because I think there's not as that's what got us
with it a lot of
much pres­into trouble in sure." pressure and this the second half. 
On Saturday, year there's not as If we don't focus the Irish will on our game
much pressure. " 
play in either against Miami, 
the CCHA it's insignificant championship Mark Van Guilder what happens game or the Irish captain next week." consolation Van Guilder game against eehoed his either Michigan or Northern coach's "one game at a time" Michigan. Notre Dame lost both mentality. games against Michigan this "It sneaks in the back of your season, including a 3-2 heart­mind, but this weekend it's all breaker at Yost Arena on a last­about Friday," he said. "We're second goal. Against Northern not worried about Saturday. Miehigan, the Irish split the We're not worried about the season series, winning and los­NCAA Tournament. We're not ing by scores of 2-1 in worried about anything but Marquette, Mieh. Miami." 
"We're going to be playing high level teams," Jackson said. Contact Sam Werner at "So we're going to have a big swerner@nd.edu 

Thursday, March 20, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S LACROSSE 


Team travels to Colorado to take on Air Force 
in the GWLL with a 1-4 Virginia. Western Lacrosse player of he said. "We had long periodsBy ELLYN MICHALAK 
record, I the Irish defeated "They are a very good the week, and he has seven of shutting them out which Sports Writer 
the Falcons 16-4 last season. team. They played Virginia to goals and 12 assists on the really puts a lot of stress on a "Air Force has struggled a a very good game and kept season. Wharton is the third team. For the third time this 
After defeating Dartmouth bit so far this season, but them tied until very late in Irish player to receive this year we held them scoreless 19-7 last weekend, Notre when you watch them play the game," Corrigan said. honor on the season, joining in the first quarter, which Dame improved its rankings they are very athletic that "Since then they haven't loss. senior goaltender Joey Kemp helps get off to a good start. and moved into the No. 5 spot plays very hard," Irish coach They are good team playing and junior attack Ryan Hoff, We also stayed consistent in the nation and the No. 3 Kevin Corrigan· said. "They with tremendous confidence who were both awarded the execution offensively as spot in the GWLL. will present a challenge for right now." honor in February. well." 
The Irish currently sit us." On Saturday, the Irish The Irish quickly jumped Saturday's game vs. the behind Quinnipac (6-0) and On Tuesday, the Irish host downed Dartmouth by 12 out to a 5-0 lead and held the Falcons kicks off at 2 p.m. Bellarmine (6-1) in the con­No. 14 Drexel. Notre Dame goals. Senior attack Alex Big Green scoreless through­The Irish will face Drexel on ference. defeated Drexel 16-5 last Wharton led the team against out the first quarter. Corrigan Tuesday at 4 p.m. in the 
Notre Dame travels to season, but this year the the Big Green, scoring a attributes the win to effective Moose Krause Stadium. Colorado Springs, Colo., to Dragons hold a 6-1 record, career-high six points with first quarter offense. face Air Force on Saturday. with their only loss coming two goals and four assists. He "We did something we've Contact Ellyn Michalak at The Falcons are in last place from a close game with No. 3 also was named the Great done this year a few times," emichala@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 
NO WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
ND to spend weekend in Tucson Irish to host Loyola; 
Ga. The team also finished finishing 56th in the E-Z GoBy PETER REISENAUER 
looking to rebound
tied with No. 11 Auburn and Invitational, still has not 
Sports Writer 
just three stokes out of 9th reached the scores that he place. was posting before the winter 
pair of goals in the final 15

After what may have been Junior Josh Sandman had break. 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
seconds to upend the Irish.

their best showing so far this another strong showing with Freshman Tyler Hock strug­
Sports Writer 
Despite its recent strug­

spring, Notre Dame will look his second top 10 finish in as gled in the final round of the 
gles, Notre Dame's 15.1

to continue its hot play when many tournaments and also E-Z Go ·Invitational after two 
It has already been a try­goals per game rank among
it travel to Tucson, Ariz., for finished with his career low solid rounds, and will look to ing season for the Irish, one the best in the Big East and
the National Invitational score. He was also the only find more consistency in that has seen its fair share in the country. Junior
Tournament at the Arizona player in the field that Tucson. 
of unexpected and close Jillian Byers is one of the
National Golf Club. recorded an eagle over the The Irish finally were able 
losses. nation's leading scorers
This past weekend Notre entire weekend. to practice outdoors at the 
After a 3-0 start, Notre with 3·5 goals, though she
Dame finished 12th in a This weekend the Irish will Warr~n Golf Course this week 
Dame (5-3, 0-1 Big East) has been held under four
tough field at the E-Z Go face a field highlighted by after winter conditions had 
has lost three of its last goals in each of Notre
Invitational that included 12 No. 27 Arizona State. Notre limited the team to indoor 
five, including a 16-13 Dame's last two games ­
teams ranked in the top 50. Dame will look for strong practice facilities for several 
overtime heartbreaker the time that had happened
The Irish finished ahead of contributions from their top months. 
against Syracuse on Sunday all year.
that opened up the Big East Byers paces the Irish
No. 38 North Carolina State Sandman and sophomore Contact Peter Reisenauer at 
schedule on a attack. but
at the event in Statesboro, Doug Fortner, who, despite preisena@nd.edu 
sour note for with versatile the Irish. scorers like The Irish 
"When we are on our s e n i 0 r s 
can turn the Caitlin tide this game, we are very McKinney and 
weekend, difficult to stop., Heather though, when Ferguson they host playing along
Tracy Coyne
Loyola (3-5) at quick fresh­1 p.m. Irish coach man Shaylyn Saturday. Blaney, Notre Though Dame can 
Notre Dame score from won't be able to accomplish multiple angles. its goal of an undefeated "When we are on our 
-..
home season, it can erase game, we are very difficult some bad memories from to stop," Coyne said. its struggles in the last few Despite her team's talent, 
weeks. Coyne said she thinks the 
In their most recent loss losses this season were to the Orange, the Irish avoidable. dominated the second half, "Some players have not 
overcoming a three-goal implemented aspects of the halftime deficit before giv­game plan, and that has ing up a late goal to send held us back," she said. 
the game to overtime. The Saturday's game will be Notre Dame attack faltered played at 1 p.m. indoors at in the extra period, failing the Loftus Center. The Irish to score any goals. will then resume play at 
That loss brought back Hofstra on March 25. memories of a 14-13 loss at Oregon on March 6, a game Contact Andy Ziccarelli at in which the Ducks scored a aziccare@nd.edu 
I 
i 
I 
1 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 20, 2008 
Tsipis 
continued from page 24 
her coaches and teammates will survive her presence in the pro­gram. 
Walk-on ways 
Hegardless of the fact that her unr.le coaches here, Tsipis had other options when choosing when'l to play. In her senior year at Perry lligh School in Perry, Ohio, she seored 18.2 points per game, shot 50.2-percent from li(dd goal range and hit 43.1­percent of her 3-point shots. She set school records in field goal and 3-point percentage, both for her senior sea­son and for her Devreaux Peters and Becca Bruszewski out because of injuries and two guards in foul trouble. But, McGraw said, her biggest contribution is intangi­ble. 
"She is somebody who has great contributions to the team that don't really show up any­where except in the harmony and chemistry of your team," McGraw said. "She's somebody that when she talks, everybody listens, because they know she's just all about the team. It's never about her." 
Although every athlete wants to play, Jonathan Tsipis said Amanda understood her role on the team and adapted to it well. 

"l don't think delusions of 
grandeur have 
ever .hit her," he 

career, and she "I thought it was one said. "Sbe knew ranks as the right away, on a
of the best decisions 
second-leading very good team scorer in I ever made to her freshman year, school history. keep her." what her role was 
Oh, yeah­going to be. I think Tsipis was also that's why she 
Muffet McGraw
co-valed ietori­really gained the an of her class, Irish coach respect of her 
graduated with 
a 4.2 GPA and 
got a perfect score on the math 
portion of the ACT. 
ller performance in high school earned her scholarship oll'ers from DePauw, Akron and Ohio University, and she toyed with the idea of walking on at Hichmond. But after attnnding a camp at Notre Dame the sum­mer befon~ her senior high school season, Irish coach MuiTet McGraw told her she would have a spot on the team if she got into Notre Dame. 
When the call came in May, 

McGraw was true to her word. 
"She called and said, 'I just got accepted to Notre Dame, I got an offer to play at DePauw. Should I go there, are you tak­ing a walk-on, and do I have a chance at being that walk-on?"' McGraw said. "And I said absolutPiy. I thought it was one of the best deeisions I ever made to keep her." 
Because of the n~spect she's earned from her teammates, Tsipis said she has never bem1 treated differently, despite her status as a walk-on. 
"I think because I'm the only lwalk-onl. and because our tl~am is so small, we have a really dose group," she said. "They have never treated me like anyonp, p,Jse. I kind of feel likP-I have their responsibility and own that to them to make them as good as I can." 
Family ties 
Tsipis, who played for her father, Dean, growing up, is no stranger to playing for family members. She said the relation­ship with her unele has worked well, both on the court and oil'. 
"It's niefl to have a relation­ship and have it outside of bas­ketball, and he also doesn't let me got away with taking a play off or not practieing as hard as I can," she said. 
Jonathan Tsipis said he tries to keep their relationship oil' the eourt. 
"We try to separate it, and III really try to be her coach in practice and in games and everything basketball-related," he said. "She's jus~ another player on the team." 
Although she doesn't see much playing time, Tsipis' main contributions come in practice. Because she has a good outside shot, she simulates their next opponent's shooters. She explains new schemes to younger players. And Jonathan Tsipis said he feels comfortable putting her in with the four starters, which happened in the first half of the South Florida game with freshmen forwards teammates." 
So much respect, 
in fact, that in the last game of 
this season against St. John's, 
senior guard Charel Allen, who 
is traditionally announced last 
before the game, requested that 
Tsipis be announced last in her 
first career start. 
"I've been starting since last 
year, and I felt that the fans 
would appreciate more if she 
camp, out," Allen said. 
When Tsipis enters a game, 
the Joyce Center faithful go 
bonkers. 
"It's pretty amazing," she said. 
"It's kind of sad that I'll never 
come in again at the JACC. They 
have been amazingly supportive 
since freshman year." 
Outside of basketball, Tsipis keeps up the grades that got her here. She was a three-time Big East Aeademie All-Star and had a 3.7 GPA last year. 
"It's not unusual for us to be 
at a hotel somewhere and for 
me to see her out in the hallway 
studying," McGraw said. "She's 
the first one to get her books out 
on the plane or on the bus. She 
never wastes time. 
"She is a very, very conscien­tious student. As good as grades as she gets, she's always wor­ried she didn't do well-which means she got a B." 
Moving on 
That academic prowess earned Tsipis an internship with JP Morgan in Chicago last sum­mer. which led to a permanent job with the company after she graduates. 
Her uncle, however, knows she's not done with basketball. 
"Deep inside I think she knows basketball will be a part of her, whether it's coaching younger kids some day," Jonathan Tsipis said. "She's ready to kind of step on [to] that next level, as far as graduating and working at JP Morgan, but she'll end up being some part of basketball, no question about that."' 
Regardless of Tsipis' role, McGraw said, Tsipis plays because she's incurably attached to basketball. 
"To think that for four years she has put in so much time, before the season, after the sea­son, in the summer, and she never gets rewarded," McGraw said. "Other players are playing so they can get on the court and play, and she's just playing for the love of the game. She's just so thrilled to be in the game, and it's infectious to the rest of the team." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
"E[rica] has a little more of a presence and does a lot of things 

D'A01ico 
that don't show up in the stat continued from page 24 sheet. She's a really good Screen­
er and is someone that talks ­there for the girls, especially the she communicates with the freshman," D'Amico said. "I defi­guards really well," she said. nitely wanted to be out there "She's more of a shot blocker, more senior year." and again the willingness to take 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw charge, that's really big. She's said she thought D'Amico has smart: when she screens and her adapted well to the change, espe­man goes to double, she sees it cially considering that the change and goes right to the basket." happened during her senior year. Despite her decline in minutes, 
"We  had  to  D'Amico has still  
adjust her role, and certainly as  "It's great that you  led Notre Dame's bigs, never getting  
a senior that's  want to see someone  jealous  of  
not something you want to do," McGraw  else do well when you're not playing ...  Williamson or freshman Becca Bruszewski, who  
said. "But she handled it pret­ty well in terms of [that] her  I definitely have a lot ofrespect for {D'Amico].,,  also took some of D'Amico's min­utes. "I think all three  
work ethic in  of us go in there  
practice never  Muffet McGraw  every day in prac­ 
changed. she still was work­ Irish coach  tice and push each other to get  
ing hard trying  each other better,"  

to get back into the rotation, and D'Amico said of her relationship I think you have to give her a lot with Bruszewski and Williamson. of credit for that." "Whoever [McGraw! wants to 
D'Amico said she accepted the play that game that's who s going new role because she understood to play, whoever's playing better, that the team's needs came first. that's who's going to play." 
"If my role's going to change, if D'Amico is used to playing a that's what the team needs, then leadership role in the post, hav­that's what it needs," she said. ing already helped to get the two "The most important thing is the younger Irish big men ready for success for the team." college ball. Before last season, 
McGraw ·said D'Amico's D'Amico and Williamson were decreased playing time was no roommates in summer practices, fault of her own, just that where D'Amico said she helped Williamson improved consider­get Williamson ready for the ably since her freshman cam­faster-paced college game. paign. "Getting her up in the morning 
Guards 
continued from page 24 
just try and be a leader all 
around." 
Gaines never questioned her role as the vocal leader of the team. She willingly stepped into the role as soon as fellow point guard Megan Duffy graduated, and never looked back. 
It has never been about the points for Gaines, who averages just 7.0 per game. It's always been about bringing out the best in her teammates to ensure a win. 
"She is the motivator, the inspiration. She is the voice you hear in the locker room at half­time a lot of times saying the things I'm about to say," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "She's the consummate team player -she doesn't care how many points she scores, she just . wants the team to win." 
As the other member of the duo, Allen's ability to remain composed under stress has earned her the respect of her teammates, and that rarely required Allen to speak up. 
Allen, who leads the Irish with 
14.5 points per game, has always been a silent but strong presence on the court. 
"I've always been like the quiet type, lead by example," Allen said. "It's hard to be more vocal but it's something new. 
"Every once in a while, I'll say something. I think [my team­mates] do [respect me when I speak up] just because they know I don't like talking. They respect Tulyah in the same sense because she talks all the time, but I think when I say some­thing, they're like 'it's serious."' 
The teammates have proven that silent power and vocal lead­ership match each other perfect­ly. 
Both guards have been playing together since the day they stepped foot on campus in the summer of 2004 and always 
seem to know where the other 
will be on the court. 
"Tulyah [Gaines! especially as a point guard really looks for Charel [Allen]," McGraw said. "They seem to know where each other is going to be. Offensively and defensively they seem to know eaeh other's moves." 
But it's more than just four years of playing together that puts the two in sync, it's also a close friendship that exists off the court. 
"It's a combination of [years playing together and friend­ship]," said Gaines of the two's connection. ''I'm always looking for her, I know where she is usu­ally, and just for playing with her for four years has helped that." 
Gaines and Allen know their leadership has yet to be fully tested. Entering the first round of the NCAA Tournament, the underclassmen are likely to look to the two who have been down the road before. 
The Irish entered the 2007 tournament only to fall 60-51 to then top-seeded North Carolina. But this year's squad is stronger, and Allen and Gaines don't want to end their collegiate careers in the second round. 
"That shows you that last year we weren't even as good as we are now," said Allen of last year's tournament. "This year we played with the No. 1 team and the No. 1 seed. This year we can compete with whoever in the nation. Since I've been here we've only been to the second round. We want to at least get to the Sweet 16, that's our goal. We're going to approach it like this could be my last game. I don't want to end on that note." 
The underclassmen will turn to Allen and Gaines for the expe­rience the two have in the tour­nament -they know how it can test all aspects of a team, men­tally and physically. 
"We just [have to] be tough, the post-season is always just a battle of toughness basically," Gaines said. "All the teams in the tournament are good, so its for workouts, getting her mental­ly prepared, when you come in as a freshman you don't really know," D'Amico said of rooming with Williamson. "Physically, you're going to have to push yourself a lot. She had a little trouble with conditioning, and she worked very hard to get that up. She's improved a lot. I'm proud of her." 

McGraw said that D'Amico's work with the younger players shows maturity especially consid­ering she is helping tutor the players that took her minutes. 
"It's great that you want to see someone else do well when you're not playing. It shows a lot of maturity, but it's got to be real­ly hard. I definitely have a lot of respect for her," McGraw said. 
D'Amico said Notre Dame was one of her first choices to play college basketball, but that it was an opportunity she almost didn't get. 
"The first thing I got [from Notre Dame] was a rejection let­ter. Not [really! a r~jection letter, but it's really hard to get in here, things like that," she said. 
Later, D'Amico played well at an Adidas top 10 all-American camp and started getting an increased look from McGraw. 
"I think when I called her and told her I was coming she was really excited. I talked to Coach IMcGraw]," D'Amico said of sign­ing day. "They put [former Irish center! Ruth Hiley on the phone, she was someone that I watchnd a lot, so it was exdting." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
basically who has the most heart. who has the most tough­ness, mentally, physically, every­thing, you got to be tough." 
But the Irish don't enter the 
NCAA tournament on an 
upswing. Notre Dame last 
stepped on th.e court March 9 
when it fell 64-53 to Pittsburgh 
in the quarterfinals of thP-Big 
East Tournament. 
But the Irish recognize they are in one of the toughest leagues in the country. 
"The Big East conference is tough -look how far Louisville went," Alhm said. "They went into the championship game, and we beat them Iearlier in the season]. It shows you how com­petitive the Big East is. 
"Hopefully, we're done losing. We'll put together a little six­game winning streak. We're capable of doing it." 
It's that driving attitude that has gotten Notre Dame to the No. 5 seed they sit at today. Combined with Gaines' vocal encouragement and leadership on the court, the Irish players have an infallible force in the backcourt. 
"She's a fighter, she's competi­tive, she will not back down from anybody, and I think her attitude kind of goes to the rest of the team," McGraw said of Allen. "That fearlessness kind of' takes us into battle. It's really amazing what she's accom­plished." 
As for when that last buzzer sounds for the duo's fmal battle on the Irish side, neither plans to travel too far from their current role. 
Gaines and Allen will both look to play basketball post-Notre Dame, regardless of what that entails. 
"Hopefully I'll still be playing somewhere," said Gaines of life after Notre Dame. ''I'm going to try to keep playing. Whatever God has for me I'm going to try to get to it." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

Thursday, March 20, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD

MICHAEL MIKUSKA JUMBLE
BLAcK DoG MIKE ARGIRION 

LOLLERSKATES 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek


JJ1JJM&lbJJ:. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

SNUKK 

(IJ I I 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
WREEF j

rJ r I I 

FUMINF 
(l] [] 
www.jumble.com
tRETIUL I 

Yesterday's IJumbles: RAJAH BRIBE EFFACE INDIGO Answer: A busy blacksmith will do this ­"FORGE" AHEAD 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LIST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Bruce Willis, 53; Glenn Close, 61; Ursula Andress, 72; Phyllis Newman, 75 
Happy Birthday: Luck is with you this year. A serious but innovative approach will bring encouragement from people who want to see you excel. An opportunity will come through someone you once knew. Don't stop short of your goals. It's your deter­mination that will count. Your numbers are 8, 13, 19, 23, 32,40 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You won't get a whole lot of help, so don't take on too much. Pay close attention to the small but important detail. You don't want to miss something that can add value to what you do. Take care of any minor health issues. 3 
stars 

TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Form friendships with people who are interested in the same things you are but don't be too willing to share your personal feelings just yet. A contract or settlement will turn in your favor. Use your charm. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't take chances. Keep tabs on what everyone wants from you. It's likely you will be taken for granted if you don't learn to say no. Focus on the things you like to do and future goals. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Participate in what you feel is important and everyone who cares about you will join in. Love is in a high cycle so don't forget to put time aside to meet new people or to spend time with your current squeeze. Advancement and greater security are within your reach. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may feel a little out of place today or just not in sync. Don't let this frustrate you. There is a lesson to be learned that will lead you in a new direction and get you back on track. Don't donate money or lend anyone your posses­sions or your cash. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't rely on someone else's information. Go to the source. The choice you make could easily influence your professional future. Love is in the stars so be ready to make a romantic move. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Use your talent, savvy, sophistication and clout to get you what you want. Even if someone tries to push you into a heated discussion, remain calm. Take care of a domestic problem before it festers. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): This isn't the time to trust anyone with your ideas, plans or financial dealings. Someone may want to steal your thunder. Take a look at an in­vestment that allows you to make an alteration to your living arrangements. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (NIIv. 22-Dec. 21): You may be in an entertaining mood but beware: Someone may take advantage of your generosity. Travel will not turn out as planned. Although your charm may help you out, it's the delays and repercussions that will bog you down. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't trust anyone with your cash or belongings. A money deal may not turn out to be as good as you are led to believe. Be sure to give everything your thorough inspection before you sign on the dotted line. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do a little personal house cleaning. Rid yourself of the problems that have been dragging you down. Be honest with yourself and the people around you. Once you clear the air you will be able to accomplish the dreams. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't take everything you are told to heart. Someone may want to keep you out of the loop by withholding information. Let your Pisces charm take over and handle the people of whom you are most suspicious. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a decision maker, a strong contender and an innovative thinker. You require justice and fair play and will do your best to keep everyone around you in line and on track. 
EuJ!enia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun euJ!enialast.com fnr confidential con.•ultatinns 


LIZ MURPHY AND SARAH MUSCARELLA
ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 

WILLSHORTZ 


46 "That's the 53 Hurls defiance al 38 Relieve, as for a truth!"
break 56 Assessor 47 Makeshift fan 
39 Easily 58 Hole-punching 
48 Subject of a
maneuvered, as tool for a slater
certain Google
a boat search 59 Suffix for many c;43 Lab receptacle 

49 Subject of union sharable 44 cheese negotiations computer file 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
CROSSWORD 
Across 37 *Classic comical Jet 
restaurant complaint

6 Bush people, for short 
40 Fictional governess

9 Retail. e.g. 41 S.O.S., in
141ndo­essence15 It may come 42 Regardingafter you 
43"_sport"

16 Spam flavorer 44 Singer Jacques 17 'Hairy-leaved 45 *Umpire's plant invocation after 19 Many a dance a pop-up,club tune perhapsW English author 51 Time period for aBlyton C.F.O. 
~1 Motor 
54 Reassuring ~2 Parish V.I.P. 
result on a blood ~3 Bootblack's 
test need 
55 Mimic ~4 *Fighter at 112 
56 Biblical prophetpounds or less 
57 Traditional spy ~6 Mind 
wear ~8 "Without a 
58 • Advice to a doubt" 
careless dresser, ~9 Not still maybe 31 Seaver once 60 Former N.B.A. called it home star Danny of the earth 61 Enzyme ending 
1.\NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
62 Obtuse 63 Occasion to sing 
"Dayenu" 

64Gen 
65 They're found 
around a neck 
Down 1 Penny_ 2 Bowl 3 *Unreliable sort 4 Write an ode to 5 Wearer of a half-
inch stripe: Abbr. 6 Decorated, on menus 7 Tropical tree-
dweller 8 Zing 9 O.R. attire 

10 Car discontinued in 2004 11 Bluesman Willie 
12 Web-based way to announce a party 
13 Gender determiner, as on a chicken farm 
18 The same, in a way 22 Third-stringers 24"_ #1!" 25 Villainous one in 'The Lion King" 27 Where punts were spent 29 Bolted down 30 Short 31 Some greens 32 Hotfoot it 33 De bene (legal phrase) 34 Restricted space ... or a hint to the answers to the six starred clues 
,. 
THE ()BSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, March 20, 2008 
page 24 
HOCKEY 

Irish to fight for tournament lives in Detroit 
Notre Dame faces No. 3 Miami in CCHA semifinals; leading scorer Condra out for year with injured left knee 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
Whnn No. 12 Notrn Dame enters Detroit's Joe Louis Arena this weekend, it will have the opportunity to dnfend its Mason Cup title, beginning with tonight's CCIIA semifinal matchup with No. 3 Miami. 
But it won't have the opportu­nity to do so at full strength. 
The Irish will be without jun­ior right wing Erik Condra, tlwir leading scorer who injun"ld his lef't krwe in Sunday's 2-1 win over Ferris State. 

"Any time you lose a player of that caliber, it's going to impact your team," coach Jeff Jackson said. "But it's also an opportuni­ty for other guys to step up in dil'f'ernnt roles." 
Condra had scored 15 goals and 23 assists this season and had played prominently on Notre Dame's penalty kill and power play units. Jackson said he had tried several different line combinations to make up for Condra's loss but wouldn't make any final decisions until after Thursday's practice in Dntroit. 
Notre Dame split the season series with the Hedl-lawks, win­ning 2-1 and falling 3-1 in Oxford, Ohio, when Miami was the nation's top team. The Rediiawks are led by goalie Jef'f' Zatkoff, the CCHA leader in save percentage and goals­against average in the regular season. The junior is one of the leading candidates for the Hobey Baker Award, given annually to the nation's top hockey player. 
"They may be the No. 1 team in the country," Jackson said. "They're not ranked No. 1 right now, but they're right there with the top couple of teams." 
On offense, Hedllawks junior Justin Mercier and senior Hyan Jones make up one of the most potent scoring duos in the CCHA. The pair has combined for 85 points on the season. 
"(Miami isJ so deep, they're so talented," Irish senior captain Mark Van Guilder said. "You can't take a shift off or you're down 1-0 or 2-0." 
The Irish hope to use their CCHA tournament experience against the Hedllawks. The Irish beat Lake Superior State and Michigan last year to hoist the Mason Cup, and Jackson said the players returning from that squad will benefit from winning it all. 
"The fact that the guys that were there last' year had that experience, I'm sure it's going to help them," Jackson said. 
This year's team will be faced with a very different challenge, though. Last year, the Irish were seeded No. 1 in the tour­nament and were favorites to win the title. This year, Notre Dame is tho No. 3 seed and the third-highest seeded team in the final four -ahead of only Northern Michigan, the No. 6 
see CCHA/page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Their last dance 
Gaines, Allen provide 
0'Amico takes decrease backcourt leadership in court time in stride 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer Spons Writer 
Tlwre an~ those that lead by Anyone who saw Notre Dame aetions, and thosn that lead play the last two seasons notic1~d through words. The Irish are something dillimmt down low. lucky enough to boast both. Last year, the ennter position Senior guards Tulyah Gaines and was el'f'ectively shared by then­Chard Allen combine to create a junior Melissa D'Amico and then­guiding force in the backcourt frnshman Erica Williamson. This that has lwlpt~d tlw Irish securf' a year, however, D'Amico saw con­No. 5 SPed in the NCCA sistently fewer minutes as the ·r,,u rnamPnt. season worn on, in large part duP 
There was nPvPr any qunstion to factors beyond lwr control. who would lead NotrP Damn as But don't think her role has tlw team nntnwd tlw 2007-200H diminishnd-it's just dmngnd. season: (;airws and Allen com­During lwre senior season. birw with ldlow sPnior Amanda ))'Amieo has been an important Tsipis to liu·m tlw Irish wptains. pres1mce on the b1meh, in pradice 
"I prt>tty murh knew my roln and in the locker room for lwr coming into thn season," Gaines teammates. said. "That I had to be a lnader, "This year I trind to take on art vocally, snt an example on more of a leadership role now defnnse, whatever I had to do, WU YUE/The Observer that I'm a senior -just being 
Senior guards Tulyah Gaines, left, and Charel Allen serve as two of the team's three see GUARDS/page 22 captains by providing both vocal and silent leadership. see D'AMICO/page 22 

Walk-on Tsipis earns respect of teammates, leaves lasting mark 
By BILL BRINK 
Sporrs Writer 
It was a meaningless basket in a meaningless game, but it was vindication for countless hours of behind-the-scenes toil. 
It was inconspicuous, at best. Notre Dame led South Florida H4-39 in the final minutes of a Feb. 27 home game. With 3:52 left. senior guard Amanda Tsipis drove through the lane from the outside and sank a layup. The crowd roared: Tsipis 
beamed. But here's the rub: She did­n't want the shot. 
"I was actually looking to pass to !senior center! Mei[issa 0'Amico I. but her defender didn't actually come up on me, so I ended up shooting it," Tsipis said. 
That lack of selfishness at a meaningless point in the game tells you all you need to know about Amanda Tsipis. 
The only walk-on ever to be elected captain by her team­mates, Tsipis has one start in her !'our-year collegiate career. Shn has 1 H points this smtson, or 0.9 per game. Yet with the ball and a lane to the basket, she wanted to pass. 
Her fellow players and 

coaches wouldn't be sur­prised. They learned from their daily interactions with Tsipis the impact she can have away from the court. 
"She's exactly what a walk­on epitomizes at Notre Dame," said assistant coaeh Jonathan Tsipis. who is 
Amanda's  unele.  "We  seP  
with  our  ehemistry in  our  
locker  room  without  the  

eoaches around a lot of tlw positive impad that she's had." 
Notre Dame's Sunday match-up with Southnrn Mnthodist in thn NCAA TournamPnt could bn Tsipis' last in an Irish uniform. But the impression shP made on 
see TSIPIS/page 22 











