
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 94 MONDAY. FEBRUARY 25,2008 

Bengal Bouts combats cyclone damage 
Annual boxing tournament helps country still reeling from November natural disaster 
to the missions, schools and hospitals, but also to a lot of the country that's in need [due to the cyclone]. We're excited about that," Land said. 
Senior captain Patrick O'Brien said the aftermath of Cyclone Sidr gives the competitors more motiva­tion. 
"[The cyclone] makes it even more important to kick the fundraising into high gear, and it's also something tangible that the boxers can focus on," O'Brien said. 
Since 1931, the proceeds earned from the Bengal Bouts tournament have 
see BENGAL/page 6 


Saint Mary's hosts siblings on campus 
Little Sibs Weekend features games, activities, as younger guests experience college life 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Wrirer 
The Residence Hall Association (HHA) sponsored Little Sibs Weekend, an event in which Saint Mary's encouraged students to invite their younger siblings or relatives last weekend on the College's campus. 
"I like getting students and siblings involved because in college there isn't a lot of time," event co­chair Jill Swan said. "Also the siblings enjoy being col­lege students, and that's a big part of it." 
The event this year had a luau theme, centered on the idea that "Ohana means family" -one inspired by Swan's little sister. 

"Her second grade class­room had a luau," Swan said. "When I came home and told her that I was in charge of Little Sibs Weekend, which she had been to before, she told me it should be luau themed." 
RHA provided games and activities for students to participate in with siblings of all ages, including an ice cream social, a movie show­ing, games and karaoke. 
"We had a huge turnout at 
see SIBS/page 4 



By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 

Last November, the fierce winds of Cyclone Sidr slammed much of the already poverty-stricken Bangladesh, and beginning tonight approximately 185 young men are fighting back -in the boxing ring. 
Hunter Land, president of the Boxing Club, said Notre Dame's 78th annual Bengal Bouts tournament has even more meaning for its par­ticipants because the need for relief in Bangladesh is even greater this year. 
"Our money is being put to good use over there ... this year it's not just going 
Prof. examines Chinese protest 
Stanford's Andrew Walder shaws university impact in Cultural Revolution 
By CLAIRE REISING 

News Writer 
The story of China's Cultural Revolution was a "political fiasco" that had a deep impact on the coun­try's universities, Stanford sociology professor Andrew Walder said Friday at "The Beijing Bed Guard MovPment: China's Cultural Hevolution in Retrospect." 
"They didn't accomplish anything but destruction," he said. 
Walder, who wrote "Fractured Crusade: The Beijing Red Guard 
Movement," lectured about the student Red Guard movement at Chinese uni­versities between 1966 and 1968. Though the Red Guards supported Mao Zedong, factionalism arose among the movement. 
Instead of just purging government officials, Walder said, Mao original­ly sought the support of students and young work­ers to ensure that his poli­cies and legacy would con­tinue after his death. 
"There's a real logic to what he did," he said. "If he would simply use a purge to get rid of the top officials, he felt he would-n't have had a lasting impact on the country." 
One of the Red Guards functions was to target officials they deemed anti­revolutionary at "struggle sessions," in which the accused would be publicly humiliated and often phys­ically harmed. However, Walder said students dis­agreed about the. rebel­lion's aim and which peo­ple to target. 
In his research, Walder had expected to find that the factions originated from the students' social classes. However, he said 
see CHINA/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Haircuts aid cancer patients 

'Project Pink' helps Pantene charity 
By ELIZABETH KELLY 
NewsWrirer 
Students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's lined up outside Mishawaka's Salon Nouveau Sunday to cut off their ponytails as part Pangborn Hall's annual Project Pink. 
Event coordinator Tricia Hughes described Project Pink as "a campaign to raise awareness about women's issues and celebrate women in society." 
Project Pink will donate the ponytails they collected yesterday to Pantene Beautiful Lengths, a charity organization that turns donated ponytails into wigs for women with cancer who have lost their hair as a result of chemotherapy. 
The Project Pink commit­tee selected this charity last March because it fit with the event's theme of women in solidarity, said Hughes. But not enough girls had hair long enough to meet Pantene's requirement of eight inches. 
"Last year we put up signs all over Pangborn that said 'Don't cut your hair!"' Hughes said. 
Through advertising, the Project Pink committee was able to convince 25 students 
see PINK/page 6 

ND students, alumni assess third-vvorld health 
By BILL BRINK News Writer 
During a human develop­ment symposium Saturda¥. Notre Dame students and alumni said a lack of resources and knowledge are inhibiting health improve­ments both in America and third-world countries. 
The Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity, and the Center for Social Concerns co-hosted the event, "Solidarity in Pursuit of Authentic Human Development," which took place in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The effectiveness of tradi­tional medicine in third-world countries took center stage in the presentations. Sophomore Jeff Lakusta drew from his experiences in South Africa last summer researching the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 
"There is $230 billion in aid from the top 40 donors alone," he said. "The obvious question is how can $230 bil­lioq not provide us more sig­nificant results?" 
The stigma of HIV/AIDS 
see HUMAN/page 4 

.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Concerning 111y father 
My litlher wa'i the coach of my high school's 
b<L'ikdba.ll tmun filr :n years, but going into 
my senior year. lhe schml infilrmed him he 
would have to "mtim" at th11 nnd of that sea­
son <md my dad. not wanting to cause a stir, 
reluctantly went 
a.long. 
Thirty-thre11 years 
of loyalty 1uul dndic<t­
tion meant nothing. 
The fact that he 
taught hundreds 
about b<L.'iketba.ll <md 
life meant nothing, 
and the fact that he 
was the winningest 
active coach in the 
state of' Pennsylvania Editor-in-Chief 
mnant nothing as well. 
Parents who had money to throw around 
took adwmtage ofa .5<Xl SP.ason our tnam had 
my junior year ID say thn !fdille had "pa'ised 
him by" and to push fi1r hi'> firing. Though 
only a handfi.tl of pamnt'i wanted him out, it 
didn't matter. Thny had monny, and hn wa'i 
gonn. 
Wn won ov11r 20 g<unes my senior year, 
won lhn di'>trict tit.IP, lost in doubln overtime in 
thn statn quarterfinals. and my dad was 
mum~! mach of' t.l1n year in our confimmm. 
Still, he could not mtum for a 34th sna<;(l!l. 
A'>idn lhnn my si'>ter's batt.l11 wilh I !odgkin's 
DismL'>Il, this W<L'> the most dillicult time my 
fiunily luL.'i ever fitcnd. It's hard to give up 
somntl1ing you've loV11d doing liw 33 years 
<Uld this i'in't ml111ge whem mru~hns make ~ix 
or snvnn figurns. Wn depPndPd in part on 
monny my dad brought in fh1m maehing m1d 
running dinirs. 
But through lhat ynar, thnrn wnm two pno­
piP who lmlp«~l 01L'ill the di'iitpp«lintment our 
fiunily li1lt, and oddly enough, they were 
sp«Jrt'> writers. One W<L'> Dave Konopki, now 
Om sp«Jrt'i editor lilr 'The 'limns I11ader" in 
Wilkes-BmTn. Pa. Dave look<ld into the !-;tory 
or my dad getting linld. lin got it, 1Uld wa'i 
mady to print it ;mel put t.lm S~:hool in its place. 
But my dad did not want thi'i !-.iory dbiraeting 
our temn in th11 middll' of the sea'ilm and so 
Dave didn't print it. 
Thn other wa'i thr. now-deceased Jerry 
Kellar. Kdlar had one ofthr. m<~t widely-read 
r.olumn'i in the area, and d<~:ided to devote a 
section of his column to my dad and the 
S~:hml, bla'>ting them li1r firing him. 
I've mwer seen my futher sadder than dur­ing this ordeal, but the care these two writers had filr hi'> job made him feel a little better. They may not have eomplntely taken away the pain he felt, but they ollilnld him and the mst ofmy family tnmponuy solaee. 
When I beg-dll working at '!be Ohsmver as 
a sp«Jrt.<> writer in 2005, I trioo to uphold the 
k~·.,on'i Dave m1d Jerry taught me -to keep 
!-.port.'> in its pmper perspective, have sen'iitivi­
ty liJr the pmple you cover, investiga!fl when 
the dreumstanef>.s ofa situation don't seem to 
match, 1Uld, most importantly, speak up 
when something isn't right 
My old high school did its best to keep the !-.i.ory about my f~tther under wrav> because they knew it would be danmging from a pub­lie-mlation<> viewpoint And at an inlage-con­sdou'i in<>tituti<Jn like Notre Dame, a lot ofpoli­ticking ;u1d lx1hind-the-sc.encs decision mak­ing get'> ~wept under the rug and conc,ealed. But when something does leak or we uncover something,! will do my ~ito make sure 1be Observer upholds the lessons I learnoo from Dave and Jerry. It won't be easy, and it will be !->in~"iii.JI. but it i'i our duty to do it, bocauc;e I've experienced the eftbet journali<;JJ] c,an have and iti<> something I won't take for granted. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris lline at chine@nd. edu 


CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make misrakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, February 25, 2008 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE PART OF THE 0SCARS? 




Eileen Hall  Nathan Payne  Johanna Kirsch  Kinzie Kiser  Glynnis Garry  
freshman  senior  sophomore  junior  freshman  
Welsh Fam  Zahm  McGlinn  WelshFam  Cavanaugh  
"The musical  "The rich idiots  "The dresses  "Sexy Regis."  ''The wrap-up  

performances that think they because they're -especially have style." shiny." when I sing along." 

WU YUE!The Observer 

The Michigan State Jazz Orchestra performs as part of the 50th annual Collegiate Jazz Festival Saturday night in Washington Hall. The event featured performances by 12 different university bands. 
OFFBEAT 
Pollee bust snowmobile chop shop 
BANGOR TOWNSHIP, Mich. -The determination of an angry snowmobile owner -plus miles and miles of tracks in the snow­have led police to a suspect­ed chop shop for stolen snowmobiles. 
Police say the man discov­ered Saturday that his snow­mobile was missing from his home in Van Buren County's Arlington Township in south­west Michigan. 
The man, whose name was not released, called police and set out on a borrowed snowmobile following tracks 
in the snow for about 10 miles through fields and along roads. 
Relatives and friends fol­lowed by car as he trailed the tracks to a home in Bangor Township. 
Marlins searching for new husky mascots 
MIAMI -The Florida Marlins are looking for some footloose fat men. The National League team is cre­ating an all-male, plus-size cheerleading squad to be dubbed the Manatees. Tryouts were scheduled for Sunday. 
The team hopes to recruit 
seven to 10 tubby men to dance, cheer and jiggle dur­ing Friday and Saturday home games this season. 
Real manatees, 1,200­pound mammals sometimes referred to as "sea cows," are not considered the most agile of creatures and often get caught in boat propellers. 
The Marlins want their Manatees to have the same dimensions, but to be decid­edly more agile. Men will be judged on how well they dance a choreographed rou­tine. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TODAY  TONIGHT  TUESDAY  WEDNESDAY  
0::: U.l :::1: '<U.l 3: ..J c( (,) 0 .....  •• 4 ••••• HIGH 36  HIGH  33  HIGH  30  ,c-,(Y6v1 ~$ ~­HIGH 22  
LOW  32  LOW  29  LOW  18  LOW  12  
Atlanta 63 I 49 Boston 44 I 28 Chicago 35 I 30 Denver 4 7 I 29 Houston 76 I 54 Los Angeles 65 I 48 Minneapolis 32 I 16 New York 46 I 33 Philadelphia 48 I 33 Phoenix 73 I 50 Seattle 56 I 40 St. Louis 51 I 34 Tampa 79 I 63 Washington 56 I 40 


music. " 
IN BRIEF 
The preliminaries for the Bengal Bouts boxing tourna­ment will be held today at 
6:30 in the Joyce Center Field House. Tickets cost $10 and all proceeds go towards Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
Tim Power from the Latin American Centre at Oxford University will present a lec­ture entitled "Changing Evaluations of Brazilian Democracy" at the Hesburgh Center at 4:15 
p.m. The event will be host­ed by the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
Former Senator Rick Santorum will present a lec­ture entitled "Gathering Storm of the 21st Century" Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the McKenna Hall auditorium. The lecture is sponsored by the Intercollegiate Studies Institute and the Ethics and Public Policy Center. 
Women's basketball will play South Florida Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
The film "The Diving Bell and the Butterfly" will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Thursday at 7 p.m. 
There will be Stations of the Cross Friday at 7:15 
p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~vf/}J. 
~ 

HIGH 26 HIGH 32 LOW 22 LOW 22 
Monday, February 25, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 

Vickers tabbed as first DPAC IlliUlagingdirector 
Special to The 0 bserver 
.Jon Vickers, previously direc­tor of the Browning Cinema in the University of Notre Dame's DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts (DPAC), has been promoted to the new posi­tion of managing director of the center. 
"Jon has excellent operational experience to bring to the posi­tion. is dedicated to making connections across the acade­my, and is a valued member of the DeBartolo Performing as curator of the film series at the Browning Cinema and will collaborate with Thompson on programming themes for each season between the cinematic and performing arts. 
Vickers and his wife, Jennifer, have for 12 years owned and operated the Vickers Theatre, an independent, art house the­ater located in Three Oaks, Mich. His education includes a degree in civil engineering from Michigan State University. 
In Three Oaks, he is a found­
ing member of 
Harbor Arts, 
Arts Center "Jon has excellent Harbor Country team," said Forum, the
operational

Anna M. Sound of Silence Thompson, the experience to bring to Film Festival Judd and Mary the position." and Radio Lou Leighton Harbor Country, Director of "of which he is 
Anna Thompson the current
Performing Arts. director of performing arts chair. l-Ie also is 
As managing director. Vickers will oversee the daily operational activities of the cen­ter. ensuring that its academic, business, guest and technical services, as well as external relations, are aligned with the eenter's overall mission. Additionally, Vickers will be responsible for building part­nerships with colleges, depart­ments. institutes and other cen­ters on eampus in an effort to further the arts as a critically important part of the University. 
Vickers will continue to serve 
chair of the 
Village of Three Oaks Downtown Development Authority. 
The DeBartolo Center is pre­senting its fourth season of world-renowned performances, art film screenings, University department and faculty per­formances. and other program­ming. The facility includes five separate venues, including the Leigh ton Concert IIall, Decio Mainstage Theatre, Philbin Studio Theatre, TI-IX-certified Browning Cinema, and the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall. 



Bush presses for intel bill 
President criticizes Democrats for blocking legislation renewal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -House Democratic leaders came under criticism Saturday from President Bush who said they are blocking intelligence leg­islation so lawyers can sue telephone companies for help­ing the government eavesdrop on suspected terrorists. 
Terrorists are plotting attacks "at this very moment," Bush said in his weekly radio address. He again urged the House to 

"[Congress] can help
act on cover foreign Senate­class-action trial intelligence passed legis­targets, which
lawyers sue for billions 
lation need­resulted in
ofdollars, or they can
ed to renew missed intelli­the intelli­help our intelligence gence infor­gence law mation."
officials protect millions 
that expired The state­
oflives."
last week­ment also said end. companies 
The Senate George W. Bush may resist bill provides orders in the
president
retroactive protection for telecommunications com­panies that wiretapped U.S. phone and computer lines at the government's request, but without the permission of a secret court created 30 years ago to oversee such activities. The House version does not provide such immunity against lawsuits. 
The Justice Department and Office of National Intelligence said Saturday that telecom­munication companies are now complying with existing surveillance warrants. The agencies' statement reversed their declaration late Friday that some companies had refused to initiate wiretaps against people covered by orders issued under the expired law. 
The statement said new surveillance activities under existing warrants will resume "for now," but that the delay "impaired our ability to 
future if 
Congress does not pass a law with retroac­tive immunity. 
National Intelligence Director Mike McConnell pre­dicted last week that the gov­ernment's surveillance of ter­rorists would be harmed if the law were allowed to expire. l-Ie and Attorney General Michael Mukasey said that prediction had come true. 
Later Friday, the companies -whom administration offi­cials refused to name ­reversed their opposition to expanding existing orders to cover new surveillance activi­ties. 
The law expired after Congress left on a 10-day recess before reconciling the House and Senate versions of its replacement. 
"When Congress reconvenes on Monday, members of the House have a choice to make: They can empower the trial bar, or they can empower the intelligence community," Bush said in his Saturday radio address. "They can help class-action trial lawyers sue for billions of dollars, or they can help our intelligence offi­cials protect millions of lives." 
Bush has promised to veto any bill that does not protect the companies from suits that allege violations of privacy and wiretapping laws under the warrantless wiretapping program. 
"It is unfair and unjust to threaten these companies with financial ruin only because they are believed to have done the right thing and helped their country," the president said. 
"House leaders are blocking this legislation, and the rea­son can be summed up in three words: class-action law­suits." 


Looking for solid business and accounting experience to put on your resume? 
The Observer is accepting applications for a 2008-09 Business Manager and Controller. Responsibilities include preparing a yearly budget and handling payroll for a 200-person staff. 
Since the Controller will take over as the 2009-10 Business Manager, Controller applicants should be sophomores, or juniors staying for a fifth year. 
Both positions are salaried, about six to 10 hours a week. Please contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna1@nd.edu or Kyle West at kwest1@nd.edu if interested. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 25, 2008 

HuiDan 
continued from page 1 
sometimes pnwents people from seoking medical atten­tion, Lakusta said, and ill­placed faith in traditional healing rnothods prevents people from acquiring prop­or modern medical earn. 
"If you're at thn nducation level whnre you think eating food or breathing air gives you the disease, of course they'll want to stay away," Lakusta said. 
Senior Nathan Snrazin addressed a similar issun with his rnsnarch. Serazin worked for two summers in the town of Pedro Vie11ntn Maldonato, Ecuador study­ing alternative medieine. 
Serazin analyzed the mnd­ieines used by traditional healers and complied a handbook detailing the sim­ilarities between modern medicinns and those used by healers. In one case, he noted, a seed used by heal­ers to treat sore throats contains menthol, a eom­mon ingredient in lozenges. 
"This is the first line of 


Sibs 
continued from page 1 

all the events," Little Sibs eo-chair Taylor Flaherty said. "We even had to set up extra tables at crafts, but I think that the games were everyone's favorite." 
Each morning there was also a breakfast buffet in the residence halls for students and their siblings, Flaherty said. 
Freshman Lauren Hartman enjoyed the time she spent with her 11-ynar-old cousin, Olivia. 
"We went to the luau, and game night, and we also had girls' night in my room with popcorn and movies and facials." Hartman said. "Olivia said that she loved it and wants to come back next year." 
Freshman Gina Storti also had a good experience with her littl1~ sister's visit as weII. 
"It was so nice to see my little sister and spend time with her and have her meet my friends," she said. 
Swan said that the major goal of the weekend was to provide entertainment for the siblings. 
"Anyone likes to say that their own event was a suc­cess, but tho kids seemed to have fun, and if the kids are happy, then it was a suc­cess," Swan said. 
Flaherty agreed and said she is looking forward to next year. 
"It was a great weekend. I'm rnally glad everyone vol­unteered from HilA. Hopefully next year"s will be groat as well." 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloOI @saintmarys.edu 

Please recycle 
defense for most people," he 

with acid, bricks and hand lions, Walder said. said. 
grenades. Walder said researchers Junior Patricia Hughes, 


China 

"Every school had two rely on interviews with for­who conducted research in 
continued from page 1 factions and was locked mer Hed Guards and infor­Baltimore, Md., said late 
into this structure," he said. mation from Hed Guard stages of AIDS can be better 
they actually formed as a However, Walder said pamphlets and newspapers managed in group homes 
result of students' experi­when Mao realized the fac­to piece together the that allow patients easier 
ences under the control of tionalism would not be suc­Cultural Hevolution's histo­access to the care they 
university­cessful, he brought in the ry. llowever, he said that need. 
p I a c e d 
military to end the fighting former Hed Guards' testi­"If we look at IllY today, 
w o r k and control the schools. mony is not always reliable it's become a chronic, but 
teams, Walder contrasted this because it can contain manageable, condition," she 
w h i c h with 1960s student political· "half-truths, evasions, inac­said. 
monitored action in the United States, curacies." Lacey llausman, a 2003 
dissenting where students united to "There was a lot of guess­Notrn Dame graduate, said 
activity. protest the Vietnam War, work, a lot of f'illing in the refugee camps in northern 
A I' t e r rather than fighting among blanks," he said. "You take Uganda presented a Cateh­w o r k themselves. In the United hints from newspapers, edi­
22. While the camps did teams left States, the worst conse­torials, comments, and you

Walder
provide medical services not 

the u ni­quences protesting students expand back, imagine what available in tho refugees' 
versities, students who did could face was jail or the social reality was home villages, AIDS spreads 
not clash with them formed expulsion from their univer­behind the rhetoric." quickly through the camps. 
a majority faction, but stu­sities, but in China, conse­Another component of "If they go home, they're 
dents who opposed the quences ranged from ruined research, Walder said, is losing easy access to these 
work teams and sufl'ered careers to a loss of free­discovering unanticipated services," llaussman said. 
under their control formed dom. information that challenges llaussman also said 
a minority faction. One goal "You didn't have that kind one's preconceptions. womnn in the camps do not 
of the minority faction was of kind of violence in the "I find that just about receive proper prenatal 
to have the negative politi­U.S., where students were every time I've done care because the hospitals 
cal labels the work teams barricading themselves on research on a topic I start in the region are under­
gave them removed. campus and fighting one with certain ideas, and the staffed and don't have the 
In the following months, another," he said. process of learning involves necessary supplies to per­
Walder said factions solidi­Also, students could not a great deal of unlearning," form birthing procedures. 
fied into a "political grid­escape from their situation he said. 
lock" and became violent. because they were unable Contact Bill Brink at 
Students set up barricades to simply transfer universi­Contact Claire Reising at wbrink@nd.edu 
and attacked each other ties and leave their fac-creisin2@nd.edu 
Attention Seniors! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Adtnissions staff, the counselor is expected 
to n1ake an itnportant. contribution to the recn1itment and selection of the first-year class by 1nanaging relations vvith the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and communication \Vithin the geographic area, assesstnent and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual infonnation sessions. Additional responsibilities \vill be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollrnent. 
Among our candidates, \Ve ·will specifically seek an 
African American Recruitment Coordinator. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong fan1iliarity \vith all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 

Essential qualities include strong cotnn1unication and organizational skills, enthusiasrn, diplomacy and the \Villingness to \vork long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 



Please Note: Interviews will be scheduled after April 1. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2008. 

Please forward your resume to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions 220 Main Building Attention: Alisa M. Fisher, Senior Associate Director 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, February 25, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wm.r SERViCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
N.Y. Philhannonic to visit North Korea 
BEIJING -North Korea was tearing down anti-American posters that line the streets of Pyongyang in preparation for the New York Philharmonic's unprecedented visit, the ensemble's president said Sunday on the eve of departure. 
The musieians said they hoped personal contacts with North Koreans could help bring the countries closer. But some also worried their performance Tuesday wouldn't change anything, and instead be misused for propaganda in the communist country that technically remains at war with the U.S. 
The Philharmonic's president and execu­tive director, Zarin Mehta, said North Korea had met the group's requests that the largest possible audience hear the concert. The per­formance will be staged in a larger hall and will be broadcast live on radio and TV. 
Pakistani Taliban ready for dialogue 
ISLAMABAD -Pakistani Taliban fighters said Sunday they are ready for dialogue with the winners of last week's election, and called on the new leadership to abandon President Pervez Musharraf's policies of waging war on terror. 
"Wp, hope after the government comes into power, they will not make the mistake of continuing the existing policies and will bring peace to the people of tribal areas," Taliban-e-Tehrik spokesman Maulvi Umar told The Associated Press by telephone. "We want peace and are looking for dialogue with those who got elected." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Amerirnn Airlines~ dies in Hight 
NEW YORK -An American Airlines passenger died after a tlight attendant told her he couldn't give her any oxygen and then tried to help her with fiwlty equipment, including an empty oxygen tank, a relative said. 
The airline confirmed the tlight death and said medical professionals had tried to save the pas­senger. Carine Desir, who was returning home to Brooklyn from Haiti. 
Desir, who had heart disease, died of natural causes, medical examiner's office spokeswoman Ellen Borakove said Sunday. 
Desir had complained of not feeling well and being very thirsty on the Friday flight from Port­au-Prince after she ate a meal, according to Antonio Oliver, a cousin who was traveling with her and her brother Joel Desir. A flight attendant gave her water, he said. 
A few minutes later, Desir said she was having trouble breathing and asked for oxygen, but a flight attendant twice refused her request, Oliver said Sunday in a telephone interview. 
Los Angeles has best municipal water 
BERKELEY SPRINGS, W.Va. -Their air might bring pollution complaints, but residents of Los Angeles drink the nation's tastiest tap water, according to the judges of an international compe­tition. More than 120 water sources competed in the 18th annual Berkeley Springs International Water Tasting, held Saturday. 
A panel of 10 journalists and food critics sam­pled sparkling, tap and bottled water from 19 states and other countries, including New Zealand, Romania, Macedonia and the Philippines. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Police search for car window shooter 
lAPORTE -LaPorte police might use under­cover patrols to catch whoever is using a BB or pellet gun to shoot out car windows in the north­em Indiana city. 
Police say at least 65 vehicles have been hit, doing $10,000 damage. 
LaPorte Chief of Detectives Clyde Crass says investigators were mapping out where and when each vehicle wa<> shot at early Thursday. He says police are considering different strategies to catch the shooters including covert patrols in the city about 30 miles west of South Bend. 
A witness told police that occupants of a red SUV drove by and shot out windows in his two cars. 
CUBA 

Raul Castro becomes president 
Officials name 77-year-old revolutionary leader Jose Ramon Machado for No.2 position 
Associated Press 

HAVANA -Cuba's par­ 
liament named Raul  
Castro president on  
Sunday, ending nearly 50  
years of rule by' his broth­ 
er Fidel but leaving the  
island's communist sys­ 
tem unshaken.  
In a surprise move, offi­ 
cials bypassed younger  
candidates to name a 77­ 
. year-old revolutionary  
leader, Jose Hamon  
Machado, to Cuba's No. 2  
spot -apparently assur­ 
ing the old guard that no  
significant political  
changes will be made  
soon.  
Haul also proposed he  
would consult with the  
ailing, 81-year-old Fidel  
on all major decisions of  
state, and parliament  
approved the proposal.  
Sunday's vote came five  
days after Fidel said he  
was retiring, capping a  
career in which he frus­ 
trated efforts by 10 U.S.  
presidents to oust him.  
Though the succession  
was not likely to bring a  
major shift in the commu­ 
nist government policies  
that have put Cuba at  
odds with the United AP  
States, many Cubans were Raul Castro speaks after being named President of Cuba's Council of State by  
hoping it would open the the new National Assembly in Havana Sunday.  
door to modest economic  
reforms that might  significant, calling it a  a new 31-member ruling  months since then, and  
improve their daily lives.  "transfer of authority and  body known as the  Fidel Castro has not  
In his first speech as  power from dictator to  Council of State to lead  appeared in public.  
president, Raul Castro  dictator light."  the country. The council's  In his final essay as  
suggested that the  Secretary of State  president serves as the  president, Castro wrote  
Communist Party as a  Condoleezza Rice said  head of state and govern­ that preparations for the  
whole would take over  Sunday Cubans have a  ment.  parliament meeting "left  
the role long held by Fidel  right "to choose their  The vote ended Castro's  me exhausted," and he  
Castro, who formally  leaders in democratic  49 years as head of the  said he did not regret his  
remains its leader.  elections" and urged the  communist state in  decision to step down.  
The new president said  government "to begin a  America's backyard. He  "I slept better than  
the nation's sole legal  process of peaceful, dem­ retains his post as a law­ ever," he wrote in the  
party "is the directing and  ocratic change by releas­ maker and as head of the  commentary published on  
superior force of society  ing all political prisoners,  Communist Party. But his  Friday. "My conscience  
and the state."  respecting human rights,  power in government has  was clear and I promised  
"This conviction has  and creating a clear path­ eroded since July 31,  myself a vacation."  
particular importance  way towards free and fair  2006, when he announced  In Old Havana, Maria  
when because the found­ elections."  he had undergone emer­ Martinez, a 67-year-old  
ing and forging genera­ Her statement, issued  gency intestinal surgery  retiree, watched the  
tion of the revolution is  shortly before parliament  and was provisionally  announcement on a  
disappearing," Raul  met, called the develop­ ceding his powers to  Chinese-made television  
Castro added.  ments a "significant  ·Raul.  in her dark living room.  
The U.S. has said the  moment in Cuba's histo­ The younger Castro has  "lie's a trustworthy  
change from one Castro  ry."  headed Cuba~ caretaker  man," she said. "He won't  
to another would not be  Cuba's parliament chose  government in the 19  make mistakes."  

Obam_a claitns Clinton waffled on NAFTA 
debate, using passages from the former Bush. 
Associated Press 
first lady's book as well as her own President Clinton "championed 
words. NAFTA," passed it through Congress 

LORAIN, Ohio -Barack Obama "Ten years after NAFTA passed, and signed it into law, Obama said. accused Democratic presidential rival Senator Clinton said it was good for A spokesman for Clinton, Phil Singer, Hillary Rodham Clinton on Sunday of America," Obama said. "Well, I don't said the former first lady was critical of trying to walk away from a long record think NAFTA has been good for America NAFTA long before she ran for presi­of support for NAFTA, the free trade -and I never have." dent. He eited remarks from March agreement that he said has cost 50,000 "The fact is, she was saying great 2000 in which she said, "What hap­jobs in Ohio, site of next week's primary. things about NAFTA until she started pened to NAFTA I think was we inherit­
At the same time, he said attempts to running for president," Obama told an ed an agreement that we didn't get repeal the trade deal "would probably audience at a factory that makes wall everything we should have got out of it result in more job losses than job gains board, located in a working class com­in my opinion. I think the NAFTA agree­in the United States." munity west of Cleveland. ment was flawed." 
One day after Clinton angrily accused Later, at a rally in Toledo, he rebutted Singer also said that in 2004 in him of distorting her record on the the former first lady's statement that Illinois, Obama spoke positively of the North American Free Trade Agreement her husband had merely inherited trade agreement, saying the United in mass mailings, the Illinois senator NAFTA when he won the White House States had "benefited enormously" from was eager to rekindle the long-distance from former President George H.W exports under NAFTA. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 25, 2008 
· Boxers include both under­the boxers makes the tour­ously," Land said. "[Boxing] themselves as hard as they graduate and graduate stu­nament competitive year is the most pure sport-just ean. "
Bengal 

dents and the list of this after year. two guys in the ring... noth­
year's competitors even
continued from page 1 
includes a 3<J-year old, 
gonn to the lloly Cross O'Brien said. brothers in Bangladesh who Training for new boxers work to establish tdemnnlary began last fall in the novice and secondary srhools, pro­season, and the 300 poten­vide shnllnr to low-income ti<tl participants that origi­familins and nally showed up providn mod-have been whit­i <:a l earn an d tled down to
"They slick it out and
outreach pro­185 contenders. grams to thn continue training "A lot of the poor. because when they boxers are Formnr fool­training five
know it's for 
ball coach months for one Knuln Hocknn something besides night," Land brought box­themselves." said. ing lo lhn O'Brien said llnivnrsily in what makes the
Hunter Land 
I<J20, but it Bouts so unique wasn't until II Boxing Club president is that many of ynars later the participants that coach train for f'ive Dominic Napolitano startnd months only to fight for a using Bnngal Bouts to raise few minutes. funds for lhn lloly Cross In addition, practiees from Missions in Bangladesh. Bengal Bouts are held five According to Land, the times a week, and partici­club has already raised pants are only allowed to $55,000 -not including miss f'ive practices during tickPl sales. Land also said the regular season. Land that donations are still com­said that most boxers would ing in, and lhn Bouts hopes not participate if not for the to raise oven morn money charitable cause of the tour­than last year. nament. "W<~ don atnd $ 6 0 , 0 0 0 I to "I think that the practices the Holy Cross missions I last are so demanding that peo­y <~ a r, a 11 d w e ' d Io v o t o ple would drop out more if it donatn morn than that this was just for them and not for ynar," hn said. someone else. After all They stick it nxpn11ses havn out and eontin­
"{Boxing/ is the most
bonn <u:countnd ue with train­
pure sport -just two
for, the Holy ing when they Cross missions guys in the ring ... know it's for rnceive the something
nothing pays offmore 
chock from the beside them­
for boxing than hard
proceeds of the selves," Land tournament work. They push said. during the O'Brien said
themselves as hard 
sumnHH, Land while the 
as they can." 
said. workout ses-
Funds come sions are cer­from tickets Hunter Land tainly benefi­sales, adver­cial, knowing
Boxing Club president 
tisements sold that he was in the tourna-helping some­ment program, one was even and donations from alumni more rewarding. clubs and individual sup­"For most of us, it's the porters. first time we've ever seen 
"Every year we have our ab muscles before. It's Bengal Bouts alumni that so rewarding because win or conHl back because they just lose, you know that it was can't g11t enough of it," Land the hardest you ever said. worked," O'Brien said. "And 
O'Brien said the 185 con­even if you don't win, you tenders in this year's tourna­can always look back at how ment make up the second hard you worked, and that it largest group in the history was for someone else." of Bengal Bouts. Land said the intensity of 
wp,re all there together for support."

Pink 
Hughes was very pleased with her new hairstyle.
continued from page 1 
"I really like my new 'do"' Ilughns said. "And now I can 
lo grow their hair for the sleep later because it won't charity. The committee also take long to dry my hair." rnenived I 5 additional pony­Yesterday's hair donation tails from girls who had prfl­drive was the first portion of viously cut their hair, and the hall's two-part event. Hughns nsti-The second matns that part of Project l'antnne "But in the end Pink. sched­Bnautif'ul nobody chickened uled for March Lnngths will be 14 in the
out. We were all there 
able to make LaFortune 

snven wigs. together for support." Ballroom, is a 
Stylists from fashion show Salon Nouvnau fundraiser fea­
Tricia Hughes
also donated turing the res­
Project Pink event
thnir snrvices idents of 
coordinator
I'or t h n <~ v n n t. Pangborn in whieh they pink outfits. hnai·d about from a customnr Tlw event will also feature who livns in Pangborn. a before-and-after slideshow 
Huglws said sonrn of tlw that showcases the new v o lu 11 l n n r s w n r 11 u n na s y looks or the girls who partie­about cutting lhnir hair. ipalnd in the hair donation 

"Tiw girls with tlw longest drivn. hair wnn• lhP most nnrvous," she said. "But in the nnd Contact Elizabeth Kelly at nobody chicknrwd out. We ekelly7@nd.edu 
"The participants take ing pays off more for boxing Contact Becky Hogan at [Bengal Bouts] really seri-than hard work. They push rhogan2@nd.edu 

Black ingenuity is an integral part of everyday life. Peek into the lives of a suburbanite family as they try to survive in a world gone mad when the inventions of Africans and African Americans disappear! 
Staying on campus during spring break? Need something to do? 
Date: Friday, February 29, 2008 Time: 7:00 PM Location: Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

for a permanent solution to remove unwanted hair? 
Licensed aesthetician, Peggy Dibble, 
offers safe, comfortable and affordable 
laser hair removal, using state-of-the-art 
FDA-Approved equipment. 
Each hair removal procedure is tailored to your individual skin and hair type, allowing us to offer the most effective solution for hair reduction from the face and body. 
Find out which laser hair removal protocol 
fits your needs. Visit Peggy today for a 
free, personalized laser hair removal 
consultation. 
Our South Bend location is justminutes from campus on




o/o OFF 
North Michigan Street. your 1st laser service when you mention this ad! Call Peggy Todayl 
{up to $200) 
574.. 282.. 2020 

....---------------------------------·----­
THE 0HSERVER 



USINESS
Monday, February 25, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,381.02 +96.72
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

1,859 102 1,275 3,549,101,951 
AMEX 2,277.90lF +19.71. NASDAQ 2,303.35 +3.57 NYSE 9,064.83 +87.10 S&P 500 1,353.11 +10.58 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13,777;11127().86 FTSE 100 (London) 5:888.50 -43.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.62 +0.83 135.62 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.37 +0.16 43.68 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.49 -0.42 27.68 LEVEL 3 COMM INC (LVLT) +7.48 +0.16 2.30 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.16 +0.16 3.790 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 2.140 30-YEAR BOND +0.64 +0.64 4.582 5-YEAR NOTE -0.21 -0.21 2.801 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.58 98.81 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.40 947.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.70 95.95 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 107.3450 EURO 0.6748 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0118 
IN BRIEF States cope with sagging tax revenue 
WASIIINGTON -Washington Gov. Christine Gregoire should be celebrating her state's robust economy and record export<>. Yet sagging tax col­lections arc lowering an estimated budget surplus by $400 million. 
In this slow economy, states are struggling. People are spending less and state governments arn taking in fewer dollars. 
The financial bottom line is a top worry for many governors in discussions as their annual meeting about paying for public works and energy projects. 
"Everything's been going great for us and now the national downturn has slowed us up," said Gregoire, a Democrat. 
A<> many as 18 states have deficits, totaling $14 billion in the current budget, and 20 forecast spending shortfalls for 2009 -$34 billion when eombined. 
It is so bad that some governors are debating whether to pressure Congress for a second eco­nomic aid plan; this one would focus on upgrading roads, bridges and sewer systems. 
"Stimulus that would focus upon infrastructure would b11 both great f(Jr jobs but also would really speak to a need that we're seeing around the country," Democratic Gov. Tim Kaine of Virginia said on "Fox News Sunday." 
Early l\1icrodl: leader donates $65 million 
SEATTLE -The estate of Ric Weiland, a high school classmate of Microsoft Corp. founders Bill Gates and Paul Allen and one of the first five p1mple to work at the sollwarP giant, has left $65 million to gay rights and lilY/AIDS organizations. 
The bequests were announced Sunday by the Pride Foundation of Seattle, where Weiland was a board member for several years. The founda-, tion called it the largest single bequest ever given to gay. lesbian, bisexual and transgender 
eaUSflS. 
Gatos and Allen hired Weiland in 1975, the year thoy founded Microsoft. He worked as a projnet leader for the Microsoft Works word pro­cessing and spreadsheet software, and was a lead programmer and developer for the compa­ny's BASIC and COBOL systems, two of the first personal computing interfaces. He left Microsoft in 1988. 


Housing crisis still on agenda 
Congress to examzne additional remedies for consumers, investors 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Congress is set to examine another round of possible repairs for consumers and investors threatened by widening cracks in the housing market. 
Proposals include easing bankruptcy rules, shielding banks from lawsuits and providing government assis­tance to homeowners facing foreclosure. 
Lawmakers also plan this week to question several high-profile mortgage and banking executives about industrywide losses and lav­ish executive-compensation packages. 
The housing proposals percolating on Capitol Hill, many of them designed by Democrats, are expected to face much tougher resist­ance than the recently approved economic stimu­lus package, which touched on the mortgage crisis in a limited way. 
Some of these proposals have been kicked around in one form or another for months. Others are consid­ered attempts to address perceived shortcomings in the Bush administration plan to freeze interest rates on a small percentage of loans made to high-risk borrowers. economy recover, help many more borrowers in allowance for states to issue 
A bill likely to be debated American families stay in the long run by requiring more tax-exempt bonds so on the Senate floor Tuesday their homes and change the "higher interest rates and that housing agencies could includes a proposed revi­law so this never happens larger down payments to help homeowners refinance sion to the U.S. bankruptcy again," said Sen. Richard offset the risk" of bankrupt­high-cost mortgages. code that would allow Durbin of Illinois, the cy court intervention on In the House. lawmakers judges to cut interest rates Senate's second-ranking behalf of some homeown­are considering whether the and reduce what's owed on Democrat and author of the ers. federal government should troubled borrowers' mort­proposal to ease bankruptcy Consumer advocates, shield banks from lawsuits gages. Currently, mortgage rules. meanwhile, are pushing brought by investors whose lenders can foreclose The bankruptcy measure, senators to approve the holdings of mortgage secu­against a homeowner in a similar version of which change. rities are negatively affected default on a primary resi­has cleared a House com­Also included in the by changes in loan terms or dence 90 days after a bank­mittee, is fiercely opposed Senate legislation is a meas­other measures intended to ruptcy filing, and judges by lenders and many ure mandating $200 million help at-risk borrowers. The have no authority to order Republicans. for foreclosure-prevention plan was first put forward changes in mortgage terms. The Mortgage Bankers counseling services -a by Rep. Mike Castle, R-Del., 
"This week we have an Association, which is lobby­near doubling of funds but appears to have attract­opportunity to pass a hous­ing against the measure, already committed by ed support from key House ing bill that will help the said it would end up hurting Congress and an Democrats. 


McDonald's redesigns using feng shui 
Associated Press 

HACIENDA HEIGHTS, Calif -The only familiar signs at the McDonald's in this large Asian community are the golden arches, the drive-through and the menu. 
Gone are the plastic furniture, Ronald McDonald and the red and yellow palette that has defined the world's largest hamburger chain. Leather seats, earth tones, bamboo plants and water trickling down glass panels have taken their place. 
The makeover elements are meant to help diners achieve happiness and fortune -whether they realize it or not. 
That's because the restaurant was redesigned using the principles of feng shui, the ancient Chinese prac­tice of arranging objects and num­bers to promote health, harmony and prosperity. 
The concept is an unlikely fit with fast food. But the restaurant's own­ers say the designs are aimed at cre­ating a soothing setting that will encourage diners to linger over their burgers and fries, and come back again. 
The makeover is part of the attempt by McDonald's Corp. in recent years to remodel hundreds of its restaurants to attract more patrons with unique decor and amenities that might entice them stay awhile. 
It also fits into McDonald's larger corporate practice of catering to local tastes, such as a fondue-style burger in France or a pita-wrapped "McArabia" sandwich in the Middle East. 
"We can't look too cookie cutter," Mark Brownstein, one of three own­ers of the restaurant, said about the new decor. 
The basic principles of feng shui include placing strategic representa­tions of five natural elements ­earth, water, fire, metal and wood­around the room to increase the flow of chi, or energy. 
Feng shui (pronounced fung shway) has been employed in the designs of high-rises, banks, even zoo exhibits, and has been popular­ized by ·countless coffee table books and TV shows such as HGTV's "Fun Simi." It's also used in the designs of the Panda Express Chinese food chain. 
The McDonald's in this Los Angeles suburb boasts wood ceiling, silver­coated chairs, plus red accents throughout the dining area to sym­bolize fire and "good luck, laughter and prosperity," said Brenda Clifford, who designed the dining area. 
The textured walls patterned after ocean waves symbolize "life and relaxation -the balanced things that you want in your life," she said. 
Customers are responding positive­ly, whether or not they recognize the feng shui elements. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 25, 2008 
NIU holds 111e111orial, classes resu111e .today 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Associated Pn:ss 
DEKALB, Ill. -With many wearing ribbons in the school colors of black and red, commu­nity members and loved ones prepared Sunday to participate in a memorial for five Northern Illinois University students killed when a gunman opened fire inside a classroom. 
Five bouquets of red and white flowers were placed on the stage of the Convocation Center to commemorate those shot in the Valentine's Day attack. Outside the arena, sehool ollieials posted a banner reading, "Forward, together forward." 
Memorial organizers said they expeeted thousands of people to attend, and overflow viewing areas were set up around the campus, about 65 miles west of Chieago. The memorial was also to be simulcast to NIU gather­ings across the eountry and in Iraq. 
"Bning together will help a lot, everybody in one place and being able to support eaeh other," said Jennifer llartleben, a 21-year-old business student who was waiting in line to enter the Convocation Center. 
Classes are to be held Monday for the first time since the shoot­ing, in which NIU graduate Steve Kazmierczak opened lire in a crowded ledurn hall. killing five people and injuring 17 before committing suicide. 
Another member of the crowd waiting to enter the Convoeation Center was Melissa Johnsen, who graduated from NIU in 2007. 
"I find it important to pay my respects," she said. "I think this will always be a part of NIU now, but hopefully something we can learn from." 
Among those scheduled to speak during the memorial serv­ice were NIU President John G. Peters, Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich and U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin, an Illinois Democrat. Illinois' other senator, Democratic presidential candi­date Barack Obama, planned to attend, but his campaign staff said he would not make any remarks. 
The school asked faculty and staff members to return last week for training in how to help students adjust to the changed atmosphere at NIU, which enrolls about 25,000 students. 
In addition to about 550 coun­selors expected to staff each classroom, academic depart­ment and dormitory, the student counseling center is extending its hours indefinitely. 
Plans for a permanent memo­rial to the victims are still in their infancy. No decision has been made on the future of Cole I I all, but it will be closed for the rnst of' the semester. 

Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff,· or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our \vebsite at: http://osa.nd.cdu/programs-and-links/dcnnymoorcaward.shtml 
Nomination•:; are due by Tuesday, March 11, 2008. 

Japanese businessman arrestedinwife's111urder 
Associated Pn:ss 
LOS ANGELES -A Japanese businessman's surprise arrest in his wif'e's killing in a Southern California parking lot a quarter-eentury ago dominat­ed f'ront pages in Tokyo on Sunday as authorities worked 
to  bring  him  baek  to  Los  
Angeles.  
Kazuyoshi  Miura  was  

detained latn Friday in Saipan, a U.S. eommonwealth in the Pacific, and was being held on suspicion of the murder of his wif'e. The crime caused an international uproar, in part because he blam(~d the 1981 attack on robbers, reinforcing Japanesp, pnrceptions of America as a violent country. 
Miura. 60, had already been convicted in Japan in 1994 of the murder of his wife, Kazumi Miura, but that vP.rdict was overturnP.d by the country's high courts I 0 years ago. 
"Why now'?" the Mainichi newspaper asked in a headline. "llis turbulent life entered a new phase." 
The LAPD said Miura was awaiting extradition. The department did not provide fur­ther details, and it wasn't dear what led to the latest arrest. 
"I think U.S. investigators have all along believed that they can make the case with the evidence they had already col­lected," Tsutornu Sakaguchi, a f'orrnnr Tokyo Metropolitan Police investigator at the time of' tlw shooting, told TV Asahi in an intnrview Sunday. "If they have a new (Widnnce, that could hn a dndsivn stnp." 
Miura, a elothing inrporter, and his 2H-ynar-old wife wern visiting Los Angeles on Nov. 18, 1981, when they were shot in a downtown parking lot. She was shot in the head, went into a coma and died the following year in Japan. 
ller mother said Sunday that she never gave up hope of a resolution to the case. 
"I burned incense for my daughter and prayed at a fami­ly Buddhist altar, telling her that Americans will put an end to thP. case, so let's hold onto our hopes and wait," Yasuko Sasaki told Japan's public broadcaster NHK. 
Daryl Gates, who was police chief at the time of the killing, said Saturday that Miura was a kP.y suspm~t even then. 
"I remember the case well. I think he killed his wife," Gates said. "We had Japanese police come over; they believed he was guilty, we believed he was guilty, but we eouldn't prove it." 
Miura was arrested in Japan in 1985 on suspicion of' assault­ing his wife with intent to kill her for insurance money in the hotel incident. He was convict­ed of attempted murder and while serving a six-year sen­tence was charged under Japanp,sc law in 1988 with his wife's murder. 
Miura was convicted of that charge in 1994 and sentenced to life in prison. Four years later, however, a Japanese high court overturned the sentence, throwing out a lower court's determination that Miura con­spired with a friend in Los Angelns to kill his wife. 
Miura's attorney, Juniehiro llironaka. told Japan's Fuji TV late Saturday that the latest arrest astonished him. 

f"I/I'/I./IYI/IYI/I/I/IYI/I/.I'/I/#/I'/I/I/I/I/I/I/I/#/I/I/I'/I/#/IYI'/I/I'/I/I/I/IYI/I/I/I'/I/I'/I/I/I/.I/I/1/I/1/I/I'/I'/I/I/I'/I/I/I/I'/.I/I/.I~ 
I I 
~ ~
1 Are you considering graduate school 1 
II and are you II I I

1 African American, Hispanic, Native American, or a 1 I first-generation college student II from a low income family? I 
I ~ I ~ 
i j 
I LEARN ABOUT THE I 
I I
I MCNAIR SCHOLARS SUMMER I I~ RESEARCH PROGRAM I~ 
i i
I ATNOTREDAME I 
I I 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
i AN 8-WEEK RESEARCH EXPERIENCE ~ 
I I
I· WITH HOUSING, MEALS, AND A STIPEND; I I~ FREE PREPARATION FOR THE GRE; II I~ TIPS ON APPLYING TO GRADUATE SCHOOLS I~ 
Ii I ~ 
~ ~ ~ " 
I TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2008 I I I
I 5:00-6:00 PM I 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ j
~ ROOM 218 MAIN BUILDING ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~1 ~ (Visit the program at http:/<www.nd. edul·--mcnair) 1 ~ 
i ~ 
~ ~ 
'J/I/I'/I'/IIIII'/I/I/I/I/I'/I/I/I/I/I/I'/I/.IWI'/I/I/I/I'/I/I/I/.1/I/I/I'/I/I/I'/I/I/I'/I/I/I/I/I/I/I/I'/I/I/I/I/I/I/I/I/I/I/I/I/I/I/I/1/I/I/I/I/I/Ij 

-------~~--~~------------------------------------------------­
Monday, February 25, 2008 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Kosovo 



Serbs protest Kosovo's split 
Russia criticizes countries that recognized nation's independence 
Associated Press 
PRISTINA, Kosovo -Kosovo marked its first week of inde­pendence in quiet celebration Sunday, as angry Serbs protest­ed in the f'ledgling nation's tense north and in capitals across Europe. 
The Russian envoy to NATO, meanwhile, unleashed a torrent of criticism on countries that recognized Kosovo's split from ally Serbia, including the UnitPd StatPs. 
Up to 1,000 people protested peacefully in the ethnically divided northern town of Kosovska Mitrovica. Protesters at the demonstration -the smallest in seven days of rallies -listened to a Serbian rock band playing on a stage deco­rated with a poster of Russian President Vladimir Putin and a sign reading: "Russia Help!" 
Russia has staunchly support­ed Serbia's resistance and has declared Kosovo's independ­ence illegal. Putin's likely suc­cessor -First Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedyev ­planned to visit the Serbian capital Belgrade on Monday. 
The past two days of muted 
protests in Kosovska Mitrovica 
followed Thursday's rioting in 
Belgrade, where demonstrators 
stormed the U.S. Embassy and 
set part of it ablaze. 
The U.S. ambassador in 
Belgrade demanded Serb lead­
ers ensure there would be no 
future violence against diplo­
matic missions. 'Tm very angry 
at what happened. It had better 
not happen again," 
Ambassador Cameron Munter told The Associated Press Sunday. 
Ethnic Albanians in Kosovo remained jubilant with their new status. 
"People keep celebrating every night," Artan Dedushaj said. "This is something that all Albanians have waited cen­turies for -and changes will come soon." 
In the capital, Pristina, people gathered around a graffiti-cov­ered sculpture of letters spelling out "NEWBORN." One person had scribbled in English: "We love you Kosovo!" 
The vast majority of Kosovo's population is ethnic Albanian. Serbs represent just 10 percent of the region's 2 million people, but they view Kosovo as the cradle of their culture and of their Orthodox Christian faith. 
The territory had remained a part of Serbia even though it has been administered by the 
U.N. and NATO since 1999, when NATO airstrikes ended former Yugoslav leader Slobodan Milosevic's crackdown on ethnic Albanian separatists, which killed 10,000 people. 
Thousands of Serbs held demonstrations in European capitals Sunday. 
In Vienna, Austria, more than 5,000 protesters waved pro­Serbia banners, and a few burned, spit or stomped on American flags. Later, demon­strators across the city smashed bottles and the win­dows of a cafe. Two police offi­cers were injured and four peo­ple were arrested, officials said. 

In Geneva, up to 4,000 people gathered peacefully outside 
U.N. offices, and in Brussels, several hundred Serbs chanted "Kosovo is Serbia" outside EU offices. 
Russia's ambassador to NATO said Sunday that Kosovo's inde­pendence bid was a result of an imperialistic American effort to "divide and rule," which would lead to Russia's boosting its mil­itary to ensure its own security. 
"We are faced here with pow­erful hegemonism, imperialism on the part of the United States," Dmitry Rogozin said on Russia's state-run Vesti-24 tele­vision. 
Western nations that recog­nize Kosovo's statehood were replacing international law with a system in which "there will be only one rule: he who has brute physical power is strong and is right," he said. 
Russia will not go to arms over Kosovo, but instead will "use to the maximum our politi­cal and moral authority," he said. 
Serbia's nationalist prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica, called on the U.S. to revoke its decision to recognize "the fake state of Kosovo" and allow the 
U.N. Security Council to "reaf­firm" Kosovo as part of Serbian territory. 
Kosovo Prime Minister Hashim Thaci visited the grave of the late pacifist President Ibrahim Rugova -revered among ethnic Albanians for his drive for statehood -and reached out anew to Kosovo's Serb minority. 

Register Your Team Today February 25th -March 14th 
Bookstore Basketball 2008 Tournament Starts March 30th 
Sign up at www.nd.edu/-bkstr 
TURKEY 



Helicopter crashes in cross-border operation 
Associated Press 
CUKURCA, Turkey -A Turkish helicopter crashed in Iraq and eight soldiers were killed during a cross-border ground operation against Kurdish rebels, who planted booby traps on the bodies of their slain comrades, Turkey's military said Sunday. 
The guerrillas said they shot down a Turkish military helicopter near the Turkish­Iraqi border. 
Turkey's military said tech­nicians were inspecting the wreck to determine why the helicopter crashed near the border. It was not clear if any of the reported troop casual­ties were on board. Their deaths bring the Turkish toll since the start of the incur­sion Thursday to 15, the mili­tary said on its Web site. 
Thirty-three rebels were killed in Sunday's fighting, bringing the rebel death toll since Thursday to 112, according to the armed forces. 
The incursion is the first confirmed Turkish military ground operation in Iraq since the U.S.-led invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein in 2003. 
The rebels of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, are fighting for autonomy in pre­dominantly Kurdish south­eastern Turkey and have car­ried out attacks on Turkish targets from bases in the semiautonomous Kurdish region of northern Iraq. The conflict started in 1984 and has claimed as many as 40,000 lives. 
Turkey has assured that the operation would be limited to attacks on rebels. The United States and European Union consider the PKK a terrorist group. 
"It is only an operation geared to cleansing the ter­rorist camps," Turkey's prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said Sunday in an address to the youth branch of his ruling party. "Our Iraqi brothers, friends and civilians should know that they will never be targeted by the armed forces." 
U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Sunday while visiting Australia that it would take a broader approach to erode PKK sup­port in northern Iraq. 
"After a certain point peo­ple become inured to military attacks," he said, "and if you don't blend them with these kinds of nonmilitary initia­tives, then at a certain point the military efforts become less and less effective." 
Massoud Barzani, head of the regional Kurdish adminis­tration in northern Iraq, warned Turkey would face large-scale resistance if it tar­geted civilians in its incur­sion. 
The Iraqi government said Saturday fewer than 1,000 Turkish troops had crossed the frontier. Turkish media reports put the number in the thousands. 

ENGLAND 
Virgin Atlantic flies first biofuel aircraft 
Associated Press 
LONDON Virgin Atlantic carried out the world's first flight of a com­mercial aircraft powered with biofuel on Sunday in an effort to show it can pro­duce less carbon dioxide than normal jet fuels. 
Some analysts praised the jumbo jet test flight from London to Amsterdam as a potentially useful experi­ment. But others criticized it as a publicity stunt and noted scientists are ques­tioning the environmental benefits of biofuels. 
"This breakthrough will help Virgin Atlantic to fly its planes using clean fuel sooner than expected," Sir Richard Branson, the air­line's president, said before the Boeing 747 flew from London's Heathrow Airport to Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport. 
He said the flight would provide "crucial knowledge that we can use to dramati­cally reduce our carbon footprint," he said. 
Sunday's flight was par­tially fueled with a biofuel mixture of coconut and babassu oil in one of its four 
main fuel tanks. The jet car­ried pilots and several tech­nicians. but no passengers. 
Virgin Atlantic spokesman Paul Charles predicted this biofuel would produce much less C02 than regular jet fuel, but said it will take weeks to analyze the data from Sunday's flight. 
"It's great that somebody like Richard is willing to put some of his billions into an experiment aimed at reduc­ing the climate change impact of aviation," said James Halstead, an airline analyst at the London stock­
broker  Dawnay  Day  
Lochart.  
"But there  are  a  lot of  

unanswered questions about the usefulness of biofuels in the battle against global warming," he said. 
The flight is the latest example of how the world's airlines are jumping on the environmental bandwagon by trying to find ways of reducing aviation's carbon footprint. 
These efforts have includ­ed finding alternative jet fuels, developing engines that burn existing fuels more slowly, and changing the way planes land. 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, February 25, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen l.angley 
Vu-:WPOINT ElliTOR: Joey King 
SI'ORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy Chris Hine SCENE ElliTOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EUI'I'OR: ~llie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVEifi'ISING MANAGER: Jes.,ica Cortez 
An DF$1GN MANA<am: Kelly (;rnnli CONTROU.ER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
{~74) 631-7471 FAX (574) (>31-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(S74) (Jj 1-6'100 obsc·rvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
()74) 631-1542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.31-4541 ohsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
('i74) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 ohsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) ()j 1-530.3 viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spurcs.l@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) '631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro€z~nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudenrs of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not gowrned by policies of the· administration ofcirhcr instinuion. Th<· Ohscrver reserves the right to refuse adwniscrnents based on comc·nr. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned ediwrials represent the opinion of the m;~joriry of the Editor in Chid: Managing Editor, Ao;.~istant Managing Editors and department editors. Commemaries. lcncrs and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily thuS<· ofThe ()bscrvcr. 
Viewpoint space is avaibhl~ to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. !.etters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include mntact information. 
Questiow regarding Observer policies should be dirmed to Editor in Chief Maddie Hmmtl. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The l>h~rv~·r (lJSI'' ~')'J 2-'llKIII) 11o puhlu.hcrl MundAy li1ruu~h hiJay t'Xl.Cpt duruag ''l.lll\ ;md v.l~.tfUIII pc• u"h. A ,uhow:rlptltolllu '!111: llh...:rvcr 15 $1 Otl lotr ••nc .u..:.ulcn•i~ W.lt;S'i'>furtlllt'Ktm·,l~:r 
Tht l llmrver •• puhli~hcd Jt POSTMASTER 024 Sntuh DillltlK H.~ II Sc;,nd Jddrcs~ currcctinn' tu: 
Nmrr ilum, IN 4M'it.On•J Thc:Oh..crvcr 
l'cumlltill P"~nw· p.1irJ ,11 Nmrr O.lmr r.o UollniJ .wd .tdditi<>ll.tl m.llling cttlkt'S. 11.!.4 Sourh Duung H.tll 
Nutrc D.amc.IN 4C.~S6-U779 

The OI.'W:'tYC'I th o~ll1"mltcr ulrln: A'llii.X:t.unl Pn:..,, Allrcpwduutun IIHhh Mt' rncrvcll 
No subject left behind 
Most people reading this, I assume, remember the college admissions process: Trying to write the perfect admissions essay, getting your teachnr ovaluations, worrying about your score on the PSAT, SAT, 
Darryl
ACT, SAT II, AP. IB ... basically jumping Campbell through one academ­ic hoop after another. Speak Up, This parade of stan­Please dardized tests and statistics is moro or less high school in miniature -an attompt to assess aea­dmnic pnrformance, which is a euphe­mism for "learning not to make mis­takes." By the time we start thinking boyond high school, we've had it drilled into our heads that the worst thing in the world is to make a mis­take. Mistakes haVl~ dire consequences in high school: Missed points on tosts, bad grados, parent-toacher confer­ences and. ultimately, not getting into tho right college. 
But thnre's something profoundly dissatisfying about trying to boil some­one's intellectual capacity into a mean­ingful statistic, which is what these multi-hour standardized tests suppos­edly do. Grantod, they show whetht~r or not someone has mastered a basic skill set and on some level the mere fact that someone is taking them is a sign of motivation. But I defy anyone to honestly tell me that after they finished taking the SA'I's, they felt like the test had been a thorough and adequate assessment of their intellectual capaci­ty. 
And yet these tests shape the way secondary education takes place. Because they are supposed to be objec­tive, each subject gets boiled down to whatever parts can be assessed quan­titatively. It's not a problem for disci­plines like math, chemistry or physics, where half the battle is knowing and applying the right formula, theorem or procedure. Humanities and social sci­ences, however, aren't as skills-based or procedural. Knowing the facts is simply a starting point that allows peo­ple to take part in the informed debate that is really the heart of any humani­ties discipline, and can't really be test­ed via scantron. But because people have to teach to these tests, and because students' enduring memory of history or English as a subject eomes from how they are assessed, their view of humanities disciplines is distorted. No wonder some people think history is just a chronological assortment of trivia. And you can forget about the arts; self-expression and aesthetics are some of the least objective things imaginable. 
Funnily enough, the currieula of most secondary schools prioritize math and science first, followed by the humanities and social sciences and the arts last. These subjects get money and elassroom time in that order; as a result, history, English and philosophy sometimes get lumped into catch-all "Humanities" classes, and the arts mom often than not are demoted to extracurriculars if they even exist in· the first place. If someone becomes really passionate about music, English or history, not only do they get a dis­torted view or how each discipline really works, but they also learn that those subjects are really not consid­ered important, which is why they're underfunded or missing entirely from their school. These sorts of administra­tive decisions further reinforce the perception of high school graduates that the only two worthwhile activities are being objective and not making mistakes. 
Objectivity and correctness aren't 
bad, of course, but to make them the whole of the educational experience leaves high school graduates unpre­pared for the real world, which is not black and white or always rational. There is more than one way to be cor­rect, and not everyone elaiming to be objective really is. but without the abil­ity to think criti<:ally, wn wouldn't bn able to ligurn out who is and who isn't. Unfortunately, dcvPioping analytical thought and the creative impulse is hard to do and hard to measure, but most of all, it means that people need to be free to approach problems their own way. Even more anathema to the current practice of education, then~ is no guarantee that everyone will arrive at the same answer. The humanities and social scienees-whieh are essen­tially debatns about the real world ­are the subjects where students learn these skills; they deserve not to be demoted to second plac.n in the ed uca­tional hierarchy. 
Pundits, politicians and teaehnrs alike are as worril~d about the short­comings of education and a growing sense of anti-intellectualism as ever, but they are trying to solve the defi­ciencies in teaching creativn and ana­lytical thinking by placing thnir faith in further tests and rubrics. Ironically, they are guilty of the same failure of imagination that they thmnselves are cultivating, and sacrificing more young minds on the twin altars of objectivity and correctness is not going to change the downward spiral of the American educational system. 
Darryl Campbell is a first-year graduate student in history. 1/e can be contacted at dcampbe6@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF News Sports OBSERVER POLL .Joseph Mr,Mahon Bill Brink 
What are you doing for spring 
Claire Hcising Matt Gamber Emma Driscoll Alex Barker break'? Graphics Scene Service Jarnd Wafer Hyan Hallin Going somewhere warm Vi<>wpoint 
Going home Lianna 
Staying on campus
BrauweiiPr 

Stuck at work Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobservcr.com 

Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You'll never have a quiet world until you knock the patrio{_ism out of the human race. 
George Bernard Shaw Irish playwright 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Monday, February 25, 2008 
page 11 
The ladies' man 
On Feb. 5, Kimberle Crenshaw and Notre Dame favorite Eve Ensler pub­lished an important article on The Huf!ington Post, using the feminist mantra "Not in Our Name" to condemn "feminist ultima­tums." They were Andrea referring to the con­Laidman troversial idea plaguing many High Sounding women during this Words primary season: Vote for Hillary Clinton or compromise your feminist principles; endorse the first viable woman candidate for the White House, or face the fact that you've given in to the underlying misogyny in society and the media. 
Young female supporters of Barack Obama are criticized by the feminist hardliners promoting this view (called "either/or feminists" by Crenshaw and Ensler) for forgetting the struggle of their feminist predecessors. Even worse, they are written off as victims of naivete -swept into the Obama camp by an internal desire to win the approval and protection of men. 
But an increasing number of ftJminist authors and female political commen­tators-as well as the voters them­selves -point out that a vote for Obama is a vote for the more feminine campaign. In terms of management, campaign style and even policy, Obama strikes these women as more inclusive and more prone to discussion and dia­logue than Clinton. 
In early February, more than 100 New York feminist leaders joined in releasing a statement that endorsed Obama and criticized Hillary's record and current approach. For these women, Clinton's early support for the war in Iraq was the leading cause of their disillusionment. 
Ruth Rosen, a member of the women's movement from the 1960s onward and a signee of the "Feminists for Obama" statement (along with 1 ,000 other feminist leaders) recently wrote, "There is nothing I'd rather do than vote for the first female presiden­tial candidate." But Rosen cites her own roots in the civil rights and anti­war movements of the 1960s as evi­dence that her endorsement of Obama is consistent with her long-term per­sonal commitments. 
This is a common explanation of fem­inist activists and scholars when accounting for their vote for Barack: Feminism is inclusive and stresses equality for all; feminism demands that the best candidate for not only women but also for the poor and for minorities is chosen. These concerns,<write women who maintain that feminism evolves with the issues of the day, must be weighed with as much passion as the desire to elect a female president. 
In her Feb. 24 piece, ";,Quien Es Less Macho?" New York Times op-ed colum­nist Maureen Dowd asserts a paradox of Clinton's campaign: "The first seri­ous female candidate for president was rejected by voters drawn to the more feminine management style of her male rival." 
Dowd argues that the last 16 years in Washington-divisive Congress-White House relations followed by a belliger­ent president and a war-without-end ­have seeded a desire not only for peace 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Racism still present 
Some of you reading this right now might be thinking that we're not apa­thetic or ignorant of the socioeconomic issues on campus because this is Notre Dame, and for the most part, we all get along. And on the surface, yes, we do. We live side-by-side, play on the field together and sit in classes next to each other. So racism isn't a problem any­more? Others might agree that perhaps it does linger, not so much in the form of violence, but in more subtle ways: A joke, a careless remark, a misguided assumption. What I learned today from our conversation is that racism is not only still present here at Notre Dame­it never really left. 
Did you know that this Saturday Wabruda, the campus organization of African-American males. hosted Notre Dame's first Black History conference? I was invited to take part by the presi­dent, senior William David Williams, who sought outside support from Sustained Dialogue, a group I am part of. Sustained Dialogue is devoted to con­versation regarding diversity-related issues both at Notre Dame and beyond. At the conference, I was to help lead a small group discussion. However, there was a surplus of group leaders, and instead I ended up talking for an hour with a fellow SD member, senior Casey Bouskill, as well as with William David and Wabruda's vice president, senior Roosevelt Kelley. 
I stood there and heard, for the first time, accounts of racist acts occurring in dorms. I also heard accounts of assumptions based on race made every­where from the classroom to the dining hall (he's black and a male, ergo he is a football player -"Great job out there this weekend!"-and an African­American male student who is not a football player is wondering why his efforts on the field were just congratu­lated). I learned how apathy toward challenging these stereotypes plagues our community. I hear the accounts of these young men who just got used to it and how they are forced into a terrible catch-22: Either ignore incidents of ignorance (because what's the point?), or take action and potentially perpetu­ate the stereotype of "the angry black man." 
I'm not militant and I'm not accusing anyone of anything I won't admit to myself. But I am heartbroken. There has to be some middle ground between passive and hostile responses to racist and elitist remarks and actions. Wabruda's advisor, G. David Moss from Student Affairs, offered some insight into how to best effect change in a posi­tive and meaningful way. He urges all of us to not let fear limit what we do. It is only through challenging ourselves that change occurs. We could start with acknowledging the problem and talking about it. Then move to action, which could be as simple as reaching out to the various communities on campus. One way to do this is to attend the vari­ous events hosted by groups celebrating their heritages. You did not need to be black or male to attend the Black History conference, in the same way that one does not need to be Asian to go to Asian Allure, or Latin to participate in Latin Expressions. It's about chal­lenging assumptions, stereotypes and apathy. 
When we say, "Oh well, that's just the way it is," we're making excuses instead of improvements. Let us dare not to be resigned. Let us dare to face our fears. Let us dare to try something new. 
Jessica Peyton 
sentor 
Farley Hall Feb. 24 

but for inclusivity and empathy, "a less autocratic leadership style." 
Dowd writes, "Hillary was so busy trying to prove she could be one of the boys -getting on the Armed Services Committee, voting to let W. go to war in Iraq, strong-arming supporters and donors and trying to out-macho Obama -that she only belatedly realized that many Democratic and independent vot­ers, especially women, were eager to move from hard-power locker-room tactics to a soft-power sewing circle approach." 
The ultimate irony, and perhaps unfair reality, is that Hillary Clinton worked throughout her "35 years of experience" to dispel the nurturing yet incapable image of woman, and with great success. She re-defined the role of First Lady and took on policy chal­lenges and substantive issues in a man­ner -however criticized -that was not seen before or since. 
The tragedy for Clinton is that this may be the first time in political history when a woman need not "man up" to get ahead. The voters of the last 11 democratic primaries prove that the nation is indeed hungry for change and a new style of leadership. 
No one reflects this shifting mindset more than the "Feminists for Obama," who would elect a man over a woman because of his personal and political record, his alternative experiences, his efforts and success in building a truly grassroots campaign -approaching one million donors nationwide -and his broad appeal among voters young and old. Obama epitomizes the coali­tion-for-change-and-equality which feminists have sought for decades. 
There is no doubt that this democrat­ic primary race is a historic one;mark­ing the first real chance to have a woman or African-American lead the nation. 
The stakes are also high for femi­nism. 
As Ensler and Crenshaw assert: "At issue is a profound difference in seeing feminism as intersectional and global rather than essentialist and insular. Women have grappled with these ques­tions in every feminist wave, struggling to see feminism as something other than a 'me too' bid for power whether it be in the family, the party, the race or the state." 
This is the real challenge facing women in the democratic presidential primary: To choose their candidate based on values, policies, leadership style and political record -and not based on gender alone. As long as these basic tenets of fairness are observed, feminism will only benefit from such a public and earnest effort to discern what is best for America during the 2008 bid for the White House. 
Andrea Laidman is a senior political science and peace studies major. Her column's title recalls advice given to John Adams by his wife, Abigail: "We have too many high sounding words, and too few actions that correspond with them." She can be contacted at alaidman@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Time to update National Anthem 
When I hear the word "America," a few things come to mind. One is apple pie. Others include freedom, hot dogs, John Wayne, baseball, Journey and what is possibly the greatest song ever written since Beethoven penned his ninth symphony (and probably greater than that too): Don't Stop Believin'. 
When I think of America, a few things don't come to mind. One is sushi. Another is ramparts. I'm not even sure what a rampart is. In fact, I don't think anyone actually knows what a rampart is. However, everyone knows what streetlights, people, city boys, small town girls and ·midnight trains are. Why, then, does our National Anthem mention ramparts while omitting streetlights and midnight trains? 
"The Star Spangled Banner" was written by Francis Scott Key 194 years ago, and while it may have been awesome enough to be our national anthem then, today it is hopelessly outdated. No one even knows its last three verses. It no longer captures the essence of the contemporary American spirit, and as such, it ought to be replaced by a song that reflects the passions of our great riation and is known and loved by the entire coun­try. I have seen Olympic athletes cry when they stand atop the podium, have a gold medal placed around their neck, and hear "The Star Spangled Banner" played in their honor. While some would say that these tears are inspired by feelings of immense joy and patriotism, I cannot help but believe that they are crying because our National Anthem is so bad. Have you ever seen people sing along to the National Anthem with any hint of enthusiasm? Most people I know don't even sing the words, but just wait impatiently until the song is over so that whatever sporting event they are about to watch can finally begin. 
On the other hand, I have seen people climb atop tables in order to sing Don't Stop Believin'. I have seen incredible displays of air-guitar virtuoso to the tune of the song, and I have seen complete strangers become best friends, if only for a moment, as they together shout the chorus of Journey's magnum opus. America deserves a song like this. 
While I know that our national anthem is unlikely to be changed anytime soon due to our culture's unfortunate aversion to change, that will not deter my efforts to give Journey's timeless anthem the place it rightly deserves in American culture. I have a dream that someday I will find myself at a baseball game. I have a dream that before the first pitch, I will hear a voice say, "Please rise for the National Anthem." And I have a dream that, accompanied by pyrotechnics and a low-flying jet, I will hear Journey. But until that day, my friends, don't stop believin', hold on to that feelin'. 
Josh Mollner sophomore Stanford Hall Feb. 23 


their top two songs listened to? fall on the album. 
It bothers me to scroll down Albums are more personal. and realize there is not one full One song can be shared by a album on a person's iPod. group, listened to in the car or That's like taking survey classes danced to at a party, but people 
oxample, you Stephanie 
probably Deprez 
own an i Pod. 
Do you have 
Scene & 
a lot of 
/Ieard
artists on your iPod? But how many songs by each artist do you have, exactly? I'm sure you have a few full albums from your favorite bands in your plastic pack. But how many songs are there, on aver­age, under each artist? 
This is an issue that has bncome more pressing as the years have gone by. No longer is an artist appreciated for his or her album, but instead are more well known for their one or two song contribution to your mix. This is fine for the artists out there who really did blow their talent on one song, but for all the iPods I've spent shuffling through, I've come u p o n 

all your life and never commit­
ting to a major. Albums are pre­
cious, a snapshot of an artist's 
life. Songs are rarely written to stand on their own. They are usually part of a bigger work, and if one song presides over the others it's because that song is the call­ing card. To lis­ten to an album is to experience the journey as a whole, to go start to finish with the singer or the band. Death Cab for Cutie's "Plans" is brilliant. And, even though ''I'll Follow You Into the Dark" 
is great on its 

To listen to an album is to experience the journey as a whole, to go start to finish with the singer or the band. Death Cab for Cutie's "Plans" is brilliant. And, even though 'Til Follow You Into the Dark" is great on its own, it gains a new level ofmeaning when listened to as a part ofthe album. 
a n own, it gains a artist I new level of 
rea II y Look at the rest ofthe songs meaning when 
I i k e . on the album, and trust that listened to as a pi eked part of the album.
there may be more to them
it. and An artist might
than a 30-second snipped 
found release a Limited there determined to be the "high-Play album, but be when it's time to
lights, of the song. Take a 
present the new

chance on the album as a 
body of work, it is 

whole. usually longer 
and complete. 
is not only frustrating, but also unnerving. Are all great musi­cal artists doomed to have only 
Songs fit together 

for a reason, whether it is the lyrical story. the shift in sound or the order the artist determined them to 
rarely sit down and say, ."Let's listen to this whole album together." 
To really get at an album, you usually have to do it on your 
own time, 
w h i I e 
d o i n g 
homework 
or driving 
in the car 
a Ion e . 
There may 
be certain 
songs that 
are more 
enjoyable 
or hold 
m o r e 
weight for 
you per­
sonally, 
but their .1;' 
impact should be set against the back­drop of the rest of the album. 
Next time you go to buy a song on iTunes, think about what it is you are not buying. Look at the rest of the songs on the album, and trust that there may be more to them than a 30­second snipped determined to be the "highlights" of the song. Take a chance on the album as a whole. You might just find that little gem of a song that rocks your world. 
Contact Stephanie Deprez at 
sdeprez@nd. edu 

The views expressed in this 
column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
JARRED WAFER I Observer Graphic 


Contact Mark Witte at 
mwitte@nd. edu The views expressed in this column are those of the 
author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 25, 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Louisville hands Pittsburgh its third straight loss 
No. 10 Wisconsin beats Ohio State to remain tied for Big Ten lead; No. 12 Xavier wins 10th consecutive game 
Associated Press 
I'ITTSBUHCII -Louisvilln <"ouldn't bP playing mu<"h better in FPbruary. Tlw Cardinals ean only hope it leads to a gn~at March -and maybP, April. too. 
David Padgett bouncPd back from a rare poor gamP to makP thron of four frnn throws in tho l'inal :{2.1 SPCOIHls and l.ouisvillP (No. 23 ESPN/USA Today, No. IS API moved back into a first-plan• tin in the Big East. holding on to boat Pittsburgh 75-73 Sunday for its sovnnth consncutivn victory. 
Padgdt finishr.d with 21 points and resnrvn Edgar Sosa had 15 of his 1 H points in thn lirst half as Louisville (22-6, 12­:{J tind (;noq{etown (22-4, 12-3) for thn eonforPnce load and bn<:amn tho 11rst visiting team to win twi<:P at Pitt sinen thr. Petersen Events Center opent~d in 2002. Pitt is 94-10 thorn. 
Sam Young and DnJuan Blair scored 20 points naeh for Pitt (19-H, 7-71, whieh once was 15­2 but has sinen skidded into an eighth-place til~ in the Big East by losing three in a row and six of 10. Pitt had lost three straight only onen prnviously in coach Jamie Dixon's six sea­sons, to Villanova, West Virginia and Connecticut in February 2005. 
Louisville, positioning itself for a high send in the Big East tournanwnt, won its ninth in 10 games and improved to H-2 on the road. Tho Cardinals have won their last 12 games in February, seven this month. 

"I do," Louisville coach Hiek Pitino said when asked if he thinks thesn Cardinals have a dnnp tournament run in them. "I think we have depth and we execute well, and that's the kny. Padgett just helped everything offensive and defensively. lin's like having a eoach on the floor. Generally you don't see 7 -foot­ers do that. show that much leadership ability." 
Last season, Louisville's 66-5:~ upset win over then-No. 7 Pitt propelled the Cardinals to a six­game winning streak to end the regular SBason and an NCAA tournament berth. The NCAA looks to be a lock for the Cardinals this season, but Padgett likes how they're play­ing well again whnn the games really count, especially on the road. 
"This is a tough plaee to play and thnir crowd really seemed to be going today," Padgett said. 
Padgett came back with a strong ganw -9-of-13 shooting with six rebounds in 28 minutes -after being limited by fou I problems to one shot and one point in 17 minutes during a 61-50 win over Syracuse on Monday. lin averagnd 16.3 points in the Cardinals' previ­ous three gamns, after missing 10 games early in the season with a broken kneecap. 
Pitt never led in the second half -the Cardinals led by as many as eight -but Blair got the Panthers back to within a point at 71-70 by making two free throws with 21.6 seconds remaining. After Padgett 

AP 
Badgers guard Michael Aowers, left, looks to pass around Buckeyes guard Evan Tumer during Wisconsin's 58-53 victory Sunday. 

responded by making both ends of a 1-and-1, Blair tried to score inside and missed with 7 seconds left when Pitt needed a 3-pointer to force overtime. 
Badgers 58, Buckeyes 53 
They'll seldom win a slam­dunk contest or get featured on a SportsCenter highlight. Heck, most of them don't look like they could touch the rim. 
About all that's impressive about the Wisconsin Badgers is how hard they play, particularly on that unglamorous half of the game known as defense. 
Jason Bohannon came off the bench to score 16 points and thn Badgers (No. 10 ESPNIUSA Today, No.11 AP) relied on their gritty defense to hold off Ohio State on Sunday. 
"We played some great defense, nspeeially down the stretch when they were trying to get the !tying! 3-pointer," Bohannon said. "They didn't really get a clean look at the hoop." 
The Buckeyes didn't score over the last 3:15 and had only one field goal in thn final R 1/2 minutes. For much of that time, they were within a shot of catching the Badgers. But the Badgers weren't having any of that. 
Part of that was due to the young Buckeyes' shot selection, but most of it was Wisconsin's physical, stilling defense, which allows just 55.4 points a game, sncond best in the nation. 
"On defense, they locked up and we locked up," Wisconsin's Brian Butch said. "It was a typi­cal Big Ten finish. We just hap­pened to make a few more plays on the defensive end. It's not like we made a lot of plays on the offensive end, but it was plays at the defensive end that won that game for us." 
The victory kept the Badgers (23-4, 13-2) tied with Purdue and Indiana for the Big Ten lead heading into the final two weeks of play. 
Wisconsin used a late 9-0 run to take the lead and then put the clamps on Ohio State ( 17­10, 8-6). 
Musketeers 57, Flyers 51 
Drew Lavender was back to working full time Sunday, and Xavier (No. 12 ESPN/USA Today, No. 10 AP) neednd every minute he could muster. 
Lavender made four free throws in the final 35 seconds and Xavier beat Dayton. 
After being limitnd to just 14 minutes in Xavier's win over Duquesne on Thursday because of a sprained left ankle, Lavender returned at point guard and played 33 minutns Sunday. 
It was the Musketeers' 10th straight win and assured them of at least a share of the Atlantie 10 championship. 
"I gave Drew full credit for playing while being hurt," Xavier coach Sean Miller said. "Drew could have said 'I'm tak­ing a couple of games off'. but he didn't. He really stepped up and set the tone for us." 
Josh Duncan scored 14 points, and Lavender finished with nine for Xavier (24-4, 12-1 Atlantic 1 0). 
"What makes our team spn­cial is that we have great bal­ance and a bunch of players who can score," Miller said. 
Brian Hoberts led Dayton (17­9, 5-8) with 15 points. 
Nobody else reached double figures, although Xavier went into the game with six players averaging 10 or more. 
"They are a solid defensive team and they made it tough to get some shots," Hoberts said. "We fought, we played hard and it was a battle throughout the whole game. They just came out on top." 
Dayton tied the score five times in the first nine minutes but never led. The Flyers were 12-of-24 from the field in the first half and trailed 29-27 at halrti nw. 
Dayton stayed dose until a free throw by Duncan, a basket by Dante Jackson and a pair of free throws by Jason Love gavn Xavier its biggest lead of thn game, 41-31 with 12:44 to play. 
"We did a lot of things today that we would have liked, it just was not enough," Dayton eoach Brian Gregory said. "We wern playing a high-quality team 
· wlw has won fWery elosn game they've played in and you have to makn certain plays down the stretch in the last live minutes. 
"We wanted to be within striking distance within the last live minutes and we were. They made a couple of big plays and had a couple of offensive rebounds. When you play a team like Xavim, the margin for error is much smaller." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED FoR RENT PERSONAL 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? Do not go it alone. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. If you or someone you love needs You do not have to be alone. confidential support or assistance, We want to help. RANGING FROM please call Call our 24 hour confidential hotline 
$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT Blue & Gold Homes If you or someone you care about Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. at 
WORK flexible, 2 BR TO 6 BR. has been For more information, 
no experience needed, Showing for 08/09,09/10 sexually assaulted, visit our website at: 1-800-No Abort or 
customer sales/service. conditions CALL 574-234-2436 OR visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­
apply, ages 18+, Now offering "flex" leases nant.shtml or visit our web site at 
574-273-3835, http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. see our bi-weekly ad in The 
www.workforstudents.com bluegoldrentals.com KRAMERHOUSES.COM shtml Observer. www.lifecall.org 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------, 
AROUND THE NATION 
Monday, February 25, 2008 
NHL Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pts. GF GA 

New Jersey 37-21-5 79 170 143 Pittsburgh 35-21-7 77 186 171 NY Rangers 31-24·8 70 161 158 Philadelphia 30-25·7 67 188 179 NY Islanders . 30-26-7 67 156 180 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record pts. GF GA 

Ottawa 36-20-6 78 210 183 Montreal 33·21·9 75 196 180 Boston 32·23·6 70 165 167 Buffalo 30-24·8 68 185 174 Toronto 26-28·9 61 172 200 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. GF GA 

Carolina 32·28·5 69 194 207 Washington 28-27·8 64 177 196 Florida 28·29-7 63 175 184 Atlanta 29-30-4 62 169 203 Tampa Bay 25-30-7 57 177 203 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. GF GA 

Detroit 42-17·5 89 200 141 Nashville 32·24·8 72 186 181 Columbus 29·26·9 67 156 166 St. Louis 28·23·10 66 159 171 Chicago 29-26·6 64 175 174 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. GF GA 

Calgary 33-22·8 74 1.80 1.78 Minnesota 34-23-5 73 170 168 Vancouver 32-22·8 72 167 157 Colorado 31·25-6 68 170 171 Edmonton 27-30·5 59 166 188 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pts. GF GA 

Dallas 39·22·5 83 196 163 Anaheim 35·23·7 77 161 160 San Jose 33-21·8 74 161 151 Phoenix 31-26·5 67 171 171 Los Angeles 26·34·4 56 186 212 
Men's Basketball Big East Conference Standings 

rank team conf overall 
1 Georgetown 12·3 22·4 2 Louisville 12·3 22-6 3 NOTRE DAME 11·3 21-5 4 Connecticut 10·4 21-6 5 Marquette 10·5 20·6 6 West Virginia 8·6 19·8 7 Cincinnati 8·6 13·13 8 Pitlsburgh 1·1 19·8 9 Villanova 1·1 11·9 10 Syracuse 7·8 11·11 
around the 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Marquette at Villanova 7 p.m., ESPN 
Texas at Kansas State 9 p.m., ESPN 

CoMPILED FROM THE 0Bs£Rvr:Its WlRE SERVICES 
PGA 
page 15 


Associated Press 

MARANA, Ariz.-Not even the most unpre­dictable tournament in golf could keep Tiger Woods from an inevitable victory. 
There seems to be no stopping him. 
Stewart Cink barely put up a fight Sunday in the Accenture Match Play Championship, where Woods broke a scoring record for the fourth straight tournament, col­lected his fifth straight victory worldwide and didn't so much as crack a smile when someone asked him if a perfect sea­son was within reach. 
"That's my intent," he said. "That's why you play. It you don't believe you can win an event, don't show up." 
Relentless as ever, Woods made 14 birdies in 29 holes in the high desert of Dove Mountain to over­whelm Stewart Cink for an 8-and-7 victory, the largest margin in the final match in the 10-year his­tory of his fickle event. 
Woods captured his 15th World Golf' Championship, holding all three world title for the first time. 
And his 63rd career vic­tory moved him past Arnold Palmer and into fourth place alone on the PGA Tour's career list. His next victory will tie him with Ben Hogan. 
Golf is not a fair fight at the moment. 
"I think maybe we ought to slice him open to see what's inside," Cink said. "Maybe nuts and bolts." 
Cink was only the latest victim in a winning streak that dates to Sept. 3, 2007, a date worth remembering. 
Woods won the BMW Championship the follow­ing week at 262, breaking the tournament scoring record by five shots. lie won the Tour Championship by a record eight shots, and the Buick Invitational by the same margin, another tourna­ment record. 
This is the third time Woods has won at least four straight PGA Tour events. He also won in Dubai three weeks ago on the European tour by coming back from a four­shot deficit. 
"I think this is the best stretch I've ever played," Woods said. 
He has won six of his last seven PGA Tour events, 16 of his last 30 over the last two years. 
The confidence in his game is so high that Woods started this season by saying the Grand Slam was "easily within rea­son." 
IN BRIEF 

Cubs' DeRosa released from hospital, to see cardiologist 
MESA, Ariz. -Chicago Cubs second baseman Mark DeRosa was released from the hospital Sunday evening, the team said, one day after complaining of a rapid heartbeat during fielding drills. 
Cubs spokesman Peter Chase announced DeRosa's release shortly after 5 p.m. Sunday. The team initially said DeRosa was released Saturday evening, but later said he was kept overnight at Banner Desert Medical Center in Mesa as a precaution. 
DeRosa is expected to be exam· ined by a cardiologist Monday and could be back on the field by the middle of the week, the Cubs said. 
His irregular heartbeat was not life-threatening, according to the team. A woman who answered the phone at the hospital said she had no information about DeHosa. 
Sharapova wins Qatar, remains unbeaten on season 
DOHA, Qatar Maria Sharapova defeated Vera Zvonareva 6-1, 2-6, 6-0 Sunday in the Qatar Open final, remaining unbeaten this season and earning her 18th career title. 
The Australian Open cham­pion is 14-0, including two wins in the Fed Cup for Russia this year. Sharapova is 9-0 in Doha, where she won in 2005. 
"I played five matches in five days and that is not an easy thing to do," Sharapova said. "I think what I have done is just great." 
Sharapova broke her oppo­nent t w i e e in the first set, but Zvonareva had two breaks of her own in the sec­ond before the fifth-ranked Hussian swept the third 
Phillies' Lidge to have knee surgery, could miss opener 
CLEARWATER, Fla. -Phillies closer Brad Lidge is scheduled to have arthroscopic surgery on his right knee Monday and could miss the regular-season opener. 
Lidge, Philadelphia's biggest offseason acquisition, limped off the field Saturday after injuring his knee when he caught a spike in the mound on his first pitch of batting practice. Doctors removed torn cartilage from the same knee in October. 
The 31-year-old right-hander was expected to return to Philadelphia on Sunday for sur­gery Monday that would sideline him for three to six weeks. The Phillies open the season at home March 31 against Washington. 
Phillies manager Charlie Manuel said setup man Tom Gordon would close if Lidge isn't ready for opening day. 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 25, 2008 
fOOTBALL 
Ten-year radio contract inked vvith ISP Sports 
By CHRIS KHOREY and KEN 
FOWLER 
Sports Writers 
Af'tnr nearly 40 ynars with Westwood Onn, Notre Damn ((lOt­ball will have a new radio broad­cast partrwr this fall. 
Associato athletic dimetor John lloisler said Friday Irish games will bP carried by ISP Sports for the noxt ten seasons. 
Wnstwood One had carried Notre I >ame li10tball since 1968. 
I hdsler said Notre Damn didn't seriously considnr a shortnr eon­tract ror its n1~w partnnr. saying the athldie departmnnt was "extn~rne ly com rortable" with ISP Sports and the 1 0-ynar deal. 
llnisler said that while it isn't dear how many and which sta­tions will carry Notre Dame games in various markets, he's hoping that most afliliatos rrom last season will continue to broadcast the Irish. 
"Ono or the questions will be, when you just look at the aflilia­tion aspect or it, I think tlwn1 would be a natural hope that a groat numbPr of the stations that havP carried our games would continue to do that," he said. 
lleisler also said he isn't sure who the announcing duo will be. Last season, Don Criqui and for­mnr Irish running back Allen Pinkett railed the games for the Westwood One broadeasting net­work. 
lleisler did say Notre Dame would have an "advisory role" in choosing the announeers. 
"That's a decision that will be made down the road by ISP. I think our intention was for our role to be similar to what it was in Westwood One," he said. 
ISP owns the broadcast rights for over 40 other schools, but lleisler said in a statement Friday that "Notre Dame remains the only college football program to have its games broadcast on a truly national radio network." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu and Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles vvin big, clinch ho111e-court advantage 
By GRIFFIN DASSATI 
Spons Writer 
Forget what the schedule says, Saint Mary's just wasn't rnady to elose the doors of the Angela Athletic Center for the season. 
Coming into Saturday's game against Olivet, the Bolles (12-12, 8-8 MIAA) and Comets (9-15, 7-9 MIAA) wore tied for fourth place in the MIAA. The winner would dineh home-court advantage for the l"irsl round of this wonk's tournamnnt. Saint Mary's did so convineingly, boating the Comets 74-56 bohind anotlwr stellar nfTort by senior guard Alison Kessler. 
Knsslor endnd all the motivation they need­ed," Henley said. 
The second half began mueh the same as the first, with the first 10 minutes see­ing six ties and neither team leading by more than four. Then, midway through the half, someone flipped a switch for Saint Mary's. The Belles went on a 12-0 run, putting the game out of reaeh. 
llenley said the run hap­pened beeause the Belles got back to the basis of their offense. 
"I don't think it was any­thing in partieular," llenley said. "We really wanted to go back to using our two-man game and try and getting some looks off of that and if not trying to get to the foul line. 


her regular ''Alison {Kessler/ got ... Alison got snason carenr hot, [junior
hot, Katie Rashid got 
with a bang, guard) Katie
hot, and I just think
scoring 29 Rashid got hot, points on IJ-for-that helped open and I just think 22 shooting things up a little bit." that helped 
from thn field open things up and making 3-a little bit." 
Jennifer Henley 
of-6 from 3-Once again, point range. Belles coach the Belles' win 
The contest went baek and forth for the first half. At one point, Saint Mary's had a seven-point lead, but that was the furthnst apart the two teams got as Olivet matched the Belles shot for shot for the remaindor of the half. Still, Saint Mary's went into the locker room with a 2S-25 lnad. 
At tlH~ half, Belles head coach Jennifer Henley told her team thn one thing she knew would motivate them. 
"At halftime, we talked about trying to got Alison one more horne game for her sen­ior year and that was really 
was a result of 
a solid perform­anee from the starting five. Along with Kessler's out­standing individual line, jun­ior forward Erin Newsom scored 16 points and pulled down 11 rebounds for her second straight double-dou­ble. Junior Katie Hashid con­tributed 14 points of her own. 
With first-round home-court advantage in hand, the Belles will face Olivet again Tuesday in the first-round of the MIAA tournanwnt. 
Contact Griffin Dassati at gdassati@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish salvage one winontrip 
Team beats Wake Forest, falls to North Carolina for 1-1 weekend 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Wri rer 
Following a tough loss to No. 8 Duke Thursday, No. 15 Notre Dame brought a 1-2 reeord back from its trip to Tobacco Hoad. 
Notre Dame 4, Wake Forest 3 
Many of the Demon Deacon faithful in attendance in Winston-Salem expected a win after Wake Forest pieked up the first two singles matehes, but the Irish had other plans on their mind. 
After seeuring the doubles point, Notre Dame ran into some struggles, but eventually turned up the pressure when they neoded to. 
The No. 3 doubles tandem in the nation of junior Keley Tetrt and senior Brook Buek earned their fourth eonseeutive doubles victory with an 8-4 win over the No. 28 pair of sophomore Sasha Kulikova and senior Alex llirsch. 
After fwshman Kristen Hafael and sophomore Kali Krisik dropped their doubles match 8­0, sophomore tag-team Cosmina Ciobanu and Colleen Hielley took care of business with an 8-5 win over junior Sierra Poske and freshman Emilee Malvehy, ensuring that the Irish would take the early lead. 

In singles play, it appeared as though Tefft would have her hands full against Hirsch after the first set, which eventually went to a tiebreak in the junior's favor. In the seeond set, Tefft won the final f(mr games to take the victory, 7-6, 6-2, improving her record to 11-1 in the dual match season. 
With the mateh tied at 2-2, junior Katie Potts gave the Irish a lead with a 7-6, 6-2 win over Malvehy. After taking the first set tiebreak, Potts won the first five games of the seeond set and eruised the rest of the way. 
With the Irish up 3-2, one win was all Notre Dame needed to seal the deal. Krisik stepped up with her mateh-clinehing 7-5, 6-4 win over freshman Katarina Heveche. 
After taking the first set, Krisik built a 5-2 two lead in the second frame until she dropped consecutive games. The sophomore battled back and eventually won her eleventh match of the season. 
Hielley dropped the last match, bringing the score to 4­3, but Notre Dame had already secured the victory. 

North Carolina 6, Notre Dame 1 
After losing to Notre Dame twice last year, North Carolina wanted revenge. A 6-1 vietory over the Irish ensured just that. 
Irish head coaeh Jay 
·Louderback stressed the impor­tanee of doubles play the past couple of weeks to his team, and his squad responded, tak­ing the doubles point in six straight rnatehes. North Carolina, however, ended that streak Sunday, boating two of the three Irish pairs. 
Buck and Tefft eontinund their impressive play, earning an 8-5 win over sophomore duo Sanaz Marand and Katrina Tsang and bringing the pair's winning streak to five consecu­tive matches. However, both groups of Ciobanu and Hielley and Hafael and Krisk could not overeome a Tar Heel eharge, giving North Carolina an early 1-0 lead. 
Krisik got some redemption, picking up the only singles win and the only point Notre Dame would get in the match in a 6-4, 6-3 victory over junior Meg Fanjoy. With the win, Krisik ensured an undefeated road trip and, more importantly, brought the score to 3-1. 
The Irish would drop the remainder of the singles match­es, ending the road trip on a sour note. Notre Dame now returns horne for what should be one of its most eornpetitive opponents of the season. 
Saturday at the Eek Tennis Pavilion, consensus No. 1 Georgia Tech eomes into town in a mateh up of two squads that are quite familiar with eaeh other. Last year, the Irish dropped two matches to tlw Yellow Jackets, both by a score of 4-2. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

MEN'S TRACK 
Teamtakessecondin BigEast 
By PAT STYNES Spons Writer 

The Irish finished second, 28 points behind Conneetieul, in the Big East ehampionship Sunday at the New Balance Track and Field Center in New York, NY. 
Irish senior Kurt Benninger eontinued his record-breaking season by posting a 4:00.12 mile, which is the fastest lime ever reeorded at the Big East ehampionships. lie was not the only Notre Dame standout in the mile, however, -senior Jake Watson finished third in the event with a time of 4:02.72. 
Junior Patrick Smyth also had an impressive weekend, winning the 5000 with a time of 13:57 and finishing fifth in the 3000-meter run with a time of 8:14.74. 
Sophomore Matt Schipper showed the depth of the Irish squad. In just his second year on the team he pulled ofl' a first plaee finish in pole vault. llis teammate, junior Brian Mahon, follownd him dose behind, nab­bing the third place spot. 
Freshman Greg Davis fin­ished fourth in the weight throw, and freshman Denes Ven~s was .46 meters away from winning the shot put, but fell just short with a second­place distance of 17.12 meters. 
Contact Pat Stynes at pstynes@nd.edu 

Monday, February 25, 2008 The Obserwr + SPORTS page 17 
FENCING 
Nelip continues to dominate 
Freshman takes top individual honors, leads team success at JACC 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame could have been left out of the gold medal ceremonies this weekend, but freshman epeeist Ewa Nelip would have none of that. 
Nelip won the individual women's epee title at the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships Saturday at the Joyce Center, and then was the driving force for the women's epeeists Sunday in the team tournament. 
With Notre Dame leading Northwestern 3-1 in the women's epee 
women's sabre to getting the top .... So at least the [epee] girls compensated." 
That the women's epee final was the last competi­tion of the weekend for Notre Dame alleviated the pain of an otherwise rough set of team results. Notre Dame's chief rival, the Buckeyes of Ohio State, cap­tured five team crowns. 
"Frankly speaking, we were losing to the teams who were higher ranked and after very good bouts and very close," Bednarski said. "So, it was optimistic for a very young team." 
Nelip, the freshman, 
e xe m plifi e d 

final, Nelip that. She
"We have to improve

battled back topped Ohio
tactical gains 

from a 2-0 State's Kaela deficit for a because obviously we Brendler 15­crucial 5-4 vic­12 in the final
should be a little bit 

tory over bout of the
smarter."

Wildcat Kayley individual 
French. Irish bracket. junior Kim Janusz Bednarski W h i I e 
Montoya then Nelip's suc­
Irish coach 

defeated Northwestern senior Megan Ross to clinch Notre Dame's only team title of the weekend. 
Senior Eleanor Leighton, a Mishawaka native, went 2-0 in Notre Dame's 5-1 win over the Wildcats. 
"We wanted that victory more than any other," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. "We were very close in 
cess was the 
continuation of a dominant rookie sea­son, junior Bill Ehrlich was Notre Dame's biggest. sur­prise in the individual com­petition. The less-experi­enced epeeist went 4-2 in pool play before winning three straight bouts in the direct elimination competi­tion. He lost to fellow Irish junior Karol Kostka in the 

quarterfinals but, in the process, earned second­team all-conference honors -despite not earning a monogram for the year. Kostka finished third. 
Still, the Irish finished with good, but not great, results most of the week­end. All-American senior epeeist Greg Howard failed to reach the quarterfinals in the individual competition. A low placing in pool play gave him a poor seed for the direct-elimination bracket, and sensation Jason Pryor, a junior from Ohio State, knocked Howard out of the tournament. 
Howard said he simply didn't fence well Saturday. 
Though Bednarski would have liked to seen a better performance, he said he is turning his attention to the NCAA Midwest Regionals, which begin in two weeks in Detroit. In fact, he said he would "gladly trade in" a poor performance this weekend if he could qualify the maximum 12 fencers from the regional to the March 13-16 NCAA Championships in Columbus, Ohio. 
"We have to improve tacti­cal gains because obviously we should be a little bit smarter," Bednarski said. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Creative? Funny? Thought-provoking? 
Submit your ·works of art and literature to 
The Juggl r 
Notre Dame's student literary magazine 
E-mail written submissions (poetry and short stories) to juggler·@nd.edu hy March 14. There is no limit to the number of pieces you may submit, but no individual wor·k can exceed 2500 words. 
Wm·ks ofart larger than 11x17 or 3·D pieces require slides. There is no limit to the number of pieces you may submit. Submit art to Ma11' in 306 Riley or e-mail as a high-resolution (300+ dpi) image file to juggler@nd.edu. 
http://wwltv.nd.edu/-juggler/ 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Da111e shuts out visiting Boiler111akers 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
In its first match since last week's trip to Seattle, Wash., for the ITA National Indoor Championship, No. 12 Notre Dame shut out in state rival Purdue 7-0 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion Sunday. 
The Irish victory was Notre Dame's 19th consecu­tive win over the Boilermakers. 
Notre Dame took the dou­bles point from Purdue, but the Boilermakers did not go down easily. 
The Irish No. 1 pair of senior Sheeva Parbhu and junior Brett Helgeson trailed 6-5 in their match against Purdue sophomore Branko Kuzmanovic and sophomore Slavko B ij e lica, but came back to win in a tiebreaker, 9-8 (8-6). 
The new pair of senior Andrew Roth and junior Santiago Montoya defeated Purdue junior P.J. Rosae and freshman Eric Ramos 8-6. 
Freshmen Stephen Havens and Tyler Davis held off the Purdue pair of redshirt jun­ior Jose Fuenmayor and jun­ior Griffin Nienberg in another tightly contested 8­6 match to seal the doubles point. 
The Irish dominated sin­gles play -five of Notre Dame's six singles wins came in straight sets. National No. 32 Helgeson won the first Irish singles point over Kuzmanovic in 
dominating fashion, winning 6-1, 6-1. 
Helgeson improved his impressive singles record to 22-4 with the win. The Irish got their second singles point from Parbhu, who defeated Bijelica 6-2, 6-1. Parbhu's victory gave Notre Dame a 3-0 advantage. 
Notre Dame's third singles win came from Roth, who snapped a six-match losing streak with the win. Roth defeated Rose 6-2, 6-2. 
To round out singles com­petition, the Irish turned to three of their highly talent­ed freshmen. Havens won the fourth point with a 7-6 (3), 7-6 (5) victory over Purdue's Ramos. 
Notre Dame freshman David Anderson broke a four-match losing streak with a tiebreak victory over Nienberg, 7-5, 3-6, 1-0. 
Irish freshman Dan Stahl continued his stellar singles play with a straight sets vic­tory over Purdue sophomore Paul Foley, 6-2, 6-3. With the victory, Stahl improved to 19-5 on the year in sin­gles play. 
The Irish improved to 9-3 on the season with the victo­ry over the Boilermakers. Notre Dame is on the road until March 28, when it faces No. 2 Ohio State. 
The Irish travel to Champaign to face defend­ing national runner-up Illinois Saturday. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish lose three of five games on Florida trip 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
A busy weekend for the Irish ended with a 5-2 loss to No. 7 Florida in the championship game of the Aquafina Invitational in Gainesville, Aa. 
Gators pitcher Stacey Nelson struck out 13 in her 11th win of the season. The Gators scored the first five runs of the day, with the final three coming on a home run by Francesca Enea. 
Irish sophomore Heather Johnson drove in two runs with a single in the sixth inning, but that was as close as the Irish would get. Junior Brittany Bargar pitched six innings and allowed four earned runs on seven hits in the loss. 
The Irish dropped their first con­test, 3-2, Friday to Gardner-Webb. Freshman starting pitcher J ody Valdivia pitched 3 and 2.13 innings, strUck out seven and allowed three earned runs. The three runs would prove to be all Gardner-Webb would need. Johnson and Christine Lux drove in freshman Katie Fleury and senior Katie Laing, respectively, in the sixth inning, but the two runs were all the offense could muster in a losing effort. 
The Irish won a defensive battle over North Florida, 1-0, later Friday. 
Bargar, who pitched 3 113 innings of shutout ball in relief against Gardner-Webb, started the next contest against North Florida and pitched seven shutout innings and struck out seven batters. 
North Florida loaded the bases in the bottom of the third, but Bargar got two groundouts to retire the side. Notre Dame's only run came when sophomore Ashley Ellis scored from second on an RBI sin­gle from Aeury. 
Valdivia earned her first win in an Irish uniform in a rematch with North Aorida Saturday, another 1-0 victory. She pitched seven innings, ic;sued only one walk, and struck out seven en route to the win. The lone run of the day came on an RBI from junior Linda Kohan that drove in senior Sarah Smith. 
Bargar pitched well against the Gators in Saturday's second contest, but Aorida came back to win, 3-2. The Irish got out to a 2-0 lead on two runs from freshman Sadie Pitzenberger, but could not hold it. 
The 2-3 weekend record moves the team's overall record to 4-5. The Irish will be back in aetion when they faee Pacific on March 1 to open the Worth Invitational in Fullerton, Calif. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 

page 18 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Donlinating start helps to ta111e Nittany Lions 
Hoff's six goals lead charge in home victory 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
Notre Danw's f>-0 domination of' the first quartnr gavn it momentum on the way to its 15-IJ win over Pnnn State Sunday at the Loftus Centnr. 
.Junior attack Hyan 11ofT IPd all seorers with six goals ­f'our of' which c:amn ofT assists f'rom attack Alex Wharton. Junior attack Duncan Swezey aided llw team's nfforts with two goals, while senior attack Alex Wharton added one goal of' his own. 
"I thought wn played vnry well at times," Irish coach Knvin Corrigan said. "Certainly wn played a great first quarter. Of'fnnsively we were pretty sharp. We handled and shot the ball well and crnated opportunitins." 
Senior goaltender .Joey Kemp also rnn>rded ten saves f'or tho Irish. 
Senior midl'inlder Michael Podgajny startml tlw Irish rally, s1:o ring oIT tlw past tho del'11nder and launched a shot from the right side or the goal into the back of the nnt. 
The frnshman's goal sparked a 3-0 Nittany Lions run that put Pnnn State back in the game. 
With 3:25 left in the sec:ond pPriod, the Irish made another run. 11ofT first scornd a goal on another assist f'rom Wharton. .Junior midfielder Davey Matera pushed thP scored to IJ­3, and I lofT then smred again, giving the Irish a seven-point lead at the half. 
Penn Statn junior attack Hob Forster scored his team's fourth goal with 7:13 in the third period, whiln junior mid­fielder Charlny Henneghan and junior attack Max VanArsdale scored two more goals to cut the Irish lead down to five. 
The Irish then rallied f'or a third time, scoring f'our consec­utivP goals. 11ofT scored his last two goals of the day, and Swezey and freshman midfield­or Zach BrPnneman pushed the 
Irish l11ad to 
op1ming f'aceofT nine.
"Offensively we were
:~7 seconds into Penn State the mateh. pretty sharp. We freshman attack Swezey, sopho­handled and shot the Will Donley more attack scored two of
ball well and created
Colin lgoe and tlw game's last sophomore opportunities." three goals, and attack Nnal sophomore llicks f'ollowed attack Matt Loy
Kevin Corrigan
suit and gave scored the day's
Irish coach
thn Irish a 4-0 In ad. II oIT tlw n scored twice on passns f'rom Wharton and junior midfinldnr Dan Gibson. 
The second quarter started ofT quickly, with two goals in 21 sm~onds. The Irish struck first when midf'inldnr Grant Krebs took a pass f'rom lgoe ofT the opening inbounds and found tho back or thn rwt at the 14:48 mark in the second quarter. 
Attack Colby Hhodes retaliat­nd just nine seconds later. Hhodes took the ball ofT the f'aeeoiT, made a swim move final point. 
The Irish are now 2-0 and will host their sec­ond home match Saturday against No. 11 Albany at 1 p.m. 
"Albany is a unique team," Corrigan said. "They are aggressive defensively, they play an nxtremely good transi­tion garnn, and are a good offensive group. We have to get used to tlwir style-fast paced and vnry dynamic-and go out and play really aggressively." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
Monday, February 25, 2008 

The Observer + SPORTS NO WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Buckeyes rally falls short 
Blaney, Byers each net six goals to secure win at Ohio State 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
No. 11 Notre Dame got ofT 
to a quick start and thp,n 
held ofT a late Ohio State 
surge to top the Buckeyes 
14-11 in Columbus, Ohio 
Sunday. 
Freshman Shaylyn Blaney 
and junior Jillian Byers eaeh 
scored four goals for the 
Irish, who led 13-5 with Jess 
than 14 minutes to play 
before the Bucknyes scored 
six goals in a span of night 
minutns. 
"We let them gp,t back into 
the game late," Irish coach 

Tracy Coyne said. "We need 
to focus on finishing strong 
... [because] we lost a little 
bit of our momentum at the 
end there." 

Blaney, who bngan her col­lege career with a bang by scoring 10 goals through three games, got the Irish on .the board by seoring three times in the game's first 10 minutes. Byers and fresh­man Kaitlin Keena added goals to put the Irish up 5-0 midway through the first 
half. 
"We graduated some key 

players last year, and every­
one has done a good job of 
stepping into new roles," 
said Byers, who leads the 
Irish with 15 goals through 
three games. "That's my role 
I guess, and I've been work­
ing really hard to bP the 
person who can put the ball 
in the back of the net for 
us. 
Krishm Slahor and Jessiea 

Patane, who each scored 
three goals, got the 
Buckeyes on the board with 
13 minutes to play in the 
half, eutting the Irish lead to 
5-2. Byers added two more 
goals for the Irish before 
halftime, and senior captain 
Caitlin McKinney also got on 
the board with the first of 
her two goals, extending her 
school-record point streak to 42 games and giving Notre Dame an 8-3 lead heading into the intermission. 
"All week we had focused on specific tactics to beat Ohio State," Coyne said. "It's been a rivalry since both programs began. and we knew it'd be a tough, physi­cal game." 
The Irish eontinued to dominate early in the second half, seoring four of' the first five goals af'ter the break to extend their lead to 12-4. Tlw two teams traded goals to make it 13-5, and after a five-minute scoreless stretch, the Buckeyes went on a run that cut Notre Dame's comfortable advan­tage down to two. 
Slahor, Patane and Maghan Beaudrault, who led the Ohio State attack with four goals on the day, each beat Irish goalie Erin Goodman (11 saves) twice during the 6-0 run, which began with Slahor's goal at 
8:56 and nnded with Beaudrault's goal with 1:34 remaining. 
Despite the near late-game collapse, the Irish wen~ able to salvage a tough road vie­tory-something not lost on thn squad. 
"It's good to get that f'irst win on thn road," Byers said. "Being away f'rorn home, not having your honw fans, being away from thn atmosphere you praetiee in every day, and the fact that it was really cold out and we had to play outside ... we faced a lot of adversity today and it was good to bring our record to 3-0." 
The Irish will hit the road again next weekend when thny trav1ll to Palo Alto, Calif., to play Stanford at 1 
p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


BASEBALL 

Notre Dame drops two of three to start season 
bled, and two runs scored to give ered a clutch extra-inning win for Notre Dame jumped out to a 7-3 with RBI singles by junior Jeremy By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Uberty the lead. Uberty expanded Notre Dame against Iowa on lead with five runs in the bottom of Barnes and seruor Sean Ga<;t.on. Sports Writer 
its lead to 4-1 after a suecessful Saturday, singling home the two the fourth. After the Irish added The Notre Dame lead wa<; short­squeeze play and a single from cen­winning rw1s with two outs in the another run in the fifth to stretch lived, however, as Albany lit up 
DespilP escaping South Bend f(>r ter fidder Tim Ro1.ola. tenth inning. the lead to live, Iowa responded Dupra for five runs in the seeond tlw we1~kend, the lri<;h still couldn't The Flames roughed up Phelps After the Hawkeyes scored two with a seven-run inning. The inning. The Great Danes added avoid gloomy weather -and for two additional runs in the fifth, runs in the top of the tenth to take a Hawkeyes capitalized on four Irish three more runs in tim fi>urth for <lll gloomy rnsu\L<;-in Clearwater, Fla. prompting Irish coaeh Dave 13-11 lead, the Irish came from walks and an error to take an 10-8 8-2\ead. 
Af't.er heavy rains at Jack Hussell Sehragn to go to sophomore reliever behind for the fourth time in the lead. The Irish oflimse generated a run Stadium ddayed play for nnarly six Eric Maust. The start was the first game. Junior Evan Sharpley dou­Notre Dame reliever Kyle in the bottom of' the fourth, but a hours Saturday, Notre Dame timn Phdps fhlled to go five inninf,rs bled home a run to cut the lead to Weiland picked up the win after potential rally ended with sopho­dropped two of thrnn games at the in 16 appearances. one, setting the stage for Lilley's pitching three innings in rdief. more A.J. Pollock's bases-loaded ( :tearwatnr Classic. The bullpen combination of heroi£~<;. ground out. 
The Irish opened their s1mson Maust and sophomore Stevnn In addition to his game-winning Albany 12, Notre Dame 4 Albany seomd fi>Ur mom runs in 
... 
with cold bats in a 6-2 loss to Mazur produced 4 and 1/3 innings hit, Lilley also belted a three-run The Great. Danes pounded the the sewmt.h, putting thll gamn out or 
l.ib11rty, managing just six hits of' seoreless relief, but the Notre homer in the seventh. The senior Irish for 15 hiL<> and 12 runs in the reaeh. Reliever Davn Noble pitched 
against tlw Flamns. Notrn Dame Damf) oflimse lhlled to take advan­went 3-for-4 on the day with three final game of the Clearwater two innings of seornless relinf for 
struck first wlwn senior Boss tage. The Irish added a latP run in runs scored and 5 HBis, and Oassic. the Danl's and picked up the win. 
Brnzovsky triplnd, scoring shorL<;top thn eighth, but managed just one hit reached ba<>e five times. Freshman pitcher Brian Dupra Brnzovsky and freshman Golden 
Brett Lillny in thn first inning, but in the final thrne innings. Left tieldnr Hoss Brezovsky added struggled in his Notre Dame debut, Tate led the Irish ofl'ense with six 
the Irish would manage little llighty Clarence Niedy pieknd up three RBis for Notre Dame in the giving up eight runs on nine hiL<; in hil<; apiece. 
oflimse aflnr tl1at. thn win f'or Liberty, allowing just win. three innings. Notre Dame returns to action 
Irish pitcher David Phelps gave one nm in six strong innings. The Irish ommse took advantagn Albany grabbed the lead in the next weekend at the Papa John's up f(JLrr runs to thP FlamPs in the of' the Hawkeye's control issues, bottom of the first with an unearned Oa'isic in West Palm Beach, Fla. fourth. Af'tnr Lilwrty loadml the Notre Dame 14, Iowa 13 scoring ofT many of Iowa's eight run after a Brett Iilley error. The bases with no outs, Flames third (10 innings) walks. Irish respondnd quickly, scoring two Contact Michael Bryan at baseman David Giarnmarosi dou-Snnior shortstop Brett Jj]Jey dnliv-After a baek-and-forth start, runs in the bottom of the inning mbryan@nd.edu 

--~ ----------~~----------------------------------------------... 
Monday, February 25, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish capture third Big East title in four years 
Team dominates final day, sets several school records in championship meet that 'really began one year ago' 
By CHRIS DOYEN and ELLYN 
MICHALAK 
Sports Wrirers 
Notre Dame captured its third Big East championship in four years this weekend at tlw Nassau Aquatic Center in East Meadow. N.J. 
After a 
close loss in last sea­son's con­ference champi­onship. Irish coach Tim Welsh, who won 


his 30th A. Deters league title, said the team was hun­gry for this meet since last year. 
It's 8:30 pm on Tuesday, and 
I need help with mlf'..~computer 
Noworriesl 
Call the OIT Help Desk at 
631-8111 

"Everyone who was at the fidence was high." meet last year knew what it After Thursday's competi­felt like to be· 4.5 points tion, the Irish sat in first short." Welsh said. place with "We dido't want to over 300 have that feeling points, in
"We didn't want to
again. And so this front of year's meet really have {last year's] Louisville began one year feeling again. And so (222) and 
ago. Pittsburgh
this year's meet 
0 0

Heading into ( 1 6 6 5) Thursday's compe­really began one The diving tition, the Irish year ago. s q u a d trailed by six secured two points (74-68) to of the top
Tim Welsh
Louisville, but three spots Welsh was confi­Irish coach on the one-dent in his teams m e t e r abilities. board to 
"We were very happy with earn points for their team. Wednesday," Welsh said. While Pittsburgh junior "There were only two relays, Alex Volovetski captured the and Louisville was seeded title, Irish junior Michael first in both of them, and we Bulfin and freshman Eric Lex won one of them. So our con-finished right behind. 
In addition to our regular hours, we offer computer help over the phone from 5:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday.* 
You can even call us on Sundays between 3:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. 
"The diving work was fifth place, respectively, in tremendous, and it gave us a the 400-individual medley 
big advantage,"  race.  Other  
Welsh said.  top 10 finish­ 
Once  again  "We tried to look at  ers  included  
the Irish 200­meter freestyle relay team per­ the scoreboard as seldom as possible  sophomore MacKenzie LeBlanc and  
formed  well,  andfocus on  freshman  
taking second p I a c e Sophomore  swimming faster than we had all year. "  Patrick Augustyn in the 100 fly,  
John  Lytle,  Pendergast in  
sophomore  Tim Welsh  the  100  
Andrew  Irish coach  breast,  and  

Hoffman, junior S a m Pendergast, and freshman Joshua Nosal clocked in at 1:21.94. 
The Irish 400-medley placed third Friday and sophomore Andrew Deters and freshman Michael Sullivan grabbed fourth and 
senior Andrew 

McKay in the 100 back. Lytle and junior Danny Lutkus also captured second and third place in the 200 free. 
At the end of the day, Notre Dame led Louisville 531-421. 
Although already leading by 110 points, the Irish proved they wanted to win big. By the end of the tour­nament,· they accumulated 820 points. Louisville was the closest team behind them, with a score of 615. 
The day began with Deters taking second place and set­ting a school record in the 1650 free with a time of (15:12.91). LeBlanc and sophomore Ross Moore took second and third in the 200 fly. LeBlanc, in fact, broke the school record for the event that was previously held by Moore. 
Sullivan snagged fourth place honors in the 200­backstroke, while divers sen­ior Sam Stoner and Bulfin dominated the three-meter board taking second and third place. 
The 400-freestyle relay team also set a school record taking second place with a time of 2:59.05. 
Welsh said the team's goal was to simply swim as fast as possible in all seven ses­sions -and the Irish did just that. 
"We tried to look at tl(e scoreboard as seldom as pos': -.~ sible and focus on swimming faster than we had all year," Welsh said. 
The day was a success for Welsh in another aspect as well -he was named the league's coach of the year for the fourth time in his career. Welsh was quick to point out that while the award might be called "coach of the year," it goes out to the entire staff, which consists of diving coach Caiming Xie, associate head coach Matt Tallman, assis­tant coach Josh Skube, along with Welsh. 
"It's a sign that we're working together really well and that it's a good staff," Welsh said. 
From here, some swimmers will turn toward preparation for their respective coun­tries' Olympic trials, while the divers will focus on the upcoming NCAA zone diving meets. After that, training for next year will resume soon, Welsh said. 
"Swimming is a year-round sport," Welsh said. "We won't resume training tonight, but it will be soon enough." 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu and Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 

.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 25, 2008 
ND WoMEN's SwiMMING 
Notre Dame brings home 12th straight crown 
Nixon honored as conference's top coach for second consecutive season, watches her own school records fall 
and the other girls fed off of held by Nixon herself. Miller tied from a small high school pro­team spirit the coaching staff By JARED JEDICK 
that." Nixon's record time of 22.39 in gram, her ability to perform at has never seen before. 
Sports Writer 

Higgins' time of 1:44.89 in the the 50-freestyle for the victory, such a high level all the time is "I have never seen a team 200-freestyle was good enough and NCAA '!\ cut time, and sur­really incredible." come together like this before A perfect dozen -more than for an NCAA 'A' cut, meaning passed Nixon's record in the Finishing off the meet with a ever since I have become a a motivational catch-phrase for that she automatically qualified 1DO-freestyle with a time of victory was fresh­coach," Nixon the Irish for the NCAA championships on 49.10 to come in second place. man Katie Casey, said. "It is real­
"It was a dream of
this year -
March 20. She shaved oil' three Nixon was a 12-time All­winning the 200 ly inspiring to these words seconds from her time in the American swimmer who gradu­butterfly with a mine to see these see them take represented event last year. ated from the University in time of1:59.37. girls beat some ofmy advantage of the making "That is an unheard of drop," 2002. Also performing the opportunity 
times. And now I
of history, Nixon said. "That is the type of "It was a dream of mine to see well was an they were as Notrn performance that one gets to these girls beat some of my inspired diving got to see Amywren given." Dame won see only once in a blue moon." times," Nixon said. "And now I team led by sopho­do it." The Irish its twelf'lh Higgins also brought a lot of got to see Amywren do it." more Natalie Stitt. now need to consecutive lnadership to thn team, partici­Freshman Sam Maxwell Driven by the prepare to
Carrie Nixon 
Big East Riggins pating in numerous relays in achieved two NCAA 'A' qualifi­absence of hospi­send three to 
Irish coach
title, a feat addition to her individual cations in the 100-breaststroke talized senior six girls to the that has never been accom­events, Nixon said. and the 200-breaststroke with Laura Rings, the N C A A plished bnl'ore in the Big East, "She is an incredible leader," times of 1:02.68 and 2:12.76 divers went on to lead the Irish. Championship in Columbus, Irish eoach Carrie Nixon said. Nixon said. "With such a young respectively. These were both "They were really our knights Ohio, on March 20. 
Coming in with a final tally of team, she had some big shoes to new Notre Dame records, and in shining armor," Nixon said. "We want to show that we 767 points, the Irish blew away Jill, and she did it with poise, the 200-breaststroke bested the "They executed everything per­have arrived at the national the field with their highest Big confidence, and energy." Big East record by nearly a sec­fectly and really stepped up to level," Nixon said. East championship total ever. Irish freshman Amywren ond. fill Laura's shoes." Seeond-place Louisville trailed Miller also had an nxcellent "Sam is such a competitor," Holding together this out­Contact Jared Jedick at by 2]9.5 points once the final mnnt, attacking some records Nixon said. "Especially coming standing young talent was a jjedick@nd.edu day of racing was eomplnted. 
Ilead coach Carril~ Nixon was named 200H Big East coach of thn year for thn sncond eonsllCU­tive year. 
"It is a wally special honor for me and my coaching staff," Nixon said. "It is done by peer 
Announcing the Year 
voting, so that makes it a real hono~" · 
.Junior Christa Higgins was the 2008 Annual Awards of 
standout performer for the Irish, earning titles in the 200-yard 
the Albert Ravarino
freestyle relay, 400-freestyle relay, and tlw 200-frnestyle. "Christa had the hands down 
Italian Stttdies Travel
bnst performance of the meet," Nixon said. "You could tell that she was going to swim fast just 
Scholarship
by the way she carried herself, 
Thanks to a generous gifl from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program ' is pleased to announce the year 2008 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not norrnally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who arc planning to pursue research or a fonual program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work \vill nom1ally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome. Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1) an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame; 
2) a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals; 
3) a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow; 
4) a budget indicating the costs involved; 
5) two letters ofrecommendation 
6) a transcript show~ng all grades and courses completed 
7) a list ofother sources of funding (being sought or confirmed) tor the same project 
(i.e. Office oflntemational Studies, Nanovic Institute, etc.) 
Application Deadline: \Vednesday, February 27,2008 Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Pa·ogr·arn in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notre Dame 


I I 
--------------------------------------. 
Monday, February 25, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Naughton 
continued from page 24 
Naughton's efforts to bring her team back. 
Williamson hit two foul shots and senior guard Charel Allen hit a jumper to extend the lead to live, but Naughton's 3-point­er brought DePaul back within two. Allen was fouled. but hit only one of the shots, and Naughton made another shot to mak1~ the score 65-64 with 12 seconds left. 
McGraw said her team did well controlling Naughton for most of the game. 
"We left her wide open, acci­dentally," Irish coach Mul'fet McGraw said of Naughton's late 3-pointer. "And then she made the driving layup. But I thought we did a good job on her over­all." 
Allen was fouled on the inbounds play and again made only one of the free throws, but Notre Dame still held the lead. 
McGraw said she was not nervous about the team's foul shooting late in the game even though Allen missed two of her four. 
"You saw us go right back to inbounding to Charel," McGraw said. "We want her on the line." 
Allen finished with 12 points, junior guard Lindsay Schrader had 11 and sophomore guard Ashley Barlow added 1 0. 
Blue Demons senior guard Allie Quigley had 21 points on 7 -of-17 shooting, Chester had 14 and Smith had 10. 
Notre Dame led 39-32 at the half, but DePaul's 9-0 run after halftime made the score 41-39 until Williamson scored with 
16:43 remaining. 

"We missed some shots, we turned the ball over a little bit," McGraw said. "The ball just slipped through our hands." 
From there, the score would stay within five for the rest of the game. 
De Paul took a 24-18 lead after Quigley made two free throws with 7:30 left in the first half, but the Irish went on a 19­6 run to end the half. In the final two minutes, Allen and freshman guard Brittany Mallory hit back-to-hack 3­pointers to help widen the lead. 
Note: 
+ Sophomore guard Melissa 

Lechlitner got her first start of her collegiate career in place of Barlow, who missed practice this week after her grandfa­ther's death. Barlow met the team in Chicago Sunday after spending time with her family. 
"[Lechlitner] scored the first four points, got us off to a great start," McGraw said. "When she made those first shots, I was proud of her." 
McGraw said Barlow played well given the circumstances and that she will probably regain her starting role. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 
Irish take sixth place in conference tourney 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Writer 
With 62 points, Notre Dame finished sixth in the Big East championship this weekend. 
Connecticut won the title with 103.5 points and Georgetown finished with 93. 
One of the Irish highlights was the finals of the 500­meter dash. The Notre Dame duo of Cora Dayon and Natalie Johnson finished sec­ond and third, respectively. Dayon crossed the line in 
1:12.13 and Johnson finished in 1:12.37. 
Freshman Marissa Treece burst onto the conference scene, finishing sixth in the 
Bouts 
continued from page 24 
the fighters. 
Taped to the door of the boxing room in the Joyce Center basement is an article reporting the immense damage inflicted upon Bangladesh after last fall's wave of natural disasters, with the num­ber of death and casual­ties highlighted in yellow. It serves as a reminder to 3000-meter run with a time of 9:33.95. 
"Marissa is a very talented young lady with a lot of desire and a strong work ethic; everything that she needs to be successful in this 
sport,"  Irish  coach  Tim  
Connelly said.  
While  the  Big  East  

Championships may be the end for some, the Irish will compete in the Alex Wilson Invitational, which is sched­uled for March 7 at Notre Dame. The NCAA Indoor Championships will be the following weekend, on March 14 and 15. 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 
every fighter who passes through those doors what cause they are fighting for. 
"We think of the sacri­fices that we make here, whether its time, academ­ics or just effort," Land said. "We realize that those sacrifices are hope­fully contributing to the sacrifices that people won't have to make half a world away." 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 

NBA 
Six Pistons in double figures in win over Suns 
Wallace scores 22 points in 26 minutes 
Associated Press 
PIIOENIX -Detroit saves its best for the big ones, so the Pistons were more than ready for Shaquille O'Neal. 
Hasheed Wallace scored 22 points in 26 minutes to lead six Detroit players in double fig­ures, and the Pistons embar­rassed O'Neal and the Phoenix Suns 116-86 Sunday. 
Hiehard Hamilton had 18 points. Chauncey Billups 14 points and 11 assists, and Antonio McDyess 12 points and 13 rebounds. Jarvis Hayes added a season-high 18 as Detroit easily ended the Suns' 11-game winning streak against Eastern Conference foes with a nationally televised blowout. 
"This was a big game for us," Billups said. "You know how we are. man, when we play against other elite teams, we lock in. We lock in big-time. I thought everybody played great today ­everybody." 
Phonnix lost to a team from the East for only the third time in 25 tries this season. 
"They get juiced up a little bit," Detroit coach Flip Saunders said of his team's efforts against the other top teams. "I thought we were extremely focused both offen­sively and defensively." 
The Pistons, opening a four­game road trip. built an 18­point halftime lead, then blew open a 36-point advantage in the third quarter, the Suns' biggest deficit of the season. 
"It's embarrassing, it's disap­pointing, it's everything," Suns point guard Steve Nash said. "It's tough. no matter who you play, to lose by 30 points." 
Their most one-sided loss of the season left the Suns 1-2 since O'Neal started playing for Phoenix on Wednesday. 
"Maybe we used all the adren­aline left these last two games," coach Mike D'Antoni said of the Suns' close loss to the Lakers on Wednesday, fol­lowed by a victo­ry over Boston 

on Friday. "Emotionally, we've 41 at the break. 
"Emotion ally, been on a high for It got much we've been on a worse for the
three days and you
high for the last home team after 
three days and wake up on Sunday that. Hamilton's 
you wake up on at noon and we're not 22-footer capped Sunday at noon a 25-6 outburst
quite ready to play. " 
and we're not that buried the quite ready to Suns 90-54 amid play." Mike D' Antoni boos from 
O'Neal, who Suns coach Phoenix's 103rd 
Detroit dominated from the start, using a 7-0 spurt to go up 25-14 on Hamilton's 14-footer with 1:20 left in the first quar­ter. Phoenix shot 29 percent in the first quarter. 
Hayes' 10-footer put the Pistons ahead 39-22 with 8:49 left in the half. 
The Suns climbed back into it briefly with an 11-2 run to get within 45-39 on Stoudemire's 17-footer with 3:55 left in the half. But with O'Neal back in the Phoenix lineup, Detroit scored the last 12 points of the half to go up 59­

turns 36 in two weeks, had seven points and 11 rebounds in 34 minutes and was 1-for-8 from the foul line. 
"We still have to be realistic about things," he said. "I've only been here about eight days. This is only my third game with the guys, so we still have a lot of figuring out to do. If everyone just sticks with their role, we should be fine." 
Amare Stoudemire scored 31 for Phoenix. Leandro Barbosa added 18. Nash was the only other Suns player in double fig­ures with 11 points and just six assists. 
consecutive sell­

out home crowd with 56 seconds left in the third. 
"The Pistons came out with a lot of energy, more energy than we did," O'Neal said. "And it seemed like they couldn't miss there.... It was just one of those games. Everyone was flat, including myself." 
Saunders said it's understand­able that the Suns will struggle trying to adjust following the trade that brought O'Neal from Miami for Shawn Marion and Marcus Banks. 
"They had an identity of how they played when they had Shawn," the Pistons coach said. 
.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 25, 2008 
Shooting 
continued from page 24 
chant for the :1-ball, hilling 14­of-25 from beyond the are. 
As Irish guard Kyle MeAiarnny hit 9-of-11 from deep, .Jim Boeheim could not help but be reminded of former Orange guard Gerry McNamara, whose shooting lil'ted his teams to countless Tournament wins. 
But the comparison between McAiarney and McNamara was an unsatisfactory one in Boeheim's eyes. 
"lin shot better than Gerry," Boeheim said of McAlarney. 
If McAiarney catches lire like he did against the Orange, the Irish are capable of winning any game in March. 
Despite being physically dom­inated by a very athletic Syracuse team, the Irish came out on top because of their dead-eye shooting. The team shot almost 55 percent from the floor and made 22-of-33 foul shots. Notre Dame's 74 percent free-throw shooting percentage leads the Big East. Points from the foul line have helped the Irish finish off many opponents and that will be an important factor in the post­season. 
And twen though Syracuse out-muscled the Irish on the boards, they have the b11st rnbounding margin among Big East squads. 
If the Irish can shoot like they did Sunday and rebound likn they have throughout the sea­son. they will bP one of the most dangerous teams in the Tournament. Considering all of its weapons, there docs not seem to be much of a ceiling on what Notre Danw can accom­plish. 
"There's no limit," Irish for­
ward Luke llarangody said. " ... 
I think everyone's real excited 
with where we're at right now." 
The Irish are getting major production from players once thought of as minor contribu­tors, leaving the squad with the depth and personnel to com­pete with the nation's best teams. Five players scored at least 10 points against Syracuse and reserves Ryan Ayers, Jonathan Peoples and Luke Zeller all played key min­utes. 
Ayers' confidence level appears to triple every game, as was evident in his mon­strous two-handed dunk Sunday. After getting a steal near half-court, the Ryan Ayers of two months ago might have pulled the ball back to wait for his teammates. 
Not any more. Instead, Ayers said he knew he wanted to dunk it as soon as he gained possession. 
With such depth, the Irish will not be derailed by foul trouble. When starting point guard Tory .Jackson was forced to sit after picking up a few early fouls Sunday, Peoples stepped in and dropped seven first-half points. 
Notre Dame's top eight play­ers can hold their own against any rotation in the country. And if the Irish get hot (correc­tion -stay hot), they will do morn than simply hold their own. 
For early-round NCAA oppo­nents, that could be dangerous. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd. edu 

points, Notre Dame's bench rebounds. llillesland finished scored 19 on the day. the game with six points, six
Orange 
Sophomore guard Jonathan assists and four rebounds. continued from page 24 Peoples scored seven points Syracuse resorted to foul­and dished out an assist in ing with just under two min­
"They're really an athletic extended playing time in the utes remaining and managed group," Irish coach Mike first half after starting point to close to within six at 93­Brey said. "They're hard to guard Tory Jackson got in 87 with 15 seconds left, but kl-lep off the backboard and foul trouble. that was as close as the out of the lane." "Me, !forward] Luke Orange would get. 
Syracuse (17 -11, 7 -8) had [Zeller I. and With the win, 24 offensive rebounds and [Peoples] just Notre Dame converted those into 22 sec­want to be "The guys had been retained sole ond chance points. catalysts off possession of
really on me, saying I 
But on Sunday, the bench," third place in McAlarney's hot shooting Ayers said. can't dunk, but I'm the Big East, kept Notre Dame from losing "We're all sure they'll back off half a game this one. three players behind confer­
today."
He began the day by scor­that could be ence co-leaders ing a quick seven points to starters." Louisville and lead his team to an 11-4 After Ayers' Ryan Ayers Georgetown lead. dunk, the Irish forward and tied in the 
The Orange clawed back, Orange went loss column. getting to within two at 14-on an 11-6 The Irish take 12, but Notre Dame extend­run over the next three min­on Louisville Thursday at ed and then kept its lead utes to cut the lead to single Freedom Hall in Louisville, during a fast-paced first figures at 66-58 with 10:35 Ky. half, shooting 59.3 percent to play. shooting from the field to Then McAlarney went back Notes: take a 46-36 to work, hitting + Former Irish guards lead into the two straight 3-Colin Falls (2003-07), Matt locker room. pointers to Carroll (1999-2003) and 
The two 'Tm going to call extend the lead Keith Friel (1997-99) held teams traded Colin [Falls] up to 76-64 with the previous Notre Dame baskets for 7:23 left. record for 3-pointers in a
tonight and rub it in 
the first six The Orange game with eight. Falls did it minutes of his face." had one last twice, once against Seton the second run in them, Hall on Feb. 18, 2006 and half, but with and a dunk by once against Pittsburgh on
Kyle McAiarney
13:51 left, forward Arinze March 5, 2005.
Irish guard 
Irish forward 0 n u a k u ''I'm going to r.all Colin up Ryan Ayers brought them tonight and rub it in his stole the ball within six at face," McAiarney said. and took it coast to coast, 78-72 with four minutes left. dunking over a Syracuse After a media timeout, the + Notre DamA honored defender and giving Notre Irish responded with four its 1978 Final Four team at Dame a 60-47 lead. straight points from halftime. llnad coaeh Digger 
"I hope I can get a couple Harangody, the second bas­Phelps got a roaring ovation more of those," Ayers said. ket a dunk on a pass from and a video was shown "The guys had been really junior forward Zach chronicling the 1977-78 sea­on me, saying I can't dunk, Hillesland. son. but I'm sure they'll back off Harangody had his eighth today." double-double in nine games Contact Chris Khorey at 
Led by Ayers, who had 10 with 14 points and 14 ckhorey@nd.edu 
poor shot selection -the Irish that they're not trying, it's not Ohio State added an empty­Rudasill backhanded it past tucked those shots that hit the that they're not listening. It's net goal to put the game out of Pearce for an easy goal and the
Tourney 
net neatly into the sophomore's just a matter of right now reach at 3-1 with eight seconds 1-0 lead. continued from page 24 chest prott1ctnr. everyone we're playing is play­left in the third after defense­Notre Dame tied the game at 
"We're off perimeter and ing tough." man Brett Blatchford misplayed 1-1 only 12 seconds into the Saturday end eap, Notre Dame we're missing the net a lot," left Notre Dame scored with 19 the puck along the blue line second period when right wing continued to stumble in the sec­wing Dan Kissel said. "Coach seconds left in the first period and let it get past him. Erik Condra put homn a ond half of this season. always talks about how we're to take the 1-0 lead when the rebound off a shot from Cole on 
"I talked to our team about it missing the net, so we gotta hit puck bounced off the skate of Notre Dame 2, Ohio State 2 the power play. three weeks ago. They know the net. We have great shooters right wing Evan Rankin in front Both teams traded goals in "I was just trying to get pass­what's going on our t11am too, of the net and past Palmer. The the first and second periods es up Ito the forwards], letting on," Notrn Damn it's just a slump. shot came from center before skating to a scoreless them do whatever they do,"
"I think that that

coa c h .J efT We're snakebit Christian Hanson third and over­Cole said. "It's trying to make .I aekson said. "I pressure has hurt us right now." on the left side time in a game simple plays and getting it to think that that The Irish after he received that saw 27 guys who ran seore goals."
-I think the "It's trying to make 
pressure has scored only a pass from left penalties whis­The two teams then scored 
pressure ofhigher

hurt us -I three goals in wing Dan Kissel. simple plays and tled for 54 min­another goal apiece, Ohio State think the pres­expectations and their 61 shots The Irish, how­getting it to the guy utes. scoring four minutes after the sure of higher pressure ofthat against tiH~ ever, got only "If you had Condra goal on a hard, top­
who can score goals. " 
nxpectations Buckeyes. Last three shots on asked me at the shelf shot from loft wing Sergio 
tournament

and prnssure of weekend in a net in the second beginning of the Somma. The Irish tied it at 2-2 that Tournament situation." win and a tie period and the lan Cole year that we'd when a Kissel slap shot from situation." against Alaska, Buckeyes capi­Irish defenseman finish in the top the left circle blasted past .Jackson said Notre Dame pot­talized with the four, I would Palmer's blocker side 14:56 into 
Jeff Jackson 

the goal for ted three goals tying and game-have been pret­the second. 
Irish coach

Notre Dame all in 71 shots. winning goals. ty pleased," The Irish increased their along has bnnn Ohio State, Buckeyes right wing Tommy .Jackson said. "The big thing is chances in the third period as to return to tlw CCIIA semifi­whose roster lists 15 freshmen, Goebel tied the game at 1-1 we have three weeks to get our­the game became rougher. With nals and finals at Joe Louis played more freshmen than any when his soft wrist shot worked selves ready for the playoffs three minutes left in the second Arena. but the most important other dass Saturday night, suit­its way along the ice under the and to me that's the most period Irish defenseman Dan thing is getting there whiln ing up 10 rookies and eight pads of Pearce at 16:37 of the important thing." Venard had his helmet ripped playing good hockey. Because if' non-freshmen. second period. Notre Dame off in a scrap with Hudasill. tlwy aren't playing great hoek­In the third struggled to VeNard continued to try to light ny, lw said. tlwy won't be hang­Ohio State 3, Notre Dame 1 period, Notre generate offense. the helmeted Hudasill with no
"I know it's not that 
ing out in the Jon for long. The Irish scorod first, but the Dame couldn't in the tirst peri­head protection until the refer­
The Irish. however, clinched a Buckeyes scored a last-second get many quality they're not trying, its od in between ee pried the senior assistant first-round bye in tlw CCIIA goal in the second period that scoring chances not that they're not man-down and captain away from him. tournament with the tin and proved to be the game-winner. past the power play situ­Neither side eould find the
listening. It's just a
Bowling (;rnen's 2-1 win over Buckeyes center Patrick Buckeyes ations. Ohio back of the net in the overtime l'if'th-plaee Ferris State. Notre Schafnr backhanded the puck defense and onto matter ofeveryone State eapital­period. the best chance coming Damn lorknd up fourth place in over the top of Irish goalie Palmer. The Irish we're playing is ized, scoring a on a shot from I Janson that was thn rngular snason, whieh will Jordan Pearce (20 saves) with almost surren­goal 12:30 into buried into Palmer's leg pads. 
playing tough." 
give them honw ien in thn see­six seconds remaining in the dered another the period ond round of the tournament in second period to give Ohio StatP. goal when before it was Note: mid-March. the 2-1 lead. Schafer picked up PearcP. came out Jeff Jackson disallowed for a + Irish defenseman Kylt~ 
Thn Bucknyns 111-21-4. 7-16-the pu1:k in the lower left eirde of the net and high stick. But Lawson missed both games this
Irish coach 
:H ont1~rnd tlw w1wknnd in lOth al'ter Pearce rejected a wrap­played the puck the Buckeyes weekend with an upper-body place in tlw CCIIA. but played around from lnft wing Tom up the boards struck on the injury. It isn't dear whether he like they were an NCAA con­Fritsche. right to an Ohio State player. power play filUr minutes later. will return nPxt wenknnd tnndnr in front of goaltender "It's frustrating and disap­The shot was saved from the Irish defenseman Stewart against Western Michigan. Joseph Palnwr. who made SX pointing for me bPcausn I have empty net by defenseman Ian Carlin whiffed on a puck in saves in tlw two games. Palmnr to watch them go through this," Cole, who was in front to bloek front of the Notre Dame net, Contact Kyle Cassily at was aid11el by Notre Dame's Jackson said. "I know it's not it. and Ohio State left wing Todd kcassily@nd.edu 
----------~---------------------------------------------, 
Monday, February 25, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 


HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~W/00®~~.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
EVASU 
j 

I rI I I 
~'2008 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
t~~~;;~tJ 

IODONEL l 
WHEN THE SAil-OR 
DIDNT TIE THE
rJ r J 

ROPE PROPERL-Y,
www.jumble.com 
IT WAS--­

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) Sat rda 's IJumbles: IRATE HEDGE SURELY DECEIT u y Answer: What the guidance counselor did when he picked up the hitchhiker -"STEERED" HIM RIGHT 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Billy Zane, 42; Eddie Murray, 52; Helen Shaver. 57; Edward James Olmos, 61 
Happy Birthday: A little will go a long way tlris year. Put your attributes to work for you. Focus on relationships ·· home and family and building a strong and secure future. Getting things out in the open will lead to a brighter future. Your numbers are 14, 17, 27, 31, 38,43 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Joining a group that takes action and makes reforms will build confidence and enthusiasm for the types of things that you see yourself doing. Emotional matters can be resolved and love connections made. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You don't have to be demonstrative to get attention. Better to slide things past" others low-key so that you can get on with your day and on with your life. Children and elders will play a role in a decision you make. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): Shoot for the stars in love, fmancial matters and work. Love and travel will go hand-in-hand, so go in search of adventure. A burden you didn't expect may tie you down if you don't make early plans. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone may be trying to help and will inadvertently hurt your feelings. Take it as a compliment that he or she cares enough about you to 
want to help. Love is in the picture but don't let it cost you. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make today a day of rest, relaxation, pampering and plan­ning your own comfort through the changes you make to your surroundings. A com· mitment can be made. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get out and do things. The people you love will be happy to tag along and watch your progress. A challenge will help you see your true potential and a possible new vocation. Ifyou believe in your abilities, so will every· one else. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't blow situations out of proportion or you will have a bard time getting back on track. Use your Libra charm to get what you want. It's time to recognize that you have talent but you must work hard to be successful. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Make some changes and expand your interests but do so on the sly. If someone gets wind of what you are doing you may face adversity or ruin a surpnse. A strong will and an industrious plan of attack should lead to the re­sults you are looking for. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make sure you can live up to the promises you 
make today. Boasting may get you immediate gratification but, long-term, it will result in worry and fretting over what's expected of you. Don't take action at the ex­pense of ruining your reputation. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): If it is apparent that someone is uneasy with your suggestions, think matters through a little more. Ask questions and find out how your intentions will influence the lives of the people around you. Act on behalf of every­one ifyou want things to run smoothly. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Follow through with your ideas and plans. Money will come to you through unusual means but may filter through your fingers if you let others talk you into spending foolishly. A passionate day should be easy to keep within budget. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get serious about your future, your partnerships and your professional direction. Make adjustments to past relationships by making amends for any wrongdoings. Clear the air and you'll be able to move forward. 3 stars 
Birthda_y Baby: You are adaptable, inviting and passionate. You are serious, cautious and dedicated. You are concerned with detail and have an open mind. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comjorfun, eugenia/asr.com for confidential consullations 
_, 


CROSSWORD 
Across 
Bay State sch. 6 Juicy fruits 11 Target of many a 
boxing blow 14 Sophomore's grade 15 Old Testament 
prophet 16 "It's no _!" 17 Good sign on a 
highway 19 Reverse of NNW 20 Dollar or Budget 
competitor 
21 Like the season before Easter 23 Floated gently in 
the air 267ona grandfather clock 28 Prefix with 
potent 29 Use a rasp on 30 Comment on, as 
in a margin 32 Expected 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
33 Org. for the humane treatment of pets 
35 Bobby of the N.H.L. 
36 Alcoholics Anonymous has 12 of them 
39 Once around a track 40 Catnip and fennel 43 Safe box opener 44 White (termites) 46 Cousin of a Keogh, briefly 
47 Arizona's Petrified Forest dates from this period 
50 Optimistic 
53 Sups 
54"_1uck?" 
55 Heavy hammer 
56 Bear witness 
58 Consequently 
59 Fr. holy woman 



r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, February 25, 2008 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Guard:s nine threes lead Irish to victory 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Sports Ediwr 
Wlwn he stood behind the arc, it seemed like Kyle McAlarrwy couldn't miss. 
The Notre Dame junior nailod a school-record nine 3-pointers, sonw from well beyond the 3-point linn, as t lw Ir is h wo n t he i r 3 6 t h straight horne game, 94-87 over Syracuse. 
"lin's the best shooter I've ever seen," junior forward Hyan Aynrs said. 
McAlarnny scored 30 points on 9-of-13 shooting, with only two of those misses corn­ing from :~-point range. 
"I felt really conl'ident tonight," McAiarnny said. "Especially because they were in zone. I knew my teammates would get me the ball." 
Notre Dame (21-5, 11-3 Big East) never trailed, despite being out-rebounded 51-33 by the Orange. 
see ORANGE/page 22 

En fuego 

Team has keys for sucess in postseason 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Notre Damn is a v1~ry danger­ous team. 
Now, the term dang1~rous is used pretty loosnly this time of year to dcscribfl potflntial N C A A Tournament teams. But there are sevflral 
traits  that  
rnakfl  a  
squad  an  

obvious candidate to do darn­age in its bracket. 
Strong 3-point shooting, rebounding and foul shooting are the most signilicant factors that make the Irish a dark horse Final Four contender. 
On Sunday against Syracuse, Notre Dame displayed its pen-

Fran Tolan 
Sports Writer 
see SHOOTING/page 22 
BENGAL BOUTS 

After months of training, boxers ready to fight 
a lot of potential in this have transformed since Because of the size of raised and advertisements
By ANDY ZICCARELLI 

year's crop of boxers. 0 c to be r from being at h­field, Bengal Bouts will sold will aid the missions,
Sports Writer 

"I'm so excited, we have letes to becoming boxers make another bit of history as will the proceeds from a great group of fighters," now in February, and I am tonight. For the first time, .each ticket sold for the 
The members of the Notre Land said. very excited to see what two rings will be used in tournament. Dame Men's Boxing Club There are a number of they are capable of here in the Fieldhouse for the pre­"We have grown to have done countless push­returning finalists and the ring. I definitely would­liminary rounds. They will become the single largest ups, sit-ups, jumping jacks champions from last year's n't be surprised to see a accommodate the 91 benefactor for the mis­and boxing drills since tournament, Land said. But bunch of novices come out matches that will take sions. It's something we October for this week's he also warned spectators and shock a lot of people." place, which is also a are really proud of," Land 78th annual Bengal Bouts not to count out the new­Around 200 fighters will record number of fights for said. tournament which begins eomers in this year's tour­compete in 12 different a single night. The cause is' something tonight at 6:30 in the Joyce nament. weight classes. Fighters The Bouts are a fundrais­that makes the intense Center Fieldhouse. "We have a great group of must make it through four er used to benefit the Holy training so worthwhile to 
Men's Boxing Club novices who look really tal­rounds in order to become Cross missions in President llunter Land sees ented," Land said. "They champions. Bangladesh. Donations see BOUTS/page 21 
HOCKEY 

Tourney hopes dwindling 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame continues to slip and slidn its way farthnr away from thn NCAA Tournament in the soeond hall' of tho season after a strong lirst hall' eroated high expectations for tho young to am. 
Tho No.9 Irish (21-11-4, 14­8-4 CCI lA) needed a swoop, or at lnast no losses, against Ohio State to maintain a grip on a spot in the NCAA tournament, but after a 3-1 loss Friday night and 2-2 tin in the 
see TOURNEY/page 22 


ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Revenge exacted for NDinwinover DePaul 
64 Sunday in a tight finish. 
By BILL BRINK 
The Irish (21-6, 9-4 Big
Sports Writer 
East) have won six of their 
last seven games. Thfl loss 

On Saturday, Notre Damfl dropped tho Blue Demons to avenged its one-point loss to 18-8 (7-6 Big East). DePaul earlier this season -The Irish led 60-55 with less beating the Blue Demons in than six minutes remaining, McGrath Arena for the first but freshman forward Felicia time in 17 yPars and grabbing Chester and senior forward a one-game lead over Caprice Smith eaeh hit shots Syraeuse for fourth place in to bring the Blue Demons the Big East standings. within one. From there, 
Sophomore centflr Erica DePaul's fouls undid sopho­Williamson had 16 points and more guard Deirdre eight rebounds and No . 14 -------=-=-:-:-:-==-===-=-:-:----::--:­Notre. Dame beat DePaul 66-see NAUGHTON/page 21 





