

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Hundreds plan to travel to MSU 
Students hope Irish can continue winning season against Spartans 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Hundreds of Notre Dame students will flock to East Lansing, Mich., this week­end to cheer on the Fighting Irish as the team takes on Michigan State Saturday afternoon. 
Sophomore Sean McGee is going to the game with over 300 people as a mem­ber of the marching band, which traditional travels to away games in the state of Michigan. 
McGee said the band usu­ally attracts a certain attention from the opposing team's fans when on the 
see MSU/page 6 



Prendergast urges action on Darfur 
By LAUREN KNAUF 
News Writer 
Human rights activist John Prendergast spoke about the devastation of Dafur in west­ern Sudan yesterday in the auditorium of the IIesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Pr~ndergast, who witnessed firsthand the effects of a national genocide, said apathy is not an option, even for stu­dents halfway around the world. 
"Altho_ugh Darfur may be in its darkest hour, it is always darkest before the dawn. Sudan's dawn is on its way," Prendergast said. "Only we, in this room, can bring light to Sudan's darkness." 
Prendergast began his lec­ture with a story of a Sudanese refugee named Ameena, who told him her tragic account of the night her village was crushed by the militia. Two of her four children were killed, and she was forced to travel miles through the harsh Sahara Desert. When she was done with her story, she said to him: "Now that you know, you must do something." 
The perpetrators of the genocide belong to a militia called the "Janjaweed," which acts "with deadly efficiency, and is backed by the Sudanese 
see DARFUR/page6 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 19 FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 19.2008 
Students' beliefs guide discussion 
Courses attempt to take objective look at election while factoring in personal views 
ByJENN METZ News Editor 
Editor's Note: This is the sec­ond installment of a series examining the place of politics in the classroom. 
Fair, political discussion can take place in the classroom, though that discussion can be guided, whether subtly or overtly, by the beliefs of the professor. 
Two University professors, currently teaching courses relating to the 2008 presiden­tial election take the two differ­ent approaches regarding the presentation of their own opin­ions in the classroom. 

NDSP releases campus crime statistics 
Officers hope details of past events will inform students, prevent future altercations 

,< 
c 
i 

' Robbery. 
5 

--·;· -~ 
·> .-.~ ·. 
ANDREA ARCHER/The Observer 
•<·': 

:tlilmlla: AggnsiveAs;aul 10 Burglary 
48 Homicide 0 Drugs 4 Larceny/9'ehides ···· 
51 MVT 17 
Rape ,. ~ 
Dr. Susan Ohmer, a professor in the Department of Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) teaches "Media and the Presidency" this semester, an FT'T course cross-listed as a course in American Studies, Political Science, History and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She informed her students outright of her politi­cal beliefs -she is a Democrat -at the beginning of the class, and explained that students' agreement (or disagreement) with her position would no in no way affect their grade. 
On the other hand, Professor Darren Davis said he will not 
see POLITICS/page 6 


By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) sent crime statistics for the month of August via e­mail to students September 12, which they use to help inform students of possible dangers on campus. 
"We want students to be aware of where crime is occurring and they can make decisions about whether they want to frequent these places," Assistant Director of NDSP David Chapman said. 
The e-mail reported one 

burglary, taking place in the Pasquerilla Center on August 4 and 28 accounts of larceny. 
Chapman said that a sus­pect has been identified for the burglary and has been taken into custody. 
Of the larceny cases, 20 
involved  bicycles,  one  
involved  a  wallet,  one  
involved  a  purse that was  

later returned, one involved a laptop computer, one involved an ID card, and one involved an ATM card, according to NDSP officer Keri Shibata. Other cases involved tools 
see CRIME/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Freshman class lacks diversity 
Percentage of ethnic students drops again 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 

The current freshman class . has been heralded as the most 
academically accomplished 
group in the University's histo­
ry, with average SAT scores of 
1405. But the class of 2012 is 
also Notre Dame's least ethni­
cally diverse in the past three 
years. 
Twenty percent of the class 
of 2012 is composed of domes­
tic ethnic minorities, a drop 
from 22 percent last year and 
24 percent two years ago. 
Three percent of the class is 
composed of international stu­
dents. 
"There are a lot of good 
things to say about this cur­
rent class: It is the strongest 
class in our history, ahnost 50 
percent of the students are on 
financial aid and we have 
great diversity in a number of 
areas," Assistant Provost for 
Admissions Dan Saracino said. 
"But with the ethnic minorities 
and the international students, 
we're not where we want to 
be." 
Saracino said the two-year drop doesn't necessarily quali­fy as a trend, but if the per­centage continues to fall, it would present a serious prob­lem for the University. 
''I'm not sure it's a trend. 
see DIVERSITY/page 4 
Friday, September 19, 2008 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
My father's 
•
campaign 
The news that the long-entrenched Republican Congressman Vito Fossella from New York's 13th district (composed of Staten Island and southern Brooklyn) had been caught for a DUI in Virginia first broke when my parents came to pick me up at Notre 
Joseph McMahon

Dame at the end of last semester. Slowly, rumors 
Assistant News 

began to circulate that 
Editor

Fossella was actually driving to see his mistress and secret love child in Alexandria, Va. 
At first, my father Michael McMahon, a Democratic New York City Councilman from the North Shore of Staten Island, dismissed these rumors like everyone else. However, as the press dug deeper, the facts became clear -Fossella had fathered a child out of wedlock, and had kept his second family secret for nearly two years. It appears Fossella was simply a "family values" politician who valued family so much that he decided to have a second one. 
Disgraced, he announced that he would not seek office in the upcoming election, opening the door for Democrats to take the seat for the first time in ten years. My father's lifelong dream of serving in Washington now was within reach, and immediately he was on the phones negotiating with the local Democratic party bosses. My father was definitely not their first choice, but after a much political posturing and several clever maneuvers, he was ultimately able to convince them that he was the best choice for the people of Staten Island and Brooklyn. 
Immediately, my father was handed the task of mounting a campaign for Congress with only five months until election day. In addition, he still faced a primary challenge from Brooklyn lawyer Steve Harrison who had run for the seat against Fossella in 2006 and had no plans of clearing the path for my father. 
Normally, Congressional races are organized over the course of two years, but with the help of an incredibly loyal and competent staff, he was able to get the campaign off the ground within a month. The Washington-based Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) was so impressed that they bestowed the coveted "red-to-blue" status on the campaign, encourag­ing many large Democratic donors to give to the effort. Big-name politicians like Sen. Hillary Clinton and Sen. Chuck Schumer have endorsed him, and the man who ran Barack Obama's suc­cessful primary campaign in Iowa signed-on to be his Campaign Manager, bringing with him a wealth of experience. 
However, the campaign has still been a battle, with my father facing a challenge from former Republican Assemblyman Robert Straniere, who was ousted from his own seat in 2004 by his own party and had since entered the hot dog business. While many may think this is a joke, they under­estimate the conservative leanings of Staten Island -a Democrat has not held this seat since the 1960's. 
In addition, fighting between staff members coupled with having to make 5 or 6 appearances at events and fuodraisers have started to take their toll. Despite all this, my father has dis­played a level of competence and professionalism throughout the entire ordeal. His honest approach and great record of service carried him to a 50-point win in the Sept. 9 primary, and I can only hope for the same results in the general election. But whatever the outcome of the elec­tion, he has put his heart and soul into this cam­paign and demonstrated the values of integrity, hard work, caring and patience. I can honestly say that there has never been a point in my life where I have been more proud to call him my father. 
The tJiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at 
jmcmaho6@nd. edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observe1 regards irselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comacr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How MUCH SLEEP DO YOU GET ON AVERAGE PER NIGHT? 






Isabel Chirase  Grace Mariucci  Andrew Kelly  Adebola Giwa  Amanda Costanzo  
sophomore Pasquerilla East  freshman Breen-Phillips  sophomore Zahm  senior Alumni  freshman Breen-Phillips  
..Weekdays plenty, week­,,ends none.  ..Depends on what my roommates are ,doing.  ..Depends on what her roommates are ,doing.  ..I got about 5 hours last night. I was up until 4 writing a 250 word essay ... Stop laughing, it's  "'Fm still a freshman archi, so I can still get about seven hours ofsleep at night.··  

not funny. 

Students eat hamburgers and hotdogs at a picnic held by Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS) on Thursday 
afternoon by Stonehenge. 
OFFBEAT 
World's oldest man has 113th birthday in Japan 
TOKYO -The world's oldest man cel­ebrated his 113th birthday Thursday in southern Japan, telling reporters he wants to live another five years. Tomoji Tanabe, who was born Sept. 18, 1895, received birth­day gifts, flowers and $1,000 cash from the mayor of his hometown of Miyakonojo, on Japan's southern island of Kyushu. 
Tanabe told reporters he wants to live "another five years or so," according to city spokesman Akihide Yokoyama. That was a slight downgrade from last year, when he said he wanted to live "for infinity." 
Teen 'detective' leads police to stolen bike 
WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. -Police in suburban Westchester County said a 13-year-old's detective work led 
TODAY TONIGHT 

..... 
<( 
(.) 
0 
...J 



them to a 17-year-old accused of stealing a $2,275 mountain bike. Scarsdale police said the bike was stolen while its 13-year-old owner was inside a vil­lage deli. 
The boy searched the Internet and found a bike that fit the description of his for .sale on eBay. He gave the information to investigators. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
,, 
IN BRIEF 

In "The Wonderbread Years.'' Pat Hazell finds humor in the experience of growing up in America. This event is today and SaL at 7 p.m. in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. on the Decio Mainstage · Theatre. Tickets are $40, $32 facul­ty/staff, $30 for seniors, and $15 for students and can be purchased at the Ticket Office. 
The annual Forum Film Festival will be held today at 7 p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Films on sustainability will be shown. The event is open to the public. Tickets are free and must be reserved in advance at the Ticket Office. 
The 25th annual Domer Run will take place Saturday at 9 a.m. The race will start on the west side of the Stadium. Runners must check in no later than 8:45 AM at the registration tables. Race day check-in will be held at Legends beginning at 8 a.m. 
There will be a Green Prayer Service on Sunday from 5:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. at the Grotto. The service is for Energy Week and being held by the Notre Dame Energy Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 80 HIGH 77 HIGH 77 LOW 58 LOW 53 LOW 57 
Atlanta 79 I 60 Boston 61 I 42 Chicago 77 I 53 Denver 79 I 49 Houston 86 I 65 Los Angeles 81 I 65 New York 66 I 50 Philadelphia 69 I 55 Phoenix 99 I 77 Seattle 68 I 52 St. Louis 82 I 58 Tampa 88 I 72 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
Friday, Septembr 19, 2008 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 
ELECTION 2008 
McCain would fire SEC chairman 
Republican presidential candidate wants to strengthen institutions 
Associated Press 
CEDAR RAPIDS -Republican John McCain, buffeted by criti­cism about his response to Wall Street's financial problems, said Thursday he would fire the SEC chairman and create a special trust to help strengthen weak institutions. 
In all but calling for the firing of Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Christopher Cox, McCain turned on a fellow Republican and for­mer 17-year House member who served on committees over­seeing investor protection and 
U.S. capital markets. President Bush appointed Cox in 2005. 
McCain also tried to counter Democratic rival Barack Obama as the two White House con-_ tenders jockeyed to explain how, as president, they would prevent the sort of financial tremors that have shaken the financial industry and consumer confidence this week. 
Economic issues traditionally favor Democrats and were expected to be especially potent for Obama in an election cyc1e after eight years of a Republican White House and a Congress controlled mostly by the GOP. McCain has a long history of opposing government regulation and receives economic advice from former Texas Sen. Phil Gramm, an advocate of free­market principles. In addition, McCain has served on and has been chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, which­has regulated -and deregulat­ed -vast parts of the economy. 
"The chairman of the SEC serves at the appointment of the president and, in my view, has betrayed the public's trust," McCain told a rally in this bat­tleground state. "If I were presi­dent today, I would fire him." 
Cox attributed McCain's com­ments to the heat of the cam­paign. 
"I've been in and around poli­tics for many, many years. I'm very happy that as chairman of an independent agency, thou­sands of men and women at the Securities and Exchange Commission are working very, very hard to protect American markets and investors' confi­dence in them," Cox said Thursday night after briefing lawmakers on a plan to rescue banks from the bad debts at the heart of the financial crisis. 
"Right now, with so much at stake in our country, there's no time for political sniping. This is a time and an opportunity for leadership," he said. 
In an earlier written state­ment, Cox said he's always been clear about his intent to leave the SEC when the Bush admin­istration ends in January 2009. Cox's term officially ends in June 2009, but he could stay on until a successor is named. 
Campaigning in New Mexico, Obama mocked McCain's call to fire the SEC chairman, basically saying why stop at Cox. 
"In the next 47 days you can fire the whole trickle-down, on­your-own, look-the-other-way crowd in Washington who has led us down this disastrous path," he told a campaign rally iri Espanola. "Don't just get rid of one guy. Get rid of this administration. Get rid of this philosophy. Get rid of the do­nothing approach to our eco­nomic problem and put some­body in there who's going to fight for you." 
McCain also proposed creat­ing a trust to review mortgage and financial institutions, identi­fy weaker ones and strengthen them before insolvency. 
"Today we need a plan that doesn't wait until the system fails," the senator said. "For troubled institutions, this will provide an orderly process through which to identify bad loans and eventually sell them." 
McCain's running mate, Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, joined him in Cedar Rapids and drew some of the biggest cheers with her stump remarks. She fum­bled a bit at the start when she said it was good to be in "Grand Rapids" -the Michigan city they'djust flown in from. 
Their speeches were repeat­edly interrupted by protesters who were dragged away 
~fessordUscusses 

poetry and art 
Menocal said. 
By TARA SCANNELL 

By looking at Christian News Writer 
churches and Jewish syna­gogues, Menocal said that the influence of Islamic architec­
Poetry works as an act of ture cannot be forgotten. history and is vital to the true "It is the Arabic culture ... understanding of the past, that profoundly shapes the said Maria Rosa Menocal, a culture of its Jewish commu­Humanities and foreign lan­nity," Menocal said. 
guage profes­sor at Yale University, dur­ing her lecture yesterday at Saint Mary's. 

Menocal said poetry and other art forms are critical in attempting to understand the history of medieval Spain, and specifically the how the cultures of 
Menocal's speech was part of the 
..It is the Arabic 
College'sculture ... that annual Christian
profoundly shapes 
Culture
the culture ofits 
Lecture on the 
Jewish community.,, important role of poetry in analyzing his­
Rosa Menocal 
tory.


Humanities professor 
"This annual Yale University lecture brings 
Catholics, Jews and Muslims intertwined. 
Although much of the histo­ry of medieval Spain was lost, historians are able to look at the art -including architecture of the time -to draw conclusions about the Arabic influence on the coun­try. 
"[This influence] has been largely forgotten and first and foremost it must be said by the Christians of Spain," 
to Saint 
Mary's a pro­
fessor of the humanities to discuss some aspect of the Christian divi­sion of Western culture", said Philip Hicks, a professor and Chair of the Humanistic Studies department at Saint Mary's College. "This inter­disciplinary humanities pro­gram emphasizes the dynam­ic role Christianity played in shaping our world." 
Contact Tara Scannell at tscannO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

138 DeBartolo Hall 

For ALPP and ANTH 
College of Science 
College of Engineering Students 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2008 APPLY ONLINE: www.nd.edu/,...,ois 
Friday, Seprember 19, 2008 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Crime 
continued from page 1 
'reported stolen and then reported recovered by the owner on the same day, tent stakes, video games, DVDs 
and food, Shibata said. 
The e-mail included com­parative data from the months of July and August about crimes taking place in Northeast South Bend. The number of aggravated assaults jumped from 4 to 10 between the two months. 
things," Shibata said. 
The subject also had unre­lated felony charges in Marion County, Chapman said. 
Also in April, a faculty phone call enabled NDSP to apprehend a subject leaving Stepan Chemistry Hall with a stolen laptop computer, 
..Maybe being aware ofthe crime that is taking place will help [students] seek options that will make it more difficult for crimes to be committed against 
them .. , 
Keri Shibata NDSP officer 
Shibata said that NDSP has not received information that students were involved in these aggravated assaults. 
Chapman said the only way NDSP receives information about students being involved in off-campus crime is if the student identifies himself or herself as a student to the officer and if the officer includes this identification in a report. 
NDSP has also not received information of students being 
..One ofthe best ways
involved in the said. "It's vital two rape cases to prevent these for us that reported in the things from when people month of see something
happening is to not 
August in is suspicious, 
Northeast let people in that you even if they South Bend. don •t know. Be are not sure Shibata said what's going
suspicious.
that crime sta­on or why it's tistics will con­suspicious, call tinue to be David Chapman immediately sent to stu­because we
assistant director 
dents monthly. have very good 
NDSP
"Maybe being aware of the crime that is taking place will help [students] seek options that will make it more difficult for crimes to be committed against them," Shibata said. 
Students can also find more information about crime on campus through NDSP's Crime Blotter. NDSP sends Crime Alerts if they deter­mine that students should be aware of a situation immedi­ately. · 
"If it's something where student safety is at risk, we send out a crime alert as soon as we possibly can," Shibata said. 
Chapman said that NDSP tries to send the most impor­tant information to students. 
"We have to judge. A lot of people, if they get so much [e-mail] from NDSP, they will delete it,•• Chapman said. "We have to be careful how much information we satu­rate students with," he said. 
NDSP urges students to contact them whenever they feel that something is suspi­cious. 
Phone calls from students, faculty and employees made it possible for NDSP to catch three subjects in cases last April and May. 
In one case last April, a stu­dent called NDSP to report a suspicious person, Chapman said. NDSP stopped the per­son who was from East Chicago who was suspected in several burglaries at Notre Dame and at other colleges, Chapman said. 
"He was targeting colleges and universities and going through dorms stealing 
stopped. 
Chapman said. This subject was also iden­tified as a sus­pect in other c a s e s , Chapman said. 
In May, aND employee phone call helped NDSP stop another person identi­fied as being in dorms. The subject was on parole at the time he was 

Chapman pointed out that none of these cases involved a break-in or forced entry. 
"One of the best ways to prevent these things from happening is to not let people in that you don't know. Be suspicious," he said. 
Shibata stressed the impor­tance students reporting sus­picious activity or people. 
"During that time, there were several instances when we would get called several hours after the fact," Shibata 
response time 

and if we're given timely information, we can catch up with these peo­p1e." 
If students would like to receive e-mail alerts of crime against students in the city of South Bend, e-mail Cpl. Hechlinski at Phechlin@southbendin.gov, the e-mail said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

Diversity 
continued from page I 

Two years in a row isn't neces­sari~ a trend. Three years, I would say, would be a serious trend, and we aim to change it," he said. "Both of those areas have jumped to the top of our priorities for next year's class to make sure that it is not a trend." 
Associate Director for Admissions Gil Martinez 
·:4nything less than 22
said the where they competition percent [ethnic minority] could organize among elite information
for next year·s incoming 
universities sessions for
class would be considered 
for top black parents diver·sit y a definite and high students has school stu­
disappointment .• , 
increased in dents who r e c e n t might· be Dan Saracino 
years. interested in 
"As the Assistant Provost the University. competition He said one of
Admissions 
to get into Notre Dame has become more and more difficult, and we're shooting for better and better students, with the diversity students especially, we're finding our­selves in competition with other universities and colleges across the country. We're play­ing in the leagues now with the ivy leagues, Stanford, Rice, and Duke," he said. 
Martinez said the decrease in diversity students has resulted mainly from a drop in black students. While the num­bers for Hispanics, Asians and Native Americans have remained consistent, the per­centage of black students at the University has fallen from five percent to three percent over the past two years. 
"The major drop was in African American students, and those are students that we have to recruit hard because they don't necessarily grow up thinking 'Notre Dame is where I want to go,"' Martinez said. 
Both Saracino and Martinez said the University has launched an aggressive new recruiting program to tap into the pool of ethnically diverse students in Chicago. 
"We're trying to fo·cus on, without ignoring other areas, Chicago. There are a signifi­cant number of African Americans in Chicago who we feel would be interested in Notre Dame," Saracino said. 
Matt Tipton, the president of the black men's group Wabruda agreed with Martinez's assessment that a lot of African Americans grow up without knowing about Notre Dame. For many of his friends at Notre Dame, this was true. 
"A lot of African Americans don't know about Notre Dame and they don't know where it is," he said. 
Martinez said recruiters were in the process of acquir­
ing locations 
in Chicago 
the biggest 

challenges was simply informing students about how close Notre Dame is to Chicago. "It amazes me how many 
diversity  students  from  
Chicago  don't  even  know  
where  Notre  Dame  is ....  

People don't realize that we're only 90 miles away," Martinez said. "[The information ses­sions are] just to talk about Notre Dame, 
use accounting that will bene­fit them the best, but we look at a more holistic view." 
Martinez did not elaborate on the changes to the financial aid policy. 
Recruiters have also been expanding internationally, Saracino said. 
"We have been focusing on Latin America and some recruitment in Asia," he said. "We're going to do some more recruitment in Asia and long term we're considering doing some more recruitment in Europe," he said. 
Tipton, who grew up in Gary, Ind., said the University's admissions counselors would have to look outside SAT scores and GPAs to find many top-tier diversity students, especially those who were raised in economically-disad­vantaged neighborhoods. 
"I wish they could look more behind the numbers, more behind the GPA. SAT scores don't tell everything about a student. A lot of these kids are disadvantaged, they don't have the resources to study for the SAT like other kids do," he said. "Growing up in Gary, Ind., the surroundings aren't conducive to learning." 
Saracino said he hopes these aggressive recruiting pro­grams help increase the per­centage of diversity students to last year's level. 
to get them 
..It amazes me how
think about it, 
and to remind many diversity them how students from Chicago
close we are." 
don •t even know where
In addition, 

Notre Dame is. ,,
Martinez said the University recently 
Gil Martinez 
changed its 
Associate Director 
financial aid 
Admissions
policy, although no 
public announcement was age from 3 percent to 4 per-made. Despite the fact that the cent." school doesn't offer full finan­Saracino was quick to note cial aid to anyone whose fami­these are goals, not quotas, for ly makes less than $40,000 next year's class. like Harvard. Martinez said it In the long term, Saracino will help the school recruit said he would like to increase more diversity students. the ethnic minorfty percentage 
"The school did change its to 30 percent within 5 years as policy so that we could be well as raise the percentage of players in the game, but it international students while wasn't a public announce­still maintaining the ment," he said. "We weren't University's Catholic percent­going to make an announce­age at around 80 percent. ment, but what we want to do is find the people that truly do Contact Joseph McMahon at need it. Different families will jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
'Vl'A···. S'··H··:~,··J,;""N;:
i_ .:' 
~-'•' .~ • ,._. . •·> . •• .,: ••• N : d <w .. • 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Monday, September 22, 2008 117 O'Shaughnessy, 5:00 p.m. 
With ·special b:rucst Tom Kellenberg~ f<~xecutivc l")irector and Public Policy Professor, \Xlashington Progran1 
Deadline to apply for Fall 2009 or Spring 2010 is November 15,2008. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors "W"elcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251, www.nd.edu/-wp 
"Anything less than 22 percent [ethnic minori­ty] for next year's incoming class would be considered a definite disap­pointment," he said. "Our other goal is to increase the international student percent-
I.~ive, learn, and work in the nation's capital during the fall or spring semester with the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


Friday, September 19, 2008 CON\PlLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Outrage caused by tainted formula 
SHIJIAZHUANG, China -Hundreds of Chinese parents, some cradling infants, con­verged on the company at the heart of the tainted baby formula scandal Thursday, demanding refunds and asking what they can safely feed their children. 
Thousands of others filled hospitals, many hovering over sons and daughters hooked to IVs after drinking milk powder tainted with melamine, a toxic industrial chemical that can cause kidney stones and lead to kidney failure. 
The scandal highlights the changing family dynamics and economic growth in China. A generation ago, women had little choice besides breast-feeding. Now, supermarkets are filled with dozens of brands of baby for­mula, marketed to women who continue working outside the home even after they give birth. 
Swiss atom smasher malfunctions 
GENEVA -The world's largest particle collider malfunctioned within hours of its launch to great fanfare, but its operator didn't report the problem for a week. 
In a statement Thursday, the European Organization for Nuclear Research reported for the first time that a 30-ton transformer that cools part of the collider broke, forcing physicists to stop using the atom smasher just a day after starting it up last week. 
The faulty transformer has been replaced and the ring in the 17-mile circular tunnel under the Swiss-French border has been coole'd back down to near zero on the Kelvin scale -minus 459.67 degrees Fahrenheit -the most efficient operating temperature, said a statement by CERN, as the organization is known. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Minneapolis bridge reopens 
MINNEAPOLIS-Emergency vehicles with lights flashing led twin processions to open the new Interstate 35W bridge before dawn Thursday, less than 14 months after the shock­ing and deadly collapse of its predecessor. 
Highway department trucks followed patrol cars. fire trucks and ambulances in slow north­bound and southbound parades that passed each other around the middle of the bridge just after 5 a.m. Behind them were hundreds of motorists in cars, motorcycles, trucks and buses, many of them honking their horns and a few waving American flags. 
Traffic was initially heavy on what had been one of the Twin Cities' busiest arteries, but it loosened up quickly and it continued to zip along through the morning rush hour. The old bridge had three lanes in each direction, but its replacement has five. 
NASA extends Mars mission 
LOS ANGELES -NASA is extending the Phoenix Mars mission again. 
The three-legged spacecraft has been digging trenches near the Martian north pole since landing on May 25 and its work was supposed to end this month. Phoenix is studying whether the site could have been favorable for microbial life to emerge. 
NASA spokesman Dwayne Brown said Thursday the space agency will invest about $6 million to keep the $422 million , mission going through December. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Students stabbed by lancets 
GOSHEN, Ind. -Sixteen northern Indiana students who were pricked by blood-testing lancets by three eighth-grade classmates were tested Thursday for contagious di<;eascs. 
The three Goshen Middle School students accused ofjabbing their classmates face prelimi­nary charges of battery and could face addition­al charges, said Goshen police Officer Kevin Miller. the school's resource officer. They also have been suspended from school for 10 days and face possible expulsion, he said. 
"It was just something they decided to do and it was poor judgment," hP said. 
Texas asking residents to stay away 
Galveston still hurting from Hurricane Ike, damage slowly being repaired 
Associated Press 

GALVESTON, Texas ­There's a grocery store open for business on Galveston Island. Cell phone towers are connecting calls. More lights are coming back on at night. 
But for all the little signs of recovery in this barrier island community thrashed by Hurricane Ike nearly a week ago, Galveston just ­
"isn't ready" for residents to  
return. Not even for a quick  
look around at their bat­ 
tered homes and business­ 
es, officials said Thursday  
as they pleaded for tens of  
thousands to wait at least  
another week before trying  
to come home.  
"By staying away and  
being patient, you are mak­ 
ing it possible for us to get  
you home in a week or so,  
instead of the months it  
would take if the city's  
infrastructure were more  
overwhelmed at this point,"  
Mayor Lyda Ann Thomas  
said.  
The roughly 45,000 peo­ 
ple who fled Galveston  
Island are among the more  
than 1 million who evacuat­ 
ed the Texas coast as Ike  
steamed across the Gulf of  
Mexico. Gov. Rick Perry said  
22,000 people are still living Galveston, Texas resident Michael Sims walks home on Thursday, September 18th,  
in more than 200 shelters. after purchasing supplies after Hurricane Ike.  
and he joined Thomas on  
Thursday in asking for  after the massive Category  13,000 barrels of oil and 84  Secretary Steve Preston  
patience.  . 2 storm blew through.  million cubic feet of natural  said as he stood alongside  
"I absolutely understand  Flight control of the  gas a day; the Gulf produces  Chertoff. "We want to make  
they want to get back to  International Space Station  about 1.3 million barrels of  sure they have breathing  
their homes ... I'd like to get  was to return Friday to the  oil a day and 7 billion cubic  room before they have to  
back to the mansion," said  Johnson Space Center,  feet of gas.  worry about mortgages  
Perry, who's been living in  which shut down a few days  To help ease the recovery  (that) will become an addi­ 
temporary quarters since  before Ike's strike.  in Texas, Homeland  tional challenge for them."  
his official residence burned  CenterPoint Energy said it  Security Secretary Michael  Chertoff was in Southeast  
down in June.  had restored power to near­ Chertoff urged private  Texas for the second  
Galveston Island  ly 900,000 homes, and the  mortgage lenders Thursday  straight day, watching over  
remained closed, as did the  utility was fast approaching  to cut some slack to finan­ the federal relief effort that  
worse-off Bolivar Peninsula,  the point where more peo­ cially strapped homeown­ has delivered hundreds of  
where the storm's surge  ple in the nation's fourth­ ers. The Housing  trucks of ice, water and  
washed entire neighbor­ largest city would be with  Department had earlier  food to the region's more  
hoods into the sea. Search  electricity than without.  issued a 90-day moratorium  than 5 million people.  
teams pulled out of both  The Interior Department  on foreclosures on FHA  Ike's death toll in the U.S.  
areas this week after  said Thursday that Ike  loans, a reprieve for about  stood at 56, with 22 in  
sweeping every house,  destroyed at least 49 of the  7,000 homeowners who  Texas, and there was still  
authorities said.  more than 3,800 offshore  were in foreclosure or on  the fear that more victims  
To the northwest, life took  oil or natural gas produc­ the cusp.  would be found. After  
more steps toward normal  tion platforms in the Gulf of  "A lot of times, after a dis­ Hurricane Katrina hit New  
in Houston, where traffic  Mexico, and some may not  aster, people come back,  Orleans in 2005, bodies  
picked up on the downtown  be rebuilt. The damaged  they have expenses they  continued to turn up for  
streets less than a week  platforms accounted for  didn't count on," HUD  more than a year.  


AUSTRALIA 


Hundreds of neW species discovered 
Associated Press  literally hundreds and hundreds of new  expected to take years, Caley said.  
species that llO one has evf~r collected or  Among the creatures researchf>rs  
SYDNEY ­ Marine scientists have dis­ described," said Julian Caley, a scientist  found were about 130 soft corals ­ also  
covered hundreds of new animal species  from the Australian Institute of Marine  known as octocorals, for the eight tenta­ 
on reefs in Australian waters, induding  Science who is helping to lead the  cles that fringe each polyp -that haVf~  
brilliant soft corals and tiny crustaceans,  research.  never been described in scientific litera­ 
according to findings released Thursday.  "So in that sense, it's very significant in  ture, and scores of similarly undescribed  
The creatures were found during expe­ that if we don't understand what biodi­ crustaceans, including tiny shrimp-like  
ditions run by the Australian chapter of  ver<;ity is out there, we don't have much  animals with cla\vs longer than their  
CReefs. a global census of coral reefs  of a chance of protecting it," he said.  bodies.  
that is one of several projects of the  Scientists at several Australian muse­ The 10-year census, scheduled for  
Census of Marine Life, an international·  ums have begun the complex process of  final publication in 2010, is supported by  
effort to catalog all life in the oceans.  working with the samples for genetic  governments, divisions of the United  
"People have been working at these  barcoding and taxonomy, the formal sys­ Nations and private conservation organi­ 
placPs for a long time and still there are  tem of naming living things. That work is  zations.  

Friday, September 19, 2008
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Politics 
continued from page 1 
disclose his personal partisan beliefs to his students during the course of the semester. He is currently teaching "Political Psychology of Racism," a junior political science seminar. 
Associate Provost and Vice President Dennis Jacobs told The Observer that in cases where political debate is appro­priate and relevant to course materials, the decision to dis­close political affiliation "is cer­tainly at the discretion of the faculty member." 
"I would say in many ways I would respect a faculty mem­ber who says 'I will disclose my political beliefs,"' or anything from their background that helped form those beliefs "on day one just to get it out in the air," he said. "Though, I'm not saying that all faculty members must disclose." 
There are certain classes, like those taught by Ohmer and Davis, in which political points of view "will shape and frame the debate all semester," Jacobs said, whether the professor reveals their personal position or not. 
An open policy 
"It is a challenge to teach during a presidential cam­paign," Ohmer said. The issues involved evolve on a daily basis, she said, and professors must "think on their feet." 
"It's like trying to navigate a river, but usually the stream is not moving so fast," she said. 
Ohmer decided to only teach the course, titled "Media and the Presidency" 
during election ­
the nature of the course. 
She said she believes the 

results of such a ballot would 
vary from college to college, 
and that one survey conducted 
in a business class showed 
more students in favor of 
McCain. 
"It gives me a sense of where 

people stand," she said. "It 
made me very committed to 
making sure the McCain sup­
porters felt comfortable." 
In the humanities, she said, 

"teaching is a conversation -a 
conversation in which the pro­
fessor is helping the students to 
develop skills,"that says 'here's 
how we can work together to 
gather knowledge in this area." 
That conversation is more 

about sharing perspectives and 
listening carefully than to "rant 
and to rave," she said. 
"I do not profess to be any 

sort of paragon at all," she said. "In a way, what we're doing in , the classroom models a discus­sion that would be helpful to 
have in politics in general." 
No disclosure ... 
Political Science professor 

Darren Davis also told his stu­
dents something on the first 
day of class -that he would 
play devil's advocate, taking 
different positions, but "those 
positions should not be con­
fused with my own personal 
beliefs," he said. 
He does not disclose his per­

sonal politics for several rea­
sons, the primary being he does 
not want to "tell students what 
to think." 
"My role is to teach them how 

to think," Davis said. "I don't 
want to indoctrinate them into 
a particular political viewpoint. 
We're teaching young adults, 
and many of 
their beliefs are 

years. She said evolving.
..It is a challenge to 
her course Professors have draws a num­teach during a influence, and I ber of students presidential think we need to with different . , be very careful."
campalgn.
opinions. Davis said he is 
Thinking back -more concerned to professors Susan Ohmer with what the she had in col­dass learns from
professor
lege that would orate their poli­tics and "attack, not educate," Ohmer, who start­ed teaching the course during the 2000 election, decided to remain neutral in the class­room. 
"I think back to that now, even though my political loyal­ties have shifted, and I remem­ber how that felt," she said. 
The first time she taught the course, Ohmer said she thought she "was being evenhanded" in concealing her political sympa­thies, "but students want to know where their professors stand because they are con­cerned it will affect their grade," she said. 
Now, she reveals those sym­pathies on day one. Ohmer told her class that she is a Democrat planning to vote for Sen. Barack Obama for president in November. 
"I say 'This is what I think, and I'm doing my best to be evenhanded, and if you think I'm tilting one way, let me know," she said. 
The purpose of her disclosure is "not to orate, not to preach, but to inform," she said. Though at times remaining neutral in debate "is a struggle when I have strong opinions." 
Ohmer administered a secret ballot to her class to ascertain how the class felt as a group about the presidential candi­dates. She said the results--22 for Obama, 11 for Sen. John McCain and one outlier for Fred Thompson -a write-in option -were not surprising given the political sci­
ence literature. 

He said he also wants to make students feel comfortable in the classroom, regardless of their politics. 
"[I want] a free-flow of ideas and discussion, as long as it takes place on a higher, aca­demic level," Davis said. "I want to create a classroom environment where every polit­ical view can be discussed." 
In order to facilitate this dis­cussion, "my political views are always held in check," he said. "I am neither liberal or conser­vative." 
Like Ohmer, Davis said he "hated those classes where my professors were opinionated, especially about politics." 
"I understand how that can be off-putting, how that can make students uncomfortable and intimidated," he said. 
When political oration takes place, "the understanding of what happens in reality is lost," Davis said. "So if I were to just stand up there and proselytize and preach, the students are missing that objectivity." 
Another reason Davis, who has been a professor for 15 years, does not disclose his political beliefs is the issue of race. 
"Because I'm black, there is an expectation of a certain political viewpoint," he said. "And I like to keep students guessing." 
Students in Davis' class, who may not have had black profes­sors in the past, "may approach the class and automatically think that I may be supportive of affirmative action," he said. "That's a problem. They won't ever know my views on affir­mative action in the classroom be-cause my views are pretty much irrelevant." 
..• except on matters of faith. 
Davis' draws the line on his policy of nondisclosure when it comes to issues regarding his 

-faith, he said. "One of the unique things about Notre Dame is that I can openly wrestle and challenge with these issues," he said. "I am not going to stand up in class and say students need to figure out on their own if geno­cide is reasonable." Citing abortion and the death penalty as other such issues, Davis said: ''I'm going to take positions on those because those are related to what I believe, and this is what Notre Dame is about." He separates matters of faith from the political, and said the discussion on these issues "is always heated." The lines between faith and politics are drawn "in the way you present the material ­how you cover it and how you approach it," he said. "But to a certain extent, it can't be sepa­rated." , 
"I'm not going to try to force my beliefs on the students, but I'm going to communicate to them that I do have a position on those issues." 
While teaching at Michigan State -a public institution ­Davis said he felt pressure not to raise these sorts of issues in the classroom environment. 
"But at Notre Dame," he said, "I feel comfortable, I feel encouraged to openly wrestle with certain issues and ideas that pertain specifically to my religious beliefs, not to poli­tics." 

Catholicism and politics 
Davis' discussion of his faith raises another issue with the role of political discussion in classrooms at Notre Dame: the University's religions affiliation. 
In terms of political and reli­gious beliefs, Dennis Jacobs, associate provost and vice pres­ident, said it is "dangerous to talk about the faculty as a whole." 
"Each [member] comes with a very complex set of values and opinions. You cannot try to aggregate the group," he said. 
Political party affiliation is "not a question" when the University hires new faculty, Jacobs said. "That is outside of the sphere of what a University does or is all about." 
The University is a Catholic institution, not a political insti­tution, he said, and political alignment -either to the left or to the right -should not be connected with the University's religious affiliation, as "ele­ments of Catholic teaching fall on both sides of the political spectrum." 
"As such, open debate on the issues of the day, in light of Catholic teaching, should be a hallmark of Notre Dame," Jacobs said. 
That reflection, he said, "might lead people to a particu­lar opinion that they then might express in the political process." 
Open discussion on a topic ­whether political or not -and examining it through many dif­ferent perspectives "is not only appropriate at a Catholic uni­versity, it is part of our mis­sion," he said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
MSU 
continued from page 1 
road. 
"It can be a different atmosphere," McGee said. "Fans of the opposing team can be really rowdy and hostile." 
This weekend, McGee expects the same type of reception. 
"They probably won't be too friendly, especially because we have a good chance at winning," 

~'/think it'll be a
he said. also sold at Senior tougher game, but face value to Spencer any interested
after last week we've 
Howard students.
got a little more
said the The Alumni g a m e confidence.·· Association against also sold 112 "t h e tickets in a spe­
Spencer Howard 
Spartans 

senior
will proba­bly be the toughest of the season so far. , 
"I think it'll be a tougher game, but afte·r last week we've got a lit­tle more confidence," he said. 
Students were able to obtain tickets from vari­ous sources including from a Student Union Board (SUB) lottery, at an Alumni Association ticket sale, or from SUB in a last minute ticket sale. 
SUB Board Manager Pat Gartland said 370 tickets were originally made available in the lottery. 
Darfur 
continued from page 1 
government," Prendergast said. 
"The Sudanese government is making money hand over fist and has a lot to lose if the rebels seize power; there­fore, they want to defeat the rebellion and send a message to the entire country." 
Prendergast said there was a wide array of reasons for the contin­uation of 

The lottery drawing took place on August 28. 
"About 1,200 students participated in the lot­tery," Gartland said. The winners were able to pur­chase two tickets at $70 each, which is face value. 
Gartland said the tickets are made available by Michigan State through the Athletic Department. 
In addition to a number of tickets that went unclaimed, Gartland said SUB received 63 more tickets from the Athletic Department which where 
cial offer to students. 
"Traditionally, we don't do away game ticket consignment pro­grams," said Kathy Maloney, who coordinates the ticket consignment program. "We will [sell tickets] for students if it's within driving distance." The Alumni Association 
will  also  welcome  stu­ 
dents and Irish fans  at  a  
hospitality tent  in  East  

Lan s i n_g , M a l o n e y s a i d . Students with an ID get free non-alcoholic drinks and snacks, she said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.ed1,1 

Hollywood view that African nations are "huge chasms of despair" and to see them as having "limitless potential for transformation." 
Prendergast described both presidential candidates and their camps as committed to the cause in Darfur, but he said they must be able to hear the constituency loud· and clear. 
"Raise your voices for Ameena, for the people of Sudan, for all the people who have been targeted in geno­cides past and present 
genocide and say 'not
"Raise your voices for 
in Darfur, on our
Ameena, for the people of
including watch," he the war in Sudan, for all the people said. 
I r a q , who have been targeted in Twenty­
counter­five years
genocides past and 
terrorism a g o , efforts and present and say 'not on Prendergast China's oil our watch.,, began his invest­work to ments in bring peace
John Prendergast 
the coun­and relief to 
try. These human rights activist Africa. h a v e Beginning greatly with the inhibited efforts to extinguish famine in Ethiopia, he even­the conflicts, making Sudan tually moved onto conflict "a unique country -one of resolution and more recently, the greatest challenges of our confronting genocide, partic­time," according to ularly in Sudan. Prendergast. 
Prendergast urged the Contact Lauren Knauf at audience to abandon the lknauf@nd.edu 


Friday, September 19, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 11,019.69 +410.03
.Jones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,615 43 871 2,130,820,505 
AMEX .t;87'2w73 .+'7~.34 
NASDAQ 2,199.10 +100.25 
~*!::--·:···.-·:::--~~:·· ..·.. -•·. ,,..,.., .. ,.;.,,...-.-:----.w.. • ­
,.f!l'f~'E;,;r;iii;,•· ······ z~lzs;i6 ..f.Jmf!l.f17•.··• 
S&P 500 1,206.51 +50.12 .NIKKEI (Tokyo) ?j;:j;~629.8~ +t4b:s4 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,880.00 -32.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +7.87 +1.46 20.01 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +2.97 +3.46 120.07 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +3.38 +1.36 41.57 !SHARE RUS 2000 (IWM) +5.90 -t-4.00 71.80 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.79 +0.027 3.437 13-WEEK BILL +250.00 +0.05 0.07 30-YEAR BOND +0.78 +0.032 4.113 5-YEAR NOTE +0.72 +0.018 2.507 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE {$/bbl.) -0.76 96.40 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +46.50 897.00 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.90 88.20 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 106.0250 EURO 0.7001 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0612 BRITISH POUND 0.5530 
IN BRIEF 
Government weighs financial options 
WASHINGTON -The government is weighing several options to ease Wall Street's worst financial crisis in decades, according to a person with knowledge of the talks. But taking over banks' bad debt, an idea that rallied the stock market on Thursday, is no certainty. 
Stocks surged late in the afternoon after a report that the administration was con­sidering creating a government entity pat­terned after the Resolution Trust Corp. created in the 1980s in the aftermath of the savings and loan crisis. 
But·the official, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the discussions, said the talks have not nar­rowed to a single option. 
President Bush canceled an out-of-town trip Thursday to stay in Washington and meet with his top economic advisers. 
Bush held a 40-minute meeting with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and' Securities and Exchange Commission chief Christopher Cox along with White House and Treasury Department aides. 
New Zune release possible iPod threat 
NEW YORK.-The Zune has a long way to go to become a threat to the iPod. But it is getting closer. 
With updated Zunes and new iPods hitting the market in the past week, I spent some time with each: a black-on-black version of Microsoft Corp.'s music and video player and a bright red model of Apple Inc.. 's iPod N ano. And it became clear that ther.e are a few things Apple can learn from the Zune ­though not surprisingly, Microsoft might want to take some notes as well. 
The Nano ($-149-$199) remains the more attractive of the two. Its new look is sort of growth-spurt chic, combining the long, lean looks of earlier models with a reoriented 2­ineh screen that debuted with the shorter, wider third-generation model. In addition, its sides are rounded, which gives it an oval­esqm'.shape that felt awkward cradled in my hand but was easy to slip into a back pocket. 
Amazing comeback on Wall Street 
Dow Jones gains 400 points after news of federal assistance for bank debt 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK ~ Wall Street rallied in a stun­ning late-session turn­around Thursday, shoot­ing higher and hurtling the. Dow Jones industrials up 400 points following a report that the federal government might create 
.an entity to absorb banks' bad debt. The report also cooled investors' fervor for safe investments like government debt that were in demand for much ofthe day. 
The report that Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson is considering the formation of a vehicle like the Resolution Trust Corp. that was set up during the savings and loan crisis of the late 1980s and early 1990s left previously solemn investors ebul­lient. Wall Street hoped a huge federal intervention could help financial insti­tutions jettison bad mort­gage debt and stop the drain on capital that has already taken down com~ panies including Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 
Worries about financial landmjnes on companies' 
.. b..ot.t)·ks:· h a v e e s s e n t. i a 11y crippled parts of the world's financial markets in recent days and led to the intense volatility in the markets this week. "It's going to take a lot report. the week after routs an attempt to keep the of the bad debt off the bal­The report from CNBC Monday and Wednesday. credit crisis from worsen­ance sheets of these com­gave direction to a market Broader stock indicators ing; the Fed added anoth­panies," said Scott that had weaved in and also jumped. The er $55 billion in overnight Fullman, director of deriv­out of positive territory for Standard & Poor's 500 loans Thursday. atives investment strategy much of the session as index rose 50.12, or 4.33 But it was only the for WJB Capital Group in investors shuttled percent, to 1,206.51, and prospect of a more com­New York, commenting on between the safety of the Nasdaq composite prehensive vehicle to the possibilities of an enti­Treasury bills and gold index advanced 100.25, or sweep up bad debt that ty akin to the RTC. It and the bargains posed by 4.78 percent, to 2,199.10. emboldened investors. could alleviate many of stocks that have been The report of a broader Congress established the the pressures causing the pounded lower. government bailout RTC in 1989 to buy $394 credit crisis, he said, and The Dow soared 410.03, proved more reassuring to billion worth of real reopen moribund credit or 3.86 percent, to investors than mov.es estate, mortgages and markets. But Fullman 11 ,019.69, surging 560 before Wall Street's open­other assets of hundreds noted, "the devil's in the points from its low of the ing bell Thursday by the of failed savings-and-loan details." day, 10,459.44. It was the Federal Reserve and other institutions. The corpora­"Bear markets are very Dow's biggest percentage major central banks to tion operated for several sensitive to news. And on point gain since October inject as much as $180 years disposing of the a scale of 1 to 10, this one 2002 but still leaves the billion into global money associations' assets, and is a 13," he said of the index down about 400 for markets. The moves were then went out of business. 


Some oil platforms not being rebuilt 
Associated Press sheens, but that it was too early to turners in six states as far away as 
issue any definitive findings. Pennsylvania remain without power as 
WA..'iHINGTON-At least 49 offshore ·"There are no reports of oil impact­a result of the hurricane and its after­oil platforms, all with production of ing the shoreline or affecting birds and math of heavy rain, said the depart­less than 1,000 barrels a day, were wildlife from releases in the Gulf of ment. Of those, 1.6 million customers destroyed by I lurricane Ike as it raced Mexico federal waters," said the are in Texas. across the Gulf of Mexico, and some agency. Other states affected are Louisiana may not he rebuilt, the Interior The agency also said five gas trans­(18,804 customers), Kentucky Department said Thursday. mission pipeline systems sustained (167, 740), Indiana (36,800), Ohio 
It said in the latest hurricane dam­damage, although the extent of darn­(488,900) and Pennsylvania (16,730), age assessment that the platforms alto­age is not yet known. It earlier had according to the department. gethe.r accounted for 13,000 barrels of reported four oil drilling rigs had been About 93 percent of the Gulrs crude oil and 84 million cubic feet of natural destroyed and another damaged. oil production remains shut down as gas a day. There are more than 3,800 · Meanwhile, the Energy Department does 77.6 percent of its natural gas production platforms in the Gulf pro­reported that as of midafternoon production, said the Minerals ducing 1.3 million barrels of oil and 7 Thursday, 12 of 31 refineries in Texas Management Service. billion cubic feet of gas each day. · and Louisiana, with a total production The Energy Department said 10 of 
Most remain shut down.. capacity of 3 million barrels a day, 39 natural gas processing facilities also 
The report by Interior's Minerals remained shut down as a result of the were still closed as a result of the Management Service said the agency hurricane that swept through the Hurricane Ike and Hurricane Gustav was conducting helicopter flyovers of region on Sept. 13. A number of the whieh hit two weeks earlier, giving the the Gulf waters to investigate uncon­others are operating at reduced runs. Gulf's energy infrastructure a glandng firmed reports of oil spills and oil More than 2.3 million eh~ctrieity cus-blow. 
Friday, September 19, 2008 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
ELECTION 2008 
Palin's husband refuses to testify 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE-Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin's husband has refused to testify in the investi­gation of his wife's alleged abuse of power, and a key law­maker said Thursday that unco­operative witnesses are effec­tively sidetracking the probe until after Election Day. 
Todd Palin, who participates in state business in person or by e-mail, was among 13 people subpoenaed by the Alaska Legislature. McCain-Palin presi­dential campaign spokesman Ed O'Callaghan announced Thursday that Todd Palin would not appear, because he no longer believes the Legislature's investigation is legitimate. 
Sarah Palin initially welcomed the investigation of accusations that she dismissed the state's public safety commissioner because he refused to fire her ex-brother-in-law, a state troop­er. "Hold me accountable," she said. 
But she has increasingly opposed it since Republican presidential candidate John McCain tapped her as his run­ning mate. The McCain cam­paign dispatched a legal team to Alaska including O'Callaghan, a former top U.S. terrorism prosecutor from New York to bolster Palin's local lawyer. 
Earlier this week, Alaska Attorney General Talis Colberg said the governor, who was not subpoenaed, declined to partici­pate in the investigation and said Palin administration employees who have been sub­poenaed would not appear. 
State Sen. Bill Wielechowski, a Democrat, said the McCain campaign is doing all it can to prevent the Legislature from completing a report on whether the GOP's vice presidential nominee abused her power as governor. 
Wielechowski, a member of 
115 Dixie Way North, South Bend 
~' "> (574) 277-7239 


FcUo\\ ship Of CathoH' Unh't:rsity Stud,nts 
the panel that summoned the witnesses, told The Associated Press that the witnesses can avoid testifying for months without penalty and that court action to force them to appear sooner is unlikely. 
Palin fired Walt Monegan in July. It later emerged that Palin, her husband, Todd, and several high-level staffers had contact­ed Monegan about state trooper Mike Wooten. Palin maintains 
~ 

she fired Monegan over budget disagreements, not because he wouldn't dismiss her former brother-in -Ia w. 
Wooten had gone through a nasty divorce from Palin's sister before Palin became governor. While Monegan says no one from the administration ever told him directly to fire Wooten, he says their repeated contacts made it clear they wanted Wooten gone. 
Alaska Senate President Lyda Green, a Republican foe of Palin, said Wednesday that the investigation is still on track. 
"The original purpose of the investigation was to bring out the truth. Nothing has changed," she said. 
Without the testimony, the retired prosecutor hired to head the investigation could still release a report in October as scheduled, based on the evi­dence he's already gathered. As of Thursday, Steven Branchflower had interviewed or deposed 17 of the 33 people he had identified as potential witnesses in the probe. 
The Legislature does not have the leverage to compel any wit­ness to testify before Nov. 4, said Wielechowski, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
Contact: Angela Teltborst -Midwest Regional Director atelthorst@focusonline.org 314.596.8100 -www.focusonline.org 
VENEZUELA 
Countries form alliance over oil 
Associated Press 
CARACAS -Venezuela and Russia are strengthening their strategic alliance with new plans to cooperate on oil pro­duction, weapons and even wireless technology, the gov­ernments said as two "visiting Russian Tu-160 bombers left for home on Thursday. 
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, traveling to Moscow next week at the invitation of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, is planning new oil projects with Russian companies and joint military exercises with Russian warplanes and ships in the Caribbean by December. 
Venezuela also is in talks to buy Russian air defense sys­tems and armored vehicles, and has expressQd interest in the new Su-35 fighter, due ofT assembly lines in 2010, said Sergei Chemezov, general director of the Russian state holding company Rostekhnologii, according to Russia's Interfax news agency. 
The allies have sealed more than US$4 billion in defense deals since 2005. Venezuela has bought Sukhoi fighter planes, Mi-1 7 helicopters, and 100,000 Kalashnikov assault rifles, most of which have already been delivered. 
Chemezov spoke to reporters in Caracas on Wednesday while accompanying Russian Deputy Prime Minister Igor Sechin, who stressed that while energy cooperation is paramount, the military rela­tionship also is strengthening. 

Russia has agreed to help build a factory in Venezuela to make rifles and ammunition, and to set up a center to train pilots and fix helicopters. The countries also are discussing joint projects to build ships and cars. 
Russian officials even offered to install broadband wireless networks to provide cheap Internet and telephone service to Caracas, Chernezov told Russia's ltar-Tass news agency. 
The countries' military coop­eration is growing "more solid every day," Venezuelan· Defense Minister Gen. Gustavo Rangel. said. 
Their alliance was mocked on Thursday by U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who said Russia is only isolat­ing itself. 
The United States is confi­dent that its own relations with Western Hemisphere countries "will in no way be diminished by a few, aging Blackjack bombers visiting one of Latin America's few autocracies;" she said. 
FRANCE 
Manuscript verified as work of Mozart 
Associated Press 
PARIS -It's a forgotten melody, sketched in black ink in a swift but sure hand. 
The single manuscript page, long hidden in a provincial French library, has been veri­fied as the work of Mozart, the apparent underpinnings for a Mass he never com­posed. 
The previously undocument­ed music fragment gives insight into Mozart's evolving composition style and pro­vides a clue about the role religion may have played for the composer as his life neared its turbulent end, one prominent Mozart expert says. 
A library in Nantes, western France, has had the fragment in its collection since the 19th century, but it had never been authenticated until now, part­ly because it does not bear Mozart's signature. 
Ulrich Leisinger, head of research at the International Mozarteum Foundation in Salzburg, Austria, said Thursday that there is no doubt that the single sheet, the top third of which has been cut off, was written by the composer. 
"His handwriting is absolutely clearly identifi­able," he added. "There's no doubt that this is an original piece handwritten by Mozart." 
Leisinger said the work had been "entirely forgotten." Such a find is rare: The last time unknown music in Mozart's handwriting came to light was in 1996, when a por­tion of an aria was sold at Christie's, Leisinger said. 

The library does not plan to sell, but if it did, the single sheet would likely be worth around $100,000, the expert said. In all, only about 100 such examples of musical drafts by Mozart are known. 
There have been up to 10 Mozart discoveries of such importance over the past 50 years, Leisinger said. 
The sheet was bequeathed to Nantes' library by a collec­tor in the 19th century, along with one letter from Mozart as well as one from his father. Both the letters were pub­lished in Mozart's complete correspondence, said Agnes Marcetteau, director of Nantes' municipal library. 
In an annotation dated Aug. 18, 1839, Aloys Fuchs, a well­respected autograph hunter who collected works from more than 1.500 rnusieians, authenticated that the hand­writing was that of "W.A. Mozart." 
But strangely, the work never attracted much atten­tion, partly because it did not bear Mozart's signature and partly because the catalog notation about it. was extremely brief and bland. Leisinger said. 
--------------------------------~--------------------·--­
page 9 Friday, September 19, 2008 
The Observer +NATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. Rep not expecting charges 
Associated Press 
WEST PALM BEACH ­Former U.S. Rep. Mark Foley isn't expected to face charges after a lengthy investigation into his lurid messages to underage congressional pages, two federal law enforcement officials told The Associated Press on Thursday. 
The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to dis­cuss the case, said the results of a state investigation would be announced Friday. 
They said neither state nor 
federal charges were expected, although an FBI investigation has not been closed yet. 
Foley resigned in 2006 after being confronted with the e­mails and instant messages he sent to male pages. He has since been under investigation by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement and the FBI. 
Foley's attorney, David Roth, has acknowledged that Foley sent the messages to the teenagers, but has maintained that the Florida Republican never had inappropriate con­tact with. minors. Roth had no immediate comment on the pending announcement. 
Shortly after Foley's resigna­tion, Roth announced Foley was gay and had been molested by a priest as a teenage altar boy. Foley also checked himself into an Arizona treatment facility for what his attorneys said was "alcoholism and other behav­ioral problems." 
"Mark does not blame the trauma he sustained as a young adolescent for his totally inap­propriate e-mails and (instant messages}. He continues to offer no excuse whatsoever for his conduct," Roth said at the time. 

SERVING Saint Marv's and Notre Dan1e
., 

STlJflENTS, FACULTY & STAFF ON and OFF CAtvtPUS! 
\ 

~~ww.In (Iiana G rocet·ies.co m 574-360-7510 
You Shop...Choose A Delivery Day/Time...\Ve Deliver Right to Your Door..•! 


FREE-Papa Murphy's Take 'N' Bake-Medium Pepperom. p·1zza.... ' 
**Just Type "Free Pepperoni Pizza" in the Special Instructions when checking out** Expires Oct 31"1 -Limit 1/ Order 
Mother requests medal for son 
Associated Press 
CAMP PENDLETON -The 
mother of a Marine who wit­
nesses say covered a grenade 
with his body to save com­
rades in Iraq plans to appeal 
to Congress to award her son 
the nation's highest military 
honor after learning it was 
denied by Defense Secretary 
Robert Gates because of ques­
tions about his final act. 
Rosa Peralta said Thursday she made the decision after a Marine general told her that her son, Sgt. Rafael Peralta, would be awarded the Navy Cross rather than the Medal of Honor because the nomina­tion was tainted by reports he was accidentally shot by a fel­low Marine shortly before an insurgent lobbed the grenade. 
''I'm going to see what can be done, because I'm not sat­isfied with what they want to do now," she said in Spanish. 
President Bush singled out the Marine's actions in a 2005 Memorial Day speech, saying Peralta "understood that America faces dangerous ene­mies, and he knew the sacri­fices required to defeat them." 
"The president spoke of him. So how is this now possi­ble that they do this," Rosa Peralta said. 
She said she was consider­ing rejecting the Navy Cross, the second-highest award for valor in combat that can be awarded to a Marine. Peralta will be the 24th recipient of the Navy Cross for actions in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
"I still don't know what I'm going to do," she said. 
The question about whether to award Peralta the Medal of Honor centers on whether the mortally wounded Marine, who was shot in the head and upper body, could have inten­tionally reached for the grenade and covered it with his body. 
"There was conflicting evi­dence in the case of Sgt. Peralta as to whether he could have performed his final acts given the nature of his injuries," said Capt. Beci 



YOU CAN'T CUT IT (YET)!! 
Stop by University Hair Stylists for the Fall Cut-A-Thon to benefit S-0-S! 
Sunday, Sept. 21 • 10 a.m.-4 p.m.* 
*No Appointments-· First-come, first-served 
For a donation of $15, enjoy a professional haircut, express manicure, or massage! 
Help us as we join three other area salons to raise money for S-0-S of Madison Center, the Rape Crisis Center for St. Joseph County. 
so-s 

Need help? Call the S-0-S 24-hour Crisis Line at 289-HELP. of M,>.dison Center 
University Hair Stylists •LaFortune Student Center • 631-5144 
Brenton, spokeswoman for 
Navy Secretary Donald Winter. 
The initial recommendation 
that he receive the Medal of 
Honor went through reviews 
by the Marine Corps, U.S. 
Central Command, the 
Department of the Navy and 
ultimately up to Defense 
Secretary Gates, Brenton said. 
After all the evidence was 
scrutinized, officials deter­
mined that it "did not meet 
the exact standard necessary 
to support the Medal of 
Honor," she said. 

But Rosa Peralta said she 
was led to believe her son 
would get the Medal of Honor 
in a November 2007 tele­
phone call from an undersec­
retary of the Navy, who she 
says told her the nomination 
was to be forwarded to the 
White House. 

Defense Department spokesman Bryan Whitman said there was a June 2007 Navy recommendation for the Medal of Honor, but it never went to the White House because Gates didn't approve it. 
He said that because there was some contradictory evi­dence, Gates instead took the extra step of asking five other individuals to review the case -a former commander of 
U.S. forces in Iraq, a Medal of Honor recipient, a civilian neurosurgeon who is retired 
from the military and two forensic pathologists who also are military retirees. 
The five were given medical reports that had not been available in the initial review. They thoroughly reviewed the case again, including inspect­ing the evidence and re-enact­ing the event, Whitman said. 
"Each independently recom­mended to the secretary that the evidence did not support the award of Medal of Honor," he said. 
Gates made his decision this month. 
A Medal of Honor nomina­tion is typically made by the military, approved by the Department of Defense and conferred by the president. But a nomination can also be made through a special act of Congress and then bestowed by the president on behalf of Congress. 
The Medal of Honor comes with about $1,000 a month special pension in addition to other military pensions. 
Peralta was shot several times in the face and body during a house-to-house search in F~lujah on Nov. 15, 2004, during some of the fiercest fighting of the war. 
According to witness accounts, Peralta lay mortally wounded on the floor of a house and grabbed a grenade lobbed by fleeing insurgents. His body absorbed the blast and he died immediately. 
In a rare move, the Marine Corps Thursday released a redacted copy of the Medal of Honor nomination by Lt. Gen. Richard Natonski and an investigative report detailing the "friendly fire" shooting of the sergeant. 
The report found sufficient evidence existed to believe that Peralta was probably shot by a fellow Marine and that a gunshot wound to the head and injuries to the head from a grenade caused his death. 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
· AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
{574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(57 4) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 

Progress towards sustainability admirable but delayed 
Earlier this year, the University of Notre Dame received a grade of C from the Sustainable Endowments Institute for its efforts to become more environmentally friendly. The 2008 College Sustainability Report Card averaged grades in eight different categories, including "Administration," "Climate Change & Energy" and "Investment Priorities." With one A, three Ds and four Cs, our campus sustainability G.P.A. rose from last year's widely publicized 0-. 
What changed in the span of a year? 
In terms of the report, in 2007 the University was awarded an F in "Administration," "Green Building," "Climate Change" and "Endowment 
O
THE

Transparency." Those grades have risen to C, 
BSERVER
C, D and D, respectively. "[the environment] merits most careful attention _ Notre Dame's highest grade in 2007, a C in and is truly one of tremendous importance at the
Editorial
"Investment Priorities," rose to an A, with the present moment in the history and development values, such as the stewardship of natural resources. 
While the administration's efforts at change are admirable, it's surprising that this topic went without notice for so long. Until last year's report card, "sustainability" was hardly the hot-bed word it is now. "An Inconvenient Truth" had already permeated American and world culture, and global warming has been a topic of concern for years. 
Even the discussion of Catholicism and the environment is hardly new. 
Rewind over two decades to November of 1987, when Pope John Paul II oversaw a symposium on the envi­ronment through the Pontifical Academy of Sciences. The Holy father remarked then that 
report citing the University's goal to "optimize investment return" as well as current invest­ment in renewable energy funds as a reason for the grade increase. 
On campus, the changes resulting from the 0-are obvious. Recycling bins are more widespread and visible now than ever before. Programs for the Opening Mass were locally printed with environmentally friendly ink. This year's Academic Forum, one of President Rev. John Jenkins' big ini­tiatives since taking office, will focus on sustainable energy, with the goal of continuing dialogue and research across campus well after the Forum on Sept. 24th. Father Jenkins has also repeatedly connected sustainability with Catholic of our modern world." 
Why, then, have environmental ·issues received so little attention at Notre Dame until now? The administra­tion seems to be taking a reactive, rather than proactive, approach to these problems. Our peer schools have been focusing on sustainability issues for years. In 2007, the Observer reported that Harvard University received an A­from the Sustainable Endowments Institute, as well as Dartmouth College, Stanford University and Williams College. 
It's clear that the administration is working to expand the potential of Our Lady's University. One has to ask, however, if the current focus on sustainability is ·really motivated by a sense of our environmental responsibility. 
NEWS DESK 

(574} 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudents ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies Jhou!d be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oh<ervcr (USPS 599 1-4000) i• publiohcd Mond•y du.,uglt Friday CJOC<pt duru~g exam and vacuinn P'=riods. Asubscription 10 The Ohsetwr is $100 fOr one:: ,academic 
yt':3f; S55 for one .JCmorer.  
Tht Ob5crvc:t is published at:  I'OSTMJ\STER  
OH Sou<h Dining Hall  Stnd address corrcctiOfl.i ro:  
Nom: Dame. IN 4M56.()779  The Obscrvtt  
l'ctiodic.l P"'tagc paid at Notrt Dam<  P.O. B<>x77?  
md additional mailing offia:s.  024 South Dining Hall  
Nom Dame, IN 46'5'56·fl779  

The: Observer ls a mcmbc:r of the Associated Ptcs:~. All rcproduuion rights an:: reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  
Joe McMahon  Bill Brink  
Ashley Charnley  Laura Myers  
Amanda Gray  Michael Blasco  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Kara King  Stephanie DePrez  
Graphics  
Andrea Archer  

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..Indecision may or may 
not be my problem.·· 
Jimmy Buffet 

U.S. singer/songwriter 


MSNBC deserves three thumbs down 
Just eight years ago. when AI Gore opposed George W. Bush for the presi­dency, cable news flourished during its infancy. While serving at the time as a Clinton public affairs presidential appointee, I not only spoke with reporters from each upstart cable· news organization, I routinely moni­tored Fox News, MSNBC, CNBC and the grand daddy of cable news at that time, CNN. In 2000, reports from all of the cable channels was not edited by political philosophy like much of it is today. Unlike today, commentary was confined to segments clearly apparent to the viewer. 
Currently, it is obvious just from the information slowly crawling at the bot­tom of the screen that ratings, market share and political philosophy drive many cable news operations. For exam­ple, recently CNBC, MSNBC and CNN included excerpts in their crawls from a major policy speech given by Democratic presidential nominee Barrack Obama about his view for sustaining the econo­my. However, Fox News chose to display political strategy excerpts from Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean without a single Obama quotation. On the surface, both may have been newsworthy, but Dean spoke political strategy on how to win red states while Obama's political policy affected the nation. One could argue that in an effort to maintain viewers, Fox pandered to its demographic supporters -a type of editorial content nonexistent in 2000, but one worthy of thumbs-up ratings. 

I personally identify myself as liberal. Ironically, while the Vietnam War raged, I entered Notre Dame as a somewhat conservative-thinking person but gravi­tated to an extremely liberal philosophy by graduation. Contrary to the remarks of many who respond to this column, I do not drink the liberal kool aide like Rachel Maddow at MSNBC. In fact, I dis­approve of the way she stretches logic in her "Mind Over Chatter" or "Ms. Information" segments on her new com­mentary program which now fills the time slot previously held by conservative Tucker Carlson. For example, in an effort to discredit Republican vice presi­dential nominee Sarah Palin last week, Maddow played Palin's remarks to Alaskan troops departing for Iraq in which Palin said that she hoped the mis­sion was part of God's plan. Maddow stretched logical interpretation to accuse Palin of advocating a government sanc­tioned church. 
Following both political conventions, 
MSNBC executives announced that Chris Matthews, host of the political discussion show "Hardball," and Keith Olbermann, host of the political satire show "Countdown," would no longer partici­pate in the network's election night cov­erage for November. Some noted that the two personalities were so partisan that MSNBC executives averted an inter­nal war with established NBC journalists Tom Browkaw and Brian Williams, whose sense of news reporting never had a political bent. It was no news flash for Hillary Clinton supporters who rec­ognized the duo's bias earlier this year. 
Matthews and Olbermann's demise began during the primary election cycle. They consistently displayed overt excite­ment of the possibility of upstart Obama knocking off a Clinton. For Clinton liber­als, the Clinton bashing felt like our mother was eating her young like in the animal world. Olbermann couched ques­tions about Obama differently than about Clinton. One evening, he mildly asked Maddow, "Some say Obama is not capturing certain segments of the elec­torate. What does he need to do to appeal more to working class Democrats for example?" Later, Olbermann set up an argument with negative conclusions about Clinton in his question by asking another commentator, "Hillary Clinton has failed to gain African-American sup­port. She is losing by 85 percent to 9 percent. Wouldn't you say that she has no chance to counter that loss?" 
Day after day, week after week throughout the spring primary cycle, Olbermann slanted his broadcasts away from Clinton in favor of Obama. For us liberals who had not jumped on the more liberal Obama bandwagon, MSNBC excluded us loyal viewers with blatant support of Obama. The bias insulted us as MSNBC -and most notably Olbermann -our witty political friend had turned on us. We were stunned, saddened and angered. 
Lately, in discussing the Olbermann and Matthews removal from election evening coverage, Fox News commenta­tors said that MSNBC had slighted Clinton. For once, Fox and a cross-sec­tion of liberal viewers were in agree­ment... a possible foreshadowing of the end of life as we once knew it. For many liberals, it will take years for MSNBC to regain its trust with them. Until that day, MSNBC will receive every thumb down we can find. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame 73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs direc­tor in President Clinton's administration. /lis column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni. nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
"Us' and "them' status draws response 
Attitude cause Individuals must begin ofseparation bridging the gap 
Andrew Nesi wrote a column yesterday ("Moving beyond the 'us' and 'them',"} encouraging interaction with South Bend resi­dents apart from just service experiences, advocating "equal footed engagement," which, he argues, is the only way we can overcome our socioeconomic and historical differences. After all, he argues, not all South Bend resi­dents are "NASCAR-loving mimeo­graphs of My Name is Earl Characters." 
Thanks Nesi; how gracious of you. Saying "we're people with disparate interests and experi­ences, nuanced beyond the stereo­types into which we each cleanly fit ourselves and others" sounds lofty and academic, but it doesn't negate the patronizing language he used in his opening paragraph to describe his neighbors. 
I'll summarize his unflattering description for those who didn't have the pleasure (I mean·cha­grin} of reading it yesterday: ··The house with the bench press on the porch ... mailbox man was shirt­less ... the type with a Budweiser belly ... sparse, premature gray hair on his chest." And here's my favorite, "Jean shorts that hung low enough that I could see his ... lower middle class, if you know what I mean." 
Lower middle class? Now I pose the question: How are we ever going to establ!sh solid neighborly relationships with our South Bend residents with people like Nesi writing articles dripping with con­descension in our official University Newspaper? I wonder why South Bend Police Department won't cut Notre Dame students any slack; after all, we Notre Dame students admit that not all South Bend residents are "mimeographs of My Name is Earl characters." 
I want to offer some advice to anyone interested in alleviating tensions between Notre Dame and South Bend. Talk to your cab driv­ers, servers, cashiers and any other South Bend residents you interact with on a daily basis, and talk to them in the spirit of trying to understand them. In every sense of the word, they are your equaJs, and their labor is as digni­fied as your schoolwork. Put pres­sure on your student leaders and university officials to enact poli­cies that make our campus a place where we can be college students, instead of policies that drive stu­dents off campus into neighbor­hoods where children are trying to get sleep, and show yourself worthy of these policies. 
As the entire Notre Dame com­munity, we have to make an effort to resist the temptation that comes along with great blessing ­the temptation of self-aggrandize­ment. Instead of accentuating dif­ferences or posing solutions in hypocritical articles, let's focus on making ourselves -individually and collectively -conduits of blessing for our local community, understanding and sympathetic neighbors and, above all, equals, in thought, deed and word. 
Cynthia Weber sophomore Pasquerilla Wesr Hall Sepr. 18 
My first reaction when I read Andrew Nesi's "Moving beyond 'us' and 'them'," (Sept. 18} was anger. 
"It is exactly that kind of elitist attitude that gives Notre Dame a bad name in South Bend," I thought from the security of my high rise office, 20 years removed from my life as a student. 
But as I thought more about it, I actually felt bad for him. Here's a guy that sees the differences and has at least some desire to bridge the culture gap between "Domer" and "Townie," between "haves" and "have­nuts," between "us" and "them." They're the same differences we face every day out here in the "real world." 
Thankfully, Andrew, in your current role you have the blessing of being able to do something about it. Since you don't know Mailbox Man's name, it is obvious that you have never introduced yourself to your own neighbors. 
Why not? Surely your differences should not stop you from paying them even this minimum courtesy. If they were students, wouldn't you have done so by now? 
And, believe it or not, you do have simi­larities. You live in the same neighbor­hood. You get up every morning and slug it out at your own challenges. You're likely praying to the same God. You both want to succeed. You both want your neighbor­hoods to be safe. You've both got families, dreams, fears, likes, dislikes. The fact that your specific circumstances are different does not mean that you cannot share those things. 
Yes, Notre Dame has a tendency to exist in a bubble. But you, as an off campus res­ident, have the best opportunity to break through that bubble, even just a little at a time, because you could interact with "them" everyday. 
(By the way, there is a good chance that "they" -or at least some of their family members -are serving you in the Huddle or cleaning your classrooms while you 
sleep. It is likely that you are interacting 
with them every day and don't even know 
it}. 

How do you know they wouldn't enjoy Kegs and Eggs? Have you invited them? Have you ever asked them to share a meal with you? Invited them over for Monday Night Football? Asked to borrow a cup of milk or a ladder? Volunteered to pick something up for them on your next trip to Martin's or Belmont Beverage? 
These are the things neighbors do. They are your neighbors. What's stopping you? You don't need to think alike or dress alike to bridge the gap. 
You're absolutely right: if you live segre­gated lives, you will never bridge the gap. But you don't live segregated lives -or at least you don't need to. 
Do you want to break out of the bubble? Do you want to diversify? Then, you do it. You take the lead. You can make a differ­ence right now, today. We don't need to change admissions policies or debate diversity or appoint a panel or do any of the other things that stop people from going beyond musing about their differ­ences to actually making a difference. 
When they come home from their jobs tonight, go over and introduce yourself and apologize for not having done so soon­er. Ask them their names, about their fam­ilies, their jobs, the neighborhood. 
And then, care about them. Really care about them. Love them as Christ com­mands us. If you do, you'll find the differ­ences are not that big a deal at all and you'll do more to burst the bubble than you ever: could have imagined. Who knows, you may even come to enjoy NASCAR. 
Mike Wilkins alumnus Class of 1985 Sept. 18 

THE OBSERVER 
E

page 12 


Friday, September 19, 2008 
Scene Writers Face Off 
i\S Cli()SEN BY ANALISE LIPARI, 
WATCI-I l]{E 60TJ-l PRiiVIETI~Il~ El\1~1\T A 

UPPORTING R IN ALEAD ACTOR IN A DRAMA ERIES 
Ana se: s: Step anie: Analise: Chris: 
It'd be fun to see "Boston James Spader has won three I don't care who these mad Again, a very solid category. Again, there's a Legal" star James Spader of the last four years in this cat-men are, the maddest of them pick Michael Emerson fro that won't win. Te repeat his surprise success from egory because "Boston Legal" all is High Lauric as "House." "Lost." If anyone deserves an received raves for last year. and given the occa-gives him showy speeches to He's insane, unpredicatble and Emmy on what is arguably net-ance on "Damag£ sionally random tendencies o make near the end of his sam-the most perfect character on work television's most twisted, 's going up agai1 the Emmys, anything's possible. pie episodes. This year, hi evision today. After · ridiculous show, it's this guy. Emerson (Ben Lim Still, I'm going with John Hamm episode contains a 10-minute his show for four years he Not everybody can make a ho gives a tour as Don Draper, the advertisin diatribe in front of the Supreme shows no sign of stopping o island disappear. formance in his 1 executive with a whole lot o Court. Jon Hamm should win, slowing down. He managed to Shape of Things drama behind those smoky but his superb performance is take a character we all be hard for 1 eyes. "Mad Men" is incredible, understated. Michael C. Hal e knew and make it wo ore such a gr1 and Hamm's winning the stat-has a shot for "Dexter." It's watching every week. Here's to ance and they won uette would be the icing on the hard for an actor to win four , Hugh. cake of a "Mad Men" sweep. Emmys for one role, but Spader 
is going to do it. 

LEAD ESS IN A ERIES UPPORTING 
Analise: Chris: phanie: Analise: s: 
Confession-I started watch-FX's "Damages" received Mariska Hargitay never fails Granted, I stopped watchi Disappointingly, ing "Brothers and Sisters" whole bunch of nominations, to deliver. "Law and Order" is "Grey's Anatomy" a long ti actress from "Ma( towards the end of last season. but look for it to get ignored unstoppable in any form, but ago. Still, out of the nomine final cut. Instf It got good! Don't judge me! The except in this category. Thi managed to take her token here, I'll go with Chandr lineup that lo point, though, is that Sally Field award belongs to Glenn Close. male character and make it Wilson as Miranda Bailey. In the year's. Voters 
be a solid winner in this Field won last year, but it'll be nsable. Every week she few episodes I did see, Wilson ke Oh and Wi~< category. In the end, though, d to repeat against ano deals with the same issues, and has continuously kept up a top-Bergen.hru;:& I'm going with my longtime veteran actress on a new sh every week she reveals some-notch standard of acting on ruckload of Em favorite, Mariska Hargitay as with a lot of buzz. we never expected to see. show that's often shamefull eking Wiest, a h Olivia Benson in "Law and prone to melodrama. Let the inner. Voters Order: SVU." You don't mess reign of Bailey begin. Emmys to peo with Benson, fools. You jus 
already won Oscar don't. 
LEAD ACTOR IN A 
RIES Anal an e: hris: 

As much as some part of me Most pundits have predicte Though I will take Steve There is only one choice While I'd love 1 
till loves "Monk," it's time to Alec Baldwin, thanks to a Carell any time, Baldwin is run-this category. Yes, technicall ilson pick up a 
the Shalhoub Machine. I'm knockout scene in his sample ning away with all predicta-there are five, all of whom ot happening. going with Alec Baldwin as Jack episode in which he imperson-picks and you'd be a fool not to wonderful, talented men wit go with Jer1 Donaghy on "30 Rock." Where ates every member of Tracy mp onto that bandwagon. He solid careers behind and ahead e third year in ~ Steve Carell is funny, Baldwin is Jordan's family. Steve Carell carries "30 Rock" without blink-of them. Still, one man wil Patrick Harris, wh outrageous. This year is the a lot of things going for him ing an eye. This category i reign, and that man is Nei risen in Hollywood 
ar of "30 Rock," ladies and ith his sample episode. He caught somewhere between Patrick Harris. "It's gonna b few years. I'm pi 
tlemen. Get ready for a gets a lot of screentime, where-"Rock" and "The Office," amd legen -wait for it, and I and hoping voters 
of Donaghy Domination. as Baldwin is only in his episode I'm going with Baldwin. you're not lactose intoleran from voting for Piv1 
because the second half of 
word is DAIRY!" 
D ACTRESS IN A 
SUPPORTING ACTRESS IN A COMEDY 
nie: na s: 
Every nominee in this catego-Fey is the "it" girl right now. 
Christina, Christina, I love ya, Amy Poehler! Amy Poehler! No Jenna Fisch~ ry is solid, including last year hen she accepted a SAG Christina! Gotta love a woman Amy Poehler! (Can you tell who The horror. But winner, America Ferrera. Still, award last year, Fey compared 
who makes the transition from I think should win in this cate-because we have I'm going with Tina Fey, acting with Alec Baldwin to 
Broadway to television seam-gory?) from "Saturday recent return to "Saturd Fred Astaire dancing with a hat 
lessly, like "Samantha Who?"'s Poehler is hot ir Night Live" was only the lates ack and people saying, "Oh, 
Christina Applegate. I ador right now-she j1 in a series of memorabl the hat rack's pretty good too." 
her, but I must admit this cate-to star in her own comedic moments. 
Expect the hat rack to take 
gory is pretty locked up by Tina her Hilary Clinto mome an acting Emmy. 
Fey. She's riding down the ation, contained iJ mountain on her metaphorical episode, is th€ snotball, and right now, nothing impression of the can stop her. 
lady. The prPgnan1 take home her first 





Friday, September 19, 2008 page 13 
~RIES 

s: han : 

ris: 

1, none of the 
I love Sandra Oh. I've loved I have to go with "30 Rock" on Both 2006 _winner "The Why mess with a good thing? .d Men" made her ever since she fawned .....,.,r. one. As much as I love the Office" and 2007 winner "30 Tina Fey is at the top of her .ead, we get a Julie Andrews in "The Princess office, Tina Fey, Alec Baldwin, Rock" tailed off a bit from their game and Alec Baldwin 
is ::.oks similar to Diaries" and I love her even Kenneth the Page and one o Emmy-winning seasons, but "30 hoot. "30 Rock" is my pick. don't seem to more today. She walks the line the best rotations of guest stars Hock" still has the coolness fac-That being said, nothing on too much, between serious actress an · the business equals · tor with voters since its win soothes the soul like a llready won funny woman. sweet Emmy victory. ear. No new comedies have episde of "The Office." But I do amys, so I'm see the Carrie Fishe come along to challenge it, so think this is the year of the wo-time Oscar •.,..,.."'..,.de? Fantastical. expect "30 Rock" to defend its "Rock." 
love giving crown. lple who've rs. 


to see Rain m Emmy, it' 
Voters wil ·emy Piven a row, or N lose stock h lover the p icking H s are fatigued 
/ell. 
EALITY ERIES 


s: Stephanie: 
I am forever grateful to Neil Patrick Harris for his Freeze Ray wielding stint as Dr. 
orrible. That is to be his only 
hining moment, though, as this 
ategory is going to Rainn 

unky, creative, and downright always a joke. Nothing can stop minutes into an episode. Is i to watch. Plus, an Emmy the awesomeness of "Top Chef." the designers? The clothing? be a great final note if the Klum's I-can't-believe-that's­ow goes to pot when it moves actually-authentic accent? No 
lson. "The Office" deserves 
due, and it's coming in right 
Despite the guilty pleasure Top Chef. Top Chef. That's all It's hot, it's cool, and it's oh so status of "America's Next Top I can say. It's nearly impossible fierce. "Project Runway" is the Model," I'm picking "Project to describe the glory of "Top ultimate in reality TV. Anyone, Runway" in this category. I love Chef." "Project Runway" can including your dad, can be "Top Chef," but "Runway" is forget it. "American Idol" was caught in it's web about ten 
Lifetime next year. You're competition here, folks. in, or you're out. 
ERIES 


ler this year? Gutta give my props to m t that's OK, darling Broadway Baby, Kris Amy Poehler Chenoweth. The woman i Night Live." funny. Gutta go with the SN 
n Hollywood vibe, though. Who can resis just signed on Poehler as Hillary Clinton? sitcom -and 
Not I! m imperson­m her sample e definitive ~ former first tt Poehler will :t Emmy. 
lise: 

I'm going with Colbert on this one. Steward, Letterman and Fey are all solid choices, and Don Rickles is a comedy legend for every reason in the book, but Colbert can and should take the cake on Sunday. 
OST 
e: 

Colbert may get his due in this Is King still even on TV? £!-tegory. Each of the past two God bless Colbert. Now, come ars, a legendary singer has and speak and graduation, why-
on  this category  - Barr  cha.  
ilow and Tony Bennett  
another legend is in it this  
year, albeit a comedic one, Don  
Rickles. But I have a feeling vot­ 
ers have waited long enough to  
honor Colbert.  
The views expressed in this  
column are those ofthe authors  
and not necessarily those ofThe  
Observer.  

page 14 Friday, September 19, 2008 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Chaos hope to defend women's title as new season begins 
Veterans and new faces to take the field for first games Sunday; all look to make a statement e·arly in season 
By NATHANIEL LEE, CHRIS "We're going to march 
down the field and I don't
MASOUD, KELLEN MATH­

care how we get it done,"
ERS, SHANE STEINBERG, and 
Bishop said. "We won't be
MOLLY SAMMON 

looking for the long play, but 
if it happens we'll take it." 

This Sunday the Cavanaugh With the return of Kate Chaos will look to begin their Sylvia and Mary Jenkins to quest for a second consecu­the defensive line, the Ducks tive Championship season hope to overpower the Lyons against the veteran McGlinn in the trenches. Wide receiv­Shamrocks. er Laura Giezeman will pres­
The Chaos, led by Senior ent a threat to the Lyons Quarterback Captain Katie defense and will be key in Dunn, have only one goal in the Ducks' success this sea­mind: win it all. son. 
"This year is about a Lyons will also be looking repeat, but it's also about to return to the playoffs this getting freshmen playing year after a successful cam­time," Dunn said. "Basically, paign last season. Led by we're going to dominate." junior captain Claire Connell, 
The first obstacle on the the Lions are poised to make path to a repeat is Sarah a name for themselves. deGroot and the girls of "We had a solid team last McGlinn. Coming off an 0-5-1 year, but we just didn't have season, the Shamrocks will enough bodies," Connell use experienced players with said. "This year we have a fresh strategy. plenty of young talent to sup­
"We lost a lot of close port our veteran core." games last year, but hope Connell will try to connect that this year with the instal­with sophomore running lation of our new, more back and receiver Neva organized offense, we will Lundy to ignite the Lion come out on top" deGroot offense. Middle linebacker said. Shannon Brady, 
Strong line who brings both play will be talent and the backbone toughness to the on both sides ..Basically, we're young team, will of the ball for anchor the
going to dominate.,,
the Chaos. On defense. defense, Dunn "In the end, I said they will Katie Dunn think it will be looking to come down to
Cavanaugh captain 
"make quar­defense," terbacks cry." Connell said. Meanwhile, "We have to the offense take advantage will focus on "forming a of our speed and quickness pocket big enough to hide because it only takes one big that second extra item from play to take your team out of the dining hall." the game." 
On offense, the Shamrocks Howard faces Lyons at 2 will look to senior wide p.m. at LaBar Fields. receivers Lulu Meraz and Jennifer Fedyna for the big Walsh vs. Farley plays. Senior tackle Maddie With the arrival of fall Boyer will handle things on comes a new interhall foot­the defensive side of the ball. ball season for the ladies of DeGroot said that while the Walsh and Farley Halls. seniors will be key, "the The Wild Women of Walsh, team features both new and led by Captains Kehau Meyer returning talent." and Cindy Brenner are rely­
The Interhall foes will ing on inspired veteran lead­clash Sunday at LaBar ership coupled with a Fields at 1 p.m. healthy dose of young talent. 
"We have a very young Howard vs. Lyons team," Meyer said. "We are 
Looking to build upon a just hoping that our seniors successful season last year and upperclassmen set an that led to Howard's first example for our young girls playoff appearance, the that Walsh takes lnterhall Ducks are confident they can seriously." begin the season with a Walsh returns plenty of tal­statement win on Sunday. ent on both sides of the ball 
Sophomore captain Kayla and, along with strong group Bishop said her team's disci­of incoming freshmen, could pline in practice will trans­field a potentially fearsome late into success on the field. squad. 
Farley's Finest ar·e excited While both teams made the The feeling is certainly about their prospects as playoffs last year, this year mutual. well. Coming off a loss in the will certainly be a test, as "This year, we are really semifinals, Farley hopes to they both find themselves excited because we have a build on their past success lacking significant experi­large group of girls," Badin along with a renewed moti­ence. To make matters senior quarterback Katie vation and energy. worse, the recent rain has Rose Hackney said. "The 
"We're a little bit younger," kept both teams from prac­freshman girls are really Farley captain Jenny Rolfs ticing as much as they'd pumped. They're a really said. "But have liked to. athletic class." we're a pretty When the teams Badin had a rough 1-5 motivated ··we always expect take the field season last year and hopes team." this Sunday, no to improve that record.
the first game to be
On offense, one will be Keeping the roster full has Rolfs expects entertaining because exactly sure been a problem for the an old-fash­there will be a lot of how things will Bullfrogs, and recruiting is ioned aerial work out for difficult because of the
frehmen out there.,,
attack. these young dorm's small size, but the 
"We have a teams. class of 2012 brings new solid set of Kehau Meyer Both squads hope for the season. receivers and Walsh captain return star Badin does, however, our quarter­quarterbacks return two very strong play­back does a this year, Gabby ers -safety Kelsey Young good job hitting them," Rolfs Tate for the Phoxes and and wide receiver Courtney said. Jenny Gargula for the Rains are two key compo­
Defensively, an experi­Whirlwinds. Both signal­nents in Sunday's season enced linebacking corps callers, though, will have to opener. leads the way for the Finest. make do with wide receiving "[Rains] is a very aggres­
Overall, Rolfs said Farley units that are composed of sive wide receiver and has a has focused on "getting back primarily freshmen. great knack of reading the into the swing of things," With more potential than ball," Hackney said. while still installing some experience on the offensive The s~niors, especially, are new plays in practice. side of the ball, the defenses looking forward to Sunday 
As for Sunday, though, could end up with anticipa­Rolfs is unsure what to deciding the tion. expect from the Wild Women. game. The ..It's all about "For us sen­
"We had a great game Phoxes are iors, this year's
learning who ·s going
against Walsh last year, very high on our last chance probably our best game of their lineback­to work best to put our­the year," she said. "But they ers, and, their together. ,, selves out had a lot of players gradu­defense has there," ate, so it's a new year entire­retained a fair Hackney said.
Katie Rose Hackney
ly." amount of last Breen­
Meyer envisions an year's key Badin quarterback Phillips' key inspired, if not flawless players. The returning play-effort from both teams. Whirlwinds, ers include 
"We always expect the first meanwhile, return two top senior wide receiver and game to be entertaining safeties, who will try and halfback Tara McCarron, because there will be a lot of shut down Tate's passing sophomore wide receiver freshmen out there," she attack. Gabby Moriel, and senior said. In a regular season of only safety Christy Golubski 
The teams face off Sunday six games, every game mat­"We have been working on at 5 p.m. at LaBar Field. ters. But for two young the basics in practice," teams in the midst of Meagher said. "Fundamental Pangborn vs. Welsh Family rebuilding, this Sunday's skills with catching and flag­
Following last year's disap­opener will prove especially pulling are crucial, and we pointing championship game important. always work on team com­loss to Cavanaugh, the Welsh "This game is going to set munication on defense and Family Whirlwinds begin the tone for the rest of the offense." their quest for revenge season," Gargula said. "With Neither team is willing to against the Pangborn Phoxes so many players who have field a guess as to the out­this Sunday. yet to play a game here, a come on Sunday 
This will be the second win would do a lot for their "You never really know straight year that Welsh confidence." what to expect the first Fam. and Pangborn open the Kick off is 4 p.m. Sunday at game," Hackney said. "It's season against each other. Riehle Field. all about learning who's Last year's game ended with going to work best togeth-We 1s h Fam. confusing Breen-Phillips vs. Badin er. " Pangborn's defense en route Breen-Phillips has been The game is at 3 p.m. at to a 27-12 blowout win. waiting to play Badin for a LaBar fields. 
"They kept running a delay long time and to start this where their center would Interhall season off with a block and then run five or 10 win. Contact Nathaniel Lee at yards down the field and "Everyone is hungry. We nlee5@nd.edu, Chris Masoud at become an eligible receiver," have been anticipating this cmasoud@nd.edu, Kellen said Pangborn coach Ryan game since the end of last Mathers at kmathers@nd.edu, Bell. "That killed us, but this season," Breen-Phillips sen­Shane Steinberg at time we'll hopefully be ready ior quarterback Melissa ssteinb2@nd.edu, and Molly for it." Meagher said. Sammon at msammon@nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content withcut issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT TICKETS 
Need Purdue tix & parking pass. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Oh simple thing where have you So if you have a minute why don't 
57 4-276-8507. not go it alone. We have many gone we go resources in place to assist you. If I'm getting old and I need some-Talk about it somewhere only we you or someone you love needs thing to rely on know 
Football Weekend 8&8 close to Wanted: ND football tix for family. PERSONAL confidential support or assistance, So tell me when you're gonna let This could be the end of everything ND(57 4)243-9279 574-251-1570. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 me in So why don't we go If you or someone you care about or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more I'm getting tired and I need some-House near ND. 574-310-3663. VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND has been sexually assaulted, information, visit NDs Pregnancy where to begin Somewhere only we know 
football tickets. Resources website at: Homes available now & 2009-10 & www.victorytickets.com. 574-232-visit http://osa.nd.edu/depart-http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-GO BEAT football wknds. 574-329-0308. 0964. ments/csap/ nant.shtml IRISH SPARTANS 


OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday, September 19th, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRF. SERVICES page 15 
NCAA Football APTop 25 
team points record 
1 usc (61) 1,596 2-0 2 Oklahoma 1,485 3-0 3 Georgia (2) 1,437 3-0 4 Florida (1) 1,414 2-0 5 Missouri 1,389 3-0 6 LSU 1,274 2-0 7 Texas 1,140 2-0 8 WisGonsin 1,076 3-0 9 Alabama 982 3-0 10 Auburn 958 .. 3-0 11 Texas Tech 904 3-0 12 South Florida 801 3-0 13 Ohio State 800 2-1 14 Brigham Young 788 3-0 15 East Carolina 781 3-0 16 Penn State 779 3-0 17 Oregon 679 3-0 18 Wake Forest 482 2-0 19 Kansas 445 2-1 20 Utah 528 3-0 21 West Virginia 119 1-1 22 Illinois 163 2-1 23 Clemson 160 2-1 24 Florida State 146 2-0 25 Fresno State 121 1-1 
NCAA Football USA Today Coaches' Poll 
team points record 
1 usc (57) 1,518 2-0 2 Oklahoma (1) 1,423 3-0 3 Georgia (2) 1,393 3-0 3 Florida {1) 1,335 2-0 5 Missouri 1,294 3-0 6 LSU 1,233 2-0 
~ ' . > ' '~..... H 2·9
~J·.
·1 Texas·· 1,128 

8 Wisconsin 1,027 3-0 9 Auburn 955 3-0 10 Texas Tech 887 3-0 11 Brigham Young 846 3-0 12 Oregon 783 3-0 13 Alabama n1 3·0 13 Ohio State 736 2-1 15 Penn State 724 3-0 16 South Florida 685 3-0 11 East Carolina 508 3-0 18 Wake forest 498 2-0 19 Kansas 416 2-1 20 Utah 400 3-0 21 Clemson 233 2·1 21 West Virginia 159 1·1 23 Illinois 127 2-1 24 Arizona State 113 2·1 25 Florida State 110 2-0 
MIAA Women's Volleyball Standings 
Team Record 
league overall 
1  Hope  4-0  9-3  •  
2  Calvin  3-0  9-2  
3  Alma  4-1  9-4  
4  Adrian  2-1  6-5  
5  SAINT MARY'S  2-2  6-3  
6  Albion  2-3  6-6  
7  Kalamazoo  2-4  5-9  
8  Trine  1-4  4-9  
9  Olivet  0-5  3-11  

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Baylor at Connecticut 8:00p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

BOSTON -The media called Manny Ramirez's quirks "Manny being Manny." Curt Schilling sees it differently. 
In an interview Wednesday on Boston radio station WEEI-AM, the injured Boston Red Sox starter took his former teammate to task, saying Manny's "level of disre­spect to teammates and people wa..'i unfathomable." 
Ramirez was dealt to the Los Angeles Dodgers at the trade deadline after com­plaining the team had tried to turn the fans against him and that the Red Sox no longer deserved him. Ramirez was in the last year of his contract, with the team holding two one­year options for $20 million each. 
In eight seasons in Boston, Ramirez's quirks were widely seen as harm­less, or dismissed as a small price to pay for hav­ing such a gifted hitter in the lineup. But Schilling, speaking with "Big Show" host Glenn Ordway and former Red Sox players Brian Daubach and Lou Merloni, said Manny's antics disrespected his teammates. 
"The guy got to dress in a locker away from the team for seven years," Schilling said. "And then [when] he's on this crusade to get out of here, all of a sudden he's in the locker room every day, voicing his displeasure without even having to play the game that night." 
Manny's behavior was hardest on Red Sox manag­er Terry Francona. Schilling said. 
"Nothing makes a guy that respects the game and respects human beings like Terry Francona feel worse than looking at a guy and saying, 'Go ahead, [mess] with me, [mess] with your teammates, I'll put you in the lineup,' and then turn 
IN BRIEF Sore hamstrinQ side­
lines Vikings' Pel:erson 
SEDEN PIWRIE, Minn. -Minnesota's sputtering offense could be without its biggest star against Carolina on Sunday. 
Running back Adrian Peterson, the NFCs leading ru"iher and the 2007 omm­sive rookie of the year, mi'i"ied practice on Thursday with a hamstring injury. Peterson said he is hopeful he can play against the Panthers, but he took a step back one day after participating in prac­tke on a limited ba..'ii'>. 
"It's a concern," coach Brad Childres.., said. "Your legs arc your legs. We'll just see how he comes out by the time we get to Sunday." 
Before practice began, Peterson told reporters that he injured the hamstring late in la..<it weekend's 18-15 loss to the Indianapolis Colt<;. Peterson rushed for 160 yards in the game and has 263 yards on the season, 1 yard ahead of Atlanta's Michael Turner for the league lead. 
Criminal char~es filed 
against Broncos Marshall 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. Prosecutors in Georgia have ftled two counts of simple battery against Denver Broncos wide receiver Brandon Marshall stemming from a 6-month-old domestic violence com­plaint. 
The charges were filed Sept. 10 in Fulton County State Court. Police allege Marshall threw his ex-girlfriend on a bed, slapped her and damaged an Atlanta apartment on March 4. 
Marshall said Thursday he had been waiting for charges to be filed, but it wasn't clear why they came so long after the complaint. 
"Like I said before. that's my past,'' he said."Everything that carne out in camp was from last year and there was an ineident in March, but that's still an open case and we've been waiting six months for those charges to be filed," lw said. 
around to a guy who's 
there every day early work­
ing his [butt] off who gets 
110 at-bats a year and say­
ing, 'You know what? Yeah, 
I can't put you in there .-tonight,... Schilling said. 
"Manny being Manny" 
has taken on new meaning 
in L.A., where Ramirez has 
been an RBI machine at 
the plate and Mr. 
Congeniality in the club­
house. 

"There were times when 
you had players who were 
on like fire duty. 'Show up 
tomorrow, I'm not sure if 
you're playing or not, we've 
gutta find out what 
[Manny] wants to do.' 
That's not fair to anybody." 
Wie among leaders at LPGA Qualifying School RANCHO MIHAGE, Calif. ­Michelle Wie salvaged a ragged round with a birdie­
birdie finish  to  remain  among  
the  leaders  after  the  third  
round  of  an  LPGA Tour  sec­ 

tional qualifying tournament Thursday. 
Wie's closing birdies gave her 2-over 74 on the Dinah Shore Tournament Course at Mission Hills Country Club, the home of the LPGA Tour's Kraft Nabisco Championship. 
That left Wie at 7 -under 209 entering Friday's final round. She was fourth and still com­fortably inside the top 30 play­ers and ties who will advance to the final qualifying tourna­ment in Florida in December. 
Wie again declined requests for interviews after the round. 
page 16 

The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 19, 2008 

~-party and hall points for the 
·,;:/<.'::--,:"'"' 

-__ ---• __ the highest representation · 
. ­----_-__-,;-~ :.· 
For mort>~nlorm~···· 1·6100 

-t%1-~' 1\Ssoc. 
SAINT §-~~­
MARY'S -~ "' 0::s 
COLLEGE 

NOTRE DAME, IN NOTRE DAME 

Friday, September 19, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC CROSS-COUNTRY 
Invite to test Belles' success 
By KATELYN GRABAREK Sports Writer 
Although the Belles have had success early this sea­son, they face tough compe­tition when they head to the Calvin Invitational. 
"I am looking for progress out of the team," head coach Jackie Bauters said. "I want to 
Spring Arbor. 
Calvin's team is ranked No. 2 in the Division-III rankings. Case Western Reserve is ranked No. 10, and Oshkosh is ranked No. 20. 
The Belles are coming off of two fourth place finishes in their last two races at the Hokem Karem and the 
Bradley 
Invite. 

see them contin­was
"/ want to see them "I 
ue to push pretty
continue to push 
themselves and pleased with find their race. themselves and find their per­It's a pretty their race. ,, formance 
stacked race last Friday," with some Bauters ranked Division­Jackie Bauters said. "They III teams, so it's Belles coach definitely not necessarily went out to about seeing the compete. team place well so much as We're not to the point of seeing them work on the them feeling good for the things we've been talking last half-mile but we're get­about and hopefully with the ting there. They are running caliber of the meet, have more tired and I think they some really great times." all ran well given the cir­
The field will include cumstances." teams from Alma, Aquinas, Leading the Belles racers Baldwin Wallace, Calvin, in each of their last two Case Western Reserve, races has been junior Denison, Ohio Northern Megan McClowry. University, Oshkosh, and McClowry finished 12th 
out of 111 runners at the Bradley Invite last week and teamed with freshman Arianne Rodriguez in the Hokem Karem to again lead the Belles to their fourth place finish. 
"The difference for me this season is due to summer training," MeClowry said.. ".1 was able to come in with a good base and then my teammates have helped push the pace at workouts this season." 
McClowry and her team­mates will be looking to improve on their times this weekend before hosting the MIAA Jamboree. 
..One of our goals for the team this year is to improve upon our finish in the con­ference," McClowry said. "Last year we got fourth place, which was the highest place we had gotten, and we hope to better our place this year. One of my goals, along with some of the other girls is to consistently break the 20-minute barrier in the Sk." 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu. 

MLB 
Cubs extend lead in NL Central with win 
Lee singles in winning run in twelfth inning 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Geovany Soto 
and the Chicago Cubs can 
almost taste the champagne 
after one of their sweetest and 
most improbable victories of 
the season. 
Soto hit a tying three-run 
homer with two out in the 
ninth inning, Derrek Lee sin­
gled in the winning run in the 
12th and Chicago beat the 
Milwaukee Brewers 7-6 on 
Thursday to move closer to the 
NL Central title. 
The Cubs' magic number for 
winning their second straight 
division championship was 
reduced to two as they sent the 
Brewers to a crushing defeat. 
"Wow," Soto said. "This 
year's been really, really crazy. 
I'm just here for one reason. I 
want to win and keep going." 
Chicago was trailing 6-2 with 
two out and nobody on in the 
ninth, with just three hits to 
that point, before scoring four 
runs off closer Salomon Torres. 
Now, the Cubs can clinch 
Friday if they beat the 
Cardinals at home and the 
struggling Brewers lose in 
Cincinnati. 
"The beauty of baseball is 
you never know what is going 
to happen until that final out," 
Cubs manager Lou Piniella 
said. "It's uplifting to us and 
got to be deflating to the other 
team.... Let's win tomorrow if 
we can and whatever happens 
on the road (to the Brewers) 
happens." 
Milwaukee, which began the 
day just a half-game back of 
the NL wild card-leading New 
York Mets, was on the verge of 
winning two of three at 
Wrigley Field and restoring 
some momentum under inter­
im manager Dale Sveum. 
Instead, the Brewers have 
dropped 13 of 17 during a skid 
that cost manager Ned Yost his 
job on Monday. 
Milwaukee has nine games Jeft but this will be a tough defeat to shake orr:· 
"A real nice day kind of went 
haywire right away," Sveum 
said. 
"You're running out of 
games. It gets to the point, 
whatever the Mets do, you 
start thinking you have to win 
seven out of nine or eight out 
of nine. That's what it's getting 
to." 
Pinch-hitter Daryle Ward led 
off the 12th with a walk and 
was replaced at first by Jason 
Marquis, who moved up on 
Reed Johnson's sacrifice. 
Alfonso Soriano was intention­
ally walked before Ryan 
Theriot flied out, sending 
Marquis to third. 
Lee then singled to center off 
Carlos Villanueva ( 4-7), leading 
to a wild celebration. 
"It shows the character of 
our team," Lee said. "All of a 
sudden in the ninth off a good 
closer we score four runs and 
like that's jt a tie game. We 
kept chipping away and grind­
ing it out." 
Kerry Wood (5-4) pitched two 
innings, escaping a second­
and-third, no-out predicament 
in the top of the 12th for the 
win. 
J.J. Hardy singled leading off the 12th and Corey Hart dou­bled for the Brewers. With the infield drawn in, Craig Counsell grounded out with the runners holding. When Jason Kendall hit a bouncer to third, Aramis Ramirez threw home and Hardy was caught in a rundown and tagged for the second out. Pinch-hitter Joe Dillon then grounded out. 
"We had a good chance to 
win still," Counsell said. "But I 
didn't get it done." 
With the Cubs down to their 
last out in the ninth, Ramirez 
hit a sinking liner to left that 
got past Ryan Braun for a dou­
ble, and Jim Edmonds followed 
with an RBI single. Mark 
DeRosa singled and Soto hit 
the next pitch deep into the 
left-center field bleachers as 
the crowd erupted. 
"It was my fault," Torres 
said. "I should have sealed the 
deal. I felt like I let the team 
down, especially given the 
nature of this series." 
The Brewers appeared to have Thursday's game under control with four unearned runs in the sixth off reliever Jeff Samardzija. 
Samardzija gave up a one­out walk to Counsell before second baseman DeRosa mis­played Kendall's grounder for an error. Mike. Cameron, Hay Durham and Braun delivered consecutive two-out RBI sin­
_gles to give the Brewers a 4-2 lead. 
Prince Fielder drew his sec­ond intentional walk as the Brewers loaded the bases for the third time in the game. Randy Wells relieved and walked Hardy on four pitches to force in a run. 
Hart added an RBI double in the ninth but the Brewers missed a chance to score more. 

Go on.•• 
Hit s tJ1tle t>IU! it>itll a. t()1f·tat(). 
farturcla,. fep-t~,.,J..,~,... ?0-tl, 
L.!lon.r ~a.rkei-ban Cowr-tr 
1.~:00 -1--/IGI-I NooN 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 18 Friday, September 19, 2008
The Obserucr + SPORTS 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Teams to compete at Catholic race 
Race to be held at Notre Dame Golf Course; men and women both look for repeat wins 
By LAURA MYERS Spons Writer 

It's fitting that the Notre Dame cross-country team historically dominated an event its coach created. 
The men's and women's cross-country teams will run at home today in the National Catholic Championships, which head coach Joe Piane started in 1980. 
"It was a nice concept, all the Catholic teams compet­ing," Piane said. 
The Irish men have won 19 of the 28 runnings, including 17 of the past 20. 
The women have won 16 of the last 20, and both took the title in 2007. 
Piane said only one of the seven runners who ran last year will be com­peting in the race, but 

../ think we're real prepared. We have a bunch of'young guys and it should be an exciting meet for us. " 
Joe Piane Men's head coach 
that does not worry him. 

"I think we're real pre­pared," he said. "We have a bunch of young guys and it should be an exciting meet for us." 
The women's team will be going with experience, run­ning only two freshmen, women's head coach Tim Connelly said. 
Included in the lineup for the women are sophomore Marissa Treece and junior Lindsey Ferguson, who took first and fourth, respective­ly, at this event last year. Treece also finished first of 61 runners at the Valparaiso Invitational two weeks ago, while Ferguson finished second. 
"[Treece1 is training real­ly well. I expect her and [Ferguson] to run well on Friday," Connelly said. 
Both teams go into the race with added pressure because they were ranked in the United States Track and Field and Cross Country Coa·ches Association poll. 
The USTFCCCA ranked the Irish men No. 20 in the nation, out of about 320 teams. The men were also ranked third in the Great Lakes Region, behind Michigan and Wisconsin. The women were ranked No. 4 in the region, behind 
Michigan S t a t e , Wisconsin, and Michigan. 
"It's flatter­ing that peo­ple think we· r e that 
good," Piane said. "But pre­season rank­ings are based more on histo­ry than quali­
ty." 
Piane said the team would need to prove it deserved the ranking. 
Connelly agreed, saying only the top two teams in the region are guaranteed bids to the NCAA champi­onships. 
" It 's all g u e s s ing an d speculation at this point," he said. "1 think it's a real­istic picture of where we are. We will have further to go." 
Both teams can start to prove themselves today at 3:30. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu. 
MLB 

Reds to host Civil Rights Games 
&sociated Press 

The Cincinnati Reds will host the majors' first two regular­season Civil Rights Games. 
Major League Baseball made the announcement on Thursday at Great American Ball Park. The Reds' game against the Chicago White Sox on June 20 will serve as the first one to be held during the season, followed by another to be played in Cincinnati in 2010. 
by 
The first two Civil Rights Games, intended to raise awareness of the civil rights movement and baseball's part in it, were held before the sea­son in Memphis, Tenn. · 
"When we went to Memphis, we always knew we'd grow this into a major league game," Jimmie Lee Solomon, executive vice president of baseball oper­ations in the commissioner's office, said. 
MLB started looking at poten­tial sites in July and decided on Cincinnati in late August, Solomon said. One of the ·main reasons Cincinnati was chosen was the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center, which is located next door to the ballpark and was a major part of the Heds' presentation. 
"It's pretty exciting that they're having the game here, especially when you've got the Freedom Center right next door and the history of the town," said Reds manager Dusty Baker, who is black. 
The UniversitY 

of Notre Dame 
Department of Film, Television, and Theatre presents for the 2008-2009 Theatre Season 
.--~' 

Antonin Artaud 
Tuesday, Sept. 23 thr·ough Friday, Sept. 26 at 7:30 and Sunday, Sept. 28 at 2:30 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Philbin Studio Theatre $12 General Public • $1 0 Faculty, Staff, and Seniors • $5 Students 
For tickets, call the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Ticket Office ~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME

Friday, September 19, 2008 page 19 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Dear said. highly-touted freshman Bobby 
On the other sideline, Keough Sullivan. The Otters are so con­will try to rebound after a 1-3 fident in Sullivan's ability that
Big Red 
continued from page 24 season last year. they have adopted the phrase 
Captain Nazur Ahmed is cau­"Wanna win? Let Bobby spin,"top as well. Last year, the Big tiously optimistic about the as their team motto. 
Red lost in the first round of 
upcoming season for the Both teams know the impor­the playoffs to eventual cham­Kangaroos. tance of starting the season off 
pion Stanford. 
"We are a lot more organized with a victory, and each squad · Cugliari thinks his team has than in the past. We have a lot is eager to finally gauge where a good chance at improving on of new talent we a team. In a
are excited they are at as their 2-1-1 record from last about," he said. four-week regular season, each 
year because of their style of In addition to some key new contest can be the difference play. He said that his team was players, Keough will rely on its between the Stadium and the looking to hit hard on both solid receiving corps led by dorm room. 
sides of the ball. 
Chris Kosinski and Dorian The game kicks ofT Sunday at 
Like Bono, Cugliari also his Inzunza. Ahmed said Inzunza 2 p.m. at Riehle fields. team will have the best chance was, "extremely athletic, quick 
at victory on Sunday if they and powerful. We rely on him Duncan vs. Knott execute well and don't turn the heavily and he always per­Duncan Hall and Knott Hall ball over. forms." will kick off their respective
The teams play at 3:00 While Ahmed understands Interhall Football seasons at 2 Sunday afternoon on Riehle Keenan's reputation, he said p.m. Sunday on the Riehle Field. his squad isn't afraid of them. Fields. 
"We have a lot of respect for This will be the inauguralKeenan vs. Keough Keenan. They are perennially a season for Duncan Hall ­
After falling short in the very tough competitor," he nickname to be announced. championship last year, the said. "[But] we prepare for Led by senior captain Garrett Keenan Knights have one mis­anything." _ Burke, Duncan will try to begin sion: a return to the title game. The two will meet Sunday at a winning tradition Sunday. 
Keenan team captain Barton 3 p.m. at Riehle Fields. Duncan will field a young
Dear is optimistic about his team, with many freshman team's prospects for the Fisher vs. Sorin players. However, Burke said upcoming season. A year ago, the Fisher Green the lack of experience will be a 
"We lost a few key players," Wave came within one game of factor. Dear said. "But I think we can the interhall championship, "Our team has a handful of replace them and hopefully losing to eventual champion upperclassmen with strongwin it all." Stanford. leadership that has helped our 
Keenan's balance of talent on This year's team will have a freshman get ready for game both offense and defense new look, returning only nine time," he said. makes them a formidable players. Nonetheless, team Burke also added having a threat. captain Brian Monson isn't lot of freshmen on the team 
"We should be pretty strong worried may be beneficial. Many of the 
on both sides of the ball," Dear "Fisher football hasn't freshman played large roles on said. "Last year defense was skipped a beat from last year," their high school football teams our main strength, but we have he said. only a year ago. 
evened out a little more this The Green Wave hopes to "They are still sharp from year." back up that confidence with a years of high school experi­
Dear added that the line play strong defense. Monson points ence," he said. on both sides of the ball, and to a few key returning starters On the offensive side of the how Keenan's two freshman on defense to uphold the ball, Duncan has high hopes quarterbacks handle pressure, Fisher tradition. for wide receiver Mike Kearney will be key. Freshmen Terry The young Fisher team will and quarterback Chris Toups. Mahoney and Pat Kelly will have to mature quickly, as they "Toups is pretty good if you split time behind center for the face Sorin Sunday. like 6-foot-5 230-pound quar­Knights. Otters captain Rob Gallic terbacks with a laser rocket 
"We are really going to be pointed to his team's offensive arm," said Burke, referencing counting on our quarterbacks line as their greatest asset. The one of Colts quarterback ... to come through for us," line hopes to plows a path for Peyton Manning's inany com-

OPERA NOTRE DAME AUDITIONS 
Monday, September 22, 4-7 p.m. 115 Crowley Hall 
Tuesday, September 23 6-9 p.m. 
Washington Hall 
The auditions are for the 2009 Spring Production which will be on April17, 18, 19 in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Open to Everyone. Bring one or two pieces which show off your voice's capabilities. 
Sign up in the Crowley Hall office. Questions? Email: opera@nd.edu 
mercials. 
On the other side of the ball, 
Knott will try to rebound from 
a disappointing 1-3 campaign 
last season. 
Junior captain Aidan Fitzgerald said that Knott's ground game will be one of the team's strengths and they expect to establish a dominant rushing attack. 
"We have a very deep back­field which will allow us to keep fresh legs carrying the ball," he said. 
While the Juggerknotts lost one of their biggest threats at wide receiver, Nate Prochaska, to graduation, they return many starters from last season' squad. 
Sophomore Cam Smith and Junior Jeff Skorup return, and should provide stability at the rushing and receiving posi­tions, respectively. While fellow returning sophomore J.T. Redshaw will make his first start at quarterback for Knott. 
Both teams are ready to begin their runs at the stadi­um. 
"We are looking forward to hitting someone else for a change," Fitzgerald said. 
Alumni vs. Morrissey 
Interest was so high in the Alumni Interhall football squad that it took three practices to make cuts and finalize the ros­ter. The result of those cuts? A team that consists mostly of freshmen and sophomores. 
After a rough season last year, the team will try to be a strong force in the league. ..There are quite a few fresh­men with a lot of experience from high school, that the team will be relying both offensively and defensively," captain Luke Betterman said. 
One of these key players is freshman running back Barrick Bollmin. 
..Our quarterback can throw a great ball, we have a physical fullback, and look to be an 
attacking defense," said 
Bollmin, who is looking for­
ward to his first taste of Notre 
Dame Interhall football. 
As a whole, Alumni's 
strength lies in its speed, and 
the team has also made an 
effort to spend quite a bit of 
time in the classroom during 
preseason, which it hopes will 
give them an edge on Sunday. 
Captain Joe McBrayer said Morrissey is "ready to go. ready to play," and will be counting on a strong defense to bring them the win. On the other side of the ball, the team has been working on a new spread offense, with the quar­terback receiving most snaps out of the shotgun. 
"for the past few years we were a 'three yards and a cloud of dust' running team, but this year our offense will be much more explosive and fluid," sophomore Phil Yuhas said. 
A key to their success in the past, Yuhas should be a strong force on an aggressive defen­sive squad. 
Other players to look for this fall include wide receiver Carl Andersen, and left tackle Mike Kaiser. The Manorites are also hoping to use speed to their advantage on both sides of the field. 
Due to the recent rainfall, the two teams have had limited practice opportunities and are currently working to fit in a few extra practices before the big game. 
Alumni and Morrissey will face off at 1:OOpm, Sunday, at Riehle Field, in the opening game of the men's interhall football season. 
Contact Charlie Spokes at cspokes@nd~edu, Alex West: at: awest@nd.edu, Kyle Smith at 
ksmith3l@nd.edu, Douglas Farmer at dfarmer@nd.edu, MatthewWilsey at mwilsey@nd.edu and Liza Navarro at lnavarro@nd.edu 

----------------------------------------------------------------------......................................~ 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 19, 2008 
SMC GOLF 

Be.lles head to MIAA jamboree in third place 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Wriler 

Saint Mary's will continue conference play this weekend as they head to the Zollner Golf Club in Angola, Ind., for the. second of four MIAA jamborees. 
After the first jamboree, the Belles sit comfortably in third place in the conference with a team score of 340, four strokes behind Hope and eighteen behind first-place Olivet. Sophomore Rosie O'Connor led the team in round one after shooting an 83, good for 1Oth place in the individual stand­ings. Outstanding freshman Natalie Matusak carded an 84 to finish in 11th place. 
The Belles have had ·mild suc­·~ cess this season facing much tougher com.petition. In the 
}
·~ opening tournament of the year, hosted by Ferris State, Saint Mary's finished ninth out of a field of 16 which featured several top Division II teams. In her collegiate debut, Matusak had the highest individual fin­ish among all NCAA Division III golfers in the tournament. Most recently, the Belles com­peted at the Dartmouth Invitational against a very 
tough .field, including Dartmouth, Harvard and Brown. Saint Mary's finished last in a field made up of Division I and II teams. 
As the Belles return to con­ference play, they will look to their young talent for continued leadership in gaining ground on the field. The top performers on the team -O'Connor and Matusak -have only one year of collegiate experience between them. Behind them, freshman Christine Brown has been a solid third option so far this season. 
With such a young and talent­ed team, Saint Mary's should continue to improve as the sea­son matures. 
After four MIAA one-round jamborees and the final two­round shootout are tallied, the leading team will be pro­claimed the conference champi­on for the fall season. However, the conference's automatic NCAA tournament berth will not be awarded until the spring. 
The second jamboree, hosted by Trine University, will begin Saturday at 1 pm. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

\ 
I 1/) Belles to play Depauw 
I 
I 
:!:~ 
.,.. 
after two home wins 
f! By PAT STYNES 
~··.. 
I Spons Writer 
fl 
). 
After a day off, Saint Mary's r·" resumes play tonight at the ) '. . DePauw Invitational, located at DePauw University in 
(
/I Greencastle, Ind. I The Belles will take on North
\!. 
Central at 4 p.m. and DePauw 
I I at 8 p.m. On Saturday they will play Anderson at 10 a.m., and that afternoon they play 
,.I (, 
Franklin, Gallaudet, Heidelberg 
~:· 
~( or Rose-Hulman.l,l The team is coming off two
'· 
consecutive home wins, the
,,
''i ' 
first time this season it has 

-.
~ been able to string together
""'"' 
consecutive victories. The
~ 
r:1 '• ~ Belles picked a good time to 
(~ crank up the gas, as both games were conference matchups, boosting their MIAA record to 2-2. 
Saint Mary's success will depend upon the recent emer­gence of outside hitter Lorna Slupezynski. The 5-foot-8 jun­ior had 25 kills against Albion and Olivet, both home matches. 
Even.more impressive is that 11 of the 25 kills came during the opening sets of both match­es. At 5-foot-8, Slupczynski is the shortest hitter on the team, but her non-stop motor and enthusiasm more than make up for her lack of height. 
Joining Slupczynski in the impressive offensive assault is 5-foot-11 senior Kaela Hellmann, who is the only member of the team to have more kills over the last two games ( 2 7) than her junior counterpart. The senior also leads the team in kills on the season, with 101. 
The Belles' first opponent, North Central College, won its conference opener, beating the Augustana 3-2. Saint Mary's will have to step up its play to try and contain North Central's outstanding junior Stephanie Ryding, who will look to contin­ue her hot streak after turning in a triple-double performance last Tuesday. 
Contact Pat Stynes at pstynes@nd.edu 

't 
... 
I 
'( 
'( 
'I 
l 
(. 

Clark 

continued from page 24 
"This is possibly our hardest weekend of the year so far," Clark said. "St. John's is always a very good team, and they're hard to play against. Syracuse looks very, very good as well. This is one of their best teams in many years. It could be a fabulous weekend for us if we do our stuff right." 
The Red Storm has been especially impressive this sea­son compiling their 5-0-1 record against a litany of tal­ented opponents. In their last game, St. John's dismantled No. 19 Virginia Tech 3-0. Earlier in the season, the Red Storm defeated No. 18 Virginia and No. 12 Dartmouth and tied No. 2 Boston College. 
Part of St. John's early-sea­son success may be due to the squad's continuity. The Red Storm return nine starters from last year's team that went 9-7-5 before bowing out against Notre Dame in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament. 
Syracuse will begin this weekend putting their 3-0-2 record • on the line at Marquette Friday night. Unlike St. John's, the Orange have not played a particularly grueling non-conference schedule. So far, Syracuse's schedule reads as follows: Canisius, Colgate, UNC­Wilmington, Florida Gulf Coast and Monmouth. 
Friday's contest against Marquette -the same team that Notre Dame beat 4-1 last Thursday night -will hel.P determine how great a threat the Orange pose to the Irish. 
The way Notre Dame has played the past few weekends, however, no team seems to pose much of a threat to the Irish. After dropping their sea­son opener to Akron 3-0, Notre Dame has won four straight matches by the com­bined score of 15-3. 
The Irish's average of 3.75 goals per game in their last four matches has put to rest much doubt that the team would be unable to find scor­ing options after the gradua­tion of last year's starting for­wards. Notre Dame has found goal-scoring from· a multitude of sources this season as four players have already scored multiple goals. Junior mid­fielder Dave Donahue current­ly leads the Irish with four goals. 
Friday's game versus St. John's will begin at 7 p.m. while Sunday's contest against Syracuse starts at 1 p.m. · 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garboga@nd.edu 
NFL 

Hester's injury a mystery 
Bears' return specialist hopes to play Sunday against Tampa Bay 
Associated Press 

LAKE FOREST, Ill. -Devin Hester's status remained a mys­tery and so did the extent of his rib injury. 
After telling a few reporters earlier Thursday he had torn cartilage, the Chicago Bears' record-setting return specialist backtracked and said his ribs are simply bruised. Either way, he hopes to play against Tampa Bay on Sunday. 
He remains a game-time deci­sion after missing his second 
straight practice Thursday, but 
he seemed relieved that tests 
earlier in the week did not reveal 
a more serious problem. 

"It's a lot better," Hester said 
after practice. "It's improved a 
lot, and I'm feeling a lot bettr,r." 
Hester was taken from the 
sideline on a cart during the 
third quarter of last week's 20-17 
loss at Carolina. 

Hester said he first felt some pain earlier in the game when he landed on another player while being tackled and aggravated it on a kickoff return following a · 45-yard field goal by Carolina's 
John Kasay. The Bears were leading.17-6 when Hester caught the ball a yard into the end zone and sprinted to the 15, where he felt a "real sharp pain" as he twisted to his left before heading out of bound<> at the 23. 
Hester was still in motion when Julius Peppers, trying to slow hirh down, extended his right arm and was seen about a sec­ond later clutching the left side of his rib cage. He walked over to the Chicago sideline and was carted away with what he thought was a more serious injury . 
The Snite Museun1 of Art inv~tes you to a _public reception for the fall special exhibitions 


Arc of the Curve and Paths and Edges: Prints by Richard Serra 
0 'Shaughnessy Galleries Aug 24 -Oct 12 
Images from the Era of the French Revolution 
Scholz Famtly Works on Paper Galiery · Sep 7-Oct 19 
Maxim Kantor: Selections from the Wasteland and Metropolis Print Suites Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovtc Studio Gnlie.ry 

Aug 31-Nov 23 
The reception and gallery talks are free and open to the public. r=or more information please call (574).6315466 or visit our website at wvvvv..nd.edu/-sniteari. 
Sunday, September 21 fro~ 2:00-4:00 p.m. 
Gallery talks will begin at 3 p.m. 
/ 

SNITE 
J!uscum <?.IART 
r=l UNIVERSITY OF
\iS' NOTRE DAME 
. . . , . 
• , , I I ~ ' , 
. . . . . 
Friday, September 19, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Frank 
continued from page 24 
said. "They're telling him that wherever he can get on the field first is where he'II play. In the end it might end up hurt­ing Notre Dame, but they're right in it with Penn State and Rutgers for the lead." 
Defensive end Chris Bonds out of Columbia, S.C., soaked in his first visit to the Notre Dame campus and came away impressed. Another person who enjoyed the experience was Bonds' mother, who could influence the selection process. 
"Bonds came in thinking, ·1 don't know about Notre Dame,"' Frank said. "But he left thinking •this is actually a really nice place.' The key for the Irish is to continue giving him attention. They've got [defensive coordinator] Corwin Brown recruiting him and he's been great at reeling in top talent. 
"He's been looking at schools in the [Southeastern Conference], and the leaders are Alabama and Tennessee. If Tennessee continues to play poorly, Notre Dame has a chance. More importantly, his mother came away impressed and she could be influential in the final decision." 
Davon Custis, another defen­sive end considering the Irish, is from Columbus, Ohio, and was on campus for an unoffi­cial visit against Michigan. The Irish worked themselves back into the mix, and once Custis could make his final decision when he returns for his official visit later this season. 
"With Davon, it's interest­ing," Frank said. "He likes Notre Dame, but Boston College was kind of leading. The Irish opened his eyes on the latest visit. There aren't too many defensive ends left on the board, so he's a big tar­get. He'll probably have his final look at Notre Dame on his official, and that could solve all his questions." 
Although sometimes inclement weather spells trou­ble for recruiting during game days, the rain heightened the passion and atmosphere of the crowd -something the high school talents quickly picked up on. 
"It's huge for the Irish," Frank said. "The most impor­tant thing for them was that 
kids wanted to see a winner again. They want to see emo­tion and passion in the envi­ronment, and I think Michigan was perfect for that." 
After the big rivalry win, the Irish improved their standing with some of the recruits, but did they do anything to war­rant a commit in the near future? 
"I think Nyshier Oliver is the most likely at this point," Frank said. "He's still taking his visits and looking around, but they need a speed receiver and he would be a huge get." 
In addition to the high school seniors, Notre Dame laid some solid groundwork on the prospects of the recruiting class of 2010. Of the 13 that have been offered scholarships thus far, six were present against the Wolverines. 
"They really did a great job of bringing in some top junior talent," Frank said. "They set themselves up for the future with a great win. Also, the recruits were able to meet each other and spend some time together which is always good." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
IRISH SPECIAL 
14" Cheese Pizza: Buy one get one free! 
Pizza King of Roselane 
The Proof is in the Taste 
Redeemable Tue-Wed-Thur Dine in Only Ad Must Be Presented Offer Good Until Oct. 1st 
277-2020 Free Delivery Fri & Sat-5:00-11:00 

Dome 
continued from page 24 
the Golden Dome Invitational. 
"We are not looking ahead 
right now," Brown said. "We are 
looking at each team we are 
about to face." 
Coming into its ninth Golden Dome Invitational, Notre Dame is 13-8 all-time, having won 10 of its last 12 matches in the event. 
The Irish are entering some uncharted territory, however ­they have not faced Liberty, UC Irvine or Western Michigan in a long time, according to Brown. 
"We have played them before, but not recently," Brown said. "I do know that they are having pretty good pre-seasons." 
Up first for the Irish on Friday is Liberty with an impressive 8­2 record and a decent schedule. The Flames won their first eight matches of the season before finally losing their first two games to Northern Iowa and No. 18 Kansas State. 
Liberty likes to rely on its star sophomore outside hitter Nicki Scripko, Brown said. 
"They try to get her the ball a lot," Brown said. 
To beat Liberty, Brown stressed the need to work hard to keep the ball out of the hands of Liberty's best players. 
"We need to work hard and serve aggressively," Brown said. "We need to take their best options away." 
Up next on Satul:"day is a down 
Ranking 
continued from page 24 
about it, and people are pat­ting them on the back about it," Waldrum said. "We haven't discussed it but it's there and I'm sure there's extra motivation to keep it." 
Waldrum said even though DePaul is 2-6, the matchup is a dangerous one for the Irish because it is the first Big East game for both teams. 
"It's the first conference game so you always have to see what everyone in the con­ference is like and you want to rack up as many in-confer­ence wins as possible," the coach said. 
In addition, DePaul plays on a small, turf field that Waldrum said nullifies some of Notre Dame's athleticism. 
"The facility is very poor," he said. "Hopefully it keeps us sharp and we realize that it might present some diffi­culty for us." 
The Blue Demons have won two of their last three games after dropping their first five contests. 
After facing off against DePaul, Notre Dame will fly from Chicago to Pennsylvania to take on No. 17 Penn State. Brown upset Penn State last Friday before beating No. 25 Connecticut Sunday. Penn State fell in the rankings, a factor Waldrum said could make the home team hungri­er when the Irish come to town. 
"I almost wish they hadn't lost to Brown because that might have added some fuel to their fire," he said. "And with us being No. 1 they're gonna be really ready to go." 
Penn State beat the Irish 2­1 at Alumni Field in the teams' only meeting last sea­son. Waldrum said his squad outplayed the Nittany Lions in that game but the visitors had one great equalizer -then-
UC Irvine squad (4-6). It has had a tough schedule, having faced 
No.  17  San  Diego,  No.  18  
Kansas  State,  and  No.  12  
Oregon.  

Leading the Anteaters in kills is sophomore Kari Pestolesi, who had 53 kills in four match­es last week. Pestolesi also had 38 digs and 5 service aces. 
Rounding out the field for the Irish on Sunday is a 7-1 Western Michigan squad that is a legiti­mate contender for the MAC title. The Broncos, however, have been struggling with injury lately. Senior middle blocker Ashley Vogl will miss the rest of the season after sustaining a right knee injury against Illinois State on Sept. 6, while junior middle blocker Tara Lowell remains out indefinitely because of a right knee injury sustained in preseason practice. 
To take advantage of the these last three games before getting into the Big East, Brown said the team needs to improve in several areas. 
"We need to improve the ofl'ense, make our passing more dynamic," Brown said. "On defense we need to increase our range and set up the block. I want us to be aggressive and get good serves in." 
If the Irish can heat up this weekend and start up a winning streak, they will be well placed to start Big East play off right against South Florida next week. 
ContactJared Jedick at 
jjedick@nd.~du 
sophomore goalie Alyssa 
Naeher. 
"I think she's the best goal­
keeper in the country." 
Waldrum said. "Last year 
when they beat us she was 
responsible for [the win] ... 
That was last year and this 
year she·'s playing as well as 
ever." 
In the team's first road trip 
this season, Notre Dame top­
pled both then-No. 3 North 
Carolina and then-No. 12 
Duke. Waldrum said he hopes 
for similar results this week­
end. 
"This is just another one of those tough games that we've bitten off," Waldrum said. "But if we can sneak out of [Penn State] with a win, we should be in really good shape for the meat of our Big East schedule." 
The contest against Penn State is the last non-confer­ence game for the Irish dur­ing the regular season. And, beginning with DePaul Friday, Waldrum said his team is ready to begin Big East play. 
"We have done so well in the Iconference] regular sea­son; we typically win our I eague," h e sa1'd . "W ' 
ere excited to go back and actual­ly have an opportunity to win our conference tournament." 
Last season, the Irish fell to West Virginia in the Big East tournament final and Waldrum said they are eager to get another crack at it. 
Still, the coach emphasized that it is more critical for his team to have a solid regular season than to worry about the postseason at this p'oint. 
"Our entire body of work lin the regular season] is much more important to me than the tournament," Waldrum said. "And usually by the time the NCAA Tournament rolls around, we've done enough with our body of work to get in." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

~~! 
t~ 
\\ 
\ 
\ 
\
] 
\ 
) 
>((' 
..· 
~:.· t 
ij 
fl 
'l
L 
f 
'• . 
~-· 
l ~ . 
.. 
' -~ • -u 
.J 
:-~{
"-'t 
~-: 
'··'; 
''\ 
):'lJ
1\) 
'.'(
,l,. 
),. 
~I ·-·~ 
··: ~~~ 
.\•,
,-,:, 
,., 
... 
,. 
::·~ 
•I 
>i 

' 
i 
I, 
'$j 
I ( 
•I 
I­
I .. 
•,•'·,.. 
" 
~ ~ 
page 22 Friday, September 19, 2008 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
*""= 
,.­
• -r-· 


Friday, September 19, 2008 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 

BLACK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
''Six:.K THE. WoRLD INfo A BlAU' HOL.£ 7 
You'££ ~SE ntAN . TH"SE ~lE.Il..$! SH•IJ s.JI'tE 5C-IEJ.ITIFIC... /CJ6-0R! IT'S VE]lFet:TLY SAFE. 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
tPORTSY± 

THE: MATTI<E:55 WA5
J r J
1 
GUAI<ANTEE:D 50 
www.Jumble.com 
THE C.OUPLE: COULD--­

I USDABE ± Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, asI I r IJ 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
A:"[ III]" (IIII IIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: JUMPY CHUTE PURVEY JANGLE Answer: No matter what is served, this will make it attractive -HUNGER 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
Across 33 Juvenile 57 Have a little 1 Chutzpah development something 6 Block 34 Rapidly 58 A famous one 
boundaries: increasing pace begins "How Abbr. 37 Younger brother sleep the brave " 
9 Self-defense, of George W. 
e.g. and Jeb 59 Very dark 13 Detector of 38 Lids around some potentially lochs Down 
dangerous 39 Alvin of the 1 Rail part waves 
American Dance 2 Like a perfect 
17 Question of Theater game concern after 40 Over 3 See 8-Down someone has 4 Big mess
42 Michael who had a bad played Cochise 5 Like cliches experience 
on TV 6 Arab League 18 Mauna 43 Young or wee member 
19 Row in a garden follower 7 Town near the 20 Corps groups 44 1923 A.L. M.V.P. D. H. Lawrence 21 "Children of 45 Japanese Ranch 
Men" star Clive pilgrimage 8 With 3-Down, slopes
22 Bosox nickname destination 9 Don't tread 
23 Toyota sedan 49 Put out lightly26 Words before an 50 Far Eastern 1 0 It has a largeattempt affirmative bed 31 Tide, at times 53 Where moles 
11 "Sicut in Puzzle by Barry C. Silk
32 Arizona's might be found principia"
Peak National 56 Creator of big 27 Loud 41 Woman of La 48 "This doesn't 
(doxology

Observatory suits? 28 City just NE of Mancha look good" 
phrase) Citrus County 42 Distinctive 49 Wallpaper meas.

12 Sondheim's 29 Word said upon
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE qualities 50 Kind of garden
"Multitudes of 


arrival 
44 Compact 51 Asia's Sea30 Words said upon material
14 Powerful piece departure 52 Dot in a 10­15 Wikipedia 45 Big name in Down
32 Lumber features footwear

alternative 54 w vindice"
35 lan Fleming or 

16 Like curious James Bond 46 He broke with (Confederacy onlookers Stalin in 1948 motto)
36 Power outage 21 Enthusiastic cry backups 47 Domino, e.g. 55 Society affair of support 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with asightings credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
23 "Thy servants 
_spies": Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
Genesis 42:11 crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 24 Soap staple Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 25 Food glaze past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 
26 You don't say it Share tips: nytimes.cornlpuzzleforum. Crosswords for young when you stand solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
FRIDAYS WITH FRAN
HOROSCOPE 

Aries (March 21-April19): Tremble often this weekend. Taurus (Aprii20-May 20): The high seas are calling so hop on your jetskis and get wetskis. Gemini (May 21..June 20): Ralph Wtggum thinks you're ugly. Boy, that says a lot about you. Cancer (June 21..July 22): Make a diorama out of a diarrllea. 
Leo (July 23-Aug. 22): Lean on the lamppost and wait for a certain little lady to come by. Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Just because your job is working the comer doesn' mean you can' get rich. So get outthere and get rich. Ubra (Sepl23-0ct. 22): If your cricke1s tum into cats and your cats tum into hamsters and your hamsters tum into even more hamsters, you will be left with one smelly house. 
Scorpio (Oct ~v. 21): Todays riddle: Whafs fat and can'spell much. (Hint look in the mirror or try to spell something) Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Ask the Lama for a little something for the effort Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan 19): So who liked whom as more than a friend? Screech or Mr. Belding? Text your answer to (317)258-1272. The winner (loser?) will be revealed next week. Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will get trapped in a ptt with lions, tigers, scorpions,venomous snakes and midgets. Be extra wary of the midgets. Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20):Keep the good metal sepa­rate from the scrap metal!!! How many times must you be told? 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

SOCCER 

No. 1 women open Big East competition 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 

Another weekend, another tough road trip for the Irish. Top-ranked Notre Dame (6-0­
0) opens Big East play at DePaul tonight before head­ing to State College to take on No. 17 Penn State Sunday. 
The Irish have not talked as a team about the No. 1 rank­ing that they earned .for the first time of the season this week. But coach Randy Waldrum said he knows his players will have added incentive to win this weekend in order to retain it. 
"The program and the team is used to [being ranked No. 
1] but I'm not naive enough to think the girls don't read 
see RANKING/page 21 

~--~-­

THE OBSERVER 
p

Friday, September 19, 2008 

page 24 
Creams of the crop 
JESS LEE/The Observer Left, freshman defender Jessica Schuveiller battles during Notre Dame's 40 win over Loyola Marymount on Aug. 29. Right, junior midfielder Justin Morrow dribbles during Notre Dame's 5-0 win over USF on Sept. 7. 
By CHARLIE SPOKES, ALEX 
WEST, KYLE SMITH, 
DOUGLAS FARMER, 
MATTHEWWILSEY AND 
LIZA NAVARRO 
Sports Writers 

Despite different results last season, both St. Eward's and Carroll will try to get their interhall seasons off to a hot start on Sunday at 1 p.m. at Rehle fields. 
The Stedsmen, who had a 3-2 record last season, return sophomore quarterback Matt 
Abe ling. 

"Last year was totally unex­
pected and fun after St. Ed's 
supposedly failed to score a 
single point during the previ­
ous four seasons," team cap­
tain Andy Nester said. 

St. Ed's has been working 
extensively on perfecting its 
kickoff return and coverage 
teams and is intent on playing 
together as a team. -"We really want to stress 
team unity and being on the 
same page," Nester said. 

The Vermin are looking to 
improve their team after going 0-4 last season. 
"We had our ups and downs," captain Nick Ruof said. "But we've been working on smashmouth football with our double tight-end forma­tions and a clever defensive scheme." 
Carroll's squad is comprised mostly of young players, but does return last year's quarter­back Kris Kast. 
"We just want to have some fun and score more points than the other team," Ruof said. 
Dillon vs. O'Neill 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
Golden chance to improve 
By JARED ]EDICK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame looks to build momentum this weekend when it hosts the Golden Dome Invitational against Liberty, UC Irvine and Western Michigan. 
The Irish (3-6) had a tough couple of weeks against some of the best competition in the country. They faced No. 11 
,,, Minnesota, No. 4 California and No. 16 Cal in a span of only three days. 
"We have learned so much in the past few weeks," head coach Debbie Brown said. "Now we need to apply what we have learned." 
-, The Irish want to build momentum this weekend to carry over into Big East play next week, but Brown said the team's focus is still squarely on 
see DOME/page 21 

. '· 

'·' 
No. 5 St. John's, 'Cuse conze to South Bend 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

The last time the No. 5 team came to Alumni Field. it walked away with its tail between its legs when. Notre Dame beat then No. 5 South Florida 5-1 Sept. 7. 
Now it's St. John's turn. 
The No. 5 ranked Red Storm kick off a grueling weekend for the No. 3 ranked Irish, who will also play undefeated Syracuse on Sunday. Combined, Notre Dame's two opponents sport an 8-0-3 record on the season, and St. John's and Syracuse have outscored their opponents by the combined score of 17-2. Irish coach Bobby Clark has noticed. 
see CLARK/page 20 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Young Carroll squad seeks improvement on 0-4 season 
The Dillon Big Red and The Angry Mob from O'Neill square off Sunday in a season-opening matchup of two teams search­ing for redemption. 
After a disappointing 2007 season, the Mob are deter­mined to rebound. Hopes were high after reaching the cham­pionship game in 2006, but O'Neill couldn't get things together last year. 
"We had a lot of talent, we just didn't get much out it," Captain Matthew Bono said of last year's squad. "All I can say is that it's a different offense from last year." 
Although O'Neill is changing their offensive strategy, Bono said their best chance for vic­tory will come from good exe­cution and playing mistake­free football. 
Big Red team captain Chris Cugliari also said a rebound is possible for O'Neill. 
"We're not taking 0' Neill lightly," he said. "We believe they will be back at the top." 
The Big Red captain is confi­dent in his team's ability be on 
see BIG RED/page 19 
FOOTBALL 

Rainy game may have attracted top recruits 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Wrirer 

Imagine being a highly touted recruit visiting one of the pre­mier football programs in the nation on a fall Saturday in September, in which the hosts played its most hated rival in a rainy, raucous atmosphere to pick up a convincing win. 
For the high school talents in attendance at Notre Dame's 35­17 win over Michigan last week, this was precisely the case. 
As a result, the Irish coaching staff is thrilled with the progress made toward receiv­ing verbal commitments from some of these young talents. Mike Frank. who covers Notre Dame football for Scout.com, said the win over the Wolverines is exactly what the Irish needed. 
"What the Irish did do is solidify opinions that a lot of these recruits had about Notre Dame," Frank said. "That and all the guys who already com­mitted had a great time too, so it was a big week." 
Some players that originally weren't highly interested in the Irish have now started to strongly consider Notre Dame as a possible destination. According to Frank, linebacker Glenn Carson from Southern Regional High School in Manahawkin, N.J., is a perfect example. 
"Notre Dame wants Carson to play from the fullback position, ' but he wants to stick to his nat­ural linebacker position," Frank 
see FRANKJpage 21 

page 2 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 19, 2008 
COMMENTARY 
Defense's turn to lead ND to victory 
Against Michigan it was turnovers. 
Against San Diego State it was ... well, it was San Diego State. · 
Against Michigan State it 
has to be stopping J a v o n Hinger. 
Two weeks in a row Notre Dame has been able to 


point to a Dan Murphy specific reason why Sports Editor 
it came away with a victory. If the Irish want to be 3-0 Saturday night, they will have to be able to shut down Hinger, Michigan State's run-· ning back. 
Ringer has rushed for 498 yards and nine of his team's 12 total touchdowns. So, say­ing he is a focal point isn't exactly breaking new ground. 
The question is: is it possible for Notre Dame to slow down the 5-foot-9, 202-pounder who looks like he is firing out of a slingshot every time he touch­es the ball? 
Last Saturday, Michigan freshman Sam McGuffie torched the Irish defense for 131 yards on the ground. Like McGuffie, Ringer is a smaller, shifty back with a great burst of speed. But Ringer brings even more to the table. 
His great vision and agility allow him to slip through the eye of a needle to find day­light, and once he gets a step on you there is no catching up. 
With all the areas that Notre Dame has so noticeably improved, the one department that is lagging behind is the run defense. In their season opener, the Irish gave up 4. 7 yards per carry to the Aztecs -a predominantly passing team. • 
The following week the same off-tackle play sprung McGuffie again and again for big gains. It's usually not a good sign when the top two tacklers on your team are both safeties. 
The problem comes from the fact that in the first two games, Notre Dame faced spread offenses that normally kept at least three receivers on the field. The extra receiv­er meant the Irish have spent most of the season in a nickel package with five defensive backs. 
Safeties David Bruton and Kyle McCarthy have both done good jobs coming up and mak­ing plays, but by the time they read the play and get to the · ball carrier, he is already a few yards downfield. 
The extra man in the sec­ondary meant that linebackers Brian Smith and Maurice Crum were left on an island as the third backer, usually John Ryan, moved down to a three­point stance where a defen­sive end would normally play. 
Playing out of position, Ryan has been about as effective as a screen door on a submarine. Right now he has as many solo tackles as wide receiver Duval Kamara -one.' 
While Ryan struggled, defen­sive ends Ethan Johnson and Morrice Richardson watched big chunks of the game from the sidelines. If Ryan's job was to clog up the works up front rather than make tackles, it makes more sense to have an end in the game who is more comfortable using his hands to get free in tight spaces. 
Michigan State does not run the spread offense. This week defensive coordinator Corwin Brown will be able to return to his normal 3-4 set that puts an extra linebacker on the field. The extra man in the box should help in getting to Ringer a little bit q'uicker, but bringing him down w,ill still be a challenge. 
The defense has definitely improved its tackling since last season, but it is still not where it needs to be against a slippery back. McGuffie proved that last week when he turned a two-yard catch into a 40-yard touchdown littered with missed tackles in the sec­ond quarter. 
In week one, the offense ­especially the line -stepped up to avoid an embarrassing loss to the Aztecs. 
In week two, the specials teams created good field posi­tion and big turnovers to set the tone early. 
In week three, it's the defense's turn to carry the burden and lead the team to a victory. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at 
dmurphy6@nd.edu 
2008 Irish opponents • 
Last week L, 35-10, SJSU (1-2) L, 35-17, ND (2-1) W, 17-0, FAU L, 32-26, Oregon (1-2) L, 31-14, TCU (2-0) W, 44-12, Rutgers 
(0-3) L, 55-14, Okla. (1-1) Idle 
(1-1) Idle (1-2) L, 41-31, Duke (0-2) L, 55-13, PSU (2-0) W, 35-3, OSU 
This week vs:Idaho vs. Wisconsin vs. Notre Dame vs. C. Mich~ 
-

vs. San Jose St. vs.Va. Tech Idle vs. Iowa vs. UCF~ 
vs. Rutgers vs. Northeastern Idle 
THE HENRY LUCE FOUNDATION 
Check out The Obsever sports blog, The Casual 
..

Observer, at 
Observersportsblog.21cr.info. 
!1\n 

lJJi When it's the prestigious Lucescholanhlp, finding you an exciting 1-yrJob In the far east, strateglcaily chosen to match your career goals. Apply by Oetober 31! 2008. 
Interested? 29 oryounger? Have you now (or\WI you have by 1he end of May, 2008) an ND degree? No eastMexperience? For roore ilfonnation, oontact Steve Skaar (skaar.1@nd.edu) 
Friday, September 19, 2008 
The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 

an of the house 
Irish safety Kyle McCarthy anchors both a tough Irish defense and his off-campus home 
said. "He's got boxers on, but
By BILL BRINK 
that's about it..
Sports Editor 
Quinn called McCarthy the 

dad of the house, but Kuntz 
"Take off your shirt!" called him the mom. McCarthy 
Kyle McCarthy shakes his agreed with Quinn. 
head, unable to hide a sheepish ''I'm the dad of the house," he 
grin. said. "Pat's a child. I have to 
"Take off your shirt!" the yell whip him into shape every once 
comes again. It's not from a in a while." 
female student dying to see a The five Of them carpool to 
football player topless, but campus, but not everyone pulls 
rather from nose tackle Pat their weight. McCarthy and 
Kuntz, one of McCarthy's Kuntz are the main drivers ­
housemates. Once he heard the "workhorses," Kuntz said 
McCarthy, a senior safety, -while Duncan slacks in the 
would have his picture taken, transportation department. 
Kuntz had to be a part of it, "Duncan, I don't think he's 
and he kept asking -no, ever started his car," McCarthy 
pleading -for McCarthy to said. "He's trying to save gas 
undress. money." 
McCarthy refused. So his Lest one get the wrong idea, housemates -Kuntz, offensive McCarthy was quick to mention tackle Paul Duncan and line­that the five of them clean the backer Steve Quinn.-along house once a week. with linebacker John Ryan and "I don't want you guys to get receiver Robby Parris, conspire the wrong impression, it's not a to create the most ridiculous shack. It's a nice house," he setting imaginable for a pic­said. ture. And McCarthy 
McCarthy, would, reluc­who acts •7t was a tough tantly, call him­respectful and selfa nice guy. "I
decision, but the lure 
intelligent, put don't want to be up with the ofplaying big-time boastful, but I'd nonsense. He college football really say I'm a nice, reserves him­hardworking
won me over. ,.
self for the Midwestern most part but kid," he said. exudes a quiet Kyle McCarthy sense of humor. Irish safety Path to success He looks sur­But years prised, howev-before he was er, when told man of the he lPd the nation in solo tackles house, McCarthy played quar­with 17. terback at Cardinal Mooney 
"You're honestly the first per­High School in Youngstown, son that told me that," he said Ohio. He rushed for 1,273 after a pause. yards and 14 touchdowns and Before long, it will be hard to passed for 557 yards and five ignore. touchdowns as a senior. He also played safety, recording 70 Full house tackles and five interceptions 
McCarthy painted quite a pic­his senior season. ture of his off-campus home. When colleges came calling, There's Pat Kuntz, the resident McCarthy heard from ·MAC child, making a mess and play­schools as well as service acad­ing Halo 3. There's Paul emies who were interested in Duncan, the nicest person him as a quarterback. McCarthy's ever met. There's Tempting, but not right for him. Steve Quinn, who loves gummy "It was a tough decision, but bears for some · reason the lure of playing big-time col­McCarthy can't fathom. There's lege football really won me also tackle Mike Turkovich, over," he said. "When you're who ... McCarthy couldn't think playing for Notre Dame, it's a of anything, so he asked Kuntz. whole different story." 
"He always wears boxers," When he arrived at Notre Kuntz offered. Dame, however, he battled both 
"Yeah, he never wears injury and the depth chart. He clothes in the house," McCarthy had safety Tom Zbikowski, who now plays for the Baltimore what he needs to be doing. But can't reconcile the two -they Ravens, in front of him, but he he's a big boy now." get along both on the field and said the two became close. off. 


"Zibby and Tackling "We'll watch film together, myself became machine we'll talk about schemes real good So far this together," he said. "vVe've got
--rm the new guy,
friends right off season, the big our differences, but we gener­the bat," he right? I hope they boys on the ally like each other." said. "We both underestimate me ... field have had play the same to fear Targeting Ringer 
And it kind of
position at~d McCarthy. McCarthy, Bruton and the have the same motivates me, to be The style of rest of the Irish defense have a interests. I felt honest, to get my the Irish new task this weekend: stop like his style of defense and its Spartans running back Javon
respect.,
play and my opponents have Ringer, who has nine touch­style of play somewhat downs in three games this sea­were pretty Kyle McCarthy inflated son. similar, but Irish safety McCarthy's "The guy that they've got, we're both our tackles. Notre he's a Heisman hopeful, he's own player." Dame has been got that kind of talent," 
McCarthy said in the nickel McCarthy said. "We've got to be he learned the workings of the package for the first two games prepared, the defensive line, defense from watching on the of the season to neutralize the linebackers and safeties to sideline, but the transition from spread offense, and running come up and tackle him." being a big deal in high school backs have been funneled to Tackling Ringer, he said, was to a relative no-name his fresh­McCarthy and safety David not so much a matter of posi­man year humbled him. Bruton. tioning as one of prepping one­
"It taught me that no one's Irish defensive coordinator self for a potential big hit. going to give me anything, Corwin Brown said McCarthy is "Honestly, you probably just you've got to work for it," he a reliable guy and someone have to buckle up a little bit said. "I've tried to keep my who does what he's taught. tighter," McCarthy said. "He's a head down, keep working." "Up until this point, he's a guy that will juke you, but he's 
He knew he was on the right guy that you give got some weight track, however, near the end of him rules and to him; some
7Javon Ringer is] a 
his junior season, when he assignments and muscle to him, started getting more playing he tries his best H eisman hopeful. he ·s he'll try to run time. His eonfidence has never to execute you over at
got that kind of 
wavered, he said, but playing them," Brown times."
talent. ~Ve ·ve go to be
in front of 80,000 people can said. "He doesn't If one were to take some getting used to. get all of the prepared ... to come look at his team­McCarthy's older brother flash and the up and tackle him., mates' stage Brian graduated from Notre flair, and every­theatrics for his Dame in 2006, and his younger body isn't holler­photo shoot,
Kyle McCarthy however, one
brother, Dan, is a freshman ing his name. safety on the team this fall. but at the end of Irish safety might think McCarthy said he enjoys having the day when McCarthy capa­his brother around, both during you look at the ble of stopping football and outside of it. film and you look at the stat anyone. In various poses. with 
"We pick on him a little bit, sheets and he's doing his job." Kuntz as the art director, he myself and my friends included. McCarthy said it wasn't a has a foot on Parris' gut while I think they think he's their negative that other offenses Kuntz holds on for dear life. brother too," he said. "We're focused more on Bruton; in Duncan, who wanted no part of excited for him to come along fact, it gets him going. any of this, stood in hysterics in next year, and he's going to be ''I'm the new guy, right? I the background. a great player." · hope they underestimate me," Will McCarthy to live up to 
To make sure his brother he said. "It kind of makes me his teammates' view of him, as takes care of himself, McCarthy excited. And it kind of moti­well as his lead in solo tackles? said he checks up on Dan from vates me, to be honest, to get He doesn't know, but he's not time to time, but that to some my respect." worried about it. His thoughts extent, he's on his own. McCarthy and Bruton got to are elsewhere. After learning 
"I can guide him in certain know each other well coming in he had the lead, he said, "I areas hf~ needs to be guided," as freshmen from Ohio, and guess I hope I lead at the end." he said. "I keep an extra close -despite disagrPements over watch on him in the meeting music -Bruton likes rap, Contact Chris Hine at rooms, to make sure he's doing MeCarthy likes rock, and they chine@nd.edu 
Friday, September 19, 2008 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 


Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 1-0 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Charlie Weis Fourth season at Notre Dame career record: 
24-15 


Charlie Weis against head coach Michigan State: 1-2 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  HI  Wt.  YR  
1  Dcion Walker  WR  6-2  188  FR  
3  Michael Floyd  WR  6-3  215  FR  
4  Gary Gray  DB  5-11  188  so  
5  Armando Allen  RB  5-10  195  so  
6  Ray Herring  DB  5-10"  198  SR  
7  Jimmy Clausen  QB  6-3  217  so  
8  Raeshon McNeil  DB  6-0  190  JR  
9  Ethan Johnson  DE  6-4  275  FR  
9  Kyle Rudolph  TE  6-6  252  FR  
10  Dayne Crist  QB  6-4  233  FR  
11  David Grimes  WR  5-10  177  SR  
12  Nick Lezynski  QB  5-ll  157  so  
12  Robert Blanton  DB  6-1  11!0  FR  
13  Evan Sharpley  QB  6-2  215  SR  
"14  Brandon Walker  K  6-3  202  so  
15  Brian Castello  QB  6-2  191  so  
15  Dan McCarthy  DB  6-2  200  FR  
16  Nate Montana  QB  6-4  200  FR  
18  Duval Kamara  WR  6-5  219  so  
19  George West Jr.  WR  5-10  196  JR  
20  Terrail Lambert  DB  5-11  195  SR  
21  Barry Gallup Jr.  RB  5-11  200  )R  
22  Harrison Smith  DB  6-2  206  so  
23  Golden Tate  WR  5-11  195  so  
24  Leonard Gordon  DB  5-11  187  JR  
24  Brian Coughlin  WR  6-0  172  JR  
25  Jonas Gray  RB  5-10  230  FR  
26  Jamoris Slaughter  DB  6-0  182  FR  
27  David Bruton  DB  6-2  212  SR  
28  Kyle McCarthy  DB  6-1  203  SR  
29  Jashaad Gaines  DB  6-0  202  JR  
29  Michael Garcia  WR  6-1  178  so  
30  Steve Paskorz  FB  6-2  235  so  
31  Sergio Brown  DB  6-2  205  JR  
32  Luke Schmidt  TE  6-3  246  )R  
33  Robert Hughes  RB  5-11  237  so  
34  James Aldridge  RB  6-0  225  JR  
35  Kevin Smith  LB  5-8  200  SR  
35  Kevin Brooks  TE  6-2  241  JR  
36  Joe Bizjak  K  6-2  165  JR  
36  David Posluszny  LB  6-0  220  FR  
37  Mike Anello  DB  5-10  170  SR  
37  Eras Noel  RB  5-8  190  so  
38  Chris Bathon  DB  5-10  192  JR  
38  Christopher Gurries  WR  5-10  181  so  
39  Ryan Burkhart  K  5-11  190  JR  
40  Maurice Crum Jr.  LB  6-0  235  SR  
41  Scott Smith  LB  6-3  235  SR  
41  Nikolas Rodriguez  RB  5-11  205  SR  
42  Kevin Washington  LB  6-1  250  SR  
42  Dan Franco  WR  5-10  188  JR  
43  John Leonis  DB  5-9  169  SR  
43  Eric Maust  p  6-2  177  )R  
44  Asaph Schwapp  FB  6-0  257  SR  
45  Darius Fleming  LB  6-1  236  FR  
45  Kris Patterson  WR  5-11  185  SR  
46  Steve Filer  LB  6-3  2362  FR  
47  Joe Vittoria  LB  5-11  44  JR  
47  Mike Narvaez  FB  5-11  231  JR  
48  Steve Quinn  LB  6-2  225  SR  
49  Toryan Smith  LB  6-1  244  )R  
51  Dan Wenger  c  6-4  302  )R  
52  Braxston Cave  c  6-3  315  FR  
53  Morrice Richardson  DE  6-2  255  JR  
54  Anthony McDonald  LB  6-3  225  FR  
55  Eric Olsen  OG  6-5  303  JR  
56  Kerry Neal  LB  6-2  246  so  
57  Mike Golic Jr.  c  6-3  280  FR  
58  Brian Smith  LB  6-3  245  so  
59  Chris Stewart  OG  6-5  337  JR  
61  Martin Quintana  LB  6-1  242  JR  
62  Bill Flavin  c  6-3  252  so  
63  Jeff lisak  OT  6-3  306  SR  
64  Tom Burke  LB  5-10  242  JR  
65  Mike Hernandez  OL  6-2  275  FR  
67  Tom Bemenderfer  c  6-5  300  SR  
69  Carl Brophy  OL  6-4  278  FR  
70  Matt Romine  OT  6-5  292  so  
71  Dennis Mahoney  OL  6-6  290  FR  
72  Paul Duncan  OT  6-7  308  SR  
74  Sam Young  OT  6-8  330  JR  
75  Taylor Dever  OT  6-5  308  so  
75  Lane Clelland  OT  6-5  281  FR  
76  Andrew Nuss  DE  6-5  304  so  
77  Mike Turkovich  OG  6-6  305  SR  
78  Trevor Robinson  OG  6-5  301  FR  
79  Hafis Williams  DE  6-2  302  FR  
81  John Goodman  WR  6-3  197  FR  
82  Robby Parris  WR  6-4  210  JR  
84  Will Yeatman  TE  6-6  265  so  
85  Sam Vos  WR  5-10  199  JR  
86  Paul Kuppich  TE  6-3  232  SR  
87  Joseph Fauria  TE  6-7  245  FR  
89  Kapron Lewis-Moore  DE  6-4  257  FR  
90  John Ryan  LB  6-5  264  JR  
91  Emeka Nwankwo  DE  6-4  295  so  
93  Paddy Mullen  NT  6-3  300  )R  
94  Justin Brown  DE  6-3  277  SR  
95  Jan WilliaiTb  NT  6-2  310  so  
96  Pat Kuntz  DE  6-3  283  SR  
97  Kallen Wade  LB  6-5  255  )R  
98  Sean Cwynar  DE  6-4  283  FR  

·Irish experts 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Notre Dame 2008 Schedule 
Sept. 6 SDSlJ-W Sept. 13 MICH-W Sept. 20 at MICH. ST. Sept. 27 PURDUE. Oct. 4 STANFORD Oct. 11 atUNC Oct. 25 at WASH. 
..

Nov.1 PITT Nov. 8 atBC Nov. 15 NAVY N·ov. 22 SYRACUSE Nov. 29 at USC 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING 
Jimmy Clausen played a decent game against Michigan, com­pleting 1 0-of-21 passes with two touchdowns. He's developed a good rapport with receiver Golden Tate and should continue to improve.  
Spartan quarterback Brian Hoyer has thrown only one touchdown this season and averages 185 yards per game. He did throw for 321 yards against Cal, his toughest opponent.  

L&.l 
::E 
<
c 
L&.l 
a: 
.... 
0 
z 


Charlie Weis proved he can handle the rig­ors of coaching after taking a shot to the left knee Saturday. Now he has to prove he can coach a team against a power run game.  
In his second year at Michigan State, Mark Dantonio has the Spartans at 2-1, with the loss coming against a decent Cal team. A home game against a hot team will challenge his abilities.  



None of Michigan State's defensive linemen weigh more than 288 po;Jt:nd~. so bruiser 
~!!:fftun 
Spartans haven't allowed a back to rush for more than 57 yards 

Robert Hughes dump-trucked his way to 79 yards and two touch­downs and averaged 4.2 yards per carry. With Armando Allen giving the defense a different look, the Irish ·ground game will produce good yardage.  
-The Spartans give up 4.5 yards per carry and let two different Bears rush for over 100 yards against Cal. They buckled down in their next two games, however.  

IRISH PASSING 
Notre Dame can now play-fake effectively, which adds one more tool to its passing repertoire. With height {Duval Kamara) and speed (Tate) at receiv­er, Michigan State's sec­ondary will have to respect the pa.-;s.  

After allowing Cal to move the ball through the air, Michigan State shut down the Eastern Michigan and Florida Atlantic passing games. Strong safety Otis Wiley has two interceptions this season.  

All four members of the Spartan secondary are 6-1 or taller, giving 
B!Wt'D 
"bombs-away" mentali­ty, Notre Dame will drop a big play or two. 
After a pivotal win, the Iri'lh have to avoid a let down while Michigan State will be ready, as usual, for Notre Dame. Cal tal­lied over 450 yards of total offense against the Spartans in week one. The Spartans improved in their next two games, but their 


since week one. 


field,  the  rush  
defense  will  
improve_  think 
Bill Brink Clausen  shows  

Sports Editor 

I'm excited about several things in this game. I think when Notre Dame gets a bona fide ofl'ensive line on the 
some talent without 
the rain to contend with. We can expect the defense to make a big play, and the Irish extend their winning streak in East Lansing to four. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28 Michigan State 24 

Notre Dame looked like a whole new team after trouncing Michigan last week. Clausen has yet to be sacked and the run­ning backs have looked better. Javon Ringer has a big day on the ground, but the inept Spartan passing attack will allow the Irish to stack the box 

all day. The team plays a complete game in 
all three facets and stays undefeated. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 Michigan State 17 
opponents were Eastern Michigan and Florida Atlantic. Thi'i could be a chance for the offense to show what it can do. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 Michigan State 27 
Friday, September 19, 2008 
The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Michigan State Spartans 
Michigan State 2008 Schedule 
Aug. 30  @CAL-L  
Sept. 6  E.Mich.-W  
Sept. 13  FAU-W  



SPARTANS RUSHING SPARTANS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 
Sept. 20 Sept. 27 Oct. 4 Oct. 11 Oct. 18 Oct. 25 Nov.1 Nov. 8 Nov. 22 

Notre Dame @Indiana Iowa @ North,vestem Ohio State @Michigan Wisconsin Purdue @Penn State 
INTANGIBLES 
2 
0 
-t ::0 ITI 
c 
l> 3: 
ITI 
-
n 
:::1:
-
G) l> 
2 
t/) 
~ 
~ 
m 


Michigan State 
Spartans Record: 2-1 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Mark Dantonio 1st season at Michigan State career record: 25-23 against Notre Dame: 1-0 

Mark Dantonio head coach 
Roster 

No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 2 Mark Dell WR 5-9 170 so 2 Matt Haughey K 5-9 176 SR 3 B.]. Cunningham WR 6-2 205 FR 4 Dan Conroy K 5-10 165 FR 5 Johnny Adams CB 5-11 165 FR 6 Fred Smith .WR 6-2 218 FR 7 Brian Hoyer QB 6-3 215 SR 8 Kirk Cousins QB 6-3 197 FR 9 Jeremy Ware DB 5-10 184 JR 10 Kyle Selden p 6-5 184 FR 11 Marcus Hyde s 6-0 199 so 13 Brad Sonntag WR 5-8 173 FR 13 Charles Burrell .S 6-2 210 FR 14 Chase Parker DB 5-8 168 FR 14 Brett Swenson K 5-8 169 JR 15 Kenneth Hall WR 5-8 160 FR 15 Todd Boleski K 6-6 215 SR 16 Chris D. Rucker WR 5-10 170 FR 17 Charlie Snow QB 6-3 1'!0 FR 18 Aaron Bates p 6-0 188 so 19 David Williams WR 5-9 179 so 20 A.T. Jimmerson RB 5-10 208 JR 21 Otis Wiley s 6-2 210 SR 23 }avon Ringer RB 5-9 202 SR 24 Caulton Ray RB 5-9 197 FR 2.'i Blair White WR 6-2 200 JR 26 Jesse Johnson s 5-10 187 so 27 Andre Anderson LB 6-0 230 SR 28 Mike Bell DB 5-11 175 JR 29 Chris Rucker DB 6-2 185 FR 
30. Jehuu Caulcrick RB 6-0 255 SR 31 Ashton Henderson DB 6-2 185 FR 32 Mike Cordell DB 5-9 185 JR 33 Dan Fortener DB 6-1 197 so 34 Brandon Denson LB 5-11 222 JR 34 Andre Buford RB 5-8 180 FR 35 Marcus Webb LB 5-11 220 JR 36 Jon Misch LB 6-2 205 So 37 Ross Weaver CB 6-1 202 JR 38 Kendall Davis-Clark CB 5-11 210 SR 39 Trentcn Robinson CB 5-11 180 FR 40 Nick Bendzuck FB 6-3 235 so 40 Roderick Jenrette s 6-1 195 JR 41 Glenn Winston RB 6-3 218 SR 41 Mike Haddad LB 5-9 194 FR 42 Ryan Allison LB 6-3 224 SR 43 Eric Gordon LB 6-0 224 so 44 Josh Rouse FB 6-3 235 JR 45 Andrew Hawken FB 6-3 238 JR 47 Adam Setterbo FB 6-3 246 FR 47 Brandon Long DE 6-4 250 SR 48 Drew Stevens LB/FB t)-4 225 FR 49 Dwayne Holmes DE 6-0 286 SR 50 Steve Gardiner LB 6-1 214 FR 51 Jamiihr Williams LB 6-3 240 FR 52 Andrew Pendy · LB 6-1 235 JR 53 Greg Jones LB 6-1 222 so 54 David Rolf LB 6-3 215 FR 55 Adam Decker LB 6-2 238 JR 56 Alex Shackleton SN 6-2 242 so 57 Johnathan Strayhorn DE 6-0 252 FR 58 Trevor Anderson DE 6-3 25() JR 59 Ryan Wheat NT 6-5 297 FR 60 Mike Bacon OL 6-4 30 SR 61 Arthur Ray Jr. OL 6-3 300 FR 62 Chris McDonald OL/DL 6-5 284 FR 63 Anthony Woods OL 6-3 325 FR 64 Brendon Moss OG 6-6 287 JR 65 Joel Nitchman c 6-3 297 JR 66 John Stipek OG 6-5 298 JR 67 Joel Foreman OG 6-3 308 FR 68 Ethan Ruhland OL 6-6 278 FR 69 Forrest Cohn SN 6-0 218 FR 70 Oren Wilson NT 6-3 288 so 71 John Deyo OL 6-6 283 FR 73 Roland Martin OG 6-5 330 SR 74 Zach Hueter OG 6-7 330 FR 75 Jared McGaha OL 6-6 290 FR 76 Mike Schmeding OT 6-8 320 JR 77 }'Michael Deane OT 6-5 294 so 79 Jesse Miller OT 6-6 318 SR 81 David Duran TE 6-5 240 FR 82 Keshawn Martin WR 6-0 180 FR 83 Charlie Gantt TE 6-4 252 so 84 IA"'n Curry WR 6-5 215 SR 85 Garrett Celek TE 6-5 238 FR 86 Myles White WR 6-1 165 FR 87 Todd Anderson DE ~2 244 FR 89 Colin Neely DE 6-~ 248 so 89 Cam Martin WR 6-3 178 FR 91 Tyler Hoover DE 6-7 268 FR 92 lshmyl Johnson DE 6-5 275 so 93 Antonio Jeremiah DL 6-5 318 so 94 Cameron Jude DE 6-3 240 FR 96 Kevin Pickelman DT 6-3 248 FR 97 Justin Kershaw DT 6-5 273 SR 9!1 Michael Jordan DT 6-5 287 JR 99 Jerel Worthy DT 6-3 305 FR 
Irish experts 
Notre Dame had all sorts of trouble bringing down Sam McGuffie, who rushed for 131 yards last week. The Irish have been playing a smaller front four that struggles to stop backs at the line of scrimmage.  The Irish secondary took advantage of the wet conditions and limited Michigan's Steven Threet's effectiveness. David Bruton and Gary Gray both had intercep­tions, wqile Raeshon McNeil and Robert Blanton both played well.  Eric Maust averaged 39.9 yards per punt in the first two games. Kickoff returns have been OK: Notre Dame averages 18.9 yards per kick return. Bruton and Mike Anello have destroyed opposing return units.  The painful stigma of last season has faded with the win over Michigan. The offensive line kept Oauseil on his feet and created holes for the run-ning backs. Don't forget the domination of the defensive red zone; the Irish have an interception and two fum­ble recoveries there.  
When the Spartans were in the same deluge as Notre Dame last week, Javon Ringer rushed 43 time for 282 yards and two touch­downs. He scored five times the week before. One might say he has skills.  Good thing Ringer went ballistic, because Brian Hoyer went 5-of-15 for 88 yards and a pick. Granted, "it was pouring, but that's not inspiring if the Spartans need a comeback.  Punter Aaron Bates averaged more than 40 yards per punt and had two downed inside the 20. Brett Swensen made a 22-yard field goal. As a returner, Ringer can break one at any time.  When in doubt, hand off to Javon. That will be Hoyer's mantra Saturday, and by all rights it should be effec­tive. But Hoyer and receiver Mark Dell have had some success as well: Dell has a touch­down and averages 24.6 yards per catch.  
Notre Dame will have its hands full with Ringer, who carried the Spartan offense the past two games. Expect another big day for him.  
 Notre Dame's field goal unit has not been up to par, however, and in a close game that could influence a coaching decision. But the difference-maker is Ringer. whose quick cuts make him tough to catch on kick returns.  ind i e ~ails o ~t!)~~g····t:~~·········~:i~~~'ij~] the [oBtci~ ····~  


As usual, a. battle 
with the Spartans 
will be hard-fought 
and high-scoring. 
The passing game is 
good for a few big 
plays each game and 
Hughes will continue 
to establish himself 
as the main back for 
the Irish with a busy 
day. Michigan State's Ringer will run wild with another 100­plus yard performance, but if Notre Dame can continue to play stingy defense in the red zone, it will hold ofT Sparty. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 Michigan State 24 

After last week's con­vincing win over Michigan, the Irish have already sur­
-prised a few people, but they have their first true road test this Saturday. Michigan State always plays Notre Dame tough, but Robert Hughes will 
run all over the Spartans
luke 

and in the end, I see the
Harangody 

Irish pulling it out in the
Irish 

fourth quarter.
forward 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35 Michigan State 28 
Harangody averaged 20.4 points per game and 10.6 rebounds per game in his sophomore season and was named Big East Player of the Year. His performances included a career-high 40 points at Louisville and a 32-point game at Connecticut. 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 19, 2008 
Crunching the numbers 
2007 SEASON AVERAGES PER GAME 
ND points scored 
UM points scored 
ND points allowed 
UM points allowed 
ND rush yards UM rush yards 
ND rushing allowed UM rushing allowed 
ND pass yards UM pass yards 


ND passing allowed UM passing allowed 



What's your favorite spot on campus? 
11m going to have to say Siegfried Hall. 
If you got to go anywhere in the world where would you go? 
I would nit mind seeing the pyramids in Egypt. I think that would be pretty cool. 
If you weren't playing football, what sport would you play? 
I like baseball. I mean I stink at it, but I like baseball. I played when I was a little kid, but it's been a long time. I played third base back then. 
What's the least favorite class you've taken at Notre Dame? 
Wow, therels a whole bunch of them, it's tough to narrow it down to one. I think lid have to say Calc II. . 
What is the best memory you'll take away from your time here? Probably my freshman year when we beat Stanford to get into a BCS bowl, because of that bowl game. 
Who's your favorite team to play against? l1d say Michigan State. Theylre a bunch of tough guys and you have to play tough to beat them. I like banging. 
Who talks the most trash out on the field? Actually, it's probably a freshman, Rob Blanton. He1S got a big mouth on him, man. 
Holy Cross Village at Notre Dame invites you to a special 

dedicated to our college and university neighbors 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23RD • 4 P.M. TO 6 P.M. 
Educational, spiritual and cultural opportunities are ap important focus of our continuing care retirement community. Find out why many retrred professors, alumni and their parents have decided to make Holy Cross Village their home. 
Enjoy refreshments and tour our new community. 
For more information, please call (574) 251-2235. 
~ Holy Cross Vi/14ge at Nom IJam<-is a 'ontinuing caT( mirmtmt mmmunity spvnsowd by tk Brothm of 

54515 State Road 933 North • Notre Dame, IN 
Holy Crrm and mll1Utged by tlx Fmncist:an Sistm ofChicagrl ,'in-via Gwponztinn. AT NOTRE DAME www.holycrossvillagc.com 
Gl­
"'"'­

Friday, September 19, 2008 
The Observer+ IRISI-I INSIDER page 7 
Hughes earning approval of coaches, fans 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
"Huuuughes!" 
That chant -heard every time sophomore running back Robert Hughes carries the ball -has bellowed from the stu­dent section 35 times this sea­son, and Hughes has been lis­tening each time. 
"I definitely like it, just to get the crowd into it, to know they're having fun in the stands," Hughes said Tuesday after practice. "It's entertain­ment and I appreciate the fans getting behind it and it defi­nitely helps the offensive line. They get behind it and it helps me run better, it motivates me." 
But coming into the season, it was hard .to tell how many times the students would get to yell that chant. Hughes, a pow­erful runner who's rushed for 139 yards in two games, is one of three running backs the Irish use. The other two, soph­omore Armando Allen, more of a speed back, and junior James Aldridge, a combination of Allen and Hughes, haven't seen as many carries as Hughes has thus far. 
But that still doesn't mean Hughes will get the most car­ries from now on. 
According to offensive coor­dinator Michael Haywood, the situation of the game dictates which back gets on the field, and in a driving rainstorm against Michigan, the situation called for a slower but tot,~gher back. 
"We get into a situation where there's a downpour and you have to pound the football, and when you have to pound the foptball it goes to two peo­ple, James Aldridge or Robert Hughes because that's not Armando Allen's type of game," Haywood said. 
And when Notre Dame is near the goal line, Hughes is also called upon. Against Michigan, Hughes scored twice on short touchdown runs. s·o will the goal line one day become Robert Hughes' territo­ry? 
"J wouldn't say that," Hughes said. "I'd say it's Notre Dame's territory. Because our goal is to get the ball in the end zone every time we're inside the 20­yard line ... Yf.?ur mentality is always score, no matter where you are on the field, you want to score. Whether you drive the ball in 13 plays or one play, you have to score." 
Even if h~ doesn't get the most carries every game, the coaching staff has shown that it trusts Hughes to shoulder a high percentage of the, work­load in the backfield, some­thing Hughes has worked hard for since coming to Notre Dame from Hubbard High in Chicago. 
"I rely more on just my eyes and making the right reads and the right cuts," Hughes said. "In high school, it was all instincts. Now, the game has changed. You have to use prop­er technique, you have to 

-

between third and one and a 
first down." 
If Hughes can get those pads 
down, he can help Notre Dame 
by doing a little more of his ·favorite thing. "Getting points on the board," he said. 
Contact Chris Hine at . chine@nd.edu 
lower your pad leveL" 
Lowering his pad level has been a constant point of emphasis for Hughes. All of the power he generates when he runs could be negated if he runs straight up, allowipg a defender to easily send him backwards. But by working to lower his pad level, Hughes has tried to use that power to gain yardage after contact. 
"[I've worked on] finishing runs and lowering may pad level. I worked on it going into spring ball ... I've tried to do it, but you can always get better at it," Hughes said. "You always want to make sure you're finishing through with positive yards. Those two o.r three yards are the difference 
Gameplanning will be easier, but stoppingRB Ringer won't 

By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Going into last week's game against Michigan, the Irish defensive coaches had a lot of questions when game-planning, from the quarterback to the new spread system. This week against Michigan State, things are a lot easier. 
The Spartans boast what Irish head coach Charlie Weis called one of tha best running backs in the country in senior Javon Ringer. 
"You don't have to worry about whether or not they're going to take him out of the game plan, because that is not going to be the case," Weis said. "So you better bring your lunch pail with you because they're going to get behind those big linemen and hand him the ball and you'll have to stop him." 
Ringer has been the Big Ten offensive player of the week the last two weeks, both wins for the Spartans. On the season, Ringer has already racked up 713 all-purpose yards and nine touchdowns, including 282 rushing yards and two scores against Florida Atlantic last weekend. The senior tailback also returns kicks for Michigan State. 
Spartans coach Mike Dantonio said. one of the most impressive parts of Ringer's day against FAU was that he had no fumbles. Last week's Spartans-Owls game was played in East Lansing. Mich .. which experienced the same downpour South Bend did on Saturday. 
Dantonio said the fumbles ­or lack thereof -did not sur­carries for 83 yards to set up prise him ·because Ringer's the passing attack. "intangibles" set him apart In that game, quarterback from other players. Bri~n Hoyer had mediocre 
"It's the toughness, it's the numbers (only 11-of-24 for 135 attention to detail, it's the con­yards and one pick), but also fidence, it's the work ethic [that connected with receivers for set him apart]," Dantonio said four passing touchdowns. Saturday in his post-game Hoyer, now a senior who has news conference. "When you started all three of Michigan have a tough environment like State's games this season, con­that, they know you're running tinues to have below-average the football, so for him to get numbers. The 6-foot-3 quarter­the yards and for him to sort of back has completed only 44 control the game percent of his in . certain passes (33-of­
..You might stop 
moments was 75) for 557. one impressive, but [Ringer] a few times touchdown and 
it's the type of but that's not going to two intercep­
person he is." tions. Last
stop [Dantonio] from 
Weis said Saturday -..,. 
Ringer's individ-· giving him the ball.,, against FAU, he ual performance only went 5-of­made the team's 15 passing for
Charlie Weis 
"Top Ten" list of 88 yards and a
Irish coach 
goals for this week's game because he knows Ringer will be an integral part of the Michigan State offensive game­plan. 
"You might stop him a couple times but that's not going to stop [Dantonio) from giving him the ball," We is said. "They're going to keep on giving him the ball and you're going to have to keep on stopping him, because they're going to keep on giving it to him." 
Ringer has been a thorn in Notre Dame's side throughout his career at Michigan State. During last year's 31-14 Spartan win at Notre Dame Stadium, he carried the ball 26 times for 144 times, but the Irish kept him out of tlw end zone. llowever, Michigan State used his and then-senior run­ning back Jehuu Caulcriek's 20 
pick. 

But Weis said that despite the numbers Hoyer has improved since taking over for former Spartans quarter­back Drew Stanton last season. 
"Now he's got a year under his belt, and he looks like a much, much more competent quarterback than when he first toek over. I think he's done a really nice job," Weis said. 
Weis also said Hoyer has the talent to be a top-tier quarter­back, but hasn't had to be one because of Ringer's spectacular season thus far. 
"If anyone could kind of stifle [lUnger] at all, I'd still think they'd feel confident enough that Hoyer can make enough plays to win for them." Weis said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
-

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 19, 2008 
SPORTS THEATRE ROOM: WITH SEATING FOR OVER LARGEST MARTINI BAR IN .. · THE AREA
• 

PRIVATE DINING • SEATING • 'BANQUETS • CATERING 








