
Boston College defeats Notre Dame 4-1 in National Championship 


Please turn to page 24 for fu.II coverage and pages 12-13 for photos. 
WU YUE!The Observer 
Left, Irish defenseman Kyle Lawson watches the puck cross the goal line five minutes into the third period. The goal was overturned upon review when the replay official ruled that Lawson kicked the puck into the net. Top, Boston College left wing Nathan Gerbe, behind the net, puts the Eagles up 2­0 early in the second period when he taps the puck in while diving head-first. Gerbe, a junior, had two goals and two assists in the national championship in Denver on Saturday. 
ND alumna Tho111pson discusses alternative fuel sources 
NBC News chief environmental correspondent criticizes current energy sources, sees hope in new technologies 
Jordan Auditorium at the domain of environmentalists dioxide could be 20 years unpredictable and there is
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Mendo:za College of Business who wore Birkenstocks and away, and certainly billions no way to store the energy
News Writer 
Friday. ·crunched granola." and billion of dollars away," produced. Thompson said the envi­Fueled by rising gas Thompson said. "The even bigger challenge 
Chief environmental ronment has recently prices, the search for alter­Thompson said one alter­with wind power is how do affairs correspondent for become a hot issue with the native fuels to replace coal native source of fuel that is you get the energy those NBC News and Notre Dame American public. -currently responsible for "gaining popularity" is wind wind turbines create out of graduate Anne Thompson "It was clear that this was over half of the United energy, currently responsi­the plains of west Texas or discussed the importance of an issue that was going to States' energy -and oil has ble for less than 1 percent of along coast lines to the city engineering environmental impact all our lives," she become more expansive. the country's energy. But and towns beneath them?" stability and criticized the said. "The environment was "Even the coal producers Thompson said wind power she said. current forms of alternative no longer a 'fringe' issue. It concede that the ability to is unfeasible because it pro­energy in a lecture in the was no longer the shaggy capture and store carbon duces very little energy, it is see THOMPSON/page 6 


SMC theater group puts on controversial play 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
"Stop Kiss," Saint Mary's spring theater production, was met with initial hesitation due to its controversial themes of homosexuality and violence but was eventually accepted by the audience. 
When it was first announced that "Stop Kiss" would be per­formed on campus, several members of the Saint Mary's student body sent e-mails to the play's director, Katie Sullivan, expressing concerns over some of the play's content. 
In an e-mail to the student body, Sullivan explained that the play was chosen to help explore violence in the every­day world. 
"The play spoke loudly to me in its plea for non-violence in our world, both in the larger global picture and in the small individual choices we each make everyday," Sullivan said in an interview. 
Both during and after the per­formance, the audience did not seem to take offense to the issues addressed in the play. 
"It broke some preconceived stereotypes I had about lesbians because the girls were two nor­mal people who happened to fall in love like anybody else falls in love, without trying," Saint Mary's freshman Catie 
see PLAY/page 4 


Cavanaugh -wins RecycleMania 
University participated in 10-week competition for first time 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Cavanaugh Hall captured first place in Notre Dame's inter-dorm recycling com­petition -part of the 10­week-long RecycleMania competition between 400 colleges and universities nationwide. This was the first time that Notre Dame participated in RecycleMania. 
Cavanaugh won by col­lecting 81.36 pounds per capita of recyclables, according to Recyclin' Irish president and RecycleMania coordinator Ann Kelley. St. Edward's Hall came in sec­ond with 72.31 pounds per capita, and Walsh took third 
with 65.73 pounds per capi­ta. 
As part of the competi­tion, students took recy­clables out of campus trash cans and from other dorms -a factor in Cavanaugh's 
win,  according  to  the·  
dorm's environmental  com­ 
missioner Sarah Cline.  

"I am so excited and so happy that we won because everyone in the dorm put so much work into it," she said. "We went on raids and really tried to get everybody involved. I know everyone here was really happy about it." 
Cline said Cavanaugh gen­erated a lot of awareness through emails and posters and created enthusiasm by highlighting the competitive aspect of RecycleMania. 
"We put posters every­where and we sent out e­mails," she said. "We really promoted the competition side of it. There was the general consensus that we did not want to lose to Farley, so people were real­ly excited about that." 
In addition to the inter­dorm competition, Kelley said Notre Dame also par­ticipated in the Stephen K. Gatski Per Capita Classic Competition -the original RecycleMania competition in which schools compete to see who can collect the most acceptable recyclables 
see RECYCLE/page 6 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Dot colll vvriting 
I am not a writer. And I1m1 not going to pre­
tend that lmn orm ·nm problem L<> not a toch­
nir.a.l one -my AP English L<mguage <md 
I\nglish literature seon~ will toll you that I 
have mastered tho b<l<>ics. Allor all, Imn a 
go1KI spdlnr (read: I ccu1 
idnntily and chcu1ge the Mary Jesse 
word<> underlimxl in little 
red squiggles), <md I can Graphics 
u<>wLlly do a decent job Editor 
with grammar-Iju<>t 
rmu.l what I have written 
out loud, <md ifit sound<> okay then lfih'LJr(l I 
mn probably gcKKI to go. 
B<L<>ically, the problem is getting f>1arted. The 
prompt. What do I writn about, and how do I 
make it interesting'? One ofmy worst night­
manlS i<> when teachers a55ign an open-ended 
paper topic, nlf>1rict.ing it only to Show-'Jbat-
Yc IU-Adua.lly-Underf>ilKKI-thn-Leetures-and­
llcl<u.linhrs-thi<>-SemclStnr-in-at-Least-I<ive­
l'agllS-Double-Spru·~xl. Oh, m1d be sum to u<;o 
TimclS Nnw Hormm, 12 point. 
YclS, I am mrutin that I am not a.Iom~ in my 
struggle to fill a page with meaningful text. 
I<or m1yone who h<L<> ever Ulf>1ed 12.5 point 
typo or 1.3 inch margin<>. or even rclSoruxf to 
'[ N. HormUl's dose {yet In&<> spru:e-ellicinnt) 
cousins Big (:Cl<>lon, B<l<>kervillo, BcKJkm<m. 
<md BPII, you know what lmmm. 
Now, maybe you will got lueky, 1u1d your 
Ul/u:hnr's untr<timxl eye just won't c.akh the 
type modifications that strnu:h that lbur-<md­
six-snvnntlls page paper u1 a lull Jivo-pagnr 
(noUl: spelling out nwnnral<> under one-hun­
drnd is mrrnd standard li1nnatting, and also 
happcms Ul take up a lot ofspru:o. Same with 
spcllling out contrm:tion<>). It would be a bum­
mer, though, ifyou h<u.l UJ e-mail the paper. 
Also, Iwould not recommcmd trying any tricks 
witl1 tl1o typclhtraphy Ulru:hnrs in tlm Graphic 
I>esign depm-t.mnnt. Oh, w1tit, wn don't wriul 
papclrs in dcJSign d<L<>s. Ncwcw mind. 
What l1m1 trying u1 say is tlmt cwen if 13 pc>int Century witl1 1.476 inc:h margins will not do tl1e tric:k, thorn L<>, th<mklully, help lbr tl10se of us struggling U> c.omploul writing w.;signmenl<>. For exmnplo, CrnativeWritingl'romps.r.om and similar Web siUlS am out tlmre waiting UJ get your fingers tapping and your carpal tunnelrutivauld. (IJJt's be soriou<>. nobody wriu~ with pcm and paper anymore. Then you would not be able 
U> copy-pa<.,1o your most recent researeh mauJria.l inu> Wikipndia when you fmi<>hoo.) 
Some of tho 302 pmmpl<> on the site sound­cJCI worthy ofnou1 (th!lSauri are exr.cllent for linding f>J'IlOnyrn<> fiJr ovnru'>lxl word<> like "inumlSt.ing"), so I narmw!xl it down U> a lew tlmt l<Llrnost u<i~xl U> wriul tl1L<> column. I have dmtrly chosen <mother dinl!tion (<md have dom1 a dcl!-;entjob of filling the box!), but I Pncourage you U> choose and pcmdnr one of those, or di'>l:ll'i'> it with a liiond over some nlh'tllauxl-pc wtic 111 stir-fry. If it turns out to be inuJnlSt.ing, you can e-mail it UJ me (in any lbnt m1d pc1int str.e), orju<>t give me ercldit for writ­ing such a great ln'lide Column. 
#:{02 Wriullrom thP pc1int of view of a · spcKm insidn the di<>hW<l<>hm: #263 Give night good rea<;orL<> it L<> ok for mnn U>lie. #231 L.b-t. the seven worst things to say to a pc1rson who juf>1 got dwnpcld. 
#20 WriUl about the color of hunger. 
#2S5 WriUl a littiona.l news story about an 1u.loption agency snlling shavtld ape~ a<; 
bubiclS. 
#1 S2 If1m /\TM could be ctL'iU>m creakxl for you, what would it spew out insuliu.l of money'! 

The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obser11er. 
Contact Mary Jesse at mjesse@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake. please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DO YOU PLAN ON CELEBRATING ANTOSTAL WEEK? 





participating in sacrifice a small 'The World's animal." 
Kim Nanovic  Rob Plasschaert  Ben Linskey  Matt Boutilier  
junior Welsh Family  junior Alumni  freshman Dillon  freshman Dillon  
"''m going to  "Pantless. "  ''I'm going to  

Largest Spoon Train' -you should come too!" 
Worker attempts to curse Yankees' new stadium 
NEW YOHK -So much for the curse. The New York Yankees have ended a con­struction worker's attempt to jinx their new stadium with a buried Boston Hed Sox jersey. 
Team officials watched Sunday as construction work­ers removed the jersey, with slugger David Ortiz's name on it, from 2 feet of concrete in a service corridor of the stadium that's under con­struction. 
The team says a construc­tion worker -who is a Red Sox fan -recently buried the jersey there while on the job. 
TODAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
....I c( 
(.) 0 

celebrate it with Achilles and Petroclus. " 


leather, with a silver dish fea-· turing an oyster on the half­shell -hung on Bertoletti's skinny hips. The 22-year-old Chicago resident took the title Saturday by slurping 35 dozen of the big bivalves in eight rrtinutes. 
"I could probably do a cou­ple dozen more, especially .if they were charbroiled," said Bertoletti, who holds the endurance oyster-eating record, having downed 53 1/2 dozen in 2007 before call­ing it quits. "Although they're great raw." 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
Two other supervisors found the tattered shirt Saturday. 
The Yankees plan to donate the jersey to charity, and may pursue a lawsuit against the construction worker. 
Chicago resident becomes oyster eating champion 
NEW OHLEANS -Patrick "Deep Dish" Bertoletti looked down at the litter of empty oyster shells in front of him and savored the sweet taste of victory. For Crazy Legs Conti, the bitter taste of defeat could be washed away only by beer. 
The Acme World Oyster Eating championship belt ­

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
-~1 
",~\ 
It: 

~n:~ 

..... HIGH 48 HIGH 30 HIGH 58 HIGH 65 
LOW 31 LOW 26 LOW 39 LOW 45 

Spud Dupuis Danielle Rush 
junior freshman McGlinn PE 
"Tie-dyeing "Not doing shirts in warm any weather!" homework!" 
IN BRIEF 

The play "The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus", a Christopher Marlowe play about a professor who sells his soul to the devil, will be performed April 17 and 18 at 
7:30 p.m. in thH Decio Mainstage Theater at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The African Student Association is hosting African Food Culture Night today at 6 
p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Student Lounge. The event is part of Africa Week. 
NBC Washington bureau chief and moderator of "Meet the Press" Tim Hussert will deliver a lecture entitled "When Politicians Meet the Press" today at 8 p.m. in the Washington Hall. 
The Notre Dame Baseball Team will play Toledo Tuesday at 6:05 p.m. at the Eck Baseball Stadium. Admission is free for students. 
Archbishop Luis Augusto Castro Quiroga will deliver a lecture entitled "Colombia: The Church as Peacebuilder" Wednesday from 12 p.m. to 
1:45 p.m. in the Hesburg Center Auditorium. 
"The Shirt" will be unveiled Friday at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Co-host of' Mike and Mike in the Morning Mike Golic will be the guest speaker. Festivities begin at 
4:30 p.m. and "The Shirt" itself will be revealed at 6 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obser11er. e-mail detailed information about an e11ent to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

Atlanta 51 I 35 Boston 51 I 31 Chicago 49 I 32 Denver 73 I 43 Houston 73 I 48 Los Angeles 79 I 54 Minneapolis 51 I 38 New York 53 I 37 Philadelphia 55 I 34 Phoenix 98 I 66 Seattle 48 I 39 St. Louis 54 I 34 Tampa 72 I 52 Washington 48 I 39 
---------~----------------------------------------------------------~--------------~------~--------------------~ 
Monday, April 14, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
ITALY




Knott honored as 
Prodi's collapse brings early election
Hall of the Year 
Polls may return conservative billionaire Silvio Berlusconi to power 
By STEVE SANTAY News Writer 
Knott Hall was awarded the honor of IIall of the Year by the Hall President's Council last Monday at the Student Leadership Recognition Banquet at Legends. 
Keenan Hall was named Men's Hall of the Year, while Lewis won Women's Hall of the Year. 
Cavanaugh received honor­able mention -the first time ever that an "honorable men­tion" dorm was recognized. 
Knott president Edward Barloh said Knott's success could be attributed to the wide variety of events the dorm host­ed throughout the year, includ­ing charity events and discus­sion with professors. 
"I believe the single-largest reason for Knott's success is that we organized an unprece­dented amount of extremely successful events," Barloh said. "It was a lot of fun; I really enjoyed working with all of the other great dorms on campus." 
Keenan Hall president Mark Weber said although he was very proud of Keenan's success, his overall experience as dorm president was more rewarding. 
"One of the coolest things about being a hall president was the chance to interact with leaders from other dorms," he said. "Awards aside, we're all trying to create an awesome campus atmosphere." 
Although Lewis lost both of its assistant rectors, hall president Jessica Keppel said the hall council was still able to organ­ize exciting events by enticing people with the promise of free food. 
"The commissioners on our hall council really worked hard to get everyone excited," she said. "Offering free Papa John's breadsticks really works well if you want people to come to your events." 
Contact Steve Santay at 
ssantay@nd.edu 

Italy has a history of political 
instability, with more than 60 
governments since World War 
II.


Scientists test out 
Whoever wins will face Italy's perpetual dilemma -improv­ing the economy, the world's seventh largest. It has under­
performed the rest of the euro zone for years and the

sludge in poor areas 
-not just one "I have little faith Berlusconi's junior, political force or this time." has pledged to another -for the lead generational failure to solve change, while at
Carlo Brunetti
the nation's prob­the same time say­lems. Italian voter ing the left-wing 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -Scientists using federal grants spread fertilizer made from human and industrial wastes on yards in poor, black neighborhoods to test whether it might protect children from lead poisoning in the soil. Families were assured the sludge was safe and were never told about any harmful ingredients. 
Nine low-income families in Baltimore row houses agreed to let researchers till the sewage sludge into their yards and plant new grass. In exchange, they were given food coupons as well as the free 
Associated Press 
ROME -Italians fed up with the governing class and a stag­nant economy voted Sunday in early parliamentary elections that could return conservative billionaire Silvio Berlusconi to power. 
The 71-year-old media mogul's main opponent is Walter Veltroni, a center-left former mayor of Rome who has promised deep reforms and an ideology-free approach to tackling the country's prob­lems. 
A sense of malaise hung over the elections, with Italians pes­simistic that the ruling class ­dominated for years by the same key figures -can offer much chance of change. 
''I'm not sure if I am going to vote," said 47-year-old Carlo Brunetti in central Rome. "I have little faith this time." 
The election comes three years early due to the prema­ture collapse of Romano Prodi's left-wing government. 


AP 

People gather outside a polling station In Rome, Italy, Sunday 
metals in the soil, allowing the com­bination to pass safely through a child's body ifeaten. 
The idea that sludge -the left­over semisolid wastes filtered from water pollution at 16,500 treatment plants -can be turned into some­thing harmless, even if swallowed, has been a tenet of federal policy for three decades. 
In a 1978 memo, the EPA said sludge "contains nutrients and organic matter which have consid­erable benefit for land and crops" despite the presence of "low levels International Monetary Fund forecasts growth of 0.3 percent this year, compared with a 1.4 percent average growth for the 15-country euro area. 
Italian governments on both sides have failed to make the structural reforms that econo­mists say are needed -either for lack of political will or con­sensus. 
On the household level, Italians are pressured by rising prices though salaries are 

and Urban that sludge may
in the realm ofsafe. ,,
Development also directly benefit Department. human health. 
Associated Press The Associated Thomas Burke Meanwhile, Press reviewed Johns Hopkins professor there has been a 
SINGHPURA, India -Standing 
grant documents obtained under the Freedom of Information Act and interviewed researchers. No one involved with the $446,231 grant for the two-year study would identify the partici­pants, citing privacy concerns. There is no evidence there was ever any medical follow-up. 
Comparable research was con­ducted by the Agriculture Department and Environmental Protection Agency in a similarly poor, black neighborhood in East St. 
Louis, ill. 
The sludge, researchers said, put the children at less risk of brain or nerve damage from lead. A highly toxic element once widely used in gasoline and paint. lead has been shown to cause brain damage among children who ate lead-based paint that had flaked off their homes. 
The msearchers said the phos­phate and iron in the sludge can bind to lead and other hazardous paucity of research 
into the possible 

harmful effects of heavy metals, pharmaceuticals, other chemicals and disease-caus­ing microorganisms often found in sludge. 
A series of reports by the EPA's inspector general and the National Academy of Sciences between 1996 and 2002 faulted the adequacy of the science behind the EPA's 1993 regulations on sludge. 
The chairman of the 2002 acade­my panel, Thomas Burke, a profes­sor at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, says epi­demiological studies have never been done to show whether spread­ing sludge on land is safe. 
"There are potential pathogens and chemicals that are not in the realm of safe," Burke told the AP. "What's needed are more studies on what's going on with the pathogens in sludge -are we actually remov­ing them? The commitment to con­necting the dot<> hasn't been there." 
in front of his small brick home, in a courtyard where the dirt has been packed down by genera­tions of barefoot children, the middle-aged mustard farmer doesn't bother to hide his exhaus­tion. 
"Only someone who has been through something like this can understand the size of my catas­trophe," said Sukhpal Singh Tomar. For years, he has strug­gled to find some reason for his suffering, but has come up with little. He shrugged: "It must be my karma." 

The catastrophe? His daughters -all eight -so many he some­times stumbles over their names. But his wife, Shanti, never for­gets, and the words spill from her like a breathless prayer: "Anu­Jyoti-Poonam-Roshni-Sheetal­Bindu-Chandni-Shezal." 
They have been born in a coun­try leaping headfirst into the glob­alized world but still holding tight to a preference for boys, enlarg­

to vote in general election. 
among the lowest in Western Europe. 
Signs of decline abound, from piles of trash in Naples, to a buffalo mozzarella heath scare that has hurt exports and hit one of the country's culinary treasures, to the faltering sale of the state airline Alitalia. Italians increas­ingly blame the governing class 
There are 945 parliamentary seats up for grabs in the vote, which was scheduled to last until 10 p.m. Sunday and then resume Monday morning until early afternoon. 
Turnout was running at 64 percent late Sunday, slightly behind the 66 percent at the same time during the last vote in 2006. 
Berlusconi, who has been prime minister twice before, led elections polls two weeks ago, but more recent polls showed Veltroni making a 

comeback. Whether Veltroni can prevail could depend on undecided voters, a significant portion of the nation's 47 mil­lion voters, analysts say. 
Berlusconi appeared to have a clearer lead in the lower house, while the vote for the Senate was expected to be 
more of a contest. 
Veltroni, at 52 
nearly 20 years 
he represents dif­

fers from Prodi's -which found itself hostage to small parties on the more extreme left that hampered his reform plans. 
To avoid the same problems, Veltroni has spurned the far­left. 
Berlusconi, vying for his third stint as premier in the last 14 years, has blamed the outgoing center-left government for the country's problems. 
Prodi, whose last government lasted only 20 months, is not running. 
of toxic substances." But in the late 1990s the govern­ment began underwriting studies 

INDIA 
such as those in Baltimore and East 

Sex-selective abortions continue 
lawns as part of a St. Louis using
''There are potential
study published in poor neighbor­2005 and funded pathogens and hoods as laborato­by the Housing chemicals that aren't ries to make a case 
By 2001, researchers reported from 20 to 40 million "missing" girls 
ing an ever-widening gender in the back of everyone's mind: 'I imbalance in the second most must have a male child,"' said populous nation on earth. Madhur Gurhan, the obstetrician Tomar, 50, said his wife had who runs the public hospital's 
also had three  maternity ward in  
abortions. Asked  Morena,  the  
if the intent had  "But it's still in the  largest  nearby  
been to abort female fetuses, he looked silent­ back of everyone's mind: 'I must have a  city. "The money doesn't change that."  
ly at the ground.  male child.,,  It has long been  
"It would have  clear that India  
been easier to have a son. Even just one,"  Madhur Gurham Morena obstetrician  has a deep-seated preference for boys. By 2001,  

said Shanti, 38, whose stringy hair and worn skin make her look 20 years older. She's holding their youngest girl, 3-month-old Shezal. 
Much has changed in this vil­lage since the Tomars' first daughter was born 19 years ago. Electricity arrived, and later the first cell phones. The number of tractors has quadrupled. Today, the village's girl<> attend the local primary school just like its boys. 
"There's more money here now, and more education. But it's still researchers esti­

mated the coun­try had anywhere from 20 million to 40 million "missing" girls from sex-selective abortions made available through the spread of ultrasound technology. 
But as India modernizes -as places like Singhpura become small towns, as towns become cities and as India's once-over­whelming poverty is slowly sup­planted by an increasingly edu­cated middle class that wants fewer children -researchers say the problem is only getting worse. 
Play 
continued from page 1 
Salyer said. 

Tlw play is set in modern New York City. and primarily a New York apartment. It is tlw story of nativn NPw Yorker Callin, playnd by Caroline Walker. a sm1ior thnater and biology major, who lwlps Sarah, pi<Lyed by Ayslinn MeCovPrn, a 
senior tlwater major. to b e ('. 0 111 e acquainted with the city af'tnr the lattnr's rnovn then~. Thny both arn initially heterosnxual. but as they form a bond with one anotlwr over the coursn of a fpw months, 

"/ think that it was was very emo­very emotionally tionally engaging and it gave the
engaging and it gave 
audience a lot to
the audience a lot to 
think about. 
think about. " There was also an image of self­sacrifice and the


Leanna Perez 
attempt to 

Saint Mary's freshman understand our­
thny begin to realize their feel­ings arP stronger than they originally thought. 
Orw night. aftpr leaving a nightclub, tlwy walk though a park on tlw West Side and sit on a lwneh. Tlwy lwgin talking and tlwn suddenly kiss. A man se1~s tlwm and comes up to them and beats Sarah. He beats hPr so severely that she enters a coma. 
The house was nearly full during the evening perf()rmanc­es and about three-quarters full for the matinee on Sunday afternoon. Both during and after the performance, the audience did not seem to take oiTm1sP to the issues addressed in thn play. 
Audiencn members said they were not ofl'ended but intrigued by the story line. "I think that it 
selves through 
the eyes of another," Saint Mary's fresh­man Lnanna Perez said. 
"Stop Kiss" is a contemporary piece written by Diana Son and was performed in Saint Mary's Littln Tlwater. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 




Flease Re The Obse-·· -·-· 

.'i 
"'a 
' 
I. 
Alice McDermott 
April 15 & 16, 2008 McKenna Hall, University of Notre Dame 
Tuesday April 15, 2008 
7:00 p.m. Evening reading with Alice McDermott. McKenna Hall Auditorium. Question &answer session to follow. 


Wednesday April 16, 2008 
2:00 p.m. Panel discussion with Lily Hoang, Alice McDermott, Katherine Vaz. 100 McKenna Hall. 
7:30 p.m. Reading with Lily Hoang and Katherine Vaz. 

The Observer + NEWS Monday, April 14, 2008 
Candidates discuss God and religion 
Clinton and Obama answer questions about personal faith at forum 
Associated Press 
GHANTHAM, Pa. Democratic Sen. Hillary Hodham Clinton said Sunday that the potential for life begins at conception as she and presi­dential rival Sen. Barack Obama answered questions about faith and religion in both their personal lives and the public discourse. 
In a forum devoted to an issue rare on the campaign trail, the two White House hopefuls talked about the pres­ence of God in their lives and how often they read the Bible as well as divisive issues such as abortion, abstinence and human rights within the con­text of faith. 
The two are reaching out to people of faith in Pennsylvania, which holds its primary on April 22. GOP nominee-in-wait­ing John McCain did not partic­ipate. 
Clinton was asked whether life begins at conception ­which opponents of abortion contend is a reality that makes any termination of a pregnancy the ending of a lifP. 
"I believe the potential for life begins at conception," Clinton said. "For me, it is also not only about a potential life. It is about the other lives involved. ... I have concluded, after great, you know, concern and searching my own mind and heart over many years, ... that individuals must be entrusted to make this profound decision, 
because the alternative would 
be such an intrusion of govern­
ment authority that it would be 
very difficult to sustain in our 
kind of open society." 
The New York senator added 
that abortion should remain 
legal. safe and rare. 
The two candidates appeared separately at Messiah College near Harrisburg, Pa., and briefly met as Clinton left the stage and Obama took her place. The moment of p~eas­antries and handshakes belied days of angry accusations between the two over Obama's comments about bitter voters in small towns. 
Asked whether life begins at conception, Obama said he did­n't know the answer. 
"This is something that I have not, I think, come to a firm resolution on. I think it's very hard to know what that means, when life begins. Is it when a cell separates? Is it when the soul stirs? ... What I know, as I've said before, is that there is something extraordinarily powerful about potential life and that that has a moral weight to it that we take into consideration when we're having these dPbates." 
Clinton is a Methodist. Obama is a member of Trinity United Church of Christ in Chicago, where the retired pas­tor, the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, touched ofT a furor with ser­mons criticizing the United States. 
The words of Obama's pastor have dogged the campaign, and the candidate reiterated his condemnation of Wright's remarks but stood by his church. 
"Pastors are imperfect. Certainly, the membership is imperfect. I, as somebody who is sitting in the pews as a sin­ner, is imperl'ect," he said. "And, you know, that doesn't detract from, I think, what the church is supposed to be about, which is to worship God and proclaim the good news." 
Clinton said she has felt the gift of God in her life and said she makes decisions on tough moral issues such as abortion and the treatment of alleged tflrrorists after prayflr. contem­plation and study. 
"I don't pretend to even believe that I know the answers to a lot of these ques­tions," Clinton said. "I don't." 
Onfl of the toughest questions she facPd was why God allows innocent people to suiTor. Clinton said that has been tlw subject of much dPbate for gf~n­erations. and addnd: "I .don't know. I can't wait to ask him." 
When asked if shn thought God wantnd her to be presi­dent. Clinton quippPd, "I could be glib and say, well, we'll find out." 
She said she doPsn't presume anything about God and she thought Abraham Lincoln was right to not ad as if God is on our side. "In faet, our mission should be on Cod's side," Clinton said. 
~-' 

The Office of the Dean of the College of Arts & Letters 
The Office of the President The Office of the Provost 

The Boehnen Fund, Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, College of Arts & Letters
McKenna Hall 

The Richard and Catherine Sturtevant Endowment for Excellence in English
Auditorium and 
The Department of English 

~UNIVERSITY OF
Atrium. 

The Creative Writing Program ~NOTRE DAME 



"'/ORLD & NATIOt~ 
Monday, April 14, 20('8 CoA,1PILED FROlv1 THE OBSERVER'S W£RE SERV!CES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL I~EWS 
Iraqi governmelllt sacks deserters 
BAGHDAD-Iraq's government moved Sunday to restore discipline within the ranks of the security forces, sacking more than 1,300 soldiers and policemen who deserted during recent fighting 1gainst Shiite militias in Basra. 
At the same time, Iraq's Cabinet ratcheted up the pressure on anti-American Shiite cleric Muqtada a\-Sadr by approving draft legislation barring political parties with militias from participating in upcoming provincial elections. 
AI-Sadr, who heads the country's biggest militia, the Mahdi Army, has been under intense pressure frorr Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, also a Shiite, to disband the Mahdi Army or face political imlation. 
Al-Sadr's followers are eager to tak-e part in the local elections because they believe they can take power away from rival Shiite parties in the vast, oil-rich Shiite heartland of south­ern Iraq. 
President's rival to be prime minister 
NAIROBI -President Mwai Kibaki named opposition leader Raile. Odinga as prime min­ister Sunday, implementing a long-awaited power-sharing deal aimed at resolving a politi­cal crisis that left more than 1,000 people dead. 
The deal -signed more than a month ago -marks the first time Kenya will have both a president and prime minister. But the working relationship between Kibaki and Odinga, which has been frosty in the past, will deter­mine how long the coalition lasts. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Officials confiscate witnesses' phones 
SAN ANGELO, Texas -State officials on Sunday enforced a judge's order and confis­cated the cell phones of the women and chil­dren removed from a polygamous sect's pri­vate ranch in West Texas. 
Attorneys ad litem for 18 girls from the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints who are in the legal custody of the state had sought the order, said Marissa Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for Texas Child Protective Services. 
The attorneys reasoned that cutting off com­munications would "prevent the possible tam­pering of witnesses," Gonzalez said, reading from the court document. 
It was unclear how many phones were taken Sunday. Gonzalez did not know if the docu­ment could be released. 

Rowling to testify in copyright case 
NEW YORK-Author J.K. Howling is eager to tell a judge this week that one of her biggest fans is in fantasyland if he believes a "Harry Potter" encyclopedia he plans to publish does not violate her copyrights. 
The showdown between Howling and Steven Vander Ark is scheduled to last most of the week in U.S. District Court in Manhattan. 
Howling is scheduled to testify Monday in a trial that is sure to generate huge interest among Harry Potter fans and the public. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Obama apologizes for comments 
MUNCIE, Ind. -Democrat Barack Obama on Saturday conceded that comments he made about bitter working class voters who "cling to guns or religion" were ill chosen, as he tried to stem a burst of complaints that he is condescend­ing. 
"I didn't say it as well as I should have," he said at Ball State University. 
As he tried to quell the furor, presidential rival Hillary Rodham Clinton hit Obama with one of her lengthiest and most pointed criticisms to date. 
"Senator Obama's remarks were elitist and out of touch," she said, campaigning about an hour away in Indianapolis. "They are not reflective of the values and beliefs of Americans." 
At issue are comments Obama made privately at a fundraiser in San Francisco last Sunday. He explained his troubles winning over working class voters, saying they have become frustrated with economic conditions: 


Pope to arrive at White House 
Papal visit with President Bush to be second in history; crowd of12,000 expected 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The leader of the world's Roman Catholics has been to the White House only once in history. That changes this week, and President Bush is pulling out all the stops: driving out to a suburban mili­tary base to meet Pope Benedict XVI's plane, bringing a giant audience to the South Lawn and hosting a fancy East Room dinner. 
These are all firsts. 
Bush has never before given a visiting leader the honor of picking him up at the airport. In fact, no president has done so at Andrews Air Force Base, the typical landing spot for modern leaders. 
A crowd of up to 12,000 is due at the White House on Wednesday morning for the pope's official, pomp-filled arrival cere­mony. It will feature the 

U.S. and Holy See anthems, a 21-gun salute, and the U.S. Army Old Guard Fife and Drum Corps. Both men will make remarks before their Oval Office meeting and a send-off for his AP popemobile down Pope Benedict XVI blesses pilgrims in St. Peter's Square at the Vatica1n Sunday, asking Pennsylvania Avenue. them to pray for a successful visit to the.United States. 
The White House crowd will be the largest of leaders will be there meeting between a pope total of five meetings with Bush's presidency. It even instead. and a sitting president. two popes. beats the audience last The president explained The first did not come There are more than 64 spring for Queen the special treatment -until shortly after the end million reasons for this. Elizabeth II, which num­particularly the airport of World War I, when Catholics number nearly bered about 7,000. greeting. Woodrow Wilson was one-quarter of the U.S. 
The evening festivities "One, he speaks for mil­received at the Vatican by population, making them will mark the first time lio n s . Two , he d o e s n ' t Pope Benedict XV in a desirable constituency the Bushes have put on a come as a politician; he 1919. The next wasn't for for politicians to court. high-profile meal in comes as a man of faith," 40 more years, when Worldwid1~, there are now honor of someone who Bush told the EWTN President Eisenhower an estimated 1 billion isn't even a guest. Global Catholic Network saw Pope John XXIII in Roman Catholics. Wednesday is the -pontiff's in an interview aired Rome. President Carter "The pope represents 81st birthday, and the Friday. He added that he hosted the first White not just the Catholic menu celebrates his wanted to honor House visit by a pope, church but the possibility German heritage with Benedict's conviction that when John Paul II came of moral argument in Bavarian-style food. "there's right and wrong on Oct. 6, 1979. world affairs and it is 
But Benedict's prayer in life, that moral rela­Since then, such audi­very inportant for service that evening with tivism has a danger of ences have become a American presidents to 
U.S. bishops at a famed undermining the capacity must-do. Every president rub up against that from Washington basilica pre­to have more hopeful and has met with the pope at time to tir1e," said George clude him from coming to free societies." least once, often more. Weigel, a Catholic theolo­the dinner, according to The Bush-Benedict get­This week makes Bush gian and biographer of the White House. Catholic together will be the 25th the record-holder, with a Pope John Paul II. 

ISRAEL 

Leaders shun Carter over Hatnas tn~eeting 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Former President Jimmy Carter brokered the first Israeli-Arab peace deal, but he's get­ting a cool reception in Israel during his latest visit to the Mideast. 
Israeli leaders are shunning the globe-trotting peacemaker for plan­ning to meet with Khaled Mashaal, the head of Israel's archenemy l-lamas, and comparing the Jewish state's policies to apartheid. 
A schedule released by the Atlanta­based Carter Center showed no plans for the former president to meet any of Israel's key players: Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni or Defense Minister Ehud Barak during this week's visit, which began Sunday. 

The only high-ranking official on Carter's schedule was Israel's cere­monial head of state, President Shimon Peres. The 83-year-old for­mer U.S. leader held a closed meet­ing with Peres shortly after arriving Sunday. 
A senior Israeli official said "sched­uling problems" was the official rea­son given for the high-profile snub­even though Olmert recently took time to chat with "Prison Break" star Wentworth Miller. 
But the real reason for the cold shoulder is Carter's plan to meet with Mashaal when his Carter Center delegation travels later this week to Damascus, Syria, the Israel official said. 
Israel's leader are not publicly crit­icizing Carter out o' respect for his former position as U.S. president, the official added. He spoke on condition of anonymity because his explana­tion went beyond the official position. 
Ahead of his Mideast trip, Carter defended his reasons for wanting to engage l-lamas and said he feels "quiet at ease" abo 11t meeting with l-lamas militants. 
"I think there's no doubt in any­one's mind that if Israel is ever going to find peace with justice concerning the relationship with their next-door neighbors, the Palestinians, that l-lamas will have to be included in the process," Carter told ABC News "This Week" in a broadcast aired Sunday. 
Tho01pson 
continued from page 1 
Solar power is another popular suggestion as a source of' alternative ener­gy. /\ceo rd in g to Thompson, a new solar power plant recently opened in Boulder, California. It covers 300 football f'ields of area and powers only 14,000 homes. 
"Again, it faces many of the same 
p~oblems tha.~ 
"Forests do nature's

w1nd docs, rapidly she said. work ofcapturing changing cli­One form of mate an
carbon dioxide. they

energy that international 
are nature's best 

senms more security promising is defense ofcarbon issue as wave energy, countries
dioxide along with 

which harvests fight over
the oceans." 

energy from resources, ocean tides. Thompson Thompson said Anne Thompson said. researchers Thompson
NBC correspondent 

are having dif'­f'icultics find­ing the technology to con­vert energy from thn ocean into usablo fun!. 
"There are all kinds of nxperiments going on around the world on wave energy," she said. 
Thompson was also criti­t:al of' bin-fuels such as ethanol, saying they are costly as wnll as diiTicult to 111 ass-prod uee. 
"Forests do nature's work of capturing carbon diox­ide, they are nature's best dnl'ense of carbon dioxide along with oceans," she said. "But when you elcar thos11 forests to grow crops for the bio-ftwl, you are a c ~ u a II y des t r.~~ yin g that dnlensn system. 
While Thompson said all of' these alternatives to coal pownr have potential to be efficient energy 


Recycle 
continued from page 1 
per person. 
Kelley said Notre Dame collected 31 pounds per pnrson of recyelables over the 10-week period accord­ing to HecyelnMania's Web site. 
While she admitted that doing well in thP eompeti­tion was important, Kelley said she was more focused on informing the student body about Notre Dame's new single stmam recycling program. 
"Just this past ynar, !Notre Dame! switelwd over," Knllny said. "You don't need to sort your recyclables any­morn. Anywlwrn on campus at Notre Dame, you can 
sources, the question of eost often comes up. Aecording to Thompson, the cost of transportation is often one of the biggest problems alternative fuels face. 
To illustrate the severity of the environmental prob­lem, Thompson cited the United Nations' predietions for the world in 2020. · 
Aeeording to Thompson, by the year 2020, Africa will have 75-250 million people who struggle to find water. This makes the 
said she 
believes "green" lifestyles can stay popular and that people want change. She cited her experience in Costa Rica where she visited Earth UnivfHsity, a school that educates students on how they can promote environ­mentally safe practices, as an example. "Green, for the imagina­
tive, will  not be  a  burden,  
but it will  be  a  launching  
pad  for  ideas,  business  

plans, and forward think­ing industries," Thompson said. 
Thompson's lecture enti­tled "Green is the 'new blaek,' but will it stay in style?" was part of the lec­ture series "Ten Years lienee Speaker Series." 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO I @saintmarys.edu 
throw all of your rccy­elablcs into one bin." 
Kelley said she hopes par­ticipation in RecyclcMania becomes a tradition at Notre Dame. 
"We're hoping that this will continue on every year. It will be a tradition, and maybe we can start branch­ing out to other buildings on campus and even, if we ever bring composting to Notre Dame... we could integrate that and see how much food waste we could eompost beeause other schools do that," Kelley said. 
HecyeleMania was spon­sc!fed by the Energy and Environmental Issues Committee and Notre Dame Student Government. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 


The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 14, 2008 
Jenkins nmnes McGreevy nevv dean 
History professor succeeds Roche as head ofCollege of Arts and Letters 
American Freedom" as a "mas­terpiece that will be read eagerly not only for its insights into Catholic history but also for its rich understanding of American history." The New York Times wrote that it is a "brilliant book, which brings historical analysis of religion in Amerkan eulture to a new level of insight and impor­tance." 



Special to The Observer 

John T. McGreevy, departmen­
tal chair and professor of history 
at Notre Dame, has been appoint­
ed I.A. O'Shaughnessy Dean of 
the College of Arts and Letters by 
University president Fr. John 
Jenkins effective July 1. He suc­
ceeds Mark Roche, who is step­
ping down after 11 years as dean. 
"Since returning to his alma mater a decade ago, John has been a valued voice on our cam­pus, throughout higher edueation and in the Church," Jenkins said. "He is held in the highest regard as a scholar and colleague here at Notre Dame and in the acade­my, and I am delighted that he has accepted our offer to lead Notre Dame's largest and oldest college." 
McGreevy joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1997 after serv­ing at Harvard University as the Dunwalke Associate Professor of American History and History and Literature. He has been chair of the Department of History at Notre Dame since 2002. 
"John MeGreevy is a talented and recognized scholar, gifted and award-winning teacher, and proven leader," University Provost Thomas G. Burish said. "Be has an exceptional understanding of and commitment to achieving even greater academic: exeellence while also strengthening the dis­tinctive Catholic identity and charaeter of Notre Dame, and he is able to articulate this dual mis­sion in clear and compelling terms. We are grateful and for­tunate that he has agreed to serve as the next dean of the College of Arts and Letters." 
''I'm delighted to aeeept the position of dean of the CoiiPge of Arts and Letters," McGreevy said. "Notre Dame's effort to at once become a preeminent research university, enhance an already strong reputation in undeq..,rradu­ate edueation and nurture a dis­tinct religious identity is one of the most important experiments in American higher education, and I look forward to assisting this project from a new vantage point. I know firsthand that I'll be working with a remarkable group of scholars and administrators in the college and across the University, and I'm eager to begin collaborating with them on proj­ects that advance our common efforts." 
McGreevy earned his master's and doctoral degrees in history from Stanford University after graduating magna cum laude from Notre Dame in 1986 with a bachelor's degree in history. After his appointment to the Harvard faculty, he received a Lilly Foundation postdoctoral fellow­ship in humanities to teach at Valparaiso University in the 1992­93 academic year. 
McGreevy is the author of two books. His first, "Parish Boundaries: The Catholic Encounter with Race in the Twentieth Century Urban North," was published in 1996 by University of Chicago Press and was awarded the John Gilmary Shea Prize for best book on Catholic history from the American Catholic llistorieal Association. 
The seeond, titled "Catholicism and Amcriean Freedom: A History," was published by W.W. Norton in 2003. It examines ten­sions and overlap between an American liberal tradition focusnd on individual autonomy and a more communal Catholieism. Washington Post syndicated eolumnist E.J. Dionne praised "Catholicism and 
.. 

Brand new, furnished townhomes for lease for Fall Semester '08 
Hurry. Yoo won't want to miss oneof the limited number of Irish Crossings Townhomes available for lease this fall. Just two blocks east of the NO athletic fields, offWillis Street, these three and four-bedroom townhomes rome furnished, including a 42• flat panel HDTv. 
Geared for today's wllege student, and larger than an apartment, these townhomes include afull, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome feataes: 
• 
4rflat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Fumkhed bedrooms with built-in desk, fjjl-size bed, dreso;er, closet and full bath 

• 
free Internet & cable 


• 
Separate laundry room with washer & dryer 


• Largededc 

• 
1\No-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 

• 
fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 


• Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 
Strict c.ovenants enforced. 

lease today and move Into yoll' brand new townhome for Fall Semester 2008. Call Diane at 574.261.3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossings.com. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Monday, April14, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 12,325.42 -55.62
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 724 83 2,617 3,742,597,142 

AMEX 2/242i~l10' -28.21. NASDAQ 2,290.24 -61.46 NYSE 8/93q;~~ ;-160,'75 S&P 500 1,332.83 -27.72 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13;1'2r&tl~i!il!!i!!'i''I!!''Q1~ FTSE 100 (London) 5,895.50 -69.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) -12.79 -4.70 136.02 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -1.94 -2.64 24.34 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -2.77 -1.26 45.54 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -1.91 -0.49 25.62 

suries 
10-YEAR NOTE -1.73 -0.061 3.471 13-WEEK BILL +6.07 -0.075 1.160 30-YEAR BOND -0.92 -0.040 4.302 5-YEAR NOTE -3.20 -0.085 2.574 
odities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.03 110.14 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -4.80 927.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +3.00 74.38 
Excha geRates 

YEN 101.2650 EURO 0.6335 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0241 BRITISH POUND 0.5074 
IN BRIEF 
Am. Airlines returns jets to service 
DALLAS -American Airlines on Saturday received clearance from federal aviation offi­cials to return all of its 300 grounded jets to service, an airline spokesman said. 
After 200 cancellations Saturday morning, Fort Worth-based American was running a full schedule by the afternoon with no cancella­tions, said spokesman Charley Wilson. 
Starting Tuesday, th·3 nation's largest airline canceled nearly 3,300 flights, as it grounded 300 MD-80 jets to wrap wiring bundles to meet federal safety :;;tandards and prevent fires. 
The cancellations stranded hundreds of thousands of people during the week. 
American said 226 of its MD-80s were back in service by Friday morning. By noon on Saturday, the airline had received clearance to return all the remaining grounded jets to serv­ice, Wilson said. 
The groundings had come as a surprise. 
American officials said they thought they had the needed repair work completed two weeks ago when it scrubbed more than 400 flights, but the Federal Aviation Administration said the wiring still was not secured and stowed properly in wheel wells. 
Founders fight for control over club 
VIRGINIA CITY -For the ultra-rich, the Yellowstone Club is a private retreat like no other. It boasts its own ski resort, security pro­vided by ex-Secret Service agents and a deep­pocketed membership that includes Bill Gates and former Vice President Dan Quayle. 
However, a bitter divorce fight between the club's billionaire foun(,ers as well as a lawsuit by a group of investors led by cycling legend Greg LeMond have revealed all is not well behind the tony club's gated entrance in south­western Montana's Gallatin Mountains, accord­ing to recent court te:;;timony and documents reviewed by The Assoc ated Press. 
Since the recent collapse of a bid to sell the dub for a reported $4.i5 million, founders Tim and Edra Blixseth arE feuding over who gets control of the enterprise. She asked a judge last week to strip her husband of control of the club and reinstatn her as chief operating oflicer. A 


World Bank addresses food prices 
Zoellick urges governments to give U.N. World Food Program $500 million by May 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The president of the World Bank on Sunday urged immediate action to deal with mounting food prices that have caused hunger and deadly vio­lence in several coun­tries. 
Robert Zoellick said the international community has "to put our money where our mouth is" and act now to help hungry people. "It is as stark as that." 
He called on govern­ments to rapidly carry out commitments to pro­vide the U.N. World Food Program with $500 mil­lion in emergency aid it needs by May 1. 
"It is critical that gov­ernments confirm their commitments as soon as possible and others begin to commit," Zoellick said. Prices have only risen further since the WFP issued that appeal, so it is urgent that govern­ments step up, he said. 

After a meeting of the bank's policy-setting committee, Zoellick said that the fall of the gov­ernment in Haiti over the weekend after a wave of deadly rioting and loot­ing over food prices underscores the impor­understand others are "This is not just a that if they remain high tance of quick interna­looking to help." question of short term there will be dire conse­tional action. A U.N. Zoellick said the bank needs, as important as quences for people in police officer was killed was responding to needs they are," Zoe !lick said." many developing coun­Saturday in Haiti's capi­in a number of other This is about ensuring tries, especially in tal. countries with condition­that future generations Africa. 
Zoellick said that inter­al cash transfer pro­don't pay a price too." Dominique Strauss­national finance meet­grams, providing food in Zoellick spoke as the Kahn said progress in ings are "often about workplaces and seeds for bank and its sister insti­recent years on develop­talk," but he noted a planting in the new sea­tution, the International ment can be destroyed "greater sense of intensi­son. Monetary Fund, wound by rising food prices, ty and focus" among He said a rough analy­up two days of meetings which can lead to starva­ministers; now, he said, sis the bank estimates that dealt with the finan­tion and shake the stabil­they have to "translate it that a doubli-ng of food cial crises roiling global ity of governments, even into greater action." prices over the last three markets and rising food if they t1ave nothing to 
He said the bank is years could potentially and energy prices. do with the increase in granting an additional push people in low The head of the IMF food cost. "We are facing $10 million to Haiti for income countries deeper also sounded the alarm a huge problem," he feeding programs, "and I into poverty. on food prices, warning said. 

Delta and Northwest discuss mLerger 
agreement between their pilots cial session in Atlanta. It didn't say
Associated Press 

unions, so the main issue that what they were discussing. That 
ATLANTA -Delta and Northwest remained was whether Delta pilots meeting continued Sunday, people could announce a combination as were willing to make changes to familiar with the talks said. early as Tuesday that would create their contract to give Delta more Northwest pilot uJion leaders were the world's biggest airline, but pilot flexibility after a combination, one of meeting separately Sunday in contract issues still loomed and there the people said. Minnesota. Their meeting was was no guarantee the deal would Delta may be willing to give incen­described mainly as informational. move ahead, three people familiar tives to Delta pilots to make changes -The usual approach in airline com­with the talks said Sunday. to their contract, another person binations has been to have pilots 
The people, who spoke on condi­familiar with the talks said. work out a joint union contract after tion of anonymity because of the sen­The changes being sought are a deal is announced. Atlanta-based sitivity of the situation, said officials related to the scope section in the Delta Air Lines Inc. and Eagan, were mobilizing for an announce­Delta pilot contract, which in part Minn.-based Northwest Airlines ment provided the boards of the two spells out what planes pilots fly and Corp. took a different approach in companies give final approval to a what routes they fly, people familiar their talks for monHts, figuring that if deal. with the talks said. they could obtain full pilot agree­
The boards of both companies have Any changes to the contract, ments in advance they would reap been having ongoing merger-related including financial incentives, would the benefit of a combined airline conversations. They could meet apply to only Delta pilots since their much sooner. Monday to discuss moving ahead contract only governs that airline's With that in mind, pilots were in with a deal, a person familiar with pilots. Northwest pilots have a sepa­line to get raises and equity in the the talks said. rate contract. combined compa lly. But the two 
It was increasingly likely the two A memo sent Friday from Delta's groups couldn't agree on seniority, airlines would proceed without a pilots union to its members said which determines who flies more prearranged seniority integration union leaders were meeting in spe-desirable aircraft and routes. 
MEXICO 

Security, railroads impact immigration 
Associated Press 
AHHIAGA, Mexico -For thousands of illng<tl immigrants from Central America, the long journny to the U.S. starts here, on the groaning back of a fmight train they call The Beast. 
But these days many don't get too far. 
Central Americans without documents now face increased security within Mexico, includ­ing dwcks on the train for stow­aways. It's also harder for them to hnad north once they cross into Mexico because of hurri­cane damage to the train tracks. 
Tlin result: The number of non-Mexi<:an migrants stopped by the U.S. Border Patrol has dropped almost 60 percent from 2005, despite increasPd deten­tion ell'orts. About 68,000 non­Mexican migrants -mostly Central Americans -were detainnd last year, compared to 165,000 in 2005. Non-Mexicans make up about 10 percent of all migrants caught by Border Patrol ollicers. 
Mexico itself is also seeing fewer illegal immigrants ­120,000 were arrested last year, a 50 per­cent drop from 2005, when floors collapsed under the weight of freight, and 22 Salvadoran migrants drowned in an October shipwreck ofT the coast of southern Oaxaca state. 
For those Central American migrants unable or unwilling to risk the sea, a cargo train ­The Beast -remains the only option for the 2,000-mile trip to the U.S. 
The long trek begins at the Suchiate river, on the border with Guatemala, where for $1 they cross on makeshil't rafts into sweltering jungles. 
Then they hike along the destroyed, sun-scorched train tracks to Arriaga for up to nine days. Arriaga, 200 miles from the Guatemalan border, is the closest place to hop a train since Hurricane Stan destroyed the Chiapas-Mayab line. 
As they head north, they pay ofT thieves, immigration offi­cials, police and railroad employees. 
Juan Gabriel Hamos, a Guatemalan 17-year-old trying to join his mother in California, said he bribed a Mexican feder­al police officer and an immi­gration agent before even mak­ing it to Arriaga. 
"They both 
told me that if I 
didn't give them 

II urricane Stan "The mistreatment of money they hit and would send me
migrants here is brutal. 

destroyed the back to
and no one does

railroad, accord­Guatemala," ing to the anything about it Hamos said. National When they're
because everyone sees 

Immigration caught, migrants 
them as booty. " 

Institute. Since say they're often Prosident Felipe abused by Calderon took Heyman Vasquez Mexican author­oi'Jke two years ities. In one
Roman Catholic priest 

ago, Mexico has added more sol­<liers and fednral police on its border with Guatmnala and more immigra­tion and military checkpoints throughout the south. 
Despite its efforts to secure its own southern border, Mexico does not try to stop il<> own citi­zens from <:rossing north illegal­ly into the United States, beyond pursuing drug and people smugglers. By law, Mexico notns, Mexicans can go wherev­er they want within the country, including the border. They don't broak any laws until they are on 
U.S. soil. 
Many Mexicans are also sym­pathetic to illegal immigrants from Central America, but the issue still causes some tensions that echo the U.S. debate. Isaac Castillo, owner of tho llotel La Posada in Arriaga, argues that Central American immigrants of'tm1 end up working in Mexieo, where wages ean be double the few dollars a day they might earn at home. 
"The problem isn't just in the U.S., but in Mexico, because a lot of Central Americans want to stay here and compete with Mexicans for jobs," he said. 
The crackdown on Central American migrants has left them searching liJr nnw routes. Some pay smugglers $7,000 to go by boat into southern Mnxieo, then hide in tractor­trailnrs heading north. 
Those boats and trucks try to nvadn highway checkpoints set up every few miles alongside most of Mexieo's southern road­ways. But migrants have been crushed to death when false 
notorious case 
last year in the 
northern city of 
Saltillo, migrants complained to the National Human H.ights Commission of rectal exams done by immigration officials who said they were checking for cholera. 
"The mistreatment of migrants here is brutal, and no one does anything about it because everyone sees them as booty," said Heyman Vasquez, a Homan Catholic priest. IIe esti­mated 80 percent of migrants are robbed before they arrive at his two-room shelter in Arriaga. 
The slowdown in immigrant traffic is notable in Arriaga, a town of corn and sorghum farmers. Only a few dusters of Central American men and women linger around the most­ly abandoned, graffiti-covered train station, where they wait for the first train they can grab. Many stay at a local migrant shelter, watching television or sharing stories of abuse. 
Sitting on a eracked sidewalk outside the shelter, one Nicaraguan man told of the time he saw a group of crimi­nals gang-rape a woman and shoot her boyfriend. A llonduran couple talked of flee­ing their country after gang members killed their teenage daughter, and leaving their seven children, ages 18 to 1, in hiding. 
It doesn't get any easier once immigrants hop a train. They must oftnn bribe private guards and police stationed along the tracks. Many stowaways arc too tired to hold on to the train and 

Soldiers,citizens use alcohol detectors 
767 on Anny training post have personal devices in cars, on key chains 
Associated Press 

FOHT JACKSON, S.C. ­Hoping to save a life when an Army buddy's had too much to drink, 767 soldiers and civilians on the Army's largest training post now carry personal alcohol detectors in their cars or on their key chains. 
Fort Jackson's safety director Sean O'Brian has been handing out the four-inch devices since the first of the year. 
"It's a good way to not get into a confrontation with a buddy, in case they've been drinking," said Master Sgt. James Smith. "It's impartial. It lets you say, 'Hey, let's let this be our guide."' 
While there hasn't been a big problem with drunken driving on the base -there were 10 alcohol-related accidents in a recent 12-month span -that's still too many in O'Brian's opin­ion. 
Fort Jackson is one of eight Army installations that have begun using the pocket-sized detectors, base spokesman Pat Jones said. 
Staff Sgt. Tenesia Vann at fort Benning, Ga., said she grabbed half of dozen of the tiny breathalyzers when she first arrived at the base in January. 
"If I go to a gathering where people are drinking, I want to be able to hand them out. I think they could be a deciding factor in convincing people not to get behind the wheel," said the 35-year-old administrative assistant. "I keep them at home in case I have people over for a cookout." 
Fort Benning, home to multi­ple infantry units and the ser­vice's Airborne and Ranger 65,000 soldiers pass through training schools, got 155,000 of the gates annually. Luckily, the devices last May. Officials none of the accidents has been have handed out 100,000 of fatal, OBrian said. them in nearly a year's time. Smith, 41, who has been in 
Yvonne Wilbanks, alcohol and the Army for 23 years, said he drug control officer for the post, wished he had the device earli­has worked for 25 years trying er in his career. At Fort to convince Jackson, he is in soldiers not to charge of a dozen drink and "/ think it's an drill sergeants drive. Banding and their 240
excellent idea to
out the devices basic training 
has been "one 'police up' yourself reeruits. of the better and your buddies." "I think it's an things that excellent idea to we've done," 'police up' your­
James Smith 
she said. All self and your
Master Sgt.
Army bases buddies. I keep it 
mandate .safe­ty lectures for soldiers, while others try to emphasize the message through posters or ofl'ering no­questions-asked rides home should someone have one too many. 
The Army, with more than 524,000 men and women on active duty, is the nation's largest military service. Besides Benning and Jackson, other installations trying out the detectors include Fort Lee, Va.; Aberdeen Proving Ground, Md.; Fort Greely, Alaska; Fort Sam Houston and Corpus Christie Army Depot in Texas, and Fort Dix, N.J. 
In South Carolina, the detec­tors come amid a state legisla­tor's proposal that would allow members of the armed forces younger than 21 the right to buy alcohol even though it's in contrast to the military's efforts to diminish underage drinking and related accidents. 
Five years ago, there were 23 alcohol-related accidents at Fort Jackson, where 55,000 to 
in my car," Smith 
said. 
The detectors are not a self­diagnostic tool. They require a. buddy's help. 
Known as "Breathscan" tubes, they're carried inside the yellow plastic key fob designed for military use, said Patrice McMorrow, marketing director for Akers BioscienC'es Inc. in Thorofare, N.J., which pro­duces the devices. They aren't marketed directly to the public, she said, although some might be found for sale online. 
O'Brian, who is in charge of giving safety lectures to all new soldiers and the 4,400 civilian workers who come to Fort Jackson, got 2,500 of the devices to hand out along with information designed to punc­ture myths about drinking and driving. 
For example, he said, "Cofli~e doesn't make you sober. It just wakes you up. Another myth is that you know when you're too drunk to drive. You don't." 
That's where a friend with the tiny device comes in. 


~~CI!OLARSIH. fOUNDATION ~ 
Could you use $30,000 to attend graduate or professional school to help prepare for a career in public service? 
RISING JUNIORS (current sophomores) who 
• 
have extensive records of public and community serv1ce, 

• 
are committed to careers as "change agents" in government or other public service, and 

• 
have outstanding leadership potential and communication skills 


Come to an Information Session on the 
TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP 
Wednesday, April16 at 5pm 118 DeBartolo Hall 
Or visit www.tnunan.gov and the Office of Undergraduate and Post-Baccalaureate Fellowships 1OS O'Shaughnessy Hall fellows(('Ynd.edu 
fall, losing limbs. 

--~-..~.-~--::":·..;:;.~~-=-·-=---:::_~-~--~~----~--~-=::­
. --·--!===--=-=-:::~=--=-=-~--~--;::: --~--~-~-.~-:-~­

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---------------------, 
Monday, April14, 2008 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
===========================================================~======~ 
HAITI 
Nutriti1Dnal crisis threatens stability 
Anger over rising food prices leads to protests, ousting of politician 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -Aid organizations said Sunday they feared the nutritional crisis could deepen in impoveri!;hed Haiti, where skyrocketing food prices have already led to deadly protests and the ouster of the nation's No. 2 politician. 
With anger over food prices threatening the stability of this Caribbean nation already haunt­ed by chronic hunger, the U.N. World Food Program appealed for donations to meet its US$96 million ( 61 million) aid goal for Haiti. It has collected less than 15 percent of the annual budget goal. 
On Saturday, President Rene Preval announced subsidies to lower the price of rice and Haitian lawmakers fired Prime Minister Jacques Edouard Alexis for failing to boost food produc­tion. 
But aid workers said the meas­ures might not be eno 1gh to ease popular anger if hun:~er contin­ues to rise. 
Mamadou Mbaye, who heads the U.N. World Food Program's office in Haiti, said fixing Haiti's systemic problems like unem­ployment and dependence on imported food cannot be accom­plished immediately, and that means unrest could coatinue. 
"Some measures will generate results in the long term ... but whether people will be~ willing to wait for that is another issue," he said. 
Mbaye said the violence is hampering his agency's efforts to feed people. Children who used to depend on school-lunch pro­grams and adults who participate in work-for-food programs have been forced to stay home, bur­dening families, he said. 
Haiti imports almost all its food and global food prices have risen 40 percent since mid-2007. Locally, the prices of rice and pasta have doubled in parts of the capital of Haiti, a country where 2.4 million people already cannot afford the minimum daily calories recommended by the World Health Organization. 
On Saturday, Preval announced that international aid and local importers would work together to lower rice prices by 15 percent. 
A week of hunger-provoked protests and looting have already left six people dead, including a Nigerian officer with the 9,000­member U.N. police force who was pulled from a car and killed Saturday afternoon. Three Sri Lankan peacekeepers on patrol were injured by gunfire earlier in the week. 
Preval is mulling over candi­dates to replace Alexis as prime minister, while some Haitians speculate lawmakers could go after the president next. Sen. Youri Latortue told reporters that legislators would be prepared to consider a new prime minister on Monday. 
A lull in violence Sunday allowed residents to shop in mar­kets and attend church in the Haitian capital. U.N. peacekeep­ers reported no new violence or widespread protests. 
But aid workers said that volatile protests were likely to continue because of sustained high food prices in the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. 
As prices increase, desperation is spreading from the slums to Haiti's working poor, part of the impetus for this week's demon­strations, said Bill Canny of 
• Catholic Relief Services. 
Dumas Antenor, a 54-year-old father of 14, said just one can of rice costs a fifth of the US$4 
( 2.50) he earns on a good day loading group taxis in the hills above Port-au-Prince. 
"I hope that one day I'll see rice go back down at least 10 gourdes (26 cents; 16 euro cents) and I will be able to feed my kids at least two meals a day," he said. 
Canny said Catholic Relief Services continues to distribute food to tens of thousands of vul­nerable children, pregnant women and the sick. But the pro­gram will need more donations if hunger spreads to poor people with slightly higher incomes. 
"The international community has to work with the government to come together" to ease the hunger crisis, he said. 
AUSTRIA 



Official ca11cels 
meetingwith IAEA 
Associated Press 

VIENNA, Austria -A top Iranian official on Sunday abruptly canceled a meeting with the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, dealing a blow to the 
U.N. monitor's efforts to investigate allegations that Iran tried to make nuclear arms, an agency official said. 
The IAEA official, confirm­ing Iranian media reports that Monday's planned meet­ing was off, told The Associated Press that no rea­son had been given. 
But a senior diplomat had told the AP that IAEA head Mohamed EIBaradei likely planned to use the meeting with Gholam Reza Aghazadeh, the head of Iran's nuclear program, to renew a request for more information on allegations Tehran had tried to make atomic arms. 
Both the official and the diplomat demanded anonymi­ty because they were not authorized t.o comment by name on the Iranian nuclear issue. 
Iran's official news agency, IRNA, reported Sunday that the talks between Aghazadeh and the U.N. nuclear watch­dog were postponed. There was no immediate explana­tion for the discrepancy. 
The diplomat, who follows IAEA attempts to clear up suspicions about Iran's nuclear aetivities, said the meeting also was likely to have focused on Iran's latest show of defiance of U.N. Security Council demands to suspend uranium enrichment. 
Last week, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced that his nation was installing thou­sands of new uranium-enrich­ing centrifuges and testing a much faster version of the device. 
Ahmadinejad said scientists were putting 6,000 new cen­trifuges into place, about twice the current number, and testing a new type that works five times faster. 
That would represent a major expansion of uranium enrichment -a process that can produce either fuel for a nuclear reactor or material for a warhead. 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, however, cautioned th.e claim could not be jmmediately substaJ;Itiated, and diplomats close to the IAEA said Iran has exaggerat­ed its progress and experi­enced problems operating the 3,000 centrifuges already in place. 


Katie Begero~. Intern Amanda Bl)de Matthew Brewer Mary Bulfin Daniel Gander~;. Intern Cecilia Carcletti Leigh Chapman 

Destination: success 
No~ that you've started your career journey with us, there's no stopping you. Ernst &Young's commitment to your personal growth and success will help you to keep moving in the right direction-and headed toward new accomplishments. 
Congratulations and welcome to our incoming class from University of Notre Dame. ey.com/us/careers 
Samuel Chen  Steven Drake, Intern  Meredith Hitchcock  John Millhouse  
Daniel Clark, Intern  Elizabeth Elverman  Dhanishtha Kika Bhagwagar  Lauren Petrozziello  
Janet Claseman  Keith Flatley, Intern  Meghan Krippinger  Kevin Rabil, Intern  
Kacy Couchman  Elizabeth Frecka  Sarah Kurtzman, Intern  Julie Rose  
Lauren Cummings, Intern  Joseph Gemino  Kathryn MarcucciIIi  Anthony Schiazza, Intern  
Mary Debeve~  Diana Gonzalez  Peter McCormick, Intern  Matthew Smith  
Joseph Diluia, Intern  David Grabosky  Mary Mclaughlin, Intern  Thomas Sullivan  
Kelly Donovan  James Harig, Intern  Shawn McNeilly, Intern  Marshall Turner, Intern  

Jay Vand~~m Berg Nicholas Walker, Intern Matthew Wallace, Intern Nina Wiese Margot Woolley, Intern Timothy Wyne Matthew Wynne 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, April 14, 2008 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox 779, None Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46S56 
EDITOR IN CHIH Chris Hin~ 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fit7.patrick Kyle West 

ASS"J; MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
Ass"J; MANAGING EIJITOR:· Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VmWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
ScENE·EiliTOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MAnY'S EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
AIWERTISIN<; MANAGER: Jessica Correz 
All DF.SIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSl'liMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagar&1 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
('i74) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews:1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instimtion. The Observer =rves the right to refuse advertisements based on comem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chiet; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentarit-s, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Vitwpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Lctters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infOrmacion. 
QuntioiiS rrgarding Obsm~er policies should be dirmed to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'111~ ()IN"rv~ (lJSI''i ,9, Z-40tiO)II)JUbiiMKd Mt1111lay 1hrough f'rid.ay cuqx durin~ ,,urn .u11t v.1cation pcr~~ls. A wt..,:np!iun tu "lhc Ob.crvcr t1 $100 for one audc-mk yc.&r; SS5 fnrnnc~c;matcr. 
t1tc 01-»c:rver i• publi~lu:d .u POSTMASTER 
02-1 Suurh Dining Hall Send Jdd!U) currroimu ro: 
None llamc, IN •Ms6--0n9 ThcO'*'rwr 
l~riodt~-al posugc p.tid .u Norte Do~mc r.o Sox 779 .and additimu.l m.ul11111, utfka. 011 Soud• Dining IJail 
~•tn: Dame, IN 46~'i<I·On9 

The ()IKC:rvc-r 1t a nu::mhcr ufrlu: A:w.K.utc:J Pros. All rcprodu.:riotl ntth•• arc 
l'tktVCd. 
The value of college 
We should all feel lucky to be in col­lege. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, just under 30 percent of the adult American population holds a bachelor's degree or more. Yet that elite 30 percent 
Darryl
earns, on average, 
Campbell
at least twice as 
much as those with 
Speak Up,
a high school diplo­
Please
ma, and those with advanced degrees, four times as much. The Institute for Higher Education Policy, meanwhile, reported that college graduates enjoy higher levels of saving, increased personal and professional mobility, improved quality of life for their offspring, bet­ter consumer decision making and more leisure time. Economically spmtking, a college degree is a good thing. 
But there is something odd about reducing a bachelor's degree to mere numbers. Are such statistics supposed to reassure those studying toward degrees that they lor their parents) made the right choiee or arc they sup­posed to be an incentive l'or those who are thinking of not going to college at all'? And what does it say that these institutions arc describing the whole of college experience in terms of future salaries'? After all, according to these two institutions, the university is nothing more than a means to a voca­tional end -a monetary leg up and nothing else. And because the univer­sity apparently has to justify itself in terms of the market, it suggests that a bachelor's degree has no intrinsic worth outside of its economic value. 
Maybe it doesn't. It's hard to break the liberal arts curriculum down into something as punchy as a cosVbenefit analysis. Of course, the liberal arts are supposed to impart eritical think­ing skills, general knowledge, aesthet­ic sensibilities and the like, to create a "complete" person. All of these things sound good but are hard to measure or define. More importa:ntly, all of these things are becoming less and less valuable in the real world, or at least in the working world, which for the most part values compliance, punctuality and el'ficiency as much as (if not over) creativity and critical thought. If you need some critical thinking, you can turn to the glut of analysts and GOmmentators, who can reduce even the most complicated ideas or events into a sound byte or, even better, a smug one-liner. And where are you going to use your gen­eral knowledge exeept at, say, trivia night at your local bar'? 

In one of J.D. Salinger's short sto­ries, a character complains, "You never even hear any hints dropped on a campus that wisdom is supposed to be the goal of knowledge. You hardly ever even hear the word 'wisdom' mentioned!" And in a sense, that's true. No matter what goes on the cur­riculum. uni.versities are, for the most part, designed to impart knowledge. Even the most advanced classes, whether in the sciences or the human­ities, teach you mostly knowledge: facts, theories, arguments and so on. Wisdom, on the other hand, is purely internal. Maybe it results from broad­ening your intellectual capacity through intense study of everything from history to physics to music or maybe you ean get it just from reading Plato, Augustine or Nietzsche. What the liberal arts eurriculum ultimately does, I think, is place you in contact with so many products of the human experience that you are as likely as not to lind some small thing that makns you think. But most important­ly, wisdom is something that can't really be taught. It's something wholly personal and that makes it something immeasurable, unalienable from the individual; something that can't, in short, be measured in dollars, leisure time or quite possibly by any rubric at all. 
And that is both the achievement and the drawback of a liberal arts education. It can makn you start along the path to wisdom, but it can't explain how. or why, or even guaran­tee that it will happnn. Aftnr college you'll probably never be in such an intellectually rich environment again and you may very wnll be working in a place where knowledge, wisdom and much else of what you learn in collnge is secondary to pure productivity. Any further personal growth is entirely up to you. 
So in the end, because we are at a university where the liberal arts are still an integral part of' the curricu­lum, we arc indeed lucky-and maybe not just for our future pay­checks. 
Darryl Campbell is a first-year graduate student in history. He can be contacted at dcampbe6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Ode to Notre Dame Hockey 
I love Notre Dame hockey like I love Notre Dame foot­probably cost Notre Dame their fighting chance at the ball. Maybe it's because it was only at Notre Dame that I title. started loving and following the sport. Maybe it's because, It was a heartbreaker, but there was also something in as part of the fencing team, I shared that half of the JACC that game that made the trip all the more outstanding: with them for practices and home events. Whatever the North Dakota. Having lost in a blowout Thursday night, reason, as soon as I found out that they were playing many of the faithful returned Saturday night to watch the down in Colorado Springs for the West Regional, I had to championship game. But even more, the Fighting Sioux take advantage of my first opportunity to watch some threw all of their cheering power and support behind their Notre Dame hockey in two years. fellow bearers of Notre Dame. It was incredible to see the 
The Michigan State game was amazing. My eyes welled Sioux, directly across from the Irish starting a "Let's go up with pride having watched this team earn their first­Irish!" cheer in the middle of the second period and to see ever trip to the Frozen Four. The tickets to the Frozen them start another, yelling "GO!" from their side, with the Four I finally found were the best 25th birthday present "IRISH!" returning from the Notre Dame contingent. They, ever. And what surprised me Thursday afternoon on my along with the Notre Dame band, rallied the spirits of the way to the Pepsi Center from my apartment in south Notre Dame faithful time and time again. It was a beauti­Denver was how nervous I was about the semifinal game. ful thing. I could only imagine what they felt. The Michigan game 1walked away with three feelings this weekend: heart­was one of the best games (in any sport) I have ever break, undying pride in all the Irish hockey team has watched. I was absolutely thrilled about seeing our team accomplished since a five-win season my senior year and in the championship game. They were the Cinderella story a new fondness for the people of North Dakota. Thanks to of the Frozen Four. the Sioux for their support and congratulations to the Irish 
I walked into the Pepsi Center Saturday and as the game on this phenomenal, historical accomplishment. I can't started, I could feel how nervous the Notre Dame team wait to see them return to the Frozen Four next year! felt. I knew that it was probably too much to ask to see them win the championship in their first trip to the Frozen Rebecca Chimahusky Four but I would not give up hope. Even when the second alum period score was 3-0 in Boston College's favor. Even when class of 2005 they called back that goal in the third period, a call that Apr. 13 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY

News Viewpoint Joseph McMahon Lianna Emma Driscoll Brauweiler 
What do you prefer? 

Claire Heising Sports Graphics Fran Tolan "No soul is desolate as long as there 
Jared Wafer Laura Myers Blue is a human being for whom it can 
feel trust anareverence. " 
Pete Reisnauer Gold Pigtostal 
George Eliot novelist
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Monday, April 14, 2008 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR A._ person's a person no matter how small or great the disability 
During my time as a student at Notre Dame I worked at Logan Center with many severely disabled adults like Terri Schindler-Schiavo and Lauren Marie Hichardson. These extraordinary human beings had more life and love in them than many other non-dis­abled human beings I have met. There was one client I assisted at Logan, !'or example, who could neither walk nor talk-although he could make noises. He could not see much but he could hear. His name was Royce and he adored me. He knew my voice, he would squeeze my fingers so tight I couldn't move them when I would give him my hand, he would get this huge smile on hLs face when the other caretakers told him "Laura is coming today" -he knew my name. He would also sing (in his own way of course) the Notre Dame Fight Song when we would tell him to. 
The problem is not the disabilities of those with severe disabilities like Terri Schindler-Schiavo or Lauren Marie Richardson. The real "disability" is the fact that by continuing to advocate a "quality of life" mentality society improperly puts a value on the lives of people with disabilities as being nothing based on what they cannot do. As a person with a disability myself, I cannot imagine someone deciding my life is not valuable because I cannot do something or that I have to do something differently. I am a person, not my disability. We must use our voices to advocate for 
Re-rethinking aclohol consumption 

Don't get me wrong. I love Notre Dame with every fiber of my being but the pretentiousness and sanctimo­ny being spewed by some Notre Dame students with regards to alcohol corsumption make me sad to call them my peers. I don't care if you drink alcohol. Maybe you just don't like the taste or you happen to dislike the post-drinking side effects. But just because you do not drink does not give you any acceptable reason to thumb your nose at those who do or look down at us beer drinkers from your imaginary pedestal. 
I have met some extraordinary people here at this uni­versity and a lot of thfm drink something other than soda or Cabernets. And maybe some of these outstand­ing people I've encountered consume too many cold bev­erages on the weekend but you know what; it's called being a 19-year-old and being in college. This is the last four years (make that two) of my life to occasionally make questionable decisions and just be ridiculous. 
Now don't get me wrong, I abhor those drinkers who let alcohol lead them to being violent, abusive, and non­responsive but that's why you surround yourself with friends who will look out for you even when you're stumbling down Notre Dame Ave. after a house party. 
I'm sure I speak for a large group of people when I say that most students at this university have encircled themselves within a group of friends that genuinely care not only about each other, but more importantly, each other's well-being. Alcohol consumption is only a prob­lem when you either drink by yourself (and in that case have serious problems) or hang out with a group of peo­ple who are terrible human beings and have no regard for your personal safety. I'm going to make a bold pre­diction that the majority fall into the first group. 
So Daniel Cerrone, Ryan Slaney and all you other con­descending Notre Dame students, I am not asking you to become pro-drinking. Instead, I am asking you to realize that not only are you not more intellectual and moral for not consuming alcohol but that you also need to lighten up and allow others to enjoy their college years. But seriously guys (and girls), go grab a Keystone Light and enjoy the nectar of the Gods. 
Tim Lang sophomore O'Neill Hall Apr. 8 

'Why stop at alcohol? 

I commend Ryan Slaney (Alcohol: Enemy of academic and moral development," Apr. 10) for his insightful and well-researched indictment of the dangers of alcohol con­sumption. I would, however, like to expand upon his vision, which I feel to be sadly restricted. The physical and spiri­tual harm alcohol brings to our student community is obvi­ous but there lurks a more insidious threat to our personal and moral integrity. It lurks within every residence hall, perhaps even your own dorm room and it'> usage is com­pletely unrestricted by Our Lady's University. Yes, I am talking about television. According to some motivational poster I saw at my old high school, sitting on the couch and watching television day after day not only makes you really, really boring, but also affects your health by impair­ing your vision and encouraging weight gain. You would be much better off going outside for a jog, or at the very least a brisk walk about the block to meet the neighbors whose dinner party you blew off last week so you could watch "30 Rock" and "The Office." 
What's more, long-te ·m addiction to prime time televi­sion shows can negativ3ly impact a person's intellectual lite. I have seen this happening at Notre Dame since I was a freshman -walking down my hallway at 8 p.m. of a Thursday night, my ears were assailed with the inanity of "California" coming from all directions. Today, I know peo­ple who skip homework, put off papers and ditch group project meetings just sc, they can catch all of their week­night line-up. I lind it d'lplorable that the administration has exacerbated this problem by granting dorm-wide cable access. Do they want student'> to fail? 
Then• are some who may try to argue that watching tel­evision is a purdy pPrs' mal choice, or that its impact is not nearly as detrimental as I'm making it out to be. To them I say that the e(fect'i of tdevision, like those of other drugs, can only worsen with increased exposure, and never stay limited to the user. Cou 1tless silent victims have their stud­ies interrupted when their neighbors gather next door for a session of collective IQ-Iowering with America's Next Top Model at full blast. Innocent bystanders and their property become compromised when someone's attempt at publicly replicating a Jacka** stunt inevitably goes awry. The Catholic character of this university is itself under constant assault from the day-to-day influx of television programs promoting sexually promiscuous attitudes, the objectifica­tion and degradation of women and the gay agenda. 
Let us not also forget that television watching frequently goes hand-in-hand with that other vehicle of both mental and moral impairment: alcohol. A group of students gath­ered in a dorm room watching SportsCenter are far more likely to be engaged in irresponsible drinking (which, as we all know, is the only kind of drinking) than a group of students occupying their time with wholesome and enrich­ing Bible study. 
Now, I'm not denying that television can have its proper place and time. I myself was responsibly introduced to tel­evision by my grandmother when I reached an appropri­ate age and spent many summers at grandma's house enjoying the chaste pleasures of Mother Angelica's Eternal Word Television Network. I only wish that other students had been so fortunate as to have the support and guidance ofloving family members during their first experiences with television. However, it is obvious to me that the stu­dent body lacks both the maturity and the moral fiber to resist television's many sultry temptations. It is therefore the duty of the administration to give our Notre Dame Family proper guidance by prohibiting the use of televi­sion. 
Nikki Huiras 
senior 
Badin Hall Apr. 10 

all people with disabilities, especially those who are unable to advocate for themselves due to their dis­abilities. We must remember Terri Schindler-Schiavo and the inhumane treatment she suffered as a person with a severe disability to the point of death. We must support the life of Lauren Marie Richardson so that another disabled person is not the victim of the "dis­ability" of the "quality of life" mentality. A person is a person no matter how small or grea.t the disability. 
Laura Hoffman alum Class of 2004 Apr. 9 

Prohibit:ion: Enemy of fun 
In response to Ryan Slaney's Apr. 10 letter regard­ing alcohol ("Alcohol: Enemy of academic and moral development"): Lighten up. This is college. You'll have plenty of time to complain about young people having fun when you're older. 
Brad Monroe sophomore Zahm Hall 
Apr. 10 


Sponsor an alcoh()l practicum 
I would like to add to Bill Nolan's Apr. 11 
response ("Alcohol in the 'Real World"') to Ryan Slaney ("Alcohol: Enemy of academic and moral development," Apr. 10) concerning Notre Dame alcohol policy. I agree that outlawing alcohol on . campus would be a serious mistake for students 
to develop as balanced, responsible human 
beings. The University should take an active role 
in making sure its students can swim socially 
after they leave. My main concer1 comes from 
outside the bubble. 
At a recent medical school interview, I sat 
through a H)-minute rant about how Notre Dame 
students do not understand the r1~al world when 
they get into it because they "live in a fantasy 
land." My interviewer firmly believes that Notre 
Dame students are not immediatdy ready for 
reality after graduation because 1;hey have not 
experienced it in at least four years. The fact is 
that there is alcohol in the real world and it is a 
scary proposition that Notre Dame students might 
have to figure out alcohol moderation once they 
leave. 

A better suggestion than outlawing alcohol: 
Notre Dame should sponsor a series of student­
run events that focus on alcohol culture for its 
other ingredients. Wine-tastings. A history of beer 
with free samples. What is in a martini? What are 
acceptable drinks in the business world? What 
message do I send my boss when I order a "sex on 
the beach?" Those experienced in these areas can 
show us how to be social in the real world and be 
realistic. Aleohol is a social force in our culture 
and it would be a shame if Notre Dame did not 
acknowledge graduates' inevitable interaction 
with, you know, everybody else. 
Tim Luebbert 
senior 
Dillon Hall Apr. 12 


THE OBSERVE 




ROZEN 
0 u R
page 12 
Monday,Ap,;JJ4,2008 

The Irish captains, from left to right, Mark Van Guilder, Dan VeNard, Erik Condra and Brock Sheahan laugh in front of the crowd Irish coach Jeff Jackson, center, as!;oc11a1 
that gathered at Main Circle around 4 p.m. on Sunday to welcome back the hockey 
team from Denver. and the rest of the Irish wait for the 

2008 NCAA Men's 
First Round Regional Final Semlflnal 
Miami Miami, 3·2, OT 
March 29 Worcester, Mass. 
Boston College, Air Force 
4-3, OT 
Northeast Re81onal 
March 3 Worcester, Mass. 

Minnesota 
Boston College, March 29 
5·2 

Worcester, Mass. National
Boston College 
Semifinal 
Boston College, 6-1 

Aprll10, 2008 Denver, Colo.
Wisconsin 
March 29 
Wisconsin 6-2 

Madison, Wis. 
North Dakota, Midwest R~onal Denver 
3-2 OT March Princeton Madison, Wis. 
March 29 
North Dakota, 5-1

Madison, Wis. 
North Dakota 
WU YUEffhe Observer 

Irish goalie Jordan Pearce makes a save against Boston College. Pearce allowed 12 goals In his four NCAA Tournament games this season. 
THE OBSERVE 



ROZEN 
OUR
Monday, April 14, 2008 
page 13 

.. 
1y booth's decision to recall Kyle Lawson's goal in the third period. 

tlon I Tournament 
Semifinal Regional Final Firat Round 

"lp 
Michl an 

ION 
.ege, 4-1 
lpionship ' !008 olo. 
Michl an State ' 
March 28 

f 
Colorado Springs, 

I 
Colo.

,I 
Colorado Coli e

I 





MLB 


White Sox take advantage of Tigers' struggles 
Cubs defeat error-prone Phillies in extra innings; Lee pitches two-hitter in Indians' win over Athletics 
crusty manager said it wasn't 
Associated Press 
just about the loss. 
CIIICA(;() -Add Jon Crede. "There was one thing that Paul Konnrko and the rest of sticks out to me right now the Chicago White Sox to the that's going on. and that was long list of things that are mak­thn straw that broke the ing lifn miserable for Detroit camel's back," Leyland said, managnr Jim Leyland. without revealing the issue. 
Credo and Paul Kmwrko each "We're just in a funk." he hit grand slams to back Javier added. "Can I get them out of Vazqtwz's strong start. and the the funk? No, I don't think so. red-hot Whit11 Sox poundnd the They have to get themselves struggling Tigers 11-0 on out of it." Sunday. It was the third time the 
Konerko's homer came in the White Sox have hit two grand third ofT Kenny Hogers and slams in one game. The last Credo's grand slam, his sncond time Chicago did it was May 19. this season. came in the fifth I996, when Darren Lewis and against Zach Miner as the Hobin Ventura homered at White Sox won for the firth time Detroit. The first time was Sept. in six games ovnr Detroit. the 4. 1995, when Ventura hit two preseason favoritn to win the grand slams in a game at AL Central. Texas. 
"We got Detroit at the right "It was kind of wild," time," White Sox manager Konerko said. "You don't see Ozzie Cuillen said. "Those guys many grand slams, and espe­arn going to wake up sooner or cially with the weather. The later. They have unbelievable weather was kind of brutal out talent." there." 

Chicago already has a 5?­On a cold and windy day, Second baseman Chase Playing without shortstop in that wind." game lead in the division over Hogers (0-3) gave up seven Utley's throwing error on Jimmy Rollins and center field­Indians manager Eric Wedge
.. 
the Tigers, who have the worst runs on seven hits and four Zambrano's grounder allowed er Shane Victorino, the defend­explained the delay, even record in the majors at 2-10. walks in four-plus innings. He Honny Cedeno to score the go­ing NL East champions missed though it didn't rain, was due The Whitn Sox have outscored once again pitched with no run ahead run in the 1Oth inning a chance to go above .500 for to a foreboding forecast. Detroit 46-12 this season. support; the Tigers haven't and the Chicago Cubs beat the the first time this season. "We really lucked out," despite the Tigers adding slug­scored a run in his three starts Philadelphia Phillies Sunday to Wedge said. "It was swirling all ging third baseman Miguel this season. Not that he helped avoid a three-game sweep. Indians 7, Athletics 1 around, supposed to hit at Cabrera to an already loaded much. Jayson Werth and Eric Cliff Lee had an easy time 11 :30 (a.m.), then a little later. lineup. "We're not a very good team Bruntlett hit solo homers for shutting down the Oakland We didn't want both starting 
"Whnrn we're at makes sense right now," Hogers said. "We're the Phillies. Mark DeHosa had a Athletics. pitchers to warm up, then have because that's the way we've as bad a team as there is right disputed solo shot for the Cubs. Pitching quickly and eflicient­to sit. We finally just decided to played," Leyland said. "It's not now in every facet, myself as Cedeno walked leading off the ly in the wind and cold, Lee go out and try it." surprising that we're 2-10. much as anyone. I'm suppsoed 10th against Hudy Seanez (0-1) helped the Cleveland Indians Lee didn't mind waiting to We've been shut out four times. to be consistent and I was very and Geovany Soto walked after end the A's five-game winning make his second straight strong ... I didn't think we'd get shut uncomfortable out there and Hyan Theriot's sacrifice. streak with a victory Sunday . start against the A's. On April 6 out four times all year. to be inconsistent." Zambrano, a career .215 hitter "It was miserable, wasn't fun, in Oakland, he yielded four hits honest with you." with 12 homers, was called on and as cold as its ever been for and an unearned run over 6 2­
After the game, Leyland was Cubs 6, Phillies 5 to pinch-hit because the Cubs me playing ball," Oakland sec­3 innings in a 2-1 victory. That heard screaming in the club­Carlos Zambrano's hustle -were out of position players. ond baseman Mark Ellis said. win was his first since July 1 ­house before reporters were not his pitching or bat -paid The left-handed hitting "The hardest part was when during a season in which the allowed inside. lie wouldn't off in a rare appearance off the Zambrano bounced a grounder the wind kicked up. You didn't former 18-game winner started comment on the rant. but the bench. to shortstop Bruntlett that want to be on defense too on the disabled list with an 
should've been an inning-end­long." abdominal strain, then went ing double play. However, first Two-run doubles by Grady only 5-8 with a 6.29 ERA. lie baseman Ryan Howard couldn't Sizemore and David Dellucci in even was sent back to the scoop Utley's poor throw to first the eighth helped the Indians minors to try and regain the and Cedeno scored. win for only the third time in form that had won 44 games 
The Phillies have committed 10 games and avoid their first over the previous three sea­15 errors, second only to three-game s·weep at home to sons. Pittsburgh. the Athletics since September "I had a bad year and I've 
Utley, who has four of the 1989. been anxious to get back and errors, may have rushed his After a 48-minute delay at give my team a chance to win throw because Zambrano bust­the start, Lee (2-0) repeatedly games," Lee said. "Facing them ed it down the line. got his teammates out of' the twice in a row, I knew what it 
"Z put the ball in play and he cold -38 degrees with a 28-took to be successful. Then hustled," DeRosa said. "That degree wind chill at gametime again, they had a fresh scout­shows the character of this -and back into Cleveland's ing rPport on me, too. At the team." warm dugout, allowing only start, I said, 'Let's attack tlwm 
Zambrano, an 18-game win­one run and two hits over eight the same way.' And it worked." ner last year, took the loss in innings. The left-hander struck Lee retired the first nine the series opener on Friday. out eight without a walk, work­Oakland batters before Travis 
Kerry Wood {1-0) pitched two ing in an intermittent wind­Buck tripled between first scoreless innings and Bob whipped mix of snow and rain. baseman Hyan Garko and the Howry finished for his first "It didn't bother me, but I foul line to open the fourth. save. definitely wouldn't want to bn a Buck scored on a weak ground 
Utley doubled with two outs hitter today," Lee said. "I just single by Ellis. Shortstop 
AP in the 1Oth. After Howard was tried to throw a strike and Jhonny Peralta tried to make a intentionally walked. So hopefully they'd try to hit a bare-handed scqop and throw, Taguchi grounded out to end it. home run. It wasn't going out but couldn't handle the ball. 



-~~-----=-====--..::..============================================================== 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit

CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for comem without issuing refunds. 
DUBLIN VILLAGE unit for lease UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 2008-2009. 4BR, 3.5 bath. Largest not go it alone. If you or someone NOTICES WANTED FoR SALE FoR RENT & most private. Call Diane 574-261-you love needs confidential support 
3338. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue BElGER MANSION in Mishawaka-New student needs good laptop. $74,500! Updated 2BR, Rnished Blue & Gold Homes Showing for Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more 
57 4·993·8733. Lower Level! Minutes to Campus & 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" information, visit our website at: 7 rooms available for grad week· UP Mall, Bookcases, Hardwood leases PERSONAL http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg· end. SUMMER WORK $14.25 BASE-floors, Fenced yd + more! Sweet bluegoldrentals.com nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad 
All private baths. APPT. flexible, no exp. nee, cus-Home! Bobbie Van Osdal C·21 Jim PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME· in The Observer. tomer sales/service, cond. apply, Dunfee Realty 574-235-3075. For rent: 4 bdrm house. walk to ONE WHO IS? You do not have to www.beigermansion.com ages 17+, positions available N.D., student neighborhood, central be alone. We want to help. Call our If you or someone you care about 
throughout US & Canada. Subaru 99 Forester/great condi· air, new appliances, very nice. 24 hour confidential hotline at 1· has been sexually assaulted, visit or call 574-255·6300 tion/AWD/Ieather/CD/121 K/$6,500/ 800-No Abort or visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. Ron. www. workforstudents.com 234-2104. 289-4071. www.lifecall.org shtml 




lOUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 14, 200,3 
fiiLB 
American Lea1gue, East Division 

team  record  perc.  RF  RA  
Toronto  7-5  .583  62  45  
Baltimore  7-5  .583  55  53  
Tampa Bay NY Yankees  6-6 6-6  .500 .500  63 38  49 44  
Boston  6-6  .500  47  54  

American Lea&~ue, Central Division 

team record perc . RF RA Chicago Sox 1·4 .636 70 49 Kansas City 7-5 .583 38 32 Minnesota 6·6 .500 43 44 Cleveland 5-7 .417 54 60 Detroit 2-10 .167 33 78 
American Le2 gue, West Division 
team recora perc. RF RA 
Oakland 8-5 .615 59 50 LA Angels 7-6 .538 65 64 Seattle 6-7 .462 61 60 Texas 5-7 .417 49 55 
National League, East Division 

team record perc. RF RA 
7-5 .583 56 70 Philadelphia 6-7 .462 59 62 NY Mets 
Florida 
5-6 .455 58 47 Atlanta 5-7 .417 67 52 Washington 4-9 .308 51 70 
National Leagul~, Central Division 

team record perc. RF RA StLouis 9·4 .692 60 46 Milwaukee 8·4 .667 64 51 Chicago Cubs 7·5 .583 59 60 Pittsburgh 6-6 .500 63 65 Cincinnati 6-7 .462 52 51 Houston 5·8 .385 53 55 
National Leagtlle,.WestDivislon 
··::::w=: 
team record perc. RF RA 
Arizona 9-2 .818 72 32 San Diego 1·6 .538 41 47 LA Dodgers 5-7 .417 47 43 San Francisco 5·8 .385 41 65 Colorado 4-7 .364 33 60 

Golfweek Men's Golf Rankings 
record eventsteam 

1 Georgia 98·19 8 2 Alabama 106-11·1 9 3 UCLA 76·13 7 4 Charlotte 85·14·1 1 5 Southern California 94-17·1 8 6 Oklahoma State 100·24 9 7 Florida 89·39·1 9 8 Georgia Tech 83·35·2 8 9 Tennessee 99·32·3 9 10 Florida State 90·32·1 
9 11 Stanford 71-27 8 12 Chattanooga 130·30·4 11 13 UNLV 113·32·2 10 14 South Carolina 101·39·2 9 15 Duke 75·35·3 9 16 Auburn 90·36-2 9 17 Texas A&M 86·51·1 10 18 Clemson 87·39·1 9 19 UCF 79·45·3 9 20 Arizona State 65·47-2 8 21 louisville 103·48·3 11 22 East Tennessee 72·57-2 9 23 Michigan State 75·33·2 10 24 Indiana 100·33·2 10 25 Wake Forest 84·44·5 10 
around the dial 
N.. L 
Red Wings at Predators 
7:30 p.m., Versus 
Wild at Avalanche 
10:00 p.m., Versus CoMPILED FR01\t THE OBSERVER'S wmE SERVICEs 

NFL 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. ­Suspended Tennessee Titans cornerback Adam "Pacman" Jones will again ask NFL commis­sioner Roger Goodell to reinstate him, with his agent planning to send in his latest request on Tuesday. 
Jones had planned to ask to be reinstated before the NFL draft on April 26-27. His agent, Manny Arora, said that being able to work out for teams would increase Jones' appeal to those in the market for a corner­back. 
"We were hoping some-thing would get worked out with the Titans or another team to work out a trade, but the trade talks, the way I read, aren't progressing as well as we hoped," Arora said on Saturday. "If the com­missioner reinstates or grants permission to work out at a team's facility, that should ease the risk factor for a team interest­ed in picking him up." 


The NFL sent Jones a letter in late February telling him he could not work out at the Titan's facility. The Titans have given Jones permission to talk to other teams about a trade, and the Dallas Cowboys have shown the most interest. But the talks reportedly have bogged down over com­pensation. 
Arora said they still hope Jones will be traded before the draft, and they are ready to rework his contract. 
Arora also said that if they can't get Jones rein­stated they hope to at least ease the terms of his suspension, now going on more than a year, to make him more attrac­tive. 
JonfJS was the first defensive player drafted in 2005 with the sixth pick overall out of West Virginia, and he was Tennessee's best defender 
IN BRIEF 
U.S. Women's soccer team 
qualifies to Beijing Olympics 
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico -Nicole Barnhart made a diving save on Brittany Timko's penalty kick to give the United States a 6-5 shootout victory over Canada on Saturday night in the CONCACAF Women's Olympic Qualifying final. 
The United States won the shootout after the teams finished regulation play tied 0-0, and 30 extra minutes tied 1-1. 
Barnhart stopped Timko after Heather O'Reilly gave the United States the lead. Carli Lloyd, Leslie Osborne, Abby Wambach, Angela Hucles and Christie Rampone also scored for the Americans in the tiebreaker. Kara Lang, Rhian Wilkinson, Christine Sinclair and Melissa Tancredi and Clare Rustad scored for Canada in the shoo tout. 
Lloyd opened the scoring for the United States on a free kick in the 11Oth minute, but Tancredi tied it on a header in the 118th minute. 

Olympic torch makes one 
ani:l only trip to Africa 
DAR ES SALAAM, Tanzania -About 1,000 people cheered and marched wi1h a team of 80 athletes and a Cabinet minister participating Sunday in the Tanzania leg of the Olympic torch relay, the flame's only stop inAfrica. 
Officials have said that they do not expect any of the disruptions that have hit other torch runs in the world. Kenyan Nobel Peace laureate Wangari Maathai, however, pulled out of the relay in Tanzania to protest Orina's human rights record. 
Vice President Ali Mohamed Shein lit the Olympic torch, passing it on to Cabinet minister Mohamed Seif Khatib, who led the relay team from the city's main train station the main stadium, about three miles away. 
The crowd that marched behind the relay team waved miniature Olympic flags and chanted in the national language Kiswabili, 'We are happy the torch came to Tanzania," and 'We are glad to receive it. 
page 15 
in 2005 and 2006. 
Goodell suspended him on April 10, 2007, for his off-field conduct, which now includes six arrests since being drafted. 
Jones settled the last of his criminal charges on Feb. 14 by entering an Alford plea to obstruction of a police officer in Georgia, which left him with a felony conviction. Under an Alford plea, a defendant acknowledges there is enough evidence for a conviction without admitting guilt. 
The commissioner has said he'll consider rein­stating the cornerback before training camps open in July. 

Antonio Tarver wins light
heaveyweight title bout 
TAMPA, Fla. -Antonio Tarver climbed into the ring with one light heavyweight title Saturday night. He departed with two championship belts and a roaring crowd behind him. Tarver handily defeated Clinton Woods with a unanimous 12-round decision to retain his lightly regarded lBO crown and seize the IBF title from his British foe. 
Tarver (27 -4, 19 KOs) thrilled his hometown fans by rocking Woods with a solid left jab to the head in the 11th round. The Tampa resident carried the momentum into the fmal round, then thrust his hands upward at the final bell as Woods dropped his head and returned to his corner. 
Judge Howard Foster scored the bout 119-109 for Tarver. John Rupert had it 117-111, and Steve Marshall called it 116-112. 
Tarver immediately turned his attention to the future. 
MEN'S TRACK 

Irish excel at tvvo invites over vveekend 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame sent athletes to 

two events this weekend but 
had enough strong marks in 
the Spartan and Ole Miss 
lnvitationals to make it seem 
like a full Irish squad compet­
ed in each. 
Freshman Alex Gannon started things off at the Spartan Invitational Saturday with a seventh-place time of 
11.93 seconds in the tOO­meter dash. Freshman Justin Schneider followed in the men's 200-meter dash with an 11th place finish of 23.09. SchneidtH, one of the top decathlon runners of the Big East, also earned top marks in the 11 0-meter hurdles and long jump. He linished in lifth place in the hurdle event and fourth in the long jump. 
Freshman Hyan Gamboa also scored some points for the Irish in the middle distance race. He placed fourth with a time of 1:56.39 after a close finish at the end of the race -Gamboa finished .02 ahead of Central Michigan's Nick Agosti. 
The Irish placed three com­petitors in the top 10 in the pole vault competition. Sophomore Matt Schipper fin­ished first with a height of 4.90-meters, while sophomore Jim Merchun finished in a three-way tie for fourth with a height of 4.60-mllters. 
"So far it has been [a good! season, and I have already qualified for outdoor regionals, but now I need to prepare for a good finish at Hegionals," Schipper said. 
Junior Brian Mahon followed close behind Schipper and Mercun with another three­way tie for seventh place with a height of 4.45-meters. 
In the Ole Miss Invitational, freshman Miklos Szebeny fin­ished in seventh place in the 100-dash with a time of 10.82 seeonds. In another sprint event, the 400-hurdles, senior Austin Wechter linished eighth with a time of 54.39 seconds. 
"I was not too happy with my performance this past week­end, I know I can do better," Wechter said. "I would defi­nitely like to improve on my personal best, that's my major goal." 
Junior Kevin McFadden and freshman Spencer Carter kept up the team's strong showing, finishing fifth and tenth respectively in the 1500-meter run. 
The Irish also did well in the field events. Junior Blair Majcina dominated his compe­tition by four inches in the high jump, finishing first and not far from an NCAA regional qualifi­cation. Majcina comes into the outdoor season after recover­ing from an injury in the fall. 
"The outdoor season has just started. I have given a couple of mediocre performances, but it has given me a chance to make some much needed adjustments to my approach and jumping form" Majcina said. "It is a work in progress because I am coming back from a torn patella tendon in the fall." 
Sophomore Eric Quick kept up the momentum from his double NCAA regional qualifi­cations in the long and triple jump, placing third in the triple jump. 
Brandon Denon narrowly 
qualified  fur  the  NCAA  
Hegional  meet  in  May  by  
throwing  the  discus  52.37  

meters. Denon's effort was good for second place, a full two meters better than the third-place finisher. 
The freshman trio of Denes Veres, John Belcher and Greg Davis placed fourth, seventh, and 14th respectively in the shot put. Belcher also placed in the discus throw, earning seventh place with a throw of 
47.14 meters. Davis and Veres also participated in the ham­mer throw, throwing 50.68 meters and 47.83 for sixth and tenth place respectively. 
The next meets for the Irish are next weekend at the Central Collegiate Championships and the Mount SAC Belays. 
Contact Eugenia A1fonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu 

SMC GOLF 



Saint Mary's takes second at Vassar 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
Behind a second place indi­vidual performance by Freshman Hosie O'Connor, Saint Mary's eaptured seeond place in the Vassar College Invitational this weeknnd in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. 
O'Connor fired an opening­round lwst 81 to go with her linal round SO. 
O'Connor's strong perform­ance lod thn Bl)lles to a second­place finish just six strokes lwhind Williams Collnge. The Bnlles were down 14 strokes after the first day but shot a linal-round best to finish close behind the leader. 
Senior Katie O'Brien and freshman Emily Gore had strong showings for the Belles as the pair linished in a tie for 16th plaee with total scores of 
174. Junior Perri Hamma fin­ished in 27th place with a total of 182 and Miehelle llird shot 194 for the tournament, finish­ing in 39th. 
Next weekend, the Belles will head to Springfield, Ill., to com­pete in their last exhibition tournament of the year, the Illinois Wesleyan Spring Fling. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu 

SMC TENNIS 

Doubles improves in win 
Struggling squad gains confidence in win over conference team 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's recorded its second MIAA win Saturday with an 8-1 victory over Tri-State, improving the Belles' record to 6-9 over­all and 2-3 in MIAA play. The Thunder fell to 3-9 overall and 0-6 in the MIAA. 
"We played pretty well overall," Saint Mary's coach Chuck Rubino said. "Tri-State was a pretty decent squad, better than I expected them to be. We showed a strong team effort." 
Saint Mary's had been struggling in doubles com­petition this season, but it didn't show on Saturday. The Belles won two out of the three doubles matches behind the leadership of the No. 1 doubles duo of sophomore co-captain Camille Gebert and fresh­man Jillian Hurley. Gebert and Hurley defeated Tri­State's Amanda Waidely and Dana Dunham 8-1 for their seventh win of the season, moving their record to 7-8. 
The Belles No. 2 doubles pair of sophomore co-cap­tain Lisa Rubino and fresh­man Betsy Reed was defeated by Kara Kauffman and Amanda Steiner 8-5, putting the Belles duo at 5­8 for the season. Freshmen Franca Peluso and Jessica 
Kosinski won 8-5 over Stephanie Steiner and Jen Wall to help win the dou­bles portion for Saint Mary's. 
The Belles momentum from doubles carried over to the singles as they swept that part of the match. In the No. 1 slot, Gebert defeated Stephanie Steiner 6-1, 6-1 for her seventh matches." 
Up next for Saint Mary's is a week full of matches, including three at home. Tuesday the Belles will host Bethel for a cross town rivalry match at 4 p.m. Saint Mary's will play against conference rivals Adrian on Thursday, and Kalamazoo on Saturday. The Belles will finish off the 

win, putting her at 7-8.  We needed a  week Sunday at Alma for anoth­ 
Hurley  con­ confidence builder. It  er MIAA match.  
tinued her successful season at  came at the right time, and I think it  "All the girls played pretty well on  
No. 2 singles with her 13th win of  will propel us in the next few matches. "  Saturday," Rubino said. "We showed  
the  season.  some consisten­ 
Hurley beat  Chuck Rubino  cy, but this win  
Tri-State's  Belles coach  wasn't  like  
Waidely 6-0,  beating  
6-2, moving  Kalamazoo  or  
her to  13-2.  Albion,  which  

At No. 3, Reed continued are stronger teams in the Saint Mary's dominance conference." with her defeat over A win over Tri-State may Amanda Steiner 5-7. 6-0, not be as important as a 1-0 (1 0-4). followed by win over other M IAA Kosinski's 6-1, 6-2 defeat teams, but another win for over Kara Kauffman in No. Saint Mary's certainly can't 4 singles. Rubino beat the hurt. Thunder's Dunham 6-4, 6-1 "This win means we got a in the No. 5 match, and little momentum," Hubino Peluso finished the Belles said. "I hope this momen­sweep with a 6-0, 6-0 win tum keeps going, and I over Wall. hope we take it into our 
"It was a good win that next matches. I really think we needed," Hubino said. we're capable of winning "We needed a confidence­these next few matches." builder. It came at the right time, and I think it will Contact Meaghan Veselik at propel us in the next few mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Monday, April 14, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
WoMEN's TRAc•~ 

Runners unable to 
qualify for regionals 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame achieV·3d mild success this weekend in the Spartan and Mis~.issippi lnvitationals, but failed to cap­italize on the good weather by not setting an NCAA regional qualifying mark in any event. 
Freshmen Natalie Johnson and Kelly Langhans led the way for the Irish at the very competitive Mississippi Invitational in Oxford, Miss. The duo took first and second, respectively, in the 800-meter run. but fell short of a regional qualifying mark by about four seconds. 
Sophomore Joanna Schultz and Senior Brienne Davis ran well in the 200, taking fourth and fifth, respectively. Davis also continued her string of good finishes in the 100 dash, taking third place in the event and missing an NCAA qualify­irtg mark by less than a quar­ter of a second. 
In the field events,. the Irish sent only two athletes to com­pete and both came away with excellent finishes. 
Sophomore Elise Knutzen took third place in the javelin while Junior Alyissa Hasan grabbed sixth in the high jump. 
At Michigan State's ~;partan Invitational, the Irish logged a number of quality finisLes. 
In the 5000-distanc El race, junior Heidi Rocha took first place for the Irish with senior Amy Kohlmeier finishing right behind her in second. Senior Ann Mazur and sophomore Beth Tacl took fifth and sixth, respectively, to round out a strong Irish performance in the event. 
In the 3000-meter steeple­chase, sophomore Lindsey Ferguson and junior Becca Bauman ran away from the competition, easily taking first and second, respectively. 
Sophomore Jaime Minor had a standout meet for Irish, placing well in a variety of events. Minor took second in the triple jump to go along with two seventh-place finish­es in the 100-and 200-meter dashes. 
In the field events, junior Anna Weber continued her dominance of the throwing events while several other Irish athletes posted solid results. 
Weber blew away the com­petition as she took first in the shot put by almost a meter and finished a close second in the hammer throw. 
Freshman jumper Jessica Sullivan tied for second place in the pole vault and Jasmine Williams finished fourth in the long jump, rounding out a dominant Irish performance in the field events. 
Next weekend, Notre Dame will send athletes to the Central Collegiate Championships in West Lafayette, Ind., and the Mount SAC relays in Walnut, Calif., both of which are three-day meets. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu 
PGA 

Immelman wins Masters 
28-year old wins first major tournament four months after surgery 
Associated Press 

AUGUSTA, Ga. -Trevor Immelman has never felt bet­ter. 
Four months after he had a tumor removed from his back, Immelman handled the wind and pressure of Augusta National far better than any­one chasing him Sunday to win the Masters, the first South African in a green jack­et in 30 years. 
Immelman held it together around Amen Corner and stretched his lead to as many as six shots on the back nine, taking the life out of a Masters that began with so much hype. 
A two-putt par on the final hole gave him a 3-over 75, matching the highest final . round by a Masters champi­on. Even so, it was good enough for a three-shot victo­ry over Tiger Woods, whose hopes for a calendar Grand Slam ended with a tbud. 
Woods never got within five shots of the lead when he was on the course, twice missed birdie putts inside 8 feet and had to settle for a 72 and his second consecutive runner-up finish in the Masters. 
"I learned my lesson there with the press," Woods said with a smile. He was the one who started the talk about a Grand Slam by stating three months ago that winning all four majors in the same year was "easily within reason." 
The only slam possibilities now belong to Immelman; a 28-year-old with a polished swing, who finally realized his potential in the wicked wind of Augusta and a final round that yielded only four rounds under par. 

Immelman, who finished at 8-under 280, started the week by playing a practice round with his boyhood idol, Gary Player, who won his third Masters in 1978 and set a record by playing for the 51st time. 
Player told Immelman he was good enough to win the green jacket, and he left him a voicemail Saturday night that Immelman played on his speaker phone for his family to hear. The message: "I know you're going to win." 
"He's been on me all week, telling me to believe in myself," Immelman said. "He also told me to keep my head still on putts. It's really a spe­cial moment, and I'm glad I pulled it through for him." 
Reached by telephone in Abu Dhabi, Player told his assistant: "I am so proud of Trevor. What a thrill it was to see him come back from major surgery and beat Tiger. I can't wait to see him and shake his hand personally." 
Immelman's wife, Carminita, and their 1-year­old son were waiting for him behind the green. Jacob took hold of the 18th flag, fussing when he couldn't go into the scoring shack to be with his father. 
Immelman's parents also were there to greet him with hugs. His father, Johan, is the former commissioner of the Sunshine Tour in South Africa. 
"It's his moment, not mine," said the father, who waved away a reporter. 
No one doubted he was capable of winning a major, but maybe not this one. Only four months ago, doctors dis­covered a tumor in his diaphragm that required sur­gery through his back to remove it. The tumor was benign and the recovery was quick, even though it took him two months to get his game back in shape. 
The recovery hit warp speed this week at Augusta, where Immelman had only broken par once in his five previous Masters. 
"This has been the ultimate roller-coaster ride, and I hate roller coasters," Immelman said. "I win the Nedbank Challenge in South Africa, and a week later I'm having an operation to remove a tumor.... I felt like I had to start from zero again. Here I am after missing the cut last week. 

"Masters champion -it's the craziest thing I've ever heard of." 
Immelman built a two-shot lead with three rounds in the 60s, and held it together dur­ing a few nervy moments. 
He made a 10-foot par save from the bunker at No. 9 to keep a two-shot cushion, but continued to look shaky. Immelman missed the 11th green well to the right when his chip didn't quite reach and he was left with a 20-foot putt that was slick and dan­gerous. 
Ahead of him, Woods was gaining momentum. 
Woods holed a 70-foot birdie putt on the 11th, made an acrobatic escape from the trees on the 13th and spun a wedge down the slope on the par-5 13th that left him 5 feet away for birdie. 
lmmelman holed his par putt. Woods missed, just as he has done the last two years on the back nine of a major he once dominated. Brandt Snedeker and Steve Flesch, the last two players with any hope, folded quickly. 
Woods closed with a 72 and has finished 3-2-2 in his last three Masters. It also was his fifth runner-up in a major. 
Immelman earned $1.35 million for his second PGA Tour victory, with Woods also finishing second behind him two years ago in the Western Open. 
"I was trying to be tough out there," Immelman said. "There's a disaster around every corner." 
Emotions were running wild for all the contenders, none more than Snedeker, who tied for third with Stewart Cink. The 27-year­old American with Huck Finn looks and a constant smile made only six pars in his round of 77, tying for the lead with an eagle on the second hole but stumbling badly the rest of the way. 
"I went from extreme highs to extreme lows, and that's what you don't want to do around here," Snedeker said. 
IMETAVANTE CORPORATION delivers banking and payments technologies to over 8,600 financial services firms and businesses worldwide. 
Headquartered in Milwaukee, WI with locations in 34 other cities across the U.S. 
5,000 employees; Clients in 50 states and 32 foreign countries. 
We have a great LPA (leadership program associate) and onboarding program and will be presenting it at the Open House. 
We look forward to seeing you all there. Refreshments will be served! 
Room 102: Dooley Room, LaFortune 

MEN's TENNIS 

Squad loses at Ann Arbor, wins at ho111e 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Wrircr 

For tlw sneond consecutive . wtwkend. No. 33 Notre Damn split its two matches, falling to Michigan 6-1, but downing f.ouisvil!n 4-:~. 
On Saturday. thP Irish trav­n!NI to Ann Arbor, Mich .. to take on No. 15 Michigan. Notre Damn could not upstlt the WolvnrillllS, falling 6-1 on Michigan's SPnior Day. 
Tho Wolvnrines jumped on the Irish tlarly, winning all thrnn doubles matches to earn the point. 
But tlw Irish r<~bounded and twnnnd the match when fresh­man Dan Stahl won thn first singles point over Wolverine sophomortl Cnorge Navas in straight snts, 6-3, 7-5. 
Unfortunately for thn Irish, Stahl's singles performance proved to be the lone bright spot. and Michigan won the next five matches. Michigan sophomore Mike Sroczynski put the Wolverines ahead for good with a straight sets victo­ry ovnr Irish senior Andrew Hoth, 6-:~. 7-5. The Wolverines followed up with another straight sets victory from jun­ior Andrew Mazlin, who defeated Irish freshman Stnphen llavnns 7-5, 6-4. 
Although the Irish lost tht~ next three matches, they took all of them to three sets. Irish senior Sheeva Parbhu and freshman David Anderson both won the first set in their rnspectivn matches before falling in three sets. In the final singles match, junior Brett HelgHson recovered from an early deficit to tic the match at a set apiece before 
falling  6-1. 4-6,  6-4  to  
Wolverine  senior  Matko  
Maravie.  

Despite the setback at Ann 
Arbor, the Irish recovered with a 4-3 win over No. 37 Louisville Sunday in their final match bnl'pre the Big East tournament. 
The Irish reversed their for­
tunes from Saturday in the 
doubles point as they swept all 
three matches. 
With momentum on their side. the Irish jumped out to a 3-0 lead behind straight sets singles wins from Helgeson and Parbhu. Nationally­ranked No. 42 Helgeson earned a 6-2, 6-2 win over No. :{9 Cardinal freshman Austen Childs. In his final home match. Parbhu defeated Louisvilln sophomore David Simon 7-5, 6-1. 
Louisville freshman Viktor Maksimcuk kept the Cardinals alive with a 6-1. 2-6, 6-3 victo­ry over llavens. In the next match. Stahl came from behind to seal the Irish victory with a 2-6, 6-4, 6-2 triumph over Louisville junior Hobert Hotaru. 
Louisville won the next two matches to make the score 4­
3. Hoth and Anderson both found themselves on the wrong side of hard-fought three set matches. Hoth was defeated in his final home sin­gles match by Louisville fresh­man Simon Childs. After win­ning the first set, Hoth dropped the next two sets in tie-breakers. Cardinal fresh­man Alejandro Calligari earned Louisville's final point with a come from behind vic­tory over Anderson with a 2-6. 6-3. 6-0 win. 
With the weekend split, the Irish head into the Big East tournament with a 12-10 record. The Irish will learn their Big East draw later this week. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

ROWING 
Irish win all six races at Indianapolis event 
runner-up Indiana. 

Observer Staff Report 
The Irish entered two boats 

After a one-day rain delay, in the second varsity eight Notre Dame won all six races race, taking first and fourth it entertld in the Indiana Invite place in the event. in Indianapolis this weekend. Notre Dame also entered The weather for the competi­two boats in the varsity four tion was less than ideal but race and this time swept the the Irish still dominated the top two spots. field. The Irish also came out on 
The No. 16 Irish varsity top in the second varsity four. eight boat finished in a time of novice eight and second novice 6:25, six seconds ahead of eight races. 
Recycle Observer. 

NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Team downs Demons, Eagles 
By DAN MASTERTON and 
LORENZO REYES 
Sports Wrirer 

If there's an ideal way that a team wanl<> to head into its confer­ence tournament, No. 16 Notre Dame L<> tbllowing the right l(wmu­la. Atier dropping a tight match to top-ranked Northwestern la'it week -their first loss in nine matches ­the lrL'ih regained their momentum and swept a pair of Big Ea'it rivals in J)pj>aul and Marquette. 
Notre Dame 7, DePaul 0 

Notrn Dame {18-7) continued to dominato conference opponents, improving to 4-0 in Big East play and handing DePaul (16-5) its first conference lo&'i. 
Notre Dame sophomores Cosmina Ciobanu and Colleen Rielley were the first ones oil' the court in doubles play, but for just the second time of the dual season, the sophomore pair wa<> on the los­ing side. 
DflPaul's No. 2 pair, junior Dunja Antunovic and sophomore Kirsten Gambrell took the match 8-3. The Blue Demon pair improved to 12-1 on the season, but that was the lone bright spot for DePaul. 
Irish sophomore Kali Krisik and freshman Kristen Rafael stole the momentum back fbr Notre Dame. Their 8-2 win evened doubles play and left the showdown between each team's No. 1 duo to decide the point. 
A<> usual, the No. 1 pair in the country. senior Brook Buck and Kelcy Tefft, delivered a victory. Their 8-4 win over senior Beatrix Csordas and freshman Selma Salkovic gave the doubles point to the Iri'ih for the eleventh straight match. 
The Irish carried that momentum to a convincing sweep of all the sin­gles matches. dropping just om1 set along the way. 
No. 122 Ciobanu downed Salkovie 6-3. 6-0 to open singles play; After junior Katie Poll<> took care of Gambrell 6-2, 6-1. No. 42 Tefft won the match for Notre Dame with a 6-2. 6-3 victory over Antunovic . 
Buek was next off the court. I ler 6-2, 6-2 win over senior Gnrgana Gancva was the eighth time Buck ha'i won in her la<>t nine c:ompletnd matehes. 
Hinlley followed with a triumph ovnr freshman Katarina Milinkovic 6-:{. 6-3. Since losing in straight sel'i at North Carolina, H.inllny is 8­3, ineluding a win over Georgia Tech's No. 76 Christy Striplin. 
Krisik wrappnd up the sweep with a three-set win over Csordas, 1-6, 6-3, 10-5. 
Including the contest with DePaul, the Irish have droppnd just 12 points in their la<>t 11 mateht~s. They are 10-1 over that stretch. 
Notre Dame 7, Marquette 0 

The Irish closed out the regular season with a 7-0 sweep of the Golden Eagles. heading into the Big Ea<>t tournament having won 11 of their past 12 matehes. 
Typical of' its play all season, Notre Dame controlled the doubles point, as they took the important opening score over Marquette. marking the 11th straight time it had done so. 
Buck and Tefl't continued their impressive play, shutting out the Marquette pair of senior Shannon Brown and junior Lauren Little. The top-ranked duo improved to 32-5 on the season with il'i domi­nating performance. 
Rielley and Ciobanu bounced back from their defeat against the Blue Demons. winning 8-3 over senior Maria Calbeto and freshman Christina Ruiz. 
Krisik and Hafael took ~~are of 
senior Erin Watkins and frnshman 
Hache! I lush, 8-4 to improvn to 8-6 
overall in tho season. 
More importantly. tl1e Irish start­ed oil' the contest ahead 1-0 and continued thnir solid play in singles competition 
Tellt displaynd dominance in her straight set 6-0, 6-0 win over Watkins. improving to 20-5 in dual match play. 
Things looked to bn clicking fi1r the Irish, and Ciobanu kept the Coldtm Eaglns at bay with her 6-1. 6-1 straight set victory over Huiz. With Notre Dame holding a 3-0 lead. Marquettn couldn't muster <my substantial answer fill' the Irish play. 
Buck dosed out her rngular-sea­son eareflr at Notre Dame with a 6­1, 6-1 deli~at of Calbnto, winning her eighth singles match in nine tries. The straight set win clinched the mateh for the Irish who won their eighteenth match of thn sea­son. 
Rielley ousted !lush 7-5. 6-3 at the No. 4 spot. whiln Krisik upend­ed junior Hobin Metzler in the penultimate match, 6-0. 6-2. The sophomore dinehed her team-high 31st singles win with the mateh. 
Potl'i completed the Irish sweep with a quick 6-0, 6-0 victory over sophomore Maggie Wil'ion, improv­ing her mark to 20-9 on the season. 
Notre Dame returns to action in the Big Ea'it tournament beginning Apr. 18 in Tampa, Fla. With the Irish ranknd highest of all confer­ence teams, and boasting an unde­fimted league rm:ord, the squad will most likely take the top send in tl1e tournament and face the winner of Thursday's match between the eight-and nine-seeds. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu and Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

Looking for a permanent solution to remove unwanted hair? 
Licensed aesthetician, Peggy Dibble, 
offers safe, comfortable and affordable 
laser hair removal, using state-of-the-art 
FDA-Approved equipment. 
Each hair removal procedure is tailored to your individual skin and hair type, allowing us to offer the most effective solution for hair reduction from the face and body. 
Find out which laser hair removal protocol 
fits your needs. Visit Peggy today for a 
free, personalized laser hair removal 
consultation. 
Our South Bend location is justminutes from campus on North Michigan Street. 
your 1st laser service when you mention this ad! Call Peggy Today! 
(up to $200) 
574.. 282.2020 

Monday, April 14, 2008 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Laxers notch first victory at G'town 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
No. 8 Notre Dame bounced back from a 16-2 blowout loss at Northwestern last Wednesday to tally its first-ever win at No. 6 Georgetown Saturday with a 10-8 road vic­tory. 
Freshman Shaylyn Blaney scored three goals and junior goalie Erin Goodman recorded a career-high 15 saves to lead the Irish (10-4, 3-1 Big East) to their second win over a ranked opponent this season. 
Notre Dame dominated· the first half, scoring the fm:t two goals before taking a 5-1 advantage into the break. After junior Jillian Byers and f;enior Caitlin McKinney scored to open the second half and give 
Store Your ~~~~n .
iihtt&fur tm)@ "'"'iimmt&ri
1iffiMWil !Jii!H& '"'Hl¥ ddL \W "' Call or stop on by & reSE'rve today! 
866-232-:l169 

6482 Brick Road, Soutl1 Bend Located at Cleveland Rd.& US 20 Bypass. 7 minutes from campus 
If itk tvlonday,you've got to do Chili'S! 

Every Monday get adouble ord~r of Chicken, Steak <JirComboFaji~~~ (enough for tw~>) for just $12:!* 

Mishawaka 271-1330 
the Irish a 7-1 advantage, the Hoyas (9-4, 2-2) outscored Notre Dame 7-3 over the fmal 20 minutes. 
Senior Heather Ferguson and junior Jane Stoeckert each scored twice for the Irish, while sophomore Gina Sciascia, Byers and McKinney each put home single goals in the victo­ry. 
The Irish scored seven unas­sisted goals in the victory despite being out-shot 32-22, including 21-9 in the second half. They turned the ball over 17 times while managing 13 takeaways. 
Notre Dame returns home Wednesday for a non-confer­ence contest with Vanderbilt at 
4:30 p.m. at the Loftus Center. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

alive after falling behind by
• 4810 Grape Rd. 

two runs in the first inning. ·With the bases loaded, jun­
• www.chilis.com 

ior third baseman Linda Kohan knocked a ball to the 
-------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Cross hired to coach Toledo 
Irish assistant of two years takes first head coaching gig 
Observer Staff Report 
Former Notre Dame assis­
tant coach Gene Cross was 
named Toledo's new head 
coach Friday. 
The last two seasons, Cross 
ND SOFTBALL 

Team opens new field by going 1-1 
By JARED ]EDICK Sports Writer 
The Irish earned a split to open up newly constructed Melissa Cook Stadium in this weekend's double-header against Villanova. The Irish lost the first game 4-1 and winning the second 10-5. 
The win was Notre Dame's 200th all-time regular sea­son victory in the Big East conference, bringing its record to 200-32 in Big East play. 

Saturday's intended stadi­um-opener double-header against Rutgers was can­celled due to rain. Those games have been resched­uled for 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. Observer today at Melissa Cook Freshman catcher Sadie Pitzenberger slides during Notre Stadium. Dame's 2-1 win over Toledo on Apr. 2. 
-
was an assistant under Irish head coach Mike Brey, who said Cross was an instrumen­tal part of the team's success over that span. 
"He has done a fabulous job here for us at Notre Dame," Brey said in a press release. " ... The Notre Dame basket­ball family is going to miss Gene and we wish him noth­ing but the best as he embarks on this exceptional opportunity." 
Cross came to Notre Dame after spending six seasons at Illinois-Chicago, three sea­sons at DePaul, and one sea­son at Virginia. 
''I'm excited about joining the tradition of Toledo bas­ketball," Cross told sportsnet­work.com. "I look forward to building on that tradition and taking the program to the next step." 
fence, bringing in three runs. 
"That was our first really hard hit ground ball of the day," Gumpf said. "Kohan came up with a big hit when we needed it and that lifted us up a little bit." 
Notre Dame added more in the fourth, with six runners crossing the plate for the Irish. The team batted around, with freshman Erin Marrone getting a clutch two-out hit. 
"They walked [Kohan] to get to Marrone and she did exactly what we needed her to do," Gumpf said. "That was.. the biggest hit of the day. 
The Irish added an insur­ance run in the sixth on a Villanova error that scored sophomore utility player Christine Lux from third. 
Freshman Jody Valdivia started the second game but was pulled after 1-and-1/3 innings after giving up six hits and four earned runs in favor of Bargar. Bargar stepped up and allowed only one more run for the remain­der of the game. 
"Bargar and Valdivia have been picking each other up all year," Gumpf said. "They both know that the other will keep on fighting and rebound from bad outings." 
The Irish have a full docket of games this week, starting with the makeup double­header against Rutgers today at 11 a.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium before traveling to Evanston, Illinios, to take on Northwestern Tuesday. The Irish will then come back home on Wednesday for a game against Wisconsin at 4 p.m. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Opening ceremonies were conducted on Saturday despite the pouring rain and featured remarks from ath­letic director Dr. Kevin White, coach Deanna Gumpf, 

senior captain Katie Laing, Lisa Hoffman, and Paul and Lisa Demo, the parents of Melissa Cook. The site was officially blessed and dedi­cated by University president Fr. John Jenkins. 
"The ceremonies were per­fect," Gumpf said. "It was exciting and we truly appre­ciated it." 
However, the celebration ended quickly for the Irish (25-11, 6-2 Big East), who were out-played in all facets of the game Gumpf said in their 4-1 loss to the Wildcats (15-17-1, 4-8 Big East). 
"They out-pitched us and the out-hit us," Gumpf said. "When you get out-played like that, you cannot really expect to have a chance to win the game." 
The Wildcats jumped on the Irish early, putting three runs on the board in the sec­ond inning against junior Brittney Bargar (18-7). Bargar was charged with the loss, giving up four runs on eight hits and striking out seven. 
The Irish bats were also cold in the first game, with their only run coming in the bottom of the first. Laing notched the first hit in the new stadium with her RBI single to knock in freshman Katie Fleury. 
"[Villanova] pitcher [junior Laura Determan] did a great job for them today," Gumpf said. "She was in a lot of pressure situations and she was able to work out of it." 
The second game saw a turnaround for the Irish, who finally saw their bats come 

Eagles 
continued from page 24 
the puek," Irish dnfenseman Kyle Lawson said. "That's kind of our bread and butter and when they neutralized that and got it into an up-tempo game, that's when their speed took over." 
Gerbe, a 5-foot-5 junior, proved an unstoppable force, generating four points on the night and 11 points in the Tournament (7 goals, 4 assists}. (;erbe s1:ored Boston College's first two goals of the night and assisted on his team's l'inal, back-breaking two goals. 
Boston College was the national runner-up each of the last two seasons. Last year it lost 3-1 to Michigan State and fell 2-1 to Wisconsin in 2006. 
It was Notro Dame's first trip to the Frozen Four. let alone the title gamn. The Irish earned a shot at the titl11 by defeating top­seeded Michigan 5-4 in over­time two days earlier. 
"I thought IBoston College! had us on our heels early on with their spePd and I was a lit­tle bit surprised that our team played a little too cautious," Irish coach Jell' Jackson said. "II was al little disappointed in the fact that I thought our team eould have made some plays, and we didn't. First time being in this event. I think the advan­tage was theirs as far as the experience factor beeause our guys rosponded to that situa­tion." 
Aller Boston College built a 3­0 lead -all in the seeond peri­od -Notr11 Dame staged a eonwback. Irish center Kevin Deeth placed the puck over 
-Muse's glove side off a pass from Lawson through the slot to the left sido at 9:07 of the sec­ond. The Irish appnared to cut the score to :~-2 at the 4:56 mark of tho third period when Lawson caught defenseman Ian Cole's crossover pass in his skates and tho puck slowly slid across the goal line as Lawson sought unsuccessfully to tap it with his stick. The play was reviewed in the booth and the goal was recalled by video· replay ollieial Greg Shepherd. "The puck was kicked in the net by the Notre Dame player's right skate. The skate was mov­ing toward the goal line," Shepherd said. "There were sticks in the crease, and we needed to make sure there was­n't a dolleetion ofT tho sticks or tho defender's skates after it was kicked." Irish coach .lefT Jackson said the disallowed goal was the turning point in the game. "I thought we had something going at that timf! and I thought we were doing a much better job with the puck," he said. "I talked to our guys about show­ing some poise with the puck because I snnsed a level of panic at times with the puck." Both teams had a tightly­matched first period, resulting in the fourth scoreless opening in a title gamn in NCAA history. The Irish had three power play opportunities during the pnriod, but couldn't capitalize on tho opportunities. Notre Dame had eight power play chances throughout the gam11, but couldn't score, a problem that plagued the Irish for extended periods of time throughout the season. "I think we had a couple of good looks, but you have to give credit to their penalty killers and their goalie made some big saves on the penalty kill," senior captain Mark Van Guilder said. "I think that was the key to the 
game, their power play was effective and ours weren't." 
The Eagles, however, were much more effective against Notre Dame's penalty-kill unit, the second best in the nation. Boston College went 2-for-4 on power plays. 
Gerbe broke the offensive silence in the second period with a goal at 2:23, beginning a 3-0 Eagles run. 
From behind the Irish net, freshman center Brian Gibbons sent a backhand pass to Gerbe in the left circle, who shot the puck over junior goaltender Jordan Pearce's left shoulder. 
Gerbe struck again a little more than three minutes later after an interference penalty was called on Irish left wing Hyan Thang. Eagles right wing Ben Smith sent a crossover pass toward the goal. Hicocheting off the net, Gerbe crashed the rebound and scored, tapping the puck inside the near post and giving Boston College a 2-0 lead. 
"I just try and do it with my grit and speed," Gerbe said about how he makes up for his size. "You've got to use your strengths and not your weak­nesses. Obviously I'm not big, so I'm not going to go plowing someone over, but I still finish checks and bug people out there." 

At the 8:11 of the second and working with a 4-on-3 man advantage, Gerbe sent a cross­ing pass to freshman forward Joe Whitney high in the slot, whose slap shot deflected off an Irish defenseman and past Pearce's left side, giving the Eagles the 3-0 lead. 
After Lawson's goal in the third was overturned, Boston College answered with a goal less than a minute later. 
Gerbe sent a blind pass to Smith inside the right circle, whose shot deflected off Irish del'enseman Brock Sheahan and into the net for the 4-1 lead at 
5:31 ofthe third. 

"Gerbe and Ben Smith are just so good," linemate Brian Gibbons said. ''I'm so lucky to play with those guys as good as they are. I just try to stay out of their way." 
Despite several more ofl'ensive attacks, the Irish were unable to 
Irish left wing Calle Ridderwall celebrates with Kevin Deeth, right, after Deeth's goal in the second period cut BC's lead to 3-1. 
score for the remainder of the game. 
Pearce made 19 save for the Irish, while Muse stopped 20 for the Eagles. Muse, a freshman who started every game for Boston College this season, allowed only two goals in the two games of the Frozen Four. 
"(Muse] was awesome tonight. It's pretty special for a freshman to do something like that," Van Guilder said. "His team played awesome in front of him, and he made some big saves." 
The Irish will lose live seniors after this year -Van Guild.er, Sheahan. Evan Hankin, Dan VeNard and Brian D'Arcy ­who were the last class to play a season not under Jackson, when they played for former coach Dave Poulin as freshmen. 
"Bottom line is that these kids gave us everything they could in the last couple weeks and I'm proud of them," Jackson said. 
Contact EHyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 

®1!85. 2002, 2003, 20U 2001 JIMMY JOHN'S FRANCHISE, LLC 
Earn Extra Money in One Weekend! 
How: 
What: When: 
Eligibility: 

Work on campus during Alumni Reunion 2008 A variety of well-paid positions available Thursday, May 29 -Sunday, June 1 
ND, SMC and HCC students. Children of faculty and staff are also encouraged to apply. Must be at least 16 years old. 
How to Apply: To view Reunion 2008 job opportunities, visit the Notre 
Questions? 

Dame employment website at jobs.nd.edu (keyword: Reunion). The application deadline is May 1. 
Contact the Notre Dame Alumni Association at alumwork@nd.edu or 574-631-4434 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Alumni Association 
Monday, Aprill4, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==== 
Inches 
continued from page 24 
1984. Boston College 2001, 2008). 
"Notre Dame and Jeff .Jackson remind me a lot of our team in 1998. We were just starting to pick up the pieces and all of a sudden we're in the Frozen Four playing the University of Michigan," York said. 
"That got us over the mmp and back at the national level. Notre Dame is at that point now; they've reached the national championship game. They're going to be one of those brand name schools in hockey." 
The Frozen Four introduced Notre Dame fans that had rarely looked beyond th~ foot­ball stadium or basketball court to Irish hockey. Notre Dame clubs around the coun­try organized game watches and the keyboards of national sports writers tapped out the names of Mark Van Guilder, Jordan Pearce, Ryan Thang and more, continuously. 
Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis took a day away during spring football practice to watch the title game in Denver, rooting on his friend Jeff Jackson. 
Irish hockey had earned the respect of the world beyond college hockey. 
Outside the locker room Saturday after the loss, University president Fr. John Jenkins stood quietly for a long time, his head down, eyes closed and fingers pinching the bridge of his nose. Members of the athletic department milled around, stunned, no one breaking the silence. 
It was etched on everyone's face, Notre Dame couldn't have lost. The team had come too far, worked too hard, got­ten people too excited to have lost when the NCAA trophy was right there, 100 yards down the arena corridor but now wearing an Eagles hat. 
But in that sadness was the beauty of what Notre Dame hockey has become. It's a win­ner. 
A loss is devastating, not the expected end to every season anymore; a national title now no longer the crazy dream of the Irish players and coaches who set about inventing three years ago what "The Gold Standard" of Notre Dame hockey meant. 
One inch could have changed a lot Saturday night, but Notre Dame has already come so many thousands more. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd. edu 


$10haircuts 1/2off
all color (reg $47-$80) foils too! 
"Schedule your appointment tJday with one ofouilicensed apprentice stylists for this great price. Offer good with •:>prentice stylists only, all other stylists will be full price. Not good with any other discount. Convenient, close to campus. 
258-5080 

:sALON ROUGE 
620 'N. Edison, Suite 126 Mishawaka, IN. 46545 salonrougeinc.com 


After a Ben Smith shot rebounded into the crease, Gerbe crashed the 
Gerbe 

net and lunged headfirst to push continued from page 24 
the puck past Pearce. Lawson said Gerbe's second 
Eagles' first goal, when he found goal "epitomizes what he is ­
just enough room near the left cir­sprawling out, diving and putting 
cle to fire a wrister over Irish it away." 
goalie Jordan Pearce's glove. Even when Gerbe wasn't scor­His second goal was a classic. ing, he was doing the dirty work to set teammates up in position to get chances. On the Eagles' fourth goal, which all but sealed the vic­tory, Gerbe fought to control the puck behind the net and sent a 


no-look, between­the-legs pass to Smith in the low slot. Smith lifted the puck over Pearce's stick-side shoulder to extend the Eagle lead to three goals. 
Although he was named the Tournament's Most Outstanding Player, Gerbe lost Gerbe reminds them of another pint-sized Eagle who lost the Hobey but took home the national championship -Brian Gionta. Gionta, now playing in the National Hockey League for the New Jersey Devils, is listed as 5­foot-7 and led Boston College to the 2001 Frozen Four title. 
York said Gerbe and Gionta have a good relationship and talk regularly. 
"I thought after [Gerbe's] fresh­man year, we had another Brian Gionta, and he's progressed just that way," York said. "[Gerbe]'s 
"He's a heck ofa going to be a ter­rific player, hope­
player. He's dynamic 
fully for us next

and God bles the 
year."

small guy, because he Gerbe was drafted by the
plays fearless." 
Buffalo Sabres in the fifth round of 

Jeff Jackson 
the 2005 NHL irish coach on Nathan entry draft, but Gerbe 
said he hasn't 

out on the Hobey Baker award on Friday night, given annually to college hockey's best player. The Hobey went instead to Michigan's Kevin Porter, which was decided before Gerbe's five-goal Frozen Four performance. 
"If they had named the Hobey Baker after this weekend they may have changed their mind," Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson said. 
Either way, Gerbe was unaffect­ed, mugging for the cameras next to captain Mike Brennan and the NCAA championship trophy dur­ing the post-game press confer­ence. 
''I'd way rather hold this than the Hobey," Gerbe said, pointing to the trophy. 
Both Jackson and Boston College coach Jerry York said decided yet if he'll 
jump to the pro­fessional ranks after this season. 
"I haven't thought about it at all," he said. "I try not to think about the future." 
For now, Gerbe can celebrate the good times with a trip to the White House and a chance to throw the opening pitch at Fenway Park. 
"It's definitely tough to take," Lawson said of the loss. "But it's good to see a kid who works so hard succeed in a moment like this." 
Jackson echoed his defenseman in praising Gerbe. 
"He's a heck of a player," Jackson said. "He's dynamic and God bless the small guy, because he plays fearless." 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 

Notre Dame sweeps another weekend series 
By FRAN TOLAN A'sociatc Sports Ediror 

The Irish again showed their witch-like penchant for the broomstick with a sweep of Villanova this weekend. 
Notre Dame has now swept thrne of the four Big Hast foes it has far.ed while running its con­l'e r11 nee r11co nl to I0-2. The Irish won after trailing Villanova on both l'riday and Saturday before blowing the Wildcats out in the series' finale Sunday. 
"I thought our team played really, roally WPII this weekend," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "We did a little bit of everything, eoming from behind the first two games then playing really well again [Sunday] ... It was a good weekBnd for us." 
Notre Dame 2, Villanova 1 
The Irish scored a run in both the eighth and ninth innings and that was enough for ace David Phelps, who struck out eight batters and surrendered just five hits in 8 2/3 innings of work. 
"PhPlps had a lot more teeth on his fastball Ithan earlier in the season] and I think he just really dominated the game," Schrage said. 
Irish eloser Kyln Weiland got the save al'tm ht~ rnlieved Phelps and reeorded the last out in the ninth frame. 
The Notre Dame off'Bnse thrPatmwd several timns bnfore finally brnaking through in thB eighth to tie the game. With one out, Irish first baseman Evan Sharpley smoked a one-out dou­ble into right field. Sophomore Hyne Intlekofer entered as a pinch-runner for Sharpley and the switch paid oft" as Intlekofer raced around to score on Irish 
second  baseman  Jeremy  
Barnes' single.  _  
Phelps  held  the  Wildcats  

scoreless in their half of the eighth and the right-hander's squad finally gave him a lead in the ninth frame. Irish right field­er Billy Boockford drew a lead­oil" walk then moved into scoring position on a sacrifice bunt by third baseman Greg Sherry. Designated hitter David Mills eventually pushed an RBI single through the infield that proved to be the difference in the game. 
"[Mills[ came through with a big two-out single after Barnes did the same thing in the eighth," Schrage said. 
Villanova almost drew even in the ninth, chasing Phelps from the game with a single and walk. 
But after throwing a wild pitch to put the runners on second and third, Weiland struck out Villanova catcher Wesley Borden to end the contest. 
Notre Dame 8, Villanova 5 
The Irish offense was cold for the first six innings Saturday as the team fell behind 3-1, but Notre Dame put together a five­run rally in the seventh frame to take the lead for good. 
The Irish loaded the bases off Villanova starter Brian Streilein in the seventh before Barnes tied the game with a two-run single into center field. 

"Jeremy Barnes had a couple real clutch hits for us lthis weekend]." Schrage said. "His 
hit  to  knock  in  two  runs  
[Saturday] was huge."  
Irish  left  fielder  Boss  

Brezovsky then provided anoth­er big blow, crushing a home run well over the right-center field fence. Brezovsky's blast was the highlight of his 3-for-5 day and gave the Irish a 6-3 lead. 
Villanova climbed back into the game with two runs in the eighth "inning but Notre Dame shut the door on the comeback with a pair of runs of its own in the ninth. Boockford and Sherry each knocked in an insurance run for Weiland, who worked the bottom of the ninth to pick up his fifth save of the season. 
Irish senior southpaw Wade Korpi picked up the win, allow­ing three runs on seven hits 
over six innings of work. Korpi Maust got the win for Notre ran his record to 5-l with his Dame, throwing seven shutout fifth straight victory. innings despite tying a season 
Senior Tony Langford relieved high by walking four batters. Korpi and worked a scoreless "Maust probably didn't have inning before Weiland took care his best stuff but he made pitch­of the Wildcats in the final two es when he needed to and we frames. played good defense behind 
him," Schrage said. " ... I'm sure Notre Dame 13, Villanova 0 if you asked Maust, he probably 
Eight Notre Dame hitters would take back the four walks picked up at least two hits as but other than that he was the Irish capped off the week­superb." end by clobbering the Wildcats. Irish sophomore centerfielder 
"The great thing right now A.J. Pollock, the reigning Big 
ATIENTION FACULTY &STAFF 
EARN $500 PROFIT WITH NO INVESTMENT! 
CALL TODAY FOR DETAILS 234-5650 PREFERRED TICKETS 

You may not care about the answers to these questions ... 
.. . unless you're an Office 2003 user who tries to open an 
Office 2007 document and receives a file compatibility error. 
Then these differences in file extensions can drive you and 
your Windows computer nuts. 
Office 2007 file extensions end in the letter X; Office 2003 
files don't. You can open and save an Office 2003 file using 
Office 2007, but you can't open and save an Office 2007 file 
using Office 2003. 
Office 2003 users can get around this problem, though. 
Go to oit.nd.edu/office, select Office 2007 Windows, and click on the link to the Compatibility Pack. From there you can download the latest version of a patch that enables users of Office 2003 to open and save Office 2007 documents. 
Find out more information about Office 2007 for Windows 
on the Oil's website at oit.nd.edu/office/, as well as infor­
mation on the recently-released Microsoft Office 2008 for 
Macintosh. The new version of Office for Mac has similar file 
compatibility issues that Mac users will want to learn how 
to resolve. 
Please feel free to contact your departmental computer support representative or call the OIT Help Desk at 631-8111 if you have further questions. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Office of Information Technologies about our lineup is everybody's East player of the week, went 3­contributing, from the bottom of for-3 with three RBis and three our order up, all nine guys," runs scored to lead the offensive Schrage said. "To get 20 hits in charge for Notre Dame. a ballgame is a real team effort. It's great to see." Contact Fran Tolan at 

Sophomore right-hander Eric ftolan@nd.edu 
Monday, April 14, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
JJIJJMJ])J1JE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, 

Watch me. to form four ordinary words. 
.~\ Then keep
. practicing 
I CNOTH 
j 
~/ ~

rJ r I I 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
~-T 
I TAULD 
j 

-~­
I 1: , , ~

I rr I I 
11
m
tTOGIER 
WHEN THE BAl-l-ET STAR HEl-PED HER

IJ I I I I 
DANC.EMATE, SHE DID A--­
www.jumble.com 
SOYRAV ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I I I r J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

I 
Answer here: CIIIJ"CIIIJ' (Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: MUSIC CHAFF COHORT MAYHEM
Saturday's 

Answer: How one can get aches ­FROM CHASE 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kyle Howard, 30; Rick Schroder. 38; Garry Kasparov, 45; Saundra Santiago, 51 
Happy Birthday: You have love and romance heading your way. Let everyone do his or her own thing so you are free and clear to do the same. This year isn't about control but rather about f'mding your own way. You have so much to gain if you are open and receptive. Your numbers are 8, 19, 26, 30, 43, 46 
ARIES (Marcb 21-April 19): Socializing with friends or enjoying the children in your life will work well as long as you don't go overboard. A little love and ro­mance scheduled in for the evening hours will round out your day perfectly. 5 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep busy doing things that will improve your surroundings but don't let emotional issues cloud your vision or stand in the way of your accomplishments. Open your doors to friends and family and you will get helpful suggestions and hands-on assistance. 2 stars GEMINI (May 21-Jone 20): You should attend a seminar or surf the Internet for any information about a project you want to pursue or a job you think you'd enjoy. Getting involved with other people to make reforms or help a cause will put you in a key position regarding future prospects. 4 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): It may not be on~ of your regular work days but you mustn't let that slow you down when it comes to professional gains. Work on whatever will help you get ahead. Now is the perfect time to utilize your skills to gain ground. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Aog. 22): Your love life sbould bring you lots of opportunities and passionate encounters today if you are affectionate and forthright about your true feelings. Travel will lead to interesting options but may end up costing too much, so be careful. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Working within a personal partnership to try to build assets will tum out in your favor. Buying a place with someone you care deeply about or investing in something you can develop in partnership will lead to interesting times ahead. 3 stars LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Work alongside, not against, others. If you are diffi­cult or the people you have to deal with are, nothing will work out. Compromise and calm discussions will be your best bet. 4 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone will probably play devil's advocate, trying to make you understand what you are up against. Don't let this daunt you. Realize that the concern being shown is out of love and respect, not jealousy. 2 
stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): There is money to be made and people and places to see. Love and romance are in the stars, so be sure to include someone you love in your plans. Stick to what works and don't skip a beat. Take action. 5 
stars 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jao. 19): Take things nice and slow for a change and let everyone else show his or her position before divulging yours. An emotional let­down will surprise you but, if you have kept your thoughts to yourself, you will 
not need to do much damage control. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't sell yourself short by giving in to what ev­eryone else wants. Time is on your side an~ if you are mature •n your response~ 
you will come out on top. Let whoever you are dealing with wait until you are 
ready. 3 stars 

PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Focus on love, creativity and the younger people in your life. Take a time out for good behavior and do tbings that make you happy 
for a change. Let the world bend to you. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are entertaining, outgoing, sensitive and passionate about 
the things and the people you Jove. You are creative, an outstanding contributor 
and unafraid to venture into new territory. 
Eugenia's Web sires: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor con.fit:kntiol consultations 
-
-
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, April 14, 2008 
page 24 
~====~======~-~======~=================================================-~=-== 
2008 MEN'S DIVISION I HOCKEY NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP 

Irish drive to national title ended by Eagles, small but explosive winger 
5-foot-5 inch, 165-pound Gerbe unloads four points on ND, Irish offense sputters in final game 

By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
DENVEH -After sitting in the losing locker room of the national championship game two years in a row, Boston College left wing Nathan Gerbe l'inally hoisted the trophy Saturday night wlwn the Eagles beat Notre Dame 4-1 in the title game. 
The fourth-seeded Irish (27­I(J-4) worn unable to generate oiTenso in their first-ever appearance in the national championship and gave up two power-play goals in front of 1X,632 at the Pepsi Center. Aft1~r going down 3-0 in the sec­ond poriod, Notre Dame cut the lead to :{-2 live minutes into the third period, only to have the sncond goal disallowed after video review. 
The Irish. momentum lost, were unable to put anything nlse past Eaglns freshman goalie John Muse (20 saves). 

-
"I Boston CollegeI did such a great job of keeping us from our cyde game and possessing 
see EAGLES/page 22 

Gerbe's wheels power BC's offense 
By SAM WERNER Spons Wrircr 
DENVEH -Boston College for­ward Nathan (ierbe danced on the iee while Kool and the Gang's "Celebration" played over the 

-
WU VUE/The Obse!Ver Notre Dame left wing Ryan Thang takes a shot on Boston College goaltender John Muse that was saved In the first period of the Eagles' 4-1 victory Saturday to win the national championship. 
Dame, Gerbe scored a combined five goals -two of whieh were game-winners -and three assisL<>. 
His live goal<> are the most by one player in a Frozen Four since Boston University's Dave Silk net­ted the same number in 1977. The Tournament was the icing on a terrilic season during which Gerbe led the nation in points (68), goals (35) and points per game (1.58). · 
"It's just numbers to me," Gerbe said of his record-breaking stats. "The biggest thing is this trophy right next to us." 
Listed as a dimin~tive 5-foot-5, Gerbe doesn't physically intimi­date any opponenL<>, but anything he lacks in size he makes up for with a motor that doesn't stop. 
"Obviously I'm not big, so I'm not going to go plowing someone over," Gerbe said. "But I still fin­ish c~.ecks and bug people out there. 
Gerbe's grit was on full display Saturday night against the Irish. He scored two of Boston College's goab and set up the other two. 
"I don't know if them's a kid in the country that works harder than him, and he was finally rewarded tonight," Notre Dame defenseman Kyle Lawson said. "He stepped up in the big moments." 
The Irish had no answer for Gerbn. The Oxford, Mich., native never stopped skating and look­ing for open space to create oJlbnsn. I lis efliwt paid oil' on thn 
Hockey: Nevv nat'l povver 
DENVEH-One inch could 
have changed the game. 
If Kyle Lawson's stick had 
tapped the puck just slightly 
on its slow 
trip from 
his skate 
into the 
net, it all 
could have 
been dif­
ferent. 
If the 
replay offi­
cial inter­
preted the 
puck's 
deflection 
and the 
motion of 

Lawson's skate differently, the 
disallowed goal five minutes 
into the third period could 
have stood. 
If the goal stands, Notre 
Dame cuts Boston College's 
lead to 3-2 and the game's 
momentum swings toward the 
Irish. Who knows what would 
have happened from there? 
But all the what-if's in the 
world can't alter the. outcome 
of Saturday's 4-1 mitio.nal 
championship loss to the 
Eagles. The Irish aren't the 
2008 national champions and 
that will never change. 
What has changed is Notre Dame's standing among the college hoekey powers. The Irish are now one of them. 

Notre Dame's profile has rocketed from the doldrums to the marquee faster than the Hoadrunner-likc wheels of Boston College forward Nathan Gerbe, who torched the Irish for two goals and two assists on Saturday. 
During the 2004-05 season, Notre Dame limped to five wins; three years later they played in front of nearly 19,000 people in an NIIL arena for a national title. 

Two years ago, the Irish won 13 games under first-year coach Jeff Jackson but lost in the first round of the CCHA tournament to Alaska; the past two seasons the Irish earned byes past the first round. 
Last season, Notre Dame set a program record for wins, won its first league title and was the No. 1 team in the country for the second half of the season, but it lost in the second round of the NCAA Tournament to eventual­champion Michigan State. 
This year. well. the Irish upset top-ranked Michigan in overtime in the national semi­finals, after romping over New Hampshire and the Spartans in the regional. 
That caught the attention of tlw czars of the college game, if nothing else did. Among those recent believers was Boston College coach Jerry York, who has now won throe national championships with two tnams (Bowling Gnwn 


see INCHES/page 21 
speakers after the Eagles' 4-1 national championship victory over Notre Dame. 
Gerbe had good reason to dance at the Pepsi Center on Saturday night -he had almost single-handedly powered Boston College to iL<> third national cham­pionship. 

The junior tied the record for goals in an NCAA Tournament with seven and tallied 11 total points in the Eagles' four Tournament games. In Boston College's two Frozen Four games against North Dakota and Notre 

Boston College left wing Nathan Gerbe stuffs a shot in Irish goalie Jordan Pearce's pads on a 
breakaway. Gerbe scored two goals and assisted on two others against Notre Dame. see GERBE/page 21 
WU YUE!The Obse!Ver 








