
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 6 · TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER2. 2008 

Dillon Hall cancels annual pep rally 
Rector says he didn't prepare residents for the event, which won't be rescheduled in 2008 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Dillon Hall Rector Fr. Paul Doyle shocked residents Sunday when he announced the residence hall's pep rally, held every year before the first home football game of the sea­son, was cancelled. 
The pep rally, a series of skits mocking aspects of Notre Dame life, has been a Dillon Hall tra­dition since the late 1970s, lead pep rally scriptwriter Ryan O'Connor said. 
Fr. Doyle cited two reasons for his decision. 
"I failed to provide the neces­sary direction and support," he said. 
The rector also told his resi­dents the pep rally "was not coming together in a timely fashion." 
Though this year's event is not intended be rescheduled, Fr. Doyle expressed his intent to hold a pep rally in the future. 
"I hope we can have a pep rally next year that is the sort of pep rally the Dillon men and campus community have come to expect," he said. 
Before Fr. Doyle broke the news of the pep rally's cancel­lation to the dormitory as a whole Sunday night, he had a private meeting with current Dillon Hall President, Brendan 
see DILLON/page 4 


Construction continues across campus 
Projects are ongoing, with work to continue this winter; buildings expected to open on time 
University Architect Doug Marsh, these projects made considerable progress dur­ing the summer, and their construction will continue throughout the academic year. 
"The weather was nearly ideal for construction this summer," Marsh said. 
Marsh also said the University employed over 650 tradesmen everyday during the summer to ensure progress on the cam­pus construction projects. 
However, construction on 
see BUILDINGS/page 3 


By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
Three major construction projects started last year ­a new women's dormitory, an addition to the Law School building called the Eck Family Hall of Law and a new engineering building named Stinson-Remick Hall -are still underway on Notre Dame's West Quad, DeBartolo Quad and near the original site of the for­mer University Club. 
According to Associate Vice President and 
Saint Mary's rank falls innew report 
College drops from 91st to 104th, but overall score improves 



Daniels asstimes position as director 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's tied for 104th among the U.S. News and World Report's top liberal arts colleges for 2009. 
This is only the second year the College, which had previously been count­ed among the top liberal arts schools in the region, has been on the national rankings list. It held the number 91st spot la~t year. The College's Director of Media Relations Gwen O'Brien said the school securing a national rank­ing for a second consecu­
see RANKINGS/page 3 

TOP LIBERAL ARTS COLLEGES 2009 
B104 Albion College 
Albion,MI 


B1o4 Bennington College 
Bennington, VT 
.104 Hampshire College 
AmherJt,MA 
.104 Presbyterian College 
Clinton, SC 
.104 Saint Mary's College 
Notre Darru, IN 
1!1104 St. Michael's College 
Colche.•ter, VT 
.104 Washington and Jefferson College 
WtLJhington, PA 
«Ji} . . '~~ 

MARY JESSE/The Observer 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Indu.strial desig)l. gets top-:; rank 
Small program gains respect internationally 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Associate News Editor 
Tucked into a basement studio of the Riley Hall of Art and Design, Notre Dame industrial design majors labor for long hours, drawing sketches and building mod­els. Although only staffed by two faculty members, the industrial design program has become a powerhouse, and was recently ranked as one of the top five interna­tional programs by BusinessWeek magazine. 
"[Industrial DesignJ is a way that you can use the thinking or the methodology . of the artist and apply it to real world problems," Industrial Design professor Paul Down said. "In the last 11 or 12 years we've had stu­dents that started to win awards because we started to enter more competitions." 
The program gained cam­pus-wide recognition last year when former senior Mallory McMorrow placed first in the Mazda Design Competition, an online con­test, where contestants entered their vision of the 2018 MAZDA3. 
Industrial Design has won numerous other awards in the past several years, 
see DESIGN/page 4 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Patrick Daniels began his time at Saint Mary's as the College's new director of stu­dent involvement the same time as the freshmen arrived; mov­ing into his office in the Student Center as first-year students moved into their residence halls. 
Daniels, who came to Saint 
·Mary's from Towson University in Towson, Md., where he was the director of student activi­ties. He spent eight years at Western Michigan University where he served many different roles, including director of stu­dent activities and leadership 

programs. He will oversee 25 student 
workers and more than 60 stu­dent organizations as they plan events for the College. 
"I am the one who advises, rather than supervises," he said in an Aug. 29 statement. "I give students suggestions and rec­ommendations and point them in the right direction, but they make the decisions." 
Daniels decided to take the position with the College to be closer to members of his family, who live in Michigan. He also wanted to the opportunity to 
I work more directly with stu-1 I dents. 
"At my previous institutions 
see DIRECTOR/page 3 


CASEY CARNEY/The Observer Clockwise from left, juniors Javier Soegaard, Lee Marsh and Santiago Rosado and sophomore Brittani Russel enjoyed Monday's warm weather and ate their dinner on God Quad. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Eyes on Denver 
I love Denver. I've lived in the Denver area all my life. Denver has a mountain mystiqun, an alluro that comes from being a world-da.'i'i city so dose to unchangeable, natural gr<Uldeur. 
We're in the middle of' the eountry, not near any ocean or lake, and yet we've managed to blossom into a thriving culture hub with a top j)(~rforming a.rts complex and brand nnw Oj)(lra house, not to men­tion our overwhnlmingly successfW sport.<.; tllams (Broncos, Avalanche) who have each 
won  national  
championships in  Stephanie DePrez  
the last decade,  
and the Rockies, who won the National League  Assistant Scene Editor  
lastynar.  

We're a fiK~kin' city surrounded by fimr­teeners (read -really tall mountains). We've got cowboys, ski burns, and the IX'.ca­sional trust-fund hippie. 
But la.'it week we had something a little unheard of' on our wesoom plains: national politid<uJs l1x1king filr a g1xxi show. 
It W<L'i quill~ a trip to watch my home city roll out thn md Cafj)(~t for everyone from <>bama <Uld llilla.ry to Susan Saran don and Chri'iti<Ul Bale. 
Though m11.-.1 j)(lOple in Colorado have an opinion, politics hardly ever comes to blows, and all oftlltl sudden the Democratic Party was staking out their territory. 
I lillt a polar surge through Denver tlm likes of'which I'd never seen befilrn. Talking to fiiends back horne on both sides, some wnre having the time of' their life, volun­tnering for the convention and getting caught up in thn political wave. Others were getting sick of' the one-sided l:Xmver Post stl1rins <Uld the inability to start a mn­versation that didn't mntl~r on why Obama is tlm J.,1fnatllSt man ever in a million ynars to nvnr breathn, nvnr. 
I watl:hnd with a cmia.in smugness as the whole nation and even the world turned toward Dnnver. Shot<.; of' the Pnpsi Centlw, where tl1n Avs play and where I saw The Policn rmmion tlmr last summer, were tak­ing up 'IV screens nverywhnre. It wa'i cov­ered in "{:olnbraoo I>enver 08" bmmers <Uld used as tlw establishing shot behind count­Ins.<.; station identification bit'i from CNN to FOX News. 
National nnwspaj)(~rs were doing art.ides on Hoeky Mountain oysters (buflilio tllst.i­dns) and tlwir mountain-nsque appeal. Mnntion oi'INVESCO Finld no longer meant orange-and blun-bloodnd maniacs bring­ing out the big J.,'llns li1r gan1n day. 
Hnj)(Jrtl~rs <Uld those of the liberal Jl(lrsua­sion I11K1dnd tlm strnel'i, and one fiiend told me the 16th Strellt Mall (where I spent many a night this summer) was a.<; erowd­ed as tlw busiest street in London. 
Hngardlt~'i of tho j)(>lities, I think Dnnver did a J.,rrnatjob of hosting the party. 
The nation wa'i J.,riven a chance to see how friendly Denverites really are, and how welcoming our city is. 
Volunl11er orientation filr the convention cnntlm~d on making sure ll> be hospitable. ;u1d that didn't go wmotiend. Our city bent over backwards to ensum a good timn filr 1wery visitor who flew into DIA. 
P1mplP across America were !,riven tl1e ehanee t11 see our gr<Uld dty blown up on tlw big serenn, proving to them that we are a full, thriving eeonomie m1d cultural eenoor hnrn in the West. 
But morn than that, we showed them tlmt Dnnvnr i'i lull of some of the finest j)(X>­pln around. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact .<-;tephanie /Jel'rez at sdeprez@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In rhe Sep1. I cdirion ofThc Observer, rhe arride ridcd "ND studem starts waterski club" fearured a picrure from and of fifth-year senior Steven Feurz. Due ro cdirorial error, in rhe cudine and phoro cred­it, Feur/s lasr name was spdled incorrecrly. The Observer regrets this error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 2, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT CLASSES ARE YOU DREADING MOST SO FAR THIS YEAR? 




Cameron McConnell 
sophomore Keough 
"Philosophy of Morals because I am a completely immoral person. 

Atlanta 85 I 64 Boston 78 I 58 Chicago 90 I 69 Denver 84 I 57 Houston 96 I 76 Los Angeles 78 I 60 Minneapolis 91 I 70 New York 82 I 65 Philadelphia 86 I 65 Phoenix 96 I 78 Seattle 68 I 48 St. Louis 91 I 70 Tampa 88 I 70 Washington 86 I 62 


David Riehm Hannah Ha 
sophomore sophomore Stanford WelshFam. 
"I love all my "Organic classes. '' Chemistry. 
There's far too much carbon involved." 


OFFBEAT 

This ain't no jive, particle physics rap Is a hit 
EAST LANSING, Mich. ­Who says science doesn't turn people on? Kate McAlpine is a rising star on YouTube for her rap per­formance -about high­energy particle physics. 
Her performance has drawn a half-million views so far on YouTube. 
The 23-year-old Michigan State University graduate and science writer raps about the Large Hadron Collider, the groundbreaking particle accelerator that has been built in a 17 -mile circu­lar tunnel at the CEHN labo­ratory near Geneva, 
TODAY 

...I 
ct 
(.) 
0 






HIGH 90 HIGH 90
..J 

LOW 67 LOW 70 
Switzerland. 
McAlpine raps that when the collider goes into opera­tion on Sept. 10, "the things that it discovers will rock you in the head." 
Michigan couple tie the knot at funeral home 
ST. JOSEPH TOWNSHIP, Mich. -It generally has flowers, and a clergyman is often present, but this was a first for a local funeral home. 
Jason and Rachael Storm held their wedding at Starks and Menchinger Family Funeral Home, where he is a funeral director. 
Their reception, including 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
dinner and dancing, also was held at the funeral home. 
'This room is usually filled with sadness and contempla­tion, but today it is filled with joy and celebration," the Rev. Greg Prather said at the start of Saturday's ceremony. 
Jason Storm, 24, doesn't see much difference between getting married in a church or the funeral home. 
"I look at it as, if you go to a church and get married, how many caskets do you think have been rolled down that aisle?" he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Graysen Petersen-Fitts  Mercedes Llanas  
sophomore Dillon  junior Welsh Fam.  
"Beginning Spanish II. Mi espafiol is really bad. "  "Physiological Psychology because I know nothing about  


neurons. 

IN BRIEF 
Activities Night will be held tonight at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. The event, which showcases Notre Dame's under­graduate clubs, is sponsored by the Student Activities Ollice. 
The Handbell Choir will hold auditions from S:30 to 10 p.m. tonight in the Coleman-Morse Center. Hegistration is required; contact Karen Kirner at 574-631-9326. 
The colloquium: "Making Scientific Datasets Universally Acceptable" will take pla1:e tomorrow from 4 to 5 p.m. in the Nieuwland Hall of Science. 
The Student Activities Office will host "Hock the Quad" tomorrow at 9 p.m. on South Quad. featuring Wii Sports and Hock Band. Free food will be provided. 
A screening of Tom McCarthy's 2008 film "The Visitor" will take place at 9:30 
p.m. on Sept. 4 at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are available in the box oftice. 
The first pep rally of the sea­son is Sept. 5 from 6 to 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will have a "Kickoff Concert" at 8 p.m. Sept. 5 at the Leighton Concernt Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets arc $5 for gen­eral admission. The event is sponsored by the Department of Music. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY GAME DAY 

83 
78 
62 
56 
HIGH LOW 

Tuesday, September 2, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

History professors win fellowships 
Special to The Observer 
If recent history repeats itself. Notre Dame historians will enjoy looking to the future. 
Over the last three years, Notre Dame's Department of History has won more research fellowships from the American Council of Learned Societies (ACLS) than any other university in the country and, in fact, has accumulated 20 external fellowships over that time period, more than a dozen of which are from agen­cies used by the National Hesearch Council (NHC) to assess the strength of humani­ties departments. 
A federation of 70 national scholarly organizations, the ACLS is the preeminent repre­sentative of American scholar­ship in the humanities and related social sciences. 
Ahead of all other Top 25 research universities, Notre Dame's history department has earned six ACLS fellow­ships since 2005, compared with four for Brown University; three each for Harvard, Yale and Vanderbilt Universities; two each for Stanford, Princeton and Northwestern Universities; and one for Columbia University. 
"I think my colleagues have been so successful because they bring an unusual combi­nation of erudition, originality and ambition to their work," said Thomas Noble, professor and chair of history and a past recipient of National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) and Fulbright fellowships. 
This year's ACLS honorees are planning academic leaves to immerse themselves in their research. 
John Van Engen, Notre Dame's Andrew V. Tackes Professor of History, is work­ing on a major reinterpreta­tion of the intellectual and cul­tural life of 12th century Europe. He also is the recipi­ent of a 2008 NEH research fellowship. 
An associate professor of history, Alexander Martin is concluding a decade of research with a book titled "Enlightened Absolutism and Urban Modernity in Moscow, 1763-1881." 
"It deals with the efforts by the ruling elites of tsarist Russia to make Moscow a showcase for the type of authoritarian, Western-orient­ed modernization that they hoped to replicate throughout Russia," Martin explained. 
Gail Bederman, an associate professor of history who spe­cializes in gender and sexuali­ty in the U.S., is writing a two­volume history of the earliest public advocacy of contracep­tion in Britain and the U.S. 
where we are."

Rankings 
College President Carol Ann Mooney said in an Aug. 22 

continued from page 1 
statement, "The real proof of 

our success can be found in 'tive year indicates Saint our graduates." Mary's is on a course to meet "We know we compete on a a key goal in the College's national level. Saint Mary's Strategic Plan, which is to excellent faculty and our com­provide "Educational mitment to educate the whole Excellence person set us Equal to that of apart," she said.
"The College has­

the Best While Saint Mary's Colleges in the n't done anything U.S. News ranking Country." dropped slightly
differently in the 

"The College this year -to 104
past year."

hasn't done from 91 last year ­anything differ­O'Brien said this ently in the past Gwen O'Brien fact is not neces­year," she said. sarily worrisome to
Director of Media 

"We continue to College officials. follow the lead-"While our rank­ership of our president who ing number did slip this year, has been at the helm for four our overall score actually years now. She set a goal improved, increasing by a early in her presidency to point," she said. "We are very move into the national liberal proud of that fact." arts rankings and that's The Princeton Review also 


Director 
continued from page 1 
job duties and responsibili­
ties did not allow m u c h opportuni­ty to work directly with stu­dents," he said in an e-mail Monday. "Saint 

Daniels

Mary's provides me that and it is something I 
recognized Saint Mary's as a "Best Midwestern College for 2009," a category the College has ranked in since the Princeton Review began the "Best Regional College" cate­gorization six years ago. 
U.S. News and World Report, which relies heavily on evalu­ations from peer institutions, differs from the Princeton Review, which considers stu­dent input. Its rankings are based on standards for excel­lence and student opinion data, collected through a sur­vey on its Web site. 
The information was com­piled in the publication's "Best Colleges: Region by Region" section of the Web site dedicated to colleges that "stand out as academically excellent institutions of high­er learning." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO1@saintmarys.edu 
look forward to." 
Daniels has many goals laid out to improve the stu­dent involvement office that will change the way the office functions in relation to students. 
"[I want] to enhance the offerings of programs and services, develop new pro­grams and services where appropriate [and] to evalu­ate 'why we do what we do' as it relates to our programs and services for our stu­dents," he said. "[I want) to empower and challenge stu­dents as it relates to their leadership, personal devel­opment and life skills." 
He said he will build on the 


programs and services Karen Siron, the former director of student involve­ment who left for undis­closed reasons, put in place during her year-long tenure. 
Daniels also said everyone on campus has been very kind and welcoming as he transitions into a new post at a new school and he is looking forward to a good year. 
"This is definitely where I want to be and I appreciate the wonderful opportunity given to me to be here," he said. 
Contact Liiz Harter at eharteO1@saintmarys.edu 
tion, Marsh said that these 
projects each have their 

specific challenges when it continued from page I comes to their construc­
tion. these projects have not "The women's residence always been smooth-sail­hall involves load bearing 


Buildings 
ing, as Vice President of Business Operations Jim Lyphout explained. 
"Last win­ter's weather was chal­lenging for outdoor con­struction activities, and the Law School was impacted by these condi­tions. It will be complet­
"[The women's resi­dence hall's] design is unique, but its details and materi­als are similar to those used on Duncan Hall." 
Doug Marsh Associate Vice President and University Architect 

ed on time but additional resources have been required to meet the schedule," Lyphout said. 
According to Lyphout, construction on the Law School building, located on DeBartolo Quad, will cost $57.7 million and will con­tinue though December 200S. 
The new women's hall will cost the University $1 R.3 million and is set to be open in August 2009, Lyphout said. 
Stinson-Hemick Hall is the mostly expensive of the three projects, costing $69.3 million. Construction of the new engineering building broke ground last November and it is set to open in Jan. 2010. 
Since all three buildings will serve different func­tions upon their comple­
concrete structure which is also labor intensive, 
Marsh said. 
Lyphout also said that the construction sites will remain as they are until the projects are completed -meaning that the fenced-in areas on the campus West Quad will contin­ue to ham-
masonry walls which is very time consum­ing and labor intensive," Marsh said. "The Law School project has challenges with respect to its connection to an existing building while it is occupied." 
Additionally, Stinson­Remick Hall is a cast-in-place reinforced 

next fall. 
The unnamed women's hall will be 74,600 square feet, according to a University press release. 
Although the women's hall has been constructed using similar materials to those used on Duncan Hall. Marsh said that its design will not be idefltical to Duncan's. 
"Its design is unique, but its details and materials are similar to those used on Duncan Hall," he said. 
The Law School addition, which will be called the Eck Family Hall of Law, will open in January 2009, while the existing Law School building, Biolchini Hall will continue to be renovated for about anoth­er year, Marsh said. The addition will feature a cov­ered archway connecting the two buildings. 
"Last winter's weather was challenging for outdoor construction activities, and the Law School was impacted by these conditions." 
Jim Lyphout Vice President Business Operations 
per mobility around cam­learning center and a pus. semiconductor processing 
According to Marsh, the and device fabrication new women's hall, located clean room. near the Hammes Bookstore, will serve as a Contact Becky Hogan at residence for 248 women rhogan2@nd.edu 
Stinson­Remick Hall, which is being erected near the site of the University Club will include a nano-tech­nology research center, a new energy center, an undergrad­uate inter­disciplinary 

Tuesday, September 2, 2008 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Design 
continued from page 1 
inl'luding four v.-ry nst1wmnd lntnrnational l>nsign Exc1dlmH~P Awards III>I~Al. 
"Tiw IDEA awards are tlw most prnst.igious, and thn fact that wn'vn won so many com­pnting against intnrnational sdwols is vnry !~Xl'iting," pro­fnssor Ann-Marin Conrado said. "It is vnry difficult to gnt an industrial dnsign award bncausn gnnnrally it is a pro­fpssional comp!'tition. Our studnnts havn bPPn winning IDEA awards for some time now." 
Industrial Dnsign attracts a widn varinty of students. Snnior Kaitlyn BPnoit. a for­nwr engi nenr. said the field ~~ombirws a varinty of disci­plirws in ord1~r to create a solution to a problnm. 
"Industrial Dnsign is the mnnting point betwnnn Marketing, Enginnnring and Art. It pulls everything together to ernatn a simple solution," she said. 
Although many may consid­er the program's small size a handicap, Down said having to manage only 40 students is actually an advantage, espe­cially when preparing for competitions. 
"We don't run a gravel pit horn, we polish jewels. We must knep our numbers down in order to do wnll," he said. 
Down himsPif rncently lnd a team that developed the AdapTap. an apparatus that allows blind swimmers to swim faster and straighter. Tho team was awarded the prestigious Dr. Jacob Bolotin Award. 
Conrado, whose most famous creation is the xBox Livn headset, also brings extensive dnsign experience to the classroom. Determined to have students tackle prob­lPms in the field, she leads an eight-week service trip nach summer to Nepal. 
"One of the things our department champions is the concept of social design, which is using design and design-thinking to solve some of the problems of society. One of the projects we do annually is our Nepal Fair Trade Initiative," she said. "The goal of that is to use design to create attractive, desirable, contemporary handicrafts -things that people want; not because it's fair trade, but because it is an attractive product." 


Several projects have grown out of the trip, including one graduate student who designed a $3 washing machine based on the twist­ing action of a Chinese finger trap after watching Nepalese women labor for hours wash­ing clothes. 
The program continues to gain recognition, and projects from Notre Dame students will most likely be found at all the major design fairs this upcoming year. 
"I think that we're building momentum and that we're getting notice on campus and in the larger Industrial Design community," Conrado said. 

Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
and intelligent without getting laughs at other people's


Dillon 
expense." continued from page 1 Fr. Doyle had not read the script when he made the deci­'Md)uennny. sion to cancel, O'Connor said. 
"Fr. Doyle fnlt that he had not O'Connor said he believes given us enough guidance," that the wheels were partly set McQueenny in motion by prob­said. "lin lems with the pep said that he rally t-shirt. 
"/ hope that we can 
normally "Our t-shirt design has a mnnt­have a pep rally next was rejected by the 
ing with the year that is the sort of Student Activities 
II a I I Office," he said. 
pep rally that the Dillon
President at The setback with thn nnd of men and campus com­the t-shirts seemed thn Iprevi­munity have come to to show the rector 
ous! school that the event was
expect."
ynar to get not going to be thn ball ready in time, rolling, Fr. Paul Doyle O'Connor said. whieh didn't Rector The explanations happen." given by Fr. Doyle

Dillon Hall 
Thnre was did not satisfy many a lot of mis-students involved in eommunieation on both sides, the planning. lie gave no fur­Md)unenny said. thor details rngarding the deci­
Aftnr speaking to McQueeney, sion to The Observer. Fr. Doyle hnld a meeting in "lie didn't have a very strong order to toll hall stafT about the argument," contributing cancnllation. O'Connor, a resi­scriptwriter Evin llarpur said. dent assistant, said. "lie said we weren't prepared, 

Tho sudden dndsion sur­but any problems could have prism! hall staff and scriptwrit­been remedied if we were made JAY FITZPATRICK/The Observer ers, O'Connor said. aware of them. Irish coach Charlie Weis speaks to the crowd at the Dillon Pep Rally before the Penn State game 
The stuchmts in charge of put­"We would have definitely in September 2006. ting thn pop rally together had been ready by Thursday, but Fr. bonn working since thn spring Doyle is a good guy and would and throughout the summer, not have cancelled the show if the pep rally to the Thursday them. He said he wanted to pointing." O'Connor said. They wore there weren't a reason." before the second home game "apologize to the Dillon fresh­University students all across almost finished with the prepa­The sudden cancellation has versus Michigan, in order to men" in particular. campus echoed that disappoint­rations when they heard the led to much speculation among have more preparation time Dillon Hall resident sopho­ment at the news of the pep news. residents. and the writers offered to go more Sean rally's cancella­
"The script was already writ­"I think there is a deeper back over the script and "clean McCullough tion.
"We love traditions. It's 
ton," he said. "Tryouts were i s s u e . up" the show, said, that, O'Connor supposed to bn that night. llarpur said. McQueeney said. like every­part ofwhat makes received a call Evnrything was all snt." "I don't By the time sug­one else in Notre Dame Notre from Student Body Thn scriptwriters had also know if his "/ think there is a deep­gestions had been Dillon, he is president Bob
Dame and to have this
already established several hands are offered, however, very shocked Reish.
er issue. I don't know if
guests to speak and appear in tied." the decision was about the disappear is really dis­"I Heish) had skits, O'Connor said. O'Connor his hands are tied. " final, he said. pep rally's appointing." heard about it and "Wn had lined up Charlin said it O'Connor cancellation. seemed genuinely Wnis, Evan Sharpley and .Jack seems the described the resi­"I can't concerned," hn

Evin Harper 
Ryan O'Connor
Swarbriek, thn new athletic decision was dents' reactions to believe that said.

scriptwriter
dirnctor." hn said. made uni­The Observer. Dillon hall is lead scriptwriter Freshman 

Dillon Pep Rally 
Fr. Doyle personally called laterally, but "Some were letting such Dillon Pep Rally Gabrinlle Stoik is a ead1 of thn gunsts to tell them "some are angry and some a beloved resident of Lyons, about the cancnllation, wondering if were just disap­tradition not Dillon's sister dor­O'Connor said. the orders pointed," he said. occur this year," he said. mitory. During freshmen orien­
Thn nnws was frustrating to came down to him" from some­The pep rally is "the best rea­O'Connor also lamented the tation, leaders "made a big deal tho students who had been where else, O'Connor said. son to be in Dillon," O'Connor discontinuance of both a Notre about the pep rally." working hard on the script. After Fr. Doyle cancelled the said "We do this for !the stu­Dame and a Dillon Hall tradi­"I was really looking forward O'Connor said. pnp rally, the writers and other dents] and now we can't." tion. to it. I heard it is really excit­
"Usually Ithe pnp rally con­residents tried to come up with O'Connor said he regrets that "We love traditions," he said. ing," she said. sists on dumb, juvnnile humor," altnrnative ways to put on event the freshmen do not get to "It's part of what makes Notre lw said. "But this year our this season, McQueeney said. experience the pep rally that Dame Notre Dame and to have Contact Madeline Buckley at objnet was to makn it elever Some suggested postponing was especially designed for this disappear is really disap-mbuckley@nd.edu 








ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, Septermber 2, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
E.U. threatens to delay talks with Russia 
BRUSSELS, Belgium -European Union leaders warned Russia on Monday that talks on a wide-ranging political and economic agreement would be postponed unless Russian troops pull back from positions in Georgia. 
The threat to delay talks set for this month on the "partnership and cooperation agree­ment" with Russia came after Britain and eastern European nations held out for a tougher line. But Europe's dependence on Russian oil and natural gas deterred stronger sanctions. 
"I think we found an excellent compromise (by) not going back to business as usual, but still making clear that we want to maintain contact with Russia," said German Chancellor Angela Merkel. 
Iraqis assume leadership in Anbar 
BAGHDAD -American forces on Monday handed over security responsibility to the Iraqis in a province that the U.S. once feared was lost -a sign of the stunning reversal of fortunes since local Sunnis turned against al­Qaida in Iraq. 
But a Sunni Arab leader criticized the Shiite­led government of Prime Minister Nouri al­Maliki for failing to embrace its newfound allies, underlining the threat that sectarian tensions still pose to a lasting peace. 
Nevertheless, the transfer of Anbar province, the cradle of the Sunni insurgency and the birthplace of al-Qaida in Iraq, marked a dra­matic milestone in America's plan to eventual­ly hand over all 18 provinces to Iraqi control so U.S. troops can go home. 
The 25,000 American troops remaining in Anbar will focus on training Iraq's military and police forces and standing by to help if the Iraqis are unable to cope with any surge in violence. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Palin's 17-year old daughter pregnant 
ST. PAUL, Minn.-John McCain's running mate, Sarah Palin, said Monday her 17­year-old unmarried daughter is five months pregnant, an announcement stealing even more thunder from McCain and a Republican presidential convention already overshadowed by Hurricane Gustav. 
Adding to the day's drama, McCain aides said the announcement was aimed at rebut­ting Internet rumors that Palin's youngest son, born in April, was actualJy her daugh­ter's. 
The national convention, which a political party counts on to send its candidate surg­ing into the fall campaign, already had been relegated to a distant second to the hurri­cane on TV, in newspapers and on Internet Web sites. 

Union official resigns amid scandal 
LOS ANGELES -An executive vice presi­dent of the Service Employees International Union has stepped aside in the midst of financial probes, and her ex-boyfriend was told to repay tens of thousands of dollars in union funds, the Los Angeles Times report­ed Sunday. 
The SEJU acknowledged Saturday that its top California officer, Annelle Grajeda, has taken a leave of absence while it investi­gates allegations that she was improperly involved in making payments to her former boyfriend. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Chicago recruiting Indiana hotels 
VALPARAISO, Ind. -The organizers of Chicago's bid for the 2016 summer Olympics are turning to northern Indiana's hotels for help in the Windy City's campaign to land the games. 
Under International Olympic Committee rules, there must be 60,000 hotel rooms secured for the thousands of members of the "Olympic Family" -workers, spon­sors and media -who would turn out for the games eight years from now. 
Category 2 Gustav hits Louisiana 
Unlike Katrina, most New Orleans' levees hold, but some were overtopped 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS Hurricane Gustav slammed into the heart of Louisiana's fishing and oil industry with 110 mph winds Monday, delivering only a glancing blow to New Orleans that raised hopes the city would escape the kind of cata­strophic flooding brought by Katrina three years ago. 
That did not mean the state survived the storm without damage. A levee in the southeast part of the state was on the verge of collapse, and officials scram­bled to fortify it. Hoofs were torn from homes, trees top­pled and roads flooded. More than 1 million homes were without power. 
The nearly 2 million peo­ple who left .coastal Louisiana on a mandatory evacuation order watched TV coverage from shelters and hotel rooms hundreds of miles away, many of them wondering what kind of damage they would find when they were allowed to come. back home. 
Keith Cologne of Chauvin, La., looked dejected after talking by telephone to a friend who didn't evacuate. "They said it's bad, real bad. There are roofs lying all over. It's all gone," said Cologne, staying at a hotel in Orange Beach, Ala. 
But the biggest fear -that the Corps' hurricane protec­mately 10,000 people who were left to flee to the the levees surrounding the tion office. "We are cautious­chose to defy warnings and Mississippi River, where offi­saucer-shaped city of New ly optimistic and confident stay behind began to cials would evacuate them. Orleans would break and that we won't see cata­emerge. But knowing that "It's overtopping. There's a flood all over again-hadn't strophic wall failure." the levees surrounding the possibility it's going to be been realized. Wind-driven In the Upper Ninth Ward, city could still be pressured compromised," said Phil water sloshed over the top of about half the streets closest by rising waters, no one was Truxillo, a Plaquemines the Industrial Canal's flood­to the canal were flooded celebrating just yet. emergency official. wall, but city officials and with ankle-to knee-deep "I don't think we're out of The National Hurricane the Army Corps of Engineers water as the road dipped the woods. We still have to Center in Miami said Gustav said they expected the lev­and rose. Of more immedi­worry about the water," said hit around 9:30 a.m. near ees, still only partially ate concern to authorities Gerald Boulmay, 61, a St. Cocodrie (pronounced ko­rebuilt after Katrina, would were two small vessels that Louis Hotel worker and life­ko-DREE), a low-lying com­hold. broke loose from their long New Orleans resident. munity in Louisiana's Cajun 
Flood protections along moorings in the canal and One community in south­country 72 miles southwest the canal broke with disas­were resting against the east Louisiana was fearful of New Orleans, as a trous effect during Katrina, Florida Street wharf. their levee wouldn't hold. As Category 2 storm on a scale submerging St. Bernard By mid afternoon Monday, many as 300 homes in of 1 to 5. The storm weak­Parish and the Lower Ninth the rain had stopped in the Plaquemines Parish were ened to a Category 1 later in Ward. French Quarter, the highest threatened, and the parish the afternoon. Forecasters 
"We are seeing some over­point in the city. The wind president called a television feared the storm would topping waves," said Col. was breezy but not fierce, station to issue an urgent arrive as a devastating Jeff Bedey, commander of and some of the approxi-plea to any residents who Category 4. 

ELECTION 2008 

Gustav alters GOP convention plans 
hit the Gulf Coast, sparing New stepped the Iraq War, one of the key
Associated Press Orleans the type of damage inflicted issues in the campaign between ST. PAUL, Minn. -Republicans, by Hurricane Katrina almost exactly McCain and Democrat Barack Obama. determined to propel John McCain to three years ago. "The waging of war -and the the White House, opened their storm­President Bush skipped his planned achieving of peace -should never be shortened national convention on speech to go to disaster and relief micromanaged in a party platform .... Monday amid distractions involving centers, determined to avoid a repeat In dealing with present conflicts or running mate Sarah Palin. of the disaster mismanagement of future crises, our next president must Delegates had scarcely settled into Katrina. preserve all optio][ls," it said. their seats when it was disclosed a McCain was in Waterville, Ohio, Outside the Xcel center was a lawyer had been hired to represent where he helped pack supplies to be reminder of the passions the war the Alaska governor in an investiga­sent to the Gulf. stirs. tion of her firing of the state's public Both men's wives sparked cheers An estimated 8,000 to 10,000 anti­safety commissioner. The other disclo­when they appeared before the dele­war protesters marched toward the sure was personal, not political -the gates, shunning politics to urge contri­convention, some of them smashing pregnancy of her 17 -year-old unmar­butions to help storm victims. windows, puncturing tires and throw­ried daughter. Virtually the only political business ing bottles along the way. Police used The convention's opening session of the convention's 2-hour session was pepper spray on the demonstrators was abbreviated as Hurricane Gustav approval of a platform that side-and made at least five arrests. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 2, 2008 
Zoo spectators watch video of newborn panda 
Lun Lun' s cub, hairless and the size of a stick of butter, is the first born in the United States this year 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -The only panda born at a U.S. zoo so far this ynar was placed in an ineubator on Monday for closer monitoring by zook1wpers aftnr visitors flocked to wateh mother and ehild on a live video fned at Zoo Atlanta. 
Zoo officials said in a rnlnasn they wanted to more dosely watch the tiny, hairless cub -which is thn size of a stick of butter ­basnd on thn bnhavior or tlw cub and its rnotlwr. Lun Lun, in the zoo's birthing don. 
Zoo s po knswom an S i rn onn (;riffin wasn't able to pro­vide further information about thn situation but said the vidno fond has been sus­pended. 
The Panda eub, the gen­dnr or which hasn't yet benn dnterminnd, wa-s born 

Saturday, just a week before the second birthday of Mci Lan, the zoo's first panda cub. 
"You can go to every zoo and see elephants, but you can't go to every zoo and sen pandas," said Christy Moonan, whose two chil­dren, Mia, 3, and Collin, 5, brought small stuffed panda toys with them to watch the cub on television screens in the zoo's panda habitat. 
Three other U.S. zoos house pandas, which are endangered: San Diego, Memphis and Washington, D.C. 
Mei Lan and dad, Yang Yang, napped in separate rooms of the indoor part of the panda habitat on Monday. Zoo officials will keep Yang Yang apart from his new cub as they have with Mei Lan, because male pandas in the wild typically don't stay with their off­
spring. 
Zoo officials inseminated Lun Lun with Yang Yang's sperm in April. An ultra­sound on Thursday con­firmed zookeeper's suspi­cions that the procedure was a success. 
"A lot of people wonder whether this is less exciting for us because it's our sec­ond birth," Wilson said. "Every giant panda birth is important. We are just as excited about this birth as Mei Lan's." 
Mei Lan's birth was a landmark event for the zoo, drawing in thou­sands or visitors and gen­erating a huge number of hits on the online panda cam. Weekend attendance figures weren't yet avail­able Monday, but zoo offi­cials said they're expect­ing them to be higher than normal because of the new arrival. 

Spectators photograph Lun Lun, an endangered panda, and her newborn cub during a video exhibition Aug. 31 at Zoo Atlanta. 


NO's Google E-mail for All. Students Starts Wednesday, September 3 
The Switch Is On 
Beginning at 6:00a.m. on 
September 3. all Notre Dame 



Google
upperclassmen will begin using 
Notre Dame Gmail instead 
of Notre Dame's regular e-mail service. Note that First Year students 
are already signed up for and have been using ND Gmail as part of the 
admissions process. 
Here's what you need to do to make the switch to Gmail: 
Step 1 
Change your password as soon as possible before September 3 on the Notre Dame Change Password page at password.nd.edu. This will synchronize your ND password with Google's authentication framework. 
Step 2 
On or after September 3,-decide whether you want to bring your old mail over to Notre Dame Gmail, and then do so by following the instructions at oit.nd.edu/google. You will have until January 3, 2009 to move your legacy mailbox or abandon it for eventual removal. 
Step 3 (optional) 
If you previously configured your Notre Dame e-mail to forward messages to a third-party e-mail address-name@yahoo.com, for example-and you wish to continue to do so after September 3rd, you will need to reestablish mail forwarding within ND Gmail.lfyou previously forwarded and now wish to use ND Gmail, no action is needed. Instructions on how to perform this task can be found at oit.nd.edu/google. 
You'll find a variety of information, including Notre Dame Gmail how-tos, frequently asked questions, and other information at oit.nd.edu/google 
Beginning September 3, go to gmail.nd.edu and log in using your NetiD and password, and you've successfully made the switch. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Office of Information Technologies 
.· ·n¥r~J1;:;tilhli ·. 
:·+~%.fi.fft .::... 

Jenl"'.at 'jmetz@ 
..· u
.. ·.·.·····....·.·.·.·.·.·.···.··d··:.. ·
···.~''II.. ..... ·.·.·.·..·.···
.n 
.. d ··~ ·.· 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Tuesday, September 2, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 11,543.55 -171.63
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,167 113 1,958 3,288,323,820 
AMEX NASDAQ -44.12 NYSE -84.04 S&P 500 -17.85 NIKKEI (Tokyo) ti~laS~i!,;lfi~S~l~~~~~ FTSE 100 {London) 51636.60 +35.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -1.08  -1.40  128.79  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  +0.14  +0.03  21.42  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -2.10  -0.99  46.12  
FREDDIE MAC (FRE)  -14.58  -0.77  4.51  

Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.47 +0.018 3.813 13-WEEK BILL -0.59 -0.010 1.69 30-YEAR BOND +0.52 +0.023 4.412 5-YEAR NOTE +0.62 +0.019 3.089 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.13 115.46 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.20 835.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.75 92.95 
Exchange Rates YEN 108.4950 EURO 0.6816 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0630 BRITISH POUND 0.5528 





IN BRIEF 

Rising prices affect schoollnnch choices 
MILWAUKEE -Kids may be worried about homework. teachers and that pesky bully this school year. But parents? They're leery about lunches. 
With food prices rising and packages shrink­ing, parents are wondering how they'll stretch their food budgets. Children are going to get an unwitting lesson in economics, analysts say, as parents change their food-buying habits to keep costs down. 

Some kids will eat more hot lunches this year. Some will carry baggies full of snacks like home-packed chips and crackers rather than prepackaged ones. Maybe there will be more peanut butter, if it hasn't been banned in school because of allergies, instead of lunch meats, or cheaper items like Spam. 
This year's lunchroom will be less about con­venience and more about the bottom line, said Marcia Mogelonsky. senior research analyst with Mintel International in Chicago. Parents will be shopping for deals but still wanting all the basics -fruits, veggies, proteins and fun things like chips and cookies. It won't be easy, she said. 


Lewis MDA telethon sets new record 
LAS VEGAS -Jerry Lewis raised a record $65 million for the Muscular Dystrophy Associa...in his annual Labor Day telethon, a benef"it that also made a pitch for those inconvenienced by Hurricane Gustav. 

This year's 22-hour telethon added a special plea for MDA-registered families forced to leave their homes because of the hurricane, which made landfall Monday in Louisiana. The storm affected nearly 5,000 MDA families needing services in their new location, the organization said. 
Lnwis also urged viewers to contribute to the Salvation Army's emergency disaster services. 
The 2008 haul for the 43rd annual fundrais­ing blitz was $1.2 million more than last year's total. 
Lewis said he was prepared not to exceed the 2007 number because of the sluggish economy. 


Oil prices fall as refineries remain intact 
They drop more than $4 after Gustav hits coast weaker than originally projected 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON-The punch of Hurricane Gustav appeared to fall softly Monday on the vast energy complex along the U.S. Gulf Coast, allowing oil market traders to focus not on storm damage, but on their grow­ing anxiety over the state of the global economy. 
Even as 110 i:nph winds raked refmeries that line the coast and rushed over the deep-water rigs off the shores of Texas and Louisiana, the price for a barrel of oil plummeted by more than $4 a barrel to just above $111 because Gustav was weaker than expected. 
Still, the storm's impact on production platforms, drilling rigs and other equip­ment likely won't be fully known for another day or so. 
Assuming no damage, it typically takes two to four days to restart a refinery, depending on its size. It can take a day or two to get off­shore oil and natural-gas production going again. In 2005, hurricanes Katrina and Rita knocked out the region's offshore energy infrastructure for several weeks. 
Transocean Inc., the world's largest offshore drilling contractor, said Monday afternoon it appeared its three moored, 15 percent of the nation's prices and slower economic Markets in Asia tumbled semisubmersible rigs in the refining capacity based in growth. sharpl:y. The sell-off in Gulf remained anchored in the region. "U.S. demand has fallen Europe was less pro­position during the storm. Any serious damage to oil dramatically," said Linda nounced. 
"We still need to send at . platforms and rigs or pro­Rafield, an analyst at Platts, Light, sweet crude for least one spotter plane out to longed refining disruptions the energy information arm October delivery fell $4.34 to double-check," the company could cause a spike in ener­of McGraw-Hill Cos. "People $111.12 in late afternoon said. gy prices. Eqecat Inc., a risk look like they're making electronic trading on the 
Transocean said eight modeling firm, projected what I'd call a long-term New York Mercantile other rigs that used Monday that Gustav could adjustment in consumption Exchange. On Friday, the thrusters to move out of the knock out capacity for about patterns." contraet fell 13 cents to set­storm's path also were safe 5 percent of both oil and All that appeared to be tle at $115.46 a barrel. and would be moving back natural gas production for supporting oil prices over The U.S. Gulf Coast is to their drilling locations as the next year. the past week was Gustav. home to nearly half the soon as Monday evening. However, one factor likely With many betting the U.S. nation's refining capacity, 
In recent days, oil compa­to mitigate any impact from energy complex in the Gulf while offshore, the Gulf nies shut down virtually all the storm on prices is that survived largely intact, accounts for about 25 per­oil and natural gas produc­many analysts believe the attention returned almost cent of domestic oil produc­tion in the Gulf, and the country's appetite for fuel immediately to the state of tion and 15 percent of natu­storm's threat halted about has been reduced by high the global economy. ral gas output. 


Government recovers $9.3 }Jillion 
Associated Press between 1996 and 2005, whistle­manufacturers. Recoveries jumped blowers got more than $1 billion, say from about $10 million a case in 
WASHINGTON -Whistle-blowers analysts. writing for the Annals of 2002 to $50 million by 2005. helped authorities recover at least Internal Medicine. Drug makers are required to sell $9.3 billion from health care The analysts' findings are conser­products to state Medicaid programs providers accused of defrauding vative. at the "best pr.iee" offered in the pri­states and the federal government, Information was only available for vate marketplace. But the companies according to an analysis of Justice about three-quarters of the 379 cases may artificially inflate the price, Department records. reviewed. Second, some of the largest according to the report. 
The department ramped up efforts recoveries have taken place after the Another common scheme is to mar­in the 1990s to combat health care period reviewed. ket drugs for uses not approved by fraud by using private citizens with For example, the study doesn't the Food and Drug Administration. inside knowledge of wrongdoing. include the single largest settlement, The report's authors, Aaron S. They now initiate more than 90 per-worth $920 million, which came Kesselheim of Brigham and Women's 
' cent of the department's lawsuits against Tenet Healthcare Corp., one Hospital in Boston, and David M. focusing on health care fraud. of the nation's largest hospital Studdert of the University of Whistle-blowers start cases by fil­chains, in 2006. Melbourne in Australia, said data on ing a sealed complaint in federal Still, the study highlights some hundreds of whistle-blower lawsuits court. The department investigates important trends in health care should be researched to identify what the allegation and can intervene, fraud. type of allegations turn out to be assuming the lead role in the lawsuit. While the number of claims pur­legitimate and lead to recoveries so Whistle-blowers then get between 15 sued has dropped in recent years, that the department can fast-track percent and 25 percent of the recovery amounts have soared such cases. Reports indicate the amount recovered. because of a late addition to the cast department rejects about three-quar­Of the $9.3 billion recovered of defendants -pharmaceutical ters of the cases it gets. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, September 2, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

An anniversary worth remembering 
P.O. Box n9. Notre Dame, IN "46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIH 
Chris Hin~ 
MANAGING EntTOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
Ass·l~ MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EntTOR: n~irdre Krasula 
N~ws EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT ElliTOit: Kara King 
SroRTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MAttY'S EDITOR: l.iz I !:mer 
I'IIOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
Gtt.AI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAI;ER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(S74) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obst•rvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 6.~ 1-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-530.3 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphow@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 


OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the smdenrs of the Univt·rsity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colk-gt·. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of rhc administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chic!~ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediwrs and deparnncm editors. Commt·ntarics, lettt·rs and columns present the views of rhc authors and not necessarily rhosc ofThc ( )bscrver. 
Viewpoint space is availabk· w all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. I.t·ncrs to the Fdiwr must be signed and must include nmtacr int(mnarion. 
(jtmtimzs rrgarding Obsn-vl'r policies should be directed to l:aitor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
11u: Ull'M.·rw:r {t J."'l'~ ~'J'J 2-4C10ll) •• ruhlt.lu.:•l Momlny duuug!J hid•y CX4.."t:pt during n.un .u1tl VJ~Oiti<Ul ~~nud' A •ulv.liiJ'III>n w ·1 hr llhYf\'CI j, $1011 furt1nr .t~mi\· 
V(';\r; ~'l'1 litrollll'KIII"tc;r 
Ihe l lliKro,·c:r •• puhhJhctl .u P<>STMAS'I1m 1124 Souuh Dimng f l;dl Semi JdJrc~o,~ t:tmr<:!ions ro: Nnrrc: ll~mc.IN 1f·S~CJ.on9 ·nlc:Oh~ttrvtr l'cruuti\.tl p<llt~c: po~id al Notre DJnlC l~l) 1\ox n9 ,uul ~•ldmwlol.lnwlmf! utlicn lll·l Somh l)imng !i.JII 
Nucrr; D;unc:, IN •W;'.i6-0779 
Il•c iJhKrvct '' o1. member ol1hc A.:~eutc,ll'~. All u:pruduutun rtf,hu ate rt1K"rvt,l 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports .hmn Metz Dan Murphy John Tierney Laura Myers 
Graphics Scene 
Mary Jesse Analise Lipari 
Viewpoint Illustrators 
Kara King Mary Jesse 
Jackie Sheridan 

Notre Dame should, but probably won't, commemorate this anniversary. Forty years ago, July 25, 1968, Pope Paul VI. in Humanae Vitae (HV), reaf­firmed the traditional Christian position on contraception. Until 1930, no Christian denomi­nation had ever said that contra­ception could ever be objectively right Luther, Calvin, and Wesley rejected it. 
The 1930 Anglican Lambeth Conference gave cautious approval to contraception. Pope Pius XI replied that "any use ... of matrimony ... in such a way that the act is deliberately frustrated in its natural power to generate life is an ofl'ense against the law of God and of nature ... and a grave sin." 
When the Pill came on the market in the 1960s, the Catholie Chureh eame under pressure to abandon its solitary stand against it HV's disapproval of the Pill brought a storm of dissent and ridicule on Paul VI, e.g., "he no play-a the game, he no make-a the rules." Four decades later, nobody in his right mind is laughing. 
Experienee has validated the predie­tion of the Washington Post on March 22, 1931, that the approval of contra­ception "would sound the death knell of marriage as a holy institution by estab­lishing degrading praetiees whieh would encourage indiscriminate immorality." 
Contraception deliberately separates sex from proereation by acting to make proereation impossible; it makes man, of both sexes, the arbiter of whether and when life will begin; and it prevents the total mutual self-donation that ought to characterize the conjugal act. It also aecepts the idea that there is sueh a thing as a life not worth living, i.e., the life that might have resulted had not contraception prevented it. If', through contraception, man makes himself (or 

Charles Rice 
Right or Wrong? 

SUSAN G. SAMPLES 

How many wins will Notre Dame football have this season? 
10+ 
8-9 6-7 5 or ((Jwer 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
herself') the arbiter of whether and when life shall begin, he will predictably make himself' the arbiter of when it shall end, as in abortion and euthanasia. John Paul II described abortion and contraception as "fruits of the same tree." 
In HV, Paul VI foretold three evils that would result from the acceptance of "artificial methods of birth control": 
L"[C)onjugal infidelity and the g1meral lowering of morality." 
One reason why sex should be reserved for marriage is that sex has something to do with babies. But if it is entirely up to man (of both sexes) whether sex will have any relation to procreation, why should it be reserved for marriage, why should marriage b(~ permanent and why should marriage be heterosexual? 
As Methodist Pastor Donald Sensing wrote in 2004, the legalization of "homosexual marriage" became inevitable when the Pill severed "[tlhe causal relationships between sex, preg­nancy and marriage." A eontraceptive culture willlegitimizfl not only homosflx­ual activity, but also promiscuity, pornography, divorce, in vitro fertiliza­tion, cloning, etc. President R. Albert Mohler, Jr., of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary said in 2005, "The ... separation of sex from proereation may be one of the most important defin­ing marks of' our age-and one of the most ominous ... [T)he pill gave incredi­ble license to everything from adultery and affairs to premarital sex." From 1960 to 2000, the percentage of chil­dren born out of wedlock in the United States rose from 5 percent to 33 per­cent. Over half of all first marriages are now preceded by cohabitation. The 2008 Gallup Values and Belief's poll showed that 61 percent of' Americans approve of sex between an unmarried man and woman. And so on. 
2. Woman as an object, so that the man considers the woman "as a mere instrument of' selfish enjoyment, and no longer as his respected and beloved companion." 
The objectification of women is evi­dent in the prevalence of' pornography, espeeially on the Internet. Wonwn are the big losflrs in the contraceptive cul­ture. Francis Fukuyama, in "The Great Disruption," said the pill and abortion liberated men from responsibility and put the burden on women, allowing "many ... ordinary men ... to live fanta­sy lives of hedonism and serial polygamy formerly reserved only for a tiny group of men at tho very top of society." 
3. "IAI dangerous weapon would thus be placed in tho hands of' ... public authorities." 
Since 1970 the l'ednral government has promotnd population control through contraception, with a focus on minorities and third world countries. Planned Parenthood and other publidy funded entities promotn all forms of' birth eontrol among minorities to the extent that 37 percent of' all abortions are on black women although blacks, at 36 million, are only 1 ;{ percent of the U.S. population. Since 1973, 10 to 13 million black babies have been aborted. 
"Contraception," said John Paul II, is "so profoundly unlawful as n!WPr to bn, lin· any reason, justified." That conclu­sion is not disturb(~d by thn legitimacy of natural birth regulation. As IIV put it, "If ... there are serious motives to spaee out births ... it is ... lieit to take into account the natural rhythms ... for the use of marriage in the infeeund periods only, and in this way to regulate birth without ofl'ending the moral principles." 
HV was a dflfining event because Paul VI refused to follow an insane world over the cliff into an abyss of' nihilism. He stood for the Truth of love and life. Conjugal love, he said, "is total ... a very special form of personal friendship, in which husband and wife generously share everything, without undue reser­vations or selfish calculations." 
Members of the Notre Dame commu­nity could best commemorate HV by a prayerful consideration of its Truth. 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. lie can be reached at rice.l@nd.edu or at (574) 633-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
"Classes are really getting ~'} the 
way ofmy senwr year. 
Katie Kohler Observer assistant managing editor 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 2, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Construction 
necessary evil 
In response Rusty Marsh's "Campus construction ugly and inconvenient" (Sept. 1), I can agree that construction is indeed an inconvenient item to deal with on a daily basis. That is about as far as I can go. 
I urge Mr. Marsh, and those who are like-minded to consider several things. Construction takes time and equipment. Buildings do not spring up out of the ground by themselves in a matter of days. If you were unaware of this, welcome to the real world. Every single building that is utilized on campus (yes, even the mag­nificent Dome and the Basilica) has had to undergo this process to become what they are today. A beautiful campus is not instantaneous, even at a Catholic University. 
After time, when buildings are complete, Mr. Marsh's "beautiful university" will return, rest assured. I might add also that the work being done on the Basilica now is to ensure that its beauty and grace remains. 
I can completely understand if I fail to persuade you to give the complaining­about-construction-on-a-daily-basis up, but it is very un-Christian and exceedingly crass, especially on Labor Day, to make the remark of "questionable contractors." Having worked many of my summers as a contractor myself, I apologize that the appearance and sometimes moral standards of your typical contractor cannot match up with your own values and character. If you would like to see work of this nature performed by people that aren't questionable, by all means go ahead and give it a try yourself. It is my personal guarantee that you will enjoy it immensely, and would love to make a career out of it. If not, try to remember that all work has dignity and all workers deserve our respect. 
As to "unnecessary trees," having grown up in the desert I cannot recall ever having seen one. Perhaps you would prefer a landscaping based on sand? Jokes aside, greenery is something that should always be appreciated, and most espe­cially given the direction this University is trying to take with regards to the envi­ronment. 
So for everyone that is frustrated with the construction process here on campus, please take the time to understand that it is something necessary for this University to do in order to forge on and provide a wonderful and beneficial expe­rience to future students, something that has been afforded to us by past genera­tions. 
Kurt Nowak sophomore Duncan Hall Sept. 1 


Understand your legal rights 
On the evening of Friday, Aug. 29, an officer from the South Bend Police Department shut down my party. Any bystander could have predicted that it was only a matter of time before the party was broken up, as there were dozens of students on the front and back lawns enjoying beverages and each other's com­pany. 
The fact that the police came and broke up the party was not surprising, but the nature of the officer's visit was. Unfortunately, he felt the need to lie to me and my roommates, deny us our con­stitutional rights and threaten to "lock (us) up" if we questioned anything he said. 
First, he told us that the ordinance that was 'passed' last year mandated that we buy a permit from the city before we can have a group of our friends over. Anyone who went to Notre Dame last year knows that this isn't true, and that the ordinance did not become law; the City Council dropped the measure before holding a vote. 
Second, the officer told us that the students drinking on our front lawn and porch were guilty of public intoxication because he could see us from the public sidewalk. Based on this premise,· one could conclude that a student drinking inside his house is guilty of public intoxication if an officer can see him through a window from the sidewalk. When I questioned the legal qualifica­tions of the officer's statement, he threatened to lock me up and make sure my roommates and I were evicted. This made me feel powerless. 
I was also baffled that in the 21st century, in the United States of America, an officer of the law feels that he can target students, make up laws and flagrantly oppress our constitutional rights. 
The moral of the story is this: as long as students don't know what the laws concerning drinking and partying are, the police will take advantage of our ignorance and overstep their bound­aries. Take some time to figure out what your rights are so that you can use the law to help you. Hopefully, a student body better versed in local laws will lead to a more respectful police force. 
In addition, the less time the police spend giving us tickets, the more time they have to combat the alarming number of robberies that off-campus students have been victim to this year. 
Charles Cummings senwr offcampus Aug. 31 

Save the DillcJn Pep Rally 
I have wanted to contribute to The Observer but something always came up to keep me from writing. Nonetheless, I cannot ignore the recent travesty that has occurred. 
Many of you are probably unaware that the Dillon Hall Pep Rally has been cancelled. Some of you will be affected by this; some of you probably could not be more apathetic. Yet, as a proud Dillonite, I believe our signature event is one of the greatest traditions of Notre Dame and should not go down without a fight. 
In my first year as a timid freshman, the pep rally was my introduction to the cool character that is Dillon Hall. After the extremely awkward times of Domerfest and the myriad of other Frosh-0 activities, I was as apprehensive about my hall and even my college choice as an 18-year-old ean be. That all changed after being a part of the Dillon Hall Pep Rally. Whether it was unex­pectedly catching our distinguished hall rector as he performed a flying leap from the stage or laughing along with my fellow hall mates, Jlt was the pep rally that galvanized my newfound friendships and reinforced my identity as a proud member of the Dillon Hall family. 
Equally important was the event itself which revealed the true characteristics of a Dillonite. With performances marked by a decided swagger, a sharp tongue, and the perfect dose of self deprecation, I knew that I had found my new home. Likewise, returning my sophomore year, I was anxious to see what the gifted comics of my hall had in store for us, and in spite of their short time to prepare, the group delivered and welcomed a new group of freshmen to the Dillon Hall family. 
The Dillon Hall Pep Rally is not about jokes or punch lines; it is about fostering camaraderie and celebrating one of the best traditions of Notre Dame. Though my 11th hour defense may come at a time too late to save the event, I implore the Notre Dame community to rally behind the continuance of our pep rally. If you have ever laughed at our event, found it to be even mildly entertaining or just believe in the sanctity of one of the great traditions of Notre Dame, please do something to fix this error and show that the Dillon Hall Pep Rally means far more than a couple of off-color jokes. 
I know what the event means to me; Notre Dame community, please show it means something to you. 
John Martell junior Dillon Hall Aug. 31 


Stop wasting water 
Although it may evoke carefree summer days for some, the feeling of squishing around in soggy shoes is apparently a Notre Dame tradition for any season the sprinklers are turned on. 
Notre Dame has a beautiful campus, partly made so by its expanses of green grass. But my feet don't get wet because I like to frolic through the fields while the sprinklers are going. No, I get to squish along to class because for some reason, the sprinklers on campus are set to water the sidewalks ­every sidewalk I have observed on campus. 
I am not the only one to notice. Far from it. There are over 400 members in the Facebook group, "Why are we watering con­crete?" The group page links to an Observer article from 1999 describing this very phe­nomenon. The tradition, then, is quite possi­bly almost a decade old, and is not one of the many Notre Dame traditions of which I am proud. 
It ashames me and particularly appalls me in light of the University's stated 2008 com­mitment to sustainability on all fronts, including sustainable energy (this year's Forum topic). The dire lack of access to clean water is not a problem we can wave away as another of developing countries' many woes. 
Metropolitan Atlanta has been facing a dire water shortage, and as a California native, I can't remember a year when we haven't been urged to conserve water in whatever ways possible. I urge Notre Dame now to embody its commitment to sustainability and respon­sible use of natural resources by addressing immediately our concrete--happy sprinklers. 
If you agree, please take a minute to e-mail the University's Facilities Operations at ndfa­cop@nd.edu 
Thanks very much, 
Jessica Kim graduate student Fischer Graduate Residences Sepr. 1 



THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page I 0 
Tuesday, September 2, 2008 

MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

EXPERIENCE LOCAL ART, MUSIC AND FOOD AT ART BEAT 2008 
UMPHREY'S McGEE TO PERFORM FRIDAY 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Assistant Scene Ediror 
Caught in the whirlwind that is Notre Dame, students don't often venture out into tlw South Bend I Mishawaka area that surrounds them. But there is a lot to see, and at the beginning of each school year the eity of South Bend otTers a glimpse of what is there with their annual downtown festival, Art Beat. 
First held in 2003, this signature South Bend event showcases much of 

the talent the city has to offer in the visual, performing and culinary arts. Over 250 local artists and performers -the City of South Bend Web site mentions that there was a record num­ber of registrants this year -will set up along downtown sidewalks and show ofT their skills. 
The event will focus around five "scenes" set up in the area that will have continuous performances of dance, theater, music, and poetry. For more information, check out the map below. 
More permanent features of the area 
will get in on the action as well. Anyone passing by the South Bend Hegional Museum of Art is welcomed into their Perform/Install 2 exhibit, which turns their Warner Gallery into a visual and performing ·arts venue and features the work of John Benevenuto, Deb Whistler, and Brian Holderman. The College Football Hall of Fame is hosting a film screening of work from the Indiana University South Bend Independent Video and Filmmakers Festival and the Mid Ameriea Filmmakers. 
Other venues, such as the Morris 
Performing Arts Center and local gal­leries, will have special presentations as well. Also, all of the loeal restau­rants will be open f'or visitors to come in and grab dinner. 
The event is free and will be held from 4-8:30 p.m. on Thursday. Art Beat 2008 will spread out around Michigan Street and Colfax Avenue in downtown South Bend. There is free parking in Howard Park and paid parking throughout the area. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 

cussion, Kris Myers on drums and By ANALISE LIPARI vocals, and Hyan Stasik on bass guitar. Scene Ediwr Bayliss, Stasik and Cummins are all 
alums of Notre Dame, and Cinninger's 
The Notre Danw community will play wife currently works for the University. host to a band of its native sons on Somewhat comparable to Phish and Friday night whnn Umphrny's Md;ee other jam bands, the group's quirky returns to South Bend for a eoneert at sense of musicality has helped them Saint Patrick's Country Park. This is build a solid fan base. Their self-made tho third year in a row that the band, first album, "Greatest Hits, Vol. III," 
whose members have  featured  fake  
longtinw conn1~etions  Billboard ratings for  
to tho University, will play a concert the night before the first horne football game.  To date. Umphrey's McGee has released eight albums. including 2004's "Anchor  every track recorded. To date, Umphrey's McGee has released eight albums, includ­ 
Umphrey's MeGee, while based in Wriglnyville, Chicago, sincn 2000, found its  Drops" and 2006's "Live at the Murat." which was rated 4 out of5 stars by  ing 2004's "Anchor Drops" and 2006's "Live at The Murat," which was rated 4 out  
roots in the members' collnge days. With  Rolling Stone.  of 5 stars by Holling Stone.  
four  Notre  Dame  The band has also  

alumni and a fifth band member from released two live DVDs, 2002's "Live Indiana University in South Bend from the Lake Coast" and 2005's (IUSB) among its founding members, "Wrapped Around Chieago: New Year's Umphrey's McGee has successfully kept at the Riv." up its Notre Dame connection while The group's repeated presence at the tnnding to its growing success across popular Bonnaroo Music and Arts the United States. Festival held each summer in 
Their eurn~nt linnup includes Jake Manehester, Tennessee, as well as Cinninger and Brendan Bayliss on gui­other festivals and tours, only tar and vocals. Joel Cummins on key­inereased the growing popularity of board and vocals, Andy Farag on per-this pseudo-jam band ensemble. 
The men of Umphrey's McGee are having their third annual weekend concert this Friday at Saint Patrick's Park In South Bend. 
Fans looking to capitalize on the Umphrey's experienee can check out their Web site, www.umphreys.com. In addition to the usual "merch," the site features original podcasts by the band and different set lists from recent con­certs, including their August 31st show at Hed Hocks in Colorado. 
Tickets are being sold at the Morris Performing Arts Center box office in South Bend, as well as via Ticketmaster.com, for $25, and day-of tiekets will be sold for $30. The show 
begins at 7 p.m., and the gates will open at 6 p.m. 
Saint Patrick's Park is an outdoor amphitheater within 5 miles of Notre Dame, located on the banks of the St. Joseph River. For morf1 information, call the Morris Performing Arts Center at (574) 235-9190. 
On Thursday, Scene will feature an interview with several of the members of Umphrey's McGee. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
---------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Tuesday, September 2, 2008 
page 11 

With "Stay Positive," the Hold Steady has exceeded fan and critical expecta­tions. The first single off the album is "Sequestered in Memphis." 
My Morning Jacket breaks new musical ground with "Evil Urges." The band's influences include Curtis Mayfield, Sly Stone, George Clinton and Prince. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 2, 2008 
MLB 

Yankees outslug Tigers in battle of underachievers 
Alex Rodriguez has 4 RBis as major league baseball's highest paid teams compete without playoff implications 
Migm~l Cabrera and Brandon
Associated Press 
lnge. 

DETIWIT -What could Dorek .Jeter drove in one of 
havn bonn a Sl!ptnmber show­two runs in the sixth, padding 
down bntwnnn tho teams with thn lead to 13-9. 
tho two biggest payrolls in "The bottom line is that we 
hasoball instoad had very littl1! w~n the game," Now York 
impact on tho pennant races. manager .Joe Girardi said. 
Thanks to a guy known as .Justin Verlander (10-15) "Pudgn," it was not devoid of lasted a earner-low 1 2-3 omolion. innings and gave up eight /\lox Hodriguez sparked a runs-live earned-and seven 
scoring barragn with a two­hits with two walks. 
run single in the first inning ''I'll make this easy for you," and added an HBI in each of Tigers manager .Jim Leyland the next two frames to help said in a 9-second address to thn NP.w York Yankees build a reporters. "We basically threw hugo cushion they needed in a a lot of balls when we 13-9 win over the Detroit should've thrown strikes and Tigers on Monday. we threw some strikes when 
Perhaps the only intriguing we should've thrown balls. moment in the listless game "And, that's the end of the that lasted nearly 4 hours conversation. I'll see you happened in the second inning later." when Ivan Hodriguez came to Verlander agreed with the plate. Leyland's assessment. 
liB was greP.ted with a "The bad pitches I threw got standing ovation in his first hit and the good ones got hit game against thP. Tigers since as well," said Verlander, who 
they tradnd him. Hodriguez was booed as he walked to the 
acknowledged the fans by tak­dugout when Leyland replaced 
ing ofT his helmet and waving him. "It's one of those days 
to thn sold-out crowd. you've got to get behind you." 
"That was spoeial," he said. Verlander has had a lot of "I apprnciatnd that very, very, starts he would like to forget very much. It was great. It this season after being the means that in the four years I only pitcher to throw a no-hit­was here, I did a good job and ter, start a World Series game, the fans appreciated that." and be Hookie of the Year and 
The Yankees and Tigers an All-Star in his first two full playf1d a makeup game after a seasons. baseball, but it goes the same and the will we have with this Johnson. rnatchup in May was rained He won 35 games the previ­way for both teams," Delgado ballclub." Batting leadoff, Drew singled out. The teams with the high­ous two years and trailed only said. "It was pretty tough, but It was Delgado's 462nd in the first, tripled in the third est payrolls in baseball com­Dwight Gooden's 41 victories whatever.. We got it done." career homer, tying him with and homered in the fifth bined for a performance that among pitchers in their first The Mets had little success Jose Canseco for 31st place on against St. Louis Cardinals seemed as significant and stir­two full seasons since 1970. against Ben Sheets, but the the all-time list. starter Joel Pineiro. He hit a ring as a Grapefruit League Brian Bruney (2-0) was Brewers' right-hander left the "Obviously, it's flattering," ground-rule double in the sev­exhibition. New York's open­credited with the win for game after five scoreless Delgado said. ''I'm going to enth against reliever Kyleing-day payroll, counting play­pitching 1 2-3 scoreless innings as a precautionary play a couple more years, so McClellan (2-7) as the Chase ers on the disabled list, was innings in the middle of the measure with tightness in his I'm not so concerned with the Field crowd rose for a stand­$209.1 million and Detroit's game. Sidney Ponson started left groin. New York then bat­guys on that list." ing ovation. was $138.7 million. and gave up seven runs -six tered six Milwaukee relievers The Mets first baseman has Drew added another double 
Both underachieving teams earned-and nine hits over for four runs on seven hits and 20 homers.-and 60 HBI since in the eighth for his fifth hit, 
began the final month with three innings. four walks in the final four June 27, the most of any NL matching a career high and double-digit deficits in their "I didn't do what I was sup­innings. player in that time. becoming the 12th divisions. The Yankees began posed to do," Ponson said. "He's one of our top pitch­"Carlos has been amazing," Diamondbacks player to have the day seven games behind In his major league debut, ers," Milwaukee manager Ned New York manager .Jerry five hits in a game.the Heel Sox in the AL wild Phil Coke struck out two, Yost said of Sheets. "Do you Manuel said. "If he's swinging Drew also became the third eard race. inducting Cabrera with one on wanna take a chance of losing it well, he seems to come up at Diamondback to hit for the 
"You can't take anything for to get out of the seventh him? I don't. I take no chances the right time and put a good cycle in the franchise's 11­granted," Ivan Hodriguez said. inning to maintain New York's with starting pitchers this time swing on it. He's been out­year history. Luis Gonzalez did 
Hodriguez signed with the four-run lead. of year. Very, very slight, start­standing." it on July 5, 2000, at Houston Tigers after they lost an 1\L­ed to get some tightness and and Greg Colbrunn did it on record 119 games in 2004, Mets 4, Brewers 2 I'm not taking a chance of him Diamondbacks 8, Cardinals 6 Sept. 18, 2002, at San Diego.then helped them reach the MILWAUKEE -The shadows pulling it." PHOENIX -Stephen Drew Chad Qualls (3-8) pitched the World Snries in 2006. in late afternoon at Miller It was the fourth win in five became the first player to hit seventh to earn the win. 
lie will be a 37 -year-old free Park can be brutal to hitters, games for the Mets, and all for the cycle in Chase Field, Brandon Lyon pitched the agent this offseason. but Carlos Delgado made good four victories have been come­and newly acquired David ninth for his 26th save in 31 
"Physically, I know he can contact anyway. backs. Eckstein singled home the chances. still play every day," Girardi Delgado's two-run homer off "Good teams do this," winning run to help the Down 5-1 in the third, the said. "llow many more years Eric Gagne in the eighth Delgado said. "It's important. Arizona Diamondbacks rally Diamondbacks chipped awayhe can do it? I don't know." inning propelled the New York It shows that you can do it. past the St. Louis Cardinals on at Pineiro, who allowed four 
/\lex Hodriguez's four HBis Mets to a victory over the Ideally, you want to be ahead Monday. runs and six hits in five helped the Yankees take an Milwaukee Brewers on but if you're not you'v(l got to Adam Dunn, Chris Young innings.11-2 lead, but they were Monday. put together some good at and Mark Reynolds also home­Arizona tied it at 6-6 in the 
ahead by just two runs follow­"Probably the worst shadows bats, get some base runners red for the slumping sixth, when Heynolds hit a ing five innings after giving up that I've been involved with and come up with a big hit. It Diamondbacks, who overcame two-run shot on the first pitch homers to Gary Sheffield, since I've been in professional says a lot about the character a poor start by Handy from McClellan. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. A1 dassifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Rooms 4 blocks from campus. $400 VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND If you or someone you care about per month including utilities. football tickets. has been sexually assaulted. visit WANTED FoR RENT PERSONAL http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 6 bedroom home also available. www.victorytickets.com. I 
Call574·532-1408. TUTOR for Prob & Slats. Fee nego· 1·bdrm apt. All utilities except elec· 574-232-0964. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Paid internship available immedi­tiable. Call574·276·8299. tric. Close to ND. $550/mo. Call Joe Football Weekend B&B safe not go it alone. We have many ately. 
57 4-514·0900. A BUSINESSMAN NEEDS FOOT-resources in place to assist you. If We need you to take photos of local Need sitter as needed for our 5 close to ND (574)243-9279 BALL SEASON TICKETS. you or someone you love needs events. including tailgating, nightlife year old son. Need transportation. 3-4 bdrm, 2 full bath house. New confidential support or assistance, and campus activities. $10/hr. 574·271-1216. construction. 1 mile to ND. Laundry, ANY HELP APPRECIATED. 
C/A, and more. $1 ,000/mo. Call Joe please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 You play we pay.
TICKETS

574·514·0900. 574-277·1659. or Ann Firth at 1·2685. 
Contact Jenny Sibert at FoR SALE Roommate wanted. New home. Wanted: BUYING SAN DIEGO STATE, For more information, visit NOs sibert@uhaps.com or 513-344· 
$450/mo. includes utilities MICHIGAN & PURDUE TIX. Pregnancy Resources website at: 3569. Computer desk 48 x 60 $70. Girls Close to ND. Call Joe 574-514· N D football tix for family. 57 4-251· http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg· bike 3 spd w/bsket $50. 299-9747 0900. 1570. 574-654·0169 (LOCAL CALL). nant.shtml CC Sabathia looks weird in purple. 





OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES
Tuesday, September 2, 2008 Pag~ 13 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
NCAA Football Coaches' Top 25 
team points previous 
1 Georgia (22) 1,438 1 2 usc (14) 1,430 2 3 Ohio State (14) 1,392 3 4 Oklahoma (3) 1,329 4 5 Florida (5) 1,293 5 6 LSU (3) 1,163 6 7 Missouri 1,143 1 8 West Virginia 1,008 8 9 Clemson 999 9 10 Texas 979 10 11 Auburn 888 11 12 Wisconsin 747 12 13 Kansas 714 13 14 Texas Tech 644 14 15 Virginia Tech 568 15 16 Arizona State 560 16 17 Brigham Young 547 17 18 Tennessee 506 18 19 Illinois 422 19 20 Oregon 399 20 21 South Florida 350 21 22 Penn State 3:13 22 23 Wake Forest 203 23 24 Michigan 112 24 25 Fresno State 91 25 
Men's NSCAA Soccer Rankings 
team points previous 
1 Wake Forest 200 1 2 Connecticut 186 2 3 NOTRE DAME 166 3 4 Boston College 155 4 5 Santa Clara 151 5 6 Creighton 133 6 7 Indiana 129 1 8 Maryland 128 8 9 Ohio State 118 9 10 Virginia Tech 112 10 11 Brown 109 11 12 Akron 95 12 13 Massachusetts 83 13 14 UCLA 75 14 15 West Virginia 73 15 16 lllinois·Chicago 71 16 17 Southern Methodist 70 17 18 South Florida 65 18 19 Saint louis 53 19 20 Northwestern 46 20 21 Bradley 41 21 22 UC Santa Barbara 41 22 23 Tulsa 36 23 24 North Carolina 28 24 25 Furman 20.5 25 
MIAA Women's Soccer Standings 


Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif. Quarterback Kevin Craft sparked UCLA's offense in the second half Monday night, and Kai Forbath kicked a 42-yard field goal in overtime to lift the Bruins to a 27-24 victory over No. 18 Tennessee, making coach Rick Neuheisel's debut a winning one. 
The season opener for both teams had a wild fin­ish. 
The underdog Bruins, who took the lead with 27 seconds left in regulation, were forced into overtime when the Volunteers' Daniel Lincoln kicked a 47­yard field goal as time expired. 

But in the overtime, when neither the Bruins nor the Vols were able pick up a first down, Forbath made his kick and then Lincoln missed from 34 yards. 
Craft, who threw four interceptions and totaled 66 yards in the opening half of his first game for UCLA, went 18-of-25 for 193 yards and one touchdown in the second half without an interception. 
The touchdown was a 3­yarder to Ryan Moya that capped a 70-yard drive and gave the Bruins a 24-21 lead with 27 seconds left. The Vols had gone up 21-17 on Montario Hardesty's 20­yard run with 1:54 to play. 
Team  
1  Albion  
1  Calvin  
1  Hope  
1  SAINT MARY'S  
1  Trine  
6  Alma  
6  Kalamazoo  
8  Adrian  
8  Olivet  

Record 
W-L 
3·1 3·1 
3-1 
3-1 
3·1 
2-2 2·2 1-3 
1·3 

around the dial 
MLB Astros at Cubs 7:00p.m., WGN 
White Sox at Indians 7:00p.m., CSN 
IN BRIEF 
Clemens and Co. arrested 
in Virginia parking lot 

SALEM, Va. -The son of Roger Clemens and two other minor league teammates were arrested early Sunday morning and briefly jailed after a disturbance at a restaurant in Salem. 
In a news release, police said Koby Clemens, Mark Ori and Jimmy Goethals were arrested after police were called to the parking lot of a restaurant. 
Clemens and Ori were charged with disorderly conduct. Goethals was charged with assault and bat­tery. 
The three play for the Salem Avalanche, which played its final game of the season Monday in Lynchburg. 
In a statement, the Houston Astros said they were attempting to sort out the circumstances leading to arrest of the three players in their farm system. 
After the Bruins went back in front, the Vols answered with a quick 27­yard march that ended with Lincoln's tying field goal. 
Raymond Carter had put UCLA up 17-14 earlier in the fourth with a 3-yard scoring run. 
Neuheisel, a former UCLA quarterback who was the 1984 Rose Bowl MVP, returned as head coach last December after Karl Dorrell was fired. The Bruins, plagued by quarter­back injuries, went 6-7 last year. 
"It was a thrill for me to be on the sidelines," he said. "At one point an offi­cial said, 'Are you having fun?' I said, 'For an opening act, this is a lot of fun.' 

"It's been a hard five years beiing away from col­lege football. This is what I want to do." 
Asked if he considered giving Craft the hook, Neuheisel said, "I told Craft that I threw four intercep­tions in my first start, but (coach) Terry Donahue waited until the third game before he pulled me." 
Craft, a junior college transfer who was a third­stringer for the Bruins before injuries to the first two quarterbacks pressed him into the starting role, finished 25-of-43 for 259 yards, vv:ith the one touch­down and four intercep­tions. 
Singh wins aS!ain to all 
but clin·ch the FedEx Cup 
NORTON, Mass. -Vijay Singh kept pouring in birdie putts, 35 feet on one hole and 60 feet on the next, as cheers turned from disbe­lief to sheer amazement. 
That might be the last bit of excitement for this edition of the FedEx Cup. 
Despite a volatile new points sys­tem designed to give more players a chance, Singh took the suspense out of the PGA Tour Playoffs with an 8-under 63 on Monday to win the Deutsche Bank Championship in record fashion. It was his second straight victory, giving him such a large lead that he could wrap up the $10 million prize before the Tour Championship. 
"Right now, my focus is going to be next week, and see if I can wrap it up," Singh said. 
Singh has been even more impressive. 
Man. City agrees to 
terms witli ][lew owner 
LONDON -Manchester City agreed Monday to a takeover by a United Arab Emirates business group, ending former Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra's brief ownership of the Premier League club. 
The Abu Dhabi United Group for Development and Investment will "look at the club's accounts and con­tracts before completion of a deal believed to be worth $360 million. 
The group reached agreement late Sunday afternoon with Thaksin, board member Sulaiman al-Fahim said in a press conference Monday morning. 
The club said in a statement that a "memorandum of understanding" has been signed and the deal is sub­ject to a due diligence, allowing investors to request information from Man City and the Premier League. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 2, 2008 
TENNIS 

Querrey challenges No.1 Nadal at Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -When Hafael Nadal double-faulted on a break point Monday at the 
U.S. Open. it allowed Sam <)uerrny to pull even at a set apiece and 4-4 in the third. 
Exactly two hours into their fourth-round match at tho 
U.S. Open, the 55th-ranked ()uerrey was tied with the No. 1-ranked Nadal-tiod with a man who owns five Grand Slam titles. 
"You know." ()lwrn~y would say later, "I felt liko I was right in that <Hw." 
Indeed he was. to tho sur­prise of pretty mueh everyone but ()w•rrey. The 20-yoar-old Californian managed to match the relentless Nadal stroke­for-stroke for long stretehos, bnfon~ losing 6-2, 5-7, 7-6 (2), 6-:{. 
"Not the worst thing in the world-going out to the No. 1 guy," ()uerrey said. 
AftPr a poor start, one he attribut('(l mainly to norvous­ness, <)unrrey began to make a stand when Nadal served for a two-set lead at 5-4 in tho second. ()uern~y broke at love tlwrn, and he broke Nadal again two games later to take the set, and then skipped to tlw sidPiine shak­ing a fist as most of tho parti­san crowd rosf~ for a standing ovation. 
"I thought I was maybe going to lose, like, (6-2, 6-2, 6-0) or something.... After I broke him in 5-4 at love in the second set, then I started hav­ing a little more fun," ()uerrey said. "From that point on, it was awesome." 
lie adually led briefly, when it was 5-4 and 6-5 in the third set, but hn couldn't keep up in tho ensuing tiebreaker. 
Then, with Nadal serving at 4-2 in the fourth, () uerre y mado the reigning French Open, Wimbledon and Beijing break points in that game­seven chances to get back on serve, to get right back into the match. But Nadal saved each one, the last with a 117 mph service winner he punc­tuated with a yell of "Si!" 
Olympies  champion  work  
ratlwr hard.  
() u e r 1'1~ y  c o m p i l e d  s e v e n  


At deuce. ()uerrey swatted a runaround forehand wide, then on the next point, he ended a 10-stroke exchange by pushing a forehand into the net. ()uerrey dropped his lwad and tugged at the brim of his sweat-soaked baseball eap as he trudged to the side­linn. 
Still, it was impressive the way the 6-foot-(> Querrey stayed in extended exchanges from the baselinn, precisely the sort of point that's been the foundation of Nadal's carenr, wearing down more exJwrienced and more suc­C!~ssf'ul players than ()uerrey. Hoger Federer comes to mind, for nxample. 
"Very tough, no'? Sam is a big player, a big server," Nadal said. "lie has a great future." 
Nadal wound up with more unforced errors (41) than winnnrs (37). a rare ratio for him. Nadal's serve was bro­knn a total of three times in his l'irst three matches; Qunrrey broke him four times. 
"The match was crazy like that, no'?" Nadal said. 
The Spaniard assigned some blame for his problems to the swirling wind. something that ()uerrey also said was bother­some. 
()uerrey, of course, had other things to worry about: lie was playing in Arthur Ashe Stadium-the sport's largest arena-for the first time, and playing in a major championship's fourth round for the first time. 
Oh, yes, and playing against Nadal, who has won 42 of his past 43 matches. 
"I mean, it's nice to know he actually had to go out there and fight for it," ()uerrey said, "rather than me kind of hand­ing it to him." 
NFL 



Pacman, Tank to start fresh 
Jones and Johnson, both back from suspensions, to play Sunday 
Associated Press 
IHVING, Texas -Adam 
"Pacman" Jones and Tank 
Johnson settled in for a new 
season in their corner of the 
Dallas Cowboys' locker room 
Monday. 

Freshly displayed above the locker where Jones reclined into a pile of clothes were several pictures of his 2-year­old daughter. Johnson, mean­while, talked about plans for an entertainment center in the empty cubicle now between them af'ter final ros­ter cuts. 
At the start of last season, neither was playing for the Cowboys -or any other team. Both were serving NFL suspensions. 
Jones did not even find out for sure until last week that he would be cleared by com­missioner Hoger Goodell to play this season. He is already finding it hard to con­trol his emotios as he gets ready for Sunday's season opener at Cleveland, his first NFL game since Dec. 31, 2006, when he was still with Tennessee. 
"I don't want to get too over-hyped, but Sunday I'll be ready," Jones said. ''I'm just trying to not get too riled up. Heading a couple of books every now and then helps me out a little bit." 
The Titans traded Jones, their 2005 first-round pick, in April while the cornerback­kick returner was still sus­pended because of an accu­mulation of arrests and legal problems while with Tennessee. 
When Jason Ferguson of the Cowboys was lost to injury after last year's opener, the 305-pound Johnson was signed off waivers from Chicago even though he still had to serve his suspension. Johnson did get to play the second half of the season for the Cowboys, and his gregari­ous spirit has become much more evident now that he is settled with the team. 

Johnson is also sporting a new jersey number, switching to No. 95 this week after wearing No. 66 last season and throughout training eamp. 
"Nine-to-five is just like all day. Nine-to-five is how I work. I lovn the number," Johnson said. "I was comfort­able in 66, but once a 90­number got free, I wanted to just go ahead and jump on it because I don't want to be the ugly one on the line." 
In the preseason, "Pacman" played the first three games, the last starting at left cor­nerback in place of Terence Newman, the injured Pro Bowl selection who is back at practice and expected to play against the Browns. 
Jones doesn't know if he will start-"They ain't telling me nothing," he said-but he will be prominent on passing downs and special teams. Jones' only punt returns in the preseason were for 18 and 24 yards. 
So what does Jones look forward to most'? 

"Probably the punt return more. I would like to take tlw first return back," Jones said, making sure to elarif'y that wasn't any kind of guaranten. "I said I would likn to takn the first one baek. We'll see how it goes, man. I'm eager to get back out tiH~re." 
Coach Wad1~ Phillips said Monday that Jones will likely be used on kickoff returns as well. lie wouldn't say if there was a chance of Jones being used offensively to help bol­ster the injury-plagued receiving unit. 
Still, Phillips said Jones has made significant progress in the two months since he was cleared by Goodell to practice and play in preseason games with the Cowboys. The com­missioner waited until last week to rule on the regular season. 
"I think Adam Jones will probably get better and better as he goes. He just hasn't played in a long time. He does have some real natural abili­ty," Phillips said. "lie's not too far away." 
Write sports. Contact Bill at wbrink @nd.edu. 


Tuesday, September 2, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Brady says ankle is better; hopes to start in o:pener 
Patriots head coach Bill Belichick refuses to answer questions about who will start Sunday against Kansas City 
percentages, so I usually Matt Cassel, starting his 
Associated Press 
don't give them. I have been fourth season as the No. 2 
FOXBOROUGH. Mass -yelled at more times with quarterback, could not lead Tom Brady ran through agili­comments I make so I am the Patriots to a touchdown ty drills and said he is ready laying off that one. Write in 17 exhibition series. Kevin to play in the New England that, so he reads that, too." O'Connell, the Patriots third­Patriots' opener. Bill No matter the percentage, round draft pick, is highly Belichiek is not ready to say all signs point to Brady regarded but is just a rookie. that will happen. extending his playing streak Tackle Matt Light missed 
Neither is much of a sur­to 128 games, third most in the first three exhibition prise. history among NFL quarter­games and guard Stephen 
It would be a big surprise if backs. Only Brett Favre (275) Neal missed all four. So the reeord-setting quarter­and Peyton Manning (173) Belichick played it safe by bad, who had a right foot have longer streaks, and not risking Brady's health injury and missed all four both are still going on. with two starters missing exhibition games, does not And now the exhibition from the offensive line. start Sunday against the games are over. After eight seasons in the Kansas City Chiefs. "I felt like I could play all NFL, Brady expects to make 
"If it's up to me, there's no of them and I practiced the a smooth transition to play­question" Brady said entire preseason, pretty ing in a game even without Monday. "I've been getting much," Brady said. "The the exhibition contests, all of progressively better over the deeision was made that, OK, them losses. past couple of weeks. I'm Tom, you're not going to play, "Throwing so many foot­excited. I'm excited to start and I was fine with it." balls over the course of my the year." A week ago, Brady said he life, it's not like I need to 
The seeretive Belichick would be ready for the learn how to throw a football defleeted a question about Chiefs. Since then, he said, or take a drop or make a whether last season's NFL his foot has improved "quite read," Brady said. "All the MVP would start Sunday. a bit." plays that are in the play­
"We will give you the injury He also did everything the book are ones that were put report on Friday," he told other quarterbacks, running in when I was here, so I was reporters Monday. "We will backs and receivers did dur­a part of all those conversa­give you the practice report ing the first 15 minutes of tions. after we praetiee." practice Monday that media "It's just a matter of going 
Brady did not want to members were allowed to out and doing it at a faster anger a coach who tells his observe. They stretehed then speed," he said. "I've played players not to reveal too jogged to the end zone for in a lot of those games to mueh injury information. So the agility drills. know what that speed is and, he would not estimate how The Patriots, with no hopefully, I'm prepared for dose to 100 percent he was proven backup, cannot afford it." health-wise. to be without Brady, who set Besides, Randy Moss sat 
"I don't know," Brady said an NFL record with 50 touch­out all four exhibition games with a smile. "Coach hates down passes last season. last year and still caught an NFL reeord 23 touehdown passes. And that was his first year with the Patriots. 

"The whole team is ready for Tom to come back," Moss said Sunday. "He is the leader of this team. He does some great things out there on the field with the ball." 
On Monday, Light sounded optimistic about Brady's return. 
"The way he directs things out there is what puts us in the right position to make 
these plays," Light said. "So it's good to have him baek." 
That should happen on Sunday now that his injured foot has improved. 
"I think we have moved past that," Brady said. "I was out there practicing yester­day and I am going out there to practice today. Hopefully, I will be practicing enough the rest of the week to give everybody enough confidence to know that I will be OK if I go out there." 

The Exiles • Friday, October 3 • Charles Burnett will discuss the film 
Dare Not Walk Alone • Friday, October 10 • Join director Jeremy Dean 
The Sari Soldiers • Nepali language with English subtitles • Friday. November 14 • Join director Julie Bridgham 
know no boundaries 

World VIew is an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive dialogue about issues of race, class, ethnicity, religion, and gender through the arts. 

~UNIVERSITY OF
'W NOTRE DAME 
Office ofthe President 
DEBARTOLO 
PERfORM NG ARlS CENTER 

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 2, 2008 
MLB 

Lee shuts out White Sox for 20th"Win 
Indians' unlikely ace becomes first pitcher in majors to reach milestone 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND-Cliff Lee became Cleveland's first 20­game winner in 34 years, pitching a five-hitter for his second career shutout to lead the Indians to a 5-0 win ovflf thn Chicago White Sox on Monday night. 
Lee (20-2) is the first Indians pitcher to reach 20 wins since Hall of Farner (;aylord Perry went 21-13 in 1974. The left-hander's milestone win -his ninth straight victory -came exactly one year to the day that hn was recallnd from tho minor leagues. 
With a chance to join Perry as well as Hall of Famers Bob Fellnr and Bob Lnmon in 

Cleveland's record book as 20-game winners, Lee shut down the hard-hitting, Central-leading White Sox with ease. He gave up two singles to open the first and then retired 21 in a row. 
Arter he got Carlos Quentin to ground into a game-end­ing double play, Lee punched his fist into his glove and hugged catcher Kelly Shoppach as fireworks boomed above Progressive Field. And as he has done 19 other times this season, Lee got in line to exchange handshakes with his team­mates. 
First baseman Ryan Garko f'lipp11d the ball to Lee, and he headed to the dugout as a video tribute from Perry and 
AP 

Feller was shown on the sta­
dium's giant scoreboard. 
Lee's 20 wins put a resounding stamp on his turnaround season. 
Ineffective for the first four months of 2007, Lee had been sent back to the minors last July, a startling downfall for a pitcher who had won 46 games over the previous three years. In his final start before the demotion, Lee was booed off the field and sarcastically tipped his cap at Indians fans who were sick of seeing him. 
Now, they cannot get enough of Lee. 
Since the first day of spring training in '08, he has been in a groove. 
The Benton, Ark., native went 5-0 in April and won his first six starts before suf­fering his first loss on May 18 at Cincinnati. Lee lost for a second time on July 6 at Minnesota, but was 12-2 when he took the mound as the AL's starter at the All­Star Game in Yankee Stadium. lie went 5-0 with a 
1.86 ERA in August. 
lie came in leading the league in wins and EHA, and no pitcher has meant more to his team than the laid­back 30-year-old Lee, who has accounted for 30 percent of Cleveland's 66 victories. 
Right now, he's a leading candidate to give Cleveland back-to-back Cy Young win­ners. CC Sabathia won 19 games last season for the Indians, one of four Cleveland pitchers to come within one win of matching the spit-balling Perry. 
SoccER 




U.S. team to play qualifier in Cuba 
Americans have not played in Cuba in 61 years; must win to continue World Cup hopes 
Associated Press 

MIAMI SHOHES, Fla. ­Landon Donovan took off his shirt and soaked in the South Florida sun as he walked off the field Monday, chuckling at the dozen or so college girls photographing his every move. 
Do not expect Donovan and the United States men's soccer team to get such a friendly reception at their next stop: The national team's first match in Cuba in 61 years. 
And don't expect the U.S. to foeus on anything but soccer, either. 
"We're not going there to be political," Donovan said Monday. 'Tm not going there to make any political state­ments. I'm gning there to play and try to win. That (politieal) part of it is real, but the rea­son we're there is to play soe­cor. And that'~ what we have to remember." 
The U.S. team held the first of four practices in this north Miami suburb as it prepared to play Cuba in a World Cup qualifier in Havana on Saturday. The Americans are coming off a 1-0 win over Guatemala and are heavily favored against a Cuban squad that lost to Trinidad and Tobago 3-1 in its opening semifinal qualifier on Aug. 20. 
The U.S. national team has tie more jeers. Not that most guys on our team understand Spanish." 

Though baseball-crazy Cuba would need to score a major upset to bolster its chances of qualifying for the nation's first World Cup since 1938, goal­keeper Dany Luis Quintero said "our motivation is always greater against a rival like the United States." 
"Cubans don't like to lose to the United States," he said. "The fans are more motivated and we are hoping for a full stadium." 
The U.S. knows it needs a win to stay on track to qualify for the World Cup. The Amnrieans play Trinidad and Tobago on Sept. 10 in Bridgeview, Ill., and wins against both countries would all but assure a berth in the final round of qualifying in North and Central Ameriea and the Caribbean. 
U.S. coach Bob Bradley said it's important his team doesn't lose foeus with the distrae­tions that could surround the game in llavana. 
"It's been a real long time so I think fin· our team, our play­ers, it's a tremendous oppor­tunity," Bradley said of the trip. "It's certainly a unique experience and one everybody is looking forward to. We just need to make sure we keep our concentration on the 


traveled to Cuba only once, losing 5-2 in 1947, although the under-20 team played in Havana in 1991 during the Pan American Games. 
Most U.S. fans will not be able to attend the game because of the government's restrictions on travel to the communist nation, leaving the 
U.S. team unsure of what kind of reception it will receive. 
'Tm hoping it will be good," midf'ielder Eddie Lewis said. "But certainly with the politi­cal situation between our two countries, we might hear a lit-importance of the game with qualifying for the World Cup." 
Luis Hernandez, president of the Cuban Soccer Association, downplayed the political significance of the game, which is being televised on cable in the United States. 
"The political aspect has nothing to do with it," Hernandez said Monday out­side Havana's Pedro Marero Stadium, the small and erum­bling concrete venue of Saturday's game. "The U.S. players are just athletes, soc­cer players, and we are too." 

STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will he offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 7th and September 14t\ at 7:00pm in Room 102 of Debartolo Hall. 
The session will last approximately 45 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training !ie.~sion~' or the Motor Poolyou may contact Transportation Service.~ at 631-6467 

Tuesday, September 2, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 2, 2008 
401  !'ccoun!lng Assoc1abon. Noire Dame  610  Hawa;i Club -Na Pua l<ai 'Ewalu  432  Pre·Profess1onal Sociely/AMSA  
402  !l.cluanal Sc1ence Club  419  Health Occupations Sludenls of America  4..13  Prt>-Vet Club, Unrversi!y of Notre Dame  
:;,:)1  Afnca Faith & Jus!ce Nei'Mlrk  420  History Club  434  Pnvete Equity end Venture Cap1lal Club of Notre Dame  
001  Aflican Students l\ssocialion  318  Human R>ghts-ND  340  Progress>ve Student Alliance  
403  Africana Slud1es Club  71:2  Humor Artists of lhe UnrversityofNotre Dame duLac  717  Project Fresl1  
302  l'.lumn1 Student Club  511  Ice Hockey Team, Women's  4::l5  Ps'f.'hology Club. Noire Dame  
303  Amateur Radio Club of Noire Dame  319  Identity Project ofNoire Dame (IDND)  4'36  Quizbowl Club of Noire Dame  
404  Amen::an Chemical Soc1ety, ND Chapter of Student Affiliates of lhe  611  Indian Assocra!ron of Notre Dame  34'1  Ranger Cllallenge Team (AROTG]  
405  Amercan lnstilule of Aeronautics &Astronauucs. Noire Dame  421  lnstilu!e ofEieclr!:al and Eleclroncs Engineers  437  Real Estate Investment Club  
406  Amercan lnslilule of M:hi!ecture Sludenl~-Noire Dame  422  Investment Club of Notre Dame duLac  342  Righi To Life, Noire Dame  
407  Arn~ncan lnstilul~ of Chem1cal Engrneers  713  lnsh Dame Clut•, The  Zl43  RisK Club  
408  Amercan Socrety of Civil Engrneers  106  lnsh Gardens  514  Rowing Club, Noire Dame (Men's Crew)  
409 410 002 003 411 701 702 703 304 704 412 004  Amercan Socre!y of Mechanical Eng1neers! S•JCiefy1)f Automotive Engineers Anthropology Club As1an Amencan Association of I'Mre Dame As1an lnlernaii•Jnal Society Assocrabon of Women 1n Mathemales of lhe UnrversrlyofNolre Dame Bagprpe Band. Unrversrly of Noire DamP. Ballet Folklonco t\zul y Oro Ballroom Dance Qub. ND/SMC Bapllst Collegiate Mnislry Brg YellowT8l<i Biologyaub Black Cultural Arts Council  112 320 612 321 423 103 110 714 613 614 6'15 322  lnsh Rover Iron Sharpens Iron Japan Club Jev.ish Club of Notre Dame Jornl Eng1neenng Council. t~lre Dame Judicial CounciVCiass of2012 Freshman Class Courc1l Juggler, The Juggling Club, The Noire Dame Korean Student Assoc1ation LaAiianza Le Cen~le Francais (French Qub) Leprechaun Legron  515 516 621 517 718 109 488 344 345 107 518 346  Rugby Football Club of Noire Dame Runn1ng Club. Women's Russian Club Sailing Club, Notre Dame Saint Edward's Hall Players. The Scholastic Magazine Science Bus>ness auto, Notre Dame Scrabble Club Shades of Ebony Shirl Pro1eGt. The Ski Clublfearn. Notre Dame Soc1al Justice in Amencan Mectrcine (SjAfv~  
005 501 502 503 006  Black Studenl Associalion Bowling Club. Notre Dame Boxing Club, Notre Dame Men's BOl<ing Club, Notre Dame Women's Braz1l Club of Noire Dame  3'23 8'18 324 424 4'25  Linux Users Group, Noire Dame Liturgical Choir, Notre Dame Macintosh User's Group (MUG-t-il) Management aub Marketing Club, UNO Undergraduate  439 440 622 519 441  Soc1ely ofWornen Engineers. Umversr!y of Noire Dame Chapter Socrology Club Spanish Club, University of Noire Dame Squash Qub, Noire Dame Student Assoc1a!ron for Women rn Architecture (SAWP\j  
305  Campus Fellowship of the f-blySpirit  5"12 616  Marl1al Arts Institute, Noire Dame MEChAdeND  101 44'2  Student Government S!udenllnlernabonal Business Council  
306 307 007 705  Chess Club. Notre Dame Children's Defense Fund Chinese Culture Sociely Chorale. Notre Dame  325 326 426  Med!ae'Jal Society of Our Lady of lhe La~e Men Against Vr•Jience Mexican American Engineers & ScJentists/Socrely of Hrspanrc Prof.  719 347 102  Student Players, The Notre Dame Student Stand-ups of Notre Dame Sludenl Union Board  
104 105 504 308 309  Class of2010 (Junior Class Council) Class of20 11 (Sophomore Class CounciQ Climbrng Qub, l'lolre Dame College Dem6~rats College Libertanans of Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame  327 427 328 329 428 330  Miliba of the lmrna:;ulala, Notre Dame Minority Pre-Medical Soc1ety Mock Tnal Association Model United Nahons Qub. t~ire Dame Mu Alptw Theta, Notre Dame Muslim Student Association  44.'3 444 348 720 721 623  Students lbr New Urbamsm Students In Free Enterpnse ofNotre Dame Sustained Dialogue at Notre Dame Swing Club Synl)hony Orchestra Texas Club. The  
310 3•11 413 706 505 707 108 312 414 111 415  College Republicans. UmverSify of Notre Darm CommuniOn and Lrberabon al Notre Dame (CLU@I'JD) Computer Club. Notre Dame Coro Pnmavera de Nuestra Senora. El C'f.'ling Club. Noire Dame Dance Company Debate Team Det~K>hmen! 225 AFROTC D1vers~ Bus1ness Student Association Dome Yearbook Economcs Club  331 332 617 429 818 333 334 335 819 715  Muslard Nahonal Alliame m Mental Illness-Notre Dame Nal1onal Assocrahon for the Advancernenl of Colored People, NO Na!1onal Society of Black Engineers Nal1v~ Arner!:an Student Association of Noire Dame ND i'SK ND ror Animals ND-8 NDTV. Student Broaci::asting ofNob'e Dame Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company  349 722 520 723 445 350 624 724 521 351  Toastmasters lnlemabonal, Notre Da~ TrO•lP N•llre Dame Ulumate Frisbee Club, Noire Dame Uncharned Melodies UnoJergraduate Women in Business UnrverSJiy Young Life Vietnamese Student Association of t~tre Dame Voices ofFailh Gospel Choir, University of Notre Dame Volleyball Club-Men's, Notre Dame Wabruda, Th~  
416 506 708 313 007 008 314 008 417  Entrepreneur Qub Equestnan Club Farley Hall Players Fem1mst Voice Field Hockey Club, Noire Dame Figure Skating Club, N:>lre Dame FiiH Mariae!Children of Mary Filipino American Student Organization of Notre Dame Finance Club of Notre Dame duLac  336 619 337 716 338 339 620 513 4:})  Orestes Brownson Council on Catholicism and American Politics Organizacion Latino Americana Orlhodox Christian Fellowship Oub of I'Jotre Dame Pasquerilla East MuSical Corrpany Peace Fellowship-Noire Dame Perspectrves Pohsh Club, Notre Dame Pom PonSquad, UniversilyofNotreDame Pre-Dental Society  522 523 524 446 817 525 811 806  Water Polo Club, Men's Water Polo Club. Women's Waterski Club of Notre Dame Women 1n Polilrcs Women's Liturgical Choir World Taekwondo Federation Club WSND-FM WVFI  
700  Frrst Class Steppers of Noire Dame  4'31  Pre-Law Society, Notre Dame  
f.OO  Fishing Club of Notre Dame  
315  FhpSide  SOCIAL SERVICE CLUBS & LOCAL SERVICE AGENCIES  
418 600  Forum con B10medi:al Elhcs, Noire Dame German Club  201  AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist  227  lnsh Fighting for St. Jude Kids  
316  Glass Club  202  Alliance To Lead And Serve (ATLAS)  Z:..\3  Kn1ghl~ of Columbus. Notre Dame Council, No. 1477  
317  GreeNO  203  Amelican Cancer Socre!y Club or Noire Dame  229  La Casa de Am1slad  
510 710  Gymnaslics Club NDSMC Halfbme  214 204  American Red Cro.lSs Ark Angels Inc  2:.,'() 231  LEAD-ND Literacy Awareness-Noire Dame  
816  Handbell Choir. The Notre Dame  233  Best Budd1es  232  Ultle Flower Catholic Church  
711  Harmonia  205  Big Bro!t1ers Big SISters of Sl. Joseph County  234  Logan Recrealon Club  
206  Big Brothemftlig Sisters of Noire Dame/St. Mary's  7J5  Millon Adult Day Services  
207  Boys and G1rls Clubs ofS! Joseph Counfy  236  Ms. Wizard Day Program Tearn  
208  Camp Kesern  237  Operation Smle Studenl Organizaflon  
SPECIAL GUESTS  209  Campus Girl Scouts-ND/SMC  2'JB  Reins oflife  
210  Genter for Basic Learning  251  Robinson Community Learning Center  
001  Club Coordinebon Council  211  Center for lhe Homeless  2"J9  Ronald McDonald Family Room  
002-003  Student Acfiv1hes Office  212  Children's Dispensary  240  Sam! Joseph Regronal Medical Center  
004  Legends  213  Circle 1\, Notre Dame  241  SBCSC Read loa ChildtPartner Up  
805  First Aid Services Team. UniversilyofNotre Dame  215  College Mentors for Kids  242  Slice or Life NO  
007  C<Teer Center  216  Community Alliance to Serve f1spanics  2.Ci  S-0-S of Mad1son Center  
f((J  Educational Talent Search  217  Dismas House of South Bend  244  South Bend Juvenile Correctional Fecilily  
EK:e  Allrance for Cathohc Educahon  218  Domers Menloling Kids  245  Spec1al Friends of Notre Dame  
810  Offr.:e of Ai;ohol and Drug Education  219  Foodshare  246  Sl. A1albert's Adull EdL£alion  
812-815  Campus Mlmslry  220  Forever Learning Institute  247  Sl Vincent de Paul Society ofSI. Joseph County  
820.823  Center lbr Social Concerns  221  Freedom 22 Foundation  248  Students for Enwonmenlal i'ction  
824  Undergraduate AoJmiSsJons  222  Habitat ~Jr Hurnan1ty, Noire Dame  249  Super Sibs  
825-826  RecSporiS  223  Heallh'Mn Specialized Care  2"J:J  Take Ten  
827  Alhlebc Promobons  224  Helpful Undergraduate Students  2F.Q  Teamwor\o, for Tomorrow of Notre Dame  
225  Humane So:oc1ety of Sl. Joseph C'.ounly  253  W(mlen's Care Center  
226  Indiana Legal SerVIces. INC.  254  World Hunger Coalition  
255  YWCA of Sl. Joseph County  



Waldrum said. "And its kind of "Having younger players look fitting, you know, that we are up to me, it means a lot to me,
Hanks 

celebrating, this year, 20 years it's an honor," Hanks said. "But of the women's soccer program I couldn't have done it without
continued from page 20 

and for her to have a chance of my teammates setting up those Award of the Inn at Saint breaking the 70 goal-70 assist plays and letting me be the one Mary's Classic this weekend. mark ... it'd be in very good stepping up taking Ipenalty For her powerhouse perform­company if she could do that." kicksI." ance, Hanks was also named Waldrum praised Hanks not Two of Hanks' goals on the Top Drawer Soccer only for her talent but also for Friday came on penalty kicks National Player of the Week the intangible qualities she after teammates were fouled Monday. brings to the field. inside the 18-yard box. 
And Hanks is not likely to "She's a leader, she under­Waldrum said that despite stop accumulating milestones stands the game, she sees it at Hanks' 68 goals and 59 assists, anytime soon. a higher level she is far from a one-dimen­She stands than a lot of sional player. within striking our players," "She does a lot of work for us
"She's a leader, she
distance of 70 Waldrum said. defensively and a lot of people career goals understands the game, "She is just a don't realize," the coach said. and 70 assists, really smart "They think all she does is
she sees it at a higher
a plateau student of the score goals but when you
level than a lot ofour
reached by game. The watch her she's chasing back only two play­players." thing that she's all the way deep into our half. ers in NCAA got going for She's a complete player." history. The her is she's not Hanks will not have a chance
Randy Waldrum 

elite club the most physi­to join the 70-70 club until at
Irish coach 

includes only cally gifted and least midway through this sea­two members not the biggest, son, but for now Waldrum said -Notre Dame strongest play­he is just proud that she tied alumna Jen Streifer and er, but you won't find a harder the school record for three­women's soccer icon Mia competitor." goal games. I Iamm of North Carolina. Hanks said that while it is an "It couldn't happen to a bet­
"[llanksl is gonna continue to honor to be seen as a team ter player," he said. "She's set more and more records. leader, she knows if she did not been so much to our program She owns a big majority of play for a top-flight program over the rpast] four years." them now for scoring for this like Notre Dame, she would not program over its 20 y11ar histo­have had the opportunity to Contact Fran Tolan at ry," Irish coach Handy rack up so many points. ftolan@nd.edu 


NCSA 
continued from page 20 

demically, 21st in the Director's Cup and had the 30th best graduation rate among all schools in Divisions I, II and III. 
Notre Dame finished 12th among all of 
demics and athletics. 

The Irish are in good company on the Div. I list with Stanford, Duke, Princeton and Harvard taking the top four spots in front of Notre Dame. The school's 
23.66 rating was only two points away from Harvard and 2.33 away from Princeton. John Hopkins, Univ. of Pennsylvania, Northwestern, Cornell and Yale rounded out at the top 
"Academics are a top
the nation's the second spot schools. Div. concern for all ofour behind Duke. !II school I Ieister said the
student-athletes, it's 
Williams annual success
not up for debate. " 
University stems from a took the over-commitment to all crown with academics that
John Heisler 
the top rank­starts in the
Senior Associate 
ing in aca­recruiting
Athletic Director 
ten. 

"That's probably the No. 1 priority, to make that overall experience as good as it can be. You want everyone of those people to walk away and feel like they had a great four years," Heisler said. 
In 2007, Notre Dame beat out the Cardinal and its Ivy League com­petitors to grab 
process. 

"Academics 
are a top con­
cern for all of our student-athletes, it's not up for debate," he said. 
Heisler also said that the polls helped when recruiting players and coaches because it showed that it is possible to remain competitive despite high standards in the class­room. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
U.S. OPEN 

Williams sisters meet in quarterfinal match 
Associated Press  nals, but at least one of us will make it to the semis," Serena  ning record," Venus said. "I have a chance."  
NEW YOHK  -By now, Venus  told the crowd during an  on­ Because of the luck of the  
and Snnma Williams know all  eourt interview. "I've got prob­ pre-tournament draw, they  
too wnll how it feels  to set  ably the toughest match of the  were  placed in the same por­ 
aside sisterhood for a couple of  tournament coming up next, so  tion of the bracket in New  
hours and try to  beat naeh  I've got to be ready."  York-mud1 to the disappoint­ 
other on a tennis court.  Some sisters make plans to  ment  of'  them,  U.S.  Open  
They know what it fnels like  go shopping together, say, or to  organizers and TV types. Even  
to meet at a (;rand Slam tour­ catch  a  movie. These siblings  other players.  
nanwnt, what it feels like  to  keep running into each other  "For sure, it would have been  
win  such  a  at their sport's  better for the crowd if' it was a  
m·atch, what it  highest levels.  final." Bremond said. "It would  
f1~nls like to lose. And they  "It's so soon. You  Venus beat Serena for the  have been a very good final." That certainly rings true:  
much prefer it when then~'s a major champi­onship at stakn.  know, it's just disappointing to be so .. soon.  title at Wimbledon in July -their sev­enth major title  Serena has lost a total of 14 games through four matches at Flushing Meadows; Venus has dropped 15.  
The all-Williams  match  and  or the eight women left in the  
showdown. sd up by their easy victories  Serena Williams American tennis player  Wednesday will mark the first time they've  tournament, only two have won a Grand Slam title-Serena leads all active players with  
Monday at tlw  squared off at  eight,  and  Venus  is  right  
U.S.  Open,  consecutive  behind with seven.  
comes earlier this time.  Grand Slam tournaments since  They  won  every U.S. Open  
This  time,  Williams  vs.  2003.  women's singles championship  
Williams is only a quarterfinal.  Both have dealt with injuries  from 1999 to 2002, meeting in  
"It's so soon," Serena said.  and inactivity that stalled their  the finals the last two years of AP  
"You know, it's just disappoint­ dominance, but clearly they  that span-it was their ascen­Serena Williams returns a serve during her win over France's  
ing to be so soon."  are  back at the height of their  sion that prompted the U.S. Severine Bremond at the U.S. Open in New York on Monday.  
Both advanced through the  powers.  Open to  move  the women's  
fourth round without a  chal­ "The best part is that we're  final from Saturday afternoon  careers. We're just playing the  Nadal held off 55th-ranked  
lenge. The No. 7-seeded Venus  still here," Venus said, "going  to Saturday night. Since 2002,  way we should play."  Sam Querrny,  a  20-year-old  
dismissed No.  <J  Agninszka  stronger than ever, in my opin­ though, Serena hasn't made it  Also advancing Monday were  Californian who  never  before  
Hadwanska of Poland 6-1. 6-3.  ion."  past the quarterfinals here,  No.  6  Dinara  Safina,  who  had been to the fourth round  
before No. 4 Serena dispatched  They've played 16 times as  and Venus has only reached  defeated  Anna-Lena  at  a  major  tournament.  
wild-card entrant Snverine  professionals, with each win­ one semifinal.  Groenefeld 7-5, 6-0, and No.  Querrey  hung  in  during  
Brnmond of France (J-2, 6-2 at  ning eight. That includes 10  "I just feel like, you know,  16 Flavia Pennetta, who beat  extended baseline rallies, and  
night.  meetings  at  major  tourna­ we're both playing better and  No. 32 Amelie Mauresmo 6-3,  even briefly led in the third set,  
"Even the semis would have  ments, with each winning live.  feeling better," Serena said.  6-0.  before losing 6-2, 5-7, 7-6 (2),  
been better than the quarterli­ "I would love to have a win­ "We just had  a  turn  in  our  In men's action, No. 1 Rafael  6-3.  

Observer Sports discovered the Internet. Check out our new blog this weekend at Observersports.21 cr.info. 
Tuesday, September 2, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 


HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 


JNJMJ]3)1J!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
HINEW 

I I I 

©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DROLE 
j

I I r (]

tTIPPEC WHY THE: Pl-AY



IJ I 
DIDN'T HAVE: 
www.jumble.com 
A LONG !<UN 
ASTUNE 


Now arrang13 the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rJ


1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: vJis "r I I I I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterda 's I Jumbles: WHILE SINGE EXHALE ARTERY y Answer: This can lead to the altar ­THE AISLE 
CROSSWORD 
Across 36 It merged with the WB to form
"Casablanca" theCW 
star, informally 37 Yarn buy

6 Rio automaker 
38 Atoll makeup9 Legendary 
39 Bow-wielding 
cowboy ........... Bill 

god 14 Brings in 
41 Quick-witted 15 Dijon denial 43 "Lovely" Beatles 16 Bejeweled girl topper 
44 Sony competitor 

17 Mediocre F. 46 Cold war-era Scott Fitzgerald blast, in novel? headlines 
20Whopping 48 Mean mutt 49 Mediocre Steve 
21 Gibbons of TV McQueen film? 
talk 52 Unlock, to a 22 Gas company bardthat sells toy 53 Kiev's land:trucks Abbr. 

23 "Evil Woman" 54 Like a trim lawn
band, for short 57 Unyielding 

25 Daisy _, who went to Marryin' 61 Asia's Sea Sam 65 Mediocre Jerry 27 Mediocre place Lee Lewis hit? to scuba? 68 In the of life 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
S T A A T G 1 s T c o M B 
T E N T H E A I E A H 0 V 
E A G E A M A N X A I 0 T 
E S E • A T S Q U A A E 0 N E 
A E L I S H ••1 S S U E 
S H E D I N A L L 

S E A L • S V L V A N • J O E 
T A K E C E N T E A S T A G E 
A S I • U.T 0 • E X E S 
T E N E T 0 M E N 
A UIL E S • A N D H 0 W 

E N D U~l N L A S T • E P A 
G 0 0 p S N A G A E N T S 
0 M I T T U N E A S N I T 
S E T S S I T E P L A C E 
69 Barbie's beau 70 Novelist Calvina 
71 Zesty dip 72 Match part 73 Hose material 
Down "Little Women" 
woman 2 Honolulu's home 3 Kinnear of "Little 
Miss Sunshine" 4 "For sure!" 
5 Suffix with journal 

6 See 29-Down 7 Actress Skye 
8 1998 animated film with a queen 
9 Group that usu. meets at a school 
10 "Take your pick" 11 Scope out, pre­
heist 12 Planets or stars 13 Comes out with 
18 Items of apparel 
for Dracula 19 Willing to go 
~ong 

24 Barbell abbr. 
26 welder 27 Spare room user 28 First name in 
book clubs 29 With 6-Down, ready to propose 30 Place to get clean 31 Cowpoke's rope 32 How mistakes are often marked 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

59 High spirits "Maude"45 Alley __... 

60 George 47 Terse reproof 
Harrison's " 670ne of a
-

50 Trillion: Prefix It a Pity" snorkeler's pair 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for·the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Gloria Estefan, 51; Dr. Phil McGraw, 58; Barry Gibb, 62; Lily Tomlin, 69 
Happy Birthday: Don't lament over spilled milk when there is so much to experi­ence and look forward to. For every lost connection, you will find someone new and exciting to fill the void. This is a year of growth and realization. Believe in who you are and what you stand for. Progress is calling you, so follow through. Your numbers are 2, 8, 24, 27, 35, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You will draw a lot of attention if you are too ada­mant about what you think and want to do. Tone things down and take a wait-and­see approach. You are likely to prontise too much-· rethink your strategy. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't exaggerate about what you can do. Someone will catch on to the fact that you may not have the background to handle everything you prontised. Get trusted advice from someone with expelience. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't hold yourself back because someone you re­spect or who depends on you is making demands. Love is in the stars and you must connect with people who motivate you. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-Juiy 22): Avoid family feuds or meddling in relatives' or friends' affairs. Consider the support you are getting, the options being offered and the changes that will help improve your mental outlook. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't make snap decisions regarding lifestyle, travel or educational pursuits. A new position or proposal will get you thinking about what else you can do and how you can lower your stress. Change is required. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Socialize with people who hE.ve similar interests. You will develop a strong networking facility. Overspending wi.ll backfire. You can make your dollar stretch if you are industrious with your own resources. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Love is on the line and, if you aren't forthright about your intentions, you could be backed into a comer. Your gestures will leave a good unpression and cover up any emotional upset you may be experiencing. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): There is a lesson to be leamed by helping others. It may appear that you are always giving and not receiving but, w1th each ~acious of­fenng, you are building a strong base for future support. Good advice w1ll be given to you. 3 stars 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't mess with authority or anyone who can play havoc with your future. Be creative, original and hardworking and you will shine. Remember not to give too much away or spend too much in the process. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't give in to threats or to anyone trying to per­suade you to see or do things his or her way. If you take a serious approach to your finances, debts, legal matters and health problems, you can put a huge dent in what needs to be done in order to prosper. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Finalize both personal allid financial deals. Love can be discussed and your future plans put into motion. Now is a great time to make a commitment or prontise to someone special. 5stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let someone stifle your plans. Get what you want in writing to avoid having to fight for your rights later on. Try not to show in­stability, even if you aren't sure what to do next. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are serious, proud, emotional and bold. You like to make a huge impact and show everyone what you are capable of doing. You have pizzazz, patience and determination. 
Eugenia 1S Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip____ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, September 2, 2008 
page 20 
FooTBALL 

Ragone out for year, freshman to take over No.1 spot 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

A league of her own 
Hanks logs sixth hat trick of Irish career 
By FRAN TOLAN 
Spons Wri1er 
She won tlw IIermann Trophy as the best player in the NCAA as a sophomorn and seored 1:{ goals as a junior dnspitf1 being frpquently dou­bln-tearned. Some people might think Irish snnior for­ward KPrri llanks could not gnt much bntter. 
Thny would be wrong. 
In Friday's 4-0 Irish win over Loyola Marymount, llanks not.dwd thn sixth hat triek of lwr prolifk cart'l'r-, tying Jnnny llllft's NotrP I>arm1 record. 
"It nwans a lot, lwing a part of this school nwans so much and just for nw bning abin to brnak rn1~orrls is awesome," llanks said. 
II an k s was a w a r d n d t lw Ofl'nnsiw Most Valuabl!1 Player 
JESS LEE!The Observer 

Senior forward Kerri Hanks fights for position in a 2-0 win over Santa Clara Sunday. The win see HANKS/page 18 clinched the Inn at Saint Mary's title for the Irish. Hanks had a hat trick earlier in the day. 

ND ATHLETICS 
Poll ranks Irish fifth in the U.S. 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 

Notre Dame was recently ranked l"ifth among Div. I schools for student-athletes by the National Collegiate Seouting Assoication. The Irish werP 12th overall in the sixth annual NSCA poll. 
"It's a point of pridn," Senior Assoeiate Athletic: DirtH~tor John lleislcr said. "It's one thing for thn institution itsPif to talk about what wn do, but it's another to have somnone Plse r1H:ognize us and point out 
where we stand." 
The poll combines athlete graduation rates, acadnmie ran kings, and the U.S. Diroctor's Cup standings. Notre Dame was rankod 20th aca­
see N CSA/ page I 8 
.. 
BILL BRINK 
SPORTS EDITOR 
I doubt the Irish pull a Tampa Bay and follow a terrible season with a great one, but they will make tangible progress. 
Robert Hughes and Armando Allen, behind a bigger offensive line, will lead an effective run game. Neither will star, but Hughes will get the majority of the carries and produce both yardage and touch­downs. Jimmy Clausen is healthy and has good options to throw to, but the passing game will take a few games to mature. Look for the air attack to mimic the last three games of last season once the of­fense settles. The secondary may strug­gle, but the linebackers and defensive line will anchor a solid defense. The middle of the defense -lan Williams, Maurice Crum Jr. and Brian Smith -will shut down op­posing offenses. 
PRDJICTIOII: 6-6. BOWL LOSS 

lT!~*-~~~
~ part two of the important lesson that expe­
/ rience counts in college football. While , last year the Irish started a freshman at quarterback (Jimmy Clausen), running back (Armando Allen) and wide receiver. (Duval Kamara), not to mention an overall inexperienced offensive line, this year's squad features players who all have a year of big-time football under their belts. With six very winnable games, including one against a rebuilding Michigan team, the Irish have a great chance to turn things around this year. Pitt and Michigan State showed their weaknesses on Satur­day, meaning the Irish have a chance to win a good number of the "coin-toss" games. With Southern Cal as the only clear loss, the Irish won't be the 11-1 Lou Holtz said, but will still be a solid team. 
I PRDJICTIOII: 9-3, OATOR BOWL WIN 
CHRIS HINE 
EDITOR-IN-cHIEF 
Everyone's favorite analyst, Lou Holtz, 
predicted Notre Dame to win 11 games ~ this season. However, I noticed that when ., he said that, he couldn't keep a straight _. face. Still, the notion that Notre Dame will ,. win a majority of its games this season is 
I 
anything but foolish. Why? A schedule as soft as a marshmallow combined with some key experience for some talented underclassmen, including quarterback 
. Jimmy Clausen. Last season, after coach 
I 
Charlie Weis benched him for the USC and Navy games, Clausen came back and had three solid starts to close out the year. There's no reason he can't be an ef­ficient passer who runs the offense capa­bly. As for the defense, the biggest chal­.. .. lenge for the front seven is stopping the 
run, something that proved difficult a year ago. That being said, there's too much
~ 

talent on both sides of the ball, and too easy of a schedule for the Irish not to in­1 crease their win total dramatically. 
PRDJICTIOII: 8-5, BOWL LOBS 
•

DAN MURPHY 
SPORTS EDITOR Michigan's weak showing in the first week gives Notre Dame a legitimate chance to win five of six out of the gates. The second half of the schedule gets tougher but a bit of confidence in a young team will keep the team from falling on their faces com­pletely. The offensive line is beefed up but after last year's numbers don't expect too much -Clausen will be picking plenty of grass out of that dirty, new hair-do flowing from his helmet. Pollsters may finally real­ize Notre Dame doesn't belong in a BCS bowl and the next generation of Irish stars will help in breaking the team's postsea­son drought that dates back to when most 
of them were still in Pull-ups. 
Tight end's season ends with surgery 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Editor 
Sophomore tight end Mike Hagone chose to have surgery on Aug. 22 to repair a slightly torn left anterior crueiate lig­ament (ACL) and will miss the 2008 season, Notre Dame said in a statement. 

Irish coach Charlie Weis said that 
Ragone tore the ligament running routes over the sum­mer. lie wanted to p I a y 


through it Mike Ragone and have it repaired at the end of the season, Weis said, but Ragone gery done now prior to the start of school would be best," Weis said. "The surgery was successful and Mike will spend the 2008 season rehab­bing to be ready for the 2009 season." 
told Weis  the knee  was  get­ 
ting worse.  
"Mike  came  to  me  and  
decided that having the  sur­ 

Ragone tore the same liga­ment wrestling in high school and missed his senior season at Camden High in N.J., 
Scout.com reported. 
Ragone played in 11 games last year and caught one pass for seven yards. Kyle Rudolph, a 6-foot-6, 252­pound freshman, is atop the latest depth chart. 
Rudolph graduated from Elder High School in Cincinnati, Ohio, where he had 11 touchdown catches in his senior year. He is the fastest of the Irish tight ends and has added about 20 pounds of muscle to his large 
frame in the past year. Rudolph is one of eight fresh­men on Weis's two-deep depth chart, but the only one who is currently slated to start. 
Junior Will Yeatman follows him. Ragone topped the depth chart after Yeatman was sus­pended from the team in the spring. Yeatman caught six passes for 37 yards last sea­son. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic. 










