
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
New ad 
• 

prermeres during first game 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 

The University asked millions of Irish football viewers what they would 'fight for' in a new television commercial that aired during Saturday's game cover­age on NBC stations across the country. 
Notre Dame will air a new two-minute spot, like the one seen this weekend, during each home game this season, associ­ate vice president of marketing Todd Woodward said. 
The commercials feature the University's "What Would You Fight For?" ad campaign, which was created last fall. The ad campaign is designed to inter­twine the University's athletic, Catholic and academic reputa­tions. 
"Most people know us as the Fighting Irish; most people know us as a Catholic university," Woodward said. But through the football broadcasts, Notre Dame is able to "shine a light" on aca­demics and research at Notre Dame. 
The ads showcase the rela­tionships between students and faculty members as well as the plethora of research opportuni­ties on campus -all while tying 
see NEW AD/page 6 
By)ENNMETZ News Editor 
The University's policy regarding smoking on campus has been updated to include a ban on smoking within 25 feet of the outside of any building. 
The change, according to a News and Information release, was approved on Aug. 26. 
The primary reasons for the revision are two-fold, Michael McCauslin, assistant director of Notre Dame Risk Management and Safety, said. 

University revises smoking policy 
Update bans lighting up within 25-foot perimeter to protect buildings, comply with ordinance 
alcohol. One person was cited near the stadium for posses­sion of marijuana and posses­sion of drug paraphernalia. 

Eleven custodial arrests were made for alcohol relat­ed offenses including public intoxication and disorderly conduct; those arrested were transported to the St. Joseph County Jail according to an e­mail received from Chapman on Monday. 
Twenty-two people were arrested inside the Stadium on Saturday, most for public intoxication, and those arrested were also transport-
see ARRESTS/page 4 


The new perimeter will help prevent the "influence or the entrainment of smoke within the building," he said. "Many of our buildings have pretty pow­erful intake systems for venti­lation, cooling and heating." 
These systems are oftentimes located on the service side of the building, the side that is frequently used as a smoking area, and there have been some incidents of smoke enter­ing buildings, McCauslin said. 
A second reason for the change of policy is to bring the University in line with a St. 
Joseph County ordinance that establishes a perimeter where smoking is prohibited around public buildings, he said. 
McCauslin said the county's ordinance also prohibits smok­ing within public buildings, restaurants and athletic ven­ues. The ordinance was put into effect in April of 2006. 
On campus, the Department of Risk Management and Safety was charged with investigating concerns regarding smoking near buildings. This change in policy brings the University "more into concert with the ordinance," McCauslin said, which "helps keep [regulations] consistent across St. Joe County." 
The revisions to the policy also incorporate requirements for Leaders in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certifications, McCauslin said, which are part of sustainable campus design. 
"Each building during the design and construction phase seeks LEED certification," he said. "We only have a small 
see SMOKING/page 6 


Authorities arrest 34 during first home game 
Public intoxication chiefcause ofdetainments 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT 
News Writer 
Police made 34 arrests on campus this weekend and ejected nine people from the stadium for alchohol-related violations, said Dave Chapman, the assis';ant direc­tor of the Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP). 
NDSP, working with Indiana State Excise Police, St. Joseph County Police and South Bend Police, issued 28 tickets to adults in the park­ing lot of the stadium for alcohol related offenses, such as providing a minor with 

ND Votes '08 receives enthusiastic response 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
Amid empty pizza boxes and pop cans, students crowded into the first floor lounge of the Colern an Morse Center Monday night for "Pizza, Pop and Politics: Race to the White House," an event sponsored by ND Votes '08. 
The seating was ;gone well before the starting time of 5 
p.m. and the standi.ng-room­only rear section of the lounge quickly filled to capacity. 
ND Votes '08 co-chairs Mallory Laurel and Christine Romero s'aid the goal of the event was to help educate prospective student voters about key issues as well as drum up enthusiasm for the election. 
"We have political respon­sibility to be involved in 'the political process and to be educated on the issues," Romero said. 
Laurel said the event's informal atmosphere and question and answer session picqued the interests of stu­dents. 
"This event has an infor­mal atmosphere," she said. "It's low key, and makes peo­ple feel more comfortable asking questions." 
As the high turnout showed, the event certainly appealed to a wide variety of students. Freshman Lincoln Robinson said he attended because he was "interested in what the speakers had to say." 
see ND '08/page 6 


SMC students return fron1 abroad 
Travelers readjust to life in South Bend; return to College community 
By KATIE KOTARAK 
News Writer 
As the fall semester gets underway, many well­traveled Saint Mary's stu­dents find themselves readjusting to campus life in South Bend after spending time abroad. 
According to Saint Mary's Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL), during the 2007-2008 academic year, 114 students partici­pated in the college's eight study abroad pro­grams in Australia, Austria, France, India, Ireland, Italy, South Africa and Spain. 
Junior Maureen Healy, 
see ABROAD/page 4 page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Why We Bake 
The other night, two guy friends observed ND women's spontaneous urge to bake. They noted that every so often we Domer-girls have a strange desire to return to tradition­al domestic ways. According to their 
Jess Shaffer 
theory, ND girls 
constantly fight 
homemaker Assistant 
stereotypes look­
Scene Editor 
ing to instead become success­ful in academia and/or in the career life after college. But every so often, we can't deny the cultural cliches ingrained into us from childhood. We must pick up the nearest whisk and come up with something sweet and savory to satisfy our Domestic Goddess longings. It's like those monkeys that were trained for space travel, every so often they just want to eat a banana and swing on trees for a while. 
I don't know if this assessment is completely fair, but it is at least quite interesting. From what I can tell, many loyal daughters of Notre Dame do have an atypical itch to bake once in a blue moon. I know I do. It's gratifying and mostly mind­less work, at least when you use Toll House. So it is true that we do have a sporadic tendency to bake. Why else would girls' dorm kitchens be so well equipped for said past time? 
The real question is why do we do it? Is it because we have a strange fear that if we abandon our tradi­tional housewife roles too much we will never achieve that "perfect fam­ily" image factored into our ten year plan? Maybe for some. Though that's reading a lot further into the matter than I think is reasonable. It's not like we also wear pearls and heels while pulling out brownies for our respective sweethearts. 
On my end, though I'm a poor example when it comes to anything traditionally domestic, I bake when necessity calls for it. Like for friends' birthdays. Honestly there isn't a more sincere or affordable way to celebrate special days than with homemade sweets. Or in a sim­ilar train of thought, baking is espe­cially good for bribery. Please move my furniture; I made cookies. Or help me write a paper; would you like some pie? Honestly no one needs the power of Wonder Woman or femme-hots when you have a killer cake recipe. Okay bad imagery there, but you get what I mean when I say that a "to-die-for" treat can do wonders. Or perhaps, baking is just a nice break from reading and equa­tion solving. It's comforting in its reminder of home-life when dorm living is getting you down. 
Unfortunately for us, baking seems to evoke every Domer girl stereotype there is. Insert joke here about baked goods making us overweight. Insert joke there about Saint Mary's girls finding the way to our loyal son's hearts through their stomachs. All distasteful generalizing aside, who really cares? The real question is what's there to complain about when you get a sweet treat fresh baked with love and care. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe 1 @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to editing errors, the graphic on the front page of the Sept. 8 issue ofThe Observer contained several mistakes. Walter Mondale visited campus in 1984, not 1884. Ed Muskie visited Notre Dame as a vice presidential candidate, not as a presidential candidate. The Observer regrets these errors. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 9, 2008 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE COLOR AND WHY? 


Bradley McDonald Sophomore O'Neill  David Zimmer Sophomore O'Neill  Hannah Ha Sophomore Welsh Pam  Patrick Martin Senior Pasquerilla Center  KC Hunt Senior Off-Campus  
"Emerald because it reminds me of  "Sherbert Orange because it's the only  "Cerulean because it is the most sought  "Yellow because it makes me happy.~·  "Pink. Duh!"  



the Emerald color that tastes after crayon in City in Oz. ,, like it sounds." the box. , 
Oregon man finds giant deadly lizard in back yard 
GRANTS PASS, Ore. -An Oregon man playing in the yard with his toddler sons captured a 6-foot-long lizard capable of killing pets and injuring humans. Ryan Nelson said he thought it was a crocodile when he first spotted the Nile monitor by the rose bushes. 
He was able to capture it and wrestle it into a large metal dog cage with the help of Dalton Brown from MB Reptiles, a pet store in Grants Pass. 
No report on missing lizards has been illed recent­ly with either the Josephine 



NICK PAXTON/The Observer 
The Notre Dame Marching Band rehearses inside the Loftus Arena during Monday's rainstorm. 
OFFBEAT 
fleeing. 
Fresno County sheriff's Lt. Ian Burrimond says 22-year­old Antonio Vasquez was found hiding in a field wear­ing only a T-shirt, boxers and socks after the Saturday morning attack. 
He says deputies arrested Vasquez after finding a wallet containing his ID in the ran­sacked house. 
The farmworkers told deputies the suspect woke them Saturday morning by rubbing spices on one of them and smacking the other with an 8-inch sausage. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
County sheriff's office or Grants Pass police. 
But officials say whoever lost the lizard should have immediately reported it because the Nile monitor's teeth and claws make it dan­gerous to pets and people. 
The lizard is now on dis­play at the pet store. 
Burglar rubs one with spices, hits another with sausage 
FRESNO, Calif. Authorities say they've arrested a man who broke into the home of two California farmworkers, stole money, rubbed one with spices and whacked the other with a sausage before 

IN BRIEF 
The Provost's Distinguished Women's Lecture, titled "The Idea of Black Culture," is to be given by Hortense Spillers, Gertrude Conaway Vanderbilt Professor of English at Vanderbilt University, at 5 
p.m. 
on Tuesday, Sept. 9 in the auditorium of McKenna Hall. This event is free. 

Altar server training will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart today at 8:30 

p.m. 
The training is mandato­ry for all servers. 


GreenND will hold an informal meeting Wednesday, Sept. 10, at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The Career Center will host the Fall Career Expo on Wednesday, September 10, in the Joyce Center from 4:00­
8:00 p.m. 
Army ROTC through the American Red Cross will sponsor a Blood Drive on Sept. 10 and 11 in the Grand Ballroom, LaFortune Student Center from 9:30 a.m. to 
2:30 p.m. Sign up online at www.givelife.org, sponsor code "irish," to schedule an appointment. Walk-ins are also accepted but those with appointments will be seen first and will take less time. Doners must be at least 17, weigh a minimum of 110 pounds and be in good gener­al health. Doners are asked to bring their donor cards or positive identification when they come to donate. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
LLI 
::z:: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
.... ~ 
..... 
6 •••
<C 
(.) 


...... 0 HIGH 67 HIGH 61 HIGH 73 HIGH 78 LOW 45 LOW 45 LOW 52 LOW 58 
Atlanta 87 I 69 Boston 83 I 59 Chicago 66 I 51 Denver 76 I 43 Houston 91 I 73 Los Angeles 78 I 65 Minneapolis 68 I 53 New York 81 I 67 Philadelphia 86 I 69 Phoenix 100 I 82 Seattle 71 I 52 St. Louis 71 I 57 Tampa 88 I 77 Washington 87 I 70 
Tuesday, September~), 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


SMC crime rates fall in past 3 years 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's crime rates have fallen over the past three years according to the annual report release.d by the Colllege. Saint Mary's Director or Security David Gariepy said the cam­paign to educate the student body about how to avoid be~ng a victim was one of the key fac­tors in lowering crime rates. 
"We provide information through programming; during orientation and throughout the year, which creates a better informed and more aware com­munity," Gariepy said. 
Security used campus-wide e­mails to alert students of any security threats. They also gave out a yearly safety brochure to. campus. 
"The brochure provides stu­dents, faculty, staff and others with an overview of the College's safety and security policies and crime statistics for the previous three years, 2005­2007," Gariepy said in an e­mail. 
According to the e-mail Gariepy sent to the student body, Saint Mary's had four 
burglaries, one car theft, and several alcohol referrals were given during the 2007-08 school year. Nu other major offenses were reported. 
Security is most effective when students know what serv­ices are available to them, Gariepy said, 
"Members must be aware of dangers, willing to report sus­picious activity and willing to also provide information to authorities when criminal or suspicious activity is viewed," Gariepy said. 
Saint Mary's security has focused on measures to prevent 'Crime, such as providing trans­portation for students who are at Notre Dame late at night. The van "Blinkie" runs for two hours after the trolley stops running, which is 11 p.m. dur­ing the week and 2:20 a.m. on the weekend. 
Security has also been requested to update their cam­era systems. 
"Technology upgrades are always being reviewed and addressed as needed," Gariepy said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
CLC discusses Task Force creation 
Frosh-0, event publicity also focuses ofmeeting 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 

The Campus Life Council dis­cussed the creation of various Task Forces for such issues as University-community relations, dorm issues and new student concerns during their first meeting of the year yesterday. 
Last year, the council formed three Task Forces: a Student Development Task Force, a Community Relations Task Force and a Campus Environment Task Force, stu­dent body president Bob Reish 
"We can be as broad as we want in making Task Forces," Reish said. 
Senator Gus Gari suggested the council continue to work on off-campus living issues and. pursue initiatives suggested by last year's Task Force, specifi­cally the creation of a Web site geared towards off-campus stu­dents with resources specifically for them. He also discussed holding a forum for students liv­ing off campus to address any concerns or questions these stu­dents might have. 
Gari also commented that he would like to see the CLC review the changes implement­ed at Frosh-0 this year. Gari added that the council mighf consider the amount of paper­work freshman receive In other CLC news: throughout the orientation +Related to the work of last process and find a way to better year's Task Force on sustain­organize the information new ability, Student Body Vice students President Grant receive, if and Schmidt suggested where possi~ the council look 
ble. "We can be as broad into reviewing 
Also related  as we want in mak­ sustainability  
to freshman orientation  ing Task Forces,  issues on campus and in dorm life,  
issues, Reish  especially in light  
said new stu- Bob Reish  of the upcoming  
dents  might  Student Body President  Notre  Dame  

not receive sufficient information about opportunities in the South Bend area. Providing "some type of [uniform] guide" may be helpful, he said. 
Another point of discussion was addressing the posting and communication of various club, dorm, SAO and other campus events that students should be aware of. Father Pete McCormick, rector of Keough Hall, said he feels the current Agenda calendar system in place is underused and the council could look into either "reinventing" the Agenda sys­tem or moving to another cen­tral calendar system. Gari noted Google Calendars -part of the University's new integration of Google Apps with student online accounts -might provide a solution for this. 
Forum on sustain­
ability on Sept. 24. 
+Sister Denise Lyon, rector of McGlinn Hall said she has heard from some of her hall staff that security at the Ilesburgh Library should be addressed. Students do not always feel comfortable study­ing at the library, and "don't feel safe in the stairwells," she said. 
+Senator Catherine Flynn said she would like to see the council address the inequalities of furniture and other amenities between dorms. She specifically noted complaints that Duncan Hall, the newest dorm on cam­pus, has significantly higher quality amenities than older dorms. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 


,/All returning ND & St. Mary's undergraduates eligible ,/Four and one-half week study in London ,/M[id session study/travel to Paris, Normandy, Belfast, or Amsterdam ,/Earn 6 credit hours ,/Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 
Information Sessions for 2009 & 2010 Programmes 

~ e t 1, 

11:45 am to 12:30 pm-138 DeBartolo and 

5:00 pm to 6:00 pm -136 DeBartolo 
Applications are available at 305 Brownson Hall or on-line at W\Vw.nd.edu/"""sumlon 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 9, 2008 
Associate Director of Global in my head first. After seven and Education Dr. Alice Siqin Yang a half months of being away

Abroad 

said she was pleased with the from America, it was quite a continued from page 24 smooth transition abroad stu­shock," said junior Jenny 
dents are making to their lives Hoffman, who studied in Rome. who went to Seville, Spain, dur­back on campus. Junior Laura ing the fall of her sophomore "I think adjustment Morris said her year, said studying abroad was a has been great. No "It has been such a time abroad great opportunity one said helped her
blessing to come back 
to fine-tune her they had develop a deep­Spanish. a huge to Saint Mary's -a er appreciation
"After being abroad, I 
"I am so fortu­problem supportive of the Saint nate to have had am more thankful of with re­Mary's commu­
community that 

the opportunity to the professors at entry cul­nity.
allows me to share

enhance my t u r e "After being
SMC. They make
understanding of shock. my experiences and abroad, I am the Spanish lan­themselves available Students more thankful of
continue to grow." 

guage and cul­·to {students] and are are more the professors at ture, as well as mature SMC. They make
concerned with our
explore many dif­and inde­Jenny Hoffman themselves ferent parts of the individual prog~ess." pendent, junior available to [stu­world," she said. and they dents] and are. "This experience, proved to concerned with
Laura Morris 
along with my their parents they our individual progress," Morris
junior
Spanish and busi­could do it," Yang said. ness majors, will said. Hoffman also said going hopefully help me After returning to abroad has allowed her to see in my future career." the United States, students are Saint Mary's in a new light. 
For the students returning to often taken aback by the over­"It has been such a blessing to campus this semester, CWIL whelming familiarity of their come back to Saint Mary's -a hosted a "Welcome Back" party surroundings. supportive community that during the second week of class­"Flying straight from Rome to allows me to share my experi­es. The get-together gave stu­Philadelphia and stepping off ences and continue to grow," she dents a chance to discuss their the plane, I was instantly able to said. time abroad. share stories and read every sign, understand address concerns of reverse cul­every conversation around me, Contact Katie Kotarak at ture shock. and converse without translating kkotarO 1 @nd.edu 
contact NDSP at 574­631-5555 or by using

Arrests 
a call box in one of continued from page 1 the parking areas if you see unruly or ed to the county jail. unlawful behavior." In addition to the "Don't let alcohol arrests, two people get in the way of had to be transported your safety or fun or 
to  a  keep  you  
I  o c  a  I  f  r  o  m  
hospital  "Don't let alcohol  enjoying a  
due to intoxica­tion. After  get in the way of your safety or fun or keep you  great foot­ball game n e x t Saturday  
t h e game, a I o c a I  from enjoying a great football  when the Iris.h take on the  
man was  game next  Wolverines  
arrested f o r  Saturday."  0 f Michigan,"  
assault­ing an S D S U  Dave Chapman assistant director  he said. H e warned  
fan, and  NDSP  students to  
a  "be respon­ 
woman  sible  for  

was arrested near your conduct" and said Main Circle for public that "underage intoxication and pos­drinkers will be arrest­session of marijua­ed on campus and at na. tailgate parties." 
Chapman urged those attending Notre Dame football Contact John-Paul Witt games to "please at jwittl@nd.edu 


p 
rtunit kee s kn I " 

All those cynics out there say opportunity only knocks once. Of course that's because they never \Norked here with us. That's vvhy GE V·/OS named one of the Best Places to Launch a Career by BusinessWeek in 2007. We invite you to explore opportunities at GE in engineering, finance, manu­facturing, sales and marketing, human resources, or information technology, 
www.gecareers.com 

. imagination at work 




WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 9, 2008 CoMP[LED FROM THE Onsr:RVER'S Wl RE SERVJcrs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL !NEWS 
Civilian casualties from raid rise 
KABUL, Afghanistan -The bodies of at least 10 children and many more adults cov­ered in blankets and white shrouds appear in videos obtained by The Associated Press on Monday, lending weight to Afghan and U.N. allegations that a U.S.-led raid last month killed more civilians than the U.S. reported. 
The sounds of wailing women mixed with the voices of men shouting inside a white­walled mosque in the western village of Azizabad, where an Afghan government com­mission and U.N. report said some 90 civilians -including 60 children and 15 women ­were killed. 
The two grainy videos, apparently taken by cell phones, showed bodies lying side-by-side on the mosque floor, covered by floral-pat­terned blankets and black-and-white check­ered shawls. One young boy lay curled in a fetal position; others looked as though they were asleep. One child had half its head blown off. 
Three convicted in bombing attempt 
LONDON -Three British Muslims with ties to Pakistan were found guilty Monday of con­spiracy to murder in a terrorist bombing cam­paign but jurors failed to reach a verdict on whether they plotted to blow up multiple trans-Atlantic airlinen: with liquid explosives disguised as soft drinks. 
The failure to get convictions on the more serious charges was a major setback to the British government, which has struggled to put suspected terrorists behind bars with intelli­gence from multiple c01mtries. 
NATIONAL N EWSi 
U.S. to pull 8000 troops from Iraq 
WASHINGTON -President Bush plans to keep U.S. troop levels in Iraq near their current level through the end of the year and will pull home about 8,000 U.S. troops by February when the next president will be in charge of wartime decision-making. 
Ifsecurity in Iraq keeps improving, Bush says, "additional reductions will be possible in the first half of 2009." 
The president's decisions amount to perhaps his last major troop strategy in a war that has come to define his presidency. 
He was to announce the details in a speech Tuesday, the text of which was released in advance by the White House. 


Detroit mayor evic:1:ed from mansion 
DETROIT -Detroit's mayor has a deadline for moving out of the city's official mayoral resi­dence now that he has pleaded guilty and is resigning. 
Officials say Kwame Kilpatrick, his wife and three sons are expected to be out of the city's Manoogian Mansion by midnight on Sept. 18. Kilpatrick also has until that day to vacate his City Hall offices. 
City Council President Ken Cockrel Jr., who is set to take over as mayor Sept. J 9, says Kilpatrick told him Monday he'd have no trouble meeting the deadline. 
LOCAL NEWS 

6 children escape apartment fire 
INDIANAPOLIS -A mother tossed several children to waiting neighbors as a fire spread in their third-story apartment in Indianapolis. 
The fire broke out about 7:15 a.m. Monday at the Bradford Square apartments on the city's east side. Six children in all, ranging from 23 months to 13 years old, escaped from the apartment without injuries. 
Firefighters arrived in time to help the moth­er down a ladder. It took crews about 10 min­utes to bring the fire under control. 

Ike turns west, avoids Florida Keys 
Hurricane, downgraded to a category 1 storm, still may hit Gulf Coast states 
Associated Press 
KEY WEST, Fla. ­Residents in the Florida Keys breathed a sigh of relief Monday as a fierce Hurricane Ike turned west on a path away from the low-lying island chain. But Gulf Coast states watched anxiously to see if the storm was gunning for them instead. 
Forecasters at the National Hurricane Center warned that, after passing into the Gulf of Mexico sometime Tuesday night, Ike could make landfall in the U.S. over the weekend near the Texas-Louisiana border, possibly not ·far from Houston. 
Texas Gov. Rick Perry pre-declared disasters in 88 counties to aid storm preparation and put 7,500 National Guard members on standby. 
In Louis.iana, where thousands remain without power after Hurricane Gustav hit last week, Gov. Bobby Jindal urged resi­dents to start stockpiling food, water, batteries and other supplies. The state also was readying shelters and making plans for trains, buses and planes in case a coastal evacuation is called later in the week. 

"It is still too early to be evacuating certainly, but it should remain inside, and it appears it all will be hurricane ruin or not, is not too early to be mak­tourists should wait for the OK." there's financial ruin." ing sure you've got food weekend to return. Businesses were not as Dietrich said the and water and batteries. Roughly 20,000 tourists cavalier. It was the second Croissants de France bak­It's not too early to be left over the weekend time in a month vacation­ery would be lucky to tally checking your car," Jindal when it looked like Ike ers left en masse. Tourists $300 in sales for the week­said. could make a direct hit. also cleared out of the Keys end. They usually bring in 
With the storm on a new Many storm-hardened last month ahead of more than $6,000 each day track, Keys officials let an locals just rode out the Tropical Storm Fay, and of an average weekend evacuation order expire hype the way they usually their departure means a with no storm looming, she Monday. By late afternoon do -drinking. Key West hit to the bottom line. said. Ike had weakened to a residents are a hardy Officials estimate tourists Monroe County Mayor Category 1 storm, and a bunch, generations of spend about $17 5 a day in Mario Di Gennaro said he hurricane warning for the whom have lived through the Keys. With some didn't regret telling tourists island chain was discontin­storms. They typically take 20,000 having fled for Ike, and residents to get out of ued. a wait-and-see stance. that's about $3.5 million town ahead of Ike, though 
Ike is still supposed to "Us folks have lived here for each day they're gone. he acknowledged that such deliver heavy rain and for years. We worry but we "I think they called the orders are costly. He esti­wind, and authorities sug­always think it will be OK," guns out a little too soon. mated businesses through­gested residents who had said 80-year-old Barbara They killed business," said out the Keys lost about $10 left stay away until Kellner while walking her Deborah Dietrich, the man­million because of evacua­Wednesday. They said dog. "And we see the ager of a nearly empty tions for Tropical Storm those who stayed behind weather report today, and bakery. "Whether we have Fay last month. 

RUSSIA 
. 

Medvedev pledges Georgia withdraw 
with Medvedev in Moscow in an effort of a cease-fire agreement last month. 
Associated Press 

to salvage the cease-fire that ended The short war between Georgia and 
MOSCOW -Russian President last month's war between Russia and Russia has turned into a critical event Dmitry Medvedev pledged Monday to Georgia. in the post-Cold War world, as Russia withdraw Russian troops from key Questions remained whether the asserts its new economic and military areas of Georgia after 200 European Russians would follow through in clout and the West struggles to Union monitors are deployed later this totally pulling troops from regions sur­respond. month, part of a revised cease-fire rounding the disputed territories of Sarkozy flew to Moscow for meet­agreement to end conflict in the South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Russia ings with Medvedev to try to salvage region. has already recognized the two the Aug. 12 deal, which ended a con­
Georgia President Mikhail regions as independent and Medvedev flict that saw Georgian forces attack­Saakashvili countered by stressing said that decision would not be ing South Ossetia and Russia then that any final settlement with Russia rescinded. invading and routing Georgia's mili­must respect Georgia's territorial Still Russia's pledge, announced by tary. integrity. Medvedev after more than four hours Georgia and many Western nations 
Saakashvili was speaking alongside of talks with Sarkozy, appeared to be a complained that Russia had failed to French President Nicolas Sarkozy, who concession to international demands withdraw troops and follow through flew to Tbilisi Monday after meeting that Russia fulfill pledges made as part on other earlier pledges. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 9, 2008 
Sinoking 
continued from page 1 
handful of buildings right now 
that are going to meet it, but it 
is something all new buildings 
will incorporate." 
After campus-wide notifica­
tions of the policy are released, 
the new perimeter will begin to 
be enforced, McCauslin said. 
The Department of Risk Management and Safety is not the office that will handle viola­tions or consequences of smok­ing in prohibited areas, he said 
The department "acts as a Iinder of fact," McCauslin said. "We perform the investigation, determine the causes, the effects." 
He said his oflice will investi­gate smoking complaints and refer the information gathered to whom it applies in each indi­vidual circumstance -in the case of a student,_ information will most likely be referred to the rector. he said, and the res­idence hall's internal policy regarding violations will take over from there. 
"We get accurate information and share that with the appro­priate person, and then those branches of the University use their own processes," McCauslin said. 
The University !irst adopted a policy about smoking on cam­pus in 1992, after a committee comprised of faculty, staff and students that dealt with envi­ronmental issues reviewed information about smoking and the health concerns of second­hand smoke, McCauslin said. 
This first policy prohibited smoking in all campus build­ings, he said, with few excep­tions, like private offices and dormitory rooms. 
Not long after this initial poli­cy was established, these exceptions wnre removed, and tho poli(:y was left unchanged for about ten years, he said. 
The policy continuos to pro­hibit the saln, distribution and advertisement of tobacco prod­ucts on campus as well as smoking in all University build­ings. 
According to the News and Information release. the policy regarding smoking as well as instructions for filing com­plaints will be made available online for students, faculty and employees of the University. 
Smoking cessation programs for faculty and stan· through the Office of !Iuman Hesources, as well as programs for students through the Offices of Alcohol and Drug Education will contin­ue to be made available upon request. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

viewers -Martin Sheen. 
Sheen, an actor and self­
New Ad 
described human rights continued from page 1 activist, is the University's most 
recent Laetare Medal recipient. the "fights" going on at Notre "I was talking to [Associate Dame to the University's foot­Vice President] Father Jim ball heritage, Woodward said. McDonald, and said 'boy, 
The ads also attempt to [Sheen] would be a great nar­"show the real world effect of rator,"' Woodward said. "I do research at Notre Dame," hope people recognize his Woodward said. voice." 
The most recent ad explained Woodward said the the work of 2008 graduate University strives to create 
Pablo Nava and  spots  that  
his fight for improved stan­dards of living  "We expect people to say, 'Wow, I didn't  "make alumni proud" while telling other  
in Mexico.  know that was the  sports and Irish  
In the ad, Nava narrates  kind of work going on  fans something new about the  
the  storyline  at Notre Dame."'  University.  
that led him to  "We  expect  
his current work, stating the average worker in  Todd Woodward associate vice president of marketing  people to say, 'Wow, I didn't know that was the kind of work  

Mexico works 12-hour shifts and is paid two dollars an hour. 
"I knew I wanted to help the people of Mexico," Nava said in the ad. 
Nava also won Notre Dame's Social Venture Competition and started his own company, Por Fin Nuestra Casa, which takes unused shipping containers and converts them into small, four-walled homes complete with electricity and running water. 
Of the remaining five com­mercials scheduled to air this season, four will feature stories like Nava's, while one will focus on the importance of voting, Woodward said. 
This year's commercials also feature a familiar voice to many American television 
going on at Notre Dame,"' Woodward said. 
Prior to the "What Would You Fight For?" campaign, the University produced one­minute spots working with an outside ad agency. 
Starting last fall, though, the University began to work with NBC to create the spots as part of the contract between the University and NBC that gives NBC exclusive rights to broad­cast all home games. 
"We work directly with NBC for over six months to produce the six spots," Woodward said. The University receives help from NBC at a "very inexpen­sive" rate. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
ing on the fact that there 
have been very few female



ND '08 

candidates for national roles continued from page 1 like president and vice-pres­
ident. Professor Jack Colwell of Professor Matt Storin, also the Gallivan Program in of the Gallivan Program, Journalism, Ethics and concluded the discussion Democracy opened the dis­with a talk on the media cussion with an and its influ­overview of the ence on this 
campaign sea­"The viewer ratings and past 
son thus far elections.
[for the conventions] 
and a discus­Storin said sion of the were high than the modern Democratic and 'American Idol."' technology of Republican today is hav­conventions. ing a "tangi­
Jack Colwell 

Colwell said he ble effect" on was amazed by professor elections, 
the American 
public's enthu­

siasm about the race for the 
White House. 

"The viewer ratings [for 
the conventions] were high­
er than 'American Idol,"' 
Colwell said. 

Political science professor 
Christina Wohlbrecht dis­
cussed how gender has 
become a major theme in 
this year's campaign. 
"We know little about how 
voters respond to fema:Je 
candidates," she said, focus-
Arden's father has died 
suddenly, and her mother 
especially 
b e c a u s e blogs help spread the news faster, and to more people, than ever before. 
The event was also used by NO Votes '08 as a plat­form to talk about the data­base that they are compil­ing. The database is going to be used to help students register to vote, and assist in absentee ballot casting. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


has been deployed to Iraq. Now, Arden n1ust say good~bye to the hmne she loves, and to the life she misses. 
6111 ~ 
RHC8 :?.::... .:;;~ 

www.randomhouse.com/teens 

----~--~------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, September 9, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECJ~P 

tacks 
Dow 11,510.74 +290.43

.Jones 
Up: Same: Oown: Composite Volume: 
2,182 88 1!,208 3,129,084,717 


NASDAQ 2 269.76 +13.88 NYSE . '~t~Yw; ~~~BIIIIl~:ifi~~fJJ~~~ S&P 500 1,267.79 +25.48 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 'Wi ~I;Eli;,gA~, ...J:6Z.600 FTSE 100 (Lona'on} 5:446.30 +205.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE FANNIE MAE (FNM) -89.63 -6.31 0.73 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +4.32 +0.94 22.68 FREDDIE MAC (FRE) -82.75 -4.22 0.88 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +2.07 +2.57 126.99 
asuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.147 0.00 3.660 13-WEEK BILL +1.83 +0.03 1.670 30-YEAR BOND ;0.16 -0.007 4.269 5-YEAR NOTE +1.40 +0.04 2.960 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.11 106.34 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.30 802.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.45 83.650 
Exch nge Rates YEN 107.5150 EURO 0.7094 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0668 BRITISH POUND 0.5696 



IN BRIEF 
City switches to digita}.()nly broada9ing· 
WILMINGTON, N.C.-With th(i flick of an 8­foot switch at midday Monday, this Southern city became the first marmt in the U.S. to make the change to digital-only broadcasting. 
The switch wasn't r,eally connected to anything, but it did serve as a centerpiece for a downtown ceremony at noon EDT marking the moment that commercial TV broadcasters voluntarily turned off their old-fashioned .. inefficient analog signals. 
Wilmington volunteered to be a canary in a digi­tal coal mine -a test market for the national con­version to digital broadcasting. 
The rest of the nation's full-power television sta­tions won't be convmting until Feb. 17, 2009, a date set by Congress. 
"This switch is the biggest change in television since it went from black and white to color back in the 1950s," Federal C[)mmunications Commission Chairman Kevin Martln told the ceremony at his­toric Thalian Hall in downtown Wilmington. 
Mortgage rates falll, homeowners happy 
WASHINGTON -Mortgage rates fell sharply Monday, as investors reacted to the government's takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. And that's exactly what homeowners like Jim Chereskin had been w'l.iting for. 
Chereskin, who live!: in Naperville, Ill., took out an adjustable-rate loan in 2003 and has been worrying about how much his mortgage pay­ments will rise once the loan resets. to market rates in about 18 mon1hs. 
"I don't want to have to worry about it any­more," said Chereskin. who expects to switch to a fixed-rate loan as soon as this week. That way, he said, "I can sleep at night and I'm good." 
The government's takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -mortgage titans that own or guar­antee about half of all U.S. mortgages-will help borrowers who had been nelfously waiting for the best ti_me to get [)Ut of the adjustable-rate mortgages they took out during the housing boom. 
But it will do little to stem the dramatic rise in foreclosures. And so Jar, the government's other programs to assist distressed borrowers in refi­nancing have had minimal impact. And that has consumer advocates calling on Fannie and Freddie to do more. 
Stocks up after mortgage takeovers 
Government takeovers ofFannie, Freddie unlikely to relieve homeowners' woes 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Stocks 
rallied Monday as 
investors placed bets that 
a recovery in the financial 
and housing sectors is 
more likely to occur fol­
lowing the U.S. govern­
ment's move to bail out 
mortgage giants Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac. 
The Dow Jones industrials 
gained nearly 300 points. 

The announcement 
Sunday that the Treasury 
Department was seizing 
control of the companies, 
which own or back about 
half the nation's mortgage 
debt, brushed aside 
investors' long-simmering 
worries that the pair 
would be felled by a spike 
in bad mortgage debt. 

Investors were hoping that the plan to inject up to $100 billion in each of the government-chartered mortgage financiers could not only help lower mort­gage rates but perhaps help buoy the overall economy. The move could help banksfeel more open to write new mortgages and to refinance existing mortgages at lower rates, offering a possible lifeline to consumers struggling with increasing payments. 
The move appeared to 
have an immediate sooth­
ing effect on mortgage 
rates. The national aver­
age interest rate for a 30-confidence in sectors like rose 289.78, or 2.58 per­against other major cur­
year fixed rate mortgage financials and home cent, to 11,510.74 after rencies, while gold prices 
dropped 0.3 percentage builders, it doesn't imme­being up nearly 350 rose. 
point to 6.04 on Monday, diately aileviate worries points in the early going. Common shares of 
according to financial about other areas of the Broader stock indicators Fannie Mae and Freddie 
publisher HSH Associates. economy. Still, he said the were also higher. The Mac will be made virtual­
But the government's move was far more wel­Standard & Poor's 500 ly worthless by the plan, 
steadying hand for two come than a collapse of index advanced 25.48, or which will dilute the 
institutions that many Fannie Mae or Freddie 2.05 percent, to 1,267.79, stock. But the companies' 
Wall Street observers had Mac. and the Nasdaq composite shares had already suf­
said were simply too big "It saves Armageddon index added 13.88, or fered huge declines in the 
to let fail isn't likely to from happening," he said. 0.62 percent, to 2,269.76. last year so many share­
alleviate troubles for "If you think about it, this Bond prices edged high­holders have already 
homeowners who have helps the financials, this er in late trading on endured the majority of 
fallen far behind on their helps the housing market. Monday. The yield on the their losses. 
mortgages. Tech took a huge hit last benchmark 10-year Fannie Mae shares 
Dave Rovelli, managing week. Does this really Treasury note, which plunged $6.34, or 90.1 
director of U.S. equity affect tech? I don't think moves opposite its price, percent, to 70 cents, 
trading at Canaccord so." fell to 3.68 percent from while Freddie Mac fell 
Adams in New York, said At the close, the Dow 3.69 percent late Friday. $4.21, or 83 percent, to 
that while the plan boosts Jones industrial average The dollar was higher 89 cents. 

WaMu's Killinger ousted as CEO 
Associated Press will not require the company to raise plummeted, sparking an outcry from 
capital or increase liquidity, WaMu said. shareholders. 
NEW YORK-Washington Mutual WaMu shares fell 15 cents, or 3.5 per­The board's splitting of the CEO and 
Inc., ravaged by losses from sour mort­cent, to close at $4.12, after dropping as chairman roles in June was an effort, at 
gages, removed Kerry Killinger as chief much as 24 percent earlier in the ses­the urging of shareholders, to improve 
executive of the nation's largest savings sion. Its shares have fallen 90 percent corporate governanee. At WaMu's 
and loan on Monday, adding him to the since early July of last year, right before shareholder meeting in April, a non­
growing list of banking bosses ousted by the rapid erosion in the credit markets binding resolution calling for the instal­
their boards. began. lation of a non-employee as board chair­
Killinger, 59, is being replaced by Alan Battered by rising mortgage delin­man passed with 51.5 percent of the 
H. Fishman, the former president and quencies and defaults, and by the sink­votes. chief operating officer of Sovereign Bank ing value of its mortgage portfolio, But Killinger-who received compen­and president and CEO of Independence WaMu has -lost nearly 70 percent of its sation valued at $14.4 million in 2007­Community Bank. market value this year. held on to his post as CEO, even as the 
Also Monday, WaMu said that it has Killinger, who was stripped of his list of other top banking executives entered into a memorandum of under­ehairman title in June, became CEO of shown the door eontinued to grow. standing with the Office of Thrift the Seattle-based thrift in 1990 and built After backing Killinger for so long, the Supervision concerning aspects of its WaMu into one of the corn1try's largest board's sentiment finally changed. operations. WaMu has committed to banks. But with a heavy focus on sub­"The board and Kerry mutually· provide the OTS with an updated, multi­prime and option adjustable-rate mort­agreed that this was the right time for year business plan and forecast for its gages -the types of mortgages at the Kerry to leave the company," said earnings, asset quality, capital and busi­heart of the housing bust -WaMu's spokesman Brad Russell in an e-mail to ness segment performance. The plan losses began to mount and its shares The Assodated Press. 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, September 9, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Selfishness vs. self-sacrifice 
P.O. Box n9. Not« Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hin~ 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: D~irdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Merz 
VlliWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
. 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-747I fAX (574) 63I-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(S74) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-454 I obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 63 I-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-S303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contem, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not nea:ssarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lt·tters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiow "garding Observer po/ici(s should be di"ctrd to Editor in C'hiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
't11~ ()h~rvcr (USI1S ~99 2-4000) 1s published Mmulny dmmgh Friday cJu.:ept durinp; cx:~m and vacttinn ('triud.~. A ~~~~~rtption w Thr Ob~rver iK $100 for one ac:ll:ie:mk ycu;$55furtU\Ckllldler. 
The Observer 11 pLiblishcd Jt POSTMASTER OH South Dining ll.tll Send .tddrc.ss corrections to: 
Notte Da.mc, IN 4655(..-0779 ThcUhsc-m:r 
l'criodi..:-11 post~c ro~.iU at Nurre Dun~ P.O. Box779 
and addhit>nal nlJiling offica. CJ2<t South Dining Hall 
None D;~.Q;IC, IN 46)%-0n9 
·n1c Obsc~r is a lilcmhcr nl rhc A.ssoc:i.ued r~. Alltcpnl(tm."'itm rights arc rtsc:rvcd. 

As I watched John McCain give his acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention, I was struck, not just by this man's story of exceptional strength in the face of fierce adversity, but by how drasti­cally it differed Christina from that of his 
Pesavento
rival. To be fair, Barack Obama's rise to political Right fame is inspira­Winging It tional as well. The difference, though, lies here: One man has clearly dedicat­ed his life to serving his country; the other. not so much his country as him­self. 
Obama's life journey reads like a fairytale. The self-described "skinny kid with a funny name" that later becomes the first African American to be nominated by a major party for the office of the presidency. And there are surprisingly few steps in between: Columbia graduate, community organ­izer, Harvard Law graduate, lawyer, constitutional law lecturer, state sena­tor, U.S. senator. 
Yet what troubles me about Obama is that he has done nothing that sepa­rates him from the crowd, at least before gaining prominence by speak­ing at the 2004 Democratic National Convention. Nothing in his background suggests that he has gained the wis­dom necessary to lead a nation, let alone the most powerful nation on earth. Never has his judgment been put to the test, nor has he truly had to sacrifice his own well-being for the sake of others. In fact, most of his life seems to have a particularly self-inter­ested slant. 
And what does he have to show for it? Well. he graduated from two cele­brated institutes of higher education. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
W.ASHINGTON 
IS NOT WORKING! 
He was the first African American edi­tor of the Harvard Law Review. He helped draft a few insignificant pieces of legislation as a state senator. Oh, and prior to that, he wrote an autobi­ography. Again, personal gain is the focus here. 
Now I'm not saying that there is any­thing inherently wrong with the pur­suit of self-interest; in fact, our nation was built upon it. It is embodied in the proverbial American Dream. Millions of immigrants risked everything for a glimpse of Lady Liberty lifting her lamp, guiding them to the shores of a land where freedom and opportunity reign, in search of a better life for themselves and their families. Furthermore, our continued dedication to free-market capitalism has resulted in unfathomable progress by channel­ing selfish impulses toward the better­ment of society as a whole. 
Finding a politician who harbors no narcissistic tendencies is an extreme rarity, especially when it comes to presidential elections. Anyone who volunteers to assume the role of leader of the free world must think rather highly of him or herself. But this year is different. This year, we have a can­didate who nearly sacrificed every­thing for his country. And, like he says, he has the scars to prove it. 
Which brings me back to the speech. Sure, McCain is no great orator; Obama's speaking style far outshines his rival's. After getting off to a shaky start, however. McCain's account of his time as a prisoner of war in Vietnam was truly moving. He didn't need to prop up vacant promises and hollow achievements with fancy rhetoric because his actions speak loudly enough to stand alone. 
There was a time in his life, McCain admits, when he didn't think there was a cause more important than himself. 
WASHINGTON 
WE BROKE IT...
1S'BROKEN! 
\ 
But five years of imprisonment and torture taught him otherwise. When he vows to fight for his country for as long as he draws breath, there is no question his promise is genuine. Throughout his many years as a sena­tor, McCain's devotion to America and its people, rather than to his party or to himself, remains just as steadfast as ever. 
On the other hand, when Obama claims that this election "has never been about me; it's about you," I can't help but doubt his sincerity. This is a man who falsely claimed that his uncle helped liberate Auschwitz; who spoke at the Brandenburg Gate, where President Heagan demanded that Gorbachev "tear down this wall;" who tried to use a logo resem.bling the presidential seal during a roundtable discussion with Democratic governors; who announced his candidacy at the Old State Capitol where President Lincoln gave his famous "House Divided" speech. 
Talk about audacity. As syndicated columnist Charles Krauthammer asks, "Has there ever been a presidential nominee with a wider gap between his estimation of himself and the sum total of his lifetime achievements'?" The answer is no. 
Our country needs a hero. Not one who seeks to use the opportunities it offers for service of himself. but one who has sacrificed for an idea greater than himself, whose every waking moment is dedicated to serving his fel­low Americans. John McCain is that hero. 
Christina Pesavento is a junior American studies major. She can be contacted at cpesavent@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Joseph McMahon Dan Murphy Should the Dillon Pep Rally be 

John Tierney Greg Arbogast ,
rescheduled?
Graphics Scene 
Mary Jesse Analise Lipari 

Viewpoint Yes "Victory is a thing ofthe will." 
Lianna No 
Marshal Ferdinand Foch 

Brauweiler I don't care 
French author 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 9, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO 'fHE EDITOR 

1Visitors afforded enjoyable game day 
Last Saturday (Sept. 6) was our first time attending a Notre Dame football game. We just want to thank all the folks associated with the event for being so nice and helpful. From the parking lot attendants to the shuttle drivers and all the ushers at the stadium, everyone was most polite and hdpful. Actually, it started off campus when one of your photographers helped us with directions outside a South Bend store. Our San Diego State shirts were no impairment. 
Thank you again. 

Steve and Ginny Woods Noblesville, IN Sept. 8 

Get Clausen a 'bowl' cut 
In response to Ryan Bailey's letter, "Get thy ears lowered," (Sept. 8}, I couldn't care less whether or not Jimmy Clausen gets his hair cut. As long as he wins us games and leads our team to a bowl game, he could dye his hair pink for all I care. I will donate my $20 to Hannah and Friends and watch our team compete in a bowl game. I think it's a win-win. 
Matt Babcock junior Stanford Hall Sept. 8 

Football should learn from soccer 
This past Sunday evening, as I slogged through the security line at the Raleigh-Durham airport, I found myself weighted down by reflexive con­sideration of the bizarre and disappointing performance of Charlie and the Notre Dame football team from the day before. Just then, as if sent straight from "Wake Up the Echoes," an iridescent platoon of kelly green­and-blue clad lady athletes came bounding by my flank and, low and behold, it was the Notre Dame women's soccer team, fresh off the destruction of local pretenders to their throne, UNC and Duke. I told all of them within earshot that I was a Notre Dame alum and that we were all very proud of them and rooting for them to go all the way. I was struck by the matter-of-fact nature in which these women described how they had rolled over the vaunted Tar Heels and Blue Devils and I could see a confi­dence, poise and overt aura in this Notre Dame team that reminded me of the Notre Dame football teams of my youth. Such auras come from teams that annually reside at or near the top of the national rankings and play for or win the national title, it seems, every other year. 
We should all celebrate and congratulate the Notre Dame women's soc­cer team, for they embody all the ideals of our great University: excel­lence in athletics, academics and in life. Ironically, the Notre Dame women's soccer team has become the "Notre Dame football" of women's soccer, as Rockne himself once imagined it. Perhaps Charlie and his staff can study the women's soccer team tapes and how they do their business and learn what it means to "Play Like a Champion Today." 
John Chute M.D. Chapel Hill, NC Sept. 8 


Dude, where's my proportionality? 
Catholics comme:11ting on American politics often point out, correctly, that a faith­ful Catholic may only vote for a pro-choice politician if the following two criteria are satisfied: 1) The Catholic is voting for the politician in spite of the latter's support for permissive abortion policy, not because of it, and 2) There are "proportionate rea­sons" to support the pro-choice candidate over his rival. In other words, in the 2008 presidential election there must be some good quality that the pro-choice candidate 
(i.e. Barack Obama} possesses that is so good that it outweighs his support for abor­tion-on-demand. So once we've agreed that there are circumstances in which a Catholic may in goc'd conscience support pro-choice politicians, the next question is, how can this reasoning be applied to Barack Obama's candidacy? Is there a reason to support Obama that is so powerful that it outweighs his abortion-rights zealotry? 
As far as I can tell, the answer is no. 

Some supporters point to Obama's foreign policy judgment. Yet, one could argue that Obama's oppo~ition to the troop surge of the last year and a half was a pretty spectacular misjudgment on his part. And, anyway, it seems to me that no matter who is president, America's Iraq policy will be a gradual withdrawal over the next few years. 
Obamaniacs might rejoinder that Obama has a superior energy policy and that energy is the central economic and national security issue of our time. But Obama's tepidity towards nuclear power (among the "greenest" of energy sources} and off­shore drilling isn't Yery reassuring. 
Some people are enamored of "Obamanomics" (mostly because the word has a nice ring to it, I think}. But is a massive expansion of the federal government really all that attractive to Catholics who believe in subsidiarity (or even balanced budgets, for that matter}? 
Lastly, there's that intangible quality that Obama seems to possess. Isn't he the candidate of change and hope? Maybe he would be able, through the force of his personality, to usher in a new Era of Good Feelings, during which a united citizenry will root out all forms of injustice. But ifyou look at his actual record, you will see that he is actually a fairly typical career politician, unwilling to challenge the corrupt status quo in Chicago politics, unwilling to challenge the demagoguery of his own powerful local preacher (until, after many, many years, public opinion forced him to}, unwilling even to vote yes or no on many issues, instead choosing to vote "pres­ent." Ifhe didn't shake things up in Illinois or in the Senate, what evidence is there that he is an effective agent of reform? 
Perhaps there is a good that he would promote that would outweigh the great evil that he would perpetuate by protecting Roe v. Wade and otherwise expanding abor­tion "rights." But I have yet to hear what it is. The next time a Catholic Obama sup­porter says that abortion isn't the only issue in 2008, the correct response is, "Well, what selling point does Obama have that outweighs his moral blindness on abor­tion?" Good public speaking ability isn't enough. 
Gregory Barr 
seniOr 
Knott Hall Sept. 7 


r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­THE OBSERVER 
CENEpage 10 
Tuesday, September 9, 2008 

By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Ediror 
That tinw of yPar has come again. Notre Damn students are falling into a rhythm with tlwir classes, summer is putting out its last l"nw nlTorts of good weather. and it is time for the Actors from tho London Stage to grace Washington llall once again. This season they bring Shak1~speare's "The Winter's Tale," onn of Shaknspnarc's later roman­tie works with a tragic center, but a happy ending. 
Thn Actors from tlw London Stage are associatnd with the DeBartolo l'nrl"orming Arts Center, which serves as tlwir booking agnnt and home in the Unitnd States for thnir annual tour, but are actually housnd and work in London. In addition to their performances, they visit and teach elassps at universities. The actors hail from such companies as the Hoyal Shahspnare Company, the Hoyal National Theatre of Grnat Britain and Shaknspearn's Globe Theatre, and have performnd on stages in the West l~ncl and around the world. Since AFTLS performances do not usc a director, the actor's skill is on full display. 
Tlw AFTLS are recognized for their minimalist, but eiTnetivn. production styh While there are more than 25 char­acters in Shakespearn's original play, the company consists of only five actors. This ynar tlwy indudl) Erin Brode, Matthew Douglas. William Hoyland (best known for his Shakespeare, but also has appearnd in films such as "Gandhi," "Hell Boy" and "A Mighty Heart"), Hobert Mountford (anyone here in the fall of 2006 will rm:ognize him from "Hamlet"), and Eunice Hobnrts. 
The stage is kP.pt nearly bare; one of thn only snt piP.cns for their production 
The Winter's Tale 

of "Homeo arid Juliet" was a standard ladder to serve as the famous balcony. The actors remain on stage for the entire performance, sitting at the back if they are not performing. Props are also kept to a minimum; the swords in their 2006 production of "Hamlet" were sym­bolized by a glove on the actor's hand. The actors wear basic, functional, mod­ern clothing and simply add a small piece or prop to indicate the character they are portraying. 
The actors provide all of their own sound effects as well. In the 2007 pro­duction of "Macbeth," actors played sim­ple instruments behind their colleagues to create some of the play's eerier moments. With so few embellishments, the produc­tion is clean and centers on the acting and the language rather than the decoration. Sometimes it has its issues -there are so few environmental cues that a first time viewer of Shakespeare may get lost ­but to even the recently initiated it is an interesting new perspective. 
Not only do the actors create their environment onstage in front of the audi­ence, but they try to involve their audi­ence as much as possible. In several of the productions, the house lights are left high, the actors walk through the audi­ence to get to the stage, and on occasion the characters directly address the crowd. 
While "The Winter's Tale" is one of Shakespeare's less famous plays and not as infused into our pop culture as past selections, such as "Hamlet" and "Homeo and Juliet," don't let its unfamiliarity scare you away. It is filled with jealously, love and betrayal. "The Winter's Tale" straddles the line between comedy and tragedy. It is not as farcical and light as ''The Comedy of Errors" and a "Midsummer Night's Dream," dealing with violence and an ever-present sense of death, but neither is it as tragic as "Macbeth" and "Othello," ultimately 
ending joyously. 
When: Tuesday, Sept. 9-Thursday, 

"The Winter's Tale" 
Sept. 11 at 7:30 pm opens with Leonates, king of Sicilia, trying to
Where: Washington Hall 

convince his friend
Price: Students -$12 

Polixenes, king of Bohemia, to remain at
Faculty/Staff/Senior Citizens -$18 

his court for a longer
General Public -$20 

visit. In one last attempt, 
he sends his pregnant 
wife Hermione to try to persuade his friend to stay. But while she only speaks to Polixenes, Leonates believes she is too easily successful and accuses her of adultery, plotting to kill his friend. Polixenes escapes, but Hermione is imprisoned, where she gives birth to her daughter. Leonates orders the baby ­which he believes to be a bastard -to be killed. 


Though an oracle declares Hermione innocent and she finds an advocate in another lady of the court, Paulina, Leonates refuses to rescind his accusa­tion. Before anything can move forward, a servant announces that Leonates' son has died. This brings the king to his sens­es, but not before Paulina can announce to the court that Hermione has died. Meanwhile Antigonus, Paulina's husband charged with the killing of Hermione's daughter, finds himself unable to com­plete his task. Unfortunately, he ends up being chased by a bear (and later drowns in a storm), forcing him to abandon the baby after naming her Perdita. The play then passes through the next sixteen years, leaving in question Perdita's fate. 
AFTLS performances become more 

than a show; they arc a conversation with the audience. A rdreshing change from many Shakespeare performances, which turn the plays into true period pieces or lind other ways to embellish the stage, these productions feature nothing but Shakespeare's words and the actor's ability. The usual excellence of the com­pany, paired with the freshness of "The Winter's Tale" to most audience mem­bers, is a sure sign of a good show this week. 
Considering the usual minimalism of the Actors from the London Stage's pro­ductions, one can't but look forward to see how they handle one of Shakespeare's most famous stage direc­tions: "Exit, pursued by a bear." 
"The Winter's Tale" will run in Washington Hall from September 9 until September 11. To purchase tick­ets for these performances, contact the DPAC ticket office at 574-631-800. Tickets are $12 for students and $18 for faculty and staff. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Tuesday, September 9, 2008 
page 11 
By SZYMON RYZNER 
Scene Wrirer 
A wise man once said that the perfect country song possesses lyrics concerning "mama, trains, trucks, prison, and get­ting' drunk." "Around the Bend," Randy Travis' latest release, does not have that air of perfection, but an ode to KFC is present and readily available. 
Country music itself has often been a source of anger and frustration to music lovers. It is quite common within society to proclaim an eclectic taste but deny country a place within that listing. Despite a huge following in the south and Midwest, country has yet to gather as much steam. 
Handy Travis, hot off his series of Christian country releases, returns with his 17th studio album in 22 years of work. His first purely non -Christian album since 1999's "A Man Ain't Made of Stone," he has created another album of completely generic country music. Thfl turnaround for creating country albums seems dreadfully short, but that should not be used to diminish the value and quality of the muslc. The value and quality of the music instead should be the factors that affect the albums them­selves. 
Randy Travis was the first country music performer to have multi-platinum success. This led to widespread fame, 
Randy Travis 

Around the Bend Released by: Warner Bros. Recommended Tr.acks: "Dig Two Graves" and "Every Head Bowed." 

Photo courtesy of stereogum.com 

Country star Randy lravis has released his 17th studio album, "Around the Bend.'' Travis also spedalizes in Christian music. 

but a decline in his popularity in the 90's led him to try a different formula. His gospel records were popular, with some singles even breaking into the Billboard charts, but nothing could quite recapture the success he had previously enjoyed. Married to his longtime collaborator Elizabeth "Lib" Hatcher, Travis is clearly dedicated to his career and hoping to continue to entertain and create. Despite being a country musician, he has also collected a fair amount of acting credits throughout his career. 
Despite going as high as No. 3 on the Country Music Charts, "Around the Bend" provides neither particularly memorable singles nor a solid CD worth of tunes. The two released singles, "Faith In You" and "Dig Two Graves," also had very limited success, failing to break onto the charts. The album itself is traditional country, and makes for fan­tastic background music due to its circu­lar nature. Travis seems to have found a niche to fill -diehard fans will love the new album, and country fans will find enough within it to appreciate. It has a repetitive nature, but that is often a weakness in country music. The same instruments and variations on a theme provide limited variety and most enjoy­ment comes from the plethora of differ­ent country singers. 
For the majority of fans, this will be an enjoyable performance by Randy Travis filled with enough of the good stuff to 
satisfy. For the rest of those who 

happen to hear this album and aren't already fans, it is proba­bly best used as a coaster or bookend, or a way to impress that country Iovin' friend of yours. 
Fortunately for Travis, his career does not show any signs of slowing down, and his fans will no doubt appreciate this lat­est collection. 
Contact Szymon Ryzner at sryzner1@nd.edu 

SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
You 


page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 9, 2008 
MLB 

Lester's gem brings Red Sox to 112 game of Rays 
Huff's grand slam sparks seven-run sixth inning; helps Baltimore defeat Cleveland ending eight game losing streak 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Jon Lester pitched into the eighth inning, Jason Bay homered in a three-run first and the surging Boston Red Sox beat the Tampa Bay Hays on Monday night to move within a half-game of the struggling AL East leaders. 
Playing before their 456th straight regular-season sellout erowd, a new major league reeord, the Red Sox closed with­in a half-game of the division lead for the first time since July 23. 
Boston improved to 6-1 in its last seven games while Tampa Bay is 1-6 in that same stretch after losing its fourth straight. The Rays were shut out for the second consecutive day for the first time this year, having lost 1­0 at Toronto on Sunday. 
They dropped to 0-7 at Fenway Park this season and could fall out of first place on Tuesday night in the second game of the three-game series. The teams wrap up their season series with three games at Tampa Bay starting next Monday. 
Boston leads th~ majors with 14 shutouts. 
Lester (14-5) matched his sea­son high with nine strikeouts, accomplished in his no-hitter against Kansas City on May 19. He allowed six hits and three walks in 7 2/3 innings. 
With two outs in the eighth, Lester gave up a single to Ben Zobrist and a ground-rule dou­ble to Carlos Pena, putting run­ners at second and third. Jonathan Papelbon came in and struck out Rocco Baldelli, who fanned in all four at-bats. Papelbon finished up for his 36th save in 40 opportunities. 

Lester outpitched Edwin Jackson (11-10), who settled down after the three-run first and finished with six strikeouts while giving up eight hits and two walks in seven innings. Jackson had won six of seven decisions before his worst start of the season, a 9-3 loss to the New York Yankees last Wednesday in which he allowed six runs in 3 1-3 innings. 
Mark Kotsay, the first batter Jackson faced, started the rally with a walk and then scored on a one-out double by David Ortiz. Ortiz scored on a single by Kevin Youkilis, who was thrown out in a rundown between first and second. 
Bay followed with his sixth homer since being traded by Pittsburgh on July 31 and his 28th of the season. 
Before the game, Red Sox owners John Henry and Tom Werner, president Larry Lucchino and players greeted some of the 37,662 fans who attended the record-breaking sellout. Since the streak began on May 15, 2003, the total atten­dance at the 456 games is 16,336,192. 
The Cleveland Indians set the previous record from June 1995 to April 2001 at Jacobs Field. 


Baltimore 14, Cleveland 3 ting streak to 12 games. Choo that." 
It's been this kind of year for has reached safely in 28 Huff is close to having a Aubrey Huff: After missing two straight games since Aug. 25. career year; his best season games to attend the birth of his Baltimore trailed 3-2 before came with Tampa Bay in 2003, first child, he went 3-for-5 with sending 10 batters to the plate when he had 34 home runs a grand slam. in the sixth. After two walks and 107 RBis. 
Huff's fourth career slam and a single loaded the bases "We've been repetitive in capped a seven-run sixth with no outs, Fausto Carmona saying he's been a legitimate inning, and the Baltimore (8-6) struck out Lou Montanez. No. 4 hitter for us," Trembley Orioles ended an eight-game Pinch-hitter Oscar Salazar said. "He's just been real good, losing streak by defeating the then bounced a two-run single especially with guys on base." Cleveland Indians Monday to left, and Carmona was Jones hit a three-run homer night. removed after walking Brian and Hernandez added a two­
Back in the cleanup spot Roberts to reload the bases. run shot in the eighth, both off after welcoming a boy into the "Fausto was doing OK," Brendan Donnelly. world, Huff hit his 31st homer Cleveland manager Eric Wedge Orioles starter Garrett Olson and upped his RBI total to 102. said. "When he got to the sixth (9-7) allowed three runs and Last season he finished with 15 inning, it got away from him." eight hits in six innings. The home runs and 72 RBis. Speaking through a transla­left-bander was 0-2 with an 
"Last year was just one of tor, Carmona said: "A lot of 11.81 ERA in his previous four those years where everything times, it's been one inning starts. stunk. This is one of those where they've scored a lot of "My biggest focus tonight years when everything's been runs. Next time out, I'm going [was] not trying to press, just pretty good," Huff said. "That's to concentrate on getting going out there and being just baseball." through that inning." myself the whole time," Olson 
Luke Scott, Adam Jones and Jones greeted Juan Rincon said. "Not trying to do too Ramon Hernandez also home­with an RBI single, and after much, being aggressive and red for the Orioles, who had Nick Markakis struck out, Huff letting my defense play behind lost 13 of 14. Jones ended an drove a 2-0 pitch into the me. When you do that and you 0-for-16 skid with three hits right-field seats. It was the keep the team close as the and four RBis. 11th grand slam allowed by game goes on, eventually the 
Only 11,181 watched Cleveland, a club record and bats will start to come through. Baltimore's second win since the most in the majors. And sure enough, they did." Aug. 20, but manager Dave "Sometimes things come in After Cleveland got a two-out Trembley said the long-await­bunches, and that has this RBI double from Cabrera in ed win was "good for the team year. I don't think it's one par­the second, a run-scoring and good for the fans. We ticular thing you look at," grounder by Scott tied it in the played very good baseball Wedge said. "Obviously, we've bottom half. tonight." had our struggles in the Cabrera hit an RBI single 
Asdrubal Cabrera went 3-for-bullpen this year -put a lot of and Franklin Gutierrez fol­3 and drove in two runs for the people on base. The more you lowed with a sacrifice fly to put Indians, and Shin-Soo Choo do that, the more there's an the Indians up 3-1 in the had two hits to extend his hit-opportunity for somebody to do fourth. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES Needed for 
2008 Fall Season -The Stanley 
Clark School. a south side elemen­tary/middle school is located north of Erskine Golf course on Miami Street. Soccer referees are needed for 5-6th grade and 7-8th grade girls and boys soccer matches. Pay is $35.00 per game to licensed refer­ees. If interested, please contact Caryn MacKenzie, Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at phone #574-291-4200. 

Need sitter as needed for our 5 year old son. Need transportation. $10/hr. 574·271-1216. 
FoR RENT 

House for rent. Newly remodeled, beautiful 2 bedroom, 2 bath home on large lot. Walking distance to Notre Dame Campus on Berger Street, just east of the university. Ideal for faculty and/or small family. $1000/month +utilities. Call (574) 340-3895. 
Rooms 4 blocks from campus. $400 per month including utilities. 6 bed­room home also available. Call574­532-1408. 
Home for rent for ND football week­ends. 3 bdrm, 1.5 baths with eat-in kitchen. Just 2 blocks from ND cam­pus. Contact Rocky at Rock0299@aol.com. 
TICKETS 
Wanted: ND footballtix for family. 574-251-1570. 

VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND football tickets. www. victorytickets.com. 
574-232-0964. BUYING SAN DIEGO STATE, MICHIGAN & PURDUE TIX. 
574-654-0169 (LOCAL CALL). WANTED: Ml tix. Will trade. 574-276-8507. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NDs Pregnancy Resources website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap/ Spring Break 2009. 
Sell Trips, Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed! Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. 
Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
Hey Tom Brady ... EE YALATA! 




~OUND THE NATION 
CorvtPlLED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRE SERVJCES
Tuesday, September, 9, 2008 
page 13 

AP Green Bay quarterback Aaron Rodgers makes his first career Lambeau Leap after rushing for a touch­down in the Packers' 24-19 win over Minnesota Monday night. Rodgers also thre~ for a touchdown in 
Rodgers gets the win in Packer debut 
NSCAA ~lien's Soccer T4)p 25 
team record ·tYrevious 

1 Wake Forest 2-0 1 2 Boston College 1-1 4 3 Connecticut 1-0-1 2 4 Creighton 1-0 6 5 Akron 1-0-1 12 6 Indiana 1-0-1 7 7 SMU 2-0 17 8 NOTRE DAME 1-1 3 9 Maryland 1-1 8 10 · Ohio State 2-0 9 11 California 2-0 NR 12 Brown 0-0 11 13 Virginia Tech 1-0-1 10 14 South Florida 1-0 18 15 North Carolina 2-0 24 16 Northwestern 2-0 20 17 Bradley 2-0 21 18 Tulsa 1-0-1 23 19 UCLA 1-1 14 20 Santa Clara 0-2 5 21 UC Santa Barbara 1-0 21 22 St. John's 2-0 NR 23 Saint Louis 0-0-2 19 24 Charlotte 2-0 NR 25 Illinois-Chicago 1-0-1 16 
NSCAA Women's Soccer Top 25 
team record previous 

1 usc 2-0 
1 2 UCLA 2-0 3 3 North Carolina 3-0 2 4 Aorida State 3-11 5 5 NOTRE DAME 3-11 
4 6 Virginia 2-o 1 Stanford 3-11 
: ~~:!nd . , ;#• ·t~ 10 Penn State 2-1. 11 Texas A&M 3-1 12 Duke 3-11 13 West Virginia 2-1 14 Boston College 2-1 15 llfinois 3~o 16 Santa Clara 2-1 17 Wake Forest 3-0 18 Oklahoma State 2-o 19 Connecticut 1-2 20 Tennessee 1-2 21 California 2-1 22 Georgia .2-1 23 Aorida 24 cs Fullerton 3-0 NR 25 Kansas 2-0 NR 
MIAA Women's Soccer Conferen«~e Standings 
NFL 


Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. ­Aaron Rodgers passed his first test as the Green Bay Packers' new quarter­back, throwing for 178 yards and a touchdown and scoring on a game­clinching sneak in a 24-19 victory over the Minnesota Vikings on Monday night. 
Rodgers, who was 18­of-22, got help from the Packers' special teams, running back Ryan Grant and safety Atari Bigby to beat a bitter division rival in his first regular-season start, which came in the wake of Brett Favre's off­season unretirement saga. 

''I'm happy we won, and that he played well," Packers coach Mike McCarthy said. "That's what's important. I don't really get caught up in all the other things. And it's important for him not to, too." 
Will Blackmon's 76-yard punt return gave Green Bay a 17-6 lead going into the fourth quarter. 
Minnesota's Ta:rvaris Jackson answered with a 23-yard touchdown pass to Sidney Rice on fourth­and-1 to cut the Packers' lead to five with 14:12 remaining. But a 2-point conversion attempt failed when Jackson threw a pass slightly behind Rice in the back of the end zone. 
Grant then broke free for a 57-yard run midway through the fourth quar­ter, giving the Packers (1­
0) first-and-goal at the 2. After a penalty against the Vikings (0-1), Rodgers was stuffed on his first attempt at a quarterback sneak but plunged into the end zone on the sec­ond try. 
Rodgers acknowledged he was happy to get his first start out of the way, but generally seemed to be enjoying life as the No. 1 quarterback. 
"Tonight, knowing I was going to get the first snap was pretty special," Rodgers said. "And run­ning out of the tunnel to 

the electric atmosphere that we had, it was a pretty special night." 
. •After scoring on the sneak, Rodgers emphati­cally spiked the ball and jumped into the stands for a "Lambeau Leap" as Green Bay took a 24-12 lead with 6:03 remaining. "I've been dreaming about that for four years, to be honest," Rodgers said. Jackson then led the Vikings on an 11-play drive that ended with a 3­yard touchdown run by Adrian Peterson, cutting the Packers' lead to 24­19 with 2:39 remaining. An onside kick attempt by Ryan Longwell bounced out of bounds, 
Team Record 

W-L 1 Kalamazon 3-1 2 Adrian 2·1 3 Calvin 2-1 4 Alma 1-2 5 Hope 1-3 6 Olivet 1-3 7 Albinn 0-2 8 SAINT MARY'S 0-3 g. Trine 0·4 
around the dial 
WINBA 
Pheonix vs. Detroit 7:00p.m., ESPN 
IVILB 
Cubs at Cardinals 
7:00 p.m., WGN 
IN BRIEF 
Phelps donates SI 
million to own charity 
BALTIMORE -Michael Phelps is starting his own charity and the swimmer who won a record eight gold medals at the Beijing Olympics made the first donation by commit­ting the $1 million bonus he earned for his golden haul. 
The Michael Phelps Foundation will launch an eight-city U.S. tour in collaboration with Speedo, Phelps' swimsuit sponsor that paid him the bonus, to visit children and share his Olympic experiences. 
The tour will feature an education program called "Dream, Plan, Reach" to give children a game plan to lead healthy, active lives. 
"My goals reach beyond the pool, to helping others realize their dreams, and continuing to grow the sport I love so much," Phelps said in a statement. "I feel it's only appro­priate that I continue the momen­tum that Speedo helped to create." 

Armstrong wants to 
return to cycling 
Lance Armstrong's reported comeback won't take place with the Astana cycling team. 
"He is no part of our team," Astana team press officer Philippe Maertens told The Associated Press in an e-mail. "Team Astana has no plans with him." . 
The cycling journal VeloNews, cit­ing anonymous sources, reported on its Web site Monday that the 36­year-old seven-time Tour de France champion would compete in the Tour and four other road races with Astana in 2009. 
But Astana team director Johan Bruyneel, who was with Armstrong for all seven Tour wins from 1999­2005, told cyclingnews.com that he was unaware of any Armstrong comeback. 
"I don't know where the rumors come from," the Web site quoted him as saying. 
Bolt receives hero's 
welcome in Jamaica 
KINGSTON -Prime Minister Bruce Golding and hundreds of Jamaicans welcomed triple Olympic gold medalist Usain Bolt home on Monday after his triumphs in Beijing. 
"We're planning some great things for Usain and the other· members of the Jamaican team who made us so proud at the Beijing Olympics," Golding said. 
Hundreds of flag-waving Jamaicans waited along the road outside the airport hoping to get a glimpse of Bolt as he was taken by a convertible in a motorcade to a hotel where he will hold a news conference. 
"I am happy to be back home. I expected some amount of support but I never knew that so many peo­ple would be here to meet me," Bolt told Reuters before his motorcade departed the airport. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 9, 2008 
us OPEN 

Federer silences doubters with convincing win 
Swiss champion wins fifth consecutive U.S. Open, 13th Grand Slam title, one shy of Samprass' all-time record 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-No matter what 

anyone else said or thought, 
Hoger Federer knew he was still 

capable of elite tennis. 
Knew he was still capable of' 

winning Grand Slam titles._ 
Knew he was still Roger 
Federer. 
Back at his best. back at the 

top of tennis, Federer easily beat 
Andy Murray 6-2, 7-5, 6-2 
Monday to win his fifth consecu­
tive U.S. Open championship and 
13th major title overall. 
Federer is the first man since 

Bill Tilden in the 1920s to win 
the tournament that many times 
in a row. lie also moved within 
one major championship of' tying 
Pete Sampras' career record of 
14. 
"One thing's for sure," Federer 

said in an on-court interview. 
''I'm not going to stop at 13. That 
would be terrible." 
The victory dearly came as something of a relief to Federer, who has struggled during a lack­luster-only-for-him season. He lost in the semifinals at the Australian Open, and to nemesis Haf'ael Nadal in the finals of the French Open and Wimbledon, meaning Federer was on the verge of' his first year since 2002 without a major title. And his record streak of 237 consecutive weeks at No. 1 ended last month when Nadal surpassed him. 
"I had a couple of tough Grand Slams this year ... so to take this one home is incredible," Federer said. "It means the world to me." 
But the sixth-seeded Murray upset Nadal in the semifinals at Flushing Meadows to reach his first Grand Slam championsqip match, and Federer had no trou.: ble this time -even though he had lost two of his previous three matches against the Scotsman. 
"I came up against, in my opin­ion, the best player ever to play the game," said Murray, who tried to give Britain its first men's major champion in 72 years. "He definitely set the record straight today." 
At 21, here's how young he is: When Federer was winning his l"irst U.S. Open title in 2004, Murray was taking the U.S. Open junior trophy. 
''I'm not as nervous any more, like in my first final," Federer said during a prematch TV inter­view. 
Perhaps he was trying to plant doubt in Murray's head. The youngster was standing around the corner, waiting to walk out onto the eourt, probably already thinking about what it would feel like to be on that stage, with those stakes, against that oppo­nent. 
With his bushy hair peeking out from under his gray-and­white baseball cap, unshaven whiskers on his face, and that loping gait, Murray looks much like the college student he other­wise might be if not so talented at tennis. 
Federer, coincidentally, was the same age when he played in his first Grand Slam final, back in 2003 at Wimbledon. Except Federer won that, and has kept winning major championship matches against everyone except Nadal. 
Indeed, Murray can consider himself in good company: Federer's other four finals at Flushing Meadows came against four men who have won Grand Slam titles: Lleyton Hewitt, Andre Agassi, Andy Roddick and Novak Djokovic. 
''I'm sure we're going to see much more of Andy in the future," said the second-seeded Federer, who dominated every facet of this fmal. 
He accumulated a 36-16 advantage in winners, a 7-2 count in breaks of serve, and won the point on 31 of 44 trips to the net, compared with a 7 -for­11 showing by Murray. 
Murray -assured of rising to a career-best No. 4 in the rank­ings -stood about 10 feet behind the baseline to return serves, exactly the way he did in upsetting Nadal in their two-day, rain-interrupted semifinal over the weekend. And Murray did display flashes of' the get-to­every-ball defense he used against Nadal, including one pretty flick of a lob by Federer with his back to the net. 
But Federer, who might have benefited from an extra day to rest because his semifinal wasn't affected by Tropical Storm Hanna, was simply too much for Murray. 
Too good. 
Too smart. 
Too experienced. 
Too, well, Federeresque. 

At only one juncture did Murray really throw a scare into his opponent on this day, taking 11 of 12 points to go from 2-0 down in the second set to 2-all and love-40 on Federer's serve.Federer saved the first of those break points, and on the second, they engaged in a 14­stroke rally that ended with Murray missing a backhand. TV replays, though, showed one of Federer's shots during the rally should have been called out ­and had it been, Murray would have had a break and a 3-2 lead in the set. 
exceptional experience for exceptional people 
A career at Stryker is exceptional because our business is exceptionally important. 
As a global leader in medical technology, Stryker advances meaningful innovation in orthopaedic implants, surgical 
and medical devices, patient handling equipment, 
medical communications and imaging systems. We hire people who have a driving passion to make a difference. People who thrive when given clear expectations and the freedom to exceed. them. 
If you're looking for a career experience that is truly exceptional, look no further than Stryker. You will discover, strengthen and apply your unique talents while helping people around the world live more active, satisfying lives. 
But there was no call, and no reprieve, because Federer stayed steady enough to save the third break point there and go on to hold serve. ­
"That was key," Federer said. "After that, I began to play freely, the way I usually do." 
In the next game, Murray began flexing his right leg, clutching at that knee and look­ing up at his substantial support group in the guest box, a gather­ing that included his mother, his two coaches and his two fitness trainers. 
Federer later broke Murray at love in the last game of the sec­ond set, closing it on a 10-stroke point that was a thing of beauty. First, Federer extended the point with some superb court cover­age, and then -shifting from defense to offense in a blink ­he ended it with a forehand pass­ing winner. 
Federer turned to his guest box -which included his pal, Vogue Editor-in-Chief Anna Wintour ­and bellowed, punching down with his right fist. 
This is how he is supposed to play. This is how these Grand Slam fmals are supposed to go. 
Not his lopsided loss to Nadal on day at Roland Garros. Or his heartbreakingly narrow loss ­9-7 in the fifth set as the light dis­appeared -on grass at the All England Club. Those were two of Federer's 12 losses by August in 2008, more than he had in any entire season from 2004-07. He also .arrived in New York with only two titles from minor events, and none on the type of hard courts used at the U.S. Open. 
Federer's year began sluggishly as he dealt with a bout of mononucleosis, something he said affected his preparation later in the season as he played catch-up. 



Positions avaitabte to suit all majors! 
VISit us at the Faft Career Expo Joyce Center Field House Sept. 10, 2008 
Tuesday, September 9, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
~~~~~~~~~~~==~~====~~~~~~~~~~~~===== 

Tired of getting homework? 
Then give some~ 
NFL 
Pollard says Brady's injury was an accident 

Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The man who delivered the hit that ended Tom Brady's season insists he was not trying to hurt last year's NFL MVP. 
"It was really an accident," said Kansas City's Bernard Pollard. "I can't change what happened. I can't do anything but pray for him and hope he has a speedy recovery." 
Early in the Patriots' 17-10 victory, Pollard came on a safe­ty blitz and was fighting through the block of running back Sammy Morris. Crawling forward, he got hold of Brady's left knee just as Brady was planting to make a long throw to Randy Moss. 
"As soon as the play hap­pened, I said, 'Oh, man.' When I heard him scream, I knew it was serious," said the third­year safety. "I came back to the sideline and told (coach Herm Edwards) 'That dude's hurt. But it was not intentional, coach, man, I'm sorry.'" 
The league said Monday the hit was clean. 
"It is not a foul because the defensive player was coming off and affected by a block by the offense, said NFL spokesman Greg Aiello. The replay was reviewed by Mike Pereira, the supervisor of officials. 
But Pollard said he's sure that many people will agree with Moss that it was a dirty hit. 
"I know one of their team­mates called me a dirty player. If you see the play, I was not being dirty at all," Pollard said. "I was trying to get up and my momentum took me forward with 230 pounds on my back. I've never been a dirty player. You ask my teammates. You ask any of my coaches." 
Drafted in the second round in 2006 out of Purdue, Pollard became a starter in 2007 and has acquired a reputation as a quiet, studious young player and hard-hitting tackler. 
He said he'd received mes­sages of support from friends and fans. 
"Everybody is saying, 'Keep your head up,"' he said. "My head's up. I do still have a little bit of pain that he's down and out right now. But I have to be a pro. If I'm going to be a play­er for the Kansas City Chiefs, my teammates expect me to go out there and do my job every play, every game." 
... 
Pollard's teammates were making a point to console him. 
"Bernard feels terrible" said quarterback Damon Huard, who came into the game in the third quarter when Chiefs starter Brodie Croyle sustained a shoulder injury that could sideline him for a while. 
Huard, a former backup to Brady and a good friend of the Patriots star, said the injury was just an unfortunate acci­dent "that happens in football." 
"When you're making a long throw, you usually take a bigger stride," he said. "And Tom was just totally stretched out and extended and Bernard just tried to reach out for him and caught him at the right time. 
"Bernard feels bad about it. He really does." 
Cornerback Patrick Surtain, an 11-year veteran and leader of the youthful secondary, said no one who knows Pollard would think he tried to hurt anyone. 
"It could have been any quar­terback in the league," Surtain said. "The guy was on his kne~s, ~asically crawling to get to h1m. 
Pollard said he would not be surprised if he comes to be known around the country as the player who knocked Brady out for the year. 
"He's a really good guy. He's not only the NFL face, but he's the face of magazines, and peo­ple love him.'' But it still doesn't sidestep the fact that he plays for the National Football League. He plays football. He ties his shoe just like I tie my shoes to get ready for a game. He puts his mouthpiece in to keep all his teeth in, just like I do. 
''I'm not talking any trash on him at all. He is the face of the NFL. But at the same time, he is a player. I just hope for a speedy recovery. I hope it's not as bad as everybody is say­ing." 
Pollard said he would not do anything different. 
"My thing is, the ca11's been brought in by our coaches and I just lay on the ground, then everybody's saying, 'Bernard's showing no effort on this play.' Then I'm not a dirty player but I'm a bad player, or not a good teammate because I don't have effort. 
"We can't turn back the hands of time. I just wish him a speedy recovery." 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 9, 2008 
NFL 
Browns pick up pieces after Dallas debacle 
receiver Brayton Edwards 
Associated Press 
dropped several passes, 
BEREA. Ohio -For kicker including one that would have Phil Dawson, it was a Monday been a sure TO, and line­likfl so many others over the backer Andra Davis had a pos­past decade. sible interception of Tony 
One day after Cleveland Romo slip through his hands. began a season of great expec­Crennel was doing his best tations by unexpectedly get­to put a positive spin on his ting embarrassed 28-10 in its fourth straight loss in openers opener by the Dallas Cowboys, since taking over the Browns Dawson. a Browns lifer and in 2005. But the truth of the the only player who has been matter is that his team, espe­wilh thn club since its 1999 cially his defense, was no expansion reincarnation, match for a Dallas: galaxy of offered some perspective on a offensive stars. loss that isn't sitting well with Cleveland's pass rush, a the locals. major concern heading into 
"It's not time to panic," said the season, was nonexistent. Dawson. l-9 in NFL openers. When the Browns rushed "It's time to figure out how to three linemen in the first half, improve. We just did not play Romo had enough time to drop good enough. back, go This is a 16-through his ehapter book downfield and yesterday checks and
"It wasn ,t a good one, 

was the first even revisit a chaptfJr. but we still have a lot few before 
"It wasn't a of the book to read. ,, finally throw­
good one but we ing. He fin­still have a lot of ished 24-of-32 
Phil Dawson 

the book to for 320 yards. read." Browns kicker Without safe­
With a nation­

ally televised 
Sunday night 
game with the Pittsburgh 
Steelers up next, the Browns 
can't turn the pages on the 
Dallas debacle fast enough. 
The 'Boys manhandled them. Now, they have to make sure the Steelers don't, too. 
Pittsburgh has dominated Cleveland in one of the league's most bitter rivalries. The Steelers have won nine straight, 15 of 16 and 22 of 25 since 1994. 
"You could put this game in April and Browns-Steelers is important," Dawson said. "This isn't just any week, it's Steelers Week and I think that's a good thing. I think it will help us move forward. If we had a bye week or some­thing right now I think that we'd sit around and think about how horribly we played." 
Putting aside the frighten­ingly lopsided statistics ­Dallas prevailed in first downs 30-11; total yards 487-205; and time of possession 37:22 to 22:31 -the Browns are taking comfort in that they've been through something simi­lar. Last season, they were overrun 34-7 by Pittsburgh in the season opener but bounced back to win seven straight at home and finish 10-6. 
As they prepared to watch Sunday's film, the Browns were looking ahead by remembering their past. 
"Same thing happened last year," defensive tackle Shaun Smith said. "We gave up a lot more yards against Pittsburgh. You've got to look at the posi­tive note. There's still 15 more games left. We should be all right." 
Smith's recollection is a bit fuzzy since the Steelers only gained 365 yards a year ago. But he's on the mark in point­ing out that the Browns have a lot of schedule left to turn things around -or completely fall apart. 
Just as he did Sunday, Browns coach Romeo Crennel lanwnted missed opportunities against the Cowboys. Wide 
ty Brodney 
Pool (concus­
sion), the 

Browns didn't have anyone to cover tight end Jason Witten, who blistered them for huge gains. And because they couldn't get to Romo, it put more pressure on cornerback Brandon McDonald, who did all he could to stay with wide receiver Terrell Owens. 
"We couldn't stop Witten. We couldn't stop T.O. We couldn't stop Romo," Crennel said. "Those are the guys we knew they were going to go to, and we couldn't stop them." 
Because of injuries, the Browns' first-team offense didn't take one snap together during the exhibition season and the lack of playing time hurt their cohesion. Edwards missed three preseason games with a cut foot and quarter­back Derek Anderson sat two with a concussion. Their time apart contributed to a few miscommunications. 
Making matters worse, the Browns were without Pro Bowl kick returner Josh Cribbs (ankle) and they lost wide receiver Donte' Stallworth when he injured his leg during pregame warmups. Crennel said Stallworth, one of the club's biggest offseason acquisitions, was expected to undergo further tests. 
Their absences forced the Browns to use Steve Sanders and Syndric Steptoe -two practice squad players a year ago -in their offensive rota­tion. 
Cribbs was "heartbroken" when Crennel told him shortly before kickoff that he wouldn't play. Standing on the sideline in street clothes, he watched helplessly as his teammates laid another giant egg in another opener. But there's always next week, and for the Browns, that's all that mat­ters. 
"When the clock ticked to zero and we knew the game was out of our hands, the fans were saying, 'You got seven days to get it right for Pittsburgh,"' Cribbs said. "We're going to do everything we can." 


Club Information Meetin s and will be held in thegM arf mandatory for all clubs LaFortune Student Centero(n gomery Auditorium in across from Starbucks)
Schedule · 
~~gay, ~eptember 8th at 5:30 pm 
Yei~~ ~~:~~I~:: !}8g~
Wedne:g;~ ~:g:::g:~ Jg:~: g;gg g: 
At least two members fi Club Information Me~?n~ e~ch club must attend a any ofthe meetings ~~~;~ub cad nattend
1

ue . PleasecontactMiryKate Ll-o~:r_ 
in fhe StudentActivities,.;.~""' f~.edu}
VIIJ\OU With anycruestions. 
Tuesday, September 9, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
Kaela Hellman, who leads the Saint Mary's squad with 69 kills. 
Saint Mary's will diive right in to their conference schedule this week. After takhg of Hope 
Faith 
continued from page 20 
Rudolph didn't get beat pass­blocking. Asaph Schwapp made two or three big blocks to open running lanes. 
So what does this mean? It doesn't forecast another 3-9 season, but it also doesn't lock up a BCS bowl for the Irish. It means the 
feet. That's an improvement. Clausen threw two intercep­tions (neither of which were really his fault) but led an effec­tive no-huddle offense. That's an improvement. 
Robert Hughes and Armando Allen each fumbled, but gained decent yardage on the ground. That's an improvement. 
At this point it's all about improvement. The storm clouds are still swirling overhead, but the lightning bolts are becom­ing less frequent and mn is tonight they face off against Olivet at home on Thursday night. The team needs to put their rough start against Adrian behind them and build on the non-conference wins to keep momentum going this week. 
No members of the team were available for comment. 
Contact Pat Stynes at pstynes@nd.edu 
shining through in the distance. 
Let's not forget the effect a win has on a team. Notre Dame can begin to rid itself of the maqtbre atmosphere it must have carried last season. The team has confidence now. Confidence doesn't necessarily translate into production, but it translates into emotion. Whether the Irish can channel emotion into production 
remains to be 
seen. 
The outcome 
team's improv­Notre Dame can begin of Saturday's ing. The offen­. game doesn't 
to rid itselfofthe 

sive line didn't indicate a win
macabre atmosphere 

get great push, over Michigan, in the running it must have carried nor does it pre­game, but kept dict a defeat. But 
last season. The team 

Clausen on his when you take
has confidence now. 

the good with 
the bad, it says 
the Irish have 
their problems, but they have improved and will continue to do so as the season progresses. 
When that sun pokes through the clouds is up for debate, but the sky in the distance look much friendlier. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily ofThe Observer. Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu. 

MLB 

Wagner done for the year 

AP New York closer Billy Wagner is scheduled to have surgery on the MCL in his pitching elbow which will most likely land him on the bench until the beginning of the 2010 season. 
The New York closer could be done for all of next season as well 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Billy Wagner is out for the rest of this sea­son and likely all of next. 
The New York Mets closer will have surgery after an MRI on Monday showed a torn medial collateral liga­ment in his pitching elbow has gotten worse during more than a month of reha­bilitation. His injury could send the Mets into the free­agent market fm; a top reliev­er this winter, perhaps prompting them to pursue Francisco Rodriguez. 
"It does change your think­ing," general manager Omar Minaya said. "Any guy that we run out there is not going to be a proven guy. So, you know, until you have a proven guy, you can't say you're comfortable." 
A five-time All-Star, Wagner also has a torn flexor prona­tor, which is a muscle in the forearm. When he tested his arm Sunday at Shea Stadium by facing teammate Gustavo Molina, Wagner hit the reserve catcher on the left foot with his 13th pitch, then walked off the field. 

"The tear is now big enough that the doctors are recommending so-called Tommy John surgery," Minaya said. "If all goes well, he will be able to return to pitch in about a year's time following the surgery." 
The left-bander has con­verted 101 of 118 regular­season save chances since signing with New York before the 2006 season, but has not pitched since Aug. 2. 
When the Mets pu.t Wagner on the disabled list three days later, they described the injury as a strained left fore­arm. Minaya said ·Monday 
.., that an MRI that day revealed the tear but that Wagner and the team thought there was a chance he could pitch through it. "There's a lot of guys that pitch with tears, especially when you're 37 years old," Minaya said. "The question is how these tears hold up and in what areas. But if you were to take an i'l1RI of a lot of 37-year-old pitchers, 
D -D [ -D­
r-1 -,----, 
~ ~ 
The Ce~Z,er for .E'hics ai'Zd Religious Values ii'Z ..Busi~Zess 
UI'Zd 

The I~Zs'i'u'efior .E'hicai..Bu.si~Zes.s ~orld...,ide 
------------------~------------------------------------~ 
Proudly Present Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by lthe John A-Berges Endo""..-.ent) 
Pan4~1ists: 

JVIark l.VI:cCready, Professor and Chair of Chemical and Bioa1raolecular Engineering 
Ger~ard Pannekoek, JVIan.agement Department and former CEO of t:he Chi<::ago Climate Exchange 
Patrick E. JVIurphy, Co-Director, Institute for Et:hical Business 'World_..ide 
JVIodlerator: 

Geotrges Enderle, Ryan Chair of International Business Ethics 
All participants are faculty members at the University of Not•·e Dame-
Tuesday, September 9, 2008 7:00p.m_ 141 DeBartolo Hall 
they'll be showing you tears." 
Wagner is owed $10.5 mil­lion next year, the final guar­anteed season of a $43 mil­lion, four-year contract with the Mets, and the team holds an $8 million option for 2010 with a $1 million buyout. Minaya thought there was a chance Wagner might return to the mound next September. 
While Minaya mentioned that the Mets could go with internal options, the best available closer on the mar­ket will be K-Rod, who began Monday with 55 saves for the Los Angeles Angels. He could get a four-or five-year con­tract in excess of the $15 mil­lion average Mariano Rivera is making with the Yankees. 
"You have certain allotted dollars that you're gfling to invest in putting the team together," Minaya said. "That was an area that I was not expecting that I was going to need to have to have a lot of dollars." 
Before Monday night's home game against the New York Yankees, Rodriguez did­n't want to comment on the Mets' situation. 
"I don't want to answer that question. Right now I only want to talk about today's game. I don't know what's going to happen in the future," he said. 
While Wagner has repeat­edly said he intends to retire when this contract concludes, Minaya wasn't certain that would be the case, caution­ing: "How many guys have 
•

said, 'That will be my last year,' and then come back?" 
Minaya also thought Wagner would want to reach 400 saves-he is 15 shy. 
"If Billy wants to pitch again, he will pitch again. It's going to be in Billy's court," he said. "I still think Billy, he's a good enough athlete, he's a hard worker, deter­mined, I think if he wants to pitch, he will have the oppor­tunity to pitch." 
New York began Monday with a two-game lead over Philadelphia in the NL East and is 22-11 since Wagner's last appearance. Luis Ayala, acquired from Washington last month in a trade, is 5­for-6 in save chances for the Mets. 
"The guys have done a very good job stepping up," Minaya said. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 9, 2008 
Dantley 
continued from page 20 
points per game as a sopho­more and is second behind Austin Carr on Notre Dame's all-time scoring list with 2,223 points. 
Irish basketball coach Mike Brey, who was at the induction ceremony in Springfield, Mass. along with for­mer coach Digger Phelps, said he attend­

ed DeMatha "It wasjust a and is still 18th (Md.) High powerful night for on the all-time 
School basket­scoring list.
our program and

ball camps After his play­when Dantley me personally." ing days were was a high over, Dantley school player went on to
Mike Brey 

there. Dantley coach as an
Irish coach
was always around working out and practic­ing, hn said, and he would sometimes come and talk to the campers. 

"The thing I remember about him was his work ethic," Brey said. "The guy was a flat out machine as a worker. lie was one of the first guys that was into weight lift­ing. lie was one of the first guys that was into nutrition." 
In his junior year with the Irish, Dantley was fourth in the nation in scoring, averag­ing 28.6 points per game. lie averaged 25.8 points per game in his career and made 615 free throws, more than anyone else in Notre D.ame 
USF 

continued from page 20 
Francisco. Their 14-over 298 trails leader California by 11 strokes. 
The Golden Bears (287) go 

into tlv1 second round with a 
narrow 4-stroke lead over host 
USF, who sits in second with a 
7 -over 291. Senior Adam West 
of UAB shOt the low round of 
the day with a 2-under 69. 
Although erratic, the Irish 

golfers showed flashes of bril­
liance and head coach Jim 
Kubin.ski is confident in his 
young squad. 
"As with any sport, you're 

not sure exactly what you have 
until you begin to compete," 
Kubinski said. "I like our 
young group, though. They've 
shown signs already of being a 
special group. We're excited to 
get started and will just try to 
keep improving throughout the 
season." 
Irish junior Doug Fortner, 

whose 67 at Ballybunion last 
month is quickly becoming the 
stuff of Notre Dame legend, 
bogeyed seven of his first 
eleven holes to start the day. 
lie responded with a birdie on 
12 and finished the first round 
with a 6-over 77. 
Junior Carlos Santos-Ocampo began the day with a brilliant eagle at the 533-yard, par 5 first, but shot two bogeys and a double bogey in quick succession. He is fresh off his appearance in match play at the U.S. Amateur ·Tournament -the first Irish golfer in four decades to reach 
history. He skipped his senior season to enter the NBA draft. 
The Buffalo Braves drafted Dantley sixth overall in the 1976 draft, and he won the NBA Rookie of the Year in 1977. lie went on to play for the Pacers, Lakers, Jazz, Pistons, Mavericks and Bucks in his career, led the NBA in scoring twice and was named an All-Star six times. From 1981-1984 Dantley aver­aged over 30 points per game 

assistant at 
Towson 
University for 

two years. He is currently an assistant coach for the Denver Nuggets. 
Dantley was inducted thfs weekend along with a slew of household hoop names includ­ing llakeem Olajuwon, Patrick Ewing, Pat Riley, Dick Vitale, Detroit Pistons owner Bill Davidson and women's basket­ball coach Cathy Rush. 
"It was just a powerful night for our program and me per­sonally," Brey said. "I thought the talk he gave us was fabu­lous.~' 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
match play at that tourna­ment. 
Santos-Ocampo scattered J,hree birdies, two double bogeys, and a bogey over the rest of the round to finish the day 4-over at 75. 
Sophomore Co.nor Alan Lee shot a disappointing 7 -over 78, with no birdies. Fellow sopho­more Tyler Hock sat at 3-over after 15 holes, but birdied two of his final three to end the day with a solid 72, the low Irish round of the day. Sophomore Jeff Chen's day began promisingly, taking the turn one under par, but bogeyed four of his final eight holes to end up at plus 3 with a 74. In total, the underclass­men put up the two low rounds of' the day for Notre Dame. 
"Both [sophomores] Connor Alan-Lee and Tyler Hock played multiple events last season and put together impressive stretches at times," Kubinski said. "They look to be stronger players this season as both have worked hard and gone through a natural matu­ration from their frosh cam­paigns. Jeff Chen is the new­comer to the lineup. He's a very consistent player with a very, very good short game. Jeff plays intelligently. I look for him to be very steady in our lineup." 
The second round finished late Monday night. The third and final round begins this morning at 11 a.m. with a shotgun start. 
STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 7th and September 14th, at 7:00pm in Room 102 of Debartolo Hall. 
The session will last approximately 45 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: ta:~ntsportation.nd.edu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Poolyou may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467 
Contact Mike Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
Schedule 
continued from page 20 

smacked a couple times, and we're going to have to be resilient and not panic."' 
Notre Dame returns four starters from last season, including Big East Player of the Year Luke Harangody, and is expected to contend for the conference title· this year. But to win that crown, the Irish will have to navigate the always tough Big East sched­ule. 
Notre Dame will face a cru­cial test early in its Big East schedule, when it faces a daunting five-game stretch beginning on the road· at Louisville on Jan. 12. The Irish follow that with a trip to the Carrier Dome to take on Syracuse on Jan. 17, then return home for games against Connecticut on Jan. 24 and Marquette on Jan. 26 and finish the stretch with a trip to Pittsburgh on Jan. 31. ESPN's College Gameday will visit the Joyce Center for the first time for the Connecticut game. 
"There's so many good ones on our schedule ... " Brey said. "It's going to be an unbeliev­able experience and a great challenge." 
On Feb. 7, Notre Dame will head to Los Angeles to renew its rivalry with UCLA. It'll be the first meeting between the two teams since 2004. 
The Irish will face Indiana on Nov. 24 to open the Maui Invitational and depending on how they fare, will play either Texas or St. Joseph's in round two, and possibly North Carolina in the Finals. 
After two games at home against furman and South Dakota, Notre Dame heads to the new Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis on Dec. 6 to take on Ohio State. Then, Notre Dame has three more games at home against Boston, Delaware State and Savannah State before kicking off Big East play at DePaul on Dec. 31. 
In the Big East, Notre Dame will play Connecticut, Louisville and St. John's as its home-and-home oppon!)nts and will close the year with three of their last four games at the Joyce Center. 
In all, Notre Dame will play 14 games on the ESPN family of networks (ESPN, ESPN2 and ESPNU) and will have two games on CBS (at UCLA and at Connecticut on Jan. 28). 
+ Note: Notre Dame home football weekends are a time when many highly-touted recruits come to campus, but not just for football. Brey received a verbal commitment this week­end from 6-foot-8 forward Mike Broghammer. 
Broghammer joins Joey Brooks and Jack Cooley as verbal commitments Brey has lined up for this year's senior class. Brey can't comment on the recruits until the recruits sign their letters of intent in November. 
Bill Brink contributed to this report. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Sports blog coming ObserverSportsblog 

Tuesday, September 9, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
JJIJJWJIDJ1J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
MALFE 
I I I t] 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
NULAN 
1 
rJ 
~TOMSED 
J I I (] 
www.jumble.com 
~ HEERCY

J [] I I Print answer here: rI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: SKIMP ENVOY UNHOLY BUCKLE Answer: What the comedian gave the heckler ­A "PUNCH" LINE 

THIS HE:L.PS C.ONS TRUC. TION WORKE:RS BOND 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 28 Hard-rock 54 Scuff marks on Toyota Camry connnctor the prairie? 
model 29 Cheerful 57 Bespectacled 
7 Dietary needs 30 Reas:m the kids dwarf 11 Salaam's beast were left alone? 58"Young Frankenstein"
14 1980 John 34 Eiger, e.g. hunchback
Carpenter chiller 37 AJC r1eas. 59 TV's Howser
15 Sarcastic reply 38 .. tJa Na 60 "Norma 
16 Rap·s Dr._ 39 Get stuck with, 17 Channel 
as th•3 cost 61 Poetic times 

swimmer 40 Reward for a 62 Museum guide 
Gertrude Ringling 63 Since Jan. 1 18 Novelist Jaffe invertion? 64 Be in a stew 44 In progress
19 Crude, e.g. 65 Alley pickups 20 Back-to-the­
45 La-la lead-in 

slammer order? 46 Devil Ray or 
Down 23 Readies, briefly Blue Jay, for 
Grassy expanse short24 "_ a traveler 2 "Shoot!" 

from an antique 50 Prefi:< with cab 
3 Looked like a land": or cure 
wolf "Ozymandias" 51 Baba _, Gilda 4 Music from 
25 Son of Judah Radner "S.N.L." across the Puzzle by Donna S. Levin 
27 Opposite of character Atlantic 28Graphic_ 35 1944 Hitchcock 49 Turns to 0, say5 Diner basketful ecto-53 Coward's lack 29 1970s tennis classic 51 It might be 
6 Posthumous great Smith 
36 Cranked out placed at a 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS IPUZZLE Pulitzer winner 31 Border on 
41 Do window 7 Dalmatian's 
32 Woman's shoe 42 Least favorably 52 Without equal 
style
master, 53 Hawk's descent 43 Starchy dessert 
33 1969 and 2000 55 Feudal estate sometimes World Series 47 Hang around 8 Superior to venue 56 Throws in
48 Object of a

9 Group doctrine 34 Put _ on (limit) tuneup 57 Prohibitionist 
10 Marquee topper 
11 "Oklahoma!" gal For answers, call 1·900·285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 12 Ceylon, now 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 13 Condiment for Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS.
pommes !rites Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
21 Revolt 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 22 Go bad Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 26 Duma denial solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Jonathan Taylor Thomas, 27; Pink, 29; David Arquette, 37; Neko Case, 38 
Happy Birthday: Look for a way to expand your interests and your relationships. Change is upon you, so make sure you only allow what will honor your personal dreams, hopes and wishes. You have the added drive, so put it to good use. Face any emotional issues and clear the air so you can move forward. Your numbers are 3, 10, 14,25,28,32,40 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll19): Ifyou expand too quickly or take on too much you will fall short of your goals, get stressed out and cause problems in your personal and professional life. Don't fall victim to temptation. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take time to smell the roses, enjoy the people and places you are fond of and do something special just for yourself. Don't scrimp when it comes to your quality of life and your health and well-being. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Extend your weekend, if possible, and plan a special day. A great idea can torn into a lucrative venture if you talk to someone who has a little experience and an interest in what you want to do. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let anyone persuade you to take over his or her duties. A problem at home will leave you concerned about one of your rela­tionships. Don't assume anything. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Rely on a friend for backup if you start to fall behind. A partnership looks very promising. Speak from the heart and don't take no for an answer. Your generosity and kindness will be hard to resist. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Emotional matters will get the better of you if you don't learn to say no. Someone will push you to the limit if you let him or her. Don't allow your love for someone to cost you financially. Get tough. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0et. 22): Confusion may set in if you let your heart rule your head. Back up and regain your position by recognizinl! what is best for you and your family. Take a conservative approach and you wdl avoid a loss. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct.. 23-Nov. 21): Don't make financial changes or promises that leave you short. Be careful about spending and stick to the budget you set for yourself. Take responsibility for your actions and you will find a solution to any problem that arises. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dee. 21): Put your ideas on paper and proceed. Once you convince people in the know to take a look at your plan, you can move ahead safely. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dee. 22-Jan. 19): Don't give in to someone putting pressure on you. Love can cause you to make foolish mistakes. Don't lose sight of what you have and who continually takes from you. You may have to make some changes. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Put your heart and soul into stabilizing your life financially, medically and legally. Once you have paid back what's owed or at least have a plan, the rest will be easy. A creative idea will help you bring in some extra cash. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let a J?arlner talk you out of doing something you believe in. A deal may be on the line; if you waffle it will be withdrawn. Don't let uncertainty on someone else's part alter your way of thinking. stars 
Birthday Baby: You think big and accomplish a lot. You are versatile, intuitive, strong-willed and intent on getting your way. You aren't afraid of hard work or competition. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenia/ast.com for confidential coruullations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, September 9, 2008 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Hard future, smooth past 
Team releases tough schedule for 2008-09 
By CHRIS HINE Spores Writer 
The Irish should certainly be battle-tested come Tournament time. 
Notre Dame's 2008-09 sched­ule was released Monday, a schedule that not only includes the rigorous 18-game Big East schedule. but also non-confer­ence match-ups against UCLA, Ohio State and a trip to the Maui Invitational that could 
include  potential  games  
against  Texas  and  North  
Carolina.  

"With the veteran group that we have, they deserve a chal­lenge like this," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "I told the team, 'The thing to keep in mind, we're going to take some bullets. We're gong to get 
see SCHEDULE/page 18 


ND legend inducted into Collegiate HOF 
By REBECCA SLINGER 
Spores Writer 
Former Notre Dame basket­ball player Adrian Dantley, a two-time All-American, was inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame Friday. 
The United States Basketball Writers Association named Dantley the national player of the year in 1975-76, his junior season, and he played on the 
U.S. Basketball team that won a gold medal in the Montreal Olympics in 1976. 
Dantley played for the Irish from 1973-76 and was a freshman when the Irish beat UCLA in 1974, ending the Bruins' record 88-game win­ning streak. He averaged 30.4 
see DANTLEY/page 18 
FOOTBALL COMMENTARY 

Fans should keep the faith for now 
For the lirst time in three football seasons, I went to a midnight drum cirele per­formance. I got thnre early and still stood behind throngs of eager fans ready to hear the cadences. A friend told me the pep rally was sick, that it was the lirst time he'd ever len one more excited about a game than when he'd come. In the stadium the fans were crank­ing the team up, chanting and gesturing with the best of them. 
Then the game started, and people turned into Debbie Downers. 
Cirls in front of us left after .Jimmy Clausen threw his sec­ond interception. People start­ml calling for Dayne Crist and Nate Montana. My friend from home tnxted nw midway through the second quarter asking if I'd Inn yet. Support for Charlie Weis was shaky during the "1812 Overturn" in thn fourth quarter. 
Surticn it to say the fans wnrmd PnthraiiPd with tlw team's production. 
They have reasons to be stingy with their praise. The tnam is on a short leash after last season, and based on Saturday's game, there are reasons for it. Clausen didn't look ofl" his receivers and threw two interceptions. The "pound it" run game amount­ed to much ado about noth­ing: The Irish averaged 3.1 yards per carry and fumbled twice. The field goal unit went 0-2 with a botched snap. Penalties extended multiple San Diego State drives. The fancy blitzes produced one sack. 


The game left us asking questions. Why was John Ryan the down lineman in the nickel set for the whole game instead of an actual lineman? Where was Duval Kamara looking when Clausen's pass was intercepted over his head? Will we be able to con­vert third-and-shorts against teams that don't have its entire defensive line injured like San Diego State did'? 
And most importantly, shouldn't we have blown out San Dingo State? 
Plenty of reasons to be skep­tical. But there are also rea­sons to rejoice in the fact that, at the very least, Notre Dame wasn't embarrassed in its first game. 
Thf1 offensive line didn't allow a sack. Clausen threw three touchdown passes. Michael Floyd looked good in his first time out, and may have had two touchdowns if Clausen had unglued his eyes from Golden Tate. Kyle 
see FAITH/page 17 
MEN'S GOLF 

Shaky start for Irish in California 
By MIKE BLASCO Sports Writer 

After tearing up the infa­mously treacherous local courses during their trip to the Emerald Isle early last month, Notre Dame is wishing it brought home a little bit more of the luck of the Irish as a souvenir. 
The Notre Dame squad sits in ninth place in a field of 15 after the first ·round of the USF Intercollegiate Invitational at the 6,833-yard, par 71 Olympic Club in Daly City, Calif., just outsjde San 
see USF/page 18 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles look to keep trucking 
SMC faces Hope after big victory over local rival Bethel College 
By PAT STYNES Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's will look to build off of a big win against Bethel College when they take on Hope tonight at 7 p.m. in Jlolland, Mich. 
The Belles moved to 4-2 with a hard fought victory earlier this week against non-confer­encf1 opponent Bethel. The win was the first time Saint Mary's had taken down Bethel since 1993. 
The team is still 0-1 in con­ference play after losing three straight games in the confer­ence opener to Adrian on Sept. 
2. The Belles will look to keep things rolling and pick up their first MIAA win against the Flying Dutch tonight. 
Saint Mary's will look to the offensive efforts of freshman standout Dani11lle Brink and Junior Kathleen Mills to help attack a formidable Hope defense. Mills was an integral part of the team's fifth set comeback victory over Bethel last week with a game-chang­ing kill, and the team will count on her veteran leadership on the court to lead the team to victory. 
Hope head coach Becky Schmidt picked up her lOOth career victory on Saturday will look to keep her team's momentum going strong en route to a 5-1 overall record and a 2-0 record in the confer­ence. The Flying Dutch are cur­rently in first place in the MIAA. 
Spearheading her team's strong defense is senior Meghan Winer, who pulled ofT a 30-dig performance in thf1 Flying Dutch's victory this past weekend. llowevnr, Winer will have a difficult time dealing with the power of Belles senior 
see BELLES/page 17 




