
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 113 FRIDAY. APRIL 4, 2008 
Ethel Kennedy to speak at ND 
College Democrats sponsor visit by Obama supporter, RFK widow at Washington Hall 
By KATIE PERALTA Assistant News Editor 

The Notre Dame College Democrats have had their hands full with the lively Democratic campaigning this spring and their efforts will continue this weekend with another historical guest speaker on campus. 
The group will sponsor a talk by Ethel Kennedy, wife of the late Robert F. Kennedy, at 2 p.m. on Saturday in Washington Hall. 
"The [Barack] Obama cam­paign had been wanting her to come to Notre Dame," said Chris Rhodenbaugh, current vice president of College Democrats and freshman from St. Edward's Hall. 
Rhodenbaugh said. Kennedy, along with brother­in-law, Massachusetts senator Edward Kennedy, endorsed Democratic presidential hope­ful Barack Obama earlier this year. 
Rhodenbaugh said the pur­pose for Kennedy's visit is twofold. 
"[She is coming] to demon­strate the presence of Obama's campaign on campus and [because] she is Catholic," Rhodenbaugh said. 
College Democrats finalized plans for Kennedy's appear­ance earlier this week. 
"Chris let me know the Obama campaign wanted her to come, then we went to SAO [Student Activities Office] to work out the details and the policy," said Cory Mehlos, co­president emeritus of the College Democrats and a sen­ior in Dillon Hall. "It was pretty sim­ple." 
The visit marks the 4 0 t h anniver­sary of her husband's cam­paign trip to the South Bend area during his run for the Democratic Party nomination. 
Robert Kennedy had spoken at the Stepan Center the morning of April 4, 1968, the day on which Martin Luther King, Jr. was shot later in the afternoon, Mehlos said. 

Mehlos said following his talk at Notre Dame, Robert Kennedy was notified that King was shot and put togeth­er a few notes on his way down to Indianapolis. Police, fearing riots, urged him against speaking publicly, but Kennedy spoke anyways and moved the crowd deeply. 
"[Indianapolis] was perhaps one of the only major cities in the nation where there were no riots that day," Mehlos 
see KENNEDYIpage 4 

Rabbi discusses John Paul II's youth, papacy 
Former pope's Jewish influences in his childhood led to increased dialogue between faiths 
free of the anti-semitism that 
characterized a lot of the rest 
of Poland at this time," Dalin 
said. 
Dalin focused on the many 
Jewish influences John Paul II 
had in his youth. 
"John Paul II was one of the only popes to count Jews · among his childhood friends," 
Dalin said. 
Known then as Karol Wojtyla, 
John Paul II learned to over­
come religious boundaries at 
an early age, Dalin said. 
"At his high school, the 
Catholic boys and the Jewish 
boys formed different teams to 
play soccer, but Karol was 
always willing to play for the 
see POPE/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Peters to address '08 grads 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Three days after Notre Dame announced the speaker for its 2008 Commencement exercises, Saint Mary's announced its speaker as well. 
The College revealed that Susan Peters, vice president of Executive Development and Chief Learning Officer of General Electric (GE). and 1975 graduate will deliver the principal address on Thursday, May 17. 
Along with delivering the commencement address, Peters will receive an hon­orary doctor of humanity degree. Colleen Ryan, a mem­ber of the College Board of Trustees, and Mary Kay Kinberger, a nun who worked with the Marianites of Holy Cross community in New Orleans, will also receive degrees. according to a news release from the College. 
"It is a true honor to be named as the commencement speaker for the class of 2008," Peters said. "It is particularly meaningful to come back to Saint Mary's and share some thoughts with the graduates, knowing that I was in their shoes 33 years ago." 
A graduate with a degree in English literature, Peters has been active in the Saint Mary's community since she graduat­ed. She currently serves on the President's Advisory Council. 
see PETERS/page 4 


By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Noting his personal relation­ships and Polish upbringing, Rabbi David Dalin, professor of history and politics at Ave Maria University and a research fellow at Stanford University, spoke about the effect each had on John Pa,ul II and his papacy. The lecture, entitled "John Paul II and the Jews," was presented in DeBartolo Hall Thursday. 
Dalin's presentation began with a discussion of the late pope's childhood in Wadawice, Poland. 
"Wadowice was a really small town that was unique in being 

University hosts Spring Visitation 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions, in its efforts to increase diversity on campus, welcomed prospective students from underrepresented ethnic groups to campus Thursday for the annual Spring Visitation Weekend (SVW), commonly referred to as "Spring Viz." 
High school seniors of African, Asian, Latino and Native American descent will spend Thursday through Sunday learn­ing about Notre Dame while living on campus with student hosts. 
This year, 102 students will attend SVW, a near 30 percent decrease from last year in an attempt to focus the event and provide the students with more personal attention, said senior Jesse Carrillo, head event coordi­nator for SVW. 
"We have fewer students this year because we really want to give them more one-on-one sup­port," Carrillo said. "We want to do everything to get their ques­tions answered." . 
SVW, directed by supervisors from the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, has been lead by for-
see VISITATION/page 4 
Students vie for Irish Idol crown 
Sophomore wins vocal title in cqmpus-wide competition at Legends 
By AMBER TRAVIS 
News Writer 

More than 200 students gath­ered at Legends last night to watch ten finalists vie for the ulti­mate title of Irish Idol 2008. 
In the end, sophomore Carolyn Rose Sullivan won the competition. 
During the top ten competition, Sullivan sang the Frank Sinatra hit "They Can't Take That Away From Me," and for her winning perform­ance, she performed Diana Krall's "Peel Me a Grape." 
Sullivan participated last year but did not make it to the top three. 
see VISITATION/page 4 

DUSTIN MINELLA!The Observer 

The Irish Idol contestants gather during the final rounds of the competition Thursday night at Legends. 
Friday, April 4, 2008

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Join the bash, Sorin 
Even as both thP Ollien of Hnsicllmce l.ife and Housing and my nd.edu­obsessed mother duttnrnd my e-mail account with messages mminding, prod­ding and attempting to coerce me into applying li>r a spot in tlw brand-nnw 
Matt Gamber 
Duncan llall. I 
havn oflkially Associate 
signed my lnttnr of Sports Editor 
intent (or, more 
commonly, my 
housing contract). 
My dedsion? To remain a resident of 
Sorin College. 
Iley, if it's good enough fiJr Monk, it's 
good enough for me. 
Despite Sorin's status a.o:; the first and 
consnqunntly oldest dorm on campus, 
only a small handful of ito:; rnsidenlo:; 
applind to live in Dunean -so I'm not 
alone in my proclamation that Sorin is 
irrefutably the hrreatest rnsidnnce hall 
under the dome. 
Thanks to il'> prime location on God 
Quad, Sorin is undnr the watchful eye of 
Our Lady and well within earshot of some 
of the finest Sunday morning wake-up 
calls around (thank you. Basilica bells.) 
While other dorms su~jeet their frnsh­
men to embarnL'>sing rituals during 
Frosh-0, the rnsidenl'> of Sorin Collnge set 
up (:amp in the backyard, a dgar in one 
hand and a water balloon in the other, 
just waiting for the next group of giddy 
girls' attmnpt to serenadn thnm. 
And why? We've got nothing to prove. 
I low many otlwr dorms had the audad­
ty to se(:nde in the 'hOs to makn a statn­
rnent about tlw Univnrsity's stance on 
Vietnam? Zero. 
What other hall contains lmu:Jors likn 
tlw fimm~r prnsident of tho University 
(Hnv. Monk Malloy, C.S.C.). tho currnnt 
prnsident of tlw student body (Bob "We 
want our I>VD's NOW" Hoish), and the 
futuro presidPnl of tho United States 
(Sonron "Yeah. like the dorm" Palumbo)? 
Nonn. 
And what othnr building on eampus has 
housed such Notrn Dame lngends a..:; 
Knute Hockne, the Four llorsemnn, 
.Johnny Lattner, Paulllornung and Matt 
Henry? Don't evnn try to think of one. 
OK, so other dorms have traditions, too. 
Like Alumni's Wake Wnek iliat's coming 
up-yeah, it sounds pretty eool from 
what I hear. But who really wants to live 
in the dorm most often used as an 
impromptu urinal fi1r those got-to-go 
times on weekend nighLo:; waiting for a 
Main Cirde pick-up? 
But hey, we'rn not here to bash other dorms. We're here to get other dorms to join thn bash -at Sorin College. 
It's not just about our prime location, illustrious tradition or impressive inhabi­tant.:;; Sorin also boa.o:;Lo:; the largnst social room on campus (pnrli~et for video games and book dub meetings.) 
And whiln I thank my esteemnd col­lnague (and I larry Potter onthusi<L'>tlobst~ssed fan) Bill Brink fbr his cute rendition of the sorting hat song, praising each dorm fbr il<; unique quali­ties, I can leave you with only one thought. 
Come hang out at Sorin -Bobby Powers dons. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of11w Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgambl•r0lnd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itsdf as a professional puhlicuion and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake. please contact us at 631-4541 so we can 
correct our error. 

QuESllON OF niE DAY: IF YOU COUW PULl. A PRANK ON ANYONE, WHO WOUW rT BE AND WHAT WOUW YOU 00? 







Jared Zenk  Lauren Wicke!  Marissa Treece  Roxanne Blair  Travis Allen  
junior Dillon  junior Badin  freshman Lewis  junior Badin  junior Dillon  
'Td tell the American people Hillary won the election. "  'Td paint the White House black."  "Brady Quinn. I'm having your baby. "  'Td tell Lauren the Rock is having her baby. "  ''I'd put Jared Zenk's mattress on top ofthe stalls in the  

OFFBEAT 
Woman bites dog who bit her dog 
MINNEAPOLIS -Amy Hice feared for her dog's life when a pit bull jumpnd over a fence into her yard and attacked her pooch. So she took matters into her own mouth. 
Hice says she bit the pit bull on the nose Friday after trying to pull the dog's jaws off her Labrador retriever, Ella. The dog had jumped a fence to get into Hice's northeast Minneapolis yard, and Hice says she feared the pit bull would kill Ella. 
Hice 'says she drew blood just before 7 a.m. Wednesday and quickly covered so most students were not exposed to them. 

One carcass was placed on a hurdle on the school's track. The other was placed on a railing near the front entrance of the main build­ing, with internal organs on the ground around it. 
Wayne Beatty, Natrona County School District safe schools administrator, said he didn't think there was any malicious intent behind what he termed a prank. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
when she bit the dog, and her doctor will have to determine whether she should get shots for rabies. 
The pit bull was quaran­tined. Ella is recovering with staples and stitches to her head and a crushed ear canal. 
Calf carcasses found at Wyoming high school 
CASPER -A student from a rival high school was disciplined after the carcasses of two dissected calves were found outside Natrona County lligh School, a school official said. The calves were found 
TODAY 
a: 
UJ 
::::1: 
!;;: 
UJ 
3: 
•• • $ 

....I 
< 

(,) 
0 
HIGH 54 HIGH 44 HIGH 58 HIGH 65
...I 
LOW 31 LOW 31 LOW 38 LOW 44 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
t ••• 


bathroom." 
IN BRIEF 
Lyons and O'Neill Halls will sponsor Heccss today from 3 until 6 p.m. on South Quad. The (Went ineludns free food, games and tic-dying. 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team will play Ball State at 
4:00 p.m. today at Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play Hutgers today at 
5:05 p.m. at the Eck Baseball Stadium. 
La Alianza will host Celcbraci6n: Latin Expressions tonight 7 at tho ()'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. Tickets are on salo in the LaFortune Box Oflicc at $7 for students and faculty. 
The Notre Dame Dance Company will perform "Taboo" tonight at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are available at the door for $5. 
Notre Dame College Democrats will host a talk by Ethel Kennedy on Saturday at 2 p.m. at Washington Hall. Admission is free. 
The Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC) will sponsor the fashion show "iHep: Me" on Saturday at the Century Center in downtown South Bend. Admission is $7 for students. 
Saint Mary's will host its third annual Dance Marathon tonight from S p.m. until S a.m. All proceeds will go to Hiley Children's Hospital in Indianapolis. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 54 HIGH 58 LOW 39 LOW 41 

Atlanta 78 I 59 Boston 45 I 36 Chicago 51 I 33 Denver 61 I 32 Houston 76 I 54 Los Angeles 72 I 54 Minneapolis 64 1 37 New York 47 I 46 Philadelphia 62 I 52 Phoenix 85 I 60 Seattle 52 I 40 St. Louis 57 I 43 Tampa 84 I 70 Washington 64 1 55 
-----------------------------.
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, April 4, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students gather to discuss peace 
Conference organizers say attending discussions is just a first step 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Students from across the globe will gather on campus this week­end to discuss ways to make peace both possible and practical at the annual Student Peace Conference at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The conference, entitled, "Bringing Peace Down to Earth," will consider "practical, down­to-earth, hands-on approaches to peace building," said senior Ryane Burke, conference co­chair. 
"Even if you're not a peace builder per se, that you can -or possibly should ­be involved in 
"Based on the idea behind the title of the conference, I really think that, for me, the whole conference is playing off the theme of how to take this very big, overwhelming problem of peace and all of the problems that fall underneath that rubric and how to make that something everyday people can engage in, rather than just something that is done by nation states or gov­ernments or even activists." Jones said. 
Jones said his speech aims to show people possible ways to carry out the conference's theme in their everyday lives, 
"My area of interest really lies in what I call the democratiza­
building peace 
"We have to take what 
because peace is 
something we is talked about, and we 
should all be have to somehow inte­working 
grate it back into what 
toward," Burke 
we do.,,

said. 
For keynote speaker Dr. Ellis Dr. Ellis Jones Jones, author of 
keynote speaker 

"The Better 
Student Peace Conference 
W o r I d Handbook" and tion of activism," Jones said. 
The confer­ence will also include a musical enter­tainment por­tion, a video clip and panel discussions. 
K r o c Institute Masters stu­dents will 
"There are people coming from other schools, but we're trying to up the number of Notre Dame students who attend the conference," she said. 
Jones said conferences like this are part of the solution of how to bring peace to the world, but attending them is not the only action people can take. 
"[The conference] allows peo­ple to come together and really flesh out what we're talking about," he said. "We have to take what is talked about, and we have to somehow integrate it back into what we do. This is where a lot of conferences fall short and this is what particular­ly attracted me in this confer­ence." 
He hopes conference attendees will apply what they learn during panels and discussions to their own lives and share it with oth­ers. 
"The question is 'Where do I go from here?'" he said. "And to really complete the picture, what we need is for people to be able to give other people the opportu­nity to take this information back with them, act on it in some practical way and make a differ­ence and pass it on to other peo­ple." 
The event is sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and attendance is free. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

Anthropology chair receives escaward 
Special to the Observer 
Mark Schurr, associate pro­fessor and chair of anthropolo­gy at the University of Notre Dame has received the 2008 Rodney F. Ganey, Ph.D. Faculty Community-Based Research Award from the Center for Social Concerns. 
The $5,000 award annually honors a Notre Dame faculty member whose research has made a contribution to a local community organization. 
Since 2003, Schurr has done research with the Kankakee Valley Historical Society (KVHS) to learn about how Native Americans in Northwest Indiana responded to forced removal from their lands dur­ing the 19th century. Schurr's project has involved some 40 Notre Dame students in archeo­logical field work which helped support the KVHS mission to restore and interpret the Kankakee Valley environment while preserving its archeologi­cal resources. 
Also announced by the Center for Social Concerns, which manages the Ganey projects, were three mini-grant projects which will receive $6,000 fund­ing each to explore: 
• Factors that perpetuate criminal activity--Michael Jenuwine, a member of the Law School's Legal Aid pro­
gram and an associate profes­sor of psychology, and under­graduates ·Andrea Laidman and Martha Calcutt will investigate the impact of such factors as poverty, lack of education and job training, mental illness, drug use and abusive home sit­uations on violent crime. They will partner with Dismas House of Michiana and Companions on the Journey. 
• 
Lead exposure and asth­ma--A team directed by psy­chology professor John Borkowski and led by psycholo­gy graduate student Jody Nicholson will partner with Memorial Hospital and the St. Joseph County Head Start Consortium in an effort to reduce exposure to lead and other household pollutants. 

• 
Elementary school switch­ing and student achievement-­Students of Jennifer Warlick, associate professor and chair of the Department of Economics 


.and Policy Studies, have learned that South Bend's most economically disadvantaged elementary school students fre­quently switch schools during the year, a change associated with poor academic perform­ance and behavioral problems. Warlick, student Nicholas Krafft and a partner in the South Bend Community School Corp. will explore low-cost programs that reduce student mobility. 

"Better World Shopping Guide," the title of the conference is especially significant. 
Jones said "Bringing Peace Down to Earth" involves convert­ing peace from an abstract idea into something people can incor­porate into daily life. 
moderate panels and discuss a variety of topics -from violence in Columbia to the role of women and gender, Burke and fellow co­chair Mariah Quinn said. 
Quinn said she hopes Notre Dame students attend this year's conference. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 4, 2008 
or the prospective students who have attended SVW in the
Visitation 

past, Carrillo said at least half continued from page 1 decided to attend Notre Dame, ---------=---==-------although the exact number has 
mer Spring Visitation partici­
pant..'> li1r over 20 yHars. 
"The primary goal of thH weekend is to give prospodive students the opportunity to make an informed decision about coming to Notrn Damn," Carrillo said. 
Event..'> throughout the W!~ek­end serve to odueate the stu­donts about academic and social life at Notre Dame. Students will be given the opportunity to meet with profes­sors and litculty to take part in events that celebrate Notre Dame's ethnic and cultural divnrsity. 
On Thursday ovoning the Asian American Association (AAAI hostnd an icebreaker game night in tho Lafortune Ballroom to lnt prospective stu­denl'> got to know not only each other, but their student hosts as wnll. This is tho first year AAA has sponson~d an event at SVW 
As in p<L'>t years, La Alianza's Latin Expressions and th1~ Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC) Fashion Show will take place Friday and Saturday nights, rospectively. The aim of these events is to showcase the school's diversity while giving tho prospective students the chance to interact with one another. 
Sophomom Kristine Yuen, a student coordinator for SVW, said these events help make SVW successful. 


Peters 
continued from page 1 
She also spoke at the College in 2005 as a Shannon E x e c u t i v e Scholar Lecture speak­er. The Shannon lec­ture takes 

place annually  "Just learning that  to recogniz­ 
and  features  she is a graduate,  ing both her  
an outstanding alumna speak­ that's fantastic."  exceptional career at GE  
ing  to  stu­ and her com­ 
dents.  Monica Mastracco  mitment  to  
Peters  was  Saint Mary's senior  S  a  i  n  t  

recently nomi­
nated to serve 
on the national 
Board of 
Directors of 
Girl Scouts USA and will begin her term 
in late 2008. She joined GE in 1979 
through the Human 


Kennedy 
continued from page 1 
The visit marks the 40th anniversary of her husband's campaign trip to the South Bend area during his run for the Democratic Party nomina­tion. 
Hobert Kennedy had spoken at the Stepan Center the morn­ing of April 4, 1968, the day on fluctuated from year to year. He said this numbHr is consistent with their goals to increasp, diversity in the school. 

"We really want to increase diversity at Notre Dame not just with students from different ethnic backgrounds, but with studenLr; who have a lot of talent and who will continue to improve our school," Yuen said. 
Visiting students applied for admission in the fall of 2007 and were invited by the Admissions Office upon being admitted to the University. 
Yuen and Carillo said the Admissions Office extended invitations to about 200 high school seniors within the conti­nental U.S. Their invitations were determined by a number offactors, Yuen said. 
"Admissions tries to invite student..'> from a variety of' back­grounds who normally might not have the chance to see Notre Dame," she said. "Some may live too far to visit or can't find the means to visit. Some are first generation college stu­denl'> who might not be able to visit on their own." 
SVW will conclude Sunday morning when the prospective students convene in LaFortune Student Center, say their good­byes and return to their respec­tive homes. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
Hesources Management Program and was appointed a company officer in 1997. In 2007 she assumed responsi­bility for all leadership train­ing and for GE's Management Development Institute. 
"Susan Peters is an extremely accomplished alumna. I look forward 
Mary's," College presi­dent Carol Ann Mooney said in a statement 
from Susan Dampeer, execu­tive assistance to the presi­dent. 
"She is an engaging speak-
moved the crowd deeply. 
friendship with Kluger helped to influence and shape his


Pope 

understanding of' Jews and continued from page 1 
Judaism and of issues rele­vant to modern Judaism," Jewish team," Dalin said. Dalin said. 
John Paul II "was the first On the 50th anniversary of to admit" that his early the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, Jewish influences affected his Kluger encouraged John Paul relationship to Judaism as II to hold the first-ever pope. Holocaust 
Dalin quoted Memorial John Paul II as event at the
"John Paul II had a per­
saying, "It's Vatican.
sonal commitment to
from them Diplomats, that I have this keeping the memory of Jewish lead­feeling of eom­ers and over
the Holocaust alive in 
munity and 2 0 0
the center ofRoman
friendship Holocaust about Jews." Catholicism. He was the survivors 
Wojtyla's attendHd the
2oth Century's greatest 
closest friend event, Dalin
papal friend ofthe
throughout his S<J,id. childhood was Jews." "John Paul Jerzy Kluger, II was the the son of the first bishop
Rabbi David Dalin 
local syna­of Rome to
professor of history and 
gogue presi­visit the syn­
politics
dent. On one agogue of 
occasion, Wojtyla attended a Yom Kippur service with his father and the Kluger family, Dalin said. 
"John Paul II is the first modern pope to attend a syn­agogue worship service while he was growing up," Dalin said. 
Kluger and Wojtyla remained close throughout their lives. Kluger and his English-born wife Renee were John Paul II's first din­ner guests at the Vatican after his papal election. 
"John Paul II's life-long 
Home. In doing so, he changed history," Dalin said. 
"John Paul II had a person­al commitment to keeping the memory of the Holocaust alive in the center of Homan Catholicism," Dalin said. "He was the 20th century's great­est papal friend of Jews. This was one of the enduring lega­cies of his pontificate that should be remembered and cherished by Catholics and Jews alike." 
Contact Theresa Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

er and I know that she will speakers have been great 
connect with our graduates and have had and their families," Mooney said. 
Like many stu­dents, senior Monica 'Tm really happy to Mastracco was hear that we have a excited to learn the 
Saint Mary's
speaker of the Commencement 

alumna to come address at her grad­back to College."uation. "Just learning that 
Monica Mastracco
she is a graduate, that's fantastic," 

Saint Mary's senior 
Mastracco said. "I am really happy to hear that we have a Saint Mary's alumna to come back to the College." 
She said it will be helpful to see an accomplished women like Peters speaking to a group of women who will soon be starting their own careers and lives after graduating. 
"I've gone to the Commencement ceremony the last two years, and the 
Hillary Clinton. 

"!Indianapolis] was perhaps Mehlos said becoming one of the only major cities in involved in politics is especially 
the nation where there were no riots that day," Mehlos said. "Bobby's cam­paign ensured that the American dream might live on for 
"The most important thing is to get involved in the political election. It has been 40 years since we have had a competitive primary. " 
important  this  
year.  
"The  most  

important thing is to get involved in the political elec­tion," Mehlos said. "It has been 40 years since we [Indiana] have had a competitive pri­
insightful things to say but it will be nice to see in a physi­cal mani­festation the actual quality of graduates that this College is putting out into t h e world," 
Mastracco said. 
Contact Liz Harter at ehartO 1 @saintQ1.arys.edu 



MORRISSEY 
-MANOR-


Find the medallion and win $300! 
Clue #5: Swing round at the light Where right is not right
You've been faithful and read all the clues 
Yon've put in the time, paid your dues No simpler than this can it be So if yon don't win don't blame me: While relaxing with Moose Your feet should yon loose Fifteen to the front Up walls with a grunt 
Idol 
continued from page 1 

"I wanted a chance to go at it again," 
Sullivan said. 

"The entire process was fanta<>tic, 
because almost all of these kids are 
my friends. It was really a blast," 
Sullivan said. 

Notre Dame students senior John 
Fi<>ter and junior Whitney Young were 
among the top three performers of the 
evening. 

"Winning felt pretty good. Whitney 
!Young] put up a good fight." Sullivan 
said. 

Notre Dan1e senior Bridget Iliru.,rins, who took part in judging the competi­tion, said all three of the judges really , enjoyed last night's performances, 
especially the top thrnn perlhrmances. 

"All thrHe of the judges were unani­
mous on our top thrne, so tho decision 
was pretty ea'>y," Hiru.,>ins said. 

Higgins said the quality ru1d individ­
uality of the performances were the 
key in last night's competition. 

"Everybody did well, but those thrm~ 
stood out particularly bneause they 
made the performance their own," 
Higgins said. 

Legends press writer Bridget 
Keating said the dub's stall" played a 
huge role in organi7jng thi'> year's lri'>h 
Idol. She al'>o said the club has been 
planning this event since the fall, but 
auditions were not held until right 
alter Easter Break, during which time 
around 50 student<> auditioned. 

"Anything like this showcases the 
amazing talent that we have here on 
campus," Keating said. "Every year 
the competition gets more and more 
fierce and we see more and more tal­
ented students every single year." 

Keating al<>o said more than 50 stu­
dents auditioned for this year's Irish 
Idol and any student from Notre 
Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross was 
eligible to participate. 

Many students and panmts came 
out to support the finalists in this 
year's competition. 

Notre Dame sophomore Clarisa 
Ramos said she and her friends 
enjoyed last night's performances. 

"I definitely found the performers 
who really went for entertainment the 
most interesting," Ramos said. She 
also said that she was pleased with 
last night's attendanr,e to the event. 

"I think that the people who are 
here supporting their friends shows 
that the Notre Dame community is 

there to love each other and support 
each other in everything that we do," 
Ramos said. "This is just one of those 
kinds of events." 
Contact Amber Travis at atravis@nd.edu 
Ten paces yon go Walk swiftly not slow The one of the six This one have we picked The base by the three It's here yon will see The medal, at last! Now go find it, F.I!.ST! 

which Martin Luther King, Jr.  generations,"  mary. That makes  
was shot later in the afternoon, Mnhlos said. Mehlos said following his talk at Notre Dame, Hobert Kennedy  College Democrats sponsored a visit from  Corey Mehlos College Democrats co-President emeritus  this election histor­ical." Max Kennedy, ninth child of Ethel  The Manor Medallion Hunt is a week long campus-wide search for a single three-inch medallion. The Medallion is located somewhere on the Notre Dame campus-not in a residence hall, church, or at the Grotto. A new riddle will appear daily in the Observer and at the Morrissey  
was notified that King was shot  Chelsea  and  Hobert,  will  website:  
and put together a few notes on  Clinton and Sean Astin, the  join his mother on  campus.  www.nd.edu/-manor  
his way down to Indianapolis. Police, fearing riots, urged him against speaking publicly, but  actor who played the title role in the movie "Hudy," last week. Mehlos said Astin endorsed  Admission is free. Contact Katie Peralta at  Br·ing the medallion to Mor·r·issi'V 001 between 9-10 PM to claim your $300 pr·iu!! - 
Kennedy spoke anyways and  Democratic presidential hopeful  kperalta@nd.edu  



ORLD & NATION 
Friday, April 4, 2008 CoAA.PILED FROAA THr: OBSERVER'S W£RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraqi government promises crackdown 
BAGHDAD-Iraq's prime minister pledged Thursday to expand his crackdown on Shiite militias to Baghdad, despite a mixed perform­ance so far against militants in the southern city of Basra. 
The U.S. ambassador, meanwhile, said that despite a "boatload" of problems with the Basra operation, he was encouraged that the Shiite-led government was finally confronting extremists regardless of their religious affilia­tion. 
Iraqi forces launched a major operation March 25 to rid Basra of Shiite militias and criminal gangs that had effectively ruled the city of 2 million people since 2005. But the offensive stalled in the face of fierce resistance from the militiamen and an uprising across the Shiite south spearheaded by the Mahdi Army of anti-American cleric Muqtada al-Sadr. 
Rebel leader rules out hostage release 
BOGOTA, Colombia -A senior rebel leader ruled out the unilateral release of an ailing French-Colombian hostage, casting doubt on the mission of French diplomats and doctors who flew to Colombia on Thursday to save her life. 
Rodrigo Granda, the rebels' foreign relations chief, did not mention the French plane sitting on the tarmac in Bogota, but suggested the French had no deal with the rebels for the release of Ingrid Betancourt, 46, who was kid­napped while running for president of Colombia six years ago. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Ark. will accept FEMA mobile homes 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -Arkansas will accept Federal Emergency Management Agency mobile homes for tornado victims but has put a limit on their formaldehyde levels, Gov. Mike Beebe said Thursday. 
The state will not take mobile homes with formaldehyde levels higher than 40 parts per billion, Beebe said. Anything below that level is typical for most housing, he said. 
FEMA has been criticized for its response to concerns about much higher levels of formaldehyde in mobile homes used by vic­tims of the 2005 Gulf Coast hurricanes. About 34,000 remain occupied, but FEMA has stepped up efforts to move residents. 
Thousands of unused FEMA mobile homes remain in storage. Tests on 32 of them set aside for Arkansas victims of Feb. 5 tornadoes showed that three of them had levels above 77 parts per billion. That is considered high enough to raise residents' risk of cancer and respiratory illness. 
Pre-dawn Pennsylvania fire kills ten 
BROCKWAY, Pa. -A pre-dawn fire engulfed a western Pennsylvania home where three generations of the same family lived Thursday, killing 10 people, most of them children, while the patriarch worked an overnight shift. 
Authorities identified the dead as a 40­year-old woman and nine people under 20, including two infants. Most of the younger ones were children or grandchildren of the woman, Kimberly Peterson. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indy to commemorate RFK speech 
INDIANAPOUS -As riots erupted in dozens of cities after the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr., Robert Kennedy's calming words in Indianapolis are credited with quelling violence in the city. 
"The people of Indianapolis were inspired by Senator Robert Kennedy to express their sorrow and outrage peacefully," said state Rep. William Crawford, D-Indianapolis, who was among a 
. mostly black crowd who listened to Kennedy's passionate speech that night 40 years ago. 
Friday's anniversary of both historic events will be commemorated in a ceremony that Kennedy's widow, Ethel, and one of his sons, Max, plan to attend. Weather permitting, the main program will be held at the site where Kennedy spoke. 
CUBA 
Castro lifts limits on consumer goods 
Peso is too weak to allow most citizens to actually make use of new economic freedoms 
Associated Press 
HAVANA -President Raul Castro has lifted restrictions on consumer goods and hotel stays, but most Cubans get paid in virtually worthless pesos, which can't buy basic items like toilet paper, let alone a DVD player or poolside mojito cocktails at the Hotel Capri. 
Nearly everything Cubans want or need must be bought with a separate currency created for tourists and foreigners. So, until the regular peso increases in value, Castro's moves will be bittersweet gestures. 
The new leader's solu­tion, now the talk of the island: merge the two cur­rencies. But this turns out to be much easier said than done. 
Shelves remain virtually bare at the few stores where Cubans can buy things in regular pesos, which they mostly use for heavily subsidized items like rationed food, trans­portation and medicine. In one store, recent offerings included a half-dozen motorcycle helmets, a thin blanket and a single pair of boy's underwear. 
Overpriced DVD players, flat screen televisions, French cosmetics and year-old office worker, to gradually reach one sin­rest who don't. Uruguayan steaks are now who earns the equivalent gle monetary system and In pockets of extreme available to anyone who of $17 a month. "With my starts by making one cue poverty, especially in west­can afford them at the salary of 350 Cuban pesos, equal to eight pesos ern Cuba, people are rest­elite stores Cubans call "el my priority is food." instead of 24," said less over their dire living shopping." But they must If only Castro could Carmelo Mesa-Lago, a conditions. Even middle­be bought with the "con­declare a 24-fold increase Cuba economics expert income workers in Havana vertible" pesos tourists get in the value of all state and professor emeritus at can hardly benefit from when they trade in their salaries with a wave of his the University of their newly announced dollars, euros and other­hand. Pittsburgh. freedoms. foreign currency. It would cause an "People will immediately "Now I can go to hotels. 
Cubans can use their unprecedented buying change their pesos to That's nice, but with regular pesos to buy con­spree, but with a terrible cues, which suddenly buy what? Not on my salary," vertible pesos known as hangover when the few three times as much, and said Silvita, a 42-year-old cues-(pronounced available goods are gone. clean out the shops. Then doctor who like many "kooks"), but at a dizzying And the government what does the government Cubans would not give her exchange rate of 24-to-1. lacks the hard currency do the next day?" last name to international And even then, few can needed to pay much high­The dual currency sys­media. afford expensive goods on er salaries, so Cubans tem is despised among "If they don't give the average salaries equiva­could soon find themselves Cubans because it has cre­peso more value or create lent to $19.50 a month. even worse off, with little ated two classes of people one money system, I think 
Regia Jimenez' 15-year­reason to work harder, in a socialist society sup­these measures will be old daughter wants an save more and spend their posed to be based on egal­worse. Because they'll just MP3 player for her birth­pesos. itarianism: the 60 percent remind us that our day, but "I can't give it to "Let's assume the gov­who have at least some salaries don't buy any­her," complained the 45-ernment decides tomorrow access to cues, and the thing." 

Clinton pledges equal benefits for gays 
News that was posted on its Web under their own state constitutions
Associated Press site Thursday. and under the legislative WASHINGTON -Democratic Sen. Clinton said she and her husband approach," she said. "I anticipate Hillary Rodham Clinton said she have many gay friends that they that there will be a very concerted would defend gay rights as presi­socialize with when they get the amount of effort in the next couple dent and eliminate disparities for chance. ''I've got friends, literally, of years that will move this impor­same-sex couples in federal law, around the country that I'm close tant issue forward and different including immigration and tax poli­to. It's part of my life," she said. states will take different approach­cy. She said that when they ask her es as they did with marriage over Clinton said states such as New why they can't get married, she many years and you will see an evo­Jersey and Massachusetts are tells them marriage is a state law. lution over time." extending rights to gay couples She said that fact helped defeat a Clinton said she opposes a meas­"and the federal government should constitutional amendment to pro­ure that would ban gay marriage in recognize that and should extend hibit same-sex weddings that she Pennsylvania. the same access to federal benefits said would "enshrine discrimination "I would be very distressed if across the board. I will very much in the Constitution." Pennsylvania were to adopt that work to achieve that." "States are really beginning seri­kind of mean-spirited referendum Clinton's comments came in an ously to deal with the whole range and I hope it won't happen," she interview with the Philadelphia Gay of options, including marriage, both said. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 4, 2008 
FAA whistleblowers say jobs are threatened 
Southwest Airlines founder apologizes for safety inspection scandal, but says that passenger security remains top priority 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The 
whistleblowers who exposed 
maintenance and inspection 
problems at Southwest Airlines 
told Congress their jobs were 
threatened and their reports of 
noncompliance wore ignored 
for years. 
Federal Aviation 
Administration inspector 
Douglas Peters choked up 
Thursday at a llouse hearing 
and needed a few sips of water 
to tell lawmakers about how a 
former manager came into his 
ol"fiee, commented on pictures 
of Peters' family being most 
important, and then said his 
job could be jeopardized by his 
actions. 
Hop. James Oberstar, D­
Minn., said FAA managers' 
actions displayed "malfeasance 
bordering on corruption," 
adding that if presented to a 
grand jury, tho evidence would 
result in an indictment. 
The FAA last month took the 
rare step of ordering the audit 
of maintenance records at all 
domestic carriers following 
reports of missed safety inspec­
tions at Dallas-based 
Southwest. The airline was hit 
with a record $10.2 million line 
for continuing to fly dozens of 
Boeing 737s, which carried an 
estimated 145,000 passengers, 
that hadn't been inspected for 
cracks in their fuselages. 
Southwest has said it will 
appeal the penalty. 
Both FAA whistleblowers ­
Charalamb1~ Boutris and Peters 
-said the agency views the 
airlines as its "customers" 
instead of companies to be reg­
ulated. They said the FAA's 
chief maintenance inspector at 
the time, Douglas T. 
(;awadzinski, knowingly 
allowed Southwest to keep 
planes flying that put passen­
gers at risk, and that another 
inspnctor knew of the problem 
and did nothing. 
Transportation Department Inspector General Calvin L. Scovel III echoed eoneerns about the FAA's inspection ofliee responsible for Southwest Airlines, testifying that it had "developed an overly collabora­tive relationship" with the car­rier. 
"FAA's ovnrsight in this ease appears to allow, rather than mitigate, recurring safety viola­tions," Scovel said. 
llis off"ice found that the ageney fails to proteet employ­ees who report safety issues and donsn't adequately respond to problems when they are identified. lie recommnnded immediate action be taken to fix the air carrier oversight programs. 
Herb Kell!~h!~r. Southwest's founder and exncutive chair­man. apologized for allowing planes to fly that should not have. "Our people made engi­neering judgments they were not entitled to make," he said, adding that passenger safety was never compromised. 
Southwest Chief Executive Gary Kelly said the airline inereased the number, scope and frequency of audits and implemented more stringent requirements of maintenance plan changes after the prob­lems wnre discovered. The air­linn will take further action after indep1mdent investigators, thn FAA and Southwest staff finish their reviews, he said. 

When FAA inspectors blew the whistle in March 2007, Gawadzinski was their superi­or. He's still employed by the FAA, but has no responsibility for safety decisions, said Nicholas Sabatini, the agency's associate admin-
of the investigations and he was considered to be 'l hostile witness who would most likely refuse to answer questions that could have incriminated him­self, according to a spokesman for the House Transportation a n d 
istrator for avia­tion safety. Oberstar dis­ "Our people made engineering  Infrastructure Committee. Committee  
puted that asser­tion and said Gawadzinski had  judgments they were not entitled to make. ''  Chairman Oberstar said as long as the FAA  
retained  over­ views  the  air­ 
sight responsi­ Herb Kelleher  lines  as  cus­ 
bility a!'ter his  Southwest Airlines  tomers  "that  
removal from the Southwest  founder  culture of safety will not take  
office. Sabatini  hold and is not  

said he would look into it those going to permeate the organi­claims and promised that the zation." FAA will "take whatever action Sabatini said the FAA is a the law will allow" when the regulator and that he would investigation is complete. immediately work to correct 
Gawadzinski was not asked to that internal problem of per­testify at Thursday's hearing ception. because of the ongoing nature Still, the inspectors' concerns about Southwest, which the FAA first acknowledged a year ago, have since been eon­firmed, and the agency on Wednesday said it is investigat­ing four airlines for failing to comply with various federal aviation regulations. It did not name the airlines. 
In the last week alone, AMH Corp.'s American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and UAL Corp.'s United Airlines have canceled flights to perform unscheduled inspections of certain aircraft. and US Airways Group Inc. found problems on some Boeing 7 57 s after a wing part from another plane fell off dur­ing a flight. 
Spokesmen from Delta, United, Northwest Airlines, US Air and American said they have not been informed that their companies are the subject of an investigation. A Southwest spokeswoman said the carrier has not been informed of any additional investigation. 
On Wednesday, the FAA announced a new reporting system designed to make it eas­ier for inspectors to raise con­eerns and strengthening ethics policies aimed at easing poten­tial conlliets of interests. 
The agency will launch the system by the end of this month to provide employees an addi­tional way to raise safety con­eerns they feel are not receiv­ing the neeessary attention or response from management, acting FAA Administrator Hobert A. Sturgnll said. 
And by June 30, the agency will start a rule-making process to set a two-year "cooling off' period before former inspectors could work for an airline then'l were overseeing. That would mateh the time that new inspectors hired from industry must wait before they can over­see their former employer. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Friday, April 4, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,626.03 +20.20
.Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,962 98 1,360 3,920,364,258 
AMEX NASDAQ 2 363.30 +1.90 NYSE ...•,.Whw«··~~1an·~~~:.:iiill!il!li):~·~mS&P 500 1,369.31 +1.78 NIKKEI (Tokyo) ;t.3;248<ii!Siill!il'~,~~il'~'~·i: FTSE 100 (London) 5.891.30 -24.60 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.25 +0.34 137.04 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.22 +0.10 45.59 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) +0.45 +0.12 26.72 SCHERING PLOUGH CP (SGP) +10.97 +1.52 15.38 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.22 +0.008 3.591 13-WEEK BILL -0.37 -0.005 1.360 30-YEAR BOND 0.00 0.000 4.387 5-YEAR NOTE +1.06 +0.029 2.753 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.98 106.15 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +9.40 912.80 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +3.00 70.88 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 102.5450 EURO 0.6392 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0056 BRmSH POUND 0.5015 
IN BRIEF 
Bemanke defends Bears Steams rescue 
WASHINGTON -Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and the Bush administration on Thursday defended the decision to rescue Bear Stearns amid questions by lawmakers about why the government was helping Wall Street invest­ment houses but not people on Main Street. 
Bernanke and Treasury Department Undersecretary Robert Steel said that the conse­quences to the U.S. economy and financial system would have been far more serious had the gov­ernment allowed the nation's fifth largest invest­ment house to go bankrupt. 
"Given the exceptional pressures on the global economy and financial system, the damage caused by a default by Bear Stearns could have been severe and extremely difficult to contain," Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee. 
The panel conducted a five-hour hearing as lawmakers sought to understand the decisions made during the hectic weekend of March 14-15 after Bear Stearns informed the Fed that it was on the verge of having to file for bankruptcy pro­tection because nervous creditors were demand­ing to be repaid. 
Unemployment benefits claims leap 
WASHINGTON -The number of new peo­ple signing up for unemployment benefits last week shot up to the highest level in more than two years, fresh evidence of the damage to a national economy clobbered by housing, credit and financial crises. 
The Labor Department reported Thursday that new applications filed for unemploy­ment insurance jumped by a seasonally adjusted 38,000 to 407,000 for the week ending March 29. The increase left claims at their highest point since Sept. 17, 2005, fol­lowing the blows of the devastating Gulf Coast hurricanes. 
"This report supports the view that the jobs market is deteriorating toward reces­sionary conditions," said T.J. Marta, a fixed­income strategist at RBC Capital Markets. 
The latest snapshot of labor activity was worse than economists had anticipated. They had predicted claims would be much lower, around 365,000. 
Budget crises hit state prisons 
Lawmakers consider cutting costs by releasing drug addicts, violent criminals early 
Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. ­Lawmakers from California to Kentucky are trying to save money with a drastic and potentially dangerous budget-cutting proposal: releasing tens of thousands of convicts from prison, including drug addicts, thieves and even violent criminals. 
Officials acknowledge that the idea carries risks, but they say they have no choice because of huge budget gaps brought on by the slumping economy. 
"If we don't find a way to better manage the popula­tion at the state prison, we will be forced to spend money to expand the state's prison system -money we don't have," said Jeff Neal, a spokesman for Rhode Island Gov. Don Carcieri. 
At least eight states are considering freeing inmates or sending some convicts to rehabilitation programs instead of prison, according to an Associated Press analy­sis of legislative proposals. If adopted, the early release programs could save an esti­mated $450 million in California and Kentucky alone. 
A Rhode Island proposal would allow inmates to deduct up to 12 days from officer in a suburb of Legislatures. "That's where than 20 months remaining their sentence for every Providence whose ex-hus­they look to first to cut down on their sentences. Violent month they follow rules and band went to prison for beat-· some of those costs." and sex offenders would not work in prison. Even some ing her. He has already fm­Rhode Island Corrections be eligible. violent offenders would be ished his prison term, but Director A.T. Wall was not Laying off prison guards eligible but not those serving would have been eligible for sure how many prisoners and making it more difficult life sentences. early release under the cur-could be freed early. The to send parole violators back 
A plan in Mississippi would rent proposal. . payoff for doing so may be to state prison would account offer early parole for people "You're talking about vic­relatively small: less than $1 for part of the savings. convicted of selling marijua­tim safety. You're talking million for the first fiscal Law enforcement officials na or prescription drugs. about community member year, although that figure and Republican lawmakers New Jersey, South Carolina safety," she said. "You can't would increase over time. immediately criticized and Vermont are considering balance the budget on the In California, where law­Schwarzenegger's proposal, funneling drug-addicted backs of victims of crimes." makers have taken steps to which would apply to car offenders into treatment, But prisons "are one of the cut a $16 billion budget thieves, forgers, drunken which is cheaper than most expensive parts of the deficit in half by summer, drivers and some drug deal­prison. criminal-justice system," said Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger ers. Some would never serve 
The prospect of financial Alison Lawrence, who stud­proposed saving $400 million prison time because the stan­savings offers little comfort to ies corrections policy for the by releasing more than dard sentence for those Tori-Lynn Heaton, a police National Conference of State 22,000 inmates who had less crimes is 20 months or less. 
Stocks rise slightly ahead ofjobs report 
Associated Press ing well recently due to its newfound Broader stock indicators also edged 
confidence about global fmancial sys­higher. The Standard & Poor's 500 
NEW YORK -Stocks managed to tem-even in the face of poor econom­index rose 1.78, or 0.13 percent, to notch a modest gain Thursday, with ic data. Early Thursday, stocks dipped 1,369.31, and the Nasdaq composite Wall Street cautious ahead of Friday's after the Labor Department reported a index rose 1. 90, or 0.08 percent, to jobs report but hopeful that the global spike in jobless claims to a level not 2,363.30. financial system is on the mend. seen since September 2005. The Dow, which shot up nearly 400 
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben But the decline was very mild and points on Tuesday, is up 7.6 percent Bernanke told Congress Thursday the short-lived -particularly given the from its March 10 low, its worst level Fed expects to recover most, if not all, huge advance Wall Street logged since October 2006. the $29 billion worth of loans it made to Tuesday and has mostly maintained, "I think we're going to have a big test keep struggling Bear Stearns Cos. from and the fact that economists expect the coming up," Lee said. "Are U.S. stocks collapse. Bernanke's remarks, in which government on Friday to report there poised for another downturn, or are he defended the central bank's decision was a jobs loss in March for the third U.S. stocks telling us the worst is to aid JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s buy of straight month. behind us?" Bear Stearns, were calming to investors "I think that the desire to sell is com­With a broad swath of corporate hoping that demand is returning to the ing off," said Thomas J. Lee, equities earnings reports set to arrive in the tight credit markets. analyst at JPMorgan. The fact that the coming weeks, investors appear 
John Thain, the chief executive of market has not been shaken by recent upbeat. Over the past few weeks, the Merrill Lynch & Co., also lent some sol­disappointing economic data "tells me market has occasionally been knocked ace to the market after telling Japanese that the recession is largely discount-lower by disappointing economic read­
d ..

financial newspaper The Nikkei that e . ings, particularly on consumers' discre­the investment bank has sufficient cash The Dow Jones industrial average tionary spending, but it has ultimately and will not need to raise more. rose 20.20, or 0.16 percent, to righted itself amid signs that the credit 
The stock market has been perform-12,626.03. markets are improving. 

page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 4, 2008 
ZIMBABWE 
Mugabe to campaigninrun-off 
Attacks on opposition, journalists a sign incumbent to use violence 
Associated Press 
IIAHAHE, Zimbabwe Intruders ransacked offices of the main opposition party and police detained foreign journalists Thursday in an ominous sign that President Hobert Mugabe might turn to intimidation and violence in trying to stave off an electoral threat to his 28­year rule. 
outright, but said it was prepared to compete in any run-oil". 
The police raids came a day after official results showed Mugabe's party had lost control of parliament's 210-member lower house. The election com­mission was slow on the 60 elect­ed seats in the Senate, releasing the first returns late Thursday that gave five seats each to the 
Earlier, Mugabe  "Mugabe has started  opposition and  
apparently launched his cam­paign for an  a crackdown. It is quite clear he has  ruling party. MDC secre­tary-general  
expected run-off  unleashed a war. "  Tendai Biti said  
presidential ballot  hotel rooms used  
even before the ollicial results of Saturday's fllec­ Tendal Bltl Secretary-General of  as offices by the opposition at a Harare hotel  
tion  were  Movement for  were ransacked  
announced. with  Democratic Change  by intruders he  

state media por­traying the opposi­tion as divided and controlled by former colonial ruler Britain. 
Five days after the vote, the Zimbabwe Eleet.oral Commission still had not relear.;ed results on presidential election despite increasing international pres­sure, inducting from former U.N. chief Koli Annan, who recently mediated an end to Kenya's post­election violence. 
The opposition Movement for Democratic Change already asserted its leader, Morgan Tsvanh>irai, won the presidency 
,. ~-·· . 

believed were 
either police or agents of the feared Central Intelligence Organization. 
"Mugabe has started a crack­down," Biti told The Associated Press. "It is quite clear he has unlear.;hed a war." 
Biti said the raid at the Meikles Hotel targeted "certain people ... including myself." He said Tsvangirai was "safe" but had canceled plans for a news confer­ence. Tsvangirai was arrested and severely beaten by police a year ago after a banned opposi­tion rally. 
In a further signal of the gov­ernment's hardening mood, heavily armed riot police sur­rounded and entered a Harare hotel housing foreign correspon­dents and took four away, said a man answering the telephone at the hotel. Eight journalists were staying at the York Lodge. 
Bill Keller, executive editor of The New York Times, said Times correspondent Barry Bearak, a winner of a 2002 Pulitzer Prize, was one of those taken into cus­tody. "An American consular offi­cial who visited him at the central police station reported that he was being held for 'violation of the journalism laws,"' Keller said. 
The identities of the other reporters hadn't been deter­mined. 
The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists expressed alarm over the deten­tions and called for the reporters' immediate release. "It is impera­tive that all journalists, foreign and domestic, be allowed to work freely," said Joel Simon, the group's executive director. 
Zimbabwe lawyer Beatrice Mtetwa said "quite a few" American and British people had been detained by police but no charges had been filed against them. She said some were being questioned indiviually by police but were not allowed to have lawyers present. 
IRAQ 

AI-Maliki to expand crackdown on militias 
Nevertheless, Prime Minister 
Associated Press 
Nouri al-Maliki, himself a 

BAGHDAD -Iraq's prime Shiite, insisted that the cam­minister pledged Thursday to paign to reclaim Basra was on expand his crackdown on Shiite track and that he would soon go militias to Baghdad, despite a after "criminal gangs" in mixed perform-Baghdad and ance so far elsewhere. against militants Al-Maliki
"We cannot remain 
in the southern specified two city of Basra. silent about our peo­Baghdad neigh­
The U.S. borhoods
ple and families in
ambassador, Sadr City and
Sadr City ... " 
meanwhile, said Shula -where that despite a the Mahdi mili­"boatload" of tia holds sway
Nourl ai-Mallkl 
problems with the and where U.S.
Iraqi Prime Minister
Basra operation, he was encour­aged that the Shiite-led government was finally confronting extremists regardless of their religious affiliation. 
Iraqi forces launched a major operation March 25 to rid Basra of Shiite militias and criminal gangs that had effec­tively ruled the city of 2 million people since 2005. But the offensive stalled in the face of fierce resistance from the mili­tiamen and an uprising across the Shiite south spearheaded by the Mahdi Army of anti­American cleric Muqtada al­Sadr. 
Fighting eased Sunday when al-Sadr ordered his fighters to stand down under a deal bro­kered in Iran. 
and Iraqi forces 
have clashed 
with militants in recent days. 
Both areas remain under a vehicle ban imposed last week throughout Baghdad but which has been lifted elsewhere in the capital. 
"We cannot remain silent about our people and families in Sadr City, Shula and other areas ... while they are held hostage by gangs that control them," al-Maliki said. "We must liberate (them) because we came into ollice to serve them." 
It was unclear whether any new operation was imminent, but residents of Sadr City and other Shiite areas of the capital said many people began stock­ing up on food and water after al-Maliki's remarks. 


Brand new, furnished townhomes 
for this Fall Semester, 2008 
2 blocks east of the Notre Dame athletic fields, off Willis Street 
A limited number of new Irish Crossings three and four-bedroom townhomes, specifically
/
' geared for today's college student, are now available for lease for this fall semester. 
No more old school housing. 
larger than an apartment, these townhomes also include a full, private bath 
in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
•' . 
. '.'·~ ;~'· 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser, closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & Cable 


• 
Separate laundry room with washer &dryer included 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
Large deck 


• 
Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 


Strict covenants enforced. 

lease today and move into your brand new townhome for fall semester 2008. Call Diane at 574.261-3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossings.com. 
f· 
now leasing. 
1-. 

Friday, April 4, 2008 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ROMANIA 
NATO supports Bush's misssle defense plan 
Alliance leaders extend membership to Albania, Croatia, but decline admission to Ukraine, Georgia, Macedonia 
Associated Press 
BUCHAREST, Romania ­NATO allies gave President Bush strong support Thursday for a missile defense system in Europe and urged Moscow to drop its angry opposition to the program. The unanimous deci­sion strengthened Bush's hand for weekend talks with Russian Presid'ent Vladimir Putin. 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said it was "a breakthrough document on missile defense for the alliance." At Bush's first NATO summit in 2001, "perhaps only two allies gave even lukewarm support for the notion of mis­sile defense," Rice said. 
This was Bush's fmal meeting 
*-'­
~@:§)
~7)'t!~~J 
~ 
with members of the 26-nation alliance, and White House offi­cials described it as a day of freewheeling talks in which leaders and their foreign min­isters got off script and gath­ered in crowds to debate the wording of a statement. "It doesn't happen in NATO meet­ings a lot," said Bush's national security adviser, Stephen 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Nominations for the 
Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, April 14, 2008 
Hadley. 

He said a group of leaders ­"men in suits" -gathered around German Chancellor Angela Merkel to talk about putting former Soviet republics Ukraine and Georgia on a path toward NATO membership, a step she opposes. Moscow heatedly opposes any further eastward expansion of the alliance. 
Summit leaders refused to grant the two countries a mem­bership plan now, but said they would look at the issue again in December and they empowered their foreign ministers to decide it. The 
"Balistic missle pro­
Balkan nations strategic frame­of Albania and liferation poses an work" to guide Croatia were relations
increasing threat to
invited to join between
allies' forces, territo­
the alliance. Washington and Macedonia was ry, and population." Moscow under turned aside at their successors. the insistence of "Part of that has
NATO missle defense 
Greece, which to be some dis­
statement
says the coun­cussion of mis­
try's name implies a territo­rial claim to a northern region of Greece, also called Macedonia. 
France helped resolve a sen­sitive issue for NATO by pledg­ing to send as many as 1,000 more combat troops to Afghanistan's eastern part. That would free up U.S. forces to move into the south, home of fierce fighting with Taliban and al-Qaida forces. Canada had threatened to pull its soldiers from the south unless it received 1,000 reinforcements from another ally. 
Some allies, notably Germany, Italy, Turkey and Spain, refuse to send troops to the Afghan front lines because of the unpopularity of the war at home. Hadley said military commanders in Afghanistan are pleading for more forces. 
Already the largest contribu­tor to NATO's 47,000 troops in Afghanistan, the United States is dispatching an additional 
Earn Extra Money in One Weekend! 
How:  Work on campus during Alumni Reunion 2008  
What:  A variety of well-paid positions available  
When:  Thursday, May 29 -Sunday, June 1  
Eligibility:  NO, SMC and HCC students. Children of faculty and staff are  
also encouraged to apply. Must be at least 16 years old.  

How to Apply: To view Reunion 2008 job opportunities, visit the Notre Dame employment website at jobs.nd.edu (keyword: Reunion). The application deadline is May 1. 
Contact the Notre Dame Alumni Association at
Questions? 

alumwork@nd.edu or 574-631-4434 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Association 
3,500 Marines and readying plans to send in more in the south next year, Hadley said. 
Putin, in the last days of his presidency, arrived Thursday evening and joined the leaders at dinner. Putin planned to meet more formally with NATO chiefs Friday. 
With U.S.-Russian relations in a deep chill, Bush and Putin will meet Saturday and Sunday in the Black Sea resort of Sochi in their last talks before the Russian leader steps down in May. Bush's term ends in 
January. 
Rice said the 
two leaders 
were expected 
to produce "a 
sile  defense,"  
Rice  said,  but  
she  stopped  

short of saying the two leaders would find agreement on the prickly sub­ject. 
Russia views the system as designed to weaken its military might and upsetting the bal­ance of power in Europe. Bush argues that the shield is not aimed at Russia but at Mideast countries such as Iran. 
In a series of concessions, the White House has offered to let Moscow monitor the sites and promised to delay activation of the shield until Iran or another adversary tests a missile with a range to reach Europe. 
Rice said the Russians said those measures were viewed as "useful and important" when she and Defense Secretary Robert Gates were in Moscow last month. "We hope that we can move beyond that to an understanding that we all have an interest in cooperation on missile defense. But we will see." 
Aside from the NATO endorsement, the anti-missile program advanced on another front with the Czech Republic's agreement to host a radar sys­tem that would track the sky for any threats. The White House has to complete a deal with Poland where 10 intercep­tor rockets would be based. 
The NATO statement said "ballistic missile proliferation poses an increasing threat to allies' forces, territory and populations. Missile defense forms part of a broader response to counter this threat." 
The statement called on NATO members to explore ways in which the planned U.S. project can be linked with future missile shields else­where. It said leaders should come up with recommenda­tions to be considered at their next meeting in 2009. 
Significantly, the document prodded Russia "to take advan­tage of United States missile defense cooperation proposals" and said NATO was "ready to explore the potential for link­ing United States, NATO and Russian missile defense sys­tems at an appropriate time." 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, April 4, 2008 
Seniors deserve voice in choice of Commencement speaker 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDilUR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 

Ass1; MANAGING EDITOR! Katie Kohler 
Ass·I; MANAt;JNG EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITOR! Chris Hine 
ScENE EonuR: l:te Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EmmR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR! Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.!@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 

POLICIES The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenc the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Vie-wpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. u'tters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
Quctions rrgarding ObW"Ver policii!S should br dirrctrd to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

1'1~~:· Oh.-rver (USI1S ~99 2-4000) i' pub!uh«< Monday through Friday except during u~m a11d V:ll~rlulllJcritxf.. A !1Ul'5Cnpriun mlhc Ob,erver i~ $100 fur ouc academic yci\r; $51 fur nfl(: ac:rndtu. 
The OhHrvcr it puhli1hM .u: I'OSTMA>'TER 1124 Somh Dining Hall Send .tddrcss corm:ti<.m$ ro: 
Notre Dame, IN 46S'56-0n9 The Observer 
Pc::riudiulllllll<lg( p:ud at Nouc: Dame P.O. Box779 and addidonal mailing offko. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame. IN 465'6-0n9 

11u.• Ol*~r iJ, 11 mcmbtor of rhc A»oc1.1tcd Pra.:s. All rt>prnducriun riglus uc .......t. 
This week, the University announced that Cardinal Theodore According to the vice president for News and Information. 
E. McCarrick, archbishop emeritus of Washington D.C., would Dennis Brown, students, faculty and others at the University. can give this year's Commencement address. No doubt, Cardinal submit suggestions for a commencement speaker. University McCarrick is a worthy Commencement speaker. He has a distin­president Fr. John Jenkins then makes the final dtlcision regard­guished career and was with members of Notre Dame in France ing the selection of Commencement speaker with consultation earlier this year to celebrate the beatification of Fr. Basil Moreau, with board members, and other oflicers at the University. founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross. But where are the seniors in this final consultation'? 
But how much of a voice did the senior class have in the If the seniors' suggestions for Commencement speakflr are not process of choosing Cardinal McCarrick'? Apparently, not much. viablfl options, and since he makes the final decision, can't Fr. 
Senior class president Bridget Keating and vice president Chris Jenkins work with the seniors to ensure the selection of a speak­Doughty said the Provost's office contacted senior class officers er both the University and senior class would like'? Aftnr all, this and asked f{lr their input last May. In response, is a weekend for the seniors and their families. We're the senior class officers sent e-mails to their class not saying Fr. Jenkins should always select whom the 
OTHE
members and asked for their suggestions. The seniors want, but they should have a greater voice in 
BSERVER
ollicers assembled a list of three possible candi­the discussion. dates and sent it to the Provost's oflice: Stephen Brown said the Univeristy pays eaeh speaker a
Editorial
Colbert, the Emmy and Peabody-winning host of "modest honorarium" so money shouldn't play too "The Colbert Heport," was the most popular much of an issue in the selection of a speaker. Brown choice. The senior officers also submitted U2 also said the University tries to vary the fields the lead singer and global poverty activist Bono, and Sandra Day Commencement speakers come from. 01w year the speaker O'Connor, the first female member of the Supreme Court, as could be somebody from entertainment. another year from poli­other possible candidates. The class officers also sent suggestions tics or business, another year from the Church or some other for the types of speakers seniors would like to see, Keating said. field. If the class officers select speakers from the field of a recent 
llowever, al'tnr the ollicers submitted this list, the Provost's Commencement speaker, Fr. Jenkins shouldn't simply toss the office did not ask them to have further involvement in the seniors' suggestions to the side, he should eonsuft the senior process of selecting a speaker, despite the senior class officers' class ollicers and work with them to stllect a speaker from the requests to have more input. field the University wishes to represent this ynar. 
This should change. Commencement is one of the most impor­And if he does try to book one of the seniors' suggestions and tant moments in the any student's academic career and seniors he can't, he should communicate that to the eouneil and work should have a stronger voice in the selection of a with them to select another speaker. Commencement speaker. It isn't fair to have the seniors submit This way, everyone has a voice in the process, and the seniors suggestions, only for them to have no further input as to the final will know the administration respected their input in preparation decision. of one of the most significant days of their lives. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Speaker approval 
I understand the disappointment of Chad Lavimoniere ("Rampant excitement for commencement speaker," April 3) and perhaps others that this year's Commencement speaker will be Cardinal Theodore McCarrick. He isn't young and witty like Stephen Colbert or even rich and powerful like last year's speak­er, GE CEO Jeffrey Immelt. Perhaps many in the Class of 2008 had hoped for someone different, someone famous, someone unconnected with the Catholic Church. Yet I do not believe I am alone in saying that I am happy with Notre Dame's choice of speaker this year. 
While he may not be young, rich and powerful in the worldly sense, or particularly famous, Cardinal McCarrick, from what I've learned about him, has a good heart and much wisdom, which I believe is what is really needed in a good commencement speak­er. I disagree with what Lavimoniere writes, albeit it in jest, that "Commencement is our last big chance to hear someone tell us important lies about the real world before we're jettisoned into it." While I grant that he is rightly poking fun at the way most Commencement speeches turn out to be, I take the less cynical view that it doesn't have to be this way. Simply because Cardinal McCarrick is a man of the Catholic Church does not mean that his speech will be just another homily, as Lavimoniere expects. 
I do not know what his speech will be like, but I do not expect it to be overtly religious or clerical. I expect from a man of Cardinal McCarrick's character an honest and well-informed take on what we are to expect from life and how to go about living it well. As I see it, a good commencement speaker is one who has lived a good, moral life and can aptly guide us fledgling adults in how to spread our wings and fly. Therefore, I am satisfied with this year's choice of speaker and I look forward to hearing what he has to .tell us. 
Chris Spellman senior offcampus April3 
Share the vvealth 
Even though an unfortunate side effect of submit­ting this letter is that my fervent love for Colbie Caillat ("Bubbly" was overplayed and overrated, but the rest of her CD? Life-changing.) might be divulged to the entire Notre Dame community, it is a risk that I am willing to take in order to make my point. 
Included in the "In Brief' section of the March 31 Observer was the announcement that Ms. Caillat herself would be at Saint Mary's College on April 10 to perform in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Where can I get tickets? Well, the paper informed me that I can­not, because "tickets have already been distributed." 
I am not sure if this event is closed to non-Saint Mary's students or if tickets simply ran out, but either way I know that I never saw an advertisement for the concert at Notre Dame. This is a disappoint­ment to me because it is my understanding that Saint Mary's students can attend concerts put on by Notre Dame at Legends, the Stepan Center and the Joyce Center. 
Saint Mary's is often the subject of derision because, though it calls itself Notre Dame's sister school, many claim that the College benefits from the relationship far more than does Notre Dame. While I do not wholly support that line of thinking, I do believe that the administration, students and fac­ulty at Saint Mary's could make progress in quelling derisive comments aimed at them if they showed the same courtesy to Notre Dame that we show them by making concerts open to students from both schools. 
Mary Margaret Skelly sophomore Pasquerilla East April3 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Friday, April 4, 2008 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Keep current Frosh-0 
After hearing about the new plans for Freshman Orientation ("Group discuss­es change to Orientation format," April 1), I have to wonder if Coughlin and members of the Campus Life Council ever attended Notre Dame Frosh-o. The very things they want to change (the fast-paced schedule, the bizarre rituals, the general awkwardness of the whole weekend) are what make Frosh-o so effective. Being bombarded with so many traditions and so many people so fast not only initiates freshmen into the campus community, it makes it easier to sit down in class on the first day and introduce yourself without much hesitation. 
I think it's ridiculous to put less emphasis on interdorm activities. Dorm unity is great, but really, isn't it better to know there are other people on campus besides your roommates? My favorite parts of orientation weekend were the lit­tle planned outings we had with other dorms, that "awkward and forced ... inter-gender socialization"-the "Shoe Dates," the dodgeball games on the library quad and the nights when the boys' dorms would run around campus singing. 
Some of my best friends here I met through those so-called inane Frosh-o activities-both male and female. And as for more time to "say good-bye to parents": Haven't freshmen had 18 years with them? A whole summer to plan for college? And a weeklong fall break in a few months when they'll probably see their family again? 
Freshmen Orientation is -big surprise here -called as such because its supposed to orient freshmen to their new homes. I love my parents, but I think this new idea of more time spent with families is more for the parents' sake than the student's. 
Jordan Gamble sophomore McGlinn Hall April! 
page 11 

'Absurder' in poor taste 
Even when I attended Saint Mary's College back in the early '80s, The Observer was known to push the envelope occasionally in its publications. This time you have taken the whole April Fool's "joke" too far. Disrespect of our bishop, mockery of the pro-life cause, and vulgarity in calling women by a single private body part is abhorrent. First of all, where are your basic manners; and second of all, what about journalistic ethics? 
If I were a female student on the campus at Notre Dame, I'd be making an appoint­ment this afternoon with school officials over the discriminatory and hateful joke. With the privilege of being able to publish a newspaper comes the responsibility of conscientious reporting. The joke that appeared in your newspaper leaves an awful impression of a prestigious and time-honored Catholic university, not to mention the newspaper itself. 
As luck would have it I had recently copied and pasted The Observer Web site link to an email group, solely created to help Catholic parents help their sons and daugh­ters find a college in the next couple years. They had heard negative public relations about Notre Dame in the news and I was encouraging them to give the University a second look. I had Googled information on the recent Edith Stein Project and decided to put The Observer's page on it as reference. Imagine my embarrassment at know­ing these parents were reading today's paper, where the joke was just a click away. 
What appeared [Tuesday] was a waste of education, money and talent. As a mem­ber of the Catholic press myself, I couldn't be more disappointed in those hoping to make a career in the media very soon, and who are off to a very bad start. You owe a whole group of people a public apology. 
Sincerely, 
Theresa Thomas alumna Saint Mary's Class of 1985 April! 

Rethinking alcohol consumption 
It is 1:30 a.m. Sunday morning and I sit at my desk awaiting the moment when I can close my eyes and drift off to sleep. St. Ed's is unusually loud at this time of the morn­ing as partygoers clamor up and down the stairs and aimlessly roam the halls in a drunken stupor. On this night I have overheard students, some my friends, say things in a public hallway that could be construed as sexist, racist and altogether unbecoming of students growing in Catholic character. What possesses people to act so foolishly? The answer is not shocking and I can actually smell it as its vapors seep through the hall­way and into my room. Put simply, it is alcohol. 
Like other drugs, alcohol causes a change in the mind, body and spirit of those who consume it. I have always wondered why humans find such pleasure in a substance that can alter one's sense of consciousness and perception of reality. What is the benefit to be had in imbibing copious amounts of liquor? To be honest, I see none. What I do see and hear, however, is unbridled lasciviousness and immaturity. 
To be certain, alcohol in and of itself is not evil. In moderation wine and other forms of alcohol can bring families together around a dinner table. Around the altar in Catholic Mass, believers grow closer to Christ's Mystical Body in the act of consuming a sip of consecrated red wine. These acts are not evil and they promote friendship and participation in the sacramental life of the Church. What is evil, however, is the imma­turity that drunkards exhibit when they allow a mere substance to possess their spirit and direct their will. What reckless abandon! Why do decent humans beings allow themselves to act so foolishly in public? It is apparent to me that many students have not been taught the value of responsibility. 
Responsibility, in this sense, is the awareness that one.can drink, yet the understand­ing that he or she must do so in moderation lest the substance take possession of his or her will. I learned this important value with my grandpa in youth with the help of his Cabernet Sauvignon, but many students are forced to conjure some sense of responsi­bility when handed a plastic cup of foul smelling liquid at 1:00 in the morning. Where is grandfather now? He cannot help this student. The student should have sought his wis­dom in youth when the mind was willing to learn the true value of responsibility. 
Now the student looks around the room and sees that drinking the substance affords her the opportunity to make new friends and achieve a proverbial high. Yet the friend­ships and the highs are temporal as bonds made in wine are false and not founded upon virtue. They are instead founded in the masquerade of drunkenness. Students must recognize that in consuming alcohol they are facing the risk of expressing a false sense of their true being. I know the people jabbering outside my door are truly not sexists, yet alcohol gives the impression that they are. Why would anyone willingly accept the risk of embarrassing herself and her dignity for the pleasures of the moment? 
I do not have this answer, yet it is clear to me that many students on this campus place little value in the virtue of responsibility. As I conclude my thoughts I realize that parietals have already passed and the noise is beginning to quiet in the hallway. I hear the chapel door open as students place themselves in God's presence to offer praise and thanksgiving in darkness and peaceful silence. I am encouraged that the masquerade might be coming to an end and am optimistic that many may have learned valuable les­sons from their experiences with alcohol this night. Yet I am also concerned that the responsibility and maturity that is clearly lacking in so many students will not be learned this week. I fear that I may witness the events of this night the following week­end. Let u~ hope that wisdom guides the weary to embrace virtue in place of temporal pleasure this week. 
Daniel Cerrone junior St. Edward's Hall March 30 

Hesburgh's choice 
This morning, I thought about the Hesburgh challenge, and soon found myself wondering: when I get to the 14th floor, do I offer Fr. Hesburgh a Natty Light, or is he a Keystone kind of guy? 
My first thought would be that Catholic priests prefer natural world order. And hey, Jesus was the Light of the world. But then, I realized that Keystone would definitely be the beer of St. Peter; he holds the keys to the pearly gates, and he is the rock, or stone, on which the church has been built. 
Both compelling arguments, but I'd like to think Papa Hesburgh would double fist in a heartbeat, unless of course he goes Old Style. I encourage you to write in with your thoughts on this important debate. 
Alex Barbuto freshman Keenan Hall March 27 

Lack of ticket lottery 
ESPN broke a story on their Web site that Davidson College provided free transportation, lodging and tickets to any student who wanted to watch Davidson play in the NCAA Tournament in Detroit. As I read this story, I immediately thought of the recent announcement that Notre Dame would not be holding a student ticket lottery for the football game at Boston College in November 2008. The only explanation the University provided was that a two day weekend is not enough time for a trip to Boston without missing class. 
Seemingly, this is a reasonable concern. However, after about two seconds of thought, I realized that the earliest the game can be is noon on Saturday. I haven't checked with the registrar, but I assume there are no classes at 10 
p.m. on Friday night. The tickets will probably go to alumni in the Boston area, but if the University is going to push the students aside again (the Breytopia controversy comes to mind), they should come up with a better lie to tell the students. Notre Dame, a school that prides itself on dorm life and school pride, is simply ignoring its own students. Davidson is setting an example from which we should learn. 
Ryan McFarlane sophomore Sorin College March 27 




THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Friday, April 4, 2008 
in a variety of price ranges. Now that Uggs are no flirty florals and still bold, bril­Stores from Target to DSW to liant hues. Sometimes they are
longer necessary to your
JCrew all seem smitten with this stiffer fabrics, other times they trend. It's hard not to love a survival, you can are thicker and warm, and practical guard against puddles expand your horizons. sometimes they are loose, thin or 
• 
( 

It's time to cast off the shackles of winter and rejoice in the fashion freedom that is spring. Banish the mittens, chunky scarves and ear­muffs. Spring is here to liberate you from the winter blues, drab wardrobe and sweatpants. As you plan Jess Shaffer your spring style, here are some tips to help you shine. 
Scene Writer 

BOOT-LICOUS 
Now that Uggs are no longer necessary to your survival, you can expand your horizons. Despite appearance, there is more out there than just furry, tan boots. Use the nice weather as encouragement to try out new styles. 
Rain boots are always a nice, practical staple, with lots of styling potential. With their new found popularity, it seems that there may be no end to the variety of styles available. No doubt with the multitude of colors and patterns you can find a pair that tickles your fancy. 
Whether you like cute polka dots, chic plaid, vintage yellow or playful graphics, rain boots can give your outfit a nice pop. Plus, for those of us a little tight on cash, you can find these gems 

that doesn't look like your 
grandpa's fishing boots. 
PRINTASTIC 
A neat pattern, whether a romantic floral or a bold geometric design, never fails to give your wardrobe some more depth. 
While this trend may help you mix things up, remember to approach with caution. Excessive, clashing patterns are not only a fashion no-no but also a head ache to look at. 
Mixing and matching prints is more than fine, but make sure some complimentary factor ties the different pieces together. For example, con­
h trast a masculine plaid with a feminine floral or ~ compliment similar colors and styles.
J-1 ) 

( HATS, SWEATERS AND SCARVES, OH MY ~ One thing Notre Dame "fashionistas" know 
• how to do is layer. It's the cardinal rule of South Bend styling -so don't get rid of all winter supplies just yet. 
' ll..' 'f / f"-' .
0. J:: i 
'I ..~: ·1·1 
/ 
l"'t 

\, I 
crinkly. 

Sarongs can be used in many 
ways. In the fall and winter they are best used as full scarves. In the summer, skirts and dresses work on and off the beach. 
For spring, the possibilities are endless. Scarves, skirts, tops and dress creations are totally acceptable when incorporated with weather appropriate additions, like leggings. Wrap, tie, and twist until your heart's content. 
Whatever may appeal to your spring whims, take risks, go to extremes or try something new. That's what spring is all about. Just remember to flatter your body; you'll look good and feel even better. Otherwise take the liberty of the season to be true to your own inner style and explore. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd. edu 
I 

For cute looks on a low budget, make the, most of what you already have. Scarves can be, retied and wrapped in funky, new ways, and worn over a casual t-shirt for a relaxed look that is more sophisticated than jeans and a t-shirt. 
Same goes for hats, a cool and underused accessory. 
Sweaters are ideal for April's constantly shift­ing weather. Whipping this layer on and off can not only help you adjust to DeBartolo's hot and . cold extremes, but also adds an interesting~. additional aspect to your look. 
LET ME SEE YOUR SARONG Perhaps the most versatile piece that you can use in any season is a sarong. 
It may come as a surprise. but sarongs are amazingly useful. For those who have not dis­covered their fabulous potential, a sarong is basically a huge piece of fabric, usually about 6 feet long and 3.5 feet wide. 
Classic sarongs usually have an Asian, partic­ularly Indian, look with bright colors and metal­
lic accents. But the trend has 
diversified recently, so they are 
also available in simple solids, 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, April 4, 2008 
page 13 
.. 

Assistant Scene Editor 
Commonly referred to as a "Back Door Draft," stop­loss is a contractual loophole, in which the United States military. in times of war, can retain servicemen by invol­untary extending their enlistment terms and refusing to let them retire. This is one of the subjects Kimberly Peirce, the director of the Academy Award winning "Boy's Don't Cry," tackles in her latest film "Stop-Loss." 
Sgt. Brandon King (Ryan Phillippe) and a few of his comrades, Sgt. Steve Shriver (Channing Tatum) and SPC Tommy Burgess (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), return from what should have been King and Shriver's final tour in Iraq. However, upon turning in his gear, King learns that he's been commissioned to ship back out to Iraq in less than a month. "You've been stop-lossed," a military clerk tells him. 
Feeling betrayed, he takes the issue up with his com­manding officer, Lt. Col. Boot Miller (Tnnothy Olyphant), arguing with the Lieutenant that because the Iraq con­flict has not been officially declared a war, the stop-loss clause invalid. His case falls on deaf ears, and when the Lieutenant threatens to put him in the stockade for insubordination, King starts a scuffle and flees the base. 
However. there is more to King's defiance than just betrayal. At the heart of King's refusal to return to lfaq is a deep-rooted type of trauma. But to understand this we must retrace our steps to the first ten minutes of the film. 
The movie opens in Tikrit, Iraq, where a car full of insurgents breach Sgt. King's roadblock. He and his men pursue the insurgents into a back alley where the Iraqis ambush them from the rooftops. ln the intense shootout that ensues, three of King's men perish and another solider is critically wounded. Near the end of the skir-
Stop-Loss MTV Films 
Director: Kimberty Peirre Written by: Mark Richard and Kimberty Peirre Starring: Ryan Phillippe, Joseph Gordon­Levitt, Channing Tatum and Abbie Cornish 
mish. Sgt. Shriver charges into an apartment '-'"-'H-'-'-'·"" and when King storms in to retrieve him, he ends up ing the lives of a number of Iraqi civilians. 
Shortly afterward, the men return back to the States. During the bus ride to the army base in King and . Shriver's hometown, their commanding officer, Lt. Col. :.."" Boot Miller (Tnnothy Olyphant) informs his men that they ll are not to drive drunk or get into fights with civilians.­Upon their arrival the inhabitants of the small town hail the returning soldiers as heroes. H"''""'""'" there is something destructive brewing inside these diers waiting to erupt. And it doesn't take long. _ 
Burgess starts the night off by getting into a bar fight · with a man who mistakenly hits on his wife. Before the night is over, ~he gets upset over his drunkenness and throws him out, prompting him to drive drunk. Likewise Shriver, in a drunken haze, and halucinating that he's still in Iraq, hits his fiance Michelle (Abbie Cornish) . before digging a foxhole in her front lawn. 
King, Shriver and Burgess decide escape to family ranch to regroup. ln a scene embodying of struggle to readjust, they shoot-up all Burgess' unopened wedding gifts. It is a disturbing portrait of the contrasting lifestyle soldiers returning home are forced to rei11te1,-a1:e into. 
And their lives don't get any easier when King is forced to flee town. Without their squadron leader, the lives Shriver and Burgess really begin to fall apart. 
Peirce's film works itself in a circular fashion, hao,,..;n,.l!'"c toward ending that is inevitable as the future it repre-· sents. The soldiers are all connected in their struggles toj · 
cope with the horrors they witnessed in Iraq and in their ._•-· struggles to reenter American society. • 
There's another scene later in "Stop-Loss," wheref while traveling to Washington D.C. to sort out his prob-·, lems, King's car is vandalized. He tracks down the van-· dals and in a back alley fight nearly kills the men. After 
disarming them, he lines them up and begins sc~·e!~~~··~ Iraqi ethnic slurs as ifthey were insurgents. It is a cant insight into the mind of a soldier who cannot entiate home and peace from war. "Stop-Loss" avoids judging the Iraq conflict directly, leaving that up to its viewers, but it is unwaveringly hon­est in its portrayals of pain and confusion. When describes the T!krit episode to Michelle, he tries to come to terms with the death of his men and the Iraqi civilians by relating just that confusion: "Everybody's got a weapon. Nobody knows whose who." It is this kind of world where soldiers and civilians, both home and abroad, carry weapons, and it is this kind of world where the last person who knows whose who the war-torn soldier, struggling to find a home. 

Friday, April 4, 2008 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 

Royals ean1 opening series svveep as Tigers' offense svvoons 
Hunter homers in seventh in emotional return to Minnesota, Napoli and Matthews also go yard to lift Angels 
linished with an AL-record 119
Associated Press 

losses. 
DETHOIT -The Kansas City "It's early, but you still care 
Hoyals were supposed to pro­about it," said Placido Polanco, 
vide a perfect launching pad for who is 1-for-14. "We're not hit­
the Detroit Tigers' highly touted ting, and if you don't score runs, 
oll'ense. you don't win. You worry when 
The Hoyals pitchers did not you don't win games." 
cooperate, and the Tigers failed Already missing Curtis 
to launch. Granderson because of a broken 
Zaek Greinke had another hand, the Tigers played without 
outstanding pitching perform­Miguel Cabrera, who is day to 
ance for Kansas City. allowing day with a quadriceps strain, 
one run in snven innings as the then saw designated hitter Gary 
Hoyals finished off a season­Sheflield tear a tendon in his left 
opening swnep with a 4-1 win ring finger on a play at second 
on Thursday. in the eighth inning. 
The Tigers and their $138.7 "lie would have not been able 
m i Ilion payroll managed five~ to hit if we came around to him 
runs in the series, including just in the ninth," Leyland said. "I 
one in thn final 21 innings. don't know how serious it was, 
"We stun~." Tignrs manager but he couldn't bend it." Jim Leyland said. "We look like Brandon luge ended Detroit's we're just going up there and 1 R-inning scoreless streak with giving at-bats away without any a solo homer in the seventh. purpose. The manager's respon­Greinke (1-0) gave up six hits sible for the preparation and the while improving to 7-3 against performanc•~ of thn elub, and Detroit. Hamon Hamirez and right now, we don't look very Joakim Soria finished, with prepared. Soria getting three straight outs 
"We just look like dead." for his second save. Detroit is hitting .206 with 24 Jeremy Bonderman (0-1) gave strikeouts in three games. up four runs and eight hits in 6 
"That's not going to happen 1-3 innings. IIe had been 5-0 in too many times to that team," eight previous starts against (;reinke said. "They might not Kansas City dating to April have anothPr stretch like that all 2006. year." "I threw the ball, but I made 
Kansas City is 3-0 for the first two mistakes and they punished seventh inning to back a strong the Angels in the offseason. tainly nothing that we want to time since winning its first nine me," he said. start from Ervin Santana and Mike Napoli and Gary mess around with," Slowey said. games in 2003. Last year, the Detroit had runners in four of help Los Angeles beat Matthews Jr. also homered for 'Til keep it in ice and follow the Hoyals didn't win a series until the first live innings, but could­Minnesota on Thursday. Los Angeles. Hunter went 1-for-trainers the next couple days their sixth try, when they took n't get anyone past second base. "That's big, to kind of end it 4 to finish the series 3-for-16. and see how it goes." two of three against Minnesota Teahen made it 3-0 with a that way," said Hunter, who was "I am drained. I'm tired. Jason Kubel homered in the from April 20-22. two-out homer in the sixth. honored with a pregame video Mentally tired," Hunter said. "I seventh to cut the lead to 5-4, 
"Obviously, we're very pleased Magglio Ordonez led off the bot­on opening day and given his get to go home and relax, back but that was it for Minnesota's by this -especially with our tom half with a long double to Gold Glove before Game 2. "I at home in L.A. No pressure. No struggling bats. Justin Morneau pitching," rookie manager Trey center, but Greinke got infield started to slow down the last emotional (situations}. I'm good went 0-for-3 with a sacrifice fly Hillman said. "It's nice to come popups from Carlos Guillen and two games. I didn't have any to go." and is 0-for-13 this season. in here and play this well Ivan Hodriguez before Edgar opening-day ceremonies or any­Francisco Rodriguez got It had to be a confidence against a team like that." Henteria grounded out. thing like that. Michael Cuddyer swinging with builder for Santana (1-0}, who is 
Alex Gordon and Mark Teahen Jose Guillen had an HBI single "It was more emotional, man, runners on first and second to coming off a trying 2007 that homered for Kansas City. in the seventh. Rodriguez struck than anything. Just coming end the game and pick up his featured him getting knocked Gordon's two-run shot, a 410-out to end the eighth with a run­back, walking up the wrong second save. The Angels took out of his spot in the rotation. foot liner over the bullpen in ner on third. way, going in the wrong club­three of four from the Twins to He also spent a month at Triple­lell-centnr. put the Hoyals ahead house, running to center field open the season and got an A Salt Lake, and lost some in the fourth. It was his second Angels 6, Twins 4 from the wrong side. It was encouraging start from Santana, momentum from a promising of the year. After four days of standing weird." who gave up just two runs and two-year start to his career. 
"We know that Detroit's going ovations, two pregame cere­Prior to his drive, Hunter had four hits with three strikeouts in After winning 24 games in his to be very good, so we're going monies to honor him and a gone just 2-for-14 to start the six innings. first two seasons, Santana went to celebrate this sweep," Gordon week's worth of reminiscing, season and admitted to being Joe Mauer had two doubles 7-14 with a 5. 76 EHA last year. said. "IIopefully, we can go to Torii Hunter is ready to go gassed from the pageantry and and two RBis for the Twins, who Manager Mike Scioscia said Minnesota and do tho same home. warm welcomes he received lost starter Kevin Slowey (0-1} in Santana was "terrific" with his thing." For the first time in 10 years, from Twins fans who watched the fourth inning with a strained mechanics and his command. 
As a highly touted rookie last home does not mean Minnesota. him star in center field for the right biceps. "If' he can bottle that, he's season, Gordon didn't hit his lie's headed back to Los Angeles previous nine years. Slowey, the 2007 Twins minor going to have a good year." second home run until April 21. with the Angels after a draining On getaway day, he had just league player of the year, gave Scioscia said. 
"We all know that he's got that opening series against his for­enough left in him to muscle a up three runs and four hits in 3 Despite starting the season power in him," Hillman said. mer team, but he made sure to mistake from Brian Bass into 1-3 innings. with their top two starters ­"It's nice to see it coming out in leave Twins fans with a little the seats in left-center field, and Manager Ron Gardenhire said John Lackey and Kelvim the first series of the year." something to remember him by. the small crowd at the Dome Slowey likely will skip his next Escobar -on the disabled list, 
The Tigers lost their first three In the final game of an emo­gave one last standing ovation start and be evaluated from the Angels should feel great games for the first time since tional return to the Metrodome, to the fan favorite who signed a there. about their rotation as they 2003, when they began 0-9 and Hunter homered leading ofl' the $90 million, five-year deal with "It's nothing serious but cer-leave Minnesota. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for Quiet and Private. Furnished or UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Summer In Maine:Males and 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" Unfurnished apts for rent. 1 & 2 br not go it alone. If you or someone females. Meet new friends! Travel! WANTED FoR RENT leases bluegoldrentals.com available. Cable & wifi included. you love needs confidential support Teach your favorite activity. One mile from campus. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 'Tennis'Canoe'Water 
Large house available for 2009-Call 773·339·0299 Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more Ski*Swim*Saii*Kayak*Theatre*Vide WORK flexible, no experience For rent: Two story house ready for 2010. Full renovations completed for rates & availabili~. information, visit our website at: o*Ropes*Office* needed, customer sales/service, immediate occupancy or next school 2007. Close to campus. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-Pottery' conditions apply, year. Off street parking includes 4,000+ square feet. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad English ages 18+, motion sensor light for security. Four 5 bathrooms. PERSONAL in The Observer. Riding* 574-273-3835. individually locked bedrooms, central MacSwain@gmail.com Landsports 
www.workforstudents.com station monitored security system, six PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-and more. 
blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to If you or someone you care about ONE WHO IS? June to August. Notre Dame Staff member seeks front of house, Laundromat next door, N.D., student neighborhood, central has been You do not have to be alone. We Residential. house sitting/furnished basement available for storage, new air, new appliances, very nice. 289· sexually want to help. Call our 24 hour confi· Enjoy our website. rental through July 31 furnace and central air, new kitchen 4071. assaulted, dential hotline at Apply on-line. while home is being built. including appliances. large living visit 1-800-No Abort TRIPP LAKE CAMP for Girls: Call room, free trash removal. Garage Housemate sought. Private room. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. or visit our web site at 1-800-997·4347, 574-360·6919. available for car-extra. Call289-4071. Call631-7897. $400 monthly. shtml www.lifecall.org www. tripplakecamp.com 

OUND THE-NATION 
Friday, April 4, 2008 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NBA Standings Eastern Conference 

team  record  perc.  last 10  
Boston  60·15  .800  8-~  
Detroit  53·21  .716  7•3  
Orlando  47·28  .627  6•4  
Cleveland  42·33  .560  5·5  
Washington  38·37  .507  5-5  
Toronto  38·37  .507  5·5  
Philadelphia  38·37  .507  7-3  
Atlanta  35·40  .467  H  
New Jersey  31·44  .413  4·6  
Indiana  31-44  .413  6-4  
Chicago  29·45  .392  3·7  
Charlotte  28·47  .373  4·6  
Milwaukee  26·48  .351  3·7  
New York  20·55  .267  1·9  
Miami  13·62  .173  2-8  

Western Conference 

team record perc. last 10 New Orleans 52-22 .703 ' 8·2 San Antonio 52-23 .693 8"2 LA lakers 51-24 .680 6-4 Phoenix 50-25 .667 7·3 Utah 50·26 .658 7-3 Houston 49-25 .662 5-5 Dallas 47-28 .627 5-5 Denver 46-29 .613 7·3 Golden Stale 45-30 .600 4·6 Portland 38-37 .507 4-6 Sacramento 34-40 .459 5-5 LA Clippers 23-52 .307 2-1 Memphis 20-55 .267 Minnesota 19-55 .257 Seattle 17-58 .227' 
GB 
6.5 
13 
18 
22 
22 
22 
25 
29 
29 
30.5 
32 
33.5 
40 
47 
GB 
.5 1.5 2.5 3 3 5.5 6.5 7.5 14.5 18 29.5 

.. 32.5 33·········· 
atu···.···· 

Baseball America Ranklllgs 
rank tearti 
.···<r· 

1 Arizona state 

2 Miami 3 North Carolina 4 Missouri
5 ~ 
UC Irvine 6 Florida State 7 Cal 8 Vanderbilt 
g 
South Carolina 10 Long Beach State 11 Nebi'aska 12 Wichita State 13 Stanford 14 Virginia 15 Rice 16 Texas 17 San Diego 18 Arizona 19 Florida 20 UNC Wilmington 21 Kentucky 22 Michigan 23 UCLA 24 Coastal carolina 25 Cal State FUllerton 
2H 
21~5 
21J.-5 19-3 
··<. 23~3· 
.,.••,.g.;;; '''18-5 
18-6 18·7 
11·1 
21•4 

.''2~3 :?·:::!:!::{! 
12"7 23-5 19-9 18-8 
,,:;!1940 

...................... '14~9 ....::.::.. ·· 20..6 21·4 
22-4 
14-6 
1:t.10 
21·6 15-9 

around the dial 
MLB 
White Sox vs. Tigers 
1:05 p.m., WGN 
Astros vs. Cubs 2:20p.m., Comcast Sports Net 
NBA 
Mavericks vs. Lakers 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 

NFL 

Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Bengals receiver Chris Henry lost his job while in jail await­ing arraignment on assault charges on Thursday. 
The Bengals cut him after his fifth arrest since 2005. 
An attorney for Henry, 24, entered not guilty pleas for him after Henry was accused of punching an 18-year-old man in the face and breaking his car window with a beer bot­tle. 
Municipal Court Judge Bernie Bouchard set bond at $51,000 on charges of misdemeanor assault and criminal damaging. Noting Henry's previous arrests involving drugs, guns and alcohol, the judge called Henry "a one-man crime wave." He ordered electronic moni­toring if Henry makes bail. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said it was prema­ture to speculate on Henry's future in the league. 
"It will be reviewed under the standard con­duct policy," Aiello said. 
Henry did not speak at the hearing. His lawyer, Perry Ancona, disputed the allegations in the complaint sworn by Gregory Meyer. 
"We have a different set of facts we ask the court to consider," Ancona said. 
Minutes before the arraignment, Ancona broke the news to Henry that he had been released. 
Bengals president Mike Brown said in a statement that Henry, an often bril­liant receiver who would be in his fourth pro sea­son this year, had forfeit­ed his career with the club. 
"His conduct can no longer be tolerated," Brown said. 
Henry was suspended by NFL commissioner Roger Goodell for the first half of last season for 
IN BRIEF Shoulder injury won't keep
Parker out ofFlilal Four 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Tennessee All-American Candace Parker's shoul­der dislocation has mended to the point where the Lady Vols said Thursday she has been cleared to play in the Final Four this weekend. 
"Following further evaluation and consultation, doctors said Parker was found to have a non-traumatic shoul­der dislocation," Lady Vols trainer Jenny Moshak said in a statement. "Futhermore, she has very good range of motion and very good strength. She has been cleared to play and will wear a shoulder brace." 
Parker will continue to rehab the shoulder since suffering the injury in Tuesday's victory over Texas A&M that put Tennessee in its 17th Final Four. The Lady Vols play LSU on Sunday. 
"It's ugly to look at," team trainer Jenny Moshak told The Tennessean on Wednesday. "Basically, she had a bone sticking out." 
MLB asks Canseco to aid 
in steroids investigation 
NEW YORK-Jose Canseco was approached by two employees from Major League Baseball before a book signing appearance, and the lawyer for the former AL MVP said they asked for assistance in drug investigations. 
"You could have knocked us over with a feather," Canseco's lawyer, Robert Saunooke, said Thursday. "Four years of denial and treating him as a pariah, and now they want his help" 
Saunooke said he and Canseco spoke with the investigators, Eduardo Dominguez Jr. and Victor Burgos, for about 15 minutes Wednesday in the green room of a Barnes & Noble book­store in Manhattan. 
"We asked, 'Why didn't you come before?"' Saunooke said, "and they said, 'Those are good points. You're right, and now we want you help. Anything you can do to help us, we would be very interested in."' 
repeatedly violating the league's conduct policy. He also was suspended for two games in 2006. 
"The Bengals tried for an extended period of time to support Chris and his potentially bright career," Brown said. "We had hoped to guide him toward an appropriate standard of personal responsibility that this community would support and that would allow him to play in the NFL. ... But those efforts end today, as we move on with what is best for our team." 
Henry's agent, Marvin Frazier, thanked the Bengals for their patience. 

Athletes to be tested for 
HGH before Olympics 
LONDON -Athletes around the world will be subjected to out-of-com­petition tests for human growth hor­mone in the lead-up to the Beijing Olympics, marking a potential break­through against one of the most widely abused doping substances in sports. 
David Howman, director general of the World Anti-Doping Agency, said Thursday that newly produced HGH testing kits soon will be distributed to accredited doping labs around the globe to screen blood samples for the banned performance-enhancing hor­mone. 
An improved HGH test also will be in place during the Aug. 8-24 Olympics. 
"We are expecting that an athlete will see this is going to happen and will be deterred from using the substance," Howman said in a telephone interview. "There may be those who will take major risks. We hope that they are majorly caught out, simple as that." 
Friday, April 4, 2008
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Del Rio signs five-year contract extension w-ith Jaguars 
Jacksonville is 45-35 during his tenure with two playoff appearances including an 11 win season last year 

Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE -Jaguars coach Jaek Del Hio signed a five-year contraet extension Thursday, a reward for win­ning his f'irst playoff game. 
Del Hio's salary was not disclosed, but it was believed to be a significant jump from the original fiv~-year, $6.5 million contract he signed in 2003. 
The Jaguars were 11-5 last season, beat Pittsburgh in the first round of the playoffs and then ended the season with a 31-20 loss at New England. 
"Clearly when I reflect back on the last five years, great things have happened," team owner Wayne Weaver said. "Under Jack's leadership, this franchise has continued to really make great progress." 
Jacksonville is 45-35 in five years under Del Hio and has two playoff appearanees, the first of which landed the coach a contract extension that paid him $3 million annually the last two years. 
Del Hio's deal could keep him in Jacksonville through the 2012 season. 
"I look forward to building on what we have begun," Del Hio said a day before his 45th birthday. "I really do feel that there is something very spe­cial taking place here in Jaeksonville right now." 

Del Hio believes the Jaguars have closed the gap on AFC pow­ers New England and Indianapolis, especially after the team's offsea­son makeover. 
Del Hio hired four new assistant coaches, including defensive coordinator G r e g g Williams, and parted ways with several aging veter-
Buffalo in exchange for two draft picks. 
"We believe the arrow is up and we ought to be able to compete at the very highest level this year," Weaver said. 
"Clearly, when I reflect back on the last five years, great things have happened. Under Jack's leadership, this franchise has contin­ued to really make great progress." 
Wayne Weaver Jaguars' owner 

ans. Then he signed corner­back Drayton Florence and receivers Jerry Porter and Troy Williamson in free agency. 
He also traded oft-injured, three-time Pro Bowl defen­sive tackle Marcus Stroud to 
With Del Rio's deal done, Weaver said the Jaguars will turn their attention to getting quar­terback David 
-Garrard a new contract. 
Garrard is entering the final year of a four-year deal worth about $2 million annual­ly. 
"I think you can expect something on the quarter­back," Weaver said. "We hope 
it'll be sooner than later. We think the world of David. He's the guy that we believe can lead us and bring that world championship here to Jacksonville, so hopefully we'll get that done sooner than later." 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish Invitational begins Saturday 
Team getting off two-week layoff after 1Oth place finish in Tucson 
By PETER REISENAUER 
Sports Writer 
Notre dame looks to defend its greens when teams from all over the country fly into South Bend to compete in the Irish Invitational on Saturday. 
The Irish have had them­selves a two-week break since their last tournament, the National Invitational Tournament, in which they fin-
Please recycle The 
Observ'' 


ished tied for lOth place. The bright spot in the tournament was once again junior Josh Sandman, who upon tying for lOth place became the first golfer for Notre Dame to finish in the top-10 in three consecu­tive tournaments in eight years. 
Notre Dame needs to drive the ball a little bit better this weekend if they hope to com­pete. 
The Irish believe that this 
tournament can help them turn their spring season around and possibly give them some momentum heading into the Big East tournament in two weeks. 
Doug Fortner built some momentum during the National Invitation Tournament when he move up 10 spots on the last day. 
Contact Peter Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu 


presents 
Brokers ofCulture: Italian Jesuits in the American West, 1848-1919 
(Stanford, 2007) 
Gerald McKevitt Santa Clara University 

Saturday, April 5, 2008 9:00a.m.-noon McKenna Hall Center for Continuing Education 

Summer Internship Position Available Concessions Supervisor Internship in Baseball 
Professional Sports Catering and the South Bend Silver Hawks are seeking a Concessions Supervisor Intern to help run the concessions operation at Coveleski Stadium. This is a great internship for a driven, hard-working student seeking a fun summer job in a promising career-oriented position! 
The Concessions Supervisor Intern is responsible for: 
• 
Scheduling/mgmt of 1 00+ hourly FS employees 

• 
Assisting with product ordering 

• 
Overall organization, sanitation, and stocking levels of all concessions stands and food ports 

• 
Compiling concessions-related reports 


This is a full-time seasonal internship starting ASAP and going through August. This position is heavy on the hours and on the responsibility, but is also paid at $425 per week. Prior food service experience preferred. 
For more information, please view our job posting on GoIrish, or contact Jeff Osborn at j osborn@prosportsmarketi ng. net. 
Friday, April 4, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Spring Visitation Weekend Prospects Arrive on Campus 
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions would like to recognize and welcome the 101 prospective African American, Asian American, Latino and Native American students visiting campus to attend this year's Spring Visitation Weekend 
The University of Notre Dame Welcomes the Following Students: 
Karen Acevedo Danielle Achiardi Ashley Ainley Alan Alaniz Kenenna Amuzie Jonathan Barnett Alexander Barrosse Erik Blackwood Christina Chavarin Tony Dang David Davila Yessenia Diaz De Leon Jacqueline Diaz De Leon Thuong Dinh Linh Gavin Do Andrea Drayton Katie Drueen Nneka Ekechukwu Matthew Esparza Jesus Espinoza Michelle Ferreira Anne Fredell Marcus Garcia Albert Garcia Adrianne Garcia Waddell Eric Garduno Dionna Gary Katherine Gaston Oscar Gonzalez Erika Gustafson Maria Julia Gutierrez Massiel Gutierrez Christopher Hammitt Ashley Havens Senay Hawelti Crystal Ho Taylor Hodges Sarah Hodges Winny Hu Khai-Hoan Huynh Julie Hyppolite Shirley lp Daniel Johansen Jose Juarez Cindy Kang Richard Kim Rachael Kirkwood William Kolbus Marysa Lai Vincent Lau Seung Lee 
Port Hueneme, CA Las Vegas, NV Sacramento, CA Rio Grande City, TX Lawrenceville, GA Hudson, OH Yardley, PA Chula Vista, CA Middleburg, FL Granger, IN Riverside, CA Chicago, IL Elgin, IL Marietta, GA Texarkana, AR Buffalo, NY Turlock, CA Myrtle Beach, SC EIPaso, TX Rio Rico, AZ San Gabriel, CA Colorado Springs, CO Turlock, CA Dallas, TX Austin, TX Miami, FL South Bend, IN New Orleans, LA Los Fresnos, TX Wheaton, IL Brownsville, TX Jersey City, NJ Cloquet, MN Corpus Christi, TX Hawthorne, CA Brownsville, TX Portland, OR Leesburg, FL Dix Hills, NY Westminster, CA Marlboro, NJ Brooklyn, NY Tracy, CA Ontario, Canada Federal Way, WA Winnetka, CA Gulfport, MS South Bend, IN Bloomington, MN Chanute, KS Montrose, CA 
Rachel Lee Cesar Leyva Yuan Lin Maricruz Luna Antwane Mason Jaime Montes Heidy Morales Julian Murphy Bernard Nartey Ralanda Nelson Joseph Nguyen Dorothy Nguyen Patricia Nicholls Chimno Nnadi lzundu Obi-Onuoha Abigai Ochoa ljeoma Offodile Anthonia Ojo Nnena Okeke Jermain Onye Kevin Park Manali Patel Maricel Paz Stephanie Perez Hannah Peterson Natalie Rufat Dora Servin Erica Silva Samantha Smith Eugene Staples Anna Svensson Hannah Tan Alejandro Torres Albert Toscano Ashley Toscano Stephanie Townsend Vy Tran Quan Tran Katlyn Turner Aimee Uwilingiyimana Rafael Vasquez Lisa Vavricka OmarVeloz Carla Villacis Jacob Wamala Melissa Woo Maryam Yoon Kelly Yuen Aditi Zaveri Nancy Zhu 
Livonia, Ml EIPaso, TX Medina, NY Houston, TX Gary, IN Vinton, TX Whittier, CA Anderson, IN Chicago, IL Huntington, NY Whitehall, PA San Diego, CA Plano, TX New Milford, NJ Raleigh, NC Houston, TX Kent, OH Spring Branch, TX Houston, TX Cincinnati, OH Bayside, NY Parlin, NJ Homestead, FL Baytown, TX Bakersfield, CA Miami, FL Fillmore, CA Santa Fe, NM Grand Prairie, TX South Bend, IN Upper Saddle River, NJ Placentia, CA Dallas, TX Pico Rivera, CA Round Rock, TX Mesa, AZ Westminster, CA Spring, TX Granger, IN Buffalo, NY Avondale, AZ Pasedena,TX EIPaso, TX Pequea,PA Milford, NH Walnut Creek, CA Nashville, TN South Bend, IN National City, CA New York, NY 
~ 
l ~ 
I 
~ 
l ~ 
I 
j 1 
I 
I 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 4, 2008 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Squad ousts top ranked Blue Devils 
Strong play from goalie Goodman key to win 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Writt•r 
Tlw Notre Damn and Duke women's laerossP teams entered Thursday's game !wading in diflilr­ent diredions. with the Irish hav­ing won 5 ol' 6 and with Duke rid­ing a 2-game losing streak. Thanks to aq.,ruably their best per­l'ormanee of the yPar. the Irish worn able to keep their momen­tum going and knep Duke stuck in neutral -defeating the seventh­rankod Blue Devils by a scorn of 12-S. The win was Notre Dame's first over a top I 0 opponent this snw.;on. 
"We were able to dominate them from start to finish," said Irish eoaeh Traey Coyne. "It was an awesome all-around team per­formance." 
She mention11d strong showings !'rom players from all over the field, noting the play of junior goal­keeper Erin (;oodman and the all around play ol' senior midlielder Caitlin McKinney. 
Duko op1med tlw scoring in the game, running out to a 1-0 lead just :n seconds into the game. llownver. the Irish were quiek to respond, scoring the next five goals in the game and taking a hmd that they would never relin­quish. Notre Dame went into the half with a 7-3lead. 
"We had a solid game plan and we executed it to a tee," said Coyne. "And when we eame out with adjustments, we handled those as well." It was evident, as tlw strong play continued into the second half. The teams traded goals until, with an 11-S lead, jun­ior attack .lillian Byers scored with I :5S left. dealing the proverbial nail in the collin. By11rs has been a consistent scoring threat all season long, but was quick to deflect the spotlight onto her teammates as well. 

"We have a lot of young guns who are stepping up," Byers said. "I definitely don't do it by myself." 
Also crucial in the victory was thn ability to shut down the Blue Devils' top scoring threat, Carolyn Davis. The junior attempted 10 shots, but only found the net onee, and was hounded by the Irish del(mse all game long. 
The win marked the first time the Irish have ever won in Durham, N.C.-they were previ­ously 0-5 -and only the second time they have defeated the Blue Dnvils in school history. More sig­nilieantly, the win solidifies Notre Dame's spot among the game's elite. 
"This game shows that we can bnat a top 10 team," said Coyne. "Not just play with them, but actu­ally beat them." 
Additionally, the win was a cru­eial first step in a grueling three­game stretch in which the Irish will travel to top-ranked Northwestern and will visit Big East leader Georgetown. Coyne thinks the tnam now has the men­tal makeup to make some noise late in the season as they push for a Big East championship and, eventually, a run at the National Championship. 
"Obviously this win gives us a lot of confidence," said Coyne. 
Armed with confidence, the Irish will take on No. 1 Northwestern in Evanston, Ill. on Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Bellesco111peteintourney 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will compete in its last tournament before play­ing its first NCAA qualifying mateh whnn they tee ofl' at the Tri-State Invitational event this wenkend in Angola, Ind. 
The Belles have some ground 
to make up after finishing third in the MIAA confer­ence during the fall season. 
The first two tournaments of the spring season havn yielded dis­couraging results. 
In their first 1went, the St. Andrews Invitational. the Belles finished I Oth place out of ll teams. 

Both tournaments included numerous Div. II opponents and top-ranked Div. lii foes. 
Belles coach Mark Hamilton believes his team has a good shot to be successful in the upcoming national qualifiers. 
"The way I see it, we have a week and a half to shave off about ten strokes from our total before the qualifier tourna­
"The way I see it, we have a week and a half to shave off about ten strokes from our total before the qualifier tournament." 
Mark Hamilton Belles' coach 
The sneond evnnt was more of the same. In the Northern Kentucky Invitational, the Belles 11nished ISth out of 21 teams. 
The competition levels in these tournaments are mueh higher than what they will be faeing in the NCAA qualifier. 

ment," said Hamilton. "But I think we have worked harder than our com­petition and have made the necessary improvements to catch and surpass them." 
The Belles are led by their senior captain Katie O'Brien who has shot the lowest 
score in every tournament so far this season. Freshman Hosie O'Connor has stepped us as a solid No. 2 for Saint Mary's fin­ishing right behind O'Brien in both spring tournaments. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu 


Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Now Leasing for 2008-2009 
424 N. Frances Street 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
Friday, April 4, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ATP 
Roddick ends 11-match skid against Federer in Florida 
Williams advances to the finals with comeback win against Svetlana, on verge of fifth Key Biscayne Tournament victory 
Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE -Andy Roddick whacked one last thun­derous serve to finally beat Roger Federer, then slowly walked to the net with his head down, as if unsure how to cele­brate such a rare achievement. 
With an almost flawless per­formance, Roddick ended a streak of 11 consecutive losses against his nemesis Thursday at the Sony Ericsson Open. Hoddick dominated with his serve and took advantage of Federer's suddenly shaky play down the stretch to win 7-6 (4), 4-6, 6-3 in the quarterfinals. 
"I came in knowing that nobody has beaten me 12 times in a row," Roddick told the delighted capacity crowd after­ward. "So I had that on my side." 
In the women's semifinals, Serena Williams overcame a slow start to outlast Svetlana Kuznetsova 3-6, 7-5, 6-3. Williams needs one more win for her fifth Key Biscayne title and second in a row. 
"I haven't won anything five times, except I win all the time in Uno," Williams said. "I don't think that counts." 
Her opponent Saturday will be No. 4-seeded Jelena Jankovic, who beat No. 19 Vera Zvonareva 6-1, 6-4. Jankovic made the final after barely sur­viving her opening match, when she saved five match points. 
Roddick improved to 2-15 against Federer, who came into the tournament hoping to quell talk that his game is in decline. Slowed by mononucleosis early in the year, the top-ranked Federer has yet to reach a final in 2008, making this his worst start since 2000. 
"I am just sort of disappointed not to see my name playing in the finals," Federer said. "I think I have the game to obvi­ously be there." 
Roddick's opponent in the semifinals Friday night will be No. 4 Nikolay Davydenko, who beat unseeded Janko Tipsarevic 6-2, 6-1. 
To beat Federer for the first time since 2003, Roddick had to be at his best, especially down the stretch. He fell behind love­30 serving at 3-3 in the final set, then won the next 11 points, five of them thanks to unforced errors by Federer. 
Twice during the stretch Federer shanked shots. 
"I figure I was due," Roddick said. "He hadn't missed a ball in a crucial moment for about six years against me. I figured the law of statistics had to come my way eventually." 
Federer lost serve at love to fall behind 5-3, losing the only break point he faced in the match. Roddick closed out the victory with a 140-mph service winner, and he served well throughout, hitting 18 aces ­including two in the tiebreaker. 
That helped him end a streak of 10 consecutive sets lost against Federer. 
"I always said it's tough to play against Andy -you know, that serve," Federer said. "He's always going to have a chance. That's why I'm quite amazed about my record against him."· 
Roddick improved to 1-0 against Federer since his recent engagement to swimsuit model Brooklyn Decker, who watched from the stands. 
"Being happy and content off the court is only going to help in my mind," Roddick said. Seeded sixth, he's two rounds from his second Key Biscayne title. 
Williams toiled for nearly three hours to reach match point against Kuznetsova, then hit two more shots and raised a fist, tired but triumphant. On a muggy, 85-degree afternoon, Williams' newfound fitness may have made the difference. 
She arrived for this year's tournament a slimmer Williams, joking after one win that this is the best she has looked since 1982. She was then an infant. 
Her recent rigorous training regimen paid off in a semifinal that became a test of stamina. 
"I don't feel tired or sore or anything," Williams said 90 minutes after the match. "I feel like I'm really fit. I've been working really hard." 
In the final set, Williams broke for a 5-3 lead when she skipped a shot off the net cord, leaving Kuznetsova with an awkward backhand she dumped into the net. 
Williams slammed her 12th ace to reach match point, and Kuznetsova then sailed a lob long. 
"Serena was a bit fresher," Kuznetsova said. "In the end she was moving well and serv­ing incredibly hard." 
Williams' home-court advan­tage may have been a factor, too. She grew up in nearby Palm Beach Gardens. 
"Serena, this is your house," one fan yelled. 
Her 46-5 record at Key Biscayne suggests he's right. 
"I love playing here," Williams said. "All my friends come out. I promised tickets for Saturday, so I was like, 'I can't lose. I've got to stay in there a little bit longer.' It was mainly my moti­vation." 
Kuznetsova, the 2006 Key Biscayne champion, eliminated three-time champion Venus Williams in the quarterfinals and made a strong bid to com­plete a sweep of the family. 
Serena Williams had a flurry of unforced errors at the start, and she appeared to hurt her back chasing a backhand on the final point of the fourth game. In the next game, Kuznetsova fell behind love-40 on her serve, then won five consecutive points for a 4-1 lead. 
Williams then took an injury timeout, and said it later felt as if she had been stuck in the back. A massage from a trainer alleviated the problem. 
"Once she came out it got bet­ter, like straightaway," Williams said, "and it got even better after that." 

ND MEN'S lACROSSE 
Laxers carry offensive momentum to Illinois 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will look to keep their offensive firepower going as they take on the Pioneers of Denver this Saturday at 3 p.m. at Toyota Park in Bridgeview, IL. 
Since their 8-6 loss to North Carolina March 8-the team's only blemish on the season ­the Irish (7-1), ranked No. 7 in the most recent Nike/Inside Lacrosse poll have gone on a tear, scoring an average of 17 goals in their last three games. 
In the team's most recent contest, a 19-7 drubbing of Bellarmine last Saturday, sen­ior midfielder Michael Podgajny led all scorers with four goals while senior attack Alex Wharton tallied three assists to go along with a goal of his own. Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan credits the offensive explosion to the team hitting its collective midseason stride. 
"It's a great example of the sum being greater than the parts," he said. "Our offense has really played well together. They've developed a great 
chemistry and they work not 
only to create opportunities for 
themselves but opportunities 
for the offense. I think that's 
been a great formula for us 
and hopefully the best is yet to 
come." 

Going into this weekend's 
game against Denver, Corrigan 
said he and his team have a lot 
of respect for the Pioneers, a 
team that has had a lot of suc­
cess late in games. 
"Denver is a good team that 
is playing well right now," 
Corrigan said Thursday. 
"They've won five of their last 
six games. The.y've come from 
behind in at least three of 
those games and won two in 
OT. You're talking about a 
team that's really worked hard 
to put themselves in a great 
position this season and own a 
lot of close games so we're 
looking forward to a good 
game." 

Corrigan said he is particu­larly excited about playing in Toyota Park, the recently con­structed stadium and new · home of Major League Soccer's 
Chicago Fire. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 
Irish to run in separate meets 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sporrs Writer 

Notre Dame will split up this weekend, as the Irish will par­ticipate in both the Stanford and Purdue Invitationals. 
Senior runner Jacqueline Carter and throwers junior Anna Weber and sophomore Jaclyn Espinoza will travel with some other members of the men's team to compete in the Stanford Invitational in Palo Alto, Calif. 
"The Stanford meet is a very high level of competition, espe­cially in the distances and throws," Irish coach Tim Connelly said. "We sent people whom we felt would benefit 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
2.5,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 



OPEN noon to six Tuesdax through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
from that level of competition." 
The Purdue Invitational will provide solid practice for the rest of the Irish who will be competing against a variety of schools. 
"Some of our top people should find good competition there [at Purdue], but there should also be competition that our more developing athletes should benefit from," Connelly said. 
The outdoor season has been a success so far for the Irish. The first meet of the season, the Arizona State Invitational, produced a number of solid results. 
"Our sprinters, throwers, and 800 meter runners got off to a very good start, with a number of NCAA Regional qualifying marks," Connelly said. 
Junior Alyissa Hasan and the Irish 4x400-meter relay team have each qualified to compete · in the NCAA regional meet at the end of the season. 
Freshman Marissa Treece will not be competing in this weekend's meet and will be held out of competition until at least May. 
"Treece won't compete until at least the week before the Big East meet," said Connelly. "She needs to recover from the World XC meet so that she can have a strong May and June." 
Contact Alex Backer at abacker 1 @nd.edu 

Storage College Partners 
We Pick Up! We Store! We Deliver! www.storagecollege.com E-Mail us at ndinfo@storagecollege.com Simplified Summer Storage! 
Plug in to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
Campus Ministry  
Free iTunes subscription for reflective listening on your iPod.  
Type "ndprayercast" on the iTlmes search engine,-or-log onto www.ndprayercast.org  
A'"l)))) ) )  Hear it here this week: Rev. Ralph Haag, c.s.c.  
M www.ndprayercast.org  Songs of the ND Folk Choir • Psalms • Homilies • Prayers • Meditative music  
Weekly rebroadcasts ofthe Sunday 11 :45am Liturgies  

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 4, 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Buckeyes clinch NIT title with win over UMass 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -In a locker 

room outburst equal parts joy 
and angst, Jamar Butler finally 
dropped the charade Ohio 
State had been playing for 
nnarly three weeks and 
revealed its main motivating 
faetor for a roughshod run 
through the NIT. 
"This is what happens when you put an NCAA tournament team in the NIT," Butler yelled, surrounded by his teammates after beating Massaehusetts 92­85 in the title game Thursday night. "Write that down and send that to the committee." 
A ynar removed from a loss in the national championship game, the Buckeyes have a tro­phy to carry horne -even if it's not the one they had wanted. 
"Kind of a sore loser," coach Thad Matta said, when asked whether he would watch the Final Four this weekend. "I don't know what I'm going to do. I think I'm going to rest." 
Butler had 19 points and night assists in his final college game, which culminated with the kind of raucous vietory cele­bration inside Madison Square Garden that he couldn't have last year in Atlanta. 
The Buckeyes lost to Florida in the Final Four, and a snub by the NCAA selection eornrnittee kept them from playing for another trip there. They rebounded to dominate each of their four opponents on the way to New York, then had enough to withstand every UMass run. 
"In 24 hours I've probably watched 10 or 12 games they played," Minutemen coach Travis Ford said, "and I never saw them shoot like that." 
Kosta Koufos added 22 points and earned the tournament's most outstanding player award. Evan Turner finished with 20 for the Buckeyes (24-13), who shot 63 percent (19-of-30) from the field in the second half. 
"They had their press coming at us," Butler said, "and once we broke out, I think we were fine on the open floor and I think we made great plays." 
Hicky Harris scored 27 for UMass (25-11 ), hitting three 3­pointers in the closing minutes 
to help the Minutemen stay 
close. 

The last of them made it 77­
75 with 3:13 left. but Othello 
Hunter scored moments later 
and after Harris missed another 
3 try at the other end, Butler 
drained a 3-pointer from the 
wing to give Ohio State some 
breathing room. 
Turner took care of things 
from the free throw line over 
the final minute and a half, 
helping the Buckeyes wrap up 
the title. 
"I've seen this team go 
through a lot," Matta said, 
moments before cutting down 
the net. ''I'm happy for them." 
Etienne Brower, one of four players in the starting lineup who grew up in New York, had 17 points and 12 rebounds for UMass. Gary Forbes finished with 16 points and six assists, and Dante Milligan scored 14. 
Massachusetts dominated Ohio State on the boards, out­rebounding the bigger Buckeyes 49-37 and corralling a startling 30 on the offensive end. But UMass figured to be in trouble when the frenetic pace that it also enjoys kept up in the sec­ond half: Ohio State was 15-1 this season when scoring at least 70 points. 
"We didn't even know if we were up or down, we were just giving it all we had," Brower said. "They're a solid team." 
Massachusetts put a scare into Ohio State from the moment the last notes of the national anthem were played, rushing the entire length of the court to shake hands with its stoic, startled Big Ten oppo­nent. 
The Minutemen kept racing once the ball was thrown up, forcing three turnovers in the first 2 minutes and taking a 10­2 lead on a basket by Milligan. 
The Buckeyes came right back, with Hunter scoring four of his 17 points to cap a 13-2 run and take a brief lead. But the Minutemen again edged ahead, and Forbes' 3-pointer with 3:50 left before halftime got the team's assistant coaches so animated the referees stopped to calm them down. 
Fourteen busloads of people were ferried to New York from 
..Siso up eArl!lt beAt the rush! 
7he tl!}Ajor in eoslish English majors choose careers 
in any field that values the ability to read, \\Tile, and analy:~.e with intelligence and subtlety. Some go on to graduate study in literature leading to careers in academia; others choose professions such as law, education, medicine, publishing, business, social work, professional \\Titing, library science, journalism, and public relations. 
Numerous orientation sessions available during the week of April7-11! 
For more information, or meeting times to declare the major, contact: The Department of English 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall; 631-7:2:26 
Karmcn Duke, Administmtive Assistant kduke@ nd.edu 
hlt 
mduate/ 

the UMass campus in Amherst, but they represented just a fraction of the partisan crowd. The school sold its allotment of tickets quickly, and appeared to have far more dressed in its slightly darker shade of red than its counterpart from Columbus. 
"You can see by the fan sup­port that came out, we made a difference since I've been here," said Forbes, a senior playing his last game. "A lot of fans have come out, supported us, and this has been a great roll." 
Now they all have to sit back and wonder whether the popu­lar Ford will stay in town. His name has popped up as a lead­ing candidate for the opening at LSU, which could offer the for­mer Kentucky player a chance to return to his roots in the Southeastern Conference. 
One fan, wearing a UMass jer­sey a couple rows behind their bench, held up a sign that pleaded, "Please Stay Travis." A couple rows down was another sign that read, "Travis Ford, Forget LSU." 
Ford said he hasn't spoken with any other schools, but wouldn't say whether he would listen to offers in the coming days. 


FEATURING 
Ryan Grant 
Friday, April 18 at the Century Center 
Notre Dame running back from 2001-04. Broke the 100-yard barrier in five games with the Green Bay Packers in 2007. 


Ticket/Pricing Information: To order tickets or for locations, directions, and other information, call 235-5715. Luncheons begm at 11:30 a.m. 
Luncheons: $35 per person, $270 per table of eight. R.S.V.P. by 5 p.m.• two days prior to each Luncheon. Space is limited. 
THE COLLEGE FOOTBALL HALL OF FAME PRESENTS 
Please visit collegefootball.org for more information. 
Media Sponsors 

Friday, April 4, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NBA 
Gordon's well-timed free throws clinch win 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND-Hunched over an ice-filled tub as he soaked his ankles and feet, LeBron James rubbed his forehead and groaned. 
The back spasms weren't relenting. They kept coming back -just like the Chicago Bulls. 
Ben Gordon made five clutch free throws down the stretch and Larry Hughes scored 19 of his 25 points in the second half against his former team, rally­ing the Bulls to a 101-98 win over the Cleveland Cavaliers on Thursday night. 
The Bulls, with nothing to play for in the season's final weeks, overcame a 17-point deficit in the second half and snapped a six-game road losing streak. 
Hughes, traded by the Cavaliers to Chicago at the Feb. 21 deadline, added nine assists and eight rebounds in 45 min­utes. Gordon scored 24 points and Luol Deng and Andres Nocioni had 15 each. 
James scored 33 to lead Cleveland, but with his back tightening, he scored just one point in the fourth and missed all five field-goal tries. With their go-to-superstar unable to cut, jump and move as usual, the Cavaliers scored only 13 points in the final 12 minutes. 
"It was tough to do some of the things that I wanted to do," he said. 
Still, the Cavaliers had a chance to take the lead in the 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
665 by forfeit over Prima Ballerinas 
The team known only as "665" won by forfeit over the Prima Ballerinas, who didn't make it to the court. In their first round game, 665's opponents almost didn't make an appearance either, not arriving until15 minutes after the game was scheduled to start. 
They don't know who they're playing next, but, "They might as well not even show up," 665 team member Emma Klosterman said. 
"It's disappointing because we were excited to play," Lynch said. "But we're looking forward to Wednesday." 
Lynch, Klosterman, along team­mates Colleen Flahive, Michelle Maitz, and Nicole Bobowski will compete Wednesday against the 
winner  of the Nickelodeon  
Moonshoes  or  Academic  
Freedom.  

Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 
closing seconds. But James, the NBA's leading scorer, drove the left side and was short on a dou­ble-pumping layup with 5.9 sec­onds to go. James as well as coach Mike Brown felt he was fouled by rookie Joakim Noah, who stepped in front to contest the shot. 
"I went up and got hit on the arm," James said. "But that's not why we lost the game." 
Following James' miss, Gordon was fouled and made two free throws with 3.4 sec­onds remaining to put the Bulls ahead by three. 
Cleveland had one last chance, but after catching a pass from James, Daniel Gibson missed a potential game-tying 3-pointer before the horn. 
The Bulls' season has been a complete disaster, but they never quit against a Cleveland team still trying to secure home­court advantage in the first round. 
"It says a lot about our guys to get down 1 7 on the road against a team like this and fight our way back," interim coach Jim Boylan said. 
Zydrunas Ilgauskas scored 23 points for the Cavaliers, who are trying to nail down the No. 4 seed in the Eastern Conference. 
Trailing since early in the sec­ond quarter, the Bulls finally caught the Cavs and took the lead at 99-98 with 1:42 left when Gordon knocked down three straight free throws after being fouled by Delonte West while attempting a 3-pointer. 

Youth Ministry 
The parishes of Mt. St. Peter and All Saints in New Kensington, PA, {located in the Diocese of Greensburg) are seeking a dynamic leader for a full-time position as Coordinator of Youth Ministry. This position is envisioned as one of coordination of junior and senior high youth. An intergenerational, experiential catechetical model is desired. Weekends and evening hours required. Applicant should possess a BA in theology, religious education or related field. Persons submitting resumes should be Catholics in good standing. Send cover letter, resume and two letters of recommendation to Bill Staniszewski, Mount Saint Peter Church, 100 Freeport Road, New Kensington, PA 15068 by April 15, 2008. 


page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, April 4, 2008 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
they hope not to repeat this weekend. 
Af'ter exploding for eight runs against IUPUI on Mach 26, the Irish oll'ense has been in a bit of a slump, scoring only five runs in the three games since then. Thanks to stellar pitching, how­ever, they were able to come away with wins in two of those eontests with the only loss being a 2-1 defeat at the hands of DePaul, who is No. 18 in the latest NFCA poll. 
SL John's {15-9, 2-4) and Seton Hall (11-18, 0-6) opened their wnference sehndules in a double­header against each other at St. John's on March 22. StJohn's took both of those games, regis­tering their only wins in eonfer­ence thus l~tr. 
The Hed Storm and the Pirates both met South Florida and Louisville for doubleheaders fol­lowing their meeting. Each squad dropped two games each to the Bulls and Cardinals, who current­ly sit first and second, respective­ly, in the Big East standings. 
St. John's was able to rebound following their four straight con­ference losses when they stepped outside the league and swept a doubleheader against Army on Wednesday. 
While their upcoming oppo­nents may have struggled lately, the Irish will be careful not to take anything for granted this weekend. 
"The biggest thing for this team to stay sharp is to play seven hard innings every game," Bargar said. "We can not let up on anything, not a single out or pitch. Every play, we have to fm­ish." 
Action in Jamaica, New York against St. John's is set to begin at noon on Saturday, while the doubleheader against Seton Hall will begin at 11 a.m. in South Orange, NJ. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
Florida 

continued from page 24 
and hopefully that'll give us some momentum heading into the Big East Tournament." 
This season has been marked by historic successes for the Irish. The squad has had a program-record four first-place finishes this sea­son, including a program­first three consecutive tour­nament victories. Notre Dame also collected honors at Golf World Magazine's mid-season awards banquet, being named the most sur­prising women's team, while Irish freshman So-Hyun Park was named most surprising women's player. Park is on pace to shatter the program's single-season scoring record of 74.12 with a season aver­age of 73.26, and has carded eight consecutive top-1 0 fin­ishes, including two first-place finishes. Holt is not butions from everyone on the surprised by the team's suc­team. Each golfer has record­cesses. ed at least one top-ten finish 
"As a group, we're right on this year, with junior captain target," Lisa Maunu 
Holt said. opening up the "As a "As a group, we're right season with a team, at first-place finish
on target. As a team, at
the begin­at the Cougar
the beginning of the
ning of the Classic last Fall. year, we year, we set high goals Holt has attrib­set high uted her
for ourselves. People on 
goals for squad's success
the outside might be 
ourselves. to fundamentals People on surprised, but to be and mental 
the outside honest, we aren't. We focus. 
might be "Golf is basi­
made a commitment to 
surprised, cally hitting 
but to be do exactly what we're shots and play­honest, we doing. We're on track." ing holes and 
aren't. We managing our made a game," Holt 
Susan Holt 
commit­said. "We have ment to do Irish coach to get into our exactly mode, that w h a t thought we're doing. We're on track." process, that comes with 
Although Park has set the managing the course well." pace for Notre Dame, the team has succeeded in large Contact Michael Blasco at part because of solid contri-mblasco@nd.edu 
Streak 
continued from page 24 
Alter losing their previous seven matches, the Orange have found some momentum by winning three in a row over Villanova, Colgate, and St. John's. 
Syracuse has played well against il'> fil!ls from the Big East, going 6-4 in conference play this ynar. Notrn Dame will faee just il'> third conferenee opponent of the dual season and enters the match with a 2-0 mcord against the Big East. 
Syracuse will travel to South Bend for the first time in history. Notre Dame has won the previous four meetings, all at other venues. The match has been moved back to 1 p.m. ET to make it the back half of a Sunday morning double­header with the Notre Dame men's tennis match against William & Mary. 
With the level of competition and amount of matches rising, the depth of Notre Dame will continue to be tested. Notre Dame Head Coach Jay Louderback recognizes the need for depth and how important it has been this season. 
"Being really deep is something that's been a factor the whole year for us. We are able to compete all the way down the lineup," Louderback said. 
With Kristen Rafael day-to-day due to a sprained ankle, the lineup switches have showcased the depth Louderback has at his dis­posal. 
"Katie [Potts] played great yes­terday, and Kali [Krisik] is playing well down there at five and six. It takes the pressure off the top, and actually they even play with more pressure at the bottom, because they feel like everyone above them is going to win," Louderback said. 
The desire for team success pushes individual accomplish­ments to the back burner. Louderback says his players do not focus on personal rankings but rather on the team. 
'The only time we look at [rank­ings] is the end of the year because they use it to put kids into the individual tournaments," Louderback said. "Otherwise, we really don't look at it much at all." 
The focus instead is on getting reps outdoors in preparation for the final week of matches and postseason play. 
"Our biggest thing now is just getting outdoors because the Big East and NCAA tournament<; are both outdoors. So any chance we get to practice and play matehes oul'iide is big for us," Louderback said. 
Louderback anticipates both matches this weekend being out­doors as the team starl'> to wrap up the regular season, make final preparations, and look forward to a deep postseason run. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 


Friday, April 4, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

DIDIER LEWIS
LOLLERSKATES 

LINAPAEK
THE SINGLE LIFE 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 They might Awfully 
indicate hunger 

accurate? 33 "Centuries" 11 California wine 
34 Where to find center pop art? 15 Salade nic;:oise 
37Turns up ingredients 
38 Start of some 

16 "The company 
how-to titles for women" 
39 One who bringssloganeer bad luck

17 Providers of 40 Childish 
exceptional comeback
service? 18 Neural network 
41 Some are manicured19 With 50-Across. surmount 42 NATO member: Abbr.

20 Turn out to be 45 Boulogne-sur­
21 Presidential _,France
middle name 22 Queen in a long-46 Response of running comic feigned strip innocence 
24 "What's ?" 48 Lose 26 Pal successfully 
50 See 19-Across27 Disconcert 

28 Strip alternative 52 Parry 30 Change from 54 Holder of many two to one tracks 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

55 _..___-Mints (Rolaids rival} 
56 Singer of the 1967 hit "California Nights" 
58 Incomplete picture? 
59 Subject of the 2004 book "Dancing Revelations" 
60 Jarrow's river 
61 Outdoor toy that attaches to a garden hose 
Down 
Mil. V.I.P. 2 Eye component 3 Where 1-25 and 
1-70 meet 4 Poet who won a Pulitzer for "The Dust Which Is God" 5 Prefix with directional 6 Shortening in the 
kitchen? 7 Level 8 Kinkajou's kin: 
Var. 9 1883 Maupassant novel 10 Dine, in 
Dusseldorf 11 Caper 12 Bit of kitchen 
wear 13 Execute exactly 
14 Over. with "of" 23 Suffered a blow to one's pride 25 Magazine holder 
29 Creation of 31­Down 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Mike Nothnagel and David Quarfoot 
31 See 29-Down  37 It's out for a pout  47 Papa Bear of the  
32 "Underboss"  39 Ruler of  N.F.L.  
author Peter  Scotland, 1567·  49 Watch  
33 Smythe of hockey 34 Cause of colonial unrest 35 "You don't say!" 36 Hide in the  1625 41 Hanks's "Apollo 13" role 42 "That's Amore" setting 43 Scented  51 What some people get caught on 53 Home of Davy Crockett: Abbr. 57 Title syllables in a 1961 Lee  
woods  44 Photo flaw  Dorsey hit  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

(9)2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NEKEL 
j 
WURPAD 
WHEN SHE C.HANGF=P 

H~R HAIR COL-OR, www.jumble.com IT WAS--­
I I I
tKLYFNU 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as

J I I [] 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: 

TO "c I I J" r x I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterda 's IJumbles: CUBIT CRANK GROUCH FORAGE 
y Answer: What he drove when he bought a used 
car -A TOUGH BARGAIN 
HOROSCOPE FRIDAYS WITH FRAN 
ARIES (March 21-April 19) More Ovaltine please. Pleeeease. 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20) The guy that sits next to you in class is tucking it in. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20) Doesn't it make sense that Adam Sandler might be a child molester? How many of his hit movies prominently feature children? Big Daddy, Billy Madison ... oh wait, that might be it. Scratch that molester comment. ... 
CANCER (June 21-July 22) You are not a Communist. You might be lazy, a traitor and a Communist but you are not a porn star. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22) If it's in your wheelhouse, don't miss it. 
VIHGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) he Irish girl would certainly be the American Idol front-runner if she didn't have that hideous tattoo. Are we in agrrement on this point? 
LIBHA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23) Did you ever notice that the words 'jolly' and 'chuckle' are only used to describe fat men? Uh oh, someone called your laugh a jolly chuckle this week, right? 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov.21) Counter the Monologue with the Hamburger. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) Do you know how to Charlie Brown? If you do, you're the only one. 
CARPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) One of you was gonna get props for responding 'Legally Blonde' to last week's question. But unfortunate­ly, the recipient of the responses deleted them because he's an idiot. So if you're reading this, you get props. See? I'm generous. Free props for all. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) What is the funniest object that comes in a loaf? Text your response to (630)247-4042. The best answer will get a shout-out next week. It's in the stars.! 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20) Raise your hand if you enjoy an occa­sional Sloppy Joe Manwich. 
_.. 
... 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, April 4, 2008 
page 24 
SOFTBALL 
She's on fite 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Wri rer 
Coming oil' a close victory over Toledo in non-con­ference action Wednesday, Notre Dame returns to Big East play as they travel to St. John's and Seton llall for two weekend double headers. 
This is the first conference road trip for the Irish this year, and junior pitchnr Brittney Bargar believes hnr tnam is ready for thfl challenge. 
"No matter what the situation is, it is always tough to play on tlw road, regardless of where we are," she 
.. 
said. "lWei just have to stay with one another and play some great ball. There is nothing we aren't pre­parfld for, and we are ready for every challenge thrown our way." Notre Dame (18-1 0, 1-1) opened the conference season last weekend with a split at DePaul. Ao;; has bmm the case often in the early part of the season, the pitching stall' carried the team to its victory. The same thing happened Wednesday against Toledo, where freshman Jody Valdivia and Bargar teamed up to pitch seven innings while allowing only one run between the two. The Irish seored only two runs on HBis from senior second basmnan Katie Laing. The two runs were enough for Valdivia and Bargar, but the Irish strand­ed several runners in scoring position, something 
see BIG EAST/page 22 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Squad looking to keep winning streak intact 
but have siruggled of late. Iowa's No. 1 doubles pair in every winning percentage of the Iowa's ond year as head coach, and By DAN MASTERTON llistorieally, Iowa has not fared match this year, going 10-5. main doubles teams. many of his players are learning
Sports Wri!er 
well against Notre Dame, winning Senior Milica Veselinovic, who Serve is set for 4 p.m. CT at on the job with live freshmen get­just once in 15 matches all-time. leads the team with a 14-1 singles Hawkeye Recreation and Athletic ting significant playing time. 
No. 20 Notrn Dame {14-7) looks Iowa's doubles lineup will pose a record on the dual season, teams Complex. After the match at Iowa, The youth movement is lead by to nxtnnd its smtson-high seven­legitimate threat to Notre Dame's with junior Mere! Beelen for dou­the Irish return home to face the Christine Tan. The freshman hao;; ganw win streak this weekend, eight-match streak of doubles bles. The duo has gr>ne 7-4 playing Syracuse Orange who are in played No. 1 singles in all of traveling to No. 46 Iowa today and point wins. Freshman Alexis Dorr in the No. 2 slot. rebuilding mode. Syraeuse's matehes this year earn­thnn returning horne to face and senior Jacqueline Lee lead the Junior Kayla Berry and fresh­The Orange (9-11) are coaehed ing the same 9-11 remrd ao.; her Syracuse on Sunday. llawkeyes' doubles attack. Both man Lyn Poggonsee-Wei round by former professional tennis team. 
The Hawkeyns (11-4) started thn are 10-5 in singles play, and the out the lineup. The pair boast<; an player and ESPN analyst Luke snason by winning eight in a row two have played together as 8-3 record giving them the best Jensen. Jensen is in just his sec-see STREAK/page 22 
WoMEN's GoLF 
Irish head south for invitational 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Spons Wrircr 
Coming off a hard fought f'ifth-plaee finish at last wnek's Betsy Bawls Longhorn Invitational, No. 20 Notre Dame hopes to take care of business next week at the Canes and Cardinals Classic in Miami, Fla. The tourna­mnnt will be three rounds ­hnld over two days -at the par-72, 6,982 yard Senator Course at Don Shula's Golf Course. 
The University of Miami­

... 
hosted tournament is the linal contest of the year for the Irish before they play in the Big East Championship at the end of' the month. 
Notre Dame head coach Susan Holt is optimistic that tlu~ team will perform well. 
"The course at Miami will be a fun eourse," Holt said. "We should play well there 
see FLORIDA/page 22 


Sophomore Kristen Wetzel prepares to tee off at the Irish Invitational last September, where the Irish finished second. 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Talented freshmen oust juniors, 21-17 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
Two Pats and a MAT 21, I've Made a Huge Mlstake... 17 

Two Pats and a MAT took advantage of an excessive number of missed lay-ups by I've Made a Huge Mistake and advance to win their first-round, rescheduled game. 
"Lay-ups killed us today," Mistake captain Dan Hussey said. "We came to win, it didn't work out so well." 
Hussey seemed to make no mis­takes early, putting his team up early with a couple of early buck­ets. Teammate James Smith ran the point for Mistake, assertively calling out plays at the top of the key. However, it seemed that any play he called inevitably ended up in a failed alley-oop or a missed lay-up down low. Smith got on his teammates about the lack of easy baskets. 
"I was talking [expletive 1 to Jordan," Smith said. "But I missed a few too. Honestly the game is on everybody." 
Both the Pato.; and the MAT were thrilled with their hard-fought vic­tory. 
"It was huge win," captain Alex Cota said. "They're a bunch of juniors and we're just little fresh­men. We were undersized, but we came out to play today." 
Despite their differences on the court, both teams agreed on one thing after their game, which ended around 8:00 p.m. 
"We are extremely satisfied," Cota said. "We're gonna go eat right now." 
Smith agreed. 
"We played hard," Smith said. "And I'm so hungry." 
see BOOKSTORE/page 21 

.. 






