
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 23 THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER25, 2008 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Forum urges decisive action on sustainability 
Panelists discuss 
U.S. energy situation 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
The United States has the responsibility to do something to make its energy situation more sustainable, panelists at the Notre Dame Forum on Sustainable Energy said Wednesday. 
"We're stuck right now and we're really not doing anything," General Electric chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said. "And as everybody in this room knows, to do something you have to do something." 
The discussion of what exactly must be done to improve America's energy situation ranged from individuals taking small per­sonal steps to ge~vernment<; work­ing to develop an energy policy. Each panelist echoed lmmelt's theme that action is a necessity. 
see FORUM/page 6 

Numbers reveal ND's environmental impact 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Editor's Note: This is the second installment of a multi­part series examining sus­tainability at Notre Dame. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins has declared sustainability a major goal for the University, but at this point, energy generation and consumption on campus "is not a strong point," Office of Sustainability Director Jim Mazurek said. 
The Sustainability office recently calculated the University's carbon footprint, Mazurek said. 
The footprint that results from energy generation emis­sions at the University power plant is currently 172,647 
see ENERGY/page 6 

NDSP, SBPD offer safely tips to off-campus students 

Representatives from police departments advise students to follow instincts, trust judgements in confrontations 
Room of LaFortune to offer instincts," Shibata said. Shibata said that most of Individuals can take steps
By EMMA DRISCOLL tips to help students protect She said that if a student is the crimes that have been to ensure their own safety.
News Writer 
themselves. stopped by a potential attack­happening to students off­"Individuals can do more to 
Only a handful of students er who asks him or her for an campus are "crimes of oppor­protect themselves than 
In response to the concerns attended the session held by item, it is usually best to give tunity," meaning assaults, police can," Shibata said. of students who live off cam­SBPD Crime Prevention the person what he or she larcenies, robberies and bur­"We really depend on you pus or have been victims of Specialist Cpl. Patrick wants. She reminded stu­glaries that are not always guys to be our eyes and ears, crimes, representatives from Hechlinski and NDSP Crime dents to trust their judgment premeditated. to let us know when some­the South Bend Police · Prevention Officer Keri Kei and listen to what their "People may see a person thing is going on somewhere Department (SBPD) and the Shibata. instincts tell them to do. that they think is vulnerable, ... to protect yourselves and Notre Dame Security Police "The two most important "Use your instincts. If you so they take advantage," each other," Shibata said. (NDSP) met with students things I can tell you are be think you need to run, [then] Shibata said. "As individuals, Tuesday night in the Dooley alert and follow your run," Shibata said. we can reduce opportunity." see NDSP/page 4 
STUDENT SENATE 
Group debates mock elections 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
The Student Senate debated whether its upcoming mock election should be conducted with an online survey or in voting booths located throughout campus during its meeting Wednesday. 
· The mock election. which will serve not only as an informal campus poll but also as way to inform students about the responsibilities of voting, will take place Oct. 7. 
"The point of this is activism," student body vice 
see SENATE/page 4 



SMC starts Weight Watchers program 
By KELLY DAVIS . News Writer 
"Stop dieting. Start living," is 
the Weight Watchers slogan, 
according to the weight loss 
plan's Web site. Saint Mary's 
senior Kelly Gasior, who start­
ed a Weight Watchers group 
on the College's campus this 
year, said 22 Saint Mary's stu­
dents, staff and professors 
hope to do just that. 
Gasior worked with Saint 
Mary's Director of Women's 
Health Catherine DeCleene to 
start an "At Work" program. 

The program lasts for 17 weeks, with breaks for aca­demic year recesses, so they will meet until the end of February, Gasior said. 
DeCleene told The Observer that other students had con­tacted her over the summer about starting the program on campus. She said Weight Watchers "is a tried and true program which has proven itself in the long run." 
According to WeightWatchers.com, the pro­gram has two different diet 
see HEALTH/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 25, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Dovvn on the far111 
Wlwn askPd about thoir favorite rnstaurant. most poople will rnspond with a) somewhere really fancy, b) sonwwhore only the "locals" would know, or c) 
Bruno's, if tlw  
pc1rson askod is  Laura Myers  
on Tho  
Observnr staff.  Sports Writer  
My l'avorito  
rostaurant does  

not f'it into any of those cate­
gories. You can have your Italian 
bistros, your fancy stoakhouses, 
your greasy spoon pubs. For me, 
I'll take tho fine homestyle cui­
sino of Bob Evans. 

II' you've talked to me more than once, you know the extent or my lovo/hatn n11ationship with Bob's, as I like to call it. 
I will admit, I've workect, there !'or throe years, and a 20 percent discount certainly informs my affection for tho place. Aside !'rom a manag11r who hates Notre Damn and a bad ankln from my Shoes for Crows. my employment was probably the bost first job a 1 f>-ynar-old could get. 
The majority of' people our age assume Bob Evans is strictly for travnlers. families, or members of' the gnriatric population. False. They also assum11 Bob Evans is only for breakfast. Also false. (!lad to throw in a little Tho ornc~n homage thorn, in honor of' tonight's snason pn~minre. Yay!) 
What. Bob Evans has is evory­thing. And it is for evoryonn. 
With ]I)(J locations in the great statn of Ohio, or roughly one st.ore for evory 55,000 residents, Bob Evans has be1m a part of my extrernnly fortunato lif'n for a long timn. Many of you have nevnr bcHm thorn. Well, it's time to discovnT a Midwost trnasure. 
Bob Evans has giant pancakes and dnlieious bacon and eggs. It also has tho best fresh fruit you can get !'rom a restaurant. ngg whito omelnttes, and marvelous turkey sausage. 
But tho am azingness doesn't nnd thorn, my friends. What sets Bob Evans apart is its great lunch and dinner food. Most places (11101', Perkins, etc:.) have tnrrible dinner f'ood, regardless of' their breakfast expertise. Bob's is the exePption to that rule. Our sandwiches and burgers are perfect. We have great turkey dinners, or steak, or grilled chicken. Our broeeoli doesn't have any weird stuff on it. It's just broccoli. 
Then you have all kinds of spe­cialty brc~ads, including my per­sonal f'avoritn-pumpkin bread. Tho pins are pretty good, too. 
Plus, thPre's the best hot choco­late you'll nvnr have, for only $1.69. With free refills. Beat that, Waf'f'le House. 
Don't forget to tip your waitress -20 pnrennt or more-because I can guarantee you'll bo getting scn·vien with a smile. 
Basically, Bob Evans kicks every othnr restaurant in the loading dock. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer 
Contact /,aura Myers at lmyers2@lnd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication arid strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake. please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How SCARED ARE YOU OF THE SKUNKS ON CAMPUS? 








Matt Gelchion Andrea Etienne Will Guappore Rachel Washington Rebecca Palacios 
senior sophomore junior sophomore sophomoreFisher Pangborn Fisher McGlinn 
Pangborn "I am extremely "Pretty "Less scared of "Not at all. 
"Pretty scared, terrified. Ifear terrified, but I them than of They should be but more wearythe demand to feel like the the girls." scared ofme. " 

use my tomato same three juice bath skunks I see are facilities will be on the prowl." too great." 
NICK PAXTON!The Observer 

Sophomores Bill Hazel, left, and Tyler Mingo dump Items into a reycling bin in Dillon. Notre Dame converted to single-stream recycling last year. 
than scared. Where did they come from? They were not here last year. " 


IN BRIEF 
The Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity opens today at 4 p.m. with a lecture by Oxford University econo­mist Paul Collier, author of the award-winning book "The Bottom Billion." The lecture, which is free and open to the public, will take place in the Hesburgh Center auditorium with a reception to follow. 
Saint Mary's College is hosting a book release for communications professor Terri Russ' book "Bi***in' Bodies: Young Women Talk About Body dissatisfaction" today at 7 p.m. in. the Student Center Lounge. 
Rescheduled due to rain, Cirque du Lae, hosted by Lyons Hall. will take place Friday from 1 to 4 p.m. on South Quad. The carnival will benefit Hannah & Friends. 
The Student Stand-Ups are hosting The Student Stand­Up Comedy tonight at 9 p.m. in the Black Lab Theatre on the third floor of' Washington Hall. Admission is free but limited to the first 100 peo­ple. 
The Student Activities Office will host "End Zone: The best of' Chicago" Saturday at 10 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom which will include free Chicago Deep Dish Pizza, Chicago Dogs and Italian beef. The event will also feature Chicago trivia. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
e 


HIGH 73 HIGH 70 LOW 55 LOW 48 
OFFBEAT 
Man cited for buying beer for young sons 
FOND DU LAC, Wis. ­A father who bought a beer for his 4-year-old son at the Fond du Lac County Fair and shared it with the boy's 2-year-old sibling was citnd after becoming belligerent when he was approached by police. 
A woman working at a beer tent last July told an officer she thought the man was joking when he asked for two beers ­one for him and another for his 4-year-old son. 
When he was ques­tioned by an officer, he 
TODAY a: 

told  him  it's  legal  for  said she's fighting the  
underage  children  to  revocation  by  the  
drink in Wisconsin,  as  Lebanon County sheriff.  
long as they're with their  1-Iain lost the permit and  
parents. The officer coun­ got a  warning from local  
tered  that  the  boys  soccer  officials after  a  
weren't old enough  to  game on Sept. 11.  
know  what  they  were  Sheriff' Michael DeLeo  
drinking.  says openly carrying a  
Soccer mom loses gun permit LEBANON, Pa.  weapon to a youth soccer match shows a lack of judgment. Hain tells the Lebanon  
Officials in Pennsylvania have revoked a woman's concealed-weapons per­mit because other parents complained that she was  ·  Daily News she's always openly carried a firearm without any problems in the past.  
carrying her loaded hand­gun at her daughter's soc­ Information compiled from the Associated  
eer games. Meleanie Hain  Press.  

TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY 
LLI 
:::1: 
.. ··.· ;\JV{/
'\:7\."'-,j/'
~ 
LLI 
~~ 'l::t:: 
~\, .. "~
3: 
'~)},·'~~·
..... 

: \ \. 

e
< 
(,) 

..... 0 HIGH 82 HIGH 67 HIGH 85 HIGH 80 
LOW 68 LOW 58 LOW 60 LOW 60 
Atlanta 82 164 Boston 62 I 50 Chicago 82 I 59 Denver 78 I 46 Houston 88 I 70 Los Angeles 82 I 62 Minneapolis 81 I 68 New York 70 I 54 Philadelphia 73 I 57 Phoenix 101 I 81 Seattle 61 I 45 St. Louis 86 I 59 Tampa 90 I 73 Washington 78 I 65 
Thursday, September 25, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Saint Mary's explores gender violence issue 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College will examine the issue of gender violence through a symposium next Wednesday and Thursday, Women's Issues commissioner Becky Faunce said Wednesday at the Board of Governance (BOG) meeting. 
Several organizations and departments on campus will come together to present a movie Wednesday at 5 p.m. on gender violence in the Vander Vennet Theatre. The following day, a panel session will be held from 5 p.m. to 7, Faunce said. 
Professor Luzrnila Carnacho­Platero, an assistant professor of Spani'ih at Saint Mary's, organized the speakers for the panel, which includes two Saint Mary's profes­sors, a professor from Ohio State University and a speaker from the YWCA. 
"They will be talking about all diflerent forms of violence against women," Faunce said. 
Saint Mary's is continuing its Theology on Fire lecture series from last year, Missions commis­sioner Sarah King said. 
The lecture, "What Does it Mean to 'Vote Catholic?'" will take place next Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Student Center Lounge. Political science professor Amy Cavender will speak. 
"Please come show your support, especially considering the school's value of justice this year," King said. Saint Mary's wants its stu­dents to be informed by the time the Election Day arrives in November, King said. Saint Mary's Campus Ministry is sponsoring the lecture series. 
Sodexho, Saint Mary's food serv­ices, is trying to bring a little piece of horne to the dining hall. Food services will be accepting students' family recipes and choosing one a month, Student Services commis­sioner Catherine Meadors said: Detailed plans for the event are preliminary, but students will receive a chefs coat from Sodexho iftheir recipe is chosen. 
Spes Unica, the new academic building on campus, will begin serving lunch from 12:30 p.m. to 2 during the week, Meadors said. It will have a make-your-own deli bar that students can charge as a meal on their plan. 
There will be a Salsa Night next Thursday from 8 p.m. to midnight in the Student Center Lounge, Student Diversity Board president Adriana Rodriguez said. For the first hour there will someone there to help teach people how to salsa correctly. 
Hall Council elections will be held today until 11:59 p.m., Resident Hall Association president Maura Clougherty said. Students can go on PRISM to vote for each resi­dence hall council. 



Philosophy prof talks love 
O'Connor dissects human love in 'Ancient Wisdom, Modern Love' 
Associated Press 
The English novelist and theologian Charles Williams offered what he called a "maxim" for any love affair: "Play and pray; but on the whole do not pray when you are playing and do not play when you are praying. We cannot yet manage such sirn ultaneities." 
It's difficult not to share this exasperation when trying to think seriously and carefully about something as disorderly and turbulent as whatever it is that goes on between lovers. 
So David O'Connor, associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, certainly has his work cut out for him. Three afternoons a week, in a fluo­rescent-lit Nieuwland Hall classroom, he stands before some 200 students enrolled in Philosophy 20214-01, leads a prayer invoking the enlighten­ment of the Holy Spirit, and begins to speak about passion­ate romance, erotic love, and simple friendship. 
O'Connor has been teaching the increasingly popular course, "Ancient Wisdom and Modern Love," for a dozen years now. Because his con­sideration of human love attempts to meld philosophical analysis and literary imagina­tion, his lectures require no less preparation from his stu­dents than from himself. The course reading list, for instance, includes Shelley's translation of Plato's "Symposium" (which O'Connor has edited); Shakespeare's "A Midsummer Night's Dream" and "Othello"; the papal encyclical "Humanae Vitae"; selections from Horner, Sappho and William Butler Yeats; and short stories by Andre Dubus. A half-dozen films are assigned as well. 
During the fall of 2006 "Ancient Wisdom and Modern Love" was videotaped for inclusion in the online Open Courseware Initiative, in which Notre Dame is a part­ner, and now it has begun to attract attention far beyond the Notre Dame campus. In, of all places, the September edition of "0: The Oprah Magazine," O'Connor received notice a movie star might envy for the novelty and depth of his lectures. "David O'Connor rethinks common assumptions about love, sex, and mar­riage," the Oprah reviewer wrote, "and convinces his stu­dents that philosophy can make us better, more discern­ing lovers-that we can fall madl.r in love without going mad. 
In an introductory lecture sandwiched between a view­ing of Atom Egoyan's film "Exotica" and an embarkation into Plato's "Symposium," O'Connor reads from Homer's hymn to the god Dionysus and Sappho's hymn to Aphrodite to provide a sample of the atmosphere of that ancient drinking party. 
"You'll need to appreciate this atmosphere, because Plato .doesn't shout," he warns his students. "Read the 'Symposium' as if your life depended upon it...which it might. Read Plato as you would read a love letter, as you would listen to the voice of a lover, listening even more for what's not there than for what is there." 
A concurrent associate pro­fessor of classics, O'Connor is at pains to share the nuances often lost in translation of poetry and song from ancient Greek to modern English. 
"It can be frustrating," he says. "You lose so much in the explanation, much as when you have to explain a joke. Once you explain it, it isn't funny anymore." 
That frustration moves him to blurt a daunting recom­mendation: "I really wish you'd all just learn Greek," he tells his startled undergradu­ate listeners. "You'd all be much happier people, and it doesn't cost any more to learn Greek than not to learn it." 
Whether or not O'Connor is able to persuade his students to imitate his own mastery of a difficult ancient language, he is undoubtedly exhorting them to an equally challeng­ing ambition. 


•IOU 
Speaker: Joanne Forster Institute of International Education 

September 25 
2:00 -3:00 pm Room 1DO McKenna Hall 
External deadline for submission of Fulbright applications is October 20, 2008 




ULBRIGH 
~~ ~~ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 25, 2008 

NDSP 
continued from page 1 
"Keep your stuff in your car out of sight," llechlinski said. "Put your self in the shoes of the bad guy. Walk around the car, look in the windows and see if there is anything that would entice you to break in." 
llechlinski said that he has seen cases where people broke into cars for items such as cell phone chargers, half-empty packs of ciga­rettes and spare change in cup holders and bags. 
Both llechlinski and Shibata advised students to keep track of the model and brand number listed on their property. 
Hechlinski advised students not to leave boxes for new TVs, stereo equipment, com­puters or other expensive items in front of their garbage cans outside. These boxes should be broken down and put into garbage cans or bags. 
"All [criminals] have to do is drive down the street, and they know exactly what you've got in [your resi­dence]," Hechlinski 

"If you can keep your 
said. Shibata told "If you can property out ofsight ... students they keep your never deserve
you're a lot less 
property out of to have
likely to be
sight ... you're crimes com­a lot less likely victimized." mitted to be victim-against them, ized," Shibata but that she
Kerl Kel Shibata
said. a n d

NDSP Crime 
Students Hechlinski should use were there to

Prevention officer 
Mace someone else," Shibata said. 
Hechlinski said this hap­pens because wind carries the Mace, and a lot of times it comes back to the person using the Mace for defense. 
Hechlinski said that stu­dents should not give money to people who come to their doors. 
"If you give them money, they're going to come back and tell their buddies about it," he said. Instead, Hechlinski said that students can call SBPD to help with people who come to their doors. 
If students have parties, it is safe to always know the people in attendance. 
"If you're having a party at your house, make sure you know everybody who is there," Shibata said. "Some people come with the sole purpose of blending in and looking at what you have." 
In order to reduce the risk of crimes against property while students are away on breaks, students can call and tell SBPD that they will be gone and SBPD can check on the residence, Shibata said. She also said that NDSP can 
store some 
valuables for 
students dur­
ing breaks. 
their alarm systems and be sure to always keep doors locked, even if people are home inside the house, llechlinski said. 
Shibata suggested that stu­dents find a creative way to make sure residents never leave doors unlocked. 
"Maybe whoever leaves the door unlocked has to buy pizza," Shibata said. 
Shibata advised students who bike to and from campus to never stop for anyone. 
"If somebody asks for help, ride on by and call us," she said. "People will use that as a ploy to take advantage of you." 
Having a dog is another effective crime prevention tool, Shibata said. 
Students should get to know their neighbors, when it is safe to do so, if possible. 
"Once you have relation­ships with neighbors, they are more likely to call if they see something when you're gone," Shibata said. 
When walking off-campus, it is important to stay alert. 
"Make eye contact with people. Let them know you see them," Shibata said. 
NDSP's Hape Aggression Defense classes offer "practi­cal" and "easy" methods of defense against an attacker, Shibata said. 
Shibata eneouraged stu­dents to use the buddy sys­tem and to always make sure somebody knows where they are and when they are expected to return home. 
"Look out for each other. Look out for your friends, your neighbors," Shibata said. 

If students choose to carry Mace, Shibata said, they should be aware of how to operate it. 
"Hemember that you will Mace yourself whenever you offer tips for 
preventing 
incidents. 
"We're never blaming the victim ... as we talk about things you can do. You never deserve to be victimized," Shibata said. 
llechlinski listed crime sta­tistics from South Bend dur­ing the meeting. 
"Crimes against persons are down. Crimes against property are up," said Ilechlinski, citing erime sta­tistics comparing the same fall time frame in 2007 and 2008. 
If students have ongoing problems in their neighbor­hoods, Hechlinski said to contact the SBPD shift com­mander who works during the time that incidents typi­cally occur. 
Hechlinski emphasized the importance of students reporting crimes in order to keep SBDP informed about problems in the community. lie said that if an incident is not reported, than police do not know about the problem. 
"A lot of people, things happen to them, they don't report it," he said. "If you're not reporting it, we don't know what is going on." 

Both Shibata and llechlinski encouraged stu­dents to program the SBPD's number into their cell phones in order to directly reach SBPD in the case of emergen­cies or to report suspicious behavior. The number is 574­235-9361. 
Shibata invited students to contact NDSP with any ideas or to discuss any topics that interest or concern students. 
"Let us know, we want to work with you. We want to help you. That's why we're here," Shibata said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
for conducting the election, and there was no need to put


Senate 
the ballot online. "I think that those loca­
continued from page 1 
tions are definitely enough president Grant Schmidt because the point is to get said. "It's a mock election, people to consciously go out not simply a poll." and vote," Mulhern said. 
Schmidt said the mock Senate Community election's ballot would ask Helations committee chair students their elass, gender, Gus Gari disagreed, arguing 
candidate, most impor­tant issue 
"If we want to do this 
and how 
like a real election, we
close they followed might as well get 
the media's hanging chads and 
election 
butterfly ballots. " 
coverage. Senators also briefly Gus Gari debated 
Senate Community 
adding resi­


Relations committee chair 
dence hall to the ques­tionnaire, 
turnout would be pitifully low if students were forced not only to go out of their way, but also forced to wait in line in order to cast a vote that would have no impact on the actual election. 
"If we want to do this like a real election, we might as well 
but the idea received little get hanging chads and but­support. terfly ballots," he said. Senate University Affairs Gari also committee chair Ashlee pointed out 
define formalities" in light of the senators' opinions. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Social Concerns commit­tee chair Michelle Byrne and junior Kelsey Seribner, who is also involved with the committee, pitched the idea of using Domer Dollars to make charitable donations, Although no official vote was taken. the majority of sena­tors supported the idea in an informal poll. 
"No one carries money with them on campus, and that's the bottom line" Scribner said. "You can make the decision yourself with how to use Domer Dollars." 
Byrne said the some of the negative aspects were the possibility people would feel too pressured to give and parents would be upset with their children donating their money, which Cavanaugh 
Hall senator Hobin Link dis­

Wright said access to voting that "18-to-missed.
"This is your country. 
forms would be made avail­25-year-olds "I have a
You shouldn't be 
able at four booths stationed are the low­hard time in the LaFortune Student est demo­lethargic or lazy and believing that Center, DeBartolo Hall and graphic that parents of
just want to sit in your
North and South Dining show up in Notre Dame
dorm or your
Halls. Sehmidt said he elections," students would thought students could and doubted off-campus house. " be upset that access the voting Web site, off-campus their money which is similar to the one students, could be used

Robin Brown
used for the student body who compose to donate to

Lewis Hall senator
president election, on 18 percent of insideND as well. This way, t h e students would be able to see University's the current results of the population, would bother election. traveling to campus to vote. 
Many senators and com­Lewis Hall senator Hobin mittee chairs, however, felt Brown strongly disagree-d, having the election online arguing students have a defeated the patriotic duty to purpose of make their voic­the exercise, "We want our es heard, even which they in a mock elec­
students to
said was to tion. give students participate in the "This is your the feeling great American country. You they were shouldn't be
tradition ofgoing to
actually vot­lethargic or lazy 
ing. the polls to vote. " and just want to "We want sit in your dorm our students Ian Secivar or your off-cam­to partici­pus house," she


Senate oversight 
pate in the said.

committee chair 
g r e a t In an informal American poll, an over­tradition of whelming going to the polls to vote," majority of senators and Senate Oversight Committee committee chairs said they chair Ian Secviar said. would rather not have the 
Howard senator Stephanie ballots online. Schmidt said Mulhern said the four polling he and the University Affairs locations would be sufficient committee would "need to 
individual struggles or accom­plishments, Gasior said. 



Health 
Motivated by her mom's loss continued from page 1 of 35 pounds on Weight 
Watchers, Gasior joined last plans. First, the "Flex Plan" summer and did not want to allows participants to eat stop attending the weekly anything, so long as the meetings "because the sup­"Points Values" for each food port from the group is really are tracked. Each person has important and it makes a a specified number of noticeable difference," she "points" they should stay said. under for a given day. The "Even though there are sev­"Core Plan" eral meetings requires no in the area,
"It's a great model for 

tracking of bringing the "points" healthy living as program to b e c a u s e campus is the
opposed to 'dieting' all 

members eat most conven­
the time." 

foods speci­ient way to fied on a list keep up with it provided by Karen Johnson and to share Weight this great pro­
SMC vice president 

Watchers. gram with stu­

of student affairs 

The plan also dents and takes into other members account daily activity and of the Saint Mary's communi­exercise. ty," Gasior said. 
Another crucial aspect of Saint Mary's senior Emily Weight Watchers is the week­Croft joined·the new program ly meeting. Meetings consist "not only to lose weight, but of confidential weigh-ins, and to learn healthy lifestyle and time for participants to dis­eating routines that work for cuss the program, as well as my body," she said. 
charities," she said. 
+ Schmidt announced that student ·government was organizing block parties to help students living off cam­pus meet their South Bend neighbors to ease tensions about recent arrests and help establish some sense of community. The first of these took place last Friday outside the Hobinson Center. 
"We're going to have block parties around South Bend in the areas where students are living," Schmidt said. "It's just a good way to bridge the gap." 
Gari, who attended the Hobinson block party, said he was in the process of meet­ing with both Notre Dame Security Police and the South Bend Police Department in order to discuss student safety. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

Croft said she is unsure about how she will handle the plethora of options in the din­ing hall, but Gasior assured her that success is possible. 
"It is so easy for me to grab a cookie to munch on while I am browsing the stations to find what I would like to eat," Croft said. "But one of the great things about Weight Watchers is that there is no food that is completely off limits. Weight Watchers is concerned with portion con­trol and not self-denial, which just sets a person up for fail­ure." 
Saint Mary's Vice President of Student Affairs Karen Johnson also joined the pro­gram on campus. 
"It's a great model for healthy living as opposed to 'dieting' all the time," she said. 
Notre Dame also has two "At Work" Weight Watchers programs, sponsored by the Office of Human Resources on campus. 
Contact Kelly Davis at kdavis 14@nd.edu 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 25, 2008 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Ten killed in Fmnish school shooting 
KAUHAJOKI, Finland -Police released details Wednesday about the victims of a school massacre in western Finland, saying eight women and two men were killed by the 22-year­old gunman. 
They also confirmed the shooter was Matti Saari, a student at the school who was ques­tioned by police a day before Tuesday's rampage about YouTube clips showing him firing a hand­gun. Saari was released Monday because police said they found no reason to keep him in cus­tody. 
The National Bureau of Investigation said all the women were students, while one of the men was a teacher and the other a student. The bureau said Saari also wounded an additional female student before shooting himself in the head. 
Georgian schools cancel classes 
TBILISI, Georgia -Before Georgia's war with Russia, the parents of Salome Lomadze, a lively 3-year-old with curly dark hair, were planning to walk her up the street to school every morning, starting this month. 
But Salome is one of 50,000 Georgian children, government officials say, who won't be attending classes this fall because their schools -mostly kindergartens ­now shelter tens of thousands of people who !led the fighting. 
Abroad, Russia's crushing defeat of Georgia's military in August severely dam­aged relations between Moscow and the West. In Georgia, a struggling Caucasus Mountains nation of 4.4 million, it has cre­ated a slow-motion humanitarian crisis, with repercussions far beyond the former battlegrounds. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Obama wants to keep plmmed debate 
NEW YORK -The economic crisis and raw politics threatened to derail the first presidential debate as John McCain challenged Barack Obama to delay the Friday forum and join forces to help Washington fix the financial mess. Obama rebuffed his GOP rival, saying the next president needs to "deal with more than one thing at once." 
The White House rivals maneuvered to claim th,e leadership role in resolving the economic turmoil that has overshadowed their campaign six weeks before Election Day. Obama said he would proceed with his debate preparations while consulting with bailout negotiators and Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson. McCain said he would stop all advertising, fundraising and other campaign events to return to Washington and work for a bipartisan solution. 

Stroke sufferers benefit from medicine 
LOS ANGELES -Stroke sufferers can still benefit from clot-busting medicine even if they receive it an hour or so beyond the current three-hour window after symp­toms start, an important new study sug­gests. 
The finding could potentially extend treatment to thousands more people each year and prevent many from being left dis­abled. However, it does not change long­standing advice that stroke victims seek immediate help if they feel sudden numb­ness or weakness in the face, arm or leg. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Sex offenders cannot enter town parks 
INDIANAPOUS -A convicted sex offender has lost again in his bid to overturn a town ordinance that bans him from Plainfield's parks. 
The Indiana Court of Appeals on Wednesday upheld the 2002 ordinance banning people on the state's sex and violent offender registry from the town's parks. The American Ovil Liberties Union of Indiana filed a lawsuit in 2005 challenging the ordi­nance on behalf of a man known in court docu­ments as John Doe. The ACLU argued Doe has com­pleted his punishment including probation and that banning him from the park effectively adds more punishment and violates the state constitution. 


Bush: Fast action to save markets 
President invites McCain, Obama, congressional leaders to White House meeting 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON -President  
Bush on Wednesday warned  
Americans and lawmakers  
reluctant to pass a $700 billion  
fmancial rescue plan that fail­ 
ing to act fast risks wiping out  
retirement savings, rising fore­ 
. clQ~ures, lost jobs, closed busi­ 
neWses and even "a long and  
painful recession."  
His dire warning came not  
long after the president issued  
extraordinary invitations to  
presidential candidates Barack  
Obama and John McCain, one  
of whom will inherit the mess in  
four months, as well as key  
congressional leaders to a  
White House meeting on  
Thursday to work on a compro­ 
mise.  
"Without immediate action by  
Congress, American could slip  
into a financial panic and a dis­ 
tressing scenario would  
unfold," Bush said in a 12­ 
minute prime-time address  
from the White House East  
Room that he hoped would help  
rescue his tough-sell bailout  
package.  
Bush explicitly endorsed sev­ 
eral of the changes that have  
been demanded in recent days  
from the right and left. But he  
warned that he would draw the  
line at regulations he deter­ 
mined would hamper economic AP  
growth. President Bush stands in White House after delivering a prime-time speech on the  
"It should be enacted as soon ailing financial markets.  
as possible," the president said.  
The bailout, which the Bush  from Democrats by promising  to Republican McCain and to  eration for the sake of the  
administration asked Congress  that CEOs of failed companies  GOP and Democratic leaders  American people," it said. "The  
last weekend to approve before  won't be rewarded.  from Capitol Hill.  plan that has been submitted to  
it adjourns, is meeting with  "With the situation becoming  Obama spokesman Bill  Congress by the Bush adminis­ 
deep skepticism, especially  more precarious by the day, I  Burton said the senator would  tration is flawed, but the effort  
from conservatives in Bush's  faced a choice: to step in with  attend and "will continue to  to protect the American econo­ 
own party who are revolting at  dramatic government action or  work in a bipartisan spirit and  my must not fail."  
the high price tag and unprece­ to stand back and allow the  do whatever is necessary to  The two candidates ­bitter­ 
dented private-sector interven­ irresponsible actions by some to  come up with a final solution."  ly fighting each other for the  
tion. Though there is general  undermine the financial securi­ Senior McCain advisers said  White House but coming  
agreement that something must  ty of all," Bush said.  McCain will attend, too. The  together over this issue ­said  
be done to address the spiraling  Intensive, personal wheeling  plans of the other invitees were  the situation offers a chance for  
economic problems, the timing  and dealing is not usually  unknown, and the exact details  politicians to prove  
and even the size of the pack­ Bush's style as president, unlike  of the meeting, which Perino  Washington's worth.  
age remained in doubt and the  some predecessors. He does not  said was aimed at making fast  "This is a time to rise above  
administration has been forced  often call or meet with individ­ progress to stem the biggest  politics for the good of the  
to accept changes almost daily.  ual lawmakers to push a leg­ financial meltdown in decades,  country. We cannot risk an eco­ 
Seeking to explain himself to  islative priority.  were still being set.  nomic catastrophe," they said.  
conservatives, Bush stressed he  But with the nation facing the  In another move welcome at  However, the Oval Office  
was reluctant to put taxpayer  biggest fmancial meltdown in  the White House, Obama and  rivals were not putting politics  
money on the line to help busi­ decades, Bush took the unusual  McCain issued a joint statement  aside entirely. McCain asked  
nesses that had made bad deci­ step of calling Democrat Obama  urging lawmakers -in dire  Obama to agree to delay their  
sions and that the rescue is not  personally about the meeting,  terms ­to act.  first debate, scheduled for  
aimed at saving individual com­ said presidential spokeswoman  "Now is a time to come  Friday, to deal with the melt­ 
panies. He tried to address  Dana Perino. White House  together Democrats and  down. Obama said the debate  
some of the major complaints  aides extended the invitations  Republicans in a spirit of coop- should go ahead.  

CHINA 

Countries ban, recall dairy products 
Chinese baby formula tainted with the ment described the measure as a pre­
Associated Press 
chemical has been blamed for the deaths caution. 
BEIJING -An industrial chemical that of four infants and the illnesses of Indonesia on Wednesday also distrib­made its way into China's dairy supplies 53,000 others in China. Health experts uted a list of 28 products that it said may and that authorities blame in the death say ingesting a small amount of the contain tainted Chinese milk, including of four babies has turned up in numer­chemical poses no danger, but melamine Oreo cookies, Snickers bars and M&M ous Chinese-made exports abroad -can cause kidney stones and lead to kid­chocolate candies. from candies to yogurt to rice balls. ney failure. Infants are particularly vul­U.S. and European consumer safety 
British supermarket chain Tesco nerable. officials urged Beijing to better enforce removed Chinese-made White Rabbit More than a dozen countries have product safety standards. Creamy Candies off its shelves as a pre­banned or recalled Chinese dairy prod­Tesco said that it had withdrawn caution amid reports that samples of the ucts -the latest was France which does White Rabbit Creamy Candies off its milk candy in Singapore and New not import Chinese dairy products but shelves as a precaution. The candies had Zealand had tested positive for has halted imports of Chinese biscuits, been sold in a small number of Tes.co's melamine -an industrial chemical used candy or other foods that could contain British stores as part of the supermar­to make plastics and fertilizer. Chinese dairy derivatives. The govern-ket's ethnic range. 

r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 6 

Energy 
continued from page 1 
metric tons of carbon dioxide 
equivalent. 
The University's construe­
lion projects have increased 
energy consumption, 
Mazurek said, but Notre 
Dame typically uses more 
energy than what's consid­
ered average. 
"We are generally eonsid­
ered to be higher users of 
energy per square foot than 
our peers," he said. 
Direetor of' Utilities Paul 
Kempf agreed. 
"Based on previous bench­
marking efforts of peer insti­
tutions, we have found that 
our energy usage is slightly 
above ..avera~e for our peer 
group, he said. 
For example, the University 
consumes nearly 153,000­
megawatt hours in one year, 
enough electricity to power 
15,000 residnntial homes, 
according to data from the 
Utilities Department. 
The University has been 
collecting data from all areas 
on campus. For example, 
Notre Dame consumed nearly 
900 million gallons of water 
in the most reeent 11seal yflar, 
according to the same data. 
Facilities Opflrations data 
shows that <JVflr thfl past six 
months the University eom­
munity threw away nearly 
2,200 tons of non-reeyclable 
waste, which primarily went 
to land1111s. 
Faeilities Opflrations reports using 89.1 million feet of toilet paper per year, OlT reports that there are 25,702 technological devices (ranging from computers to handheld devicfls) eonneeted to the Notre Dame network, and Food Services reports handling 287.5 tons of food waste from meal trays in one year. 
Notre Dame's Office of Sustainability is using these numbers to focus its efforts. 
Mazurek said his office has idt~ntified seven "core areas" to work on sustainability issuos: energy, waste redue­tion, design and construction, procurement, transportation, food services and water. 
The Off'iee of Sustainability will continue to compile base­line data like the carbon foot­print that will help to quanti­fy the University's onviron­mnntal impact. That data will help give a better sense of "whore the University stands," Mazunlk said. 
Energy generation and use 
While highor than usual nnergy consumption is cause for eonenrn, Kempf said Notre Dame's methods of on­earn pus nnergy gennration arn relalivPiy efficient and environnwntally friendly. 
In rise a I ynar 2007-08, the University power plant gener­ated approximately 52 per­ennt of thn ehlctrieity used on campus using a process called eo-generation, Kempf said. 
"This proeess begins with lhn pmd uelion of steam that is thnn used to drive ... g<m­nrators to produce electriei­ty," hn said. The exhaust slnam is used to heat campus in winter or produce chilled water in summer. Coal, oil and natural gas fuel the gen­eration proenss. 
This proeess has a cycle nf'l'i eie n ey of nearly 60 per­cent, Kempf said, whnrnas typical generation mnthods havn cycle efTiciencies of appmximatnly 30 percent. 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 25, 2008 
"This increased effieieney 
not only is of eeonomic bene­
Ill, but also provides an envi­
ronmental benefit as it 
requires less fuel" which 
leads to decreased emissions, 
he said. 

The remaining portion of 
electricity used on eampus is 
purehased from the loeal 
electric company, Kempf said. 
Water usage 
Of the 900 million gallons of 
water Notre Dame used in the 
most recent fiseal year, near­
ly 400 million gallons end up 
as sewage, Kempf said. The 
rest, he said, goes primarily 
to sprinkler heads on quads 
aeross campus. 
"In general, the balance, or 500 million gallons of water, Iis I principally attributable to irrigation," Kempf said. Irrigation systems eonsume the largest portion of total water eonsumption, and this portion continues to grow as irrigation "has inereased as the developed areas of eam­pus have also grown." 
"We would estimate that ... irrigation consumption is roughly two million gallons per day, during the half year irrigation oeeurs," Kempf said. 
While irrigation has increased over time, water consumption that ends in sewage has remained rela­tively stable, with only slight decreases. 
"Water eonservation teeh­niques for toilets, sinks and showers have provided some improvement," Kempf said. 
Waste and recycling 
Between January and June, the University disposed of nearly 3,000 tons of waste, according to Faeilities Operations data. That's near­ly 16 tons of waste per day, of which an average of about 75 percent, or almost 12 tons per day, goes to landfills. 
But nearly 25 pereent of that waste was reeyeled, and Pat O'llara, Facilities Operations Central Heceiving manager, said that percent­age will probably increase in the coming months. 
"We pick up reeyeling throughout campus on a daily basis, and it's just grown by leaps and bound's since stu­dents have returned I this semester!," O'Hara said. 
Just this week, O'Hara said, a seeond eompacter that was previously used for non-recy­dable waste was converted to handle reeyclables. He said he expeets other compacters to follow suit as reeycling continues to grow. 
Starting with a student-led initiative in the 1990s, recy­cling proeesses on eampus now use single-stream recy­eling, meaning that reey­dables need not be separat­ed. 
O'Hara said the University made the switch to single­stream after Waste Management,, the contractor that handles waste disposal, was able to accommodate the 
single stream process. 
After personally visiting the reeyeling eenter outside Chicago, O'Hara said he was impressed with the machines used to separate reeyelables. He said this assured him that reeycled goods were properly sorted and recyeled and the majority of waste should and could be reeyded. 
"The bottom line is, if you're in doubt, recycle it," O'Hara said. 
Assessing the total impact, setting strategic targets 
In addition to the data col­leeted on waste, water and energy, the Offiee of Sustainability is gathering 

and processing data from the other core areas of procure­ment, design and construe­tion, transportation, and food services. 
After compiling a erodible set of baseline data, Mazurek said, the Ol'fice of Sustainability will develop a set of quantifiable perform­anee targets to work towards. 
Mazurek said he is commit­ted to "getting people on board" with the sustainability goals he sets. He said there's no turning baek now. 
"Not being sustainabln is not an option," Mazurek said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
NEW BUSINESS ELECTIVE COURSES: 
fAll2008-SPACE AVAILABlE-REGISTER NOW in Room 101 MCOB­
COURSES BEGIN 9/29 and 11/7 Courses are LO credit, five weeks long, SIGN UP THIS WEEK: BAET 30300: Giving Voice to Values (Jessica McManus Warnell)-Course meeting date\\: 9/29-11/5 Take a course with nationally-recognized (Financial Times, others), cutting-edge curriculum..,.•. The Giving Voice to Values (GVV) course allows students the opportunity to develop a "toolkit" of specific steps toward ethical decision making and personal response to ethical challenges. Building on the BAET 20300 course, the GW elective explores the "post decision-making" stage. Thus, after one determines the right course of action, how does he/she act on it within a given context? The course will explore case studies and "scripts"-through individual and role-playing exercises, students will practice ethical decision making. Students will design their own scenarios and plans to teach ethical action. The course also includes the study of individuals who've contributed to society-what were their specific choices and actions? What were their paths to leadership? Includes a focus on relevant applications-entry level positions after graduation, job and other experiences students have already encountered or will soon encounter, and other practical contexts. Cases developed by the students may be included in a "Notre Dame Collection" of published Giving Voice to Values cases, part of an initiative of several top business schools incorporating this cutting-edge curriculum. Adapted in consultation with Mary Gentile (The Aspen Institute; formerly of Harvard Business School). 
BAET 30500: Globalization & Corporate Responsibilities of Large & Small Companies (Georges Enderle)­
Exciting new course with real-world application -Course dates: 11/7-1'1/11 This elective course builds on the course "Introduction to Business Ethics" and focuses on the ethical responsibilities of large and small companies in the global context. Because globalization is mainly driven by powerful multinational corporations, we conduct several case studies of MNCs and investigate their roles and 
responsibilities. We also pay attention to the challenges posed by globalization to small enterprises (for instance, Grameen Bank) that make up the vast majority of companies and ask about their responsibilities. For a deeper understanding of corporate responsibility, we develop a consistent framework that ranges from the high level of 
principles down to the operational level. Specifically, we discuss the United Nations Global Compact with its ten principles and the Global Reporting Initiative with its metric of economic, social, and environmental performances. 
Finally, we explore ethical responsibility from an investor's perspective with the help of the UNEP Principles for 
Responsible Investment that consider environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) issues. The course will use chapter 10 and 12 of the DesJardins's book "An Introduction to Business Ethics" (third edition, 2008) and a course packet posted on the I drive. 
Live, learn, and work in the nation's capital during the fall or spring semester with the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


,,

":: ·~ . 1 ;:;'· " 
u.< • ,, ' """··w " ,. ' ,... •··





GRAM
INFORMATION 


SESSION 
Monday, September 29, 2008 125 Hayes-Healy, 5:00 p.m. 
With special guest Dan LeDuc, 
Deputy Editot.:, U7aJ·hington Po.rt and Washington Pt.:ogt.:anl 1-'aculty 
Deadline to apply for Fall2009 or Spring 2010 is November 15, 2008. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251, www.nd.edu /-wp 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, September 25, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  10,825.17  -29.00  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,378  72  2,045  585,836,271  
AMEX  11885.~5  

NASDAQ 2,155.68 +2.35 NYSE 7,768J)2 -16:45 S&P 500 1,185.87 -2.35 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,115.03 0;()() FTSE 100 'London~ s o95.57 -40.55
1 COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.32 +0.38 118.93 AMER INTL GROUP INC (AIG) -33.80 -1.69 3.31 FANNIE MAE (FNM) +32.82 +0.43 1.74 WASHINGTON MUTUAL (WM) -29.38 -0.94 2.26 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.820 -0.070 3.771 13-WEEK BILL -45.000 -0.360 0.440 30-YEAR BOND -1.266 -0.056 4.378 5-YEAR NOTE -0.134 -0.134 2.889 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.88 105.73 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +3.80 895.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +3.00 98.00 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 106.1050 EURO 0.6840 
IN BRIEF 

Spending bill includes budget, aid 
WASHINGTON -The House passed a $630 billion-plus spending bill Wednesday that wraps together a record Pentagon budget with aid for automakers and natu­ral disaster victims, and increased health care funding for veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
The year-end budget measure also would lift a quarter-century ban on oil drilling off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. The legislation, which senators are expected to approve and send to President Bush for his signature, is flying under the political radar compared with the White House's contentious plan to bail out Wall Street. 
The spending bill, which passed 370-58, is fueled by a need to keep the govern­ment running past the Oct. 1 start of the new budget year. Passage also was greased by 2,322 pet projects totaling $6.6 billion. 
House vote increases AMf exemption 
WASHINGTON -The House took steps Wednesday to rein in the alternative mini­mum tax, carrying out what has become an annual ritual to protect millions of people from getting squeezed by the unwanted tax.The House voted 393-30 to increase the AMT exemption in 2008, saving more than 20 million taxpayers from getting hit with a tax increase averaging about $2,000. 
The House separately approved, 419-4, some $8 billion worth of tax relief for disas­ter victims. 
The votes came a day after the Senate similarly adjusted the AMT as part of a major tax package that included disaster relief, extension of business and individual tax breaks that have expired or will soon expire, and tax incentives for renewable energy investment. 
The House is preparing a third bill to address the energy and tax break extension issues. Both the disaster and energy bills differ from the Senate measure, and it will be a challenge for lawmakers to come up with a compromise in the last few days of this session of Congress. 


Goldman starts capital-raising program 
Plan includes investment from Warren Buffett, common stock offering 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Goldman 
Sachs Group Inc., seeking to 
improve not only its balance 
sheet but its standing with 
investors, has undertaken a 
huge capital-raising program 
that includes an investment 
of at least $5 billion from 
Warren Buffett and a com­
mon stock offering for anoth­
er $5 billion. 
Just a week earlier, 
Goldman looked to be on 
precarious ground as its 
stock price plunged in 
response to fears that it 
could not survive as an inde­
pendent investment bank. 
But the company contended 
Wednesday that the current 
crisis in the financial mar­
kets, which sent Lehman 
Brothers Holdings Inc. into 
bankruptcy court and Merrill 
Lynch & Co. into a sale to 
Bank of America Corp., was­
n't the catalyst for the deals. 
"Although we felt we were 
under no pressure to raise 
capital, we've always said if 
an opportunity arose, we 
would look at it," Goldman 
spokesman Lucas van Praag 
said. Raising capital "gives 
us greater firepower and 
greater flexibility," he said. 
Goldman said Wednesday 
it was raising $5 billion 
through a common stock 
offering, doubling the 
amount it announced just the 
night before. Goldman priced 

40.65 million common shares at $123 apiece. An additional 6.1 million shares passed on those investment environment, and this move what is now Citigroup Inc. may be sold to cover overal­opportunities. He declined to is what was needed now," The preferred stock pur­lotments, potentially boost­discuss the deal beyond the Deutsche Bank analyst Mike chase by Buffett will pay a ing proceeds by $750.3 mil­comments made on CNBC. Mayo wrote in a research dividend of 10 percent annu­lion. The investment by Buffett note. "The result should be ally and can be repurchased 
Buffett, considered among -which Goldman called an increased confidence." by Goldman at anytime for a the top investors in the anchor for its common stock Buffett's investment will be 10 percent premium. The world, will buy through his offering -will likely provide his second major foray into warrants to buy common Berkshire Hathaway Inc. $5 reassurances to a nervous Wall Street. In the late shares are exercisable by billion in preferred Goldman market, said Brad Hintz, an 1980s, Berkshire Hathaway Buffett at anytime in the next stock and receive an option analyst with Sanford C. invested in Salomon five years at a price of $115 to purchase an additional $5 Bernstein and a former chief Brothers Inc. When the per share. billion in common stock. fmancial officer at Lehman. investment firm admitted Goldman's efforts to raise 
Buffett said during an Wall Street appeared wrongdoing in bidding for capital come just two days interview on CNBC "there's pleased with the moves. U.S. Treasury bonds in 1991, after the company received no better firm on Wall Goldman stock rose $4.95, or Buffett became interim approval to convert to a Street." Buffett acknowl­4 percent, to $130 on the chairman and helped bank holding company, and edged other investment New York Stock Exchange. Salomon reach a settlement less than two weeks after the banks, including Lehman, "If one thing is for sure, with the government before bankruptcy filing of Lehman had approached him in Goldman knows how to stepping down in 1992. set off fresh concerns about recent months, but he reorient itself for a changed Salomon was later sold to the fragile credit markets. 

House votes to end off-shore drillingban 
Associated Press marks a major shift by Democrats on increases efficiency. 
energy policy and a reflection that the Lifting the offshore ban does not 
WASHINGTON -The House, GOP argument for more domestic itself mean drilling in the offshore responding to growing public demand energy production had found a support waters is imminent. But it could set the for more domestic energy, voted among voters this election year, even stage for the Interior Department to Wednesday to end a quarter-century though coastal states long have wor­offer leases in some Atlantic federal ban on oil and natural gas drilling off ried that offshore drilling might cause waters as early as 2011 under its cur­the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, giving spills, soil beaches and threaten their rent five-year offshore drilling plan. Republicans a major victory on energy tourist businesses. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a policy. Republican presidential nominee statement: "Unfortunately, the presi­
An extension of the ban for another John McCain has made expanded off­dent's willingness to veto any sensible year was left off a $630 billion-plus shore drilling a central part of his cam­compromise on offshore drilling, which stopgap government spending bill that paign, arguing that access to an esti­would have threatened to shut down President Bush had threatened to veto mated 18 billion barrels of oil in the the government and send a dangerous -possibly shutting down the govern­off-limits Outer Continental Shelf is signal during these hard economic ment -if the anti-drilling measure essential if the country is to become times and a financial crisis on Wall were included. more energy independent. Street, led to the expiration of the cur­
The bill was approved 370-58 and McCain's Democratic presidential rent moratorium." now goes to the Senate, where it is rival, Barack Obama, also has She made clear the battle over off­likely to be approved within the next endorsed limited expansion of offshore shore drilling was far from over, saying few days, also without the drilling ban. drilling, but only as part of a broader she looked forward to addressing the 
The decision to avoid a fight with the energy package that boosts use of issue "with new leadership in the White House over offshore drilling alternative energy sources and White House." 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 25, 2008 
shn advised students. sion of the forum that Notre Dame, Long also encouraged students which received a D-in a sustainabili­

Foru01 
continued from page I 
"Tho cost of' inaction is what wn 
f'arn cwnryday." lrnnwlt said. 
Tho action that tho panelists 
urgnd will involw all of' society. 
"If' wn'rn going to solve somo­
thing this big. wp'n~ going to have 
to work tognthPr." lrnrm~lt said. 
Whiln solving thP problems of 
tho nnerhry cTisis mquir11s elliJrt. it 
is possihl11. lw said. 
"Sustainability is a solvable 
problmn. Thnn~·s no reason to 
think about this as impossiblo,'' 
lmnwlt said. 
But solving the problems must 
bo aec:omplished by working 
through a systmn. Massadmsetts 
lnstitutn of' Tndmology physics 
prof(~ssor l·:rnnst Moniz said. 
"Wo'll haw to move a very com­
plex system -I don't mean tech­
nologically -I mean politically 
I(Jrward,'' he said. "Wo're sitting 
horn watching ... a train wreck 
instnad of' laking action." 
Colorado Gov. Bill Hitt11r Jr., who 
crnatnd tlw "N11w Energy 
Eeonomy" in Colorado, nndorsns a 
program lw calls tlw "5 E's" to 
bring about Pnorgy reform. 
America nnPds an energy policy 
that can lwlp us achieve enerhry 
security. environmental sncurity. 
economic: security, education and 
nquity, so that "wo don't build our 
mwrhry polic:y on the backs of the 
poor," he said. 
Majora Carter, the f'ounder of Sustainable South Bronx, has devotml her earner to working on tlw impact of tl1e cnerhry policy on the poor. 
"The current !environmental! crisis has been !i1lt in the ghettos of our eitins for decades," she said. "Whatnver economic progress we've experienced has eomn on the back of our nation's poor." 
Building industrial infrastruc­ture that causes pollution in area.<; inhabitnd mostly by thn poor caus­es the poor to be more likely to dnvelop health conditions such a.<> asmtha or mental disabilities. It also leads the poor to bfl more likely to wind up in jail, Carter said. 
But organizations like Sustainablo South Bronx have thn potnntial to get tlw poor involved in dc~aning up their c:ommunities, whirh leads thom to feel morn hopoful about tlwir role in society, Carter said. 
"If' you know that you have nothing to otTer or anything to gain by bning a part of a commu­nity ... violence is going to hap­pnn," she said. 
Once former convicts become grnen collar workers, Carter said thfly "become alive to the world again." 
"They know that they have trav­eled from societal burden to envi­ronmental heroes," she said. 
In her opening remarks, Carter c:onnocted the mission of environ­mental justice to the civil rights movement of the 1960s. What Martin Luthnr King, Jr. "saw lin his dream! wa.<; a !uturn that was grnen for us all, my friends," Carter said. 
Much like the dvil righl<> move­ment of tim 1960s, the nnw move­mc~nt for sustainable nnergy is about challenging America, she said. and challenging America takes efli1c:tive leadership. 
"I think you need l11adership to enundate a national mwq.,ry poli­c:y,'' Hitter said. 
lmnwlt tind the nnnd f(Jr leader­ship to the eurnmt prnsidential c:ampaiJ.,'ll. 
"Wn nnc~d lc~adership," hn said. "Tiw rwxt prc~sident has to say dearly what lw belinves. And thnn• c:an't bn caveats." 

Senior Lourdns Long, president and l(nmding membnr of GrenND. orhoc~d the need li>r leadership in mwrhry issues. "(;o out and votc~." 
to take a leadnrship role at the 
gra.<;s-roob level. 
"Talk to somebody who wasn't 
horn" about the issuns of sustain­
abln cmergy and their impact on 
the futurP, shn said. 
It's time li>r Ameriea to step up 
on tho nnerJ.,ry issue, Carter said. 
"Aren't we tirc~d of building trib­
utes to all of our collective failurns 
and don't we want to build monu­
ments to hope and possibility'!" 
she asked. 
The current absence of an ener­
h'Y policy is an American failure, 
lmmnlt said, and this failure has 
consequences. 
"The worst of all is wn have no 
1merhry policy, no call to arms and 
that people are afraid," he said. 
"People have a lot to be afraid 
about." 
What thn country nneds is lor a 
leader to step up and provide an 
enerhry policy, lmmelt said. "Hight 
now we havn a vacuum and that 
makes people afraid," he said. 
But the energy policy that 
lmmelt suggested would not limit 
development to certain technolo­
gies. 
"Let freedom reign,'' he said. "I 
wouldn't specify. Then the cntre­
pnmeurial capital will do things 
we've never seen before." 
Americans can solve this prob­
lem, Cartnr said. 
"It's not like this is the first time 
America has gone through a cri­
sis, guys," she said. referencing 
World War II. "We nend to call on 
the great resources we have, 
!including thel American people, 
and "expect them to rise to the 
challenge and the occa.<;ion." 
For Americans to take action, 
Ritter said we need to view energy 
use as something that has an 
impact. 
"We need to think about it in 
terms of scarcity," he said. "We 
need to make a case to the people 
of this country that we have some­
thing at stake." 
Ritter said he thinks the 
younger generations need to take 
ownership of the energy problem. 
He said one night he woke up and 
thought, "My children aren't 
thinking about climate change 
right now, they're out clubbing." 
"This is your problem and it's my problem," he said. "You need to understand you're part uf the solution too." 
The enerhry problem is some­thing that transcends individuals' backgrounds. While Cartnr spoke about the issue very emotionally, lmmelt said that the closest he ever came to spending time out­doors was on the golf course. 
Ritter was a prosecutor running for governor when he realized that "the state of Colorado wasn't doing anything we should be," he said. 
"We stood by and watched." 
lie decided to make energy reform a central component of his campaign, and has found that "people were yearning for this to happen," he told The Observer after the forum. 
No matter what perspective the panelists brought to the energy issue, however, they agreed that the issue should be a pP.rsonal one for students. 
"It's your world,'' Moniz said. 
lmmelt said students can bring any perspective to the energy issue and be able to sec that their action is necessary. 
"Think about this in terms of what's in your heart and what's in your hnad," he said. "If you study what's going on, you'll come to a conclusion that this is what's important." 
Notre Dame's Energy Use 
Forum moderator Anne Thompson, the chief environmen­tal all'airs correspondent f(>r NBC News (NBC News is a division of NBC Universal, which is a sub­sidiary of lmmelt's General Elnctriel announced at thn conclu­ty two years ago, received a B-in the sanw study rnleasnd today. The University's students received an A for their involvement in the issue. 
"It's a great acknowledgement of what we've done," Long said about the grade aftf1r the forum. "But we're doing a helluva lot more than that. We don't think we need to use report cards to evaluate our programs." 
Executive Vice President John Nlleck-Graves said the analysis for the grade is flawed. I le said that of the nine amas graded, Notre Dame reeeived poor marks in "shareholder engagement" and "endowment transparency." lie explained he did­n't think these two areas should be included, because, "to me, that's not an environmental issue." Aflleck-Graves praised the students who have taken leadership on ener­gy issues on campus. "They should be an inspiration to everybody," he said. 
-
Aaron Steiner contributed to this report. 
Contact John Tierney at tierney.l6@nd.edu 
MEGHAN HRDLICKA !The Observer Top, Majora Carter, founder of Sustainable South Bronx, speaks at the 2008 academic forum on Sustainabillty Wednesday. Bottom, University President Father John Jenkins attends the forum. 

Thursday, February 25, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

A NOTRE DAME FORUM E L I G H 
AG Mpo-¥1ER
. . . . . " \i ' " . 



J 01 


E C 
v 

I 
N 
Date Time Place Sponsored By Faculty/Student Facilitators  
I Thursday Sept. 25  ••••••••••  ............. ·-··  ... ·-····· ···­ ................_............  
Monday Sept. 29  ••••••••••  .......·--········  ................  ..........................._ ...........  
••••••••••  ······-···............  .....·-··-·····-·­ ............ ····-····· ........  
Tuesday Sept. 30  ••••••••• •  ...... ........" .  ................................  ..............................  
••••••••••  ···-·-·····-·····  ···-········-···­ .............................  
Wednesday Oct. 1  ••••••••••  ···········--·............  ..........................._  ...." ...... ····-···"···....  
••••••••••  ....•.. -··-·····..·····  ...........................  ...." ..." ........................  
Tuesday Oct. 7  ••••••••••  ··---·-.............  ....-········­ .·-····-····-···-··"·-····-·  

. . ... ... ... .. . . . . .. .... .. ..... . . . . .. " .... ... .... .... .... .. .. ........ . . . .. . . . ... ... . .. . ..................... 

page I 0 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 25, 2008 
Residents return to Galveston after hurricane 
Texans return to island after two weeks to find no drinking water, scarce electricity, no medical care or sewer service 
Associated Press 
CAI.VESTON -'Jim days after llurrieane Ike, this devastated beach town reope1H~d to resi­dents Wednesday with stern warnings about what still lurks on the island -rotting cattle ean:asses. snakns and swarms of mosquitoes-and what isn't tlwn~: drinking wat1~r. reliabln nlndricity, medical rare or snwnr service. 
Arter spending hours in traflk that barked up for l 0 miles, some residents found their homes in ruins. 
"I wasn't pn~parnd for this," taxi driver Patricia Davis said as she swaltnd away mosquitoes and survey1~d the rPmains of her apartment. which had its nntrancP block1~d by collapsed walls, wn~ckPd furniture and sodden clothing. 
City ollidals hoped most of the 45,000 msidents who fled before the Sept. 13 storm would stay away until morn repairs could bn made. 
"We didn't promise paradise when you came back here. We've got a lot of work to do. You've got a lot of work to do," City Manager Steve LeBlanc said Wednesday. 
The city has limited drinking watnr. f1~w working sewers, lim­ited nlectrieity and minimal medical facilities. Offieials extended the disaster declara­tion for 90 days. 
What Galveston does have is ripening in the tropical heat: Hatting food in piles of debris where houses once stood, mil­lions of mosquitoes and an abundance of snakes. The car­casses of cattle that drowned during the storm are too badly decomposed to be moved; they'll rot in the tields just outside the eity limits. 
People were warned not to rnturn without tetanus shots ­or rat bait. 
"Being here today kind of gives me some dosure," said Anita Arredondo, who found a pile of rubble where her two­story home once stood. "I have not bmm sleeping well, worried about what we could save and what we couldn't." 
Ken llolman said he wished city leaders had allowed resi­dents to return sooner because it might have allowed him to save more of his mother's belongings from the house she lived in for 56 years. The home was inundated by 4 feet of water. 
"Just the fact it took us this long to get in here, that kind of hurts," he said. 
The city has opened a shelter for 100 newly homeless resi­dents, and ollicials hoped to set up more shelters on the main­land for residents whose homes are uninhabitable, LeBlanc said. 
The city and the Federal Emergency Management Agency are considering a plan to allow residents to live in FEMA trailers in their driveways or near their houses during repairs. But LeBlanc noted he would want all trailers removed from the island before the start of the 2009 hur­ricane season. 
But progress was slow: The island's three electrical inspec­tors and two plumbing inspec­tors were ordered to inspect every flooded property before allowing residents to turn on the gas or flip an electrical switch. LeBlanc asked other cities to send more inspectors. 
"It's not a healthy and safe place to be at this time," said Mark Guidry, county health director. 
At Huby Holman's house, where water lines stained the walls four feet above the floor, daughters Sharon and Ann wore bright yellow gloves and white masks as they carried away buckets of debris, including prized books. 
The carpet inside Holman's home was so soggy, it soaked through everyone's shoes. The air inside the house was so choked with mold and mildew, a visit could only last a few min­utes at a time. 
Diane and Eddie Howard found that one of their homes, which they had bought only three weeks ago, was destroyed by a fire after the storm. 
The other home, which they are trying to sell, was flooded by 8 feet of water, ruining the first floor but sparing many of their personal belongings on the sec­ond and third floors. 
"I've been through all kinds of hurricanes," said Eddie lloward, who was born on the island 77 years ago. "This is the worst one." 
At least 62 deaths, 27 of them in Texas, were blamed on the Category 2 hurricane and its remnants. The body of a woman who apparently drowned was uncovered in a debris tield north of Galveston. 
Nearly 50 residents are still missing, LeBlanc said. 
Roughly 45,000 of the city's 57,000 residents lled Galveston Island, about 50 miles southeast of Houston, along with hundreds of thousands more from other sections of the Texas coast. 

Residents of the island's most severely damaged area, on the island's west end, were allowed to visit their homes but not per­mitted to stay. 
Gov. Hick Perry toured dam­aged areas Wednesday and announced a U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development rental assistance program to help hurricane vic­tims. 



Thursday, September 25, 2008 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Russia en1erges in nuclear programdispute 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The U.S. has found an emboldened Russia wielding enormous leverage at a critical stage in disputes over the Iranian and North Korean nuclear programs, a once-prom­ising partnership with Moscow in doubt. 
After a month of bitter exchanges over Russia's war with Georgia, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice came face-to­face Wednesday with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and discovered Moscow's coop­eration on Iran and North Korea may no longer be a sure thing. 
The atmosphere was awk­ward, but not chilly, for the high­est-level contact between the two nations since Russia invaded Georgia in August in a dispute over a separatist border region, according to a senior U.S. official who was present. 
"There was not shouting, table pounding or histrionics," said Daniel Fried, the top American diplomat for Europe. But neither Rice nor Lavrov were able to agree on anything beyond gen­eral statements of support for the Iran and North Korea efforts. 
"This was a polite, thorough exchange of views where the disagreements were quite clear," Fried told reporters. Rice out­lined the U.S: position on Russia's war with Georgia while Lavrov repeated Moscow's defense of its military action, he said. 
Fried said the United States was unconvinced by Lavrov's arguments and that problems Russia is facing because of its invasion of Georgia "cannot just be wished away." 
Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Lavrov said it was not "rocky," adding that both sides had agreed to be pragmatic regarding issues that divided them, such as the brief conflict over Georgia in August. 
"We agreed that we must not make this situation a rock on which everything else would hit," Lavrov told an audience at the Council on Foreign relations. 
While Rice did not expect to sway Lavrov on Georgia, she was seeking Russia's support on Iran and North Korea less than a week after she raised the stakes by publicly denouncing Russia's growing authoritarianism and aggression. 
With Iran nearing the ability to 
arm a nuclear warhead and 
North Korea moving to restart a 
disabled atomic reactor. the 
United States needs Russia more 
than ever in the international 
efforts to eliminate the threats. 
But Russia on Tuesday scuttled high-level talks on imposing new sanctions on Iran that had been set for Thursday between the foreign ministers of the five per­manent members of the U.N. Security Council and Germany. Even sanctions opponent China had agreed to the meeting. 
U.S. officials, including Rice, have sought to downplay the move, saying the time wasn't right for the session. But they had previously said such a gath­ering would be useful and neces­sary to get fourth U.N. Security Council sanctions resolution on Iran. 
At their meeting, Rice and Lavrov "agreed that there would come a time for another P5-plus­one foreign ministers meeting" but did not say when that might be, according to Fried who used the formal name lor tiie grouP­
ing. 

Fried acknowledged the group was still "grappling with the issue of how to proceed in the wake of recent developments" including Iran's continued defi­ance of demands to stop repro­cessing uranium and how to maintain at least the appearance of unity. 
"We did not discuss any sanc­tions," Lavrov said. 
Rice and Lavrov made similar commitments on North Korea, which earlier Wednesday expelled inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency from its main reactor and plans within a week to reac­tivate the facility. 


#.AKELLOGG
VIINSTITUTE 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, September 25, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

It ain't easy being green 
P.O. !lox 779. Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Norrc Dame, IN 46556 
EmroR IN CmEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING Bl>ITOR: Katie Kohler A<;ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EnrroR: Jcnn Mctz 
VIEWPOINT EmTOR: Kara King SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY'S EOITOR: Liz Harrer 
1'1101'0 EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVI\RTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
All DF.SIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mikt• Moriarty 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 obst•rvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK ('\74) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS 0ESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.cdu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. I @nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoco@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
rHE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisemenrs, is nne gowrncd by policies of the administration ofeither 
institution. The Observer reservt·s the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The ntws is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials reprcst'llt rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, A~siscant Managing Editors and department editors. Commt·ncaries, letters and columns present the vitws of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. IA'ttcrs to the Editor muse be signed and must include contact infi>rmation. 
QrwtioflS rrgarding Obsm1rr polici~s sho111d b~ dirm~d to Editor in ChiifChris Hin~. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11t( Olnrrvn (lJ.IWS 'NI} l ... OOU) 11 puhl~hctl Mund11y !hWui(h Frid;~;y I:X1.1!Jn' durin~ cum .mel va~OIII!IIljll"rltld~ A•uiJ.M·uptionru The (lhMCrver i\ $100 for nne at..tdcmk ycar;S'i'ifurunc~~tm~ct 
The Olwrvrr ~~ pubiJJhed .u PO>TM.>ISTER 
024 S111uh lJuunte llo~ll Scntl.uldreu corrections m: 
Nu1rc Da"'"· IN 46'i'>ft-0779 11lt'Oh"'rvcr 
l'crindi..al poaUI(C p;ud ,u Notrr 00101< r.o l\oxn9 
and "ddiuvno~l mo~iliuK utllcc:a. 02"1 Souch Dining H.t!l 
NtJt~ Dame, IN 46556.0779 

The Ohtcrw:r IS " member ,,lrhc AS54KtJ!cd l'r~. All rcpwducunn nglu ... arc ""<nd. 
Its official. Being "green" is a full­fledged cultural movement. 
llow can I proclaim this with such uncompromising certainty? Time Warner Cable Channel 1226: Planet 
Green. The move­ment has its own official cable channel (regular and liD). 
The channel features all kinds of "green" pro­gramming, show­


ing hip, cool peo-Jason Coleman 
pie doing hip and 
cool green proj­
ects. From Emril M L 
Lagasse's organic an at arge 
cooking show to 
Tommy Lee and Chris "Ludacris" 
Bridges eco-tour face off. the channel 
really does make being green look so 
fresh and stylish. The crowning show, 
however, is "Alter Eco." Adrian Grenier, of Ent.ourage fame, introduces a few of his friends who arc building a fully 
green house in L.A.. They then spend 
the majority of the show helping other 
high-end designers "green up" the operation. 
To their credit, the folks on this show are green machines; they do everything possible to make everything some form of "all-natural" or "environmentally friendly." Popularizing the movement in this way, through television programs and pop culture trends, paints "green­ness" as requiring us to drop our way of life to reach eco-friendly nirvana. This is not only inefficient, and a waste of resources -but fairly disheartening to those who feel they are making an effort to do their part. 
The truth is, it is easy bein' green. While there are three primary channels through which action can be taken (personaVconsumer, government and markets), an average person really only has full control over the first: personal or consumer use. Today, however, even taking control over your personal envi­ronmental footprint can seem daunting. Thousands of new products line the 
shelves advertising how each is better 
for the environment than its competi­
tor. There are detergents that are 
chemical free, paper that is 50 percent 
recycled, and cars that advertise they 
can travel a million miles per gallon. 
Recently, Terrachoice, an environ­mentally friendly marketing firm, released a report entitled "The Six Sins of Greenwashing." In it, they concluded that 99.9 percent of consumer products bearing an environmentaVgreen mar­keting claim were false or misleading. This isn't very reassuring to those hop­ing to save the world one bottle of $8 organic/chemical-free/nontoxie/made of wholesome grain laundry detergent at a time. 
My advice: Take all of that, throw it out the window and stick to the basics. Hather, work on and fine-tune your basics. These are the practices that have been espoused by bland public service announcements since you were five years old. Unfortunately, in the flood of personal household solar pan­els and gutter rain barrels, their rela­tive importance seems to have dimin­ished. So to remind us all, here is the short list: 
1. 
Recycle your cans and paper. Currently, paper makes up a full one third of solid waste generated. Over 55 percent of paper is still dumped into landfills rather than recycled. On cam­pus, with bins in all classroom build­ings and in each dorm, there is no rea­son any paper should end up in the trash can. Additionally, only one in four aluminum cans are recycled. That is about eight cans out of a case of Natty. I know this one is harder, but do your best to save the cans and recycle them. 

2. 
Be conscious of your main energy uses. You are probably expecting me to say don't watch TV, leave the lights ofT until you can't possibly see anything outside or go back to typewriters. Actually, the best way to immediately reduce your energy uses is to simply unplug your electronic device chargers when you aren't using them. Only five percent of energy used by a cell phone charger actually charges the phone. 


The other 95 percent is wasted out into the air whHe it remains plugged in. The same goes for your laptop charger: unplug it. The easiest way to do this is to simply plug all of your chargers into one power strip and when something isn't charging, simply flip the switch. 
3. Finally, when the market works out the energy problem (which it eventually will). make the right choice. For the next couple of years, it will be more expensive to use alternative energy than conventional energy. llowevcr, drastically cheaper alternative sources are at our doorstep. A Nevada compa­ny, Ausra, expects to be able to handle base loads for up to 30 percent of the entire southwest United States within ten years at a price very dose to cur­rent kilowatt per hour rates. All you have to do, when the time comes, is choose to pay an extra pnnny or two per unit. 
That's all. Over the course of a month, this may only amount to ten bucks. More importantly, it will spur further investment and push profitabili­ty thereby adding economic incentive for big business to use and create clean energy even more. Aftor all, oil would have never spread so quiekly through­out the world had it not been for Nelson Rockefeller and Standard Oil. 
Now, let me put a personal disclaimer in for myself. In no way do I think it is wrong or unhelpful for a person to go above and beyond in following the three basic tenets. However, the cost efToctivencss and returns on one indi­vidual's environmental obsession is far less helpful than inspiring more and more people to do the basics correctly. So let's not go overboard and frighten people away from making the little changes that can have a large efTect; just keep reminding people to unplug chargers and recycle their tests. 
Jason Coleman is a junior majoring in management. 1/e can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Matt Gamber Becky Hogan Greg Arbogast 
Are you going to the Forum? 

Emma Driscoll Mike Gotimer Graphics Scene 
Yes 


"[Kyle McCarthy] is so pretty."
Blair Chemidlin Mark Witte 
No

Viewpoint That will be a game time decision. Jenn MetzKara King 
The Observer news editor 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER





IEWPOINT.
Thursday, September 25, 2008 page 13 
To know you is to love you. Really! 
Do you ever havn recurring night­mares? Some situation you fear that you may not evnn think about in the midst of busy days, but that rears up again while your unsuspecting brain has let its guard 
down in your  
sleep? Even now,  Kate Barrett  
nearly 20 years  
after the last exam  
of my educational  Faithpoint  
career, periodically  
I still have ·a dream  

in which I show up for a final only to realize that I had somehow neglected to attend the class most of the semester, and am therefore spectacularly unpre­pared, guaranteed to reveal my stupidity to the professor in a most dramatic fash­ion. 
Many people, even those whom society would consider highly educated, respect­ed and successful in their fields, confess to dreams in which they are discover"ed to be a fraud, clothed in the appearance of professional capability, but under­n~ath ignorant and unworthy of the trust others have placed in them. 
This Sunday's gospel is a perfect opportunity for each of us to ask our­selves if the person we show to the world genuinely represents our true self, or if we're just "getting by" on appear­ances. Do we sign up for or join a group that we think will make us look good, but then neglect to contribute or partici­pate in a meaningful way? Do we select our classes, or study and prepare for our chosen vocation or career in such a way that we truly become qualified and com­petent, or does our vision stop at the short-term, just aiming for the best grades we can get on the next test? 

The chief priests and elders, repre­senting the well-respected, powerful religious establishment of Jesus' day, must have thought that Jesus himself was their worst nightmare, especially when he came telling parables such as the one we will hear on Sunday. He describes a man and his two sons. The father orders both sons to go out and work in the vineyard. One initially says "no," but then experiences a change of heart and goes out to work. The other says "yes," but fails to follow through on his commitment. Though the leaders can see that the father would much prefer the conversion of the first son to the empty promises of the second, they can­not (or will not) make the connection to their own willingness merely to settle for "talking the talk." Finally, as if he hadn't 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Forum_ tim_e conflicting 
I want to compliment the University for organizing an excellent forum on the issue of Energy, one of the defining issues of this gen­eration. 
I have a problem, however, with the timing of this and past fora. They should occur in the early evening and not interfere with class lectures. Students and faculty should attend this forum and in order to do so, either a faculty member must cancel their lecture or a student must skip the lecture. 
Either way, the message being sent by the Administration is that there are certain things which take precedent over lecture. This opens the door to many possibilities. 
Perhaps a student believes spending time with family members warrants leaving campus a day earlier for Fall Break. Perhaps a faculty member believes attending a seminar important to their research warrants canceling their lecture which occurs at the same time as the seminar. 
The Administration is setting a bad example to students and fac­ulty by timing these fora during lecture periods. 
Michael Stanisic faculty professor of Aerospace & Mech Engineering Sept. 24 

No need to rearrange 
Patrick McHugh's thought that the Indiana State Police (ISP) should ignore underage drinking until all the felonies are solved is just another manifestation of the old "oh, it's just alcohol" philoso­phy ("Rearrang-ing priorities," Sept. 24). 

McHugh is absolutely right that the protection of life and property should be the primary focus of the State Police, but it is disconcert­-ing that he doesn't see that this certainly includes situations like this. 
Let's remember that the ISP were called into this situation because the party was disturbing other residents of the neighborhood, so these students did it to themselves, and were not the victims of some random. act by the police. 
In addition, people who drink in off-campus situations often become people who drive after drinking. As someone who lost his mother-in-law because of a drunk driver, I applaud the ISP respond­ing to this situation in an appropriate fashion. 
Underage drinking is in fact a serious problem when statistics clearly prove that drunk driving is the leading cause of death for those under 21, and further show that those under 21 are responsi­ble for half of all drunk driving fatalities. So, just maybe, we should be thanking the ISP for doing their duty and protecting all of us (including any potential underage drinker-drivers from themselves). 
Rick Klee alumnus Class of'74 Sept. 24 

irritated them enough already, Jesus gives the chief priests and scribes a dis­tasteful list of society's lowest sinners who, with a true conversion of heart, will enter the kingdom of heaven ahead of them. 
As often happens in the gospels, we can actually find more comfort and hope in Jesus' words if we can recognize our own sinfulness. We aren't necessarily supposed to put ourselves in the shoes of the chief priests and scribes or of the tax collectors and prostitutes. Surely we each have SQme characteristics of both. Our task is to listen for the ways God speaks to us -as the father spoke to the two sons in the gospel story -and. as much as we can, respond with a genuine "yes." Whenever we've just flat out said "no" to who God asks us to be; that is, whenever we've sinned, we can believe that Jesus still waits for us, ready towel­come us when we have a change of heart. 
On the other hand, we can also listen for the ways God speaks to us when we respond with an insincere "yes," as the second son does in the gospel. It is oh so easy to do-we might want to impress someone; we might want to fit in to a group; we might want to land a good grade, a better job or a more substan­tial-looking resume. The scribes and the chief priests seemingly couldn't even recognize that doing all the "right" things with empty intentions left them with hearts less open to God than even the outcasts of society who had turned away from their sins and toward God in honest recognition of their need. 
We are so blessed. We have friends to pray with; opportunities for Mass, recon­ciliation and retreats; and examples all around us on campus of fellow students, faculty and staff who have committed themselves in faith to service of others. Together we can explore how we will say "yes" to God more sincerely, and how the "no" of our own sinfulness can itself become an opportunity to return our hearts to God's love. Then the person we show to the rest of the world will become just the very person our God knows so intimately and loves so well. 
Kate Barrett is the director of resources and special projects for Campus Ministry and can be contacted at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Don't underestitnate Palin 
In his Tuesday column "Country Second," Brendan McPhillips writes about Sarah Palin as if she was actually just a hockey mom and not the governor of the largest state in the US. 
It's true that Palin is largely unknown outside of Alaska and there are other politicians who have more experience than her, particularly in foreign policy, and would be more qualified vice­presidents based on their political resumes. It is only reasonable to have doubts about someone who is in their forties and has held a significant political office for only two years. 
But Obama is also in his forties, has only spent four years in the U.S. Senate (two of which he spent running for president), and has no sub­stantial foreign policy record. At the Democratic National Convention, Bill Clinton supported O!Jama by noting that the Republicans said he didn't have the experience, especially in foreign policy, to be president. But I think most Democrats agree that didn't stop Clinton from having a successful eight years in office. 
So, isn't saying that McCain "shamelessly sac­rificed the best interests of the American people, putting country second, not first, by choosing Sarah Palin as his vice presidential running mate" just a little bit unfair? 
Also, I don't think any current undergraduate anywhere is "more qualified for the vice presi­dency then Sarah Palin." In her campaign for governor, Sarah defeated the incumbent Frank Murkowski over.whelmingly in the primary and then defeated the former two-term governor Tony Knowles in the general election. Her approval rating as governor has remained at 80 to 90 percent, the highest approval rating of any United States governor. 
Palin has surprised a lot of people with her skills and perceptiveness as a politician, particu­larly those who have underestimated her, and she will continue to do so. 
Jon Leiner grad student Fischer Graduate Sept. 24 


A solution to the Palin problem_ 
When I read the article written by Brendan McPhillips on Sen. John McCain's selection of Gov. Sarah Palin as his vice presidential candi­date ("Country second," Sept. 23) I most certainly agreed with him. Palin, like Pedro, lacks political experience. This hurts McCain in his race against Sen. Barack Obama, who is much more qualified to run our great nation. 
He's been in the U.S. Senate for nearly four years, which is far superior to ... a little longer than ... Palin's two years as a governor. 
And he's done so much for the country too! He's ... uh ... supported the Secure Fence Act! And don't forget the revolutionary Coburn­Obama Transparency Act! 
Oh, and I almost forgot how Obama won his first political seat "in the Illinois Senate: by default. How smart of him to disqualify the other five candidates, including the heavily-favored incumbent, on fundraising technicalities. I always figured that if I ever wanted to get elected in a democratic system, I too would eliminate any and all competition as well, no matter what it took. 
No worries, children. 1 have given this some thought, and I believe I have a solution to our problem. We are going to need to take action to keep Palin from sneaking into "the second most powerful office in the country, ifnot the world," as McPhillips so eloquently puts it. Fortunately, 
i 

our solution is McPhillips himself! 
Your subtlety did not slip by me unnoticed, sir. You said so yourself in your article: "I am more qualified for the vice presidency than Sarah Palin is." So what are we waiting for? Call up McCain! Let him know we have an even better running mate for him! 
Nevermind the fact that McPhillips has never governed a state, or held any sort of national office. We already know he is confident that he can do a better job. I can think of no better per­son to be in what could be the world's second­highest spot. 
Alright, let's sum this up. Crisis: "History will write off John McCain's decision to offer the vice presidency to Sarah Palin, as the single most irresponsible decision a presidential candidate has made in the modern era." Solution: History will praise John McCain's decision to offer Brendan McPhillips the vice presidency over Palin as the single greatest turn of events ever constructed by a presidential candidate in the modern era. Crisis averted. 
Good work, boys. Let's go home. 
Douglas Schuda 
JUlllOr 
O'Neil Hall 
Sept. 23 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Thursday, September 25, 2008 
=================================================================================== 

Ani DiFranro is back. 
Granted, she hasn't really gone ywhere ~ hnr new release, "Hed Let tor Year." is lHH most recent nlnase on hM independent label HightiHJus Babe Hecords -and or I Sth studio album in as many ears. Still, "Hed Letter Year" is >iFranco's first album after giving irth to her daughter, Petah, with artnnr and producer Mike apolitano, and it feels like a nnewal for the singer-songwriter. As she said recently in a press release accompanying the album, "I've got myself a new mantra ... it 
ays 'Don't forget to have a good ti1110. "' 
l>i Franco herself has looked to the birth of her daughter as a new beginning. 
"I hnard a quote once that tlw 
rid is reborn every time a new aby is born," she recently said. That's how I feel around Petah. 
'This is no longer my world. This is our world. Show me how cool it 
For those who are new to iFraneo and her music, here's a rinf biography. A Buffalo, N.Y., alive, Dii<ranro has made a name 
hnrself' through her independ­ntly produeod songwriting. In ddition to her studio albums, she 
has reliHtsed sev1~ral live albums. 

thrPe EPs and two volumes of' poet­ry. Often engaging in various social and cultural issues in her song­writ!ng. her musk is g€nerally gui­tar-based and powerf'ully written. Openly bisexual, DiFranco was married in the late nineties to sound tech Andrew Gilchrist, and has been with Napolitano f'or sev­eral y1~ars. 
DiFraneo has made a earner on songs of intellectual discourse, sexuality, feminism and polities, and "Hed Letter Year" is no excep­tion to her pattern. particularly on tracks like 
how mueh sh*t was gonna change around here." Later. sho sings, "when you wake up siek as a dog/With dull eyes and really bad hair... and the water is rising/And it's coming in everywhere/Just remember you were there/You were always there." She plays with sound sensibilities here, incorpo­rating different effects into the recording. The track also ends on an unexpected note of guitar with shades of orchestration. 
"Alia This," the second track, reasserts DiFranco's feminist ideals. "I will not 
"Emaneipated stand immersed Minor." TiiT}e will in this ultravio­tell as to the Time will tell as to the impact let eurse/1 won't impact of moth­let you make a
ofmotherhood on DiFranco's
erhood· on tool of' me/1 will 
DiFranco's style style and sensibility, but any kl~ep my mind and sensibility, earth mother tendencies feel and body f'roe." but any earth It's eloar with
well incorporated into her 
mother tenden­"Alia This" that cies feel well style on this album. f'emale singer­incorporated into songwriters in her style on this her wake, sueh 
album. She also cites the influence of New Orleans and its many musical styles in this album, including help from the Hebirth Brass Band (particularly on the album's final track, the delightful "Red Letter Year Heprise"), C.C. Adeoek and pedal steel player Richard Comeaux. Napolitano has also produced for artists like the Squirrel Nut Zippers and Joseph Arthur. 
The title track, 
"Hed Letter Year," opens the album and has a 
Red Letter Year 
Ani DiFranco 

somewhat minor tone. DiFranco 
Label: Righteous Babe 

opens strong with pbwerful
Recommended Tracks: "Emancipated Minor," 
voeals, a slight
"Red Letter Year," "Alia This" and "Land Gear'' 
electronic edge to the guitar and an eff!~ctive use of piano. The song nods wryly to the sense of renewal with lines like, "They didn't mention 
as Alanis Morissette, have taken a few leaves from the Ani DiFranco book of songwriting. The song's "stick-it­to-the-man" feel is empowering, especially in light of DiFranco's new motherhood. 
For a new listener, DiFranco's vocal style might s11em off-putting. Her vocals, like "Hed Letter Year" itself, have a funny habit of grow­ing on you with additional listens. Tracks like "Round A Pole" are surprisingly better the second or third time around. 
Other solid. songs inelude "The Atom," with its use of the Indian sitar in the background; "Present Infant," with its sweet mom-daugh­ter themes; "Landing Gear." with its catchy beat and casual vibe; and "Red Letter Year Heprise," an unexpected six minutes of Nola flair to dose the album. 
"Red Letter Year" will be released in stores on September 30. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

--------------------------. 

TH_E OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, September 25, 2008 
page 15 


ing Cinema, DPAC 

If you're one of the hundreds of students to articipate in one of the University's alachian seminars each fall or spri then it's likely that you're familiar e coal-mining process of mountaintop 
. If you haven't gone on a CSC semi­, maybe if you have, or even if the Forum's you interested in learning more, visit the rowning Cinema tonight for the latest film in ND Forum Films series on sustainable 
"Mountaintop Hem oval." by Michael O'Connell, this docu­examines the practice. of mountain-
removal and the conflict brewing between al companies and West Virginian activists er the controversial mining technique. 
cost $3 for students -a small price to being well-informed. 
mages Revolution. Snite Museum of Art 

If you've got some free time before aturday's football game, or if you're ooking for some high art entertainment 
away from the gridiron, visit the Snite seum this Saturday. The Museum is currently featuring an 
exhibit called "Images from the Era o he French Hevolution," a collection o French drawings and paintings that rose ut of the turbulent years of th 
volution and the Terror. The exhibit is inspired by a collabora­ive conference to be held in the 
nenberg Auditorium in October, "Ne aradigms for Hevolutionary Studies: rench-American Colloquium." 
The dining hall only serves it every By MICHELLE FORDICE once in awhile, but make it your­Assistant Scene Editor self and you can have it any night 
you like, and even have the option \ Not everyonn is going to agree of tossing in some new flavors that ,, with me on this one, but tuna is you wouldn't expect. t dolicious. Despite the problems 1. Fill a pasta bowl with short , having to do with over-fishing (an pasta, such as farfalle (bow tie), r issue that sadly and inevitably conchiglie (shell), or fusili t al'fncts nearly all of the fish we (corkscrew). Top it with one of the ' consume) and the research being · dining hall's Alfredo sauces. (Go r done concerning mercury levels ahead and try something slightly to j (though it docs seems that they are the right or left too, such as ~ conducting eating is tuna is fine, as South's Hanchero Alfredo sauce. It 
long as it is done in moderation, as will give it a different taste, but a ~ with all things), I can't stop myself good one. You are looking for a from eating it. So this week's creamy sauce.) 
1 J reeipes are a tribute to the versa­2. Add edamame (Boiled soy tile and easily accessible tuna. beans, for those of you who are This week's recipes:: unfamiliar. If you aren't a fan, feel Tuna and Edamame Casserole free to substitute with a vegetable 
I find something really comfort­like peas.), mushrooms and a ing about tuna casserole. It's one cheese you like that matches with of those warm, simple and filling your pasta sauce (cheddar is pretty dishes that make you feel at home. reliable) from the salad bar. 
at Football Fridays Party -100 Block S. Michigan Street 
Dennis Stroughmatt & Creole Stomp is nationally knpwn band famous for the Louisiana-style music. Their blend of Creole, Cajun, Blues and Zydeco style music heading north to South Bend for the latest in series of Football Friday block parties being downtown. 
The bandleader, Dennis Stroughmatt, is Francophone and an expert in French music and culture, often traveling to give senrn-1111 nars and workshops on the French presence North America. lf you're looking for a night spirited New Orleans soul, look no further. are $5 per person, and two-for-one tickel'i sold from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. Friday night. can purchase tickets at the College Football 
Fame and the South Bend Marriott Hotel. 
3. Mix ingredients together. 
4. Heat it all in the microwave for about 45 seconds to soften the mushrooms, melt the cheese and get it all nice and hot. . 5. Enjoy! This tuna casserole, of course, doesn't get the b1mefits of that crusty top that comes from baking, but you'll still get to enjoy the same melty inside. Serve it with some good bread. 
Tuna and Cream Cheese Bagel 
Tuna melts are one of my favorite quick meals. This is a spin on the basic idea, adding in cream cheese and putting it all on a bagel. 
1. 
Fill a bowl with tuna from the salad bar. 

2. 
Pick up lettuce, tomato, slice of cheese (provolone or cheddar both work well) and a lemon wedge. 

3. 
Toast a bagel. 

4. 
Spread cream cheese onto 




both sides of the bagel. 
5. 
Squeeze the lemon into the tuna; add a dash of pepper and mix. 

6. 
Top one side of bagel with let­tuce, tomato, cheese and tuna. Close it off with the other bagel. 


7. If you like, stick in the microwave for a few seconds to heat it all up. Quick Tip 
The dining hall provides a pretty good tuna salad all set to go. Make yourself a quick salad with spinach, red onion, cheese and olives, top it all off with a mound of tuna and you're set to go. Or give in and go for the good old tuna sandwich -tuna, tomato, lettuce, cheese and whatever other condi­ments you enjoy (!like Dijon mus­tard.) 
Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to feature it! E-mail mfordice@nd. edu. 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 25, 2008 
MLB 

Ryan endorses manager for '09 after Rangers' win 
Drew returns to line-up for first time since Aug. 17; Red Sox get late run to beat Indians, keep pace with Rays 
Associated Press 
AHLIN<;T<>N. Tnxas -For Nolan Hyan. it has been a long rookie seas.on as president of the Tnxas Hangers. 
llirnd in l;ebruary to revital­ize a team that has never won a playoff snrins, the Hall of Fanw pitcher has spnnt the season evaluating the entire organization and trying to dntnrminn what chang1~s need to be made. 
But al'tnr tlw home finale Wednesday, a 14-4 victory over the Oakland Athletics, Hyan said he doesn't antici­pate changing managers. Hyan nxpects Hon Washington to return rwxt season along with gnneral manager Jon Daniels. 
"In my mind. thny're going to be back. I have no reason to think dil'f'nrnntly," Hyan said in a hastily gathered postgame meeting. "I don't anticipate a change." 
Hyan also stuck with Washington after Texas got off to the worst start in team his­tory, 7-16 in April. The team responded by winning seven straight series and got to six gamns over .500 in early August bnfon~ a slumping fin­ish that ensurPd the Hangers (77-S2l would havP their eighth losing record in nine seasons. 
"Hon has done a good job. I think he kept the ballclub playing for him under bad conditions in April, and I think it played hard for him all year," Hyan said. "With a young club, that's the thing that you look for, if the team quits on a manager. And this team didn't do that." 

A 15-28 stretch that endPd 
with Monday night's loss to 

Oakland eilsured a losing 
record. Texas lost All-Star 
second baseman Ian Kinsler 
and outfielder David Murphy 
to snason-ending injuries dur­
ing that time. 

I n· t h e h o m e fi n a I e . Han k Blalock homPred in his fourth straight game and Matt Harrison (lJ-31 struck out seven in six innings to become the first Texas rookie left­hamler to win nine games. 
"It wasn't anything that I worried about," Washington said about his future. ''I've always had my focus on the field. trying to make sure we can keep this team focused. 00. We didn't win record-wise, but we dealt with a lot this year." 
Harrison was one of seven pitchers who made their major league debuts this sea­son with Texas, which used a club-record 55 players (30 pitchers). 
While Harrison was a bright spot. Ryan said the emphasis during the offseason has to be pitching -the Rangers had a majors-worst 5.41 EHA. But he doesn't expect the team to be in the big-spending sweep­stakes for expected free agents like CC Sabathia and Ben Sheets. 
The only AL starters with more victories than Harrison since he made his major 

CLASSIFIEDS 


league debut July 8 are team. They can swing the more than a year. But the Cleveland's Cliff Lee (11) and bats," said Eveland, donning a Indians came back to tie it 4­Toronto's A:J. Burnett (10). platinum blonde wig and all in the fifth against Boston 
Blalock's three-run homer, female police officer's outfit. starter Paul Byrd. his 11th, erased a 1-0 deficit The costume was part of the David Aardsma (4-2) earned in the fourth and put Texas hazing of 17 Oakland As, who the vietory with 1 2/3 innings ahead to stay. After Blalock were dressed in female cos­of scoreless relief. allowing was hit by a pitch to start the tumes for the trip from Texas one hit and striking out one. sixth, Nelson Cruz homered to the West Coast. Hafael Perez 14-4) gave up a on the next pitch to chase The last batter Eveland run on two hits and an inten­llana Eveland (9-9). faced was Cruz, whose 422-tional walk in one inning. 
Travis Metcalf also homered foot homer to left-center Perez was the fourth and Michael Young went 4-made it 7-2 with no outs in Indians pitcher, taking over to for-4 with a walk for Texas, the sixth. Texas added six start the eighth and striking which has a 1 112 game lead more runs against two reliev­out Kevin Youkilis before over Oakland for second place ers, including an HBI single Bailey lined the first pitch he in the AL West with three by Blalock and Josh saw high off the Green games left for both teams. Hamilton's two-run double Monster near center field for 
After missing 91 games this that snapped his 15-game a standup triple. Kotsay, also season because of injuries drought without an RBI and swinging at the first pitch, and playing only 58 games upped his season total to 126. lined one down the first-base last year, Blalock isn't certain Jack Cust hit his 32nd line and into the corner for an of returning with the Hangers. homer, a solo shot, and had HBI double. The club has a $6.2 million his 192nd strikeout, seven Man)ly Delcarmen pitched option for 2009, or a short of the major league the ninth for his second save. $250,000 buyout, on the two­record set last season by Carmona pitched Games 2 time All-Star third baseman Philadelphia's Hyan Howard. and 6 against the Hed Sox in who switched to first base Daric Barton had two doubles the playoffs last year and because of shoulder problems. and scored twice for the A's. gave up a total of 11 runs in 
But Blalock is showing he six innings. In all, he was can still hit, going 17-for-37 Red Sox 5, Indians 4 charged with four runs on five 
. over the last 10 games. He • Pinch-hitter Jeff Bailey hits and a walk while striking has a streak of six consecutive tripled and scored on Mark out one. games with an extra-base hit, Kotsay's double to break an Red Sox outl'ieldnr .J.D. a run scored and an HBI. eighth-inning tie on Drew returned to the lineup 
Blalock's homer came off Wednesday night, leading the for the first time in a month left-hander Eveland, who did­Boston Hed Sox to a victory but played just three innings n't allow another homer to a over the Cleveland Indians. before leaving the game for a left-handed hitter in his 29 One game after the Hed Sox pinch runner. Drew went on starts this season. clinched a playoff berth and the disabiPd list on Aug. 18 
"I got into trouble with the· celebrated into the night, they with a strained lower back home run. 00. I gave up some jumped on Fausto Carmona and was nearing a return ear­hits on some pitches I thought for four runs in the first lier this month when he left were pretty good. You can't inning, chasing him from the the t1~am because of a death make a mistake against this game in his shortest outing in in the family. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edir all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
Villa ranch at 18133 Annettas Ct.in South Bend. 5 mins.to ND. Built in 2004. 3 bdrm, 2 bath. 1652 sq. ft. Vaulted great room. formal dining room. oak eat-in kitchen. all appli­ances. large 3-season room, first floor laundry. Finished basement plumbed for bath, egress window. Patio. $249,500. Handicap accessi­ble. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty Jack Egenhoefer 
574-280-7730 STUDENT WORK, $14.25 base­appt., flexible schedules. no experi­ence needed, customer sales/serv­ice. conditions apply, 
ages 18+, 574-273-3835, 
www. workforstudents.com 
_foR SALE 
CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO ND. PLEASE CONTACT TED @ 574-233-6191 MSL #231736. 

FoR RENT 
Home Game Rentals. Beautiful, Private apartments. Sleeps 4. Fully furnished, lots of amenities. Only 4 miles from Campus. $500 thurs­sun. Call Joyce @57 4-339-9241. 
Football Weekend B&B close to ND (574)243-9279 
House near ND. 574-310-3663. 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 
SCHOOLYEAR.~10BDRMS 
AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
2 bdrms, 1 bath, basement, garage. Walk to Notre Dame. 
(574)274-2829. 
TICKETS 
Wanted: ND football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND football tickets. www. victorytickets.com. 574-232-0964. 
Need Purdue tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507
0 
WANTED 

HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, MADDIE BOYER! 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap/ UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574­631-2685. 
For more information, visit our web­site at: 

http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
.A'NlH I .L.J\ 'l'lii'IJHI'Hill ~'l'!il:w•t JIJJW 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 24, 2008 CoMPRFD FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
Women's Soccer Top 25 
NSCAA/ adidas Poll  
team  record  pus  
1  NOTRE OAME  8·0·0  1  
2  UCLA  7·0·1  2  
3  North Carolina  7·1·1  3  
4  Portland  7·1-0  5  
5  usc  7·1-0  4  
6  Stanford  8·0·1  6  
7  TexasA&M  7·1·1  8  
8  Florida Slate  6·1-1  9  
9  Texas  7·0-1  10  
10  Duke  8·1·0  11  
11  West Virginia  6·1·2  14  
12  Oklahoma Slate  8·0-0  13  
13  Virginia  5·1-1  7  
14  Wake Forest  7·1-0  15  
15  Boston College  6·1·1  12  
16  Florida  5·2·1  16  
17  Illinois  6·3-0  23  
18  Colorado  7·1·1  21  
19  Georgetown  6·0-2  RV  
20  UCSB  6·2·0  20  
21  San Diego  5·2·2  24  
22  California  5·3-0  18  
23  LSU  5·4-0  17  
24  Penn State  6·0-0  RV  
25  Kansas  6·2-0  25  

Women's Volleyball Top 25 AVCA Poll 
team record pvs 
1 Penn State 12·0 1 2 Nebraska 10·0 2 3 Texas 5·2 3 4 UCLA 10-1 4 5 usc 7-2 5 6 Stanford 9·2 6 7 Hawaii 9-2 7 8 California 10·1 9 9 Washington 9-1 10 10 Florida 8·1 11 11 Oregon 11-1 12 12 Minnesota 10·2 8 13 Colorado State 10·1 15 14 Wichita State 12·0 16 15 San Diego 10·2 17 16 Pepperdine 12·0 21 17 Kansas State 12-2 18 18 Wisconsin 10·2 13 19 Purdue 11-1 20 20 Illinois 9·2 23 21 Michigan 12·0 25 22 Long Beach State 10·2 22 23 Middle Tennessee 10·2 14 24 Brigham Young 8·3 24 25 Cal Poly 5·6 19 
MIAA Soccer Conference Standings 
team record 
1 Adrian 5·2·1 2 Hope 5·3·0 3 Calvin 4-2-1 4 Olivet 4-4-1 5 Alma 4-3·0 6 Kalamazoo 4-4-0 7 Trine 3·6·0 8 Albion H·O 9 SAINT MARY'S 1-4-1 
around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
USC at Oregon State 9 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD, 
N.J. -A yearlong ankle injury could not keep Plaxico Burress out of the New York Giants' lineup last season. The lack of a telephone call this week apparently is going to cost him a game and more than $235,000. 
Less than a month after handing the man who caught the winning pass in the Super Bowl a new $35 million contract, the Giants on Wednesday sus­pended Burress for a game for missing a prac­tice and not calling to explain his absence. 
Burress' agent insisted the nine-year veteran had an undisclosed family emergency on Monday and will appeal the ban to the NFL Players Association. 
"We have had success here because of the team concept," Giants coach Tom Coughlin said in dis­cussing the suspension, which was handed down during a bye week for the Giants (3-0). "And the team concept means basi­cally that everyone is accountable and responsi­ble and that we don't let the other guys down. And that is what we are trying to do." 
As part of the suspen­sion, Burress will not be allowed to practice until after the Oct. 5 game against the Seattle Seahawks. That means he will miss two weekly pay­checks, totaling $235,294.12 of his $2 mil­lion annual base salary. 
The Giants refused to say why Burress was sus­pended, but agent Drew Rosenhaus claimed Burress had a family emergency that has now been resolved. 
Rosenhaus said Burress spoke with Giants director of player development Charles Way on Monday evening, but he added there was "miscommuni­cation" between the player and the team. 
When asked specifically why Burress did not tele­phone the team or answer repeated telephone calls Monday to discuss the absence, Rosenhaus avoid­ed answering the question. 
Burress has had other problems with the Giants since signing as a free agent in 2005. He was benched for the opening quarter against San Diego early in 2005 for being late for a meeting. He said his wife was pregnant and he went with her for a test. 
Coughlin and general manager Jerry Reese informed Burress of the suspension Wednesday morning before the team held practice. 

IN BRIEF Sore shoulder sidelines 
Pettitte for season 
TORONTO-New York Yankees pitcher Andy Pettitte is done for the season because of a sore left shoulder. 
"It's giving me a little trouble," Pettitte said. "I've thrown enough innings. There's not any sense in going out and continuing to kill myself now, to push myself through anything." 
Pettitte had an MRI exam on his shoulder earlier this month, revealing no major damage. He won his last start on Sunday night, beating Baltimore in the final game at Yankee Stadium. 
The 36-year-old Pettitte went 14­14 in 33 starts and threw 204 innings. His 4.54 ERA was his highest since 1999, when it was 4.70. 
New York was eliminated from postseason contention Tuesday night when Boston beat Cleveland 5-4. 
Tigers reliever Jones 
announces retirement 
DETROIT -Tigers reliever Todd Jones is retiring, he announced in his own column in the Sporting News. 
"So this is it," he wrote in the lat­est issue of the magazine. "If you're a Tigers fan, I'll never stress you out again. If you're not a Tigers fan, you'll never have me as your ace in the hole, convinced I'll blow a lead against your team." 
The 40-year-old Jones went on the disabled list in late July with an injured right shoulder. He was acti­vated for one game in mid-August, gave up five unearned runs, and went back on the DL. 
Jones was 4-1 with 18 saves in 21 chances this year and a 4.97 ERA: 
Jones has 319 career saves with Detroit, Houston, Minnesota, Colorado, Boston, Cincinnati, Philadelphia and Florida. He's 14th on the all-time list and his 235 saves for Detroit are a team record. 
Packers Harris has 
"serious" spleen injury 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -Cornerback Al Harris has a "serious" spleen injury that requires a cautious approach, but he hasn't been ruled out for the rest of the season, Packers coach Mike McCarthy said Wednesday. 
''I'm hopeful he'll be back," McCarthy said. "The time frame just hasn't been established." 
Harris was injured in the first quarter of Green Bay's loss to the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday night. The injury is believed to be a rup­tured spleen, which sidelined then­Tampa Bay quarterback Chris Simms for the rest of the season in 2006. 
Harris, one of the Packers' top defensive players, won't be able to do any significant physical activity for at least a week and will not play in Sunday's game at Tampa Bay. 
Harris left Sunday night's game in the first quarter after he collided with Packers linebacker A.J. Hawk. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 25, 2008 

NFL 

Lions fire President Millen 

Associated Press 
ALLEN PAHK. Mich. -Matt 
Millnn insisted he would stick 
with the tough job of turning the 
I>ntroit Lions into a winner 
instead of returning to the 
broadcast booth to make easy 
mmwy. 
So the Lions got rid of him. 
Finally. 
The Lions fired Millen seven­plus years after the acclaimed TV analyst and Super Howl-win­ning linebacker took over as team president for one of the NFL's mediocre franchises and made it the worst. 
"1 have relieved Matt Millen of his duties niTective immediate­ly." Lions owner William Clay Ford said in a statement Wednesday afternoon. 
Mnssages seeking comment worn lfll't on Millon's cell phone. 
Millen's tnams won a league­low 31 games since he took over in 200 I, but his boss refused to get rid of him until now. 
Bill Ford, son of the team owner, said Monday he would lim Millen if he had the authori­ty. 
Dntroit was routed in nach of its first three games this season, falling behind 21-0 twiee and 21-:{ once en route to lopsided lossns going into its bye week. 
"I am vnry disappointed with where wn are as a team after our start this season," Ford added in his statmnent. "Our soln focus now is preparing for our next gamn against Chicago." 
Thn 0-3 reeord dropped Millen to ;{ 1-H4 overall. giving the Lions at least 10 more losses than any othnr NFL tnam since 2001. one of the worst stretches in league history. They gaw1 up a lnagun-high 25.:{ points and ranked 30th with 18.3 points a ganw undnr Millnn, according to STA'I"S. 
Aft11r winning just live games in his first two seasons. Mill!m bristled wlwn a roporter told him sonw pPople were alrnady predicting he would eventually walk away to get paid stress­frne millions as a broadcaster again. 
"Those pP.ople don't know me 
that well." Millen said in a 2003 
interview with The Associated 
Press. "I can't not finish some­
thing that I started. That bugs 
me. I've got to get this finished. 
"This gray hair shows how much I care. Look at me. I look like Kris Kringle!" 
The Lions' front office will now be led by executive vice president Torn Lewand, who will report to the owner on business issues, and new general manag­er Martin Mayhew, who will report to the owner on football matters. 
"These decisions are for the duration of the 2008 season," Ford's statement said. "Once the season is over, we will undergo a thorough and comprehensive evaluation of our entire football operation and put together a plan that we believe will trans­form this tfmrn into a winner." 
William Clay Ford also has been the target of criticism because since his first full sea­son in 1964, the Lions have won only one playoff game. lie has hired and retained people to lead the franchise, such as Russ Thomas and Millen, who weren't able to build a consis­tent winner. 
In a rare interview late in the 2003 season, the owner said he hadn't considered firing Millen. 
"I want him. I don't nned any more rnason than that." he said. 
The tipping point might have been public comments made by the owner's son. Lions vice chairman Bill Ford said Millen should leave the team, and the Ford Motor Co. executive chair­man said if he had the authority, he would make moves. 
"I think the fans deserve bet­tor," BiII Ford told reporters. "And if it were in my authority, which it's not. I'd make some significant changes." 
I lis father finally agreed that Millen had to go. 
Drivers of vehicles whizzing past the Allen Park facility beeped their horns and gleefully yelled out about the end of the Millen era. 
Eddie Gates drove through the team's parking lot in his mini­van as his girlfriend, Sue Stanton, held a sign, "Millen Must Go To Get a Super Bowl," out the window. 

"I've been a season-ticket holder for 28 years and because they fired Matt Millen, I'm going to renew," said Gates. "This is the happiest day of my life." 
The Fords -father and son -were thrilled when they lured Millen out of the broadcast booth to run their hapless fran­chise. 
''I'm willing to stake my repu­tation on Matt's success," Hill Ford said after Millen was intro­duced at a news conference in January 2001. 
Millen was the team's first general manager since Thomas left in 1989. The Lions allowed their coaches -Wayne Fontes, Bobby Hoss and Gary Moeller ­to run the football operation after Thomas resigned. 
"We've been pretty much stuck on dead center for quite a few years," William Clay Ford said when Millen was hired. "Matt offers us an opportunity to move ahead." 
Coach Hod Marinelli will be left with the task of salvaging something from the final 13 games of the season. But he and the players haven't inspired much confidence with an NFC­worst 10-25 record since 2006. 
Ultimately, the Lions are left with Millen's mess that led to a pitiful era that compares only to Tampa Bay's 12 straight double­digit loss seasons from 1983-94. 
This offseason was productive and the practices were great, Millen and Marinelli insisted, but that didn't make a differ­ence on Sundays. 
The Lions are winless, and 1­10 dating to last season. The latest Joss at San Francisco dropped Marinelli to 3-15 on the road and dropped the Lions to 8-60 as visitors with Millen in charge. 
The former Penn State stand­out was an NFL linebacker from 1980-91 with the Raiders, San 
Francisco  49ers  and  
Washington Redskins. He  won  
the Super Bowl four times.  

FoxSports.corn was the first to report Millen's departurll. 
The Quest Project Fall Lecture Series 
The Quest Continues ... 
The Practice ofSpirituality and the Practice ofMedicine: Worlds Apart or Overlapping? 
Tuesday, September 30 4:00P.M. 
Little Theatre Moreau Center for the Arts 
Harold Koenig, M.D., M.HSc. Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences and Associate Professor of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center 
g 


CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE sainunarys.edu/spirituality 
(574) 284-4636 Supported by the Saint Mary's College Endowed Fall Lecture Series and the John Templeton Foundation 
Free and open to the public 

Only 5 Bucks For i\. Footlong? 
Genius! 
Everv•. Da-v.. v·~ll.ue 1\Ienu Available-At PartidJ) ating Locations Inchuting: 1706 South Be1ul A.ve * Do'''uto"'7J.l lJS 31 N * SR 23 (ij) Ironw·ooll
...._,,., . 

*lJP 1\,lall *Indhnt Ridge-* \V~ll.l\-Iart 


Thursday, September 25, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Environmental Science and Policy 
The Master of Public Administration Program in Environmental Science and Policy is a t\:velve-month program that combines Columbia University's hands-on approach to teaching public policy and administration with pioneering thinking about the environment. 
Application deadline for early decision: November 1 For fellowship consideration: January 15 Final deadline: February 15 
For more intonnation, please call212-854-3142, e-mail: lar46@ 

MLB 
~COLUMBIA 

Otnens abounding as baseball playoffs near 
School ofInternational and Public Affairs 
Earn your MPA in 

"Sometimes you hope 
columbia.edu. or visit www.columbia.edu/cu/mpaenvironment move or suc­before a series 
cumb to, as fate falls in your at Shea
For information about SIPA programs, visit www.SIPA.columbia.edu 
Mets manager Stadium.
favor. Baseball's a
Jerry Manuel Manuel
funny game. It builds
conjured up, promptly. post­"the burden, character. It'll bring ed the message the clouds, the on the inside
youjoy. It'll bring you 
demons, what­door of the 
a lot, a lot ofanger
ever you want clubhouse to call them." sometimes." "One pitch,
~Afhit~-St~te Take Out That is, for one at bat, one people who play, one situa-
Mike Cameron
believe in such tion, think
Brewers centerfielder 

things. 
"Good teams don't need omens, bad teams are looking for them," Hall of Farner Mike Schmidt said in an e-mail Wednesday. 
More on him later, by the way. 
So either the Chicago White Sox or Minnesota will win the AL Central, the loser is out. Same goes for the Los Angeles Dodgers and Arizona in the NL West. 
The Mets still hope it's their season, a year after one of the biggest collapses in history. Having blown anoth­er late division lead to Philadelphia, they're trying to fend off Milwaukee for the wild card. 
And that's where that little grounder came into play. 
It definitely didn't look like the Mets' night Tuesday, when they fell behind early against the NL Central cham­pion Chicago Cubs. Needing a big hit, they got it in the most unlikely way. 
Or, as Cubs manager Lou Piniella called it, "a magic bat trick." 
Mets pitcher Johan Santana hit a hopper up the middle that looked to be a certain out. But his black maple bat shattered, and the barrel went skipping past the pitch­er's mound. As shortstop Ronny Cedeno got ready to field the ball, it somehow glanced off the tumbling, broken piece of wood. The ball deflected off Cedeno's glove and went for an infield single. 
"It should count for two hits," Santana said. "I was just lucky." 
·. l•li ~i1l·:d r:ti~ ;:1~ l!· 
No one could recall seeing quite such a play and, no surprise, it keyed a fifth­inning rally that led to a vic­tory. 
"A fickle, funny game," Mets third baseman David Wright said. 
Older Cubs fans didn't find it so whimsical. They still remember all too well anoth­er night at Shea Stadium. 
Back in September 1969, the hard-luck Cubs brought a narrow lead into New York. Then in the first inning, with Tom Seaver pitching against them, Chicago saw something more scary: a black cat skit­tered onto the field and stared up close at several players in the dugout. 
Later, a few of the Cubs admitted it kind of spooked them to see that slinky feline. Within a matter of days, the Cubs fell out of first place and the Mets were on their way to an improbable World Series championship. 
The Phillies got a boost earlier this month when Schmidt e-mailed a note to manager Charlie Manuel 
Associated Press 
A black cat slinking across the field. A surprise note from a former star. An inno­cent ground ball that takes an incredible hop. 
Sure, a big bop from Manny Ramirez, Ryan Howard or Evan Longoria can help a team make the playoffs. But oh, those little omens can really push a team toward October. 
"Sometimes you hope fate falls in your favor," Milwaukee center fielder Mike Cameron said after a late comeback. "Baseball's a funny game. It builds charac­ter. It'll bring you joy. It'll bring you a lot, a lot of anger sometimes." 
No such worries at Wrigley Field and Fenway Park ­stadium workers can begin putting up the decorative bunting. Also ready is devil­ish Tropicana Field, where the Tampa Bay Rays have sold out the first two postsea­son games in team history. 
With less than a week left, races remain. Time to make a 
'small' and 

'big' things result, tough at-bats, lots of walks, stay up the middle with men on base, whatever it takes to 'keep the line moving' on offense, 27 outs on defense, the Mets know you're better than they are," Schmidt wrote. 
And then, in a poke at the Phils' rivals, he added: "They remember last year. You guys are never out of a game. Welcome the challenge that confronts you this weekend. You are the stars. Good luck." 
Given their druthers, the players would rather control their destiny. 
"Broken-bat contact in clutch situations is usually an out. One time is luck. Next time, sit down," Schmidt wrote Wednesday. "Omen is over." 
"The omen you are refer­ring to is driven by hindsight, after a victory," he said. "It wasn't an omen until the game was over and the team won." 
The Dodgers won Tuesday night, getting a big home run from Nomar Garciaparra to beat San Diego. 
"You want it to he in your hands," Garciaparra said. 
Garciaparra also had a message for his young team­mates in their first pennant chase. 
"Enjoy it. Don't take it for granted because you may never have this opportunity again. There's a lot of people in this clubhouse that have gone a lot of years and never been in the playoffs," he said. . 
•Jfp v'/OIIA J nob 'Jlqooq 9~ofll 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 25, 2008 
OLYMPIC GYMNASTICS 
Chinese investigation to include 2000 squad 
Associa1ed Press 
China's gold medal gymnasts arcn't tlw only ones whose ages arc getting a closer look. 
Th1~ investigation into the eli­gibility of the Chinese women's team in Beijing has been expandnd to include members of the 2000 squad, which won the bronze medal in Sydney, The Assodatnd Press has learned. 
International gymnastics offi­eials are exio!mining whether Yang Yun and Dong Fangxiao, in partieular, were old enough to compete. 
"If we had a look at all the articles that came before, dur­ing and after the games, there were always rumors about the ages of China's athletes in Sydney," Andre Gueisbuhler, secretary general of the International Gymnastics Federation. told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
"We did not have another ehoiee," hn said. "If' wn want to remain ITedible, then wo have to look into things." 
No otlwr Chinese toams are being investigated, Gueisbuhler said. 
"At this moment in time, we just havn concerns about 2000 and 2008," he said. 
The investigation is ongoing, a month al'tor the Beijing Games ended, and there is no timetable f'or whnn it will be finished. 
"It's a work in progress," said Emmanuelle Moreau, spokes­woman for the International Olympic Committee. "Until the work has been completed, there is nothing we can say." 
Yang's age has long been an issue for debate. 
In a .June 2007 interview that aired on state broadcaster China Central Television, Yang said she was 14 at the Sydney Gamns. 
Gymnastics rules require ath­letes to bo 16 during an Olympic yoar in order to compete. 
"At the time I was only 14," she said in the interview, done in Chinese. "I thought that if I railed this time, I'll do it again next time. There's still hope." 
That interview, which has been widely reported, contra­dicts lwr official birthdate, whieh is listed as Dee. 2, 1984 and made her eligible for Sydney. 
Dong's birthdate is listed as .Jan. 20, 1983, making her 17 at the timo of the Sydney Games. ller blog, however, includes a rnfonmee to being born in 1985. 
Yang is now engaged to Olympic all-around champion Yang Wei. Dong was a national technical official at the Beijing Olympics, serving as the secre­tary on vault. She was not part of any judging panel. 
Kui Yuanyuan, Ling Jie, Liu Xuan and Huang Mandan were the other members of China's 2000 squad. 
Age falsification has been a problem in gymnastics since the 1980s, after the minimum age was raised from 14 to 15 in an ell'ort to protect young athletes, whose bodies are still develop­ing, from serious injuries. Younger gymnasts are also thought to have an advantage because they are more flexible and are likely to have an easier time doing the tough skills the sport requires. They also aren't as likely to have a fear of fail­ure. 
The minimum age was raised to its current 16 in 1997. 
There were questions about the ages of China's Beijing squad months before the games, with media reports and online records suggesting several of the )..,'}'mnasts on the six-woman squad might be as young as 14. 
In Aug-ust, The Associated Press found registration lists previously posted on the Web site of the General Administration of Sport of China that showed He Kexin and Yang Yilin were too young to com­pete. A Nov. 3 story by the Chinese government's news agency, Xinhua, suggested He was only 14. 
But Chinese officials insisted -repeatedly and heatedly ­that all of its gymnasts were old enough, and they had not cheat­ed their way to their first Olympic team gold. The FIG and IOC hoped the matter had been put to rest before the games, when the IOC said it had checked all of the girls' pass­ports and found them to be valid. 
The controversy never went away, though, and the IOC announced three days before the games ended that it had asked the FIG to investigate one more time. 
China turned over birth cer­tificates, passports, ID cards and family residence permits tor He, Yang, Jiang Yuyuan, Deng Linlin and Li Shanshan. 
"The international federation has required the delivery of birth certificates and all the documents like family books, entries in schools and things like that," IOC president Jacques Hogge said on the final day of the games. "They have received the documents, and at first sight it seems to be OK." 
NFL 

Saints'WRdepth to be tested 
sports hernia. 
Associated Press 
It could be even worse 

METAIRIE, La. -Drew when New Orleans hosts San Brees keeps repeating what a Francisco this Sunday. quarterback should say when Veteran starter David Patten, his best receivers get hurt. who has eight catches for 
''I'm confident in every guy 106 yards and a TD, hurt his who's going to step on the left groin during New field on Sunday, whether it's Orleans' 34-32 loss at Denver a starter, a backup, and last weekend and did not third-stringer, a scout team practice Wednesday. guy-it doesn't matter," "Obviously, it's an opportu­Brees asserted after practice nity for some young guys to on Wednesday. "All those step up and get a lot of play­guys have put in the time and ing time," Brees said. "I have 
they're going to  all the confi­ 
be prepared.  dence in the  
"It's  never  world in that  
about one guy."  g  r  o u  p  
How  about  "It's never·about  though.  
two guys? In particular, wide  one guy.  They deserve this opportu­ 
receiver  nity."  
Marques  Drew Brees  One player  
Colston  and  Saints quarterback  likely to see  

tight end J e r e m y Shockey? 

Colston has led New Orleans in receiving each of the previous two sea­sons and Shockey is a former Pro Bowl player who was the Saints' second leading receiver through the first three games this season. 
Imagine how coach Sean Payton and Brees must have salivated at the though of Colston and Shockey on the field together, stretching defenses already preoccupied by Reggie Bush's versatility as both a running and receiv­ing threat. 
Then Colston tore liga­ments in his left thumb on opening day, sidelining him up to six weeks, and now Shockey is sidelined for a month or longer with a 
more action 
is Robert 
Meachem. If 
there was ever a time for him to prove he deserved to be the Saints' first-round draft choice in 2007, now would be it. 
Meachem couldn't get on the field during his rookie season. He finally made his regular season debut in Washington two weeks ago. His first NFL catch was a 19­yard touchdown. 
In Denver, he beat single coverage and hauled in a deep throw from Brees for a 74-yard gain that set up a touchdown. 
Meachem, who now has three catches for 105 yards in his young career, said he doesn't see any need to change his approach this week. 

"At receiver, that's proba­bly one of the cockiest posi­tions on any team," he said. "We have to step up, but all our goals are high anyway. :.. We're going to make our plays. We're going to dive. We're going to do everything in our power to make sure Drew's happy." 
Patten said he hoped to be ready by Sunday, calling his status day-to-day. Meanwhile, Terrance Copper, a special teams regular who has started sporadically since 2006, was limited in Wednesday's practice because of a hamstring pull that sidelined him for the Denver game. 
If they are unable to play, the Saints remaining healthy receivers would be Devery Henderson, Lance Moore and Meachem. The Saints also could activate Skyler Green or Joe West from the practice squad, but would have to temporarily termi­nate a veteran player's con­tract to make room. At tight end, the Saints will rely on Billy Miller, who was tem­porarily released during Week 2, then brought back last week. He caught two passes for 41 yards in Denver. 
Payton conceded that los­ing two top receivers pres­ents "a lot of challenges." Yet, he also noted that most of the receivers who remain have been effective when given a chance. 
· "Robert's been able to get more snaps. lie's done a good job. He made a big play for us last week," Payton said. 
Tyler Perry's The The Backyardigans Broadway Theatre Comedian Marriage Counselor&: Tale of the league Presents Carlos Mencia Urban Musical Mighty Knights Forever Tango At Close Range Tour 
Tuesday, Oct.14 Thursday, Oct.16 Fri-Sat, Oct. 17-18 Sunday, Oct. 19 
UPC()minlt ~h()W§

tJJRi:lt:at,ity; F;tov,' a 
. .. . . ::\@"·· 
nday, Nm{,9 Third Day with .3® Need to Breathe &Revive 
13 Brian Wilson Pop Rock Concert 
Bella Bridal Event Wedding Experts/Style Show 
Proprietors Warren &Linda
!l?occo's 
Restaurant 
9irsl Oriyinal :Azza in 7oam! 
Since 195t 
Specializing in /~/ian Entrees 
Tues.· Thurs.: 5:00PM· 11:00 PM Fri.·~.: 5:00PM· l:OO AM 537 North St. louis • Sout1 Ber:d, IN 574·2:B-2464 

Thursday, September 25, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
defense as a whole feeds of that mentality."

Lysander 
And Lysander knows she's continued from page 28 gotten better with time. 
"Every aspect of my game between this year and years has gotten better has gotten past is that her confidence is sharper," she said. "IIandling extremely high right now, definitely was a big thing, just she's playing that way and I catching the ball cleanly and think she's got the confidence coming out on crosses, and of the team and just being a she's been presence in the strong in box."
"The defense is 

everything But Lysander she's been able absolutely amazing ... points out she's to do," assis-had help in front
They don't even let 

tant coach of her. The Irish
shots get off"

f) a w n defense, led by Greathouse senior captain said. Kelsey Lysander Carrie Dew, has 
The junior kept opponents'
Irish goalkeeper 

has turned her shots on goal to game from a minimum. In being strictly a their 3-lwin shot stopper to an all-around over Penn State, the Irish keeper. And her consistency allowed only four shots on as an all-around keeper has goal, and Lysander came up proven itself as the season has with three saves. progressed helping the Irish "The defense is absolutely maintain a perfect 8-0 record. amazing, they make my job a 
"It's really million times just be\!ng con­easier than it
"She's been able to

sistent ·on the should be," little things and pull out some great Lysander said. then also being "They don't
saves and be 

able to pull out even let shots
consistent, and that's

the big game get off." winning save, all we ever ask ofour But Lysander and I think keepers." deserves credit she's been able for the saves to do that and she has made 
Dawn Greathouse

she has done -ones where t h a t , " Irish assistant coach she's come off Greathouse the line to turn said. "And the game when you're able to do those around. things it really radiates to the "She's been able to pull out entire team and it sets a tone some great saves and be con­and a mentality and I think sistent and that's all we ever that has a lot to do with how ask of our keepers, and she's well the team has done overall really stepped up into that when you have that kind of role," Greathouse said. confidence in your goalkeeper, you just play that much Contact Deirdre Krasula at stronger, and I think our dkrasula@nd.edu 

Dike 
continued from page 28 
into the box. 
Additionally, Notre Dame's balanced scoring attack has tended to dry up and become inbalanced against the stiffest competition. Last sea­son, in their six games · against top-20 teams, the Irish scored only seven goals -well below their season­average of 1.50 goals per game. One player, graduated star Joseph Lapira, scored five of those seven goals. 
And that brings us back to 
• Dike. If the Irish hope to improve upon the past two seasons and reach the program's first-ever Final Four, they need Dike to be a game­changing presence and the motor that runs their offense. 
The teams competing with Notre Dame for those Final Four births will all be well­organized and extremely tal­ented defensively. Often, breaking through those defenses depends on a moment of individual bril­
JESS LEE/The Observer 

liance -moments that Dike 
Senior forward Bright Dike delivers a header during Notre
can provide. 
Dame's 4-1 home victory over Marquette on Sept. 11.
The Irish failed to score in both of their games this year against top-ten opponents -"Now he just needs to go and come calling, though, the a scoreless draw with No. 4 find his goals." Irish attack will be put to the St. John's and a 3-0 season­Indeed. Four goals in seven test. Dike is the player most opening loss No.9 Akron­games is hardly a goal-scor­likely to break through. yet it was Dike that looked ing drought, but what the The extent to which he does most dangerous in each con­Irish really need from Dike so will play a large part in test. Dike led the team in will be goals in the key how far Notre Dame goes this shots in both games, and moments. season. Clark went as far as to single With 2.6 goals per game so out Dike's performance as far this season, Notre Dame The views expressed in this one of the lone bright spots has proven it can score column are those of the against the Zips. against middle-of-the-road author and not necessarily 
"I don't think any team so teams. those of The Observer. · far this year has been able to When Connecticut, Contact Greg Arbogast at handle him," Clark said. Maryland or Wake Forest garbogas@nd. edu 
• • • __c ITADEI.:__ 
SOLUTIONS 

The new standard in hedge fund administration. 
Citadel Solutions LLC, launched as an independent subsidiary of Citadel Investment Group LLC in 2007, brings together leading ex­perts in hedge fund operations, financial control and technology to offer hedge fund administrative services. 
The Citadel Solutions team is at the forefront of shaping processes within the capital markets, taking leadership positions in industry working groups and continuously driving improved workflow. This passion for process is a cornerstone of our culture and represents the close partnership between our people, our technology and our clients. As a result, our technology is continuously updated to support best practices and we believe in perpetually strengthening our team with the best talent available to deliver the highest levels of service. 
This combination of People, Process and Technology has been central to our success and is now available through our administra­tive service offering. By partnering with us, our clients can focus on their core business of investing, while leveraging the unique and advantaged position of Citadel Solutions to support their middle and back office service requirements across nearly every asset class, market and geography. 
Information SessionOpportunities for students include: 
TONIGHT Resume Drop
• Operations Analyst Program 

Wednesday, September 24 Deadline
• Finance & Accounting Analyst Program 

6:30PM Wednesday, October 1
• Summer Intern, Finance & Accounting 

Flanner Hall, Room 114 
To learn more about Citadel Solutions, please visit www.citadelsolutions.com and www.citadelgroup.com. 

Thursday, September 25, 2008 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 
CYCLING 
Lance looking to prove he's clean 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK Lanee Armstrong is chasing an eighth Tour de Franee title and an elu­sive feat: persuading evnryone he's dean. 
As Armstrong reunites with his elose friend and Astana team director .Johan Bruyneel, the man behind his y1dlow jor­soys, he's also adding a new mmnber to his support group. Anti-doping expert Don Catlin has beon hired to test Armstrong anytime, anywhere -and to post the resulb online for the world to see. 
"I think it's the first time an athlnte can actually be totally validated on tho chanen he's successful," Armstrong said Wodnesday. "In my opinion, Don Catlin is 1myond rnproac:h." 
Armstrong nwealed details of' his comeback two weeks after saying hn would encl a three­yoar rntiromont. He'll ride for Astana and will eompete in the Tour Down Under in Adelaido, Australia, in January. 
The setting was the Clinton Clobal Initiative, the annual meeting of' f(mner Pn~sidnnt Bill Clinton's foundation. Armstrong held a news conl'ernnce to talk cyding after announcing a new worldwide campaign to light cancer before an audience of political and 1:orporate leaders. 

As he deseribed his 200CJ Tour plans, the 37-year-old Armstrong sometimes made it sound as though this was more a publicity move to raise aware­ness about the fight against cancer than a legitimate shot at winning an eighth title. 
"I think we're sure we'll have sueeess with the movement, bm:auso we need it," he said in an interview with The A'isociated Press, "but I'm not surn I'll be the fastest cyclist in the world." 
A'itana was banned from this year's Tour because of past doping violations. But Pat Md)uaid, the leader of cyding's governing body, said he believed the team would be allowed to return in 2009. 
The Amaury Group, which owns the company that organiz­es the Tour, has confirmed in writing to UCI that Ar.;tana is on il'i list of teams "that they say arn guaranteed to ride to the Tour de France in 2009 and 2010," he told the AP. 
Tour director Christian 
Prudhomme didn't respond to 
messages. 

The makeup of the 2009 A'itana team is unclear. Alberto Contador, the 2007 Tour de France champ, suggested in AS newspaper Tuesday that the two elite riders couldn't coexist on the same team. 
In a statement released by Astana on Wednesday, Contador was conciliatory but didn't commit to remaining on the team. 
"Hight now people are looking to make up controversy, but honestly I have no ill will towards Lance," he said. "I identify with his passion for the sport. lie has certainly been a role model for me and others throughout the world, and I imagine having him on Team Astana will only motivate me further." 
Contador, sih'Ilnd with Ar.;tana through 2010, won the Spanish Vuelta on Sunday. Combined with his 2008 Giro d'ltalia title, he became just the fifth cydist to win the thrne highest-rngard­ed Tours. 
"I think there's room for all of us on that team," Armstrong said. 
Another Astana rider, American Levi LPipheimer, is a former Armstrong teammate with U.S. Postal Service. 
"lie will make everyone on the team bntter, and that is a good thing," Leipheimer said from the eyding world champi­onships in VarnSI\ Italy. 
Armstrong also hopes to improve the next g1meration of cyclists, starting an under-23 team that will indude 18-year­old Taylor Phinney. Phinney, the son of 1984 Olympic medalists Connie Carpenter-Phinney and Davis Phinney, linished seventh at the Beijing Games in the indi­vidual pursuit. Axel Merekx, son of cyeling great Eddy Merckx, will lead the develop­ment tnam. 
Armstrong, the greatest rider of his generation, is counting on Catlin to help eement his legacy. Catlin will be paid by Astana, but McQuaid had no problem with that. 
"I would have every faith that the results that he will lind will be correct and transparent," McQuaid said in a telephone interview. "lie wouldn't suffer 

DUBLIN , IRELAND 
A Y 2009-201 0 

Trinity College 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Thursday, Sept. 25, 2008 
7:00 pm 231 Hayes Healy 
Application Deadline: NOVEMBER 15,2008 F 0 R ACADEMIC YEAR 2009-2010 
APPLICATION AVAILABLE: WWW.ND.EDU/-OIS 



fools, and he wouldn't be a man that would be involved in any­thing unethical or incorrect." 
Catlin oversaw testing for anabolic agents at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics and ran the country's first anti-doping lab at UClA for 25 years. He now runs Anti-Doping Hesearch, a non­prolit organization he foundBd to rBsearch performance­enhancing drugs, uncovflr new drugs being used illegally and dBvelop tBsts to detect them. 
Armstrong said he didn't know what kinds of teslr.; Catlin would use. 
Catlin did not immediately return messages and emails left by The AssociatBd Press. 
"I think this will be the most advanced anti-doping program in the world," Armstrong said. ''I'm going to talk about it today; beyond today, I'm not going to tell you how clean I am, and I'm not going to insinuate how dirty the others are. 
''I'm going to ride my bike, I'm going to spread this mes­sage (about the fight against eancer) around the world, and Don Catlin can tell you if I'm clean or not." 
Kazakh Cycling Federation deputy chief Nikolai Proskurin said Armstrong agreed to ride for the Kazakhstan-based team for free the first year and has signed up to take part in five races. Armstrong wouldn't rule out competing beyond 2009, but for now that's all he's commit­ted to. 
His goals for his charitable work are clearer. Armstrong plans to hold a global summit on cancer in Paris after the Tour. He hopes to draw nearly a dozen world leaders, including the next U.S. president. His schedule in the months leading up to the Tour will be influ­encBd by the campaign to expand his foundation's light against cancer to underservcd parlr.; of the world. 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazgu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gaynesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact Dr. Maureen Lafferty at m(affert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil. nd .edu/ 


Thursday, September 25, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
TJze ._')(Jc.~iety ~jcJr llz4JJlGl1 Res(Jltrce 1\-fcl.tJ(,Jgerrle.tlt & The A4(1nCl._!5e111eJ1f C'7lub invites everJ)<JJ·le tcJ c1tteJ1ci tl~e ... 


Dont1elly Lectllre Series in Participatory Managet'l"lellt 
Howard P. Behar 
.,-It 7S~ Not About the Coffee... Lec7cler·s1 1'1ip 
4 

Principles",/i"'<JJn a L{fe at Stal_.!Juc~k$-s1 
,y 

Friday, September 26 12:30-1:45 p.m. 
Joi-dan A uditorit1r1~ Mendoza College of Business 

page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 25 2008 
PGA TouR 
RyderCup casts shadovv over FedEx Cup finale 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Chad Campbell 
tipp1~d over a small bucket of 
balls Wednnsday and hit 5-irons 
across the pond on the practice 
grnen at East Lake, norw quite 
as trun as tlw onn hn struck live 
days ago at Valhalla that 
earrwd a crucial point in the 
Hyder Cup. 
Campbell, the last player to 
qualify for the 30-man field at 
the Tour Championship, will be 
tlw first to tee ofT Thursday. 
lle'll understand if his game 
doesn't arrive until sometime 
later in the week. 
"It's going to take a few days," 
he said. "I think once the tour­
nament gets going, I'll be good 
to go. But everybody is a little 
bit worn out. There are some 
guys hern who arn fresh. I just 
don't think you can name any of 
tlwm who were at the Hyder 
Cup." 
Ten Americans who were 
spraying each olhnr with cham­
pagne on Sunday are trying to 
remind thnmsnlves that this, 
too, is a big week. The Tour 
Championship features a $7 
million purse. and for many 
players, their final PCA Tour 
event of the year. 
The only two missing at East 
Lake from the U.S. team are 
.I.B. llolmcs and Boo Weflkley. 
Sergio Gareia is the only Hyder 
Cup player from Europe who 
qualified for the Tour 
Championship. 
"It is different," said Hunter Mahan, who made his Hyder Cup debut going unbeaten in live matches. "It's weird going through that and then having to come to such a big event like this. We get a couple days to kind of fall back to earth and just back to the grind a little bit, so it should be good. It may take a round or two to actually get back into the flow of playing tournament golf again." 
The Hyder Cup is only one component that has taken the sizzle out of the FedEx Cup finale. 
A new points system during the PGA Tour Playoffs brought the kind of volatility the tour wanted. but it knocked out sev­
•~ral players that otherwise would have had a right to be at East Lake. 
Padraig Harrington missed the cut in his first two playoff events. and for that he becomes the first PGA Tour member to win two majors in one year and still not qualify for the Tour Championship. Also missing is Adam Scott and Geoff Ogilvy, along with the Weekley, who might be the most popular man in golf these days for his antics and shotmaking during the Hyder Cup. 
As for the drama over who wins the FedEx Cup and the $10 mill ion prize? 
They could have started engraving Vijay Singh's name on the trophy two weeks ago. lie won the first two playoff events, and now only has to eomplnte four rounds at East Lake to capture the FcdEx Cup. Riveting stun·. 
"It's nice to know that all you need to do is finish thn round," Singh said. "It's been kind of strange in a way that your frionds and your family and your trainer keep saying, 'Don't over exercise. We'll have to just keep it nice and easy this week.' 
Gets in your head a little bit." 
It's hard to blame the tour for 
someone as talented as Singh 
winning two straight tourna­
ment, just as Tiger Woods won 
two straight events last year to 
take the drama out of the final 
wei1k. 
"Honestly, if you look back 
and think about it, every system 
could have provided a very 
exciting finish," Jim Furyk said. 
"You just had a player ... Tiger 
Woods goes out and wins twice 
and finishes second. You had a 
player that separated himself. 
This year, even though the sys­
tem was totally different, it 
could have provided a really 
exciting finish. It did not." 
Furyk at least is motivated by 
trying to pick up his first victory 
of the year, a goal that applies 
to 15 other players in the field, 
such as Steve Stricker, Ben 
Curtis, Mahan, Campbell and 
Trevor lmmelman. 
Even someone like Singh, who 
won the Tour Championship in 
2002, wants to finish off the 
smtson with another win. 
"This is a big event for us," he 
said. "Two years ago, three 
years ago, this was one of the 
major events on tour. That's the 
way I still look at it." 
But his comment was telling. 
Is the Tour Championship no 
longer one of the big events on 
the PGA Tour? It sure doesn't 
seem like one now, with one 
guy assured of the FedEx Cup 
simply by showing up, a field 
that includes first-timers Kevin 
Sutherland and Ken Duke, and 
a bunch of Americans suffering 
from Ryder Cup hangover. 
What once was considered 
golf's version of the All-Star 
game has all the atmosphere of 
a corporate outing. 
And just imagine if the Americans had lost the Ryder Cup. 
Two years ago, a World Golf Championship was held in London a week after the Ryder Cup. Furyk recalls being angry about losing, and after taking a day off. getting back to work to fix what was wrong. 
"Any time I've had a close call or lost in a playoff, it's usually about a day or two and then I get back to work," he said. "After you have a big win on tour. it's a little bit of a hang­over the next week, and emo­tionally, it's tough to get up and get ready." 
The tour brought this prob­lem on itself, and for that, 10 Americans are thankful. 
Remember, the Tour Championship was supposed to be the week before the Hyder Cup, but PGA Tour commission­er Tim Finchem agreed to move it back two weeks so the Americans (and some Europeans) would be fresh for the event that doesn't pay a dime. 
Finchem said he expects a good week and big crowd, and it helps that Saturday's round will be played early, so as not to conflict with the NBC broadcast of Notre Dame football. Thankfully, Georgia plays Alabama on Saturday night. 
In the meantime, he said changes to the FedEx Cup appear imminent. 
"We've got to have a climactic finish," Finch em said. "It's going to build to a finish." 


ATHENS, GREECE 

INFORMATION MEETING 
*************************************************** 
Monday, September 29, 2008 
5:30PM 

125 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 For Fall 2008, Spring 2009, and Academic Year 2008-09 Applications available online: www.nd.edu/-ois/ 

.------------------------­
Thursday, September 25, 2008 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 


en we can 



ewor 

I 

There is a world waiting for you at BP. A world of ideas and expertise, thought leadership and career support. Join us in any of our engineering, science and business prograrns and you'll soon see what it means to be part of a global business like BP. Look beyond the limits. 
BP Engineering Information Session 
Thursday, September 25, 2008 6·8pm 
316 DeBartolo Hall 
BP is an equal opportunity employer. 
bp 


beyond petroleum~ 
bp.comluscoflegecareers 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 25, 2008 
Interhall 
continued from page 28 
doesn't look to be a fador against 
Badin. 
"Farley's win was very impres­sive on Sunday," Bullfrog captain and quarterback Katie Hose llaekney said. "But we're looking to prevent big plays from their ofl'nnsn and senior sa((lty Kelsey Young will play a big part in doing that." 
Hose is also very confident in thn Bullfrogs' wide receiver corps. 

"We havn great receivers in Carli Fernandez, Hyan Cooney .-and Courtney Haines," she said . 
Despitn both Fernandez and Cooney being freshman, Hose expects thnrn to be an integral part of the passing game and continue to have an impact throughout the season. Fernandez caught a touchdown pass in Badin's 6-6 tie with Breen-J>hillips in their previous game. 
With their last game nnding in a stalmnate. llackney was eager to linally put a game in the win column. 
"After the Lie on Sunday, we're . looking to go out and get our first win of the snm;on." she said. 
Walsh vs. Pangborn 
Both Pangborn and Walsh will bn looking to rebound from shutout losses when the two meet tonight at IJ. 
Both teams anl young and their inexperience played a key role in each tnam's respective losses last wnek. 
Pangborn lost 14-0 to Welsh Family. but the coaches seemed phlased with the ell'ort, Pspecially on the delimsive side of the ball. MiddlP linobacker Andrea HagsdalH led the defimsive push, slowing the vaunted Welsh Family ommse. 
"The defense was solid and carried us last week," Phoxes coach Hyan Bell said. "Welsh Family has one of the best ofl'ens­es in the league and we were able to contain thHm" 
lie also mentioned that while defensive coordinator Mike Perry was pleased with results of last week's game, he wants to see morn emotion. 
"Perry is looking to cnmte a Sergio Brown, 'Crank me up' type of intensity on the defensive side of the ball," Bell said. 
I>Pspite the defensive effort, the Phoxes failed to seore any poinl<>, making the ofTense this week's prime fiJ1:us. 
"We have been working on get­ting the offense on the same page," Bllll said. "We have to be able to take advantage of the opportunities we are given." 
Like their opponent<>, the Wild Women will be looking to put last week's loss behind them. 
Walsh lost to Farley 26-0 but showed encoura~-,>ing signs on the ollensive side of the ball. Despite failing to score, sophomore quar­terback Amy Longneeker was able to move the ball down the field and lind the open reeeiver effectively. Longnecker and the rest of the oiTense will work on completing their drives and fmd­ing a way to put poinl<; up on the scoreboard. 
The Wild Women also hope to see improvement in their fresh­man athletes, many of whom got their first game experienee in the loss last weekend. With some game experienee the Wild Women hope to look more aggressive and physical on the field. 
Contact Chris Wynkoop at cwynkoop@nd.edu, Ryan O'Connell at roconne3@nd.edu and Matt Wilsey at mwilsey@nd.edu 
Kaelin 
continued from page 28 
well in eaeh and every match, as opposed to having flashes here and there. 
"I think I need to play a little bit more consistently," she said. "I've had some really good matches and also some match­es where I didn't play up to my potential." 
Kaelin also pointed out that the message of consistency translates to her team's play as well. The Irish have shown that they can play with anyone in the country, like when they took No. 4 California to live sets. But they also have let a few match­es get away, such as Sunday, 

phones, the o·ne you want is here. getusc.com 
when they allowed Western "I think last year we see as Michigan to come back and win somewhat of a disappointment after being down by two sets. because we didn't reach the 
"I think that in spurts, we've goals that we had set," Kaelin played some said. "But I feel really good vol-that it's also like 
leyball," Kaelin said "I think we  "One ofour goals is  a learning expe­rience. We don't  
just need to work on our consistency."  to go undefeated in the Big East."  want to be there again." Kaelin said she  
Consistency  used  last  sea­ 
will be crucial  Christina Kaelin  son's shortcom­ 
as  Kaelin and  Irish outside hitter  ings as motiva­ 
the Irish hope  tion during the  
to improve on  spring and sum­ 
last  season,  mer  months to  

which she considered to be make sure that this year had a largely unsuccessful. The Irish different outcome. finished with a final record of "In the summer we really hit 15-13 and fell to Louisville in the weight room hard," she the second round of the Big said. East tournament. Now, Kaelin is focused on just one thing on her mind: making Notre Dame a dominant force in the Big East. 
"Going into the Big East this weekend," she said. "One of our big goals is to go undefeated in the Big East." 
The graphie design major knows exactly what she has to do to get the Irish to that goal. 
"I think I need to have strong hitting performances every time I go on the court," she said. "Also, I need to play pretty good defense, especially on the front row, doing some good blocking. 
"We're going to show that Notre Dame is a force to be reckoned with in the Big East." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


~US. Cellular. 
©2008 U.S. Cellular. belteve in something better· 
-----------------------. 
Thursday, September 25, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

THE DOME PIECE 
DAVID CAVADINI 

67 Most brazen 68 Eternal ... and a hint to 19-, 34-, 42-and 55­Across 
Down Intoxicating 
Polynesian drink 2 Parched 3 Jersey material 4 Conseco 
Fieldhouse team 5 "Am not!" 
rejoinder 6 Shocking 7 Tequila source 8 Chi-town daily, 
with "the" 
9 Cow: Sp. 10 Tour of duty 11 It's hot in an 
Indian restaurant 12 Put away 13 Univ. dorm 
supervisors 14 G.P.S. data: Abbr. 20 Stretches of history 23 How "Moon 
River" is played 24 Take off 25 Give permission 26 Northernmost ' 
county in New Jersey 27 Chase scenes, in action films 28 Bring back, as silver dollars 30 String before W 31 "Whatever shall! do?!" 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
This isn't as easy as it looks 
@2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r;i~f~l I ItCLUSKE j 


WHE:N HE: TRIED HIS . 1 HAND AT ARC.HE:RY,
. J r I I 

\o\'Ww.jumble.com HE DISC.OYE:R£::0 IT HAD--­
tDACUDE t 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I J I J I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

"l I I I I I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's IJumbles: BELLE MAXIM PLACID VANITY Answer: Even a king takes a back seat to this in a poker game -AN ACE 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Kyle Sullivan, 20; Spencer Treat Clark, 21; Erin Chambers, 29; Nia Vardalos, 46 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll19): Your competitive attitude will lead to success. The more exhilarating the event, the harder you will be to beat. A challenge will help you realize your calling. Memories of activities you used to enjoy will lead to a new venture. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't rule out learning something new. It may help you get ahead professionally or financially. Don't let emotional uncertainty cause added stress and don't make a decision if someone is pressuring you. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Network, talk to colleagues and generally take charge of your future. Explain your goals and intentions and you will get valuable insight and aid in reaching your target. Discussing your plans with people who can help will motivate you to do more. 4 sta.I's 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Expect the unexpected and you will be able to ma­nipulate the situation in your favor. A partnership, although difficult, may aid you in holding on to what you have. Don't fall for products that promise the impos­sible. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Wasting time waiting for someone or something to happen will set yon back. You have to be the one to take control if you want to get ahead. Make home improvements that ensure everyone has his or her own space. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A friendahip will be on shaky ground if you are being asked to do too much and your attitude becomes uncertain or distant. Someone from your past may be what's causing your confusion. Consider everyone's mo­tives, including your own. 5 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Nice, not nasty, will get you what you want. With a little Libra charm you will be well on your way to success. When it comes to a partnernhip, you could get caught in the middle of someone else's agenda, leading to a parting of the ways. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Choose your battles wisely. If you can't win, don't even step into the ring. There is a lesson to be learned by being the observer for a change. Give attention to what you can enforce and move forward. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be too eager to take advantage of some­one who's being generous. What this pernon will want in return may be more than you're willing to offer. Put money aside in case you need to bail yournelf out of a mess. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone may lead you astray because he or she wants something from you. Promises made are likely to be broken. Stick to conser­vative deals and people you can count on to give you good advice. Stay in control of all money mattern. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Talk about your plans, intentions and commit­ments. It's time to be honest with the people around you regarding how they fit in to your intended direction. Get started on something you have longed to do. I star 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20}: Get along with your colleagues, peers and friends, no matter how difficult some of them may be. Don't play with fire when it comes to love. Being enticed by someone who isn't really available will lead to distrac­tions. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a dreamer with a strong imagination and the pernever­ance to see any matter through to completion. You are passionate about your be­liefs and traditions.very gnnd at delegating --a leader and a comrnuniC'ator. 
Eugenia's Web siles: as/roruMce.comjor ftm, eugenin/ast.comfor confidential conwltmimu 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CROSSWORD 
Across Capital on Lake Victoria 8 Morrow and Murrow, e.g. 15 Part of a floor decor 16 War movie sound effect 
171nnards 
18 Hostility 
19 Musical group that stays together? 21 Bulldogger's event 22 Herd : buffalo :: knot: 
26 Part of Eastern Europe, once: Abbr. 
29 Cryptanalysis org. 32 Ancient theaters 
33 Mountain West Conference player 
34 Faith healing service? 
38 Iowa county named for an Indian tribe 
39 Death on the Nile cause? 40 Thurman of the "Kill Bill" films 41 Frolicsome 42 Stadium's dome? 45 Home of Samuel Beckett: Abbr. 46 Designer Saab 47 Beach shade 48 Red Cross supply 49 City near Dayton 51 Infatuation 55 Donation to the Salvation Army? 61 1960s sitcom title role 
64 Three-dimensional scene 
65 Played the role of 66 Ready to blow 


Puzzle by Gary J. Whitehead 35 Entry-level 
position: Abbr. 36 Pet lovers' org. 37 Plug place 43 Held sway 44 One way to store 
data 48 Beethoven's Symphony 

50 Former "Biography" channel 
52" cock-horse to Banbury Cross" 
53 Not abstaining 
54 Germ 
56 Narrow inlets 

57 Oscar superlative 

58 Brush material? 
59_ Building, first skyscraper in Boston 
60 Schoolboys 

61 Boxer's setup 
62 Prefix with -cide 
63 U.S./U.K. divider 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
For answers. call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with.a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, September 25, 2008 
page 28 
ND WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 

Hitting her mark 
Kaelin racking up kills with nzajor efficiency 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
This wonkend, Christina KaPlin not only lt~d thn Irish past Liberty and UC-Irvirw, but the junior outside hitter also spiked lwr way into tlw Notn1 Dame roeord hooks. 
Against LibPrty, Kanlin talliml 
I I kills and no nrrors, notching 
a .7:n hitting JWrcnntago, tho I Oth-highnst single-match per­c•mtagn in Irish history. The Louisvilln nativo didn't lnt up tlw rlPxt night against UC­1 rvine, registnring 17 kills and .519 hitting pPrcentagn. 
"This wnekend was one of the bettor weekends J'vo had so far," Kanlin said. "I think it was bnc<UISP of my consistnney." 
ConsistPncy is koy for Kaelin, who noted that the one aspect of her gamn she wants to improve is hnr ability to play 
HY PHAM!The Observer 

Junior outside hitter Christina Kaelin spikes the ball during a 2006 match against Bowling Green. see UNBEATEN/page 26 Kaelin notched a .733 hitting percentage in Friday's win over Uberty. 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Lysander dominant in Irish net 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA A'sisrant Managing Editor 
A total of two goals night games into the season isn't something to brag about ­unless you're Irish goalkePJH~r Knlsey Lysander. 
The junior gar rwrnd the starting keeper spot for the 2008 snason and has proved slw deserved it, leading top­ranked Notre Dame to six shutouts and allowing only two goals in its so far unde­feated season. 
Lysander played behind goalkeeper Lauren Karas, who graduatnd last spring, as a freshman and sophomore, and rather then letting her nerves take over, she's stepped up and into the start­ing position. 
"I think the difference 
see LYSANDER/page 21 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Levvis to open vvith Welsh Fan1; Farley looking to dominate 
passing game. but has not yet played a game. book," Sushinsky said. "We're terback in Emily Murphy, who's By CHRIS WYNKOOP, RYAN "We were solid on both sides of "Going into the season, I would definitely ready." been doing a great job so far,"O'CONNELL and MATT the ball," Gargula said. "On say that our passing will be our The prospect of facing a dan­Farley captain .Jenny Holfs said. 
WILSEY 

offense, both our touchdowns biggest asset on ollimse," Chicks gerous team in Welsh Family does "And groat receivers in myself, SportS Writers 
worn through the air, and all our captain Katie Sushinsky said. "We not :;eem to be fazing Sushinsky Kelly Weber, Molly Ca.<;anova and receivers contributed." arc returning our quarterback or the Chicks. others." 
As Welsh Family looks to build Gargula said she believes the and many of our receivers from "We're not afraid of Welsh Farley's secondary also ligun~s oil' a solid performance, Lewis is attitude of the team is also an last year, and they have great Fam," she said. "We're going to to make an impact on the game nager to prove what it ean do important faetor. chemistry." do what we need to do to go to after defensive baek Emma whnn the teams eollidn tonight at "We are confident going into Sushinsky said the team has the Stadium." Closterman had a late intereep­7 p.m. at Hiehle Fields. every game," she said. been practicing very hard for this tion to snal the team's 26-0 win 
The Whirlwinds an~ coming otr "Hegardless of who we're playing, game on both sides of the ball and Farley vs. Badin against Walsh. a 14-0 victory over Pangborn we think we can go out and win." on speeial teams. Farley will try to maintain its Farley appears to bn primed li1r Sunday. Wnlsh Fam captain .lenni The Whirlwinds will face a "We've had several practices undefimted record tonight when it a strong season, but intimidation c;argula attributed the win to both Lewis team that also has great this week, doing a lot of scrim­takes on Badin tonight at 8 p.m. a stilling deffmsn and a proficient confidence in its passing attack maging and finalizing our play-"We have a really strong quar-see INTERHALL/page 26 
MEN'S SOCCER COMMENTARY 

Irish may have Bright future 
In snvnn ganrns so far this season, senior forward Bright Dike has seored four goals ­not bad for someone who did­n't play a rninutP last season. 
But Notre Damn will need morn from 
Dikn this 
yc~ar. 
As Irish 1:oach Bobby Clark has said many times, it lakes a 

wmplntn Greg Arbogast squad c:orn binnd 
with a lit-,r..,'ports Writer tin bit of luck to go deep into the postseason. Still, a ganw-breaknr nevnr 
hurts. 
At 6-foot-1 and 200 lbs. of solid muscle, Dike is a physi­cal presenee defenses aren't accustomed to seeing. Hunning after balls, he 
reminds you of Vinee Young -hn doesn't look like he's running that hard, yet he's faster than everybody else on the field. 
Whnn othnr defenders try and body him for the ball, they seem to just bounce off. Many of the fouls called on Dike are not really actual infringements but rather ref­erees' dislwlief that one play­or is that mueh stronger than the eompetition. 
"It's like running into a 
brick wall," Irish coach Bobby Clark said of Dike. "You ran 't push him around, so that causes defenders a lot of problems." 

Although Dike is tied for the team lead in goals, the Irish offense has been a pleasantly balanced attack so far this season with a variety or players making significant contributions. 
Midfielders Dave Donahue and Michael Thomas share the team lead in goals with Dike at four, and eight play­ers have· found their way onto the score sheet. 
Still, don't expect Thomas and Donahue to be at the top of. the scornr's chart at the end of thn year. Thomas' role is more of an attacking play­makPr while Donahue looks to get wide and serve balls 
see DIKE/page 21 
SMC GOLF 

Belles fall just short of first in MIAA Jamboree 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's placed two golfers in the top four overall but took seeond by two strokes to Olivet in Wednesday's second­place finish at the MIAA Jamboree at Thornapple Pointn Golf Club in Grand Hapids, Mich. 
Sophomore Hosie O'Connor shot a 78 to tie for first in the individual standings. Freshman Jackie Dill posted a earner-best 80 to elaim a fourth-placn finish overall. Senior Perri llamma recorded the Belles' third bPst score with an 86. 
Saint Mary's was once again plagued by its inability to post top-quality rounds from its fourth and fifth golfers. Freshman Natalie Matuszak, who has been a major contribu­tor so far this season, battled through a tough day to eard an 87, and fellow freshman Christine Brown roundod out tlw Belles' scoring live with a 90. 
With one Jamboree and a two­round championship yet to be played, the Belles find tlwm­selves with 41-stroke dnficit behind reigning champion Olivet. 
The Bnlles will compete in the fourth MIAA .Jamboree, hosted by Adrian College Sept. 30, before playing for the MIAA Championship Oet. 10. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 



