
The Independent Newspaper Serving ]\{otre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 118 FRIDAY, APRIL 11,2008 
Donn holds successful marrow registry 
Howard Hall collects 375 donors, donations provide transplants for cancer patients 
The event entered volunteers into the National Marrow Donor Program (NMDP), which keeps records of and contact<; its regis­trants when a cancer patient with matched DNA needs a transplant, according to NMDP's website. 
The registration process con­sisted of students first filling out paperwork with their contact information and then swabbing the inside of their cheeks to obtain a DNA sample. 
In the case of a DNA match, the donor would be contacted to donate marrow. 
"If you're called, you could save a life," Stewart said. 
The last 75 students to register only filled out the paperwork, since other supplies had run out. 
"We will have the swab kits 
see HOWARD/page 3 

Shack City to raise fmtds for homeless 
Participants will spend the night on South Quad to raise awareness for the less fortunate 

By KATIE PERALTA Assistant News Editor 
Howard Hall exceeded its goal of collecting 300 donors in its sig­nature Bone Marrow Registry Thursday in the Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center. 
Scheduled to last from noon until 8 p.m., event organizers were encouraged during the first 40 minutes of the event as they registered 60 donors. 
When the event was finished, the event had registered 375 peo­ple, topping the initial expecta­tion, according to sophomore Emily Stewart, event co-chair. 
"You really underestimate how willing people are to donate," said sophomore Eleanor Trousdale, another one of the event's co­chairs. 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
In an attempt to emulate the real-life situation of homeless­ness, students will forgo the comfort of their dorm rooms or off-campus residences Friday night, rain or shine. 
Through Habitat for Humanity's Shack City event, the Notre Dame community plans to raise awareness and funds to combat homeless­ness. 

Participants will construct homes out of cardboard boxes and spend the night on South Quad. 
Habitat for Humanity educa­tion and outreach board member Jaime Amrhein said the event has a twofold pur­pose. 
The first, Amrhein said, is to raise awareness of the condi­tions in which many homeless people are forced to live, and the second is to raise· funds for the organization. 
Funds raised from the event 

Midvvest fihn conference to be held at Notre Dan1e 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
This weekend, Notre Dame will welcome students from across the Midwest in its sec­ond annual Midwest Undergraduate Film Conference. 
The program will run from 10 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. on Friday and from 9 a.m. until 5:15 
p.m. on Saturday. 
Thirty participants from 12 different Midwestern universi­ties will present papers on dif­ferent film genres. Papers range from topics with titles such as "Dangerous Women" to "Tales of the Uncanny" to "Heroes and Anti-Heroes." 
"We're probably the only undergraduate film conference in the nation," said Film, Television and Theater (FTT) professor Christine Becker, co-organizer of the event. 
Becker said this conference is unique for its emphasis on undergraduate research. 
"Almost all conferences are geared to professors and grad students, but Notre Dame is a place that really inspires undergraduate research," she said. 

Although the conference is only in its second year, Becker said, it gradually has become well known. 
"It was started last year by Pamela Wojcik," said Becker. "It was such a success we decided to try it again." 
Becker also said the confer­ence has since gained increas­ing recognition in academic circles as well. 
"There are more submis­sions this year than there were last year, and we even got sub-
see FILM/page 4 
will help "to combat the homelessness that we are try­ing to raise awareness about," Amrhein said. 
Proceeds from Shack City will help Habitat for Humanity to finish building the house that the organization has been working on in South Bend since October -the 14th house that the organization has built in South Bend, Amrhein said. 
Steve Camilleri, executive director of the Center for the Homeless in South Bend, will speak at the event, Amrhein said. 

DJs from WVFI and three performers from Acoustic Cafe will be playing music on the quad. 
In past Shack City events, Amrhein said there was a "community atmosphere," with many people playing football and Frisbee on the quad 
Shack City's South Quad location enables Habitat for 
see UGANDA/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
SMCplans to rebuild ho111es 
Project to restore houses in South Bend 
By KATLYN SMITH News Writer 
In an annual effort to reha­bilitate homes of low-income residents, Saint Mary's stu­dents will volunteer in the annual Rebuilding Together project Saturday. 
Over 100 Saint Mary's stu­dents will participate in this year's event, said Carrie Call, Director of the Office for Civic and Social Engagement. 
Each April, students volun­teer in the restoration of homes of the elderly, poor and disabled in the South Bend community. Saint Mary's is sponsoring two homes owned by single elderly women on O'Brien Street this year, Call said. 
Students will be divided into teams to work on outdoor and interior painting, yard work, roof repairs and cleaning. 
The Rebuilding Together Program, a partnership of vol­unteers from local govern­ment, businesses and other organizations, has rehabilitat­ed close to 700 homes in the South Bend area since 1989, according to the Office for Civil and Social Engagement's Web site. 
Because of the significant student turnout the past three 
see REBUILD/page 3 


Students to bike 7,657 miles 
ND-8 and Building Together charity organize fundraiser for Uganda 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Students will collectively attempt to pedal the 7,657 miles between South Bend and Uganda today in order to raise money to build a Ugandan elementary school. 
A joint effort of the ND-8 organization and Building Together charity, Bike to Uganda is the final fundrais­ing event that will contribute to the construction of the school. 
In the past, the group held a brick sale, a T-shirt sale and a Christmas tree orna­ment sale. 
"Our goal is to raise $35,000," said Erin Jelm, ND-8 officer and Bike to Uganda organizer. "We are about $7,500 short, and we 
see SHACK/page 3 page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 

The time IS novv
I • 
f 
Strktly speaking, that's true all of the time. But what's true about this time is that~ it's time to reject the vicious lies of <Tack­addicted pn~sidential rivals by voting my t good looks, boyish charm 1U1d unearthly modesty into the 
Brian McKenzie
t White I louse. 
Senator Clinton has dainwd that I IU11 News J!Wre unfit li1r the presiden­Editor cy bec.ause my spiritu­al mentor has claimed that ht~ is the reinearnation of Britney Spears and that the CIA snil'i erack mcaine, AIDS and Tamagotchis to inner­eity babies. 
My rationalization -err, expl~mation­of these innmdiary remarks has been dear and unchanging. 
1) My priest hasn't said ~mything partieu­larly mntroversial. 
2) These eomnuml'i have been taken out of mntl~xt. You couldn't possibly under­stand what he meant by his alleged remarks on Britney Spears unless you had bem1 them. 
:~)I can no morn disown my priost than you mn disown your horribly raeist hrrand­mother. But I may be able to li1rgive you lilr her vile views if you vote lbr me. 
Senator Obama has daimed that the stl>­rins I told at a li~w prnss conlimmens about my two hnrok tllllrs of Navy SEAL duty in Iraq wen~ liLbrkated. "A'i fhlw a'i the Clinton marriage," he says. At tlw time of thesn alleged prnss mnlimmces, I wa'i badly tin~d. I may havn misspoken. Hepeatedly. Ovnr several years. Obviously, tl1is dons not count a'i a serial litbrication, any morn than Sinbad eounL'i as a eommli­an. What I said wa'i in essence trun. I had dainwd that my plane wa'i landing into a total war zonn in tim faee of heavy anti-air fin~. In liut, CBS has since rnlea'ied tape of a child grneting me with local p01~try. which sounded rnmarkably like anti-air lirn. It's a mistake that could happen to anyone. 
Finally, all of my rival'> have criticized me fbr rectmtly joking that "I don't mally understand eeonomks, or ~mything else tJmt would qualily me ((Jr a job more imporl.lmt th~m dog-catcher." Oearly, my rivals worn missing when God wa'i passing out senses of humor. (What wem iliey doing, beating up puppies? They haven't denied itl. 
My rival'i have al'io criticized me lbr jok­ing tJmt anyone who lives as dangerously a'i I do may not survive lour years in office. But I owe it wthe American people to be honest. As President. I will have a limou­sine that eontrol'i every traffic light within 10 miles and my own mot11rcadc. I'd be lying if I said that I weren't going to fully exercise my executive authority. 
UnsurprL'>ingly, people are paying atten­tion to my vice-presidrmtial selection process. Deciding who should be one flam­ing limo One wmek away from the Presidency is one of my gravest responsi­bilities ~md I intend to exercise it responsi­bly. Senator Obama has offered strong advice when he suggested that the best vice-prnsidential pick L'i "somebody who knows about a bunch of stuff that [the prnsident L'i] not a'i expert on." But how do you balance someone who already knows a bunch of stuff about everything? The solution is simple: 1will select my VP by pil:king one of my rival's names out of a hat. 
The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and not 
necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi({l.lnd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however. recognize rhar we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can 
correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, April 11, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHEN YOU ARE AN RA, WHICH DULAC RULE WILL YOU ENFORCE? 

Indonesian masseuses told to lock their pants 
JAKARTA -Massage par­lors in an Indonesian town are asking their female masseuses to padlock their skirts and pants to make it clear that sex is not on offer. But the move has been protested by the women's affairs minister of Indonesia, where massage parlors are often a front for prostitution. 
"It is not the right way to prevent promiscuity," Meutia Swasono was quoted as say­ing in Thursday's Jakarta Post. "It insults women ... as if they are the ones in the wrong." 
TODAY 

...... 
< 
(,) 


Dan Krcmaric  Kate Crecelius  Marie Bader  Tom Gruffi  
junior Dillon  junior McGlinn  junior Lewis  junior Dillon  
"What's DuLac?"  "No carnivorous fish in the dorms. "  "No picking of the campus tulips."  "Three feet on the floor in 24­hour spaces."  






2,008 naked fans in the run­up to the Euro 2008 tourna­ment. 
Austria's national railway said Thursday it will offer free travel to the first 2,008 men and women who sign up to bare it all for the May 11 spectacle. 
Tunick wants w pose them on the field inside Ernst Happel Stadium, where the tournament final will be played. Austria and Switzerland are co-hosting the event, which runs from June 7-29. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
At least one parlor in the tourist town of Batu on Java island has required its masseuses to padlock their skirts or trousers to make it clear that the establishment does not tolerate prostitution. 
Artist to photograph 2,008 naked Europeans 
VIENNA, Austria -It might be a good time to make strategic use of a yellow card. 
New York contemporary artist Spencer Tunick has gained notoriety worldwide for photographing thousands of people in the nude. Now he's planning to pack a Vienna soccer stadium with 

TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

0 

HIGH 67 HIGH 51 HIGH 43 HIGH 42
...I 

LOW 51 LOW 35 LOW 28 LOW 25 


Melissa Reidy  Janeva Waked  
junior Welsh Family  junior Howard  
"No scaling of campus buildings."  ".S'tay off the grass on God Quad."  

IN BRIEF 

The play "TI.le Tragical History of Doctor Faustus", a Christopher Marlowe play about a professor who sells his soul to the devil, will be per­formed April 10-H, 17 and 18 at 7::HI p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theater at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Vietnamese Student Association of ND is hosting the 6th annual "Vietnamese lnteraeting As One" eonference April 11-13. The theme this year is "Goldnn Dreams­Redefining Suceess for our Generation." Visit www.vial.org for conference information. 
The Notre Dame Women's Tennis Team will play DePaul today at 3 p.m. at the Eck Center Tennis Pavilion. Admission is free. 
Acapella group Halftime will perform a Spring Concert tonight at 7:30 in Washington Hall. Tickets are $3 and avail­able at the LaFortune Box Office and at the door. 
Flipside will host John Rush, "The Human iPod" tonight at 10 in LaFortune basement. Admission is free. 
RecSports will sponsor its annual Spring Run with a SK, 10K and 1-mile fun walk Saturday at 11 a.m. Advance registration through RecSports is $10, and race day registra­tion, which begins at 10 a.m., is $15. Proceeds will benefit Rebuilding Together of Saint Joseph County. 
To submit information to be included in this· section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 50 HIGH 57 LOW 30 LOW 40 

Atlanta 77 I 61 Boston 56 I 39 Chicago 57 I 49 Denver 43 I 27 Houston 81 I 67 Los Angeles 82 I 54 Minneapolis 56 I 37 New York 60 I 49 Philadelphia 67 I 49 Phoenix 84 I 54 Seattle 62 I 38 St. Louis 67 I 52 Tampa 85 I 67 Washington 77 I 55 

Would you like to be the voice of Fighting Irish Football! WVFI broadcasts all football games. If any student is interested in becoming aWVFI Sports Announcer, please email Rok Kopp at rkopp@nd.edu by April17,2008. WVFI, Voice of the Fighting Irish 
~------­
Friday, April 11, 2008 
Shack 
continued from page 1 
Humanity to spread its message to a large number of people on campus. 
"The reason we hold it on South Quad is because it is probably the most visible place on campus," Amrhein said. 
She said students passing by the quad often stop to ask about the event, and such a "visible image" is way to generate awareness about the problem of homelessness. 
"That's how we try to 
reach out to those who aren't participating," Amrhein said. 
In keeping with Shack City's mission to raise awareness about the situa­tion of the homeless, the event will take place under any weather circum­stances. 
"We'll be having Shack City no matter what the 
weather is. Homeless peo­ple don't get to choose where they live, neither do we for this night," Amrhein said. 
Interested students can register for Shack City online at www.nd.edu/-habitat or can register at the event beginning tonight at 7:00. Participants who make or exceed the $15 suggested donation receive a t-shirt, Amrhein said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
3person teams compete in the Superbowl of Pop Culture to win fabulous prizes: ipod shuffles, Best of Notre Dame Football DVD boxset, ~25 gift certificate to itunes, bragging rights. 
Preliminary written test, Monday, 14 April at 7pm. Sign up at wvfi.nd.edu and receive more information. Top teams compete in final round, Friday, 18 April at 9pm in the Carey Auditorium in the Library. Free food and door prizes to the audience. 
WVFI, Voice of the Fighting Irish wvfi.nd.edu 

Howard 
continued from page 1 
mailed to them," Stewart said. 
According to Stewart, about 30 or 40 Howard residents volunteered to help with the event. 
"We also had assistant rec­tors and our [hall] president help," Stewart said. 
The event welcomed donors with music, a free T-shirt and free soda and food. 
"[Notre Dame Vice President of Student Affairs] Father [Mark] Poorman gave us a generous grant," Stewart said. "We were really grateful for his support." 
Event organizers initially were apprehensive about expectations for the registry. 
"We were a little concerned because there. was also another bone marrow dona­tion registry last week," Trousdale said, referring to the registry held by the Minority Pre-Med Society last Friday. 
The event, Stewert said, began as Howard's signature event a few years ago when one resident's father needed a bone marrow transplant. The event now is held every other year. 
The first year, Stewart said, the registry did not see the success it did this year. Two years ago, only 45 students registered, Stewart said. 
"We are just thrilled [with the success]," Stewart said. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 


SMC to hold Junior Morn's Weekend 
Annual event brings family to campus, auction will be held 
daughters a chance to min­
By LIZ HARTER 
gle with their peers as well 
Saint Mary's Editor 
as casually talk to their 
daughters' professors." 
The Saint Mary's Class of The class board will also 2009 is bringing .tradition host a Mass and formal din­to life this weekend as the ner on Saturday evening. mothers of the class arrive The board sent out a list in South Bend for the of various activities in College's annual Junior which the mothers and Mom's Weekend. daughters can participate 
"[This weekend] is a on both Saint Mary's and 
chance for mothers to visit their daughters at school and see what their lives are like away from home," said Katie Putz, sec­retary of the Class of 2009. 
Activities begin Friday with a wine and cheese reception and a 
silent auction. The class board asked students and their mothers to 
basket or gift for the auc­like to do," she said. "The tion. free time is meant to allow 
Proceeds of the auction mothers and daughters will go to fund the Class of time to do what they like to 2009's senior dance and do without the pressure of senior week next year, Putz participating in planned said. events." 
"Professors from every Class of 2009 president department have been Jenny Antonelli echoed invited [to the event as Putz's sentiment. well]," she said. "This gives "On Saturday, we offer a the mothers and their few options so everyone is 
Notre Dame's campus and in the South Bend area
"[This weekend] is 

along with the 
a chance for 

invitations so mothers to visit that they can pick and
their daughters at 

choose what
school and see 

they want to what their lives do, Putz said. 
are like away from "There are 
no scheduled
home.,, 

events on Saturday Katie Putz because we Class of 2009 secretary want to allow mothers and daughters a chance to donate a spend time doing what they 
with Angelo Spencer & L'Orchidee D'Hawai 
Saturday, April 12th Legends Doors Open at 8:30 Show at 9 Free Admission with Valid ND, SMC, or HCC ID 
Game of skill for Juno DVDs and WVFI merchandise 
not limited on what is available for them to do," Antonelli said. "These options include spa pack­ages at local salons for manicures and pedicures, and tours of the Heritage Room." 
Junior Emily Croft's moth­er will be traveling to South Bend from Bloomington, Ill., to participate in the event with her daughter. 
"We're going to go to the wine and cheese event and then we'll probably watch a movie or something," Croft said. "My mom really wants to meet my friends and their mothers so we're going to try to hang out with them a bit too." 
Croft said she will also allow her mother to spend time with her sister who is a sophomore at the College as well. The three will go out to lunch on Saturday before Croft and her moth­er attend the Mass and din­ner. 
Croft said she has be en looking forward to this weekend since she found out that the juniors' moth­ers would be invited to campus at the beginning of this year. 
"It's going to be a really fun weekend to show my mom what my life is like here at school," Croft said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Friday, April 11, 2008

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Fil01 
continued from page 1 
were last year, and we even got submissions from schools we didn't necessarily solicit. Also, two participants who did it last year are doing it again this year, so they must havn liked it," Beeker said. "Awarnness and recognition of the conference is definite­ly growing." 
Notre Dame professors will moderate thn student prfl­sentations. 
"The moderators are exclusivnly FTT faculty," 

Rebuild 
·continued from page 1 
years. the organization assigned Saint Mary's two homes this year, Call said. 
In addition to providing the work force, Saint Mary's will donate new televisions, stoves, and other necessities. Finaneial sponsorship of the nv(mt comes from faculty and staff donations. 
Currnntly, Saint Mary's has raised over $1,000, Call said. Thn College will also provide construction tools. 
Call said the project is a unique form of service. 
"It's a very direct way to give hack to the local com­munity," she said. 
Students enjoy seeing their nl'l'orts immediately benefit­ing someone, Call said. 
Senior Sarah Patten has been involved with the proj­nct for two years. She has wit.nessnd many positive rmu:tions from honHwwners. 
"The homnownnrs have hnen ovnrwhelmed in the past. Thny are rnally getting a morn livabln nnvironment 
said Becker. with their peers. 
Becker said Wojcik was "One purpose of the con­inspired to start the confer­ference was to get our 
ence while teaching an FTT Honors 
"Awareness and 
seminar last 
recognition of the
year. "This is conference is 
m o r e definitely growing."
advanced academic 
Christine Becker 
work that's 
beyond th:; FTT professor u s u a I , Beeker said. 
undergraduate scholars to see each other's work," Becker said. "It's incredibly grati­fying to not only show your work but also collabo­rate and learn from other peo­ple's. It makes the academics 

The conference, Becker very rewarding for the stu­said, gives undergraduate students the unique opportu­Contact Theresa Civantos at nity to share their research tcivanto@nd.edu 
has special significance for the 
"The homeowners 
Catholic col­
lege. have been over­"It directly whelmed in the past. 
reflects 
They are really
Catholic social 
teaching," getting a more livable 
Call said. environment they Last year, 
could not have done 
Saint Mary's 
by themselves. " 
had a unique connection with the proj­

Sarah Patten 
ect. The 

Saint Mary's senior 
owner of the sponsored home was the 
the  project  to  
Call.  
T  h  e  

Hebuilding Together pro­gram receives applications from low­income home­owners in a tar­get neighbor­hood. Each home is evalu­ated for the essential repairs. Call said she per­sonally reviewed each 





Please recycle The Observer 

Uganda 
continued from page 1 

hope to raise that from the bik­ers," she said. 
The fundraising event will take place on Fieldhouse Mall from 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. today. 
"Holfs lent five stationary bikes to the cause, and we have been recruiting teams of 3-5 people from dorms and differ­ent clubs and departments," Jelm said. 
The fundraising project 
began with the organization Building Tomorrow, head­quartered in Indianapolis, but currently located on several U.S. col­lege campuses in an effort to e n c o u r a g e University students to raise money for Ugandan schools. 

"The possibilities for a lasting relation­ship with the school are endless. " 
Erin Jelm ND-8 officer 
"In the area of Uganda alone, there are 330,000 children with little access to education," Jelm said. 
ND-8, a student group focused on working for the eight goals outlined by the U.N. Millennium project, joined forces with Building Tomorrow to enable 350 Ugandan chil­dren to receive an education, she said. 
"We have been working on Building Tomorrow all year. It is our number one efl'ort," Jelm said. 
"(Building the school] is a sustainable project. We are close to our goal, but we need people to help us push that last $7,500 so that these kids will be in school when we are in the fall," Jelm said. "75 percent of the funds will come from us, and the remaining 25 percent will come from the [Ugandan] community." 
After the school is completed, the Ugandan government promises to sustain the school by paying the teachers and pro­viding a daily meal for the stu­dents, she said. 
"The kids need a meal every day because many of the fami­lies are strapped and can't afl'ord food" Jelm said. 
The teams, who have been fundraising ahead of time, ask­ing friends and family for dona­tions, "will challenge each other to race and bike more miles," she said. 
Each team member will bike 
for 15 minutes and record the mileage. The miles will then be multiplied by 10, meaning one mile biked actually equals 10 miles for the team, and then the total mileage will be added up. Additionally, for they could not have done by themselves," Patten said. 
A South Bend native her­sell', Pattfln said the project enables students to get involved in the city communi­ty. 
Call also said the project 
Bend, although the University will not be sponsoring a spe­cific home, Call said. 
According to Call, President Carol Ann Mooney's husband, George Efta, a member of Hebuilding Together's Board of Directors, first suggested every one dollar the team donates, they receive 15 miles. The team with the most miles at the end of the day wins. 
All of the miles are then added up with the goal that Notre Dame completes 7,657 "miles." 
"Hopefully we will reach Uganda," Jelm said. "About a dozen teams are registered, but people can just show up at the event, donate $5 and bike for 10 minutes," she said. 
Jelm said almost all of the money raised during the event will go towards the building the school. 
"The Africana Studies club donated power bars and water for the bikers, and since Rolfs is loaning the bikes, we have put out very little money," she said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
...·ces Department ·the investments for you. 
Securities are offered through Financial Network Investment Corporation, aregistered broker/dealer and member of the SIPC. Financial Network is not on affiliate of Notre Dome Federal Credit Union. 
mother of a current staff member on campus. 
As a result, on a personal level, the project has been highly successful in the past for the college, Call said. 
Over 600 Notre Dame stu­dents will also rehabilitate twenty-one homes in South 
home to determine what other appliances and furni­ture the homeowners need­ed. 
The event will last from 8 
a.m. until 3 p.m. on Saturday. 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmithO1@saintmarys.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, April 11, 2008 CoJvtrllED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ugandan rebel declines peace deal 
RI-KWANGBA, Sudan-Officials gave con­flicting reports about why Uganda's fugitive rebel leader did not sign a peace accord Thursday to end one of Africa's longest wars, raising doubts about the agreement's fate. 
Hebels and negotiators had gathered in a jungle clearing waiting for Joseph Kony, leader of the vicious Lord's Resistance Army, to emerge from hiding and sign a deal to end the two decade-long insurgency. 
A comprehensive deal will be a major breakthrough in pacifying the volatile region comprising northern Uganda, eastern Congo and southern Sudan. 
But Kony, who has not been seen in public since 2006, wants clarification on how the government will address atrocities charges against him and other rebels, said Riek Machar, the southern Sudanese vice presi­dent mediating the peace talks. 
Kony "still wants these issues explained to him -that is why we have delayed," Machar told journalists. 
Egypt accuses democrat of incitement 
Ci\IRO -Prosecutors charged a key leader of Egypt's main pro-democracy group on Thursday with inciting unrest and violence, officials said, four days after thousands stayed home from work and school as part of a nationwide strike. 
George Ishaq, co-founder of the opposition group Kifaya, was arrested Wednesday night in a raid on his home in downtown Cairo. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Another driver dies in Calif. shooting 
LOS ANGELES -A teenage driver was killed in a car-to-car shooting at a freeway off-ramp early Thursday in the latest in several recent fatal road­way attacks in California. 
Samantha Padilla, 19, of Los Angeles, was shot in the upper torso around 12:30 a.m., authorities said. 
She apparently was attacked while stopped at a traffic light at the end of an off-ramp from the 110 Freeway in South Los Angeles, police Detective Tommy Thompson said. A car pulled up alongside and someone fired about five rounds from a medi­um-caliber gun, he said. 
It appeared Padilla was heading home from Los Angeles International Airport, where she worked, officials said. 
"We don't know ifthis was a personal thing or if it was road rage," Detective Kelle Baitx said. 

Death prompts debate on homeless aid 
MADISON, Wis. -The slaying of a college student in a downtown neighborhood fre­quented by beggars has forced this liberal city to ask a difficult question: Has Madison been too nice to the homeless? 
A debate over the city's friendly treatment of its transient population had been under way for months, but last week's killing of University of Wisconsin student Brittany Zimmermann started something of a back­lash against the homeless. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Ind. primary reaches frenetic pace 
INDlANAPOUS -Chelsea just left. Barack and Bill are back. And look, here comes Hillary. 
With less than a month until Indiana's May 6 pri­mary, the Democratic presidential candidates and their surrogates are putting on a full-court press, wooing voters in more than a dozen cities over four days at a pace that's likely to get even more frenetic a<> the election countdown continues. 
"If they would show up again even next week, I think the enthusiasm would still be there," said i\llie Craycraft, vice chairman of the Delaware County Democratic Party. "It's been so long in Indiana since we've seen this type of excitement and the opportunity to have a pretty good voice in who it's going to be." 
This week's trips include a six-city bus tour by Barack Obama, who started in South Bend late Wednesday ;md will wrap up Saturday in Muncie, and a southwestern Indiana swing by former President Bill Clinton. 

Va. Tech families settle with state 
Government offers $11 million to avoid court battle against school, local authorities 
Associated Press 

ROANOKE, Va. -Most families of victims of the mass shootings at Virginia Tech have agreed to an $11 million state settlement that will com­pensate families who lost loved ones, pay survivors' medical costs and avoid a court battle over whether anyone besides the gun­man was to blame. 
Gov. Timothy M. Kaine said a "substantial major­ity" of families of victims of the Virginia Tech shootings agreed to the settlement. 
Peter Grenier and Douglas Fierberg, who represent 21 families, said the settlement was worth more than $11 mil­lion, but neither they nor the governor would dis­cuss its terms until final papers are drawn in a few days. 
Grenier and Fierberg said seriously injured vic­tims "will be well com­pensated and have thejr health care needs taken care of forever," and that families who lost loved ones would be "similarly compensated and cared for." 
Seung-Hui Cho, a men­tally disturbed student, killed 32 victims and wounded two dozen oth­during a court commit­ment for victims' families discuss the mass shoot­ers at Virginia Tech on ment hearing in 2005 and and survivors. ings and changes on cam­April 16, 2007 before was ordered to receive That proposal called for pus since then. committing suicide. outpatient mental health representatives of each of Grenier and Fierberg Twenty-two families had care, but never received those killed to receive said the settlement "will previously filed notice treatment. $100,000. A pool of also result in the release with the state that they Attorney General Bob $800,000 was set aside of previously undisclosed may sue. McDonnell's office had no for the injured in the facts and information 
Cho killed two people in comment on the settle­plan, with individuals eli­turned up by our firm's a dormitory, then killed ment, spokesman Tucker gible to receive up to investigation that will 30 more than two hours Martin said. $100,000 apiece. Families enable the public to bet­later in a classroom It was not immediately of those killed could seek ter understand the events building before taking his clear whether the settle­additional money from a which caused this sense­own life. University offi­ment was significantly $1.75 million hardship less tragedy." cials have been criticized different from an earlier fund, and other money By accepting the pro­for waiting about two state proposal, the details was to be set aside for posal, family members hours before informing of which were obtained attorneys' fees and a fund gave up the right to sue students and employees last month by The for charities. the state government, the about the first shootings, Associated Press. That The settlement also school, the local govern­which police initially proposed deal totaled would give the injured ments serving Virginia thought were an act of roughly $8.5 million plus and victims' families a Tech and the community domestic violence. the cost of reimbursing chance to meet with the services board that pro­
The gunman had been and paying for medical governor and university vides mental-health serv­ruled a danger to himself and psychological treat-officials several times to ices in the area. 

CHINA 

Olylllpic collllllittee head: ''It is a crisis'' 
Associated Press about that," IOC President Jacques after the completion of the torch relay Rogge said Thursday. "But the IOC has in San Francisco, where the route was BEIJING -Crisis. Disarray. weathered many bigger storms." shortened and the flame diverted to Sadness. At the same time, Rogge called on prevent disruptions by massive 
Four months before the opening of China to respect its "moral engage­crowds of anti-China protesters. what was supposed to be the grandest ment" to improve human rights and to Rogge's use of the word "crisis" to Olympics in history, the head of the fulfill promises of greater media free­describe the torch relay and the International Olympic Committee is dom. He also reaffirmed the right of Beijing buildup came as a surprise. using words that convey anything but free speech for athletes at the Beijing The Belgian orthopedic surgeon's a sense of joyous enthusiasm. Games. comments usually are measured and 
The protest-marred Olympic torch A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokes­low-key. relay and international criticism of woman responded that IOC officials He cited previous crises -the China's policies on Tibet, Darfur and support adhering to the Olympic attack on Israeli athletes at the 1972 human rights have turned the Beijing Charter and "not bringing any irrele­Munich Olympics and the boycotts of Games into one of the most politically vant political factors into the Beijing the 1976, 1980 and 1984 Games. charged in recent history and present­Olympics." "The history of the Olympic Games ed the IOC with one of its toughest "I hope the IOC officials will contin­is fraught by a lot of challenges," tests since the boycott era of the ue to adhere to the principles set by Rogge said. "This is a challenge but 1970s and '80s. the Olympic charter," Jiang Yu said. you cannot compare to what we had 
"It is a crisis, there is no doubt Rogge spoke in Beijing just hours in the past." 
page 6 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 11, 2008 


American presence to remain strong in Iraq 
Bush gives Petraeus freedom to evaluate number oftroops in violence-ridden countryfor remaining 285 days ofpresidency 
Associated l'ress 
WASHINGTON -Defense Secretary Hobert Gates said Thursday lw sees no chance that the number of U.S. troops in Iraq will drop to 100,000 by the end of the year, guaranteeing a heavy American military presence as the war grinds into its sixth year to 
he hoped that drawdowns could continue throughout the year, which would have left about 10 brigades -or roughly 100,000 troops -in Iraq at year's end. When the committee's Democratic chairman, Sen. Carl Levin, asked Gates whether he still thought that was possible, Gates said: 
"No, sir." 
In his 
t he ~~ n d o f t h P W h i t e
''The president still 
Bush presiden­House
doesn't understand that 
cy. speech, 
I' r e s i d ~~ n t America's limited Bush also Bush said <;en. resources cannot support said he was 
ordering
David l'ntranus, his limitless war." 

his top com-that Army mandnr in Iraq, combat c a n t a k<~ " a II Harry Reid tours be thn time he trimmed by
Senate Majority Leader 

nneds" to con­sider further withdrawals al'ter thn latest round of cutbacks is eomplet­ed in July. In the meantime, Petraeus will continue what, until Thursday, had been secret visits to Middle Eastern countries to try to curb the intlux of foreign fighters into Iraq. 
With 2S5 days remaining in his presidency, Bush set the course of the war in a speech following two days of testimo­ny before a skeptical Congress by l'etraeus and the 
U.S. ambassador to Iraq, Hyan Crocker. 
Bush said that after the troop withdrawals, which alrnady have been announced, end in July, he would give l'etraeus 45 days to evaIuate the effects of the drawdown. That would be fol­lowed by an 
l  h  r  e  e  
mon ths.  
It  was  a  

response to heavy pressure from military commanders who say long, multiple deployments have strained the Army to its lim­its. Army units heading to Iraq after Aug. 1 will serve 12 months instead of 15 months. 
Critics of the president's war policy quickly noted that the order would not affect 
U.S. forces already deployed on the front lines. 
"The president still doesn't understand that America's limited resources cannot sup­port his limitless war," Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., said. "Let me be elear: This is not a so-called troop pause. With today's announcement, the president has signaled to the American 
people that he has no intention of 

indefinite peri­"President Bush has an bringing od to reassess home any
exit strategy for only 

U.S. troop more troops. 
strength in Iraq, one man, himself, on "Instead he 
where new January 20. 2009." is leaving all l'larn-ups of the tough extremist vio­decisions to
Harry Reid 

lence are the next threatening to Senate Majority Leader administra­
undercut secu­
rity gains. 
Bush argued that last year's troop buildup had succeeded in reducing violence, tamping down al­Qaida in Iraq and allowing normal daily activities to resume in many areas. Because of that progress, Bush said, an already planned reduction in troops can be completed in July. 
"Serious and complex chal­lenges remain in Iraq, from the presence of al-Qaida to the destructive inl'luence of Iran, to hard compromises needed for further political progress," Bush said in a White House address. "Yet with the surge, a major stratngie shift has occurred. ... This war is difficult, it is not endless." 
Petraeus on Thursday revealed for thn 11rst time that he had quietly visited several Mideast countries in an effort to slow the now of foreign fighters into Iraq. The Associated Press learned that the trips, all taken since Seplnmber, were to .Jordan, Kuwait, Bahrain, Turkey and the Unitnd Arab Emiratns. 
Gates appeared beforn the Senate Armed Serviees Committen on Thursday and backtracked from testimony he gave last fall when he said 
t i o n 
President 
Bush has an exit strategy for only one man, himself, on January 20, 2009." 
Bush smiled briefly when he walked out of the Blue Room and strode across a red car­pet in the Cross Hall of the White House to a standing ovation from Vice President Dick Cheney, his top military and diplomatic advisers and members of veteran service organizations. His face turned solemn as he began his 18­minute progress report on the war -one of the last of his presidency. 
Bush acknowledged that the stress on U.S. forces was "real," but said top military brass had assured him .that the all-volunteer force was strong and resilient enough to win the war on terror. "The surest way to depress morale and weaken the force would be to lose in Iraq," he said. 
Democrats who want Bush's job weren't fazed. 
Sen. Hillary Hodham Clinton, 1>-N.Y., said the Ameriean people have run out of time and patienen on Iraq. She said the military buildup has failed to yield political progress in Iraq, and that if eleetnd president. she will end the war responsibly. "It's time for the president to answer the question being asked of him: In the wake of the failed surge, what is the endgame in Iraq?" 

Her opponent in the presi­dential campaign, Sen. Barack Obama, D-111., said Bush had to reduce rotations because the Army told him they couldn't sustain the cur­rent rotation schedule. "People are not being trained properly, they are exhausted. ... I don't know how many families I meet where the spouse, the father, may not even know a 2-year-old baby or a 3-yPar-old child because they've just been deployed overseas so much," Obama said. 
Bush stayed steadfast on his war policy even though his approval rating hit a new low of 28 percent in an AP-Ipsos polling issued Thursday. 
The president said the price of failure in Iraq was forebod­ing: Al-Qaida would claim a propaganda victory of "colos­sal proportions." Terrorists would use Iraq as a launch pad for attacks on the U.S. and its allies. Iran would fill the political vacuum. The hardline Taliban regime, which previously ran Afghanistan, and al-Qaida in Pakistan would be embold­ened. Massive humanitarian casualties would follow. The threat of another Sept. 11 would rise. 
Bush challenged Iran anew. He said the regime in Tehran could live in peace with its neighbor, or keep funding and training militant groups that terrorize Iraqi people and destabilize the nation 

Insurgents raise weapons in Baghdad Wednesday. Violence continued a day after Gen. Petraeus called for a suspension in troop withdrawal. 
charges the Iranian govern­ment denies. 
"If Iran makes the right choice, America will encour­age a peaceful relationship between Iran and Iraq," Bush said. If it makes the wrong choice, Bush said "America will act to protect our inter­ests, and our troops, and our Iraqi partners." He did not elaborate. 
Bush also pushed Arab nations to heighten their diplomatic presence in Baghdad as a sign of support for its tledgling government. That also would serve to counter Iran's rising intluence in the Middle East and its support of terrorists and extremists in Iraq. 
He dispatched Petraeus and Crocker to stop in Saudi 
Arabia on their way back to Iraq, and directed senior diplomats to meet and urge leaders in Jordan, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait and Egypt to reopen their embassies in Baghdad and increase their support for Iraq this year. 
Bush also called on Congress to send him a spending bill for Iraq that does not inelude any timeta­bles for troop withdrawals or exceed the $108 billion he has requested. Democrats want to add money to stimulate the economy with road-building funds, additional unemploy­ment benefits, a summer jobs program and additional food stamp benefits. Bush said he would veto the bill under those conditions. 



Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Now Leasing for 2008-2009 
\ 
424 N. Frances Street 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(57 4) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 
Friday, April 11, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,581.98 +54.72
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
+6.06 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.14 +0.19 136.02 MILLENNIUM PHARM (MLNM) +48.87 +7.99 24.34 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +1.43 +0.64 45.54 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -0.62 -0.16 25.62 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.90 +0.066 3.532 13-WEEK BILL -3.14 -0.040 1.235 30-YEAR BOND +0.84 +0.036 4.342 5-YEAR NOTE +2.98 +0.077 2.659 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.76 110.11 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -5.70 931.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.23 71.38 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 101.7750 EURO 0.6347 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0183 BRffiSH POUND 0.5070 
IN BRIEF 
Microsoft bid may help rival Google 
SAN FRANCISCO -Microsoft Corp.'s attempt to take over Yahoo Inc. has become so tortured it may help Internet search and advertising leader Google Inc. grow stronger, undermining Microsoft's main reason for purs­ing the deal in the first place. 
"We find this to be a very advantageous situ­ation for Google," Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Derek Bro\\;'n said Thursday. "The longer this gets dragged out, the better for Google." 
Yahoo signaled it is bracing for a protracted battle late Wednesday when an announcement and a media leak provided a glimpse at its labyrinthine search for alternatives to Microsoft's bid of more than $40 billion. 
The options include an experimental adver­tising alliance with Google that could lead to a broader partnership and, according to pub­lished reports, a combination with the online operations of Time Warner Inc.'s AOL. Google also owns a 5 percent stake in AOL. 
As part of the AOL deal, Time Warner would get a roughly 20 percent stake in the merged entity in return for a substantial sum of cash that would help Yahoo buy back some of its stock at a price well above Microsoft's offer, which was initially valued at $31 per share. 
"This is the first time that we have seen real feasible alternatives that could derail the Microsoft deal," said analyst Jeffrey Lindsay of Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. 
Bernanke says action cannot wait 
WASHINGTON Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said Thursday that regulators must move ahead on ways to pre­vent a future financial crisis from occurring even as they battle one that threatens to plunge the country into recession. 
"We do not have the luxury of waiting for markets to stabilize before we think about the future," Bernanke said in a speech in Richmond. 
Last month Bernanke, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and other top economic poli­cymakers called for stricter regulation of mortgage lenders as part of a broad effort to prevent a repeat of the credit and financial problems that have damaged the economy. 


THE OBSERVER 



USINESS 
page 7 

US trade gap grows unexpectedly 
Monthly deficit rises again in February to $62 billion, the highest since November 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The 
U.S. trade deficit unex­pectedly increased for a second straight month in February, raising con­cerns that the economy's one standout performer could be starting to flag. 
The Commerce Department reported Thursday that the deficit between what the U.S. imports and what it sells abroad rose 5.7 percent to $62.3 billion in February, the highest level since November. 
Imports of goods and services shot up 3.1 per­cent to· an all-time high of $213.7 billion, reflect­ing a big surge in imports of foreign cars. Exports also set a record, rising by 2 percent to $151.4 billion, reflecting strong gains in the sale of American-made heavy machinery, computers and farm goods. 
Critics claimed that the sharp rise in the trade deficit showed the con­tinued failure of President Bush's policies emphasizing negotiating free trade agreements as a way to promote U.S. jobs by boosting exports. 
With businesses cutting 80,000 jobs last month, the most in five years, Hoffa, president of the to vote within the next 90 news, the number of and the country likely in International legislative days on a free newly laid off workers a recession, the debate Brotherhood of trade agreement with filing claims for unem­over trade is expected to Teamsters, said Colombia. ployment benefits fell intensify in this election Thursday at the end of a The administration sharply last week after year. Republicans con­three-day convoy across charged that Democrats having hit the highest tend Bush's policies Pennsylvania aimed at were forsaking a key level in more than two reflect the reality of the highlighting the failings South American ally years in the previous new global economy, of Bush's trade policies. while Democrats said week. The Labor while Democrats argue Trade is shaping up as Colombia needed to do Department said applica­that the president has a key issue in the presi­more to halt the violence tions for jobless benefits contributed to the loss of dential campaign and in against union organizers totaled 357,000 last more than 3 million man­the fight for control of before they would con­week, down by 53,000 ufacturing jobs since he Congress. In an early sider the trade pact. The from the previous week. took office. showdown, the vote also calls into ques­Economists said the wide 
"Wages are falling and Democratic-led House tion pending free trade swings reflected in part the middle class is voted 224-195 on deals with South Korea the trouble the govern­shrinking because of Thursday to reject Bush's and Panama. ment is having in season­trade deficits," James effort to force Congress In other economic ally adjusting the figures. 

American Airline flight cuts continue 
comply with the rule. The compa­only doing its job of "holding air­
Associated Press 

ny said all its MD-80s would be lines to exacting standards." 
FORT WORTH, Texas-The can­back in service by Saturday night. Arpey said it was too early for cellation of thousands of flights Arpey said neither the airline's the airline to estimate the cost of this week will cost American mechanics nor the Federal the cancellations. AMR is running Airlines tens of millions of dollars, Aviation Administration were to a tab for meals, hotel rooms and the company's chief executive said blame for the more than 3,000 $500 travel vouchers for stranded Thursday, but he said the nation's canceled flights so far this week. passenger and it lost revenue largest carrier can withstand the The airline canceled more than when it booked people on other losses. 400 flights for the same reason airlines. On the other hand, it has 
American said it canceled anoth­two weeks ago. But the repairs saved what it would have spent for er 570 flights Friday and disrup­done then didn't meet FAA stan­fuel on those 2,500 flights. tions will continue through dards, resulting in this week's "I think it will be in the tens of Saturday as it continues to check debacle. millions of dollars," Arpey said of electrical wiring in all 300 of its On Wednesday, Arpey's top lieu­the final cost. But he said the air­MD-80 aircraft. tenant suggested that American line had built up enough cash and 
CEO Gerard Arpey said he took had fallen victim to a suddenly paid down debt to deal with the full responsibility for the airline's more aggressive FAA. The agency loss. He said the carrier has busi­failure to comply with a federal has been under fire since disclo­ness-interruption insurance, but safety rule designed to prevent sures last month of its lax enforce­he doubted that it would cover the electrical fires in the planes. ment of safety rules at Southwest cancellation-related losses. 
American scratched more than Airlines Co. American got some good news on 900 flights Thursday, the third In measured tones, Arpey said Wall Street. Shares of parent AMR straight day of major cancella­Thursday that the FAA "obviously Corp., which fell 11 percent the tions, while its mechanics worked is under their own set of scrutiny day before, rose 70 cents, or 7.6 overtime to check the aircraft and and pressure right now," but was percent, to $9.87 Thursday. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, April II, 2008 
Professor appointed to United Nations forum 
Special to Th<: ObS<:rv<:r 
Carter Snead, professor of law at the Notre Dame Law School, has been appointed to a four­year term as one of 36 inde­pendent experts on the International Bioethics Committee (IBC) of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). 
The committee is the only forum in the United Nations sys­tem devoted to reflection on bioethies and public policy. 
"It is an honor to be appoint­ed to this body," Snead said. "It is charged explicitly to reflect on the most interesting and controversial questions at the nexus of law, science and ethics. I look forward to work­ing with the other distinguished members of the body, and more broadly, with the delegations of all of UNESCO's 191 member states and permanent observers." 
Thn committee, which meets annually, is charged with rdleeting on the ethical and logal issuns raisnd by resnarch in tlw life scinncns and their applications and with encourag­ing tho oxchange of ideas through education. It also coop­orates with the international governnwntal and non-govern­montal organizations concerned with tlw issues raised in the field of biodhics as well as with the national and regional bionthics 1:ommittn1~s and simi­lar bodies. 
The most recent example of the IBC's work in bioethics was the 2005 adoption of the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights, meant to provide ethical guid­ance to member states and indi­viduals working in medicine and the life sciences. Snead served as the chief negotiator and head of the U.S. delegation to UNESCO for the development of this declaration. 
Snead's scholarship explores the possibility, mechanisms and wisdom of the governance of science, medicine and biotech­nology according to ethical principles. 
In 2002 Snead accepted the position of general eounsel for the President's Council on Bioethics. In that capacity, he advised the chairman and coun­cil members on the legal and public policy dimensions of numerous ethical questions arising from advances in bio­medieal science and biotechnol­ogy. 
lie was the principal drafter of the council's 2004 report, "Heproduction and Responsibility: The Hegulation of New Biotechnologies," a com­prehensive critical assessment of thll governance (both public and private) of the activities at the intersection of assisted reproduction, human embryo research and genetics. Snead continues to serve the council as an expert consultant. 

NEPAL 



Election held •
In Nepal 

Millions vote in country's historic election, return to democracy 
Associated Press 
KATMANDU Nepalis embraced the country's return to democracy Thursday with millions voting in an election meant to secure lasting peace in a land riven by communist insurgents and an autocratic king. 
Undeterred by shootings and clashes that killed two people, many voters lined up before sunrise outside polling stations across this Himalayan land. Some even broke into applause when voting began. 
With the rebels out of the bush and contesting the vote and the monarch-the world's last Hindu king-likely to soon lose his throne, millions saw the country's first election in nine years as a moment too historic to miss. 
"This is our chance to stop the bleeding," said Arpana Shrestha, a 47-year-old woman waiting to vote in Katmandu. "Always there was blood in Nepal. Not anymore." 
An estimated 60 percent of the 17.6 million voters cast bal­lots at 20,000 polling stations. 
But the violence -including the slaying of an independent candidate -shows how hard it will be to forge true peace in this often ill-governed and vio­lent country. 
The election of a 601-seat Constituent Assembly to write a new constitution has been touted as the cornerstone of a 2006 peace deal with former rebels, known as the Maoists, following weeks of unrest that forced Nepal's king to cede power, which he had seized the year before. 
In the two years since, Nepal has seen an armed uprising by ethnic minority groups ­unrest that twice delayed the vote. 
The election campaign was marked by clashes between supporters of rival parties and small bombings. In the two days before the vote, eight peo­ple were killed. 
Thursday's death toll was lower than most had feared, but still marred a day that held great symbolic value for many in the impoverished nation, where 60 percent of the 27 million people are under age 35. 
"We are getting our rights and these people have to kill. It's not good," said Gopal Acharya, a 22-year-old student and first-time voter. 
In southeastern Nepal, assailants fatally shot an inde­pendent candidate outside a polling station. Elsewhere, motorcycle-riding gunmen unsuccessfully tried to kill another contender. 
Also in southern Nepal, a supporter of the Nepali Congress died from wounds sustained in a clash with sup­porters of a minority ethnic group, the Madeshis. 
Authorities were forced to postpone balloting until a later date at 33 polling places, said Chief Election Commissioner Bhoj Haj Pokhrel. They includ­ed a few stations in the eastern Ramechap district where Maoists blocked representa­tives of other parties from observing the vote, said Home Ministry spokesman Ekmani Nepal. 
Maoists also torched one polling station. Police said they arrested 15 men, seizing three grenades and a knife. 
Maoist officials in Katmandu said they were trying to verify the reports. 
Their leader, who goes by the nom de guerre Prachanda, hailed the election, saying in a statement: "We believe this will take Nepal to a new era." 
But before Nepal can get there, significant challenges remain. 
The violence could easily provide a pretext for any of the major parties -from the Maoists to contrist democrats to royalists -to reject the election's outcome. 
Then there is the complexity of the vote itsnlf, a mix of direct elections and a nationwide pro­portional representation sys­tem with quotas for women and myriad ethnic and caste groups. lntnrnational nxperts say it will be hard to sort out the results. 


Friday, April 11, 2008 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Dalai lamavisi~ United States 
Spiritual leader makes first visit since Tibetan uprising 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -The Dalai Lama arrived in the United States on Thursday for the first time since the recent turmoil in Tibet, serenaded by fellow Tibetans as he pre­pared to anchor an ambitious conference on compassion. 
The exiled Tibetan spiritual leader came here a day after demonstrators disrupted the Olympic torch run in San Francisco in a protest of China's treatment of his peo­ple. The Dalai Lama will be attending a five-day confer­ence that begins Friday. 
With the Dal'ai Lama in town, some community lead­ers said they expected count­er-demonstrations from pro­China groups. 
But all was peaceful when he arrived at a downtown hotel Thursday, telling local Tibetans who sang to him that he supports nonviolent demonstrations but was sad­dened by the protests in San Francisco. 
In Tibet, the recent protests against five decades of Chinese rule have been the largest and most sus­tained in almost two decades. China has accused the Dalai Lama of being involved in the uprising. The Tibetan leader has said that he wants greater autonomy for the remote mountain region but is not seeking independence. 
Earlier Thursday, during a stopover in Japan, the Dalai Lama said he has always supported China's hosting of the Olympic Games this sum­mer, but said Beijing cannot suppress protests in Tibet with violence or tell those calling for more freedom in his homeland "to shut up." 
He strongly denied Chinese allegations he and his follow­ers have used the run-up to the Olympics to foment unrest. 
"Right from the beginning, we supported the Olympic Games," he told reporters near the airport outside Tokyo. "I really feel very sad the government demonizes me. I am just a human; I am not a demon." 
Organizers of the five-day Seeds of Compassion confer­ence in Seattle say the Dalai Lama's visit is expected to draw more than 150,000 people. 
The Chinese community in Seattle has been split by the Tibetan situation, said Assunta Ng, publisher of the Northwest Asian Weekly, a local Asian-American com­munity newspaper. Ng said she wouldn't be surprised if pro-China demonstrators show up at some of the events, and added that some Chinese students plan to protest the politicization of the Olympics. 

The conference will feature dozens of workshops on vari­ous subjects, beginning with a panel discussion Friday with the Dalai Lama on "The Scientific Basis for Compassion: What We Know Now." 
Tickets for events involving the Dalai Lama have already sold out, according to the conference Web site. 
Seattle Mayor Greg Nickels will present the key to the city to the Tibetan leader and the University of Washington will present him an honorary degree. 
The Dalai Lama fled to India after a failed uprising in 1959 in Tibet, but remains the religious and cultural leader of many Tibetans. He was awarded the Nobel Peace prize in 1989. 
He was determined to attend the Seattle conference because of his commitment to global peace, organizers said. 
"He wants compassion for both sides, for the Tibetans, for the Chinese brothers," said Lama Tenzin Dhonden, a Tibetan monk who spear­headed the development of the conference. 
After Seattle, the Dalai Lama is scheduled to speak at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor on April 19 and 20, then at Colgate University in Hamilton, N.Y., on April 22. 
Severe weather causes 
flooding inthe Midwest 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -A line of severe thunderstorms, possible torna­does and even snow pounded the nation's heartland on Thursday, flooding nearly 200 roads in Missouri, closing schools in Arkansas and ripping the roofs of dozens of houses in Texas. 
The band of storms stretched from Colorado and Nebraska, which was expected to get up to 10 inches of snow, to Texas, where high winds and driving rain at one point quarter of a million people were left without power. 
In Missouri, 3-4 inches of rain fell in just a few hours, unleash­ing flash floods that swamped parts of 180 roads across the state. 
Rescuers using ropes and life jackets pulled nine people from the offices of the Monett Times newspaper after the Kelly Creek burst its banks and surrounded the building. Police said the creek also threatened other businesses in downtown Monett and forced the evacuation of a nearby trailer park with about 10 to 12 homes. 
Times publisher Lisa Craft said the afternoon newspaper's presses were high enough not to be threatened. But she said it was unclear wheh staff could get back in the building. 
National Weather Service hydrologist Mark Fuchs said the Meramec, the eastern Missouri river that flooded in March and forced the evacuation of hun­dreds of residents, could reach what the service considers "major" flood stage in Arnold, about 20 miles south of St. Louis. 
In Texas, at least 100 homes and buildings were damaged in West Texas and the Dallas-Fort Worth area. 
Straight-line winds carved out a destructive path across the city of Hurst, just east of Fort Worth. Downed trees littered residential neighborhoods, blocking streets, snapping utility poles and snag­ging power lines. Some large tree trucks had snapped just a foot or two above ground level. 
Evelyn Wooten, 69, said she spent early Thursday morning sitting alone in a front-hall clos­et wearing a motorcycle helmet and waiting out the storm in the sturdiest room in her house. 
"I wasn't going to be hit in the head by a two-by-four," Wooten said, supervising the cleanup of her Hurst home, which was punctured by a falling tree. "I just made me a cozy little den in there." 
At one point, Oncor had about 250,000 customers without power in North Texas. Some could remain without power until Saturday. 
In Arkansas, dozens of roads flooded across the state and schools in Norfork, Marshall and Viola closed due to high water. 
Explore the issues that challenge today' s world ... 


Evangelium Vitae: Chapter III 
You Shall Not Kill 
Notre Dmne Rigl1t to Life~ JrdAnnual Collegiate Conference 
Friday, April 11 Saturday, April12 Bobby Schindler Dolores Meehan 
Remembering Terri Schiavo: Men andAbortion: The Impact on Our Culture My Family's Battle to Save my Sister's Life 10: 15 a.m. -102 DeBartolo Hall 
3:45 p.m. -102 DeBartolo Hall 

Phyllis Schlafly. JD Dr. Eugene Diamond 
Activist fudges versus American Culture Doctors Should Not KiD 
7:00p.m.-Gold Room, North Dining Hall 11:45 a.m.-102 DeBartolo Hall 
Rebecca Kiessling 
Conceived in Rape; A Story ofHope 
2: 15 p.m. -102 DeBartolo Hall 

Dr. Alice Von Hildebrand 
Mother ofthe Living 
3:30 p.m. -102 DeBartolo Hall 
-------------------------~---­
page 10 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 11, 2008 
The Notre Dame community welcomes our 2008 admitted students participating in the 
Reilly Visitation Weekend 
Thursday April I 0 -Sunday April 13 We are happy that you are visiting us! 
Elizabeth Andrews Laura Murphy Pat Arnold Kevin Nadeau Madison Barrett Richard Newcomb Lorna Bernhoft Bobby Nordlund 
A.J. Betts Kathryn O'Connell Stevie Biddle Mike O'Leary Megan Carey Jenna Pettinger Mary Cass Mackenzy Radolec Meghan Coveney Teri Relation Alexa Craig Kyle Resnick Trey Cryan Nicole Resweber Carl Cullotta Lindsey Reymore Austin Culver Matt Richey Ford Culver Elliott Rill Megan Don Rebecca Roden Patrick Dunn Philip Salvador Tim Durso PauI Scheetz Caitlin Furey Tara Seely Zoe Hesp Samantha Sirignano Mariel Heupler Mike Smigelski Claire Hunt Patrick Spence Tom Hutchinson Dan Stevens Kyle Kinnary Kaleb Sutherland Nora Kovar Lena Sweeney Christine Kreitinger Tyler Thiret Paul Lambert Amanda Turk Connor LaPorte Katie Veenstra Michael Lim Kyla Wargel Skipper McShea Erin Watson Jeremy Miles Zach Wehrmann Catherine Miller Josh Wise Christopher Miranda Leon Zhou 
Friday, April 11, 2008 
The Observer + NEWS page 11 





Wanted Marine flees to Mexico, is arrested 
Man accused of rape and murder of pregnant colleague, found across the border after manhunt of several months 
charges in Lauterbach's Associated Press death. Guzman said Laurean told 
RALEIGH, N.C. -A Marine the arresting officers he had wanted in the brutal slaying only 10 pesos (about US$1) in of a pregnant colleague who his pocket, and that he had had accused him of rape was been surviving by eating avo­arrested Thursday night in cados and other fruit he Mexico after a three-month found in the fields of the international manhunt, farming community where he authorities said. was found. 
FBI agents and Mexican The FBI said Laurean, 21, is authorities arrested Marine awaiting extradition to the Cpl. Cesar Laurean around 7 U.S., although local prosecu­
p.m. EDT. He is charged with tors in North Carolina cau­first-degree murder in the tioned the process could take death of Marine Lance Cpl. a year or more. Maria Lauterbach, whose "Laurean's swift arrest in burned remains were found Mexico was due to the dili­in January in gence and the backyard dedication of of his home the Mexican
"This was truly an 

near Camp government 
Lejeune. international effort, and and our law 
"You know we will do all we can to enfo·rce men t my name. partners,"
ensure Laurean is 

You know Nathan Gray, 
who I am," brought back ... as quickly the special Laurean told as possible., agent in T h e charge of the Associated F B I ' s
Nathan Gray 

Press while Charlotte 

special agent 

being held at office, said in 
t h e Michoacan state Attorney General's Office in Morelia, the state capital. 
Asked if he wanted to say anything, Laurean simply said, "Proof," but wouldn't explain. 
Laurean appeared slightly disoriented. Asked what he would do next, he replied: "Do I have a choice? ... I don't know." 
Magdalena Guzman, a spokeswoman for the Michoacan, Mexico, state prosecutors office, said police carrying out an anti-kidnap­ping operation stopped Laurean as he wandered on a street in the rural township of Tacambaro, Michoacan, because they thought he looked suspicious. 
When they realized he did­n't speak Spanish well, they became even more suspi­cious. After running his name through a computer, they realized Laurean was wanted in the United States to face 
a statement. 
"This was truly an international effort, and we will do all we can to ensure Laurean is brought back to Onslow County (N.C.) as quickly as possible to answer the charges against him." 
Authorities believe Laurean killed the 20-year-old Lauterbach, an Ohio native who was eight months preg­nant when she died, in mid­December. Detectives have said he left behind a note for his wife in which he denied killing Lauterbach but admit­ted to burying her remains. 
In the note, Laurean said Lauterbach committed suicide by cutting her own throat. 
Authorities rejected the assertion, saying evidence indicates Lauterbach died of blunt force trauma to the head. 
Tipped by the note, and not long after authorities went public in their search for the Lauterbach, detectives dis­covered the charred remains 

of the missing Marine and her mental commander was Lauterbach's mother, Mary, fetus in a shallow grave in intent on taking the case to a received a call from the FBI Laurean's backyard. Under hearing that could have led to informing her of the arrest. North Carolina law, Laurean a trial. "Her initial reaction ... was could not be charged in the Laurean, of Las Vegas, had just one of shock and sur­death of the fetus. told members of his unit he prise," Wilberding told 
Onslow County District would flee to Mexico if it WDTN-TV in Dayton, Ohio. Attorney Dewey Hudson told appeared he would be found "She's been living with Cpl. The Associated Press that guilty. Authorities believe he Laurean being on the run ... investigators recently seized entered Mexico on a bus on and living without an expec­a computer Jan. 14, two tation that he was going to be belonging to days after captured any time soon, so Christina fleeing from when the word came it really
'To be an accessory
Laure an's Jacksonville. caught her by surprise, and sister, which after the fact you have He was born she's still trying to let it all Christina to show i n sink in." Laurean was Guadalajara, A woman who answered the
someone provided
using to com­but family phone at the home of municate assistance, like members Laure an's father-in-law, with her hus­information or money ... , there have Bruce Shifflet, near Prospect, band. He said said he moved Ohio, hung up without com­he dido 't to the U.S. menting when told of the

Dewey Hudson 
know if evi­more than 10 arrest. dence from years ago. Mexico hesitated to extra­

attorney 
the computer led directly to Laure an's arrest. He declined to discuss the contents of the communi­cations, but authorities previ­ously said Christina Laurean was cooperating with detec­tives. 
"Just communicating with her husband is not against the law," Hudson said. "To be an accessory after the fact you have to show someone provided assistance like infor­mation or money, and we don't have any evidence of that." 
Lauterbach and Laurean were both personnel clerks in the same logistics unit at Camp Lejeune, an expansive coastal base about 130 miles southeast of Raleigh that is home to roughly 50,000 Marines. Detectives believe Laurean killed Lauterbach on Dec. 14, after forcing her to remove money from her bank account. 
Lauterbach accused Laurean of rape last spring, a charge he denied and one that Naval investigators were unable to corroborate. Even though Lauterbach later told investigators she did not feel Laurean posed a danger or threat to her, the pair was separated on base. The Marines have said their regi­Lauterbach's dite foreigners for much of 
family has the 1980s and 1990s, but U.S. 
criticized the officials have praised the Marine Corps for what it feels county's increased coopera­was a lack of urgency in tion in recent years. State investigating the rape allega­Department officials said tions. In a letter sent this Mexico extradited 73 suspects week to U S. Rep. Michael to the U.S. in 2007, most to Turner, R-Ohio, who has ral­face drug or murder charges. lied to the family's cause, the Sometimes Mexico will Marines said no effort was forego the traditional extradi­made to ques-tion and tion Laurean deport a sus­a b o u t pected crimi­
"This is a case that
Lauterbach's nal for enter­
certainly is deserving to
disappearance ing the coun­because the be tried as a try illegally, a two were no capital case. , much quicker longer work­process. More ing together. than 150 U.S. 
The Corps Dewey Hudson citizens were added the pair attorney deported 
were no longer associ­ated as far as their command­ers knew and there was no evidence to indicate Laurean had anything to do with her unauthorized absence. 
Phone messages seeking comment left by The Associated Press at Lauterbach's parents' home in Vandalia, Ohio, on her uncle Pete Steiner's cell phone and with family attor­ney Chris Conard were not immediately returned late Thursday. 
Another family attorney, Merle Wilberding, said 
from Mexico 
last year. 
Hudson said "it could be a year or two" before authori­ties are able to bring Laurean back to North Carolina if he decides to fight the extradi­tion process. 
"The extradition process is one where you have a right to appeal," Hudson said. "I have no idea whether he would waive extradition." 
Should Laurean be returned to North Carolina to stand trial, he won't face the death penalty. Hudson agreed not to seek an execution in order to win the cooperation of Mexico authorities, who refuse to send anyone back to the U.S. unless provided assurance they won't face a death sen­tence. 
"We had intel that he had gone back to America to visit his family in Las Vegas and I was hoping they would arrest him in America," Hudson said. "But they didn't. This is a case that certainly is deserving to be tried as a capital case." 





page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
PO. Box 779, Notre Oame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Chris !line 
MANAGIN<; EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler A~ST. MANA<;ING EDITOR: [kirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VII-:WI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SroRTS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
ScENE EDITOR: 'Ete Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: l.iz I lartcr 
PHOTO EDITOR: jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIIC.S EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVER'ITSING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DE.~IGN MANAGER: Kdly Gronli 

CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.31-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5.323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vit·wpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporcs.I@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scenc.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK smc. I @nd.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574) 6.31-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
rHE 
OBSERVER ONUN£ 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES 'J'he Observt·r is the indepmdent, daily newspaper published in prinr and online by the srudencs ofthe Univt·rsity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not govcrm·d by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer rt-serves the right to refuse advertisements based on contt·m. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos.siblc. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nea-ssarily those ofThe Observer. Vil-wpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact intormarion. 
Qtwtiow rrgarding Obsm;erpolici~ should br dirY!ctrd to Editor in C.niifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oh!ICfVC'r {l!SI'S ~IJC) 2--4UOO} 11 ruh!..hccl Mmu.by rluough f'riJay ~~ dunng exam and ""ouiun pcrrutb A Rl~rrprkm m The O~tver i• SIOO hu unc .tcadcmic ycar;$55 tUrnnci(IIICJCcr 
The OhKM:r 11 puhlidu:J .1r: POSTMASTER 024 Svuth DininK I!all Send Jddfe§IJ correctimu to: Notre Dame, IN 4M~6-0n9 Thc:Ob~rvcr l'crindkal poll.lKC paid AI Nuuc D.um P.O.Boxn9 .tnd .tddirion~l m.11ling offke~. 021 Sourh Dining H.tll 
Notre D.ame, IN 16'S56-0n9 

1l1c ( J~nocr is a member nf rhc A..ocmed Pras.. AJI rc:produ~::tiutl nR!u~ a~ _.,j, 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Katie Peralta Michael Bryan Ashley Charnley Laura Myers Brian McKenzie Pete Reisenauer 
Graphics Scene Mary Jp,sse Mark Witte Viewpoint 

Stephanie Vossler 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT 
Friday, April ll, 2008 

Immigration policy sound 
The University of Notre Dame accepts qualified students regardless of immigration status, but all undocumented immigrants must finance their education. 
This solution is more than fair. Notre Dame should not punish those applicants for circumstances beyond their control -and it doesn't. An undocumnnted immigrant's admission is based on his or her merits just as with any other student. 
But gaining admission and affording an 
applies only to U.S. citizens; undocumented immigrants are not being singled out in their denial. II' l'inancial aid were to be offered to undocumented immigrants who apply, international students must also be granted the same possibility. If undocumented immigrants rnceived this aid and international students didn't, it would bn unfair to international students since both groups are not 
officially U.S. citizens. 
Moreover, the .Notre Dame financial aid serv­
education here are two separate issues. 
ice is not the only way to gain funds for educa­Guaranteed aid is a relatively recent phe­tion. Countless independent scholarships exist nomenon for the University. A large portion for which potential students are free to apply. of aid is Federal, aimed to increase the abili­Students who chose to enroll here made the 
ty of all U.S. citizens to afford a higher edu­cation. Undocumented immigrants, by defini­tion, fail to meet this requirement and thus should not be considered for Federal aid. And, though the Notre Dame endowment was approximately the 14th largest in the country as of September, it does not compare to those of Harvard or Princeton -two schools currently granting aid to undocumented immigrants. 
Undocumented immigrants are not alone in their denial of guaranteed financial aid -any international student must be able to pay for his or her four years here. The University's commitment to meet demonstrated need dream a reality on their own initiative. Notre 
Dame does what it can; setting reasonablP limi­tations to maximize what aid is available. The University plays its part in offering acceptance. 
The University's immigrant admission and aid policy is sound as it is. It gives undocumented immigrants a chance to receive a high-quality education without jeopardizing the ability of citizens to get one as well. Any revision to the policy may hinder citizens' chances to attend Notre Dame or receive necessary financial aid. This issue requires a delicate balance between both sides, and the University's policy strikes it well. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Hate crimes must be addressed 
I know that the Notre Dame bubble prevents a lot of world news from entering our radar here on campus. So I would like to let everyone know about a lesser known school shooting which occurred in February of this year. Lawrence King, age 15, was shot in the head by his 14-year-old classmate Brandon in a California middle school classroom full of students. 
This boy, an 8th grader, was the victim of a premeditated hate crime. llis friends and classmates said he had recently proclaimed himself gay and begun to wear makeup and jewelry to school. A few days before his murder, Larry asked Brandon to be his Valentine. Brandon responded by putting a bullet through his brain. 
In a similar tragic incident, Simmie Williams Jr., 17, was shot and killed on Feb. 22 in Florida while dressed in women's clothing. Williams has been described both as gay and transgendered (a per­son who identifies as or expresses a different gender than the one they were assigned at birth). Simmie was also African-American. Hegardless of the specific motivations of' the killer, his murder was clearly motivated by hate. 
Some of you may have heard of Matthew Shepard, a 21-year-old who in 1998 was robbed, pistol-whipped, tortured, tied to a fence and left to die by two young men. His murder led to the creation of the Matthew Shepard Act (officially, the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2007). This proposed bill would include sexual orientation, gender identity and disability in federal hate crime legislation. It has yet to be passed. 
Ten years after Matthew Shepard's murder, we are stilling hating and still killing. What's worse, we're still teaching young people to hate and kill-and the murderers and victims are getting younger. Progress in this issue is long overdue. We need to act now. 
StaND Against Hate Week here at Notre Dame is April 14-18. I urge everyone to participate in this campus-wide series of events to help raise awareness of and put an end to hate and discrimination based on sexual orientation. Participate to show support for your Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender and Questioning (GLBTQJ friends, relatives and classmates. If nothing else, participate to honor the memory of Lawrence King, Simmie Williams Jr. and Matthew Shepard. 
This issue is real and it will not go away. It's time for all of us to stand up and say that we will not tolerate hate. 
Melanie LeMay sophomore Pasquerilla West Hall April? 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Always do sober what you said you'd do drunk. That will teach you to keep your mouth shut. " 
Ernest Hemingway 
U.S. author 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, April 11, 2008 page 13 
Approaching the moment to 1ice' Weis 
When the inter-squad game kicks off next weekend, Notre Dame alumni and fans will start the clock ticking on the fate of football coach Charlie Weis. Nobody can dispute that Weis was a dis­mal failure last year. In fact, going into his fourth season, Weis is still learn­ing his way as a head coach of a major university football program. He claims that he will try a new role this year and abandon solely running the offense to divide his time with the defense. 
That change leaves little solace for fans since Weis is coming off arguably the worst performance in Notre Dame's storied football history-the most loss­es ever (nine) in a single season that included two of the program's 10 worst losses of all time (a pair of 38-0 losses to Michigan and USC), first ever six­game home losing streak, losses to Navy and Air Force that marked the first time Notre Dame has lost to two military academies in the same season since the height of World War II, when most play­ers were on active duty, and the first time in the preciously revered Bowl Championship Series (BCS) era that Notre Dame has gone winless against mid-majors. Such a performance every­one soon wants to forget. 


The question for next season is whether Weis can overcome the chal­lenge of molding a team replete of young and somewhat inexperienced players into a cohesive or successful squad. His players tend to transfer when they are demoted, but his sched­ule is easier than in 2007. Yet, his crit­ics doubt that despite another outstand­ing recruiting class, any kumbaya expe­rience alone will not dramatically reverse the team's fortunes. It has become painfully clear that Charlie Weis cannot walk on water, despite Notre Dame Athletic Director Kevin White's assertion when he stuck the university with a decade-long contract midway through Weis' first season. One would think that White could count on an alumnus to value loyalty to his alma matter by negotiating incentive clauses rather than contract length. 
In fairness to Weis, he should not be solely criticized for slowly adjusting to the quirks of the college ranks when his experience was with more mature pro­fessionals in the NFL ranks whom he never recruited. His problem though, is one that derives from a relatively closed system or society that exists among ath­letic administrators. Academicians placed into athletic roles throughout higher education in general, and specifi­cally at Notre Dame along with an occa­sional meddling trustee, operate in an isolated, backslapping, self-absorbing "ole jock" power culture that at times is better suited for an episode of the Twilight Zone. No, Weis is a victim of White's dubious tenure at Notre Dame. 
White personally embraces a shame­less self-promotion both on the web site and in publications that make one think the athletic department was his alone to magnanimously share with the public. For example, White is overly featured in athletic publications, most recently for two, long pages in the men's hockey program as opposed to the university president and the chair of the trustees each with a mere three paragraphs while packed on a single page with sev­eral other officials. Moreover, despite an exhaustive search of other major uni­versity athletic web site directories, White is so enamored with his role that he is the only athletic director found who categorizes his office under "sen­ior" administration. 
At best, White's business acumen is dubious (other than his biographical litany of graduation rate figures and competitive accomplishments resulting more from the athletic department's coaches and stafO. He oversaw the hir­ing of football coach George O'Leary who was fired a week later after falsify­ing his resume. White extended two football coaching contracts during his tenure, both preceded the school's only 0-3 starts. He then presided over the dismissals of Bob Davie (whose contract was extended after his 41-9 bowl loss) and Tyrone Willingham, who ifheld to the Weis standard would have been given a 10-year contract in 2002 after beating 7th ranked Michigan and 11th ranked Florida State. Conversely, if White was consistent, Weis would be elsewhere now if held to the Willingham standard. 
In an effort to overcompensate for missteps of the past, White ignored les­sons learned. On-the-job training is nec­essary for NFL, high school, and even in-house assistant coaches to become successful head coaches within a major university football program. Coaches like Parseghian, Devine, Holtz and, yes, even Willingham who was not given the courtesy of a full contract, prove that point. So while the fan's clock ticks against Weis, White's deeds will keep the football coach on campus for anoth­er generation of students. White has set the stage so that only Weis can decide when to leave -and on his own terms. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column usually appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alcohol in the 'Real World' 

On April10 Ryan Slaney wrote "alcohol is a deterrent toward the academic and moral development of students here at Notre Dame." ("Alcohol: Enemy of academic and moral development," April 10). Ryan, are you sure about that? Guess what, drinking alcohol does not stop once you leave college. To a certain extent it becomes more a part of people's lives as age and money are no longer issues, as they were in college. Part of your "academic development" is to learn how to deal with alcohol, whether it is your usage or existing with other people's usage. Alcohol is not going anywhere anytime soon in the "real world." 
To ban it on campus and limit everyone's "alcohol experiences" would only put Notre Dame students at a disadvantage once they join the workforce. I have yet to be at a firm function after work hours that did not involve alcohol. In addition, promo­tion days and events such as golf out­ings always involve alcohol. Would you truly want to be dealing with these types of social environments for the first time at your first job? Lastly, in my mind alcohol is the furthest thing from an "enemy" as you stated. Alcohol was present at some of the best times of my life. In fact, I invited "Alcohol" to my tailgates, my Notre Dame graduation party, my promo­tion parties and she even showed up for the best day of my life, my wed­ding. 
Bill Nolan alumnus Class of200 1 April!O 
Alcohol a necessary evil 
I used to open the viewpoint section every day to see what the feminists were saying about the Vagina Monologues, but now I find more and more articles writ­ten by students concerned for the greater good of the Notre Dame student body. After reading Ryan Slaney's arti­cle, "Alcohol: Enemy of academic and moral development," (April10) I felt compelled to respond. I am not here to argue for or against prohibition of alco­hol on campus; that being said, we are in college. It is an undeniable fact that col­lege students drink; for proof. Just go to Sbarro at 3 a.m. on a Saturday night/Sunday morning. 
If the university decided to prohibit alcohol on campus, there would be an increase in students partying off campus. The question is, where? You said your­self, Ryan, that alcohol consumption leads to poor decisions, and I agree. Students with cars could potentially _ drive back to campus after a few brews, cosmos, car bombs, etc., risking much more than their academic development. Allowing alcohol on campus is a safe decision, as long as those drinking do it responsibly. 
As for alcohol affecting students' aca­demic and moral development, I have a number of friends who drink a fair amount and have higher grades than me. You cannot say that prohibition of alcohol on-campus will cause an increase in academic and moral develop­ment ... studying and going to dorm mass does that. The prohibition of alco­hol could create unsteady relations between many angry members of the student body and the administration. It could also affect the brain a lot longer than a few days if something were to happen to someone behind the wheel of a car. 
Super Smash Bros. has some pretty damaging effects on academic develop­ment too, so should we prohibit the use of it? I appreciate your concern for the academic well being of your peers, but changing the rules about alcohol con­sumption on-campus is not the solution. Maybe go play some Super Smash Bros. 
Mike Mahoney sophomore Keough Hall Aprii!O
Beer is proof God loves us 

Here is a little bit of history on the benefits of drinking for all of the kids out there whining about how alcohol makes you racist: 
A bunch of old dudes were sitting around, getting hammered and playing Kings. 
"OK Ben Franklin, you're up: Truth or Dare?" 
"Uh, dare." 
"You have to tie a key to this kite and run around outside. Naked." 
Next thing you know, boo ya-elec­tricity. Without electricity, how would AI Gore be able to drive his hybrid car? 
Think of all the great discoveries and inventions out there that were proba­bly thought up while drunk: unicycles, deep fried Snickers, hub caps that keep spinnin' every time I stop, beer bongs, hot air balloons, etc. The list goes on and on. So the next time you are think­ing about complaining that some drunk kid threw up on the sidewalk, take a minute and think about the fact this same drunk kid might have just discov­ered something truly awesome. 
Tom Martin 
senwr 

off campus Aprii!O 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
star Ellen Page for that. When director 
By CASSIE BELEK Ja'ion Rflitman asked Page what music the 
A.,sistanr Scene Editor character Juno would listen to, the actress 
immediately said The Moldy Peaches, which 
ller musie bneame essential to "Juno," led to Kimya Dawson. and it hP.!pml !-,riVIl thP indie film il'i hna.rt and In a November 2007 interview with soul. IJowever, Kimya Dawson i'i more than Pitchfork, Page talked about why Juno the "Juno" soundtrack and shp,'IJ be at would listen to The Moldy Peaches and l.ngends tomorrow night to give studenl'i a Dawson. UL'itll of what else she h<L'i t11 oflilr. "Well the Moldy Peaches' music is very 
A member of The Moldy Peaches, Dawson humorous. I mean, it has a hint of novelty, has bmm a solo act since the band took a but it i<> full of so much heart and so much break in 2004. Both the band and her own simplicity and it's so genuine. It's really musie i'i limtured on the "Juno" soundtrack, unique and it's quirky and all of those things, and composer Mateo Messina used but it ha'i heart to balance that," she said. Dawson's music as the Dawson is working on a b<L'>is of the film's scorn. new album, but in the 
Since going solo, "IT/he Moldy Peaches' meantime she will release Dawson h<L'i relea<;nd live music is very a children's album in albums, the latest being August entitled
humorous. I mean, it

2006's "Hmnnmbl'r That I "Alphabutt." Lavimoniere l.ove You." "Juno" bor­has a hint ofnovelty, said the album was most rowed four songs from the but it is full ofso much likely inspired by Dawson's 

,..,, 
album, including "Tire daughter, Panda Delilah.
heart and so much

Swing" and "Loose Lips." In fact, Dawson tours with Iter sound is unique and simplicity and it's so both Panda and her hus­often sounds cheery, but genuine. band, Angelo Spencer. her words pack a punch. Spencer and L'Orchidee Chad Lavimoniilre, who is D'Hawaii will open for
Ellen Page

in chargn of WVFI's PB Dawson's concert. 
"Juno" Star

and nvenl'i and has been a Lavimoniere waited to fan of Dawson for two bring Dawson to campus years, comparns the artist's musie to the because she wasn't a well-known artist to a pmtest music of tllP 1960s. wide audience before "Juno." 
"I mean, she definitely inherits something "I got really excited when she did the from protest lblk a Ia Pnte Seeger and Bob soundtrack to 'Juno' because that was really Dylan t11 a cP.ruLin extent," Lavimoniilre said. grnat exposure," Lavimoniere said. 
But he also said that she ha'i drawn com­Lavimoniere encouraged everyone to parisons to Mirah and even Lisa Loeb. lie come to Dawson's concert, even if they calls her music "opinionated folk." aren't familiar with her work on the sound­
In The Moldy Peaches, Dawson played a track. par1 in inlluendng the anti-folk movement. "Even if people aren't really interested in Whiln anti-folk, a subgenre of' li1lk, is diflicult the message of the music, it's a nice thing to to descrilw. it takes the eorn of' li1lk musie li'iten to," he said, adding that Dawson is still and !,rives it a new, expnrimenutl sound. on her way up in the music scene. "We're 
"It's not anti-folk a'i in they don't lik11 the not mtching her at her peak." way li1lk music sounds," Lavimonibre said. The show starts tonight at 9 at Legends 
Instead, he said, thP rnovnmnnt utkes the and doors open at 8:30. Admission is free for same trail<; of' li1lk music but pul'i a new spin all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross on tho genre. studenl'i. For more information on the con­
"A lot of li1lk is sort of' soothing." he said, cert visit WVFI's website, "but this is a li1lk that shakes up." http://wwvv.nd.ndul-wvfilpromo.html. 
As for hPr hnavv indusion in the "Juno" soundtrack. Dawson nm thank thn film's Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 





THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
Fans are happy enough that "The Office" returned last night after a long, writers' strike-induced hiatus, but students can continue their big, long sigh of relief with B.J. Novak's appearance tomorrow night at Washington 'The Office" 
Hall. Comedy Series 
Novak. who 
with
portrays former temp-turned­B.J. Novak corporate­Washington Hall 
sleaze Ryan 
Saturday, 9 p.m. 
Howard and is 
a writer on the Tickets free with a show, is the student!D third "Office" 
cast member to visit campus as part of SUB's "The Office" Comedy Series. Both Mindy Kaling (Kelly) and Craig Robinson (Darryl) appeared at Washington Hall on March 29. 
Novak, who in 2003 was named one of Variety's "10 Comedians to Watch," will perform stand-up and will be accompanied by an opener who is not affiliated with "The Office." 
SUB's special events programmers Pat Gartland and Matt McKenna first had the idea to bring Novak to campus during the writers' strike, but then decided to expand the appearance into a series. 
"We knew that some of the other cast members had backgrounds in stand-up and decided that we could do a stand­up series instead of just presentations and Q&A, as we did with the 'SNL' speaker series last spring," Gartland said. 

In her stand-up routine opening for Robinson, Kaling joked about every­thing from Observer headlines to Scarlett Johansson's deep voice and she even made a phone call to Novak so that he could announce that he was coming. Robinson used his keyboard to integrate music and sing-a-longs into his comedy. Both actors came back onstage after their performances to answer questions from the audience before posing for pictures and signing autographs. 
Gartland said that earlier in the day, he took Robinson, who had first visited family in Chicago, for a tour around campus and to the 
then Gartland and McKenna had to make sure that Washington Hall was available for those appearances. 
Eventually, everything came together and "The Office" Comedy Series was created. Gartland said that SUB specif­ically looked for "Office" cast members with a background in stand-up and that it got its first three choices. While Novak's appearance marks the last one by an "Office" cast member this semester, Gartland isn't ruling out more "Office" appearances in the future. 
"That will be up to the new program­mers as they plan for next year's events over the 
bookstore while summer," he said. Kaling slept since In her stand-up routine open­In the meantime, 
shooting on "The Gartland is just
ing for Robinson, Kaling 
Office" had not grateful to be able ended until 3 a.m. in joked about everything from to bring people like Los Angeles. But Observer headlines to Kaling, Robinson 
despite Robinson's and Novak to cam­
Scarlett Johansson's deep
"Office" fame, he pus. was not recognized voice and she even made a "It is a great feel­by everyone on cam­phone call to Novak so that ing to be able to pus. program events that
he could announce that he
"Craig and I actu­students are inter­ally did get stopped was coming. ested in attending," by the campus he said. "I think one 
guards at the gated entrance," Gartland said. "The guard would not let us on campus without a pass or a reason." 
Robinson alluded to the incident in his stand-up routine, which drew big laughs from everyone familiar with the strict guidelines of the guards at the entrance gates. 
Coordinating the actors' appearances proved to be somewhat challenging since "The Office" is shot and written every day of the week. Gartland said that Kaling, Robinson and Novak were only available on Saturdays, and even 
of the best things about SUB is that we can put on events or shows that students truly want to experience." 
For the most part, Kaling and Robinson appeared to enjoy their time here as much as the audience. 
"Mindy's first reaction to landing at the airport was texting Matt that 'South Bend is so pretty!"' Gartland said. "We could not tell if she was being sarcastic." 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 


MLB 

Cubs capitalize on five-run fifth to beat Pirates 
Boston defeats Detroit in front of record-breaking home crowd; Yankees avoid sweep with win over Kansas City 
over the place. There was
Associated Press 

no use keeping him in there. 
PITTSBUHGII After It wasn't going to get any nneding the equivalent of better." three games merely to win The Cubs certainly didn't twice in Pittsburgh, what a need to look for innings ear­relief this regulation game lier in the series. was to the Chicago Cubs. After going 12 and 15 Almost as big as the relief innings to win the first two .Jon LiebHr gave them. games -the first time in 81 
Geovany Solo and Mike years they've needed that Fontenot hit two-run many innings to win consec­
' 
homers in Chicago's five-run utive road games -the 
sixth inning and the Cubs Cubs won this with one big 
finished off a three-game inning against the pitching­
sweep of Pittsburgh, win­thin Pirates, who dropped ning 7-3 Thursday night to their fifth in six games. 
run their winning streak to "I'm glad it didn't go 
five games. (extra innings)," said Soto, 
Soto had three extra-base who went 8-of-17 while hits. ineluding two doubles, catching all 36 innings in among his second career the series -apparently four-hit game, and Derrek with no effect on his Lee also drove in two runs offense. despite not getting a hit as The Cubs withstood two the Cubs won their sixth in Pirates homer-driven come­a row over the Pirates dat­backs to win 6-4 in 15 ing to last season. innings on Wednesday night. 
Lieber (2-1) got the deci­"I think any situation like sion by pitching 4 1-3 score­that, if anybody can go in less relief innings after there and do that, it's defi­starter Rich Hill needed 72 nitely huge," Lieber, a con­pitches to get through three verted starter, said of prop­
innings, allowing three runs ping up the bullpen. "You don't want to get greedy," The Tigers stranded six er Joe Girardi said. "I don't and three hits and walking want to give those guys a Soto said. ''I'm not a triple­baserunners in the first know if I would call this a four. Lieber pitched 7 1-3 break down there, especially type guy." three innings despite failing big game, but you don't scoreless relief innings in after last night's ballgame." to get a hit off Wakefield (1-want to be swept at the the series, three of them Soto had a chance to hit Boston 12, Detroit 6 0). He walked five and hit start of an eight-game road during a 10-8, 12-inning for the cycle, but he didn't J.D. Drew went 3-for-3 two batters by the time he trip." win Monday in the Pirates' think of trying to stretch a with two runs and two RBis, was done, allowing three Pettitte (1-1) held the home opener. double into a triple in the and Tim Wakefield fluttered hits and one earned run Royals to one run and five 
"Without Lieber, we really seventh. He grounded out in his knuckleball for five while striking out five to hits in 6 2-3 innings, and is would have had problems," the ninth. innings to lead the Boston improve to 10-1 in his last 7-0 in his past nine starts manager Lou Piniella said. "I already hit my one Red Sox to a victory over 12 starts at Fenway. against them. He has a "We were looking . for (triple) for the year. I'll take Detroit on Thursday and Nate Robertson (0-1) career record of 12-4 with a innings .... (llill) was all them if they come, but I send the Tigers to their allowed eight hits and two 3.06 ERA against Kansas 
eighth loss in nine games. walks while striking out six City, which is his best 
Manny Ramirez had a two­in 5 1-3 innings, giving up earned run average against run double, and he also all of his four runs in the any American League club. scored a run by ignoring a fourth inning. Five Detroit After throwing 31 pitches two-handed stop sign put up pitchers combined to throw in the first inning, when the by third base coach DeMario 212 pitches, allowing 13 hits Royals managed their only Hale. Sean Casey drove in and nine walks. run off him, Pettitte needed three runs on a pair of hits, Detroit's Ivan Rodriguez just 61 pitches through the including a two-run single reached base all five times next 5 2-3 innings. in the four-run seventh he came to the plate, with "I didn't have much at all when Boston made it 8-3. three singles, a walk and a the first couple of innings," 
Five straight Detroit bat­hit-by-pitch. Pettitte said. "I was ters reached base in the The crowd of 37,612, extremely fortunate to get eighth off Julian Tavarez, boosted by the offseason through that, thank good­who came in when Hideki addition of nearly 1,000 ness .... My command was Okajima was pulled after seats, was the most at extremely bad early on and warming up to start the Fenway since World War II. I was just very fortunate to inning. Tavarez got Gary get away with some balls I Sheffield to hit into a run­New York 6, Kansas City 1 left over the plate. scoring double play that cut Once again, Andy Pettitte "I really just started feel­the deficit to 8-6, before came up big when the New ing good midway through Jonathan Papelbon got York Yankees needed a win. the third inning and felt like Magglio Ordonez on a popup Pettitte picked up his first I got into a really good to center to end the eighth. victory and Alex Rodriguez rhythm .... That was good to 
The Red Sox added four in and Melky Cabrera each see, hopefully I can carry the eighth on a two-run homered and drove in two this one into my next one." double by Kevin Youkilis, runs, helping the New York Cabrera tied the game at 1 Drew's sacrifice fly and an Yankees defeat the Kansas with a solo homer in the HBI single by Coco Crisp. City Royals Thursday night third, driving a 1-2 pitch to Papelbon pitched a scoreless and avoid a series sweep. left off John Bale, the first ninth for his third save in "Andy knows how to win left-bander the Yankees three tries. big games," Yankees manag-have faced this year. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. Al dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


NOTICES 
BElGER MANSION 1n Mishawaka ­7 rooms available for grad week­end. All private baths. www.beiger­mansion.com or call 574-255-6300 Ron. 
WANTED 
$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT WORK flexible, no experience needed. customer sales/service. conditions apply. ages 18+. 574­273-3835 www. workforstudents.com New student needs good laptop. 5Z4-993-8733. 
FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offering 'flex' leases bluegoldrentals.com 
Large house available for 2009­2010. Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ square feet, 5 bathrooms. 
MacSwain@ gmail.com 

HOUSEMATE SOUGHT. PRIVATE 
ROOM. CALL 631-7897. $400 
MONTHLY 

For rent 4 bdrm house, walk to N.D., student neighborhood, central air, new appliances. very nice. 
289-4071. 

Quiet and Private, Furnished or Unfurnished apts for rent. 
1 & 2 br available. Cable & wifi included. One mile from campus. Call 773-339-0299 for rates & avail­ability. 
DUBLIN VILLAGE unit for lease 2008-2009. 4BI3, 3.5 bath. Largest & most private. Call Diane 574·261­3338. 
PERSONAL 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? 
You do not have to be alone. We want to help. 
Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 

If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­7819. 
For more information, visit our web­site at 
http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted. visi I http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslrape. shtml 
Sometimes you do four hours of work and then you have to start over. 
Weekends don't count unless you spend them doing something com· pletely pointless -Calvin and Hobbes 
lt"s Tribe Time Now. 

I 
I 
L_____-------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
~~-~-----------------------~ -~-----~-------------­
OUND THE NATION 
Friday, April 11, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE ()Bsf.RVER'S wmE SERVICES page 17 

NBA Standings 
Eastern Conference 

team record perc. last 10 GB Boston 62·1 .795 7·3 Detroit 55·2 .705 6·4 7 Orlando 49·2 .628 5·5 13 Cleveland 4 3·3 551 5-5 19 Washington 41-37 .526 6·4 21 Philadelphia 40-3 .513 6·4 22 Toronto 39·39 .500 4·6 23 Atlanta 36-42 .462 7-3 26 lndian.a 34-44 .436 7-3 28 New Jersey 32-46 .410 3-7 30 Chicago 30-48 .385 3·7 32 Charlotte 30-49 .380 5·5 32.5 Milwaukee 26·52 .333 2·8 36 New York 23-56 .291 ' 4-6 39.5 Miami 14-64 .179 2·8 48 
Western Conference 

team record perc. last 10 GB New Orleans 55·23 .705 8·2 San Antonio 53·25 .679 H 2 LA lakers 53·25 .679 6-4 ~ Utah 52·26 .667 8·2 3 Houston 53·25 .679 7·3 2 Phoenix 53·26 .671 6-4 2.5 Dallas 49·29 .628 5·5 6 Denver 47·31 .603 7·3 8 Golden Stale 47·31 .603 5·5 .8 Portland 39·39 .500 4·6 16 Sacramento 36·42 .462 5·5 19 LA Clippers 23·55 .295 2·8 32 Memphis 21·57 .269 4·6 34 Minnesota 19·59 .244 2·8 36 Seattle 18·61 .228 2·8 37.5 
NCAA Men's Baseball USA TodayjESPN Top 25 
rank team overall 
1 Miami 26·2 2 florida Sate 28·3 3 Arizona State 28·3 4 North Carolina 25·6 5 Wichita State 24·4 6 Nebraska 24·4·1 7 UC Irvine 20-5 8 California 21-7·1 9 Rice 23·10 10 Texas 21·10 11 Texas A&M 26-6 12 Missouri 22·8 13 Kentucky 25-5' 14 South Carolina 20·10 15 Stanford 15·9 16 long Beach State 18-11 17 Vanderbilt 19·10 18 Mississippi 20·11 19 Georgia Tech 25·7 20 Cal State Fullerton 18·10 21 florida 21-10 22 Coastal Carolina 24·7 23 Georgia 20·10 24 Virginia 24-8 25 Oklahoma State 20·9 
around the dial 
NHL 
Flyers at Capitals 
7:00 p.m., Versus 
Avalanche at Minnesota 
9:00 p.m., Versus 
NBA 
Cavaliers at Bulls 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 2 
MLB 


Associated Press 

CLEVELAND -The Indians tucked away one of their aces. 
Fausto Carmona, a sur­prising 19-game winner who wasn't bugged by swarming insects in his first postseason start last October, agreed Thursday to a $15 million, four-year contract with the Indians, a deal that potentially can earn him $48 million. 
There was no rush to sign the 24-year-old, but the Indians are convinced Carmona's best days are ahead and rewarded him with the highest guarantee to a pre-arbitration eligi­ble starter. 
"This is a guy who has shown he wants to be great," Indians general manager Mark Shapiro said. "He has exceptional toughness, exceptional tal­ent and intelligence. Those things combined with his work ethic made this a very easy decision." 
Carmona's signing also gives the Indians protec­tion in case they can't keep reigning AL Cy Young Award winner C.C. Sabathia, who is eligible for free agency following this season. Sabathia rejected a preliminary offer from the club, and during spring training he suspended negotiations until after the season. 
IN BRIEF Coach Bill Self to remain at 
Kansas 

LAWRENCE, Kan. -Bill Self has reached an agreement on a new contract with Kansas, just days after leading the Jayhawks to their first NCAA basketball title in 20 years. 
Self met with athletic director Lew Perkins on Wednesday and Thursday, and they emerged at an afternoon news conference to say they had reached general agree­ment on a deal that is still being finalized. 
The deal would replace the con­tract extension Self signed last year that pays him $1.375 million annu­ally. 
"I don't know what the big deal is, to be horiest," Self said, referring to the speculation over his future. "These last three weeks, four weeks, have been an absolute whirlwind. 
"I don't know if a guy deserves to have as much fun as I've had," he said. 
There's no guarantee Sabathia will be back, and if he's not, Carmona will ascend into the No. 1 role. 
Assistant GM Chris Antonetti said Carmona's signing will allow the club to better plan for the future, but it has no bear­ing on its ability to re-sign Sabathia. 
"They are not interrelat­ed," Antonetti said, "and it certainly wouldn't hurt to have two 19-game win­ners in the rotation. We would like to have five of them." 
Carmona doesn't want to consider the possibility of replacing Sabathia. 
"I want C.C. to stay here," he said through 

first-base coach Luis Rivera. "I want C.C. to be the No. 1 for a long time. 1 don't care if I'm No. 2 for a long time." 
With a wicked sinker, Carmona went 19-8 with a 
3.06 ERA in 32 starts and emerged as one of the AL's top pitchers in 2007, one season after he went 1-10 and had a disastrous try­out as Cleveland's closer. But it was how Carmona bounced back from adver­sity that impressed the Indians, who signed him in 2000 as a 17 -year-old. 
In just over a week's span in 2006, Carmona blew three saves, losing twice on game-ending homers. 
Olympic torch arrives in 
Argentina 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina ­Argentina is billing Friday's Olympic torch run as an easygoing street fiesta, set to a tango beat. 
But officials are worried enough about anti-China protests to mobilize thousands of police officers after torch runs in other cities caused chaos, and protesters warned of a Buenos Aires "surprise." 
The Olympic flame arrived Thursday under heavy security from San Francisco, where police cut the torch's route in half and sent the flame far away from demonstrators, disappoint­ing many who had gathered to see it. 
Argentine authorities are deploying 1,300 federal police, 1,500 naval police and some 3,000 traffic police and volunteers -enough to ensure security "without going to the extreme that nobody will be able to see the torch," said government sports official Francisc Irarrazabal. 
Changes in baseball drug
testing are eminent 
NEW YORK -Baseball players and owners plan to turn most of the authority over testing for perform­ance-enhancing drugs to the pro­gram's independent administrator while keeping oversight over drugs of abuse with a joint union-management body. 
The sides established a third-party administrator when they amended their drug plan for the second time in November 2005, and they split author­ity between the administrator and baseball's Health Policy Advisory Committee, which has two members from each side. 
Negotiators are close to an agree­ment that would amend the drug plan for a third time, and the independence of the administrator would be strengthened by establishing a fixed term and allowing his termination only for specified reasons, several people familiar with the talks said. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April I I, 2008 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles to 
take on Tri-State 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's sull'ered another 
tough conference loss 
Wednesday at llope, but will 
look to eome back Saturday as 
they take on Tri-State (3-7, 0-4 
MIM) at home. The Belles (5-9, 
1-3 MIAA)· were defeated 
Wednesday 8-1 by the Flying 
Dutch. 
"Tri-State hasn't done real 
well in the conference," Belles 
coach Chuck Hubino said. "We 
expect them to be competitive, 
but we're pretty confident we 
should be able to beat them." 
Saint Mary's freshman Jillian 
I lurley was the only player victo­
rious for the Belles at llope 
Wednesday, winning the No. 2 
singles 6-0, 6-0 over Hope's 
Christine Garcia. Her victory 
brings her singles record to 12­
2. Hurley's success at singles was not echoed in doubles play as she and partner Camille Gebert lost 8-2. 
The Belles were swept in dou­blns, with the No. 2 duo of soph­omore co-captain Lisa Rubino and freshman BeL<>y Reed falling 8-6 to Hope's Christine Garcia and Danielle Werley, putting their reeord at 5-7 as a pair. The No. 3 doubles team of freshmen Jessica Kosinski and Franca Peluso were defeated 8-5 by Flying Dutch Katherine Garcia and Nieole Spanguolo. 
"We just have to get more consistent," Hubino said. "We made too many errors, especial­ly unforced errors at Hope. Two of our doubles played really well, and Jillian [Hurley! dominated at No. 2 singles, but we had errors everywhere else." 
Consistency from match to match has been one of Saint Mary's biggest issues this sea­son, but with a team of two sophomores and eight freshmen, Hubino has been able to put it into perspective. 
"We make errors at crucial points," Hubino said. "We have to get over the hump, and it is part of the growing process." 
Fortunately for the Belles, the tough competition they've had to face has paid oil' in some match­es, like their 9-0 sweep of Olivet April 1. Tri-State has not had fared as well, and will hopefully prove to be easy competition for Saint Mary's. 
"They have only six players, so not a lot of depth," Rubino said. "It will bn a good match for us to tune up for Bethellon April15]." 
Saint Mary's takes on Tri-State at 1 :00 p.m. Saturday at home. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiO I @saintmarys.edu 

NO WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Northwestern routs Irish on road 
Notre Dame falls to top-ranked Wildcats, looks on to new challenge against Georgetown 
was upfront another strong
"We didn't show up.
about the opponent on team's play They came to play. " Saturday in the 
o n Georgetown. The Wednesday. Hoyas come into
Tracy Coyne 
"We didn't the game ranked
Irish coach
show up. No. 6 in the coun-They came try and tied for to play," second place in the Coyne said of the Wildcats. Big East conference with "There was an article in their Notre Dame. 
"They have very talented play that game," Coyne said. lacrosse players," Coyne said. "If we play Irish lacrosse the "They get a lot of the top ath­way we know we can, I think letes in that hotbed [the that we are going to win." 
DC/Baltimore area], so I think that's what makes them the good team that they are." 
The Irish will be up against historical odds. The program is 2-8 all-time against the Hoyas, includ­

"If we play Irish lacrosse the way we know we can, I think that we are going to 
win. 
Tracy Coyne Irish coach 
As for what effect the loss in Evanston will have on the team, Coyne did­n't see it as a factor. 
"The game was an anomaly. It's not indica­tive of how we are going to play moving for­ward," Coyne By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's quest for a perfect five-game road trip hit a major roadblock Wednesday night, as the Irish fell to No. 1 Northwestern 16-2, 
No. 8 Notre Dame was pre­viously 3-0 on the trip and was coming off of a win at No. 7 Duke, the program's first ever win in Durham, N.C. Irish coach Tracy Coyne student newspaper about what a rivalry they consider the game to be and they came out and played like it." 
It was a game in which the Irish trailed from the start, falling behind 11-0 at half­time. The Wildcats would eventually score the first 15 goals of the game before Notre Dame found the back of the net. 
The Irish, however, cannot afford to dwell on 
Wednesday's out­
come, as they face ing an 0-4 record in Washington, D.C. However, this Irish team pulled off their first ever road win over Duke just over one week ago, and will look to try and make his­tory again. 
"We are going to be pre­pared when the time comes to 
said. "It showed our flaws, let's be honest, but you don't beat a team like Duke and not be a good team." 
The Irish and lloyas face off Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Andy ZicareUi at 
aziccare@nd.edu 
NBA 

Dallas clinches playoff spot with win 
Nowitzki hits game-winning three-pointer with .9 seconds remaining on the clock 
Associated Press 

DALLAS -A playoff spot, 50 wins and a second straight tight victory over an elite team. 
Just a few weeks ago, the Dallas Mavericks didn't seem capable of pulling off any of those. Now, they're doing it all. 
Dirk Nowitzki immediately answered a banked-in, game­tying 3-pointer from Deroo Williams by running down the court and swishing a 3 of his own with 0. 9 seconds left, giving Dallas a 97-94 victory over the Utah Jazz and two nice bonuses -a clinched playoff berth and win No. 50. 
"How do you leave the MVP wide open? It's unbelievable," teammate Jason Terry said. 
"I heard people say we wouldn't even make the play­offs, but now we're in," Terry added. "Tonight, we took another step in the right direction. We have to treat all these games like playoff games. We have a long way to go but winning games like these is big for us." 
Nowitzki scored 32 points and Terry had 21, all coming in the second half. The duo scored 25 of Dallas' 30 points in the fourth quarter. They had to step up because Josh Howard left in the third with a bruised right knee. He hurt it on Sunday running into Shaquille O'Neal, then aggra­vated it in the first half. lie 
tried coming back at the start 
and end of the third quarters, 
"but couldn't do much," he 
said. 

''I'm going to get some rest and be ready to get back out there," Howard said. Dallas plays Saturday in Portland and Sunday in Seattle, then returns home for the season finale Wednesday against New Orleans. 
The Mavs don't have to do much scoreboard-watching between now and then. This win, coupled with a loss by Golden State, locks up a play­off spot. Dallas has a two­game edge on Denver for the No.7 seed. 
Getting to 50 wins is signifi­cant, too. The Mavs have done that and made the play­offs for eight straight sea­sons. San Antonio is the only other team that can make the same claim, though the Spurs have nine in a row. 
San Antonio also has four titles in that span, while Dallas is seeking its first. That's why the club made the bold move of trading for Jason Kidd in February. The deal was starting to look like a mistake when the Mavs were skidding into late March, especially when Nowitzki went out with ankle and knee injuries. 
But Kidd started asserting himself and Dallas has taken off, winning six of the last seven, with victories over Phoenix and Golden State in 
that span. 

"We're coming together more and more, especially on the defensive end, and on the offensive end we're playing well and making a lot of shots," Nowitzki said. "We're starting to build our confi­dence. If we keep going like this, we're going to be a dan­gerous team in the playoffs." 
Mehmet Okur had 19 points and 14 rebounds for Utah, while Williams had 18 points and 12 assists. He was 7-of­16 after going 6-of-24 in his previous two games. Andrei Kirilenko had 15 points and Carlos Boozer only 10 points and five rebounds. 
The Jazz clinched the clivi-

sion in their previous game, so they're only playing for seeding, knowing they can finish no worse than fourth. Still, they'd won four in a row and seven of eight. 
After trailing by 14 early, Utah made things interesting. Over the last 16 minutes, there were 14 lead changes and eight ties, with neither team leading by more than five points. 
Williams hit a leaning 3­pointer with the shot clock running out to put the Jazz up 89-88 with 2:32 left. Dallas went back in front when Kirilenko was called for goaltending on a layup by Terry. 
Plug in to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
Campus Ministry  
Free iTunes subscription for reflective listening 011 your iflod.  
A:>l)>n ) ) )  Type "ndprayercast" on the i'Tunes search engine,-or -log onto www.ndprayercast.org Hear it here this week: Rev. Dan Parrish, c.s.c.  
M www.ndprayercast.org  Songs of the ND Folk Choir • Psalms • Homilies • Prayers • Meditative music  
Weekly rebroadcasts of the Sunday 11 :45am Liturgies  

Friday, April II, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page I9 
ND BASEBALL 
Irish tied for first in Big East 
Squad takes five-game win streak on the road against Villanova 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame has climbed into a tie with St. John's for first place in the Big East, but the Irish know that means every opponent will be gun­ning for them for the remainder of the season. 
"Every series now from here on out -since we're at the top -is going to be a big series," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. 
Notre Dame (18-9-1 overall, 7-2 Big East) will play a three-game series at Villanova (15-15, 4-5) this weekend in a matchup of red-hot squads. The Irish have won five straight games while the Wildcats have come out on top in their last seven contests. 
"Villanova's the hottest team in the Big East right now .... They've won [seven] in a row, all at home," Schrage said. 
Notre Dame swept conference foe Rutgers at home last weekend but will now hit the road for the next two weekends. The Irish take on the Wildcats before busing to West VIrginia next weekend. 
Schrage thinks his squad is well­prepared for the grueling stretch. 


"Any time you go on the road -I don't care where you're playing ­it's going to be a challenge," Schrage said. "But right now I like how our lineup sets up. I like how we're swinging the bats and I like how we're playing defense." 
A.J. Pollock has led a recent offensive tear for the Irish, garner­ing Big East player of the week hon­ors last week before continuing his hot streak in Notre Dame's mid­week games. Pollock went 6-for-7 with a home run, a triple and a double in games against Valparaiso and Manchester Tuesday and Wednesday. He raised his average to .409 by going 3-for-3 against Manchester. 
Irish junior right-hander David Phelps will be on the mound Friday against the Wildcats. Senior Wade Korpi and sophomore Eric Maust will round out the weekend rotation for Notre Dame. The three Irish starters boast respective ERAs of 3.94, 3.70 and 2.70. 
Schrage said the Irish will be focused on the three-game sets with Villanova and West VIrginia but will also keep their eye on a series with St. John's the followihg weekend. 
'We've got six big games in a row before we get St. John's at home," Schrage said. 'We've [told] the team we've got to win [the next two] series and hopefully get the show­down with St. John's." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu. 
PGA 
Woods four shots behind at Masters 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. -The Masters had a familiar feel Thursday, from the warmth of a spring garden to the pockets of cheers that celebrated spec­tacular shots, even to some of the names on the leaderboard. 
Justin Rose was at t~e top after 18 holes, the third straight time he's managed that. 
Tiger Woods couldn't break 70 on the first day for the 12th straight year. 
The four-time Masters cham­pion failed to make a birdie at Augusta National for the first time since the opening round in 2003, although there was no reason to panic. He chipped in for eagle from 25 feet behind the 15th green to salvage an even-par 72, leaving him four shots behind Rose and co­leader Trevor Immelman. 
Woods didn't sound terribly worried. 
"I played a lot better than what my score indicates," he said. "I kept myself in the tour­nament. I'm right there." 
So is Rose, and that's becom­ing a tradition like no other at the Masters -at least on Thursday. 
The 27~year-old Englishman overcame a sluggish start with four straight birdies that car­ried him to a 68. The trick now is to figure out how to stay there over the next three days. 
Rose led through 36 holes in 2004 until stumbling to an 81 in the third round. He was tied for the lead after 18 holes last year and stayed in the hunt all week until a late collapse on Sunday. 
"Eventually you've got to say, 'OK, it's time to step up,"' Rose said. "But I'm not putting too much pressure on myself." 
Pressure might come from the course. 
Unlike last year, when Augusta was brisk and brittle and the scores were among the highest in history, a warm afternoon of sunshine and only a light breeze brought back some of the scoring -al)d sounds of cheering -on the fabled course. 
"I think the golf course is right where they want it," Rose said. "They can take it whichever direction they would like. If they want to create some birdies, they can do that. And if they want to make par a good score, that could be done. It's probably perfect right now." 
Immelman played that way, keeping bogeys off his card in his best start at the Masters. Perhaps it was only a coinci­dence that Rose, Immelman and Ian Poulter made a week­end getaway to Augusta last month for practice. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 11, 2008 
OLYMPICS 
Jones' teammates must give up gold medals 
International Olympic Committee rules that relay members cannot keep medals after teammate admitted steroid use 
Associated Press 
BEIJING -Marion Jones gave up her Olympic medals. ller relay teammates aren't quite as willing. 
Jones' former relay team­mates paid for her doping offenses Thursday, losing their medals from the 2000 Sydney Olympics as the International Olympic Committee stripped them from athletes who won gold with Jones in the 1,600­meter relay and bronze in the 400 relay. 
"The decision was based on the fact that they were part of a team, that Marion Jones was disqualified from the Sydney Games due to her own admis­sion that she was doping during those games," said IOC spokes­woman Giselle Davies, who announced the decision. "She was part of a team and she competed with them in the finals." 
Jones' teammates on the 1,600 squad were Jearl-Miles Clark, Monique Hennagan, LaTasha Colander-Richardson and Andrea Anderson. The 400-relay squad also had Chryste Gaines, Torri Edwards, Naneecn Perry and Passion Hiehardson. 
The runners have previously refused to give up their medals, saying it would be wrong to punish them for Jones' viola­tions. They have hired a U.S. lawyer to defend their case, which could wind up in the Swiss-based Court of Arbitration for Sport. 
The IOC ruling follows the admission by Jones last year that she was doping at the time of the Sydney Games. 
She returned her five medals last year and the IOC formally stripped her of the results in December. Jones won gold in the 100 meters, 200 and 1,600 relay, and bronze in the long jump and 400 relay. 
"The (IOC) decision ... illus­trates just how far-reaching the consequences of doping can be," USOC chief executive offi­cer Jim Scherr said in a state­ment. "When an athlete makes the choice to cheat, others end up paying the price, including teammates, competitors and fans. 
"We respect the decision of the IOC executive board, as well as the right for the ath­letes who are impacted by this decision to file an appeal with the Court of Arbitration of Sport, should they so choose." 
The IOC put off any decision Thursday on reallocating the medals, pending more informa­tion from the ongoing BALCO steroid investigation in the Unitfld States. 

A reshuffling of the medals could affect more than three dozen other athletes. The IOC wants to know whether any other Sydney athletes are implicated in the BALCO files. 
Davies said the Jones' relay case differed from that of U.S. 400-meter runner Jerome Young, who was stripped of his gold medal in the 1,600-meter relay from Sydney because of a doping violation dating to 1999. He ran only in the preliminary of the relay. 
The IOC had sought to strip the entire American men's team but the Court of Arbitration for Sport ruled in 2005 that there were no rules in place at the time of the Sydney Games for a whole relay team to be disqualified for an offense by one member. 
"Marion Jones ran in the finals and she was of her own admission doped during the Olympic Games," Davies said. "Jerome Young was found to be doped before the Olympic Games and should never have competed in the first place." 
The next IOC board meeting takes place in Athens, Greece, in June, followed by another meeting in Beijing on the eve of the Aug. 8-24 Olympics. 
Davies said there was no timetable for a decision on redistributing medals, but 

AP The U.S. Women's 1600m relay team celebrates after their win In Sydney on September 8, 2000. The women must now give up their medals after Marlon Jones admitted to steroid use. 
noted there was an eight-year statute of limitations. The Sydney Games finished on Oct. 1, 2000. 
After denying she had ever used performance-enhancing drugs, Jones admitted in feder­al court in October that she used the designer steroid "the clear" from September 2000 to July 2001. She began serving a six-month prison sentence last month for lying to investigators about doping and her role in a check fraud scam. 
On other doping matters, the IOC board adopted its anti-dop­ing rules for the Beijing Games, covering the period from the opening of the Olympic village on July 27 to the closing cere­mony on Aug. 24. 
Among new provisions, ath­letes will be considered guilty of a doping violation if they are found in possession of any pro­hibited substance, including marijuana. Missing two doping tests during the games or one during that period and two in the previous 18 months will constitute a violation. And ath­letes can be subjected to no­advance notice drug tests "at any time or place" during the games. 

, __ 
Visit the NEW website for the Office of Vocations 
SOMETIMES 
at vocation.nd.edu to learn more about the 
discernment isn't so easy Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Who knows ...you may be called. 

Friday, April II, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS
SMC SOFTBALL 
Tean1 suffers close
Belles seek fast start at Albion 
By LAURA MYERS 5). Albion, which finished SportS Writer seventh out of eight teams in the MIAA last year, has made 
Saint Mary's will focus on improvements this year. finally getting a first game win Sullivan said she feels her in Saturday afternoon's dou­team is up to the task. bleheader at Albion College. "We are a better team than The Belles have lost the open­we have shown recently," said 
er  of their last  Sullivan. "We  
three  double- are looking to  
headers, as well as in a single game 10-1 loss Monday against Bethel. Belles coach  "We just need to trust all ofthe hard work and effort we have put in over the year. ''  come out strong against Albion and show what we can do." Albion is  
Erin Sullivan has  coming off  a  
described this as  Erin Sullivan  sweep of MIAA  
a  lack  of  pre­ Belles coach  opponent  

paredness for each team's style. This problem has remedied itself in the second game of the doubleheader, which the Belles have won in each con­test. 
The Belles (15-6 overall, 4-2 MIAA) have a chance to redeem themselves Saturday against the Britons (11-8, 3­Kalamazoo. In 
game one, pitcher Amber Hummel allowed only one hit in her third shutout of the season. 
The Belles have had a solid season despite the recent loss­es, and Sullivan does not feel that they have lost any confi­dence. 
"We just need to trust all of 

the hard work and effort we 
loss to N orthvvestern 
have put in over the year and go out and play hard," she said. 
Junior Calli Davison (7-6) will start the first game, and senior McKenna Corrigan (8­
0) will start the second. Along with pitching, Corrigan is one of the team's top offensive players, leading the team with three home runs and second in RBI with 23. 
Junior Ashley Fusaro and sophomore Ashley Peterson, two-time reigning MIAA play­er of the week, respectively, lead the offense for Saint Mary's. Peterson leads the team in every major offensive category. 
The Belles rank fourth in the MIAA heading into tomorrow's contest. The top four teams at the end of the season are invited to the postseas.on MIAA tournament. 
Contact Laura Myers at 
lmyers2@nd.edu 
completely dominated. It was their first 4-3 win all season, so we know we're right there." 
With that being said, the Irish are looking to close out their season this weekend with a pair of Big East oppo­nents in DePaul on Friday and Marquette Sunday at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
Part of the reason as to why the Irish were competitive against the Wildcats is because they went into the contest knowing that they could compete with the nation's best team. 
"We for sure thought that we could go in there and win," Louderback said. "I thought we needed to win one of our four, five and six matches to win the match, but that just didn't happen. We had great wins at two and three, and losing all the sin­gles matches that we did as close as they were hurt. Overall, we played okay, but not well enough to pull out the win." 
Needless to say, the squad was frustrated and disap­pointed with themselves. 
"They were pretty disap­pointed that they had the chance to win, but couldn't get it," Louderback said. "When you have the chance to win against the No. 1 team in the nation and it doesn't come through, you're going to be frustrated. We've moved on though and we know that we can go into Big East play and compete with anyone." 
As it has been throughout the nine-game streak, the doubles play set the tone for the match against the Wildcats. The nation's top pair of senior Brook Buck and junior Kelcy Tefft took care of their opponents 8-2. Coupled with an 8-5 victory from sophomores Cosmina Ciobanu and Colleen Rielley, Notre Dame was able to secured the first point of the match head­ing into singles play. 
The Irish suffered a setback in the No. 1 singles when Tefft fell in straight sets, put­ting the score at 1-1. 
The No. 2 and 3 singles stepped up to the spotlight and came up with huge victo­ries as Buck and Ciobanu both handled their opponents. 
The lower hall' of the singles group is where the Wildcats made up the difference of the match and overcame a 3-1 deficit to pull out the victory. 
Now that the nine-game winning streak Notre Dame had compiled is over, the squad cannot afford a let­down this weekend, and needs to keep winning as they head into Big East play. 
"We had a great practice today," Louderback said of Thursday's session. "They came out fired up after Northwestern. DePaul is a very athletic team. They have a bunch of talent all around. It's also the first time they've been healthy in a long time so we know what they can do. 
"We played well against Northwestern, and lost, so now we can't afford a let­down." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
When the nation's top­ranked team has continuously dominated its opponents and heads into town, at first, a 4­3 loss seems disheartening. For No. 16 Notre Dame, this was exactly the case after a close loss against No. 1 Northwestern. 
Although the loss was frus­trating, Irish head coach Jay Louderback realizes that his squad can compete with any team the country has to offer. 
"Well they weren't happy," Louderback said of his team after the defeat. "And they shouldn't be. But after a loss like that, you know you're right there. Northwestern has been dominating teams throughout the season. Besides their one loss, they've 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 11, 2008 
TENNIS 
Sharapova vvins at Bausch & Lo111b tourney 
Associated Press 
AMELIA ISLAND, Fla. ­Maria Sharapova got the clay-court test she was look­ing for, but she almost got more than she bargained for. 
Sharapova outlasted clay­eourt veteran Anabel Medina Carrigum; in three sets over :~ hours at the Hausch & 1.omb Championships on Thursday. 
The top seed rallied from 3-0 down in the third set and survived 7-6 (3), 5-7, 7-6 (1) 

SMC GOLF 
Belles in second at Vasser 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Fresh off one of its best performanc­es of the season in the first round of the MIM qualifying tournament. Saint Mary's looks to maintain their solid play at the Vasser Invitational in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., thi'i weekend. 
Saint Mary's is currently second in the qualifier tournament altnr day one, just 18 strokes behind Olivet, the MIAA's lhll season champion.•:;. 
The Belles have developed some depth on the u~am that was not presnnt during the fitll season when they fin­ished in third place. Frnshmen Hosie O'Connor and Emily Gore have stepped up this spring and given senior Katin O'Brien some much nnndnd sup­port. 
O'Connor has led the team in the past three tlmrmunenl'i, induding the MIAA qualifier whern she shot an 80. Gore has also played very well this spring and shot m1 84 in the qualifim: 
After the Vasser Invitational, the· BBllns will play in the Illinois Wesleyan Spring Fling the following weekend before they compete in the final two days of the MIM qualilinr tournamrmt April 25-26 in Marshall, Mich. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu 
I I 
I • 
to move into the quarterfi­nals. 
"There were a lot of ups and downs in the match," said Sharapova, who is mak­ing her clay season debut at Amelia Island Plantation for the first time. "I think I should have won the match in two sets. to be honest. But I stopped hitting the ball, and I kind of let her back in the match." 
Three-time Bausch & Lomb champion Lindsay Davenport beat Karolina Sprem 6-4, 3­6, 6-4 in the first night match. 

Medina Garrigues con­trolled the momentum early in the third before Sharapova began the first of two bursts to escape. 
Down 3-0, Sharapova won the next five games and saved several of her oppo­nents' game points in the process to breathe easy at 5­
3. 

"It's the game of tennis, it can change really fast," Sharapova said. 
It changed again as Sharapova, seemingly in con­trol, served for the mateh at 5-4. Medina Garrigues won the first two points and con­verted her sixth break of serve to even it at 5-all. 
But the tiebreak went Sharapova's way from the get-go. 
The Russian won the first three and the last four points as Medina Garrigues wilted under the setting Florida sun. 
This type of win a marathon with long baseline rallies against a strong clay player was just what Sharapova needed in order to prepare for the Freneh Open. 
"I still feel like I can improve," Sharapova said. "Hopefully all these matches that I play here, as many as I can, will help me toward this year's French or future elay­court matches." Sharapova entered as the tournament's top seed, ranked No. 5 in the world with a 2008 record of 19-1. 
Medina Garrigues came in ranked No. 29 with no quar­terfinal appearances since September but with a staunch clay reputation. 
They may as well have been equals Thursday. 
"This is her specialty, this is where she does best," Sharapova said. "She grew up on this stuff, and she's very familiar with it." 
Amelie Mauresmo had to work hard to earn her SOOth 
career  win  in  the  third  
round.  
Mauresmo,  the  2001  

Bausch & Lomb winner, came back to beat seventh­seeded Agnieszka Radwanska 3-6. 7-5. 7-6 (6) in a match that took more than 2? hours. 
Against Hadwanska, Mauresmo was up 5-2 in the third before dropping two match points and then three straight games to force a tiebreaker. 
"Even though I had some opportunities to finish it ofT before the third-set tiebreak, I couldn't make it," Mauresmo said. "I was glad that I was coming in and try­ing to go for it in that tiebreak. That's what made the difference, I thought, in the end." 

ePee 
Join yourfriends atyourfavorite placefor aprivate, after-hours graduation party! 
*customize your own graduation party *design your own menu *beer and wine licenses available *great location in downtown South Bend 
288 -PEEP (7337) 127 S. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 
Call today for information and to book your after-hours graduation party! 
Friday, April 11, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Struggling Irish visit Wolverines 
Team travels to No. 14 Michigan after losing five of past six matches 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
After dropping a 4-3 match Sunday to No. 63 William and Mary, the No. 34 Irish will look to regain some con­fidence this Saturday when 
they  travel  to  No.  14  
Michigan.  
Notre  Dame's  loss  on  

Sunday was only its third homH loss this season after the team started off strong early in thH season with many closH wins. 
"We won five 4-3 matches early. and rose to No. 9," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "It was an inflated ranking, based on a small body of work." 
Since beating North Carolina 4-3 at the Blue Gray Tennis Classic, the Irish are 1-5 with their only win coming over Ball State on Friday. 
Part of the reason for the Irish's troubles is the tough competition the team has faced. 
"We have played perhaps the most difficult schedule," Bayliss said. "We have and will play six of the top 10 teams." 
Bayliss also noted that when the Irish beat Duke on 
Feb. 3, the Blue Devils were No. 10 and the win propelled the Irish to No. 9 in the rankings. The Blue Devils are now ranked No. 43. 
While the Irish are looking to bounce back, Michigan is looking to do the same. The Wolverines had their 10­match winning streak halted William and Mary on Sunday. Senior Sheeva Parbhu also had a big win for the Irish over the Tribe on Sunday. 

Parbhu rebounded from a loss in doubles with junior Brett Helgeson to jump out to a five game lead in a sin­gles match over Marwan Ramadan. Parbhu 
by  No.  17  "Winning and losing  clinched  the  
Illinois Sunday.  on  are equally  first set easily and raced to a  
"Michigan  contagious. Each is  4-1 lead in the  
had  a  rough  self-replicating,"  second,  win­ 
weekend,"  ning  the  
Bayliss "They  said. also  Bobby Bayliss  match 6-1, 6­1.  
played a  close  Irish coach  On  Sunday  

match out­doors with Purdue. They have more Big Ten championships than any other team. They are clearly the favorite on paper." 
The Irish haven't fallen to the Wolverines since 2002 when the Irish were ranked No. 4 and the Wolverines were No. 43. 
"This team will be remem­bered for how we handle the stretch run," Bayliss said. "It will definitely be chal­lenging. Winning and losing are equally contagious. Each is self-replicating." 
Freshman Dan Stahl had a hard fought win against 
the Irish will 

return home to take on Louisville at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 1:00 p.m. 
"Louisville is a very differ­ent team," Bayliss said. "They have a lot of new players and have had a pret­ty good season." 
The Irish have also been plagued by South Bend's oft­changing weather. Bayliss noted that the team's play had been affected by the inability to practice consis­tently outdoors. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 
The Center for Philosophy of Religion 
presents 

The Alvin Plantinga Fellow Lecture 

~~Religious Beliefs and the Limits ofScience" 


Dr. Rene van Woudenberg Professor of Philosophy Vrije Universiteit. Amsterdam 
Friday, Aprilll, 2008 at 3 pm 
Auditorium Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Discussion and Reception to follow 
All students. faculty. and staffare welcome 
NBA 
Nuggets win, edge closer to playoffs 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Allen Iverson squared up, hit a 3­pointer and raised his arms to the air, having thwarted Golden State's final charge. There was no downplaying the importance of this win that put the Denver Nuggets in control of the race for the final playoff spot in the Western Conference. 
Iverson scored 33 points, J.R. Smith added 24 off the bench and the Nuggets overcame a 16-point deficit in the first quarter to win their playoff showdown with the Warriors 114-105 Thursday night. 
"Everybody knew what was at stake," Iverson said. "It's easy for players to say it's just anoth­er game. But everybody knows it wasn't just another game. It was a game that both teams felt they had to have." 
The win moved Denver (48­
31) a full game ahead of the Warriors in the race for eighth place in the West with only three games remaining. The Nuggets also control the tiebreaker, meaning they can clinch their fifth straight playoff berth by winning two of their fmal three games. 
Golden State (47 -32) probably will need to win its final three games and hope Denver loses twice. 
"They're in the catbird seat right now," Warriors coach Don Nelson said. "We've got a big problem as far as making the playoffs at this particular time. We're going to need a lot of luck and probably have to win out." 
The Nuggets erased the early deficit by scoring 19 straight points in the second quarter and built the lead up from there, putting the back-to-back losses to Sacramento and Seattle from last weekend behind them. 
"It was a must win for us. We came up with that attitude," said Anthony, who had 25 points, including a 3-pointer that made it 104-90 with 7:52 to go. "It was 'win or go home' in our minds." 
The lead grew to 17 before the Warriors mounted one last run, scoring nine straight points to cut it to 107-99 on Kelenna Azubuike's 3-pointer with just over 4 minutes remaining. 
Golden State had two chances to cut into the lead more before Iverson's jumper got the lead back to 10. Iverson then hit the 3-pointer that made it 112-101 with 2:06 to go, icing the most important game of the season. 
"AI likes to take that 3, that dagger 3," coach George Karl said. "We were kind of caught in the quandary of should we try to score or run clock. That 3 ended the quandary. It got us over that hump where we didn't have to be scared to death of them making that 3." 
Both teams talked about how this game had a playoff feel to it. The yellow "We Believe" placards that were prevalent during the Warriors' playoff run a year ago were taped to each seat. But the Warriors have not been playing with the same energy down the stretch this season as they did during their memorable playoff run a year ago. 
They have lost nine of the past 16 games in a lackluster finish to their best season in 14 years. Golden State committed an uncharacteristically high 18 turnovers, missed nine of 24 free throws and got poor shoot­ing nights from Stephen Jackson and Baron Davis. 
Davis had a triple-double with 20 points, 11 assists and 10 rebounds, but shot only 9-for­
25. Jackson had 18 points on 5­for-17 shooting. Monta Ellis led the way with 29 points and AI Harrington added 20. 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April II, 2008 
ND TRACK & FIELD 

Split squad travels to Mississippi, Michigan 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO & 
ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writers 

Notre Dame will split-up their squad for the second consecutive weekend when they send athletes to both the Mississippi Open in Oxford, Miss., and the Spartan Invitational in Lansing, Mich. this weekend. 
Coming off strong perform­ances in both the Stanford and Purdue Invitationals last weokend. Irish athletes will look to set more NCAA Hegional qualifying marks by taking advantage of the warm weather down south. 
"Thero will be primarily sprinters, throwers and a few middle distance runners and jumpers competing at Mississippi," Irish distance coach Tim Connelly said. "llopefully [Mississippi[ will be warm and eondueive for some good performances in the shorter races and f'ield events." 
The SEC will provide plenty of eompetition for the Irish in Oxford due to its history of top performances, including placing six teams out of the top-Hl at the NCAA Championship last year. 
The Irish hope facing tough competition will prepare them to perform well at the Big East Outdoor Championship meet at the beginning of May. 
Those athletes who will compete at Miehigan State in the Spartan Invitational will not have the same good for­tune of weather. "The condi­tions at Michigan State could be pretty difficult --cold and rainy --but that is just the reality of spring time in the Midwest," Connelly said. 
At the Spartan Invite, Notre Dame will face many familiar rivals and opponents, includ­ing Michigan, Purdue and Michigan State. 
The Big East conference meet is rapidly approaching and each weekend's meet is becoming more and more important. 
"There are only a limited number of opportunities to compete before the confer­ence meet," Connelly said. "We need to take advantage of them." 
Senior distance runner Jake Watson agreed. 
"These meets are for people looking to run the Big East standards," Watson said. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu, Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu 
Please visit 
Ryan Grant
collegefootball.org for more 
Friday, April 18
Information. 
at the Century Center 
Notre Dame 
running back from 2001-04. 
Media Sponsors 
Broke the 

100-yard barrier in five 
games with 
the Green Bay
South Bend1Hbaoe 
--loonloolttw-
Packers in 2007. 




Ticket/Pricing Information: To order tickets or for locations, directions, and other information, call 235-5715. Luncheons begin at 11:30 a.m. 
Luncheons: $35 per person, $270 per table of eight. R.S.V.P. by 5 p.m., two days prior to each Luncheon. Space is limited. 
WriteS Contact chine@
'Wi' .. 

ND SOFTBALL 
Irish open up newhome field 
Team breaks in Cook Stadium against Big East foes Rutgers, Villanova 
will be Brian Boulac, the East) is also enjoying some hotBy JARED JEDICK founder of the Irish softball hitting as of late, with a victo-
Sports Writer 

program. Boulac ry and a 9-9 tie was the first that was called Riding an eight-game win­softball coach at "Jfwe want to be due to darkness ning streak, the Irish will look Notre Dame and in a double­
successful against 
to open up newly constructed coached the sta­header with
Villanova we are
Melissa Cook Stadium in style dium's name­Lehigh. with back-to-hack double­sake, Melissa going to have to limit "If we want to headers against Big East foes Cook, in the pro­be successful
our swings only to
Rutgers and Villanova this gram's forma­against
good pitches" 
weekend. tive years said Villanova we 
The center of attention isn't Gumpf. arc going to on any kinds of streaks or sta­Rutgers (16-Deanna Gumpf have to limit tistics for the Irish (24-10, 5-1 21, 2-6 Big East) our swings only
Irish coach 
Big East). but instead on just is coming off an to good pitch-playing well in their next impressive es," Gumpf game. three-game winning streak to said. 
"We are not focused on the take on the Irish Saturday for If their recent play is any winning streak," Irish coach the opening double-header. guide, the Irish should have no Deanna Gumpf said. "All we The first pitch in action at trouble mustering up some are concerned about is beat­Melissa Cook Stadium will be offense. ing these next two teams. hurled at noon by junior Senior second baseman 
A point of Brittney Bargar Katie Laing has been on fire as motivation to with the second of late, earning Big East Player win this game beginning of the Week honors last week. weekend's "We are not focused at 2 p.m. and Also hot in the batter's box is series will bP. on the winning started by fresh­sophomore utility player playing in man Jody Christine Lux, who had a phe­
streak. All we are
brand-new Valdivia. nomenal double-header Melissa Cook concerned about is The Scarlet against Eastern Michigan on Stadium. The beating these next Knights have Wednesday. well-drained recently shown Lux tied the team record for
two teams,"
field has a some pop on HBI in a single game held by fully-equipped offense, with jun-former player Mcagan locker room Deanna Gumpf ior shortstop Huthrauff with seven in the and a team Irish coach Kate Valiente opener. The impressive pro­room boasting going 3-for-7 at duction ineluded a three-run televisions the plate in a homer in the fourth inning. and couches double-header Irish softball's new home, that will allow the teams to against Princeton in which Melissa Cook Stadium, will unwind before and after she hit a grand-slam and hold opening ceremonies at games. drove in seven RBI's. 9:30 a.m. on Saturday before 
"The girls got to see it for "Rutgers has very, very good the doubleheader against the first time [Thursday]. and hitters," Gumpf said. "They do Hutgcrs. they just loved it," Gumpf a great job and are very tough said. to get out." Contact Jared Jedick at 
Throwing out the first pitch Villanova (14-14-1, 3-5 Big jjedick@nd.edu 

Brand new, furnished townhomes for lease for Fall Semester '08 
Hurry. '*.lu woo't want to ml$$ oneof the limited number of Irish Crwings TONnhomes available for tease this MI. ilst two blocks e.l'Stofthe ND athletk fields, cifW!Uis Street. these three and foor·b«lfoom ~(~furnished, includng a 42" flat panel HDTV. 
Geared for today'scoa.student. and larger than an apartment these townhomes indudea full, private bath in flllth bedroom. Each townhome feetures: 
• 
Furnished bledroo!m with bUit·in desk. fUkize bed. dresser, closet and full bath 

• 
free lnteroot & tab!& 


• 
S@perate laundry room with washer &dryer 


• lar!j@ dec:k 

• 
Two-tar att4thed garag&. plus thr~ ~parking spiCes 

• 
f~pped kitthen with ~·te pantry 

• 
S«urityialarm systoo\ on front and 9111•entraoct' doofs 


Strict wwrwtts enf01ted. 

lease today n move into yo«.-brand new townhome fot Fall Semester 2008. 011 ~at 510613338at emaz1 us at diane@irislxrossings.com. 
----------------.~-. 
Friday, April 11, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS 

R~~ 

2008 SPRING RUN 
A BENEFIT FOR REBUILDING TOGETHER WITH CHRISTMAS IN APRIL UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME., APRIL 12,2008 

Saturday, April 12, 2008 
11:00 A.M. Race will begin at Legends 
Opens at 10:00 A.M. 

Refreshments & T-Shirts to all Finishers Register in Advance at RecSports $10.00 In Advance or $15.00 Day of Race Advance Registration Begins 3/24, Ends @ 5:00 p.m. 4/11 Student and Staff Divisions 
Sponsored 
By 




METAVANTE CORPORATION delivers banking and payments technologies to over 8,600 financial services firms and businesses 
page 25 

Wideouts 
continued from page 28 
instead of just thinking about what he has to do he's out there reacting and being a ball player," Grimes said. "He's throwing the ball pretty well, he's looking good." 
And the overall team chem­istry is improving as well. More time spent together 
brings a better understanding of each other, both on and off the field. 
"[We're] learning each oth­ers' tendencies, throwing more passes and catching more balls with each other, just spending more time with each other on and off the field," Grimes said. "With time, things improve." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

worldwide. 

Headquartered in Milwaukee, WI with locations in 34 other cities across the U.S. 
5,000 employees; Clients in 50 states and 32 foreign countries. 
We have a great LPA (leadership program associate) and onboarding program and will be presenting it at the Open House. 
We look forward to seeing you all there. Refreshments will be served! 
Room 102: Dooley Room, LaFortune 
Defense 
continued from page 28 
playing with an intensity that seemed to be lacking in the first period. More players were getting more touches, and increased pressure was being put on Irish goalie Jordan Pearce. 
"We came out [after the first period,] and I thought we played well the rest of the game," Porter said. 
The duo of Porter and Kolarik combined for 116 points on the season, and tallied three more Thursday, with Kolarik netting two goals, and Porter earning an assist on one of them. Despite Porter and Kolarik being two of the most offensively creative play­ers in the game, Jackson said the team didn't tailor its gameplan to try and stop the pair. 
"We don't shadow people, we just play," Jackson said. "It's a collective team effort defensively. Everybody plays defensively and everybody buys into playing that way." 
After Michigan evened the game in the third, it must have felt like deja vu for the Jackson's squad. In the teams' first meeting this season, a Jan. 18 matchup in Ann Arbor, Notre Dame also sprinted out to a first period lead, only to have it vanish and eventu­ally lose on a heartbreaker with 
20.3 seconds left. 
"We did it then, but we didn't get the job done this time," Kolarik said. 
Even though they couldn't do it in January, the Irish demonstrat­ed Thursday night that to beat a team with goal-scoring capabili­ties like Michigan, they just had to weather the storm, and that's just what Notre Dame did when it mattered. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Department of Irisb Language & Literature Fall 2008 Course Offerings 
Literature Courses 
IRLL 30l07  The Hi<lden Ire/am/  Prof Peter McQuillan  
(TR 1230-l :45)  
1RLL30108  2tfh Century lriih Literature  Prof. Sarah McKibben  
(MW 1 l :45-1:00)  
IRLL 30307  The lri.Yh Trmlition 1  Prof Hugh Fogarty  
(TR 3 30-445)  
IRLL40304  Poetry tmd Politics in Ireland  Prof Breandim 6 Buachalla  
(TR 2 00-3 15)  
IRLL 60203  Scottislt (iaelic  Prof. Peter McQuillan  
(TR 2 00-3 15)  
IRLL 60305  Clll.~aici na (iaeilge  Prof Breandan 6 Buachalla  
(W 6:00-9:00)  
Language Courses  
IRLL 10101:01  Begmnit!g Irish I  Stal11THA  
IRLL 10101:02  Beginning Irish I  Prof Tarn MacLc>o<l  
IRLL 10101:03  Beginning Irish I  St:rtiffBA  
IRLL 10101:04  Beginning Irish I  Prof. Muircunn Ni Bheuglamch  
IRLL 10102:01  Beginning Irish ff  Prof Ciaml'onnccly  
IRLL 10102:02  Beginning Irish II  Prof. T~lrn MacLtXtd  
IRLL 20103:01  Intermediate Irish  Prof. Brinn 0 Conchubhmr  
IRLL 20103:02  Intermediate Irish  Prof. Sarah MacKihhen  
IRLL 20203:01  Advanced Readmgs m Irish Culture  Prof. Brian <'> Conchuhhnir  
IRLL 60101:01  Beginning Irish I  Stalli'TilA  
IRLL 60101 02  Beginning Irish I  Prof Tara MacLc'O<I  
fRLL 60102:01  Beginning Irish language II  Prof. Ciara Connedy  
IRLL 60102:02  Beginning Irish Language If  Pntf. Tan1 MJJcl..cod  
IRLL 60103:01  Intermediate Irish  Prof. Brian 0 Conchuhhu1r  
IRLL60103:02  Intermediate Irish  Prof Sarah MacKibbcn  
JRLL 60203:01  Advanced Readings in Irish (u/iure  Prof. Brillii <) Conchuhhair  


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ -------------­page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, April 11, 2008 

Final 
continued from page 28 
with the Irish, Hidderwall ignit­ed Notre Dame's offense five minutes into the first period. Tlw Stockholm, Sweden native scored the game's first goal off' an assist from senior center Justin White and began a 3-0 Irish run. 
A seeond goal f(Jllowed 42 sec­onds later thanks to sophomore lnft wing Hyan Thang's pass to senior right wing Mark Van Guilder, marking the senior cap­tain's 1:~th goal of the season and second of the NCAA Tournament. Thang scored the final goal of' the period with 34.9 seconds remaining, flipping a backhanded shot over Michigan goaltender Billy Sauer's blocker. The goal carne near the end of an Irish penalty kill. Notre Dame owns the second best penalty killing unit in the country. 
But dnspite the large early delidt, tlw Wolverines rnfused to stay down. 
.lust minutt~s into the second period, af'tnr replacing starting goalin Billy Saunr in favor of llogan. senior wingman Chad Kolarik sparknd the Wolverines ofTnnsn with II: 12 remaining, seoring ov11r the left shoulder of Notre Dame goaltender Jordan Pearen ofT a pass from senior center Kevin Portnr. 
Just 15 sneonds later, f'rnsh­man right wing Aaron Palushaj passed the puck to freshman center Matt Hust from the left corner of' thn ice, resulting in an oth11 r Michigan goal and bringing the scorn to 3-2. 
Both teams om~nse's remained silent until just over two minutes into the third period when Michigan tied the game 3-3 from a second Kolarik goal oil' a pass from frnshrnan wingman Max Padoretty. 
Thn Irish took the lead again with 8::~0 rnmaining whnn soph­omore center Kevin Dneth chipped a shot inside the goal­post past I logan oil' a pass from sophomore wingman Dan Kisst1l. Michigan answnrnd Deeth's goal with 5:21 remain­ing --Hust earned· his second goal of' the evening and tind the game 4-4. 
Hidderwall then added the 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesda}' through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
winner in overtime. 
Pearce saved 29 shots and improved his record to 23-14-4 on the season. 
Notre Dame entered the game 0-2 in the series against the Wolverines for the season. The Irish narrowly fell 3-2 to Michigan with 20 seconds remaining during the season's first match up, while the Wolverines dominated the sec­ond game, winning 5-1. 
The Irish are set to play Boston College at 7 p.m. Saturday in the Championship game. The Eagles offensively dominated North Dakota earlier in the day nearly shutting them out. 
"I Boston College has] a great offensive team. They turn that game around in a 3-minutes time span.," Jackson said. "They're going to be similar to Michigan in some ways. They have good depth, offensively. They're going to be dangerous." 
The only Fighting Sioux goal came late in the third period, allowing Boston College to pre­vail, 6-1. 
The Irish and the Wolverines competed in front of 18,544 fans, marking the sixth best atttmdance for a semifinal game of all time. 
"We're really happy. We'll regroup tonight," Deeth said. "We're excited to be here, but we're not done yet. We still have business to finish." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Home Rental 
54700 Merrifield Dr. 
Mishawaka, IN. 46545 
2 Bedroom, 2 Baths, Open Concept Great Room and Kitchen, Hot Tub( Swimming Pool weather permitting), HDTV, 10 miles from Notre Dame. 

Michigan 
continued from page 28 

right wing Mark Van Guilder beat Michigan goalie Billy Sauer with goals separated by 42 seconds. Then, shorthanded and with under a minute left in the period, left wing Hyan Thang spooled the puck around Wolverines defflnsflman Steve Kampfer and backhanded it over Sauer's shoulder while cutting in along the left goal line. 
"We came out with the inten­sity we thought we needed, then they got that first goal by 22, or whatever the heck his name is, he played a good game," Wolverines right wing Chad Kolarik said about the first period and Hidderwall. 
Against the vaunted Wolverines, the No. 1 team in the country, the Irish rampaged to a 3-0 lead at the first buzzer and knocked Sauer out of the game. Months ago, against competition ranked in the top 10, the Irish romped to a 16-4 record by Christmas break, ending with a 9-0 run. 
In both cases, the momentum would soon die --and fast. 
Like the malaise that blanket­ed the Irish from January to March, the second period hit and it was all Notre Dame could do to hold onto the tail of a maize jersey flying past. 
Wolverines forwards Kolarik and Matt Rust pounded back­to-hack goals only 15 seconds apart to cut the lead to 3-2 and momentum fell away from the Irish. It seeme·d the Irish mid­winter funk had reincarnated mid-game. 
The Irish couldn't get chances on freshman goalie Bryan Hogan, who was put in only the sixth game of his career after Sauer was yanked. The shots that found the net were of poor caliber. 
"!Hogan! played well. 1 give him credit. We just tried to get shots from anywhere on him," Van Guilder said. 
Then Kolarik struck again with a power-play goal two minutes into the third period to tie the game 3-3. It seemed the Irish were doomed to repeat the mistakes of the second half of the season, where they slid into the NCAA Tournament scoring only 43 goals in their 
Observer Freshman center Ben Ryan skates past a Wolverine defender in Notre Dame's 5-4 upset victory over Michigan on Thursday. 
last 24 games. 

The forecheck had disap­peared, the cycle was nonexist­ent and goals were a first-peri­od memory. 
"We knew lthe Irish] were going to come out the way they did," Michigan center Kevin Porter said. "We needed to regroup after the second, and that's what we did. I thought we played well the rest of the game." 
But by the middle of the third period, the Irish found their mojo again, peppering Hogan with his first serious threats of the game and eventually one from Kevin Deeth went in for the 4-3 lead. A fortunate carom for Michigan with five minutes left in the third period tied the game at 4-4 to send it to over­time, but Notre Dame was baek. 
Just like when they bounced back from a terrible second half of the season to power their way through the West regional 
Store Your Stun 
overthe S1!nm11er1 
Call or stop on by & reserve today! 
866-232-2769 
6482 Brick Road, South Bend Located at Cleveland Rd.& US 20 Bypass, 7 minutes from campus 
Sel"Ving 
l_rmdr & 
Dinner 
Ii~t•.v.Stll 
11-2; ,....,,, 

two weeks ago, the Irish started to hammer Michigan like tiHly did in the first period. 
Forwards crashed their rebounds in overtime and the forecheck frustrated and pre­vented the Wolverines from breaking the puck out of their zone. 
It only took five minutes for Ridderwall to pick his spot oft' a Dan VeNard rebound, and a few more seconds for the Irish to pile on top of Hidderwall at center ice. 
"It didn't faze [the lrishl." Jackson said. "You always wait for momentum to ehange in sit­uations like tonight's game, and our guys handled it with calm and cool and that at least allowed us to continue to play on." 
And now Notre Dame is play­ing on to the national champi­onship. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

No Pets No Smoking Continental Breakfast Available Deposit 
574-993-8061 574-259-2761 

Friday and Saturday $1,000.00 
Closed 'itmdav C"" Monday· 

Our Specialties Include Exquisite M(at Entrees f.-r Healthy \-'c.>getarian Dishes 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts extras: Lentil Soup & Garlic: l'ash." 
Come Diue \Vitlr Our Family And Be Our Friend! 
.----------. 
--~-· 

Friday, April 11, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 

BLACK DoG 
LOLLERSKATES 
ONLY CAf'U: Af3DuT Tl-IE.IR OWN 
SE/...F-ISH 1-VANTS' THEY TA/...K 13.1G­BVT Tl1EY NE.I)ER. STAND UP For<:.' 
THE.IR IDEALS' THEY... UH ... 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
DIDIER LEWIS 
Top 10 reasons to loathe 'The Backer' 

1) Longevity: the place is falling apart.  6) The Backer Pole: The only·thing holding  10) Old Alumni -even they think  
2) The Music: Yeah, 'Ghostbusters' is  the building up.  'The Backer ' sucks.  
exactly what I want to hear on a  7) Merchandise: They should sell a  
Saturday night.  "I stood in a room full of B.O. and  
3) Potent Long Islands: that you have  farts and all I got was this lousy  And 50 years from now when I  
to wait 45 minutes for.  t-shi rt" shirts.  come back for a football game. I  
4) Location: if you don't live on  8) Website: Are you serious?  can only hope and pray that I wi II  
campus or TC, you're screwed.  9) Special Events: Have you ever been to  end up at Club Fever dancing in  
5) Freebies: Paying $5 to drink in  'Let':;: all sweat and pour beer on each other  the cage with 20-year olds.  
a walk-in closet and getting a drink  night'? No? Well you should do that after  
ticket and stale popcorn isn't a freebie.  you get married.  Or The Torch Lounge.  

LINAPAEK
THE SINGLE LIFE JUMBLE 
JJWJWIID&JK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ORVAS 
j
rJ r I I 
@2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
(~¥fi I I I LENGAC ± 
1 
rx J 
www.jumble.com 
Yesterday's ~-JAumbles: VAGUE 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

WHF=N THE: ARTIST WAS ASKE:O WHA.T WAS BE:HIND THE: PAINTING, HE: SAID IT--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

TYPED URCHIN MARVEL 
nswer:  What the surgeon turned into at the annual  
party  -A REAL CUT UP  
HOROSCOPE  FRIDAYS WITH FRAN  

ARIES (March 21-April 19) Stay clean, stay focused. Frankenstein, have fun with your friends. 
TAURUS (April20-May 20) Your husband will be a lucky man on your wedding day. Well, at least as longas you have the veil over your face. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20) Bulge the ol' onion bag. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22) Be careful not to rear end another car today. Haha, it says rear end in the newspa­per. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22) See if you can fit the hot dog in the hamburger bun. 
WILLSHORTZ 

31 Push off 33 "Don't spread  say 41 Wisconsin city that's home to S.  chariot of Artemis  
this around, but  C. Johnson &  50 Practically  
"  Son  unheard-of  
35 Tightly embrace  43 Actress Streep  53 Rule out  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) Which ooze more for you? Boils or pustules? Text your response to (773)909-9349. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23) You bought what? That's just gross ... Yea, we know your secret. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov.21) Clyde "The Astroglide" Drexler will be on campus this weekend. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) You're just plain whacky. Just plain. 
CARPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) Charlton Heston died and we all know who did it. Damn you all to hell, you damn dirty apes. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) When he was born, was there even a 1 in 1,000,000,000 chance that the Undertaker wasn't going to become a professional wrestler? And there would have 
been more zeros in that question if there wasn't a limit on the horoscope space. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20) Try and eat some Bath and Body Works-type stuff this weekend ... at night. 
CROSSWORD 
Across Product once advertised with the catchphrase "There's no step 3!" 5 Barely mention, as something one doesn't want to discuss 14 Putting regular gas in a diesel engine, e.g. 15 One abandoned 
at the altar? 16 Presently 171n-house 
debugging 18 Person at the 
wheel? 20 Most useless 21 "Rich gifts wax 
poor when givers prove unkind" speaker 

23 Snazzy 24 Region bordering Mount Olympus 
26 Sound of a dropped scoop of ice cream 
29 Certain chess piece, informally 
30 Edward who created the Gashlycrumb Tinies 
32 Coca-Cola creation 34 "Caribbean Blue" singer 35 Candle holders 36 Ford or Lincoln 37 "Notorious" setting 38 Dispel a curse? 39 Man 40 Unit of radioactivity 42 It protects car buyers 44 In the distance 
46 #1 Beatles hit with the only known vocal contribution by Linda McCartney 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

47 Soft spread 
51 Hang it up 
52 1990 #1 rap hit that starts "Yo, V.LP.. let's kick it" 
54 Mystical indicator 
55 Bernard Malamud's debut novel 
56 Ball boy? 57 One who refuses to shake hands, maybe 58 Poses 
Down 
Agitated 2 Like most 1950s recordings 3 Final Gene Wilder/Richard Pryor comedy 4 Neapolitan 
noblewoman 5 volatile 6 Goes to bed, in 
Britspeak 7 Having a single purpose 8 Flowers named for their scent 9 Tendency toward chaos 1 0 'The Great God Brown" playwright 11 Classical art medium 12 Lifesavers, for 
short 13 Others 15" Fullof 
Grace" (2004 film) 19 Other 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, April 11, 2008 
page 28 
HOCKEY 

Mile high miracle 
Victory puts Irish in first ever NCAA final 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Wrircr 
DENVEH-With etl'ective first 
period offense and a final over­
time goal by freshman left wing 
Calle Hidderwall, the underdog 
Irish defeated Michigan 5-4, 
earning their first ever entry 
into the NCAA National 
Championship. 
"I have a rieh tradition in playing the underdog role," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "Thn underdog thing is ovnrblown. Whnn you get to this lnvel. the teams in college hock­ey are so close where anything can happen." 

Five minutes into overtime, Miehigan goalin Bryan llogan stopped senior center Dan Vanard's shot on goal. Hidderwall seored ofT the rebound, earning his fifth earenr goal, and lifting the Irish to a 5-4 win in sudden death. 
Entering the game with only three goals in his first season 
see FINAL/page 26 

Team survives high powered Michigan offense when it counts 
By SAM WERNER Sporrs Wrirer 

I>ENVEH -All season, Michigan's offense has been known to seore quicker than you can say "Go Blue," and Notre Dame experienced that explosive­ness lirsthand Thursday night. 
Taking a 3-0 lnad into the first intermission, and dominating basil:ally all facPts of the game, Notre Dame looked to be cruising towards a national championship bnrth, or they would have, if this wnre any team but the Wolverines. 
"It's always great to get up on Michigan, because we know 

Semifinal win sums up Notre Dame season 
DENVEH -llot, then cold. Productive, then fallow. 
And then explosive. 
It's the story of the 2007-08 Notre Dame hockey team and in fitting fash-K 1 C 
.1
ion, it was Ye assl Y the story of 
the national ,'}'enior Staff semifinal, Writer capped by freshman Calle Hidderwall's patient, peek­a-boo shot that found twine to give the Irish the 5-4 upsnt win in overtime over Michigan. Notre Dame replieated the sto­ryline of its season in one game, surging at the start before bot­toming out in the middle, fol­lowed by a renaissance at the end. "It was kind of a erazy game," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "There was no time I felt com­fortable in that game." The Irish poured three first­period goals on the Wolverines in imitation of its explosive first 
see MICHIGAN/page 26 
they're so talented offensively," Notre Dame sophomore forward Hyan Thang said. ")But) when you gnt a lead like that, it really does­n't mean a lot against a team like Michigan because they're so pow­erful." 
Even with the lead, a Wolverine comeback was inevitable, and Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson knew it." 
"They're just too explosive of a team to feel comfortable," .Jackson said. 
In the second period, Michigan's vaunted offense came to life, scor­ing two goals in 15 seconds, bringing the score back to 3-2, and completely reversing the momentum inside the Pepsi Center. A third goal two minutes into the third evened up the score, and Notre Dame's early three­goal cushion had evaporated. 
"Obviously it wasn't the start that we wanted, but I liked the way our team regroupPd in the second period," Wolverine coach Red Berenson said. "Our kids bounced back hard." 

Notre Dame had made a eruelal mi.'itake -it gave the Wolverines space to create. In the first period, the Irish forechecked aggressively and no Michigan player could touch the puck without being pinned against the boards by a blue Notre Dame jersey. In the second, though, the Irish allowed Michigan to set up its offense and effectively cyde the puck, and on a team with players like Chad Kolarik and Kevin Porter, the Irish were asking for trouble. 
"They possessed the puck quite a bit more than we did in the sec­ond period," Irish senior captain Mark Van Guilder said. 
Michigan did its part too, taking advantage of the given space and 
see DEFENSE/page 25 


-
WU YUEfThe Observer 

Junior goaltender Jordan Pearce makes one of his 29 saves in Thursday's Frozen Four win over Michigan. 
FOOTBALL 

Experienced receiving corps bring flexibility to offense 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sporrs Wrirer 

A tandem of young of wide n~eeivers brought a glimmer of' hope to the end of last sea­SOIL True freshmnn Duval Kamara and <;olden Tate finally showed their potential in Notre Dame's 21-14 win over Stanford in November. 
Quartnrback Jimmy Clausen connneted with Kamara six times to combinn for a team­high of 93 yards. Kamara had 357 yards on the season, bnhind only senior tight end .John Carlson and sophomor~ Hobby Parris. 
From thn looks ol' spring camp, things are likely to con­tinue in that direction. Offensive coordinator Michael Haywood noted that the Irish are already ahead of their gameplan at this point in the spring season, a feat he attributes to the coaching staff and their attention to detail. 
"We keep track of every­thing," Haywood said. "We keep track of every play that's made, every catch that is made by a wide receiver, every ball that is deflected, every ball that is dropped, every ball that is unaccepted, and every ball that is incom­plete, for whatever reason." 
In addition to spotting prob­lems early enough to fix them, the Irish now boast a little bit 

more experience in the receiving lanes. 
Rising senior David Grimes has the most experience at the position and has used what he's learned to guide younger players like Kamara and Tate. 
"lie's an outstanding leader," Haywood said of Grimes. "lie leads by example he leads by the way he carries himself on campus. He acts like a champion at all times." 
But finding leaders in upperclassmen is just part of Notre Dame's dynamic. 
"I just see it as one big fami­ly we go out and help each other," Kamara said. "Grimes helps me a lot, that's one of the guys I look up to. Just going out and being a family, being one, and we just com­pete to do our best." 
Beyond being a leader, Grimes was fourth on the Irish squad with 224 yards in 2007. Rising junior Robby Parris was second with 361 yards. 
With three of the four top receivers returning, the ofl'en­sive staff is free to move play­ers around to find the best combinations of two or three men. 
"Each individual is adjusting to their position because we're moving wide receivers around," Haywood said. "Maybe by formation, maybe by motions, and we're moving a lot of guys around and guys 
are learning conceptually ­three-man concepts, two-man concepts -and as they learn this, they do a lot better job because they understand where they have to get as opposed to where the other receiver is at this time." 
The ability to try players in different positions is also an attribute to Clausen's experi­ence. With a year of play under his belt, his confidence with himself and chemistry with his reeeivers is growing. It doesn't hurt that all three of the top receivers have already had a season to learn Clausen's style. 
"lie's a lot more eonfident, 
see WIDEOUTS/page 25 
\8 '·• ' . 




