
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 101 FRIDAY. MARCH 14,2008 
Crawford appointed science dean 
Current Brown dean of engineering brings impressive resume, enthusiasm to University 
By KARA COYLE News Writer 
Greg Crawford, current dean of engineering at Brown University, will replace Joseph Marino as the dean of the College of Science. 
Crawford w i l I begin his role as dean and physics profes­sor this summer. 
" D r . 


G r e g Greg Crawford 
Crawford is an extraordinary scien­tist, an award-winning teacher, a prolific researcher, and a gifted administrator," University Provost Thomas Burish said. "In addition to being internationally recognized for his innovative research on liquid-crystal displays, he has leveraged his knowledge of basic science to develop several medical devices that impact the detection of infectious dis­eases, treatment of rare diseases and the interac­tion of medications with muscular tissue." 
Burish said Crawford's enthusiasm, as well as his attraction to the University's Catholic mis­sion, makes him a good fit 
for the Notre Dame com­munity. 
"Greg brings exceptional energy and an entrepre­neurial VISion to the College of Science," he said. "Greg is particularly attracted to the Catholic mission and academic ambition of Notre Dame." 
Before assuming the deans position at Brown in 2006, Crawford was a researcher for the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center, as well as for the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington, D.C. Crawford also co-founded two biotech companies and holds of 15 U.S. patents. 
According to Burish, under Crawford's leader­
ship, the College of Science will see an increase in its connections with the other colleges on campus, as well as with the South Bend community. 
"Greg loves to build bridges with other academ­ic units, so he is already thinking about establishing mutually beneficial collab­orations with the Colleges of Engineering, Arts and Letters, and Business as well as Innovation Park an.d the Indiana University School of Medicine South Bend," said Burish. 
Burish said Crawford will quickly become assimilated in the Notre DaUJ.e commu­
see DEAN/page 6 



Experts discuss eating disorders at ND 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
As part of the weeklong "Live as You Are" Health and Body Image Conference, two Notre Dame specialists discussed eat­ing disorders and body image on campus in the University Counseling Center's portion of the sympusium Thursday in McKenna Hall. 
Valerie Staples, a counselor and coordinator for Eating Disorder Services at the University Counseling Center (UCC), and Mindy Wallpy, a doctoral intern at the UCC, addressed campus body issue issues as well as services that the UCC provides to help stu­dents. 
"What situations here have contributed to your view of food, weight and body image?" 
asked Staples, who has worked at the UCC for about seven years. 
The audience, organized into small groups, brainstormed a number of body image issues, from over exercising at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center to jokes about the characteristi­cally "unattractive" Notre Dame women to the perfec­tionism environment on cam­pus -all of which shed light on the body image issues, both in general and specific to Notre Dame. 
Such situations, Staples said, are oftentimes hard to pin­point, since activities such as eating healthily and exercising seem commonplace on such an intellectual university campus. 
"I think in general, people just want to be healthy," fresh-
see IMAGE/page 4 


Professors exatnine class, race divide 
By LINDAY SENA News Writer 
The Department of Africana Studies discussed the socio-economic divide in the black community in the fifth annual Erskine A. Peters Fellowship Symposium Thursday evening in the Eck Visitors Cnnter Auditorium. 
University of Connecticut professor Shyla Nunally framed the discussion by providing statistics regard­ing the current population, educational and economical status of blacks. According to 2006 census estimates, blacks make up 13.4 per­cent of the population, con-
see SYMPOSIUM/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Student learns nevv Inedicines 
Serazin compiles guide to traditional remedies 
By KATE McCLELLAND News Writer 
Inspired by an International Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP) two summers ago, senior Nathan Serazin returned to Ecuador this past summer to conduct research and compile a handbook detailing the simi­larities between traditional remedies and modern medi­cines. 
"It grew out of my own interest in medical anthro­pology and biochemistry, but what really inspired me was the first hand experi­ence that I received from talking to people in the community,'1 Serazin said. 
During his time in the ISSLP, Serazin had worked at a village's local hospital where patients often requested traditional reme­dies as a part of their care. 
Unfortunately, the doctors' limited knowledge resulted in them only prescribing more typical modern solu­tions for the patient's health concerns. 
Serazin's goal for the fol­lowing summer was to com­pile a handbook for doctors that would describe the plants used in traditional remedies and how those same plants are used in modern medicines. 
His return trip to Ecuador was funded by a grant from 
see SERAZIN/page 4 

SMC students recount trials of itntnigrants 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
Saint Mary's Hispanic­American society, La Fuerza, examined the plight of illegal immigrants 
. through recounting personal testimonies in its first Immigrant Monologues Thursday as part of its Week of Action. La Fuerza co-president junior Chrissy Romo and senior Jeanne Choquehuanca each read from a book of immigrant stories entitled "Stranger in Ones Land" and Romo recounted her grandpar­ents' trials when coming to 
America 
The passage read by Romo, which translated is means "Here No One Speaks Spanish," told of the Mexican-American's prob­lems pertaining to the lan­guage barrier they face. 
She read about how Spanish is considered a "dirty language," and one student was told, "if you .~ant to be an American you have to speak English." 
Choquehuanca presented the story of the Mexican immigrant, Chavez. · 
"Mexico and its poverty loom over him like an omi­nous cloud," she said. 
see LA FUERZNpage 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, March 14, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 



B-Macfor President 
The Indiana primaries are fast 
upon us and, as you know, the 
country is' facing very seriously 
grave problems. This is why 
America needs you to vote B. Mac 
for president. 

My rivals have suggested that I 
am not fit to be president. I will 
admit that I am not a typical can­
didate, what with my morality, 
humility and stunning good looks. 
Indeed, as class president in the 
fifth grade, I have accumulated 
more executive experience than my 
three rivals combined. But enough 
about my experience and on to the 
gravely serious problems we face. 
Like Senator 

Obama, I will Brian McKenzie 
agree uncondi­
tionally to meet 

News Wire 
with the leaders 

Editor
of states like 
Iran and Syria. 
Furthermore, I 

pledge that I will end every sen­
tence with them with "or else." 
Like Senator McCain, I have a 
bold national security strategy that 
will fully integrate each branch of 
our armed services. What would 
the role of a fully integrated Air 
Force look like, you ask? Please 
see my attached map of Iran for 
more details. 

Like Senator Clinton, I vow to 
offer mandated universal health­
care to every American. And my 
healthcare plan is this: Get a job. 
If any Americans are delinquent in 
meeting their mandate, l promise 
to understand that this is not 
because they are unwilling or 
unable to work but because of the 
tender mercies of a cold, heartless 
NAFTA treaty that I might theoreti­
cally have once supported. 
Accordingly, I will offer these 
oppressed Americans an involun­
tary position on American 
Gladiators. 

As Americans, we believe in free­
dom. As Americans, we believe in 
the fundamental dignity of human 
beings (Except terrorists, obvious­
ly). 

As Americans, we believe that my 
opponents are a disheveled bunch 
of KKK crack addicts that are 
wholly unqualified to run anything 
more complicated than a food 
processor. 

My opponents are pawns of spe­
cial interests. Big Oil, Big Labor, 
Big Media and Big Toilet Paper 
(not to be confused with Big Media) 
are so incestuously close to my 
opponents that even describing 
their relationship is illegal in 
twenty states. 

I will stand up to these somehow 
legal groups and defend every 
American's right to toilet paper 
that makes Notre Dame's huddle in 
the corner and cry. 

In cpncl usion, vote for me (or 
else!) If you require any other 
information, please see my cam­
paign website at www.super­
heronation.com 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at aJJ times. We do, however, recognize that we wiJJ make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST PLACE TO GET FOOD ON CAMPUS AND WHY? 




Grahams!" Caesar Wraps. , 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer Arabic Studies students perform a traditional dance to "Ya Hajal Sannine" as a part of Arabic Culture night Thursday evening in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza School of Business. 


best." free and delicious. " 
IN BRIEF 
The film "The Kite Runner," which tells the story of two friends living in war-torn Afghanistan, will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on tonight at 7 p.m. 
George J. Borjas will deliver his lecture entitled "Immigration and African­American Employment Opportunities: The Response of Wages, Employment, and Incarceration to Labor Supply Shocks" tonight at 
4:15 in C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
There will be Stations of the Cross on Friday at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 

The Project Pink Fashion Show, a fundraiser for breast cancer and survivors, will be held Friday at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Flipside will host an Easter egg hunt Saturday from 10 
p.m. to midnight on Bond Quad. Participants will receive flashlights and will search for colored plastic Easter eggs containing candy. 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team will play Syracuse at 1 p.m. Sunday on Moose Krause Field . 
Circle K will host an Ice Cream Social Sunday from 
6:30 to 8 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

••• 0 t ••• 
Chris Boehnen Anne Rinchbaugh Karen Hollingsworth Vanessa Genereli Carolyn Plou 
grad student freshman grad student grad student senior senior off-campus Farley off-campus off-campus off-campus off-campus 
"Legends -I "South Dining "My office, "Cafe de "Cafe ''Abandoned 
like the pub . Hall, because because food Grasta, Commons, tailgates during atmosphere I North took from home is because of because my football season, guess. away Golden cheapest."' their Chicken boss Noel is the because they're 
OFFBEAT 

Student sues school after being awakened In class 
DANBURY, Conn. Danbury officials have been notified they are being sued by a student who was awakened in class by a teacher who made a loud noise. Documents filed with the Town Clerk, a prelude to a lawsuit, claim that a sleeping student suf­fered hearing damage when his teacher woke him up by slamming her hand down on the boy's desk in December. 
Attorney Alan Barry says 15-year-old Vinicios Robacher suffered pain 
TODAY a:: 
and "very severe injuries to his left eardrum" when teacher Melissa Nadeau abruptly slammed the palm of her hand on his desk on Dec. 4. 
A city official says the matter has been referred to Danbury's insurance carrier. 
Mouse grounds plane for five hours 

DES MOINES, Iowa -A mouse intent on flying to Atlanta prompted officials to ground a plane for more than five hours Thursday in Des Moines. A flight attendant spotted the mouse before passengers boarded the 5:50 a.m. Atlantic Southeast Airlines flight. About 30 passen­gers were kept waiting at the gate until the plane finally left about 11:30 a.m. 
"The safety of our pas­sengers is our number one priority," said Kristen Loughman, an ASA · spokeswoman. "Our main­tenance team was called. They inspected the air­craft, which is why it was delayed." 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
L&J 
:::1: 
\ 

t\lt1.
!;;: 
~~: ..•... ,
L&J 
'~ 
~~ )$ 

-( l:t:
~\ .;.,;.;... 
::::~ ' ,,_ 

-~
3: 
•• $ 4 
~ill. '




~.·. 
' 
.... 
~N~
' \ \
<( (,) 
0 

HIGH 45 HIGH 32 HIGH 36 HIGH 40
...I LOW 32 LOW 28 LOW 23 LOW 35 
Atlanta 67 I 49 Boston 51 I 35 Chicago 46 I 33 Denver 45 I 32 Houston 85 I 62 Los Angeles 67 I 54 Minneapolis 40 I 25 New York 55 I 37 Philadelphia 58 I 41 Phoenix 81 I 58 Seattle 50 I 40 St. Louis 57 I 40 Tampa 77 I 57 Washington 65/ 45 
Friday, March 14, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC holds 8th annual Midnight Madness 
Undergrads compete for prizes, celebrate accomplishments through sporting events 
By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's will celebrate its eighth-annual Midnight Madness tonight, where stu­dents compete for prizes and celebrate school spirit in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
The event brings together all four classes with an evening of friendly athJetic competition. Students vie for prizes through tug-of-war, sports relays, foul shots and other contests. 
Renowned hypnotist Tom DeLuca. who performs for 
Mary's Athletic Director Lynn Kachmarik emphasized the event's significance in bringing the College community togeth­er. 
"Midnight Madness is the only real opportunity for the classes to come together and competn," Kachmarik said. 
According to Kachmarik, nearly 1,000 students attend Midnight Madness each year, making it one of the most pop­ular events on campus. 
This year's theme, "Madness through the Years," designates a decade for each class to rep-
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 


• Out-of-Print search service 
• Appraisals large and small 
OPEN noon to six Tuesdax through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
Sonday April 13 • The Embassy Theatre Fort Wayne. Indiana 
Tickets on sqlq Friday Marth 14 ot 10om ot th~ Emlxlssy Box Oftlct. all TKketmoshr locations. chorgo by phon• 160/424·1811 or www.ticketrrnntor.tom 
resent through clothing and music. The senior class will portray the 50s, juniors the 20s, sophomores the 70s, and freshman the 80s. 
Midnight Madness committee chair senior Noreen Sherred said the evening is a celebra­tion of student achievements. 
"It is an event designed to award women for all their hard work and community efforts this year," Sherred said. 
Freshman class president Emma I Ioffman said the event 
provides an 
colleges and 
"Midnight Madness is 
corporations 
across the the only real 
nation, will opportunity for the also be per­
classes to come
forming 
before the together and compete." athletic con­tests. 
Lynn Kachmarik 
S a i n t 
SMC Athletic Director 
opportunity for the entire stu­dent body to come together. 
"I am looking forward to building school spirit," she said. 
According to Kachmarik, a number of Saint Mary's academic departments have been involved in the event's planning. 

In addition, the Saint Mary's Bookstore has donated prizes including iPods, gift cards, DVDs and athletic gear. 
Kachmarik said she hopes the event becomes permanent­ly integrated into Saint Mary's culture. 
"I am excited about a tradi­tion long after I am gone," she said. "I hope when you think of Saint Mary's, you think of Midnight Madness." 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Park energy project funded 
Undergrads will research energy use, pollution in the Dunes parks 
Special to The Observer 
The University-National Park Energy Partnership Program (UNPEPP) has fund­ed a joint project between the Notre Dame Energy Center and the National Park Service at Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore to pro­vide energy related consult­ing services to the park dur­ing this coming summer. 
During the course of the project, three undergraduate students from the University will work with park officials, conducting onsite research that will result in specific recommendations for capital improvement at the Indiana Dunes facilities. 
According to Joan F. Brennecke, Keating­Crawford Professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and director of the Notre Dame Energy Center, the students' work will focus on energy conser­vation and savings. 
"This is a wonderful oppor­
tunity for the stu­dents to put their training i n t o practice in a real­w or I d setting t h a t encom­passes project manage-m e n t skills, use of resources." 
As part of the project, stu­dents will be required to track and quantify the cost savings -and projected pay­back in terms of resources, such as energy use reduction and lower greenhouse gas emissions -relating to their 
recommenda­tions. 
Participants in the 10-week project are Tom Furlong, a junior study­ing aerospace and mechani­cal engineer­ing; Brian Klein, a senior political sci­ence major; and Jackie Mirando! a 
"It also promotes discussion ·on a realistic and responsible use ofresources. " 
Joan ~ Brennecke Director of Notre Dame Energy Center 
obtain problem­solving experience in the energy field. Since its incep­tion in 1 9 9 7 ' UNPEPP has funded numerous partner­s h i p s between 

Mullen, a sophomore pursu­ing degrees in German and history. 
Among the projects the stu­dents are scheduled to com­plete during th-e summer program are energy audits of 
'This is a wonderful opportunity for the students to put their training into practice." 
Joan F. Brennecke Director of Notre Dame Energy Center 
one-third of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore build­ings, designs for a geothermal heat pump sys­tem for the Paul 
II. Douglas Center for Environmental Education, designs for a grass roof sys­tem for Building 110 at the park headquarters, 

teamwork and leadership and the creation of educa­opportunities," she said. "It tional materials for park also promotes discussion on guests that describe the pro­a realistic and responsible posed improvements and 
energy savings. 
UNPEPP is a nationwide program that links universi­ties with national parks to address energy issues within the parks. Through these partnerships, parks gain assistance with energy relat­ed jssues, while students 
universities and national parks. Funding typically ranges from $15,000 to $20,000 per project and is used to support students, and faculty and equipment purchases. 
The Notre Dame Energy Center works to develop new technologies to meet the global energy challenge. Housed in the College of Engineering, the center focuses on five areas of expertise: energy efficiency, safe nuclear waste storage, clean coal utilization, carbon dioxide separation and stor­age, and renewable resources. The center, which was established in 2005, is also committed to playing key roles in energy education and literacy, the develop­ment of energy policy and the exploration of the ethical implications associated with energy. 
Tickets on sqlo IIOW <rt Hon<l'fW"II tontlll, chargo by phon<r 260/563·1102 or www.hon~l<ontor.org 
..~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 14, 2008 
-------.------=----~~~=================================================================================== 
l01age 
continued from page 1 
man Erin Hider said. 

Pointing to University 
eneouragement of healthy eat­
ing, Hider said, "I espeeially 
like thn Nutrition at ND 
posters." 

Staples said that other food situations are morn obvious on campus, such as eating con­cerns addressed by previously interviewnd anonymous stu­dents, mentioning that some avoid eating dessert at the din­ing halls and avoid tailgates and dorms evnnts that are bound to provide food. 
"These kinds of events make 
students already concerned 
with body image even more 
nervous about food," Staples 
said. 

Wallpy discussed body image, which, she said, is not how a person really looks but rather how he or she pnrceives his or hnr own body. According to Wallpy, eating disorders dis­tort this image as she deseribed thn three most com­mon disorders -anoroxia, bulimia nervosa and binge eat­ing. 
Wallaby emphasized the importance of focusing on posi­tive body image when influ­ences such as the media per­petuate negative body image stereotypes. 
"When you're getting ready, instead of saying, 'Does this make me look fat?' try 'How great do I look in this?"' 
The two presenters pointed to s tatis tics that verify the sweeping eating disorder epi-· demic among college students. 
"When I started working at the UCC lin 2001) I saw a few students with minor concfJrns about eating," Staples said. "Ovnr the years we have been seeing more and more students come in with such concerns." 
Staples said that the percent­age of students coming to the UCC with eating concerns, however, has remained more or less constant -around 12 percent for the past two years. The percentage of s.tudents who come into the UCC for interpersonal concerns is about double this number, at around 23 percent. 
Staples pointed to a number of rnasons for students begin­ning college to come into the open about their eating con­cerns. 
"It is diflicult for students to adapt to new challenges at col­lege," Staples said. 
She mentioned a number of new challenges that also exac­erbate food issues for students, such us balancing social life and academics as well as learning to live with new eat­ing habits and the large variety of food choices available at dining halls. 
"The hard thing for students 

on campus is that there is not a big frame of reference,"  Serazin  -I wanted to take an aca­demic view of the service  between culturn and sci­ence. Ultimately he said he  
Staples said, referring to the  opportunity that I had been  wants  to  help change the  
Notre Dame campus "bubble."  continued from page 1 .  given," he said.  "I wanted  Western and American per­ 
"Pretty much everyone is  to  make  it  a  part of my  ception  that  traditional  
around the same age and doing the same thing. People tend to look fairly similar," she  the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, and Dr. Vania Smith-Oka of the  everyday life back here at Notre Dame." Serazin recently present­ medicine has no an increasingly world.  value in modern  
said. Wallpy and Staples also dis­eussed the number of services that the UCC provides students -begipning with an initial intake with a UCC counselor, then followed by individual or  Kellogg Institute aided him from developing a proposal all the way until the end of his project. The relationships that Serazin built in the village of Pedro Vicente  ed his findings at the Human Development Symposium Feb. 23, and plans to make a presenta­tion as a part of' the Anthropology Department's research expo in April.  "My research was an opportunity to understand what traditional medicine really entails, and how it goes beyond the 'placebo' effect that Americans often attribute to it and is very  
group therapy, nutritional con­sultation and later possibly  Maldonado during that first summer became invaluable  His primary focus right now is on finishing the  ef'fective in many cases," he said. "We have to learn to  
psychiatric services. "We have some great resources, it's just up to the students to seek help," said Staples, emphasizing the  upon his return. "My research consisted mostly of interviews, so the people that I met during my first summer were incredi­ handbook,· but he said that would like to continue working in the field of international medicine after the project is com­ discount our own biases, or else we might be overlook­ing a source of effective treatment." Serazin himself knows  
importance of talking to  a  ble resources," he said.  plete.  through personal experi­ 
friend who might be suffering from an eating disorder.  "They would take me to the local healers and introduce  "1 would like to continue to give back to the commu­ ence how effective tradi­tional medicines can be.  
Staples said that students  me as a friend, which made  nity in some form, whether  "It worked  on  me,"  he  
who  come  in  after  being  the  healers  much  more  through working in public  said. "I had  a  pretty per­ 
approached by a friend about their eating concerns always  willing to speak to about their remedies."  me  health or international medicine," he said. "I  sistent cough throughout the summer, and one of the  
are grateful. "Even if speaking up about it [an eating concern] is awk­ward, it is always worth talk­ing," Staples said.  Although his research is not connected with any particular class at Notre Dame, Serazin said his interest for medicine was  would like to continue studying how cultural issues can be considered when developing public health policy."  healers finally asked me if I would like to try one of his rituals to get rid of it. And I did feel much better after­wards."  
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu  kindled during his service trip. "It grew out of my ISSLP  Serazin's summer research uncovered some important connections  Contact Kate McClelland at mmcclell@nd.edu  

Attention Seniors! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to n1ake an important contribution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by n1anaging relations \Vith the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and cotntnunication within the geographic area, assesstnent and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions. Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Among our candidates, we vvill specifically seek an African American Recruitment Coordinator. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity \Vith all aspects of student life at Notre Datne. 
Essential qualities include strong con11nunication and organizational skills, enthusiasn1, diplotnacy and the vvillingness to work long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 



Please Note: Interviews will be scheduled after Aprill. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2008. 

Please forward your resume to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions 220 Main Building Attention: Alisa M. Fisher, Senior Associate Director 






ORLD & NATION 
Friday, March 14, 2008 COMPILED fROlv1 TilE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iranian hardliners predict sweep 
QOM-Ali Farahani smiles as he talks about Iran's parliament elections Friday. The young cleric in this spiritual center of the Islamic revolu­tion says the vote will sweep the country closer to hard-liners' ideal of the Islamic state. 
In Tehran, computer technician Hadi Rezaei, a backer of democratic reforms, sees little hope ­and no reason to vote. 
Conservatives, particularly allies of hard-line President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, are expected to maintain the domination of parliament they have had since 2004. If they do so by a strong margin, it would demonstrate the Islamic leader­ship's ability to ward off a comeback by reformist'>. 
Ahead of the vote, the Guardian Council -an unelected body of clerics and jurists -disquali­fied around 1,700 candidates, mostly reformists. Those barred from running were judged insuffi­ciently loyal to Islam or the revolution. 
U.K. prepares to increase "sin taxes" 
LONDON -Many Britons were resigning themselves to more puritanical lifestyles Thursday as they faced the prospect of "sin taxes" that will increase the cost of alcohol, cigarettes, gas-guzzling cars and, potentially, plastic bags. 
"Don't Drink or Drive" trumpeted the Sun newspaper after Treasury chief Alistair Darling unveiled the measures on Wednesday in the government's annual spending plan. 
The Labour Party government is hoping that hiking taxes on booze will help curb Britain's binge-drinking culture. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
House approves $683 billion tax hike 
WASIIINGTON -The Seriate on Thursday rejected the idea of renewing many of President Bush's tax cuts as all three major presidential candidates interrupted their campaigns to cast their votes. The House approved a budget blueprint that would raise taxes by $683 billion over the next five years. 
The Senate did embrace Bush reductions aimed at low-income workers, married cou­ples and people with children. 
The House budget plan would provide gen­erous incre~ses to domestic federal programs but still is designed to bring the government's budget back into the black by letting all of Bush's tax cuts expire at the end of 2010. That plan passed the House on. a 212-207 vote with Hepublicans unanimously opposing it. 
The Senate voted 99-1 to extend the cuts for some workers as well as couples and parents. Senators voted 52-47 to reject a move to extend tax cuts for middle-and higher­ineome taxpayers, investors and people inher­iting businesses and big estates. 

Disgraced governor faces legal battle 
NEW YORK -As Gov. Eliot Spitzer pre­pares to leave office, the disgraced politi­cian faces a tangled battle with prosecutors that will send lawyers into murky legal ter­ritory. 
A law enforeement offieial said Spitzer's high-powered defense team was believed to be negotiating a plea deal with prosecutors over his connection to a high-end prostitu­tion ring, but attorneys were not comment­ing Thursday about the diseussions. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Industry, activists fight over smog 
INDIAN£\POLIS -The federal government's new smog standards could push future industrial development in Indiana away from its urban areas and into rural eounties-or even out of the state altogether, an industry offieial said Thursday. 
Environmental activists, however, said the strieter ozone standard announeed Wednesday doesn't go nearly far enough to proteet the publie from dense, eye-stinging summertime smog that makes it hard for the elderly, childnm and others lo breathe. 
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's new rules lower its 8-hour standard for ground­level ozone -smog's primary ingredient -from 84 part'i per billion to 75 parl'i per billion. 
KENYA 


Troops seal violent western region 
Thirteen civilians die in fighting aiming to "correct historical injustices" by redistributing land 
Associated Press 
NAMANGOFULO, Kenya -The military sealed off a region of western Kenya where land disputes have flared into violence, and witnesses said helieopter gunships were strafing the area Thursday to try to drive gunmen from forests and eaves. 
"Always in this country, people are fighting over land," said Luey Okello, head nurse at · Kitale District Hospital, where four girls were being treat­ed for severe burns after their village was attacked, allegedly by the Sabaot Land Defense Force, a militia fighting for the redistribution of land. 
The oldest girl. 15-year­old Joanne Temuko, wailed and held her head in her hands as nurses applied balm to her scorched back. 
Thirteen other civilians were hacked, shot or burned to death in the attack last week. There was no claim of responsi­bility. A militia member said at the time that his group was simply trying to "correct historical injus­tices." 

The military operation at Mount Elgon comes despite a power-sharing agreement designed to end a wave of violence that "This is a serious gov­that resurfaces regularly Abdul Mwasera, the erupted after a disputed ernment operation," said at election time in Kenya, provincial commissioner in election last December. an offieer at a eheckpoint but this year's bloodshed the region, said 187 people The violenee awakened in Namangofulo, the last has been the most brutal had been arrested. decades-old tensions over village before the foothills and sustained by far. "The operation will con­land and inequality. of Mount Elgon, about 300 The election, which tinue until these criminals 
Poliee manning check­miles northwest of Nairobi. international and local surrender or are wiped out points Thursday along "You only go through if you observers say was rigged, to allow peace to prevail," dusty roads lined with have a uniform." unleashed weeks of blood­Mwasera said. banana trees and onion In Nairobi, government shed that has killed more Several villagers outside farms leading to Mount spokesman Alfred Mutua than 1,000 people and the area sealed off by the Elgon ordered journalists said journalists were being exposed simmering resent­military said they have and aid workers to turn kept out of the area for ments over land and seen helicopter gunships back. their own safety. President Mwai Kibaki's firing for several days now, 
There was no word on Gunmen "have been Kikuyu ethnic group, long most recently before dawn casualties in the military killing people indiscrimi­dominant in politics and Thursday. operation, which began nately. We don't want them the economy. "I was seeing fire," said Monday around Mount to start killing journalists Mutua said the aim of Jeff Ngeti, 18. "Men were Elgon, an extinct voleano and for (journalists) to be the military operation at running." near the border with caught in the line of fire. Mount Elgon was to flush Jacqueline Kamello, 27, Uganda, where spectacu­So it is basically keeping out and arrest suspects in who was working on an lar caves, waterfalls and away journalists for their killings and other crimes. onion farm, said there hot springs draw hikers own security," he said. He said some suspects had were at least three heli­and other adventure The Dec. 27 vote tapped tried to flee across the bor­copters flying in the area tourists. into a well of resentment der into Uganda. Thursday morning. 



Florida primary revote unlikely 
Florida Democratic Party, offered a delegation reiterated their opposition

Associated Press mail-in/in person proposal for voting to the plan, saying, "We do not believe and urged state leaders, the national that this is a realistie option at this TALLAHASSEE -Florida Democrats party and the presidential candidates time and remain opposed to a mail-in on Thursday proposed a vote-by-mail to sign on. Under the plan, all of ballot election or any new primary presidential primary to solve the high­Florida's 4.1 million Democrats would election in Florida of any kind." . stakes delegate dispute while acknowl­be mailed a ballot. They could send it Thurman will review comments from edging the plan's chanees are slim. back, or cast a ballot in one of 50 Democratic leaders and make a deci­Democrats in Florida and Michigan regional voting centers that would be sion by Monday on whether to proceed have been struggling to come up with set up. The election would end June 3, with the re-vote. But she acknowl­an alternative to ensure their delegates a week before a Democratic National edged that Obama has had concerns are seated at the national convention Committee deadline to name delegates. and the Democratic National this summer after the party punished The estimated cost is $10 million to Committee won't support a proposal them for holding early primaries. The $12 million. unless both candidates also back it. pressure to resolve the issue has Asked if the plan will be implement­She said there's a serious question increased amid the protracted fight for ed, Thurman said. "I have a feeling over whether the state could legally every delegate between Sens. Hillary that this is probably closer to not, than · verify the signatures of a privately run Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama. yes." election. Karen Thurman, chairwoman of the Members of Florida's congressional "If this becomes something that we 
-------·--­
page 6 Friday, March 14, 2008
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
--~~==================~==~ 
Dean 
continued from page 1 
II ity. 
"(;reg's first goal is to familiarize himsPif with the faeulty, departments and eenters in the ColiHge of Science," lw said. "lie visit­ed eam.pus earliPr this week to introduce himself to tho sr.ienr.e faculty and staff. In a future visit. lw will meet with students and learn morn dPtails about tho nxeiting aeadPrnic and research programs under­way in tlw College." 
Burish said that hiring Crawford is just an.othnr step forward in recnnt years for the College of Science. 
"W i t h the n~ cent opening of Jordan llall of Scienee, terrific faculty and strong 1-{rowth in our Pxtnrnally funded research, this is an exciting time for the College of Scieru:e at Notre Dame," lw said. 
Marino, who was the dean of thn College of Science for t h n pas t (> yn a r s , w i II b n remaining with the University as a chemistry professor. 
Contact Kara Coyle at kcoyle@nd.edu 


SYflliX&mn 
continued from page l 
sti tu ti ng tho third largnst raeial group in Amnrica bnhind whitns and Latinos. 
Education was a prPssing topie amongst the panel and audiencn. Only SO. 7 pnrcent of blaeks over thfl age of 25 have reenivPd their high­school diplomas. compared to S6.1 percent of whites. In 2003, the high school drop­out rate was 4.H percent for blaeks compan~d to :~.2 per­cent for whites. 
While Nunally acknowl­edged signifieant progress has been made, she said that "then~ are still dispari­tins" among the races. 
Notr1~ Damn professor 

finding a job and eventually "It makes me grateful for af"ter I graduate." became a farm hand. what I have," she said. Today the members of La

Lafuerza 
What was most important "They don't want us [her Fuerza and other sympa­continued from page 1 to him siblings and thetic students are wearing was get­cousins] to white ten shirts with red After she finished read­ting his "My grandfather worked have to suiTor handprints on them and ing, Choquchuanca spoke s o n s likn they did." spending the day nither in
until his death. I know 

about how important edu­educated ·nomo came silence, fasting or both, she
everything

cation is to the immigrants. and he up with the said. The silnncn or fasting 
"They really struggle to worked /my grandfather} went idea for the is taking place between 7 make ends meet," she said. as hard through was for me Immigrant a.m. and 7 p.m .. Homo "They really value their as he Monologues said.
and my family...I some­

kids' education." could to after Coalition The white tne shirt is 
Homo then spoke again, onsure times wish I knew him." of Immokalee symbolic of the "wifebeat­this timn telling the stories that. she Workers came nr" shirts that migrant of her two grandfathers, said. to campus in workers wear and the red
Chrissy Romo

both of whom were illegal " M y the fall of last handprint symbolizes the

La Fuerza co-president 

immigrants. grandf"a­year and again "tool or thn worker" and 
"I am the granddaughter t h e r in the spring of the "blood of the worker." of four illegal immigrants," worked last s h e she said. until his death," she said. year. she said. said. 
ller father's father was "1 know everything he went The SMC The deported in his first through was for me and my Monologues fasting
'Tm hoping to continue

attempt to make it to family. I know he's here. I also influenced 0 r America feel him but I her decision to /The monologues] for a silence M y sometimes organize the very long time. It's de.fi­and the paternal wish I knew event. she said. wearing
"I am the granddaughter nitely something that I 
grand fa­him." Despite a of the t h e r offour illegal ller mater­smaller turnout hope continue after t e e [Seferino nal gran dfa­than expected I graduate. " shirts
immigrants ... My 
Homo( thcr was also and three pro­or any
paternal grandfather 
s w a m an ·illegal fessors who white
Chrissy Romo 

across the swam across the Rio immigrant were supposed s h i r t 
H o who rode 15 to be read La Fuerza co-president are part
Grande." 
Grande," miles every backing out at of a she said. day on a bike the last minute, "protest

Chrissy Romo
A f t e r in order to Homo and in gen­spending La Fuerza co-president get to work, Choquehuanca arc confi­eral" in support of immi­t h r e e she said. Ilcr dent that it will continue to grants. Homo said. nights in mother and be a part of the WBek of There will also be a can­jail he was sent back to uncle both had to begin Action. dlelight vigil on Saturday at Mexico without his posses­working at 16-years-old ''I'm hoping to continue it 7 p.m. on Library Green. sions. Homo said. When he and that was only after for a very long time," shn finally did make it into the they managed to learn how said. "It's definitely some­Contact Mandi Stirone at country he had a hard time to speak English. thing that I hope continues astiroOI @saintmarys.edu 
Darren Davis said the "class divide dons not translate into political and social dif­ferences," and there are not such "huge elass divisions." 
Instead, Davis argued about a pressing genera­tional divide, with respeet to political and social atti­tudes. The generational divide, however, is not unique to blacks, but "an American society problem." 
"Every successive genera­tion has to contend with issues of greater value dis­placement," he said. "Each successive generation tends to be less patient... tends to be more concerned about immediate gratification. [They have [ a certain level of impatience, of matnrial­ism, which is very different from the values of the older generations." into corporate America ... 
Davis also said that as into predominantly white blacks grow wealthier, they institutions... they are more tend to experience greater likely to encounter aspects 
discrimination,  of  white  
causing  them  racism."  
to identify more with their  "Every successive  Y a I e profrcssor  
race. "As African­Americans achieve a cer­tain amount of  generation has to con­tend with issues of greater value displacement.,,  S h a n a Hedmond, on the other hand, said "idnn­ 
success,  they  tity  devel­ 
identify more with their race  Darren Davis  opment is contextual­ 
...  the  theory  Notre Dame professor  ly specific,"  
behind that is  and experi­ 
that as African­ ences  such  
Americans  sue~  a  s  

ceed, it is there that they Hurricane Katrina lead peo­experience racism and dis­ple to identify more with crimination," he said. their race. "When they get out of the "If you're talking about 'ghetto,' and start moving African-Americans leaving 
the Superdome after Katrina, what would their racial identif"ica.tion have been?" Hedmond said. 
Nunally concluded by reminding the audience that the Black community will continue to confront various challenges and that there is a constant questil)n of "advaneing black America." 
The symposium was titled "Hedefining (Black) America: Socio-Economic Variance in the Black Community." 
The discussion panel also included Professors Denise Challenger of York University, Marlene Daut of Notre Dame and Gladys Mitchell of the University of Chicago. 
Contact Lindsay Sena at lsena@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Friday, March 14, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  12,145.74  +35.50  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,912  83  1,371  727,335,275  
AMEX  2,339.10  +32.70  

NASDAQ 2,263.61 +19.74 NYSE 8,82.7.16 .... +45,9.3. S&P 500 1,3155.48 +6.71 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,433.44 0.00 FTSE 100 (London) 5,692.40 -84.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.22 +0.29 131.65 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -0.24 -0.06 24.70 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.77 +0.33 43.04 CITIGROUP INC (C) -0.66 -0.14 21.07 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.46 +0.051 3.534 13-WEEK BILL -9.72 -0.140 1.300 30-YEAR BOND +1.00 +0.044 4.454 5-YEAR NOTE +0.60 +0.015 2.509 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.41 110.33 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +13.30 993.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.70 80.80 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 100.3350 EURO 0.6396 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9831 BRillSH POUND 0.4918 
IN BRIEF 

Chinese gadgets may contain viruses 
From iPods to navigation systems, some of today's hottest gadgets are landing on store shelves with some unwanted extras from the factory -pre-installed viruses that steal pass­words, open doors for hackers and make com­puters spew spam. 
Computer users have been warned for years about virus threats from downloading Internet porn and opening suspicious e-mail attach­ments. Now they run the risk of picking up a digital infection just by plugging a new gizmo into their PCs. 
Recent cases reviewed by The Associated Press include some of the most widely used tech devices: Apple iPods, digital·picture frames sold by Target and Best Buy stores and TomTom navigation gear. 
In most cases, Chinese factories -where many companies have turned to keep prices low -are the source. 

Bush backs tighter mortgage rules 
WASHINGTON -Economic policymakers on Thursday recommended stricter regulation of mortgage lenders as part of a broad effort to prevent a repeat of a credit crisis threatening to drive the country into recession. 
With problems in the credit and housing mar­kets worsening, the Bush administration now seems to favor a larger role for government ­an approach for which Republicans generally have had little appetite. 
Hecommendations from a presidential adviso­ry group on financial markets cover mortgage lenders and other institutions, as well as investors, credit ratings agencies and regula­tors. 
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, who leads that group. said the efl'ort is not about "finding excuses and scapegoats." The suggested actions, hn said, are intended to avoid another meltdown in the credit and housing markets. 
'The objective here is to get the balance right. Hegulation needs to catch up with innovation and hnlp restore investor confidence but not go so far as to create new problems, make our markets less nflicient or cut off credit to those who need it," Paulson said. 

U.S. dollar losing global clout 
Vendors worldwide favor euro amidst bleak economic forecast for greenback 
Associated Press  
SAO PAULO, Brazil - 
Antique store owners in  
lower Manhattan, ticket  
vendors at India's Taj  
Mahal and Brazilian busi­ .  
ness executives heading to  
China all have one thing in  
common these days: They  
don't want U.S. dollars.  
Hit by a free fall with no  
end in sight, the once  
mighty U.S. dollar is no  
longer just crashing on cur­ 
rency markets and making  
life more expensive for  
American tourists and busi­ 
ness people abroad; its  
clout is evaporating world­ 
wide as foreign businesses  
and individuals turn to  
other currencies.  
Experts say the bleak U.S.  
economic forecast means it  
will take years for the  
greenback to recover its  
value and prestige.  
Negative dollar sentiment  
is growing in nations where  
the dollar was historically  
accepted as equal or better  
than local currency -and  
dollar aversion is even  
extending to some quarters  
in the United States.  
At the Taj Mahal, dollars  
were always legal tender,  
alongside rupees, for entry  AP  
into the palace. But  William Leroy, an antique store owner in New York City, waits for customers on Wednesday,  
because of the falling value  Feb. 27. Leroy prefers payments in euros because he takes annual trips to Paris, he said.  
of the dollar, the govern­ 
ment implemented a  note, encouraging savers to  does big business with  owner of Billy's Antiques &  
rupees-only policy a month  turn to the euro to tuck  China, and lots of  Props, prefers payment in  
ago. Indian merchants  away money earned abroad  Brazilians are heading to  euros so he can stockpile  
catering to tourists have  or sent home in remit­ the Olympics this summer.  the currency for his annual  
also turned bearish on the  tances.  "Now we tell people not  antique buying trip to Paris.  
dollar.  "If the dollar's going  to take dollars when they  "Whip out dollars at the  
"Gone are the days when  down ... save it in Euros!!!"  go abroad, it's better to  French flea market now,  
we used to run after dol­ say the signs popping up  change it directly to the  and they'll shoo you away,"  
lars, holding onto them for  around La Paz for Bolivia's  local currency," said Fabio  he said at his store near  
rainy days," said Vijay  Banco Bisa.  Agostinho, one of the firm's  apartment buildings where  
Narain, a tour operator in  And in neighboring  managing partners. "If peo­ Europeans are snapping up  
the city of Agra where the  Brazil, the Confidence  ple leave here with dollars  ·units because they've  
Taj Mahal is located. "Now  Cambio money-changing  and go abroad, they lose  become dirt cheap. "Before  
we prefer the euro. It gives  service was the first to start  when they exchange them.  it was like the second com­ 
us more riches."  offering yuan so travelers  It's the same thing whether  ing of Christ, but now they  
In Bolivia, billboards fea­ to China no longer have to  they're heading to China,  don't want it or if they do  
ture George Washington's  change the money into dol­ Europe or even Argentina."  take dollars, they're going  
image on a $1 bill alongside  lars first. The service is  In Manhattan's Bowery  to take their pound of  
a bright pink 500 euro  already a hit because Brazil  district, Billy LeRoy, the  flesh."  

IRAQ 

Body of kidnapped archbishop found 
calling it an "inhuman act of violence church received a phone call 
Associated Press 

that offends the dignity of the ·human Wednesday from the captors. The 
BAGHDAD -The body of a being and harms the peaceful coexis­caller told the officials that Rahho had Chaldean Catholic archbishop was tence of the dear Iraqi people." died and where to find his body, found in a shallow grave in northern Since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, Monsignor Shlemon Warduni, the aux­Iraq on Thursday, two weeks after he Iraqi Christians have been targeted by iliary bishop of Baghdad, told The was kidnapped by gunmen in one of Islamic extremists who label them Associated Press. the most dramatic attacks against the "crusaders" loyal to U.S. troops. It was not immediately clear if Rahho country's small Christian community. Militants have attacked churches, was killed or if he died of an illness. 
The sad discovery of Archbishop priests and businesses owned by Shortly after his abduction, church offi­Paulos Faraj Rahho's body came on a Christians. Many Christians have fled cials had said they were especially wor­day that saw more violence elsewhere the country, a trend mirrored in many ried because the archbishop had hPalth in Iraq. A parked car bomb exploded in dwindling pockets of Christianity across problems, which they did not identify. a commercial district of central the Islamic world. A Mosul morgue otlicial, speaking on Baghdad, killing 18 people and wound­Rahho, 65, was seized on Feb. 29, condition of anonymity for security ing dozens more, police said. Gunmen just minutes after he delivered a mass concerns, said Rahho's body had no also killed five members of an anti-al­in Mosul. a city considered by the U.S. bullet holes. The official said police Qaida group near Tikrit, and a corre­military the last urban stronghold of al­found the body in an early stage of spondent for a newspaper in Baghdad. Qaida in Iraq. Three of Rahho's com­decomposition under a thin, layer of 
Pope Benedict XVI, President Bush panions were killed. dirt just north of the r.ity, suggesting and Iraq's prime minister all deplored After two weeks of searching and that Rahho had been dead for a few the archbishop's death, with the pontiff praying, officials at the archbishop's days. 
Friday, March 14, 2008
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT 


know no boundaries 


WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 

Upcoming World View Events Blood Diamond April 3 Cosponsored with Ce11ter for Social Concerns 
~UNIVERSITYOI' 

/-P'1t: D E BART 0 L 0 
WNOTREDAME ~~~ J!i' PERFORMING ARTS CENTER Office of the President 

Friday, March 14, 2008 The Observer + · NEWS page 9 
Katrina victitns still avvaiting checks 

Homeowners unhappy about lack of government compensation 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS-Two and a half years after Hurricane Katrina, tens of thousands of miserable homeowners are still waiting for their government rebuilding checks, and many complain they can't even get their calls returned. But the com­pany that holds the big contract to distribute the aid is doing quite well for itself. 
ICF International of Fairfax, Va., has posted strong profits, gone public, landed additional multimillion-dollar government contracts, and, it was learned this week, secured a potentially big raise recently from the state of Louisiana. -• 
In the waning days of Gov. Kathleen Blanco's administra­tion, state oflicials increased the management contract ceiling from $756 million to $912 mil­lion -this, after the Legislature wanted to fire ICF over its han­dling of the homeowner recovery program, called Road Home. 
''I'm flabbergasted that this company could be so ineflicient and could mess up so consistent­ly and for so long," said Bill Yurt, 57, who has been living in a FEMA trailer for 2 years. 
He said ICF hasn't sent an appraiser to determine the grant amount that will resurrect his gutted house in Gentilly. And his calls to an ICF caseworker have gone unreturned for a month. 
Hoad Home was created in June 2006 as a state-run, feder­ally funded plan to compsmsate homeowners for the breach of New Orleans' government-run levees. Homeowners can apply for grants to repair their homes, or obtain buyouts if they don't want to fix things up. 
Yet, 56,000 applicants -near­ly 40 percent of the qualified total -had yet to receive a cent as of last month. Plagued by cost overruns and delays, Road Home is expected to cost the taxpayers $10 billion in federal money and has become another glaring symbol of frustration and red tape in post-Katrina New Orleans. 

"Supposedly they had the expertise, but what we've learned ever since is it's been on­the-job training," said Frank Silvestri, co-chairman of the Citizens Road Home Action Team, or CHAT, a community group that was formed in anger over ICF. 
ICF spokeswoman Gentry Brann blamed the state's ever­changing rules and political meddling by officials and com­munity groups for many of Road Home's difficulties. 
She complained that Road Home has come to be regarded as an entitlement program, and said the company must carefully evaluate 157,000 applications to guard against fraud. 
'The state essentially redefined the goal of the program from rebuilding to relief in mid­stream," Brann said. 
She said the $912 million that the company could earn is to cover the costs of the program and was approved by public ofli­cials. 
"It's very important to note this is not a 'pay increase.' It's not actually even 'pay' to ICF. Rather it is an increase in the contract ceiling to cover the additional unit price costs incurred by our subcontractors," Brann said. 
The state got tough with ICF last year, threatening to termi­nate its contract, an.d but ulti­mately set benchmarks to force it to "close," or decide, cases more quickly. 
However, ICF now stands accused of inflating its closing figures by deliberately using red tape, confusion and delays to get applicants to settle for low grant amounts. 


Convicting N.Y. Governer unlikely 
Legal experts believe that charges against Spitzer will be minimal 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -As Gov. Eliot Spitzer prepares to leave office, the disgraced politi­cian races a tangled battle with prosecutors that will send lawyers into murky legal territory. 
A law enforcement official said Spitzer's high-powered defense team was believed to be negotiating a plea deal with prosecutors over his connection to a high-end prostitution ring, but attor­neys were not commenting Thursday about the discus­sions. 
The legal battle occurred as Lt. Gov. David Paterson pre­pared to take over the state following Spitzer's spectacu­lar fall from power. Paterson said he spoke to Spitzer on Thursday and "told him how sorry I was this happened." 
"I promised the governor yesterday that I would com­mit myself to the people of this great state. that we would have stability and con­tinue in thesn challenges that lie ahead," Paterson said. "Now we have to get New York back on track." 
Paterson takes over on Monday, and will become New York's l"irst black gover­nor and the nation's first legally blind chief executive. 
Spitzer, a married father of three teenage girls, faces a much more dubious future after he was accused of spending tens of thousands of dollars on prostitutes ­including a tryst with a 22­year-old call girl in Washington the night before Valentine's Day. Officials said Spitzer initially drew the attention of authorities with suspicious money transfers that will be a key part of any possible criminal case. 
Among the possible charges that could be brought against Spitzer: soliciting and paying for sex; violating the Mann Act, the 1910 federal law that makes it a crime to induce someone to cross state lines for immoral purposes; and illegally arranging cash transactions to conceal their purpose. 
But legal experts said bringing charges and getting a conviction would be unusu­al, considering federal authorities rarely charge the customers in illegal sex or drug cases. A likely outcome could be what is called a "deferred prosecution agree­ment," which could leave Spitzer on probation with charges dropped if he did not get into any more trouble. 
Gerald Lefcourt, past presi­dent of the National Association of Criminal Defense Attorneys, said crim­
ina! charges against Spitzer would be "stretching federal statutes to a place they've never been." 
Edward J .M. Little, who worked in the public corrup­tion unit of the Manhattan federal prosecutor's office for eight years in the 1980s, said it would be "piling on" to bring charges now. 
"I think it would be outra­geous 'if they went after him any further on this," he said. "Solicitation cases are typi­cally pled down to minor charges and just because he was governor doesn't mean he should be treated any more harshly unless they impacted his duties as gover­nor." 
He added: "Even though I personally think it's repre­hensible, it doesn't mean it's criminal. He's resigned which is probably the ultimate penalty in this case so we should let it be." 
The most likely· charge Spitzer could face is structur­ing -breaking sums of money down into smaller amounts to hide the true pur­
pose of the funds  - but it is  
rarely brought  as a stand­ 
alone charge.  

Lawyers said they are usu­ally brought in money-laun­dering cases or as part of some larger criminal activity such as drug dealing. 
PAKISTAN 


Civilians killed in U.S.-led attacks 
Associated Press 
TANGRAI U.S.-Ied forces in Afghanistan fired across the border into Pakistan in a strike target­ing Taliban militants, and the Pakistani army said Thursday that civilians were killed. 
The attack illustrates Washington's concern the Taliban and al-Qaida are using Pakistan's lawless frontier as a base for attacks in Afghanistan. 
But anger at civilian deaths could lead to a review by the incoming Pakistani government of the country's counterter­rorism strategy and its U.S.-backed policy of using military force to root out militants. 
A spokesman for the U.S.­led coaliti,on in Afghanistan said troops used "precision­guided munitions" to strike 
a  compound about  a  mile  
inside  Pakistan  on  
Wednesday.  

Maj. Chris Belcher said the troops were responding to an "imminent threat" and that the coalition informed Pakistani authori­ties after the strike. 
"We received reliable intelligence indicating sen­ior Haqqani network mem­bers were in the compound at the time of the strike," Belcher said Thursday in Kabul. 
Siraj Haqqani is a promi­nent Afghan militant. On Wednesday, a coalition statement accused him of organizing a suicide attack that killed two NATO sol­diers at an Afghan govern­ment office on March 3. It said Haqqani "has become the most dangerous Taliban leader in Afghanistan." 
In Tangrai, a village of about 40 houses surround­ed by fields and mountains, residents led an Associated Press reporter to the rubble of the house hit in the attack. Only one of its four walls was-standing amid a tangle of mud bricks, bed­ding and cooking pots. 
"We are innocent, we have nothing to do with such things," said Noor Khan, a greengrocer who said the house was his fam­ily home. 
He said six of his relatives -four women and two boys -died in the attack. 
"We are poor people just trying to earn a living," he said. 
The Pakistani army said four civilians -two women and two children -died. There was no way to resolve the discrepancy between the numbers. 
It was not clear whether the coalition forces fired from the ground or the air or what weapons were used. Belcher said he could not detail the threat and had no information on casualties. 
Pakistan's army, which has received billions of dol­lars from Washington to fight al-Qaida and the Taliban, initially said the incident was an accident. 
Maj. Gen. Athar Abbas, 
an army spokesman, said five artillery shells fired by coalition forces strayed into Pakistan's North Waziristan region. One shell hit a home in the village, killing two women and two chil­dren, he said. 
Asked later about the coalition statement that the compound had been hit deliberately, Abbas said the government summoned a coalition representative to explain. 
"We have called for an explanation of whatever statement they have given," Abbas said. Firing across the border "is a violation and second, civilians were killed," he said. 
Asked whether militants were present, Abbas said: "We have asked them to explain how the civilian casualties occurred.'' 
Pakistan has deployed approximately 90,000 troops to hunt down mili­tants in its border regions. President Pervez Musharraf has sought to convince Pakistanis that they are fighting to protect their own country, not just for America's sake. 
But with violence escalat­ing in Afghanistan and Pakistan, many here hope the anti-Musharraf parties who triumphed in parlia­mentary elections last month will scale back mili­tary activities and seek dia­logue with militant groups, whose influence has been growing. 
Ahsan Iqbal, a spokesman for the party of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, said the new parlia­ment would review its counterterrorism strategy. 
"Pakistap.'s integrity and territorial sovereignty should be respected," Iqbal told the AP. "Killing of innocent people is highly deplorable and there should not be any repeat." 
There have been several incidents in the past of coalition fire landing in Pakistani territory. 
Some may be due to the poor demarcation of the long, rugged border. In June last year, a rocket fired during a battle between U.S.-led NATO forces and insurgents in Afghanistan struck a home in North Waziristan, killing 10 civilians. 
But there have also been several cases where unmanned U.S. drones have fired missiles at suspected militant hideouts in Pakistan's border regions, including a strike in January that killed a senior al-Qaida commander. 
U.S. military officials and soldiers have said on sever­al occasions that they already have authority to pursue or fire on militants a short distanee inside Pakistan. 
Pakistani officials usually deny such incidents or voice complaints with no obvious consequences, leading many to believe that cross-border strikes are carried out with Islamabad's tacit blessing. 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, March 14, 2008 
================================================================================== 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EI>IH>R IN CHIEI' Chris Hinc 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
A~ST. MANAGING EI>ITOR: K;aie Kohler 
Ass·•~ MANA<;ING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS Ell!TOR: Hill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EI>ITOR: Kara King 

SroRTS EDITORS: Chris !line 
SCENE EDITOR: T.1c Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: l.iz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANA!~ER: Jessica Concz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly ( ;ronli 
CoNTROI.I.ER: "l'im Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6'>00 obst·rvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-<'1542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) (>31-4541 obsmc@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
('i74) 6.) 1-4.~24 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

('i74) 631-5323 obsnew-.J@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 651-S.lO.J vit•wpoim.l @nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) (>31-454.l sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(5711) (>31 -4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
,me. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(571J) 6.31-8767 obsphow@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 63 I-8839 
TilE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

·1 'ht· ()bscrver is che independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudems of the University of Nmre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial conicm, including advertisements, is not gownwd hy policies tlf rhe administration ofeither instirmion. The ObS<-rver reserves the right co refuse adwnisemmts b;t,ed on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of the majority of the Ediwr in Chief; Managing Editor, A.<Sistant Managing Editors and dcparunent ediwrs. ( :ommemaries, lencrs and columns presenr the views of the ;tuthors and nor nect·ssarily those ofThe Observer. 
Yit'Wpnint space is available w all readers. The free t•xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 1-<·ne" ro the Editor must be signed and rnusr include coruact infilrmacion. 
Que.•tions regarding Observa policit'S should be direcud to f'ditor in ChiifChris /line. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Ill~· ( lh..crVt'T (l '"iPS 'i')l) l-4tJi)()) il puhli!>hccl Mnml;~y dLIUtt~h rr•• \.~y cxccpl tltlnll~ t'lt;IIIL ,unl V.!l.II!Oil pl'llllll~ A 'IHh'>lnpfion IU '] hl' ( >h,c:rvt:r ib $100 fur unt· .u...adc:ruk 
yt·,u: $')·\ lur uu~ '>l'IIH.'\11."1 

f'hr Oh~e1vcr ii puhli~lu:.l ~~ . POSTMASTl~R 111-1 \utuh Duung H.tll St·nJ .ulJrt"SS corrr<:uum to: Norre l >Mnt· IN 1f.s''i(, ()77•J 'M1e Ob~rwr lhu.. li~.tiJ••~.~o•o~w: pollJ .u Nu1r.: I)Jmc Pll. Box. niJ .111d .:d!.luto>U.tlm,ulin~ ufH~c\ 011 Snurh Dining IIJll 
Nnm: D.un~·. IN 46S'Sf>·077'1 
"J"hrl)]~,~'' I•J 1m:rnhc1 ul1hc A.uo!;IJ.Icd Pte.-. All repl•lliU!.:Iiun tiKfU\,IIC Jt'I!Crvc,t 
NDSP inconsistent with 'Breytopia' 
When NDSP ordered the students camping outside the Joyce Center before Notre Dame's game against Syracuse on Feb. 22, they cited the "safety and security" of the students as the reason for asking students to leave. 
Even though this is a legitimate concern of any university, there was apparently no concern for the safety of these stu­dents until this one game. Students participating in what has become dubbed "Breytopia" had already camped out prior to several games in this and them camp out on multiple occasions only to shut them down later. 

The safety and security issues havo been proven wrong on other large campuses, notably DukP and Penn State. The most well-known exampln is "Krzyzcwskiville" for Duke University men's basketball. Thern have been no major inei­dents reported, and Krzyzewskivilln is much larger than 
Breytopia. 

Thfl reason is simple: Duke understands that 
previous seasons without incident. students want to support their athletic teams
osHsERVER
Moreover, this abrupt change in policy has and works with thB students to make this enthu­yet to be addressed directly by any University siasm possible. It is regulated by Duke and the

Editorial
of'ficial. In fact, NDSP director Phil Johnson student government there, not harassed by cam-
and associate viee president for Hesidence Life Bill Kirk both said they did not know why the students were not asked to move earlier in the season. 
Students who have camped out prior to the Syracuse game also said that NDSP stopped by Breytopia and did not shut them down then. 
NDSP changed the enforcement of its policies for this one game, and doing so it was unfair to the students. 
But the rule itself is rtawed. Outdoor gatherings are allowed for other events, including sleeping in cardboard boxos Jor Habitat for Humanity. Kirk said that students can apply for permission to camp out, but that Breytopia will not likely be granted approval in the future. 
It is ono thing to say that since the fans didn't apply for and get a p<wmit, they must be removed. It is another to let pus cops. 

Notre Dame should look to this as an nxample. This is not an issue to take a hard stance on; this is an issue that can be reconciled with a littln work by both sides. 
Give Duke a call. Sen how they handle the thousands of fans that camp outside Cameron Indoor Stadium. If Duke can keep the many Blun Devil fans safe, Notre Dame can work with the students and NDSP to protect a few dozen Breytopians. 
Since University offic:ials do not know why the sudden enforcement began, thny should find out. When thny do, they should work with students to get them back by the JoycP Center, supporting the team, in a University-supportnd way. No reason to abridge fan support during such a successful year to suddenly enforce a rule. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



TODAY'S STAFF News Sports 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
Observer Poll 

.Joseph McMahon Michael Bryan 
How Far will the Notre Dame Men's basketball team

Madnlirw Buckley Sam Werner 
go in the Big East tournament'/ 

Brian McKenziP Meg han 
Votes

Graphics McMahon 
"What we obtain too cheap, we
Quarter Finals 62 
esteem too lighlly. "

Mary .Jpsse Seem~ 
Viewpoint Mark Witte 
Semi Finals 100 
Thomas Paine
Kara King 
Finals 79 

U.S. patriot Win itall 121
L__ 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Friday, March 14, 2008 page 11 
Reflecting on the ~aster season 
For Christians, the upcoming week cul­minates a period of preparation with a celebration of what defines the soul of Christianity-eight days of remem­brance reenacting the jubilance of Palm Sunday, the inti­macy of the last supper, the devas­tation of Good Friday capped by the calm and rebirth of Easter Sunday. It is the most certain time of the liturgical year, the rock upon which Catholics Capitol base their faith. Yet, Comments despite such a stur­dy foundation, faith only derives one per­son at a time. 
While attending the Latin mass before I entered elementary school, I noticed the smallest details of my surroundings. I knew phrases like "dominus vobiscum," but had no idea what that meant. Rather, I noticed how long my father prayed while kneeling alone before mass. I won­dered why nobody prayed as long as him, sometimes until the priest entered in pro­cession. It took years before I realized that he had lost both of his parents while still in his twenties and that he probably had much to say. Moreover, I could not begin to imagine the prayets he must have said in relation to his World War II service. 

Vatican II welcomed Catholics to a new faith by allowing us to speak in our native tongues at mass, thus understanding it. Prior to Pope John XXIII directing the Church into more friendly waters, our parents taught us the basic prayers like the Our Father and Hail Mary. I learned a special prayer after I noticed that my father tipped his hat when we drove past a Catholic church. Mter asking him what he was doing, my dad taught me to pay reverence to God in front of the church by bowing my head and saying, "Jesus my Lord and my God." 
I vividly recall that nuns seldom taught me prayers. They seemed to be more focused on the process by preparing us for the sacraments. I can still hear Sister Roberta who would severely punish any­one who dare call her Sister "Bobby." She drilled into us confessional content while pounding her knuckles on the desk. In unison t{) the beat of her thumping we loudly repeated together, "I kept impure thoughts in my mind. I did impure things." Mter learning how to swear like a sailor at Notre Dame, today I still am confused about what impure means. 
In 2000, when my father passed away, I again thought of his long prayer sessions prior to mass. One Easter week I decided to pray for his past intentions even though I did not know their content. Surely God would remember those prayers, but would they be heard? Did my father recite a set of traditional prayers or simply speak to his parents? Did my grandparents greet him during his quiet passing after surgery? Eventually I real­ized that for a religion so grounded in a series of fixed events during Easter week, answers also come one person at a time. 
My personal answers evolved through creating my own prayers...sort of like when my dad taught me that special prayer to say when passing by the church. My prayers center around the consecration of bread and wine during mass. As the priest holds the host, I say, "Jesus, my Lord, my God, forgive me of my sins." When the priest then hoists the chalice of wine, I utter, "Lord, come five in my heart and keep a place for me in your sacred heart." Those small, quiet gestures focus on my need to fill a void of ersatz faith where the church has failed me. 
For all of the surety of Christiallity, no one fully prepares us for life's uncertain­ties. Notre Dame students were not pre­pared to face the deaths of two fellow stu­dents last month. None of us fully recov­ers from the passing of our loved ones whether they be close family relatives or even dear pets. We begin the remainder of our lives with an ache .in our hearts and a yearning for one more moment together. Nobody learns how to cope prior to a loss, so our personal faiths evolve as time passes. 
I sustain myself with the thought that we are only here for as long as we need to be. I learned that by losing my parents. Yet, I did not lose them as early in life as my father lost his, nor have I ever faced the horrors of death that he did in World War II. My only hope can be that he greets me on my deathbed and shares his pre-mass litany. At that time I expect to begin again because of my singular faith. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column usually appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reconsider financial aid 
In December, Harvard announced that students from families earning less than $60,000 would no longer be required to pay for any educational expenses. Other members of the educational elite including Yale, Dartmouth, University of Pennsylvania and Stanford have all followed suit with similar fmancial aid policies. With some of the most prestigious universities already on board why is Notre Dame waiting on the sidelines? 
The procrastination is not due to a lack of funds. As of June 30, Notre Dame had an endow­ment of approximately $6.5 billion and had earned an annual return on its endowment of $1.4 billion. Not bad, but isn't Notre Dame sup­posed to be a not-for-profit educational institu­tion? 
With an endowment fund in the billions and educational costs prohibitive for middle and low income families, the University has yet to recog­nize that educational expenses have far outpaced family incomes. Notre Dame continues to require its students to fund their education with student loans while the educational elite have opened their coffers to fully aid needy families. The schools following Harvard's lead have proven that their students are their first priority. 
Notre Dame is currently engaged in a fundrais­ing effort called the Spirit of Notre Dame. One purpose of the fundraiser is to increase the funds available for financial aid. A university with a $6.5 billion endowment has to engage in a fundraising campaign to increase the funds avail­able for fmancial aid? More generous financial aid packages should be built into the budget and should not be dependent on additional fundrais­ing campaigns. 
Due solely to their economic background, stu­dents are unfairly asked to make educational decisions based on cost. Rather than growing an already bloated endowment, I propose that Notre Dame use those funds to adopt a comprehensive fmancial aid policy on par with the example set by Harvard. The size and growth of the University's endowment seems to be more of a priority than economic diversity and the needs of its students. Someone should remind the University's administration that endowment size really doesn't matter; what matters is how you use it. 
Brian DeVirgilio alumnus Class of 2002 March 12 
Obama's message more than words 
Throughout this year's presidential primary, Barack Obama has traveled around the country, consistently filling stadiums and auditoriums with people who want to hear his message. Yet Obama's message has drawn attacks from the other candidates, who charac­terize his "words" as more sound byte than substance. Though, I confess at the outset, I am a supporter of Barack Obama because I believe he possesses the intelligence, judgment and tact to lead our country, this letter is honestly not a call for reader's votes. It is a call to our generation -be you a McCain, Clinton or Nader supporter-to vote for who you wish, but to not tear down Obama's message of hope in the process. 
Obama's message of hope doesn't merely call us to "Rock the Vote." No, that's already been done. Obama is calling us to do more. Indeed, casting our votes and canvassing for our candidates are the grassroots of his message of hope for our democracy, but such activities can only happen once every two or four years. His message to us is that democracy doesn't take a break in between elections, so why should we. We must find ways to participate in our country, be it by volunteering, working for the government or, yes, maybe even running the government. 
I recently received a phone call from a close college friend who informed me that he had decided to run for a State House of Representatives seat in Missouri, and it dawned on me just then, that is how big Obama's message of hope can inspire us to think. I know there are great stories out there of people in our generation pursuing their public service ambitions, but my fear is that there are far too many in dorm rooms at universities, or in cubicles (offices if we're lucky) at first-jobs, that have already dismissed the possibility of a future public service· career -not because of a lack of desire to serve the country, but because of a lack of inspiration from the current state of our politics. 

It takes a special kind of person to run for public office of any sort, no doubt, but honestly, I hope it doesn't require us to be that special. I hope a solid education, hard worth ethic, love of this country and the desire to serve others is enough to allow a person to make a run at it. Obama's "words" inspire us to think that is enough. More than mere sound bytes and feel-good rhetoric, Obama's words and his candidacy are a call to us to engage in our democracy today, and not put it off for a future generation. We must each find our own way of participating in our democracy, be it running for the White House, or writing one's first ever letter. Maybe my city council or mayoral campaign isn't that far off. 
jared Wells 
law student 
offcampus 
March II 

'Skirt day' can wait 
During my four years at Notre Dame, I have always wanted to write a letter for the Viewpoint section of The Observer. I've considered weighing in on whether or not to change the Fight Song (which, for the record, I'm against). I've also thought about joining in the oh-so­heated debate regarding the Vagina Monologues. But, until today, no issue has truly motivated me to offer my opinion. Finally, however, I've seen something on this campus that has inspired me to write: the premature appearance of shorts and skirts on my female counter­parts at this fine University. 
Don't get me wrong, I enjoy "Skirt Day" (the.somehow­official day that all females decide to don their cutest skirts and bare their legs in celebration of Spring) as much as the next guy or girl. Shaved legs, sandals, pedi­cures, freedom from the tyranny of pants and even long­johns -I'm all for it. I love it. However, I'm disturbed by a recent trend by my fellow students to try to actualize this day too soon. 

Yes, a sunny day and a high of 45 is enough to tempt any self-respecting female (or male-there's no dis­crimination here) into a pair of shorts. But my friends, last time I checked, goose-pimpled legs due to cold tem­peratures is not attractive. 
Let's fully respect "Skirt Day" and give it our all. Therefore, I encourage all women (and again, men too) to wait a week or so more for the perfect spring day and then, and only then, to display our legs in all their post­spring-break glory. 
Corey Collins sentor McGlinn Hall March 13 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Friday, March 14, 2008 
==:_____~-=----:============..::= -·----=========================== 

By KELLY O'SULLIVAN Scene Writer 
The fourth season of Bravo's hit show, Project Runway, did more than crown a winner with its con­clusion last week. The finale, with 5.2 million total viewers, set a viewership record for the channel in 
. the 18 to 49 year-old demographic, with an average of 3.75 million viewers, up 9 percent from last sea­son's finale. This number put Bravo ahead of two of the three broadcast networks (ABC and CBS) at the 10 p.m. time slot that night. 
Many celebrities attended the finale, which showed three finalists' collections in a runway show in Bryant Park during New York Fashion Week. Supermodel and host of the show, Heidi Klum, designer Michael Kors and Elle fashion director Nina Garda sat front row to observe and critique the new creations, and Victoria "Posh Spice" Beckham joined them as a guest judge for the final episode. 
Beckham has begun her own fashion line, DVB, 
Next down the runway were the Joan of Arc­inspired pieces created by Rami Kashou, a 31-year­old born in Jerusalem. Kashou beat out Chris March's human hair decorated eolleetion in a design-off to make it to the final show in Bryant Park. His final eollection was· punctuated with bold eolors against black pieces and intricate details in his folding, pleating, weaving and draping. 
The last two looks that Kashou showed were ele­gant gowns, one in a eream colored tiered vintage lace and the other in a textured and layered blaek. However, the judges objeeted to many of Kashou's design decisions. Kors said that the colors were not chic enough for the elothes and referred to them as "Brady Bunch colors." He did however, praise the designer's showcasing every category of attire. Garcia's thought Kashou had the strongest point of view of all the designers, and his main strength lay in eveningwear. 
Finally, the youngest finalist had his turn to show off his work. Christian Siriano, 21, moved to London right after high sehool to study and work with famous British designers Alexander MeQueen and 
and is rumored to have her own fashion-themed reality show coming to Fox. 
Also present under the tent wnre the families of the top dnsigners, the contestants that had been eliminated by Klum this season, and contestants and winners from previous seasons. Industry insiders and celebrities alike liliPd the remainder of the 
2.000 seats along either side of the tl~nt's long runway. 
The caliber of the contestants relative to established designers 
Siriano was declared the winner. due to the consis­tently stylish look ofall his pieces, and how well his show was delivered as a whole. Klum congratulated the top designer by calling him "iiber-fierce 

Vivienne Westwood. 
Siriano's mostly black eollee­tion contrasted hard and soft looks, with full, feathered coats and voluminous neckpieces paired with skinny pants. Kors praised the collection, saying that it was "cohesive, powerful­looking" and had "chie drama." Even Beekham was pleased, "You really made me smile, and I'm not easy to make smile." 
Siriano was declared the win­ner, due to the eonsistently styl­ish look of all his pieees. and 
who presented at fashion week was also something that stood out. Garcia was especially impressed with the amateur colleetions. "This is the last day of New York Fashion Week, and I've seen a lot of it, and it eould fit right in there," she said. 
The first d<~signs to hit the runway were those of .lillian Lewis, a 26-year-old former designer and illustrator for American design ieon Ralph Lauren. Lewis' designs were inspired by Master of the Argonauts, a 15th-century. Florentine work of art. She discovered this painting during the last chal­lenge of the season, in whieh designers took a field trip to New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art. Lewis was praised by the judges for the knitwear she sent down the runway, whieh stood out amid the subtle fall colors and bold eoat silhouettes in the 
of her collection. 
how well his show was delivered as a whole. Klum ~ongr~.tulated the top designer by ealling him "tiber­fierce. 
As the winner of Project Hunway, Siriano will receive a fashion spread in Elle magazine, an all­new 2008 Saturn Astra, the opportunity to sell his line on fashion retailing Web site bluefly.eom, and a year of representation from Designers Management Agency and·$100,000 to start his own line. 
Siriano had previously been named the season's Fan Favorite, as voted on by viewers, with 43 per­eent of the vote. He told The Washington Post that the first thing he was going to do with the $10,000 prize was to purchase a bed to sleep on. "That's no joke, because I really need it. I still don't have one," 
Contact Kelly O'Sullivan at kosulli2@nd.edu 


~--------------------­
Tl·-IE OBSERVER 




CENE
Friday, March 14, 2008 
page 13 
•ro110• THE liGHTs• 
Channels Pain into Melody 

ever before. and re-dos of older Adams tracks. By James Costa The opening track, "Follow the Most notable among these is the Scene Writer Lights," is rumored to have been cover of Alice In Chain's "Down in a 
written in only twenty minutes while Hole" and a new interpretation of "If 
The ever-prolific Ryan Adams' Ryan sat on the set of the ABC I Am A Stranger" off Adams' 2005 most recent offering, "Follow the drama series "October Road." album "Cold Roses." Lights," is a remarkably tight and The show asked Adam's band, the The Alice in Chains c0ver is partic­well-crafted EP of new songs, cover­Cardinals, to write a song to fit the ularly chilling, as Adams seems to ing fresh interpretations of older mood of the show. The track that channel the corrosive and destruc­songs from the singer's extensive emerged from the jam session was tive pain of the now deceased Layne catalog. Brimming with an emotion­an upbeat tune, which is remarkable Staley, the original lead singer of ally mature sense of expression, the considering the morose and depress­Alice in Chains. Getting his voice to EP offers a mellow perspective on ing nature inherent in the spirit of the point of a near-howl, Adams recent events in Adams' life and his most Adams' tunes. sings, "Down in a hole and I dont current mindset, which seems to be Written as a letter to a lost lover know if I can be saved I See my more subdued and reflective than or dear friend, the Cardinals sing, heart I decorate it like a grave." 


I know that upon seeing the headline of noise rock and melodic pop. While these album that fit into both these two cate­one my reviews of an obscure band (even two genres sound disparate, Yo La Tengo gories.) Finally, there are some beautiful though I was money on my prediction that brings them together in way that is entirely guitar pop songs ("Nowhere Near", "The Vampire Weekend would be huge), many unique. They've made songs that could fit Whole of the Law"), which are absolutely of you just shake your heads, mutter into folk, rock, pop, eountry, jazz or punk breathtaking. "Who?" and move on to the comics. At genres, and they've done it all to perfec­If, after hearing "Painful," you find your­least, that's what I tion. self in love with Yo La Tengo, you may used to do. Mychal Stanley They've been leaders in the independent want to move on to their 1997 album "I 
Well, I want music scene since 1984, and have released Can Hear the Heart Beating as One." This people to under-over 15 albums sinre then. I know that album expands the scope of the band's stand where I'm Scene & Heard sounds daunting to focus while mainJ,aining roming from; my someone who wants to their unique sound. musieal haek-try some Yo La Tengo Songs on this album ground, if you and has no idea where range from a great will. So. I came up with the idea of intro­to start. but I'm here to cover of the Beach Boys ducing you to some bands and artists that l help. song "Uttle Honda" to Photo courtesy of sfbg.com feel you, as a fan of music, should possibly Without a doubt, you extended guitar freak­Yo La Tengo has been jamming out in explore. should start with their outs from Ira ("Spec almost every musical genre since 1984. 
I admit everything I say is going to be 1993 album "Painful." It Bebop"). 
Itself Inside Out" focuses more on theirentirely my opinion, but these are bands was the first album hus­Finally, I suggest their melodic, dreamy drone. Their older 

and artists I recommend to my fii.ends band-wife team Ira latest release, 2006's "I when they ask me for some new music. Kaplan and Georgia Am Not Afraid of You albums like 1990's collection of covers Consider yourselves my new friends. Hubley produced entire-and I Will Beat Your "Fakebook" and 1992's "May I Sing With 
The first band I want to talk about is also ly with their now-permanent bassist, Ass," which expands their scope even more Me" have hidden treasures all their own. one of my all-time favorites. In fact, I eon­James McNew. Not only is it the best Yo La to include chamber-pop ("Black Flowers"), Do yourself a favor and check out one of sider them to be the greatest band still Tengo album, it's also one of the best 50s rock ("Wateh Out For Me Ronnie"), and the best kept secrets of the An1erican inde­working. I went to a show they put on over albums of the 90s. This album should be in piano rock ('The Weakest Part"). pendent music scene. You will be glad you Winter Break, and it only cemented my everyone's record collection. If you've tried these three albums and did. ­opinion. "Painful" beautifully encompasses every­are still thirsty for more, they have more 
Yo La Tengo, despite their name, is not a thing that Yo La Tengo does well. There albums that arc a little more focused than The views expressed in Scene and mariachi band. In fact, they're a modest are slow, melodic, dreamy songs. There the ones I suggested, and therefore a little Heard are those ofthe author and not indie rock trio out of Hoboken, N.J. are a few great feedback-driven rock more niche. 2003's "Summer Sun" focuses necessarily those ofThe Observer. Throughout their career they've been tracks. (Coincidentally, there are two ver­more on the pop aspect of their sound, Contact Mychal Stanley at experimenting and perfecting guitar-driven sions of the song "Big Day Coming" on the while 2000's "And Then Nothing Turned wstanley@nd. edu 
' ,..._ 
Yo La Tengo, despite their name, is not a mariachi band. In fact, they're a modest indie rock trio out ofHoboken, New Jersey. 
Follow the Lights 
Ryan Adams & the Cardinals Label: Lost Highway Recommended Tracks: "Follow the Ughts,;' "Down in a Hole" and "If IAm A Stranger" 
"Follow the lights that Adams made the EP in the midst of line the streets connect­detoxing off speedballs (a mixture of tracks, is a sign of goods things to come. ing telephones I Follow heroin and cocaine) and alcohol. It's the lights from house to powerful, beautiful and painful to your darkness from so you don't let house and they will lead listen to, because Adams appears to them down." For anyone who has you home." Adams then feel the pain of the words and he ever failed at love, this is necessary amps up the romantic uses the music as a means of listen as Adams hits the feelings of attachment of home, expelling that pain. muted romance right on the head. _ singing "Our love is "lf I Am A Stranger" is a very dif­There isn't a dull moment on the strong enough to guide ferent version of the song off "Cold EP and the songs run together per­the way and we'll walk Roses." Its tempo slows down con­fectly. It is a brief, illuminating look through I Hands inside of siderably and Adams sings much of into the direction of Ryan Adams hands I Hearts inside of the song in a near-whisper. The song and the Cardinals as they move hearts I Uke eyes reaches its most heartbreaking toward their projected '2008 releas­closed." moments as Adams murmurs, "To es. 
The next few tracks tell the truth its hard enough with­are a collection of covers out a lover I Who you want to hide Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 
-
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 14, 2008 
PGA 

Couples takes lead in 1st round at Bay Hill 
Associated Press 
OHLANDO, Fla. -Fred Couples made four birdies in his opening six holes, shot S­under 65, and golf finally felt fun. Tiger Woods couldn't hit tiHl green with a wedge, struggled to shoot even par, and he finally looked human. 
The Arnold Palmer Invitational delivered a few surprises Thursday, none big­ger than the 48-year-old Couples booming tee shots, taking only 23 putts and fin­ishing atop the leaderboard with J.J. Henry. 
"This doesn't make me the guy to beat;" Couples said. "If I ean play like that, it makes it a lot easier. When you birdie four out of the first six holes, there's not much that can bother you." 
In three previous trips to Bay Hill, Henry had never done better than 71. He played under warm sunshine without a bogey, making four birdie putts outside 15 feet. 
"I feel like l(ve been close," he said. "And today, finally, everything clicked." 
They were a stroke ahead of defending champion Vijay Singh, Lee Westwood, Tom Lehman and Lucas Glover, who got a pep talk from friends to quit being so hard on himself. Despite consecu­tive bogeys, Glover kept his cool and ended a streak of eight consecutive rounds without breaking 70. 
For Couples, it was his best score at Bay Hill since a 63 in 1992, the year he won this tournament and was No. 1 in the world. 

Woods is the world's No. 1 player now, having won every tournament he has played since September. It sure didn't look that way after a birdie on the opening hole. He missed one green with a pitching wedge, another green with a sand wedge, and settled for a 70 that left him five shots behind, but not in awful shape. 
ND SOFTBALL 

Bargar leads ND into S.C. 
By CHRIS DOYEN 
Sports Writer 

Coming off' a 3-2 weekend in Long Beach, Calif., which led to junior pitcher Brittany Bargar being named Big East Pitcher of' the Week, the Irish ( 1 0-8) head to Charleston, S.C., to take part in the Charleston Southern University Lowcountry Softball Invitational. 
Bargar made five appear­ances for the Irish last week, pitching 25.1 innings and recording a miniscule ERA of' 
0.55. In that same period, Bargar struck out 21 com­pared to only three walks, and allowed only two earned runs. 
On the season, Bargar has an 8-5 record and a 1.00 ERA, second among Big East pitchers. Of the 23 runs scored against her on the season, only 11 of' them have been earned. 
Despite the stellar pitching, the Irish could not register wins against No. 6 UCLA and Long Beach State due to a lack of' run support. The offense did show signs of' life in a victory over Cal State Northridge last weekend, where freshman Sadie Pitzenberger's two-run dou­ble was all the support that Bargar needed. 
The Irish will face Towson (11-7) and Charleston Southern (10-17) on Friday before taking on Campbell (17-8) and a to-be-deter­mined opponent on Saturday. 
Towson is coming off of a split with Georgetown in a doubleheader on Wednesday. Towson's victory in the first game gave them a four-game winning streak that was built mainly on the strength of senior Nina Navarro's bat. The Towson offense stalled in the nightcap as the Tigers suffered a 2-0 defeat at the hands of the Hoyas. 
Following the early morn­ing game with Towson, the Irish will take on a Charleston Southern team that had a tough series last weekend in the Bulldog 
Classic in Starkville, Miss. That tournament capped a brutal stretch that included 18 games in only 11 days. 
The Buccaneers were able to pull out two victories over Austin Peay, one of which went eight innings, but they also were soundly defeated four times, twice against Mississippi State and twice against Louisiana Tech. 
Saturday's match against Campbell could prove to be a tough test for the Irish, as the Camels emerge from a solid performance in the Stanford University Classic in which they posted victories over Texas Tech, College of Charleston and North Dakota State. Their only losses came in two games against No. 7 Stanford, the first of which was a 2-1 loss. 
The Irish begin action at 
8:30 Friday morning at Buccaneer Field on the Charleston Southern Campus. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
MEN'S TRACK 

Irish send 7 to nationals 
Benninger looks to wrap up ND career with win in 3K race 
his fifth trip to the NCAA are the No. 11 seed in the 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO 

Championships, Benninger Distance Medley Relay (DMR). 
Sports Writer 

has consistently performed With Notre Dame's reputation well at this meet, earning live for having consistent DMR 
A long indoor track season All-American honors in both performances at the NCAA concludes this weekend when track and cross country. finals, it will be necessary for the Irish face the nation's Junior Patrick Smyth will the Irish to keep last week's best at the NCAA also be running the race as intensity despite the absence Championship in fayetteville, the No. 10 seed. Smyth has of Benninger. Ark. also had experience with Senior Jake Watson earned 
Notre Dame will send a NCAA Championship meet, the No. 12 seed qualification total of seven participants, a running the 5,000-meter race for the mile run after running number that thrilled head last year and earning his first an NCAA provisional 4:00.39 coach Joe Piane. All-American honors. time at the Alex Wilson 
"This is the biggest group of "I did qualify for the SK as Invitational March 7 and 8.
-athletes we've had in years" well, but I decided to just For this meet, he will look to Piane said in a und.com concentrate of the 3K," Smyth surpass the 4-minute mile for interview, "And frankly, said. ''I'm running with Kurt, the first time this season. everyone that's going not only and we both really like our Watson will run the mile at has the chance to score but chances in the 3K, there's no 6:15 p.m. and the DMR will could earn All-American hon­one in the lead." race at 9:15 p.m. Benninger ors". Seniors Austin Wechter, and Smyth will compete Senior Kurt Benninger Adam Currie, junior Daniel tomorrow at 7:35p.m. hopes to cap ofT another stel­Clark and sophomore Blake lar indoor season with the Choplin will also make the Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at 3,000-meter run. Hunning in trip down to Fayetteville and ealfonzo@nd.edu 
ND WoMEN's TRACK 
Hasan to cotnpete in pentathalon at NCAAs 
good athlete for this team and ha<>
By ALEX BARKER 
come a long way both physically
Sports Writer 
and mentally as of late. Now it's just a matter of' her being able to Eight Irish athletes have quali­stay settled to get through a com­
fied to represent Notre Dame at plete day of multi-events. 
the NCAA Championship meet in "If she goes out there and per­
Fayetteville, Ark. this weekend. forms the way she is capable of Only one Irish competitor, howev­
doing, it's hard to think that she er, will come from the women's won't finish among the top of her 
team. 
field." 
Alyissa Hasan will represent the Hasan is entering the event as 
Irish in the pentathlon after her the No. 13 seed. She needs to fin­March 7 and 8 performance at the ish in the top eight to earn her first 
Alex Wilson Invitational that quali­All-American honors. 
fied her for the national champi­
Hasan was not the only athlete onship meet. Hasan scored 4,015 to meet the provisional mark set 
points, breaking her old school by the NCAA as a potential qualifi­record. 
er for the championship meet. 
Assistant coach Scott Windsor Teammate Anna Weber met the 
was confident Hasan would put provisional mark in the weight
together another strong perform­throw, but did not set a high ance this week. enough mark to qualify for the 
"She definitely has the potential 
meet. 
to put together a really good score this week," Wmdsor told und.com. Contact Alex Barker at "Alyissa has turned herself into a abarker1@nd.edu 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
WANTED $14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT  FoR RENT Blue & Gold Homes Showing for  5 bedroom house just off Angela & 31. Available now & for next year. 2 baths & laundry. 232-6964.  For rent: Two story house ready for immedi­ate occupancy or next school year.  PERSONAL PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME- If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslrape. shtml  
,_  WORK flexible. no experience needed, customer sales/service, conditions apply. ages 18+, 574­273-3835, www. workforstudents.com Looking for female and male to help with a puppet theatre for kinder­garten students on Friday, 3/14, from 8:30-9:00 a.m. and from 12:30·1:00 p.m. on the same day. This is a volunteer position. Call Bill Staunton 574-217-8063 or 574­386-7272. Need babysitter for 2 kids. Flex hrs. Good pay. Solid Catholic family. Email: mbrammer@ sbcglobal.net  08/09,09/10 Now offering 'flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 CLOSE TO CAMPUS.RANGING FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. CALL 574-234-2436 OR KRAMER­HOUSES.COM 3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to campus, sale, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2-car garage. 1 Ox20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 or 574-340-1844.  Furnished Quiet 4Br house walk ND. Security, air, washer/dryer, dish­washer. Basement porch yard. 10-12 mos. 574-309-3105. HOUSE FOR RENT: 608 NDAve., walk to campus. 3 Lg.bed/2bath, sleeps up to 5. Central Air, new appl., carpet, WID, off street park­ing. Totally Renovated in 07. Free Summer Storage. Email jason@ jakesfireworks.net  Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage, new furnace and central air, new kitchen including appliances, large living room, free trash removal. Garage available for car-extra. Call 289-4071.  ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confi­dential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer.  MIKE REVERS ­REST IN PEACE!! YOU HAVE BEEN MISSED FOR THE LAST YEAR. Adopt: Active, young, loving couple, teacher and business owner, wish more than anything to raise your newborn with care, warmth and love. Expenses paid. Please call Josette and Tim 1-800­418-0230.  






OUND THE NATION 
Friday, March 14, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE sERVICEs page 15 
NBA Standings Eastern Conference 

team  record  perc.  last 10  GB  
Boston  51-12  .810  10·0  
Detroit  46·18  .719  7·3  5.5  
Orlando  42-24  .636  8·2  10.5  
Cleveland  37·28  .569  6·4  15  
Toronto  34·30  .531  4·6  17.5  
Washington  31·32  .492  6·4  20  
Philadelphia  31·34  .477  7·3  21  
New Jersey  27-38  .415  3·7  25  
Chicago  26-38  .406  4·6  25.5  
Atlanta  26-38  .406  3-7  25.5  
Indiana·  25·39  .391  4·6  26.5  
Charlotte  24-40  .375  5·5  27.5  
Milwaukee  23-42  .354  3-7  29  
New York  19·46  .292  2·8  33  
Miami  11·52  .175  2·8  40  
Western Conference  
team  record  perc.  last 10  GB  
LA Lakers  45-19  .703  8·2  
Houston  44-20  .688  .10·0  1  
San Antonio  44-20  .688  7·3  1  
Utah  43-23  .652  7·3  3  
New Orleans  43-20  .683  6·4  1.5  
Phoenix  42-22  .656·  5·5  3  
Dallas  42-23  .646  6·4  3.5  
Golden State  40·23  .635  8·2  4.5.  
Denver  38-26  .594  5-5  7  
Portland  34-31  .523  5-5  11.5  
Sacramento  28·35  .444  3·7  16.5  
LA Clippers  21-42  .333  2-8  23.5  
Seattle  16·49  .246  1·9  29.5  
Memphis  15·49  .234  1·9  30  
Minnesota  14·49  .222  3-7  30.5  
NCAA Men's Baseball  

Standings 

rank team overall 
1 Arizona 10·1 2 Arizona State 12·0 3 North Carolina 10·2 4 Missouri 9-2 5 Ole Miss 10·3 6 vanderbilt 8-3 7 Miami(FL) 9·1 8 South Carolina 8·2 9 Long Beach State 9·2 10 Baylor 10·1 11 UCLA 7-4 12 California 9-1 13 UC Irvine 10·1 14 Florida State 12·0 15 Rice 8-5 16 Virginia 11·2 17 Kentucky 11-0 18 Stanford 8-4 19 Texas 9·4 20 Cal Stale Fulletron 8-4 21 San Diego 7·7 22 Oregon State 5-5 23 Oklahoma State 9-3 24 Wichita Slate 1-3 25 Michigan 5·5 
around the dial 
BIG EAST MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT SEMIFINALS West Virginia vs. Georgetown 7 p.m., ESPN 
Pittsburgh vs. Marquette 9 p.m., ESPN 
BIG TEN MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT Ohio State at Michigan State 2:30 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK-One year has made a remarkable dif­ference for Joe Alexander and West Virginia. 
Last March, Alexander didn't score a point as the Mountaineers beat Clemson in the NIT cham­pionship game. 
On Thursday, the 6-foot-8 junior forward scored a career-high 34 points on the same Madison Square Garden court as West Virginia beat No. 15 Connecticut, 78-72, in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament. 
The fifth-seeded Mountaineers (25-7) will play top-seeded and ninth-ranked Georgetown in the semifinals Friday night. It will be West Virginia's sec­ond appearance in the tournament's final four as it lost in the 2005 champi­onship game. 
Alexander is averaging 
29.8 points over his last five games, a streak that start­ed with a then-career high 32 points in a 79-71 loss to Connecticut on March 1. He had 22 points in the Mountaineers' opening­round win over Providence. 
Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun found it hard to believe Alexander torched his team for the second time in less than two weeks. 
"Alexander is a terrific 
IN BRIEF LeBron, Gisele to appear
together on Vogue cover CLEVELAND -LeBron James is striking a pose. 
· The Cleveland Cavaliers' superstar will appear on the April cover of Vogue, joining actors Richard Gore and George Clooney as the only men to do so in the influential fashion magazine's 116-year history. 
Wearing a tank top, shorts and sneakers from his own Nike clothing line, James appears on the cover dribbling a basketball and scream­ing as if in game mode while throw­ing one arm around supermodel Gisele Bundchen with Tom Brady nowhere to be found. 
The James-Bundchen duo is one of several athlete-model pairings featured in the issue. Others include swimmer Michael Phelps with Caroline Trentini. snowboarder Shaun White with Daria Werbowy; and speed skater Apolo Anton Ohno with Doutzen Kroes. 
player. Our kids feel after he· gets it they were going to stop him," Calhoun said. "When he got around 27 or 28 I thought it would be a good idea if they realized that, by the way, he had 32 the first time, before the realized he was a good bas­ketball player." 
A.J. Price had 22 points for the Huskies (24-8), who have lost their last four games in the Big East tour­nament, a streak that start­ed with a loss in the semifi­nals in 2005. 
Alexander was 12-for-22 from the field and 1 0-for­12 from the free throw line as West Virginia led throughout the second half. The Mountaineers' biggest lead was 13 points, the last time at 61-48 with 9:18 left, and they held ofT a run that had the Huskies as close as 70-65 on a driving layup by Price with 2:02 to play. 
Butler had 17 points and nine rebounds to lead West Virginia's impressive show­ing on the boards. The Mountaineers finished with a 42-26 advantage, includ­ing 14-5 on the offensive end. 
"Some games are very 

..... 
complex and you mull over them, why you won and why lost, it's difficult," said · Calhoun, whose team had won 13 of its last 16 games. "Tilis one is very easy. They came out and kicked our butt." 

Miller._,,yonn on track for 
U.S. world Cup sweep 
BORMIO, Italy -Bode Miller clinched his second overall World Cup title, then promptly retreated behind the tinted windows of his personal bus. 
Lindsey Vonn was all smiles after moving so close to securing the women's crown that her only competi­tor still in the runriing conceded defeat. 
Miller and Vonn are on the verge of the first American sweep of the overall titles since Phil Mahre and Tamara McKinney did it 25 years ago. 
Miller was livid after Wednesday's downhill was canceled due to warm weather, handing the downhill title to Cuche with a five-point lead over Miller. 
Vonn finished second Thursday in the season's final Super-G behind Fabienne Suter of Switzerland, her best result in the disciplim~ all season. She holds a 197 -point lead over Maria Riesch of Gerrriany with two races remaining and 200 points at stakP. 
Billy: Crystal strikes out as 
Yankees leadoff hitter 
TAMPA, Fla. -Billy Crystal whacked himself in the helmet with his back­swing, found his shoelaces and socks sabotaged and watehed his team lose. 
Oh, and tl1e New York Yankees rook­ie struck out in his one and only at-bat as a big leaguer. 
A day before his 60th birthday, the comedian, actor and Oscar host enjoyed every moment of tl1e day he'd hoped for his entire life. 
Technically, Crystal still is under con­tract to the Yankees. He signed a stan­dard minor league deal Wednesday that commissioner Bud Selig approved; as long as the Yankees officially release him before opening day, tl1ey don't owe him any money. 
Crystal got this opportunity after a chance meeting with Jeter in Costa Rica over the holidays. Crystal said he wasn't too happy about turning 60, and the Yankees captain wondered what would make him happy. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 14, 2008 
MEN's GoLF 

Irish head south for elite tourney 
By PETE REISENAUER Sports Wrircr 
The Irish will liu~e Uwir toughest competition of the rnhrular season this wenkm1d. liu:ing oil' against sev­eral top teams at Uu~ Sdwnkd E-Z­Go lnvil<ttional in Statesboro. Ga. 
HPgardnd as one of college goirs premier inten:ollegiatn tourna­menl'i, the 54-hole event will run March 14-l(l, at U1n par-72, 6,962­yard Fort~t lldghl'i Country <Jub. 
The toummnent ((~aturt~ some of tho best programs in Lhe country with eight of Golfwnek's top 30 tmuns competing. Irish he<ul coach .lim Kubinski said Umt hn wa<> not IWn~s..o.;cuily imprl~'il~ by <my l.mm1 in pmiicular. but morn in the lield as a whole. 
"I do not think that <my one tmun h<L'> snparated UtenN~Ivt~ from Lhe n~t. I Utink Lhnrn am a lot of pretty good t1mms meaning you could have a groat tournament <md still lini'ih middle oflhe pack." Kubinski said. 
This will be the lirst time that Notre D<une h<L'i competed in Lhn E-Z-Go Invitational. The team had th1~ir first look at Lhe course during a pnu:tice round on Thursday, mtd Kubinksi wa<> pleased with what he saw. 

"I was impres..'ied wilh four out of ili•~ live of our players in tl1e prac­tiee round. Tho lillli one feels more comfortable now, though; as we worked on some stull' with him allerward<>. IU1ink U1is weokend we eould havo four or livo of our guys in play, wherea<> in Ute first couple toummnnnl<> we have only had one or two." 
Kubin<>ki said ili1~ Irish, who lin­ishnd 12th in tho USC Collegiate Invitational on Mard1 3 and 4, know that they have to improve <L'>p!~d<; of ilinir gmnns. 
"This is our third tournament and we neoded to see how we played coming oil' Lhe winter break when we obviously couldn't prac­tice because of Lhe snow," Kubinski said. 'We noed to drive Ute ball bet­ter, and this course sets up very well for u<> to do iliat. We also need to work on our putting game, which despite Ute undulating hills al'il> sol<> up nicely for us tlris week­end. 
'We stubbed our toe a bit on Lhe first two, a<> a good nUillber of our tnmn hm,; played in Lhe Soulhea<>t before." Kubin<>ki said. 
While Kubinski recognized the importance of his tcmn as a whole performing better, he also highlight­ed some individuals. Josh S<mdman, coming off a top iliree lini'ih in California over ilie break, will look to continue his success. 
Kubin<>ki said a lew oilier players noed to play at their highest level Lhis weekend for his team to do well. 
"Josh goes without saying, but we are expecting Doug [Fortner] to step up tlris weekend as welL He was our stroke leader before ilie break and he has not done as well in Lhe last couple of tournaments. We also expect iliat Tyler Hock will perform better because he is closer to home." Kubinski said. 
The toummnent consists of three rounds, beginning today and end­ing wiili ilie final round Sunday. 
Contact Pete Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu 
MLB 
Ramirez discusses ph_ilosophy of life 
Associated Press 
FORT MYEHS, Fla. -Manny Hamirez, philosopher: 
"You've got to be a boat know­ing where you're going," saith the sage of the Green Monster. "We've got money. We're famous. But you've got to know what you want." 
Manny Ramirez, new-age devo­tee: 
"My uncle, he likes to meditate. He does a lot of yoga classes," quoth ilie Boston slugger search­ing for inner truth. "Last year, I started doing it with him." 
Manny Ramirez, believer that anything is possible if you want it enough, even a second straight World Series championship for the Red Sox: 
"If we want to repeat, we're going to go and do it. Everything is possible in life. Hey, whatever you want to be in life, you could be." 
Manny senmed like a new man Thursday, sitting at his locker with a poaceful look and a soft voice in a 10-minute interview with The Associated Pmss, then taking the inspirational book, "The Secret." from his shelf and using a pink highlighter to mark passages. 
"lley, you're the architect of your life," he said. "Let me tell you something. Wo've got so much bad stull' inside, it's up to us to make the best of it." 
Hamirez's reputation is well­known -one of baseball's best hitters with a quirky personality who marches to his own beat and ha<> his own unique hairstyle. But the left fielder chang11d his offsea­son activities before the 15th sea­son of a career that he said Thursday will end in a Boston uniform with no retirement date in mind. 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles open dual match play with Wildcats 
brings many changes and new forth: have a winning record flight. lt's a good preparation tition. 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK faeos. Saint Mary's features a and show improvement going into the Albion match, and "We are looking forward to 

Sports Wrirer 

new head coach, Chuck Hubino, throughout the week. a good test for us. Saturday we playing," Hubino said. "It will be as well as eight freshmen on the "After getting some match want to continue the improve­a good challenge f(Jr us." 
Saint Mary's will head to roster to join just two returning play in over spring break, I ment we showed over break and Gebert seconded hor coach's Marion, Ind., Saturday to take sophomores, Camille Gebert and think we are all very ready to build on it. Indiana Wesleyan is excitement heading into this on Indiana Wesl11yan in their Lisa Hubino. play our first dual match of the a strong team, we played strong match. lirst dual mateh of the season. Four of the eight freshmen are season," said sophomore teams over break, and want to "I have confidence that we will 
Tho Belles (4-3) look to contin­starting, having already proven Camille Gebert. "We are lucky to try to build and improve from pull through as a team," Gebert uo tho momentum they startod able to handle college level com­be playing a competitive team match to match." said. "The wins will come, along over break, but face a tough petition over break. Freshman like Indiana Wesleyan because it Rubino will start the same six with tho losses, but it's impor­challenge in tlw Wildcats (1-1), .lillian Hurley had a standout will provide us with good prepa­girls in singles play and keep the tant, with such a young team, to who have played only two week for the Belles, going 6-1 in ration heading into MIAA com­same doubles pairs that compet­make sure we win for each matchns this spring but went singles and 3-4 in doubles with petition. ed early in the break week. "We other. We have a lot of depth, 1:~-0 in their fall season. c;ebert. Hurley was also named Heading into Saturday's need to do a better job with our and a lot of heart. We are 
"Indiana Wesleyan is very Saint Mary's co-athlete of the match, Hubino has set new doubles," Hubino said. We are eager to start competing." 
good team." said Bnlles coach week, sharing the honor with goals for his team, and feels working on getting two up to the Tho Belles will begin the 
Chuck Hubino.-"They have a softball player Calli Davison. there are areas where improve­net and building chemistry. It's match against the Wildcats on 
very strong program, and won The Belles came back from ments can be made. tough with freshmen on the Saturday at 2:30p.m.
-their conference title !Mid­break pleased with their team's "The goal is obviously to try to team and new pairs." Central Confnrnncnl in the fall." performance and achieved the beat them," Hubino said. "We Hubino said the Belles are Contact Meaghan Veselik at For the Belles, the new stmson two main goals Rubino had set just want to compete in every excited to face thn tough com pe-mveselO1@saintmarys.edu 
Plug in to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Free iTunes subscription for reflectiPe listening 011 your iPod. ·l.'lfpe "ndprayercast" 011 the i7lmes search engi11c,-or -log onto www.ndprayercast.org
Jl"!l)))) ) ) 
Hear it here this week: Rev. Peter Rocca, c.s.c.

M www.ndprayercast.org 
Songs of the ND Folk Choir • psalms • homilies • prayers • meditative music 

Friday, March 14, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S DIVING 
•

Top six move on 
By CHRIS DOYEN 
Sports Writer 
After claiming the Big East title in New York Feb 20-23, the Irish will send their top six divers to Ohio State's McCorkle Diving Pavilion this weekend to compete in the NCAA Zone C Meet. 
Zones A, B and D will be competing OV!'r the same time 
through one more meet. 
"This will be the final meet for Steve Crowe and myself unless we make it to nationals," Stoner said. "So we are looking to go out with a bang." 
The six will travel to Columbus, Ohio, to compete against approximately 90 divers in a 24-school com­petition. The divers in each of the five zone meets will compete for the chance at par­ticipating in 
period, while tho NCAA
"We are just going to
Zone E com­Championships 
petition go out there, relax that will take 
began yp,s­and go big" place in terday and Federal Way, will continue Wash. March
Sam Stoner

through 27-29. tomorrow. Irish senior diver During the 
Top perform­ers at each regional zone meet advance to the NCAA Championships in two weeks. 
The Irish representatives are a mix of rookies and upperclassmen. The squad is comprised of seniors Steven Crowe and Sam Stonp,r, junior Michael Bulfin, and freshmen Nathan Geary, Erie Lex and Wesley Villanor. 
As seniors, Crowe and Stoner will be attempting to flXtend their careers 
Big East 
Championships, 

the Irish divers claimed five of the top eight spots in the 1-meter board. Bulfin took second place, while Lex took third. Stoner finished second in the 3­meter board, and Bulfin took third place. 
Stoner and the rest of the divers are exhibiting a sig­nificant amount of confi­dence heading into the weekend. 
"The top eighteen finish­ers in prelims advance to the finals, and everyone is 
to OSU 
capable and hoping to accomplish this," Stoner said. "We have worked hard all year for this. Everyone is confident about their dives. We are just going to go out there, relax and go big." 
The Irish have proved successful in previous years at the NCAA Zone C meet. In 2007, Stoner claimed the seventh spot on the 1-meter board. Bulfin came in one spot behind him, and also took fifth place in the 3­meter board. As a freshman in 2006, Bulfin advanced to the NCAA Championship and claimed a remarkable top-20 finish in the 3-meter. Bulfin's 2008 regular sea­son was full of highlights that showcased his talent and potential. On January 18th, he set a Notre Dame record on the 3-meter dive. That record lasted less than 24 hours, however, as Bulfin turned around and broke his own record the next day. 
The Irish men will com­mence diving today at 1 p.m with the 3-meter board. The 1-meter board competition will take place Saturday at 1 p.m, with the platform diving competition will be held Sunday at 11. 
Contact Chris Doyeq at cdoyen@nd.edu 
MLB 
Man set to auction off Bonds' record HR ball 
Associated Press 
DENVER -After snaring the 
baseball Barry Bonds hit for. 
career homer No. 762, Jameson 
Sutton stored it in the safest 
place he could think of -deep 
inside his closet. 
"I didn't tell anyone," he said. 
The 24-year-old from Boulder 
quickly moved the baseball into 
a safety deposit box after the 
season was llnished. realizing 
its potential worth. And with 
Bonds still looking for a place to 
play this season, Sutton decided 
to come forward with the ball. 
Sutton has hired SCP Auctions 
to run an online auction that 
starts March 31 and could fetch 
as much as $1 million. 
"I thought it would be cool to 
give it to my grandkids, but it's 
too important of a ball for me to 
have it in my house laying 
around," Sutton said Thursday. 
Sutton grabbed Bonds' final 
homer of last season on Sept. 5 
at Coors Field when he extend­
ed his arm· over the fence. He 
thought he had it cleanly and 
then was crunched by two other 
fans. 
"I did what was a weird splits, 
and saw the ball rolling in front 
of me," he said. 
Sutton already had a batting­.practice baseball in his hand that he was given by a member of the Hockies' maintenance crew before the game. He let go of that one and snatched the home run ball. 
Robert Harmon, who was tak­ing pictures at the time and was close to Sutton, saw a ball rolling and quiekly scooped it up. Turns out, he grabbed the batting practice ball. 
"When I went back to my seat, l got a phone call from a friend who thought I had the ball," Harmon said. "This kid camp, up and said, 'My friend got the baseball.' I was like, 'No, I've got it.' l looked at it and was like, 'Oh (expletive).' I've seen enough baseballs to know what a game ball is and what a practice ball is. He's got the ball. I've got a nice sou­venir." 
Harmon isn't bitter about los­ing the pricey baseball to Sutton. Being a partial season ticket holder, Harmon has got­ten to know Sutton's mom and dad, David and Debbie, who've been ticket holders since the team's inception. 
Harmon knows how much the ball can help the family. David Sutton is back in the hospital as he battles cancer. 
"For them, it's a fairy tale come true," Harmon said. 


-
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 14, 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hoyas drain record 17 3s to beat 'Nova 

Associated l'ress 
Nlo:W YOBK-Austin Frnoman missod Goorgntown 's first shot, a :l-pointnr tlw lloyas rdwundod and kickod out to l>a.Juan Sumnwrs l'or anotlwr 3 try that hit nothing but nnt. 
That was only tlw start. 
.Jnssil' Sapp srorPd a earner­high 2:{ points and No. 9 Cnorgntown til•d a Big l·:ast tour­nanwnt wcord with 17 :{-point­nrs. l'onding o!T a sneond-hall' ronwbark to bnat Villanova X2­(,:{ on Thursday in tho soeond round. 
.Jonathan Wallael' hit five 3s and had 19 ol' his 20 points in thn first half l'or thn dnlimding cham­pion lloyas (2(J-4), who irnprovod to 13-0 when they havo the top seed in tho eonfnrenee tourna­ment. Sapp finished with six 3s, and Surnmors had three. 
"Wn didn't fnel bad at half­time," Villanova eoaeh Jay Wright said. "I think they madn 10 3s at halftime and we said, 'All right. they ean't keep making all of thflse. "' 
But thn Iloyas nnarly did, fin­ishing 17 -of-2X from beyond the are to sd a sehool reeord for 3s in a game. They advanced to play No. 5 sond Wnst Virginia in the semilinals on Friday. 
"We told our guys to bo ready to shoot," Gnorgntown eoach .John Thompson Ill said. "You're going to bn opnn, put thn ball in tlw baskot. Mako shots." 
Villanova trailod by as many as 15 points lato in tho first hall'. but wont on a 26-IJ run al'tnr Gnorgdown forward Patrick liwing Jr. pirkod up a tndmieal for throwing tlw ball in the air aftnr a l'oul undnr his own bas­kflt. 
l>antP Cunningham gave tho oighth-se1~ded Wildcats (20-12) their first lead with two free throws that made it 45-43 with 
B:41 left, and Antonio Pena's putbaek momenl<> later gave the heavy underdogs a four-point lead. 
Sapp eame alive a few minutes later, converting a three-point play to put Georgetown ahead 51-50 with 12:04 to go. lie fol­lowed with a 3-pointer to begin building the lead and the Hoyas pulled away. 
"Villanova's too good for us not to expect a eomebaek," Thompson said. "Finally we got going. Jessie made some big plays." · 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Xavier downs Dayton to advance to A-10 senlis 
Associated Press 
ATlANTIC CITY, N.J. -Stanley Burmll and No. I 0 Xavier plan to make a statmnent in the Atlantic 10 Conlorence tournament. 
Burrnll and company arn milli~d that no one on the top-seeded Muskntners was selnetnd to thn conli~r1mcn's lirst-tnam team earli­Pr this wnnk. 
;\flpr thP coadws' choiens worn announced Monday, Burrnll called l.lm h~ague pathetic. 
Thn snnior guard didn't haek down on Thursday alter Xavier got H1 points from .Josh Duncan and limited Dayton to live baskets in thn final 12 minutes of a 7 4-65 vie­tory in the eonli•rnncn quartPrli­nals at Boardwalk I tall. 
"I just wanted to stand up for tlwm and lw a IPader, not call the lnague out." BurTPII said. ''I'm l'rustrated that guys that are 

-
champions and (they) are not get­ting any awards. It was tough. We'll move forward and be happy with the victory." 

If there were any regrets, Burrnll was sorry that he singled out Bryant Dunston of Fordham and Darnell llarris of Saint .JosP.ph's for getting second-team selections ahead of some of his teammates. 
"1 wouldn't take any of it baek except (calling the other players out)," Bum•ll said. "I really meant what I said and I stand behind what I said." 
C..l. Anderson added 15 points f(lf' Xavier, Drew Lavender had 12 and Derrick Brown 11 as the top­seeded Musketeers (27-5) bnat Dayton ( 21-10) f(lr the third time this season. 
Lavondflr and Duncan were namnd to the eonlimmee's second tnam. 

www.notredamecondos.com 

AFTfrt 

10) What happens down in Mexico does 
NOT have to stay in Mexico. SPRING•tt~ 
9) Cathedral ceilings are straight pimp. 
8) Washer and dryer for souvenir tees. 
BREAK! 

7) 2 Large bedrooms, but sorry, no maid service this time. 
6) 2 Full bathrooms to remove sand from unwanted places. 
5) Dishwasher big enough for CANCUN 2008 yard drink and shot glass memorabilia. 
4) 1,200± square feet of space for SB '08 reunions! 
3) Short walk to campus perfect for burning off those extra Spring Break calories. 
2) Mardi Gras-like balconies. 
1) A place to go and hide if your parents ever see you in one of those "spring break videos". 
Stadium Club Condominiums 18127 Bulla Road 57 4-243-7530. stadiumclubcondos@sbcglobal.net 
Pleasejoin us for cocktails & Hors d'oeuvres to introduce the Notre Dame and Saint Marys Faculty and Staffto thefastest selling community in Michiana 
March 20th and 21h 2008 5:00pm to 8:00pm Beer & Wine will be served Hors d'oeuvres provided by ~;~;~:,~~~~;E .ill.G..'L~, ~:.~~. 
RSVP appreciated 

RSVP by March 12 to be entered in the drawing for a$50 Gift Card jim@g90re.com or 574-247-0770 stonebridgecondos. net 

a.n EpHHl Cunnnunlty 
STONEBRIDGE VILLAS 
at Edison lakes 
Ranch Villas starting in the $190s 




--------------, 
Friday, March 14, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish earn win over Illini 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Beginning a two-game home stand with a match against lllinois Thursday, No. 23 Notre Dame used clutch performances from its doubles teams to build an early lead and cruise to vic­tory. 
Today, the Irish face Western Michigan in an attempt to claim their 1Oth win of the season and sweep the pair of home match­es before embarking on a two­match road trip. The first serve is set for 4 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Against the Illini, Notre Dame stuck to what has worked so far this season -dominating of the doubles point. Although Illinois didn't go quietly, the Irish even­tually took all three of the dou­bles matches, securing the point. 
The No. 3 tandem of sopho­mores Cosmina Ciobanu and Colleen Rielley improved to 10­1 on the year with their 8-5 vic­tory to begin the match. And after freshman Kristen Rafael and sophomorH Kali Krisik cap­tured the second match to secure the point, the No. 1 duo in the nation was on display. 
Senior Brook Buck and junior Kelcy Tefft won their second match as the nationally top­ranked pair with their 8-6 win over the Illini. Notre Dame took the 1-0 lead heading into sin­gles play, but never looked back. allowing Illinois to only pick up one single point along the way. 

Irish head coach Jay Louderback was impressed with his squad's play against Illinois, specifically their singles play. 
"It was good to start the home stand off with a win," Louderback said. "We came out a little slow in doubles, but stepped it up and won all three matches. But our singles play impressed me the most. We came out strong after our dou­bles and took five out of a possi­ble six." 
Junior Katie Potts quickly dis­posed of her opponent, winning 6-4, 6-0, improving her mark to 14-8 overall on the season. 
Notre Dame came out firing on all cylinders in the rest of the singles matches winning all six first sets. 
After the Potts victory, Ciobanu, Krisk, Tefft and Buck all won their matches to secure the Irish victory. 
With the win, Notre Dame improved to 5-1 at home this season, and· Louderback can sense the excitement in his players over the home success. 
"They love playing here," he said. "Last season it seemed like we barely had any home games so these little home stands are nice. After the Broncos we go away for a couple of games but then we're back for a big por­tion of the rest of March so we're looking forward to com­peting at home." 
Although the Irish are coming off of an emotional and chal­lenging match against Illinois, Louderback doesn't feel as though fatigue will be a factor against Western Michigan. 
"I don't think it will be a fac­tor at all," he said. "We've been playing tough matches all year, and we prepared for stretches like this in the fall so our play­ers will be ready." 
Looking ahead to the Broncos, the one player that sticks out is junior Kerstin Pahl, who is com­ing off of a solid week, in which she won Mid-American Conference Player of the Week. She joined senior Noriko Saruta as the second Western Michigan player to win the award all sea­son. 
"They always play really good doubles," Louderback said of the Broncos. ''I'm expecting a match a lot like Illinois, in which they came out strong so we have to be ready for them. They're really well coached so you know they're going to be prepared for us. 
"They actually beat Illinois 4­3 earlier in the year so it's going to be interesting to watch them come in here and play us. We're just going to have to be ready for them when they come out firing." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
SMC SoFrBALL 
Belles' hon1e opener postponed due to field 

KATE FENLONrThe Observer 

Junior Calli Davison pitches in last season's matchup against Albion. Davison will start the first game Saturday for the Belles. 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
The Belles scheduled double­header against Manchester at home Thursday was postponed due to poor field conditions. 
This was the second time the game has been postponed. It was originally to be played on March 11, but was moved to Thursday. So far, no make-up date has been set. 
The Belles (8-2) will now begin their home season with a double­header against Rockford on Saturday. 
Junior Calli Davison will start the first game Saturday for the Belles. Davison '(5-2) has given up three earned runs in five starts this season-all wins. 
"[Calli's] confidence shows on the mound," head coach Erin Sullivan said. "Our team has stepped up their defense behind her." 
Senior McKenna Corrigan (3-0) will start the second game of the double-header. 
Sophomores Ashley Peterson and Maureen Healy, junior Ashley Fusaro, Davison and Corrigan will lead the offense, which has over­powered nearly every team the Belles played in Florida during spring break. 
Rockford also played at Ft. Myers, Fla., over spring break. However, Saint Mary's and Rockford did not meet. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


THE NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND CULTURE AND THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION PRESENT THE 23Ro ANNUAL J. PHILIP CLARKE FAMILY LECTURE ON MEDICAL ETHICS 
ls 
• 

JV."AAA-Rrt 14I 2{!.\.··o·.,}

FRI iAy/ ~ ~, ...d I '.f (J' " 
Daniel P. Sulmasy, O.F.M., M.D., Ph.D. 
Sisters of Charity Chair in Ethics, St. Vincent's-Manhattan Professor of tv1edicine and Director~· Bioethics Institute of New York Medical College 
McKenna Hall Auditorium 4:00PM 
Lecture. is free and open to the public.· 
-
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, March 14, 2008 
CCHA 
continued from page 24 
necessarily changing what we 
do too much, but just tweaking 
it a little bit so we ean be a little 
bit more eiTective." 
The Irish offense has strug­gled to find consistent scorers in the second half of the season, failing to put home more than three goals in a game since 6-1 and 4-1 victories at Bowling Green on Jan. 25-26. 
That fact, along with the Bulldogs' propensity to keep several skaters deep in its own defensive zone, look to con­tribute to what might be a low­scoring weekend -a style that just might serve the Irish well, coach Jell' Jackson said. 
"It'll be a dillieult series·, and I'd be surprised if there's big scorers, but anything's possi­ble," said Jackson. who holds an ineredible 28-4 career record in CCIIA tournament games. "They're one of the bet­ter ddensivc teams, and their goalie's one of the top goalies ­hut you know what. so is ours." 
A change, at least from the way hn played tiH~ last time these two teams met, is just what Irish goalie Jordan Pearce is looking for. The junior holds a conference-best 1.80 goals­against averagP in CCIIA gamos, but he'll need to avenge Feb. 8's rare poor performance in which ho gave up a season­worst live goals. 
"There were a couple times lin that game when] Ferris SJlllek into some spots that guys fell asleep in, and tlwy were able to gennratn sonw good shots." Pearce said. "They love just throwing tlw puck at the net from any angle in any situa­tion to crash the net and get 
n~bounds." 
Notrn Dame hasn't played in nearly two weeks, knocking off CCIIA bottom-feeder Western Michigan 3-1 in its last action on March l, so the Irish will look to shake the cobwebs quickly and get off to a fast start against the Bulldogs, who swnpt those samn Broncos in two games last weekend. 
"It's not if you get off to a slow start, battle back; you've got to come out right away fly­ing bn<:ause basically we nither put it together this weekend or we're done," Van Guilder said. " ... It's about setting the tone on the ice; we've bJ~en preach­ing all along in the locker room. espeeially in the second half Jof the season!. but what guys real­ly see is when guys do what we've been talking abnut." 
Jackson agreed that scoring first will be a major objective. But that, he said, is no different from any other game. 
"Hegardless of if you get the first goal, you get the lead, or whatever, you're going to have to play three good periods of hockey," Jackson said. "Either team is eapable of coming from 
behind, but it's good to get that 
lead. though. It always is." 
More crucial to the Irish 
attack will be the way it plays 
throughout the game, not just 
in the first few minutes. 
"We have to be efficient on 
special teams, we have to make 
sure that we're solid otT of face­
offs, and we have to make sure 
that we can get more pucks 
through to the net," Jackson 
said. "Those are probably the 
biggest issues, and some of 
those things you can work on, 
but you've got to understand 
that that's how Ferris plays." 
Though the immediate focus is solely on the Bulldogs, Notre Dame knows it must play itself back into NCAA Tournament consideration after its 6-8-4 performance since Christmas. Over the same stretch the Irish have fallen from No. 6 to No. 12 in the polls, leaving its plaee in the 16-team NCAA field very much in doubt. 
In fact, USCIIO.com's March 11 edition of "Bracketology" left Notre Dame out of the Tournament -though the Irish are "on the cusp," analyst Jason Moy wrote in the artide. 
That could change with a sue­eessful trip to Detroit, but Notre Dame must first take care of the Bulldogs as the seniors bid farewell to the Joyce Center ­but hopefully not Irish hockey altogether. 

"It's going to be tough [leav­ing! just because of the progress we've made in this building, from where we came to what it is now," Van Guilder said. "We have a lot of pride in what we've lwlped build here, and its going to be tough skat­ing ofT for the last time. But as long as were doing it with a win, I think I'll be just line." 
Notes 
+Sophomore defenseman Kyle Lawson was the lone Irish player to receive all-CCHA recognition as he earned an Honorable Mention earlier this week. Lawson has three goals and 16 assists this season and is considered one of the confer­ence's top defenders. 
+Van Guilder is now Notre Dame's all-time "Iron Man", as he has now played in a school­record 154 consecutive games. lie has played in every game of his Irish hoekey career and is closing in on Dan Carlson's (1997 -2001) all-time record of 158 games played. 
+The CCIIA tournament's other quarterfinal series fea­ture No. 1 Michigan and Nebraska-Omaha, No. 4 Miami (Ohio) and Bowling Green, and No. 6 Michigan State and Northern Michigan. The four quarterfinal winners will travel to Joe Louis Arena in Detroit next weekend. Both the semifi­nals (Friday) and finals (Saturday) are single-game match-ups. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Serving 
l~unch e., 
Dinner 
T11<'S-Sar 
Jl-2; 4-9JIIII Clost•tl Suntluv 
& Monday-



f)iiU' In • hJ..t: Out • t.·:•h·rin~t 

Our Specialties lllclude Exquisite Meat E11trecs & Ht'altiJy Vt>gctarian Disht>s 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandvviches Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts 
f."XlntS: l.('ntil Soup & (;arlk Pastt" 
Come Dim: \Vith Our fi1111i"v Aud Be Our Friend!
-
I I 5. Dixie Way North, South Bend 
(574) 277-7239 
"'f':' 

NOW SERVING-COLLEGE STUDENTS ON and OFF CAMPUS! 

wwlv.lndianaGroceries.com 
Now Offering 

• 
On-Line Grocery Shopping and Delivery Service 

• 
Shop On-Line i Pay On-Line 

• 
FREE DELIVERY... ! 

• 
Earn $5.00 in Free Groceries When You Place Your First Order 

• 
Your I'ARENTS can Deposit GROC~~RY FllNDS Directly Into Your Account 

• 
Receive $5.00 in Free Grocery Funds Every Time You Refer A Friend (No Limit) 

• 
Earn Loyalty Points On Each Order and Receive Additional Grocery Funds You Shop...CIJOoSe A Delivery Dayrrime...We Deliver Right to Your Door...! 


www.lndianaGroceries.com 
57 4-360-7510 
~ 

CHAMBER SINGERS Nancy .Menk, conductor present 

Irish Music in Honor ofSt. Patrick's Day 

Kennedy's Kitchen and the Culver Academy Choir StaceyWarren, director 
Sunday, March 16, 2008 O'Laughlin Auditorium ~ Moreau Center for the Arts Saint Mary's College • 7:30 P.M. Call the College Box Office at 284-4626 for tickets. 
This concat h sponsored in part kv Ronald r1nd
ARrsJINDlANA 

Barbara Robbins. the Community Foundation of' St. joseph Gmnty. and t!Je .)tffnk:y A. tmd Flora ?. C/m·k
Rf·GIONAl. PARINERS 
Memorial Trust Foundiltion. 
"""":~ Wltl'> :k•I)(X<.O: f:t:'~ ~;')>;\ffo~·~!y ~:xt"'~at:»n<4!l:".~>'lr:'Y'4:"lt,\"f:, 
Visit our Web Site at: 
ll'>ft .,;siar~ .6.r!1 Cu~-..Mt!.i ..:-lt. ~ ~11.1:1 ~'V-J.~:<<ll:x.oN«x.<-,.:li...,.j~l<~'lt b 1\v.-o\tV••. ll~c>;t.,--~~t1 

SouthBendChamberSingers.org. 
-~­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 

Friday, March 14, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
Maurice Acker provided the dagger that killed Notre Dame's hope of reaching the semifinals, nailing two straight 3-pointers to give his team a 76-66 lead. 
"It is frustrating," said Irish guard Kyle McAlarney, who led the team with 20 points. "At that point, it kinda looks like they're throwing in every­thing.... Hats off to them; they're a great team." 
The Irish built a 44-36 lead early in the second half but Marquette came back with a vengeance as guard Jerel McNeal scored 10 points dur­ing a 14-6 Golden Eagles run. 
The day after he dropped 21 points in a win over Seton Hall, McNeal poured in a career-high 28 points Thursday. 
"McNeal was fabulous," Brey said. "And he's been fab­ulous these two nights in New York." 
After McNeal's hot streak erased the Irish lead, Marquette manufactured a sizable edge of its own, pulling ahead 66-57 with 7:42 remaining in the contest. 
With the Golden Eagles lead­ing 59-57, Marquette guard Dominic James hit a pullup jumper. After the Irish came up empty on their next posses­sion, James drilled a 3-pointer to give the Golden Eagles a 64­57 lead. 

Acker then hit a long jumper 
from  the  wing  to  give  
Marquette  the  nine- point  
edge.  

"They got on a roll hitting some jump shots in the second half," Brey said. "When they make jump shots like that-a bunch in a row -it kinda broke our back a little bit." 
Brey said the difference in the game was Notre Dame's inability to stop the Marquette attack. 
"I thought offensively we played well enough to win the game but we never got them unchlr control at the defensive end of the floor," Brey said. · 
Notre Dame took control early in the game as four Irish players got on the scoreboard in the first five minutes for a 12-6 lead. 
Marquette responded with a 9-2 run to take a 15-14 edge, culminating in a Dwight Burke transition layup. 
Notre Dame regained the lead o_n a pull-up jumper by junior forward Zach Hillesland with 11:21 left in the first half. The Irish were able to put more distance between them­selves and Marquette even though forward Luke Harangody was forced to sit for the remainder of the half after picking up his second foul with 10:35 left. 
Luke Zeller hit a 3-pointer from the wing to give the Irish a 23-22 lead with 8:11 to play in the period. McAlarney then converted on a runner in the lane and senior forward Rob Kurz knocked down a baseline jumper to gave Notre Dame a 27-22 lead. 
Marq~wtte cut the Irish lead to 31-30 but NO had a 7-2 spurt to end the half with a 38-32 lead. After Marquette guard Wesley Matthews con­verted a breakaway dunk, Rob Kurz nailed a 3-pointer with three seconds left in the half to give the Irish a six-point cushion. 
Harangody finished with 13 points and five minutes in just 25 minutes of playing time. 
Brey said the pain from the loss is eased by the fact that the Irish will likely receive an NCAA Tournament bid this Sunday. 
"I told [the plfiyers] we're excited we get to play next week," Brey said. " ... There are some things that we can work on before we go into the NCAA Tournament." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Blue Hens 
continued from page 24 
for the Irish. Sophomore Gina Scioscia picked up five assists, tallying five points for the sec­ond straight game and setting a school-record for most assists in a home game. 
Byers, who has scored at least three goals in each game this season, now leads the nation in both goals (33) and points (38) -and she's not done yet, Coyne said. 
"She's worked really hard on stick skills, placement, shot selection, release point, variety -every single aspect that makes her the finisher she is," Coyne said of Byers, a presea­son All-American. "It hasn't been by accident because she's put a lot of time and energy into it, and she's still getting better. What you've seen from her is phenomenal and she's having a great season, but there's still areas of her game she can work on, and she's not satisfied." 
Most encouraging about Notre Dame's last two victories, though, has been the emer­gence of new contributors, such as Ferguson, Sciosia and junior Jane Stoeckert, who had four goals and an assist in an 18-8 Irish win over California on March 8. 
"In order for us to win, we need multiple people to step up. McKinney and Byers are great players, but we can't just win on the back of one person," Coyne said. "We're getting real­ly balanced scoring, and it's really difficult to stop a team that has multiple weapons. That's what's exciting about the Cal game and today: we're hav­ing other people find their place and get more comfortable in their role." 
The Irish fired a season-high 42 shots and dominated the turnover battle by a 13-4 mar­gin, continuing the tempo-con­trol style of play that has been instrumental in winning their last two games. 
"The response we showed [heading into the California game with consecutive losses] carried over until today," Coyne said. "We came out doing what I said to them in the pre-game: [showing] unparalleled intensity and that attitude of going out, making plays and putting our­selves in a position to win." 
Notre Dame opens Big East play against No. 6 Syracuse on Sunday at 1 p.m. in the Loftus Center. Syracuse won last year's meeting, outscoring the Irish 4­0 in the final 18 minutes for a 16-13 victory. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Divers allnto qualify for NCAA Championships 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
The Irish will attempt to earn a spot in the NCAA Diving Championship this weekend as they participate in the NCAA Zone C Diving meet. The Irish will send three divers to the meet, includ­ing senior Tara Hyer, sophomore Natalie Stitt, and freshman Heidi Grossman. 
The girls will be going against an impressive field of 90 divers from 24 schools across the Midwest at Ohio State's McCorkle Aquatic Pavilion in Columbus, Ohio. The Zone C meet is one of five across the country where divers will be able to compete to earn a spot at the 2008 NCAA Women's Swimming and Diving Championships held on March 20 to 22, again at the McCorkle Aquatic Pavilion. 
"I believe our women will have a good chance of making the NCAA Championships," head div­ing coach Caiming Xie said. "They its twelfth consecutive Women's Swimming and Diving Big East title in New York Feb. 20-23. 

Stitt took first place in the 3­meter event and third in the 1­meter event at the Big East Championship. This will be Stitt's second consecutive trip to the NCAA Zone C meet, as she took 17th off the 1-meter board in last year's meet. 
"Natalie [Stitt] is strong," Xie said. "She should have won the 1­meter and the 3-meter at the Big East. She probably has the best chance of qualifying for the NCAA Championships." 
Hyer claimed third place in the 3-meter event and fifth in the 1­meter event in the Big East Championship. 
Grossman finished fifth off the 3-meter board and eighth off the 1-meter board in the Big East Championship. 
The rest of the team that quali­fied for the NCAA Championships will be back in action on March 20th when the final weekend of the season begins. 
are good divers and should do 

well." Contact Jared Jedick at The diving team is coming off jjedick@nd.edu 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish ready for Big Green 
No. 7 squad looks to avenge last year's loss against Darthmouth 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 

Coming off a narrow first loss to No. 4 North Carolina last Saturday, the No. 7 Irish will head to Atlanta, Ga. to face 
'Dartmouth. 
With a 4-1 start on the sea­son, Notre Dame will face the Big Green for the seventh time in the team's histo­ry. The Irish cur­rently hold a 4-2 edge in the series. 
Despite Notre 
Dame's two-game series lead, each meeting has been closely contested. In fact, four of the seven games have been decided by one goal. Last season, the Big Green edged out the Irish 7-6. 
The Irish have had early suc­cess this season, marking just come easily, causing the Irish to drop in the ranks from the No. 5 to the No. 7 team. 

"We were disappointed because there were things we could have done to change the outcome of the game," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "We 
"They,re very structured in the way they play offense and that,s not the way we 
play,,, 
Kevin Corrigan Irish coach 
didn't get those things done and North Carolina's goalie had an outstanding day." 
The Irish are lead by anum­ber of upper­classman. Junior attack Ryan Hoff is 

first on the team with thirteen goals and 14 total points, while junior attack Duncan Swezey has already tallied a career high of 10 goals this season. Senior attack Alex Wharton holds the team lead in assists 
(8) in addition to his five goals. The Irish currently average 
The tough defense is largely attributed to goalie Joey Kemp. The 5-foot-11 senior, who is a two-time all American honoree, has made 56 saves on the sea­son, and has guarded the goal for 289.33 of 300 possible min­utes of play. He was also recently named to the 51-man watch list for the Tewaaraton award, which is presented annually to the nation's top player. 
The Big Green are coming off a 7-4 victory against Vermont. With a 2-1 record,-Dartmouth is lead by sophomore attack Ari Sussan, who has eight goals and two assists on the season. 
"[Dartmouth] is probably the most deliberate and disciplined team we'll play this season," Corrigan said. "They're very structured in the way they play offense and that's not the way we play because we don't see it on a daily basis." 

-
The game will kick off at 2 
p.m. this Sunday at the Lovett School in Atlanta. 

-


:-------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, March 14, 2008 
Texas 
continued from page 24 
paw, senior Shawn Joy. who has a 1-1 rnwnl and a 331 EBA on tlw year. 
Looking to load tlw Notm Dame oll"nnsn in the tournament is jun­ior Evan 
Sharpley. In his 

"This showed us that
last five ganws, Maine in the Sharpley has bat­when we relax and Papa John's tPd .500 with two play our style. that Challenge, and honwrs and live defeated South
we're a pretty good
HBI. induding a Alabama in the walk-ofT home team." Whataburger run to give tlw Classie. Irish a win over In the final
Dave Schrage 
MairH~. game or the
Irish coach 
Sophomore Eric Maust will make his li rst start of the season Sunday, taking the mound for the Irish against Texas Pan­Anwrkan in the tournanwnt finale. Maust has a 2.89 EHA from tlw bullpen this s1-mson. and will attempt to shorn up Notre Danw's struggling starting pitch­ing. 
Shortstop Bn~tt Lilley is also nntoring tho wm~kend with hit­ting monHmtum lilr tlw Irish. Tlw s1mior, who has started 187 con-
Acker 
continued from page 24 
always outwPiglwd what he larks in size," cn~an said. 
Acker's outside shooting. along with that or his tnarn­matos, addNf a nnw dinwnsion to thP Marqtwtte o!Tense. The (;olden Eagles shoot :~5.4 IWr­nmt from tlH• 

"The size ofhis
behind the arr, That's not but Thursday tlwy /Maurice Acker'.o,·J Notre Dame hit 50 percent of basketball.
heart has always
thnir long range This team is
outweighed what he
shots after half­at its best 
time to pull away. lacks in size'' when it moves Irish eoarh Mikn without the Brey knew ball, finds cut­
Tom Crean
Marquntte wasn't ters and takes 
Golden Eagles coach 
a gn~at shooting open shots 
team coming in. That's why he had his tnam in a 2-:{ zonn down tlw stretd1. If tlw Colden Hagins couldn't w~t in tlw lane, hP thought. tlwy couldn't scorP. 
It was a sound dPI"Pnsive strategy, but it faiiPd miser­ably. 
It might not havP mattnrmf, however. Notre Damn with­stood a 4S pnrcnnt :~-point shooting night from Marqunttn Fnb. 1) and still won S(>-8:~. But on Thursday, while Marquette found somPihing nxtra from 

-
Ar.ker and its otlwr shooters, sonwthing was missing for thn Irish-and it wasn'tjust Luke llarangody's hair. 
Tlw reigning Big l~ast Player ol" thn Year. fresh oiT a hain:ut, looked likn Samson after he lost his hair, seoring four of his I:~ points on fast break dunks, pulling down just livn rebounds and getting puslwd around by Marqunttn center Ousmane Barro. llarangody was also literally missing from tlw ganw for thP last tnn min­utes of tlw lirst hall" after piek­ing up two early fouls. 
But 1111'1'1' was sonwthing else missing from Nol.n• Dauw Thursday. Tlw Irish just didn't haVf• tlw houru·e in tlwir stPp that tlwy"vp at had tinws this snason. ··nwy didn't havn tlwir l"onlidPnl"n. II was likP tlwy lost t.lwir mojo.

-
It was nvidPnt Parly. wlwn Zach IIi II Psiand d rovP tlw hasnlirw. went up l"or a dunk and caught tlw front rim. It was evident latP, wlwn Lukn 
W.h at burger 

Classic, the Irish matched up against No. 1 Arizona, and fell 16-0. N'ter the ddeat, Schrage said the team learrwd a lesson in how to per­form under pressure. 
"This showed us that when we 

rel:tx and play our style;, th~t we m a pretty good team, smd Schrage. "But we went out there and played nmvous." 
Contact Michael Bryan at rnbryan@nd.edu 
Zeller passed up an open look during Notre Dame's last-ditch come back attnmpt. 
With llarangody not at his bnst, no onn nlse stepped up. Players didn't take op1m shots, apparnntly lacking the confi­dence that they would go in. All too olhm, the Irish spent possessions passing the ball around the perimeter. with no 
cutting or 
driving to the 
basket. 

seeutive games, enters the week-. end with a f"ive-g_ame hitting streak. Lilley, who led Notre Dam1~ in batting avPrage last sea­son. has a hit in 1() or 11 games this year. 
The Irish enter the weekend after a 4-4 perfilrmance in eight games over spring break. Notre Dame won over Mount St. Mary's, St. Bonaventure and 
with reckless 
abandon­
and most of 

tlwrn go down. .Just not 
Thursday. 
Maybe it was because the ganw wasn't at the Joyce Center, whore Notre Dame has played so well this season. Maybe.llillnsland's dunk came up short bncause the Madison Square Carden crowd wasn't about to explode. 
But thn NCAA tournament won't be playPd at hom1~. This team needs to lind a way to play as well away from homo as they do in South Bend. 
Notre Dame has a lot of potential for the NCMs. As a four or live seed, their lirst round opponent won't be near­ly as athletic as Marquette. Corning in with a chip on their shoulder. the Irish should win. 
Tho problem comes in the second round. Matched up against a team of similar strength. the Irish will have to lind thn something that was missing Thursday-possibly even tlw something extra that Marquette had. 
Tlw season isn't over, obvi­ously. But if Notre Damn wants it to last more than onn morn week, they need to be the team tlwy are at tlw .loyn~ Center. not tlw tPam at Madison SquarP CardPn last night. 
The l'ieu•s l!{ this column are those l!{ the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey al cklwrey@nd. edu. 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
424 N. Frances Street 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathroo111s Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 

These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 
Recycle The Observer. 
Friday, March 14, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLDMICHAEL MIKUSKA 

JUMBLE

BLAcK DoG 
MIKE ARGIRION 

WHf.. ME &E.T D-Mip.IV5 oN \..IEL.L, I 5UPPDSE 
I.VE: CDULI;> 13.UMJ> You Uf> TD A "c," LII(E 

ENW~oNME.NTAL ~P..,R:T ~t> '? 
How "fHfS P.,<;s11n.E ?.' 
WE. biD f:.DR:. t<JOTRE DAME. 

&!T ME U>NS'E:R.VE I':.ESovlttES! TJ.I~E TWELVE (.o"t,:.IES H.E.t.E LAST NIG-t-IT! ME ONL.'( EAT NINE. 1 
DIDIER LEWIS
LOLLERSKATES 
'Countrv., Roads' 
Life's 

' 
'\Viii play right

Death. 
Taxes. 
after 'Rocky Top' at Finnigan's..
Guara11,tees 

LIZ MURPHY & SARAH MUSCARELLA 
ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 

WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Doug Peterson 

27 Make like Pac-34 Foundations, 45 Longtime Man otien columnist who 36 Aggressively coined the term
28 They're bound to ambitious "beatnik"work 

37 Basso Hines 29 "Heads up!" 47 Cloverleaf
38 Hosts composition:
30 It stocks blocks 39"Who_?" Abbr. 
31 Less lax 41 August 32 Prepare for a 42 Belarus's capital 48 Second-century shower, maybe 44 See 34-Across year 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
CROSSWORD 
Across 26 Give away 

Temper 271ntimate 8 Ape wrestlers 28 Tahini base 15 Be negative 29 Well activity 
about 32 Domesticates 

17 Hobbes in 33 Dramatic "Calvin and beginning Hobbes" 
34 With 44-Down, 18 Went to a lower Cajun dish with level giblets 19 Prefix with 6-35 Polynomial Down components 20 Body part above 36 Subject of some Ia bouche conspiracy 21 Frames found in 
theories frames 37 Prez's first name 22 Clubs: Abbr. 
on "The West Wing"23 Senora's step 40 Shot near the24 "A little the greenmightiest Julius 41 Little piggies?

fell": Shak. 42 Staff note

25 Actress Kimberly of "Close to 43 Ad follower Home" 44 Playboy's plea? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

45 She's dangerously fascinating 
46 They're not easily overturned 
49 Stereotypically smarmy sorts 50 Without much wind 51 Tickled the most? 
Down 

For one 2 Not at all sunny 3 Fit to be tried? 4 ld output 5 Mordant 6 Suffix with 19­
Across 7 Going by 8 Fred of "The 
Munsters" 9 Hosts 10 Brand in a 
bathroom 11 Linguist Mario 12 Before being 
delivered 13 Unfrequented 14 Chief goals? 16 Smart 22 Exclusively 23 British meat pie 25 Actress Gray 
and others 26_-crowd (attendance booster) 


HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LIST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Adam Clayton, 48; Dana Delany, 52; Wil­liam H. Macy, 58; Neil Sedaka, 69 
Happy Birthday: Use common sense to finish what you start and do it well. Emo­tional matters will test your patience and lead you off-course if you let them. Keep things in perspective. A conservative approach to love and business will help you keep your life m order. Your numbers are 7, 13, 26, 38, 39,45 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You have to be comfortable with what you are doing and, if you haven't cleared up the past, it may be difficult lo move forward. Do what 
needs to be done and don't look back. You will feel so much better once you clear up old, incomplete matters. 4 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Stop sitting still when there is so much to do. Travel or at least look into possible destinations that will help you career-wise. You can't keep spinning your wheels hoping that something will drop in your lap. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may feel like shaking things up today but it's best to let things unfold naturally. Your anxiety will lead to trouble, so keep busy with things that can benefit you financially and professionally. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Information is heading your way regarding a project you want to pursue. Don't let a change of plans throw you off-balance. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't waste time on trivial matters. It's what you do that counts, not what you say you will do. A partnership is apparent but be careful that the person in question has as much to contribute as you do. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Go big or go home should be your motto today if you want to make a difference. Changes to your position or status will be made possible by someone with clout. Don't miss out because you are too busy taking care of other people's problems. 2 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take off on an adventure or try something different but, most of all, get out and mingle with people you fmd interesting. You will have a way 
with words that will captivate bul don't exaggerate. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A change of plans will work to your advantage. You can make a crucial move or travel to a destination that will help provide you with the 
information and contacts you need to get ahead. Stop worrying and start doing. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You won't be emotionally grounded today so think before you do or say something you might regret. Making a change to spite someone will not be to your advantage. Your motives may be heading in the wrong di­rection. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone from your past will have gained enough experience to help you finish something you have been struggling to finish. An emo­tional chord will be struck when a comment made by someone you least expect is bru­tally honest. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Use your imagination and make a few changes at home that will make your living quarters more functional. You can discuss matters that concern your personal life with whoever is most likely to influence your future. Be nice but clear about your needs. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Refuse to become upset by what others do or say. Criti­cism can be a good thing if you take it in the spirit tt is meant. Don't rule out that you might need to make a few changes. This is no time to be stubborn. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are adventuresome, independent and learn quickly. You are 
thoughtful and won't give in to bribery or pressure. You are confident, insightful and 
dedicated. 

..... 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, March 14, 2008 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Down and out in NewYork City 
Eagles big win one of three tourney upsets 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 
NEW YOHK -After two of the three earlier Big East tour­nament quarterfinals games had resulted in upsets Thursday, the Irish eould not stave ofT lower-seeded Marquette as the (~olden Eagles won S9-79 at Madison Square Garden. 
Marquette joined West Virginia and Pittsburgh in knoeking off teams that had reenived first-round byes. 
"You gotta give them a Iotta eredit," Irish eoaeh Mike Brey said of MarqUf\tte. "This is a team that certainly was pieked, I think. to finish in the top ten preseason. They're very talent­ed." 
When Marquntte bngan to pull away midway through the seeond hall', Notre Dame clawed back to make it 70-66 with 4:40 remaining. But that was as dose as the Irish would get. 
Colden Eagles reserve guard 
see BIG EAST/page 21

-

HOCKEY 

Irish face Ferris State with season on the line 
NCM tournament lives. begins at 7:35, and Saturday's team a disappointing loss and Guilder said. "We're trying
By MATT GAMBER 

No. 12 Notre Dame (22-12-4, game two and Sunday's game tie when the two last met, some things offensively to 
Associate Sports Editor 

15-9-4 CCIIA) hosts Ferris State three, if necessary, are both set February 8-9 at the Joyee spread them out a little bit and (17-14-5, 12-12-4 CCHA) in a to start at 7:05p.m. Center. get some room because they 
The Irish open CCI lA quarter­three-game series that features The seeding and the records, "It's not just that we've had like to pack it in as everybody final play tonight lighting not the teams that finished the reg­however, may be misleading; problems with them, but a lot of knows. We've worked on a lot only for a ehance to defend ular season at fourth and fifth, the Bulldogs own a 2-1-1 teams have problems with them of things within our system, not their eonference title in Detroit respectively, in the conferenee record against the Irish this because they're a good team," next w1wkend. but also for their standings. Tonight's game season and handed the home senior captain Mark Van see CCHA/page 20 
BASEBALL 

Squad travels to Texas in seach of consistency 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
After dropping two of three games last wenk1md in Corpus Christi. Notre Dame returns to the Lone Star state this weekend in search of bnttnr rnsults in San Antonio at thP Irish Baseball Classic. 
Tlw Irish (5-6), will begin the tournament today at 1 p.m. at Wollr Stadium against Bull'alo (4­1)). Notrn Damn. playing the Bulls for thn first time in team history, will start junior David Phelps in tlw opennr. 
Notre Dame coach Dave Schrage said lw is looking for more stability both at bat and on the mound over the weekend. 
"The frustration comns when we can't play eonsistent baseball and see results on eonsecutive days," Schrage said. 
Phelps has struggled to find consistency on the mound this season. The righty had a rough start in the season-opening loss to Liberty, but reeovered with seven shutout innings in his next start against Mount St. Mary's on March 1. Phelps, who posted a l.SS ERA last season, is 1-2 with a 5.09 ERA after four starts. 
Despite a slow start, Buffalo enters the game with some momentum after sweeping a doubleheader Wndnesday in San Antonio. The Bulls doubled their win total for the season with wins over Southern Illinois and Trinity. 
Tlw Irish will facB off next against Southern Illinois on Saturday, starting senior left­bander Wade Korpi. The Salukis (5-6) will start also start a south-
see TEXAS/page 22 
ND confidence goes missing in Big East 
NEW YOHK-Who on earth is Maurice Aeker? 
The 5-foot-8 Marquette guard, who averages just 13.3 minutes and 4. 7 points per game, buried No. 14 Notre Dame with eight straight points­including two 3s­late in Thursday's Big East quarterfi­nals. Acker's run put the No. 24 Golden Eagles up 76-66 with 3:32 left, sealing Marquette's 89-79 win. 
After the game, Marquette coaeh Tom Crean said his diminutive reserve reached down inside himself to lind something extra in cruneh time. 
"The size of his heart has 

Chris Khorey 
Senior Sports Writer 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Laxers dominate Delaware 
Team never trails in easy victory; Byers and Ferguson each score 3 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 

After a grueling week in California, the Irish looked impressive· in their return home, never trailing during a 16-8 vic­tory over Delaware yesterday. 
No. 12 Notre Dame (5-2) scored the game's first six goals and held the visiting Blue I lens seoreless through the first 17 minutes. After the Irish opened up a 6-0 lead a:t the midway point of the first half. Delaware never got closer than four goals. 
"We did dominate pretty much from the opening possession," coach Traey Coyne said. "That's exactly what we wanted to do in terms of moving forward after what we learned about our­selves in California." 
Senior captain Caitlin 

McKinney scored four goals, Ferguson and junior Jillian extending her point-scoring Byers each netted throe goals streak to a sehool-best 46 games, while senior Heather see BLUE HENS/page 21 


Se: L1 [o L'" cap ta[L1 s: te:ac h the: s: \!\! e:e:t s: c[e: L1 ce: 
i~ol~ a \!\!Ol~tl1\!\!l1[le caLtse:L 
page 2 Friday, March I 4, 2008
The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS 
'Sully' brings pain in the ring and during practice 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI Sports Writer  has fun taking on his friends in the ring, one of Bengal Bouts' most rewarding aspects, he  
said.  
All Bongal Bouts fightors aro  But  as  much  as  Sullivan  
usml to tho nvoryday roul.ino of  enjoys those moments of in­ 
endless calistlwnics. Each day  ring victory, his experiences  
brings hundrods mon~ push­ watching his peers succeed arc  
ups, sit-ups and arm cirdos for  just as fulfilling.  
tho boxers to omlurn. Fighters  "Sening them win, it is so  
slowly hogin to adapt and tho  cool," Sullivan said of his box­ 
workouts bocanw loss and loss  ing friends. lie mentioned how  
tedious.  great it felt to sec one of his  
Whnn Lawrence Sullivan was  buddies finally bnmk through  
in ehargn of eal isthnnies, how­ and win his match.  
over. narh fightor know that hn  Because of his work ethic  
was going to go  and boxing tal­ 
homo  sore.  no  ent,  Sullivan  
mattor what.  was a natural fit  
"Sully was orw of' tho toughest captains whon it  "!Jon 't blink -there's going to be  to become one of the senior captains.  
eamo  to  prac­ fireworks."  Though  a  cap­ 
tice,  no  doubt,"  tain's responsi­ 
said  frnshman  bilities at times CASEY CARNEY !The Observer  
Michael  Wu,  Lawrence Sullivan  detract from his Senior captain Lawrence Sullivan, left, plans his next move at senior Paul Mower during  
who  started  senior captain  individual train­Tuesday's semifinal bout in the 149-pound weight class. Sullivan fights junior Krls Perez tonight.  
boxing this year.  ing,  Sullivan  
"lie always had  embraced  his  Sullivan saw his last Bengal  Jar activities with and they are  Sullivan  can put the future  
some  new  and  duties  in  run­ Bouts fight on Friday as a good  just good, solid, intelligent  on  hold for now,  however,  as  
erazy ab nxercise for us to do,  ning practices and serving as a  time to look back on not only  people."  he  prepares  for  his  fight  
or something like that."  mentor  for  some  of  the  his boxing experience, but also  Sullivan is  a  senior from  against  former  140-pound  
Sullivan, who captured the  younger boxers.  the Notre Dame experience as  Granger, Ind., who will gradu­ champion Kris Perez -a fight  
145-pound title last year, is  "Just getting more involved  a whole.  ate this spring with a degree in  that was made possible by a  
notorious for his tough work­ in the program, everything  "Just the caliber of good peo­ Arabic and Political Science.  little advance planning.  
outs and occasional oddball  about it [is enjoyable]." he  ple  lis  what  I'll  miss  the  He is  a  part of the Marine  "We tried to set it up, to get  
exercises.  Some,  like  one­ said. "From sending out letters  most]." Sullivan said. "You just  Corps ROTC, meaning he will  to the  same weight," Sullivan  
legged squats, seemed like  asking for funds  to coaching  walk around and you  run into  enter the Marines for at least  explainfld. "We are both really  
only he could perform success­ kids, it's  a  great program and  people that you go  to  class  four years after graduation.  
fully.  Sullivan is  a  dedicated  the deeper you get into it, the  with, people that you box with,  His immediate plans inelude  Contact Andy Ziccarelli at  
worker and  a  fighter, and he  better it gets."  people you have extracurricu­ training in Quantico, Va.  aziccare@nd.edu  



Future teacher, law student O'Brien guides novice boxers 
ate need, helps you to gut through times when his father, Patrick, am more of a power puncher." drop my hands, the first person toBy LORENZO REYES those fil'ty extra push-ups or the would bring him along and work Building on the nature of his yell at me is Jesse Brawer. If I am 
Sports Writer 

last minute of a round. In essence, on projects at the family's rental boxing style, he cites one of his gutting through my last set of gut win or lose, most boxers feel great property. It is here where the sen­main strengths as the ability to busters, Hunter Land is encourag­Imagine putting countless hours about what they have accom­ior captain learned the ins and take a series of punishing blows ing me. Lawrence Sullivan is of arduous training in the gym, plished on behalf of those in out<> of plumbing, dry wall, fram­and retain his energy and stami­always teaching me new counters push-up aftnr push-up, going for Bangladesh." ing and, most importantly, the na. and new technique. Finally, Pat gut-wrenehing and exhausting The Fisher Hall resident hails value of hard work. "I can get punched in the face a Hyan is the guy who constantly runs and working on a punehing from East Lansing, Mich., and is a Doesn't exactly sound like fun lot and keep going," O'Brien said offers positive encouragement and bag to improve strength and tnch­double major in political science for a teenager. But for O'Brien, it with a laugh. "I have strong power really lifts up everyone around nique -all li1r the benefit of peo­and Spanish. And for all the was just a reminder of the sacri­and a decent jab. Finally, I try to him. I am very lucky to have such ple in Bangladesh. prospective women in the audi­fices he would have to make in always win the third round. If I am wonderful motivators around me." For the participating boxers in ence, he admits to being single order to reach his goals, including losing or winning the bout, the Since his experience in the the 78th annual Bengal Bouts and "more of a listener than a the objective of graduating from third round is always my round." Bengal Bouts program has been tournament, thL<> L'i exactly the sit­talker." Notre Dame. In O'Brien's view, it is O'Brien's tenure as a senior cap­invaluable, O'Brien knows that he uation they find themselvos in. Those who know O'Brien aren't because of these values his par­tain has helped him develop as a can take away many lessons with Senior captain Pat O'Brien surprised when they see him ents instilled in him that he has fighter, taking an approach geared him in his future career plans, as wouldn't have it any other way. walking around campus donning a accomplished all that he has in his towards leading by example. a teacher with the Alliance for 
'The whole training procnss and flannel shirt and work boots. He four years as a student. "As a captain, I am responsible Catholic Education and then as a the actual Bouts are extremely · admit<; a love for the attire, and at O'Brien became interested in for teaching technique, proper lawyer. rewarding," O'Brien said. the same time reflect<> on his past Spanish and volunteerism upon stance, the proper form of a jab, et "I think Bengal Bout<; will have a "Knowing that your hard work and the path that shaped his work his arrival at Notre Dame. This cetera," O'Brien said. "It is thus unique impact on my future benents people you will never ethic and passion in life. past summer, he worked in important to lead by example. If a plans," O'Brien said. "For exam­meet, but nevertheless in desper-O'Brien recalls the numerous Tijuana, Mexico, at La casa del novice sees a captain drop his ple, if a high school student L'i out 
migrante, where he aided in the hands or have a poor stance, it of line, I plan on using my skills of creation of a stable living environ­can send the wrong message. intimidation to put him in his ment for deported migrant work­Thus, in practice I forced myself to place. I further plan on using ers. be perfect when it came to demon­push-ups or sit-ups as forms of 
Although O'Brien devoted a strating the jab or the parry, et corporal punishment in the class­great deal of his time to the cetera." room. Mexican community, he never lost Above all, O'Brien cherishes the "However, in all seriousness, sight of his boxing aspirations and friendships he has developed Bengal Bouts has taught me the boxed every day this summer at a along the way within the Bengal value of resiliency. Gutting through Mexican gym. Bouts program, and he plans on the difficult will yield results. I 
O'Brien attributes his introduc­keeping these memories with him hope that the persistence and tion to boxing to his freshman year lor years to come. determination I honed in the resident assistant in Fisher IIall. "What I will remember most Bengal Bout<> program will serve 
"My freshman year R.A., Colin about Bengal Bouts is the cama­my future student<> well a<> well as Kerrigan, a two-time champ, told raderie and the friendships I have those I later serve." me that it was a great experience made," he said. "1 will remember Picturn tllis scene from the near and that I should give it a try," he the purity of the Bengal Bouts pro­future: said. "It also helped that he was a gram. I lonestly, I cannot think of a It's the first day of high school lot larger than me and therefore more worthwhile endeavor I have for many students and rumor ha<; very intimidating. I took hL<> advice undertaken." it that Mr. O'Brien, the new history and the rest is history." Along with the acquaintances he teacher, used to bn a boxer. 
Ever since then, O'Brien has has made throughout his years I Ioards of nervous and anxious been putting in long hours work­boxing, O'Brien cites the other student<> fill into his da<>sroom and ing towards his goals in the gym. captains as some of his main moti­await his appearancn. All of a sud­
Although he admits that his vators in the ring, making this den, a stocky man walks through technique may not be the best, group of seniors something special the door with a no nonsense look O'Brien sees himseli' as an aggres­in O'Brien's eyes. in his nyns wfmring, you guessed sive lighter, stressing his power "We have been boxing together it, a llannd shirt and work bool'i. punches above all. "Honestly, I am for four years and we all want to Class is in session. more of a brawler and in-your­see each other do well," he said. face boxer," he said. "I wish I "Therefore, when I make a mis­Contact Lorenzo Reyes at could have better technique, but I take during a sparring session or lreyes@nd.edu 
Friday, March 14, 2008 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS page 3 
The boxing businessman 
President Land graduates early, leads Bengal Bouts through period of change 
tors are here for five, six,
By MATT GAMBER 
even seven hours a night
Associate Sports Editor 
when we're doing just one sin­gle ring -then after they do With split-decision losses in check-ups here, they'd go the only two boxing matches back to the office and have of his life, Hunter Land, then boxers come in if they have a sophomore, didn't think his concussions," Land said. "It resume to become a junior was really to kind of help out captain was impressive -but everybody in the boxing pro­his number was called any­gram who has helped us out way. so much, being able to do 
A year later, after falling in them a favor." the semifinals (again by split­The boxing program needed decision). becoming the presi­a favor of its own, though, to dent of the boxing club wasn't get the plan off the ground. A even something Land was con­pair of Bengal Bout alums, sidering -but still, he was Terry Johnson and Tom the man for the job. And he Suddes, answered the call by couldn't be happier to fill the donating an additional boxing role. ring. 
"I was shocked at both deci­"They are the big forces sions, to be honest," Land behind the program organiza­said. "Whatever it is they saw tion-wise," Land said. "They in me, I'm glad they did. I was were the brains of the opera-just eager to prove myself, tion as far as getting a differ­and that was a big question in ent-sounding bell [for the sec­my head -whether I could ond ring]. It was just a lot of get 300 guys to listen to me people's ideas and sugges­knowing that I hadn't really tions, and it worked smoother been successful in the ring." than I ever could have imag­
Though it wasn't clear to ined." Land why he was appointed to Though Land is always lead the program after his quick to divert praise for the performance in last year's program's success, others Bengal Bouts, others, like sen­believe it's no coincidence that ior captain Lawrence Sullivan, it has flourished under his don't have much trouble pin­watchful eye. pointing Land's out-of-ring "[Running two rings] goes to abilities. his ability to work with people 
"The amount of time he and really be on top of things, spends, whether it be on to care for the details to make improving his own boxing or sure things get locked down," the way the program is run, is Sullivan said. "He's just an just overwhelming," Sullivan awesome kid ... really easy to said. "To be able to juggle all work with." of that with academics is just While Land has been able to a testament to avoid "any big his skills as a bumps" in his manager." "To be able to juggle year-long stint 
Land said his as president, he
[the boxing program] 
main role as is constantly president is to with academics is receiving feed­"serve as an just a testament to back, combining open passage­what he hears
[Hunter)'s skills as a 
way of informa­with what he 
manager.

tion" between a feels is best for program that the program. relies on a "There's
Lawrence Sullivan 
large group of always prob­
senior captain 

people -from lems and there's the boxers always com­themselves, to a support staff plaints, especially when composed of student man­you've got 200 guys boxing, so agers, alumni volunteers and you have to take those and lis­RecSports employees. ten to them as constructive 
"When they tell you about criticism, change what you the position, [the outgoing can and what you think you senior captains] say it's your should, and then move on," turn to run the show," Land Land said. "It's hard to pin­said. "But really, I don't run point one [complaint], but the show at all. We have so probably running, or push­many managers that work ups, or arm circles -those behind the scenes and do are complaints we got on con­everything so that when fight ditioning. But then at the end night comes, we don't have to of fights, [fighters] are ... worry about anything. It's thanking us for it, so it's a lit­almost a clockwork machine." tle cycle like that." 
A change for the better An educational experience 
As smoothly as the program As president, much of the runs, Land's term included a responsibility of teaching new wrinkle. For the first novice boxers the ropes falls time, both the preliminary and on Land. It's not all about quarterfinal rounds were held jabs, hooks and haymakers, in two rings, not one -a though. decision and transition in "[The training] goes incredi­which Land played a crucial bly beyond boxing," he said. part. "Besides teamwork and disci­
The brainstorming process pline, it's such a competitive began at the end of last year environment, such a unique "because the strength of the environment, to be a part of a program has been growing team in an.._individual sport. tremendously in numbers," Being a friend in that compet­Land said. itive environment, being a 
With those growing num­leader in that competitive bers, though, comes a struggle environment, and being a to accommodate not just the coach when you're coaching fighters, but those who care people who are eventually for them. going to beat you in the tour­
"It was a thing where doc-nament-it's challenging." 

, 

Land's point is made clear by the end of his run in this year's tournament. Land was defeated in the quarterfinals by Scott Whalen -a fresh­man whose first boxing expe­rience came this fall under Land's guidance. 
''I'd say he was an integral part in my development 
another one higher." 
Land has already applied that concept during his time as a Notre Dame student. He graduated in December and is currently enrolled in the Mendoza College of Business's Master of Science in Accountancy program, from which he expects to receive his degree next December. 
To graduate ~arly (in three and a half years), Land took 18 credit hours this past fall to go along with the 19.5 credit hours he took in both the fall and spring semesters of his junior year -all while running one· of the biggest, most widely recognized clubs on campus. 
But rather than view his two major commitments -his pursuit of a graduate degree 
and his responsibilities  as  
boxing club president  - as  
conflicting, he sees them  as  

having a somewhat comple­mentary role. 
"I've always wanted to be an entrepreneur and start my own company along down the road after getting some sav­ings together," Land said. "And this has been a great experience in being in charge and has proven to me that it's possible, you can definitely do it. It's given me the relation­ship skills and the people skills to know that I can." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

job is just to give them some­thing to shoot for. 
"Bengal Bouts has taught me that the real world is a competitive environment itself, so I'll get used to that and hopefully carry on what I've learned here as far as building relationships to maintain them and grow them in 
as a boxer, 
"/hate to knock Notre the real world."
from learning Though the the funda­Dame's academics at relationships he mentals to has forged
all, but this has been 
improving on through the pro­
the biggest learning 
my tech­gram, especially nique, experience I've ever with his fellow Whalen said. had, period ... " senior captains, "He has been have been price­a really good less, the attitude 
Hunter Land 

role model Bengal Bouts throughout all boxing club president helped to instill in 
of training, and without his help, I wouldn't have made it as far in the tournament or enjoy boxing as I much as I have." 
Land hasn't just been a teacher; he's a student of the program as well. 
"I hate to knock Notre Dame's academics at all, but this has been the biggest learning I've ever had, period: high school, grade school. kindergarten, whatever," he said. "This is it. Being in charge of and responsible for turning so many guys into boxers and successful people -well no, I don't do that; they come to us like that. Our 
Land as an indi­vidual is now a defining trait of his character. 
"The No. 1 thing boxing has taught me is about challeng· ing myself." Land said. "There's a lot of things that we do in Bengal Bouts that if you say it or write it on paper, you think, 'Oh, absolutely not, there's no way I'm going to be able to do that'. It's all about challenging yourself, setting that goal, and just going for it. 
. "Bengal Bouts has taught me to challenge myself, whether it's academically, in the boxing room, in the weight room, or on the road running. Anywhere it is, set that chal­lenge, try to beat it, then set 
page 4 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 14, 2008 

130 pounds 
Chris Izaguirre vs. Matthew Conti 
Izaguirre is a returning .tnran with champi­experience from last year. After earning the top seed in the 130­d dass, he has been (,\ to use his quiekness d his expnriencn to his vantage, dispatching both Malt Dobleman and Patrick O'Brien. lzaguirrP showed his lllghnnss in his snmif'i­al bout. fighting 
rough a bloody nose countlnss jabs on his to tlw victory. 

STAFF PICKS 
MattGamber: IZAGUIRRE 
The senior has spent a full year working to avenge his split-decision title loss, and avenge it he will. His quickness won't allow the taller Conti to control the tempo, which he needs to do to have any chance at beating lzzaguire . 
Sam Werner: IZAGUIRRE 
Izaguirre will use last year's title bout loss as motivation to fmish the job this year. Conti, a fresh­man, has shown promise, but the senior is too much fi1r him to handle. Andy ZiccareUi: IZAGUIRRE 
Conti has looked very impressive so far, but the experience factor will be too much. Izaguirre is sea­soned and will win a dose fight. 
Conti has been one the surprises of th year's Bengal Bouts his run to the finals. surprising power for size, Conti has been to quickly put his ""''"'-• ncnts on the defens and rarely lets up. H dropped freshma Andrew Mok to the m twice in their semifi bout on his way to unanimous decision. l-Ie also defeated Sean McNichols and Joseph Camarda. 


155 pounds 

Alex Gonzalez vs. Mark Bennett 



Junior Alex Gonzalez has only fought in one fight thus far after receiving a first-round bye and seeing his sec­ond opponent be unable fight due to injury. The shness should serve onzalez well. l-Ie ed to a unanimous decision over junior Ryan Frost and looked very convincing in doing so. He should be at the top 
his game in the cham­pionship round. 
STAFF PICKS 
Matt Gamber: BENNETT 
You say well-rested; I say still shaking off the cob­webs. Gonzalez was impressive in hi<> first fight, but he hasn't faced (and overcome) a chaUnnge like the one Bennett did in his victory over senior captain Pat O'Brien. 
Sam Werner: GONZALEZ 
Bennett deleated senior captain Pat O'Brien in a grueling semifinal match­up, but will be hard­pressed to beat a very well-rested Gonzalez. Andy Ziccarelli: GONZALEZ 
Gonzalez is fresher, hav­ing only been in one fight thus far. Look for him to withstand the aggressive Bennett's major blows and land enough of his own for the win. 


Bennett did a good job of putting snnior captain Pat O'Brien on the defen­sive early in the semifi­nals with a flurry of punches. Bennett's jab has been the key to victo­ry so far, and if he is to take down Gonzalez. look for him to go to it early and of'ten. Movem~nt and avoiding big punches have also been crucial to Bennett's success in his wins over Bryan Marek and Hamilton Marx. 

Capsules by Matt Gamber and Andy Zlccarelli 
Friday, March 14, 2008 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS page 5 
157 poun s 
Jim Devereaux vs. Jordan Bucci 



STAFF PICKS 
Matt Gamber: DEVEREAUX 
The lefties have held the advantage all tourney; this one takes advantage. 
Sam Werner: DEVERAUX Bucci's never faced a lefty before. The fight will 
Devereaux has needed  be close, but Devereaux  Bucci does a good job  
resilience to get to this  will outlast him.  of using his strength and  
point. He responded to a  Andy Ziccarelli: BUCCI  his smarts. He has expe­ 
standing 8-count in the  Devereau is a lefty, which  rience, has been in close  
second round with a flur­ will give him an early edge,  fights before and will  
ry  of  punches  that  but look for the relentless  be fazed by tough com­ 
stunned Jesse Brawer  Bucci to regroup and win  petition in the champi­ 
and sealed the win.  in a very close decision.  onship.  


170 pounds 

Ben O'Brien vs. Bernardo Garcia 
STAFF PICKS 
Matt Gamber: O'BRIEN 
Garcia took advantage of his opponent's fatigue last time, but O'Brien's fresh and won't wear down. 

Sam Werner: O'BRIEN The extra rest will help O'Brien won by walk­O'Brien. Garcia has sur­Garcia narrowly b in the semis, but he prised, but the freshman's Matt Gimlett in his 
shown his experience run will come up just short. fight, but he emerged · ghout the tourna­Andy Ziccarelli: O'BRIEN torious on the strength with a fairly con­Garcia is coming off a a dominating third­
-
rvative style in wins close fight, and may not performance -similar Andy Renz and Mike have enough left in the his wins over Ma tank to pull out the win.in Paletta and Eric Jones. 
176 pounds 
Mike Lee vs. Andres Villalba 
STAFF PICKS 
Matt Gamber: LEE 
Two junior captains, but 
Lee's the best fighter in the 
field, regardless of weight. 
­
Sam Werner: LEE 
Lee has cruised through 
his bracket so far. Expect 
The defending champ Villalba to come out fast, but Villalba's greatest asset is has looked like one in all Lee will use his patience and his quickness, which he three of his victories, experience to win with ease. used to beat Dominic Golab showcasing his tenacity Andy Ziccarelli: LEE in the semis. Endurance by consistently attacking He uses strength, size and proved to be a strength for the body of his opponents quickness to overpower, and the junior captain in with a strong array of f<.Xlllffi on-fundamentals, mak­wins over Barry Clark right and left hooks. inghim9_wy. Mike DeLach. 




Heavyweight 
Will Bourroughs vs. Kevin Crepeau 

STAFF PICKS 
Gamber: BURROUGHS 
Two career fights, two 
knockouts. Make it three 
fights and a title. 
Werner: BOURROUGHS 

Speiss still might be on the canvas after Burroughs leveled a huge knockout 
­haymaker against him in the semis. 
Ziccarelli: BURROUGHS 
While I don't expect a big man. He's not quite as third knockout for powerful as Bourroughs, Bourroughs, his power will but there's plenty of pop be too much for Crepeau. in all his punches. 
By JARED )EDICK Sports Writer 
It's all about work ethic with senior captain Pat Hyan, who finds almost nothing more rewarding than the time he's put into Bengal Bouts over the past four years building rela­tionships, imparting his knowl­edge on others and helping those in need. 
"I have so much fun doing this," Hyan said. "I love going to work every day, working hard, and there is nothing I would rather be doing." 
Especially important to Hyan are thn relationships he has formed with those who have accompanied him along the way. 
"An amazing thing is just the team camaraderie aspect of it all." Hyan said. "You get used to being around these guys everyday, and you form some pretty strong friendships." 
Ever humble, Ryan never thought that he would be able to rise up through the ranks and become a Bengal Bouts captain. Fate stwmed to be on Hyan's side, however, as his 

... older brother, Peter Ryan, was a four-time champion. 
"Watching my brother do all the stufl' he did for Bengal Bouts helped inspire me a little bit," Hyan said. "I got to see the whole thing, and I thought it was really cool." 

-
Also working in Hyan's favor was his extensive background in sports. Hyan was a three-

sport high school athlete, play­ing basketball, football and ten­nis. 
"My athletic nature really inclined me towards Bengal Bouts from the start," Hyan said. "I was used to being around athletic people, and I liked the friendships that I formed there." 
Nonetheless, when the call came from last year's captains that they wanted him to help lead the program, Hyan was in shock. 
"I never really considered being a captain, so I was sur­prised when they selected me," he said. "But if I had to give one reason why they selected me, I would have to say that it is my work ethic." 
It is a strong work ethic that has been with Hyan since the very beginning. 
"Going in, I had no idea what to expect," Ryan said. "But when I got there on day one, I said to myself, 'I can do this'." 
Since that day freshman year, Hyan has never skipped out on a practice. 
Hyan said the presence of his teammates inspires him day in and day out. 
"The great thing about Bengal Bouts is that it is such a seiness activity," Hyan said. "These kids come here because they are willing to work hard every day and develop a skill and form friendships. Plus, they get to really help the needy in Bangladesh." 
This year's captains have meshed well together, Ryan 
said. 
''I'm really proud of what we have been able to do this year as a group of captains," he said. "This is really a great group of guys." 
Transitioning from being just another one of the guys in the Bouts into being a captain and having the responsibility of teaching others wasn't easy for Hyan. 
"You just really need to break it down for them, and then drill it into them," Ryan said. 
Seeing those he has taught put their talents to good use in the ring is inspiring for Hyan. 
"It is weird seeing two guys in the ring and wanting them both to win because you have seen how hard both of them have worked," Ryan said. "Whoever wins, we just really love to see them do it." 
Another important aspect for Hyan is the difference he believes the Bouts are making for the impoverished of Bangladesh in conjunction with the Holy Cross missions. 
"What we do here will help them so much," Ryan said. "With the money we can raise, we can provide food and an education for so many. I believe we are really making a differ­ence, and hopefully with the program growing, we will be able to make an even greater difference in the future." 
Beyond Bangladesh, the Bouts makes a difference in the lives of all those who participate in it. It's that mission that Hyan wants others to remember. 
"I don't want to be the focus," Ryan said. "What I really want people to know is that we are trying to make a difference in people's lives." 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

Bouts 'the 111ost influential' part of Brawer's ND career 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer  Dame, Brawer -who had no and you give them a couple of idea of the University's boxing years of experience, and they club -discovered Bengal will be able to handle them­ sion. He referred to this streak as "a semifinals curse."  selves. "It's easy for us to teach basic technique to them,"  
Bouts and knew it was a selves in a boxing ring better  Over the years, though,  Brawer said. "And unknown  
In an era when Mike Tyson got more headlines than any  match for him. than an incredible natural "As soon as .I found out athlete."  Brawer has been able to hone his boxing abilities and dis­ to them, it's just as easy for us to pick up on little things."  
active fighter, most kids grav­ about it, I jumped at the After that first fight, Brawer  cover what works best for  In addition to teaching fight­ 
itated towards sports like  shot," Brawer said. resolved to come back  him as a fighter. Because he  ers how to box, the captains  
football or baseball -but not  Despite his natural affinity stronger the next year.  is shorter than most of his  must also get involved in the  
- .Jesse Brawer. "I can remember sitting on  for the sport, Brawer was in "The biggest learning curve for a rude awakening in his is between your first and sec­ opponents, Brawer said the "straight-forward, go-for­ fundraising of the club, which last year sent over $60,000 to  
the floor watching 'HBO  first fight freshman year. Just ond year," he said. "[My  points style" doesn't work for  Holy Cross missions in  
Boxing After Dark' with lmy  40 seconds into the first freshman year opponent] had  him. Instead, he focuses on  Bangladesh.  
dadl." Brawer said. "So that's  round, Brawer's nose was • one more year experience  his defensive and counter­ "It's great to see that all the  
the sport I grew up with. I  broken by a jab to the face. than I did and he made it look  punching abilities.  fighters in the program  
grew up wanting to be a  Brawer went on to lose the easy."  "Everybody can punch. It's  understand that there's a dual  
boxer."  fight, but he learned a valu-Experience turned out to be  easy to punch," Brawer said.  responsibility that goes along  
But with the nearest boxing  able lesson about boxing in a key for Brawer, as he  "It's not quite as easy to  with being part of the team,"  
gym 45 minutes away from  the process. advanced to the semifinals his  defend yourself."  Brawer said.  
his home in Westwood, N.J., it  "The most important thing I sophomore and junior years,  Brawer said that all the way  Brawer stressed the impor­ 
wasn't easy for Brawer to get  learned about boxing is expe­losing both fights by a split  up until this year, his goal  tance of the money this year,  
involved in the sport on which  rience," Brawer said. "You decision. This year, Brawer  was the same.  after a cyclone ravaged the  
he was raised.  can take someone that barely was also ousted in the semis,  "To get my defense to a  country and left over 10,000  
Upon arriving at Notre  has an ounce of athleticism, losing by a unanimous deci­ level where I was confident in  dead.  
it to counterpunch effective­ "Especially here in the  
ly," he said.  United States, it's hard to  
This year, Brawer was  comprehend a natural disas­ 
named one of the senior cap­ ter would cause something  
tains. His duties included run­ like 10,000 deaths," Brawer  
ning practices and teaching  said.  
the new fighters, many of  Combine the boxing and the  
whom had never boxed  charity work, and you get the  
before, the fundamentals of  club Brawer called "without a  
the sport.  doubt, the most influential,  
"It's important at the begin­ important experience these  
ning of the year for each of us  four years."  
as captains, specifically the  Brawer said he often had to  
seniors, to establish ourselves  forego his social life to work  
as people who are not only  out and improve his skills in  
knowledgeable in the sport,  the ring. Don't fnel too bad for  
but who are absolutely willing  his sacril'ice, though. It's the  
at all times to share every bit  sport he loves.  
- of info that we've learned in  "People watch the sport and  
the past four years with the  think that it's barbaric, it's  
rest of the guys in the pro­ primal and it's all a big testos­ 
gram," Brawer said.  terone contest," Brawcr said.  
Brawer noted, though, that  "It's really not. It's called 'the  
even though the captains are  sweet seiencc' for a reason."  
CASEY CARNEY !The Observer  teaching younger fighters the  

Senior captain Jesse Brawer, left, throws a left hook at junior Jim Devereaux during Tuesday's basics, the senior fighters Contact Sam Werner at semifinal bout In the 157-pound weight division. learn a thing or two them-swerner@nd.edu 

Friday, March 14, 2008 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS page 7 
Drastic weight-cutting rare among fighters 


The Observer: ·Notre Dame's Independent Dail*Newspaper 
-
4

We have o~~:Jtiiigs !ll ~lliff:parttnents. Please caUif:y~n.i're,itUerest~d in: 
p ­




·News: Bill at 631-5323 Sports: Chris at 631-4543 Viewpoint: Kara at 631-5303 Scene: Tae at 631-4540 Ad Design: Kelly at 631-8840 Photography: Jessica at 631-8767 

By BILL B~INK Sports· Writer· 
In. sports where matches are decided bas~ld on weight, horror stories abound. Athletes use star­vation, running in place in the shower wrapped in plastic bags, obsessive workout techniques and dehydration to secure every com­petitive edge possible. 
With Bengal Bouts athletes, however, this doesn't seem to be the case. 
While boxers lay otT the pasta and take an extra lap around the JACC beforE:) weigh-ins, drastic cutting of weight is not common practice among boxers. 
Freshman Pat O'Brien, who fought in the 130-pound weight class, said he ate lighter foods, such as vegetables and egg-white omelets, and ni.n more to prepare for weigh-ins. He said he only had to drop around five pounds to get in the weight class he wanted and that the drop didn't affect his fights. 
"When I was cutting, I wasn't hungry. I was just physically exhausted," O'Brien said. "But it was only for a few days. It didn't affect me at all in the actual ring." 
Sophomore Bobby Hicks, who fought in the 189-pound weight class, didn't eat for a day and a half and increased his cardiovas­cular workouts the week before weigh-ins. 
Senior Ben O'Brien took a simi­lar approach. 
"As soon as we got back from break, I tried to eat healthier food," Ben O'Brien said. 

·The idea behind cutting weight, according to senior captain Pat O'Brien, is to gain a height advan­tage. Shorter fighters, he said, will try to cut weight to fight other boxers similar in height. But O'Brien said that cutting weight is harmful and discouraged by the captains and coaches. 
"We tell the novices, 'If you're trying to cut weight now !early in the season], it's not a bright idea,"' he said. "If you don't eat and drink, you won't be able to com­plete the first two or three weeks." 
He also said eating helps increase metabolism and will help boxers lose weight the natural way. 
Hunter Land, the president of the boxing chili, said the club does not condone cutting weight and that cutting weight may not give boxers the advantage they hope for. 
"Weight brackets are not deter­mined until after weigh-ins, so it doesn't make sense for boxers to shoot for that magic number because there is no magic num­ber," Land said. 
Junior Kris Perez said cutting weight does not provide an extra leg up. 
"I don't see any advantages in cutting weight," he said. "The real advantages come from good con­ditioning and perfecting boxing technique and form. The hard work in the gym is what pays off." 
Ben O'Brien said most of the boxers will work out before weighing in. 
"You can probably lose six pounds of water weight during a tough practice," he said. 
Despite the preponderance of moderation in regards to cutting weight, some people took more drastic measures. Senior Pat O'Brien said a fighter during his freshman year ate such small amounts at meals that he caused problems with his digestive tract. 
Sophomore Kevin Martin fol­lowed a similar pattern to other fighters, swearing off soda and desserts, but he also added harsh­er dietary restrictions. He ate no carbohydrates for four days prior to weigh-ins, he said, and lost 15 pounds of water. On the day of the weigh-in, he ate nothing. 
"If you stop eating carbs, your body naturally gets rid of water," Martin said. "It was awful, though -the most awful diet I've ever been on." 
Confidence in one's ability, sen­ior Pat O'Brien said, will help peo­ple keep from cutting weight. Insecurity, on the other hand, can cause a boxer to cut. 
"If the kids feel like they're not here to kill each other, they're here to learn how to box, they'll be less likely to cut weight," he said. "But if they're scared, they'll be more likely to cut weight." 
Some boxers, on the contrary, want to gain weight. Perez, who won the 140-pound weight class last year, is fighting in the 149­pound weight class thi<> year. 
"Basically, I just felt like moving up in weight class would be a good challenge and, because I'm a competitive guy, I wanted to see if I could still compete," Perez said. 
Even when gaining weight, health must still be observed, he said. 
"I didn't go to Burger King every day and order a bacon cheese­burger," Perez said. "I did a high protein and high carb diet which <;onsisted of pasta, chicken, egg whites and peanut butter. I ate lots ~f vegetables and fruits as well. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edn 





